
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OlUME 38: ISSUE 133 TUESDAY, APRil27, 2004 
Logan construction set to begin 
University acquires current site for planned redevelopment 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Srnior Sta!TWritcr 
ThP Logan Cent1~r. a rPsourco facility for people with disabilities located across from Notre Dame on l~ddy Stroet, announced plans for a groundbreaking ceremo­ny for its new building on ~1 on day. Th n ce rc~ mo ny, s r h (' dII J() d ro r May 2 7. wiI J mark tlw beginning of con­strurtion on tlw new building t ha t is s~~ t t o op ~~ n i n J uIy 2005. 

Thl' Logan Center opened at its current location in the 1960s as a school for people with disabilities. Over the years. the center's mission bncame oriented more toward adults as special education programs were introduced programs and clients but is The new building will be Hospital building. While it into public schools for chil­located farther from Notre constructed on a portion of contains less square footage dren. Dame and Saint Mary's and the 7.5 acres on Jefferson than the current building, it 
The new facility will better the students who volunteer Boulevard that was formerly accommodate the center's from there. occupied by the Saint Mary's see LOGAN/page 4 

Cotntnittee readies 'The Show-' 
By JANICE FLYNN 
News Writer 
While most students are focused on impending exams and their summer plans, mem­lwrs on the Executive Board of "The Show" arc thinking ahead to next fall's concert. 
Last year's concert featuring Black EyPd Peas and Guster drPw a record 4.000 students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and lloly Cross to the Joyce Center. 
Members of the committee are aiming for 6,000 students for "The Show, Version 3.0," to be held Friday, Aug. 27th. 
"We really want to build upon last year's success to solidity this as a campus tradition," said Jimmy Flaherty, Chairman of 'The Show." 
The committee is looking at a variety of bands, from rock to hip-hop, country to top 40. 
Asurvey will be sent out within the next week asking students for their input on the band selec­tion. Flaherty hopes this will enable "The Show" to appeal to students' varied tastes, as well as boost attendance. 
"Last year's show was extremely diverse in genre with the Black Eyed Peas and then Guster," said Flaherty. "I think ND/SMC/HCC students showed their enthusiasm for that bill with a record attendance." 
The committee will select the bands by July 1. They will be posted on the website of "The Show," www.nd.edu/-theshow. 
Plans for "The Show" have been well underway for several months. 
see SHOW/page 6 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Board approves $250K for clubs 

By MATT BRAMANTI 
Senior Staff Writer 
Members of the Council of Representatives gathered Monday evening in LaFortune to approve the allocation of over $250,000 among more than 150 student clubs. 
Club Coordination Council president J.R. Garcia said his organization faced a difficult task in allocating funds because there were more requests than available resources. He said CCC division representatives gave recommendations for funding, but these recommen­dations were subject to finan­cial constraints, including the maintenance of a reserve fund. 
"The recommendation is what [representatives] would give clubs in a perfect world," Garcia said. "We like to reserve [money] for appeals and emer­gency funds." 
He said this year's reserve fund totals $25,000. 
Garcia also said that the amount of money to be allocat­ed -the "hardline" number­fell about 6 percent this year, from about $266,300 to about $251,500. 
According to a copy of the allocation budget obtained by The Observer, allocations changed drastically from last year. Four divisions -cultural, performing arts, social service 
see COUNCIL/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

HolyCross reflects on transition 
By LAURA VILIM 
News Writer 

As the 2003-04 school year draws to a close. students and faculty at lloly Cross College are beginning to look back on a year of historical change that brought about the transition of the junior college to an institu­tion that now offers a four-year baccalaureate program. 
The introduction of the four­year program -the first in the college's 36-year history -has been largely successful in its initial year from both adminis­trative and student perspec­tives. According to Justin Watson, the program's director, the implementation of the new academic track has gone smoothly for the first class of 15 students due to the outstanding 
see H CC/ page 8 

Marine Corps progra111 trains future officers 

By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 
The Marines truly are the few and the proud on Notre Dame's campus. However, Captain John 
H. Williams III doesn't seem to mind. 
"I've always felt welcome at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," he said. "I think Notre Dame has been very supportive of my mission to find qualified candi­dates for the Marine Corps, and I think Notre Dame has a lot of qualified students. And whether they are pursuing or not pursu­ing the program. they have been professional." 
Williams visits the two cam­puses on a regular basis. As the Officer Selection Officer for the West Lafayette area, his job is to contact and contract students who are interested in pursuing a career as an officer in the United States Marine Corps. 
Officer candidates can con­tract at any grade level to join the program. Training takes place during either two six­week or one ten-week period during the summer at Officer Candidates School in Quantico, Va. 
Williams says that summer training is key to the program. 
"This program is focused for a student to remain in school without interruption. You can pursue the program to see if 
see MARINES/page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Conclusions 
at the 


beginning 
My last weeks and experiences at NO could easily have been the top­ics of this article. 
For instance I could have said: useless campus buildings are being erected at a rapid pace, the Matt Lutz career center is my favorite 
Assistant Ads 
group, Martin's 
Manager
ovenable meals rock, hard alco­hol is clearly the root of all dorm problems, tuition in 25 years at a 
4.5 percent rate increase will be $114,000 a year, my kids will not go here because of the last fact and there are places other than Chicago to live after college. 
However, I want to speak to you about my conclusions at the begin­ning of something far more impor­tant-baseball season. 
2004 begins with the notions that the Cubs and Red Sox will ultimate­ly meet in the Series. There has certainly been no other season in recent history that has started with such hope for these teams. 
I am here to respect and question this notion. As a Phillies fan, I approach the season with pes­simism and disbelief at every loss and each win. 
Philadelphia has a love/hate affair with its teams that no city can match. Cubs' fans supported their pathetic team during the 1900's as did Phillies fans with one glaring difference. Cubs' fans cheer no matter what, Phillies fans boo no matter what. Players know when they fail in Philly, they're coddled in Chicago. 
Thus, in this circular logic, I have reached my conclusion that by sup­porting failure, the Cubs shall fall victim to the Astros and their supe­rior pitching. Mark Prior DL till 2005, I say. Wild card? It's Phillies territory after falling short to Florida. 
As for the Red Sox, we all know deep down that the deep pockets of the Yankees will not fall victim to the Sox. 
I don't support the Yankees in any way, but I also don't despise them. They have a $180 million payroll becau-se Steinbrenner WANTS to win. The Royals owner has more money than George, hut he chooses not to spend it. 
The argument that the Yankees are ruining baseball because they spend and win is completely igno­rant. 
Briefly, I leave you with this. Playoffs in baseball bring the best eight teams, not the best 16 teams (The NBA has losing teams in the playoffs). Baseball is a game of strategy that requires extra years of experience that basketball and hockey (in my mind) don't possess. That leaves football and baseball, and I pick baseball because I can. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Lutz at mlutz@nd.edu. 
CLARIFICATION 
In Tuesday's article "Dorms compete in Fisher Regatta," it was stared that rhe St. Edward's Hall boat had sunk. The boat did not sink, but was simply low in rhe warer. 

------------------------------------------------------------·------------------------------------~­
Tuesday, April27, 2004
The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WILL YOU MISS THE SECURITY MONITORS? 

Sarah Cunningham  Eric Huntowskl  Claire Hlopkenier  Katie Mitchell  Kristin Valderas  Kevin Clemency  
Senior  Sophomore  Junior  Senior  Junior  Freshman  
McGlinn  Zahm  McGlinn  Pasquerilla West  Pasquerilla IYest  Zahm  
"They were  "Security  "Yes, I love  "I'll miss.them  "I just don 't  "No, but I will  
always  monitors? Fine  chatting with  like I miss my  want them to be  miss my 'roni  
wonderful to  by me."  them in the wee  mommy.  unemployed."  'za. ,  



me, but it will hours ofthe be better for morning. campus gender relations. " 


HILLARY THORNTONffhe Observer 
The Notre Dame Symphonic Bands and Symphonic Winds perform under the direc­tion of Ken Dye at their concert Monday. The groups played music by John Philip Sousa and Leonard Bernstein, as well as selections from the movie "The Lord of the Rings." 
OFFBEAT 
Woman accused of claiming to be a princess 
CHESTER, Pa. -The government is suing a cafe­teria worker who received a $2.1 million tax refund by claiming to be a Hawaiian princess and heir to a bil­lion-dollar estate, authori­ties said. 
The money that the Internal Revenue Service sent last month to Abigail Roberts, 61, who works in Widener University's cafete­ria, came from funds the real princess had on deposit with the IRS, according to court documents. 
Federal authorities say Roberts fooled the IRS by using the social security number of the genuine heiress, Abigail Kinoiki Kekaulike Kawananakoa, on her tax form. 
Dog finds money stuffing In old ottoman 
CLEVELAND, Tenn. ­When Darlene Hall first saw the mess on her front porch, she wanted to kill her puppy. Now she's call­ing him her "money dog." 
The stuffing that Cha­Cha, an Australian shep­herd/blue heeler mix, had pulled from the old brown vinyl ottoman was shredded money. 
And the Halls may get some unshredded bucks back from the federal gov­ernment for turning it in. 
Darlene Hall stuffed the shredded money into some shopping bags and took it to a friend at a local bank, who gave her phone num­bers for the Department of the Treasury. 
"They said to put it in a box and mail it to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in Washington, D.C., and they would send me a check," said Hall, who bought the ottoman for $1 at a yard sale last year. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
w 
:z: 
!;;: 
w 
~ 
..... 
~ ~ 
<C 
(,) 


...1 0 HIGH 49 HIGH 39 HIGH 73 HIGH 78 LOW 38 LOW 28 LOW 52 LOW 51 IN BRIEF 
Students from various social action groups are collaborating to host a rally to challenge apathy and celebrate diversity in the struggle for social justice. The rally will take place at the field­bouse mall today from 4:30 to 
6:30 p.m. It will feature free food and live music. 
The Class of 2005 is sponsoring a ring blessing ceremony and social at the Grotto tonight at 
8:30 p.m. Father Theodore Hesburgh will be available to bless class rings for juniors and seniors. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Bands, directed by Larry Dwyer. present their Spring Concert in the Band Building tonight from 8 to 9:30 
p.m. Admission is free. 
Organist Daniel Bayless will 

present a graduate degree recital ·in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart tonight from 8 to 9:30 p.m. 
Admission to this recital is free. 
Notre Dame graduate and soprano Danielle Svonavec will present a lecture-recital featuring early music by Monteverdi in the Haggar Parlor on the campus of Saint Mary's College tonight from 7 to 8:15p.m. Admission is free. 
The Notre Dame chapter of the computer science honor society Upsilon Pi Epsilon will honor its top juniors, seniors and graduate students and will receive its char­ter from UPE President Robert Roggio. The ceremony will take place Thursday from 3:30 to 4:30 
p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. Food and refreshments will fol­low. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 65 HIGH 61 LOW 43 LOW 42 
Atlanta 69 I 44 Boston 60 I 41 Chicago 53 I 43 Denver 76 I 50 Houston 83 I 59 Los Angeles 91 I 64 Minneapolis 58 1 49 New York 65 I 43 Philadelphia 66 I 42 Phoenix 97 I 71 Seattle 61 I 45 St. Louis 67 I 49 Tampa 78 I 59 Washington 65 142 
Tuesday, April 27, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group review-s nevv Constitution 
table of contents and page ment -there was no way to 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
numbers, making the new do that before -and to clear News Writer 
constitution double-sided up the amendment policy," and much more readable. Brown said. "It needs to be 
The Saint Mary's Board of They also cut the number of timeless." Governance has homework articles from ten to six and In other BOG news: over the summer. the number of appendices + The campus shuttle will 
At Monday's meeting, the from 13 to six. keep the same weekday last or tlw year. the board "We just combined a lot of schedule next year, with looked over the newly them for simplic-stops at the revised constitution. All ity's sake," llesburgh nwmbers or BOG will receive Fitzgerald said. "We want it to be Library; a copy to read thoroughly The articles McCandless.
a long time before 

over tlw sumnwr to finalize contain an intro­Hegina and the revisions. duction. purpose, someone needs to LeMans Halls; Student Trustee Sarah the association do another major lind the Grotto. Brown and Michelle structure, execu­There will be
restructuring."

Fitzgerald served as the tive board and an extra cycle Constitution Committee. elections infor­on Friday and Brown said the constitution mation and Sarah Brown Saturday night is meant to provide guide­amendments. student trustee to accommo­lines for student government. The appendices date parietals. 
"The goal or the constitu­cover the mission + Donna tion is the rules of student statement, descriptions of Lubbers. elections commis­government," she said. "It the BOG commissioners' sioner, is setting dates for should also have all the poli­jobs, the Student Diversity elections next year. She will cins. such as Board and be forming the elections how do we Hesidence Hall board shortly. approve things? Association + The BOG committee flow do we hold "[The Constitution] constitutions assignments for 2004-05 elections?" needs to be and the co­have been released. The 
The constitu­sponsorship executive board and budget
timeless."

tion was last application. committee is composed of updated in 2000. Brown said Sarah Catherine White, stu­Fitzgerald said Sarah Brown that the com­dent body president; Mary that it was "a student trustee mittee did not Pauline Moran, student body mess." change much vice president; Susan 
"We moved. policy and that Mcllduff. chief of staff; Molly structured. and clarified." the new constitution was Welton. executive treasurer; she said. "We want it to be a meant to serve as "an overall Martha Hottenstein, HHA long time before someone basic guideline." president; Lauren Fabina, rweds to do another major "The only things we restructuring." changed content-wise were Contact Nicole Zook at 
The committee added a to write a policy for impeach-Zook8928@saintmarys.edu 


SMC professor 
elected to board 
Jensen to be president oftaxonomic society 
Jensen's obligations to the
By KELLY MEEHAN 
American Society of Plant 
News Writer 
Taxonomists are things he does 
in addition to his responsibili­
Saint Mary's biology professor ties as a teacher. advisor and Hichard Jensen was named member or the College commu­president-elect of the American nity. !lis involvement in the Society of Taxonomists. an society fulfills the expectations international organization with of Saint Mary's faculty to be members throughout the United involved in various scholarly States and more than 35 other pursuits. countries. Jensen said being named 
Jensen has been a member of president-elect is one of his the Society since 1976, and has biggest honors, out of the many since then served as treasurer, he has received. council member and associate He said he is most proud of editor for the society's quarterly receiving the 1997 Saint Mary's journal, "Systemic Biology." He College Maria Piela Award for believes it was his interest in Outstanding Teaching. In 1996 and willingness to work for the he also received an award for ~ociety that led to him being Outstanding Service from the asked to run for President. American Society of Plant 
"I felt honored to be asked to Taxonomists. He was only the stand for election," said Jensen. second person in the society to "Being elected was an addition­receive such an award. al honor, and a bit of a surprise. "I think all of us are flattered I approach my new responsibili­when we receive special recog­ties with great enthusiasm, nition for the things we do, largely because I know the peo­especially when we have not set ple I will be working with can out to earn such recognition. My be counted on to work for the teaching and scholarly work best of the Society." happen to be things I enjoy 
As president-elect Jensen will doing; I want to do them well have many specific responsibili­because I know others arc rely­ties, including presenting the ing on me to do just that." formal address at the end-of­Jensen said. year meeting and appointing members to serve on various Contact Kelly Meehan at Society committees. kmeehal @saintmarys.edu 
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! 
Notre Dames Office of Undergraduate Adtnissions is accepting applications for three Admissions Counselor positions! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selec-tion ofthe tirst-year class by managing relations with the prospective appllcants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communications within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation ofapplications and conducting group/individual infonnation sessions on campus. 
**One position will be an understood one-ye~u· a.ssignntent with the possibility of permanent employment should a staff opening occur in 2005. (I 14) 
**One position wm include the additional respons.ibility for recruitment efforts for African American students-( 115) 
**One position will HkeJy include the responsibility for recruitment eft"orts for international students. ( 1 16) 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and familiarity with aU as'Pects ofstudent life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday m.omings. 
Preferred start date is July J, 2004. 
Apply on-line via Human Resm.n-ces web site or subn:tit resume, cover Jetter and reference inforn1ation by Tuesday, April 27., 2004 to: 
Admissions Counselor Job Numbers: 4007-114,4007-115.4007-116 Department of Human Resources University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Tuesday, April27, 2004

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Marines 
continued from page 1 

you really have what it takes. if you've got what we're looking for, and if that's a good fit for you," he said. · 
Applicants must have good academic standing, pass med­ical requirements, be physically prepared and have leadership potential. 
Six Notre Dame students and two Saint Mary's students are currently enrolled in the pro­gram through Williams' office, along with students from IUSB, Bethel, Taylor, IU, Wesleyan, Saint Joseph's, IPFW and Purdue said Gunnery Sgt. David Templeton. Templeton serves as the Officer Selection Assistant in the West Lafayette station. 
"Our candidates range any­where from freshmen to gradu­ating seniors, with various degrees from criminal justice to history to psychology to pre­med to education with a minor in special education," Templeton said. "They have the opportunity to be a full-time student without a complete obli­gation to the Marine Corps." 
During the school year, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's candidates organize their own optional physical training and preparation classes. They may also attend training functions at Purdue, field training exercises and an OCS prep weekend to get a taste of what their experi­ence will be like. 
Senior T.J. Laubacher appre­ciates the opportunities that the program provides. 
"It has shown me that there's more to life than just being a student, and it's given me a pur­pose," he said. 
Laubacher joined the pro­gram four years ago as a Platoon Leaders Class candi­date. These candidates go to OCS for two six-week periods 
and can choose to accept a for travel. Financial benefits are commission as a Second also available, as students can Lieutenant after graduation. He receive a stipend to help pay for says that he enjoyed his time in school. Many candidates also the Officer Candidates School. jump at the chance for a com­
"It is the worst time that you mission, opting to serve as offi­will ever look back on and cers in the Marines. laugh at. For multiple reasons it "It's the path to a commis­is the closest you will get to sion," Williams said. "Starting 
hell," Laubacher  off early gives you  
said.  "But  it's  the  chance  to  
worth it. It's a challenge, an adventure, like none you will ever face. You're  "For multiple reasons it is the closest you will get to hell.,  really think about it. What do you want to do with your life after graduation?  
pushed  to  your  Commissionings  
ultimate limit -and then you exceed it."  T.J. Laubacher officer candidate  are great. You have the chance for a commission- 

Candidates are trained rigorously in leadership, academics and physical acumen while at OCS. Saint Mary's senior Jessica Millanes says that Williams and Templeton were crucial to her preparation process. 
"Captain Williams and Gunny work at Purdue -they live down there -but they drive up here all the time to train with us. They're very dedicated to what they do," she said. "Last summer when I went I was defi­nitely in shape to perform, and it took a lot of mental work to prepare for that second sum­mer. But you know what to expect, and I was ready." 
Williams admits that prepara­tion for the challenge is key. 
"This program and the Marine Corps itself is not for everyone, but it definitely will allow you to assess your own abilities. your own mental and physical capabilities," he said. "This program is a good pro­gram for that, because the Marine Corps will push you past your known limits. You'll go far­ther than you ever could imag­ine in as little as six weeks." 
While challenging, the pro­gram offers candidates many benefits. Candidates have the opportunity to pursue careers in law and aviation, and chances 
ing once, and it's the chance for a bright future." 
Williams, who has been in the West Lafayette station for just three years, has commissioned sixteen officers. Twenty-three officers from his office have been commissioned after OCS graduation, and eight more ­including Laubacher and Millanes -will become lieu­tenants this summer. 
After three years as a candi­date, Millanes says she looks back and realizes how ready she is for that day. 
"The day I met Captain Williams changed my life. He's had an influential role in all of our lives," she said. "He and Gunny are outstanding -they lead by example and we've all learned so many lessons from them. They proved to us what we could do and show us what Marines should be." 
Millanes said she looks to Williams for guidance in how to be a good officer once she is commissioned. 
"One day, he told me that he doesn't just wear his rank on his collar, but in his heart, and that's the kind of officer I want to be." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 


Logan 
continued from page 1 

will boast state-of-the-art handicap accessibility and "Cafe Logan Center," an area that will house a .library with internet access, meeting space and food service. 
The new building will also have room for a center devoted to autism. 
"This [current] building was built as a school many years ago," said Ann Lagomarcino, head of mar­keting for the center. "There will be space designed [specifically] for our curricu­lum." 
The center sold its current building and the land it occu­pies to Notre Dame. The 
"We knew we
University's volunteers to Campus Plan needed a new help with a vari­introduced in ety of the cen­
facility and we 
2002 calls for ter's activities
always knew Notre 
realigning like bowling, Edison Road Dame was keenly dances and a and construct­interested., Saturday recre­ing a college ation day. town develop­"We are going
Ann Lagomarclno
ment on this to have to be a land. head of marketing little more cre­
While Notre Dame's interest in the property was a benefit for the center, it was not the deciding factor in the organi­zation's decision to move, according to Lagomarcino. 
"We knew we needed a new facility and we always knew Notre Dame was keenly interested," she said. "We knew when it came time [to expand] they would be the first buyer we would approach. The timing worked out well, but it· [the University's interest in expanding] didn't impact our decision." 
The new building will be funded by a $6.2 million cap­ital campaign drive that will also cover move-in costs and furniture and equipment for the facility. 
So far, the center has raised $3.7 million, pledged mostly from foundations and grants. In its second phase of fundraising, the center plans to appeal to individual donors. 
"We're just now getting into the public phase," Lagomarcino said. "A lot of it at this point has been from larger donors." 
Although the new facility means new opportunities for the center, its further loca­tion from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's may introduce complications in coordinating volunteers from the two cam­puses. 
Currently organizations like 
Notre Dame 
Circle K send 
ative on the 
transportation but I don't think it will be an intense barrier. There are ways to work around it," Lagomarcino said. 'Tve been here for 16 years and there are a lot more students who have cars now than there used to be." 
Overall, the potential posi­tives of the move far out­weigh the negatives, Lagomarcino said. 
"It's really a nice site, right on the bus line -very con­venient," she said. "We will have the option to expand the facility as its need change." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 




storage 

4 MONTH SPECIAL MAYTHROUGH AUGUST FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 5 X I 0 ---$149 + DEP I 0 X I 0 ---$199 + DEP CALL 247-7805 CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME AND AIRPORT 
s· 


C£14T£R FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
SUMMER SERVICE INTERNSHIPS 
SITES STILL AVAILABLE 
ATTENTION CARD-CARRYING BIBIUOPHU..ES!I! 

Theology Prof pruning 20 years of accumulation. 
Chicago: MALE NEEDED-DRIVE BREAD TRUCK WITH OTHER VOLUNTEERS AND DELIVER FOOD TO KIDS Durham/Raleigh. NC: CAR NEEDED-Fooo sHU'ITl.e AND ouTREAcH Harrisburg, PA: FEMALE WITH CAR NEEDED-SHELTER FOR FAMILIES 
long Island: LOCAL STUDENT NEEDED-INTERFAmi NliTRITlON NETWORK· SHELTER AND SOUP KITCHEN 
Greensburg/Uniontown, PA: LOCAL STl}DENT NEEDED 
NW Indiana: MALE WITH CAR NEEDED-HABITAT FOR HUIIMNITY 
Peoria, Il: LOCAL STUDENT NEEDED -GUARDIAN ANGEL HOME FOR ABUSED/NEGLECTED KIDS 


Theology majors and CSTconcentration may receive a grade rather than SIU This is a partial Jist. 



Devote 8 weeks to the service of those in need Earn 3 theology credits (with possible crossllsts) S/U Receive a $2000 tuition scholarship Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 

6, . ,0USED BOOKS FOR SALE! Categories on every conceivable topicl 
April 30th & May 15\ 9:00-3:00 
52700 Walslngham ln (3 min NE of campus)
ask for directions at upologist@aol.com 
Lots of scholar~ books··· intellectual history,
philosophy, scrence, history, Church history,Theology, classics, literature, political science,and "miscellaneous" are strongly represented-­
but we also have non-academic works. 
Priced cheap! Drop by & browse. 

LOITERING STRONGLY 
ENCOURAGED! 


.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



ORLD-& NATION 
Tuesday, April 27, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TilE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel IDs newest Hamas leader 
.JEBUSALEM -Mahmoud Zahar, a 53­year-old Egyptian-trained physician whose son was killed in an Israeli airstrike, was identified by Israel Monday as the new llamas leader in the Gaza Strip. Israeli offi­cials signaled he won't be targeted for death il' the militant group halts suicide attacks. 
llamas, howevc)r, refused to reveal the nanw of' its leader for fear he will be assassi­natPd likP his two predecessors. 
Late Monday, two Palestinians were killed in an incident near the Mughazi refugee eamp in central Gaza. Palestinian security officials said them was an explosion followed by machine gun lire. First reports said the two were killed when a rocket they were set­ting up exploded prematurely. The Israeli military said it had no forces in the area. 
China nixes Hong Kong elections 
IIONG KONG -Mainland China dealt a crushing blow to Ilong Kong's hopes for full d1~mocracy Monday, when its most powerful legislative panel ruled the territory won't have direct el1~ctions for its noxt leader or for all its lawmakc~rs in 2008. 
Many people in llong Kong have been dmnanding tlw right to dnmocratically elect a successor to tlwir chief executive, Tung Cljee-hwa, a former shipping tycoon chosen for his position by an 800-rnembcr commit­tne that tmuls to side with Beijing. 
But tlw Chinese National People's Congress Standing Committee said "universal suffrage shall not apply" to the selection of Tung's successor in 2007 or members of the Legislative Council the following year. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Kerry attacks Bush on Guard duty 
WIIEELING, W.Va. -John Kerry, a deco­rated Navy veteran criticized by Hepublicans for his anti-war activities during the Vietnam era. lashed out at President Bush on Monday for failing to prove whether he fulfilled his commitment to the National Guard during llw same period. 
Conservative critics have questioned wlwtlwr Kerry deserved all three of his Purple I !earls for battln wounds, an issue the Democratic presidential candidate sought to put to rest last w1~1~k by releasing his military n~cords. On Sunday, a top Bush advisor criti­cizPd KPrry for leading anti-war protests af'ter lw return1~d from the battlefield. 

Groups slam 'dirty gold' mining 
SPOKANE, WasiL -Those gleaming neck­lac<~s. rings and watches in the jewelry case may cost a lot m'ore than you think, cnviron­nwntalists say. 
In a new public relations campaign, envi­ronmentalist groups are scolding jewelers for the damage caused by mining for gold, silv1~r and other precious metals, and are putting pressure on jewelry retailers to rnjnct mirwrals from big pollutPrs. 
Onn gold ring, conservationists say, gener­ates 20 tons of mine waste. This year, they passed out Valentine's Day cards reading, "Don't tarnish your love with dirty gold" in front of j1~welry stores in New York, Boston and Washington, D.C. 
STATE NEWS 
County pulls plug on concerts 
MUNCIE -Authorities shut down a music festival shortly before it was to begin on grounds that organizers lacked a health per­mit and were unprnpared to handle a large gathering. 
Delaware County sheriff's Cpl. Ken Lopez said officers headed out Friday to the rural site where the Budding Leaf Festival was to bn held after receiving complaints from neighbors. Organizers were cooperative when deputies arrived. 
"The 25 to 30 people there already had tents up and bands had set up," Lopez said. "The bottom line is they didn't have a permit to do anything they advertised." 
IRAQ 



Blast levels suspected chem site 
Explosion kills two U.S. soldiers; Americans refrain from attacking Fallujah 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -A suspected chemical weapons ware­house exploded in flames Monday moments after U.S. troops broke in to search it, killing two soldiers and wounding five. Jubilant Iraqis swarmed over the Americans' charred llum­vees, waving looted mach­ine guns, a bandolier and a helmet. 
In Fallujah, U.S. troops came under a heavy insur­gent attack a day after U.S. ollicials decided to extend a cease-fire rather than launch a full-scale ofl'ensive on the city. One Marine and eight insurgents were killed. 

Marines battled Sunni guerrillas around a mosque in Fallujah's Jolan district, a poor neighborhood where insurgents arc concentrat­ed. Helicopter gunships joined the battle, which sent heavy black smoke over the against chemical weapons. ing a woman who wept as Police made their first city. Tank fire demolished a "Chemical munitions could she was carried over a deployment inside Najaf, minaret from which officials mean any number of man's shoulder to safety. moving into a base that said gunmen were firing. things," including smoke Afterward, dozens of Spanish troops arc vacating 
The U.S. troops met "a grenades, he said. cheering teenagers started about five miles from holy real nasty bunch," said Lt. The cause of the blast to smash the abandoned shrines at the heart of the Col. Brennan Byrne, com­also was unclear. Kimmitt Humvees. One child climbed city. mander of the 1st Battalion, said a large number of on a hood of one of the U.S. commanders have 5th Marine Regiment. But explosives were in the vehicles and beat it with a said they will not move he said the violence would building, located in the stick. A man held up a against the shrines in order not deter plans to begin northern neighborhood of photo of radical Shiite cleric to capture al-Sadr. The joint U.S.-Iraq patrols in the Waziriyah. Muqtada al-Sadr. Iraqis Americans say they're city. Asked about reports that stripped the vehicles of aware that doing so could 
The patrols are a key part the search team included equipment, one carrying a turn the cleric's limited of the U.S. effort to establish members of the Iraq Survey heavy machine gun, anoth­revolt into a wider anti-U.S. a semblance of control over Group -the U.S. team er waving a U.S. helmet. uprising by Iraq's Shiite Fallujah without a wider looking for weapons of One man sported military majority. Marine assault, which mass destruction headphones. In Baghdad, however, would revive the bloody Kirnmitt said only: "The "This is for the madman Bremer heightened warn­warfare seen earlier this inspection was by a number Bush, for the madman ings about the reported month. The United States of coalition forces." Bremer!" said one youth as stockpiling of weapons in decided to try the patrols He said the owner of the he waved a rifle, referring "mosques, shrines and after President Bush con­site was "suspected of pro­to President Bush and the schools" in Naja!'-and his sulted with his commanders ducing and supplying chem­top American administrator spokesman noted that such over the weekend, and the ical agents" to Iraqi insur­in Iraq, L. Paul Bremer. actions make the sites fair cease-fire was extended in gents, but did not elaborate. In the south, outside the targets for military action. part to allow for patrols to The blast leveled the front holy city of Najaf, Shiite "The coalition certainly be organized. half of the one-story build­militiamen in cars fired will not tolerate this situa­
Brig. Gen. Mark Kimmitt ing and set ablaze four rocket-propelled grenades tion," Bremer said in a did not say what sort of Humvees parked outside. A at a U.S. position, witnesses statement addressed to res­chemical munitions were U.S. soldier was taken away said. Apache helicopters idents of Najaf. "The believed to be produced at on a stretcher, her chest and U.S. troops opened fire restoration of these holy the Baghdad warehouse. and face severely burned. and set the cars ablaze. places to calm places of After the blast, there was Several Iraqis were pulled The dash carne as around worship must begin imme-· no sign of precautions from the wreckage, includ-200 U.S. troops and Military diatcly." 

U.S., Turkey pair up for Ark quest 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -An expedition is being planned for this summer to the upper reaches of Turkey's Mount Ararat where organizers hope to prove an object nestled amid the snow and ice is Noah's Ark. 
A joint U.S.-Turkish team of 10 explorers plans to make the arduous trek up Turkey's tallest mountain, at 17,820 feet, from July 15 to August 15, subject to the approval of the Turkish government, said Daniel McGivern, president of Shamrock ­The Trinity Corporation of Honolulu, Hawaii. 
The goal: to enter what they believe to be a mammoth structure some 45 feet high, 75 feet wide and up to 450 feet long that was exposed in part by last summer's heat wave in Europe. 

"We arc not excavating it. We are not taking any artifacts. We're going to photograph it and, God willing, you're all going to see it," McGivern said. 
Explorers have long searched for an ark on the high slopes of Mount Ararat, where the biblical account of the Great Flood places it. 
In 1957, Turkish air force pilots spotted a boat-shaped formation in Agri province. The government did not pursue the sighting, however. The entire area, including Mount Ararat, was off limits to foreigners because of Soviet complaints that explorers were U.S. spies. 
That ban was lifted in 1982, and since then teams of explorers have visited the area but have been unable to substantiate any claim of an ark. 
McGivern and Ahmet Ali Arslan, a Turkish mountain climber who grew up in a town near Mount Ararat, say satellite photos have helped them pinpoint a more exact location. Arslan will be leading the expedi­tion. 
The biblical account in the Book of Genesis says that after the great del­uge, the ark carne to rest on the mountain with Noah's family and a cargo of male and female pairs of every kind of animal. 
Geologists say even though there is evidence of a flood in Mesopotamia in Sumerian times, it is not possible for a ship to make landfall at an alti­tude as high as Mount Ararat. 
Tuesday, April 27, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Show 
continued from page 1 
"The committee was hired in early February after receiving record applications in January," said Flaherty. "Since then we have been meeting weekly, making decisions on logos, name, band lists, surveys, and fundraising." 
The focus will be on creative advertising, especially in Notre Dame dorms and at freshman ori­entation, as well as reaching out to Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. 
Flaherty says that it is not diffi­cult to attract big-name bands to campus, particularly because the location between Chicago and the east coast makes Notre Dame a convenient stop for major tour routes. 
Recruiting bands depends on both timing and fmances. Flaherty says that it is much cheaper and easier to get bands who are tour­ing in the area at the time. 
Funding for "The Show" comes primarily from the Notre Dame Office of Student Affairs and Notre Dame Student Activities Office. 
This year, the committee has ~en restructured to increase effi­ciency and outreach abilities. 
Three vice-chairman oversee groups of finance, marketing and production and liaisons from Saint Mary's and Holy Cross rep­resent their respective student bodies. 
The support of the schools' administrations is also vital to the concert's success. 
"I can't speak enough about the administration's support," said Flaherty. "Dr. Moss and Brian Coughlin, on behalf of their respective offices, have full faith in this event. 
"We have also had tremendous support from the Saint Mary's administration in the past and are looking forward to continuing that relationship this year as well as building one with Holy Cross." 
Next year marks the third year of "The Show." and the fourth concert of its kind. Flipstock 2001 was the first fall concert, featuring SR-71, Nine Days and They Might Be Giants. 
Pleased by the concert's suc­cess, Office of Student Affairs with the Student Activities Office assumed its production. 
In 2002, The Show featured Better than Ezra and The Parliament Funk. 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynnl@nd.edu 


Student attends Chinese tnission 
By LAUREN SIEGEL News Writer 
As the spring semester con­cludes. many students look forward to traveling home to familiar territory. This is not the case for Stephanie Haskins, a finance major at Saint Mary's College. 
On May 30, Haskins will travel overseas to attend the 
·International Mission on Diplomacy in the People's Republic of China with 80 other college and university students to explore the inner workings of international affairs in China. 
"The international Mission on Diplomacy engages its par­ticipants to learn from individc uals currently leading cooper­ative efforts in staving off potential international con­flict," said John Hines, execu­tive director of Envision Institute. 
As a junior in high school, Haskins was invited to Washington to participate in a week-long forum, the NYLF on Defense, Intelligence & Diplomacy. As an alumnae of this program, she was invited to attend the International Missions and had a choice of going to China, Australia, Eastern Europe, Brazil or South Africa. 

"I chose China," Haskins said. "because I felt that diplo­matic relations within China are undergoing great changes in the economic, social and political environments." 
Her first time traveling abroad, Haskins will visit Beijing, the ancient city of Xi'an and Shanghai. Highlights will be meeting with a repre­sentative of the U.S. Embassy, Chinese Diplomats, the Vice Mayor of Shanghai and the former U.S. Consular General. 
"This unique diplomatic and cultural exploration, I am sure, will be a life-changing experi­ence that will fuel my ambition for years to come and give me a tremendous head start towards my professional career goals," Haskins said. Haskins, who is not familiar with Chinese culture, has been planning for her trip by read­ing online stories about the cities she will visit, as well as becoming familiar with China's daily news, current events and history. 
Haskins will meet with China's future diplomats at the China University of Foreign Affairs to discuss that coun­try's place in world politics, and the important role of diplomacy plays in connecting cultures and creating trust between varying governments. 
"Diplomacy has always inter­ested me," said Haskins, "and I feel it is an honor to be invited, and I look forward to repre­senting my country. I believe this is an once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and I hope to gain an understanding and knowl­edge of another culture and lifestyle as well as gain an insight in that we are a global community. I know I will also gain an appreciation and toler­ance for different views and ideologies." 
Contact Lauren Siegel at sieg4735@saintrnarys.edu 


Council 
continued from page 1 
and special interest -saw over­all cuts. The performing arts division was hardest hit, as allo­cations to its member clubs fell to less than $29,500, a decrease of nearly 41 percent from last year's levels. 
Meanwhile, academic and ath­letic clubs saw surges in funding. The athletic division led the way, as its member clubs were allo­cated over $82,500 -a 21 per­cent increase over last year. 
Garcia said the funding changes do not reflect any broad realignment of funding priorities, and that decisions are made on a case-by-case basis. 
"We look at [clubs'] accounting and how they've spent their money in the past," he said. "Clubs that have spent their stu­dent activities fees the best [are] who we're looking to give money to." 
Only a handful of clubs -the Academic Competition Club, the Science-Business Club, the College Republicans, the Flyin' Irish and the Children's Defense Fund -received 100 percent of their request. On average, clubs received about 55 percent of their request. · 
In other COR news: 
+ CPC chairman Jimmy Flaherty nominated sophomore Lauren Hallemann to serve as the CPC's director of publicity. Flaherty said he has full confidence in Hallemann's ability to coordinate the CPC's publicity efforts. 
The CPC. formerly known as the Student Union Board, is stu­dent government's principal pro­gramming body. Hallemann's approval passed unanimously. 
+ Student body president Adam Istvan announced that a DVD rental store will be set up in LaFortune's Huddle Mart over the summer. 
"When you guys come back in August, you'll be able to rent DVDs at the Huddle," Istvan said. 
He said the store, which will not be affiliated with a video rental company, will begin with $7,500 in funding. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbrarnant@nd.edu 
The Office of lnforn1ation Technologies presents a Data Center... 

Celebrating the Grand Opening of the newly renovated Notre Dame Data Center 
Tour the Data Center See the IT systems that power Notre Dame 
ApriL 29, 2004 • 3:00p-5:00p For Notre Dame Students, Faculty and Staff • First Floor, IT Center Refreshments Provided 
rj) 
UNIVERSI'I'Y OF NOTRE DAME 
OH'lCE Ol' INFOtl.M.ATlON 
T.ECHN()tOCfES 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS

Tuesday, April 27, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
10,444.73 -28.11

}ones 
~.. up: Same: ~ Composite Volume: 
I ,223 166 • I ,289,804,288 

AMEX 1,246.25 +6.02 NASDAQ 2,036.77 -13.00 NYSE 6,597.70 -19.18 S&P500 1,135.53 -5.07 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 12,072.27 -91.62 
fTSf IOO(London) 4,571.80 +1.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -1.09  -0.30  27.24  
OSI PHARMACEUT (OSIP)  + 138.86  +52.96  91' 10  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -1.38  -0.38  27. IS  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -0.77  -0.18  23.14  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -1.76  ·0.22  12.31  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.46  -0.24  52.23  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.43  -0. 19  44.33  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.33  -0.08  35.51  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.95  -0.09  9.43  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.51  36.97  
GOLD ($17roy oz.)  +0.90  396.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.425  106.575  
YEN 108.7 EURO 0.8432 POUND 0.5605 CANADIAN$ I .352 


Excha Rates 

IN BRIEF 
Computer Associates restates EPS 
ISLANDIA, N.Y. -lloping to move past an accounting scandal that forced its chief execu­tive to resign, Computer Associates International Inc. restated financial results from 2000 and 2001 on Monday to reflect $2.2 billion in revenue that was improperly booked. 
The software maker also continued to shake up its management, confirming that director Kenneth Cron had been named interim chief executive and installing former Compaq Computer Corp. executive Jeff Clarke as chief operating officer. 
New chairman Lewis Hanieri said Computer Associatns has spent $30 million investigating its accounting practices and responding to inquiries from U.S. regulators and federal prosecutors. 
High court to decide tax case 
WASIIINGTON -The Supreme Court agreed Monday to review the government's way of resolving large tax disputes, accepting a chal­lenge that claims taxpayers can be hit with multimillion-dollar judgments without know­ing how the decision was reached. 
Justices will hear a constitutional challenge to the technical process for people who fight government demands for taxes. At issue are the largest cases -those involving more than $50,000, in which special judges hold trials and forward recommendations to the U.S. Tax Court for rulings. 
The court will hear the cases in its next term which begins in October. 
New home sales leap in March 
WASIIINGTON -Sales of new homes surged by 8.9 percent in March, the largest monthly increase in nine months, as mortgage rates bottomed out before starting to ascend. 
The increase pushed sales of new, single family houses to a record seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.228 million last month. That was up from 1.128 in February, the Commerce Dnpartment reported Monday. 
The monthly increase of 8.9 percent was the highest since June 2003. 
By region. new home sales soared by 19.3 pnrcent in the South, hitting a record rate of 613,000. 
COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT 

Boeing lands major jet order 
Japanese carrier agrees to purchase 50 new 7£7 Dreamliners beginning in 2008 

Associated Press 
SEATTLE -The Boeing Co. board of directors has approved production of its roomier. more fuel-efficient 7E7 Dreamliner now that it has an order for the first 50 planes from All Nippon Airways, the manufacturer and carrier announced Monday. 
The order is worth $6 bil­lion at list prices, although airlines typically negotiate substantial discounts for large orders. The precise dollar figure of the order was withheld. 
Dreamliner production is scheduled to begin in 2006. The first flight by one of the planes is anticipated the next year and deliveries are scheduled to begin in 2008, according to a statement. 
The 7E7 is designed to compete with the Airbus A330-200 series -manu­factured by Boeing's European rival -as well as to replace the 757 and 767. It is Boeing's first all­new plane since 1990. 
The deal is a record for the number of planes in a single customer's order that initiates production by Boeing. The old record was set in 1960 when Eastern Airlines and United Airlines each ordered 40 of the new 727s. 
More 7E7 orders are like­ly in the coming weeks and months but "probably not on the order of magnitude of this order," Boeing Commercial Airplanes 
spokeswoman  Yvonne  
Leach said in a  telephone  
interview.  

"1 think we'll see some­thing happening in China in the relatively near term," Mike Bair, Boeing's senior vice president for the 7E7, said in a conference call. 
The order includes the short-haul Model 3, which will have about 300 seats, and the longer-range Model 8, with 230 seats in two classes, with the exact number of each to be determined later. 

"ANA's selection of the Boeing 7E7 is consistent with our stated goal to operate the safest: most modern, efficient and com­fortable fleet of aircraft in the world," ANA president Yoji Ohashi said in the joint statement. 
While Airbus has touted its 550-passenger A380 as a solution that enables air­lines to pack more cus­tomers onto each flight between major hubs, Boeing is betting that carri­ers will prefer. smaller, more efficient airplanes to get passengers to their des­tinations more directly. 
Shares of Boeing gained 87 cents, or 2 percent to $43.32 in morning trading Monday on the New York Stock Exchange. 
The Dreamliner, designed to use 15 percent to 20 per­cent Jess fuel per passenger while providing bigger win­dows and slightly wider aisles and seats than other airliners, will be assembled in Everett, about 25 miles north of Seattle, where the 747, 767 and 777 arc now made. 
Mitsubishi, Kawasaki and Fuji Heavy Industries, Japan's three leading industrial conglomerates, have contracted to provide about 35 percent of the 7E7, including the wings ­the first time outside com­panies have been given the lead in wing production for a Boeing commercial air­craft. 
ANA will decide later whether to equip the planes with General Electric GENX or Rolls Royce Trent 1000 jet engines, each capable of providing 55,000 to 70,000 pounds of thrust. 
The order will enable ANA to eventually replace its fleet of 61 medium-sized planes-52 767-300s, two 767-ZOOs, and seven Airbus A321s. 
CONSUMER STAPLES 

Americans cry over $4 milk prices 
price to a record high of $1.69 per higher than last week. At D'Agostino
Associated Press 

gallon. That doesn't include packag­Supermarkets, a gallon was priced at 
NEW YORK -An increase in the ing, distribution and other costs. $3.69 while at The Food Emporium, base price of milk is pushing the As a result, the retail price per gal­a division of The Great Atlantic and retail price of the staple to nearly $4 lon of milk is set to reach more than Pacific Tea Company, it was listed at per gallon, causing some consumers $4 per gallon -its highest levels $3.84. to cut back, switch brands or seek ever -in at least some areas, not At Costco branches throughout the 
out wholesalers. adjusting for inflation. country, milk was selling at about $2 
"I stopped buying organic milk Jim Rogers, president of the a gallon but this will change next because it was so expensive," said Albany-based Food Industry Alliance week, said Judith Logan, the general Ashley Wotiz, a designer, as she of New York State, said the state merchandise manager for the whole­bought a pint of store brand milk for approved an increase in the maxi­saler. "Dairy farmers may be able to $1.15 at a grocery store on the east mum price retailers can charge to hold prices for a week but after that, side in Manhattan. Now, Wotiz is $4.18 per gallon, the first time it based on the industry news I have, cringing at the price of what was crossed the $4 mark. prices will go up." once the cheapest milk on the shelf. Prices can vary from the national "We have to pass the increase on to 
The rise in prices comes after the average based on the region where the customer otherwise we can't pay 
U.S. Agriculture Department the milk is produced and the type of our bills," said John Catsimatidis, 
announced Friday that it would raise milk sold, such as skim or whole. chairman and CEO of Gristede's the minimum price paid to dairy On Monday. stores in New York Foods Inc., a grocery superstore farmers by 50 cents -taking the were selling milk at least 20 cents chain in New York. 
Tuesday, April27, 2004

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
IRELAND 
The Vatican replaces Dublin Archbishop 

Associated Press 
DUBLIN -The Vatican replaced Cardinal Desmond Connell as the archbishop of Dublin on Monday after years of criticism that he didn't do enough to stop sexual abuse by priests. 
Pope John Paul II announced Monday in Vatican City that Diarmuid Martin, the coadjutor archbishop of Dublin, had suc­ceeded Connell as leader of the archdiocese's nearly 1.1 million Catholics. 
The pope's statement said Connell's resignation -original­ly offered in 2001 -had now been accepted because of his age. 
Pressure had been mounting on Connell, 78, to quit ever since the Irish television network RTE broadcast an October 2002 doc­umentary into the scope of abuse cases within the country's largest archdiocese. 
The program accused Connell of using church funds to provide a confidential $50,000 loan to Ivan Payne, a priest who then used the money to buy the silence of an alleged abuse vic­tim. 
The documentary said arch­
diocese leaders were facing 
more than 450 lawsuits from 
alleged victims, and had long 
been aware of a pedophile ring 
in the diocese involving eight 
priests, including Payne. 
The program accused the car­
dinal of demonstrating little sym­
pathy for abuse victims. 
On Monday, Connell cast his 
impending retirement in a posi­
tive light, making no reference to 
the sex abuse scandal. 
"I am greatly looking forward 
to retirement," Connell told 
reporters in Dublin, Martin at his 
side. "There will be a period of 
adjustment, but it will be good to 
have time to spend with family 
and friends, and to catch up on 
my reading." 
Connell has long been one of 
the church's most prominent the­ologians. Before his appointment as archbishop in 1988, he served · as a professor of metaphysics at 
University College Dublin. 
As archbishop he denounced 
contraception, divorce, abortion 
and homosexual relationships. 
He proved ill at ease with the 
media and demonstrated little 
diplomatic skill, sometimes 
clashing with leaders of Ireland's 
major Protestant denomination, 
the Church of Ireland. 
Allevents FREE andopen to the public! 

For rnore Information call the Departrnent ofMusic at631-6201. 
In town for the game? Why~----.. 

not stay with family? 
Gramma's House B&B. 
Now taking reservations 
for the 2004 football season 
and 2005 Graduation. 

2 miles north ofthe Notre Dame 
Toll Road exit (77). Group rates for 
partiesof6. Phone574-272-3999 

Upcorning Recitals in the Departrnent ofMusic 
Lon Jiang, cello with Kul Min, piano 
Monday, April 26 6 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Daniel Bayle$S, organ 
Tuesday, April 27 8 pm, Sacred Heart Basilica 
Lecture/Recital 

"LeDonne Musicall: 17th Century Women and th~lr Music" Danlelle Svonavec,soprano Darlene Catello. harpsichord Mary Anne Ballard, viola da gamba Wednesday, April 28 7 pm, Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center Saint Mary's College 
Logan Bll•s, saxophone 

with Yoko Yatnada, plano 
Friday. April 30 
5:30 pm,Carey Auditorium Hesburgh Library 
MatthewMerten, tron1bone 
Saturday, May 1 
3:30 pm,Annenberg Auditorium 
Leila Tascheck, violin with Palvl Ekroth, piano 
Sunday, May 2 3 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Ivana Sabanolovd, organ 
Sunday, May 2 8 pm, Sacred Heart Basflrca 
Mary Waltner, mezzo-soprano 
with Palvi Ekroth, plano 
Thursday, May 6 
1 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Reb•cca Paul, soprano 
with Palvl Ekroth,plano 
Thursday, May 6 3 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
HCC 
continued from page 1 
faculty at Holy Cross. 
"The courses have gone well, but then we thought they would," Watson said. "After all, our professors are both experts in their fields and dedicated to teaching, so coursework plays to HCC's strength: the faculty." 
However, it has been more difficult to define the program in terms of making it distinct from those of the other four­year institutions in the sur­rounding area, Watson said. One unique component of HCC's baccalaureate track is that enrolled students do not choose one major but instead receive a liberal arts education by taking the same set of multi­disciplinary courses with some electives. This standard set of courses is then supplemented with required participation in a study-abroad experience, an internship and a service-learn­ing project. 
"What have been challenging are the aspects of our program that make it distinct, such as the emphasis on career devel­opment and internships," Watson said. "That's something we didn't have as much experi­ence in, but through a recent $750,000 Lilly Grant, HCC has hired Tim Ryan to head the College's new Lilly Career Development Center." 
Like Watson, Holy Cross stu­dents have also found the addi­tion of the baccalaureate pro­gram to be successful, and they welcome its further develop­ment. Students admitted to the four-year track are pleased with the new opportunities that are now available to them, and those earning associate degrees appreciate the smooth­ness with which the new pro­gram as been implemented. 
"The four-year program is a natural outgrowth from the 

two-year program, and I think Cross are unique, but the close this is what our student have bond that the students and fac­most appreciated," Watson ulty have here is not like any said. "The four-year program other college I have ever seen has many of the same positive before." HCC attributes as does the two­Lafferty and Flaherty have year program, primarily facul­both chosen to focus on busi­ty and staff who ness, marketing and advertis­commit themselves to an active ing for the next two years, 
role in the indi­ areas of study that  
vidual lives of the College's stu­ "We love it here,  can be deeply  more experi­ 
dents."  and we love to see  enced  through  
Holy Cross sophomore and newly elected student body  this school branching out and becoming bigger  internship oppor­tunities. "By completing the baccalaureate  
president Joseph Lafferty  and better. "  program. I have access to services  
is one of only five students  Michael Flaherty  which will help me find an intern­ 
who have been  vice student  ship, develop job  
accepted to the  body president  search skills, and  

baccalaureate program thus far. Lafferty said the applica­tion process is much more complex than it was for the Associates Degree because of the demanding nature of the four-year track. However, he looks forward to the new chal­lenges with which he has been presented. 
"I was always interested in hearing about Holy Cross becoming a four-year school since I was a freshmen, and when they [the Holy Cross administration] finally made the decision, I knew the pro­gram would be right for me," Lafferty said. Sophomore Michael Flaherty, who will be Vice Student Body President for the 2004-05 school year, has also been accepted to the program and, like Lafferty, is looking forward to taking part in its unique aspects. 
"When I enrolled to Holy Cross as a freshman, I heard a rumor of a four year program being created," Flaherty said. "I talked to a few mentors and decided that this innovative program was exactly what I wanted to engage myself in. All the programs here at Holy 
find a job after graduation," Lafferty said. 
Lafferty and Flaherty agree that other students, including those who will obtain an asso­ciates degree, have also embraced the program as a means of improving the educa­tional options available at Holy Cross. 
"Other students' reactions I am sure have been positive," Flaherty said. "We love it here, and we love to see this school branching out and becoming bigger and better." 
As for future goals for Holy Cross's program. Watson said that the number of admitted students will be kept small intentionally for the next few years. but that over time the program will expand and per­haps increase the enrollment at the college. . 
"We will grow our baccalau­reate program, but we will do it methodically and deliberate­ly," Watson said. "The goal was never to simply increase our enrollment; the goal was to create a vibrant new program, 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 

~·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges the following businesses which support our incentive program 
Barnaby's Between the Buns Bleacher's Pub & Grub BW-3 Buffalo Wings Grill & Bar 
CJ's Pub 
Carriage House 
Chick-Fil-A 
College Football Hall of Fame Doc Pierce's Drive and Shine 
FunTan, Inc. 
Golden Dragon 
Granger Tap & Grill 
Hi-Speed Auto Wash 
Honkers K's Grill &Pub 
La Esperanza Authentic Mexican 
Luigi's Pizza 
lula's Cafe 
Northern Indiana Transit Authority Michael & Co. Salon Nuevo Tijuana Mexican Restaurant Osco Drug Store #5321 Papa John's Pizza Patricia Ann Florist Potawatomi Zoological Society Quality Dining/Burger King Quality Dining/Chili's/Papa Vino's Ritter's Frozen Custard Rocco's Restaurant Samuel Mancino's Italian Eatery Shear Phazes South Bend Regional Museum of Art Studebaker National Museum Ten Thousand Villages Tippecanoe Place Restaurant Walmart Wendy's of South Bend Wing's Etc. Restaurant & Pub Hooters of Mishawaka 

L·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
Tuesday, April 27, 2004 
The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
New drug replaces 
Court refuses school prayer case 
Cipro for treating STD 
Scalia questions reasoning behind denial of VMI appeal 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -The govern­ment is expected to recom­mend this week that doctors switch to another antibiotic for treating gonorrhea because of an alarming rise in drug-resistant cases of the sexually transmitted disease, top experts said Monday. 
The elass of antibiotics commonly used to treat gon­orrhea. including Cipro, is no longer effective against cer­tain strains of the baeteria. said Dr. Jeffrey Klausner, deputy health officer and director of STD prevention for the San Francisco Department of Public Health. 
In place of Cipro, adminis­tered as a pill, the Centers 

Thursday, April29, 2004 -i 

Writing separately, Justice John Paul Stevens countered
8pm -::C 
that the VMI case may be
Washington Hall -m 
important, but suffers from 
Admission is FREE -c 
procedural and other prob­lems. He said Scalia is "quite wrong" in his characteriza­
Featuring student Z 
tion of why the court rejected
winners of the 
o Q 
the case. Justices Ruth Bader 2003-2004 NO 
Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer Concerto Competition .. -i 
joined Stevens. With the Supreme Court 
rebuff, the ruling of a lower
... :::0
Stravinsky --Firebircl Suite 
court stands. That court said Rachmaninov --Piano Concerto #3 
the nightly prayers violate the


::rm 
Constitution's ban on state promotion of religion.
t(''''''') Arutunian -~~~i~~~~~~;~~~ The court already is consid­Ryan Berndt, trumpet 
CDO 
.. 
ering a major case about reli­gion in schools. Justices are expected to rule by summer on whether the current word­


!:.> 


ing of the Pledge of Allegiance, with its reference 
to "one nation under God," can legally be recited in pub­lic schools. 
Dm ~ 
:::~:;:s-<-:w:::::'­
::~~~:.1.? 
for Disease Control and Prevention is expected to recommend ceftriaxone, which is less convenient because it is injected, Klausner told The Associated Press. Another recommended drug, cefixime. is in pill form but is no longer made in the United States. 
CDC spokeswoman Jessica Frickey said the agency plans to announce new recommen­dations Thursday for treating gonorrhea, but would not give details. Klausner and another health official who worked with the CDC on its new guidelines disclosed them. 
Cipro has been used for at least four years to fight gon­orrhea. 
blunt critique of what he sug­gested are fliinsy reasons for avoiding an appeal on behalf of the Virginia Military Institute, which is part of the state's university system. 
The VMI case also gave the



-<"' 
court an opportunity to rule on the constitutionality of tra­ditional religious observance
5I 
in military institutions, Scalia-a said. "The weighty questions raised by petitioners ...::r 
deserve this court's atten­tion," he wrote in protest.
0 

Scalia recused himself from military one, "since group that case because of remarks prayer before military mess is that seemed to prejudge the more traditional than group case. prayer at ordinary state col­
At VMI, the mess hall leges," he wrote. prayers, one for each night of The back-and-forth the week except Saturday, between Scalia and Stevens were recited by a student offered a rare glimpse inside chaplain. The prayers con­the secretive selection cluded with the phrase, "Now, process for Supreme Court 0 God, we receive this food cases. and share this meal together The court chooses to hear 
with thanksgiv­ only  a  small  
ing. Amen."  percentage  of  
Two cadets asked the school to change the prayer ceremo­ "The weighty questions raised by petitioners ... deserve  all the cases sent to it. By tradition, at least four jus­ 
ny.  They  sued  this court's  tices  must  
when refused.  VMI  attention."  agree given  that case  a is  
Since  the  worthwhile.  
1960s,  the  Antonln Scalia  The  justices  
Supreme Court  Supreme Court justice  vote  behind  


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Two of the Supreme Court's most conser­vative members delivered an unusual public rebuke to more liberal justices Monday, accusing them of ducking an important church-state fight over mealtime prayers at a taxpayer-funded military col­lege. 
Justiee Antonin Scalia, joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, said the court should have taken the case to answer for the first time whether its ban on school-sponsored prayer for young children and high schoolers applies to college students as well. 
Scalia delivered a polite but has outlawed official prayer in a variety of public school settings, includ­ing classrooms and at high school graduations. The court has pointed to the special cir­cumstances of grade schools and high schools, with their many rules, enforced atten­dance and young pupils. 

By contrast, college stu­dents are usually adults and attend school by choice. 
The state of Virginia asked the high court to reinstate a decades-old VMI practice of saying grace before the evening meal. 
The school was the subject of a previous, hard-fought Supreme Court case over its all-male admissions policy. VMI lost that case in 1996, as Scalia noted dryly in his dis­sent Monday. 
"VMI has previously seen another of its traditions abol­ished by this court," he wrote. "This time, however, its cause has been ignored rather than rejected ­though the consequences will be just the same." 
Scalia voted in favor of VMI in the earlier case. Although he did not say how he would have voted this time, he appeared to tip his hand. 
Prayer at a military college is more likely to be constitu­tional than prayer at a non-
Summer is now in session. 
Welcome to Summer SessiC?n I N~t Holy Cross College. Holy Cross College offers a wide variety of transferable credit courses this summer for students who want a chance to complete additional course work. Courses in anthropology, biology, English composition, British literature, precalculus, philosophy, photography and many more are taught... 
You can easily pian ~'schedule that meets your n~ds.;md interests. Courses are open to current students and visiting students from other colleges. Classes begin May 17. 
For more information, contact admissio~s@hcc-nd.edu or call 574-239-8400. 
·..:._, 


::F 
HOLY CROSS 
COLLEGE;·· ); 
at Notre Dame, lnd1ana ~ '\1 
574-239-8400 • admissions@hcc-nd.edu www.hcc·nd.edu 
closed doors. 
Debate over a 
prospective case may be vigorous or non­existent, but to the outside world the result almost always appears the same: A simple, one-sentence notice that "the petition for a writ of certiorari is granted," or, far more often, denied. 
By dissenting in the VMI case, Scalia and Rehnquist revealed that, at most, they were able to collect just one additional vote to hear the case. 
The justices in the court's ideological middle, Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony 
M. Kennedy, did not reveal their votes. 
One reason to reject the case, Stevens said, was the lack of a clear division among lower appeals courts that have considered similar issues about campus prayer. Such splits often lead the Supreme Court to get involved and make the law uniform nationwide. 
Scalia pounced on that rea­soning, and he came close to calling his colleagues hyp­ocrites. Of course, there are no cases precisely like the VMI case because there are no institutions precisely like VMI, Scalia wrote. 
The case is Bunting v. Mellen, 03-863. 
THE OBSER\'ER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April 27, 2004 

Changing the world one semester at a time 
We live in times that try men and women's souls. Thomas Paine, the great American patriot, used these words 228 years ago to summon a people to action for freedom and justice. Through his call 
to action, Paine  
began a tradition of social change,  Peter Quaranta  
deeply embedded  
in the heart of  
the American  A Call to Action  
people, that has  
driven some of  
the greatest  

moments of American history: the women's suffrage movement, the labor movement for economic rights and the Civil Rights Movement. Beyond America, the course of human history is filled with stories of individuals creatively engaging the structures of their time in work for justice. Perhaps the greatest of these was a man from Nazareth 2,000 years ago who preached truth and love to the fear that consumed the powerful. Today, we live in a world that deeply needs such inspiring words and action. 
We need simply to open our eyes to recognize the need for change in our community, country and world. Individuals might disagree on the nature and scope of this change, but accept­ance of the status quo is a fatal mistake. In the United States today, 44 million Americans lack healthcare and 34.6 mil­lion Americans live in poverty. Tonight, over 24,000 people around the world will die of hunger. Tomorrow, thousands of children will be abused, hundreds of thousands of women will face discrimi­nation and millions of workers will be exploited. To accept this situation as the best the system can do is to turn one's back on the rich tradition within American and human history of ordi­nary people creating change for the common good. We need change and we need to be the bearers of that change. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

As it is at many colleges, Notre Dame students for too long have been defined by characteristics of apathy, conformity and complacency. I certainly admit that I have written on this many times. Yet to simply see our community in this light is to miss the many people working on campaigns for constructive social 
• change. In the past two weeks, over 145 people have fasted and taken a stand for justice for tomato pickers in Florida. Their commitment to demanding that our administration live up to its ideals is a beacon of hope that we can all be instruments of social change. 
In these times, it has become com­
monplace to hear people of diverse 
political and religious orientations 
speaking in terms of the crossroads we 
face personally, nationally and univer­
sally. There is a consensus that we stand 
at a moment of contingency in determin­
ing the future of our lives and institu­
tions, but are we committed to shaping 
the outcomes? Will we be spectators of 
this future or will we drive its construc­
tion? 
This is a pivotal moment on a number 
of fronts. In terms of national politics 
and shaping the international order, 
what is the direction that we want the 
United States to take in its language and 
actions? In terms of domestic politics, 
what are our priorities? In terms of our 
own community, what direction should 
Notre Dame take in order to most fully 
live out its ideals? Finally, how will we 
unite to act for positive social change? 
It is this last question that a group of us will try to answer as we converge on Fieldhouse Mall today from 4:30 to 6:30 
p.m. for the America Needs a Change rally. This rally for local and national change will be an opportunity for the many social action groups of Notre Dame to connect and raise their voices for equality, peace and justice. 
As we stand at these crossroads, we 

need as many people as possible to come together to foster a new dialogue about the substantive issues that are affecting real people. We need an active community of informed people commit­ted to using their gifts for a better future for all Americans and all people. We need to bring people into this dialogue to seriously engage one another about the challenges and obstacles that we face in creating a community committed to justice. 
Change will not come simply through our discussing topics in our classes or sharing time at exciting dorm events; change will come when we commit our­selves to its work in tangible ways. Change will come when we embrace the call to action that lies within all of us. 
As Martin Luther King, Jr. said in his "Letter from Birmingham Jail," "Human progress never rolls in on wheels of inevitability; it comes through the tire­less efforts of men willing to be co-work­ers with God, and without this hard work, time itself becomes an ally of the forces of social stagnation. We must use time creatively, in the knowledge that the time is always ripe to do right." 
The time is now and change begins with you and me. 
Peter Quaranta wants to thank his "unofficial editors" for ail their wisdom and guidance this year: Alice, Mark and Julia. He also wants to thank all ofthe inspiring seniors that did change the world one semester at a time: Cecilia, Jim, Chris, Brigitte, Andrew, Tom, Nadia. Monica, Liz, Kate, Keri, Maureen and so many more. Finally, he wants to thank the Red Sox for winning six of seven thus far against New York. Times are changing. Contact him at pquar­ant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ninety-eight percent ofthe adults in this
Should the Board of Trustees ask 

country are decent, hardworking, honest 
University President Father Edward Malloy 

Americans. It's the other lousy two percent 
to return for another term? 

that get all the publicity. But then, we elected them." 
Vote by 5 p.m. today at 

Lily Tomlin
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
comedian 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
Ti.1esday, April 27, 2004 page II 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Recognizing the effects of Kerry's policies 
Respect those who make a difference 

Bill Hinner's Apr. 23 Viewpoint column was callous and cowardly. After mocking the actions of the hunger strikers by describing his own hunger strike for his beloved Crystal Pepsi, Hinner notes, "Call it the plight of an upper middle class white male." Thanks for the biographical infor­mation, Bill, because after your insensitive article on labor issues, I had you pegged for a Mexican migrant worker who put yourself through school by picking toma­toes. 
You refer to the strike as offensive and ask that "legitimate hunger strikes be rnserved for massive social injustices." Actually. most people might consider pay­ing farm workers slave wages while refus­ing them the right to organize a "massive social injustice." In June 2002, three of the employers that you might claim were giv­ing workers the "market value" of their ell'orts were sentenced to 25 years in jail. found guilty of conspiracy to hold workers in indentured servitude and extortion. 
Your article is filled with too many erro­neous claims and false generalizations to respond to in a single letter. but allow me to address one of the most ridiculous a..<;scrtions you make. You claimed Europeans are in awe of the efficiency and compassion of the American health care system. While in Ireland last year, I found most Europeans disgusted with the lack of compassion in America's health care sys­tem, rather than in awe of it. Access to rnndical cam might not be a part of your "plight" as "an upper middle class white male." but there arc 41 million Americans -including all of the Immokalee workers 
-without regular access to health care. 
That is why the United States finished in 37th place -between superpowers Costa Hica and Slovenia and far behind most of the Western European countries that you ridicule in your article -in a World Health Organization report ranking the effective­ness of the world's health care systems. I guess the WHO neglected to consult you and your "EU friends." The European healthcare systems are far from perfect, but take the blinders ofT-the American system remains seriously flawed. The majority of Europeans like the American health care system even less than the rest of us like Crystal Pepsi. 
The most unsettling thing about the arti­cle is the cowardice shown in the condem­nation of a group of over 100 Notre Dame students (not just the "few lovable mem­bers of PSA" that were described) that have continually worked to create a more just world. Nearly a century ago, Theodore Hoosevelt said, "It is not the critic who counts ... The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly ... who spends himself in a worthy cause." Step into the arena. and have the courage to fight for something worthwhile before mocking the actions of dedicated students embodying the spirit of justice supposedly espoused at Notre Dame. 
Dennis Barrett 
sentor 
off-campus April26 


Acknow I edging football problems ... 
In his April 23 article, Andrew Soukup correctly identifies the football pro­gram's poor performance as a decade-long malaise. In contrast, University spokesmen John Heisler and Dave Duerson trivialize alumni dissatisfaction as an overreaction to one bad season. If this is what Notre Dame's executives believe. the football program is in serious trouble. 
We have had unprecedented numbers of losing seasons and lopsided losses over the last 10 years. There is no defense for the management of the pro­gram during that time. If we.are doing the right things, we are not doing them very well. More likely, we are a victim of poor management practices, many easy to observe. For example: 
-The unqualified candidate list of replacements for Lou Holtz that resulted in hiring a first-time head coach who was not up to the job. -Allowing Bob Davie's tenure to wind down without developing and vetting a list of qualified and interested replacements. 
-The embarrassing search processes when replacing Bob Davie. 
-The Joe Moore lawsuit. 

-The passive approach taken during the NCAA investigation of Kim Dunbar's relationship with the program, resulting in the absurd finding of a major infraction. 
These are public examples of poor management. If public examples consis­tently display mismanagement, why would we believe that things are better behind closed doors? 
Like other high level managers, Kevin White should have performance objectives, general parameters and constraints, and freedom to work within those constraints to achieve his objectives. When he has to work through a coaching search committee stocked with several members who have no expe­rience in the business of college athletics and when the Office of Student Affairs decides scheduling issues, it is hard to argue that Dr. White has the authority he needs to succeed. Such meddling in the business of athletics is as absurd as having the Athletics staff searching for the Dean of the College of Engineering or writing research grant applications. 
Hiring good people and giving them the authority to do their jobs is what the program needs. Amateurs must stop meddling, even if they have lofty titles. 
Kevin O'Neill alumnus Class of 1976 April26 

This past weekend, presidential candi­date .John Kerry appeared at a small pro­abortion rally in Washington D.C. ironical­ly nanwd the "March for Women's Lives" and sponsored by Planned Parenthood and the National Abortion Hights and Heproductive Action League ("NAHAL Pro­Choice Ameriea"). Perhaps the name of the march is an attempt to appeal to the antiquated notion that legalized abortion prevents women's deaths, despite the fact that far more women die from abortion pmcedurns now than before its legaliza­tion. This title is also especially ironic wlwn at least half of all aborted children arn female and when forced abortions arc used in countries around the world to scx­sdect against the birth of female babies. llegardl<~ss, Kerry has thrown his full sup­port behind the abortion march and its mission. all the while claiming to be a faithful Homan Catholic who publicly sup­ports a woman's "right to choose." Incidentally. numerous bishops and the Vatican hav<) called upon priests to not · allow lloly Communion to be given to politicians who publicly support abortion. 
Kerry's abysmal stance on abortion takes him bnyond being merely a laissez­l'ain1, "pro-choice" leader who promises to honor the so-called autonomous choices of women to kill their unborn children. The man is extreme even among those who are pro-choice. Kerry unequivocally sup­ports the pro-death policies of the International Planned Parenthood Federation and other international popu­lation control organizations that force abortions for financial gain or eugenic policy reasons, thus pitting himself direct­ly against the Church and against women. For example. Kerry has spoken out in praise of China's one-child policy. In China, to this very day, a woman without a permit to give birth to a second child can be dragged out of her home in the middle or the night in order to have an abortion forced upon her-the woman's "choice" as to whether or not to keep the baby is irrelevant. In his goals and 
actions as a leader. Kerry 
does not even abide by the 
deceptive euphemism of 
"pro-choice." Furthermore, at a recent dinner host­ed by NAHAL. co­sponsor of the pro-abortion march, Kerry received an ovation for his comment that there.should be, "no more cutbacks on population con­trol efforts around the world." The World I Iealth Organization has estimated that over 50 million women are "missing" in China due 
to China's mandatory one­child policy which encourages families to abort every female child that comes along in order to secure a male. Champion for the rights of women? Hardly. 
Kerry wants to increase the amount of government funding of Planned Parenthood, an organization which funds abortions both in America and overseas. Planned Parenthood has recently begun a new radio ad campaign targeting poor African-American neighborhoods with rap lyrics advising those with unplanned preg­nancy to come on down to PP. Is this an efl'ort to help the African-American com­munity or to exploit their poverty and to impose eugenic "population-control" 
measures as an alterative to a 
Hispanic communities and 
aggressively there propagates its birth control and abortion message. It has called upon numerous traditionally­Catholic nations to imitate China's brutal one-child policy. It has endorsed the efforts of the "Women on Waves Foundation," an abortion clinic boat that sails to various Catholic and/or third world countries in order to take women to inter­national waters and kill their babies. The Dutch ship's first stop? Ireland. 

Margaret Sanger. founder of Planned Pamnthood, unabashedly advocated eugenics. In her writings in "Pivot of Civilization." she contends. "Birth control itself. often denounced as a violation of the natural law, is nothing more or less than the facilitation of the process of weeding out the unfit. preventing the birth of defectives or of those who will become defectives." While America does not have forced abortions like China, how many women here arc "forced" in some way, through manipulation or circumstances, to abort their child? Does not the abortion and contraceptive agenda of PP under­mine the commitment to women of males who feel justified in pointing their girl­friends to the abortuary? How many women are forced into choosing abortion because society believes that rather than supporting women who need emotional, financial, academic and/or social support, all she needs is the scarring experience of an abortion? Is this the "liberation" women deserve? No man has ever had to carry the traumatic experience of an abortion with him through the years? Is this equality? 
If John Kerry should become president, he would increase funding to Planned Parenthood and their agenda of death and preventing life wherever possible. What we need, rather, is to empower women who want to keep their ahildren by devot­ing our resources to providing the emo­tional, economic and social support they need to see their pregnancies through and to take care of their children and them­selves once they are born. 
Brian Noonan law student April25 
genuine solution to poverty in the United States? No other segment of the population has been as adversely affect­ed by abortion ­thanks largely to Planned Parenthood's aggressive efforts, nearly half or all pregnancies of African­American women end in abortion. Planned Parenthood has been and current­ly is engaging in a systematic effort to undermine religiosity and Catholicism in 
THE OBSER\'ER 




CENE

page 12 
Tuesday, April 27, 2004 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Kill Bill: Vol. 2' proves to be a worthy sequel 
By JACK WATKINS Scene Movie Critic 
"Kill Bill: Vol. 2" is the second half­not the sequel-to last fall's martial arts filled superaction extravaganza. For those who don't know, the story is fairly simple-The Bride (Uma Thurman) is a former member of the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad, or DiVAS for short, who, after leaving the group, was a victim of an assassina­tion attempt that left her in a coma for four years. Upon waking up, The Bride goes on "a roaring rampage of revenge," eliminating, one-by-one, the "Death List Five"-0-ren Ishii (Lucy Liu), Vernita Green (Vivica A. Fox), Budd (Michael Madsen). Elle Driver (Daryl Hannah), and, of course, Bill himself (David Carradine). The Bride's mentor and for-marked oddball dialogue, which mani­fests itself in (among other things) a discussion of the Superman mythology and what may be the worst Kung-Fu style dialogue ever. Despite the comedic touch that Tarantino always puts in his films, "Kill Bill: Vol. 2," unlike its predecessor, demands that its audience take it seriously. 
Tarantino uses a theme of parent and child throughout the movie, devel­oping what was begun in the first movie with the murdering of Vernita Green in front of her daughter and of O-ren Ishii's parents in front of her. This time, the children in question are The Bride's daughter, who she believed was killed by Bill, and The Bride herself. Since her own child has been raised by Bill, a twisted family is formed -Bill and The Bride are the literal and functional parents of the 
girl. named B.B .. 


mer lover who but Bill also
"Kill Bill: Vol. 2"

led the DiVAS. At serves as a the end of "Kill 
father-figure to Bill: Vol. 1," both The Bride. This O-ren and Vernita structure sug­had been taken gests the possi­
Director: Quentin Tarantino

care of. along bility of incest as
Writer: Quentin Tarantino and Uma Tburman

with O-ren's well as corrup­
Starring: Uma Thurman, David Carradine,

"Crazy 88" body­tion being passed
Michael Madsen, Daryl Hannah, Chia Hui Uu,

guards. There down from gen­
Michael Parks and Perla Haney-Jardine 

are not really eration to gener~ eighty-eight peo-ation -as Bill ple, as Bill explains early in Vol. 2, but trained The Bride as an assassin, he fighters who call themselves that might also train their daughter. because "they thought it was 'cool."' Tarantino's movies usually bear the 
The second movie contains less evidence of his status as the ultimate action than the first, relying more on fanboy -references to comic books, suspense and Tarantino's trade-B-movies and other cult phenomena abound. In "Kill Bill: Vol. 2," Tarantino has stayed true to form by casting former icons Hannah and Carradine, as well as lesser known figures like Gordon Liu and Bo Svenson, but he has also expanded his range by calling upon religious sym­bolism -there are shades of Dante's Beatrice in The Bride, who functions as both angel and Fury. Tarantino goes so far as to use tongue-in-cheek Christological symbols, although, since The Bride is no savior, those moments are likely best understood as placing her in the Joseph Campbell "Hero With a Thousand Faces" tradition. 
-Contact Jack Watkins at jwatkinl@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
'Kill Bill: Vol. 1' slices its way onto DVD 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN Scene DVD Critic 
What more can be said about the groundbreaking film of 2003 that cap­tivated audiences with its flashy scenery and costuming, state-of-the­art cinematic technique and gratu­itous amounts of blood. shed from world class, Samurai-inspired Yakuza gangsters? 
Well. quite a bit, if you were one of those dissatisfied, or even disenchant­ed, by the bleakness of the film's char­acters, or perhaps even the violence, which, while fantastic (and an absolute must for a Quentin Tarantino film). becomes burdensome as the film approaches its climax. 
In "Kill Bill: Vol. 1," Uma Thurman plays 'The Bride,' an assassin left for dead by her lover/leader Bill (David Carradine). along with four other members of the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad. This movie chronicles The Bride's assault upon her first two targets: O-ren Ishii (Lucy Liu). a Chinese American who sliced her way to the top of the Yakuza, and Vernita Green (Vivaca A. Fox). a (or­mer assassin turned stay-at-home mom. That pretty much sums up the plot. with multiple details character­ized through different styles. For example, the ultra-violent animated sequence retelling O-ren's history, or the brightly lit shots in El Paso, the sight of the attempted murder on The Bride. 
One great thing about the film is that there's an obvious purpose for setting all the different scenes with their own distinct style, and yet they all fit the bigger picture of The Bride exacting her revenge. I couldn't help but watch the long take in the House of Blue Leaves several times, just because of the way it synchs up all the different plot points. In fact, "Kill Bill: Vol. 1" does so well at telling the story through imagery, it sometimes expos­es the fairly bland script the actors work with. The acting itself is fine, but it's nothing special, mostly just procla­mation and exposition, in need of 
stinging dialogue and expression. 
The explicit violence in "Vol. 1" is an entirely separate issue. Yes, it needs to be true to Tarantino's vision, but it wore itself down from shocking to anticipated. Everyone seems to dis­cuss the Crazy 88's sequence at the dining hall table, but it appears to merely be have been completely told in a single film -but I understand how difficult it is to pass up on easy cash. 


"Kill Bill" fans should be patient and wait until a two-disc or special edition version of the entire series is released at some point in the future. There is no need to quickly indulge yourself now. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at hholliha@nd.edu 
"Matrix: Reloaded" with blood. Granted, the lighting, staging, and sound were brilliant, but ripping off the wire scheme from "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" didn't help matters. 
Despite this, Tarantino is highly acclaimed for his cinematography. His work deserves a look, but probably not on this particular DVD. The DVD is little more than an advertisement for "Kill Bill: Vol. 2," and it supports the argument that the entire series could 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE

Tuesday, April 27, 2004 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Eternal Sunshine' spins an emotional tale 
By MARY SQUILLACE 
Scene Movie Criric 
In a market where films about rela­tionships don't typically entail any­thing deeper than a passionate kiss on a busy street corner while a Van Morrison song rises up, Michel (;ondry's "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" provides a refreshingly inventive break from the norm. Though writer Charlie Kaufman has already proved himself as the master of' the modern-day fantasy with origi­nal movies like "Adaptation" and "Bning John Malkovich," Kaufman turns a new corner with his most rnc«~nt efforts. spinning an equally unique, but emotionally enriched story. 
Upon discovering that his former girlfriend. Clementine (Kate Winslet) has, with the help of 
ed in reality. For this reason, it becomes a wonderfully poignant jour­ney. 
Throughout the film, Kaufman main­tains a very natural rhythm and flow of words. The dialogue between Joel and Clementine speaks particularly well to his audience, seeing as most people have experienced the ups and downs that come with being in a rela­tionship. 
Stylistically, the look of the film meets the needs of this quirky narra­tive. The shot selection is particularly engaging, and plays-out like a moving surrealist painting. Condry's precise use of color and raw-looking camera­work both heighten the experience. However, because he makes rapid cuts and uses handheld shots consistently throughout the film. Condry's approach might be slightly jarring to 
some viewers. 


a team of skilled While the
"Eternal Sunshine of the

technicians. literally erased him from Spotless Mind" her memory, Joel (Jim Carrey) decides to go through the same process. However, Director: Michel Gondry as he undergoes the Writers: Charlie Kauhnan procedure and trav­Starring: Jim Carrey, Kate Winslet, Elijah els through memo­Wood, Kirsten Dunst and Tom Wilkinson 


ries of' his failed relationship, Joel realizes he's not quite ready to let go. As his memories slowly fade, Joel does everything within his power to dodge the effects of the procedure and recon­cile with Clementine. 
Though the premise of the film is somewhat bizarre, its essence is root­
film's cine­matographic qualities are important, the success of the film hinges largely upon the actors' abilities to draw the view­ers into this fantasy. 
Fortunately, the cast, which include Tom Wilkinson, Elijah Wood, and Mark Ruffalo, deliver high-quality perform­ances. 
Typically, due to his notoriety as a comedic actor, it is very difficult to watch Jim Carrey and believe he's any-

By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Movie Cricic 
Bad days come and go. Bad grade, bad date, bad illness. Almost everyone has experienced one of the aforemen­tioned bad days. However, none of those are anything in comparison to Frank Castle's bad day. 
The beginning of "The Punisher" is fairly obvious. especially because of the trailers marketing the film and the Punisher's preexisting comic book line. Frank Castle, the Punisher, has one of the worst days ever as vengeful gangsters kill his entire family, conve­niently at his family reunion. That is the trigger for the two-hour action movie. 
There are good performances from everyone in the cast, with each serv­ing some role to further the plot. Thomas Jane perfect for the role of the Punisher. For those who don't know, the Punisher is a fairly popular one other than Jim Carrey. In previous attempts at serious roles, Carrey either slips into his characteristic over-the­top humorous dramatizations or comes off as being corny. However, under the careful direction of Condry, Carrey finds subtlety for the first time. Consequently, he is surprisingly effec­tive in his role as Joel. 


Kirsten Dunst proves to be another mediocre actor who rises to this occa­sion, which is probably more of a reflection on the writing and directing than on her abilities. Though she plays a fairly small role as one of the techni­cians, she avoids disturbing Kaufman's carefully constructed fantasy world. 

Overall, "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" provides a true flight of the imagination blended with a moving look at relationships. In addition, it is unlike any other film at the box office right now, and, considering the stream of dime-a-dozen big-budget actions that will invade our theaters within the next month, probably unlike anything that will grace us until the end of sum­mer. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquilla@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Good cast drives dark, violent comic book film 
Marvel comic, much like Spider-Man and the X-Men. The Punisher was dif­ferentiated from the other comic book heroes for a very special reason. He had no special powers. 
The Punisher is just an average human being. But what he does have is an arsenal of weaponry, and a huge serving of righteous anger. This makes him more believable than a man who can cling to walls, or one who can fly. The Punisher's family was killed, and now he wants vengeance. No, not vengeance. Punishment. 
That plot alone could have made a decent action movie. Indeed, movies have been made with a lot less which is usually a positive in movies like this. However, it feels forced, and even cliched at times. Too many moments like those ruin the mood of the movie. The comic is a dark, violent affair, which the movie emulates fairly well. But it appears as if the produc­ers wanted to lighten the movie a lit­tle, which is fine with some but really hurt the movie in this reviewer's regard. 

The Punisher is a one-man army in the comic, who avoids help along the way. In the movie, the other tenants of his apartment building are constantly present, either helping him or adding 
forced comic 
relief. This may

"The Punisher"
going for them, be changed for and still have 
the already turned out to be announced sequel mindless pieces as the first film's of fun. However, continuity is 
Director: Jonathan Hensleigb 
·~'"'"'something went already estab­
Writer: Michael France 

wrong with "The lished and Frank 
Starring: Thomas Jane, John Travolta,
Punisher." It Castle can get
Rebecca Romijn-Stamos, Will Patton, Veryl 
certainly wasn't right to punishing
Jones, Kevin Nash and James Carpinello
the inclusion of the bad guys. 
John Travolta, even though his track record of late hasn't been that hot. 
The movie was diminished through the actual plot. The actual family reunion felt a little too contrived, as well as Frank Castle's father having an arsenal of weaponry at close by at the same time. Later in the movie, a little too much time was spent devel­oping the other people in Frank's apartment hideout. 
Humor is present in the movie, 

Not that he doesn't'do that in this movie. 
Indeed, this is a very dark, violent movie. People get shot, cut and gener­ally mutilated. Probably not a film for the whole family, but the action fan or a comic book fan might enjoy this film and should give it a shot. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

Tuesday, April 27, 2004
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 

,­
NBA PLAYOFFS 


Hamilton leads Pistons to a 3-1 series lead 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -If the Detroit Pistons were this good on offense more often they wouldn't have to rely so heavily on their throttling defense. 
The Pistons shot 56.9 percent Monday night and got 27 points from Richard Hamilton in taking a 3-1 series lead with a 109-92 rout of the Milwaukee Bucks. 
Neither team had shot better than 45 percent in the best-of­seven series that shifts to Auburn Hills, Mich .. for Game 5 on Thursday night. 
Embarrassed by becoming the first team to lose at home in the playoffs this season, the Pistons used their defense to turn things around with a 95-85 win in Game 3 on Saturday. 
On Monday night. they intensi­fied their offense, in part thanks to the benching of big man Brian Skinner by the Bucks, who had hoped to add some offense with Keith Van Horn's first start of the postseason. 
Van Horn scored 11 points on 5-of-13 shooting. 
Rasheed Wallace added 20 points for Detroit, Chauncey Billups had 19 and Tayshaun Prince 17. 
Hamilton's layup with 6:26 left made it 89-75, and the Bucks made their last run, pulling to 95-88 on Damon Jones's 16-foot­er with 2:18 left. 
Prince responded with a 3­pointer and the Bucks never got closer than eight after that. 
Even when the Bucks fouled, they found no comfort. The Pistons went 20-of-21 from the free throw line, including making all 12 in the fourth quarter, eight in the final 1:09. 
Jones had 17 points, 10 assists and just one turnover for Milwaukee, which also got 17 points and 12 rebounds from Joe Smith. 
Van Horn, who has been com­ing off the bench because of injuries since late March, aver­aged just six points as a sub in the first three games of this series. He had seven points in the first quarter, when the Bucks scored 27 points, their second­highest total in a quarter in the playoffs. 
The Bucks knew they were giv­ing up some defense with Van Horn, "but before he got hurt, he was our second-leading scorer," coach Terry Porter said before tip-off. "It gives us another shoot­er on the floor." 
Van Horn, however, picked up two quick fouls midway thrm,rgh the second quarter, the second coming after Ben Wallace stripped him of the ball under­neath the Bucks' basket. 
He sat out the final 6:50 of the first half, which ended with Smith's buzzer-beating jumper from the top of the key that 
pulled the Bucks to 52-49. The Pistons never relinquished the lead in the second half. 
Prince scored three baskets in a 10-2 run that put Detroit in control at 64-55 with 5:33 left in the third quarter. The Bucks missed their first five shots of the fourth quarter while the Pistons were going 4-of-5 to build an 82­70 lead. 
Sacramento 94, Dallas 92 
DALLAS -Peja Stojakovic came out of his shooting slump just in time to send the Sacramento Kings home on the verge of closing out their. first­round playoff series. 
And on the game's final play, his defense helped, too. 
Stojakovic, who felt so out of whack the previous game that he took only one shot in the second half, missed 10 straight in the first half Monday night, then came back with five straight swishes to get Sacramento rolling to a victory over the Dallas Mavericks. The Kings lead 3-1 with Game 5 in Sacramento on Thursday night. 
Sacramento nearly blew it, though, letting a 91-83 lead with 
3:23 left come down to a final play. Steve Nash took an inbounds pass with 8.4 seconds left. Stojakovic wound up on him because of a pick-and-roll with Dirk Nowitzki and he was able to contain Nash behind the foul line. A fading 18-footer jumper at the buzzer bounced off the rim. 


Stojakovic scored 16 of his 20 points in the second half and had 11 rebounds. Mike Bibby led the Kings with 22 points, while Chris Webber had 17 points and nine rebounds, Doug Christie had 13 points, 15 rebounds and five assists and Brad Miller con­tributed 10 points, 16 rebounds and five assists. 
Bibby had a chance to ice the game, but missed a tough jumper with about 10 seconds left. 


Szczerbiak will miss rest of Denver series 
his back. Tests on Monday his hands slipped and he landed tiest falls you'll see and wanted expected to have surgery soon
Minnesota forward 

showed cracks on the wings of on the middle of his back. He to continue to play until we took on a chronically sprained right three vertebrae. stayed in the game to shoot the him out of the game." ankle. ·

cracked three 

"It has been an unlucky free throws, but couldn't come Szczerbiak, an All-Star for the The Nuggets, meanwhile, will vertebrae Saturday year,"said Szczerbiak, who back in after his back tightened Timberwolves likely be without missed the first half of the sea­up on the bench. in 2002, aver­two key reserves Associated Press son with a foot injury. "The team Timberwolves coach Flip aged 10.3 for Game 4 on
'The team has done 
DENVER -Minnesota for­has done well with-Saunders said points in the Tuesday night. 
well without me. I will 
ward Wally Szczerbiak is expect­out me. I will be Szczerbiak had first three Nuggets coach ed to be out for at least the rest there to support "It has been an trouble putting games against be there to support Jeff Bzdelik said of the Timberwolves' playoff them and hopefully his shoes on Denver. forward Rodney
unlucky year. " them and hopefully I 
series against Denver after I can get better." after the game Minnesota White is doubt­
can get better. 
cracking three vertebrae in his Szczerbiak was and had quite a also has ful after sprain­back. injured on a break­Wally Szczerblak bit of swelling on played the ing his ankle Szczerbiak was injured in the away when was Tlmberwolves forward Monday. first three Wally Szczerblak Saturday. fourth quarter of the Nuggets' bumped from "It shows how games of the Forward Ryan
Tlmberwolves forward 
107-86 victory Saturday when behind by tough Wally is," series without Bowen might he was fouled from behind by Andersen. Szczerbiak tried to Saunders said. "The guy took backup point not play after Chris Andersen and landed on hold himself up by the rim, but that fall which is one of the nas-guard Troy Hudson, who's bruising his ribs during practice. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES WANTED 
Room in luxury apartment building Wanted-Old paintings, especially on the UWS for rent! Elevators in Indiana and Notre Dame each tower. (574) 286-9359 Two large laundry roos on the Lobby level. Two bicycle rooms in Part-Time Sales and stock person which to store needed at the Futon Factory for your bike all year round. Full size 2004 Summer. 5632 Grape Rd. health club on the Lobby level with 273-2660. Flexible hours, great a large work environment! swiming pool, steam room, and sauna. 24 hour garage beneath building. Dry cleaners, two grocery 
FoR SALE
stores, bank and restaurant within seconds of the front door. Continuous shuttle bus trans-Why pay a landlords mortgage? port to subway system and buses. Duplex 4 sale. Live in one, let the 24-hour doorman and security desk. other pay your Fabulous location (63rd St. and 11th mortgage. Close to ND and Ave) Great view! If interested con-downtown. tact Nycpolo15@yahoo.com Call Kim at 574-245-5040. 
Moving to College Park? Furniture for sale: 3 beds, 2 desks, dining table, L couch and more. Call Aahren or Rob: 271-1637 
2003 Honda Civic EX. Four door, 5-speed, moon roof, ABS, CD player, full and extended warranty. Silver metallic paint, tinted windows. Excellent condition, 9000 miles. $15,195, obo. Call Maura, 286-3236. 
Bike (Needs Work) $25 orBO Call Nicole 634-1447 
21 spd. Mongoose Red/White Mountain Bike. Paid 220 new, $60 obo. Great shape! Call Matt, 419-957·2154 
21spd. Mongoose Bike, Red/White. Great Condition, Paid $220 new, $60obo. Matt @419-957·2154 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX .. AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. . .WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005·2006 SCHOOL YEAR ...CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 

Stay at Homestead Bed and  NEW LISTING 1 bed, 1 bath Oakhill  
Breakfast for football games.  condo safe area within walking dis­ 
57 4-277-9834  lance (really) to campus, security  
patrolled, immediate availability  
Nice 4 bdr. 3 car garage avail.now  $750 to rent or  
or fall $1200/mo  $85K to buy  
288-9673  
VERY NICE 3bdrm home near Corbys  PERSONAL  
(East Bank area).  
Washer&Dryer- UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Alarm-Basement-H20  not go it alone. If you or someone  
softner-large yard-off street parking.  you love needs confidential support  
Call Joe Crimmins:cell#514-0643  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
home#273-0002.  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  
more information, see our bi-weekly  
Rooms available in 2-bed apt this  ad in THE OBSERVER  
summer.  
Great community,  Dinner on me tonight  
reasonable price.  
ghan@nd.edu  RecSpys are the most ridiculous  

thing ever. Are you serious? 

3 Bdrm. house near ND. Alarm, 
cable and internet Monkey is going to miss all of you. LOFT for sale $125 tor fall. Will hold Bike+Lock $25, Desk $30, Bed 12" Black KLH Floor Speakers, Student houses and apts. 2·3 or 4 Large yard. and deliver on campus in August $100, Desk Chair $1 o, 150W, great condition, sound per-bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer $1000/mo. Business flags, requiescat in pace. RESERVE mini-PA $100. Call Dave feet. $50 tor pair! or tall. Available 5/1/04. NOW! Call 243-0853. 234-5630 Matt@ 419-957-2154 235·3655. Call514-9999. We love you Scott Brodfamadfder. 

Tuesday, April 27, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 


Mighty Casey's homer leads Reds past Pirates 
in the head by Jason Boyd's ing two and beating Brad Radke. 

But Cincinnati loses 
pitch Saturday night, forcing The left-hander became the first him to sit out Sunday, but he member of Toronto's rotation

Kearns to a broken 
returned to a utility role Monday other than AL Cy Young Award when third baseman Brandon winner Hoy Halladay to win this

bone in his forearm 
Larson was activated from the year. Associated Press disabled list. Michael Cuddyer spoiled Lilly's The Pirates, 2-5 against the shutout bid on the first pitch of
Pl'n'SBUHGII -Sean Casey's Reds, loaded the bases with two the sixth with his first home runtwo-run homer backed Aaron outs in the third, but Harang got of the season. Cristian Guzman's llarang's effective pitching, and Hob Mackowiak to fly out. bloop single to shallow right wasthe Cincinnati Heds beat the Pittsburgh had two on with one the only other hit, and LillyPittsburgh Pirates 5-2 Monday out an inning later, but pinch­faced the minimum through five.
night despite losing Austin 
hitter Bobby Hill struck out and Lilly, making his 1OOth careerKearns indefinitely with a bro­Tike Redman grounded into a start, came to Toronto in a tradeken forearm. 

force play. for outfielder Bobby Kielty after -.
Kearns, the Heds' right fielder, Vogelsong (1-3) walked six in spending last season in Oakland. 
was hit on the left arm and wrist four innings while losing his Lilly lowered his ERA from 6.19
by Byan Vogelsong's pitch two third in a row, giving up three to 4.32.
batters after Casey's homer put runs and four hits. lie has Toronto took a 6-1 lead in theCincinnati up 2-0 in the first. 
allowed 23 hits and 18 runs in eighth on a pair of two-out HBis,Kearns played defense in the 12 innings during his losing a single by Eric Hinske and abottom of the first, but was lifted streak, which includes two loss­double by Hudson off relieveran inning later. 

es to the Cubs in which he Aaron Fultz. 

Kearns will return to believes he might have tipped Greg Myers, the only Blue Jays 
Cincinnati on Tuesday to be 
his pitches. batter without a hit, injured hisnxaminml by team doctors fol­After Vogelsong left. Adam left knee rounding third base on

lowing his second significant 
Dunn hit a two-run double in the Hudson's hit and Jell the field oninjury in two seasons and is out seventh against reliever John a cart. No further details aboutinddinitely. lie injured his right Grabow. the catcher were immediatelyshoulder last May and missed Pittsburgh scored in the fifth available.

about half the 2003 season. 
on Jack Wilson's triple and Radke (2-2) yielded 10 hits

llarang (2-0) gave up two runs Jason Kendall'sHBI groundout. and four runs in seven innings,in six innings, including Craig Jack Wilson matched a career striking out three without aWilson's solo homer in the sixth, high with four hits. walk.
but worked out of several jams 
The first inning is usually

to beat l'itL<;burgh for the second Toronto 6, Minnesota 1 
Hadke's worst, but he escaped

time in two starts. lie gave up MINNEAPOLIS -Ted Lilly 
unscathed. It was the third when 

seven hits, struck out live and tossed a two-hitter, giving 
he ran into trouble -three dou­

walked one. Toronto's struggling starters a 
bles in a span of four batters

Danny Graves pitched the big boost and leading the Blue gave the Blue Jays a 2-0 lead. 
ninth for his 10th save in 12 Jays to a victory over the opportunities, and his third in Minnesota Twins. Florida 6, Colorado 3 the four-game series. John Orlando Hudson had three DENVER -Carl Pavano walked one to help Florida win 473 feet by Scott Rolen , then Hiedling and Todd Jones preced­hits, including two of Toronto's pitched eight strong innings and its fourth straight road game. with Philadelphia, against Omar ed Graves with a scoreless six doubles, and Josh Phelps hit Miguel Cabrera and Alex Cabrera went 1-for-4 with his Daal on April 19, 1999. inning each. a two-run double in the sixth Gonzalez each hit a two-run seventh home run, while Johnson (2-2) improved to 12­
Hyan Freel, Kearns' replace­inning. Every Blue Jays starter homer, leading the Florida Gonzalez hit his first homer and 0 in 13 career starts against the ment, followed Casey's walk reached base, and four had at Marlins to a victory over the went 2-for-4. Jeff Conine was 3-Cubs, striking out seven straight with an HBI triple in the third. least two hits. Colorado Rockies. for-3 for the Marlins (13-6), off during one stretch. He pitched Freel had started every Heds But Lilly (1-2) had the best Pavano (2-0) allowed two to the best start in franchise his­two-hit ball for seven innings game this season until being hit night -striking out eight, walk-runs, scattered five hits and tory. and had an RBI single as the 

For Gay, LesbianJ Bisexualr and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, April 29th 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbjan Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends 1 and supporters to an 
informal lunch and study break at the Co-Mo. 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is as.sured. *Lunch will be served* 

Jeromy Burnitz homered and Diamondbacks won for the Todd Helton had an RBI double fourth time in five games. He for Colorado. Kit Pellow added walked none. an RBI single in the ninth off The Big Unit gave up a single Chad Fox, but Armando Benitez to Cubs starter Carlos Zambrano struck out Charles Johnson with with one out in the third, then two on for his 10th save in 10 retired 12 straight before Moises chances. Alou singled with one out in the 
Juan Pierre tripled leading off seventh. The only other Cub to the game and scored on a single reach base against Johnson was by Luis Castillo as Florida Derrek Lee, hit by a pitch with jumped ahead against Scott two outs in the second. Elarton (0-4). Seven consecutive Chicago 
Cabrera hit a two-run homer, outs were by strikeout, begin­
Hee Seop Choi added a solo shot ning when Sammy Sosa was and Gonzalez had a two-run caught looking to end the first drive in the first to build a 6-0 and ending when Corey 
lead. Patterson fanned to end the Royce Clayton and Todd third. Helton had back-to-hack doubles Handy Choate completedin Colorado's first. Burnitz hit a Arizona's second shutout, allow­solo homer to center in the third ing three hits in two innings.inning to make it 6-2. The Cubs gave up more runs 
Elarton settled down, allowing in one game than they did in singles to Jeff Conine and Choi their entire winning streak. over the next five innings before when they outscored opponentsgiving way to the bullpen. 39-5. 
Pavano was equally effective, Zambrano (2-1) was taggedgiving up only a leadoJT single to for seven runs and 10 hil<; in 4 Luis Gonzalez in the fifth after 1-3 innings. Burnitz's home run. 
Arizona third baseman Chad Arizona 9, Chicago 0 Traey -in his lifth major league 
PHOENIX -Hichie Sexson hit game -was 2-for-4 with two the longest home run in Bank RBis and a double, and made One Ballpark history and Randy consecutive standout defensive Johnson struck out 10, leading plays in the sixth. lie lunged to the Arizona Diamondbacks to a his left to stab Jose Macias' line rout that snapped the Chicago drive, then tumbled headfirst Cubs' six-game winning streak. over the fence to catch 
Sexson's two-run shot off Patterson's pop foul. reliever Francis Beltran in the The Diamondbacks broke sixth inning traveled an estimat­through in the third when Tracy ed 503 feet and smacked ofT his led off with a 400-foot double off own image halfway up the giant the center-field wall, then scored video screen in center field, on Hobby Hammock's double smashing several lights. just inside the right-field line. 
It was Sexson's 200th career With two outs, Alex Cintron home run and ninth this season. tripled to the wall in left-center. Previously, the longest homer bringing home Hammock to at the seven-year-old park was make it 2-0. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 27, 2004 
MLB 

Without A-Rod, Rangers ruling the AL West 

Quick starts leaves Texas atop AL West 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas-After three straight last-place finishes in Texas, Alex Rodriguez wanted out. 
Now the American League MVP's former team is tied for the AL West lead, while Rodriguez and the New York Yankees are struggling. 
The Rangers, built around a core of young players, are 11-8 after the opening stretch of the season against division oppo­nents. They're even with Anaheim for first place -and Texas won five of seven against the Angels. 
"Us being young and every­thing said about us, we came out and just wanted to play well," catcher Gerald Laird said Monday. "It's just chemistry. Our team is really open and we like to have fun and do a good job." 
When Texas traded Rodriguez just before spring training, hav­ing already let go of sluggers Rafael Palmeiro and two-time AL MVP Juan Gonzalez, there were plenty of dire predictions of a 100-loss season. 
Imagine the thoughts after the Rangers lost their first two games. But three weeks later, Texas tops the division after a three-game weekend sweep of Seattle that culminated with a 14-6 win. 
The Rangers are still scoring a • lot of runs (5.8 per game) despite the departed power hitters, and lead the majors with a .315 bat­ting average -the only team over .300. Their pitching staff, the worst in the majors three of the last four seasons, has a 4.34 ERA. fifth-best in the AL. 
"We have a lot of confidence in our young guys," manager Buck Showalter said. ''I'm not inten­tionally low-keying. It's reality. We've played 19 games out of a 162-game schedule. So far, so good." 
Especially for a team coming ofT four straight last-place finish­es. 
During the three seasons with Rodriguez, the Rangers lost 270 games and were atop the divi­sion for only three days, one of those after winning last year's season opener. 
While Rodriguez is finally starting to shake his slump in New York, the Yankees were swept by Boston last weekend to drop to 8-11 and 4 1/2 games out in the AL East. The last time New York was three games under .500 this late in the season was 1997, the last time they didn't finish first. 
"It's not going to get any easier. I'd rather go through this now than any other time," Rodriguez said. "We will turn this around." 
The Rangers, whose last divi­sion title was in 1999, have sure turned it around without A-Rod. 
The last time Texas was three games over .500 was at 30-27 in June 2000, the summer before Rodriguez arrived. The Rangers then lost eight in a row and spent most of the time since at the bot­tom of the AL West. 


Things are much different this season. Not only their record, but the feeling surrounding the team. 
"We have a sense of direction. 
We talked about it all winter, and I think it was ultimately culmi­nated with the trade," general manager John Hart said. "We were going to commit to as many young players as we could. We also realize we do have holes, this is not a finished product." 
OLYMPICS 


Olympic officials want help in banning drug cheaters 
Associated Press subpoena, Little said, a court tial doping violation has Chronicle and the San Jose holder at 100 meters, repeated­
could order that such docu­occurred, such as admitted dop­Mercury News, quoting sources ly have denied steroid use. An 
SAN FRANCISCO -Worried ments be released. ing." who requested anonymity, attorney for Jones said she they're running out of time to Justice Department Over the weekend, two reported that Conte told federal never received steroids from keep drug cheaters out of the spokesman Mark Corallo said he American track stars -Marion agents he gave steroids to Jones Conte. An attorney for Conte Athens Games, U.S. Olympic doesn't know whether any Jones and her boyfriend, Tim and Montgomery. said he never provided steroids officials want some help from material has been turned over Montgomery -were connected Jones, who won five medals at to Jones or Montgomery, and federal authorities. to McCain's committee. Rebecca in reports to BALCO founder the 2000 Olympics, and never gave such information to 
And they aren't just going Hanks, a spokeswoman for Victor Conte. The San Francisco Montgomery, the world record-federal agents. 
after athletes who have failed drug tests. Instead, they hope to use a clause in the U.S. Anti­Doping Agency's rules to bar athletes who acknowledge the use of steroids and other banned substances, including in grand jury testimony. 
The U.S. Olympic Committee wants to make sure it doesn't have a PR disaster on its hands during the Aug. 13-Z9 games. 
"Our image is going to be just fine if we send a clean team," acting USOC president Bill Martin said Monday. "The last McCain, declined to comment. 
"America does not want to send a dirty team to Athens, but the ball's not in our hands right now," Martin told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. "We've got just a little bit over 100 days left before those games, and time is truly of the essence." 
According to an AP poll released Monday, nine out of every 10 Americans believe the use of steroids and other per­formance-enhancing drugs by 
Olympic athletes is · 
a problem. 
thing we want to "Our image is Forty-three per­happen is to cent of those
going to be just fine
select the wrong responding to the 

folks." if we send a clean survey called it a Martin and team." major .problem; other Olympic another 49 percent ,..... officials say they see it as a minor
Bill Martin
need assistance to problem. keep out competi­USOC President Only 6 percent 
tors using banned substances. They would love access to grand jury transcripts in the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative case involving the alleged distribu­tion of steroids to top athletes. 
While such grand jury pro­ceedings are secret by law, the Senate Commerce Committee chaired by Sen. John McCain, R­Ariz., issued a subpoena for the BALCO testimony. 
That could override the secre­cy provision, according to Rory Little, a Hastings College of the Law scholar and a former feder­al prosecutor. Little said it would be "highly unusual for the Department of Justice to be giving up grand jury material in the middle of an investigation." But even if the Justice Department challenged such a don't consider it a 
problem. 
Craig Masback, the head of USA Track & Field, hopes feder­al and anti-doping authorities turn over any evidence of drug use as quickly as possible "so that the guilty will be punished and the innocent will be cleared of suspicion." 
"That is all we can do," Masback said. "We did not do the tests, we did not test the samples. We did not do the fed­eral investigation, we do not have the affidavits, we were not in the grand jury." 
Section 9 of the U.S. Anti­Doping Agency's protocol gives that agency the authority to bring a drug case against an athlete in lieu of a positive drug test "when USADA has other reason to believe that a poten­

Don't Dump it! Donate it! 
Help save alife. 
Your used clothing, furniture and yes, even automobiles can give someone else anew start. 
Drop your donation off at The Salvation Army Thrift Store located at 2009 South Bend Ave. or call 288-2539. 
Register to win a $1 00 Best Buy Gift Card 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
. '.:, ·.·· ) 

Tuesday, April 27, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
Nabokov shuts out the Avs 
Goalie turns away 33 in Sharks' 1-0 win 
A..sociated Press 
I>ENVEH -Evgeni Nabokov's stinginess has the San Jose Sharks one win away from their first trip to the conference linals. 
Nabokov stopped 33 shots for his second shutout of the play­off's and Vincent Damphousse banked in a shot off Colorado goalie David Aebischer midway through the third period, help­ing the Sharks beat the Avalanche 1-0 Monday night and take a 3-0 lead in the best­of-seven series. 
San Jose fought off Colorado's early rush, stuck to its puck­control ofl'ense and continued to ride Nabokov's playoff-long hot streak to set up a possible SWl~ep Wednesday in D1~nver. 
The Avalanche were much betll~r defensively, limiting San Jose's chances and cutting down on the miscues that left Aebischer helpless at times in the first two games. 
Colorado held San Jose to 17 shots -live in the third period -but continued to struggle finding the net against the stingy Sharks. The Avalanche have three goals against San Jose after scoring 19 in five gamns against Dallas in the first round. 
San Jose didn't have a shot in the third period until Dam phousse knocked in his own rebound off Aebischer's back with 1 I :0 I left. 
Aebischcr blocked 
' Damphoussc's first attempt after Patrick Marleau's shot bounced 
Certified mover Certified shaker 

Rueters San Jose goalie Evgenl Nabokov makes a save against Colorado winger Dan Hinote. The Sharks' win gives them a 3-0 series lead. 
hard off the boards, but Damphousse used Aebischer as a backboard to score inside the left post from behind the goal. 
After being outworked and outhustled the first two games in San Jose, Colorado was intent on making sure that trend didn't go on once the series shifted to Denver. 
The Avalanche had an extra jump in their step early in front of the home crowd, flying into San Jose's zone, zipping crisp passes, and pounding the Sharks with hard checks every chance they got. 
But Nabokov made sure Colorado's early rush didn't lead to any goals with several tough stops, including a glove save on Milan Hejduk after a nice drop 

Certified no more mac & cheese 
Certified acceleration 
Certified rush 
Certified fn:~edon1 
Certified bring it on 
Certified Pre~Owned B~1W 
pass from Peter Forsberg. Nabokov also got a break when John-Michael Liles' shot from the blue line hit the left post through traffic. 
San Jose controlled the flow much better in the second peri­od, keeping the puck in Colorado's end a good chunk of the time. The Sharks just didn't get many good scoring chances out of it. with just six shots. 
Colorado added 12 more shots in the second period, but still couldn't solve Nabokov. He got a piece of J-lejduk's open shot from the slot on a power play midway through, then dived back to cover after the puck ricocheted between him and Colorado's Dan Hinote on a rebound in the closing seconds. 
GoLF 


Singh tastes victory at Houston Open 
Records 4-under 68 in the final round 
Associated Press 

HUMBLE fexas -Vijay Singh is w ually unbeatable entering the final round of a tournam' "t. 
He proved it again Monday. 
Singh shared the lead with John Huston in the rain­delayed Houston Open going into the last round, but he pulled away with a 4-under 68 for his sixth straight win when leading after three rounds. 
Singh finished at 11-under 277 for a two-stroke victory over Scott Hoch. It was Singh's second victory in Houston. where he won two years ago. 
"The last few times when I did go into the lead, I've been striking the ball well, so when you do that you don't feel threatened that someone else is going to overtake you," Singh said. 
"You just let your game do the talking." 
Hoch was second after a closing 67. Huston (71) was another shot back, followed by Stephen Ames (69) and Dudley Hart (70). 
"Today was the best I've played in a long, long time," Singh said. "I struck the ball really solid from tee to green. Looking back, I'd like to play this way all the time." 
He hasn't been far off all year. It was the second victory of 2004 for Singh and his 17th on the tour. In 11 events this 
8MW 

,,;.~:~; ...;. ; ".·.. ' 
. . ·:··:;·: .:::: ::::::: .. ,• '•. . ~:·: 
.. • t~~u"3.o~~~ .> ThttW,._t. 'l-·~'m--3':14·~i'.t.W Orivh1IQ M10<:hlrw :.:··~.· ..· :···::·.· 
year, he's finished in the top 10 six times. 
John Daly and Hoch started the last round three shots back. Daly got to within one stroke of the lead before fad­ing late. He finished with a 71, leaving him six strokes back for the tournament. 
Weather problems inter­rupted play three consecutive days at the Hedstone Golf Club and pushed the tournament into Monday, where third­round play was completed for most of the field earlier in the day. 
Singh opened the event with a 74, but his second-round 66 equaled the low round of the tournament. He completed his third round earlier Monday, making an 88-foot chip for eagle at the 12th hole that gave him a 69 and a share of the lead with I luston after 54 holes at 7 under. 
Singh began the final round after a short break and birdied two of the first three holes, rolling in a 20-foot putt at the par-S No. 1. 
At the 209-yard par-3 third hole, his tee shot stopped less than 2 1/2 feet from the pin. His putt for birdie gave him the lead outright at 9 under. 
With Daly on the opposite end of the course making birdies, Singh had seven con­secutive pars before a birdie at the par-4 No. 11, where he putted in from less than 10 feet. 
As Hoch closed in, Singh coolly added a 1 0-foot birdie at No. 15.
& 


i'IPrJif' ................ rwn nn· ·· · c· 
Certified only at an authorized BMW center. E Certut:ed PfC...Ot..vn.ed = 
·g T 1 lffWI· ..*~ -·, frrf 'l:rff'
Get warranty protection• up to 6 years or 100,000 miles. Get flexible leasing and financing options. Get punt BMW. 
:\ :~· 

l:>tD-.'<<1tls Cow.lf.>ge t;x up to 2 y'#,lllr5 Qf' 50.000 mi~s {>Nhlc.heve<' cQmes 1\mt) from thre rl.at~ olth~ G>qJhat<r-..n o( ttltl 4 yoartSO.Of.tO •'lila 6MW New\fflhk:IG L•nvtrrd WarraiWt. St;oE. parttt>patlng BM.V pil1lf.f\!19Br r:ar For rnom in1orniali!'ln. Cali 1·600·3<\4·46-\.iV,: or >tiStll>IT>W\1~/.I.COI!'l e2004 8MWof Nc-rth AmBrk:<i, LlC.Tha BM'•'>' 'lBJ!lllllnd k~go ;!<fl :-ag•~Hlre<:i ;ra<!E>I'<\Ml<~. 
f
I I 
I 
I 
' 
I 
OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wau: SERvtcrs Tuesday, April27, 2004 

around the dial 
NHL 
Tampa Bay at Montreal, 6 p.m., ESPN2 Detroit at Calgary, 8 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Minnesota at Denver, 9:30p.m., TNT 
MLB 
Chicago at Arizona, 8:30p.m., FOX Chicago Atlanta at San Francisco, 9:15 p.m., TBS 
5UPERCROSS World Grand Prix, 3 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Among those called to ly bars the defense from uled to play again Associated Press testify Monday were the introducing an alleged vic­Wednesday night in Los woman's former boyfriend tim's sex life as evidence. Angeles, entered the 
EAGLE, Colo. -Attorneys and an Eagle County sher­The woman's attorney, courthouse through a back in the Kobe Bryant rape 

iff's detective. John Clune, has denied door. There were no fans case opened a three-day State District Judge that she had sex with any­on hand. hearing Monday with Terry Ruckriegle has one in the hours after her The judge reserved more closed-door argu­heard testimony from encounter with the NBA Tuesday to resume a ments over whether the more than a dozen wit­star. closed-door hearing over a sex life of his 19-year-old nesses in previous hear­Bryant, 25, has said he defense request to throw accuser can be used ings about the woman's had consensual sex with out evidence includingagainst her at trial. sexual activities around the woman at the Vail­Bryant's recorded state­
Defense lawyers say the time of the alleged area resort where she ment to investigators and injuries found on the attack. worked last June. If con­a T-shirt stained with the woman could have been The judge has said he victed of felony sexual woman's blood. caused by sex with multi­wants to end arguments assault, the Los Angeles Bryant's attorneys also ple partners before and this week on the relevancy Lakers star faces four want to know how much after her encounter with of the woman's sexual his­years to life in prison or money has been given to Bryant. The prosecution tory. Arguments have not 20 years to life on proba­the woman and her family says her sexual history is yet been scheduled on a tion. from a state victims' com­irrelevant in determining separate defense chal­Bryant, who played in a pensation fund and have whether the woman was lenge to Colorado's rape­playoff game Sunday in sought access to the assaulted. shield law, which general-Houston and was sched-woman's diaries. 
IN BRIEF 

Tillman's body arrives at Giaffone replaces Buhl on Kearns out with broken 
Dover Air Force Base IRL team forearm 
PHOENIX -The body of former INDIANAPOLIS -Former IRL PITTSBURGH -Austin Kearns' Arizona Cardinals safety Pat Tillman rookie of the year Felipe Giaffone left forearm was broken when he arrived at Dover Air Force Base in will drive for Dreyer & Reinbold was hit by Ryan Vogelsong's pitch Delaware on Monday, a military offi­Racing the rest of this season in Monday night in Pittsburgh. cial said. place of Robbie Buhl. The Cincinnati Reds right fielder 
Tillman's family didn't release Buhl, a co-owner of the was hit while batting in the first what funeral home the body would Indianapolis team and one of the inning. be taken to, said Shari Lawrence, a original drivers in the Indy Racing The Reds did not immediately spokeswoman for the Army Human League, retired as a driver last make a roster move to replace Resources Command. week. Kearns, who is all but certain to go 
Tillman, who gave up his NFL "Everything happened really fast, on the 15-day disabled list. He will career to join the Army Rangers in so I'm still learning with the team," be examined Tuesday in Cincinnati 2002, was killed in combat Thursday Giaffone said Monday. by Reds physician Timothy in Afghanistan. Giaffone started last and finished Kremchek and will not accompany 
His brother, Spc. Kevin Tillman, lOth in his rookie Indianapolis 500 the team to Milwaukee. also a Ranger with the 2nd Battalion in 2001. He was the IRL's top rookie Kearns returned to the lineup of the 75th Ranger Regiment, was that season, with 10 top-10 finishes after sitting out Sunday's 6-0 loss to expected to accompany the body to in 13 starts. His only victory was at Pittsburgh. He is in a 2-for-23 the funeral home, Lawrence said. Kentucky Speedway in 2002. slump that dropped his average to 
Funeral arrangements were pend­His best finishes with Mo Nunn .137. ing for the 27 -year-old former Racing last year were thirds at This is the second injury in two Cardinals player who was a star at Phoenix and Japan, and he missed seasons for Kearns who finished Arizona State before being drafted five races with a broken leg and third in NL Rookie of the Year vot­by Arizona. pelvis from a crash at Kansas. ing in 2002. 
Tuesday, April 27, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Scott, Irish ready for tournament 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Wntor 
Two seemed to be the number 
defining the men's tennis team 
this year. 
Two was the number they 
wnre seeded going into this 
year's Big East tournament, and 
two was the number of losses 
they had in the conference. 'I\vo 
was the number of doubles 
matches they struggled to win 
in each match, and two is the 
number of rivals who arc light­
ing in tlwir last Big East tourna­
nwnt. 
Two was the number of senior 
tri-captains on the squad. 
And two is the number of 
years that have passed since 
tlw Irish last held the Big East 
title. 
"We can prepare all we want and talk about it all we want ... but I don't think it's going to matter," said Matthew Scott, who play11d mostly at No. 2 sin­gins this year. "I just need to strap on the blue collar and get the job done." 
Scott and fellow senior tri­
captain Luis lladdock, as well 
as senior Paul llidaka and jun­
ior tri-captain Brent D'Amico, 
tasted victory at the 2002 Big 
East tournament. They plan to 
leave Miami next weekend with 
nothing less. 
"We've gone to Miami every year for the Big East," Haddock said. "We've had a good experi­ence there, Ibut! I have nothing else in mind except winning the tournament. Nothing else will make me happy." 
The Irish dnpart early Wednesday morning, allowing almost two full days to adapt to windy, hot and humid Coral (;abies, where the tournament willlw held. Their first match is at noon Friday against the win­nnr of the MiamVBoston College ganw. 
Notre Dame and Miami have met in the finals every year since IIJIJS-%, when the Irish joined the Big East. With an overall record of 13-8 and ranked No. 33 nationally, the Irish arc the highest-ranked team in the tournament despite being 1-2 in conference play. 
"It's the kind of thing you don't need to get yourself up for -you already arc," said Scott of the Notre Dame/Miami tennis rivalry. "It gives you something I more I to play for." 
Miami and Virginia Tech ­the Irish's two conference losses -leave the Big East next year. 

"Having lost to both teams gives us a special inclination to do well," said coach Bobby Bayliss. 
Although the departure of Miami and Virginia Tech will change the makeup of the league, he pointed out that incoming Louisville and South Florida have serious commit­ments to their tennis programs. 
Bayliss was required to sub­mit the roster in advance for the tournament, meaning that his ever-changing doubles line­ups will stay put for the dura­tion. Scott and Haddock will be the top doubles team. 
"What these guys do together well is break their opponent down from two back," )3ayliss said. "They're both pretty expe­rienced and they have good chemistry." 
"We played one match togeth­er when we were sophomores," Scott said. 
"Which we won," Haddock was quick to point out. 
The two played together briefly in the fall as Brent D'Amico recovered from an 
injury and started playing together full-time midseason. 
"The best thing we do is our movement and court coverage," said Scott. 
"I know exactly what shots he can hit and what shots he can­not hit," Haddock added. 
They agreed that it was good to know that "somebody has your back." 
"That's probably why my back hurts so much," joked Haddock. 
Their easy banter was a con­stant reminder that these two have seen the ups and downs of the collegiate tennis program and are consummate team­mates -this year, for the last time. 
''I'd like to see them end their careers in style," he said. ''I'd like to see them have a chance to take it as far as they can ... I can't ask for much more out of each of them." 
He paused, with the Big East tournament looming in his mind. 
"Well, maybe a little more," he said to the two of them. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
NBA 

Celtics fire head coach Carroll 
Associated Press 

wALff-IAM-:-Mass. -John Carroll·got a job recommenda­tion instead of a job from Danny Ainge. 
"John Carroll did a fantastic job for our team based on the situation he was given," Aingc said Monday after announcing that Carroll would not be pro­moted from interim coach and given a permanent job. 
"In the right circumstances, at the right time and the right place, John Carroll is very qualified to coach in the NBA," Ainge said. "This is a time that we need to make a change." 
Carroll was in his seventh season as a Celtics assistant coach when Jim O'Brien resigned on Jan. 27 over philo­sophical differences with Ainge. 
The Celtics went 14-22 under Carroll to finish the reg­ular season 10 games below .500, but they still managed to eke out the last playoff berth in the Eastern Conference. They were swept in the first round by the Indiana Pacers. 
Carroll left the team's prac­tice facility before Ainge spoke on Monday and was not avail­able for comment. Players and owners also left the team's breakup meeting without com­menting. 
But Carroll seemed to know what was coming. 
"I have been a coach my whole life. I think when you are a coach you understand that coaching is a very precari­ous job," he said after the Pacers completed the sweep with a 90-7 5 victory on Sunday. 
"I've been very fortunate to be in one place for seven years here with the Celtics, and I'm 
very  appreciative  of  the  
responsibility  that  I  was  
given."  

Ainge said he is in no hurry to make a decision about a new coach. 
'Tm not going to have a gun to my head, because there's no immediate need," Ainge said before joking: "I would like to have a head coach in place now, so he could answer these questions and I could go to Europe and scout players." 
Speculation on replacements has focused on Paul Westphal, Lionel Hollins, Doc Hivers, Dwane Casey, Jeff Hornacek and Avery Johnson. Ainge, who coached the Phoenix Suns from 1996-99, would not com­ment on candidates except to say he was not himself a can­didate. 
Asked whether Carroll would be offered a job in the organi­zation, Ainge said: "Not unless the new coach would like to have John Carroll on his stall'." 
Ainge disputed published reports that the new coach would not have the authority to fill out his stall'. 
Carroll, who coached Duquesne from 1989-95, took over when O'Brien resigned over differences with Ainge. Although the Celtics made the Eastern Conference finals and semifinals the previous two seasons, Ainge traded star Antoine Walker and O'Brien favorites such as Eric Williams and Tony Hattie. 
The moves netted injured big man Raef Lafrentz and Hicky Davis, among others, and made it difTicult for O'Brien to implement his disciplined, defensive style. Like Hick Pitino before him, O'Brien gave up on trying to restore the Celtics to their past luster and quit; the Philadelphia 76crs hired him last week to be their coach. 
The Celtics, who own a record 16 NBA championships, have now had six coaches in the 18 years since their last ­by far the longest drought in franchise history. 
Carroll took over a team that had been .500 and second in the Atlantic Division and lost 12 of its first 13 games. But he was able to turn things in time to make the playoffs. 
"When I walk out of here today I'll walk out with my head held high, knowing that I've done whatever I could pos­sibly do to help this franchise move on in its quest," he said Sunday. 
"A lot of people never thought we'd be here, but we're playing basketball in mid-April, we lost to a very good team. I feel very comfort­able with that, and I've had a lot of fun being able to do it." 
Unlimited llllin UmitedTime! 
MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND 514 W. McKinley 117 North Main Corner McKinley & Grape 1 blk. south of Colfax 574.252.5820 574.288.9450 
4615 Miami Road Miami & Ireland 574.299.2860 
•A1rt1me offer valid m two year cmsumff serv1ce agreements of $39 ~and h1yh11 Promotional J11orx~ sub11~ct to chanQ!• Phme prrcmg Includes a$30 ma1l1n rebate Cust011ff IS respms1ble for all sales taxes Rt>duced access fee val1d for frst 3months of 24 month Serv1ce Agreement Free Incoming M1nutes available rn local calling area mly N1ght and wne«und 
m1nutes are valrd M f 91Jll to 559 am and all day Saturday and Sunday N1ght and weekmd m11utes arP avarlable rn lnc~l calling area only Opt1on of 3000 N1ghts and Weltend Minutes, w1th a 7 j)n start tme. 1s ONLY good on ttw pranot1onal rate plan ol $39 95 fcr 1000 m1nutes Roamrng charges. fees. surcharyr.s and taxes may apply Actrvat1m too $30 All srrv
f< US.Cellular. ~PREMIER rce agreements subtect to an early term11atron fee Other restrrctum may apply See store for deta1ls l1m1ted t1mu off11
r"*" LOCATIONS"
AUTHORIZED AGENT 

page 20 Tuesday, April27, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NFL 

Colts believe they've filled the missing gaps 
Pick two linebackers1 two cornersI safety in this year's draft 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Forget major changes. 
Bill Polian and Tony Dungy figured all the Indianapolis Colts needed for a Super Bowl run was a little fine-tuning. Just add some more speed, a little depth and a new infusion of young talent. 
Polian, the team president, and Dungy, the coach, believe that after taking a safety, two cornerbacks and two lineback­ers in this year's NFL draft, last weekend's mission was accom­plished. 
"I don't think so," said Polian, the team president, when asked if he'd look to fill any remaining holes with veteran free agents. "The quarterback situation may be interesting, depending on who shakes free, but we like who we drafted." 
While the Colts got none of the big names, like a Dwight Freeney, who could have made a major impact next season, they didn't have much choice. 
Picking 29th in the first round of a draft that was thin on defensive talent. the Colts did the next best thing -acquiring extra draft picks to throw more players into the mix. 
Trading up would have been costly in terms of picks and the salary cap, too, especially con­sidering the Colts have four major free agents to re-sign after next season in wide receiver Marvin !Iarrison, run­ning back Edgerrin James, right tackle Ryan Diem and left guard Rick DeMulling. 
So the Colts need to save every dime they can. That forced Polian to be cre­ative with his choices. He tract-
ed down twice before selecting big-hitting safety Bob Sanders from Iowa, who will cost far less than the only safety taken ahead of him, Miami's Sean Taylor. 
Yet Polian thinks Sanders gives the Colts' defense some­thing it sorely needs-attitude. 
"It energizes everybody," Polian said. "His coach, Kirk Ferentz, pointed it out in the fall when I talked to him. He said 'Bob does something very few players do. He makes the mentality of the defense differ­ent, tougher, because he strikes."' 
That's what the Colts must now bank on. 
Losing two key contributors at cornerback, Walt Harris and David Macklin, during the off­season depleted their depth in the secondary. But the loss of starting linebacker Marcus Washington to the Washington Redskins in free agency put a gaping hole in the Colts' defense. 
Yes, they took Purdue's Gilbert Gardner and Florida State's Kendyll Pope in the third and fourth rounds, but there is no guarantee either will be ready to start this year. Both are small, fast linebackers, the kind that have thrived in Dungy's zone coverage through the years. 
The only other options are second-year players Keyon Whiteside and Cato June and Jim Nelson. 
When asked who would be the starter Friday when mini­camp opens, Dungy did a dou­ble take. 
"I've not thought that far ahead," he said. "Normally, we do it by the seniority system, so it would probably be Jim Nelson." 
Dungy has been here before, though. In 2003, the Colts let outside linebacker Mike Peterson depart via free agency. 

Our Kids Had A Blast Spending The Year With You! Thank you Michelle McCarthy, 
Jackie Clark and Steve Miller and the Sophomore Class for all of the Parents' Nights Out. 
Your favorite kids on campus and their parents at University Village 


That forced David Thornton, a second-year player, into the starting lineup. Many wondered how he would handle the job, and Thornton was consistently among the Colts' leading tack­lers. 
This year's philosophy seems a little different. 
By using three picks on defen­sive backs, the Colts seem to be counting on a deeper, faster secondary to carry the load. 
With second-year safety Mike Doss and Sanders, the Colts 
Meet the author 

now have two hard hitters. By moving Donald Strickland back to cornerback, the return to health of Joseph Jefferson, the continuing emergence of Nick Harper and the addition of draft picks Jason David and Von Hutchins, there's little doubt the Colts are deeper and faster. 
But are they better? 
All the Colts can do now is wait and hope that they've got­ten enough help in the draft to make a run at New England, a team that beat the Colts twice last season on the way to its second Super Bowl title in three years. 
"Well, I saw the ESPN com· mercia! and they were talking about the two-time Super Bowl MVP picked in the sixth rour1d," Dungy said, referring to New England quarterback Tom Brady. "Obviously, you're chances of getting an impact guy are greatest when you're in the top 10 picks." 
But you've got to have confi­
dence in them." 



Mark Pearson 

Europe from a Backpack 
April 29th, 7:00pm 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • •-.ndbaakstare.com 
'" :;;::~::-';''~~-;;/," ltii~re *11an iust tB>®~~f~;:-:',;~,,;;E~i,:;~tif:~~ 
• 

-
Tuesday, April 27, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MEN's lACROSSE 
Howell has overcome injuries 
Senior has developed into one of team's best players this year 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Wri tcr 
To avoid all the possible adjectives and superlatives, it's best put in simple terms. 
lin's back. 
For tho past two years, sen­ior Matt llowell had been plagund by everything from a broken thumb to several knee surgeries. 
The latest injury came when llowell was stricken with appendicitis, which forced him to miss the second half of the 2002-03 season. 
By this time, he had already 
nstablished himself as tlll n of Notre Dame's top offensive w ~~a p o n s . llowell led tht~ team in scoring, and at one point, led the nation in assists. 
But he did not let these 
"He just keeps going out there, and it shows us how much heart he has and how much he loves the game." 
Pat Walsh Irish All-American 
success he has found this sea­9. Howell registered one goal son. and netted five assists in the lie received this honor after victory. registering eight points against But his strengths go beyond 
Fairfield, one shy of the school record. 
This sea­son, Howell is second for the Irish in scoring (37). goals (20) and assists (17). lie is currently 
''Although he is not a very vocal person, he is the type of leader that shows by example. " 
Pat Walsh Irish All-American 
tied for 18th nationally with 
1.55 assists per game and has six multiple-goal games. llowcll accomplished this feat just six times prior to this year. 
Howell's perseverance has become an inspiration for other members of the team. 
"He just keeps going out there, and it shows us how much heart he has and how much he loves the game," All­American Pat Walsh said. 
It is not by coincidence that Howell 

st~thacks get the best of him. received the player of the 
Last week, llowell was week honor. lie previously won named the Great Western this accolade after the· 2002 Lacrosse League Player of the season opener, when the Irish Week. a culmination of the defeated No. 16 Penn State 10­
personal achievements on the field 
Walsh views Howell as not just a great player, but as a leader for the team. 
"Although he is not a very vocal person, he is the type 
of leader that shows by exam­ple," Walsh said. "He has had two or three surgeries but does not shy away from the rough hits in the game and just keeps coming back." 
And from the way his team­mates have described him, Howell seems like every coach's dream. 
"He knows what his strong points arc and does everything he can really well," Walsh said. "He coordinates things, because he knows the offense so well and can create a lot for everybody." 
Howell and the Irish have won five consecutive matches and currently stand at 7-4. Behind Howell's leadership, the Irish are hoping to finish strong as they travel to face No. 3 Maryland this Saturday. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

r-----------------~-----------------------------------

DeBartolo H::."'lll: 
Open Study Hours:: 
A.JU"'il 29  8.:aarn  to 3:00am  
April 30  8a.UJ. to 3::00an:a  
.1'\·lay 1  Sam t:o 3:OOa.m  
1'\.-la)-' 2  8:am to 3::00a:ID  

•·hu:als '\-'Veek: ;)'\tl:ay 3-6 
J'\.·l.idnighr Sn..ac.ks! 1'\ifidn.ight: Snacks! J.'\.·1idui.gb1t S.nnc.ks! .M.idnigld :Snac·ks! 
:Saan to .3:00aarn 

··~"fay 7 T>ei.artnlo clos.es 30 Diinut:es arter l:ast 
s.chcdulcd cx:aD'l through t"hc ·a_cg;ist".rar"'·s. O·:t"l1.cc_ 
3f':io Non-1:L--ch:uol.·tl>g~' roonis-9 fi.rs.t. c.ozncJ t"irst" sc.r,..·c ~s·e-e .Buih:fi,.,g .Sup,porr Person if.>~ou .llat~e spec~c ,-u.red.s: Roo.n~o 103,. I 04~ 
~C-:ole•nan-l'·lorse.: 1 .... Floor l.ounge 7;00a.nl-4am daily. Sanu~· dates as listed abo~·e­_1\..J'"''ay.s-Frec Snacks! 
·~· 

0,.Sha ughncssy; Hou,ns: ~;r~v~:ihzbic:~ fur opll':."l'l :JJ._,su-.1_-,.• €...'1C"CeJ.,~ •vhe,l: .-oched:u.Led b_J:..• ri:J·e Regi~..,ra.r'-s ~~ce. 
April 29 Snn"ll tu 3:00nm April 30 Sam t-o 3:00am. 1'\.-f":ay I San• h-. 3:00am 1\-:lay 2 8an11 to 3:00aJ:n 1'-inal.s ~'c<.•k: .~.y 3-6 :San::~~ t:o 3:00am Sunda~· 1 ::OOp.-n. to 3:00am~ 
1\lronday-··rhu rsday :5:&0t:.rn-.3 :OOam .. Roon"ls: 1 OR.., 1 09.~ 204., 206, 207,. 208.,. 209. 
.."::.nuc..4;,:..•• J.,,~,..·,.~g .._,.;r,,J_,•· Duy:~~· <'ourl'.:esy• .o.fJ: B.u."i:l.ne.'lu>: <£JJ<;IJ'e.ra·i.lit'J'.~• ....• <.:.c.r.~tHp~,c."'· lfiFi;,.•i::Y:I'ry.o· .S-,u-¥h:!'Hit Lh.,;:iol' Bo~z.rd 
***<.;o<Ood l ..u:ck ·-·llt:h J"<'inals"""'..,.. 



MEG DAVISSON/The Observer Matt Macri hits a home run against Toledo April 21. The Irish struggled this weekend, dropping three of four games. 
Losses 

continued from page 24 
loss to fall to 5-2 on the sea­son, allowing four earned runs in 4 2/3 innings pitched. 
In the nightcap, the Irish needed some late inning hero­ics from left fielder Cody Rizzo. After striking out Notre Dame's first two batters in the inning, Pirate right-hander Tim Sabo fell behind 2-0 to Rizzo, and the Irish sopho­more made him pay with a solo home run down the left field line. 
Irish closer Ryan Doherty came on in the bottom of the inning and shut down the Pirates three-up, three-down to preserve the 4-3 Irish win for his seventh save of the season. Senior Joe Thaman got the win in relief for the Irish, and Chris Niese) got a no decision in the start for Notre Dame, allowing two earned runs over six innings. 
"The second game was a great win for us, because it was really a tough environ­ment," Mainieri said. "I thought Niese! pitched well. and we scratched together a few runs. We got the big home run by Rizzo in the ninth inning, and Ryan Doherty came in and did a tremendous job in the bottom of the ninth." 
In the first game against Pittsburgh Sunday, the Irish fell into an early 5-0 hole after three innings due to some shaky defense and timely Panther hitting. 
"We had one bad inning defensively early in the game, and we didn't get [starting pitcher] Jeff Samardzija much defensive support," Mainieri said. 
But the Irish bats would come alive as Notre Dame mounted a comeback with a pair of runs in the fourth on a Bransfield home run and a sacrifice fly from catcher Javi Sanchez. 
In the next inning, the Irish tied it up at five on consecu­tive RBI doubles from first baseman Matt Edwards and Bransfield and an RBI single from Sanchez. 
But that would be as close as Notre Dame would get, as Seton Hall put three runs on the board in the bottom half of the inning to go up 8-5. The Irish narrowed the lead to two runs on an RBI triple from third baseman Matt Macri in the next inning, but the Irish offense couldn't manage another comeback, falling 8-6. 
Samardzija was touched for eight runs over four innings in ·­the loss to fall to 2-2 on the season. 
Things only got worse for the Irish in the nightcap Sunday. Notre Dame carried a 6-3 lead into the bottom of the ninth inning on the strength of three home runs from Macri. Bransfield and left fielder Craig Cooper. 
But the 7-foot-1 Doherty was unable to keep the Panthers at bay in their last at bat, allowing four earned runs in 1/3 of an inning on three hits, two walks and one hit batter, as the Panthers won 7­6. 
Freshman Dan Kapala actu­ally came into the game after Doherty's troubles with the bases loaded, just one out and the game tied 6-6. 
Kapala struck out P.J. Hiser for the second out and went ahead 1-2 on first baseman Tom Cashman before missing on a pitch low-and-inside that got by Sanchez, allowing the winning run to score. 
"In the bottom of the ninth. Hyan ·Doherty just had one bad game," Mainieri said. "It's the first bad game he's had all season. It's unfortunate that it came at that time, but that's the life of a closer. When they have a bad game, it generally costs you a ballgame." 
The Irish will look to bounce back today with a 6 p.m. game against Ball State (20­
16) at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Notes: 
+ 
After losing three out of four games over the weekend, the Irish have dropped in all four baseball polls. They now rank eighth in the Collegiate Baseball Magazine poll, ninth in the National Collegiate Baseball Writers Association poll and 11th in both the Baseball America and SportsWeekly/ESPN Coaches polls. 

+ 
The Irish have added a game with Manchester College Thursday to their schedule in order to make up for their cancelled game with Purdue that was rained out April 20. The NCAA allows baseball teams to play a maximum 56­game schedule in the regular season . 

+ 
Backup catcher Sean Gaston did not make the trip to Seton Hall and Pittsburgh over the weekend, as the freshman has been sidelined with mononucleosis. 


Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
Tuesday, April27, 2004
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Struggles 
continued from page 24 
with the team weighed down by achievement. At the beginning of the season, Notre Dame had the freedom of the underdog, released from the manacles of expectation. And the underdog can play with a reckless aban­don. taking chances with impunity. Mistakes are expected from an underdog. This type of freedom is what allowed the Irish to beat some high-profile opponents early in the year. Duke, James Madison and Stanford all went down because the Irish had yet to establish themselves during the season. 
But there's something about a 10-0 start and a No. 2 ranking that makes other teams pay more attention. And all of a sud­den, Notre Dame's opponents seem to have a little extra adrenaline rush that the Irish had not seen before. It was the same adrenaline rush that they had used while playing a top­ranked team. But now it is used against them. That little intangi­ble is what made the difference in the heart-breaking one-goal losses to Georgetown and Johns Hopkins. 
And it will happen with all the Irish opponents. Out of nowhere, opposing stars start rising to the occasion when before there had been no occa­sion. Teams like Rutgers, previ­ously stuck in .500 limbo, begin playing like a top 10 team as they did while limiting the Irish to one second-half goal on Sunday. After the loss to Johns Hopkins on Friday, Notre Dame captain Meredith Simon said that she wanted her team to play like an underdog again, with nothing to lose. 
Simon had just discovered something that happens to every successful underdog -they become the favorite. And the favorite has its own set of chal­lenges completely different from those of the underdog. The favorite must battle the onset of complacency and a lack of moti­vation. It's tough to compete with a fearless attitude on a tightrope of success when there is nowhere to go but down. One slip and you hit the concrete only to be surrounded by critics who don't want to help but demand to know why the heck you slipped. 
But the great teams do com­pete fearlessly. Look at Princeton who has won back-to­hack national championships. They are the best because they have·transformed their fear into swagger. It is the earnest hope of every underdog going into a big game to walk onto the field and see fear in their opponents' eyes. That is what Rutgers saw against Notre Dame. That is why the Irish committed two crucial turnovers at the end of the game allowing the Scarlet Knights to score the tying and go-ahead goals in the closing minute. 
To get into the Members Only group of teams, Notre Dame must get to the point where they are the intimidators. Like Princeton, they need to show they will not back down, espe­cially against the likes of a mediocre team like Rutgers. 
But an Irish recovery will be even more difficult. Now their opponents .know they are down and know they are afraid. 
The Irish stand at a critical juncture of their season. With two big games against No. 13 Syracuse followed by tenth­ranked Vanderbilt to close out their season, the Irish can go one of two ways. They can stand up, embrace their success, and dominate opponents as they did early in the season. 


DePaul 
continued from page 24 
pitching and really held her composure well in all her games." 
DeFau performed especially well in Notre Dame's four road victories this weekend over Big East opponents Villanova and Rutgers. She hit .643 in those games with four RBI, five runs, two doubles and one home run. 
DeFau and her teammates wrested control of first place in the Big East from Villanova Saturday, defeating the Wildcats by scores of 4-0 and 2-0. The Irish continued their hot streak, taking two from Rutgers on Sunday by scores of 8-5 and 4-2. 
"Going to play anyone in the Big East is never easy," Gumpf said. "That's one thing that's nice about being Notre Dame, is that everyone wants to beat us. The best thing, though, is that I think we can play even better than we did last weekend. Hopefully we can really start peaking here near the end of the season " 
Stenglein took home three vic­tories last week en route to improving her record to 6-0 in the Big East. In 20 innings of work, she collected 24 strikeouts and allowed just two earned runs. 
She is also currently first in the Big East with a 0.58 ERA and six wins. 
The Irish look to continue their impressive play over the last 
Tuesday, April 27 
ND Baseball-vs. Ball State @ 6:05 PM 
Wednesday, April 28 
Baseball -vs. Cleveland State @6:05PM 
week as they take on DePaul in a non-conference doubleheader at Ivy Field today beginning at 4 p.m. 
This is the last non-conference matchup of the regular season for Notre Dame, who closes out its schedule with eight consecu­tive Big East games. The trip home is also a breath of air for the Irish, whose previous five games have all been on the road. 
"I want us to use today's games to prepare for the Big East this weekend," Gumpf said. "We're looking forward to these games against DePaul because they're always a battle and we love playing each other." 
The Blue Demons were ranked No. 12 in the preseason National Fast-Pitch Coaches Association/USA Today poll but have underachieved so far this year. DePaul (20-22-1) dropped below .500 after being swept by Southern Mississippi in a double­header Saturday. 
Head coach Eugene Lenti has been at the helm of the program for 23 years, and has helped to turn DePaul into a perennial powerhouse team. Although the Blue Demons have struggled recently, the Irish know that this is not a team to be taken lightly. 
"Their record is very deceiv­ing," Gumpf said. "They're a good team and their coach has really done a great job with them over the years. We know it will be a battle." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
the Irish have beat-en, will compete for eight slots to advance to the National Championships. 
The tension seemed to mount all day for the golfers and coaches as the clock rolled towards 2 p.m., the time when the tournament fields would be announced. 
"All day I was hanging by the phone," freshman 

Or they can resort back to their pre-season role as an underdog. 
The result of these two games will likely indicate how Notre Dame will perform in the NCAA tournament, a place where an (under)dog gets thrown a bone once in awhile, but usually 
No. 1 [scorer] on the team," she said. "Without my team, I wouldn't be able to go to the NCAA's." 
What makes the news even more exciting for the Irish is that, despite the talented lineup and solid play over the last few weeks, today's announcement was not much more guaranteed than it was at the beginning of the fall. Truly, this year's team has surpassed even their head coach's expectations. 
"I thought it'd take us a 
couple more 
years [to get an 
Noriko "I want them to ·get out NCAA bid]," 
N!ikazaki King said.
there and play some, 

said. "We're ahead When that and they'll call me to of schedule." phone call schedule individual However as finally came the team faces
help sessions. " 

for each the most-high golfer, it no profile event of doubt made Debby King the program's their day and Irish coach history, the 
season, a whole lot bet­ter and definitely more mem­orable. 
"I was so excited at approximately 2:18 when coach called," Nakazaki said. 
As the leading scorer of Notre Dame's best-ever team, Nakazaki certainly deserves to be happy. However, the freshman firm­ly believes that her personal successes, no matter how great, are secondary to the team's accomplishments. 
"It feels great when I'm the 

players must 
still balance the responsibilities of class work with their golf sched­ule. 
"It's going to be a light week of practice," King said on how her team will spend the upcoming days. "[The girls] are going to have to reschedule their exams and get out of their dorms [over the next week.] It's going to be academics first." 
The team will leave for Normal on May 4th, and in the meantime, King hopes 
watches the proven teams feast on a championship. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd. edu 

Photo courtesy of Dan Carey 
Katie Brophy and the Irish are headed to the NCAAs for the first time In their history. 
her players will be able to make use of as much of the golf course as possible, but realizes that there are other demands on them outside of golf. 
"I want them to get out there and play some, and they'll call me to schedule individual help sessions," she said. "It's a stressful time for them, and they know I'm here for them." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Softball -vs. DePaul @ 4:00 and 6:00PM GOLD GAME 
•Gold 
Game T-Shirts to the first 100 fans, sponsored by Heropostale . 

•UD 
Softball Jersey Koozies and 20 oz. Coke product to the first 250 fans, sponsored by Between the Buns and Coke 



Tuesday, April 27, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
HERE ARE ALL THE SUGGESTIONS FROM THE SUGGESTION BOX. 
FIVES 

SCOTT ADAMS 
IS THAT
GIVE US MORE MONEY. 
WHY THE
GIVE US MORE MONEY. 
POINTY­
GIVE US MORE MONEY. 
HAIRED
GIVE US MORE MONEY. 
GUY IS
HEY, HERE'S ONE WITH 
SAD?
A LITTLE DIAGRAM. 
\ 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGJRJON 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VUCER 

j 

·"

I I r [J 
C20CM Tribune Media SeNices, Inc. 
All Rlghla Roaerved. 
ZYZID 

j
rJ r I I 
CARAFS± 
WHAT TI-E FEUDING 
WOF<K£:1<5 DID IN 
l""HE: 5UGAF< FIE:L-05. 
www.jumble.com 
DENGER 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

( I ) I I 
Ans-r: 

"( I I I I ]" 


I Jumbles: LIBEL OUNCE DAWNED CHERUB
Yesterday's Answer: Studying culinary arts made him this -WELL 
"ROUNDED" 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 33 Mikhail of chess 60 Back, at the 

Sharing this birthday: Jessica Lange, Ryan O'Neal, Toller Cranston, Bob
track1 Talk like Jimmy 34 Adage 

Braun, Lionel Hampton, Mauricio Gugelmin, Luther Vandross 
Stewart 61 Depend (on) 
35 Home of the 6 Minnelli of Blue Devils 62 Barrel of laughs 
Happy Birthday: This can be a great year where love and romance arc concerned. You must make an effort. however, if you really want to interact
"Cabaret" 
36 Municipality's 63 Hosiery hue 
with others. Getting out and about will ensure that you meet plenty of 10 Frozen waffle dock? individuals who have similar interests The key to having a good year will be to
64 Brayers com-

brand keep busy doing the things you enjoy the most.
petitor40 Part of a finan-

Yournumbers: 1,7,18,26,33,41
14 Noted cial portfolio 65 Adds (up) Montague 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Greater involvement with colleagues will result
41 Yale, for one 66 Photographer15 First father 
in a better working atmosphere. You can build on your friendships. but don't
Adams

42 0-Tip target get intimately involved with someone you work with. •n• 
16 Potting need 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Romantic relationships will be plentiful if you 
43 Put down, on 

get out and mingle with friends. Don't be surprised if someone fmm your past
17 Jellied garnish the street DOWN 
has his eye on you again. Be careful: He may not have changed much...... 18 Glazier's unit 44 Place where 1 Hung loosely GEMINI {May 21-Junc 20): You'll be impossible to live with today Th~: you can get into changes going on around you are probably driving you crazy. Accept the
19 Ditto, with "the" 2 More upbeat 
inevitable and get on with your life. This is not the time to brood. •••
hot water 

20 Kingdom's 3 Fuse unit CANCER (June 21-July 22): You need to put some excitement back into dock? 45 No less than your life. Your desire to find out about different lifestyles should lead you to
4 Small dam 

cultural events or to your travel agent to book an exotic vacation. •••
23 Suffix with mus-49 Looks out for, at 
5 Lead-in to LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be careful not to annoy your mate by being
ket a heist 
motion insensitive to his or her emotional needs. Extravagant gallivanting will cause 24 Tic-tac-toe win-51 Commotion additional stress between you. **** 
6 Traveler's work 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be prepared for war when you go home if you've 
ner 52 Early Beatie 
aid paid more attention to yourself or others while your lover has been anxiously 25 Poet Elinor Sutcliffe waiting on the sidelines for your affection. n
7 Potato state 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll have a tendency to take on too much. Your
27 Invent 53 Country's dock? 
8 Billy of "Titanic" empathetic nature will make it difficult to say no to people in need. You have to 30 Enzyme suffix 58 Diva Gluck be strong and consider the needs of yourself and your loved ones first. •• •• •
9 From the U.S. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your intellectual charm will win you the
32 Baseball play-59 Breakfast food 36 Nitpicked 15 Changes to fit 51 Underw~
1 o Composition popularity you've been looking for. You need to take your talents and use them.
otis mo. chain 
with a viewpoint You can make money if you promote your art seriously. ** 
37 Socially imprqp-~6 "Ihe -.;:ay things 54 "Java" player AI 

., . SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your lover is feeling left out if you've
11 100 er are ...

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Give % ...... 55 Home to been busy doing your own thing. Try to include him or her in your plans. A 12 Gadget-laden 38 Future aves? Columbus. quiet evening at home isn't such a bad idea if you want to make amends. •• •
47 0qe ~ slap-

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't socialize with friends from work.
13 Grand_ Opry stick­

39 Record-setting 56 "Chiquitlta" Getting involved in the private affairs of those you work with will backfire . 21 Ball that may hit Ripken quartet causing tension and upset and possible job loss. •••
48 Prison escape 

an umpire AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): Mix business with pleasure and you'll dazzle 
40 Pharmaceutical-route, maybe 57 Freshman, llsu-­

your clients with your ideas and your delightful wit. You will have to be careful
22 Meadow mother safety org. ally 

that you don't overspend in the process. •••n
50 Cafeteria carri­

26 Summer in PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Financial deception is evident. You wrll
44 Retired flier ers 58 "You he.re"

Suisse experience losses if you leave your money or jewelry out in the open. Trips will tum out to be costly. •• 
28 Just s I i g htly For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, witli a 

)Jirthday Baby: Acceptance and moderation are your keys to success. You
29 Indianapolis 500 credit card, 1-800-814't5554. 

have to learn the lesson of self-control in order to reach your goals. You arc
time Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 

bright and willing to make concessions if necessary, but you won't always find 
30 Sound of relief crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. it easy to budget. ­31 Fond of Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web sites at eugenialast.com 34 Farm pen 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 35 Calamitous solvers: nytimes.com!learning/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The 0 bserver  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D I;:nclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City-----~-State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSER\'ER 
PORTS

Tuesday, April 27, 2004 
page 24 
BASEBALL 
Not so friendly confines 
No. 8 Irish drop three offour Big East road games over weekend 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri said before last Friday's games with Seton Hall that the upcoming Big East weekend would be an important one, as the top five teams in the conference standings were scheduled to play each other. 
Unfortunately for Mainieri, it was his Irish that suffered the most in their biggest conference weekend to date. No. 8 Notre Dame (32-8, 12-5 in the Big East) lost three of four over the weekend with a split in a Friday doubleheader at Seton Hall (12­26. 6-11) 2-4 and 4-3, followed by a two-game sweep at the· hands of Pittsburgh (26-10, 10­4). 6-8 and 6-7. 
"''ve said often that this con­ference is a very tough confer­ence. and I think people some­times snicker at me when I say that," Mainieri said. "But I'll tell you that the 25 guys on our team will say how difficult it is to win games in our conference, particularly on the road." 
Notre Dame's two losses to the Panthers marked only the fifth time in its eight-plus years in the league that the Irish have been swept in a Big East double­header. 
"I know Seton Hall played 
with an awful lot of pep and vigor, and so did Pittsburgh, and Pittsburgh has an excellent team," Mainieri said. "They were all very tough games, and unfortunately we came up on the short end in three of the four." 
In the opener with the Pirates I:riday, Notre Dame got out to an early 2-0 lead in the top of the first on a two-run double by designated hitter Matt Bransfield. But then the Irish hitters ran into a brick wall in the form of Pirate pitcher Jake Haggerty. 
After allowing the two Irish runs, the Seton Hall hurler buckled down and retired the next 19 Irish batters en route to his third victory on the season as the Pirates won 4-2. 
"You tip your hat to their pitcher," Mainieri said. "He pitched a tremendous ball game. We got to him in the first inning there, and then we just couldn't do anything with him after that. 
"He was hitting his spots well, and the ump was giving him a pretty wide strike zone. It seemed like every one of our hitters was behind in the count, and we just couldn't get any­thing going." 
Lefty Tom Thornton took the 
see LOSSES/ page 21 


WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish not handling role well 
You know. the women's lacrosse team wasn't always .the favorite. There was a time, way back in, oh say February, when they didn't have the cares they have now. They were just hop­ing for a return to the NCAA tourna­ment after missing it last year. 
But after a 10-0 start. expecta­tions soared. The team began tilling out its applica­tion for the Members Only Club of collegiate women's lacrosse. Yet there was still one test to pass. To become a member, a team must first learn to succeed despite the proverbial target now per­manently stamped to its back. And after four subse­quent losses -some good games, some not-the Irish are still trying to cope with that bullseye. 
It wasn't always like this, 

Matt Mooney 
Sports Writer 
see STRUGGLES/page 22 

NO SOFTBALL 
TeaiTI earns honors, returns home 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
~ 
:\fter taking over first place in the Big East following a 4-0 weekend, the honors continued to pour in for the Irish. 
~enior Nicole deFau, who hit .588 over five games last week, was named Big East Player of the W11ek for the first time in her career. Junior Steffany Stenglein was named Big East Pitcher of the Week for the third time in her career,

I 
sharing the award with Boston

I 
College's Tekae Melandris. 
"They both definitely deserved it," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "Nicole was on fire this weekend, and even when she didn't get a base hit she hit the ball hard some­where. Steffany did exactly what the team needs. She gave us strong 
see DEPAUUpage 22 


ND WoMEN's GoLF 
Irish finally makeNCAAs 
For the first time in history, golfers head to the tourney 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Wri rer 
Notre Dame is now doing the only thing that would make the program's histo­ry-setting season better ­making it longer. 
A day after winning the Big East Women's tourna­ment for the second straight year, the Irish 
received an at-large bid to compete in the NCAA tour­nament for the first time in the 19-year history of the program. 
''I'm really excited," coach Debby King said. ''I'm real­ly happy for the team." 
The tournament will take place on May 6-8 at the University Golf Course of Illinois State University in Normal, Ill. It will consist of three 18-hole rounds and will be played in the five­count-four format. Twenty­one teams including some familiar foes, five of whom 
see NCAA/page 22 

en 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
MEN'S TENNIS 
NFL 
MlB
NHL 

GOLF 
w

1--
c.l 
Sharks 1,
The Colts hope that,
z Matt Howell has over-
Luis Haddock won a 
Avalanche 0 

Vijay Singh won the 
The Reds defeated the 
with their newly-draft­
come injuries to be a 
Big East title last season 
Pirates 5-2 behind Sean

Houston Open in
a: ::5 
ed players, they will be
leader on and off the 
and looks to lead the 
With the win, San Jose 

Monday's final round. 
Casey after losing
~ 
ready for a Super Bowl 
field for the Irish. 
Irish again this year. 
is up 3-0 in the series. 
Austin Keams to injury. 
c:z: 
run. 

= 
A. !ci 
page 21 
page 18 
page 17 

page 17
page 19 
page 14

en 







