
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Transpo cOuld-facilitate SafeBus 
Officers discuss options with charter bus company representatives 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
The Council of Representatives' pursuit of creating a SafeBus to foster off-campus transportation continw~d Monday night as mem­br.rs discussed the possibility of using a private bus company to accompliSh their goal. 
After presenting the idea of the Notre Dame SafeBus to the Board of Trustees in October, student body president Adam Istvan took note of the Board's advice to seek out·a private company to provide the bus and assume the liability. 
At Monday's meeting Istvan announced to representatives that he and chief executive assistant Dave Baron had met with Transpo, which currently provides bus serv­ices to students, and discussed how Transpo might expand their services to provide weekend trans­portation for students wanting to go off-campus. 
Transpo, a company that has been looking to increase ridership since last year, was willing to work with student government after learning that the SafeBus was a key goal for his term this year, Istvan said. 
Baron told representatives the diScussion was successful in estab­lishing the needs of the students and how they might be met by Transpo. 
"We said that the best time to run the bus is Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights between 10 
see COR/page 6 




ND ponders Arafat's legacy 
Palestinian leader had lasting impact 
By MICHAEL BUSK 
News Writer 
Though his death remains recr.nt news, the legacy of Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat is already a matter of serious contention, as some have eulogized him as a free­dom fighter while others have condemned him as a terrorist. 
"Among Palestinians, Arafat after death will in all likelihood become even more of a heroic figure who sym­bolized and will continue to symbolizo their nationalist aspirations and dreams," said Asma Afsaruddin. a -pro-
see ARAFAT/page 8 


Israeli-Palestinian conflict affected· 
By MICHAEL BUSK 
News Writer 
Partisan extremism in both Israel and Palestine will make it difficult for Yasir Arafat's successors to succeed where he failed, according to experts in the Notre Dame communi­ty. 
"I think progress on a peace settlement is more possible than before, but I am not opti­mistic," said political science professor Keir Lieber. "Real progress would require a demonatically elected and moderate Palestinian leader, the marginalization of Hamas and other radical Islamists, 
see FUTURE/page 8 

Intruder Inquiry continues 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
The male intruder suspected of widespread vandalism in Pasquerilla West Nov. 7 has yet to be found, but the case remains under investigation, Notre Dame Security/Police said. 
NDSP officials have spoken with most dorm residents who saw the man -described as college-age, white, between 5-foot-7 and 5­foot-9 and with a sandy blonde buzzed haircut -in the hall that day, none of whom reported being threatened or harmed, NDSP 
see INTRUDER/page 8 


Students send care 
packages to Iraq 
By NICOLE ZOOK · News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. many of whom know what it feels like to be far from home, are joining together to send a little piece of home to troops fighting overseas this holi­day season. 
Groups on both campuses arc participating in care package drives this month. collecting small items to ship to Notre Dame graduates currently serv­ing in the Middle East. 
The Army HOTC service organ­ization Alliance To Lead And Serve (ATLAS) began organizing their drive earlier this year. Junior Maggie Lero, an Army HOTC Cadet, is in charge of the project 

"We focus on patriotic activities and supporting our troops and community events," Lero said, adding that Notre Dame gradu­ates' platoons will receive most of the care packages. "We decided for the Christmas season to send care packages to the troops." 
The care packages will consist of items Lero found listed from an online soldier wish list ­ranging from necessities like soap, shampoo and toothbrushes to stocking stuffers like playing cards and Notre Dame memora­bilia. Lero said cadets will be approaching their residence halls to contribute to the project by writing letters. and that anyone who would like to participate should contact their dorm service commissioners. 
see SOLDIERS/page 6 

Coach Brey gets personal in chat 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writer 
A small crowd dominated by baseball hat-sporting males 

·gathered eagerly around Irish basketball coach Mike Brey in the Coleman Morse lounge Tuesday night for the second of the Student Union Board's new series, "Fireside Chats." Brey touched on many subjects including his predictions for the upcoming season, recruiting, his coaching career and even the ticket lottery, which left many fans empty-handed. 
Patrick Vassel, programmer of SUB's Ideas and Issues commit­tee, which organized the lecture series, introduced Brey with a long list of his achievements, including his· three NCAA appearances as head coach of the Irish and the $400,000 he 
see BREY/page 6 


Tuesday, November 16, 2004

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Starbucks, 
squirrels 

and snovv 
To all the winter weary out there, you are not alone. Last week, on my daily walk to the dining hall through Our Lady's grand campus under her glorious trees. I spotted something ! had never seen Melissa Ward before. 
I observed a squirrel wallow­
Ad Design
ing through the grass. There 
was no scamper or spring in his step, just a lethar­gic wallow. Needless to say, this was no ordinary squirrel. What once was a fit and trim scavenger 
of the wild was now transformed into a giant ball of fluff and fur. I 
know nuts are fatty, but I had 
never seen a squirrel that obese. Other squirrels have since followed suit. They arc packing on the 
pounds for thf~ terror that lies ahead. 
Unfortunately, it's beginning to look a lot like winter. 
With the end of the home football season and start of spring registra­tion. timn has begun to spiral into the vort1~x of lost days leading into the depths of winter and. conse­quently, misery. Mother nature is doing plenty to usher out the warm weather too. Leaves are falling from trees. l~rost is blanketing the grass. Icy winds have begun to sweep through the Bend. 

Why then is it necessary for us to facilitate the process? Each time I walk into Starbucks I cringe. The wintry cups and holiday music lin­gering in the atmosphere are a lit­tin too much for me to handle. The radio waves are jammed with "Jingle Bolls" and "Oh, Christmas Tree." It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas'? 
Give me a break. 
Don't get me wrong, I am a defi­nite supporter of Christmas, but I find it ridiculous and extremely annoying to find these conditions before Thanksgiving. 
I would like to preserve my last few weeks of peace before I have to lace up my boots to trudge through drifts of snow on the quad and think about the holidays. 

My serenity lies where I lie -on tho quad. that is. on those warm and sunny days looking at the sky. l.et me have these last days, for the winter will be long and brutal. Squirrels will continue to fatten, leaves will fall from trees. and time will hasten towards the first snow. Do not become weary; keep playing outside and wearing shorts and sandals. 
Make these days last and fight off winter until the bitter end. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Melissa Ward at mward5@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
Dlle to a reporting error' in the Nov. IS issue ofThe Observer, Walsh interhall foorball coach Dave Brenner's name was misspelled and Walsh linebacker Amanda Borys, who had an interception, was misidentified as Patty Rose. The Observer regrets rhe error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU LIKE TO HEAR GIVE A FIRESIDE CHAT? 





Garrett Bassett  Monica Selak  lalla Goldman  Melody Gonzalez  Robby Davidson  Zach Giles  
Junior off-campus  Sophomore Cavanaugh  Junior Farley  Senior PE  Senior Fisher  Senior Alumni  
"Martha  "Colin Powell.,  "Lance  "Alberto  "Ralph Nader. "  "Me!,  

Stewart., Armstrong. , Gonzales, 
Bush's nominee for Attorney General., 

Beavers make dam out of stolen money 
GHEENSBURG, La. ­These eager beavers had a whole new slant on money laundering. A bag of bills stolen from a casino was snapped up by beavers that wove thousands of dollars in soggy currency into the sticks and brush of their dam on a creek in eastern Louisiana. 
"They hadn't torn the bills up. They were still whole," said Maj. Michael Martin of the St. Helena Parish sheriff's office. 
The money was part of $70,000 to $75,000 taken last week from the Lucky Dollar Casino in Greensburg. 
St. Helena Parish deputies searched for the money for days until a lawyer, hoping to make a deal with prosecutors for a client, called and said the money had been discarded in the creek, Police Chief Ronald Harrell said. 
Man sues neighbor for breaking up marriage 
CHICAGO -They say you can't buy love, but one Chicago man is trying to make somebody pay for it. After watching his wife. Lupe, walk out on him after 15 years of marriage, Steven Cyl is suing a neighbor down the street whose life she walked into. 
"This guy. he ruined my life," Cyl said. The other man, a Chicago firefighter, is now learning that Illinois is one of the few states in the nation where spouses can file "alien­ation of affection" law­suits. 
In his lawsuit, Cyl, 44, seeks unspecified dam­ages, claiming "great men­tal suffering and anguish," "devastation" and "suffer­ing." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Carol Pollack, visiting fP!low at the Kroc Institute. will speak today from 4:15 to 5:15p.m. in C-103 llesburgh Center about "'How Strictly Should Corporations Be Held Accountable for Human Rights AbusPs?" 
Hob Sarra. a former Marine sergeant stationed in Iraq and current member of Veterans Against the War. will talk today about his Iraq experiences at 8 
p.m. in 155 DeBartolo llall. 
International Student S1~rvicns and Activities will sponsor a free showing of thn f'ilm "'American Born Confused Desi," from Indian l'ilmmaknr Krutin Patel. today from 7 to !J 
p.m. in 117 DeBartolo Hall. 
Hobert Catell and Kenny Moore, CEO and corporate ombudsman for KeySpan Corporation respectively will discuss "'An Alternative Leadership Model for the 21st Century: Keeping Your Sanity, Sense of Humor and Soul in the M·arketplace," today from 7 to 8:15 p.m. in Giovanini Commons, Mendoza College of Business. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will play Northern Iowa today from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
Notre Dame international relations professor Dan Lindley will present Thursday on the topic "'Is War Rational?" at 
12:30 p.m. in C-103 llesburgh Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 56 HIGH 54 LOW 45 LOW 35 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY 0: 
IJJ 
:::r::: 
~ 
IJJ 

3: 
..... 
c( 

(,) 


0 HIGH 56 HIGH 51 HIGH 62
....I LOW 46 LOW 48 LOW 45 
THURSDAY 
.< 
t.m

HIGH, 57 LOW 42 

Atlanta 63 I 47 Boston 42 I 32 Chicago 54 I 44 Denver 58 I 33 Houston 66 I 60 Los Angeles 75 I 54 Minneapolis 55 I 39 New York 52 I 38 Philadelphia 54 I 38 Phoenix 731 53 Seattle 50 I 42 St. Louis 55 I 48 Tampa 80 I 58 Washington 58 I 42 
,. 11 ,••••~-•'"· , •• ~"'w•-~·-;> .. l··••'•'l.~'"ff ....-"!~-•, ..... -iiJ;:..'::..··-~lfiL •-·• 
4 •• ., .·­

Tuesday, November 16, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Philosophy professor dies after long illness 
By KATE GALES 
News Writer 
Philip Quinn, a philosophy profes­sor at Notre Dame, died Saturday at St. Joseph's Medical Center after a long illness. He was 64. 
"! Ie was a true intellectual. and he 
would . always take whomever he was in the conversation with seriously," said Gretchen Heydams-Schils, a concurrent associate profes­sor with the phi­

losophy depart-Quinn • ment. "[lie was] an absolutely .bril­liant man. but he didn't have a whiin of snobbery about him." 
Quinn. who specialized in the phi­losophy of religion and the philosophy of science. joined the Notre Dame philosophy department in 1985. 
lie is survived by two sisters, Barbara Lucas of Wilmington. Del. and Elizabeth Hogen of Jacksonville, Fla. 
lie was born in Long Branch, N.J., on June 22, 1940. He was an under­graduate at Georgetown University and graduated in 1962. then spent a year at Belgium's University of Louvain. Quinn earned a master's degree in physics from the University of Delaware in 1966 and master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Pittsburgh in the follow­ing three years. 
IIe then joined the faculty of Brown University's philosophy department, where he was appointed to the William Herbert Perry Faunce Professorship in 1982 before coming to Notre Dame three years later. 

"He was both a highly accom­plished scholar [and] a real communi­
. ty person ... and that's a huge loss," Reydams-Schils said. "He was very witty-kind of low-key humor, great moral integrity and wasn't afraid to speak on issues he felt were right." Quinn authored over 100 articles and reviews in a variety of philosopbi­cal journals. He published "The Divine Commands and Moral Requirements" and "The . , Philosophical Challenges of Religious Diversity." Additionally, Quinn co-edit­.ed "A Companion to Philosophy of Religion." In the past two decades, Quinn was named to a number of leadership positions in the American Philosophicid Association, most ­notably president of its Central Division and chair of the National Board of Officers. In 2003, Quinn was elected to the American Academy of Arts and "Sciences. Reydams-Schils noted that Quinn was a "formidable ally" for women students and professors in the philos­ophy department. "He was very visible and he was very present in the intellectual com­munity," Reydams-Schils said. "He was very generous in his conversa­tions with people." A funeral Mass will be held today at 9:30a.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
BOG 

Execs address upconling events 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer · 
Saint Mary's College Board of Governance met Monday to discuss upcoming events and issues, including the student body president's annual "State of the School" address. 
Student body president Sarah Catherine White called the meeting to order by informing the board that she will deliver the address Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. White said she would address her future goals for the College and what she has accomplished thus far in her term. 
Members also discussed var­ious diversity initiatives. 
Student body vice president Mary Pauline Moran reported that the Social Work 390 class asked the board for $56 to put on an Ethnic Festival, which will be held in the West Wing of Noble Family dining hall today from 5 to 7 p.m. with the goal of further educating Saint Mary's students about diversi­ty. 
"I think that this is a really great thing in light of the forum and the diversity issues pressing our campus," Moran said. 
Student Diversity Board commissioner. Adriana Puente reported that she is currently accepting applications for available positions on SOB. 
"Our numbers are really 


dwindling due to many of our members going abroad," Puente said. 
SOB will also be volunteering at a food bank this Saturday from 7 to 10 a.m. Anyone interested in volunteering should contact Puente or any other SOB member. 
In other BOG news: 

+ Student Activities Board will be having a meeting this Thursday at 7 p.m., which will be open to the entire student body. They will then be holding a second meeting at 8 p.m. for students to give feedback on SAB sponsored events. Both meetings will be held in 222 Madeleva Hall. 
"SAB's mission is quality pro­gramming for the student body, and although we have heard things about our events we have never gotten direct any direct feedback from stu­dents. This will be an opportu­nity for us to do so," SAB com­missioner Lauren Fabina said. 
+ BOG Campus food com­missioner Becky Hanson appealed to the Board for help in placing linen table clothes and votives on the tables in the dining hall Dec. 8 in honor of the Immaculate Conception. 
"I think this is a great way to commemorate the day," Hanson said, adding that results of the dining hall's sur­vey of the student body's thoughts on campus foods and policies will be available in a week. Hanson said she would be prepared to share those results with the Board at the next meeting. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO1@saintmarys.edu 


P------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 Tuesday, November 16, 2004
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


DEPARTMENT 0 F M U S c PRESENTS 
ND Symphonic Band and Winds 
Wednesday, November 17 at 8 p:m. www.nd.edu/-ndband/ Free and open to the public 
ND Chorale and Chamber Orchestra Fall Concert 
Friday, November 19 at 8 p.m. Bach's "German Magnificat," and works by Haydn and Monteverdi www.nd.edu/-music/ensembles/chorale.html www. nd.edu/-music/ensembles/ corch. html Leighton Concert Hall Free and open to the public 
Student Chamber Music Concert 
Saturday, November 20 at 2 p.m. Penote Performers Hall Free and open to the public 
D P A C PRESENTS 
Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra 
Thursday, December 2, 2004 at 8 p.m. Friday, December 3, 2004 at 8 p.m. Handel's Messiah www. nd.edu/-music/ensembles/ chorale. html www.nd.edu/-music/ensembles/ corch,html leighton Concert Hall Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $3 all students 
The Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concert 
Saturday, December 4, 2004 at 6 p.m. and 8:30 p.~. http://gleeclub.nd.edu leighton Concert Hall Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $3 all students All proceeds benefit the Center for the Homeless. www.dh.net 


Empire Brass Christmas Concert 
Friday, December 10 at 8 p.m. http://performingarts.nd.edu/empire.shtml 
North Americas finest brass ensemble, The Empire Brass, share their brilliant virtuosity and unparal­leled diversity in a celebration of Christmas in the leighton Concert Hall. The ensemble greets the season with a mix of favorite Christmas music through the ages. There will even be a sing along. 
Tickets $44, $35 faculty/staff, $15 all students 

The Chieftains 
Sunday, January 30 at 8 p.m. http://performingarts.nd.edu/chieftains.shtml Leighton Concert Hall 
The first word in Irish Music is the Chieftains. In 
1989 the Republic of Ireland appointed them the official musical ambassadors for Ireland. They have exported Irish music to every corner of the world and finally they come to Notre Dame. Their appearance is far overdue. There are a lot of groups who play traditional Celtic music, but they all owe a great debt to the Chieftains who paved the way for them. There are few concert experi­ences as completely fulfilling as an evening spent in their company. 
Tickets $48, $38 faculty/staff, $15 all students ND University Band . Sunday, December 5 at 3 p.m. www. nd .edu/-ndband/ Free and open to the public 

ND Ja:z:z Bands 

Sunday, December 5 at 7 p.m. www.nd.edu/ -ndband/ Free and open to the public 
ND Collegium Musicum 
Wednesday, December 8 at 8 p.m. www.nd.edu/-music/ensembles/ collegium. html Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Free and open to the public 
N D c N E M A 
I CENTO PASSI (The Hundred Steps) 
(Italy, 2000) 

Thursday, November 18 
7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 

Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute 
for European Studies 

In the Sicilian seaside town of Cinisi, Luigi lmpas­tano (Luigi Maria Burruano) works for Mafia chieftan Gaetano Badalamenti (Tony Spewndeo). When luigi 1 s rebellious son Peppino (Luigi La Cascio) develops a political. conscience he starts a private radio station and exposes Badalamenti as a Mafia boss. Peppino's revelations initiate a chain of violence that reaches its climax in the lead-up to local elections in which Peppino has declared his intention to run for office. Based on a true story. 
EXPERIMENTAL "POETIC" FILMS 
( 1 00 minutes) 
Friday, November 19 

Featuring works of Henry Hills, Stan Brakhage, The Brothers Quay, Marcel Duchamp and more. 
GARDEN STATE 

(93 minutes) Saturday, November 20 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
"It's a hilarious and heartfelt ode to twentysomething angst." 
-Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE 
"Illuminates a young man's overdue coming of age with unexpected depth and grace." 
-Kevin Thomas, LOS ANGELES TIMES 
Discounted tickets are underwritten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. 

sign up for updates at 

MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS http:/ /performingarts.nd.edu 
Call 574-631-2800 









ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 16, 2004 CoMPILED rRoM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE sERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
France ends· evacuation flights 
ABIDJAN. Ivory Coast-Loading worried families onto the last two jumbo jets, France concluded one of the largest evacuations in post-independence Africa on Monday -an airlift that flew 5,000-plus Westerners from violence pitting France against its former prize West African colony. 
More than 10.000 African nationals-with no hope of such rescue -have fled to neigh­boring countries,. the U.N. refugee agency said. 
Two French-organized nights late Monday, to Paris and to neighboring Ghana, are the last in six days of shuttles overseen by the French military, French spokesman Jacques Combarieu said. 
"It was terrible," said one 10-year German resident of Ivory Coast, who would give only his first name of Helmut, awaiting one of Monday's last evacuation flights. 
PRI wins two gubernatorial races 
CIUDAD VICTOHIA, Mexico-Mexico's for­mer ruling party won two gubernatorial races and held narrow leads in two others Monday in an election showing that could make it a force in the 2006 national vote, in which tlw party seeks to regain the presiden­cy it hdd for more than 70 years. 
ThP Institutional Hevolutionary Party, or PHI. lost the presidency in 2000 after 71 years of one-party rule, ushering in what was widely considered to be the start of Mexico's true democracy. But the PHI has been working to rebuild. winning elections for govPrnor in four states earlier this year. 
The party was fighting to win all four scats up for grabs in Sunday's voting. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. Bishops elect new president 
WASHINGTON -America's Roman Catholic bishops chose a new president Monday who has released the names of priests accused of molesting children and reached out to victims but who also plans to seek bankruptcy protection for his diocese because of abuse claims. 
Bishop William Skylstad of Spokane, Wash., was elected conference president by his fel­low bishops on the first ballot, just days after announcing his diocese will go into Chapter 11 bankruptcy. 
Skylstad. who has served as conference vice president for the past three years, received 120 votes, or 52 percent of the total in a field of 10 candidates. Every vice presi­dent who has sought the top job has won. 
Research fuels low-carb backlash 
LAS VEGAS -Regardless of how they shed pounds in the first place, big losers stayed that way by limiting fat rather than carbohy­drates. according to new research that could add fuel to the backlash against low-carb diets. 
Dieters already have been turning away from Atkins-style plans as a long-term weight-control strategy, and the new study gives tlwm more reason: Low-fat plans seem to work better at keeping weight off. 
"People who started eating more fat ... regained the most weight over time," said Suzanne Phelan. a Brown Medical School psychologist. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Westfield remembers student 
INDIANAPOLIS -Students at Westfield lligh School gathered around the f1agpole early today as they tried to cope with the death of one of their peers in a weekend wreck. 
School ofTicials. said a large group of class­mates o!Tered prayers in memory of Kristin Hice, 16, a Westfield High School junior, who died in a one-car crash shortly before 3 a.m. Saturday on a highway ramp in Gary. 
Indiana State Police say Nicholas Gaunt, 17, the Westfield High School senior who was driving at the time of the accident, lost control oJ the car when his front-seat passenger began pulling on his arm. 
Powell to resign from White House 
Condoleezza Rice named replacement giving Bush's second term a new look 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush has chosen national security adviser Condoleezza Rice to replace Colin Powell as secretary of state in his second term, a senior administration official said Monday. 
Powell, a retired four-star general who often clashed with more hawkish mem­bers of the administration on Iraq and other foreign policy issues, resigned in a Cabinet exodus that promises a starkly different look to President Bush's second­term team. 
The White House on Monday announced Powell's exit along with the resigna­tions of Education Secretary Hod Paige, Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman and Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham. Stephen Hadley, deputy national security adviser. will replace Rice, the ofTicial said on condition of anonymity. 
Combined with the resig­nations earlier this month of Commerce Secretary Don Evans and Attorney General John Ashcroft, six of Bush's 15 Cabinet members will not be part of the president's second term, which begins with his inauguration Jan. 

20. An administration that experienced few changes over the last four years sud­denly hit a high-water mark over, it was time to "step she intends to return to servant." As to whether he for overhaul. down ... and return to pri­California -she was might succeed Powell, 
Known for his moderate vate life." The Army man for provost at Stanford Danforth said, "It hasn't views and unblemished rep­35 years said he would stay University -or was hoping been mentioned by me or to utation, it was Powell who on "for a number of weeks, to replace Donald Rumsfeld me." went before the United or a month or two" until his as defense secretary. · Powell, one of the archi­Nations in February 2003 to replacement was confirmed Aides to Rice declined to tects of the 1991 Persian sell Bush's argument for by the Senate. comment. In Ecuador for a Gulf War in the administra­invading Iraq to skeptics Asked what he plans to do meeting of defense minis­tion of Bush's father, often abroad and at home. But next, the 6 7 -year-old Powell ters, Rumsfeld gave no indi­sparred in private with Powell's case was built on said, "I don't know." cation that he is on the verge hard-line administration faulty intelligence that In a statement, Bush of stepping down. "I have officials such as Vi~ Saddam Hussein possessed called Powell "one of the not discussed that with the President Dick Cheney and weapons of mass destruc­great public servants of our president," he said when Rumsfeld over how to pro­tion. time." asked if he planned to ceed in Iraq and the role of 
Still. the former Joint Most of the speculation on resign. the international community. Chiefs of Staff chairman a successor to Powell has Also mentioned as a possi­In his most memorable remained the most popular centered on Rice, who is ble Powell replacement was presentation, Powell sol­member of the administra­generally seen as more U.N. Ambassador John diered on and delivered the tion, more so than even hawkish and is one of Bush's Danforth, the former administration line before Bush. closest advisers. She is wide­Republican senator from the United Nations and a 
In a resignation letter ly considered the president's Missouri. Danforth described world audience on the dated Nov. 12, Powell told first choice for the top diplo­Powell as "a great person" rationale for ousting Bush that, with the election mat job despite reports that and "an outstanding public Saddam Hussein. 

IRAQ 



Battles hit Sunni Muslim heartland 
stronghold of Ramadi and in the Jordanian militant, said the 
Associated Press 

northern city of Mosul. Americans were overextended and 
BAGHDAD-U.S. and Iraqi forces A recording purported to be from "cannot expand" their operations. fought deadly battles with insur­Iraq's most feared terror leader, "Shower them with rockets and gents across central and northern Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, instructed mortars and cut all the supply Iraq on Monday -the latest in a insurgents across Iraq to attack routes," he urged. The authenticity wave of clashes that has swept the U.S. forces before the military cah of the tape could not be con!irmed country's Sunni Muslim heartland move on other guerrilla strongholds immediately. even as American troops move after Fallujah. A convoy of ambulances and relief against the last remaining pockets "If it [the U.S. military] finishes supplies trying to enter Fallujah of resistance in Fallujah. Fallujah, it will move in your direc­was forced to turn back because 
The worst reported fighting took tion. Beware and deny it the chance the fighting made it too dangerous, place in Baqouba, where the mili­to carry out this plan," said the the head of the Iraqi Red Crescent tary said at least 20 insurgents speaker on the recording, posted on said. The Red Crescent and Red were killed. Militants hit at least the Web. Cross have been unable to gain four different U.S. troop convoys The speaker, who was identified access to people inside Fallujah with car bombs, woundi.t;lg nine in the message as al-Zarqawi and during more than a week of vio­Americans in and around the Sunni whose voice resembled that of the lence. 
page 6 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 16, 2004 
COR 
continued from page 1 
p.m. and 1 a.m. We also suggested bringing more daytime routes to campus, to have an express route from campus to downtown with just a few stops along the way," Baron said. 
Ile also noted that students would benefit from having a greater access to downtown resources. 
'The issue is more than just bars. For students on campus. the Morris Performing Arts Center downtown is a jewel. and they can't get to it on the weekends," he said. "Likewise. for students on campus, the Debartolo Performing Arts Center is great, but there is very limited park­ing." 
According to Istvan and Baron, the solution to this problem can be found with the cooperation of Transpo, which Istvan praised for its cleanliness and aiTordability. Fares were lowered to 25 cents for the months of September and October. and according to Istvan. Transpo is considering permanently lowering the fare to that rate. Nonetheless. a ride for 75 cents is significantly less money that the $2 most students pay for taxi service, Istvan said. 
"The buses are brand new and really clean. Not to mention stu­dents will save a bundle of money. The fare reduction was huge for September and October," he said. 
In other COR news: 
+ Zahm Senator Mike McGinley and student body vice president Karla Bell described the results of their meeting with Josh Berlo, who is in charge of basketball ticket sales. 
McGinley and Bell left the meeting with two lirm promises from Berlo. 
First. Berlo assured them that next year the distribution of tickets will again take place on a Thesday or Thursday to assure that students with early classes on Monday, Wednesday and Friday can still have a chance to purchase tickets, McGinley said. The selling time will be 7 a.m. or earlier. 
Second, Berlo guaranteed that next year students will only be allowed to purchase four booklets, rather than six. to achieve a greater consistency of student attendance. 
McGinley also told representatives that Berlo was in favor of delaying putting public tickets on sale until 
• after student tickets have been sold, to allow students who do not buy booklel'i to purchase tickets for indi­vidual games. 
"Berlo's only concern was the 'eamping out' issue, where students spend the night outside the JACC, which can create problems," he said. 
To prevent this from happening, Berlo suggested to McGinley and Bell that students would only be allowed to come to the stadium eight hours before tickets go on sale. 
"There will be continuing dia­logue between the student govern­ment groups on campus and the ticket ollice to get changes imple­mented for next year." McGinley told representatives. 
Still. McGinley noted that student attendance is not as high as it once was. This year, 2400 booklets were sold, compared to 4800 sold when Digger Phelps was coaching the Irish. 
+ Representatives approved the addition of a non-voting member from the Diversity Council to COR. Johanna Sioson will attend the meetings but will not be allowed to vote. 
"Johanna is a great person and has a smart mind. I firmly believe she will add a great voice to COR," senior class president Darrell Scott said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone@nd.edu 

student in Notre Dame's MBA program, he was so impressed
Packages 
by the Christmas shipments continued from page 1 that he quickly became involved with the care package 
Also getting involved with drive upon his return to cam­the ROTC project are the pus. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's "I was just floored by the College Republicans and support from the students," Democrats. The two groups Welch said. "The guys in my have initiated a friendly com­tent were amazed that stu­petition to get members into dents I didn't know were send­the giving spirit, competing to ing packages. I told them it's see which group can collect hard to believe, but that's how the most items to send. Notre Dame is." 
Saint Mary's College The students heading this Democrats president Sarah year's drives agreed with Staley says her Welch that favorite part of showing sup­the project is the port for the inclusion of the "I was just floored troops is espe­children the cially important 
by the support 
troops are help­during the holi­
from the students." 
ing to protect. day season. 
"ROTC also "Obviously it's asked us to get Christopher Welch a really hard together some position to be in
alumnus 

things for the kids," Staley said. "Beanie Babies [are) something small that can be shipped over there that the soldiers can carry around to hand to the kids." 
Collection for the ROTC ctrive items begins Nov. 29 and ends on the last day of classes. 
The Notre Dame Accounting Associatiol} will be collecting items for their own care pack­age drive from 10 a.m. to 2 
p.m. each day this week through Friday. Project chair Jennifer Burns, a senior, sug­gests students and faculty donate "little everyday items that might feel like luxuries" to soldiers, such as magazines, COs and toiletries. 
"We are also sending let­ters," she said. "If you don't have any money, just writing a letter or a little Christmas note or a note of thanks would be appreciated." 
This is the second annual 
NOM Christmas care package 
drive for the troops. Last 
year's drive was a success, 
shipping 15 boxes containing 
more than 300 pounds of 
items to Iraq, Kuwait, and 
even a Navy ship in the middle 
of the Persian Gulf, Burns said. 
The organization received 
many letters of thanks from 
Notre Dame friends and family 
who appreciated getting the 
packages. 
One recipient was Christopher Welch, a 2000 graduate who was stationed at Camp Arifjan. Kuwait. Now a when you're in 
the military and 
serving over­seas," Burns said. "There are times like Thanksgiving and Christmas when you really just want to celebrate with your family. We wan.t to let them know that they still have a family over here that still cares about and appreciates them." 
Lero said she hopes the packages boost the morale of the soldiers currently sta­tioned overseas. especially those who have recently had their tours of duty extended. 
"I think that we're all very aware of the ROTC presence on campus, but we don't really see how that connects with the real world after graduation, while ·graduates are serving overseas. [The project] helps us to remember them during the Christmas season when they won't be home," she said. 
Welch assured the campus community that their efforts will not only be appreciated, but will lift each soldier's holi­day spirits. 
"There were several other 
Notre Dame guys who were 
stationed with me. We were 
thrilled and amazed and very 
humbled," he said. "Just the 
support we got was really 
amazing. Otherwise, 
Christmas would have been 
just another day in the desert." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

Brey 
continued from page 1 
and his wife have raised for Coaches vs. Cancer -all to Brey's dismay. 
"Make it quick," the coach said modestly. "We're all fami­ly here." 
Brey began the chat by high­lighting each of his players, and assessing the impact that each will have this year. The team has, notably, nine return­ing players and just one fresh­man. Rob Kurz. "lie's one of the most mature freshman we've ever had," Bn~y said. 
"A basketball season is a marathon, not a sprint," Btey continued, "and that's what I tell my guys. Every one of them is going to have an impact, somewhere down the line." 
He called this year's team the most talented one he's coached at Notre Dame. 
Brey also talked about the team's powerful schedule, which boasts 13 nationally-tel­evised games, and the impor­tance of getting back into the NCAA postseason tournament, both for the pride of the school and for recruiting purposes. 
"We've got to get back into that bracket," he said. "I don't think the guys even need to be told that. There's just a feeling in the locker room." 
Compared to the Notre Dame basketball program of the early 1990's -which averaged two televised games and 300 student season tickets a year -"We've got some credibility back again," Brey said. 
Bre.y then turned to recruit­ing, profiling each of next year's four recruits in a com­plimentary manner. He also explained the program's meth­ods of recruitment. 
"We don't waste time with 
kids who want to go pro or 
kids who aren't likely to come 
here," he said, "and most of 
the guys stay for four years 
because they want a degree 
from this University." 
Brey identified two mentors 
from his career: DeMatha High 
School coach Morgan Wooten 
and Duke head coach Mike 
Krzyzewski. for whom Brey 
worked as an assistant coach. 
Brey recalled Krzyzweski's 
methods of allowing his assis­
tants to get their hands on all aspects of the program, and involving the assistants' fami­lies as much as possible. 

"I try to do the same thing with my program here." Brey said. 
As for the ticket lottery, Brcy called the shortage "a good problem" because it ref1ects students' passion for the team. There have been talks about gutting and redoing the seat­ing in the Joyce Center to accommodate more fans. he said. 
"We don't need anything gaudy, but we need to clean it up," he said. 
Brey also discussed hi~ interest in the football pro­gram -"We do some grPat recruiting on football week­ends;" his fond memories of 6 foot-11." Tom Timmermans ­"lie shot a three-pointer dur­ing practice freshman year and I kicked him out, then as a senior he makes six three pointers in the game against UCLA;" and players with big dreams -"Other coaches would say, shut up; I say, you made the promise, now show me." 
"I've really come to associ­ate with this place," Brey said at one point. "You get your handprint on a place and you get attached. I'm excited about the futum of this program." 
Joe Mcginnes, a sqphomore who attended the fireside chat, enjoyed the variety of Brey's speech. 
"It was interesting to hear his outlook for the season and also about his background. with his two mentors." Mcginnes said. "It was also cool to have a more personal setting and be able to interact with the coach." 
Vassel said he is pleased 

with the Fireside Chats so far 
this year. The committee's goal 
was to focus less on big names 
outside campus and look to 
the people on campus to 
whom students might be inter­
ested in listening. he said. 
"I thought [tonight's chat) 

turned out well," said Vassel: 
"[Coach Breyl talked more 
about basketball than I had 
anticipated, but the things he 
talked about, like team-build­
ing and ethics. apply to all 
areas of life. And that's what 
this lecture series is supposed 
to do." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

1111111111111111111 
Educational Technologies &Services is looking for qualified students to work on our 
Classroom Support Staff. 
Students must have some AN and computer trouble shooting experience. 
Job duties include set-up of AN equipment, assisting professors with equipment malfunctions and troubleshooting. 
Time slots most needed: M-F am, M-Th evenings, Sundays 
Interested students should contact: 
Jason A. Railton, Supervisor of Classroom Support, jrailton@nd.edu 
Tt..-l E0 BSERVER 




USINESS
Tuesday, November 16, 2004 
page 7 

Dow 
10,550.24 +11.23

}ones 
~k
,,.,.... 
...,. Same: [)c)~: Composite Volume: 1,849 160 ,,. 1,448,989,952 

AME.X 1,351.26 +4.98 
NASDAQ 2,094.09 +8.75 
NYSf. 7,003.06 -11.12 
S&PSOO 1,183.81 -0.36 
NIKK£1(Tokyo) 11 ,227.57 0.00 
FTSE. IOO(London) 4,803.10 +17.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +6.71 +0.28 4.45 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.86 +0.50 27.39 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +4.73 +0.23 5.09 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.34 +0.08 23.77 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) + 1.51 +0.29 I ~.55 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.35 -0.17 48.95 
I0-YEAR NOTE -0.24 -0.10 41.90 
5-YEARNOTE +0.06 +0.02 35.3 I 
3-MONTH BILL + 1.03 +0.21 20.5 7 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.46 47.41 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.00 437.30 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.50 101.40 
Excha Rates 

YEN 105.4100 
EURO 0.7728 
POUND 0.5415 
CANADIAN$ 1.2012 
IN BRIEF 
America.O Express sues over antitrust 
NEW YORK-American Express Co. on Monday sued Visa and MasterCard as well as eight banks for allegedly blocking the sale of its credit cards through U.S. banks. 
The New York-based company did not say how much in damages it was seeking, but said it expected the total would be in the billions.' 
The suit, filed in federal court in Manhattan, is the second against the two biggest credit card associations in America, Visa USA and MasterCard International. 
Last month. Discover Financial Services, a unit of New York-based Morgan Stanley, filed a similar suit against MasterCard and Visa seeking unspecified damages for practices that allegedly kept it out of the lucrative bank market. 
Both lawsuits follow an Oct. 4 ruling by the 
U.S. Supreme Court in an antitrust case brought by the Justice Department that accused Visa and MasterCard of restraining competition. The high court's decision let stand a lower court ruling requiring Visa and MasterCard to allow member banks to issue competing cards. That cleared the way for American Express and Discover to begin part­nering with U.S. banks. 
Ex-Boeing CFO pleads guilty 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -Boeing Co.'s former chief financial officer pleaded guilty Monday to illegally hiring a top Air Force procurement officer who admitted giving the company pref­en~ntial treatment on a $23 billion tanker con­tract. 
Michael Sears, 57, of Chicago, pleaded guilty to a single count of aiding and abetting illegal employment negotiations. 
Sears faces up to five years in prison when he is sentenced Jan. 21. but his lawyer. James Streicker, estimated that under federal guide­lines Sears probably faces a six-month sen­tence at most. 
Scars admitted that he offered Darleen IJruyun, one of the Air Force's top contract officers. a six-figure executive position at Boeing while she was reviewing whether Boeing should get a $23 billion contract to provide new refueling tankers to the Air Force. 

FDA orders Viagra to pull tv ad 
Pfizer Inc. cannot air 'Wild Thing' ad because it fails to disclose known risks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The government ordered Pfizer Inc. to yank cheeky televi­sion ads that promised bet­ter sex for men taking Viagra because they failed to disclose known risks associated with the drug, according to a letter released on Monday. 
"The TV ads omit the indication for the drug (namely, treatment of erec­tile dysfunction) and fail to provide information relat­ing to the major side effects and contraindica­tions of the drug, as required," Christine Hemler Smith, a Food and Drug Administration regu­latory review officer, informed Pfizer in a letter posted on the agency's Web site. 
"Remember that guy who used to be called 'Wild Thing?'" the ads say as a middle-aged couple shop, looking in the win­dow of a lingerie store. "The guy who wanted to spend the entire honey­moon indoors?" Later. blue horns sprout from the frisky man's head with "He's back" written on his forehead. The horns morph into the letter "V" ofViagra. 

"The TV ads claim that Viagra will provide a Celebrex. Viagra account­FDA's request. evision ads "misbrand" return to a previous level ed for $1.87 billion in glob­Men who already have Viagra, and demanded the of sexual desire and activi­_al sales last year, including heart disease can risk fur­company immediately pull ty," Smith wrote to Robert $1.1 billion in sales to ther heart woes when they them. The agency is 
B. Clark, a Pfizer vice American men. have sex, Smith's letter requiring a response to its president. "FDA is not It's not clear whether the said. Viagra, approved to letter by Nov. 24. aware of substantial evi­agency's regulatory action treat erectile dysfunction, Consumer advocate dence or substantial clini­extends beyond the 15-should not be used by men Sidney Wolfe said FDA cal experience demon­and 30-second television with heart conditions enforcement against mis­strating this benefit for ads. Viagra's Web site, for whose doctors have leading advertising patients who take Viagra," instance, reinforces the ad warned them not to have dropped from 15 7 actions Smith wrote. campaign with a blue sex. Also, patients taking in 1998 to just 23 last year. 
Pfizer has already horned man under the drugs that contain nitrates "If you are the industry, removed the TV ad clip headline "Get back to mis­have been warned not to you cannot help but notice from its Web site, and is chief." take Viagra because of the FDA has largely "in the process" of pulling The FDA asked the com­sudden, unsafe drops in stopped enforcing the laws the TV ads, said pany to cease "promotion-blood pressure. and regulations on drug spokesman Daniel Watts. ·al materials" similar to the The drug's label also advertising," Wolfe said. 
Pfizer also is drafting a television ads it described warns of erections lasting "Therefore, you're almost formal reply to the FDA's in its letter, but did not longer than fDur hours, encouraged to run mis­letter, posted Monday. include specifics. painful erectio·ns -lasting leading ads like this. By Viagra is among the com­"We're going to look at longer than six hours, the time the FDA catches pany's top 10 best-selling everything we have," headache, flushed skin and up with this kind of ad, it's drugs, behind such prod­Watts said, to ensure the vision problems. likely millions of people, or ucts as Lipitor, Zoloft and company complies with the The FDA said Pfizer's tel-more, have seen the ad." 


Marvel sues over trademark characters 
enables players to design super­feature for creating "a gigantic. green, 
Associate.d Press 

heroes' look and abilities and then 'science-based tanker'-type hero that 
LOS ANGELES Marvel battle against other players' charac­moves and behaves nearly identically" Enterprises Inc. is suing two firms ters in a virtual city. Like similar so­to the "Hulk." Players can also create behind a computer superhero role­called massively multiplay.er role­a "mutant-based" hero powers and a playing game it claims allows players playing games where thousands of costume nearly identical to Marvel's to make virtual characters that are players can be playing simultaneously "Wolverine," according to the suit. too similar to "The Hulk," "X-Men" at any given time, "City of Heroes" The New York-based company also and other heroes in the comic book claims to offer a myriad of combina­took issue with the ability of players to company's stable. tions so that no two players' charac­go so far as to name their superhero 
The lawsuit claims South Korea­ters are exactly the same. creations after Marvel comic book based NCSoft Corp. and San Jose­But in its lawsuit, filed Wednesday characters. based Cryptic Studios Inc. violated in U.S. District Court, Marvel argues Marvel claims the firms' are respon­Marvel's trademark characters in that the game's character creation sible because the game is played on their game "City of Heroes." Marvel engine easily allows players to design servers operated by the companies, seeks unspecified damages and an characters that are virtual copies of raising the question of whether a injunction against the two companies its own superheros, including "The company is responsible for their cus­to stop using its characters. Incredible Hulk." tomers' actions on its computer serv­
The personal computer game The company singles out a game er. 

page 8 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 16, 2004 

Arafat 
continued from page 1 
fessor in the Arabic and Islamic studies department. "The mis­takes he made will be forgiven and perhaps forgotten; he will rather be remembered as a man and leader who selflessly dedi­cated his life to the Palestinian cause ... lie was and will remain a national icon for most Palestinians." 
Notre Dame student Mohammad Hamad is one of those Palestinians for whom Arafat was a symbol of the hope for self-rule. 
"Aral'at was a man of peace. a freedom fighter and a godfather for Palestinians," he said, reject­ing both the terrorist label that critics have applied to the leader and the accusation that Arafat's acts of aggression against Israelis amounted to genocide. 
"lie is not a Hitler. not a Stalin, not a Pol Pot. lie was a leader in every sense of the word," IIamad said. 
-Political science professor Keir Lieber took a more negative view of Ararat's legacy. "History wBI judge Yasir Arafat harshly," he said. "lie rose to prominence through terrorism and murder and then betrayed the Palestinians simply to maintain his grip on power. lie was a cor­rupt, dictatorial and ineffective leader who was incapable of either peace-making or state­building." 
Although he recognized some of Ararat's shortcomings, political science professor Dan Lindley said history will take a more mixed view of him as a leader. 
"I think he'll be recognized as someone who was initially a hero, but ultimately. a failure," Lindley said. "He led Palestinians to a place where they were a force to be dealt with, but on the other hand, what has he. been doing over the last 

Intruder 
continued from page 1 
director Hex 1\akow said. However, because of the severity of the van­dalism and unauthorized entry ­
the man was seen in the dorm between 7 and 8:30 a.m.. in viola­tion of parictals -a continuing 
investigation is necessary, Hakow said. 
"We arc still actively seeking and investigating new leads but the trail was pretty cold when we got the initial report," he said. 
Investigators are examining swipe card data to narrow down 
No cover ever with studentlU 

~t Sports ~ar it1 South ~et1d 2046 South ~et1d Ave -Across frottt Martit1s Plaza 272-1766 NU Football Headquarters Ot11it1e sports it1fo 
"'(}reat Food, (}reat Futf Mon: Monday Night Football furs: CoLUH N1~HT -UJ e. SYECIALS CsTAUIN~ AT •1.001 Wed: TRIVIA Night -~ring your teatMs -Prizes fHUU: UJ -fiRST fHURSVAY EVERY MONTH: JASSY 0.RAZZ Frl: live £ntertaintMent Sat: NU gatMes Sun: Sports -1+screens 
possible times the suspect could have entered the dorm, Rakow added. Since no evidence of forced entry was found in NDSP's initial assessment, police concluded the suspect was let in or entered through an unlocked door. 
The incident carne to police attention the afternoon of Nov. 7, when a Pasquerilla West resident alerted hall staff to the man's suspi­cious presence in the shower area of a fourth floor bathroom that morning. Several other residents later came forward to corroborate the sighting. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
15 or 20 years that has amounted to much?" 
Lindley also mentioned the unaccounted-for billions given to Arafat to help aid in the founding of a Palestinian state, saying that if Arafat did in fact embezzle that money, he might be remembered as "a criminal, a king-thief of bil­lions, another klepto-crat" from the Third World. 
Further complicating Arafat's legacy is the paradoxical catch­22 that Israel and the West encountered in negotiating with the leader, Lindley said. 
"Either he was in control of various bombings or terrorist incidents, in which case, he's someone you don't want to deal with because he's a terrorist, or he's not a terrorist, in which case you don't want to speak to him because he doesn't control the side he claims to speak for," Lindley said. 
Anthropology professor Patrick Gaffney, a specialist in Middle Eastern politics, also commented about the difficulty of knowing how much control Arafat really wielded over Palestinians, saying that Israel's demonization of Arafat often blew his real power out of proportion. 
"Israeli officials blamed him for every possible assault on Israeli security, building him up as the source of all their problems in a way that was bizarre and contra­dictory," Gaffney said. 
He also echoed Lindley's com­ments about Arafat's initial suc­cesses but ultimate failure, say­ing that to the end,. Arafat remained a guerilla fighter rather than a statesman. 
"Arafat never lost the habits of someone who was in hiding," he said. " ... He had a terrific first three quarters of his term, but was not able to change under a new set of political circum­stances." 
Contact Michael Busk at mbusk@nd.edu 
Professor Patrick Gaffney, an anthropolo­gist specializ­ing in Middle Eastern poli­tics, was also dubious about the possible success of the peace process in· the near future, citing the tremen­dous anti­Palestinian 

sentiinent within the Israeli government. 
"The odds against a set­tlement are pretty high. Israel's structural opposi­tion to the formation of a Palestinian state is very great," he said. "It's not going to be easy for Palestinians." 
President Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair are in part to blame for the gridlock that has beset Palestinian/Israeli negotiation, said Asma Afsarrudin, professor of Arabic and Islamic studies. 
"Given that Tony Blair and George Bush have not been very successful in the past in jump-starting these talks -because, in many ways, they are side-step­ping the real, core issues of political injustices and human rights violations ­I'm not terribly optimistic that they will succeed in the near future," Afsarrudin said. 
:till. IIUilllll.. L. SilN))Ol' Al. 
RECOUNTS PERlENCE AS ONE OF THE LEGENDARY CODE TALKERS OF WWII 
f:()$1': 1<1tF.ti TIMJi: 7:00 PH WUHN; lt'lmNlt~tAY. NOV. 17 LOI:ATJON~ tAl'OUTIJNE BAUJUHUI 
"The odds against a settlement are pretty high. Israel's structural opposition to the formation of a Palestinian state is very great. " 
Patrick Gaffney professor 
Sharon-led killing of Palestinians in Lebanon that occurred in 1982. 
"We did not invade them; 
they invaded us. We did not kill them; they killed us. We did not make a Holocaust upon them; they made a Holocaust upon us," he said. 
The rigidity of the Israeli government has nullified any positive 

effect Arafat's death might have on the peace process, Hamad added. 
"His death will not make any difference because the problem is not with Palestinian leaders. It's with the Israeli leaders. Until there is a significant change in Israeli leader-these talks either," said Afsarrudin. 
Palestinian Notre Dame student Mohammad Hamad went even further, denouncing the actions of the Israeli government as savage and imperialistic, citing as an example the 
"His death will not make any difference because the problem is not with Palestinian leaders. It's with the Israeli leaders." 
Mohammad Hamad student 
ship, there will never be peace in the area," he said. 
Philosophy professor David Burrell, who has spent a great deal of time in the Middle East, echoed Hamad in saying that the real problem lies with Israeli, not Palestinian leadership. 
"The biggest fear we should have now is not for Palestine, which has a plethora or good leaders available, but for Israel, for without someone to project their dil'f1culties onto, they will have to deal straight­forwardly with their own internal dissensions, which arc nearly intractable." Burrell said. 
But Afsarrudin also ques­tioned whether Ararat's successor, Mahmoud Abbas, the new chairman of the P.L.O., had the politi­cal clout or personal charis­ma necessary to move for­ward the peace process. 
"I Ie simply does not com­
uation may well continue to be chaotic for a while as Palestinians try to adjust to political life without Arafat, which for the last 30 years or so was defined by him." 
Contact Michael Busk at mbusk@nd.edu 
mand thn kind of luy'alty or 
enjoy the broad-based popularity that Arafat did," she said. "The more militant Palestinian factions have expressed their displeas­ure with Abbas and that is trou­bling. The sit­


Future 
continued from page 1 
the active involvement of the Bush administration and concrete concessions by Israel. Arafat's legacy makes all of this unlikely." 
Afsarrudin, like Gaffney, also blamed Israel and its conservative Prime Minister Ariel Sharon for many of the problems Palestinians have faced during the peace process. 
"Sharon's government has not exactly been over­eager to participate in 
Tuesday, November 16, 2004 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
Official offers conciliatory gesture 
Isaraeli withdrawal from Gaza contingent on terrorist crackdown 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Israel on Monday o!Tered its first indica­tion it was reassessing relations with the Palestinians after Yasser i\rafat's death, suggesting it might coordinate a planned withdrawal from the Gaza Strip if the Palestinian Authority cracks down on militant groups. 
Palestinian leaders reacted cautiously to remarks by Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom and argued that Israel should "unconditionally" reopen peace talks under the U.S.-backed "road map" plan. 
Prime Minister 
"Israel has every 

Ariel Sharon had draws, senior previously refused intereset that Gaza Israeli officials to negotiate the said Monday on
will be ruled in a 

"unilateral disen­condition of
responsible

gagement plan" anonymity. The with Arafat. insist­manner when recommenda­ing that he was tions will be dis­
redeployment

responsible for cussed with
takes place. " 

four years of fight­Sharon in an ing. Arafat's death upcoming .meet­in a French hospi­Silvan Shalom ing of senior om­tal last week has Israeli foreign minister cials on the mat­ble manner when redeployment takes place," Shalom told a con­ference of North American Jews in Cleveland. "If the new leader­ship on the Palestinian"side acts to combat terror, then we will be able to consider coordinating aspects of the 'day after' with them." 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Mark Regev confirmed Shalom's comments constituted a "new policy." 
Israel's security establishment is currently examining ways to work with Palestinian security forces to hand them control of the Gaza Strip when Israel with­

opened up what many leaders believe is a crucial opportunity to revive the Middle East peace process by clearing the way for a more moderate leadership. · 
If leaders emerge who are willing to stem the violence, Israel is prepared to coordinate the plan to move troops and 8,800 Jewish settlers out of the Gaza Strip and four West Bank settlements, Israeli ollicials said Monday. Such coordination is considered critical to avoid a chaotic transition. 
"Israel has every interest that Gaza will be ruled in a responsi­ter, the officials 
said. 
Israeli and Palestinian ollicials alike have expressed fears that an evacuation from Gaza that is not coordinated would bring chaos to the Gaza Strip, where militant groups have been vying for control in recent months. 
In a sign of the uncertainty, shots were fired in Gaza on Sunday as Mahmoud Abbas, a leading candidate in Palestinian elections on Jan. 9, attended a gathering of people mourning Arafat. Two security guards were killed, and fears were raised that the violence could spiral. 
A cease"fire by Palestinian mil­itants is a central Israeli condi­tion .for the coordination of the Gaza pullout plan, a senior Israeli official said on condition of anonymity. Israel also expects the Palestinians to disarm the groups, stop anti-Israeli incite­ment and implem.ent security and financial reforms, the official said. 
In response, Palestinian CabinBt Minister Saeb Erekat said he suspected the Israelis would put up too many condi­tions for coordinating the pull­out. 
"Israel should talk to us unconditionally," Erekat told The Associated Press. "This line of conditioning things ... has been the way government handles things." 
The Palestinian Authority is required in the road map to combat militant groups. 
The plan, backed by the United States, United Nations, the European Union and Russia, was formally accepted by the sides 'in 2003 but never got off the ground due to mutual accusa­tions of violations. 
Under the plan, Israel is slated to dismantle illegal settlement outposts and freeze settlement activity but has been reluctant to do so. The plan calls for an end to. violence and the creation of a Palestinian state. 
In another indication that Israel was pushing ahead with its implementation of its Gaza pullout plans, an Israeli parlia­mentary committee approved the allotment of almost $8 mil­lion to an authority overseeing the disengagement. 

AUSTRIA 


Iran agrees to suspend 
uranium_ enrichm_ent 
U.N. hails decision, U.s .. says it falls short 
Associated Press 
· VIENNA-The U.N. nuclear watchdog agency Monday endorsed Iran's agreement to suspend all uranium enrich­ment within a week, the key element of a deal worked out with European countries. 
But the apparent victory for diplomacy falls short of U.S. demands for a permanent sus­pension -or scrapping -of Iranian activities that Washington asserts are meant to make nuclear weapons. Iran insists it only wants to generate electricity. 
The agreement, detailed in a · report by the International Atomic Energy· Agency, appeared to represent a break­through for the Europeans and to hurt a U.S. push to have Iran hauled before the U.N. Security Council for allegedly violating the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. The council could impose sanctions on Tehran. 
The deal does not settle the enrichment issue and only buys Iran more time. The agreement commits Iran to suspend enrichment while it works out the details of an aid package with the Europeans or until negotiations collapse. 
U.S. officials took a wait-and­see approach to the agreement. President Bush once labeled Iran part of an "axis of evil" with North Korea and prewar Iraq. 
"We have seen a little bit of progress, hopefully, over the last 24 hours," Secretary of which negotiated the deal. 
In return for the suspension, Europe has been suggesting it would help Iran develop peace­ful nuclear energy. 
European officials said the agreement could generate .international confidence that Iran's nuclear activities are peaceful. British Fqreign Secretary Jack Straw said the , deal represents "a significant development in relations betwe£m Europe and Iran." 
But privately, European Union 

diplomats in Vienna and other 
European capitals acknowl­
edged that the agreement 
achieved less than the ideal of 
permanent suspension. 
The agreement, on diplomat told The Associated Press, was a beginning. The idea, she said, was to "engage Iran (and) nego­tiate a long-term agreement on suspension" beyond the present short-term commitment. She spoke on condition of anonymi­ty. 
In Tehran. Hasan Rowhani. 

Iran's top nuclear negotiator, 
emphasized that the freeze was 
temporary. 
"In the ·agreement, there is no 

talk of cessation but only volun­
tary suspension" of enrichment, 
he said after the report was 
released to diplomats accredit­
ed to the Vienna-based IAEA. 
"This is a preliminary agree­
ment that will lead us to a final 
agreement" between Iran and 
the Europeans." 
He added that Iran's full sus­

pension did not include opera­
tions at a heavy water produc­
State Colin Powell said. tion plant being built in Arak, 
State Department spokesman central Iran. Richard Boucher said, "We all Under the agreement, a need to be a bit careful at this working committee would be moment" since the administra­formed within weeks to define tion had not seen the accord. what economic, technological, And White House press secre­security and nuclear coopera­tary Scott McClellan said the tion Europe will provide, administration will talk with Rowhani said. It will report Britain, France and Germany, back within three months. 

LAFAYETTE SQUARE 

TOWNHOMES 


4-BED= $267.50/STUDENT 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™

5-BED= $254/STUDENT 

SIGN i-rOUR LEASE BEFORE NOV. 24TH 
A thick ~eece 
AND RECEIVE ONE MONTH FREE! 
coat is perfect for winter.


OPEN HOUSE 

Askanyyak.
THlJRSDAY, NO\r. 18. 4-6 PM. UNIT 1. 
300 Weight Polartec® 

fleece provides exceptional 
warmth. Wear it on its own
CALL NICOLE AT 234-9923 
or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
FOR A PRIVATE SHOWING. 
~ 

DUTPDiiT Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:oa pm
~ 

Sat.: 1o:oo am -B:ao pm
Cold Weather Experts 

Sun.: 12:ao pm -6:oopm 

r-----------------------------------­
THE 0HSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday November 16, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

Who wants a cabinet position? 
1'.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Mcghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
Ass·1: MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWs EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITORt Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hocgarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smirb SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAI'HICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGF.R: Carrie Franklin AD DF.SI<;N MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CoNTROIJ.F.R: Paula Gar~ia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63 I-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studems of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comem, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A~'istant Managing Editor and departmem editors. C.ontmenraries, lerrers and columns present rhe views of rhc aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. l.cners ro rhc Editor must be signed and must include contact inform.ttion. 
Qtmtiom r-garrling ObsaVt!r policies siJOuld be dirmed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l'hc Olnt'rWr (U!-ti'S W9 l..-1000) Upuhlhbc:J MonJ.ay throujlh l:nJ•y \"XC<•.'f'l Juring u.un •.nJ uuauun JlenuJ~ A ~uhknpuon to The: Oh)ct~t ij $100 for tltlt' ~\.'fnk yo:.u. ~~'lliu unC" ..:nh,lt'r 
n~ Oio~rwr 11 .a nu:mh.:r of rhe A..tocllrn.l Pra,. All rernuJUt.:r&on ''¥hh .~n: 
f('U'IY\'\1. 
fhe Oh"''""' " j•uhlistwd at: P.O.IiuxQ 02-4 ~nurh l>irunilll•ll 014!-tourh l>inmK l-l.a.ll Nucrc D.,mc:.IN 4M~6-0779 N~KtC' D~tmt", IN 46556·0n'1 1\-rUoJU:...J f"'lit"iC p~d .u NtJtu-IJ..Unt' 61\J .tdJirionalnt.ailinK utfiu.'). 
I'OSTMASTI:R 
Th" Ohuner i• • mt:rDbcr of rhc As.x.i•t~.:J Prn•. All n:proJu1.:tiun ri&Jm .ut" IQI.'t'laf 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Claire Heininger Dan Tapetillo Kate Antonacci Bobby Griffin Tricia DeGroot Chris Khorey 
Viewpoint Scene Katherine Rowley Rama Graphics Gottumukkala Graham Ebetsch Illustrator Katie Knorr 
The next few weeks will prove to be interesting to say the least with recent shakeups within the Bush administra­tion cabinet. As for liberal pundits still sore over the election, the firing range is now open for you to take pot­Tom Rlppinger shots at the administration. Confessions ofa Being a survivor Campus myself of the Conservative Clinton years, I understand it will provide some much needed therapy. However, in all seri­ousness, these changes in controver­sial policy arenas will have very important implications on the U.S. agenda of the next four years. 
Monday morning, it was confirmed Secretary of State Colin Powell is on his way out. According to the Associated Press, he still plans to con­tinue work on the Middle East and North Korea until a successor can be named. Possible successors reportedly include National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice, Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage and Senate Foreign Helations Committee Chairman Sen. Dick Lugar. Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz has also expressed interest in the job, but chances are slim to none that such a controversial figure will be appoint­ed as Secretary of State. 
Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman, Secretary of Education Hod Paige, Secretary of Commerce Don Evans and Secretary· of Energy Spencer Abraham are also on the way out. Controversy and stressful conflicts over policy have been the norm in all· of these oflices. In agriculture, the controversy over genetically engi­neered foods has heated up over the past four years. The Department of Education has had its hands full quar­reling over details and funding for the "No Child Left Behind" Act. Evans has also had his hands full in dealing with the World Trade Organization, out­sourcing and the continuing U.S. trade deficit. 

While other columns may focus in on some obvious differences of opinion within Bush's cabinet. I beljeve there are other more simple explanations for the departures. These explanations run contrary to the hypotheses of Bush haters who will use this as vindication for their own biases. The most com­pelling I believe is the shear workload these jobs must have carried over the past four years. Although we have not even begun the second term of the administration, these people are exhausted. To use a baseball analogy, they have all pitched a hard fought eight-inning game. 
Imagine for a moment what Powell's day-to-day schedule must have been like. Placing yourself in his shoes, what would your plan be to lead the foreign policy of the United States? So, begin­ning in 2000, you must deal with North Korea, Iran, Iraq, the United Nations, as well as reviewing the successes and failures Clinton's foreign policy in a Post-Cold War world. No, that doesn't seem like enough to keep you busy. 
Let's add the first attack on the con­tinental United States by a foreign power since the War of 1812, organiz, ing an international coalition to deal with Afghanistan and a global war on terror. If that doesn't keep you busy, how about proving to a skeptical world why intervention is needed in Iraq as half the Security Council stands to ben­efit from the continuation of the status quo and eventual oil contracts once sanctions are lifted? At the same time. you and the Defense Secretary are at each other's throats over questions of policy and implementation of the war on terror. Just for kicks, let's also throw in new complkations with Iran. North Korea. Haiti and the Sudan. 
Yes, foreign policy seems a bit over­whelming. Perhaps it would be much easier to run the Department of Justice. Things will be just as easy as the Clinton years, right? Perhaps the occasional Elian Gonzales controversy or crazy right wing anarchist militia plot against the government to deal with would pop up. but it couldn't be 
that hard. Instead. let's throw you 
Sept. 11 nine months into ortice. Your 
new assignment is to addrnss the com­
plete failure to apprehend twelve ter­
rorists that were trained under your 
nose on U.S. soil to carry out two high­
ly lethal terrorist attacks. 
So. in some highly controversial moves, you are granted the tools you need to carry out your job against the terrorists through the Patriot Act. These tools are the same as have br.en used for years against organized crime and drug dealers regarding wiretaps. Under your watch, AI Qacda opera­tions within the United States are dealt a severe blow and no terror attacks occur for the rest of your time in office. In the process, you arc branded a right-wing extremist enemy of civil liberties for doing your best to defend your country. Would you like to take over this job, balancing civil liberties with the prospects of biological, chemi­cal. or nuclear attack? 
No, I do not believe I could begin to handle any of these jobs. These men and women have been unsung heroes for the past four years that have done much for their country. They have taken their best shots at el'feetively keeping the United States effective in the global economy, trying to solve the energy crisis. making the largest changes in U.S. foreign policy since the Truman administration and trying effectively to prosecute terrorists hid­den within our borders. Tlw time has come to give them a well-deserved break. and send in somo strong closers to finish out what may be the most extensive changes in policy in our his­tory. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. 1/e supports President Bush and is the co-President ofthe Notre Dame College Republicans. lie can be contacted at trip pin 1 @nd. edu. 
The views of this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think TCE results should be accessible? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Some painters transform the sun into a yellow spot, others transform a yellow spot into the sun." 
Pablo Picasso artist 

America has spoken, hopefully with better grammar than her president, who has won a second term in office. For many Americans, President George W. Bush's victory represents the triumph of family values and Texas home cooking over marauding bands of liberals, formed Katie Boyle from alliances between gays and welfare hungry crack 
For What It's 

whores. For others, the 
Worth 

election outcome represents the abandonment of any pretense at social responsibility, multilateralism in foreign policy or a good vocabulary. 
Exchanging sarcasm for melodrama~ this elec­tion has been one of the more depressing events of my lifetime. (Give me a break. I grew up in the suburbs). 
America has·shown her preference for the black and white, and I'm not talking about her alleged fondness for Michael Jackson songs. The nuanced positions of Sen. John Kerry, par-ticular­ly in regard to foreign policy, simply did not translate to voters who didn't research the facts behind the Republican spin. 
The ever-controversial issue of gay marriage, however, did. Personally, I believe that as God created homosexuals (a statement recognized by the Catholic Church), it is certainly beyond my or your jurisdiction to deny them the rights provid­ed by a civil union. (To make life easier for out­raged televangelists and/or senders of hate mail, my e-mail address is at the bottom of this col­umn). 
The prominence of this issue in Bush's cam­paign was brilliant, particularly the clever sub­version of the phrase "civil union" in favor of the term "gay marriage," which was much more likely to stir up the ire of the religious right. He was able to ride the moral high horse, and pose by it on his ranch in various ads, in order to falsely imply that sanctioning a civil union would interfere with the religious sacraments of churches. And Karl Rove's evangelical vote came through, in droves and on buses, making their 
mark at the polls. 
I don't want to pretend that there are no posi­tives to four more years of Bush. He does have great hair. He may also be able to implement important 
medical liability reforms, alleviating doctors' 
insurance premiums, and so lowering the costs 
of medical procedures for all Americans. 
Whether or not he• accomplishes this task 
remains to be seen. 
Over the next four years, Bush has the oppor­tunity to validate the choice of conservatives in this country. He also has the option of giving me a great chance to say, "I told you so!" I never claimed to be mature. 
So far, I'll try not to lambaste him too much. Attorney General John Ashcroft has resigned, which can only be for the good of the nation. Whether his replacement, Alberto Gonzales, who described the Geneva Conventions as "obsolete" when referencing atrocities at Abu Ghraib, will prove to be a better choice remains to be seen. 
While I doubt he'll outdo Ashcroft, I am skepti­cal of his selection. A little less than half of voters in this country are watching Bush. 
Many of those who voted for him are as well. This term is his chance to create a legacy, and anything could happen. Perhaps, now that he is no longer forced to pander to the far right, he will be able to unite, rather than to divide the nation. Or maybe a second term, an unelectable vice president and a Republican Congress have given him carte blanche to do anything he pleas­es. 
For the next four years, I am prepared to watch these elephants fly. And, despite my pref­erence for John Kerry, for the sake of our coun­try, I hope they soar. 
Katie Boyle is a senior English political science and Spanish major. She supports the Democratic Party. She can be reached at kboyle2@nd.edu. 
Th_e views of this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR Our football players deserve better 
When asked what could be taken from this roller coaster autumn, Irish coach Tyrone Willingham responded, "It's a winning season." Our players deserve better than that. All of the athletes at this University deserve special recognition for their efforts and the football players are no different. The group of men that represent this University every Saturday put millions of dollars into the pockets of our school year after year. They put countless hours into training and preparing for their games while we sit on our tails and play football on Xbox, and they attend real class" es and earn real degrees when they could have played at a number of schools that would have been happy to hand them a bachelors in scuba diving. 
These guys deserve far better than a coaching staff whose only consistent effort comes in lowering the expectations of critics and supporters alike. These athletes aren't just hard workers either; they are all extremely talented as well. The reason we somehow managed victories ag'!inst Michigan and Tennessee in the same season that we lost to Pittsburgh, Boston College and BYU is because our athletes have the tal­ent to play with top-10 teams but our coaches don't have the ability to prepare for the less obvious threats. 
Our players deserve better than a defensive coordi­nator who has known about weaknesses in the sec­ondary from day one, but rather than addressing those issues has simply relied on teams to run the ball against a front seven they know will stop them. Pittsburgh took care of that when Tyler Palko became the first quarterback in history to throw five touch­down passes against the Irish, and 10 games into the season might be a little too late to try to fix the prob­lem before our date with a Heisman candidate in two weeks. 
These players deserve better than an offensive coordinator who has had three years to implement his "West Coast" system but is still calling plays that don't seem to form any kind of recognizable system at all. And before you look to Saturday's performance as evidence of a leap forward keep in mind the fact that Division 1-M Furman scored the exact same number of points against Pittsburgh and had only 15 yards less than our offense's 438. 
Most of all though, our team deserves better than a head coach whose inability to show emotion has translated into an ability to evoke consistent emotion from his team and has transformed this season from one that could have been historical into one that is mediocre at best. Once again Willingham is asking us to look forward to next year, but there is one huge problem with that. For the seniors that lost their final game in Notre Dame Stadium there is no next year. This was true for the seniors who left Notre Dame with a losing season last year, and the same will be true for the seniors next year ifsomething is not done. With the loss to Pittsburgh, Willingham's record has dropped below Bob Davie's record at this point in his tenure, and for the second year in a row Notre Dame has lost half of its home games. 
Our players deserve to win all of their home games, they deserve to go to good bowl games, they deserve to win those bowl games, and they deserve a coach­ing staff that is just as talented as they are. Our athlet­ic director needs to realize that while he may be here for decades, the student-athletes he oversees are here for only four years, and they deserve coaching staffs that will help thein achieve the success and rewards that their efforts merit while they are here. Not next year.· 
Jonathan Umpleby junior Fisher Hall Nov. 15 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Showing loyalty to excellence 

As the final seconds ticked away this past Saturday, and I watched what used to be the most storied college football pro­gram in the nation suffer yet another inexplicable and record breaking defeat to a clearly less talented football team, I could not help but think back to The Observer Viewpoint written by Kellie Middleton on Nov. 10. 
I thought back to how she lectured and patronized all of those ignorant and un-enlightened alumni who could not pos­sibly understand that Notre Dame is right on the cusp of returning to the elite of college football. She chided those over-demanding dark sheep of the Notre Dame community for not even being smart enough to understand how good we have it. 
I thought of what she, and others like her, must use as evi­dence that this once proud football program has turned the proverbial corner and it made me nauseous." 
The excuse making, rationalizations of mediocrity, and woe­fully obvious lack of leadership that this coaching staff contin­ues to provide Our Lady's university with on a weekly basis is no longer defendable. It is not being a band-wagon fan and it is not being fickle; many fans have been preaching these same sentiments now for a number of months and even years. With each broken streak, with each historic defeat, and with each shameful attempt at lowering expectations this staff further demonstrates that it can not and will not ever provide this program with a National Championship under its "steward­ship". 
There are clearly still very talented athletes everywhere in this program, although with each passing year this staff's inability to sell Notre Dame to young men poses a threat to that reality, how else can you explain beating teams such as Michigan and Tennessee? The reason this team follows up big victories with such mystifying defeats as those against BYU, Boston College and Pittsburgh goes straight to the top. This staff has shown it can not prepare this team week in and week out to compete at the high level we should expect. From the team giving up at Syracuse last year to being annihilated by an average Purdue team this year, the evidence is all around us. With each attempted rationalization that "We will have a winning season" and that "Next year will be different" this football program spirals further and further into irrelevance. 
Throughout Notre Dame's history, the University has been committed to excellence in all facets. From academia to the playing field, excuses should not be an option. It is not parity, academic restrictions, lack of talent, or the schedule that has caused this football program to slide further and further from what should be its goal. The problem is those who were entrusted with guiding it. These same men who blame "player execution" for painfully obvious shortcomings in preparation and the consistent inability to adjust do not deserve to be patrolling the same sidelines once occupied by Leahy, Ara and Lou. • 
The problem is the coaching. If the University truly believes in excelling at everything that it does and that a proud tradi­tion should be kept alive, a change must be made. On the other hand, if it follows Middleton's advice and continues to harbor mediocrity; it can continue printing T-shirts in celebra­tion of beating Top 25 Teams and turn away from the thou­sands of people across the country that have lived and died with Notre Dame Football for decades. These people are not bad fans Middleton, they are loyal to something they truly believe is important-something they hope and even beg can be made great once again. 
Adam Dinnell alumnus class of '03 Nov 15 
THE 0BSERV1:R 

CENE 
Tuesday, November 16, 2004



page 12 
DVD GUIDE 
A beginner's guide to DVD, part 2 
Special editions and more 

Editor's Note: This is the second in a three-part series on the basics of Digital Video Discs. 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Writer 
DVD has been commercially avail­
able for nearly a decade and has revo­
lutionized the home theater market. 
Yet purchasing DVDs can be confusing 
and complicated; the back of a DVD 
case often contains terms like Aspect 
Hatio. Dolby Digital. and Hegional 
DVD. For many, it is diflicult to under­
stand what is worth purchasing and 
what is not. 
llopefully this guide will demystify 
many of the more confusing features 
of the video market. 
Special Features 
Special features have become ubiq­uitous on DVDs. They usually take several distinct forms: audio commen-. tary, documentaries and/or advertise­ments. Audio commentaries (usually from actors. directors, writers or a combination of the three) are separate audio tracks that can be played over the film. Usually, they consist of the participant giving insight into the making of the film. Some of these run­ning commentaries are revelatory, especially on David Fincher films ("Se7en," "Fight Club") or James Cameron lilms ("Aliens," "Terminator 
2: Judgment Day") where the director gives groat perspective into the film­making process. 
On older films, commentaries tend to be by lilm historians or critics, as in the case of Hoger Ebert's commen­taries ("Casablanca," "Citizen Kane") or Hichard Shickel's commentaries ("Unforgiven." "Once Upon a Time in tlw West"). 
Docunwntaries and making-of fea­turettos range in quality as well. Oftl~n. the quality of these depend on the DVD producer. In the case of well­known producers such as Van Ling ("Terminator 2." "Star Wars" Episodes I and II) or Charles de Lauzirika. ("Alion Quadrilogy," "Gladiator"), the quality of the documentaries is always high, but often docurnentarios, espo­cially fnaturettes. amount to little more than promotional fluff pieces on the average DVD release. 
Advertisement campaigns arc often added to the list of a DVD supplc­nwnts. Thesp consist of trailers (the prnvi1~ws shown bPI'ore movies at the­aters). TV spots and poster art. For old1~r films. ad campaigns give insight into how they were originally per­ceived and marketed. In the best cases. all or tl}cse video supplements are presen ted in anamorphic 
widcscn~nn. Different Editions: Special Editions, Box Sets, Superblt 
There are often many different edi­tions of lilms released in the market. Often this makes it dirticult for a con­sunwr to know which version is the best to purchase. Sometimes films arc purposely released in both standard no-frills editions as well as lavish spe­cial editions ("Mystic Hiver," "Almost Famous"). 
In nearly every case it is better to go with the best possible edition. Even this is sometimes more confusing then 
it needs to be -"Saving Private 
Hyan" was available in no less than 
four distinct versions. Originally, there 
was a single-disc Dolby Digital version 
with a short documentary and a DTS 
version without the documentary. 
Then the D-Day 60th Anniversary 
Commemorative Edition was released 
as a two-disc version without the DTS 
track. There is also a four-disc World 
War II Collection released with the 
first two discs seemingly identical to 
the D-Day Edition, except with the 
DTS track. 
ln order to obtain the best possible 
version of a film, research is usually 
required. This also helps to avoid. 
"double-dipping," or the re-purchase 
of a film in a different version. 
Quentin Tarantino's "Kill Bill," for 
example. is expected to be released in 
no less than six versions, or what 
Miramax calls "multiple bits at the 
apple." 
Unlike the clear strategy of New 
Line Cinema with the "Lord of the 
Hings" films (2-disc theatrical cut, 
then 4-disc extended edition). 
Mirarnax plans to release "Kill Bill" as 
the following: 
-current basic editions 
-2-disc special cdition.s 
-re-edited cut as single film 
-Quentin Tarantino Box Set 
Before purchasing a specific film, it 
is usually advantageous to find out if there is an inevitable better edition in the near future ("X-Men 1.5," for example). The initial DVD release is often a stopgap for quick profit while a more elaborate special edition is planned. 
Supcrbits arc a special case that further complicate the DVD market. A supcrbit edition usually has the same transfer as a standard edition, but run at a higher bit-rate. All superbits have a DTS track. 
While superbits ostensibly have bet­ter audio and visual quality, if the transfer is the same as the standard edition then the differences are often minute. However, superbits often drop special features such as audio com­mentary in order to compensate for the added DTS track. 
Director's Cuts 
Director's cuts were originally a Laserdisc phenomenon that allowed directors to re-edit their films for home release. The success of some early director's cuts (Hidley Scott's "Blade Runner" and James Cameron's "Aliens") has led to their proliferation in the market. 
In many cases, a film is prepared theatrically with the intent of releas­ing a director's cut in the horne the­ater market. Usually this affects the MPAA rating of the film, changing it to an R or NR rating. These days it seems like every film is getting a director's cut ("Daredevil," "In the Cut," "Hell boy" and "Pitch Black" have all received one. often in a sepa­rate DVD release). 
In the best cases, a release includes both the director's cut as well as the original theatrical cut, which has hap­pened for films such as "Almost Famous," "E.T." and the Alien Quadrilogy Box Set. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Highly anticipated g 
By MARK BEMENDERFER and SARAH 
VABULAS 
Scene Critics 

Mark: One hundred twenty-five million dollars. That is how much "Halo 2" earned in the first 24 hours after it was released. That roughly translates into "Halo 2" pulling in around 5 million every hour. After 2 years of waiting and an incredible amount of hype, it is linally here. The question is, is it worth it? 
The answer is a resounding yes. The game is quite literally jaw-dropping, both in graphics and game play. Encountering the towering Covenant Scarab tank, and subsequently taking it down is an experi­ence never before seen in a video game. It looks and feels like it was pulled straight from a movie. 
The single-player campaign is filled with moments that could have been lifted straight from a Hollywood blockbuster. The scale of the war is vast. Seeing numerous enemy tanks and vehicles fighting with opposing forces is quite common. The original "Halo" was known for its huge levels. and varied enemies. The sequel takes both of those traits and doubles them in volume and quality. 

However, "Halo 2" shines the most with its multiplayer mode, where the original left its mark on the gaming world. The multiplayer has all the features of the prev-ious game and then sorn e. The appreciated cooperative mode has made a return. making the higher difficulties accessible to all. 
The death match mode has returned with a vengeance. New to "Halo 2" is the dual weapon feature, which allows the player to carry two smaller weapons simultaneously. This feature is both wel­come and intuitive, allowing new and returning players to adopt the new style of play with little discomfort. 
The balance in game play is apparent to fans of the series. and should make it easier for newcomers to jump into the fray. The maps now lack noticeable "camp" spots, or places where a solitary individual can ambush anyone easily. Certain weapons have been toned down or improved to provid!l a more balanced, fair game for everyone. 
An improved melee system has also been implemented. It is also one of the more significant changes from the origi­nal, so returning fans may find it one of the more difficult fea­tures to become accli­
mated to. However, once they do. tlwy will lind it easier than the original, not to mention that the new plasma sword makes mastering melee com­bat attacks vitally important. 
Another new aspect of the game is the destroyable vehicles. If the vehicle a player is riding in starts tak­ing a beating from enemy fire, it will explode. This leads to some truly exhilarat­ing moments as you try to narrowly 

I 
c 
THE 0BSERVIR 

CENE
Tuesday, November 16, 2004 page 13 
me blows away predecessor, competition 


i I e 
ping or an Iodin g 

Ie. 
of the few that dctract the "Halo 2" 
tiplayer experience at the entire collections capons playable in the sin-
layer mode is not available here. 
cry weapon that was in the single r campaign in the original "Halo" d be used in the multiplayer mode. rtunately, that's not the case here in 
sequel. Several 

ons and vehi­
looked forward to 

are not includ­

Halo 2 the latter date for 

n the multiplay­
months. 

I'his was proba­
"Halo 2 " the 
Mi.crosoft

implemented to 
sequel to 

nee the combat 
Available for XBox Microsoft's most 

· however. 
popular game 


is still some­
"Halo," hit the pub­

disappointing. 
lic market last 
Mark's Rating: A week. While many

phrase "If 
buy only one 
diehard fans
Sarah's Rating: A 

this year" has 
obtained bootleg 

cliched, overused. 
when it comes to "Halo 2," it ot be more highly appropriate. This game that will appeal to just about 
and will impress both first­and long-time "Halo" fans alike. the exception of people who have 
a 
com­plete a n d u t t e r dislike for first-person shooters, there is no other game that comes more highly recommended than 
"Halo 2." 
Sarah: Nov. 2 may have been an important day in United States history, but Nov. 9 was a day many people were much more excited· about . True video 
game fanatics 
copies in all differ­
ent languages or simply ordered off eBay, the diehard fan waited until the release date, even arriv­ing at midnight ·at stores across the country, only to find themselves up all night playing the best video game for the Xbox console. 

If you own an Xbox, you must own this game. It's that simple. While adding Xbox Live to the list of things you must have is not necessary, it is a feature that furthers this game beyond a gamer's wildest dreams. Having the ability to play fellow fans across the globe in combat or "King of the Hill" or "Capture the Flag" is a rush that cannot be duplicated. After playing matchmade games -the typical killing multiplayer battles -garners can even go online to bungie.com and look at their world rank, something which could drive the fanatic insane in efforts to be ranked. 
"Halo 2" is sold in two versions -the standard edition and Limited Collector's Editor for the dedicated fans for a mere $5 more. This version includes an extra disc, packed with bonus content in a sturdy, silver metal box. 
Campaign mode has been revamped 
and starts out significantly more difficult 
than in the original "Halo." It is much 
more exciting and challenging. "Halo 2" 
even has a strategy book available to 
give tips and help guide the Master 
Chief through the ships and terrain to 
achieve his goal. 

While campaign mode is amazing to 
play by oneself, 
"Halo" was most 
popular for the mul­
tiplayer mode, which 
in "Halo 2" is worth even more excite­ment and glory. There are more maps to play and more weapons, making this multiplayer experi­ence incredible. Who doesn't want to go around killing their friends in a virtual world? 
It's hard to even begin to explain the fantastic differences between "Halo" and "Halo 2" because they are so many. "Halo 2" gives the player the ability to jack some­one's ride. Whether it's a Banshee that's flying too low, a Ghost, the powerful Scorpion Tank or Covenant Wraith, if you can get close enough, you can steal the vehicle. 

"Halo 2" adds new weapons and the Chief's ability -yes, that's right -to double-fist. The left and right triggers fire independently, but you lose the abili­ty to throw grenades. 
While there are some glitches in the video, the audio has none. While the multiplayer mode is the favorite of this game, the sound is actually the best addition to "Halo 2." Not only is this a brilliant use of 5.1 Dolby Digital -with true directional sound. best illustrated by the pinging of bullets ricocheting off walls behind you -but the score is phe­nomenal and can be bought on a sepa­rate soundtrack. 
So if you do not have this game yet, get it. It's the best video game to play alone, with friends or online. "Halo 2" is all­around incredible. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer and Sarah Vabulas at mbemende@nd.edu and vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
~--------------------------------------~ -----­
Tuesday, November 16, 2004

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

Bonds earns his seventh NL MVP award 
At 40 years-old, he is the oldest player to win the award 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Barry Bonds won his record seventh NL MVP award in a walk. 
Capping a season of·suspi­cion and success, the San Francisco Giants left fielder became the oldest player to win the award. The 40-year­old received 24 first-place votes and 407 points Monday in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America to earn the award for the fourth straight season. 
Los Angeles third baseman Adrian Beltre was second, get­ting six first-place votes and 311 points. and St. Louis first baseman Albert Pujols was third with one first and 247 points. St. Louis third baseman Scott Holen got the other first-place vote and finished fourth, followed by teammate Jim Edmonds. 
Bonds is the only player with more than three MVP awards and the only one to win more than two in a row. Willie Stargell was previously the oldest to win it, sharing the 1979 NL award with Keith Hernandez at 39 1/2. · 
Among the four major North American professional sports, he trails only the NHL's Wayne Gretzky, who won nine MVPs. In the NBA, Kareem Abdui­Jabbar leads with six. 
Bonds became only the third player to hit 700 career homers, and with 703 trails only llank Aaron (755) and Babe Ruth (714). But following his grand jury testimony in a federal investigation, he repeatedly was questioned whether he used steroids. 
llis personal trainer has been indicted for illegal distri­bution of steroids, but Bonds has denied using illegal steroids. 

Bonds' season was unparal­leled statistically. He hit .362 to win his second NL batting title in three seasons and shat­tered the major league record with a .609 on-base percent­age, topping the previous mark of .582 he set two years ago. 
He walked 232 times, 34 more than the previous recqrd he set in 2002 and more than 100 better than anyone else in baseball this season, and his 120 intentional walks obliter­ated the old mark of 68, also set by Bonds in 2002. 
Bonds' .812 slugging per­centage led the major leagues for the fourth straight season but fell short of the record he set at .863 in 2001. He hit 45 homers and matched Aaron's NL record of eight 40-homer. seasons, trailing only Ruth's major league mark of 11. He also became the first player in major league history with 13 consecutive 30-homer seasons. 

NBA 

LeBron soars as Cavaliers move above .500 
Associated Press  season, so we  can't be worry­ relying on jump shots and get­ first six points to  snap the  offensively inept Nets to their  
ing about that. We've got to  ting to the free-throw line just  early  drought  before  the  third  straight defeat.  Nflw  
CLEVELAND  LeBron  win a lot more."  twice.  -But  they  got  more  Rockets went on to defeat the  Jersey shot just 23-for-75.  
James is playing for  an  NBA  But after losing 52, 53, 65  aggressive after halftime, driv­ New Jersey Nets 80-69 Monday  "At the end of the day when  
winner. Around here, that's  and 47 games the past four  ing to the basket to  pick up  night.  you shoot 30 percent and have  
saying something.  seasons with little more to look  fouls and attempting 26 free  "It was  a  risk  on  his part.  21 turnovers, it's hard to win  
James scored 33 points with  forward to than the NBA lot­ throws in the final 24 minutes.  and it paid off," said Taylor,  no matter how hard they play,"  
12 rebounds  as  the Cavaliers  tery, being above .500  was  "We came together during a  who didn't pick up his fourth  Nets coach Lawrence Frank  
moved  over .500 for the first  worth celebrating.  timeout in the third quarter  foul until three minutes into  said.  
time in  more than three years  "It means a whole lot to me,"  and talked about keeping the  the third quarter. By then, the  Taylor's third foul  came just  
with their fourth  Cavs coach Paul  energy," said forward Drew  Rockets were ahead by 20.  3:34 into  the  first  quarter  
straight win, 99­ Silas said. "We're  Gooden,  who  added  13  The move  was an unconven­ before he made three consecu­ 
88 over the Golden State Warriors on Monday night. Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored 16 points-10 in  "It's the early season. so we can't be worrying about that. We've got to win a lot more. "  one game over and we just have to keep this thing rolling." Ilgauskas scored his 10 points during  rebounds. "That's what allowed us to pull away." Jason Richardson matched a season high with 27 points for Golden State, which was within 84-81 with 7:50 to play on  tional one by Van Gundy, who said he could only recall one other instance in his NBA career -coaching the Knicks against Indiana in a playoff game -when he left a player in after picking up three early  tive wide-open jumpers. "That was not the key to that game," said Richard Jefferson. who had seven of the Nets' turnovers. "Congratulations for scoring six straight points. That was a good move by [VaJ.l  
the fourth quarter -for the Cav­ LeBron James  Cleveland's deci­sive fourth-quar­ Derek Fisher's 3-pointer. Houston 80, New Jersey 69  fouls. Van Gundy was only mildly  Gundy!. but that was not the key to them winning that  
aliers (4-3), who  Cavs' forward  ter  spurt  that  Irate at the way his team  satisfied  with  the  victory,  game."  
hadn't had ·a win­ helped  the  started the game, Jeff Van  lamenting how Yao Ming had  Jackson closed the first quar­ 
ning record since  Cavaliers open a  Gundy stood cross-armed  near  only been assertive in the two  ter with  a  3-pointer for 20-17  
.Jan. 12, 2001. when they were  six-point lead  and  put the  the Houston bench and didn't  games Tracy McGrady missed  edge. giving Houston the lead  
17-16.  Warriors away.  move a muscle.  prior to this one because of an  for good, and Juwan Howard  
.lames  was  a  high school  This  was the type of game  The game was less than four  injury.  scored on a jump hook to close  
sophomore back then, but now  that a  year ago the Cavaliers  minutes old, three fouls had  Yao was in foul trouble most  a 16-0 run that made it 30-17.  
he's the NBA's reigning rookie  probably would have lost.  been called on Maurice Taylor.  of the night and scored just six  Dikembe Mutombo blocked  
of the year, player of the week  "Ain't no  question," James  the Rockets  were shooting 0­ points. McGrady had 14, while  Alonzo Mourning's shots twice  
and league-leading scorer.  said. ''I'm not sure why, but we  for-8 and trailing 11-0  - and  Jim Jackson scored a season­ on  one second-quarter posses­ 
"That doesn't mean a thing,"  would have."  not a twitch from Van Gundy.  high 18 and Taylor added 12.  sion, helping the Rockets hold  
James said of the Cavaliers'  The Cavaliers were passive  The coach left Taylor in the  Houston snapped a two-game  New Jersey to 11-for-41 shoot­ 
winning mark. "It's the early  on  offense in the first half,  game, and he scored Houston's  losing streak and  sent the  ing in the first half.  

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from NOFoR RENT MMMRentals.com 532-1408 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW 6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO NO. LEASING FOR 2005-2006 WID, ON-SITE PARKING. SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­AVAIL AFTER 611/05. ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 ALSO 3 BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT CORBYS/STJOE CHURCH. NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS. MAINTENANCE STAFF AVAIL. NOW ON CALL. WASHER. DRYERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE CALL JOE CRIMMINS: WWWDOMUSKRAMERCOM OR 574-229-3659 CONTACT KRAMER (574)234-OR 2436 OR (574)315-5032 679-2010. 
.... 4> ............ _ •• ~-·-· ... ··-~ ....................... 
. . . -.-.----.--.------. . 
6-7 bdrm house on S.B.Ave across from radio tower 
available for 06-07. 
Completely renovated,large rooms,3 full baths. 
ND Ave house w/5bdrms available for 05-06. 
Will·lease to as few as 3 students, good location & competi­tive rent. 
Email ndhouses@ yahoo. com 
. 

MISHAWAKA 2-3 bedroom,2.5 bath, 1 ,200 sq.ft +full basement+ 2-car garage, $875/mo. 574-273­9000. 
PERSONAL 

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1 -800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
You pay half and I'll pay hall 
Warner out, Eli in 
I thought this was the women's interhall championship. Walsh Wild Whoa... MEN 
Stressed? 
How bout flipside takes over Rolfs? 
Chile better work out 
I hate starbucks quotes. Ann! 
Good luck to Meghanne and Megan on your Trib interviews 
H-Town and W-athon-just saying hello 

Tuesday, November 16, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Titans lose Williams due to torn knee ligament 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. Tennessee strong safety Tan!{ Williams will miss the rest of the sea.son after an MRI exam Monday confirmed he had torn left knee ligaments, and tackle Brad Hopkins will miss at least one game and possibly three with broken bones in his right hand. 
These latest injuries mean the Titans, who already had lost four players for the season, will be without six starters for Sunday's game against Jacksonville. 
"It's been par for the course this year," coach Jeff Fisher said. 
Defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth also will be out with damage to his right elbow. 
Williams had started 41 straight regular-season games .since being drafted in the second round in 2002. The Titans will be without both starting safeties, because Lance Schulters has not played since hurting his left foot Sept. 26. 
Fisher said Williams will have 
surgery on his ACL within the 
next week to 10 days. 
The Titans may seek a second 
a_pinion for Hopkins, the Pro 
Bowler who has started 171 of 
177 games since being drafted in 
the first round in 1993. Fisher 
said the tackle will need to have 
a platr, inserted and possibly 
some screws to fix his hand. 
If Hopkins is able to return, he 
would have to play with his hand 
in a cast. 
Veteran Jason Mathews will 
start. Right tackle Fred Miller is 
nursing a sore ankle on an offen­
sive line that has featured rookie 
Jacob Bell at left guard since 
Week 2. The Titans also checked 
running back Chris Brown's sore left toe with another MRI on Monday. Results showed the joint at the big toe actually may be healing even though it was still swollen and sore. 
Chicago 
Pro Bowl linebacker Brian Urlacher will miss four to six weeks because of a lower left leg injury. 
Urlacher, out for the entire preseason and two regular-sea­son games with a hamstring problem, had a surgical proce­dure done early Monday morn­ing on his leg, coach Lovie Smith said. There was some internal bleeding. 
Smith said Urlacher would not be put on injured reserve. 
"Last night I could tell some­thing was wrong," Smith said. "Brian Urlacher's a great player and a big part of what we are doing around here. We've had injuries before, had some tough injuries. What I wanted to know, 'Was it season-ending?' and it isn't." 
Rookie defensive back and spe­cial teams player Alfono Marshall has a torn anterior cru­ciate ligament in his right knee and will be placed on injured reserve, ending his season. Baltimore 
Raven's stirring comeback vic­tory over the New York Jets came ata price: The Ravens lost punter Dave Zastudil for three to four weeks with a separated shoulder. 
Zastudil hurt his left shoulder while being blocked after a sec­ond-quarter kick. He was replaced by backup quarterback Kardell Stewart, whose initial practice punt missed the net and traveled 45 yards over the Baltimore bench. 
Stewart then made his debut with the Ravens by averaging a 


respectable 35.4 yards on five 
punts, dropping two inside the 
20. 
"Kardell has been a joy to have 
around, but it was not exactly . ·how I envisioned Kardell enter­ing a game and impacting it," Baltimore coach Brian Billick 
said Monday. 
The Ravens (6-3) will audition 
punters this week to find a 
starter against the Cowboys. 
"I love Kordell, but I don't 
want to see him back there punt­
ing a whole lot more, even 
though he did a great job for us," 
Billick said. 
Cornerback Chris McAlister 

(shoulder numbness) and left guard Edwin Mulitalo (broken toe) hope to be ready for Dallas. 
Green Bay 
Ahman Green looks like his old self again and so do the Packers. 
It's no coincidence the tail­back's re-emergence has coin­cided with the Packers' four­game winning streak that has propelled them into a frrst-place tie atop the NFC North with Minnesota at 5-4. 
In the monthlong losing streak, Green, bothered by a sore Achilles' tendon after wearing cleats that were too small during an August scrimmage, gained just 286 yards rushing and never reached the end zone. In the monthlong winning streak, he's rushed for 459 yards and four touchdowns and he's thrown for a TD on a halfback option. 
And after fumbling four times in the first five games, Green hasn't put the ball on the ground for a month. 
On Sund.11y, Green, who played the second half with a bruised left kneecap, switched the ball from his left arm to his right toward the end of a 35-yard run, his longest in a 145-yard per­formance that helped the Packers beat Minnesota 34-31. 
Switching hands is second nature to most NFL running backs. It's big news when Green does it. 
The Packers had just about given up on trying to get their enigmatic tailback to switch hands after previous attempts only led to more mistakes. 
"If he's not in traffic and he is 
-clean and he is not about to get hit and he feels comfortable with that transition, he's going to try to do that more often," coach Mike Sherman said Monday. "But in traffic, he's going to cover up. "We've asked him to protect the football. This is something that he worked out where he feels comfortable. I never want­ed to make him do something that was awkward for him."· Minnesota Randy Moss will probably miss at least one more game. The All­Pro receiver hasn't caught a pass in a month because of a strained right hamstring. Coach Mike Tice said Monday that Moss is progressing well, but won't be allowed to play again until he completes a week of practice. The Vikings (5-4) have lost three straight, although Daunte Culpepper passed for 345 yards without Moss in a 34­31 defeat at Green Bay. Tice said he doubted Moss would be ready to play this Sunday against Detroit, but a return for the Nov. 28 game against Jacksonville is "more than likely." 


University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra Alexander Blachly, Director 
2004 Fall Concert 
Bach's "German Magnificat," BWV 10 Excerpts from Haydn's Harmoniemesse Renaissance Motets 
8:00 Friday, November 19, 2004 Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
Free and Open to the Public 


NOW HIRING ALL POSITIONS! 
marcoW>s Pizza. 
Variety • Fun • Rewarding 
•Flexible hours -day & evening shifts available 
•Management positions, delivery drivers, pizza makers 
•No experience necessary 
•Job advancement opportunities 
INTERVIEWS & ON THE SPOT HIRING 

APPLY IN PERSON 
Marco•s Pizza 52750 IN933 (North of Cleveland Rd.) 574-243-1122 


326 N. Ironwood (corner of Ironwood and McKinley) 574-243-1111 
www.marcos.com 2422 2 AP-202 page \6 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November \6, 2004 

NFL 

Falcons starting to pick up as season progresses 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Pick just about 
any other season in their mostly 
lamentable existence. Without 
question, the Atlanta Falcons 
would have fallen apart at a 
moment like this. 
They had scooped up a fum­
ble and returned it for an 
apparent touchdown, only to 
have the officials take it away. 
Suddenly, the Falcons' defense 
was back on the field. deep in 
its territory and trying to stop 
Tampa Hay from converting 
fourth-and-\ess-than-1. 
What transpired over the next 
four plays was the most con­
vincing evidence yet that these 
aren't the same ol' Falcons. 
The defense stuffed Michael 
Pittman for a 2-yard loss, giving 
the ball back to Atlanta. After 
an incomplete pass, T.J. 
Duckett broke off a 21-yard 
run. Then Michael Vick spotted 
Alge Crumpler breaking free 
down the middle, an over­
matched linebacker in futile 
pursuit. A perfectly thrown 
pass by Vick and a feathery 
catch by Crumpler resulted in a 
49-yard touchdown. 
This time it counted. 
Game over. 
Yep, the Falcons seem to have 
that most intangible of intangi­bles, a gritty resilience that bridges the fine line between championships and mediocrity. 
"You preach it and you emphasize it. but until you get yourself in a situat~on where you have to prove it, it's just words," coach Jim Mora said Monday. "I think our team has been able to prove it to them­selves and to others that we have resiliency and we have resolve." 
Indeed. the Falcons (7-2) have a comfortable three-game lead in the NFC South largely because they've been able to bounce back from times of hardship. A 24-14 victory over the Buccaneers was just the lat­est example. 
After their first loss. at home against Detroit, the Falcons trailed San Diego by 10 going to the fourth quarwr. But Vick ran for onn touchdown. passed for another and ran out the clock on a 21-20 victory. 
Atlanta was humiliated the next we1~k at Kansas City, giving up an NFL-record eight touch­downs rushing in a 56-10 loss. Looking like a team on the rop(~S as they headed to Denver. tho Falcons were burned for a season-high 567 yards, but still cruised to a 41-28 victory. 
Now. this. 
The Falcons scored on their 11rst three possessions Sunday for a 17-0 lead, then went into hibernation. Thf\ next six pos­snssions produced no first downs and a grand total of 14 yards. The Buccaneers rallied. scoring a pair of touchdowns and driving into position for the go-alwad score -or at least a 

Call259·!aoo for more details 
tying field goal -early in the fourth quarter. 
But give credit to Mora, a rookie coach who has handled his first team like he's been doing it for years. He's been preaching since the earliest days of training camp to keep looking forward, not back. For a franchise that's won only two division titles in its 39-year his­tory. that's not always easy to do. But the message seems to be getting through. 
"You build on it," Mora said. 

"It becomes a feeling of confi­dence, I think, that our guys have. No matter what happens, we've got a chance if we just keep plugging away and keep believing in what we're doing." 
This was a true leap of faith. The Bucs had third-and-1 at the Atlanta 28 when the crazi­ness began. 
Pittman was stopped short of the first down, and Travis Hall stripped the ball loose. Chris Draft scooped it up, was tripped by a teammate, got back up and ran some 60 yards for an apparent touchdown. 
The officials didn't signal any­thing at first, but finally decided that Pittman's forward progress was stopped before he fumbled. Mora argued the call vehement­ly. but acknowledged after the game that the officials sorted things out correctly. 
"He was going back when the ball came out," Mora said. "It looked discombobulated, but the officials made the right call." 
The Atlanta defense didn't have time to whine. Bucs coach Jon Gruden sent his offense back on the !ield. deciding to go for it on fourth down -his team needed less than a yard ­rather than attempt a l'i(1ld goal. 
"The great thing about this team is when we are faced with tough times that's when we turn it up." linebacker Keith Brooking said. "That's when you find out a lot about your team." 

We were named one of Fortune® magazine's" 100 Best Companies To Work For." And you can bet it wasn't because of the free coffee. 
Job perks are great. And at Ernst & Young we happen to think the most important ones are those that help our employees grow. That's why we've given them access to some of the best
FORTUNE' 

professional development programs in the country. As well as the opportunity to work on some
100 BEST 

COMPANIESg of the most prestigious brands in the world. In turn, Fortune magazine recognized us as one of TO WORK FOR ('.J 
the "100 Best Companie~ To Work For" six years in a row. So if you're looking for agreat place to work, look for us on campus. Maybe we can grab a cup of coffee. ey.comjus;careers 

--~ ~~ ~ -~ ~ ----­
-

--~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 16, 2004 CoMPILED FROM T!!E QgsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Women's Volleyball Top 25 
team record 

1 Washington 22·0 2 Hawaii 23·0 3 Nebraska 23·1 4 Penn Stale 23·2 5 Minnesota 24·4 6 Southern Cal 16·4 7 Ohio State 24-2 8 Colorado Slate 22·3 9 Stanford 19·6 10 Florida 23·3 11 Texas 21·3 12 Tennessee 26·2 13 Texas A&M 16·6 14 California 14-9 15 San Oiego 1!H 16 Saint Mary's (CA) 22·3 17 UCLA 15·9 18 UC Santa Barbara 21·3 19 Utah 21-4 20 Kansas Stale 17-8 21 Louisville 24·2 22 Arizona 16·9 23 Santa Clara 17-6 24 Florida A&M 23·2 25 Missouri 11·6 
NFL 
AFC East 

team New England NY Jets Buffalo Miami  record 8·1 6·3 3·6 1·8  perc. .869 .667 .333 .111.  PF . 237 202 143 123  PA 152 158 166 186  
AFC North  
team Pittsburgh Baltimore Cincinnati Cleveland  record 8·1 6·3 4·5 3·6  perc. .869 .667 .444 .333  PF 221 174 169 170  PA 147 130 179 198  
AFC South  
team Indianapolis Jacksonville Houston Tennessee  record 6·3 6·3 3-6 3·6  perc. .667 .667 .444 .333  PF 298 151 185 168  PA 220 163 223 197  
AFC West  
team Denver San Diego Kansas City Oakland  record 7·1 6·3 3·5 3-6  perc. .667 .667 .333 .333  PF 199 262 257 165  - PA 154 173 238 247  
NFC East  
team Philadelphia NY Giants Dallas Washington  record 8-1 5-4 3-6 3-6  perc. .869 .556 .333 .333  PF 238 186 162 125  PA 152 158 252 150  
NFC North  
team Green Bay Minnesota Chicago Detroit  record 5·4 5-4 4-5 4·5  perc. .556 .556 .444 .444  PF 240 242 144 164  PA 217 227 158 194  
NFC South  
team Atlanta New Orleans Tampa Bay Carolina  record 7-2 4·5 3·6 2·7  perc. .778 .444 .333 .222  PF 194 198 157 161  PA 184 254 179 212  
NFC West  
team Seattle St. louis Arizona San Fran.  record 5·4 5·4 4·5 1·8  perc. .556 .556 .444 .111  PF/G 206 203 167 172  PNG 168 217 179 261  

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Preseason NIT: Niagara vs Providence 7:00 p.m., ESPN2 Preseason NIT: San Diego vs Arizona 9:00p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 
Donovan McNabb spun away from one would-be tackler and sprinted to his right, only to find another defender waiting. So he went back to his left, chased by two more play­. ers, and finally heaved the ball, letting loose a 60-yard pass that looked more like 
a punt. 
Freddie Mitchell ran 
under it for an easy catch, 
of course. The way the 
Philadelphia Eagles were 
rolling against the Dallas 
Cowboys on Monday night, 
it seemed they could do no 
wrong. 

McNabb led Philadelphia to six touchdowns, throw­ing three of them to Terrell Owens, and topped them all with his amazing improvisation, then Lito Sheppard added a 101­yard interception return for one final score, helping the Eagles resoundingly bounce back from their first loss of the season with a 49-21 victory over the reeling Cowboys. · 
The Eagles (8-1) quickly made it known that they still should be considered the midseason favorite to represent the NFC in the Super Bowl by scoring 35 points in the first half ­more than they'd scored in any game this season ­and wound up with their most points since beating St. Louis 52-10 in November 1981.McNabb was 15-of-28 for 345 yards, with four TO passes and no interceptions. Owens caught six passes for 134 yards. Philadelphia .scored touchdowns the last five times it had the ball 
before halftime. 

There was the minor interruption of a punt, but the Cowboys (3-6) fumbled the return, adding to the humiliation of their fifth loss in six games -and their eighth in nine tries against the Eagles. Their last three losses have been 21, 23 and, now, 28 points. 
This one was historically ugly as Dallas gave up its most points ever at home and its most anywhere since a 50-24 loss at Cincinnati in December 1985. The Cowboys allowed four touchdowns in one quarter (the second) for the first time in fran­chise history and the 35 points Philadelphia scored in the first half tied anoth­er dubious record. 
Owens pretended to skate in the end zone after his first score, a 59-yarder. then playfully argued with McNabb on the sideline. mocking their confronta­tion from last week. 
IN BRIEF 
Indiana State dumps coach 
after seven losing seasons 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -Tim McGuire was fired Monday after seven years without a winning record as football coach at Indiana State. 
The Sycamores never won more than five games in a season since McGuire became coach in 1998. He was the team's defensive coordinator for five years before that. 
"This is one of the unfortunate realities of intercollegiate athletics," athletic director Andrea Myers said. 
"All of our head coaches have spe­cific performance expectations, and those are addressed as part of their annual evaluations. Regrettably, those expectations have not been met." 
McGuire, who played at Nebraska, was defensive coordinator at Kansas State and Northern Illinois.. lie also was an assistant at Navy and was head coach for two years at Morningside. a Division II college in Sioux City, Iowa. 

His teams at Indiana State were 24-55, includin_g_ 4-7 this season. Lawrence North hoopsters
favored to repeat state title 
INDIANAPOLIS Lawrence North's defending champion Wildcats are feeling the pressure already. 
With 7-footer Greg Oden among three returning starters, Lawrence North was picked No. 1 Monday in The Associated Press Class 4A pre­season basketball poll. The vote by a statewide media panel was unani­mous. 
"We are a marked team now. Every game will be a battle," coach Jack Keefer said. · 
The Wildcats also finished in the No. 1 ranking last season, when they wound up 29-2 with a 50-29 rout of Columbia City for the championship. 
"This is not the same team that won the state, but they will have to play an outstanding game each Friday because of our ranking and the fact that we are defending state champ," Keefer said. 
Indianapolis Pike, which finished third last season, was voted No. 2 in the preseason poll. · Manning to start for Giants 
Sunday against Atlanta 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Eli Manning has replaced Kurt Warner as the New York Giants' starting quarterback. 
Coach Tom Coughlin made the move Monday after Warner and the offense struggled for the second con­secutive week in a 17-14 loss to the Cardinals in Arizona. The Giants (5­
4) have lost three of the last four games after a 4-1 start. 
Manning, the top pick in this year's draft and the brother of Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning, will face the Atlanta Falcons on . Sunday at Giants Stadium. 
"He is the future of the New York Giants. it just starts now," Coughlin said of Manning, who lost a close training camp competition with Warner for the starting job. 
Tuesday, November 16, 2004

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 
After ankle surgery, Hill hospitalized for staph infection 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPIIIA-Not Yl!t in uniform, Grant llill rollnd up the slneve of his dress shirt to rnvnal a scar running from the back <if his left elbow to the top of his triceps. 
This is the scar. created by doctors removing skin and artnries to patch the incision on his IPI't ankle. that made llill push back his comeback and think about life and d11ath. not just running and jumping. 
The untold story of llill's com11back from four ankln operations is the staph infec­tion that came afterward. hos­pitalizing him for a week and forcing him nnto intravenous antibiotics for six months. 
Now a year and a half later. llill is l'inally comfortable dis­cussing a scary unplanned ddour on his road to recovery. 
"I didn't likP to talk about it. and the team kept quiet about it," said llill. whoso ankle problems transformed one of the NBA's most promising young stars into its most famous gimp. 
But the ankle was 'only part of the problem after the infec­tion set in. 
Staph infections can kill, and llill's condition was severe enough that it took six months of treatn1ent with the strongest antibiotics available to rid his body of the bacteria. 
"As time goes by, I'm more comfortable talking about it," llill told the Associated Press on Sunday. "But I look at it as a blessing because it forced me to slow down· and really say 'Let's get this thing right."' 
Five days after llill under­went a major surgical proce­dure in March, 2003, in which doctors re-fractured his ankle and n~aligned it with his leg bone. he developed a 104.5­degren fever and convulsions. 
!lis wife, Tamia, rushed him to the hospital. 
"When we both saw the reaction of the people at the hospital, we knew there was 
something wrong," llill said. 
Doctors removed the splint around his ankle and discov­ered the incision was infected. Hill had developed red and black welts on his leg, and the shaking and convulsions pro­gressed to the point where orderlies had to hold him down. 
"lie was in the living room and his teeth were chattering, and I thought he was just being overly dramatic, like he was a bad actor or something, but he was truly delirious," Tamia said in a telephone interview. "We got to the hos­pital and they took him in on a stretcher. 
"It was bad. and I don't think we realized even then how bad it was." 
Luckily, the infection hadn't spread to the bonP. 
llill's slow recuperation. including getting hooked up to an IV machine three times a day, erased any ideas he had about returning during the 2003-04 season. 


AP Orlando's Grant Hill, right, is guarded by Philadelphia's Andre lguodala on Sunday. The Slxers won, 96-87. 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Computers keep Oklahoma No. 2 in BCS, Auburn No. 3 
Associated Press 
Computers prefer Oklahoma over Auburn -and Southern California. 
The Sooners held on to sec­ond place in the Bowl Championship Series standings Monday, staying ahead of third­place Auburn because of a stronger computer ranking. 
USC is still first the BCS standings with a grade of .9808. Oklahoma's grade is .9621. and Auburn's is .9350. 
Last week, the Sooners led the Tigers by .0567. That lead is down to .0271. 
The Trojans. Sooners and Tigers are all 10-0. Each has two games left and one loss by any of them would provide a simple solution to what is shap­ing up to be another BCS mess. The top two teams in the final BCS standings will play in the Orange Bowl on Jan. 4 for the national titlt~. 
Since the BCS' inception in 1998, there's never been three undefeated teams after the reg­ular season in the six BCS con­fen~nce-Big East, Big 12, Big Ten, Atlantic Coast Conference, Pac-1 0 and Southeastern Conference. 
The Tigers made up ground on the Sooners in the polls on Sunday. tying Oklahoma for second in The Associated Press Top 25 and getting within two points of No. 2 in the coaches poll. 
With the voters virtually split on the Sooners and Tigers, the computers are breaking the tie. 
"We're in the situation we are -a the tight race here, every­body finishing, and the system the way it is -it's hard to know where you're going to be at or what matters to people, voters or computers," Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops said. 
The polls each count for a third of a BCS grade. A compi­lation of six computer rankings make up the other third, and according to them Oklahoma is the best team in the country. 
The Sooners are tops in five of the computer rankings and second in the other. A team's highest and lowest computer score is tossed out. 
USC is second by the comput­ers and Auburn is third. 
The BCS computers were responsible for putting Oklahoma in the national title game last season after the Sooners lost the Big 12 title game and dropped to No. 3 in the polls. 
A similar situation is develop­ing. · Unless the Tigers can pull far away from Oklahoma in the 
polls, the computers will proba­bly send an unbeaten Sooners team to the Orange Bowl to face an unbeaten Southern Cal, accordl'ng to· BCS analyst Jerry Palm. 
Palm said computer rankings usually don't 11uctuate drasti­cally late in the season and Oklahoma's strength of sched­ule advantage over Auburn probably won't change. The Tigers play at Alabama on Saturday and in the SEC title game on Dec. 4, likely against Tennessee. The Sooners face Baylor on Saturday and play in the Big 12 title game on Dec. 4 against an opponent to be determined. 
Palm said Auburn passing Oklahoma in the computer rankings is "not realistic." 
"Pulling even is optimistic," he said. 

With the way it stands now. about 60 points to make up Palin said. Auburn would have Oklahoma's advantage in thP to be ahead in each poll by computers. 
ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: November 12-22, 2004 Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from O'Hara Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) 
What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide selection of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter books. Cookbooks and other books great for families are also available for purchase. How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. Why: SUPPORT ECDC! Great holiday gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials 
Come out to s lasthome match 
~ ' \ ·~ 

Tuesday, November 16, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
OLYMPICS 
Paris favored to -win 2012·0Iympic bid 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The five cities looking to host the 2012 Summer Games submitted bids to the International Olympic Committee on Monday, entering the final stage of a long process in hopes of landing one of the biggest prizes in sports. 
· Paris, the front-runner to win next year's vote, turned in documents, as did London, Madrid, New York and Moscow. Each book totals more than 550 pages, allowing the IOC to evaluate venues, security, transportation. hotels and financing. 
"The bid document in itself is not enough to get you across the line, but it will make your bid better," said London 2012 chairman Sebastian Coe. the Olympic 1,500-meter champi­on in 1980 and 1984. "This is what I would describe as the business of the race. You're not quite into the last lap, but you're just beginning to group at the bell." 
The IOC evaluation commis­sion travels to the candidate cities early next year, and will give its recommendations to thn 100-plus IOC members a month before they vote by .secret ballot in Singapore on July 6. 
British bookmaker Ladbrokes on Monday installed Paris as the 1-2 favorite to host its third Olympics after holding the games in 1900 and 1924. London. the 1908 and 1948 host. was at 3-1, with Madrid at 4-1, New York at 14-1 and Moscow, the 1980 host, at 33­1. 
Paris has much of the infra­structure in place after hosting soccer's World Cup in 1998. 
"We are not overconfident but we feel, due to all the work and checking that has been done and the support from the French government, politicians, IOC members, ath­letes a:nd community leaders, we think we have put together the best of France." Paris 2012 spokesman Jerome Lenfant said. 
London plans to regenerate a rundown area of east London, building an Olympic Park. London's bid also includes landmarks such as Wimbledon, the new Wembley Stadium and Hyde Park. 
New York's bid is backed by 
U.S. Olympic Committee chair­man Peter Ueberroth. who ran the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics. 
"This city offers an outstand~ ing combination of marketing, financial and media power that can help the games achieve a new level of global prominence," Ueberroth said Monday. 
New York is anchoring its bid on a plan for a stadium on Manhattan's West Side that would be home to the New York Jets. Ueberroth touted the organization of the New York bid and the city's place on the world stage. 
"New York is renowned as one of the most international cities in the world with strong ties to every nation," he said. 
NFL 


Texans endure another setback 
Texans 49-14. "We have a long accept the responsibility."
Houston's 49-14loss 

way to go." Things weren't much better to Indianapolis The Texans are suddenly on the other side of the ball. looking less like a young team Carr was hammered by
leaves team puzzled on the rise and 
punch less expansion team
Associated Press 

they were in 
HOUSTON -David Carr was 2002.• reminded of those painful In the past two afternoons during his rookie weeks, Houston season, when the expansion has lost by a Houston Texans were simply total of 53 points 
more like the defensive end Dwight Freeney on his first play of the game and threw an inter­ception that was
"It's been a long 
returned 77 yardstime since I've been for a touchdown on his last snap.
beaten like this. " 
Altogether, Carr 

fodder for the NFL's heavy­to a couple of completed 22 of 
David Carr
weights. division leaders, 41 passes for 215 
"It's been a long time since Denver and Texan quarterback yards and three I've been beaten like this," Indianapolis. interceptions Carr said Sunday after the The playoffs against the NFL's Indianapolis Colts routed the might be nothing worst defense. 
more than a pipe dream for Houston (4-5) now. 
The Texans trail Indianapolis and Jacksonville by two games in the AFC South, and the gap between them has never seemed as wide after this latest humilia­tion. 
Houston, 0-5 against the Colts, matched the worst mar­gin of defeat in franchise his­tory. 
The Texans lost 38-3 to Cincinnati in their inaugural season. 
Making a lopsided loss even worse, Indianapolis kept throwing the ball instead of running out the clock with a 35­point lead in the 
2 DAYS UNTIL SMOKEOUT 
fourth quarter. ."We played too 
The Texans 
soft." 
were clearly miffed by the throws and a Gary Walker few scuffles 
Texan defensive end 
broke out in the waning minutes -perhaps the most fight Houston showed all day. 
"It bothered me," said rookie cornerback Dunta Robinson, who drew a personal-foul penalty in the fourth quarter. "I thought that disrespected us." 
Texans coach Dom Capers was careful not to criticize the Colts, though he didn't seem exactly happy with their deci­sion to keep passing late in the game. 
"I don't get hung up on that ... we play them again." Capers said Monday. "My feel­ing always is let's stop them. We've got to be man enough to 
He was sacked a season-high five times, and was battered all afternoon by the Colts' sur­prisingly effective pass rush. 
Carr sounded like a beaten man after the game -and almost was. Carr said he had­n't been so frustrated since his grueling rookie season when he was sacked a league-record 76 times. 
"Their scheme covered up everybody," he said. "I dropped back. and it looked like there were 11 guys in cov­erage." 
Typical of a distraught lock­er room, someone even had the temerity to question the 
play, calling and direction o.f the team. 
"We played too soft," defensive end Gary Walker said. "llow can you establish an identi­ty when you don't know from week to week what you're doing? Peyton
We're here to supportyou! 
NP/llA/lS  NOADE  
Nworklife  NAmerican CancerSociety  
N6randma  Nllover  


Manning is smart, but he ain't God. 
"How can we have the play­ers we have on this team and go out and lose like that?" 
Capers wouldn't respond to that criticism, other than to note Walker always lets off steam after big losses. 
The coach kept his cool ­and hoped that his young team would follow suit in the com­ing weeks. 
"You hope you don't have many days like that," Capers said. "You always say that that will never happen to me. But you know what? This is a humbling business." 
r­
, I 
r 
I 
page 20 Tuesday, November 16, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
CLUB SPORTS 

Women's boxing club semifinals to be held Thursday 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's club sports pro­gram will spotlight three events this week. On Thursday, the women's boxing club will hold the semifinal round of its Charity Boxing Bouts. Action will begin at 7 a.m. in Gym 1 of the Joyce Center. The finals will be Sunday at 2 a.m. in Gym 1. Admission each night is $2, with proceeds going to the lloly Cross Missions in East Africa. 
Water Polo 
Notre Dame's men's water polo club will compete in. the opening first round match of the Collegiate Water Polo Association national champi­onships in Rolfs Aquatics Friday at 9 a.m. Action contin­ues on Friday until 11 p.m., resume Saturday from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m., and conclude Sunday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. The Irish are part of a lield featuring the top sixteen clubs in the country. Admission will be charged at the door. 

Men's Volleyball 

Saturday will find the men's volleyball club hosting a twelve team invitational in the Joyce Fieldhouse. 
First round pairings will begin at 9. a.m. Four matches will be played simultaneously all morning and afternoon. 
There will be no admission charge. Field Hockey 
Notre Dame's field hockey club continues to show improvement in both its cohe­sive team play and in its results. The Irish defeated Indiana 3-2 last Saturday in Bloomington. Indiana, compet­ing in a seven player format. Leigh Madeira is earning recog­nition as one of the better goalies in the Midwest. 
Yesterday, the Irish tied Michigan 2-2 in home play on Hiehle Field. Hebecca Mosca scored both Irish goals in tlw first half, while Kaitlin Moran recorded a pair of assists. Madeira again was stellar between the pipes, n~gistnring ten saves in goal. Peggy Solie's aggressive defense kept the Wolverines out of sync for much of the game. 


TENNIS 

Federer dominates in first round of Masters Cup 
Associated Press The Swiss star sped through points of thn ti<~breaknr, taking a rain-delayed first set, break­it to match point with a strong 
HOUSTON -Hoger Federer ing Gaudio in the fourth game volley winner and closing the still looks unbeatable on the on the fourth break point. match with a forehand winner. court. Gaudio didn't win another "I didn't play good today in 
Showing no signs of a torn point in the first set. The the first s<~t but I think I still thigh muscle that sidelined match was interrupted by rain have more good tPnnis to him for three weeks, Federer for two hours. play," Gaudio said. "I hop<~ thP returned to action ·Monday Although Gaudio rallied in next time I play Hog<'r will bP with a 6-1 , 7-6 (4} victory over the second set, Fednrer moved bettrr for me. Today lw playPCI Gaston Gaudio of Argentina in well, chasing down dropshots better than me in tlw first sPt." the first round of the ATP and retreating to run down Fndnrnr's No. 1. ranking for 
Masters Cup championships. overheads. 2004 was assurnd Snpt. 13 Two-time Masters_ Cup win­"I am quite relieved to play when he def'natnd IIPwitt in 
ner Lleyton llewitt of Australia my first match, to have won thn U.S. Open final for his met Carlos Moya of Spain in a it," Federer· said. "Coming third major of the year. later match. back from playing no tourna­Federer has been almost 
Fedemr no longer wears his ments, no play, to win the first unstoppable since he bPat hair in a pony tail. He cut it match, you know. I'm just Andre Agassi 6-3, 6-0. (>-4 in two months ago in Toronto, happy it's over. won or lost. last year's Masters Cup final. and more recently it's been Now I can actually build from Sincn that tournament, shorn even shorter. this and I'm in a good situa­Fe de rt~ r has a 1 <J -0 r<~ c o nl 
"Who knows, in a couple of tion." against top I 0 opponents. 
weeks it might be even short­Gaudio, who staged a come­"I'm much more ndaxed er," Federer said. ''I'm taking back to win the French Open, coming into this year's tourna­it step by step, just like my fought back in the second set ment becausn last year I didn't tennis." to force a tiebreaker. Gaud-io feel great at all coming in 
Federer played in a tourna­was down three break points here," Federer said. "This ment for the first time since he in the ninth game before man­year, my No. I ranking is beat Andy Roddick at Bangkok aging to hold serve. locked up already. I have had early last month for his 10th Gaudio held again in the already a fantastic season. No title of the season. On Oct. 25, 11th game after overcoming matter what happens here, I Federer tore his left thigh three more break points. am going to walk away muscle. Federer served the final two happy." 
NFL 

Cardinals playoff hopes not a false allusion 
Associated Press 

TEMPE, Ariz. -Tough, fast, mean. The Arizona Cardinals aren't pushovers anymore, thanks to an aggressive, hard­hitting defense. 
Even the "p" word -playoffs -isn't as ridiculous as it might snmn. 
t\ftcr a 17-14 victory over the New York Giants on Sunday, t\rizona is 4-5, equaling its win total for all of last season, and is just a game out of' first place in the unimposing NFC West. 
In his first season, coach Dennis Green has changed the attitude of this moribund l'ran­chise. The Cardinals aren't win­ners yet, but they're no pushovers. either. 
"I think we are a step closer ~-to being a good team," Green said Monday. 
Since an 0-3 start, the Cardinals arc 4-2 going into next Sunday's game at Carolina. After that, Arizona plays four of its last six at home. 
The Cardinals are 3-1 at Sun 
come-from-behind 24-23 win over Miami two weeks ago. 
The last two victories might have been ugly, but the hits have been hard for a defense that shut out the Giants in the second half. 
"We've been able to develop a style of play here," Bertrand Berry said, "and the fans really respond. That's what good teams do-they win at home." 
Green brought a reputation for high-scoring offense from his decade as coach of the Minnesota Vikings. But defense has been Arizona's strongest asset. 
"When a guy makes a play, then somebody else wants to make a play," defensive tackle Hussell Davis said. "It gets con­tagious." 
Davis is the lone holdover on a defensive line that was one of the worst in the NFL a year ago. Hookie Darnell Dockett is the other tackle. Peppi Zellner. acquired in a trade with Oakland, plays one end, and the team's unquestioned defensive out of Denver. had four of Arizona's six sacks of Kurt Warner on Sunday, and has nine for the season. Green thought the biggest play of the game came when Berry dropped Tiki Barber for a loss. 

"You can talk sacks and all that," Green said, "but when he knifed in there and hit the blocker and knocked him back into the ball carrier for like a 4­yard loss, that was a stunner. Many times you need a stunning play to make a team think maybe they can't do what they thought they could do." 
Berry has been a mentor for Dockett, who slipped to the third round because of some off-field problems at Florida State. 
'Tve learned so much from the guy, even off the field," Duckett said. "lie's a class guy and he plays hard. Every time I line up next to him I'm comfort­able because I know that I'm going to be playing 110 [per­cent], because he's playing 110. If you're here, you know you 

Devil Stadium and ended a 17-leader, Berry, is the other. can play football, but he teaches Emmitt Smith has been a major reason for Arizona's Impressive game road losing strnak with a Berry, signed as a free agent you how to be a better person." 
4-5 start this season. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, November 16, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Ghattas 
continued from page 24 
an·d sixth. respectively, in the saber divison, while freshman Greg Howard finished eighth in epee and freshman foilist Jakub Jedrkowiak took sec­ond, falling to Nonpatan Panchan in the finals of the men's foil division. 
"It was a good competition for Jakub," Bednarski said. "He showed that he will be one of the challengers for the title this year. It's good news because he's only a freshman:" 
Not to be outdone, following the four male top-1 0 finishers. the Notre Dame women posted four of their own Sunday. 
In addition to Providenza's victory over Ohio State's Siobhan Byrne in the women's saber division finals, sopho­more Angela Vincent placed lOth in the saber, sophomore epeeist Amy Orlando finished fourth and senior Alicja Kryczalo posted a fourth-place finish in the foil division. 
"I said [before the tourna­ment] that some fencers would be rusty, like those who didn't compete [last weekend]." Bednarski said. "Kryczalo lost two bouts, and she didn't get to first place. She's already won three NCAA champi­onships -she just needs more bouting and competition to get to form." 
In addition to allowing the Irish to test their.preseason form, the tournament also afforded them the unique opportunity to directly scout a number of fencers from a pair of key rivals in Ohio State and host Penn State. 
The Buckeyes picked up five top-1 0 finishes over the two­day event while the Nittany Lions recorded a tournament­high 14 top-1 0 finishes and tied with Ohio State for divi­[rankings] is Ohio State ­Penn State is very close to them, and at the moment, we are chasing them," Bednarski said. "I think that Columbia will be very strong, and what was interesting was the very good performance from Princeton University." 
Nevertheless, while in Bednarski's opinion the Irish are currently trailing Big Ten rivals Ohio State and Penn State, the future of Irish fenc­ing appears bright. 
"We were very happy with the performance of the young fencers," Bednarski said. "So it is the hope that we will be progressing." 
After fencing each of the past two weekends, the Irish will take several weeks off before competing in more indi­vidual action Dec. 4 at the Culver Cup Individuals in Culver, Ind. 
sion champions with a pair. Contact Matt Puglisi at "The top of the university mpuglisi@nd.edu 

Panthers 
continued from page 24 
Emily Loomis, Kelly Corbett and Leah Nedderman are the three seniors who will be mak­ing their last appearance on the Joyce Center floor. 
Nedderman was sidelined in 2003 with a stress fracture in her right foot and has not played this year either. This has been· a major disappoint­ment for both Nedderman and the Irish team as she showed a lot of promise early in her career. In only her first colle­giate start against Providence, the then-sophomore came through with a team-high 14 kills. 
Libero and defensive special­ist Corbett has seen her duties increase this season after not playing very much early in her career. She has helped Notre Dame become the best defense in the Big East, holding oppos­
ing teams to a .134 hitting per­
centage. 
Of the trio, Loomis has had 

the most decorated career. The 
Fort Wayne, Ind. native has 
played both outside hitter and 
middle blocker and has started 
almost every match of her four 
years. Loomis was named to 
the first team all-Big East team 
in 2002 along with winning the 
most outstanding player award 
-
at the 2002 conference tourna­. ment. 
She only got better in 2003 

when she was honored as an 
honorable mention All­
American by the American 
Volleyball Coaches .:\,ssociation 
(AVCA) and was also named 
second team all-Big East. 
Loomis also holds numerous 

school records, including most 
consecutive matches with 10 or 
more kills (21) and most kills 
in a match without an error 
(24). 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Big East to switch to one 16-team conference 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE. R.I. -The Big East will be one 16-team divi­sion in 2005-06 and only 12 schools will participate in the postseason basketball tourna­ment. 
The league announced the new structure Monday and it 
takes affect following the addi­tion in 2005 of five schools from Conference USA and Boston Colleg\1 's departure for the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Miami and Virginia Tech left for the ACC this academic year, leaving the Big East with 12 schools. 
Louisville, Cincinnati, DeP­aul, Marquette and South Florida make the move from Conference USA to make it 16 schools. 
The schools will still play a 16-game regular-season sche­dule with 13 opponents and three repeat matchups. The league office will decide the repeat matchups and it will be based on television, rivalries and geography. 

Only 12 schools will advance to the annual postseason tour­nament at Madison Square Garden, the same as the cur­rent setup. 
"The bottom line is we want to help our best teams prepare for success in the NCAA tour­
nament," commissioner Mike .Tranghese said. "If we expand­ed our tournament field to 16 teams, there would be no byes -or rewards -for what's going to be an exciting. but 
grueling regular season." -· 
Many within the league were 

apprehensive about the size of 
the new conference. 
Kellogg Institute, the Office of International Studies, and International Student Services & Activities are pleased to announce International Education Week (lEW): November 15 to 19, 2004 This week Notre Dame expresses appreciation for international students and scholars and commends all who build and strengthen bridges of international understanding. Notre Dame has been chosen as a "Spotlight School" by NAFSA: Association of International Educators, for our outstanding record of study abroad participation, and especially for reaching out to students in non-traditional $tudy abroad fields, such as science, business, and engineering. We invite everyone to attend the many international-themed events held on campus during lEW. Some of the events: TUESDAY, November 16 at 12:30 p.m. LECTURE ­C1 03 Hesburgh Center "Melting Cans and Recycling Traditions in Kankan, Guinea (West Africa): Aluminum Casting, Social Change, and Global Commodities, 1940-2000," by Emily Osborn, Kellogg Faculty Fellow, Department of History Lunch is served on a first-come, first-serve basis. THURSDAY-FRIDAY, November 18-19 CONFERENCE-Hesburgh Center Auditorium Reforming the State in Mexico: The Challenge After Fox and NAFTA (see http://kellogg.nd.edu/afterNAFTA.html) Conference Chair: Christopher Welna, Kellogg Institute, Department of Political Science FRIDAY, November 19 at 10 a.m. COFFEE AND COOKIES with Michael McCarry, N.D.'71 -131 Decio Learn how to forge a fascinating international career by meeting Michael McGarry, Executive Director, Alliance for International Educational and Cultural Exchange, Washington, D.C. (see www.alliance-exchange.org) For a complete list of lEW events, se~ www.nd.edu/-issa, the International Student Services & Activities Web site.  

Tuesday, November 16, 2004
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC CRoss CouNTRY 
Saint Mary's places in NCAA regional 

.. 
By ANNA FRICANO 
Spor<s Writer 
Six members of the Saint Mary's Cross Country team gave a strong showing on Saturday at tlw NCAA Division-Ill Great Lakes Hcgion Championship nwet. Saint Mary's finished with a score of 608 and placod 22nd out of 26 scoring teams at the meet. 
The overall winner of the meet was Shannon McConville from John Carroll University. McConville finished in a time of 21 minutes 31 seconds. 
A total of 32 teams were repre­sented at the regional competi­tion. Denison University took first place at the meet with a score of 84, followed by DePauw University and Kenyon College who brought in scores of 99 and 136, respectively. 
La.•;;t year's regional champions, Mount Union College, finished fourth place with a score of 152. 
Megan· Gray. Erin Nolan, Mnghan Murphy, Becky Feauto. !Usa Zander and Sara Otto ran for the Belles in the 6000-meter race that ollicially completed the Saint Mary's 2004 cross country season. All of the runners achieved their best performances of the season for a 6K. 
Gray, the only freshman to 
compete for Saint Mary's on Saturday, finished first for the school and 99th overall with a time of 24:14.4. Zander, who was the only senior to represent the team on Saturday, gave her final showing as a Saint Mary's run­ner. Zander, co-captain, was a consistently dependable runner for the team, nearly always plac­ing within the top five or six for Saint Mary's. 
Coach Dave Barstis has count­ed on Zander. along with co-cap­tain and senior Elizabeth Commers, to provide leadership for a team comprised mainly of freshmen and sophomores. 
For the rest of the women, Saturday was one more opportu­nity to prepare for next season's conference competition. Nolan and Otto have become increas­ingly eiTective for the Belles in their sophomore years. 
Feauto, who will return for her senior year. has consistently fin­ished strong for the Belles. For Gray and Murphy, the 2004 sea­son was their first with Saint Mary's. Both runners finished in first and second for the team throughout the season. With a year of experience, these two will be looked upon to play a more critical role for the team next season. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmacys.edu 


Bowl 
continued from page 24 

receive had it beaten the Panthers. 
"We have two remaining games," Willingham said lead­ing up to the Pittsburgh game. "So if we can win those two, not putting the second game in front of the first game ... hope­fully it will establish a certain level of Bowl game we can go to." 
But Pittsburgh also needed the magic number six for its bowl hopes, and the Panthers pulled off an upset much like the Irish did the week before. 
As the bye week begins, Notre Dame is projected by CBS.Sportsline to meet Georgia Tech in the Continental Tire Bowl on Dec. 30, a heavy step down from the Jan. 1 Cotton Bowl. CBSSportsline.com now has Texas and LSU penciled in to play in Dallas instead of the Irish. 
Notre Dame has a week off. then. to prepare for its final test against No. 1 Coaches/No. 1 AP Southern California, a team loaded with talent and confi­dence and a record of 10-0. 
The Irish, whose coaches ahd players worry about the incon­sistency displayed in losses to Brigham Young, Boston College and now Pittsburgh. enter the game desperate for win. 
"I think frustration for a coach comes moment by moment. there are so many things you can put in there," Willingham said. "But ... the one thing I know about this game, I know that every coach is talking about inconsistency. There's not one [that isn't]. whether they're the No. 1 team in the country or they're the No. 117 team. They're all talking about inconsistency. 
"Usually what happens is tlw team that is most consistent makes a few more plays that given day than the other team and they win," Willingham said. "And in some cases, they make a lot more plays." 
USC has made a lot more plays than its opponents this season. 
Running back Reggie Bush -a former Notre Dame recruit­and quarterback Matt Leinart are both lleisman candidates who have helped the Trojans oul<;corc opponents 371-11 (,. 
While Pittsburgh's Tyh~r Palko threw for 334 yards and five touchdowns against the Irish secondary last Saturday, Leinart brings more impressive num­bers into the match-up. The southpaw has a 64.0 completion percentage, with 21 touch­downs and four interceptions. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.eduu 

.Law& • • • An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series November 17,2004 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom Fighting for "Caucasian Rights": Mexicans, Mexican-Americans and Civil Rights Legislation in World War II Texas Presenter Thomas Guglielmo Department ofAmerican Studies Commentator Jimmy Gurule The LawSchool  

Tuesday, November 16, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

PEANUTS  CHARLES SCHULZ  
WH'<" i.JERE 'IOU TIED UP ?WHAT HAPPENED TO 'IOU? I THOU6HT '{OU HAD GONE SOUTH ...  WELL, WE'LL HAVE TO LOOK AT IT 1HI5 WA't'... IF WE HAD FOUND OUR W<\1/ SOUTH,W£ PROBAflL'( WOULD HAVE MISSED THE HOCK"E'r' SEA~ON ..  

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS  34 Certain seat  70 Like music  
1 Spills the beans  request  71 Stallions'  
6 Got along  36 Suffix with. fictional  interests  
11 Epitome of simplicity 14 Accountants may run one  39 Grimm brothers fairy tale 43 Popular fuel additive  DOWN 1 Underlying 2 Something for  
15 Entanglement  44 Reveal  friends to "do"  
17 Said with a sneer 18 Garb for Tarzan 19 Eskimo building material 20 Bill of Rights defender, in brief  45 Openly mourned 46 Send (to) 48 Menu phrase 50 Lots and lots 52 Indirect 58 Inamoratas 60 Horn sound  3 A fond farewell 4Wish 5 Butchers' offerings 6 Girl: Fr. 7_ propre 8 Baseball stat.  
22  voce  61 Bearded animal  9 Sea eagle  
(quietly)  62 The starts of  1 o Diagnosers  
23 "Maybellene" singer 27 Cries like a wolf  18-, 23-, 39­and 52-Across 65 Spiral  11 Similar 12 ltty-_ 13 Some salmon  
28  Constitution  67 Crystal-clear  16 Boston  
29 Three-legged piece 31 Stir up  68 Rugged ridge 69 Every other hurricane  newspaper 21 "CSI" network 24 Cosby's "I Spy"  40Jolly old_ (Santa)  50 French peaks 51 Religious  59 Genesis brother  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -=-r-:-r=-r:::-1 s p s T N u T  co-star -41 Lothario's look 25 Amber or copal 42 Gun barrel cleaner26 Everyone, in the  parchment 53 Unadulterated 54 Pried (into)  63 Sebastian who once ran the world's fastest mile  
South  47 Other side  55 Eyeballer  64 Dos Passos  
48 Big fuss  56 Conglomerate  work  
49 Philadelphia  57 Frequent  66 Century 21  
32 Passe  landmark hotel  Astaire wear  competitor  
~~]l~~···~;m~!!l:[[!J 34 Houston pro 


-=+-7+:+::-t 33 Not follow the For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a book 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

f..: 35 "What was think?" 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). D U -=+:=:+.::+.:.+i:-1 37 Aush (aIang) 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 

s s 
___..__.___.___.___. 38 Tolkien creature solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.For answers, call 1­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying forin and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJIJThViU:IDlbrE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
WHASA 
rJ rJ
1 
©2004 Tribune Med1a Services, Inc. 
r~r~fl () 
tHYLLOW I 


lf\II-€N 11€ ?URFER? . '?AW THE BIG
J rJ 
WAVE?, THEY ?AID IT WA'?--­
tATWIRE t
www JUmble. com 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J I I I J 
suggested by the above cartoon 
Ans: 

rI I I I JTHE ..rI I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: SHYLY NOTCH PREACH MINGLEYesterday's I 
Answer: When the scholars took a night flight their conversation was on a -HIGH "PLANE" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Zena Grey, Frida Lyngslad. Sam Waterston, Beverly D'Angelo 
Happy Birthday: Don't let the past get you down. Adopt the mindset that you can adapt to whatever comes your way. Nothing will be as expected, but in many cases it will far exceed your expectations. Your numbers are 6. 19. 21. 25. 32, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You won't get off easy if you overspend. You will face negative response from both your colleagues and your family so stick to your budget both professionally and personally.** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The stars will shine brightly on you. Step into the spotlight and voice your opinion. Love will entice you. Spend time with family. ***** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have plenty to chat about. Take care of the responsibilities of someone who can no longer do for him-or herself. Money matters may be tight, but if you are thrifty you'll do OK. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): This can be an exciting day for you if you share your feelings. Roman·ce is highlighted. Make arrangements to do something to spruce up your looks. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Tum on your Leo charm and you will make headway in the work force. Be gracious and everyone will follow. If you are too aggressive, you will be cast aside. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): An opportunity to make a difference to a friend or a youngster is present. The more you do to help someone out, the better you will feel about yourself. Love is in the air.***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let anything stand in your way. Get your point heard or your ideas off the ground. Short trips will lead to information that will give you a solid base to work from. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make phone calls or drop in to see people you respect in your industry. A lot can happen in a day if you hang out with the righl peers.**** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get down to business and make things happen. Don't letyour personal life interfere with your professional responsibilities. Someone may try to damage your reputation. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may not be feeling up to par, but you must tend to your responsibilities before you can rest. It will be difficult to keep a secret, but if you don't, you'll face more problems. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let anyone stand in your way. Dig deep and ask questions. You'll find the information you need to get ahead. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The more you do, the better you will feel. but don't let anyone take advantage of your good heartedness. Doing too much can be just as bad as not doing enough. **** 
. 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, worldly and forever looking for excitement and adventure. You learn from your mistakes, but you must be allowed to do things your way. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year · 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ______________ State _______ Zip______ 
• ••• ·-· '4 ....... ,~-"'-·-----~ ........_ ••• ~-·-­
-----. ---------------------.... ------------... --...... --------.. --------... -----------... ---.. --­
...J 


r 
THE OBSERVER 
f 
I I I 
PORTS
I I Tuesday, November 16, 2004 
~ 
I 
FooTBALL 

Zero percent Cotton? 
Team's loss to Pitt hurts chances for a prestigous bowl game 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Spores r.ditor 
Notre Dame's win over Tenrwssee was not just an upset of a Top-! 0 team. The Irish walked away from Knoxville with the magic number six attached to their name. Six wins. 
And those wins made Notre Dame bowl eligible with two games remaining on the sched­ule. 
But tlw Irish also gained con­trol of that bowl destiny with its win over the Volunteers. Notre Dame enters its second bye week of the season knowing some of the control slipped away in a loss to Pittsburgh on Saturday. 
"What we do know: we are bowl eligible," Willingham said after the Tennessee victory. ""Xe do know with every win we have a chance to increase, in most cases, what bowl we can go to. So that is my focus for our team. Every win creates another level." 

Willingham and the coaches knew a win over Pittsburgh was crucial to keeping their hopes alive to playing in higher bowls, like the Cotton Bowl bid that Notre Dame seemed poised to I SULLIVAN!The Observer 
Ryan Grant breaks a run upfleld against Pittsburgh on Saturday. The Irish lost the game on a see BOWL/page 22 last-second field goal, after giving up 28 first half points. 
page 24 
fENCING 
Providenza takes home gold medal 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
For a second consecutive weekend, an Irish fcncnr took home a gold medal. 
And, no, this time it wasn't Olympic gold nwdalist fresh­man Marie! Zagunis. 
With Zagunis resting at home, sophomore Valerie Providnnza took the reins for the Irish, winning the women's saber -one of' eight top-1 0 and 13 top-20 Irish finislws ­at the 32nd Penn Stat!' Max Garret Open this wePkend. 
"I think it was a strong pN­formancc -we got a medal and we were seen on all strips," coach Janusz Bednarski said. "[Tlw tourna­ment hadl a high levPI of rom­petition -a lot of these fencers· have medals or were partici­pants of the Olympic games, so it was great to sen our kids competing against them very strongly." 
The mnn kickml ofT the annu­al tournament, fencing Saturday. 
Sophomore Paul Ghattas and \1atthew Stearns placed fourth 
see GHATTAS/pagc 21 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish set to play final home game 
By MIKE GILLOON SpomWritcr 
Notro Dame takes on Northern Iowa tonight at 7 
p.m. at the Joyce Center in thp last home match of the season for tho Irish. 
The Panthers are currently in sncond place in the Missouri Valley Conference (MVC) with a record of 13-4 and 21-8 over­all. Thny come into South Bend riding a five-match winning streak, their last loss a sweep at the hands of league-leader Wichita State on Oct. 30. 
Notre Dame setter Ashley Tarutis believes that even though the Panthers are not from a major conference, they still pose a tough challenge for the newly-crowned Big East rngular season champion Irish. 
"I think that they're a really good team and that we should be evenly matched," she said. "The game will be really good." 
Northern Iowa outside hitter Laura Bowen was named MVC freshman of the week after posting a hitting percentage of .455 in matches against Western Illinois, Creighton and Drake last week. Bowen led the Panthers with 14 digs against Creighton and tallied a season­high .542 hitting percentage against Drake. 
The Panthers have also been led this year by junior Bachael Tink. The junior had 18 digs and 18 kills against Drake Saturday night and will need a similar performance if they are to pull o!T the upset against the Irish. 
see PANTHERS/page 21 
FOOTBALL 

Wilson makes most of time 
Editor's note: This story was originally supposed to run Friday in the Senior Irish Insider. However. due to a pro­duction error. it did not appear. The Observer regrets the error. 
Observer Staff Report 

Marcus Wilson saw his first significant playing time this sea­son, and has made the most of it. The senior running back, who has one year of eligibility remaining, has played in all 10 games for the Irish, the only running back to do so. 
He has rushed 33 times for 133 yards, a career best, and good for four yards per carry average. He is third on the team in rushing, behind Darius Walker and Ryan Grant. Wilson scored his first career touch­down against Navy, a 33-yard sprint to the end zone that, at the time, was the longest run of the season by Notre Dame. Wilson is one of 20 Irish players who have caught at least one pass this season, including an 18-yard reception against Tennessee. He has also played an important role in the Irish pass protection schemes, due to his experience. 

Wilson has been part of Notre Dame's three-headed tailback attack, along with Grant and Walker. This season is the lirst in his career he has gotten sig­nificant playing time on ofl'ense. 
Last year he played on spPcial teams and as a sophomore he played mostly as a reserve run­ning back. 
Wilson has a year of eligibility remaining. Should hn mturn for a fifth year, Wilson should remain at lnast second in the depth chart to emerging fresh­man Darius Walker, who has seen the bulk of thn carries this season. 

en 
NCAA FOOTBALL ·
SMC CROSS COUNTRY NCAA BASKETBALL NFLNBA MLB 

LLI

1-
Co) The Belles finished The Big East will go to Oklahoma remains After four ankle oper­Tennessee's strong Barry Bonds won his z 22nd out of the 26 teams 
a 16-team, one-division, 
No. 2 in the BCS rank­

ations, Orlando's Grant safety Tank Williams 
seventh MVP award that placed in the 
format next season, 
ings, one place ahead of 

Hill endures a staph 
will miss the remainder 
after batting .362 this
::5 
Dvision III Great Lakes with 12 teams making 
Auburn. USC remains 

injection that will delay of the season after an 
season for San
c.:::l 

= c Regional. the Big East tourna­No.1 in the standings. his comeback. MRI exam confirmed he Francisco. ment. 
had torn left knee liga­ments
a. t:i ~ 
page 21

en page 22 page 18 page 18 page 15 page 14 








