Three arrested at tailgates 
Students taken to jail before game 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Two Notre Dame students were arrested and taken into custody Saturday after 11eeing from police during a bust at Turtle Creek Apartments, and a third student was arrested and taknn into custody after an incident in Blue Lot South. 
The joint task force of Indiana State Excise Police, St. Joseph County Police. South Bnnd Police and Notre Dame Security/Police issued a total of 2(> citations on and off campus before the football game against Washington, NDSP director Hex Hakow said. 
Excise Police said sophomore Christopher McEntee, 19. and sophomore Eric Better, 19, an Observer writer and production editor. were arrested at 11:20 
a.m. at a tailgate party in Turtle Creek. 
Lt. Greg Deitchley, spokesman for the District 1 excise office, said officers approached the party after noticing its noise level escalat­ing out of control, including students yelling obscenities in slurred speech. 
"We didn't go there with the intention of arresting anybody," he said. 
But as police approached, McEntee and Retter took off running in opposite directions, and officers pursued McEntee through the apartment and down Vaness Street until he stopped near Ivy Road, Deitchley said. 
"We told [McEntee! to get on the ground so we could hand-
see ARRESTS/page 8 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER30, 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Kerry advisor advocates labor unions 
Trbovich criticizes media pigeonholing, says the union vote could be decisive 
By PAUL SPADAFORA 
News Wtiter 
On the eve of the first pres­idential debate, Notre Dame welcomed Marco Trbovich, director of labor policy for the Kerry-Edwards cam­paign, Wednesday for his lec­ture on the significance of unions in the 2004 race. 
The lecture, titled "The Power of Labor in Presidential Politics," acted as an explanation and analy­sis of labor union involve­ment in the upcoming presi­dential election. Trbovich also focused on the impact the voters in the labor union will have on the Democratic vote in November. 
Trbovich emphasized that for the election, unions are 
see LABOR/page 6 



Diversity training takes hold at Notre Dame 
Student Affairs, departments, groups develop initiatives to raise preparation and awareness 
"When you have one duct first-time diversity Through Student Affairs, By TERESA FRALISH department responsible for training for peer advisors in Moss has helped run a diver­Associate News Editor all diversity programs, then First Year of Studies. sity training program for all 
people start to think this is Fleming previously served as freshmen students. 
In tandem with Notre not their responsibility," said a University admissions For the first two years, the Dame's effort to improve its David Moss, assistant vice counselor and focused on program was conducted in reputation on student diver­president for Student Affairs. minority student recruit­the residence halls but was sity, offices and departments "Everyone is saying we own ment. incorporated into the fresh­across campus have increas­this [issue]." "I think Notre Dame is men health class in 2001. ingly initiated diversity train­Though some University much more multi-cultural "It's hard to have a manda­ing programs for their staffs offices, such as Institutional now," she said. tory meeting in the residence -from student peer advi­Equity and Multicultural In the training, Fleming halls," Moss said. "We decid­sors to LaFortune building Students Programs and said she asks senior peer ed to move it into the aca­managers. Services, play a significant advisors to reflect on their demic realm." 
But rather than a single role in promoting diversity, own opinions and how they The current program office overseeing all pro­most diversity training pro­might affect their views. spends two class periods grams, individual depart­grams are sponsored, "As a counselor, I try to educating freshmen on ments and offices have tend­planned and implemented by point out that they need to diversity issues through the ed to develop their own departments themselves. address any biases they help of student trainers, who unique programs -an This fall, freshman advisor have," she said. "I point out participate in a concurrent approach administrators and Notre Dame graduate that they could be misinter­praise. Christy Fleming helped con-preted." see_DIVERSITY/page 4 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group approves off-campus safety as BOT report topic 

Chief of staff Dave Baron, student body vice president Karla Bell and president Adam Istvan review proposals at a meeting Monday. 
SafeBus, NDSP proposals to be heard by trustees next week 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
Student body president Adam Istvan presented his report topic for next week's Board of Trustees meeting for Student Senate approval at Wednesday's meeting. 
Istvan said his general focus would be off-campus safety, in reference both to students who live in the South Bend commu­nity and students ':"ho leave campus for entertainment or other reasons. 
The NO SafeBus initiative dis­cussed at past Council of Representatives and Senate meetings will play a significant role in the report, Istvan said. 

"We've heard that 80 percent of students live on campus, but what we don't hear is that 57 percent of the senior class live off. so eventually over half of Notre Dame students will live off campus," Istvan said. "This is an indication that we need to make off-campus safety a pri­ority." 
Chief executive assistant Dave Baron explained the scope of the report in further detail, saying it will also inte­grate ideas for safety seminars for off-campus students, a pro­posal for members of off-cam­pus council to sit on neighbor­hood group boards and a request for Notre Dame Security/Police to make off­campus security an additional priority. 
"Fo'r NDSP, policing ends on campus, but security doesn't," Baron said. "Students living in South Bend still fall under the guidelines of DuLac, so they should be secured by NDSP as 
see SENATE/page 6 page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Debating DaVinci 
This election year, political discourse in our country is more polarized than ever. 
Negative ads and attacks on charac­ter have replaced logical analysis and thoughtful discus­

sion about our Claire Kelley country's future. As political dis­cussions take Photo Editor place on campus. dialogue has also taken place concerning the other sub­ject you aren't supposed to talk about in polite company: religion. On Saturday I attended a faculty panel entitled '"The DaVinci Code': An Assessment" that explored the literary, art historical and theological implica­tions of Dan Brown's best-selling novel that dropped to No. 2 this week after 77 weeks as No. 1. Professor Hichard McBrien, a polar­izing figure himself, theologically examined the hotly debated book and asserted that there is no evidence to support the novel's premise that Jesus was married to Mary Magdalene. llowever. he said that if Jesus was married it was obviously to Magdalene. lie praised Mary Magdalene as a saint whose impor­tance has been historically understat­ed. Tlwse arn controversial words. con­sidering that "The DaVinci Code'"s overwhelming success has drawn out­rage from some Catholics who believe it is heretical. anti-Catholic and absurd. But the novel has also won praisc from other Catholics who have mnbracPd cathartic discussions of "Tiw l>aVind Code" as a way to con­front deep-rootnd concerns about the rigid stancos of tho Church hierarchy and its anti-feminist reputation, which has been intensified by the recent Vatican letter on feminism. Although "The DaVinci Code"'s claims to veracity have been widely disprovcd by both art historians and theological scholars, important themes are raised through its fiction thriller package. Those who stood to ask questions at the panel on Saturday semned to appreciate the opportunity to discuss those themes. To my sur­prisn, no one who attended the lecture refuted Father McBrien's analysis of the novel. 1\s a student in Father McBrien's Catholicism class my sophomore year, I thought his willingness to discuss and explain both sides of the most controversial issues was wonderfully therapeutic after years of authoritative and rigid Catholic religion classes. I am inspired in those moments at Notre Dame when there is discussion about Catholic issues that is not about who is right or wrong, who belongs and who doesn't, and I can ask ques­tions and challenge the way things are in the Church without being consid­emd unfaithful or disloyal to my faith. Let us not be discouraged by polariz­ing issues or societal restrictions toward certain political or religious dialogue. I believe that our dignity is honored in dialogue where we can talk in an open and honest way about the tremendous mysterious of life, faith and sexuality. These discussions can eclipse those times, even at Notre Dame, where I have become burdened by conversations that emphasize rules or rigid answers. During the question and answer portion of Saturday's lecture one woman stood and remarked, "I have had the best conversations of my life about this book." Another man merely stated, "Isn't this wonderful that we can have these discussions at Notre Dame." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Claire Kelley at ckelley2@nd.edu 
Thursday, September 30, 2004
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DO YOU THINK WILL WIN TONIGHT'S PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE? WHY? 








"Bush, because he's from Texas."  "Kerry. but I wish Bush could."  "Kerry will win the debate because he is the more articulate candidate, but lose the election  "Bush, because he's got strategery. "  "John Kerry, because I like mine with Heinz 57·"  "Bush. No, Kerry. I can't decide. Is Nader going to be there?"  
because Bush is  
a better  
campaigner.  

Museum to honor George Washington's whiskey 
MOUNT VERNON, Va.­Everyone has heard the phrase "George Washington slept here." A new museum and tourism trail will pay tribute to where he made and drank whiskey. 
The chief historian at Mount Vernon, the first president's Potomac-side mansion, disclosed plans Tuesday for the George Washington Distillery Museum, which will be become the gateway for a new American Whiskey Trail. The trail is meant to be enjoyed much like the 
TODAY 



U.S.-Mexico border 
Tuesday just as the sun 
was sinking toward the 
Pacific Ocean, completing 
the first known continuous 
trek of the 1,800-mile trail 
down the nation's Pacific 
coast. 
Nate Olive and Sarah Janes, ecologists from the University of Georgia, held hands and kissed as they reached the end of the so­called West Coast Trail. a path running from north­western Washington state to this point in the south­western corner of San Diego County. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


60 
53 

.9 HIGH 72 HIGH HIGH 77 HIGH HIGH LOW 53 LOW LOW 50 LOW LOW 
60 40 

Atlanta 80 I 62 Boston 68 /52 Chicago 72 I 50 Denver 68 I 42 Houston 86 I 68 Los Angeles 72 I 60 Minneapolis 68 I 54 New York 72 I 56 Philadelphia 74 I 56 Phoenix 88 I 66 Seattle 66 I 48 St. Louis 78 I 58 Tampa 88 I 74 Washington 72 I 60 
..J 
c( (.) 

spirit: slowly, as it will fea­ture museums and historic sites in five states. 
"We hope people will see this incredible working dis­tillery and go off and visit other things," said James Rees, Mount Vernon's exec­utive director. 
The trail goes from the Fraunces Tavern Museum in New York City, where Washington bade farewell to his troops in 1783. 
Hikers first to trek U.S. Pacific coast In Its entirety 
BORDER FIELD STATE PARK, Calif. -A pair of hiking pioneers touched the rusting fence at the 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

IN BRIEF 

The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum will present a con­cert tonight from 8 to 9 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Student Union Board will present its weekly AcoustiCafe student perform­ances from 10 to 11:45 p.m. tonight in the LaFortune Student Center. 
The Student Union Board will sponsor a screening of "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" at 10 
p.m. tonight in 101 DeBartolo. 
The Institute for Latino Studies will present a screen­ing of the film "The Sixth Section" tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditori­um as a part of its Cine de Ia Haza film series. Filmmaker Alex Hivera will give a presen­tation during the event. 
The film "Outfoxed (Rupert Murdoch's War on Journalism)" will be showing at 7 and 10 p.m. tonight in the 
Browning  Theater  at  the  
DeBartolo  Center  for  the  
Performing Arts.  
Irish ambassador to  the  

United States Noel Fahey will give a lecture on the relation­ships among Ireland, Europe and America to inaugurate the University's new Department of Irish Language and Literature on Friday at 3 p.m. in the McKenna Hall auditori­um. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 



Thursday, September 30, 2004 · 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Intramural participation at Saint Mary's on the rise 
Competition and new sports spur more students to sig~ up for athletics 
petitive aspect of intramu­
By KELLY BALE 

rals. Points earned during
News Writer 

intramural games began to 
be tallied and added to each 
As classes come to an end residence hall's total points each day, more and more for the intramural season. Saint Mary's students arc Now, an intramural hall spending their evenings out­champion is named at the side on the athletics fields. end of winter intramurals This semester. between 250 each year. and 300 students are partici­"My first year [at Saint pating in intramural t'lag Mary's] we had between 50­football. sand 100 participants," vollr,yball and Kachmarik said. tnnnis-dou­"/ think a great "That's not suc­
ble the typical fitness and cessful in any turnout in shape or form."
wellness program 
recent years. In the first two 
Saint Mary's goes hand in hand years of the new Athletic with a great program, year-long Director Lynn participation num­
academic

Kachmarik said bers jumped signif­
HIGGI

the increase is institution. " icantly. 
Saint Mary's students play intramural volleyball outside the Angela Athletic Facility. This year
largely due to Kachmarik also 

has seen a dramatic rise In participation, due to such diverse sports as soccer and dodgeball.
better fresh­credited the pro­

lynn Kachmarik 
men represen­gram's success to

Saint Mary's 
tation. which the work of intra­change depending on the gram, Kachmarik said. She eras a community."

athletic director
she attributed mural director interest of the student body added the program is a real Freshman Sarina Kopacz, in part to her Julie Schroeder­and on what is popular." benefit to college-age women who formed a sand volleyball speech about intramural Biek and student director This winter, along because it team with her cousin and involvement at freshman ori­Martha Hottenstein. with indoor volleyball, teaches other friends, said she finds entation. "Martha has done a phe­soccer and three-on­"/ enjoy playing them how intramurals to be a relaxing 
"I think it was a good thing nomenal job," Kachmarik three basketball, the sports for fun and to relieve study break. to get in front of them," said. "] Intramurals) couldn't intramurals program stress "I enjoy playing sports for
not having such a
Kachmarik said. "It made a run without her leadership." will be offering dodge­through fun and not having such a
huge commitment. " 
huge difference. I was really Building on its growing ball to students. activities. huge commitment," Kopacz pleased to do that." popularity, the Saint Mary's "We decided to jump "I think a said. "You go out twice a Interest has also perked up intramural program has been on the dodgeball Sarina Kopacz great fit­week for about a half hour since changes were made to able to add various sports to craze, Kachmarik ness and and everyone is out there just

freshman

the program in 2001, she its list of offerings. said. wellness having fun." 
said. "The main core of the pro­By adding sports that program 
That year, Kachmarik's sec­gram stays the same, are currently popular, even goes hand in hand with a ond as athletic director. she Kachmarik said. "But some of more students will want to great academic institution," Contact Kelly Bale at decided to increase the com-the non-traditional sports get involved with the pro-She said. "It brings us togeth-kbaleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

~----------------------------------------------­
page 4 Thursday, September 30, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 



Foran supports corporate culture 
Pfizer governance vice president speaks 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
Double Domer Peggy Foran, now viee president for corporate governance and corporate secn~­tary of Pfizer. deliven~d the third lectum in the Cardinal 0'1 lara lec­ture series in business ethics Wednesday. Foran earned under­graduate and law degrees at Notre Dame. 
She began by highlighting some of the recognition Pfizer has received for iL<; strides in account­ability. 
"Corporate governance," she said. "is the structure and process that links the actions of the board of directors, management and shareholders.... 
Pfizer has been an innovator in the realm of corporate gover­nance for more than a decade, she said. 
After providing a profile of Pfizer. focusing on its role as a truly global corporation as well as the largest research-oriented pharmaceutical producer in the world, Foran said it was the com­pany's early interest in corporate governance that propelled it to the foreground in the area. 
"One of the reasons we're a leader is that we got involved with corporate governance before any­one knew what it was," she said. 
Foran also touched on the high­profile scandals at Enron and WorldCom, and the government's response in the form of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Act provides standards of gover­nance to which companies must hold themselves accountable, she said. 
When asked how the corporate community has responded to Sarbanes-Oxley, Foran said it has truly made business leaders think. 
"People are taking [corporate governance] much more serious­ly," she said, "but there is a cost associated with that." 
She pointed out that many high­level managers at corporations nationwide dislike the Act's impli­cations, but said that both she and Pfizer support its aims overall. 
Foran went on to explain how, in the wake of Sarbanes-Oxley, Pfizer is keeping itself in compli­ance. She stressed the importance of independent, individually accountable directors. 
"When you have independent directors . . . who can truly repre­sent shareholders, that's when you'll see good decisions made," she said. 
Foran also emphasized the "tone at the top," saying that 
because employees tend to look to management to set an example, it is vital for corporations to hold their managers to high ethical standards. Finally, she noted that shareholders' opinions must always be taken into account. 
Near the end of the lecture, Foran said Pfizer's continued suc­cess in corporate governance rests in the maintenance of a positive corporate culture, including well­documented, ethically sound prac­tices in management and account­ing, as well as concern for the environment and the plight of the sick worldwide. After speaking of the company's ongoing focus in the area, she pointed out that Pfizer and its competitors will have to maintain accountability to prosper in the future. 
"I think it has to do with research and innovation," she said. "We're a pharmaceutical company ... we have an obligation to be very transparent." 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 


Diversity 
continued from page 1 

class on diversity education. 
Moss said he feels the freshmen program and the student trainer program have been very successful. 
"There's a high interest in this area," he said. "This is one venue by which stu­
dents  can  make  a  differ­ 
ence."  
In  Student  


Activities, all "It's really said at least LaFortune stu­beneficial to go half or the dent workers, diversity
through the
such as building training she 
mangers and training with the conducts 
information people that you focuses on desk employees, specific
work with day in
complete a departments. diversity train­and day out. " "It's really ing session dur­beneficial to ing fall orienta­go through the
Cathy Ewing 
tion, said assis­training with
human resources 
tant director the people
manager
Ryan Willerton. that you work 
operation." 

Cathy Ewing, a human resources manager, over­sees diversity training for that department. 
"Our focus is not just on nationality, ethnic or reli­gious diversity, but also about diversity with regard to social-economics Iand I how people form biases," she said. "We try to focus on similarities." 
In addition to University-
wide pro­
grams, Ewing 
The training program began several years ago and has changed somewhat over time. 
"We invited campus rep­resentatives from various departments [to speak this fall]." Willerton said. 
Because LaFortune stu­dent employees often have contact with the general public, Willerton said diver­sity training is especially important. 
"They may not recognize that they're the face of Notre Dame," he said. "[But] this is our front line 
with day in and day out," she said. 
In contrast to some other departments, Ewing noted that the demand for diversi­ty training in human resources has increased and decreased over the years, probably due to staff turnover, she said. 
"It's cyclical," she said. "It becomes a real concern for organizations and then it fades away and then it becomes important." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 


Thursday 



'Br~ 
~ 
Vr~ 

midnight 

Swingers Friday-Saturday 



llh 
with live DJ 
12-4am 
(tiFEN~ T~ NPM~ 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September"30, 2004 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Father identifies daughter's body 
BOGOTA. Colombia -Daniela Vanegas, a bright-eyed girl with thick, dark tresses, was kidnapped almost a year ago as she boarded her school bus in Bogota. 
On Wednesday, her father, Miguel Angel Vanegas, was summoned to the city morgue. Authorities suspected a body that had been discovered stuffed into a large plastic bag in a poor Bogota neighborhood was hers, but they needed a positive identification from the father. 
Vanegas, making a trip that is every father's nightmare, entered the morgue. The body, which had been stabbed, was indeed Daniela's. 
Vanegas. a middle-class businessman, learned the dreadful fate that had befallen his daughter after months of pleading over the phone with kidnappers who had set an impossibly high ransom demand: $1.9 mil­lion. 

Palestinian rocket hits Israeli city 
SDEROT, Israel -A Palestinian rocket slammed into a street in this southern Israeli town Wednesday, killing two pre­school children playing in a yard as Israelis ushered in the fall harvest festival of Sukkot. 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon phoned Sderot Mayor Eli Moyal and told him that "Israel will respond" to the attack, a govern­ment official said. 
The rocket attack came in defiance of a major Israeli raid into the nearby Gaza Strip aimed at rooting out militants behind an unending wave of rocket attacks in recent weeks. The raid, which began late Tuesday, killed four Palestinians and wounded 46 others, Palestinian hospital officials said. 

~ 
[ 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Bush never disciplined in Guard 
WASHINGTON -President Bush never was 
disciplined while serving in the Texas Air National Guard, never failed a physical and never asked his father or family friends for help to get him into the guard during the Vietnam War, the White House said Wednesday. 
The White House answers came in response to a dozen questions submitted by The Associated Press in light of new records detail­ing Bush's Guard service and allegations that have surfaced this election season. 
The Texas Air National Guard stripped Bush of his pilot status in August 1972 for failing to take the annual medical exam required of all pilots. Former Air National Guard officials say it was rare for a pilot to skip his physical exam. 
Army meets recruiting goals 
WASHINGTON -Overcoming the recruiting turnoff of a mounting U.S. casualty toll in Iraq, the Army met most of its enlistment goals for the 2004 recruiting year. officials said Wednesday. 
It expects a harder time reaching its goals in 2005, however, in part because it begins the recruiting cycle with a smaller-then-usual pool of "delayed entry" recruits -people who enlist but wait until the following year to report for duty. 
Many who signed up in 2004 and might oth­erwise have delayed their entry until 2005 were instead shipped off to boot camp this year. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Hispanics, Asians increase population 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's growing Hispanic and Asian communities have fueled much of the state's population increase this decade, new Census Bureau estimates show. 
The number of Hispanics living in Indiana jumped by nearly 12 percent between 2000 and 2003, with the state's Asian population growing by about 20 percent during that time, according to population figures being released Thursday. 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Death for two USS Colebombers 
Yemeni judge hands down sentences against six men involved in terrorist attack 
Associated Press 
SAN'A, Yemen -A Saudi suspected of being an associate of Osama bin Laden and a Yemeni mili­tant were sentenced to death by firing squad Wednesday for the bomb­ing of the USS Cole four years ago, the first convic­tions in the al-Qaida terror attack that killed 17 American sailors. 
The judge ordered four other Yemenis jailed for five to 10 years. 
With army snipers on nearby rooftops and armored vehicles and sol­diers surrounding the courthouse, Judge Najib al-Qaderi handed down guilty verdicts in an often­delayed trial that saw the five defendants in Yemen's custody refuse to enter pleas, claiming U.S. inter­ference in the case. 
The judge ordered Jamal al-Badawi, a 35-year-old Yemeni, and Saudi-born Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, who is in U.S. custody at an undisclosed location, executed for plotting the attack by two suicide bombers who blew up an explosives-laden boat next to the Cole as it refueled in the Yemeni port of Aden on Oct. 12, 2000. 
In reading the verdict, the judge pointed to the prosecution's statement that Badawi arid al-Nashiri bought the speedboat the bombers rammed into the Cole. 
"This verdict is an American one and unjust," al-Badawi yelled from behind the bars of a court­room cell after al-Qaderi sentenced him to death. "There are no human rights in the world, except for the Americans. All the Muslims in the world are being used to serve American interests." 
Al-Nashiri, who is believed to have master­minded the Cole attack and also thought to have directed the 1998 bomb­ings at the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, was the only defendant not present during the trial. 

It was not clear how the verdict would affect al­Nashiri's detention. Four American officials attend­ed the sentencing, but refused to comment on the trial. U.S. Embassy offi. cials in Yemen, reached by The Associated Press, also declined immediate com­ment. 
The United States announced al-Nashiri's arrest in 2002. He was detained in the United Arab Emirates and trans­ferred to American cus­tody. U.S. officials believe he is a close associate of Saudi-born bin Laden. 
Al-Nashiri's lawyer, Mohammed al-Ezzani, accused the court of not 

using any of the evidence he presented to argue his client's innocence. "There are no documents by which the court can justify its death sentence," al­Ezzani told AP. 
Mohammed al-Badawi, brother of the Yemeni con­demned to death, denounced the verdict and told AP his brother and the four other Yemenis con­victed Wednesday would appeal their sentences. 
Al-Badawi's father, also named Mohammed, urged Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh to overturn the decision, which he claimed was made "under heavy American pres­sure." 
"It is a ready-made ver­dict and we will appeal," the father said. 

The six men were all charged with belonging to al-Qaida and playing vari­ous roles in the suicide attack on the Cole, which was carried out by two 
Yemenis,  Ibrahim  al­ 
Thawr and  Hasaan  al­ 
Khamri.  

"The evidence obtained by the court affirms the collaboration of the defen­dants in the case ... which harmed the country, its reputation and threatened its social stability and security," the judge said before issuing his sen­tences. 
Al-Qaderi sentenced Fahd al-Qasa to 10 years in prison for filming the bombing, which ripped a huge hole in the destroyer. 
Scientists predict potential eruption 
ash. But a small or moderate blast
Associated Press 
could coat an area three miles around 
SEATTLE, Wash. -Mount St. the volcano's crater with ash and rock, Helens began rumbling more intensely scientists said. Wednesday, prompting scientists to Few people live near the mountain, warn that a small or moderate erup­which is surrounded by a national for­tion could happen in the next few est. The closest structure is the days. Johnston Ridge Observatory, about 
Earthquakes ranging from magni­five miles from the crater. tude 2 to 2.5 were coming about four The Geological Survey raised the times a minute, possibly weakening mountain's eruption advisory from the lava dome in the crater of the Level 2 to Level 3 out of a possible 4 8,364-foot mountain, the U.S. on Wednesday, prompting officials to Geological Survey said. begin notifying various state and fed­
Scientists did not expect anything eral agencies of a possible eruption. like the mountain's devastating erup­The USGS also has asked the National tion in 1980, which killed 57 people Weather Service to be ready to track and coated towns 250 miles away with an ash plume with its radar system. 
In addition, scientists called off a plan to have two researchers study water rushing from the crater's north face for signs of magma. A plane was still able to fly over the crater Wednesday to collect gas samples. 
"An aircraft can move the [heck] out of the way fast," said Jeff Wynn, the chief scientist at the survey's Cascade Volcano Observatory. "We don't want anyone in there on foot." 
The USGS has been monitoring St. Helens closely since last Thursday, when swarms of tiny earthquakes were first recorded. On Sunday, scien­tists issued a notice of volcanic unrest, closing the crater and upper flanks of the volcano to hikers and climbers. 
.• 

Thursday, September 30, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 
the ability to run neck and dent) carries far more weight Trbovich also took the and me. It's about your chil­neck with a wartime presi­than it would in an election oppor.tunity to show his sup­dren ... I hope you vote ... and
Labor 


Infortll~ti~~fi\f~~ti;g·-­
Thursday, $.eptember 30th 
continued from page 1 
not to be taken lightly. 
"The labor union ranks hold over 13 and a half million Americans ... unions [could) be tlw singln greatest source of powPr a candidate has," Trbovich said. "In many unions. Democratic registra­tion outpaces Hepublicans by 2-1. sometinws wider than 70 percent to 30 percent." 
Trbovich said that because of unions' size and largely Democratic composition, they are a significant part of the Kerry-Edwards campaign's support. 
"Th(• union vote gives Kerry dent," Trbovich said. 

lie also focused on the diffi­culties inherent in mobilizing and encouraging swing voters in the unions. Trbovich cited the media as one of the princi­pal problems facing voter awareness. 
"One of the most significant reasons for the reduced power of the union vote is the grow­ing inl'luence of the modern media on culture. and their impact on voter opinion," Trbovich said. "We no longer just get the facts about the candidate's statements and positions, as was once the case -[now) we get a 'feel' for who they are." 
"The persona of [a presi­
for a local public office," Trbovich continued. "The can­didate' performances, the per­sonas presented in their ads, are what define their appeal." 
Another problem the media creates, Trbovich said. is the movement away from the "collective action" that defines unions, and towards individ­ual action. 
Trbovich said that too much of a focus on individual action would ultimately reduce Democrat effectiveness against their opposition. 
"How powerful is one indi­vidual compared to a multi­billion dollar corporation, able to flood congress with letters and requests?" he said. 
port for John Kerry. 
"We are not about to commit our considerable resources to any Democrat who, willy-nilly, abandons his allegiance to our values of social and economic justice," Trbovich said. ''I've never doubted [Kerry) as a man. as a leader loyal to the values we share about work­ing people and the importance that unions represent to the strength of America." 
In closing, Trbovich encour­aged all those in attendance to exercise their ability to vote. 
"At the end of the day, the campaign really isn't about Bush or Kerry, is it?" he said. "It's about us. It's about you I hope you'll. reach beyond ... the image of the media." 

Teresa Ghilarducci, director of the lliggins Labor Hcsearch Center. felt that the lecture received a positive reaction from those in attendance. 
"It was probably one of tlw most enthusiastic responses in a long time." Ghilarducci said. 
The lecture was part of the McBride Lecture series, spon­sored by the !Iiggins Labor Hesearch Center. Inaugurated in 1978. the lecture series was established to help improve an understanding of unions and their effects on the economy. 
Contact Paul Spadafora at pspadafo@nd.edu 
sider paying for a legal music require those who want the downloading service. service sign up individually,

Senate 

Mcllugh said that Tom and by using their Notre Dame continued from page I Monaghan, planning director email account as proof that for the Office of they are a stu­well." Information dent, secure
"For NDSP, policing
Baron said student leaders Technologies. dis­unlimited legal will ask NDSP to write up a cussed two ends on campus, music downloads eomprnhensive security plan. options regarding for $20 for the
but security

The Senate approved the the usc of the entire academic
doesn't."

topic with no opposition. Istvan Napster service. year. The price is said that tlw report was to be The first plan not co.ntingent completed and sent to the for unlimited Dave Baron upon the number Trustees by today. downloading of students that
chief executive 

The triannual Board of requires that the register, McHugh
assistant

Trustees moeting will be held University pay $1 said. 
Oct. 7. per month for McHugh told every member of the student fellow senators that he would In other Senate news: body, regardless of use. like to make the pursuit of the 
• Brendan McHugh. Dillon sen­"The administration doesn't latter option a student govern­ator and member of the like to do that though, so that's ment initiative. H1~s id en ce Life Committee, not really feasible," McHugh reported his findings about the said. Contact Amanda Michaels at University's willingness to con-The second route would amichael@nd.edu 




WASHI 


SHANIN 
and 

JUDAH 
Congratulations on your engagement 
"A match made in Heaven" 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, September 30, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
fc,~~s 10,136.24 +58.84 
~ Same: Qown: Compos;te Volume: 1,807 145 • l,oW6,899,200 

AMEX  1, 893;94  f6.88  
NASDAQ  1,893.94  +2.4.07  
NYSE.  6,560:68  +17.29  
S&PSOO  1,114.80  +4.74  
NIKK£/(Tokyo)  10,786.10  0.00  
FTSE IOO(London) 4,588.10  +20.80  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +13.96 +0.37 3.02 INTEL CORP (INTC) + 1,98 +0.39 20.07 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.14 +0.31 27.58 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) + 1.33 +0.24 18.31 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.62 +0.07 11.43 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.25 +0.60 48.61 10-YEAR NOTE + 1.94 +0.78 40.90 5-YEARNOTE +2.53 +0.83 33.58 3-MONTH BILL -0.41 -0.07 16.80 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.39 49.5 I GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.50 414.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.775 96.725 
Excha Rates 

YEN II 0.8300 EURO 0.8108 POUND 0.5555 CANADIAN$ 1.2703 
IN BRIEF 
Jobs cut at Dallas Morning News 
DALLAS -Media owner Belo Corp. said Wednesday that it would cut 250 jobs, more than half of them at its flagship newspaper, The Dallas Morning News, and that an internal investigation into circulation overstatements showed the projected circulation decline at the newspaper would be slightly steeper than fore­cast last month. 
Belo said the layoffs, amounting to 3 percent of its total work force, were prompted by flat revenue since 2001 in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, where it also owns a television station. the layoffs are expected by Nov. 1. 
Dallas-based Belo said The Morning News' cir­culation would fall 11.9 percent on Sundays and 
5.1 percent on other days for the six months ended Sept. 30 compared to a year earlier. The company had said last month the declines would be 11.5 percent on Sundays and 5 percent other days. 
Belo said most of the decline is believed relat­ed to overstatements stemming from a sales­incentive program that began in early 1999 and has since been stopped. · 
It said Wednesday that an investigation by Belo executives and outside attorneys found no evidence of wrongdoing by current senior exec­utives of the newspaper or the parent company. The vice president of circulation left the news­paper last month. 
Health benefits reviewed in fall 
NEW YORK -With the arrival of fall, many companies flood employee mail boxes with brochures about next year's benefit program offerings, reminding workers that this is the time to select new health insurance and retire­ment savings options. 
It can be confusing, especially when it comes to choosing from a variety of health care plans that can range from health management organi­zations to indemnity insurance. And workers often are asked to review their 401(k) retire­ment account contribution levels. 
While people who work with small companies often have few choices, those at large firms may have dozens of alternatives, said Dallas L. Salisbury, chief executive of the nonprofit Employee Benefit Research Institute. 

U.S. crude inventories grow 
Prices fall as supplies build despite Hurricane Ivan, natural gas futures surge 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Oil prices fell Wednesday after government data showed U.S. inventories of crude grew last week, sur­prising many traders and analysts who had expect­ed supplies to shrink due to lingering output prob­lems caused by Hurricane Ivan. 
Contributing to the drop in prices was word of a tentative agreement between the Nigerian gov­ernment and the leader of a militia group that had threatened to target for­eign oil firms and their workers. · 
Light sweet crude for November delivery fell 39 cents to settle at $49.51 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after rising above $50 a barrel Tuesday. 
Meantime, the price of natural gas futures surged, rising by nearly 7 percent in a runup that traders said was driven more by technical factors than supply-demand fun­damentals. Natural gas for November delivery rose 56 cents to settle at $6.911 per 1,000 cubic feet. 

Ed Silliere, vice presi­dent of risk management at Energy Merchant in gas have been lost since averaged 9.9 million bar­high -above $40 a barrel New York, said the spike Sept. 13. rels per day -a rise .of -into 2005. was due to a wave of As for oil, 11.8 million 1.5 million barrels a day Crude futures hit $50 a short-covering, whereby barrels of production have from the prior week, the barrel for the first time in investors who had incor­been lost and daily output agency said. after-hours trading rectly expected natural in the region is still down Also, as refiners strug­Monday and stayed in that gas prices to fall cover by 29 percent, the MMS gled to regroup following general range Tuesday, their bets by buying and said. the hurricane, the amount spurred higher by reports causing futures to rise fur­However, government of oil they used last week that rebels in Nigeria were ther. and industry analysts had declined by 700,000 bar­battling for control of the 
The spark for the initial cautioned a week ago that rels per day, on average, . country's vast southern oil rise in prices, Silliere said, large amounts of oil would the government said. This fields. Those fears were was the slow rate of eventually arrive in the caused a drop, though, in tempered Wednesday return of natural gas pro­United States, as tankers the amount of gasoline after the rebels' leader duction in the Gulf of that were delayed by a that was produced. said he agreed to a tenta­Mexico, where daily out­string of hurricanes began The nation's supply of tive deal with President put is down 19 percent, or making their deliveries. crude is still 4 percent Olusegun Obasanjo to end 
2.3 billion cubic feet, The weekly supply data below last year's level at fighting in Africa's leading nearly two weeks after released by the Energy 272.9 million barrels. petroleum exporter. Ivan passed through the Department Wednesday With fears of international "Whether that holds up, region. The federal appeared to prove them supply disruptions at a remains to be seen," said Minerals Management correct. Commercial time when the world's Peter Beutel, president of Service reported inventories of oil grew by excess production capacity Cameron Hanover Inc., a Wednesday that 52.4 bil­3.4 million barrels last is minimal, many analysts New Canaan, Conn.-based lion cubic feet of natural week, while oil imports expect oil prices to remain energy consulting group. 

Business owners begin tax planning 
up what is known as a qualified 2004.
Associated Press 

retirement plan, such as a 401(k) or "If you're in the black, you might 
NEW YORK -With the arrival of profit-sharing plan, you need to get want to do things to pull net income the fourth quarter, small business IRS approval for the plan by Dec. 31 down," said Bob Doyle, a CPA with owners need to be doing some year­to get tax benefits for this year. Spoor. Doyle & Associates in St. end planning-looking at their com­There's another practical reason Petersburg, Fla. panies' finances and taxes and mak­for doing your year-end planning That means seeing what kind of ing some decisions for the rest of now -it's a relatively slow period legitimate expenses you can come up 2004 and early 2005. for many accountants, and yours is with. Doyle and other accountants 
This is a job that should be done in likely to have more time to help you. suggest business owners consider early October and not put off till the As Wind said, "it's a wonderful time making equipment purchases before end of December, as some of the to get in and see your CPA." the end of the year, perhaps acceler­steps you decide to take might Accountants recommend that busi­ating a purchase planned for 2005, require time to carry out. ness owners look at companies' and setting up those retirement 
"In the last weeks of the year, it's finances not only for 2004, but for plans. often too late to start" making plans, 2005 and beyond. Accountants urge small business said Gregg R. Wind, a certified public The first thing you need to do is owners to try to take advantage of accountant in Los Angeles. determine whether your business is what's known as a Section 179 
For example, if you decided to set likely to show a profit or loss for deduction. 
page 8 
Arrests 
continued from page 1 
cuff him and he [cooperated!," Dcitchley said, adding that no force was required in the inci­dent. McEntee was arrested for resisting law enforcement by flight and minor in con­sumption. 
As Hetter tried to leave the 
scene, an officer reached for 
him. but he slipped out of the 
officer's grasp, Deitchley said. 
The officer then caught up 
with Hetter between two cars 
and a physical struggle 
ensued. 
"They were grappling back and forth," Oeitchley said, with the officer eventually using a head control technique to take Retter to the ground and put him in handcuffs. A . fake ID was found in Hetter's possession afterward, Deitchley said. 
Hetter was arrested for resisting law enforcement by 11ight, minor in consumption, public intoxication and posses­sion of false identification. 
Both McEntee and Better declined to comment. • Sophomore Nicholas Maurice, 18, was arrested at 
1:10 p.m. at a tailgate in Blue Lot South. Deitchley said he personally approached the student after seeing him set down a bottle of beer, but Maurice took a "posturing," or defiant, stance. 
"I told him not to do that, to come over for a ticket," Deitchley said. "lie began pos­turing again, so I put him in handcuffs." 
Maurice hesitated to put his hands behind his back. but did not resist. Deitchley said. The Observer was unable to reach Maurice for comment. 
All three arrested students were transported to the jail and were released at different times Saturday afternoon, depending on posted bail and blood alcohol content, said Keith Hininger, director of inmate services. 
"We can't legally let anyone go intoxicated," he said. 
While Rininger said specific 
bail information for the three 
students was unavailable, he 
said $100 to $250 constitutes 
the standard range for their 
charges. 
Excise officer Christopher Bard said resisting law enforcement by flight is a class A misdemeanor, punishable by up to one year in jail and/or up to a $5,000 fine. Public intoxi­cation is a class B misde­meanor, punishable by up to 180 days in jail and/or up to a $1,000 fine. Minor in con­sumption and minor in posses­sion are both class C misde­meanors, punishable by up to 60 days in jail and/or up to a $500 fine. Possession of false identification is a class C infraction, punishable by up to a $500 fine and no jail time. It is up to the judgment of the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office whether to compound penalties for people who incur multiple violations at once, Bard said. 
Though the prosecutor received the charges Monday, the students have yet to be formally charged, office repre­sentative Tracy Becker said. llowever, this time lag is typi­cal and charges likely will be liled next week. she said. 
In addition to raucous off­campus pregame parties, offi­cers are drawn to on-campus tailgates with certain charac­teristics, Hakow said. 
Tailgates that are very large, that involve shotgunning or drinking games, that have no food and huge amounts of alcohol or spill over into oth­ers' space raise warning flags, Rakow said. The task force distributed fliers detailing these concerns to tailgaters in the lots surrounding Legends, a recent problem area, on Saturday. 
"Legends had been kind of building over the last year or more -it got to the point where we had to address it," Hakow said. "This is one thing you don't get your arms around all at once." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 



2004 Nieuwland 
" 
.... 
ce'!~r to',Jh Lectures in 
rpfled .·...!' 
M~thematics Applied 
~:~niversity of notre dame 


Mathematics 
Paul H. Bou•r Senior Follow Hoonr Institution 
Friday, October 1, 2004 
3:00P.M. 119 O'Shaughnessy 

"Existence, Uniqueness, and Computational Theo~y for Time Consistent Equilibria: A Hyperbolic Discounting ~~ample" 
'~,'--~
' . 
' . '·. :~ . . 

~:ir·~ :·­
~ '··J­
~~i'\~'''" ><:' ·•:-.' ·,.~?J:;< . 

Information ~bout lectures in the Nieuwla~d Lecture~..W~ in Applied Mathematics may be found at http:/ /www.nd.edu/-cam/lectures/nls_lectures/ 
Thursday, September 30, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 




Lawlllakers bemoan legislation 
Democrats say "extraneous items" interfere with bill 
Associated Press tion or tangential relation to the 9/11 commission report," 
WASHINGTON New Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., immigration barriers and said Wednesday. "We should expanded police powers, as consider them in a bill sepa­well as making more of the rate from this." public airwaves available for The House and Senate are 
emergency serv­ churning their  
ices, are some of the issues trying to find a home in  "There are many provisions in this  way through separate bills to create a nation­ 
a bill to overhaul  bill that have no  al intelligence  
U.S. spy agen­cies. With the politi­ relation or tangential relation  director and a .national coun­terterrorism  
cal pressure of  to the 9!1 I  center  to  
an Election Day coming up, Democrats are  commission report."  address the Sept. 11 com­mission's com­ 
complaining that  plaint that the  
too many items  Jerrold Nadler  nation's intelli­ 
they consider extraneous have  Democratic senator  gence agencies didn't work  
gotten  tacked  together proper­ 

onto legislation designed to ly to stop the terrorist attacks enact recommendations of the on New York City and Sept. 11 commission on better Washington. fighting terrorism. However, those two ideas ­
"There are many provisions that an intelligence director in this bill that have no rela-should exist before Election Day and have a counterterror­ism center to help fight terror­ism -are about the only things that the House, Senate and White I louse agree on so far. 
House Hepublicans who want the Sept. 11 bill to include other anti-terrorism and immigration enforcement powers produced a 300-plus page package laden with bills they had introduced before the Sept. 11 report came out. 
By doing a large, compre­hensive bill that would increase police powers and implement new anti-immigra­tion measures such as deny­ing immigrants certain court appeals and allowing more people to be arrested on accu­sations of supporting a terror­ist group, House Judiciary Chairman James Sensenbrenner, H-Wis., says they're responding to what the Sept. 11 commission wants: greater security for America. 



~recommend 
Terry Gross, the lwst of NPR's Fresh Air. collects some of her fnvotite interviews with people in the arts. 




HAMMES 




NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574} 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
More than just textbooks. 
________________________. 
Thursday, September 30, 2004 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Judge blocks secret search la-w 
ACLU declares ruling a 'landmark victory' 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE. Alaska -A Superior Court judge on Wednesday ordered the state to rewrite, reprint and redistribute all of its ballots for the Nov. 2 elec­tion. saying the wording of a ballot initiative was inaccurate and biased. 
Elections officials said that they could comply with the order, but that it would take 15 days and cost nearly $300,000. · 
The ballot initiative concerns how the state fills its U.S. Senate vacancies. 
Currently, the governor can appoint a replacement to a vacant Senate seat. The initiative would abolish appointments and require a special election in all cases except when the vacancy occurs 
Alaskan ballots err 
State spends $2_95,000 tp correct 
within 60 days of a primary elec­tion. 
The four-sentence summary on the ballot wrongly estimates how long a Senate seat would be vacant under the initiative, Judge Moorage Christen wrote in her order. The summary also says the measure would leave Alaska with­out full representation in the Senate, wording which is not impartial, she said. 
"Emphasizing one consequence to the exdusion of others is imper­missible advocacy," Christen wrote. 
Nearly all 517,000 ballots have. arrived at the state's regional elec­tion offices, according to Thomas Godkin, an administrative supervi­sor for the Division of Elections. He said it will take 15 days to reprint and redistribute the ballots. 



Happy Birthday Chaz 
Just keep doing those 1 ounce curls. 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Declaring 
that personal security is as 
important as national securi­
ty, a judge Wednesday 
blocked the government from 
conducting secret, unchal­
lengeable searches of 
Internet and telephone 
records as part of its fight 
against terrorism. 

The American Civil 
Liberties Union called the 
ruling a "landmark victory" 
against the Justice 
Department's post-Sept. 11 
law enforcement powers. 

"Today's ruling is a ·whole­
sale refutation of excessive 
government secrecy and 
unchecked executive power," 
said ACLU attorney Jameel 
Jaffer. 

U.S. ·District Judge Victor Marrero struck down a provi­sion of the Patriot Act that authorizes the FBI to force Internet service providers and phone companies to turn over certain customer records. The companies are then barred from ever dis­closing the search took place. 
In his ruling, the judge called national security of "paramount value" and said the government "must be empowered to respond promptly and effectively" to threats. But he called person­al security equal in impor­tance and "especially prized in our system of justice." 
THE AREA'S 
NEWEST 

FINE DINING 
RESTAURANT! 
Dry-Aged Prime Steaks 
• 

Market Fresh Seafood 
• 
Private Parties 
• 


Outdoor Dining 
• 

ENJOY LIVE JAZZ & BLUES IN OUR MARTINI LOUNGE 
Marrero said his ruling blocks the government from issuing the requests or from enforcing the non-disclosure provision "in this or any other case." But the ruling will not immediately take effect to allow for an appeal. 
Megan L. Gaffney, a spokes­woman for the federal prose­cutor's office in Manhattan, said ·the government was reviewing the decision and 
had  no  imme­ 
diate  com­ 
ment.  
The  judge  

said the law violates the Fourth Amendment because it bars or deters any judicial challenge to the govern­ment search­es, and vio­lates the First Amendment because its 
"Today's ruling was authorized to is a wholesale pursue communi­cations records as
refutation of 
part of a 1986

excessive 
law. Its powers government were enhanced by the Patriot Act in
secrecy and 
2001.

unchecked 
In a footnote to 

executive power. " his ruling, Marrero cited words he had
Jameel Jaffer 
written two years


ACLU attorney 
ago in another 

permanent ban on disclosure is a prior restraint on speech. 
He noted that the Supreme Court recently said that a "state of war is not a blank check for the president when it comes to the rights of the nation's citizens." 
"Sometimes a right, once extinguished, may be gone for good," Marrero wrote. 
Marrero issued his decision in favor of an Internet access firm identified in his 120­page ruling as "John Doe." He had agreed to keep the firm's identity secret to pro­tect the FBI probe that led to the search request. 
Jaffer. the ACLU lawyer. said the government had turned over as part of the lawsuit a six-page document showing it had obtained Internet or telephone records dozens and possibly hun­
dreds of times. 
The government 
case to warn that 
courts must apply "particular vigilance to safe­guard against excess commit­ted in the name of expedien­cy." 
"The Sept. 11 cases will challenge the· judiciary to do Sept. 11 justice, to rise to the moment with wisdom equal to the task, its judgments worthy of the large dimen­sions that define the best Sept. 11 brought out of the rest of American society." 

page 10 Thursday, September 30, 2004 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 


Prisoner charged with federal botnbing plot 
Inmate planned Milwaukee blast 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -A man in prison on drug offenses was charged Wednesday with threat­ening to blow up a federal build­ing in downtown Milwaukee with a delivery truck filled with explosives. 
Steven J. Parr, 39, was charged the same day he was to be sent to a halfway house in Janesville. 
U.S. Attorney Steven Biskupic said Parr expressed hatred for the federal government and spoke about retaliating against law enforcement when he got out of prison. 
"We consider him extremely dangerous," he said. 
It was unclear when Parr planned to take action. or if he had the materials and resources to carry out such an attack. 
Parr allegedly planned to blow up the Reuss Federal Plaza. a 14-story blue building that hous­es more than 800 federal employees and multiple agen­cies. including the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Defense. 
Parr's cellmate alerted federal authorities in two letters dated Aug. 23, a criminal complaint said. The cellmate. whose name was withheld. said that Parr has extensive knowledge in bomb­making and considers 
J-fayyy 18t 'Birtficfay Mary! 
Love, 'Ron 
LUNKER'S 

HoME OF THE 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM AND ANGLER's INN RESTAURANT. HUGE SELECTION OF 



NORTH FACE 
JACKETS,COATS,HATS,CLOTHING BRING THIS AD INTO LUNKER's AND RECEIVE lOio OFF NoRTH FACE ITEMS. LUNKER's APPROX. 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. TAKE ST. RD. 23 N TO EDWARDSBURG, MICHIGAN 
269-663-3745 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM 
Unabomber Ted Kaczynski one of his heroes, the complaint said. 
He also said Parr considered himself a "separatist" and often talked about Kaczynski and Timothy McVeigh, who bombed the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City in 1995, the complaint said. 
The cellmate said Parr picked the Reuss Federal Plaza because of its proximity to the street and the amount of glass in the build­ing to make a big impact. The letter also said Parr owned "The Anarchist Cookbook" and a notebook with chemical formu­las for bombs. 
A partial transcript of a secretly taped conversation between Parr and his cellmate quoted Parr as saying the inci­dent would "sure change the attitude of the country" and "make a wonderful statement." 
Two women who had lived with Parr told FBI agents his hobby was bomb-making and he had made explosive devices in the garage or in his home. 
Parr was serving a two-year drug sentence. Prior to his arrest Wednesday, he was scheduled to spend 90 days in the halfway house before being released under extended super­vision. the complaint said. 
The charge carries a maxi­mum penalty of life in prison. 




Indiana utility violates air laws 
Four coal-fired power plants cited for pollution 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -An Indiana public utility was told Wednesday by the Environmental Protection Agency that it has violated air pollution laws at four coal­fired power plants. 
Northern Indiana Public Service Co. received a notice from the EPA saying it had improved those plants between 1985 and 1995 without the proper permits and additional pollution controls. 
The EPA plans to refer the case to the Justice Department fo.r prosecution. EPA Administrator Mike Leavitt cast it as a sign the Bush administration is tough on pol­luters. 
"They are for increases in pollution that occurred in the '90s," Leavitt said in a tele­phone interview from Cincinnati. "This is the fourth such enforcem-ent action I've authorized in just under 300 days." 
Larry Graham, a spokesman for the utility, had no comment other than to confirm it had received the notice. "We are currently reviewing the order," he said. 
The EPA said the Indiana utility's plants where the viola­tions occurred are at NIPSCO's Bailly plant near Chesterton, two Lake County plants and one in Michigan City. 
The action falls under a pro­vision in the 1977 Clean Air Act that has long drawn con­troversy and complaints from businesses. The provision requires older plants to install expensive new pollution con­trols when they undergo major modifications or improve­ments. 
The Bush administration has issued new rules making it easier for plants to avoid hav­ing to meet those require­ments. Environmentalists. Democrats and a group of states that filed suit against the rules have bitterly complained that they let the dirtiest indus­trial plants off the hook at the cost of thousands of premature deaths and respiratory illness­es. 
The Clinton administration began vigorously enforcing the law in 1999 with a series of enforcement actions against nine utilities, claiming that they violated the law under the guise of routine maintenance by making changes at 43 power plants that added to pol­lution. 
One of those cases was set­tled by the Clinton administra­tion. six by the Bush adminis­tration. resulting in 200,000 to 600,000 fewer tons of pollution from nitrous oxides and sulfur dioxide, according to EPA and Justice Department figures. 
Leavitt said he has been told that successfully prosecuting all of the cases already begun by his agency could reduce that pollution by 1.7 million to 
2.2 million tons. 

WITH YOUR COLLEGE ID ANYTIME on Monday thru Thursday (Oct. 4-7)* *With the exception of 6 prn--9 pm on Tuesday & subject to lane availability 5419 N. Qrape Rd., Mlshawa~, JN-4~~ ~.PHONE: (574} 243-BOWL., FAX: (574} 243-2696  
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE AND LINDA SCHAEFER, MOTHER TERESA'S LAST PHOTOGRAPHER PRESENT THROUGH EYES OF FAITH: A PILGRIMAGE TO INDIA DECEMBER 27, 2004-JANUARY 10, 2005 Join Linda Schaefer, author of Come and See, a documentary on the work of Mother Teresa, for a journey into the heart and soul of India-examining the life and struggles of a rich culture through the eyes offaith. This program combines first hand experience of the ministry of Mother Teresa's Missionaries ofCharity as well an engaging experience ofthe beliefs and practices of Indians (Hindus, Muslims, Christians and Buddhists) in places of great natural and artistic beauty. INFORMATIONAL SESSION NEXT WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6 7PM HOLY CROSS COLLEGE CHAPEL FOR MORE DETAILS, VISIT www.hec-nd.edu  

Thursday, September 30, 2004 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Louisville detective acquitted of Inurder 

Shooting stirs racial tensions 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -A for­mer Louisville police detective was acquitted of murder, manslaughter and reckless homicide Wednesday in the fatal shooting of a teenage drug suspect that stoked racial tensions in the city. 
The former detective, McKenzie Mattingly, showed no emotion as the verdicts were read. Jurors returned the partial verdict after more than eight hours of delibera­tions and were sent back to deliberate on a separate charge of wanton endanger­ment. 
Mattingly's trial has been closely watched in Louisville's black community because 19­year-old Michael Newby was the seventh black man killed by Louisville police since 1998. Mattingly is white. 
In an 11th-hour turnaround, the prosecution told jurors during closing arguments that they should not find Mattingly guilty of murder, but convict him of a lesser charge. 
"I do not think that is what he is guilty of," said Scott Davis, an assistant ·prosecutor. 
Mattingly's attorney, Steve Schroering, said Mattingly feared for his life· before he shot Newby. 
"There is not one piece of evidence in this case that proves that McKenzie Mattingly was doing anything other than protecting him­self," Schroering said during his closing. 
The wanton endangerment charge related to shots fired by the officer in the direction of a liquor store drive-thru window. 

NOTRE DAME MEN'S WATER POLO TEAM is ranked 16th Nationally and is searching for good, hard-working 

for their run at the National Title this November, hosted here, at NO. Experience is a plus! 
Got what it takes? Email wpolo@ nd.edu or be at Rolf's Aquatic Center M-TH 8:45-10:45 p.m. 

Associated Press 

BRIDGEPORT, Conn. Eighteen people, including the alleged No. 2 man in the Gambino crime family, were indicted Wednesday following an investigation into organ­ized crime in Connecticut, Rhode Island and suburban New York. 
Anthony "The Genius" Megale, a Stamford man believed to . be the highest-ranking Mafia mem­ber in Connecticut, was arraigned on a 46-count fed­eral indictment charging him with racketeering, extortion and illegal gambling. 
Fifteen of the 18 people were arrested Wednesday. Investigators were searching for the others, including Igazio Alogna, an alleged Mafia cap­tain, and Vincent Fiore, an alleged Gambino soldier from Goshen, N.Y., both charged with attempted extortion. 
Four of those indicted -Megale, Fiore, Alogna and Victor Riccitelli, who is charged with racketeering ­are allegedly "made" mem­bers of the Gambino family. 
"This is the most significant investigation of La Cosa Nostra in the state of Connecticut in 15 years," said Special Agent Michael Wolf, the state's top FBI agent. 


Gambino fatnily charged in bust 
18 indicted for racketeering, extortion, gambling 
ordered held while they await bail hearings within a week, during which time they were expected to hire or be assigned attorneys. None entered a plea. 
Megale, a stocky man with glasses and salt-and-pepper hair, rolled his eyes and smirked slightly when prose­cutors told him he was facing 
more than 20 'This is the most ing their court years in prison significant appearance, on nearly every some wearing
investigation ofLa
count. baggy T-shirts, 
"As underboss, Cosa Nostra in the others sweat Megale reports state of pants or jeans. to the boss of the In Wednesday's
Connecticut in 15
Gambino family, indictment, pros-
years.,
helps decide dis­ecutors don't ciplinary issues name the involving the Gambino boss
Michael Wolf 
family, and Megale allegedly
FBI Special Agent 
assists in resolu­answered to. Mob 
Megale of lending money at exorbitant rates. A $2,500 debt allegedly accrued inter­est at the rate of $100 a week. FBI agents and members of a regional strike force fanned out through southern Connecticut, New York and Rhode Island, arresting people around dawn. Many of the men looked bedraggled dur­

tion of internal family disputes," the indict­ment said. 
The indictment describes a traditional Mafia organization run out of Fairfield County, with members shaking down business owners. 
Prosecutors say Megale demanded $2,000 a month from an area nightclub owner for "protection," plus a little extra every year as a "Christmas bonus." A vending machine owner was allegedly forced to pay Megale's crew $200 a month. 
The indictment also accuses 
observers say that's because the leadership structure is fractured, with nobody clearly in charge. 
"There's no one guy who's running the show," said Joseph Coffey, a former New York police officer and mob expert. 
Twelve men were named in the main indictment and charged with racketeering, extortion or illegal gambling. Seven men were charged with dealing cocaine in two related indictments, including one defendant who also is charged in the main indictment. 



r----------------­
THE ()BSERVIR 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, September 30, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46'\56 EDITOR IN CHIEf Matt L.nar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghannc Downes  Mike Flanagan  
As.~~~ MANAGING EIJITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWs EDITORs Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITORs Sarah Vabulas St•ORTS EDITOR: Hearher Van Hoeg:~rden SCF.NF. EDITOR: Maria Smirh IN Focus EorrOR• Meghan Marrin SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angda Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITORs Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGERs Carrie Fr~nklin AI> DESIGN MANAGER; Kdly Ndson SVSTF.MS ADMINISTRATORs Mary Allen CON'fROUJ!R: Paula Garcia 
0FACE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obsead@>nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542. 
M~NAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@>nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS 0FACE 
(574) 631-53l3 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@>nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@>nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.J @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smcl @>nd cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 6,31-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8!139 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lu: and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertiscrncnts based on content 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhc majority ofthe Editor in Chid", Managing Editor, A.'iSistanr Managing Editor and department editors. Comruenraries, lerrers and columns pre.~enr the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available ro ~11 readers. The ff.:e expression ofall opinions through lencrs is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and mwt include con1·acr informacion. 
Qutsfitms rrgarding Observ~r policies should b~ dirrct~d wEditQr in Chit{ Matt UJZ4r. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'IlK-Ot,.c,\llf't {USI'l<! <;1)1} 2-4000) u.1Mdiltoh«t MmHl..y thn·u~h li~iJa.v .:ik:"'P' J~rblJ couDJ .mJ •.u...ttlun jtt:ri•w.b... A ~ul~tiJHC.m lu "Ill<' Olu...t'Pf.•r i~ .S HIO lur ulw a..:.tdnn~ yNt. S~5 furcmr..:"'qo.trr. 1'hc(lbi(Ttln ill ~mc-mht:r uf1hl' i\atKi.-k'd I~ AJI n:r11uJuu~m ricflu •r~· 
A.'JI.'f\lt,'t.L 
11M-OhuTYrT" publhhnl•r: P.O.llo.. Q UH \()uth llm1n~ Hall OH ~n.uh Oum1g H•U Notrt: LJo~u1co, IN -lM~~..ontJ Nom-l>•mt. IN 46~,6-0n'' 1\•t~e.l\h~•lt"~w.t~c' r.ud :.t Nmrt• l)amo: .u1d .nldiwmo~lm~ihng dftk~. 
St-ltd iltMI't'~' curra.tlun~o tn: 'i1K't.,....,~T 
lkc-t~rwr iJ • mcmhcrof the-!uSCH.l~ I~ AU "'"'Prod!X·t•ou rtgm t;I'C' 
,..,,...... 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Clairo !Ieininger Matt Puglisi Nicole Zook Eric Better Kelly Meehan Ken Fowler 
Viewpoint Scene 
Lauren Galgano Kcnyatta Storin Graphics Illustrator Kelly MacDonald Graham Ebetsch 
••• without tears 
You will probably be relieved to know that. after consultation with my spiritual advisor. I have decided not to turn Englishman Abroad into a biweekly column about sex. Actually my spiritual advis­er said "Ask again Peter Wicks later." but by then I'd had time to 
hnglishman
think about it and 
Abroad
realized it would 
be a bad idea. 
Nevertheless I can't seem to shake 
the feeling that I'm swimming against 
the tide of history. Since 1997 the 
Berkeley student newspaper has run a 
regular sex column. Presumably the 
editors of the Daily Californian got 
together one day and decided that if 
there was one thing the Bay Area was 
lacking it was some frank sexual dis­
cussion. Since then student sex 
columns have multiplied at the epi­
demic rate that one normally associ­
ates with coffee shop franchises. "Sex 
and the City" style columns have 
appeared in student papers at Yale, 
Boston College. New York University, 
Duke, the Universities of Kansas and 
Virginia and countless others. 
Now in some respects this is a devel­opment to be welcomed. For one thing, every column about sex is one less col­umn about politics. in which the writer solemnly proclaims, in a manner more befitting an Old Testament prophet, that justice is good and injustice bad. 
But this trend also has its disturbing aspects, not the least of which is that these columns are a leading cause of puns. I certainly don't think that a bunch of raunchy columns portend the imminent collapse of civilization. but it will be a dark day when "sexpert" makes its way into The American Heritage Dictionary. 
To write a sex column requires a certain tone of voice; cool, urbane, jaded. The columnist's authority depends upon giving the reader the impression that he or (more common­ly) she is beyond surprise in sexual matters. There is something depress­ing about seeing anyone taking pride in their disenchantment, but doubly so when it is a 21-year-old adopting the world-weary tone of Carrie Bradshaw. 

The best thing that anyone has said about modern sexual mores was said by I-LL. Mencken, although he died a long time ago and he thought he was talking about something else. It was Mencken who famously defined Puritanism as "the haunting fear that someone, somewhere. may be happy." Actually, when it comes to sex, it's the Puritans who are having a good time. According to the most authoritative study of American sexual life, The Chicago Health and Social Life Survey, the most orgasmic group of women are conservative Protestants -which is the sort of statistic that could keep Eve Ensler or Dan Savage awake at night. 
But leaving the Puritans out of it. the fear that Mencken described is the driving force behind not just the stu­dent sex columns but also the flourish­ing industry of guides and manuals promising to enhance our sexual ecstasy to hitherto unimagined levels, if only we are willing to undergo the sort of training regime that has hither­to only been adopted by gymnasts liv­ing under communist governments. The message is: other people are hav­ing sex so good it qualifies as a mysti­cal experience. The secrets can be yours provided, of course, that you buy the book. 
So powerful is the fear of missing out, we don't even notice the absurdity of what we are being offered. The pop star Sting boasts of eight-hour Tantric couplings. I'm not sure I'd want to go that long without laughing. 
Hugh Hefner once published a 250,000 word treatise on "The Playboy Philosophy." A quarter of a million word philosophy of living might seem a trifle overblown coming from a man who has spent the majority of his adult life in his pajamas, but Hefner always thought of himself as offering more than just airbrushed pictures of naked ladies. He was a cultural innovator, preaching a gospel of great sex enjoyed for its own sake. Hefnnr's "Philosophy" is by all accounts unreadable, but the implausibly named Malcolm Muggeridge once summed it up neatly in six words; the Playboy philosophy is the promise that "you can have sex without tears." 
Muggeridge seemed to think that the complete severance of sex from emo­tional life was impossible. but I'm not so sure about that. I think it's perfectly possible, though probably very difl1­cult, to divorce sex from all emotional consequence. I just don't see anything to envy in those who have accom­plished the feat. 
We sometim11s think and speak as if. were it not for the constraints of morality, we would head straight for the Playboy mansion. But leaving all questions of morality aside, I doubt many of us really want to b1~ thick­skinned enough to enjoy Hefner's par­adise. I doubt many of us really want. when we are old. to be able to look back on our lives and say "It was a lot of fun and nothing hurt." 
So, while they document our pecca­dilloes in encyclopedic detail, the stu­dent sex columnists will always avoid the questions that are worth asking about sex. Here's one: Suppose Hefner is right and Muggeridge is wrong; sup­pose you could have sex without the tears. Would you want it? 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. 1/e can bP contacted at pwicks@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those r~f The Obseruer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Life is not the problem 
"We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of life ... "This tenant of the creed provides a rich source of reflection on the origins of life. Contrary to yesterday's opinions about abortion and contraception, this basic belief emphasizes that life is a gift imparted from God. Life is not a problem. 
When considering abortion, contraception and euthana­sia, we must constantly recall our simple belief that no life is an accident. God has always known each and every per­son from all eternity, and if He had wanted you to be born in a different way, He would have made it so. To claim that life is a problem to be solved by contraception or killing is to embrace an ideology where death reigns. 
God has made it clear, in the very manner in which pro­creation occurs, that authentic love is generating and fruit­ful. It gives life. It reaffirms the dignity of each spouse as an individual to be loved and capable of love. It establishes sexual union as· a sacramental act in which God is present and gives his blessing. At times, it is even efficacious to the point of bringing children into the world. 
Life is not the problem; sin is the problem. Sin denies the connection between the physical and spiritual. Sin claims 
OBSERVER POLL 
How many of the presidential debates do you plan on watching? 
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at 
www. ndsmcobserver. com. 

that their in no soul in the unborn child, just as it claims that God is not really present and active in sexual inter­course. It explicitly rejects the fertility of your spouse. Sin claims thai functionality, utility, and pleasure are the nwt­rics by which life is judged. 
Sin is schizophrenic. It claims that there is no substantial difference between the one flesh union and contraceptive intercourse, making the latter a suitable replacement for the former. It simultaneously acknowledges the radical dif­ference between the two and encourages sterility as a solu­tion to the problem of life. It states unallashedly that unborn babies aren't alive and simultaneously that they can be killed. Sin claims that the elderly are valuable enough to care about and useless or hopeless enough to kill. 
As Christians, it is not only our right but our honor to fight for life. Be not afraid to stand up for your beliefs and to vote. 
Andrew Henrick graduate srudent Sept. 29 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit." 
Aristotle philosopher 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Educating to be 'pro-life' 
There are two issues I would like to address concern­-these problems being especially true in developing get away from the belief that chastity binds us. ing Peter Quaranta's Sept. 29 column "Adjusting the countries. Ultimately, it is what sets us free from the bonds of our abortion lens." First, Peter mentions that "the pro-life I think what Quaranto misses is that the disordered sexual desires. movement in America has become so focused on the real root of the problem of abortion is 
Thus, I agree to an extent with criminalization of abortion in recent years." He points a disordered understanding of Quaranta that the solution is out that the pro-life movement often becomes so the inherent goodness of indeed education, but it must focused on the "black and white," so to speak, that the human sexuality and a be a proper education that issues surrounding abortion are clouded out. systematic manipulation 
teaches the 
true 
To a certain extent. I agree with what he is saying. of our sexual desires. Christian meaning of There are other issues that need to be acknowledged The consumerist our sexuality and and addressed with respect to the wider scope of abor­society we live in is sexual desires. And tion. Nevertheless. the defining characteristic of the constantly driven 
I do believe pro-life movement is that "abortion is a moral wrong," to make more Christianity got it as Quaranto acknowledges. Why is it believed to be a money. Tap into right. To moral wrong? Because it is the willful termination of what gets·our increase access an innocent human life. attention and to contracep­
Regardless of the issues relating to the welfare of the you will suc­tives would mother, as well as the socio-economic injustices that ceed in making only exacer­often drive a mother to have an abortion, abortion is money off us. bate and ultimately the termination of a human life. In this The media, endorse the sense, it is a "black and white" issue, and it is an act the film and irresponsible that cannot be endorsed in our society, period. To be television sexual relation­pro-life is necessarily to believe that abortion is a crim­industry and ships that often inal act, and the criminalization of this act is what companies across lead to an should be its primary focus. the board use sex "unwanted preg-
Second, as Quaranta touches on what I perceive to be to sell their product nancy." Simply one of the primary arguments of the pro-abortion because they know it handing out condoms movement -not to say Quaranta is pro-abortion -is will draw people in. and birth control is not that criminalizing abortion would not solve anything. Think about every "lov-

really solving any prob­Abortions would still occur in the United States, and ing" relationship you have lem; it is just putting off and would now be more dangerous and more taxing on the ever seen on television or in a ultimately feeding into a much physical and mental health of the mother. A standard movie. The expression of that love greater problem. Here I reiterate pro-life refutation to such an argument is that "abor­is always sex. You never see a couple the need for education, especially in tions are dangerous, regardless if they are legal or ille­striving for virtue and making sacrifices for one developing countries, of what it truly means to gal." But, as Quaranta acknowledges, a truly pro-life another as a manifestation of their love. That's not engage in a loving and fruitful relationship. This is the response must go far beyond such a refutation. One what people want to see. ultimate solution that one who is pro-life must strive who is pro-life must not stop at just working to crimi­I could give countless other examples, but the point is for. nalize abortion. that we're duped into thinking sex is necessary for 
Nevertheless. I think the solution he posits does not truly expressing our love and that chastity is looked David Cook touch on the true root of the problem. Quaranta seems down upon as an antiquated and obsolete virtue. Most sentor to believe that the problem is a lack of access to contra­people believe, without even trying it, that chastity is Morrissey Manor ceptives. a lack of good education and a poor economy both impractical and impossible. People also need to Sepr. 29 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Advocating life 

I'm writing in response to the order of thousands a day is a columns from Lance Gallop and fact in our country. How dare we Peter Quaranta, both of whom I hope to eliminate the suffering of know and respect. women and children when we 
If abortion is an issue, then by allow physicians to murder chil­all means, let's figure out how to dren? make it rare and safe. If an Therefore the first qualifica­abortion is a procedure that kills tion for election to any office of a child, then it is an egregious any kind is the ability to say, "I human rights violation. We do oppose the killing of children." If not advocate for a man's choice a person cannot say this, she has to abuse his wife or no credibility for a teacher's choice to speaking on other sexually abuse stu­Therefore the issues. One can't dents. We cannot claim to be con­
first qualification

advocate for a cerned about the
for election to

woman's choice to welfare of people kill her baby. any office ofany and in support of But of course the murder of peo­
kind is the ability 

abortion is more ple at once. "It
to say, "/ oppose

than the killing of a would have been child: it is also a the killing of legal and just fine to tragedy for a children." kill you," the pro­woman. Women do abortion politician not turn to abortion says to a child, "but callously or nonchalantly. They since you're here, let's see to are being hurt by abortion as your well-being." The absurdity well. Desperate mothers need us of such a position disqualifies a to support them through places person from making decisions on like South Bend's Hannah's how people can best be served House and to advocate for better and protected by the state. policies. But they do not need us Surely not every anti-abortion to protr-ct the choice to kill, and candidate is truly pro-life, nor is they do not need us to leave every pro-life candidate fully them with abortion as their only qualified for office. But any real option. If we want abortion politician who will not see that to end. it is more than true that killing children should treated as we must deal with the root murder by the law will never, issues such as poverty, sexism never be qualified for office. and lack of education regarding fetal development. Kaitlyn Dudley 
But if it is legal to kill a baby, alumnae the first line of defense for that class of '03 baby is to make its murder ille­graduate student, MTS Program gal. Legalized killing on the Sept. 29 page I3 
Attack politics is unsettling 
Since the beginning of the school year, the shirking the opportunity to say something College Democrats and College Republicans meaningful and simultaneously destroy the have been spitting derogatory rhetoric at opposition. All too often, it is false, misleading each other. Congratulations to both organiza­and unprofessional. tions for perpetuating one of the worst The long-term implications are ugly. First, it aspects of the American electoral process: increases the malice of politics in American. negative campaigning in the form of attack Essentially, Democrats and Republicans can't politics. be friends because of a difference in partisan 
As an addendum to Bill Rinner's column on identification. Dole said it best when running Sept. 17, let me tell you something about in 1996 against former President Clinton, attack politics: it is a perfectly rational prac­"Supporters of Clinton aren't Americans." tice but there is a fine line. When campaign­Good job, Bob-kudos on outdoing yourself ing turns blatantly offensive, the face of poli­from your previous comment in the 1976 tics suffers and it fosters a sense of distrust vice-presidential debate that "World War I, among the public. Clearly, the Bush-Kerry World War II and the Korean War were all campaign has turned into a mud-slinging 'Democractic' wars." Second, people don't free-for-all. Although I do not appreciate such like negative campaigning. Although it is tactics, the behavior of both the College effective, it promotes a general sense of cyni­Democrats and College Republicans at Notre cism and lack of trust in the government, Dame is even more unsettling. I find it dis­ramifications that are unraveling for gusting that the political activists of our American democracy. Lastly, campaign con­future, here at Notre Dame, cannot refrain sultants care only about one thing: winning. from tearing one another apart, thus dimin­Forget that it decreases voter turnout. Forget ishing our University setting's environment of that it is unpresidential. Forget that it is pure, intellectual engagement and liberal classless and cheap. Like the Nike motto, just thought. do it. 
Nevertheless, it is impossible to deny the The bottom line is this: I expect more from effectiveness of attack politics. It worked both student organizations. You both have a wonders for George Bush Sr. in the presiden­chance to bring the real issues to the fore­tial elections of 1988. At one point, Bush's front. Instead of lambasting one another, talk opponent Michael Dukakis was ahead in the about the economy, foreign policy or terror­polls by 17 points. Solution? Drive up the neg­ism; debate about the health care crisis, mili­atives on one's opponent. Bush's campaign tary spending or the environment. Don't bick­team succeeded in depicting Dukakis as a er like a bunch of partisan cry babies. I don't friend of African-Americans and played the know about you but I am tired of excuses; I race-card if there ever was one. want solutions. Whether you believe that 
Why did Bush choose attack politics? "we're turning the corner," or have faith that Simply, it was more feasible to focus on "hope is on the way," it is important for both destroying Dukakis because Bush's platform organizations to stop the attacking one anoth­had nothing within its substance that would er. Really, what are you achieving? mobilize people to vote. In essence, I am say­ing that people respond to negative informa­Matt Somma tion more so than positive. I feel that negative junior campaigning is a clever method of incognito, Knott Hall a way to hide one's true platform in hope of ·Sept. 29 

THE 0BSER\'ER 

CENE
page 14 
Thursday, Seprember 30, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
"Garden State" soundtrack is a masterpiece 
By BECCA SAUNDERS A.sistant Scene Editor 
The "Gardt~n State" soundtrack is incrndible. 
Whil1~ that senLPnce pretty much says it all. tlwrn is still sonw elaboration to bn made. Although this album has the advantage of being composed or some or thP best songs from diff11rent tl~rrifically uniqun artists. it still shines as a sound­track thoughtfully chosen and well organ­ized. 
The song order runs parallel to the order of the songs in the film "Garden State" which was written. directed and starred in by Zach Bran· (bnttnr known for his role in NBC's "Scrubs"). BraiT appar­nntly has a terrific taste in music. as is appanmt in the selection of tracks for the film. From two songs from Indie band The Shins. to a stirring ballad from the 
Garden State Soundtrack 

Various Artists 
Epic/Sony Music Soundtrax 

universally-popular ·band Cold play, to a classic from Simon & Garfunkel, the selection of tracks is varied in artist selec­tion. 
Overall. the "Garden State" soundtrack has a gerwrally mellow tone throughout its entirety. This album is perfect for studying, hanging out and especially per­fect for listening to again and again and again. With a variety of artists. it is nearly impossible to become tired of hearing each unique song repeatedly. 
There are not many immensely popular songs on the album, which strengthens the case for the soundtrack further. as any music fan cannot help but become interested in some of the artists that are new to them. Great songs run throughout it, but some of the really outstanding tracks include the Cary Brothers "Blue Eyes," "In the Waiting Line" by Zero 7, "New Slang" from The Shins, "Let Go" from Frou Frou and "Such Great Heights" from Iron and Wine. However, this list hardly conveys the impressiveness of basically 13 terrific songs all complied on one album that is not burned, but legally bought and paid for. The experience of the "Garden State" soundtrack is one that no dedicated music fan should go with­out. There is just not anything bad to say about it. 


Soundtracks have a definite advantage over most albums. While albums from an artist can at most showcase diffnrent sides of that single artist's talents. sound­tracks showcase different songs of differ­ent artists, and generally they are the good songs from these artists. The "Garden State" soundtrack stands out on the count of not falling into showcasing a bunch of big name artists to sell the soundtrack and play behind the trailer. There is no Liz Phair or Michelle Branch ballad to excite the attention of potential viewers crowding the odginality of this soundtrack. The artists on the album are generally those with smaller followings, as is abundantly appropriately for an independent film soundtrack. The film has built a small cult following due to its terrific reputation. and as such the soundtrack gives these terrific artists the same chance dnvelop similar cult follow­ings. 
It is entirely possible that a listener may not enjoy a track or two -although that is probably a stretch of the imagination ­but 12 out of 13 is terrilic odds. That said. then~ is not much more to explain bnyond the fact that the "Garden State" sound­track is good, great, and spm:tacular. It is impossible not to bncome addicted to the soft sounds of all the di!Tenmt artists. The different sounds from the varied artists keep one's attention easily. and tlw songs are generally provocative and well writ­ten and composed. Long story short. this album is incredible and anyone vaguely interested in smallt)J' and less popular artists owes it til themselves to go buy tlw "Garden State" soundtrack -as quickly as possible. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 


Kings provide mellow, meditative listen 
By JULIE BENDER 
Scene Music Critic 
i\ccompaninwnt for a quiet night. 
That is what the new album from Kings of Convenience is. Curled up under a blanket. sipping coffee or tea. ndaxed. mellow. contemplative -these an~ tlw conditions undPr which listening is lwst. But of course, gorgeous har­moniPs and melodic arrangements can lw appmdated anywhere and anytime. 
With its sncond album. "Hiot on Empty Strnnt," this duo from Norway creates a subtle. stroked collPction of songs that are eerily reminiscent of Simon and (;arfunkel. at times with a bossa nova air. Tlw duo 1wen looks like Simon & c;arfunkel with its student appeal and aloof hipster qualities. One part of the duo. l~rlt)nd Oyn wPars large, clumsy glasses; tlw other part, Eirik Glambek B()(~. drivt~s a '(J(, Beetle. 
Former members of the Norwegian band Skog, Oye and Boe started down separate paths when the band split, but their mutual love for music kept them in contact with each other. When the tim­ing was right. they reformed as a duo: "two people and two acoustic guitars," as their Web site says. 
In 2001 the two released their first album, "Quiet is the New Loud," and 2004 brings their sophomore effort with the equally paradoxical title, "Hiot on Empty Street." The duo may seem quiet. but its subtle sounds yield a beauty that is far from empty. Its lyrics are intro­spective and handedly mask the fact that English is not the pair's first language. 
The first single from "Hiot on Empty Street," "Misread," has a snap-your-lin­gers, bossa nova rhythm. Its light, play­ful quality is refreshing; but the jazzy piano overlaying the string arrangement diminishes any thought that this is sim-plistic music. The reflective lyrics rein­force this as the duo sings. "The loneliest people I Were the ones who always spoke the truth I The ones who made a difference I By withstanding the indiiTer­ence." 


The album's opening song "Homesick," is melodically and lyrically the best song on it. The guitar picking is gentle and the vocal harmonies of Oye and Boe are near perfection as they sing about find­ing comfort in listening to old albums. They say it best themselves when they sing, "I can't stop listening to the sound I Of two sort voices I Blended in perfection I From the reels of this record that I found." The resemblance to Simon and Garfunkel is uncanny. both in their har­monies and their themes. 
Another high point on the album includes "I'd Hather Dance With You," which has an '80s electronic llavor. The plucked guitar and repetitive lyrics add to this llavor. making the song a spoofy dance number suitable for a get-togeth­er of friends in jest of the dance club scene. 
"Hiot on Empty Strnet" is a St)dated, meditative, non-rock album. Its appeal is in its subtlety. Its only weakness is in the lack of variety among some of tlw songs. The placid melodies and pure harnwni11s would blend nicely as background music for a eol'l'ee shop, but they also lPrHl themselves to der~p listens for tlw listPn­er seeking lyrical and musieal dPpth. i\s Oye and Boe's Wnb site aptly says, "Spending late nights by the window, drinking tea. making songs that makt' the world stop and list1~n." that is what Kings of Convenience is all about. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 

THE 0BSERV'ER 

CENE
Thursday, September 30, 2004 
page 15 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Franz Ferdinand has strong, innovative debut 
By JOHNNY MOSPAN 
Scene Music Criric 
1\s the indie music scene grows, Franz Fnrdinand takes one giant step forward out of oblivion and into thr~ limelight with its self-titled dnbut album. Thb Glasgow rock group, named allnr thn 1\rchdukn whose assassination set World War I in motion, places its career into . motion with a combination of edgy rock-pop and innovation that presents a fast-forward version of the 80s. 
The band was formed in 2001 when bassist Bob Ilardy, guitarist Nick McCarthy and sing!~rlguitarist Alex Kapranos met their future drummer Paul Thomson. After rehearsing and holding numerous parties for the Glasgow art­music scene, word of mouth spread about this quartet until they were signed to Domino Hecord Co. in the summer of 2003. A few months later it released the EP "Darts of Pleasure," and then followed by releasing "Franz Ferdinand" in March 2004. 
"Franz Ferdinand" starts off softly and slow­ly with "Jacqueline," almost trying to lull its lis­teners in. However, a minute later the drum­beat starts, a groove can be heard for practi­cally the rest of the album. By the end of "Jacqueline," you are already chanting ''I'm alive" with· Kapranos and know the musical liberation that is Franz Ferdinand. The album continues with "Tell Her Tonight," emitting a tone of cheesy synthesizer mixed with indie punk-pop that is quite the deviation from the norm. 
Following these two catchy songs is the radio smash, ''Take Me Out." At first, this song revisits "Last Nite" by the Strokes, but it quick­ly becomes apparent that this similarity is only slight, as Franz Ferdinand perfects the style that the Strokes attempted to implement. This song stands out as a singable and bouncy gem on an album full of such innovative tunes. 


The album tries to slow things down With "Matinee," although finds itselfunable to do as such with the persistence of an underlying drumbeat and bass line which screams out British pop. "Franz Ferdinand" continues with three decent melodies, until it reaches the spectacular "Darts of Pleasure." This tune is entirely captivating and climactic for the· album, capped off by Kapronos's bizarre yet ingenious German cry "Ich heisse Super Fantastisch." After finishing this song, you feel the urge to go back and place it on repeat. And yet, with three songs left, you would be doing yourselfan enormous disservice. 
Following "Darts of Pleasure" is "Michael," and it does not let down the adrenaline rush stemming from before. Its comical lyrics ("Michael I you're the boy with all the leather hips I sticky hair, sticky hips, stubble on my sticky lips") release a homosexual vibe, and yet the music does not permit you to believe your deduction. 
Finally, "Come on Home" follows and segues nicely into the last song "40 Feet." This track is as dose to a wind-down song as one can find on the album, which makes its placement ideal. Despite its difference in style, the tempo still stays true to the Franz Ferdinand norm, once again yielding a successful song. 

Yes, every song on this album achieves some sort of fame, which may be the downfall to the album, ifany can be fommlated. After listening to any given tune, it gets stuck in your head, until you go onto the next one. There is no growth or progression in "Franz Ferdinand," as each song could plausibly be on the radio. Above all, however, thic; album is fantastic. As Kapronos utters in "Darts of Pleasure," per­haps attempting to make a statement of the band, "You are the latest contender I You are the one to remember." 
Yes, Franz Ferdinand, you are the one to remember. 
Contact Johnny Mospan at jmospan@nd.edu 
The Libertines return with strong sophomore effort 
By SCOOP LATTAL Scene Music Criric 
The Libertines released its self-titled, sophomore album last month after mul­tiple visits to rehab and potential breakups. 
The first track, "Can't Stand Me Now." is comparable to one of Fleetwood Mac's last songs, "Go Your Own Way" in its subject matter. The song is about a relationship in doubt and fits well with the controversy surrounding lead singer. Petn Doherty's problems with cocairw addiction and his volatile rela­tionship with the rest of the band: "An nmling fitting for the starUYou twist and tore our love apart." Like many pop albums. this first song is among the bnst -partly because bands put their better material up front, but mostly because the sound is fresh. The 13 songs that follow the opener range from so-so to exceptional. The momentum 
"Can't Stand Me Now" creates, howev­er. gives the album reasonable hope. 
This album, influenced by the produc­tion of Clash member, Mick Jones, is similar to mainstream Clash and lots of other early 80s British pop punk. Quick, charming drum rhythms support well­produced, garage-style Brit-punk. Guitars play single notes in place of chords at every moment possible to imi­tate vocal lines. Distortion is a rarity, especially compared to American pro­duced punk. Bass is more imaginative than simply following the lead guitars, but does not steal too much attention from the rest of the band. 
Guitar solos are common but not exhausted or over dramatic. The solo closing "Hoad to Huin" is simple yet imaginative. The notes never move extremely fast, nor arc they unpre­dictable, but they fit well with the melody of the track. 
"Music When the Lights Go Out" uses both acoustic guitar and horns, provid-



ing a contrast to the rest of the songs halfway through the album. The romantic tone of the lead guitar pro­ceeding into a blues rock chorus makes this track unique. 
Like The Hives, The Libertines rarely stray from its distinct sound. But while The Hives write short, snappy songs with little time to catch your breath, The Libertines mix up tempos and songwriting styles to provide some diversity. Although many of the Libertines' songs sound similar at the beginning, most tracks pursue different paths later on. 
"Last Call on the Bugle," starts with the common high, repeated guitar notes. The "poppy" level of the main melody reaches the "Tragic Kingdom" era of No Doubt: "If I have to go, I will be thinking of your love. La-la-la-la-la." In contrast to this, "Arbeit Macht Frei (Work Brings Freedom)," the shortest song on the album, combines the 
Mooney Suzuki style of punk power 
chords and the oldies style of starting 
and stopping the drums as a cadence. 
The Libertines are not looking to cre­
ate an innovative or revolutionary 
album. As a pop album. the songwriting 
is nothing new or out of the ordinary, 
but the songs are catchy and will get 
your foot tapping. The Libertines will 
never outdo or replace The Clash. but 
the comparison is at least worthy. 
British pop punk bands have written this album before, combining pop, punk and blues. It was good then, and it is ·good now. Sometimes you do not need to add anything special into the mix if you are already using high quality 
ingredients. 
Other rock albums have and will 
come out this year that are better. but 
for fans of British punk or garage punk, 
The Libertines is a good, safe buy. 
Contact Scoop Lattal at jlattal@nd.edu 
page 16 Thursday, September 30, 2004 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cubs blow lead with 2 outs in 9th, hurt playoff hopes 
Associated Press his best managing jobs, guiding games over .500 for the first 
a team that lost four key play­time this year and one game 

CHICAGO -One strike from ers to its 13th straight division ahead of Florida for second a key victory, the Chicago Cubs title. place in the NL East. Florida wound up with yet another ago­"You can look at the stand­starts a four-game series on nizing defeat that damaged ings and say, 'Oh, they're sup­Thursday at Philadelphia. their drive to the playoffs. posed to be there,"' said Milwaukee 4, Arizona 1 
"It hurts big-time," m'anager Smoltz, who got the final three Geoff Jenkins thought it was Dusty Baker said Wednesday, outs for his 43rd save. "We're time the Milwaukee Brewers sizing up a loss to the not supposed to be here. We've gave a total effort. Cincinnati Reds. had an incredible year, and he's He did his part, contributing 
"It's tough to take, but it is the reason." three hits, including a homer what it is." Of the eight managers who and two RBis, and Luis Vizcaino 
Austin Kearns tied the game previously reached 2,000 wins, worked out of a bases-loaded with a two-out double in the seven are in the Hall of Fame. jam with no outs in the ninth to ninth inning on an 0-2 pitch The lone exception is Tony La help the Brewers beat the from closer LaTroy Hawkins. Russa, still managing the St. Arizona Diamondbacks. 
Kearns then hit a two-run Louis Cardinals. "It seems like we've been homer in the 12th as the Reds In 23 seasons, Cox's overall finding different ways to lose sent the Cubs to their fourth record is 2,000-1,530. That ballgames, whether the pitch­loss in five games and shook doesn't even ·include 63 post­ing didn't show up one day and their wild-card hopes. season wins, second only to Joe the hitting was, or the hitting 
'The last couple of times out Torre in baseball history. didn't show up and the pitching it's like we and Hawk, we've got The only blemish on Cox's was," Jenkins said. "So we've -boy it seems like -the two­record: In 14 trips to the play­just got to put it together and out, two-strike blues," Baker offs (13 with the Braves, one win ballgames." said. with the Toronto Blue Jays in The Brewers snapped a 
The Cubs began the day tied 1985), he's captured only one three-game skid and handed right now and not rush out of an RBI double to help the for the NL wild-card lead with World Series championship. Arizona its 110th defeat, one here, savor every moment you Astros eclipse their best home· the Giants, a half-game ahead "I hope we have a great play­shy of tying four other teams can be here. winning streak set in 1980 at of Houston. San Francisco off." Cox said. "That's more for the eighth-most losses in "You know when you walk out the Astrodome. played at San Diego later, and important for sure." major league history. of this ballpark tonight, it will "It's an electric atmosphere St. Louis was at Houston. Philadelphia 8, Pittsburgh 4 Jenkins singled, homered and be the last time taking off the here right now," closer Brad 
Chicago has four games Todd Pratt hit a three-run tripled in his first three at-bats. uniform," he said. Lidge said. "The fans are as remaining -one more with the homer and the Philadelphia He missed hitting for the cycle Hours earlier, baseball loud as I've ever heard them." Reds on Thursday before con­Phillies clinched consecutive in the eighth inning when he announced that the 36-year-old Chad Qualls (4-0) pitched a cluding the regular season with winning seasons for the first flied out to left field. team will be moved next season scoreless seventh for the win, a three-game series at Wrigley time in 21 years with a victory Jenkins, who scored twice, to Washington, D.C. The crowd Dan Miceli struck out the side Field against NL East-champion over the Pittsburgh Pirates in homered for the second straight of 31,395 was the largest of the in the eighth and Lidge got Atlanta. the first game of a doublehead­game. He teamed with Keith year in Montreal and about four three outs for his 27th save in 
"It's frustrating. but you can't er Wednesday. Ginter for back-to-hack solo times the season average. 31 chances. dwell on it. You have to come The Phillies (82-75)-86-76 shots in the fourth against Houston 6, St. Louis 4 The Rocket got off to a strong back tomorrow," said Hawkins, a year ago -last had consecu­Casey Fossum (4-15). Jeff Bagwell, Jeff Kent and start, retiring the first 10 bat­booed as he walked off the tive winning seasons in 1982-Fossum strained his left wrist Roger Clemens pushed the ters before So Taguchi singled field. 83. In 1983, the Phillies diving for a grounder in the Houston Astros even closer to a in the fourth. Atlanta 6, N.Y. Mets 3 reached the World Series and third and came out of the game playoff berth. The Chicago Cubs Roger Cedeno followed with a 
Bobby Cox tried to treat it like expectations were that high after the fourth. helped out, too. double to the scoreboard in any other day. No one else coming into this season with a "He tried to pitch, but it was Bagwell drove in two runs deep left, driving in Taguchi. would let him. $93 million payroll that includ­getting stiff, and that's why we and Kent hit his 300th career Cedeno went to third on the 
As soon as the final out was ed a new All-Star closer, a pulled him out," Diamondbacks homer, sending the Astros to a throw and scored on Jose made, John Smoltz flashed a revamped bullpen and a prom­manager AI Pedrique said. win over the St. Louis Cardinals Vizcaino's throwing error to smile toward the dugout. Cox's ising starting rotation. Florida 9, Montreal 1 for their club-record 15th give St. Louis a 2-1 lead. coaches swarmed around him, Instead of overtaking Atlanta This was the kind of crowd straight home victory. Scott Rolen, who returned shaking hands and patting him in the NL East, the Phillies were the Expos always hoped to Houston temporarily tied San from an injured calf a night on the back. When Cox finally eliminated from playoff con­draw at Olympic Stadium -Francisco for the NL wild-card before, added a two-run shot in made it onto the field, every tention Monday night and there 30,000 strong, loud and lively. lead -the Giants played later the fifth to tie the game at 4. player lined up to give him a has been speculation about They finally did, on the night in San Diego. The Astros also The homer, Rolen's 34th of the hug. manager Larry Bowa's future. they played their very last game moved a half-game ahead of season, nearly w'ent out of the 
"Bobby! Bobby! Bobby!" the Philadelphia 8, Pittsburgh 3 in Montreal. the slumping Cubs, who lost park, hitting the train tracks fans chanted. Brett Myers wants to make Some fans stood with tears in their second straight to atop the wall in left-center. "2000" flashed on the score­sure Philadelphia has a strong their eyes, and others waved Cincinnati earlier in the day. "We were able to get a couple board over and over again. finish even if the rest of the sea­flags and signs during the final "We've certainly made it of things going," Rolen said. 
Cox became just the ninth son has been a disappointment. inning of Montreal's loss to interesting for everybody," Clemens "gave us some chances manager in baseball history to Chase Utley had three hits Florida. When it was over, all Clemens said. "We'll take and we weren't able to capital­win 2,000 games when the and two RBls, and the the Expos poured onto the field where we are right now and ize." Atlanta Braves scored four runs Philadelphia Phillies rallied for to wave goodbye. hope it's enough to get us in the Clemens left the game after in the seventh inning and beat a six-run seventh inning to It made for a touching scene, playoffs." Jim Edmonds flied out to center the New York Mets. complete a doubkh~>:tder sweep even a wrenching one. But the Clemens was denied his 19th to end the inning. He isn't 
"I've had a lot of luck," Cox of the Pittsburgh Pirates with a last-minute show of support win -and almost certainly a scheduled to make another said with typical modesty. "I've victory. came far too late to save a fran­chance at his seventh 20-win start before the end of the regu­been in the right place at the In the opener, Todd Pratt hit a chise doomed in recent years by season -when he left with the lar season, but has suggested right time. We've had a lot of three-run homer and the dwindling attendance. score tied at 4 after the sixth. It he'd like to pitch in the regular­great talent here. You've got to Phillies beat the Pirates 8-4 to "Now it can't be undone," was his worst outing in three season finale against Colorado have that to win on a consistent clinch consecutive winning sea­Montreal manager Frank weeks. on Sunday. basis." sons for the first time in 21 Robinson said. "That reaction But Bagwell had a run-scor­'Til be ready to start or do 
His players know better. At years. makes it tougher to move on. ing single in the seventh and whatever we need me to do," age 63, Cox has done one of the The Phillies (83-75) are eight · It's like you want to stand still Lance Berkman followed with Clemens said. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from B a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
2 NO ALUMS LOOKING FOR ND Football housing. Walk to game. JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, Spring Break 2005 with STS, BABYSITIER FOR 18-MO. OLD 574-315-3215. NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. 
WANTED FOR 3-4 HAS. IN A.M. PLEASE FOR RENT FOOTBALL GAME. CALL674-6593. Hiring campus 
PURDUE TICKET PLEASE Help my newlywed husband see his first NO game STUDENT SECTION GA OK Kate 702-249-7974 
Hacienda 100 Center wants YOUI Need weekend servers & Line Cooks Apply in person between 2 & 3 p.m. 700 LWW MISH.IN 46544 CALL HEIDI OR DAVE AT 246­9883. 
FoR SALE 
COND0-1434 Marigold Way #114­Large 1 bedroom w/garage, perfect condition. most appliances stay, Open House Sun. 10/3,2-4pm. Near entrance of North Shore Condos on Right. $73,000. Call Reed 276-4131. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ·ONLY 6 HOUS­ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY­ERS.VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234­2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
TICKETS 

BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­3911 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: NO football tix. Top$$$ 251-1570. 
ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 Buying and selling ND football tix, especially Boston College 574-289­8048 
PERSONAL 
Spring break 2005 Challenge ...find a better price! Lowest price spe­cials! Free Meals! November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash!www.sun­splashtours.com 1800-426-771 0 
reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com. 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruisel 5 Days $2991 Includes Meals, .Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $1591 www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678-6386 


Thursday, September 30, 2004 page 17
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Coleman-Morse Center 574-631-7800
Campus Ministry 
ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 

h ' h . 
* * Deadline: Friday, October 1 ** 
mass schedule 
Twenty-Seventh Sunday in Ordinary Time 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart Around Campus (every Sunday) 
Saturday Sunday 
Vigil Mass at the Basilica 8:00am 1:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m.· 7:00 p.m. 30 minutes after the Game Rev. Nicholas R. Ayo, esc Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass 
TBD St. Edward's Law School Commons Mendoza COB 
10:00 am 

Hal/Chapel Faculty Lounge 
Vigil Mass at Stepan Center TBD 45 minutes after the Game 
11:45amRev. Ronald J. Nuzzi, esc Rev. Tom Eckert, esc 

considerations... 
A Prayer Book for You... 
by John ft Sylvia Dillon Directors ofReligious Education, Marriage Prep, ft Catechist Formation 
Tradition is synonymous with Notre Dame: the fight song,''The Shirt," rubbing Rockne's nose, and the Notre Dame Book of Prayers. Notre Dame prayer books, given to every freshman upon entering Our Lady's University, date back to 1899. While each is somewhat different in style and composition, all are part of an ongoing tradition that seeks to provide students with a guide to prayer and an opportunity to deepen their spiritual lives. A Notre Dame alumnus once wrote about keeping a copy of the 1942 prayer book in the lining of his helmet as a source of comfort and strength during WW II. 
For the past two years Campus Ministry has been in the process of collecting and editing new prayers composed by students, faculty, staff, and alumni. Daily and seasonal prayers and prayers from our Church tradition are also featured, as well as favorite prayers that have become part of the fabric of our prayer tradition on campus. This new collection, entitled Lead, Kindly Light, will be given as a gift to every freshman, as has been our longstanding tradition. Since a Campus Ministry prayer book has not been available to students during these past few years of work on the revision, Father Wamer has decided that this new book will be available to all undergraduate students, at no charge, if they would like to have one. 
We hope that prayer will be a central part of your experience while here at Notre Dame and in all your future experiences. We hope that your book becomes well wom, dog-eared, and written in, a treasured keepsake of your time spent here at Notre Dame. 
Distributing prayer books to every undergraduate student is no easy task, so here is our plan: 
Freshman will soon receive your prayer book from your rector in your residence hall. 
Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors may pick up a 
copy in the Welcome Center (COMO Room 111, across from the first-floor lounge) any time between 4:00 P.M. and Midnight. Distribution will begin on Monday, October 11, and will continue until the Wednesday before Thanksgiving, November 24. You may only pick up a prayer book for yourself; your name will then .be crossed off our master list. 
\!tbe ~otre 1!lame ~ook of i}rapers... 
Qot it, IAso it, li11o it! 
-· f 
sunday 10.03 (cont'd)

thursday o9.3o 
Catholicism 101 for (Focus: Christian Taize Prayer) 
Prayer From Around the World 
Protestant Students: 7:00pm 
A 'How-To' of the Mass Coleman-Morse 330 
2:00-4:00pm Coleman-Morse Chapel 

friday 10.01 
Rejoice! Mass Sign-Ups for Retreats: 
10:00pm Freshman Retreat #54 
Coleman-Morse Chapel (Oct 29-30) I DEADLINE NDE #82 
I monday 1o.o4

(Oct 29-31) Eucharistic AdorationApplications are available 1 I 12:00 noon -7:00pmin 114 CoMo or online at 
campusministry.nd.edu! 
saturday 10.02 
Mass 30 Minutes after the Game Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Mass 45 Minutes after the Game Stepan Center 
sunday 1o.o3 
Mass 8:00am, 10:00am, & 11:45am Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA-Inquiry Session 10:00 -11 :30am Coleman-Morse 330 
continued above... 
don't forget... · 

Every Monday-Thursday Coleman-Morse Chapel 
wednesday 10.o6 
Catechist Formation Class 5:00-7:00pm Coleman-Morse 330 
/Four:?/ Contemporary Christian Prayer Service 10:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Theology on Tap 10:00pm Legends -Clubside 
Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups, Mass schedules and special campus ministry events at 
campusministry.nd.edu 
Only 1 Day Left!!! 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat#82 (October 29-31 ) 
Don't wait 'til the last one this spring to sign up... GO NOW! 

Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: Habakkuk 1:2-3; 2:2-4 2nd: 2 Timothy 1:6-8, 13-14 Gospel: Luke 17:5-10 
Thursday, September 30, 2004 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS. 
PGA 

Woods' back may be problem at AMEX Championships 
Associated Press 
THOMASTOWN, Ireland ­Tiger Woods felt stiffness in his back after seven holes Wednesday and decided to call it a day, not wanting to aggravate the week-old injury and not entirely certain he would be able 
to  defend  his  title  in  the  
American  Express  
Championship.  

The way his year has gone, that's just his luck. 
Woods had every reason to look forward to this World Golf Championship event. 
It returns to Mount Juliet, where Woods won two years ago by not making a bogey until the 72nd hole and finishing with a 25-under 263, matching his low­est 72-hole score under par. 
"Today, I loosened up in the (fit­ness) trailer and I went out and hit a few balls. It was sore, but I could manage that. Then I just quit after seven. I didn't want to push it any further. Maybe I'll get some more treatment on it." 
Woods missed the first five weeks of the 2003 season recov­ering from surgery on his left knee. He also hurt his lower back on the eve of the 2001 Tour Championship but finished the tournament and tied for 13th. 
"I was able to play through that. This one is a little bit differ­ent," Woods said. "If I'm able to go, I'll go. If I can't, then I won't. I've never been one to pull out of tournaments and quit just because I'm physically sore. But if I can't actually swing a golf club, then it's pretty 
He has dominat­"'IfI'm able to go, tough to play." 
ed the World Golf He said the sore­
I'll go. IfI can't, I 
Championships, ness is between
won't ... 
winning eight out his shoulder of 15 since they blades and it hurts began in 1999. at impact.
Tiger Woods 
And best of all, "I'm hitting it
Golfer
he doesn't have to 
worry about Vijay 
Singh. 
Singh, the No. 1 player in the world, was the biggest name among six players in the top 50 who withdrew from the American Express. Fresh off his eighth PGA Tour victory of the year, Singh chose to stay home with his family in north Florida to cope with damage from Hurricane Jeanne. 
Woods hasn't looked like a world-beater all year, and he sure didn't look like one Wednesday as he walked ginger­ly to the clubhouse for lunch. 
He said he hurt his back a week ago Tuesday when he fell asleep awkwardly on his private plane from New York, where he had spent the day promoting his video game. 
"It's spasmed up and hasn't been the same since," Woods said. 
He is scheduled to tee off Thursday at 12:50 p.m. with Luke Donald and K.J. Choi, although Woods said there was some doubt he would make it. 
"Warm-up session will proba­bly determine it," he said. 
much straighter, 
but it's not going 
as far -so I guess that's a positive," Woods said, making light of some of his errant tee shots this year. 
If Woods pulls out it would fur­ther dampen a $7 million tourna­ment designed to bring together the world's best players. 
The last two Masters champi­ons have withdrawn -Phil Mickelson for personal reasons, Mike Weir with the flu. Nick Price stayed home in south Florida after the second hurri­cane in a month hit close to home. Kenny Perry wanted to spend time with his family, and John Daly cited a foot injury. 
This will be only the second time the No. 1 player is not in the field at a World Golf Championship event. Woods, No. 1 at the time, and a host of oth­ers defected from the Accenture Match Play Championship in 2001 when it was played in Australia after the holidays. 
"There's still plenty of other players to cover up that loss," Padraig Harrington said. "Vijay would be obviously a star attrac­tion, so that is a bit of a loss." 


There are plenty of others feel­ing like the star attraction ­specifically, 10 players from Europe's winning Ryder Cup team. Most of them are playing for the first time since handing the Americans their worst loss in Ryder Cup history two weeks ago. 
Colin Montgomerie and Ian Poulter were the only European Ryder Cup players who didn't qualify, neither in the top 50 in the world ranking nor among the top 20 on the European tour money list. 
For the rest of the Euros, it's a matter of putting the Ryder Cup behind them. 
"That's why I didn't play last week, so I could let it get out of my system," Lee Westwood said. "A couple of guys in America played well, but obviously they weren't coming off the high that the European players were. I always struggle to play the fol­lowing week after a Ryder Cup." 
Stewart Cink finished second last week at the 84 Lumber Classic, and Chris DiMarco tied for third. 
Woods was supposed to play the 84 Lumber but withdrew because of fatigue. The threat this week is physical, although Woods seems to have taken a mental beating all year. 
His only victory came at the Match Play Championship ­another WGC event -and he now has gone 18 stroke-play tournaments without a victory, the longest drought of his PGA Tour career. 
Along the way, Singh replaced him at No. 1 in the world by doing the things that made Woods the best in the game ­winning, and winning often. 

Woods said he wasn't disap­pointed to lose the top ranking he held for five years. 
"In order to earn the No. 1 ranking, you have to win," he said. "Who's won more the last two years? Obviously, it's Vijay. That's how you earn No. 1, and that's how you stay there." 

Automation Alley Technology Center 
Funding and resources to speed new technology to market 
Entrepreneurs, small businesses, companies with high-potential technology ideas: Tile Automation Alley Technology Center is the ultimate resource for accelerating your 
concept to market. 

Connect with funding opportunities­We'll help you identify and apply for vital pre-seed funding for development and prototyping, as well as post-development funding for commercialization. Funding is available through our strong partnerships with the National Automotive Center and the Michigan Economic Development Corporation and relationships with angel investors, venture capitalists and bankers. 
001111 
Develop your technology idea ASAP­Our world-class rapid commercialization process and extensive network of professional volunteer service providers deliver the tools, expertise and experience for developing new technology solutions and getting them to market quickly. 
For the fastest route from concept to market, visit us at www.automationalleytechcenter.com or r.all 800.427.5100. 
11111111 


Thursday, September 30, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
SMU optimistic after breaking record losing streak 

0 U CERTAINTY 

(THAT'S WHAT MIDTERMS ARE FOR) 
Dependable service. Simple plans. That's what we're for. 
$20{,~t~e first 6 months, 
$39.95 thereafter) 
Call and Text Plan 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
Unlimited Can Me Minutes 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
250 Text Messages a month FREE for 2 months 


Ask about Nights & Weekends 
starting at 1 p.m. 

~US. Cellular 
lMnited time offer. 

1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
Airtime and text messaging offer valid on two-year consumer service agreements of $39.95 or higher. 50% access discount valid for the first 6 months of a 2 year contract. Unlimned Gall Me Minutes are only available In the local calling area and are deducted from packaged minutes. 3000 Nights and Weekends are available In the lOcal calling area for $4.95 per month. "Text messaging 250 paCkage Is $5.95 thereafter, $0.10 per outgoing message beyOnd 250. Must call to cancel. Offers may 1 you change your calling plan. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Customer Is responSible for all sales taxes. Other restrictions may apply. See store for details. Umlted Ume ofier. Roaming Cl1arges, fees, surcharges and taxes lndudlng a Federal and Other Regulatory Fee charge of $.55. Customer Is responsible for all sales taxes. 102004 U.S. Cellular Corporation 
one winning season, going 6-5 in 1997. 
Last year the Mustangs were 0-12. and this year hasn't start­ed much better. SMU lost its first three games by a combined score of 130-20. 
There are some bright spots. 
The Mustangs have three capable quarterbacks. The posi­tion has been a revolving door in recent years, after the team lost one quarterback to a rock band, another to an accounting job and a third who quit last year after being benched. 
Junior college transfer Tony Eckert got his first start against San Jose State in place of injured starter Chris Phillips. He was 8-of-15 for 91 yards and led the team to touchdowns on its first two possessions. 
And even though the team has struggled on offense, aver­aging 14 points and 298 yards, that's actually an improvement. Last year the Mustangs were ranked last in Division I total offense, with just 260 yards and 11 points a game. 
The 36 points in last week's win was the most by an SMU team since a 42-3 5 win over UTEP in November 2.002. 
A lot of credit goes to new offensive coordinator Rusty Burns, who helped Cincinnati to a Conference USA co-champi­onship in 2002 as well as school records for passing yards, total offense and points. 
He implemented a spread offense, but was disappointed that no SMU quarterback had thrown a touchdown pass in the first three games. 
That changed against San Jose State as Eckert and backup Jerad Romo threw one each. 
Foy Munlin, a transfer from Texas Tech, finally got a run­ning game going for SMU. His 116 yards against San Jose State were more than he man­aged in SMU's other three games combined. 

Tonight! DJ & Specials ALLDAY 272-1766 2046 South Bend Ave. 

Associated Press 
DALLAS -One win doesn't qualify as a turnaround. 
Regardless, Southern Methodist is feeling confident after breaking a 15-game losing streak. 
The Mustangs looked impres­sive in a 36-13 victory over San Jose State on Saturday that snapped the nation's second­longest losing streak. 
Of course San Jose State was the one team SMU was expect­ed to beat. The Spartans were picked to finish last in the Western Athletic Conference and the team's only win this season came against I-AA Morgan State. 
This week SMU (1-3, 1-0) will get a much bigger test at No. 23 Boise State. The Broncos (4-0, 1-0) have the nation's longest winning streak at 15 straight and their 21 consecutive wins at home is also tops in the country. 
"We are still not where we want to be,"SMU athletic direc­tor Jim Copeland said. "The next step is to win a game we are not supposed to or to win a close game." 
Still, coach Phil Bennett is encouraged. 
"There are a lot of things that we need to improve on,"said Bennett, who is 4-24 with the Mustangs. "But I saw some things (against San Jose State) that give me a lot of hope. I've told the players that we are just looking for improvement from week to week." 

It's been a while since there's been hope at SMU, a one-time powerhouse that went 11-0-1 in 1982 and won 10 games three times in early 1980s. 
But then the NCAA shut down the program for a year for ram­pant violations and the school voluntarily made it two to clean up the program. Since coming back in 1989, SMU has had just 



Thursday, September 30, 2004

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS

AMERICAN LEAGUE 
White Sox rout Tigers, want to end season on good note 
Hideki Matsui, the Yankees swept a doubleheader from the Minnesota Twins. New York (99-59) opened a four­game lead over second-place Boston (95-63), and would clinch the division with one more win or one Red Sox loss. Both teams are both assured of no worse than the AL wild­card berth. 
Tampa Bay 9, Boston 4 

Pedro Martinez is ready to put his September struggles behind him and it will be as Boston's No. 2 starter in the postseason. 
The three-time Cy Young Award winner lost his fourth straight start when the Red Sox fell to Tampa Bay, but he said he's confident he'll rebo.und when the playoffs begin next week. 
"I'm not concerned at all," Martinez said after the loss damaged Boston's slim chances of winning the AL East. "I would like the results to be better, but I'm healthy and I feel great. I just have to continue to pitch and work hard. Hopefully in the play­offs, it will be different." 
Anaheim 8, Texas 7 

Troy Glaus hit a two-run homer in the 11th inning and the Anaheim Angels beat Texas, eliminating the surpris­ing Rangers from the playoff chase. 
Anaheim (90-68) moved back into first place for the 
. • •· 'TargUs Backpack 
....•. $55,00 ci~~~$~
.··;:;:;:;::;::::;::·:·:.;..·.·.·· 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT -When Magglio Ordonez joined Frank Thomas on the disabled list in July, the Chicago White Sox fell apart. They won just eight times dur­ing a 28-game stretch and plummeted out of first place. 
Chicago isn't going to chal­lenge the Minnesota Twins for the AL Central lead in the final weekend of the season, but it is closing an up-and­down season relatively well. 
Carlos Lee hit a grand slam and a two-run homer and Freddy Garcia pitched seven scoreless innings to lead the White Sox past Detroit 11-2 for their eighth win in 12 games. 
"We are out of the race, but it is important to finish strong 
and  play the  game  right,"  
Chicago  manager  Ozzie  
Guillen said.  

Hoss Gload hit a two-run homer and Joe Borchard and Juan Uribe added solo home runs for the White Sox, who need to win one of their final four games at Kansas City to avoid their first losing season since 1999. Baltimore .t, Toronto 6 
David Newhan singled home the winning run in the bottom of the ninth inning, giving the Baltimore Orioles a victory over the Toronto Blue Jays in the first game of a double­header. 
Rafael Palmeiro hit two. home runs and Miguel Tejada broke Palmeiro's club record with his 143rd RBI of the sea­son to help Baltimore (75-81) keep its slim hope of avoiding a losing season for the first time since 1997. 
Palmeiro hit a two-run drive in the fourth inning and a solo shot in the sixth. His 34th career multihomer game, the second this season, gave him 551 home runs -nine short of Heggie Jackson for ninth place on the career list. 
Tim Haines Jr. led off the ninth with a single off Justin Speier (3-8) and took third when Toronto shortstop Russ Adams threw wildly to second on a slow grounder by Melvin Mora. Tejada then received an intentional walk before Palmeiro struck out. Baltimore 4, Toronto 0 
Hick Bauer finally won as a starter, and in the process gave the Baltimore Orioles something to think about dur­ing the offseason. 
Bauer allowed three hits over six innings, and the Orioles completed a double­header sweep of the Toronto Blue Jays with a victory. 
In the opener, Rafael 
Palmeiro hit two homers and 
watched Miguel Tejada break 
his season club record for 
RBis in a Baltimore win. 
The second game featured a 
pitching duel between Bauer, 
making his first start since 
August 2002, and rookie 
Gustavo Chacin, working in 
his second major league game 
after beating the New York 
Yankees on Sept 20. 
Bauer (2-1) prevailed, recording a career-high seven strikeouts and allowing only one runner past first base. The right-hander was 0-6 with a 5.08 ERA in his previous seven career starts. 
N.Y. Yankees 5, Minnesota 3 
Derek Jeter and Alex 
Rodriguez rallied the Yankees 
past the Minnesota Twins in a 
possible playoff preview, mov­
ing New York closer to its sev­
enth straight AL East title. 
Jeter drove in the tying run with a seventh-inning single off the glove of reliever Juan Rincon, and Rodriguez fol­lowed with a two-run triple high off the right-field wall that led the Yankees to a vic­tory in the opener of twi-night doubleheader. 
New York (98-59) reopened a three-game lead over sec­ond-place Boston (95-62) with four games remaining for each team. The Yankees and Hed Sox, who played at Tampa Bay later Wednesday, are both assured of no worse than the AL wild-card berth and could meet Minnesota, the AL Central champion, in a first­round series starting Tuesday. 
The Twins (90-67) are vying with the eventual AL West winner -Anaheim, Oakland or Texas -for homefield advantage in the first round. 
Johan Santana, seeking to gain his 21st win and match Boston's Curt Schilling for the major league lead, dominated New York for five innings and left with a 3-1 lead. But the Yankees extended their major league record for come-from­behind wins with their 60th, ending Santana's streak of wins in 12 straight starts. Still, Santana remained 13-0 in 15 starts since the All-Star break. 
N.Y. Yankees 5, Minnesota 4 
The New York Yankees can achieve two milestones with one more victory: clinching their seventh straight AL East title and reaching 100 wins in three straight seasons for the first time. 
Behind a pair of saves by Mariano Rivera, Jon Lieber's lOOth career win and the hit­ting of Alex Rodriguez and first time since June 8 by win­ning the first two games in Texas. The Angels began the day tied with Oakland, which played later at home against Seattle. 

Cleveland 5, Kansas City 2 
Royals manager Tony Pena would rather look forward to next season than dwell on this one. 
The Royals set a club record for losses with their 1 Olst of the sea­son, falling to the Cleveland Indians. 
"This is not fun at all. It has been very, very tough," Pen a said. "It's not going to be like this forev­er. We need to start thinking about next season and starting fresh. I know we can do this. I know we can turn this thing around." 
The Hoyals lost their fifth straight -the sixth skid of at least five in a row, and dropped to 57­101 after going 83-79 last year and entering this season as one of the favorites in the AL Central. The only other time the Hoyals lost 100 games in the franchise's 36 year history was in 2002. 
"We have been there before, and we know what we have to do to turn things around," Pena said. "We've already started working on next year because we know what we have to do." 


IBMThinkPadT41-BTS2004 ·. 1.5GH~'~entiuinA M wllh ltltegrat..da<l2c11o/blg Wl~dO:~· XP P.~ WlreJess N~wC?rklng  
~1:af.l~'O~$bMM s-vurW.r~m¥ qo~I\W!$~o 9~¥~ Pti~~ · · · · · · · · ·  
... ::::::-:.:-:-.:··:·.··-:·:··.:::::.·.:..: ·: ··-"::.::  ........ ··.·.· ... ·..: ·.;.:  .·· ··..; 


Restaurant 
THE PLACE FOR STEAKS for 28 years 
120 N Main St Downtown Mishawaka 
255-7737 
TJ Laughlin class of '73 General Manager 
I ' I • ' , .. • 

•:-: K~~~~~~n Lock ·•····· ···Accidental Damage 256K Flash Prive )$39.9SW~W?~ >··· .. ··•·· $314,pq t~rM~t $49.9S·at~~H 
>::~\:~;:;::;;:; ;.:.···::::::;:/::.· .. 
The featured models Include: 3 Year Parts & Labor Warranty (Battery: 1 Year), 24 Hour Toll·Free Technical Support, Rapid Reston' Rescue and Recovery Software, Norton AntiVirus 2004 (OEM Edition), Internet Scroll Bar, Spill-Resistant Keyboard, Touchpad andTrackpoint, Hard Drive Shock Absorber. 
Thursday, September 30, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Colts' offense doing -well, .reflecting To111 Moore's genius 

Associated Press Manning is the co-MVP. Harrison is a five-time Pro Bowl Edgerrin James is a two-time receiver. TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -Peyton NFL rushing champion. Marvin Ask the stars of the 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
"All the fun of college,
View photos and floor plans at 
without the education" 
www.REMCl.com 
a&_........._,__lllliil ~ Proudly Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community ~ The LARGEST Student Housing Apartments Avail­
able ~ 4 & 5 Bedroom Units ND ~ WASHER and DRYER in Each Unit E AV ~ Dishwasher 
E D 


=> 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 
D 
y
'? ADT Alarm Systems ~ Close to Campus 
For More lnfonnation: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box540 
CEDAR
South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Rludwig@cbresb.com 

Notre Dame Apartments 
=> Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus => Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue => Current 1-year & 10-month Leases Available => On-Site Laundry Facility => 2 Closets and 1 Desk in Each Bedroom ~ Private Parking Lots ~ 24 -hour Emergency Maintenance => Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment => Double vanity/sinks in bathroom 



For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box 540 South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Fac&ITnile: 574-234-9925 

e Director of the Progra(¥i on Edueation: P-Olicy and Govern~nlt~ at Hatvatd 
e Editor In Chiefof Edw:atian Next 

Atv1ERICAN DEMOCH.ACY 

!.HHVERSJTY Of NOT!H DAMf. 


Indianapolis Colts to name the most valuable member of their team, though, and they agree it's Tom Moore, who never played in the NFL but knows how to play the game. 
Moore is the architect of the high-scoring offense that has taken the Colts from back-to­hack 3-13 records to within a whisker of the Super Bowl. 
"He's tremendous," Harrison said. 
Moore. 65, has been winning accolades -and giving oppo­nents nightmares -for years. 
The Colts' offensive coordina­tor coached Hall-of-Famers Lynn Swann and John Stallworth in Pittsburgh, helped make Barry Sanders the league's most dangerous runner in Detroit and developed the Carter receivers -Anthony and Cris -in Minnesota. 
Indianapolis is his latest mas­terpiece. with its reliance on precision, quick wits and the ability to change things in the blink of an eye. 
Gang up against the running game and Moore will burn you with play-action passes. Double­team Harrison and James will pound the ball. Try to take away James and Harrison and Moore lets Manning make the call. 
The combination has worked almost perfectly in Moore's six seasons with the Colts. Manning & Co. have produced at least 5,000 yards each year and three of the four highest-scoring sea­sons in the franchise history. 
Manning won the co-MVP award last year following his best pro season. James became the filth player in league history to open his career with consecu­tive rushing titles in 1999 and 2000. 
And Harrison, who caught a total of 137 passes in two years before joining the Colts in 1998, has established himself as the league's most consistent receiv­er. Under Moore, Harrison has set NFL records with four straight 100-catch seasons and shattered the league's single­season mark with 143 catches in 2002. 
"I credit him for a lot of things I've accomplished in my career," Harrison said. 
Moore said the credit belongs to the players. 
"This is a player's game," he said in the deep, raspy voice that sometimes bellows from the playing field wlien things go wrong. "My base philosophy has been that players make plays and, as a coach, you give them a system that allows them to do that." 
In Indianapolis, much of that system hinges on Manning. The quarterback rallied the Colts for 21 fourth-quarter points at Tennessee, then burned Green Bay with 247 yards passing in the first quarter and five TO passes in the first half. 
"I don't think anybody can run this offense except Peyton," said former Chicago and New Orleans coach Mike Ditka, who worked with Moore in New Orleans. "A lot of it is 'check with me at the line of scrim­mage.' Believe me, nobody could run this offense but him." 
Colts coach Tony Dungy said Moore's approach hasn't changed much since the early 1970s, when Moore spent two • years as a backfield coach at the University of Minnesota. His star pupil in that option offense was Dungy. 
"Tom understands there are certain ways you move the ball to win and that's never going to change," Dungy said. "A lot of the things we are doing here, we did at Minnesota in 1973. You still had to make split-sec­ond decisions, it was just after the snap instead of before the snap." 
Though he's at an age where most people consider retiring, Moore isn't even close. 
There are still plays to design, defenses to confound, correc­tions to be made and champi­onships to win. 


AP 

Colts' quarterback Peyton Manning, right, stands with offensive coordinator Tom Moore during a practice on August 3. 

page 22 Thursday, September 30, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

=========================================================================== 
MLB 
Ichiro's chase puts Sisler's naine back in the headlines 
Sisler's family has mixed feelings about Mariners star's charge at hits record, which has stood since 1920 

Associated Press 
Day and night, Dave Sisler is tracking every hit by Ichiro Suzuki. The former big league pitcher tunes in the radio each evening, his wife checks the boxscores in the morning. 
Mostly, he's watching out for his father. 
Because as Suzuki approach­es the season record for hits, fans all over are finding out about the man he's chasing: George Sisler, who got 257 for the long-gone St. Louis Browns back in 1920. 
"I think it's great what my dad did, and that people are !waring his name," Sisler said Wednesday by telephone from his home in St. Louis. "lie never talked about it. but a lot or people are talking about him now." 
Down in Dallas. the Hall of Famer's grandson -also named Dave -already has his plane reservations for Seattle. The Mariners have invited him leading .372 average into Wednesday night's game at Oakland. At 254 hits, he had five games left to break the record set so long ago by the player his family called "Poppy." 
It's one of the longest-stand­ing hitting marks left. Homer, RBI, 

on my grandfather is very p.os­itive. But it certainly is one of the last threads of recognition that he had. He was one of the most underappreciated players ever. So to be honest, I can't really say we're enjoying this." Sisler died in 1973 at age 80. In his day, Sisler was among the 
batting average most celebrated
"Sisler was the 

and runs records · h players in base-
h

smartest ztter w o ball. At times, he since "Gorgeous" ever lived." outhit Ty Cobb, George Sisler outpitched Walter swung a bat that Johnson and even have all been set 
Branch Rickey

sometimes outslugged Babe
former teammate
weighed a whop­ping 47 ounces. 
Last weekend, the younger Sisler sat in his season tickets at Texas _ which happen to be only eight rows behind the visitor's on-deck circle -when the Mariners were in town and studied Suzuki. 
"He's a very good hitter, a really good hitter," Sisler said. And he's pretty certain the 

and other family "/think it's great Seattle leadoff 
members to man will soon
what my dad, and

Safeco Field this own the record, weekend for a that people are albeit with more celebration with hearing his name. " at-bats than Suzuki, probably Sisler got when before Saturday's he hit .407 in a
Dave Sisler

game against 154-game season. Texas. HOF George Sisler's Suzuki had 250 
"It was very son hits through 1.54 

classy on their part," Sisler said, "and I'm going, provided lchiro doesn't whiff in his next 12 at-bats." 
Not much chance of that. Suzuki took a major league-
For the FIRST 10 DAYS 
ONLY, the Magna Carta, circa 1300 A.D. (the "Great ·· Charter" of English liberty);.· an original1777 broadside • of our Declaration of Independence; a first edition of the Federalist Papers; Common Sense by Thomas Paine 
-
Present this coupon at the box 
office and receive two ..,...,,...,,. for the price of one. Valid with Senior & Student discounted 
Offer Good Oct. 1-Oct. 4 
games, and will finish with about 70 more at-bats than Sisler. 
"We're pretty much resigned to the fact that there will be no asterisk," the grandson said. "The light that this has shined Ruth. 


But mostly, he 
was a first base­man from 1915 to 1930, all but the last three years with the lowly Browns. He managed them from 1924-26, yet never reached the World Series. 
There's a statue of Sisler out­side Busch Stadium, and sev­eral of his artifacts are in the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown. 
''Sisler was the smartest hit­ter who ever lived," Branch Hickey, his former college and major league manager, once said. "He never stopped think­ing. He was the picture player, the acme of grace and fluen­cy." . 
Sisler's left-handed swing left its mark on baseball, and baseballs. Af' 
lchiro Suzuki hits a single in the fifth inning of the Mariners game 
"You don't swing at a ball. 
against the A's Wednesday The hit was his 255th of the season.
you hit at it," he once said. 

In 1920, Sisler broke Cobb's record of 248 hits set nine years earlier. He finished sec­ond to Ruth in homers and HBis, and also was second in the AL in doubles, triples arid stolen bases. 
Sisler really got going by get­ting 60 hits in June, and added 57 hits in 30 September games. 
Several changes in the game helped him, and other hitters. That year, baseball outlawed spitballs and other so-called "freak deliveries." Also, spurred by the death of Hay Chapman by a beanball that season, the sport began the practice of keeping fresher, whiter balls in play, said Tim Wiles, director of research at the Hall of Fame. 
The deadball era was over, and it was a great time to be at the plate. Sisler hit even higher in 1922, batting .420 and putting together a 41­game hitting streak that stood as the modern mark until Joe DiMaggio broke it 19 years later. 
Sisler finished with a .340 lifetime mark and 375 stolen bases. He was elected to the Hall in 1939 along with Lou Gehrig, and his plaque noted his big seasons in 1920 and 1922, along with his fielding prowess. 
About the only one to find fault with Sisler was one of his greatest admirers, W.C. Fields. 
As the story goes -and is widely circulated by his grand­son -Sisler was once invited to visit the popular entertainer backstage. Even though it was during Prohibition, Fields had plenty of whiskey on-hand and offered Sisler some. 
When Sisler said he didn't drink, Fields supposedly replied: "Oh, well. not even the perfect ballplayer can have everything." 

&-.-&u.rda.y 10/2 

~©Lrlli~ @&~~ w~ [p(!Dill@Q!J~ 
::.:-0 s -r -c;;. ..&. D'.l: E: 
@@[}! @[J{]@~ 
Featuring: 
~@utft}~@?)(ft}~@(ND) 
Wo
ay~---~~/
~~ 
to b& · 
rse ,, (No; 
THE ATARI STAR (P) KQ (PJ Playing at 9pm
C~eers ~cwn3e 


Jvst post the 1-80/90 ramo on Michigan Ave.. less then 3 minutes from campus. 

------------------------------------------------------~-------·------------~------..., 
OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 30, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 23 

MLB 

team  
1  usc (46)  
2  Oklahoma {18).  
3  Georgia (1)  
4  Miami  
5  Texas  
6  West VIrginia  
7  Ohio State  
8  Florida State  
9  Auburn  
10  California  
11  Tennessee  
12  Virginia  
13  LSU  
14  Utah  
15  Purdue  
16  Florida  
17  fresno State  
16  Minnesota  
19  Michigan  
20  Wisconsin  
21  AriZona State  
22  louisville  
23  Boise State  
24 25  ~:ri~:~da state:\%tr  

team 

1 usc (45) 
2 Oklahoma {14) 
3 Georgia 
4 Mlaml{2) 
5 Texas 
6 Ohio State 
7 West Virginia 
6 Tennessee 
9 Auburn 
1o Ca lllornIa 
11 Florida State 
12 Vi rglnia · 
13 LSU 
14 utah 
15 Purdue 
16 Florida 
17 Fresno State 
18 Michigan 
19 Minnesota 
20 Wisconsin 
21 Boise State 
22 Louisville 
23 Maryland 
24 Oklahoma Stale.··· 
25 Arizona Stale 
1 NOTRE 
2 North r:~rt1lln~..-. 
3 Washington 
4 Virginia 
5 Penn Slate 
6 Portland 
~-t\t}f~,~~~i' 
9 TexasA&M 
10 California 
11 Princeton 
12 Kansas 
13 Michigan 
14 Florida Slate 
15 Santa Clara 
around the dial 
MLB Reds at Cubs 1 :20 p.m., FSN 

GoLF AmEx Championship 8 a.m., ESPN 
NCAA FooTBALL Pittsburgh at Connecticut 6 p.m., ESPN2 Navy at Air Force 9 p.m., ESPN 
POKER 

World Series of Poker 4 p.m., ESPN2 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -It was more pep rally than news conference, with the mayor and city officials wearing red Washington Senators caps, the ones with the curly "W" on the front. 
"After 30 years of wait­ing and waiting and wait­ing," said Mayor Anthony Williams, adding dramatic pauses for emphasis, "and lots of hard work and more than a few prayers, there will be baseball in Washington in 2005!" 
Baseball returned to the nation's capital for the first time in 3 3 years Wednesday, with an announcement from Major League Baseball that the Montreal Expos will move to Washington next season. 

The announcement came one day before the anniversary of the Senators' final game. The team moved to Texas after the 1971 season, the last time a major league team moved. 
"It's a day when the sun is setting in Montreal, but it's rising in Washington," Expos president Tony Tavares told a news con­ference in Montreal. 
Relocation of the Expos is subject to certain contin­gencies, including a vote by team owners in November and passage of legislation by the Washington's City Council to build a ballpark on the Anacostia River 
waterfront, south of the Capitol. 
"There has been tremen­dous growth in the Washington, D.C., area over the last 33 years, and we in Major League Baseball believe that base­ball will be welcomed there and will be a great suc­cess," commissioner Bud Selig said. 
The team will play for three seasons at RFK Stadium while a new ball­park is built. The first home game will be April 15 against the Arizona Diamondbacks, according to the draft 2005 schedule that has been circulated to major league teams. The team opens the season April 4 at Philadelphia. 
Eager fans arrived early for the announcement at Washington's City Museum. A petition was circulated to name the team the "Washington Grays" in tribute to the Homestead Grays, a Negro League team that played in Washington in the 1930s and 1940s. Despite his cap, Williams said he doesn't want to recycle the Senators name for political reasons -Washington doesn't have voting repre­sentation in the U.S. Senate. 
Baseball has been look­ing for a new home for the Expos since the financially troubled team was bought by the other 29 major league owners in 2002. 
IN BRIEF Brad.Jey sqspended for 
remamder of season LOS ANGELES -Dodgers outfielder Milton Bradley was suspended for the rest of the regular season by Major League Baseball on Wednesday, a day after a bottle­throwing tantrum during a win over Colorado. 
A contrite Bradley said he will seek help to deal with his anger and wouldn't appeal the suspension. 
"From the bottom of my heart, I apologize for my outburst," the 26­year-old Bradley said shortly after learning of the suspension. "Getting upset has caused me to hurt family, hurt friends, hurt my team, hurt fans. 
"I need to talk to somebody about anger, get treated, find a way to cor­rect that situation. It's not even about baseball. This is about what I need to do for my life. I let anger get the best of me." 
The Dodgers entered Wednesday night's game against the Rockies leading the NL West by three games over San Francisco with five remain­ing. 

Bradley also was fined an undis­closed amount by Bob Watson, base­ball's vice president of on-field opera­tions. Earlier this season, Bradley was suspended for four games after throwing a bag of balls onto the field following an election. Juds;!e declassifies evidence 
in KObe Bryant case DENVER-A judge cleared the way Wednesday for the release of docu­ments and other evidence in the Kobe Bryant sexual assault case as early as next week. 
Workers in the Eagle County Sheriff's Department were poring over some of the records, removing the name of the accuser and infor­mation that would be illegal to make public, such as mental health records. 
Eagle County prosecutors also have some of the materiaL Prosecution spokeswoman Krista Flannigan said officials would "make every effort" to have the files available Monday. 
Prosecutors dropped the felony sexual assault charge against Bryant on Sept. 1 at the request of the alleged victim. Several news organi­zations then requested access to the sealed files. Expos face harsh crowds in final games in Montreal MONTREAL -The Expos and Marlins were pulled off the field dur­ing Montreal's final home game Wednesday night after a fan threw a golf ball that landed near second base. 
. With Florida's Jeff Conine at the plate in the third inning, Expos man­ager Frank Robinson came out of the dugout, summoned plate umpire Rick Reed and pointed out the golf ball. 
Reed, the crew chief, waved all the players into the dugout as the crowd of more than 30,000 cheered. 
An announcement over the loud­speaker said the game would be can­celed if any more objects were thrown onto the field. 
~--~----~--------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------­
page 24 Thursday, September 30, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Brophy 
continued from page 28 
The Irish were ready for the challenge, shooting 12 birdies Friday and 10 more on Sunday, no small achievement considering the rainy weather conditions, which forced tournament officials to cancel play Saturday. 
Overall. the team shot a 593, good enough to win the tourna­ment by four strokes. 
Perhaps more than anyone else on the team. Brophy followed her own advice. 
On Friday, Brophy went out and fired a 69, putting herself in sec­ond place. 
On Sunday, she followed that impressive round with an even par 72, helping her team win the prestigious event and securing the individual title for herself. 
"It was a big step for Katie," coach Debby King said. "The sec­ond round was a better round than the 69 mentally, because it's easier to come from behind than keep a lead." 
The goal certainly energized the team. perhaps providing them with a fun. new tradition. King has made a sign to take to tourna­ments, and. after each birdie, the team makes King do crunches. 
Without a doubt, Brophy was happy with her play, and the result it brought her. 
"Individually, it's exciting to win a tournament," she said. 
The victory was Brophy's third 
Hope 
continued from page 28 
new strategy introduced by coach Caryn Mackenzie specifically for this game. 
"I lope plays with five midfield­ers instead of the standard four, so coach added another player in the midfield to accommodate their system of play." MacMillan said. "Coach did her homework. and it really benefited us a lot. It was unexpected, and Hope was shocked to see us pull a defender for another midfielder." 
The loss of a defender might have hurt the Belles' chances, but their defense was able to compen­sate for the loss of a player. 
"I think we definitely owe a lot of credit to our coach; it was the difference between winning and losing today," MacMillan said. "Pulling a defender to put her in the midfield is a huge risk, but it was a great move. This is the first time we've had a coach that takes risks; it shows us she has a lot of confidence in us as players." 
The switch from the flat-back four to five midfielders also proved effective in providing more offensive opportunities. 
"Having one more midfielder than usual definitely helped our offensive movement," goalie individual title at Notre Dame, tying a school record that likely will be broken, considering that she is only starting her junior sea­son. 
However, despite her accom­plishments, Brophy has kept her play in perspective. 
"It's important to not lose sight, aside from being captain. that you're a member of a team," she said. "It's up to me to perform on the course and be a leader on the course, in the weight room and in life-to lead by example." 
All in all. Brophy certainly satis­fies her own definition of a leader. She has served as the captain on a majority of the teams she has played on, from club and high school golf and volleyball to her current role on the Irish. 
Brophy attributes this fact to being the oldest of four children and dealing with the responsibili­ties that often came with that. 
Without the help and inspiration of a few people along the way, Brophy may never have had much of a golf career. A high school friend. Lani Elston, who now plays for Arizona. sparked her interest in pursuing the next level. 
"She inspired me," Brophy said of her friend. 
Brophy didn't realize she had the ability to play at the Division I level until her sophomore year in high school, when her golf pro pulled her aside one day and asked her if she had ever thought about it. 
Ironically, Brophy didn't even like golf until around that time. 
Laura Heline said. "The midfield­ers did a great job of checking back to the ball, and Carolyn Logan and Colleen Courtney had excellent games up top." 
"The strategy was something new, but our defense did a good job of keeping its shape and talk­ing to each other so we could limit their shots on goal." Heline said. "By putting the same number of players in the midfield as Hope, we were able to play our style of soccer and control the game." 
The win allowed the Belles to leapfrog in the standings and puts them in the driver's seat for the remainder of the season in their quest to win the conference. 
"This was a big win, and a statement to Hope," Heline said. "We're tied with Hope and Calvin for li.rst now, and we were able to gain respect and build ourselves back up after Saturday's loss." 
After the demoralizing loss to Olivet. the Belles couldn't have asked for a much better inspira­tion for the rest of the season than Wednesday's win. 
"This win is huge, because we really needed to win right now," MacMillan said. "It shows we're still in it, and we have a lot to prove. It's going to take a lot more than a team with a reputation to stop us." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy 1 @nd.edu 

r-------------.. 
I BUY 1 ENTREE, I I GET THE 2ND I I ENTREE FOR 1/2 PRICE! I 
I Join us at any of our Three Great Restaurants any Monday thru I I Sunday until October 17. Order one entree at the regular price I I and get another entree of equal or less value for half price! I 
Valid Mon. Thru Sun. • Dinner Hours Only1 One Half Price Entree Per Coupon 1 I Not valid w/ any other offer. Expires October 17, 2004 I 
'DH,~·· ~-~

I aa.u....... _ I 
120N, Main St. Miatla~~n~ka.IN 1itlS.fiiiN ll>4'~ NO I

.. _____________
I 2sa.mr ~:..=·IN ~r .. 
After her first high school tourna-, "In my fourth or fifth high ment round, in which she shot a school tournament. l shot 90, and 107, Brophy was initially discour­I was really excited," she said. aged about the sport. However, while she will talk 
However, once her skills began about her individual past, when growing and she started develop­asked about the future, Brophy ing her swing, her interest began responds in plural. to grow. "The team isn't going anywhere 
but up," she said. "We haven't reached our potential yet." 
With Brophy setting the goals, the team may surpass even its own expectations. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
The Instin1te for Latino Sn1dies proudly presents: 
THE SIXTH SECTION A documentary by Alex Rivera 26 minutes., 2003 
Thursday., September 30., 2004 7:oo-9:oo PM Hesburgh Center Auditorium University of Notre Dame 
Co-sponsored by Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
--~ ------~~-~-------~ ---~--~------~-----------------------~------------­
Thursday, September 30, 2004 page 25 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
weekend. "We need to complete more 
"We need to bring more intensi­passes, which will allow us to sus~

Inter hall 
ty," captain Stephanie Heath said. tain drives," Heath said. "Ail of our continued from page 28 "We were sluggish on Sunday." scoring has been on big plays. 
Heath stressed the need to That needs to change this week." Interhall champions. The Bullfrogs improve in ali aspects of the game, Heath was encouraged by her will look to be more focused and especially in developing consisten­team's practice this week as she prepared than they were last cy on offense. saw vast improvement in the 

~ 
~ 
i} ~;-'-­
~--.

VOLV'O 
LINCOLN MERCURY _jAGUAR 
, ; .. .
... 

Ford Motor Company presents: 
James C. Gouin 
Ford Vice President and Corporate Controller "Careers in Corporate Finance at Ford" 
Friday, October 1, 2004 at 11:45 AM Mendoza College of Business Jordan Auditorium 
Mr. Gouin will discuss career opportunities for the Ford Finance Team, 
his experiences at Ford and an automotive industry outlook. This is a 
one-of-a-kind opportunity to participate in a candid session with a senior 
executive of a leading global company. 
• 
Door prizes will be given to the first 1 00 people to arrive 

• 
The presentation is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students 

• 
Refreshments will be served 



For more information about career opportunities, please visit us at www.mycareer.ford.com. 


•~fo~"" Mutt~s 
Sl>M 1.2-' ttAY6S-116ALY 
MONDAY, OCTOBER+ 
No prior stud~ ot Japanese necessar!J torTok!Jo 

team's defense, as well as the offensive line, which struggled in last week's loss. She expects the line to step up in tonight's game. 
For Off-Campus, last weekend's loss came with noticeable improvement, especially on offense. In its loss to Lyons on Sunday, the team managed to score for the first time this season. 
The team built on its strong defensive play while continuing to grow into its offense this week as it prepared to take on the defending champs. 
"Badin's loss gave us a sense of hope," team captain Lauren Blum said. "We'll do our best, and hope­fully things will fall into place for us [tonight]." 
Blum was realistic, however, about long term goals for her upstart team. 
"We're looking to improve every game, and hopefully we can man­age a win along the way," Blum said. 
"We want to make a run for the Stadium," Heath said. "It will be a tough road as there are a lot of good teams out there. We're going to take it one game at a time." 
Pangbom vs. Lewis 
What's the perfect remedy to early season woes? 
A convincing shutout victory. 
Lewis and Pangborn, both com­ing off impressive victories, face each other today and take one more step towards playing in Notre Dame Stadium at the end of the season. 
With both teams notching a win and a loss in their early season games, the Chicks (1-1) hold tough-nosed defense as key to a victory against the Phoxes (1-1-1). 
"We're going to have to play hard and stay at home and also try not to give up any first downs," Lewis captain Sheila Dawes said. 
After torching the defending interhall champion Badin team for 26 points en route to a solid victory Sunday, Pangborn hopes to carry their offensive success into today's game. 
Using four different players to score their four touchdowns, the Phoxes clicked on offense through­out their last game. 
"They're coming off a huge win," Dawes said. "Anytime you score 26 points, you've got a great offel)Se, and when you don't give up any points, you've got a great defense. Plus, they've got momen­tum, so they present a lot of chal­lenges." 
But Pangborn will have to find a way through a stingy Lewis defense that only gave up three first downs in its last game. 
After relying on their defense to quickly get the ball back and power their offensive drives, the Chicks will try to use the same principles for tonight's game. 
"[We will] keep trying to work on our defense and offense feeding off each other," Dawes said. "When the offense scores, have our defense come out and get a stop and vice versa." 
Trick plays could be another key factor that dictates the outcome of the contest. 
Both teams burned their oppo­nents for a touchdown using a well-timed flea-flicker. 

"Defensively, we're just going to have to guard against their trick plays," Dawes said. 
Game time is 7 p.m. tonight at Riehle West field. 

Welsh Family vs. Lyons 
Undefeated Welsh Family takes on Lyons tonight in a match of two highly-ranked teams. 
Each team has come out strong this season -neither has lost a game yet. 
Welsh was ranked second in the preseason polis, but after a two­game winning streak to start the season is currently ranked No. 1. 
Lyons, on the other hand, has one win and one tie under its belt. 
Although Welsh Family is unde­feated, it refuses to take Lyons lightly. 
"They have been putting up a lot of points on the board," Welsh captain Mary Prendergast said. "They play a good game, and we are looking for this to be a chal­lenge." 
Both teams have been preparing all week for tonight's game. 
"We've been preparing like we always do," Prendergast said. "I think the key to making it to the Stadium this year is to keep get­ting better with every game. Just because we've shut teams out before does not mean we're set. 
"There is always the opportunity to improve. Our defense is strong, but our offense struggles with their rhythm and they really need to get going on a good note." 
Welsh may just keep its strong hold on the No. 1 spot, and not only because of its play on the field, but also because of its approach to every game. 
"We're not taking this game lightly at ali," Prendergast said. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer, Rama Gottumukkala and Kaitlin Seryak at rkiefer@nd.edu, rgottumu@nd.edu and kseryak@nd.edu 


0 Moreau Art Galleries 
§)atSaint M:::t:~~!t!~Oe 
D Leticia Bajuyo
@_ In lHUe Thea;;;~~~:;;;; 
ceramic sculpture byD Rebekah Wostrel 
in Hammes Galtery 

Exhibition Dates: October 1~29, 2004 Opening Reception: Friday* October 1st from 5-7pm Artist Lecture; Friday* October 1st at 6pm in Moreau 232 {adjacent to gallery space) 
All events are free and apen to th• public 
The Mor~au Art Gallenes. are locat~d in1he Moreau Centerfor the Art$ On the Saint M<uy's College Campus 
Gallery Hours: M·F,1oam-4pm For more infO, ~ m.a.g. at. www.sail1tmary$.edu/-ga!lery 
----------------------------------..,..-------~----------------­
page 26 Thursday, September 30, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
already raised some eyebrows I see the opponent kneel his chance to display his talent in player tremendously," Irish -primarily on special teams head down. and I see the other aspects of the offense as offensive coordinator Bill
Tailbacks 

-is Hoskins. Preston talked opportunity to jump over him well. Diedrick said. "We can expand 
continued from page 28 
Michigan State, but fumbled 
late in the game as the Irish 
were trying to put the game 
away. 
Thomas' bout of "fumbleitis" 
has frustrated nobody more 
than the running back him­
self. 
"I had my spot and was starting, but the fumbles have set me back a little bit," he said. "I've just got to keep working. I've never had this problem before; it's all new to me." 
The ball control issues over­shadow Thomas' potential. As a senior at Washington (Pa.) High School, he rushed for 
1.176 yards and 18 touch­downs and was named a SuperPrep All-American and member of Pennsylvania's all­state team. 
Thomas' coaches believe that he will eventually fix his fumbling problem and has the potential to be a very good back when he does so. 
"It's one of those things where coaches try to come up with a lot of different drills to fix the problem," Irish run­ning backs and special teams coach Buzz Preston said. "It's a concentration factor, and it's a sad state when a back goes through that, but sometimes it happens. 
"The best thing you do is just keep pushing the young man and hopefully at some point that concentration factor comes through and things can work themselves out." 
Another young back that has 
#1W.Soccar 
vs.Pravldence 

-AIIDIII Field 
Pre-game tailgate by Mazatlan Authentic Mexican. First 250 fans receive a Viva Los Irish t-shirt sponsored by McDonald Physical Therapy! 
about the role that Hoskins and Thomas have played in helping the team add depth this year. 
"They've given us some energy and some spark and will hopefully make some progress toward being all around backs and helping us get some wins," he said. 
Hoskins was named the Gatorade player of the year in the state of Michigan, and came in ranked 18th on col­legefootballnews.com's list of the top running backs in the nation (Walker was 19th). 
In addition to his role as a running back on the Creston (Mich.) Iligh School football team, Hoskins also served as a versatile jack-of-all-trades on offense, catching 20 passes for 134 yards and two touch­downs and completing three passes for 71 yards and a touchdown. At one point, Hoskins even punted the ball for his team, averaging 37 yards per kick. 
Hoskins has already proven his ability on special teams this year. returning a kickoff against Washington well past the 20-yard line before having it nullified on a clipping penalty. 
The  freshman  probably  
raised  a  few eyebrows, too,  
when  he  leapfrogged  a  

Washington player during that long kickoff return, something that Hoskins acknowledges he loves to do. 
"I did long jump in high school," he said. "My adrena­line is so high, I don't think about doing it, it just happens. 

and make him look a little stu­"I think that [Hoskins] has a pid." great deal of athletic ability 
With Hoskins' athletic abili­and having the opportunity to ty. Irish coaches are consider­get him some runs as a run­ing giving the freshman a ning back will always help a his role, and we'll find some things he can do to help us." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Sophomore running back Travis Thomas looks for holes in Notre Dame's 31-24 victory over Michigan State Sept. 18. Thomas has had trouble hanging onto the ball, fumbling three times so far this year. 
ORT~Qf'AJ;OJ<:!> 
.. ,.... 
~J-<"•l:\r:: >"':Xr:~:;: ~~ 

Burke Golf Course 4:15 PM First 100 fans receive a Gold Garnes t•shirtsponsored by South Bend Orthopaedics! 


First 250 fans receive a megaphone w/ popcorn sponsored by Marathon Oil! 
Mell's&#4W81181'S­
Sou"t'H CU:Nb 

CrassCaulllrJllllllllllldonal 
#911en's soccervs.ae 
@ 7:30 PM Alumni Field 
Slnd.11/3 
#IIIIII'sSoccerVI. lDJOII-CIIIcage 
3:38PM-IIDmnlField 
Free La Esperanza pre-game tailgate while supplies last! First 100 fans will re­ceive a coupon to La Esperanza! 


RDCUJ 
Blue/laid Scrimmage 
4:05PI 
Pre-game tailgate while supplies last1 courtesy of Famous Dave's BBQ! 


-------------------------------------------------------------------........, 
Thursday, September 30, 2004 page 27 
The Observer+ TODAY 

DILBERT 
WHERE WERE I HAD MY YOU COCCYX LAST REMOVED. 
WEEK? 
PEANUTS 
At-JD IF 11MELECTED CLA55 PRESIDENT, I 
PROMISE TO .•• 
SCOTT ADAMS 
E 
HOW ABOUT THE PART
~ 
I'M HAVING ALL OF MY
0. OF ·YOUR. BRAIN THAT 
@l 
UNNECESSARY BODY MAKES YOU CARE ABOUTPAR.TS REMOVED SO
.. ~ 
OTHERS? 
I "' I CAN GET TIME OFF FR. OM WORK. 
ITS ON MY 
LIST AFTER. 
TONSILS. 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
YOU CAN'T BE CLASS 
PRESIDENT,I'P16PEN''! 'f'OU'RE A MESS, AND YOU ~AVE NO DIGNIT'f'! 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
CEENI 

j
I I r ( J 
WHAT HE:
DORPAY 

REALIZ.ED WHEN SHE: Dr=c.L.INE:O THE: 1 
KISS AT MID­

rJ 
www.jumble.com 
NIGHT. 


tCUMAUV I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
IJ I I J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: THE"( I I I )"WAS ( I I I) 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' I Jumbles: SWOON PERKY SEPTIC JACKAL s Answer: When she was '1aken" by her friend's beau she was reminded that he -WAS "TAKEN" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 G.l.'s address 
1 Fair-sized 30 Orderly phrase garden that can follow 5 Tater one, two or three
9 Cue user 34 Money earned 
14 "Mon !" 
by a hospital15 Garr of film 

worker? 16 Carrying out the 
39 When theregarbage, e.g. 

maybe171mpugn 
censorship 19 "My Friend" of 
40 New Deal agcy.

1950's TV and others 42 Corps member 
20 What Satan 45 See 22-Across gets from 
47 Spray target 

poison ivy? 48 Big name in
22 With 45-Across, ISP's
book title with a hint to this 51 "Aieeeee!," e.g. puzzle's theme 
52 Donation for 24 Chinese crackpots? dynasty of 
55 Film director2,000 years ago 

Kenton and 25 Underground others facility 
56 Pertaining to 26 Foreshadowed 

the lower skull 27 Like some lines bone 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:::T-:-T-:-r:::-r.:='1 
.;:.+-:-+~;;:+.::i-1 
-=+;;;;.r..+.-:+-:;.t 


P"!"'~-:..iii.l -:-~!7flll!loiii..::-+-:-~H-=++.;.! 
~.;,..+=+::+.+.:-! "!!!'P!!!'t-::-...~+=:-~BII!II 
II!IJ.-=+::+:::-e.-BII!IIPI!!!II 
-:-+~~=-~ 
..;;.L;;....L;;;;.&..;;;..J 


59 Hardly accepting 60 Truckful 61 Architect Saarinen 62 Clipped 63 Alternatively 64 Vitamin amts. 
DOWN 1 Word on a dipstick 2 Year in Trajan's 
reign 3 Used as a chair 4 Cheat, slangily 5 They may be 
Irish 6 Prefix with cab 7 "Spenser: For 
Hire" star a Bears Hall-of­Farner Mike 
9 It has a low pH 10 Name 11 Wren, for one 
12 Answer provider 13 Like work horses, often 
18 Matting material 21 Salad leaf 22 I.B.F. rival 
23 Kachina doll maker 28 Cockney's residence 30 State of lateness 31 Blaster 
32 Uris hero Ben Canaan 
33 Pro 

WILLSHORTZ 

35 Majorettes, e.g. 42 Product 50 Rank above introduced in maj.
36 Suffix with 
1908 "for the 
51 SarcasticEuclid 
great multitude" 53"_ sow ..." 
37 Like some 43 Renee of silents stocks 
44 Painting aid 54 Wood sorrels 
38 Second planet 45 Trounce 57 Coach past Merkur Parseghian
46 More pretentious
41 In perfect 58 _ Alamitos, condition 49"_ Mio" Calif. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bryant Gumbel. Madeline Kahn, Jerry Lee Lewis, Erica Eleniak 
Happy Birthday: Don't pass up an opportunity to find Jove, be creative or, for that matter, follow your lifelong dream. If you are ever going to follow through with something you have always wanted to do, now is the time. Good luck and don't second-guess yourself. Your numbers are 4, 7, 14, 22. 34, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll have plenty of energy and the desire to take on a competitive challenge. Your outstanding performance will impress someone you have an interest in. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A friend will take on an important role. Offer what you can to help someone in need. Personal changes to your home will make your surroundings more comfortable. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will attract love, friendship and help today. Offer your services and you will see how much you get in return. 4 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't be afraid of someone who is a know-it-all. 
Rely on your memory to guide you. Fend for yourself. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make a move that will help you follow a path better 
suited to your needs. If you stop going against the grain you will discover what's really important. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have to take care of matters that someone else has fallen short on. Picking up the pieces can be hard, but do it without malice and you will learn a valuable lesson. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone you know well will surprise you. The 
dynamics of a partnership may change or influence a decision you've been 
trying to make.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Work may be hectic but, if you are intent on finishing what you start, you will feel the satisfaction of a job well done. You 
will be admired for your integrity and effort. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your mind will be in overdrive and the adventure prompted by your ideas will lead to someone special. Things are looking up and it's time to make the necessary changes. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Not everyone will agree with you today, so 
have a well-planned agenda. Remember diplomacy, not force, will aid you in getting your way. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel should be in the works if it's to the park, library or halfway around the world. Your inventive mind will attract 
someone who will share your ideas and support your views. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have the wherewithal to change cours e or start something that has meaning to you. Let your creative side take over 
and lead the way. *** Birthday Baby: You have a push-pull attitude. One minute you are gung-ho and the next minute you are waffling. Your charm, however, will always save 
you. You are loving, passionate and very creative. Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checkspayable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 30, 2004 
page 28 
FOOTBALL 
Waiting in the wings 
Irish have a plentiful supply of talented young backup backs 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
When Darius Walker burst 

on to the Notre Dame scene 
against Michigan, rushing for. 
115 yards on 31 carries, he 
showed that the Irish had a 
talented young running back 
willing to step into the stop­
light. 
But you might have to make some room on that stage for Justin Hoskins and Travis Thomas. as well. 
Hoskins, a freshman like Walker, and the sophomore Thomas could give the Irish tremendous depth at the run­ning back position, something that has proved important so far this season with senior starter Hyan Grant constantly hobbled by injuries. 
Thomas started Notre Dame's first game of the sea­son against BYU after Grant's injury prevented him from playing against the Cougars. 
The sophomore ran the ball six times in that game, fum­bling it twice, and was even­tually replaced by Marcus Wilson and Jeff Jenkins. Thomas got another opportu­nity to run the ball against 
see TAILBACKS/page 26 


ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Brophy sets goal, achieves 
By ERIC RETTER Spons Writer 
An ambitious goal can spark good teams to cross the threshold into greatness. 
The Irish certainly got that spark heading into the Jeannine McHaney InvitationaVCentral Regional Preview last weekend. The night before the tournament began, junior co-captain Katie Brophy pulled the team aside. 
"I was thinking, 'Why don't we make a team goal where everyone [is] supposed to con­tribute? If someone [struggles], someone else lhasl to step up,"' she said. 
The goal Brophy had in mind seemed both difficult and optimistic: 15 birdies for the team in each round. 
"Birdies really pump you up," Brophy said. "Even if you're having a horrible round, one birdie is really invigorating. I just thought [making that the team goal] was a good idea." 
With that objective, Brophy ignited the team on the spur of the moment. 
see BROPHY/page 24 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles defeat Hope, Inove into tie for first 
By RYAN DUFFY Spons Wri rer 
The Belles entered their game Wednesday with a different goal than usual -revenge. 
Four days after being upset by Olivet College on the road, Saint Mary's displayed a new level of fire and determination Wednesday defeating Hope College, 2-0, to retake first place in the MIAA. 
"We had a horrible upset on Saturday, and so we took out our anger on !lope," forward Cat MacMillan said. "We had our egos hurt against Olivet. and it was just unfortunate for Hope that they were the next team we played. We could have been playing the national team, and we would have still fought to the death." 
Hope entered the game in first place in the conference and hav­ing beaten the Belles in their last two encounters. But Saint Mary's controlled the tempo of the game for the entire match. 
"Our team was great; we took the ball and their dignity," MacMillan said. "We were expect­ing a game, but we knew we weren't going to be walked all over. We knew we'd give them a fight." 
The Belles got on the board first when senior Emily Wagoner scored 15 minutes before half­time. Saint Mary's then extended its lead when senior Shannon Artnak fired a goal from outside the box midway through the sec­ond half to put her team up 2-0. The Belles' attack was keyed by a 
see HOPE/page 24 

WOMEN'S GOLD INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Off-Campus, Badin meet 
By RYAN KIEFER, RAMA 
GOTTUMUKKALA and 
KAITLIN SERYAK 
Sports Writers 

Redemption and the chance for improvement will serve as motivation when Badin and Off-Campus SqUare off tonight at the Riehle Field. 
Both teams look to rebound from losses last Sunday. 
While the two teams share goals, their mentalities are dif­ferent. 
This game offers Badin the opportunity to wipe away the memory of a disappointing 26­0 defeat at the hands of Pangborn. The loss was espe­cially disheartening, consider­ing the high expectations Badin carried as defending 
see INTERHALL/page 25 



MLB  MLB  NFL  AMERICAN LEAGUE  PGA  NATIONAL LEAGUE  
Major League Baseball announces the Montreal Expos will move to  Seattle Mariners right fielder Ichiro Suzuki is on the verge of breaking  Indianapolis Colts players credit offensive coordinator Tom Moore  . White Sox 11 Tigers 2  Tiger Woods calls it quits after feeling tight­ness in his back follow- Reds 4 Cubs 3  
Washington next season.  the single season record.  hit  for the success of the Colts' offense.  White Sox outfielder Carlos Lee homers  ing seven holes at the American Express  Reds outfielder Austin Kearns homers in the  
twice as Chicago blows  Championship practice.  12th to beat the Cubs.  
out Detroit.  
page 23  page 22  page 21  page 20  page 18  page 16  








