
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 119 FRIDAY, APRIL2, 2004 
Civil lawsuit filed against ND 
Former student also seeks damages from ex-football players 
Hy MEGHANNE DOWNES News Writer 
Tlw fornwr Notre Dame stu­dnnt who accusnd four former Irish football players of sexual assault has filed a civil lawsuit against llw players and the University, seeking an unspec­il"ind amount of damages for the inddnnt that occurred two ynars ago. 
The 22-year-old woman and lwr parnnts filed the suit with­out a lawyer and are listnd as ".Jane D01~" and "Mr. and Mrs. Don" on court documents to protnet tlwir privacy. 
Thn suit alleges that the woman sul"J"nred physical pain and post-traumatic stress, had to legally change her namn and incurn~d medical bills and lost ineomn dun to the March 


Crawford 

28, 2002 incident involving The former players were Lorenzo expelled Crawford, from the Donald University in Dykes, May 2002 Abram Elam and then-St. and Justin Joseph Smith. The County woman and Prosecutor her parents Chris Toth are seeking filed crimi­damages nal charges from the 
against the players for players. A alleged enHJ­jury convict­tional dis­ed Elam of tress and sexual bat­income loss. tery and T h e acquitted Observer him of con­was unable spiracy to to contact commit rape the woman, Elam Smith and criminal her parents deviate con­or the former football players. duct August 30, 2003. Another jury acquitted Dykes of rape, conspiracy to commit rape and sexual battery, prompting special prosecutor Maureen Devlin to drop the pending criminal lawsuits against Crawford and Smith. 
The civil lawsuit also alleges the University had a duty to protect the woman from the alleged criminal acts of the players. 
University spokesman Matt Storin declined to comment on the lawsuit, citing University policy. 
According to the lawsuit filed in St. Joseph County Superior Court, the woman and her parents are seeking damages to send a message "to deter these defendants and others." 
see SUIT/page 4 

Notre Dame admits class of 2008 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Tlw Notre Dame class of 2008 promises to be just as aeademically strong -if not strongnr -than the widely­acclaimed class that preced­ed it, the Ofl"ice of Admissions prndicts. 

Basnd on the 3,359 admit­led students, the last of whom received their dneision lnttnrs this week, the University projncts I ,975 to nnroll in thn fall. Tho aver­age incoming freshman is expcct11d to rank in the top 
5.5 percent of his or her high school Glass with a median SAT seorc of 13 70· and a mnd ian ACT score of 31. Admitted Notre Dame 
see ADMITS/page 10 

• 
I I ,483 Applications 

• 
3,359 Admitted Students 


e I,975 Expected Enrollment fcgJe,t.ed C:lau gf 2008 I ,975 students altogether 
(52% Men, 48% Women) Avera.ge Class Rank in top 5.5% 
Average SAT: 1370 AverageACT:31. / 83% Catholic 23% Alumni Children 21% Ethnic Minority 3% International 

MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 

14 honorary degrees awarded 
By LISA GALLAGHER News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will honor 14 recipi­ents with honorary degrees this year, University and 
College offi­cials said. 

In addition to com­Ill en en me nl s p e a k e r Alan Page, a justice on t h e Minnnsota 

S u p r e m e McGarry Court, Notre Damn has announeed 10 new 
r11cipinnts this year, said 
Dennis Brown, associate director of news and informa­tion. 
Jose Cabranes, U.S. Court of Appeals judge, Anita de Luna, MCDP, an assistant professor of religious studies at Our Lady of the Lake University, 


J o h n Hennessey, president of Stanford University, Elaine Kim, professor of A s i a n American studies at 

Page  t  h  e  
University of  
California  at  Berkeley,  

Terrence MeGlinn, president 
of All Star Distributing Company and a Notre Dame Board of Trustees member, Jerome Murphy-O'Connor, O.P., professor at the Ecole Biblique et Archeologique Francaise in Jerusalem, Homer Neal, a physicist at the University of Michigan, James Sinegal, president of Costco Wholesale Corporation, Hoxanne Spillett, president of Boys and Girls Clubs of America and Peter Tannock, vice chancellor of the University of Notre Dame Australia arc this year's degree reeipicnts. 
"!Honorary degrees arel a way to recognize the accom­
see DEGREES/ page 6 

N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 

'Dusk 'til Dawn' to be held tonight 
Sleepover on the 
quad to raise money for the hon1eless 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Ediwr 
"Dusk 'til Dawn," an all­night event promoting aware­ness of the plight of the homeless and raising money for the proposed Saint Petnr Claver Catholk Worker House of South Bend, kicks ofT tonight at 8 p.m. in front of Dillon Hall. · 
Tho evnning starts with an opening Mass by Father Bill Lies, executive director of the Center for Soeial Concerns and continues on South Quad with a lighting of luminaries. Organizers said that they hope the event will remain on South Quad all night, though a significant drop in the tem­perature or rain could drive it into Stepan Center. 
"We're actually going to be spending the night on the quad," said sophomore Jackie Clark, who organized the event along with fellow soph­omore Michelle McCarthy and a planning committee. "People are asked to bring sleeping bags and blankets." 
Activiti11s planned through­out the night, including pre­sentations and films, will educate participants about homelessness. Attendees will also have the opportunity to spend time in prayer and reflection. Drew Buscareno, former direetor of the South Bend Center for tho Homeless, will speak, along with a former resident of the shelter. Participants will be treated to a viewing of a film showcasing the life of 
see DUSK/page 6 

Istvan welcomed into office by 'fishy' prank 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
When then-student body president Libby Bishop stepped into her office on the first day of her term, she dis­covered a jar of Swedish fish on her desk. The gummy <:an­dies were from the previous president, Brooke Norton, as part of a student government tradition of exchanging a 'fishy' gift between the outgo­ing and incoming student body presidents. 
On Thursday, student body president Adam Istvan wasn't so lucky. 
When Istvan opened the door of his office early Thursday morning, the strong smell of fish greeted him. Inside, Istvan found plates caked with tuna fish. Outgoing president Jeremy Lao planted the 'gift' with the help of his vice prf~sident Emily Chin and chief of staff Pat Corker. 
"It absolutely reeked," Istvan said. "There were plates of tuna fish all around 
see FISH/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

IPCAhere I come 
I have never been a good packer. 
The summer I turned 12, I started 
packing for myself for our family 
vacation to Florida. I forgot pajamas. 
And a long sleeve shirt. And I only 
took three socks. 
Yes, that's right, Angela Saoud 
three. After that, 
my mom insisted Saint Mary's 
on checking my 
Editor 
suitcase when we 
went on vaca­
tions. 
In high school, I took a service trip 
to West Virginia with my church 
youth group. We were only allowed 
to bring one suitcase for the whole 
week. I went to Wal-Mart and bought 
the biggest suitcase I could find. 
When I showed up the morning of 
the trip, my gigantic suitcase in tow, 
my youth director insisted on check­
ing all of our bags to make sure no 
one over packed. We all ended up 
sending clothes home. 
Last night, I spent the evening 
packing for ICPA. That's the Indiana 
Collegiate Press Association for those 
who have no clue what I'm referenc­
ing. Nineteen Observer staff mem­
bers will head to Muncie, Ind. this 
afternoon to attend an overnight 
conference. Having not been there 
before, I don't exactly know what to 
expect. But I'm promised a meal on 
The Observer's tab, a few sessions 
that may or may not be interesting 
and a great time. 
Even if the conference is a bust, 
I'm looking forward to getting to 
know the rest of the staff. Between 
running back and forth between 
South Dining Hall and Saint Mary's 
there has been little time to get to 
talk with, let alone get to know, my 
fellow staff members. But, I think 
that six hours in the car, and 20­
some odd hours together will do us 
all good. 
It's funny how you can be in class 
with people, or, work with people for 
years, and never be able to put a 
name with their face. Even after 
talking to other staff members on the 
phone for over a year, I am just now 
starting to meet all of them. I don't 
yet know their backgrounds. I don't 
yet know their stories. But this week­
end is going to be the start to chang­
ing all of that. 
So, as I try to cram my clothes, my homework (yeah, like that's gonna happen). and the rest of my items into one duffle bag, I can't help but realize that I'm truly looking forward to this experience. I have no idea ·what to expect -well, with the exception of some possible moments of debauchery -but I know it will be a worthwhile experience nonethe­
less. 
But for now, I need to finish pack­
ing. And, my mom just called. She 
just wanted to make sure I remem­
bered my toothbrush. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error in the Thursday, April I edition ofThe Observer, the name ofWomen of Notre Dame Week featured speaker Colleen Meiman was not included with the description of two activities in which she was scheduled to partici­pate. Meiman contributed to a roundtable luncheon and a panel discussion Thursday. The name of arts and letters dean Mark Roche was also misspelled. 
Due to an editing error, Meiman's involvement in today's discussion of the TV drama "The Wesc Wing" was unclear. She has not appeared on the show but plans to contrast its vision of the White House with her real-life experience. The Observer regrets the error. 
---------------.­
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 2, 2004 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HAVE YOU EVER PROTESTED AGAINST SOMETHING? WHAT AND WHY? 





Daniel Negret-Coles  Garrett Jost  Dan O'Brian  Andrew Chungchansat  
Freshman O'Neill  Freshman O'Neill  Sophomore O'Neill  Junior Off-campus  
"Hard alcohol, because Res Life told me so. "  "Wearing clothes, because I have a beautiful body."  "Female sports, because my sister is better than me at  "The man, because he held me down for too long."  

almost all of them." 

Chris Tarnackl Freshman O'Neill  Kathleen Ryan Sophomore McGlinn  
""The white  "Wearing bras."  

athlete." 

Robber gets tired of waiting, leaves pharmacy 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -No service, no patience, no pay­off. According to police, a would-be robber walked out empty-handed Wednesday when he got tired of waiting for someone at a suburban pharmacy to respond to his written demand for nar­cotics. 
Pharmacist Dwight Disney said a man walked up to one of his co-workers at Vaughn Pharmacy in Powell and passed her a note scribbled on an envelope. 
The note demanded drugs and said the robber had a pipe bomb strapped to his chest. Disney said the man pulled back his jacket, revealing some wires. 

Disney said his colleague "didn't want to find out if it was real" and brought him the note. The pharmacist called 911. 
Politicians create pranks In honor of April Fool's 
WASHINGTON­Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry does­n't have a Republican-lean­ing French cousin. President Bush is not pushing legisla­tion that would have other countries pay off the deficit. Pennsylvania Republican Sen. Arlen Specter is not retiring to study Scottish Common Law. 
And Democrats and Republicans did not agree on anything Thursday. 
Playing traditional April Fools' politics, the parties and presidential campaigns mocked their opponents with bogus announcements that didn't always get a laugh. 
In one of the day!s more believable pranks, the Democratic National Committee announced that Republicans had agreed to a series of televised presiden­tial debates. 
Information compiled 
from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY a:: 
LIJ 
:c 
~ 
LIJ 

3: 
.... 


C( CJ 

0 

HIGH 52 HIGH 58 HIGH 58
...I LOW 44 LOW 42 LOW 46 

HIGH LOW 
IN BRIEF 
As part of the Women of Notre Dame series, guest alum­na Colleen Meiman will address "Stories from the Beltway ­How real is 'The West Wing"' based on her experiences as a White House staffer. The event will take place in Walsh Hall's south lounge from 2 to 3 p.m. today. 
The African Student Association will hold its African Cultural Night that features an African dance troupe, arts, music and food tonight in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium from 6 to 9 p.m. 
The Farley Hall players will present the play "The Taxi Cabaret" tonight and Saturday night from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 
p.m. Tickets are $5, and the 
event  will  be  held  in  the  
LaFortune Ballro om.  
Showings  of  the  movie  

"Paycheck" will take place tonight and Saturday at 8 and 
10:30 p.m. Sponsored by the Student Union Board, the movie will be held in 101 DeBartolo and admission costs $3. 
The Department of Political Science will hold a Meet Your Major meeting for students wanting to learn more about the political science major. Handouts will be available for prospective majors and advi­sors will be available to assist students in preparing for regis­tration. The meeting will be held on Wednesday, April 7 from 7:00 to 8:30 p.m. in 116 DeBartolo. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
HIGH 62 LOW 45 

58 
45 

-----------------~----------------------------------------­
Friday, April 2, 2004 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Professionals speak on balancing work, family 
By TRICIA DE GROOT N<WsWritcr 
Four professional women spoke to other students about their experiences in integrating work and family life in a panel discus­sion entitled "Women in the Workplace: On and Off the Career Track." 
The event. part of this week's Women of Notre Dame Series, was sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters. the Career Center and the Alumni Association. lleld in the Coleman Morse Center, the discussion included four speakers: Colleen Meiman, a 1988 Notre Dame graduate, B.A. in Economics, Patricia Bellia, associate professor of law. Viva Bartkus, adjunct assistant professor of manage­ment. and was associate profes­sor of psycholog~ Cyndi Bergeman, who facilitated the discussion. 
Bartkus spoke first and began by sharing two personal stories about her position as a female partner at McKinsey, a consulting firm. ller narratives led her to speak of three important themes: that women have made tremen­dous progress in the work place, that the work environment is still difficult and that women have a choice with respect to their involvement in their careers. 
Bartkus told her predominately female audience that she hoped to see a "sea change" with our generation. She explained how the current generations' grand­mothers fought for the right to vote, mothers fought for women in the workforce and how she hoped to see the present genera­tion make even more progress. 
Although her talk exhibited hope for females in the work­place, she still made a point of noting that it is "still really tough." 
"You have to be so good they [eithllr] can't make a decision without you or you make the deci­
sions yourself," Bartkus said. "Sometimes we have to be bet­ter to get into the game." 
Bartkus concluded her talk by leaving women with a choice con­cerning the balance between work and family. 
"Anything of value is tough and hard to work for," she said. "You need to make your own choice according to your values." 
Meiman served as a White House staffer and a,ide to Senator Bill Bradley and recently got off the full-time career track to spend time with her two children. 
Meiman highlighted the stress caused by the long hours and the responsibilities of her position. 
. "I was playing really serious games at a pretty young age and had no time for myself," she said. "I decided that I wanted to get back to my interests and wanted to get off the career track." 
While Meiman expressed no regrets for her decision to under­take her particular career route, she said she just decided that she wanted her children to spend more time with their parents than with other people. In response, she decided that she could no longer work full time, but she also ruled out being a stay at home mom. 
Meiman expressed her fortune in being able to work part time but also expressed some down­sides to no longer being fully employed. As a part-time career woman, she was working for peo­ple with less experience than her­self and expressed being seen as not committed. 
Meiman concluded with a few words of advice. She expressed that options are not guaranteed, that women can't assume they can have children when they want to and that no option is per­fect. But Maiman did say women have to make a choice and be happy with it. 
Finally. Bollia discussed Supreme Court Judge Sandra Day O'Connor, a woman who was only offered a secretarial job at a law firm upon graduating third in her class at Stanford, but who later become the first woman to serve on the Supreme Court. She shared the inspiration she received from Justice O'Connor's story and then proceeded to tell her own story, discussing her life as a full-time professor and as a mother of a 16-month-old daugh­ter. 
Bellia spoke of the problem that many working mothers face when they are competing with men who have stay at home wives who have more flexibility and are thus not under the same circum­stances. She also spoke of the problems many women have who step off the career track and then try to get back on. 
The final event in the women of Notre Dame Series is held today at 2 p.m. in Walsh Hall South Lounge and is entitled, "Stories from the Beltway." 
Contact Tricia De Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 

Saint Mary's encourages academic trips off-campus 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Senior Staff Writer 
Through the work of various boards and departments, Saint Mary's attracts a number of pres­tigious speakers and events to campus each year. Within this past year, however, the College has made significant progress in ensuring that both students and faculty gain similar exposure in settings aside from its own. 
According to English professor Carla Johnson, facilitating off­campus trips heightens students' knowledge and experience outside of their everyday climate. 
"I believe it's advantageous for Saint Mary's students to visit a less homogenous atmosphere and to sec what life outside our environ­ment is like," she said. "Professional conferences give students an idea about where they arc going." 
Johnson said she takes her stu­dents on trips about once a semes­ter, usually gaining necessary funds and transportation from the English department. Department approval is perhaps the most com­mon outlet the College provides for such opportunities; however, not all professors have the time to plan. Johnson said. She. for one. only takes students to hear speak­ers of national importance whose topic relates to course content. 
In the past, Johnson has organ­ized trips to hear keynote speak­ers such as Gloria Steinem, Colin Powell and former President George Bush. She has also invited students to co-present papers with her at both national and Interna­tional conferences. 
Most recently, Johnson took a group of students to hear Arthur Sulzberger Jr.. chairman and pub­lisher of the New York Times, speak at Northwestern University. 
"I consider my students to be part of my whole life, not just cer­tain parts of it," she said. "I enjoy sharing my professional confer­ences and events such as the Northwestern trip with them. It makes the event more meaningful to me as I learn along with them and sometimes because of them." 
The Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership also funds off-campus trips. The Center enables students and facul­ty to broaden their range of travel by offering funding for grants. 
Although there is a set annual amount for CWIL's Group Study and Travel Grants and Student Intercultural Learning Grants, there is no set number of trips since the budgets vary, said direc­tor Elaine Meyer-Lee. In addition, no distance limit exists on how far the grants will extend; however, $6,000 is typically the upper limit for funding. 
"The longer distance trips tend to take student financial need into consideration when distributing the funds," Meyer-Lee said. 
Applicants for the Group Study and Travel Grants must be faculty or staff members directly involved with student advertisement, she said. The applications must be submitted by the first of ·each month for review by the CWIL Faculty Advisory Committee on International and Intercultural 
Learning. 
RebuikJing 
To~b.~r.-,.:.. 

The Spring Run 
A Benefit for "'Rebuilding Together wHh Christmas In Aprir" 
JKII10KRUMI 

PLUS 

2 Ml LI"W.AI.IS 
Saturday, April 3, 2004 
11:00 A.M. Stepan Center 
T -shirts 1o alrfiniShers ·-······~··············································! 
Register In Advance at RecSports , $6.00 In Advance or $8.00 Day of Race i Advance Registration Begins 3/25, Ends @ 5:00 p.m. 4/2 i ; Student and Stoff Divisions 1 
l. .;;;.oo,;;.;o;;.;.....,;;;;.;;,;;o;;.;.;o""·'"'···;,;;,··;;;.;···'""···"'···;;;.····;;;.;···.:;.;···;o;,····;;;;···""···""···;,;;;····.,.·=====""~""-=""'·'~"'"·""·==om:m~~""'"""•·"'="""~m«·.im·.····"""""'•mul
..o.:.. 



"The most important criterion is that the trip forward CWICs mis­sion of fostering the intercultural knowledge and competence criti­cal to educating the next genera­tion of women leaders," Meyer­Lee said. "Funding decisions arc also based upon the proposal's potential for positive impact on the individuals involved, CWICs work and the long-term good of the College as a whole." 
While Johnson recognizes the impact both CWIL and academic departments have had on facilitat­ing off-campus trips this year, she maintains that the College should become even more proactive in their promotion. She does, howev­er, applaud its willingness to pro­vide such opportunities. 
"I have been 100 percent encouraged and supported each time I have chosen to take a stu­
Individual students seeking dent or students to an event,'' she lengthened, in-depth trips may said. apply for Student Intercultural Learning Grants. The next dead­Contact Anneliese Woolford at line is Dec. 1. wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
The topic at the next Irish Inquisition, April 21, will be "What do you expect will become of you after you die?" 
Now it's your turn. Whom do you want summoned to speak to this topic? Nominations are being taken all this week at the Inquisition's website, 

www.nd.edu/-inquisit 
You can put in a request for any non-student Notre Dame employee-a professor, administrator, rector, coach, sandwich artist, anyone. 
Confused? You should be. For enlightenment, seek ye the website or write to inquisit@nd.edu. 
Tl)€ lRlSl) 
The Irish Inquisition is supported financially by the Office of Student Actrvitres. Mendoza College of Bu~ness. College of Arts and Letters. i Services. Notre Dame the Center for Social Concerns. and Graduate Student Union. 

Friday, April 2, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 





Legion accepted for probationary club status 
enough so we can donate to charities." By ANNA GELHAUS Updike pointed to the shirt as a unit­News Writer ing factor at games. Sayings such as 
"Improving your homecourt advantage 
After three years of aiming to improve since 1842" and "The only place on. the home court advantage at men's bas­campus where nothing is sacred" have ketball games by uniting the student graced the shirts of years past. The section into a heckling green mass, the Legion is holding a contest for the Leprechaun Legion will now set its design of the 2004-05 shirt. Shirt ideas sights on service activities after being can be e-mailed to Updike by April 7, granted probationary club status by and the winning entry gets free season Student Activities. basketball tickets from the Legion. 
Drew Updike, president of the As they did this year, the Legion hopes Leprechaun Legion, said the club's new to continue providing students with free recognition gives it many more positive T-shirts, as well as host game-watches opportunities. and bus trips. 
"It has really legitimized everything," Being recognized by the Student he said. "It has opened up doors [and] Activities Office involves a multi-step gives us more options. That's why we application process. The prospective chose to go for it." group must present a file with several 
In addition to being granted basic documents such as a club constitution, club benefits, Updike hopes their new proposed budget and schedule, at least status will allow them to work with four club officers and a club sponsor. charities. One plan is to collaborate In the case of the Leprechaun Legion, with the Boys & Girls Club to give South "We worked pretty closely with the ath­Bend kids a chance to attend the bas­letic department," said Amy Geist, coor­ketball games. dinator of student groups. "[The Legion] 
He also hopes they can assist Coaches had done a lot of work with them. They vs. Cancer, a favorite charity of Irish were a big sponsoring group." coach Mike Brey. Coaches vs. Cancer is Applications for clubs are reviewed an American Cancer Society program only once a year. If they meet all crite­united with the National Association of ria, the group is granted probationary Basketball Coaches. Established in club status. This entitles them to sever­1993, it has collected over $22 million al benefits such as funding, a mailbox in the fight against cancer. and NetiD and the ability to reserve 
The Legion hopes to generate the areas for their use and post signs on extra funds through widespread sales of campus. Next January, the club will be their shirts. This year, with aid from reviewed, and either granted full club the athletic department, 3,000 status, extended probationary status or "Standing Room Only" T-shirts were denied, Geist explained. given to students who purchased season Updike said he was enthusiastic about tickets. Updike says the Legion hopes to the new opportunities that official club sell .the shirts to the general public in status will allow the group. the bookstore and Varsity Shop next "The mission of the Legion is to year. improve men's basketball here at Notre 
"We know the public will want to buy Dame by doing things that haven't been and wear whatever the students are done in the recent past," he said. wearing," he said. "If we can provide a shirt, it's the first step in generating ... Contact Anna Gelhaus at funds for us, but also to generate agelhaus@nd.edu 
:ERASMUS BOOKS: 
I 

:• Used Books bought and sold 1 • 2.5 Categories of Books : • 2.5,000 "Hardback and : Paperback books in stock 1• Out-of-Print search service 1 Appraisals large and small
• 

1Oo/o off 
of every purchase 
OPEN noon to six 
... over$10
Tuesday through Sunday 
Open Daiy 10am-8pm
1027 E. Wayne 
1813 South Bend Ave.
South Bend, IN 46617 1Located n1he sarre pace as 8eMeen 1he Buns! (219) 232-8444 .. 574.993.0310•574.234.8730 
A concert oflnakm Classical Music 
featuring 

Suranjana Bose-VOCAL 
accompanied by Subhasis Mukherjee-Tabla 
Sunday, April 4, 2004, 7:30 p.m. 
at tf~e l!udiu•rium, Huourgft Centu for l11u:matimw[Stuiies, 7liliWsity of 9{ptre 'Damt 
Spoasored by: 'fh<, lndi!l Assodatiun of Notre Ham~ & Office of lntcrnationnl Student .Ufairs The :\.sian Indian Cla8sical Music Sodety of Michinna The Joan ll. Kroc Imli.!ute fur Iutert~at!onal Peucc Studies 
ND/SMC Faculty & Staff: $5 Students: Free Contact: Amitava Dutt (631-7594; 273·0928) 

Blakely said they have a better chance of succeeding against the for­

Suit 
mer players than Notre Dame. "If they don't have a lawyer willing continued from page 1 
to bring the suit, getting the 
Notre Dame law professor G. Robert University involved is not to their Blakely said the burden of proof is advantage ... No one in his right mind lower in a civil case than in a criminal brings a case without a lawyer," case and a plaintiff in a Blakely said. civil case must only Last fall, a jury award­prove there is a "pre­ed a former Saint Mary's 
"I suppose they are
ponderance of evidence" student $1 million in
looking for a deep
to be awarded damages. damages in a civil suit Blakely said it will be pocket." filed against another for­difficult for the plaintiffs mer Notre Dame football to be awarded damages player, Clifford
G. Robert Blakely
from Notre Dame Jefferson, alleging he 
law professor 
because they have to sexually assaulted her. show what the In that case, the woman University could have had legal representa­done to protect her and prevent the tion, but Jefferson did not. A federal alleged incident from occurring. civil suit filed by the former Saint 
"I suppose they are looking for a Mary's student is currently pending deep pocket," Blakely said in refer­against Notre Dame. ence to why Notre Dame was listed as a defendant in the suit. Contact Meghanne Downes at 
Without legal representation, mdownesl@nd.edu 
"I didn't really know about [the tradition] as an advisor until they
Fish 
were carrying it around," Coughlin said.
continued from page 1 
Three years later, Hallahan was in 
for a similar surprise. the room. It smelled absolutely On the last night of her term, awful." Bishop hid sardines throughout the 
Istvan discarded the plates of tuna office. Hallahan, who had resigned and went out to talk to Lao, Chin as Bishop's chief of staff a few weeks and Corker. He began joking that the earlier in part because of a per­trio should have planted some tuna ceived failure of the president to in the ceiling when ·a horrible address the ban on in-hall dances thought crossed his mind. during a Board of Trustees meeting, 
Back in the office, Istvan discov­immediately discovered the 'gift.' It ered that Lao was one step ahead of reportedly took him a few days, him. An open can of tuna was hiding however, to find all the sardines and behind the ceiling panels. completely aerate the office. 
"[It was] all in good fun," he said. Coughlin said that he didn't know 
Former student body presidents the origin of the tradition but added Brian O'Donoghue and Pat Hallahan that it was going on when he arrived would likely sympathize with Istvan. at Notre Dame in the mid-1990s. 
When O'Donoghue took office four "Some of the incoming presidents years ago, he opened the top drawer know about it and some don't," he of his desk to find an 18-inch, 10-said. "If they don't, it can be kind of pound. raw fish planted by Micah a surprise." Murphy, according to Brian Coughlin, director of Student Contact Andrew Thagard at Activities. athagard@nd.edu 
REQUEST YOUR CATALOG TODAY! 
REGISTRA'IION BEGINS APRIL 12 Icl.USD BEGIN JUNE 21 
847A81.5250 I www..northwestern.edul•mmemu 


NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 
.r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------··----­





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April 2, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TI·IE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Militants arrested in Turkish raid 
i\NKi\Hi\. Turkey-i\ sweep against a mili­tant Turkish group netted more than 50 sus­pt~cts in thrnn European countries Thursday in what experts said could be the fruit of increased security cooperation before the i\tlwns Olympics. 
Thn suspects were picked up in Turkey, Italy and Belgium after security forces there and in Germany and the Netherlands launched raids against houses used by the Hevolutionary People's Liberation Party­Front. or DIIKJ>-C. a Marxist group that calls for tlw ovnrthrow of the Turkish government. 
Turkey has bt~en pressing Europe to crack down on the DIIKJ>-C and other groups. and the liuropeans want Turkey to seal its porous borders so that lsl<unie militants do not sneak into tlwir eountrins. Suicidn bombers believed to be linked to al-Qaida carried out four' bombings in Istanbul in November. 
Tunisian led Madrid terror suspects 
Mi\J>HIJ), Spain -Investigators believe that a Tunisian being sought under an inter­national arrest warrant is the leader of the group suspected in the March 11 railway bombings in Madrid. according to court doc­unwnts relnast~d Thursday. 
The investigation into the bombings that killed IIJ 1 people and wounded more than l.HOO has focused on the Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group. 
The court documents identify Sarhane Ben i\bdtdmajid Fakhet as "leader and coordina­tor of the difl'erent people implicated" in the attacks. 
Sarhane was one of six men named on international arrest warrants issued by Judge Juan del Olmo on Wednesday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Rice to testify on April 8 
Wi\SIIINGTON -National Security i\dviser Condoleezza Hice will go before the federal panel reviewing the Sept. 11 attacks next Thursday. 
Hiee will testify under oath for about two and a half hours, with much of the questioning expected to focus on what outgoing Clinton olTieial'i told her about the al-Qaida threat and her response afterward. 
"She's obviously a very important witness who will be able to share the facts that pertain to the counterterrorism policy in the Bush administration, particularly in its earliest months," commission spokesman AI Felzenberg told The Associated Press. "The commission looks forward to hearing from her." 
Ohio highway shooter indicted 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -The man arrested in the deadly string of highway shootings that terrorized Ohio drivers for months was indict­ed Thursday on a murder charge that could bring the death penalty. 
Charles McCoy Jr.. 28, was also charged with numerous other oll'enses, including attempted murder. assault and vandalism. in half of the 24 shootings. 
The murder charge covers the only death in the case, that of 62-year-old Gail Knisley, who was being driven by a friend to a doctor's appointment and shopping trip when a bullet pierced the driver's door and killed her Nov. 25. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Wallis speaks on faith and politics 
SOUTH BEND-i\ lnading voice in the social justice movement said Democrats allow Hepublicans to define how religion is discussed in public. The Hev. Jim Wallis is the founder and editor of Sojourners magazine and con­vener of the anti-poverty Call to Renewal net­work of faith-based organizations. 
lie said that by making faith private, Democrats ignore the contributions of reli­gious organizations to social movements and allow Hepublicans to define how religion will be discussed in public. 
Bush endorses fetus rights bill 
Bill makes it a crime to harm afetus, receives criticism from pro-choice officials 
Associated Press 
WASliiNGTON 
Accompanied by grieving 
families, President Bush 
on Thursday signed into 
law new protections for 
the unborn that for the 
first time make it a sepa­
rate federal crime to 
harm a fetus durin-g an 
assault on the mother. 
"If the crime is murder and the unborn child's life ends, justice demands a full accounting under the law," Bush said before signing the measure, a major priority for many of the president's most loyal political supporters. "The suffering of two victims can never equal only one offense." 
Abortion-rights propo­nents, meanwhile, called the measure an assault on reproductive freedom because it represents the first recognition of federal legal rights for an embryo or fetus as a person sepa­rate from the woman. 

An exuberant audience of abortion foes cheered the president during his remarks. while a few of the family members who shared the East Boom stage wiped away tears. Included in the group were the mother and stepfather of California murder victim Laci members before the cere­face the death penalty if Opponents saw a blow Peterson, who was eight mony. Bush's first major convicted. against women's legal months pregnant when bill-signing event of 2004. People on both sides of choices including abor­she died in December But the new law would­the fetal rights and abor­tion. 2002 in a highly publi­n't apply to crimes such tion issues have said the "There is little doubt cized case. as that in the Peterson new Jaw, which passed by that this law is a thinly 
Bush devoted a large case. It applies only to a 245-163 vote in the veiled attempt to create share of his speech to the harm to a fetus while a House and a 61-38 vote in fetal rights," said Laura loss of "a beautiful young federal crime. such as a the Senate, will have far­Murphy, director of the woman who was joyfully terrorist attack or drug­reaching consequences. Washington legislative awaiting the arrival of a related shooting, is being Abortion opponents wel­office for the American new son." Peterson's committed against the comed it. Civil Liberties Union. mother, Sharon Rocha, pregnant mother. The leg­"Today marks a tremen­"The Bush White House and stepfather, Ron islation defines an dous victory for the pro­is more interested in serv­Grantski, looked on. "unborn child" as a child life movement,' said Tony icing their anti-choice 
"All who knew Laci in utero at "any stage of Perkins, president of the political base than taking Peterson have mourned development." Family Research Council. meaningful steps to pro­two deaths. And the law Over two dozen states "We are now one step tect women from violence cannot look away and have similar Jaws, includ­closer to rebuilding a cul­and protect our constitu­pretend there was just ing California where ture of life. where every tional rights,'' said Ann one," Bush said. Peterson's husband, Scott, child born and unborn is Lewis, national chair of 
The president met pri­is being tried on double given the protections they the Democratic Party's vately with the family murder charges and could so clearly deserve." women's vote center. 

IRAQ 

Newscasts avoid graphic images 
Associated Press News." Despite what competitors may do, In this case, it is "very disturbing, "Right now, we're going to stay with
LOS ANGELES -Macabre images it's awful. Quite honestly, it doesn't the decision we made,'' Shine said. 
of four U.S. civilians killed in Iraq need to be seen in full in order to con­What CNN anchorman Wolf Blitzer filled television screens worldwide vey the horrors of this despicable act," called "a day of horror," in which fiveWednesday but were largely shunned Capus said. U.S. soldiers also were killed, wasby American television that deemed Fox News Channel planned to limit largely described rather then seen onthem too graphic. 
its images to shots of the burning the cable news channel. But CNN,
Network and cable newscasts 
vehicles in which the civilian contrac­which said it initially limited imagesplanned judicious use of the video, tors to the U.S. government had been to give authorities time to inform nextwhich included images of the victims' riding -and to shots of joyous of kin, ventured further on its 7 p.m.
charred bodies dragged through the crowds in Fallujah. broadcast, "Anderson Cooper 360." 
street and two of them hanging from "We have no plans to show more "There is much more we will nota bridge. 
graphic footage," said Bill Shine, Fox's show, but we believe some images are
"We've had similar discussions 
vice president of production. "We necessary to fully illustrate the extentthroughout the war" in how to handle made the call that it was too graphic of the violence," CNN correspondentsuch raw footage, said Steve Capus. 
in nature to put on our air." Walter Badgers said from Iraq.
executive producer of "NBC Nightly 


page 6 Friday, April 2, 2004'
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
One small Chees~pizza & 
one order of Cheesy Bread or Domino's DotsTM. 
One medium, 1-topping pizza &one order of Bread Two Small Cheese Pizzas. Sticks or Cinna Stix®. 
Five Buffalo Wings & arf·· 
.One small, l~topping 
order of Bread Sticks·· 
pizza & a 20 oz. Coke®. 7 
or Cina Stix®. 



NOTRE DAME 
We accept credit and debit cards at no extra charge. All

271-0300 
personal checks require a 50¢ surcharge. 
college soliciting names. which usually takes place in "Anyone can nominate some­May.
Degrees 

one to receive the award as long 
Saint Mary's, continued from page 1 as they are in some way affiliat­however, has a 
ed with the college," she added, slightly differ­plishments of various individu­listing the Board of Trustees, ent process. als in all fields of life," Brown various campus advisory boards After nomi­said. "It is a tradition to honor and faculty, staff and students as nations. each [those people] who have done examples. person's cre­something of significance in all At Notre Dame, Brown said, dentials are fields of stud­
anyone from 
verified and ies, such as current stu­then sent to 
Neal

social work, dents or facul­the Academic teaching and ty and staff Affairs law." members may Council. This 
In contrast, nominate a council then Saint Mary's person for an reviews the will be honor­honorary remaining ing three, said degree. Each candidates Melanie college within and submits M c D o n a 1 d , Cabranes De Luna the University their final list director of can also nomi­back to the public rela­
nate individu­
Board of
Sinegal

tions at the als it feels are Trustees, who College. deserving of forwards the 
Saint Mary's the degree due approved announced to their suc­nominees back their choices cess and to the presi­for the recipi­accomplish­dent to make ents of the ments. the final cut. 2004 honorary University "Because it degrees last Hennessey Kim President is such a long week. Paula Father process, the Downing is a 
Edward Malloy 
award is even 1971 graduate and several Splllett more of an and superin­officers then honor," tendent of narrow down McDonald Benton Harbor the nominees said. public schools, and make final Commence­Peggy Hill is a selections, ment cere­1961 graduate which usually monies will and is now an include 10 to take place at established 12 recipients. Saint Mary's Broadway pro-McGlinn Murphy­"In some on Saturday, ducer, and O'Connor cases," Brown May 15. Notre Sister Michael Mary Nolan, CSC, said, "offers Tannock Dame's com­is a member of the class of 1964 [for the honorary degrees] are mencement is and social justice attorney in extended through the following Sunday, May 16. Sao Paolo, Brazil. year," in the event that a recipi­
McDonald said the process ent cannot make it out for the Contact Lisa Gallagher at begins with the president of the commencement ceremony, lgallaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
provided by the AP Image Team at a reduced cost,

Dusk 
will benefit the proposed 
Catholic Worker House.
continued from page 1 
The house must raise 
$20,000 by May in order Dorothy Day, founder of to open. the Catholic Worker. The So far, 200 people have evening will also include registered for the event, a reading of though peo­"Faces of ple can still Homeless­"Hopefully it will sign up this n e s s " evening
be a good

w h i c h before Mass,
opportunity for 

recounts the Clark said. personal people to come out Although the experiences group said
and learn more

of homeless they doubt
about

people. that they can The event homelessness and raise the full 
culminates amount of
the fight against 

on Saturday m o n e y
it. " 

morning tonight, they with a have also reflection, Liz Loo been collect­closing ing donations
planning committee 

prayer serv­in Decio Hall
member

ice and a and Wal­
breakfast of Mart and 
Krispy Kreme doughnuts. plan to solicit additional 
"Hopefully it will be a funds from Notre Dame good opportunity for peo­alumni clubs. ple to come Planning· out and for "Dusk 'til 
"
learn more "We're actually D a w n , 
a b o u t began in
going to be

homeless-August, Clark ness and spending the night said. It is the fight on the quad. " sponsored by 
against it," Notre Dame said fresh­Circle K, the
Jackie Clark 

man Liz classes of 
Loo, a mem­event organizer 2006 and 
ber of the 2 0 0 7 
planning Campus 
committee and Notre Ministry, the Alumni 
Dame Circle K. Association, AP Image 
Revenue collected from Team and various dorms. the $5 registration fee, hourly pledges and T­Contact Andrew Thagard at shirt sales, which were athagard@nd.edu 
·. .· ·..··:·.··. :­

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Friday, April 2, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 373.33 +15.63
}ones ' 
~" Same: ~ Composite Volume: 2,182 166 Y" 1,535,352,576 
AMEX 1,262.74 +5.99 NASDAQ 2,015.01 +20.79 NYSE. 6,644.34 +45.28 s&PSOO 1,132.17 +5.96 NIKK£J(fokyo) 11,739.78 +56.36 FTSE IOO(London) 4,410.70 +25.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.60 +0.15 25.08 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) + 1.76 +0.06 3.46 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +2.42 +0.29 12.29 INTEL CORP (INTQ +0.66 +0.18 27.38 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.72 +0.17 23.74 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.86 +0.41 48.18 10-YEAR NOTE + 1.59 +0.61 38.98 5-YEARNOTE +2.59 +0.72 28.53 3-MONTH BILL -0.76 -0.07 9.16 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.49 34.27 GOLD ($n"roy oz.) +0.50 428.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.725 108.10 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 03.9 EURO 0.8099 POUND 0.539 CANADIAN$ 1.308 
IN BRIEF 
Gateway to eliminate 2,500 jobs 
POWAY, Calif. -Troubled computer maker Gateway announced Thursday that it will shutter all of its stores next week and elimi­nate 2,500 jobs, or nearly 40 percent of its work force. 
The company, based in the San Diego sub­urb of Poway, said the 188 stores will close on April 9 and workers will be dismissed as the store operations wind down. 
The company, which has posted losses in 12 out of the last 13 quarters, said it is exploring other options for customers to buy its products. 
EU backs fine against Microsoft 
BHUSSELS, Belgium -European Union antitrust ofl'icials won backing Monday for their proposed line against Microsoft Corp., the last hurdle before adopting a decision that could force far-reaching changes on how the U.S. company sells Windows. 
Hepresentatives from the 15 EU govern­ments met for less than an hour behind closed doors to review the proposal from EU Competition Commissioner Mario Monti. A source familiar with the case told The Associated Press they agreed to a line but declined to elaborate. 
Other sources, also speaking on condition of anonymity, have estimated the line would run into the hundreds of millions of dollars when the European Commission, the EU's executive body, issues its ruling Wednesday. 
WellPoint and Anthem set to merge 
INDIANAPOLIS -The parent trade organ­ization for Blue Cross and Blue Shield has approved the pending $14.3 billion merger of WellJ>oint Health Networks Inc. and Anthem Inc. 
Wellpoint and Anthem announced the approval by the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association in a joint news release Tuesday. 
The Chicago-based Association represents the national and international interests of the 41 Blue Cross and Blue Shield member com­panies, which arc independent. The plans insure about 88 million people collectively, according to information posted on the group's Web site. 
STOCK MARKET 

Dow drops failing companies 
Struggling AT&T, International Paper and Eastman Kodak will be replaced 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -AT&T, International Paper and Eastman Kodak are being dropped from the Dow Jones industrial average and replaced with other companies in a switch that reflects the decline of U.S. manufacturing and the rise of health care and financial services. 
The three longtime com­ponents of the 30-stock index will be replaced April 8 by insurance giant AIG, the telephone compa­ny Verizon, and pharma­ceutical maker Pfizer. 
"Our main focus in this particular group of changes was not who do we kick out or replace. It was to recognize the trend of the growth of the finan­cial or health-care sec­tors," said John Prestbo, editor of Dow Jones Indexes and markets edi­tor of The Wall Street Journal. The Journal's top editors select the Dow's components. 

"When it came to select­ing companies to leave the Dow to make room for the new ones, we took recog­nition of another trend, and that is basic materials stocks have become less head of institutional trad­our ability to manage the prices rose for the compa­important, less weighty in ing at Schwab Soundview company for profitable nies that were being the market." Capital Markets. "But on growth," spokesman added. 
Verizon joins another the other hand, it's not so Gerard Meuchner said. The 30-stock index last Baby Bell, SBC much an investment index AT&T issued a statement changed in 1999, when Communications, which as a balanced snapshot of saying that while the com­four stocks were replaced. was added in 1999. It the market. And I think pany and the telecommu­At that time, two Nasdaq­replaces its former parent, what they were trying to nications industry have traded stocks, Microsoft AT&T, which had been a do here was balance it suffered from soft demand and Intel, became the first Dow component since with regard to the new in recent years, the com­Dow components not list­1939. International Paper realities of the economy." pany remains "a bell­ed on the New York Stock had been in the index Kodak, the struggling wether of the U.S. econo­Exchange. since 1956, and Kodak film and camera company my." The Dow Jones industri­since 1930. that has been one of the International Paper offi­al average was created by 
"Everybody looks at the index's worst-performing cials did not immediately Charles H. Dow as a 12­Dow. It's a sign that your stocks, downplayed the return calls for comment. stock index in 1896 and company really is one of change. The three stocks that has become the primary the engines of the econo­"Membership in any were being dropped each barometer of the U.S. my," said Jim Raphalian, index has no bearing on fell in early trading, while stock markets. 

CAMPAIGN FINANCES 

Democrats improve economically 
"Everywhere I go I'll talk to people for Kerry. Kerry has raised at least
Associated Press 

and they really feel we have a $67 million. 
WASHINGTON -The Democratic chance," said Tony Coelho, a The Republican National Committee Party finds itself in its most confident Democratic strategist and AI Gore's had $54 million on hand Thursday and comfortable financial position in campaign chairman in 2000. "They're and no debt. The GOP's Senate fund­years, though it still trails Republicans going to have $200 million or more. raising committee had roughly twice in almost every fund-raising category. But I think as long as we're around as much in the bank as its Democratic 
President Bush's fund-raising jug­$100 million we'll be competitive, rival. The Democratic House commit­gernaut keeps rolling, reaching more we'll get our message out." tee was closest to its Republican coun­than $182 million Thursday and clos­Democratic National Committee terpart in cash on hand. $12.3 million ing in on doubling the $100 million Chairman Terry McAuliffe sees con­compared to $16 million. record he set in 2000. siderable progress toward that goal: The DNC, tackling two problems 
The Democrats' efforts to whittle The party entered April with $25 mil­that dogged the party for years, has away at the GOP's spending advan­lion in the bank to spend on Kerry's eliminated its debt while substantially tage has been aided by presidential behalf and no debt, its best shape at improving its ability to attract small­nominee-to-be John Kerry's decision this point in an election season in dollar donations through the mail, a to skip public financing and its spend­years. fund-raising method the GOP long has ing limits, anti-Bush sentiment over But the Republican money advan­used more effectively. the Iraq war, elimination of the party's tage remains significant, no matter McAuliffe is trying to limit the debt, the formation of outside how it is measured. party's operating costs to the amount Democratic fund-raising groups and Bush spent about $40 million on TV raised through direct mail, reserving Howard Dean's Internet fund-raising and radio ads in his first month on the the millions taken in through fund­explosion. air, compared to only about $6 million raisers for the presidential race. 
Friday, April 2, 2004 
page 8 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS 

Men's magazine 'Cargo' launches to fanfare 
Industry insiders look for signs of male market expansion 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Is the Y chro­mosome evolving? Are guys really starting to care more about things like where to bar­gain-hunt for clothes, and what's the best skin cream? 
. A new shopping magazine is being closely watched by indus­try experts and advertisers to see if men actually want more help than a wife or girlfriend, if they have one, can provide. 
Then again, some may well buy Cargo magazine just to get through the whole shopping experience more quickly. 
"I have a sense of style, and want what is trendy, but I don't have a lot of patience looking for things," said Wilson Cleveland, 29, of Manhattan. 
Cleveland spends about $500 a month on himself, and used to do almost all his buying at few stores: clothes from Banana Republic, J. Crew or the Gap; gadgets from Circuit City, furniture from Pottery Barn or Ikea. "Admittedly, I closed off many options," he said. 
Then he picked up Cargo, which Conde Nast Publications introduced on newsstands in March. He immediately spent $300 on shirts and skin creams from stores he had never previ­ously shopped at, including Lacoste and Sephora. 

"This tells me where to go, and I don't even have to go looking for it," he said. 
Cargo is considered the biggest launch ever for a men's magazine, based on the 99 pages of advertising in the pre­miere issue. Conde Nast, which also publishes the highly suc­cessful women's shopping mag­azine Lucky, is 
struggling more than women's -could benefit if they found more effective ways to reach customers, according to Marshal Cohen, senior industry analyst at NPD Group, a market research company. 
Eddie Bauer Inc. ran a three­page ad in Cargo's premiere edition highlighting rugged out­
erwear such as 
targeting Cargo to men ages 25 to 45.  "I still think when it comes to fashion,  sweaters and army style pants. "We are watch­ 
Stores including  the more  ing to see how it  
Lord & Taylor and Saks Fifth Avenue and manufactur­ independent we are, the more we  helps validate what we already know about men,"  
ers such as Oxen Workwear have reported an  are able to express ourselves. "  said Eddie Bauer spokeswoman Lisa Erickson.  
uptick in sales of  "Men want shop­ 
products featured  Jeffrey Potter  ping to be easy.  
in the magazine. Designer John  shopper  They want to know the benefits  
Varvatos,  for  of the garments  

instance, has practically sold more so than women." out of a $120 sneaker for The Redmond, Wash.-based Converse at his stores. retailer could end up re-evalu­
That's catching the attention ating how it communicates to of other retailers and advertis­men, described by Erickson as ers. They believe the success of a tough audience to reach. publications like Cargo -some Jeffrey Potter, for one, said he competitors will be coming out doesn't want to be "pushed soon -would provide more around by marketers." evidence of a change in male "I still think when it comes to attitudes toward shopping. fashion, the more independent 
"Men do like to buy things. we are, the more we are able to They just like more informa­express ourselves," said Potter, tion" than women, said Cargo 35, of Madison, Wis., who sticks publisher Alan Katz. to catalog retailers like L.L. 
He says sales at newsstands Bean and Patagonia. have been strong, based on About half of Cargo's editorial preliminary reports, but could­content is focused on fashion n't offer figures. and grooming. 
In particular, sellers of men's The rest covers such areas as clothing -which have been entertaining, including wine, electronic gadgets and cars. Women's Wear Daily, is slated The premiere issue offers to unveil Vitals, which is advice on how to pick the right expected to focus on the high­cut suit for your body, a low­end market. down on digital camcorders Some stores have already and a review of premium rums. made changes to better sell to 
Unlike Lucky, which resem­men. bles a catalog, Cargo does have Sonya's Skincare Salon, short articles. which specializes in services 
"The main difference is that such as hair removal, has Lucky celebrates shopping as a increased its advertising to men pastime," said Ariel Foxman, in the past year and plans to 
Cargo's editor in  open a  separate  
chief. "For men,  section for them.  
it's about minimiz­ing time shopping to maximize the pleasure of actual­ "Women don't mind waiting. Men really want to be in  "Women don't mind waiting. Men really want to be in and out,"  
ly  enjoying  the  and out."  said owner Sonia  
purchase."  Menezes.  
Both Lucky and Cargo include  Sonia Menezes  Men account  now for 40  
stickers that read­ salon owner  percent  of  the  
ers can use to ear- clientele at the  
mark  products  New York-based  

that they like. Lucky stickers salon, and Menezes said busi­are usually in bright colors and ness has increased since it was say "Yes" and "Maybe." featured in Cargo. 
Cargo's are more austere, in Bergdorf Goodman launched manly tones of brown.Cargo its first major advertising cam­also offers something extra, paign for men this spring, presumably for men who won't which helped drive traffic to be seen carrying a shopping the stores. magazine into a store: Wallet­It has also changed the way it sized tear-out cards with prod­merchandises men's clothing, uct tips. mixing jackets with jeans, 
It's not the first shopping instead of featuring categories magazine for men. Complex separately. magazine came out in April Robert Burke, Bergdorf 2002, but targets trendsetters Goodman's vice president of and views itself as more multi­fashion, said the store hadn't cultural. advertised in the past because 
Ziff Davis Media Inc., will they felt men would not be unveil Sync, a guide to gadgets, responsive. But attitudes have this summer. And this fall, changed, he said. Fairchild Publications, which "The timing was right to run publishes the glossy W and the ads," he said. 
An invitation to understand the depth of God's love and the call to discipleship 
The Passion According to Luke (Luke 22,14-23, 56) 
with Professor Robin Darling Young 
A SPECIAL OPPORTUNITY FOR PRAYER 
for faculty, staff and students 
DURING THE REMAINING DAYS OF LENT 
The Format A 2 5 minute presentation on the Sunday Scripture by distinguished Notre Dame teachers, followed by 20 minutes of private prayer based on points for reflection on the Scripture. Optional attendance at the Stations of the Cross at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Time and Place 
The Coleman-Morse Chapel 
6:15pm to 7:15pm C-M 
Campus Ministry 
page 9

Friday, April 2, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT 
Fa112004 Courses 
ROIT 310 TEXTUAL ANALYSIS/ ADVANCED GRAMMAR 9:30-10:46 T/Th C. Ryan-Scheutz 
An introduction to the critical analysis ofItalian literary te::tts across a variety of genres and periods, complemented by an advanced grammar review and practice in writing. Reconunended for all majors and supplementary majors. 
ROIT 371 INTRO TO ITALIAN LITERATURE I 11:00-12:15 T/Th C. Moevs 
An introduction to the close reading and textual analysis of representative texts from the Duecento throllil'h :·the:,::},.... 
Renaissance, including Lentini, Guinizzelli, Cavalcanti, Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio, Poliziano, Machiavelli, and ~:~i~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
trace the profile of Italian literary history in this period, setting the texts in their cultural and historical context music, art, and architecture), with attention to the changing understanding of h\tman nature and the physical wupu g~::' centuries. Requirements include class participation, short essays, short presentations, a midterm and a final. Italian. Pre-requisite: ROIT ZOZ or equivalent; ROIT 310 suggested. The course is requi:ied for majors and secondary 
.F'IT/ROIT/LLRO 4521 ITALIAN CINEMA: THE REALITIES OF HISTORY 1:30-2:45 M/W Z.Baranski* (ROIT 450IL-Lab 3:30-5:30 Th) 
ROIT 500 ITALIAN GRADUATE READING 8:30~9:20 M/W/F Staff 
ROIT 515 DANTE'S WORLD OF BOOKS 12:30-3:00 T Z. Baranski* 
ROIT 588 MODERN ITALIAN POETRY 3:30-6:00 Th J. Welle 
page 10 Friday, April 2, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 



Ad01its 
continued from page 1 
Scholars, who represent the top 20 percent of incoming students, ranked in the top 
1.4 percent of their class with a 1518 SAT and a 34 ACT. 
Assistant provost for admissions Dan Saracino, said that the University's academic reputation has made prolific strides in the last decade, attracting not only more students-the 11,483 applications received this year were second to just last year's record total -but a stronger overall group than ever before. 
"The quality of the appli­cant pool now in terms of academics -courses taken, grades, test scores -is as strong as the actual class who enrolled at Notre Dame in the mid-90s," he said. 
While the numbers alone are impressive, Saracino emphasized that the non­academic side is what makes Notre Dame shine among other elite institutions. 
"I would say in the last 10 years, Notre Dame has got­ten steadily more and more competitive -not that we're trying to be a Harvard, but we're trying to be a better Notre Dame," Saracino said. "We want to bring outstand­ing young men and women who are gifted, who are blessed in and out of the classroom and who want to contribute." 
In addition to weighing all applicants' academic and non-academic strengths, the Office of Admissions must also consider other factors targeted by the University, such as whether a student is a child of an alumnus or donor or comes from a minority background. Ethnic minorities are expected to make up 21 percent of the class of 2008, with alumni children at 23 percent and international students at 3 percent. 
Saracino pointed out that while Notre Dame's pre­ferred admissions policies regarding these "special interest" groups have often been publicized as weaken­ing standards, their own need to keep pace is just as great. 
"Every subgroup has had to take it up a notch," he said. "Everyone has had to become a little more compet­itive out of fairness, because the poor student whose father and mother didn't go to Notre Dame, who's not an athlete, who's not a develop­ment interest, that student has to be stronger than any of them. 
"My heart goes out to those 

students because no one is fighting for them in the admissions process." 
The interplay between all of these groups is essential to the University's financial aid policy, Saracino added. He said that the money brought in by chief donors and alumni -"a family that contributes among the high­est in the country" -creates a "symbiotic relationship" that allows less wealthy stu­dents to attend. 
"Notre Dame had in a sense developed a reputation for arrogance in the 70s and 80s," he said. "I returned in 1997 because I knew and heard from everyone in the administration that [meeting all financial need] is the commitment of Notre Dame ... so that dream can be real­ized no matter what their financial circumstances are." 
The downside of attracting an exceptionally strong applicant pool, however, comes when the Office of Admissions must turn away students who are clearly qualified -and then explain these decisions to the bro­kenhearted. 
"You hear stories from the father that will say 'I can't go home, my daughter got her letter, and she's been sobbing for two hours,"' Saracino said. "But what you've got to say, with all due respect to the father, is that [his] role is to be at home with her right now holding her and hugging her and saying 'you know what, this isn't about you, this is Notre Dame's loss." 
Turning down more appli­cants became a necessity after an unanticipated 57 percent of admitted students confirmed their enrollment last year, Saracino said. 
"It's much easier to bring a class in with fewer accepts and then bring a few off the waiting list than to admit too many and you can't go back," he said. "We had to be more conservative." 
Saracino said that unlike many other selective col­leges, Notre Dame does not attempt to attract a huge volume of applicants just for the sake of statistics. Instead, it aims to attract students who are truly inter­ested in attending, and often must apologize when those students' dreams are disap­pointed. · 
"What [University President Emeritus] Father [Theodore] Hesburgh has told me on a number of occa­sions is that really, if too many people are happy with your job then you're proba­bly not doing it fairly," Saracino said. "You've got to be as fair as possible." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
The Hispanic Law Students' Association cordially invites the Notre Dame community to the Graciela Olivarez Award Ceremony Saturday, April3, 2004 
This prestigious award is given in honor of Graciela Olivarez, the first Hispanic and first female to graduate from Notre Dame Law School. The Award is bestowed each year upon a Hispanic lawyer or judge who best exemplifies Graciela Olivarez's commitment to community service, demonstration of the highest ethical and moral standards, and dedication to justice. This year's recipient is 
J. Robert Flores, Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice & Delinquency Prevention, U.S. Department of Justice. 
Continental Breakfast at 10 15 am-Law School Lounge Award Ceremony at II :00 am-Law School Courtroom 
Ohio veteran 111urdered in Iraq 
Associated Press 
WILLOUGHBY, Ohio -An Army veteran from Ohio was one of four American con­tractors killed in Iraq, their bodies mutilated and dragged through the streets. 
Family members said Thursday that Jerry Zovko, 32, died with three other civilians Wednesday after they were hit by rocket-pro­pelled grenades in a rebel ambush. The victims worked for Blackwater Security Consulting, one of five sub­sidiaries of Blackwater USA based in North Carolina. 
Zovko's mother said she and her husband had sus­pected their son might be among the dead, but their fears were confirmed Thursday morning when the president of Blackwater USA knocked on their door. 
"It was the hardest day of my life," Donna Zovko said during an interview in her suburban Cleveland home. 
"Jerry was a man with a principle, an idea," his moth­er said. "He loved people. He wanted the world to be with­out borders, for everybody to be free and safe." 
Zovko's family wouldn't say whether he was married or had children. 
The names of the victims 
were not officially released because family members had yet to be notified, U.S. offi­cials said. 
In Moyock, N.C., where the security company is based, residents said the shocking way the bodies were treated helped bring the conflict in Iraq closer to home. Jubilant Iraqi residents dragged two of the charred corpses through the streets and two other company leaders are former Navy SEAL com­mandos. 
The company declined to comment beyond a statement that acknowledged it was a government subcontractor providing security for the 
delivery  of  food  in  the  
Fallujah area.  
Privately  owned  

Blackwater USA's range of paramilitary services include 
strung them up on a bridge, providing acts the U.S. government denounced as 
''The people over 
"horrific." 

there don't want us
"With what's been going on in there." Iraq I'm not sur­prised at any­
Marty Huffstickler
thing," said 72­

Blackwater employee 
year-old Howard Forbes. "But I was surprised at 

firearms and small-groups training facili­ties for Navy SEALs, police department SWAT teams and former spe­cial operations personnel. 
"We're very proud of the work that we 
what they did to the bodies." 
Marty Huffstickler, 52, who works part-time as an elec­trician for Blackwater, said he believes Americans are "dying for no reason." 
"I don't agree with what's going on over there," he said. "The people over there don't want us there." · 
The company provides security training and guard services to customers around the world. Blackwater President Gary Jackson and 
do. We feel that we support a just cause," assistant train­ing director Chris Epperson said during a visit earlier this year. 
The company's security consulting business connects former special forces troops with jobs that may involve protecting people or places, or training foreign militaries. Epperson said the company's contractors provide protec­tion to Paul Bremer, the U.S. administrator in Iraq. 

THE UNIVERSITY CLUB 
IIIIUIII'IT e~VI 
PRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME WHERE MEMBERSHIP PAYS FOR ITSELF WITH EVERY MEAL OR DRINK! Dailvlunch Light Lunch Soup &112 Sandwich Soup or Salad 
or MGTU OAIU 
Special Entree Soup &HalfSandwich Entree Coffee or Tea Coffee or Tea
Coffee or Tea 
$6.95 $4.95 $3.95 CHEAP AND CLOSE....YOUR UNIVERSITY CLUB.....MEMBERSHIP INFORMATION 1·4685 


Friday, April 2, 2004 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page II 







Jackson visits Capitol Hill 
Pop singer advocates fighting AIDS in Africa during visit 
Associated Press 
WAS! IINGTON -From all the fuss that was made over Michael Jackson in Washington this week, you would think he still ruled as "The King of Pop." 
lie walked the halls of the Capitol, met with members of Congress and was lauded for his work fighting AIDS, even as a grand jury in California was hearing testimony in his child molestation case. 
Shy and giggling. Jackson said little during his three days in Washington but attracted hordes of reporters. I le was trailed by fans. enthusiastic maintenance workers and congressional stafl'ers using their videophones to snap pictures. 
"It set Capitol I I ill on fire. I can tell you," said Leon Buck, chief of stall' to Hep. Sheila Jackson Lee, D-Texas. 'who helped arrange Jackson's visit. "The congress­woman, she even said she's never seen anything like it. When we left there were people run­ning alongside the car. orcourse you see it on 1V but to actually witness it and see it is amazing." 
One staffer even fainted in the hubbub, Buck said. 
Like most men on Capitol Hill, Jackson was wearing a suit. But it's safe to say no one else had his fashion sense. His outfit included a satiny, spangled jacket and sil­ver-sequined boots. And he wore pink lipstick. 
He flashed peace signs and gave out hugs. At one point he waved a small Israeli flag. 
"It's the kind of stuff that you couldn't make up," said Marty Kaplan, director of the University of Southern California's Norman Lear Center, which studies the intersection of entertainment and politics. 
"It could be a skit on 'Saturday Night Live.' I can imagine in a writer's room people pitching it: 'Yeah, and Michael Jackson, while the grand jury's in the mid­dle of the indictment, goes to Congress and behaves like noth­ing's happened.' And maybe it wouldn't get on the air because people would think it was too big a stretch." 
Thursday night, Jackson was being honored at the Ethiopian Embassy by the African Ambassadors' Spouses Association for his work fighting AIDS in Africa. 
On Friday he was due back in California for a pretrial hearing in the molestation case. 
He was charged last year with seven counts of committing lewd or lascivious acts upon a child under age 14 and two counts of administering an intoxicating agent to the child. Jackson has pleaded innocent. 
A grand jury in Santa Barbara is hearing evidence in the case, including testimony this week from Jackson's young accuser, a source close to the proceeding told The Associated Press. 
Some members of Congress kept their distance: A scheduled visit with the Congressional Black Caucus was called off over sched­uling conflicts. 
T~e ND Depct...+~Y~.en.+ of )\1\v..sic. Pv-esen.+s ct S+v..den.+ Rec.i+ctl 
Eltzobe.+h Zic.kgY'"of,.~ cello 

vvr+h PCltVT 6.kro+h_, ptCli".C> 
Sah.u"'day/ Apv-il 3/ 2004 "1l30 pYV'I 
A v.. v..e.v..be.re Av.dr+o rtv.YV\ S n ii-e M lASe lAYV\. of A v-i­'FRE:.E:. o.nd open +o +he pv..blic 



Bush signs bill to protect fetuses 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Accom­panied by grieving families, President Bush on Thursday signed into law new protec­tions for the unborn that for the first time make it a sepa­rate federal crime to harm a fetus during an assault on the mother. 
"If the crime is murder and the unborn child's life ends, justice demands a full accounting under the law," Bush said before signing the measure, a major priority for many of the president's most loyal political supporters. "The suffering of two victims can never equal only one offense." 
Abortion-rights propo­nents. meanwhile, called the measure an assault on repro­ductive freedom because it represents the first recogni­tion of federal legal rights for an embryo or fetus as a per­son separate from the woman. 
An exuberant audience of abortion foes cheered the president during his remarks. while 
drug-related shooting, is being committed against the pregnant mother. The legis­lation defines an "unborn child" as a child in utero !'any stage of development." 
Over two dozen states have similar laws, including California where Peterson's husband, Scott, is being tried on double murder charges and could face the death penalty if convicted. 
People on both sides of the fetal rights and abortion issues have said the new law, which passed by a 245-163 vote in the House and a 61­38 vote in the Senate, will have far-reaching conse­quences. 
Abortion opponents wel­comed it. 
"Today marks a tremen­dous victory for the pro-life movement," said Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council. "We are now one step closer to rebuilding a culture of life, where every child born and unborn is given the protec­tions they so clearly deserve." 
Opponents 
a few of the saw a blow
"If the crime is 
family members against who shared the murder and the women's legal East Room unborn child's life choices includ­
stage wiped ing abortion. 
ends. justice 
away tears. "There is little
demands a full 
Included in the doubt that this group were the accounting under law is a thinly mother and veiled attempt
the law." 
stepfather of to create fetal California mur­rights," said der victim Laci George W. Bush Laura Murphy, Peterson, who U.S. President director of the 
was eight months preg­nant when she died in December 2002 in a highly publicized case. 
Bush devoted a large share of his speech to the loss of "a beautiful young woman who was joyfully awaiting the arrival of a new son." 
· Peterson's mother, Sharon Rocha, and stepfather, Ron Grantski, looked on. "All who knew Laci Peterson have mourned two deaths. And the law cannot look away and pretend there was just one," Bush said. The president met privately with the family members before the ceremony, Bush's first major bill-signing event of 2004. But the new law wouldn't apply to crimes such as that in the Peterson case. It applies only to harm to a fetus while a federal crime, such as a terrorist attack or 
Washington leg­
islative  office  
for  the  American  Civil  
Liberties Union.  

"The Bush White !louse is more interested in servicing their anti-choice political base than taking meaningful steps to protect women from violence and protect our con­stitutional rights," said Ann Lewis, national chair of the Democratic Party's women's vote center. 
Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., Bush's presumptive opponent in this fall's election voted against the bill. 
Bush has taken several actions that have pleased anti-abortion advocates. 
Previously, he has signed legislation that bans certain late-term abortions and that amends legal definitions of "person," "human being," "child" and "individual" to include any fetus that sur­vives an abortion. 
~-------­
THE OBSERVER_ 



IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, April 2, 2004 


Continue the progress 
Since April 1, 2003 the Office of the Student Body President The changes and progress Hallahan and Lao made may not saw not only one, but two transitions -the first an unex­be evident this year to students, but they have the potential pected one between a president and his vice president and to have lasting effects on students in years to come. the second a more traditional one between two presidential The new administration under Adam Istvan must follow administrations. the example of both Hallahan and Lao, but to stay true to its 
Pat Hallahan and Jeremy Lao should be com-platform it must also pave its own path. Istvan mended for the smoothness of their midterm ran as the alternative to the student govern­
OJhe
transition. Lao upheld the central tenants of userver ment candidate, saying the Office of the Hallahan's administration and worked to con­Student Body President needs a new perspec­tinue his mission of bringing legitimacy and tive that is closer to the desires of the actual efficiency back to student government. students. Istvan must now prove his critics
Editorial 
In his Fall Board of Trustees report, the trustees criticized Hallahan for asking them to empower the Campus Life Council without student officers first reorganiz­ing student government to make it more efficient and power­ful. Since then, Hallahan focused on completely restructuring the government and rewriting the student constitution to eliminate the overlap and inefficiencies. 
Lao continued this project and narrowly made the March 31 deadline. Though the effects of the restructuring are not immediate, the changes should lead to a more productive student government -one from which the student body will reap many benefits. 
Additionally, Hallahan and Lao's efforts to create an endowment for lectures and programming are commend­able. Lao learned from his experience at the Fall BOT and used his Winter BOT report to generate discussion on the endowment plan, asking the trustees what he could do to present a strong spring report that will fully outline the plan. 
wrong and show that his ambition outweighs his inexperience within the student government structure. Istvan must also prioritize and reevaluate what is feasible within his platform. Bringing dances back to the dorms is essentially a moot subject for the administration, and Istvan's presidency would meet an immovable impasse if this idea remains a predominant goal. 
Istvan was wise to choose presidential opponent Charlie Ebersol's campaign manager Dave Baron as his chief of staff, which shows Istvan is open to various views and is willing to listen. However, those who are student government veterans must also make the effort to meet Istvan halfway to better the organization for which they are dedicated. 
Despite his inexperience, Istvan has potential to make a difference in student life if he utilizes the resources sur­rounding him, is open to the advice and ideas of those who are experienced in student government and builds on the reorganization Hallahan and Lao completed. 

Rethinking worldly justice 
There is an intersection near downtown Portland, Ore. where every morning one can choose from dozens of men (and occa­sionally a few women), mainly Latino, who are waiting for work. I have often seen a typical sce­nario unfold during John lnfranca which a pickup truck or van parks for a bit, the driver Dissident jumps out, people Poetrycrowd around him and after a few minutes a select group loads into the vehi­cle and heads off for a day of work. The work, I can only assume, is some form of physical labor: field work, painting, per­haps some basic construction. More often than not the prospective employer will choose the youngest, those who appear the strongest, and perhaps, should it be necessary, those with some knowledge of English. By the late morning, on the occa­sions when I have walked past this comer, I more often than not have found that many of the men who remain are older, or smaller, or even perhaps injured. They are, some might say, the least desirable workers, and having experienced a child­hood of being among the last chosen for athletic teams I can understand some of their frustrations. 
I think ofmy experiences passing by this comer when I read the parable of the Workers in the Vmeyard, found in Matthew's Gospel. There Jesus tells the story of a landowner who goes out to hire workers for his vineyard. Through the course of the day he continually returns to hire more workers, asking the last group: "Why have you been standing here all day long doing nothing?" Most likely they are the older, the weaker and perhaRS the injured of the community, passed over by those looking for more "able" workers. They respond to the vineyard owner: "Because no one has hired us." He sends them off to work and at the end ofthe day they, as well as those who labored the whole day, are shocked to see him pay all ofthem equally. Each is paid the wages typical for a full day of work. 

Those who worked the whole day are paid last and receive their pay with dis­may, expecting more to be paid them, what they "justly" deserve in accord with the labor they performed. The owner rebukes them, saying clearly that he is not being unfair to them. In our contemporary society this is hard to rationalize. Our notion ofjustice is that one is due an amount of money equivalent to the time they have worked and the value of the goods they have produced. Surely those who worked the full day are due more. This is not, Jesus' parable tells us, how things are in the dominion of heaven. 
If the denarius paid to each individual in Matthew's parable is the standard wage for a day of work than it is likely to have been roughly equivalent to the amount of money needed for the average laborer to provide for the basic goods of a subsis­tence living. The elderly and weak have as great a need for these goods as those who are young and strong. Hence Jesus pres­ents an understanding ofjustice predicat­ed on giving to individuals based upon their need, not on their "contribution." Each contributes what he or she is able, each receives what he or she needs. 
This notion ofjustice strikes us as radi­cal, but we know that it played a central role in the early Christian community's economic self-understanding. In the sec­ond chapter ofActs of the Apostles we learn that: "All the believers were togeth­er and had everything in common. Selling their possessions and goods, they gave to anyone as he had need." A consistent thread woven through the history of Christian thought on this subject and into modern Catholic Social Teaching is the beliefthat the needs ofthe poor do not simply represent a possible object of our charity, but rather they place a legitimate claim upon the excess goods we possess. The Earth and its fruits are a common gift to humanity and so the goods drawn forth from it must also be seen in this light. In the words of St. John Chrysostom: "Not to enable the poor to share in our goods is to steal from them and deprive them of life. The goods we possess are not ours, but theirs." St. Gregory the Great declares this to be an act of justice: "When we attend to the needs of those in want, we give them what is theirs, not ours. More than per­forming works of mercy, we are paying a debt of justice." The modern Catholic Catechism speaks of the primacy of the "universal destination of goods" even when considering the legitimacy of private property. 
What is called for here is a conception of justice in sharp contrast with our stan­dard understanding of charity, through which the wealthy are applauded for their "generosity" in considering the needs of those with less resources. This conception ofjustice demands we rethink our individ­ual and national priorities, both the ways in which we spend our own money and the ways in which our nation taxes the poor and wealthy and allocates money for social programs. The wealthy do not "deserve" the money they have "earned." Rather, in a world where some bask in abundance, those with less are due, at the very least, a decent standard of living. By making this a reality we move closer towards the dominion of which Jesus spoke. 
John Infranca is a theology graduate student. His column appears every other Friday He can be reached at jinfranl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Do you think student government made significant accomplishments this year? 


"Choice has always been a privilege ofthose who could afford to pay for it. " Do you think next year·s president will be more successful? 
Ellen Frankfort author
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 105 responses. 


.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE 0BSERV'ER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, April 2, 2004 page 13 

With roughly six months remaining before the presidential election, Democratic challenger John Kerry is attempting to define his personal and political image to a public that all but dismissed his chances before the !toward Dean meltdown. Currently, his cam­Bill Rlnner paign consists of slo­gans and promises that place him A Voice of squarely in what Reason some call the "Anyone but Bush" (ABB) mold. · The ABB crowd, which dominated the primary elections and nominated the Massachusetts senator, consists of those who would prefer virtually any candidate, whether Democrat, Green, Communist or Whig over the incumbent. I've stopped counting the reasons-many informed, many misguided-but the website · www.thousandreasons.org has an easily accessible list. 
From the field of nine candidates, the ABB crowd sought one who was diametri­cally opposed to Bush on almost every issue available since they believe he is responsi­ble for every lost job, every corporate wrongdoing, every disdainful Frenchman and every stubbed toe since taking office. Kerry's campaign gurus took a cue from this dLc;gruntled portion of the populace, and his rhetoric on the trail to the White I louse has yet to offer a sound alternative path for America aside from idealistic ends coupled with either shaky or nonexistent means. 
He paints an elaborate picture of the country's tragic state, which Bush support­ers dismiss as excessively focused on exag­gerated doom and gloom. Every candidate must shape the debate in his terms to achieve victory, but marginalizing optimism for America's current status seems both disingenuous and dangerous. 
Taken on rhetoric alone, Kerry would be the greatest president in history. Just think: he will create jobs, balance the deficit, put those greedy corporate-types in their place, provide a health care plan for every American, restore frayed international alliances by making the world like us again and fight terror more effectively than Bush could ever dream. By this point, any true ABB supporter should be wiping a tear, but I thank God for skepticism, or ai least rational faculties. The list goes on as Kerry's campaign soldiers search for every chink in Bush's armor, allowing him to promise more and more paper moons. 
A personal favorite is the Kerry plan to stop outsourcing, that evil phenomenon that sounds a lot worse than it is in reality, which would "end every single tax credit that gives corporations breaks for moving jobs offshore," as quoted from his cam­paign website. Merely mentioning the word "corporation" conjures an image in the minds of the economically illiterate of cigar smoking fat-cats meeting to fmd another way to make another million at the poor worker's expense. After all, some might ask, aren't these the lucky few who actually benefit from Bush's presidency? 
Kerry will stick it to the man by severely penalizing the practice and aside from retaining a few extra jobs, the policy would have a twofold effect: frrst, larger and healthier corporations like General Motors will face drawbacks and reduced profits from outsourcing, hurting the Americans who invest in their stock; second, smaller corporations that outsourced because they were already in a bind from hefty taxes will be forced to submit to the rules, endanger­ing their existence entirely. 
What ever happened to the mass of enlightened economists who slammed Bush's tax cut but have yet to weigh in on this gem of a policy proposal? Could it be that they are part of the ABB horde them­selves and will reserve their judgment of this plan that could prove suicidal in the long run, erasing almost two years of posi­tive economic growth? 
This case is indicative of how the Kerry campaign wrestles issues away from reali­ty, paints any picture that implicates a Bush failure and provides a utopian alternative that aims to persuade undecided voters that Kerry's presidency will be more blissful than a Coors Ught commercial. 
President Bush certainly has a number of domestic and international problems to address if he wins this year, but the level­headed approach to his bid for re-election is much more comforting than one which seems geared towards a crowd more focused on removing one man from office than embracing a pragmatic course for America's future. 
Ultimately, the ABB crowd has created its own paradox: they assume that ousting Bush from the White House can only have a positive effect on the nation and will vote for a candidate who sounds the least Bush­like, but their noble intentions may backfire if they flip the coin entirely beyond the level of effective policy. 
John Kerry, praised for his ability to see the shades of gray, sounds less like an enlightened statesman at this point in the campaign and more like a salesman trying to swindle a customer who didn't realize he needed a Ginshu knife. The ABB crowd will buy it regardless, and if they sweep him into office, then hopefully Kerry's sensibili­ties will regroup, allowing him to realize that promising the world was only a figure of speech. 
Bill Rinner is a junior economics major studying abroad at the London School of Economics. He strongly recommends the book, In Defense ofGlobalization, by Jagdish Bhagwati to anyone wishing to explore the topic with an entertaining read. His column appears every other Friday. and he can be reached at wrinner@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Stop making race an issue 
Regarding Paul Hornung's recent comments, the University stated ­through University spokesman Matt Storin -that Mr. Hornung doesn't represent the view of the University. I beg to differ, but did not the University recently join in the case before the Supreme Court on affir­mative action supporting the use of giving special treatment to minori­ties when it comes to admissions? While Mr. Hornung was specifically addressing sports, the thesis was the same; minorities need special treatment if they are to attend Universities such as Notre Dame or the University of Michigan. 
I ask Mr. Storin to please explain to all of us just how the two issues are not related. Personally, I don't agree with Mr. Hornung's view any more than I agree with any University's view that minorities need a special boost to attend, be 
University can support both God's love and truth 
After having read the recent letters from my law school colleagues, I feel compelled to respectfully dissent. 
Both Mr. Hess and Ms. Tawresey make the unfortunate logical error of equating identity and behavior. Both Mr. Hess and Ms. Tawresey assert that University recognition of a campus straight-GBLT is tantamount to University approval of sexual behav­iors associated with same-sex attrac­tion-behaviors that run counter to Catholic sexual ethics and teaching. 
Such a leap of logic is both erro­neous and unfortunate. As Ms. Tawresey notes, Catholics are instructed and compelled by the Catechism of the Catholic Church to love and embrace all persons. no mat­ter what their race, religion, moral compulsion -and, indeed, no 
matter what their sin. Ms. inherently against God -Tawresey paints the they were known as his intent of a straight­disciples. Prostitutes, GBLT alliance (or, as tax collectors, bounty she puts it, "homo­hunters, thieves ... sexual club") as pro­We see them all in motion of the idea the company of that "homosexual Christ at one time conduct is accept­or another in the able, and indeed, text of the Gospels. praiseworthy." Indeed, Christ Such an error of seems to have pre­assumption is as ferred their compa­harmful as it is ny to that of those unfortunate. It is who proclaimed the obvious to myself and law of God from pul­many others that the pits and condemned University's Catholic their fellow persons to mission compels it to pro­damnation. See last vide resources to its students Sunday's gospel for just such 
that help them best discern their vocation in accordance with Catholic doctrine. 
Recognizing a group that brings stu­dents together to support one another in their journey of discernment is, I think, an excellent first step toward developing a holistic approach to min­istry to gay, lesbian and bisexual stu­dents and those struggling with same­sex attraction. I confess that I have been unable to read the proposal for United in Diversity; but I have faith that with some compassion and some effort, University administrators could work with these passionate students to develop a charter for such a group that is both completely faithful to the that a lowering of all standards to increase minorities on the football team or giving automatic added points to a minority in order to bring their score up to meet higher standards. Both show the same ele­ments of racism. Or is it just that meeting arbitrary admission quotas is somehow more noble than win­ning football? 
Perhaps Mr. Hornung would have met with less resistance had he made his statement more along the lines of the Supreme Court; and said that we need to lower stan­dards, but only for the next 25 years. Better yet let's quit injecting race into all issues, in the above cases both football and admissions. 
Barry Baumbaugh professor Physics Department April I 

University's Catholic mission and truly supportive of its homosexual students. Particularly on a campus where events and activities are supported (often with copious university funds) that go just as far to outrightly pro­mote and accept promiscuous, unmar­ried heterosexual behavior, such a stance against a straight-GBLT alliance approaches base hypocrisy at worst, and homophobic twisting of Catholic doctrine at best. 
Most troubling, though, is my grow­ing sense that in the bubble-world of Notre Dame, what it means to be a good Christian increasingly has little to do with actually imitating Christ. It would do us well to recall that Christ himself recognized and embraced a group of sinners whose behavior was 
seen by the religious to be 
an example. In Christ, God's 
·truth and God's love were brought to perfection; and his example com­mands that we work toward such per­fection at best and a healthy balance between them at least. With all due respect, Mr. Hess and Ms. Tawresey demand that we unhealthily tip that balance if not upend it completely. Let us hope that the University can work with its students to make Notre Dame a place that lives both God's truth and God's love at the same time. 
Katherine M. Leahy off-campus Law School 
April I 



-----------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Friday, April 2, 2004 
'Taxi Cabaret' sure to capture audience with comic appeal 
Talented performers and humorous songs make for another very entertaining performance produced by Farley Hall Players 
and scenes and clearly displays her temporarily take on new roles,By KATIE WAGNER 
comic appeal. Along character's personal­while still maintaining some of Scene Writer 
with the Farley Hall ity. Sjostrom is a the characteristics of their major players, a couple of voice major at Notre roles. 
This spring the Farley Hall New York theater Dame and hopes to The choreography in each Players have chosen to perform companies and col­be seen on the song is very unique and pleasing the musical-comedy "The Taxi ·leges have also Broadway stage after to the eyes thanks to the creativi­Cabaret." Although this two-act staged "The Taxi she graduates. ty of choreographer Erin play consists of only six charac­Cabaret." Sjostrom has also Porvaznik and the dancing abili­ters, each actor has enough fire The musical appeared in the ties of the actors. The various and talent to equal the impact of opens with Scott, much larger on-cam­forms of dance that this play 20 actors. While the performers played by junior pus performance lends itself to allows Porvaznik to in musicals often specialize in Matt Patricoski, "Into the Woods" last incorporate a wide range of only one or two aspects of musi­singing about his school year. styles and movements· into her cal theater, all members of this desire to produce While the beauty of scenes. Porvaznik explained how cast are extremely skilled in great writing and Anthony's voice is she tested each actor's dancing dancing, singing and acting. his confidence that evident every time he ability. Aside from the quality of the per­he will be able to do sings, he sounds his "We had a dance hip-hop audi­formers, the play itself con­so. Throughout the best in "Way Ahead tion to see if they could adapt to tributes greatly to the perfor­play Scott struggles of My Time." He does different styles," Porvaznik said. mance's entertainment value. with reaching this a lot of dancing while Each character's ability to Some lines of the script and goal. he's singing during master many different forms of lyrics from the songs cleverly At the beginning this song, which dance is extremely impressive. imply multiple meanings. This of the show, a young makes this song par­The play uses only a few chairs musical's recent creation makes unmarried couple ticularly impressive. and bar stools for the set. its humor and themes particular­argues about trying If Anthony is Thanks to good staging, the ly relevant for today's audience. to find an apart­exhausted from characters are able to use the 
"Taxi Cabaret's" storyline can ment. The pair's singing and dancing minimal well. The Indian-chief be described as many glimpses financial distress in this piece, he pro­(Native American chieD head­into the lives of six individuals, contributes greatly vides no evidence of dress and construction worker with deep personal conflicts, liv­to this problem. this to his audience. hat are the best-used props in ing in New York City. The differ­This is one of the The humor of the this play. ent character's ultimate interac­many disagree­subject addressed in Junior Devon Candura certain­tion with each other, primarily in ments that agitate this song only adds ly did an excellent job with her the second act, connects all of the couple's love for to Anthony's per­directing debut. these glimpses together and pro­each other. Seniors formance. The Farley Hall Player's pro­vides unity in the play. Blaine Pennington Other standout duction of "The Taxi Cabaret" 
The music, lyrics, and script of and Patricia Gilbert songs include the will be performed in the "The Taxi Cabaret" were all play the boyfriend and girlfriend ually frustrated and struggling entire cast's performance of "E-Z LaFortune Ballroom tonight and written in 2002 by Peter Mills, a in this rocky relationship. actress. Pass Lane", Patricoski's singing on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. Senior graduate of New York The first grade teacher Karen's Although no character in this of "Village Idiot", "Menage" and Lena Caligiuri is the president of University's Tisch School of the failure to be on time every morn­performance fades into the back­"The Corner Cafe". The strength the Farley Hall Players while Arts. This musical has never ing is another important section ground, Sjostrom and Anthony of these songs lies primarily in Margaret Dahlgren, Meghann been performed on Broadway, of the play. Freshman Kate steal the show with their power­their ability to arouse plenty of Tubor and Beth Colombo also but certainly has great potential Scarlett O'Hara plays this tardy ful voices. They hit all their laughter. The incorporation of serve as officers for this organi­because of the diversity in the teacher. The closet homosexual notes, which this show's musical the 70's disco-party band the zation. genres of its music, captivating and seemingly confident Zack, director and pianist; junior Village People into "Village Idiot" story line, cleverness of its lines played by junior Tom Anthony, Lauren Prieto, described as is particularly clever and ridicu­Contact Katie Wagner at 
becomes the extremely challenging. . lously funny. kwagner@nd.edu object of Karen's "There is a very difficult six­The closing affection. part harmony in this show," scene of Act I 
The sixth char­Prieto said. ''I'm so impressed is one of the acter and soloist with their ability." most creatively for many of the "Sixteen Bars" is one of written scenes musical's liveliest Sjostrom's best solo pieces, in the play. As 
songs is C.C. because it allows her to fully dis­Patricoski Junior Erin play her wide vocal range, dance explained, its Sjostrom bril­talent and ability to convey emo­strength is that liantly embodies tion to the audience. The song it allows some this role of a sex-compliments her voice and of the actors to 
SHAWNA SHAWNA MONSON!The 


Pennington, left, and Gilbert act as a young unmarried couple in the play. 

Tom Anthony, right, and Kate Scarlett O'Hara provide strong performances in 'Taxi 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, April 2, 2004 
page 15 
Foreign language plays sure to challenge and entertain 
Scamming actors earn a livinJ? travelling town to town and­swindling them as they go 

By CAROLYN SWEENEY 
Scene Writer 
Looking f'or something to do this weekend'? Looking f'or culture? Looking for an exciting challenge? Looking for a good comedy instead of watching the same cheesy movie again, which you have memorized and quote oftnn'? Well look no fur­thor. The department of romance languages is sponsoring two span­ish plays this weekend, which offer enough intrigue, romance and scandal to entertain even the toughest critie for at least an hour or two. 
The romance languages depart­ment is presenting two plays in Spanish this weekend -"EI retablo de las maravillas and El viejo celoso"with a grant from the Institute f'or Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. These comedies, both written by Miguel de Cervantes, were'originally designed to be 1~ntremeses, short comedic plays performed during the intermission of a tragedy to lightnn the mood. 
Othnr than the fact that these plays are being presented inde­pendently of a larger tragedy, both plays stay very dose to the spirit of the text. They are performed in the same 16th century Spanish that Cervantes wrote them in with cos­tumes reminiscent of the time. While the Spanish is somewhat dif­ficult to understand, even to an experienced speaker, the plot syn­opsis that is provided for these plays is not difficult to understand. Although the plays were written centuries ago, they deal with issues modern viewers readily under­stand. 
"EI retablo de las maravillas" tells a story of two traveling "actors" who earn a living by scamming the towns they visit in various ways. These scam artists. Chanfalla and Chirinos and their newly acquired musician Habelin, prosent a play to a village. Their play leaves the town in confusion and the swindlers hiding and gloat­ing. "EI retablo" teaches a lesson similar to that of "The Emperor's New Clothes." 
"EI viejo celoso" tells a story with the elassic themes of love and lust. The young bride Lorenza is mar­ried to Caiiizares, a very old, very protective husband who wants nothing but to be taken care of by his wife. Lorenda, however, is not so innocent, and is very upset that her marriage is not what it should be. She conspires with her neigh­bor and her maid to bring a young man into the house for companion­ship, and to taunt her husband. 
Professor Kelly Kingsbury directs these plays as part of a two-credit class. "l advertised the plays through posters, and then held auditions in late January" said Kingsbury of the plays. 
Students from all levels may enroll in this class, and this year they range from students with one 
semester of Intensive Spanish to a student who speaks Spanish as her first language. The acting is. com­mendable, although at times it seems that more effort is going into the language than the acting. 
The ideas for the plays came partly as an inspiration from seeing her current roommate and office mate work on the Italian play, also being presented this weekend. 
"El retablo de las maravillas" and "El viejo celoso" will be showing in the Jordan Auditorium of the Business Sehool this tonight, Saturday and Sunday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $5 per person ($4 f'or members of 
the  Spanish club).  
and  are available at  
the  department of  

romance languages office in 343 O'Shaughnessy llall and at the door. 
Contact Carolyn Sweeney at csweene@nd.edu 

Quality acting and well spoken Italian 
_,
bring 'Non tutti i ladri vengono per 
By CAROLYN SWEENEY 
Scene Writer 

This weekend the department of romance languages' Italian Theater Project will present Dario Fo's "Non tutti i ladri vengono per nuocere" in Italian. The play is directed by Pro~ssor Laura Colangelo, the third year in a row she has directed an Italian play through the department. This play is an extension of her senior thesis while an undergraduate here at Notre Dame. Colangelo directed an Italian play for her hon­ors senior thesis as a student of Professor Colleen Hyan, and has continued with these plays since her gradua­tion in 2002. 
"Non tutti I ladri ven­gono per nuocere," a rel­atively new work set in Italy in the 1960s is a farce, which tells the story of love, lust, confu­sion, robbery and three couples' entanglement in a web of lies. 
Interest in the play, both in acting and atten­dance, has skyrocketed. This year there are two groups of actors due to a high interest level in stu­dents. Each group will present two of the four total performances. 
The students involved in this play are enrolled in a two-credit class. Auditions were held in late November and early December, but work on the play did not begin until this semester. Students of all levels have had the chance to 
nuocere' to life 


be in or work on the play "Non tutti i laddri ven­-from people who have gono per nuoeere" will had only two semesters be showing in the of Italian to Italian Washington Hall lab majors. Theater tonight and 
Most of the actors in Saturday at 7:30 p.m. the play not only speak There will also be after­Italian well, but also act noon performances well, bringing the char­Saturday at 2:00 pm and acters to life. Sunday at 3:00 pm. 
Fo's play is sure to be Tickets are $5 per person enjoyable to all, despite and are available at the one's language back­department of romance ground. While acted in languages office in 343 Italian, an English synop­O'Shaughnessy llall and sis will be given in the at the door. program, and the aeting should make it under­Contact Carolyn Sweeney standable. at csweene@nd.edu 

Interest In performing Italian plays on campus has risen to the extent with two groups of actors performing In the play this year. 

Friday, April 2, 2004 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Portland tops Philly 88-82 
Associated Press 
.. 
PHILADELPHIA Portland's playoff streak may not end at 21 straight seasons after all -not with the way the Trail Blazers are playing lately. 
Zach Randolph scored 18 points, and Darius Miles had 18 points and 10 rebounds to lead the Portland to a win over the Philadelphia 76ers 
The surging Blazers (39-36) have won nine of their last 12 games and moved into a tie with the Utah Jazz for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Western Conference. 
"We're still climbing uphill," coach Maurice Cheeks said. "When you are trying to get into that eighth slot, you can't afford to let games slip away. That's the thing that we keep talking about and harping on -we can't afford to let games slip away." 
The Blazers appear to have found some late-season chemistry after the high-pro­file trades of Bonzi Wells and Rasheed Wallace . 
"We know we've got to win these games and just stay focused and play hard," Randolph said. "It's about chemistry anywhere you go. We know we can't lose. We're all just working together." 
Miles, acquired in a midsea­son deal, had his second straight strong game for the Blazers. He scored eight points in the fourth quarter, including a turnaround jumper and a driving dunk that both times pushed the lead back to four. 
A day after the Trail Blazers hit a season-high 61 percent of their shots in a win over Boston, Portland shot 49 per­cent. Miles, who scored 31 against the Celtics, is 20-for­30 from the floor in the last two games. 
"Coach Cheeks keeps telling me I can be a great player, so that's what I'm trying to be," Miles said. 
The Sixers played again without Allen Iverson , out for the rest of the season with a knee injury. Willie Green led Philadelphia with a career­best 22 points, Kenny Thomas had 14 points and 12 rebounds, and Samuel Dalembert had 11 points and a career-high 19 boards. 
The Trail Blazers held a 13­
point lead midway through 
the third quarter, when the Sixers went on a 10-3 run to pull within three. 
Green, the rookie guard getting more playing time in Iverson's absence, tied the game at 76-all when he slammed home a Thomas miss that brought a rise out of the crowd and the Sixers' bench. 
"They were just giving me the ball and I was trying to make plays, trying to make something happen," Green said. "My confidence is just rising and rising right now." 
Portland, though, went ahead on a free throw, then a three-point play by former Sixer Theo Ratliff . Miles sealed the win with a couple of free throws in the waning seconds. 
Ratliff had 14 points, six rebounds and six blocked shots. Ratliff was acquired in February in a deal with Atlanta and has been the shot-blocking force in the paint the Trail Blazers need­ed, leading the league with a 
5.4 average. 
Ratliff has blocked at least six shots in the last four games. 
"His presence has been huge for us," Cheeks said. "He gives us a big presence in the middle that we didn't have before." Mavericks 127, Kings 117 
DALLAS -Coach Don Nelson's emphasis on smaller lineups is working out nicely for the Dallas Mavericks . 
Michael Finley scored 29 points, Steve Nash had a career-high 19 assists and the Mavericks won their third straight game since going back to a smallball lineup, over the Western Conference­
leading  - and  suddenly  
struggling -Sacramento  
Kings.  

"This has been good for us. We needed to get our confi­dence back," Antawn Jamison said. 
The Mavericks matched a season-high for points with their fourth straight game of at least 118 points, a mark they had reached just once in 26 games before that. 
"We get more open looks, more opportunities in the open court, and it's working for us," Finley said. 
Sacramento lost for the fourth time in five games, and its conference lead shrunk to a half-game over the Los Angeles Lakers , who played later Thursday, and Minnesota with seven games remaining. The Kings were coming off a 107-89 loss at San Antonio a night earlier. 
"We've won 52 games. We've got to find out how we did that," Kings coach Rick Adelman said. "We have to find ourselves again." 
Finley made seven straight field goals in one stretch. The first four came in a 10-0 run at the end of the first half that pushed the Mavericks ahead 67-50. 
Coming off a season-low two points in 10 minutes Tuesday against Cleveland after missing three games with a strained right calf, Finley hit 13 of 22 shots in his team-high 42 minutes. 
"It was good to get back into the trenches with the guys," Finley said. ''I'm glad to be back." 
His 13-foot fadeaway jumper with 2:44 left started the first half-ending spurt. His follow-up slam dunk of Jamison's missed layup came with 2.3 seconds left. 
Sacramento scored the first five points of the second half before Finley scored. Then Finley's 3-pointer gave Dallas its first 20-point lead, 7 4-54. 
Nash had 20 points to go along with his 19 assists, the most in the NBA this season and a franchise record for a regulation game. Jason Kidd had 25 assists in a double­overtime game in 1996. 
"Steve is always pushing the ball up the court," said Jamison, who had 16 points. "If there's a little opening, he's going to get it to you." 
Dirk Nowitzki followed a 35-point, 18-rebound effort Tuesday with 27 points and 10 rebounds. Marquis Daniels added 16 points. 
Mike Bibby led six Kings in double figures with 23 points. Chris Webber had 22 points and Peja Stojakovic 21. 
Mavericks coach Don Nelson, whose team has already clinched a playoff spot, said he is emphasizing the small lineup in hopes of getting the team in a positive frame of mind. 
That means more time for rookies Daniels, who started his fifth straight game, and Josh Howard. Eduardo Najera, who scored eight points on 4-of-5 shooting, also plays more. 

NHL 
Tampa Bay clinches top Eastern Conference seed 

Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Martin St. Louis scored twice in the third period, helping the Tampa Bay Lightning beat the Florida Panthers 4-3 and clinch the top seed in the Eastern Conference. 
Brad Richards also scored for the Southeast Division champi­ons. St. Louis scored his second goal and 37th overall from just below the left-circle off a pass through the slot by Cory Stillman to put the Lightning ahead with 2:20 remaining. 
The Panthers had tied it at 3 on Lyle Odelein's goal from the blue line at 14:14 of the third. Olli Jokinen and Donald Audette had the other Florida goals. 
Tampa Bay backup John Grahame turned aside 29 shots. 
Bruins 3, Capitals 3 
BOSTON -Joe Thornton assisted on a game-tying goal and then left the game with an injury while Boston held on to tie Washington. 
Thornton was slashed on the right wrist by Todd Rohloff as he crashed the net 3:25 into the third period. He left the ice with a trainer but came back for another shift and threaded a cross-ice pass to Glen Murray to set up a goal that made it 2­2 at the 5:23 mark. 
A few minutes later, Thornton left the bench and did not return. 
Andrew Raycroft stopped 24 shots for the Bruins, who played their 30th overtime game of the season to extend their NHL record. Dan McGillis had a goal and an assist and Nick Boynton also scored for Boston. 
Olaf Kolzig made 35 saves for Washington, which had lost seven consecutive road games. The Capitals have the most losses in the NHL this season but they remained unbeaten (20-0-3) when leading after two periods. 
Red Wings 3, Blues 2 
ST. LOUIS -Marc Lamothe won in his second start of the season and Chris Chelios had two assists, helping Detroit clinch first place overall in the NHL with a victory over St. Louis. 
The Blues missed a chance to clinch their 25th straight play­off berth, which would extend the longest c~rrent streak in professional sports. Instead, the loss in their regular-season home finale put them in a three-way tie with the Oilers and Predators for seventh in the Western Conference with two games to go. 
Boyd Devereaux and Steve Thomas scored first-period goals to give the Red Wings an early 2-0 lead. Ray Whitney's 14th goal of the season broke a 2-2 second-period tie. 
Flyers 2, Canadlens 0 
MONTREAL -Simon Gagne and Michal Handzus scored, and Philadelphia strengthened their hold on first place in the Atlantic Division with a win over slumping Montreal. 
Sean Burke made 24 saves for his second shutout of the season and 35th of his career. Philadelphia had lost its previ­ous two games with Robert Esche in goal. 
The victory gave the Flyers (40-20-14-6) 100 points, two more than second-place New Jersey in the division. Both teams have two games left. 
The Canadiens lost a fifth straight game and missed a chance to clinch seventh place in the Eastern Conference. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classi6eds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
ln. Delta Ch. of Upsilon Pi Epsilon 
trustee election 4/17/04 4 pm 314 LaFortune 
WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-9359 
. I I I 
Catholic family offering fulltime summer childcare opportunity to care lor 4 school age children, 
FoR RENT 
ages 5to 11, Scottsdale Mall area, 7:30AM to 5:00PM, wages nego-2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO liable, non-smoker preferred, own CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM transportation a plus, contact mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
Maureen @(574) 231-8126. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES... HAS A 8  
WANTED: MENS Mt BIKE FOR  BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM  
COMMUTE LEAVE DESCRIPTION  HOUSE...  
273-4486  2BEDROOM  
DUPLEX...  
Want high-energy, enthusiastic and  AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON­ 
out-going college students  DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004­ 
for brand new Super-Premium  2005SCHOOL  
Ice Cream shop in town. Flexible  YEAR. ...WE ARE ALSO STARTING  
hours, fun environment, family  TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006  
owned business. Contact Ryan  SCHOOL YEAR. ..  
Emmer (ryanemmer@hotmail.com)  CONTACT  
or call277-4912 or apply online at  KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR  
www.coldstonecreamery.com  CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS  
• I  I  • ._  J  ,  ,  ~  t  i  I  I  I  ._  I  ')  •  


VERY NICE 3bdrm home in EastBank area w/washer-dryer & alarm system incl. Nice yard for vol­leyball etc-full bsmt.Walk to Corbys&SIJoe Church. Call Joe Crimmins@ 574-514-0643(cell) or 574-273-0002(home) 
Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 bdrms close to NO. Spring, summer or fall. 235-3655. 
Oakhill Condo, 2-3 bedroom, 2 bath, one block from NO, $425.00/ person times 3 people, utilities included, available June, 231-8823 afler4:00. 
2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments near campus. Only a few left lor next school year. Call Justine, 234-9923. 
6-8 Person house on Notre Dame Ave., perfect location across from soccer fields, 2 min. walk to cam­pus. 
Completely rennovated with all new appliances, 3 full baths. Available for 2004-2005 school year. 
Email ndhouses@yahoo.com 

Edwardsburg lake cottage com­pletely furnished. $750/month plus utilities.850-;3347. 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to NO, 3 full baths, 
2-<:ar garage, frpl, sky-lights. , $1640/mo. 
Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 House on E Washington behind Barnabys, near The Boat. 2 BR with private deck and 1.5 bath. New kitchen and lull asement,AIC,book­cases too. Ready to move in now. $675 mo-lease length neg. 289-0262 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC,at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 

Friday, April 2, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NIT 
Michigan tops Rutgers for title 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Coach Tommy Amaker been through enough postseason basketball to know what Michigan need­ed most as it made its rurt at the NIT championship against Hutgers on Thursday night. 
The message of' the former Duke star to his players was simple: Slow down. 
" We talked at halftime and throughout the second half about poise," Amaker said. " It was an electric atmosphere and sometimes you play faster than you want to." 
The young Wolverines almost fell into that trap. Hutgers wiped out a 12-point lead and nudged in front briefly before Michigan recovered and won the title 62-55. 
We never found a groove," Amaker said. " But it was enough to come out with a victory." 
And the victory delivered a championship Michigan might never have had a chance to play for except for a rare decision by the NCAA last September to grant the school's appeal of sanctions and make Amaker's team eli­gible for postseason play. 
The reversal gave Michigan something to play for this season, and the NIT champi­onship was the eventual reward. 
Michigan's last NIT champi­onship came in 1997, but that was stripped as part of self­imposed sanctions following NCAA violations and the Wolverines had not been to a postseason tournament since 2000. But they used their return to add another cham­pionship. 
" I'm thrilled for our team and our program," Amaker said. " We tried to make the most of this season in a fash­ion to make our university proud." 
Michigan opened a lead of 41-29 before Quincy Douby's only basket of the game start­ed a 15-2 Rutgers' run that nudged the Scarlet Knights in front briefly. 
Just when it seemed the game would slip away, the Wolverines reclaimed it. 
After Ricky Shields put Rutgers in front 44-43 with just under 11 minutes left. Dion Harris responded with a 3-pointer to move Michigan back in front. 
Juel Wiggan tied it for Rutgers, but a defensive breakdown gave Michigan's Bernard Robinson Jr. an easy basket with 7:3 7 remaining and the Wolverines had the lead for keeps. 
Robinson then converted three free throws in a 9-0 Michigan run that sealed the victory. 
Daniel Horton led Michigan with 14 points and Harris had 13. Horton was the tour­nament MVP. 
Herve Lamizana had eight blocked shots and led Rutgers with 19 points. 
" We just didn't capitalize offensively in the second half." Rutgers coach Gary Waters said. " I thought we did all the things we needed to do to win that game. We just didn't capitalize at the right times." 
Michigan's win was con­structed around a defense that limited Rutgers' hot­shooting freshman Douby to just two points on 1-for13 from the floor. Douby scored 35 points in the Scarlet Knights' ·semifinal victory over Iowa State. 
" They did a great job on Douby," Waters said. " As a freshman, sometimes you end up pressing. That happens. When you go with a young man like that, you have to live with a young man like that." 
Douby never could solve the defense of Robinson. 
" He was quick going over the screens," the freshman said. " He's a lot stronger and he had a couple of inches on me. It was just hard getting my shot. He fronted me and was riding me. They did a great job." 
Then Douby brightened. 
" I can't let that get me down," he said. " I've got plenty of time ahead of me." 
Were you involved in yearbook in high school? 
Or have you always wanted to help create a book full of memories for your classmates? 
The Dome yearbook is now accepting applications for next year's section editors: 
• Seniors • Organizations• Campus Life • Sports• Photo • Academics • Year-in-Review• Computer Systems 
E-mail Dome@nd.edu by April 8 

WoMEN's FINAL FouR 
Final four arrive in New Orleans 

Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Dawn Staley remembers the games, of course. There also was a hospital visit to cheer up patients and a banquet. 
That was 1991, the last time the women's Final Four was in New Orleans, when Staley won the MVP award for runner-up Virginia. 
"That was old school," said Staley, now the Temple coach. "We just laced them up and played the games. Now every­thing is much more fan friend­ly. There are a lot more fans and a lot more for them to do." 
The women's Final Four, once played in relative obscu­rity compared to the men's tournament, has enjoyed an increase in fans, TV ratings and talent. 
Tennessee and Connecticut -two of the nation's most prominent programs -and LSU and Minnesota will play to full houses and on national tel­evision. The semifinals are Sunday and the title game Tuesday. 
Hatings for the four regional finals were the highest since ESPN began exclusive cover­age of the tournament in 1996. So far for this tournament, the network's ratings are up 57 percent from last year. 
In the 1991 Final Four, 15,796 fans attended the two sessions. About 8,000 to 8,500 were at the championship game. And that impressed Hon Maestri, then the athletic director at the University of New Orleans, where the games were played. 
"The final game was played on Easter Sunday, with an 
11:30 tip-off," said Maestri, now the New Orleans Sports Foundation director for NCAA events. "That's really a rough time to get a crowd." 
This year, the event will be in the New Orleans Arena, where all 18,000 seats have been sold out since last year. Next door in the Superdome, Hoop City, the 166,000­square-foot interactive display of games and basketball activi­ties will host even more fans than the games. 
Last year, a sellout crowd of 28,210 attended the champi­onship at the Georgia Dome. The year before, 29,619-the largest for the tournament ­were at the Alamo Dome. · 
The women could have played in the Superdome this year, as the men did in last year's Final Four with a crowd of 54,524. But they chose the smaller arena, even though it would cut attendance to the smallest crowd since 1998. 
"The smaller arena obvious­ly helps create a tight atmos­phere," NCAA spokesman Scottie Rodgers said. "It makes logical sense that it will create a buzz and boost demand for seats next year." 
The Arena, home of the NBA's Hornets, was designed for basketball, and Maestri thinks that will help the women. 

"It's going to give them a great place to showcase their games," Maestri said. "Let's face it, you put 29,000 in the Superdome and it would look empty." 
The women's Final Four switched its schedule last year, moving the championship game from Sunday to Tuesday, something the NCAA and ESPN hoped would allow for better cross-promotion with the men's tournament. 
Although the gross receipts jumped by about $1 million a year between 2000 and 2003, they dropped by about $200,000 last year. That was because the TV money from ESPN is no longer figured into the women's basketball tour­nament revenue. The network pays the NCAA to cover 21 tournaments, with women's basketball included. 
Last year, the NCAA absorbed $5.8 million in losses for the tournament. 

Although the NCAA pays expenses for the teams in the tournament. no money is dis­pensed to schools or confer­ences. 
The men, however, can count on tremendous payoffs for advancing in the tourna­ment. Money from the games goes to conferences -depend­ing on how many teams from a league are in the tournament and how far they advance. 
The Sun Belt, with one men's team in the tournament, gets a small dividend. The Big 12, with Texas and Kansas advancing to the Final Four last year, received about $11 million, said conference spokesman Chris Tyson. 
"The women's tournament is growing rapidly," Hodgers said. "We don't have a projec­tion on when it will begin earning money, but we're con­fident it will." 
page 18 Friday, April 2, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 

ND TRACK & FIELD 
Track home opener set for this -weekend 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish look to find some spring in their step this week­end as they compete in their first home meet of the season. The 2004 spring opener will begin at 10 a.m. Saturday at Moose Krause Stadium. 
This will be the second full weekend of outdoor competi­tion for the Irish as they play host to squads from Xavier, DePaul and Ball State along with Northern Michigan, Central Michigan and Western Michigan. 
The team split up last week­end as half the group went to the Stanford Invitational and the other half traveled to the Purdue Invite. The road trips were a success as 17 athletes qualified for the Big East con­ference meet. 
Assistant coach Tim Connelly expects another strong showing from the Irish as the team makes its home outdoor debut. 
"Our goal is to compete well and get people qualified for the Big East Championships," he said. 
A handful of Notre Dame runners such as Molly Huddle, Lauren King and 
Kerry Meagher will not race this weekend. Besides having already qualified for the Big East, the long indoor season has taken its toll on them. 
"We have a very long time until the NCAA meet," Connelly said. "A lot of our kids have been running since around October, and we have to be really, really careful we don't wear them out." 
The NCAA outdoor meet will not take place this season until June 9-12 in Austin, Texas. Until then the Irish will be traveling to meets almost every weekend. 
While Notre Dame boasts a state-of-the-art indoor track facility, the South Bend weather is not as conducive to outdoor track and field. The forecast calls for the weather to be partly cloudy with temperatures in the low 50s and Connelly definitely expects the weather to be a factor. 
"If it's cold and windy it's pretty hard to run fast," he said. "Unless you're in the 100 meter dash and the wind is at your back the weather is going to be working against you." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

MLB 
Bonds taking heat for possible steroid use 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds' 19th major league sea­son was supposed to be about passing Willie Mays and chasing Babe Ruth and Hank Aaron on the career home run list. 
Instead, Bonds is constantly 
,. being asked whether steroids helped make him one of the game's greatest sluggers. Just two homers shy of tying Mays -his godfather -for third place on the all-time list, Bonds could even be forced to testify at a trial involving his personal trainer. Can San Francisco's star slug­ger rise above it all, or will it affect his performance on the field? ''I'm just going to play the game of baseball," said the 39­ye!J,r-old Bonds, who has repeat­edly denied using steroids. "That's all I'm going to do. That's all I can do. I'm going to go out and play the game of baseball for the city of San Francisco and the Giants organi­zation. I'll let my bat do the talk­ing. "I think it bothers everyone. Is life fair? That's how I look at it." This will be the second straight trying season for the six-time NL MVP, who dealt with the death of his father last year. Bonds' trainer, Greg Anderson, was among four men charged in February in an alleged steroid­distribution ring that federal prosecutors say supplied profes­sional athletes with banned sub­stances. Manager Felipe Alou has 
expressed his confidence in Bonds' ability to stay focused through the distractions. Bonds' father, Bobby, died last season, and Bonds still batted .341 with 45 home runs and 90 RBis. 
Mays, who has been mentor­ing and coaching Bonds since his dad died, will travel to Houston · and San Diego for San Francisco's first six games to be there if Bonds ties or passes him. 
The Hall of Farner plans to present Bonds with a torch dec­orated with 25 tiny diamonds, symbolic of the number the slug­ger wears. Only Ruth (714) and Bonds' hero, Aaron (755), have hit more homers. 
"We talked about that, and he really doesn't want to do it," Mays said of Bonds passing him. "When we talked, the main thing I expressed to him is, 'You have to do what you have to do ­that means pass me, pass Ruth, try to get to Aaron if you can.' And that's what it's all about." 
Bonds would like to get back to the World Series before he retires after falling six outs short of winning a ring in 2002. But there have been questions about whether the Giants did enough this offseason to make that a realistic possibility. 
General manager Brian Sabean was forced to creatively overhaul the roster again after the reigning NL West champions lost right fielder Jose Cruz Jr., shortstop Rich Aurilia, catcher Benito Santiago and key reliev­ers Joe Nathan and Tim Worrell -and Sabean's budget was down about $8 million this year. 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish take on Marquette, Miallli 
By ANN LOUGHERTY 
Sports Writer 
All the Irish needed was a breath of fresh air. 
Coach Jay Louderback attrib­uted the team's increased sense of confidence and tenacity to this week's outdoor practices. 
"We really needed to get out­side and play," Louderback said. "This week we had some really good practices because we played in weather we'd usually never play in. That was good for us." 
A lack of outdoor match expe­rience was partly responsible for last weekend's disappointing losses, Louderback said. No. 33 Wake Forest overwhelmed the No. 23 Irish 7-0. No. 9 North ,Carolina followed suit, defeating the Irish 5-0. 
This weekend, the Irish hope to atone for last weekend's losses as they face Marquette (3-12) Saturday and No. 15 Miami (8-9) Sunday. Louderback anticipates that garnering a win against both teams will be a daunting task.. 
Marquette returns from a tough 7-0 loss to Florida International Sunday. Louderback described the team's performance as variable this season. 
"They've had a lot of injuries," Louderback said. "They have a solid team when everyone is playing, but we don't know what their lineup will be like for the meet." 
The team's ability to focus on the task at hand will pose a chal­lenge for the Irish against the Golden Eagles. Heading into the meet, Louderback fears the play­ers' thoughts will center on Sunday's match against Miami. 

Saint Mary's College and the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership invite you to join us for 
Political Islam: Religion and Peacebuilding 
Women~tslamisms 

MONDAY APRIL 5, 2004
andthe State 
t~;,Styf@l~$!1~11\~~t 


7:00 p.m. Stapleton Lounge 
Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College 
ALecture by Dr. Azza Karam 
Director, Women's Program World Conference on Religion and Peace 
For more information contact Sr. Marianne Farina CSC at (574) 284-4182 
or Linda Biggins at (574) 284-4051 

Offered by Saint Mary's College Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership through the generous
CENltR FOR WOMf.Ns 

support of Lilly Endowment, Inc.
ltmR(Ull\JRALI.EADEKSHIP 
-fit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAM<, IN 


"We have to be ready for everyone, not just the ranked teams," Louderback said. "First we have to look at Marquette and then we can think about the Miami meet." 
Sunday's match against rival Miami will determine the No. 1 seed going into the Big East Tournament. The Red Hawks bring a greatly improved lineup to the courts, compared to last year's team. They boast talented players at the top of the lineup. Although Miami fell to No. 57 Marshall 7-0 last weekend, Louderback emphasized that the Irish are not taking the match lightly. 
"I think one of our main chal­lenges against Miami will' be keeping our emotions in check," Louderback said. "It's going to be a very emotional match, but I think our kids are used to tough matches against them." 
"Our kids always keep fighting. They've never given up a match ever-not even in practice." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 


team 
1 Duke 
2 UClA 
3 Ohio Stale 4 Georgia 
5 Calllornla 
6 New Mexico 
7 Vanderbilt 
8 Oklahoma State 
9 Southern California 
10 Arizona 
11 Auburn 
12 Washington 
13 Florida 
14 Mi~:higan State 
15 Tulane 
16 Tulsa 
17 lexas 
18 Oklahoma 
19 Wake Forest 
20 North carolina 

OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 2, 2004 
Golfweek Men's GCiif Top 2o , 

CoMPILED FRoM THE OBSERVER'S WHU SERVtCES 
GOLF 
team 
1 Florida 
2 Clemson 
3 Georg fa 
4 UCLA 
5 Georgia Tech 
6 Oklahoma State 
7 Texas 
8 Arllona Slate 
9 Texas Christian 
10 Arizona 
11 South Carolina 
12 UNlV 
13 Minnesota 
14 BYU 
15 California 
16 Southern Calllornia 
17 New M~txl~o 
18 Augusta State 
19 Arkansas 
20 Oklahoma 
-<ttcdtd rating, 
131•S·Z ---6!t89 



98•1!H 
.. 92-29-0 9H4~3 ,.. 
--9H4"2 
15•25+ . 78•39•2 _, .. aa.~N .-• ~8"31•2 ·­
6$c4:H 
102~Z9~1 60~40"4 54-25~2 
9747-2 
101·234 .· 63-41-2 
82~34•0 
58-45·0 
81"38-0 
74·48•0 
JUS 
.70~59
1'tJif3 
70.116 . , ' 
70.88 ,, 
7o~u2 
. 'i1Ltil) \ > 7h04 7U0­71~33 . 11.34 7Uii _11_At 71.44 11.48 71.49 71A9 7U3 7U5 
Golfweek Women's Golf Top 20 
record · ratintt 
94-2-1 70.08 94•11-1 71.44 89•17"0 72.4$ 83•26~0 72.49 71-19-1 72.61 
83+13·0 72.72 
89-21·0 12;89 76-24·1 73.06 64·28·0 73.09 77-30·1 73.11 71·25·3 7:t18 6li-1H 7U~7 
!;s•a94 ta.~~ •n"16~2 .. ••···1~,7? <• 
.-·-··· 40~1·0·-. 72;14;/•--····-··· 
..... •'70~33·2· . . 73.83'-"•••->·-· .-.. ··••· 47~44~2· 73~84<•·······­
.---~~~34•o -•. _'1#.M { > 
. :>·::: 
MA17~1 > 1~.~7 -.---} ·53+40•1 1U4 ? _.,-,i.-.·~··.=,'
. :.:)/: " 
ESPN Basebaii_[QR 20 
team 
1 Stanford 2 Texas 
3 lSU 
4 Rice 
5 Miami 
6 South Carolina 
7 MlsSIS$Ippl 
8 long BeaCh staJu 
9 NOlRE OAME 
10 Arizona state 
11 Auburn 
12 Wlchila Stale 
13 Florida 
14 Texas A&M 
. i'~iQt?> .•pt;i~tj·:·r;:-::.··!1 
.20~3·: n;J::)> 974 >=<:-.·.====:=:=::==:=-=·=·=·= 
···•·:---. 2lHt•·•••••• >971 •t\).
..•. ?t·•· 967 )':' 
_._ . __
•.-.•-·.4o_a
-~~f: .i_···-·-• •._._•._•._,_•.x_._._._·_·-····-1·_: ___··-··.-a"_8_..-.•_-.·.•.·.·-•.-_? }
•.•.•.•.__·._2tff 
.....•_--· ?04 .. <6~3·. ,:,•.)_ •... 
zti1.
_· j;:~ (····-···-:~~·····-················$1$ 
20-6 542 12•2 !140 24·5 514 
23-6 488 
15 Southern Mississippi 20·4 462 16 Tulane 19-7 344 17 Nebraska 16·5 31!) 18 North Carolina 20~6 314 19 Florida Stale 2H. 261i 20 Florida Atlantic 25'5 .260 
around the dial 
TODAY 
NBA 
Cleveland at Milwaukee, 8:~0 p.m., ESPN Los Angeles at Chicago, 8:30 p.m., FOX 
SATURDAY COLLEGE BASKETBALL Georgia Tech at Oklahoma State, 6 p.m., CBS Connecticut at Duke, 9 p.m.,CBS 
NHL 
Chicago at Phoenix, 4 p.m., FOX Chicago Atlanta at Tampa Bay, 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Associated Press 
All it took was one round of golf for Brad Faxon to discover the magic of Arnold Palmer. 
They were paired togeth­er for the first time 20 years ago at The Players Championship, a 22-year­old in his first full season on the PGA Tour playing with the man responsible for what golf had become. 
"He said one thing to me I'll never forget," Faxon said. "He said, 'The key out here is to look every­body in the eye, to make eye contract.' He was talk­ing about the fans." 
A guy who spends a half­century of golf putting peo­ple first is bound to make 

a few friends. Arnie had a whole army of them. 
The troops will gather at Augusta National again this year to bid farewell to Palmer, who is playing his 50th consecutive -and final -Masters. 
"It's going to be exciting for me," Palmer said. "And it's going to be somewhat sentimental. It's kind of an opportunity to say goodbye to all of the fans who have been so supportive over the last 50 years, and have been the reason that I have played as long as I have." 
Gene Sarazen hit the shot that put the Masters on the map. Jack Nicklaus has more green jackets. 
IN BRIEF 
Williams advances to final 
in return from injury 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -Serena Williams' comeback has the momen­tum of an overhead slam. 
Playing her first tournament since July. Williams advanced to the final of the Nasdaq-1 00 Open by beating Eleni Daniilidou 6-4, 6-4 Thursday. 
ller opponent Saturday will be the winner of the all-Hussian semifinal Thursday night between No. 5-secd­cd Elena Dementicva and No. 8 Nadia Petrova. 
"As far as I've gotten is a major confidence boost, regardless of what happens," Williams said. "I really, really am proud of' myself because it's hard to come back. It's nerve­racking." 
Andy Hoddick reached the men's semifinals by winning the last four games to beat No. 5 Carlos Moya 5·7. 6-2, 7-5. Hoddick, seeded second, is Tiger Woods is behind the exponential growth in prize money. 

Palmer was simply the king. 
"I remember waking up when I was 5 or 6 years old, and waiting for the paperboy at 5 in the morn­ing to drop off the paper so I could see how Arnie did at the Masters," Jeff Sluman said. "I would coming running into the kitchen and yell, 'Arnie shot 68!"' 
This is the 40th anniver­sary of Palmer's fourth Masters. the last of his seven professional majors. 
Palmer hasn't made the cut since· 1983. That was also the last time he broke par at Augusta National. 
------, 
page 19 
None of it matters. No one cares about the score, only that he plays. 
"Every time Arnie plays a round, it's like a celebra­tion," Faxon said. ''I'm sure it's getting old for Arnie because he's not competitive like he used to be. But nobody enjoys doing it like him. I think it's awesome." 
For Palmer, it has always been about the fans. 
lie was asked recently for his fondest memories of the Masters. It wasn't his first trip down Magnolia Lane, the jokes told during the Champions Dinner or any of his four victories. 
"The fans. The people." Palmer said. 

bidding for his first Key Biscayne title. 
Indians eager to trade 
Bradley 
WINTEH HAVEN, Fla. -Milton Bradley might soon be someone else's center fielder -and problem. The Cleveland Indians have appar· cntly had enough of his antics. 
The club is trying to trade Bradley. who was barred from Cleveland's training camp Thursday, one day after he was pulled from an exhibi­tion game by manager Eric Wedge for not running out a pop 11y. 
Indians general manager Mark Shapiro has discussed a trade involv­ing Bradley with as many as eight teams, and "four or five arc legiti­mate and serious." 
Bradley was expected to bat cleanup for the Indians this season. But the 25-year-old outfielder, who has a troubled history on and ofT the field, will play elsewhere once the ' Indians can strike a deal. 
"It's unfortunate where we are right now, but we have to do what's best for the ballclub," Wedge said. 
Although the season opener is Monday, Shapiro said there is no timetable to make a trade. The Indians arc at a disadvantage because teams know they want to make a deal, but having so many involved actually helps Cleveland, he said. 
With Bradley's expected trade, both Coco Crisp and Alex Escobar will probably make the Indians' 25­man opening day roster. 
Wedge had planned to keep just one extra outfielder, and the speedy Crisp appeared to be on his way to Triple-A BuiTalo to start the season. 
"I have no idea what's going to happen now," said Crisp. 

page 20 Friday, April 2, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
, ~ I­
,I 
~ 
~ 
t 
~ 
•
I 
' 
I I 
, 
.
I 
Every Friday, while hostilities continue in Iraq, the 5: IS p.m. Mass at the Basilica will be offered for Peace. 
Peace is a gift from God but it is also the result ofhuman efforts. Please join us each Friday for this special Mass. 
On First Fridays, we will pray for and remember all who have died in the conflict in Iraq, especially innocent civilians, and we will pray, as well, for peacemakers and all who yearn for peace with justice for all God's people. 
Listed below are the names of fa1nily members, friends and alumni of Notre Dan1e serving in the armed forces of the United States in the Middle East. 
Jon Arras Nlichael Ellis Scott Menoher Beau Arsenault Danny Fitzgibbon Benjamin Miller John Paul Arsenault Col. Marl< Gehri Spence Miller John Baber Ricl'lie Goller Andrew Mitchell PhJ Barr Travis Greene J ash Mosl<aitis Brandy Begaye Travis Greene Mark Patanella Candice Benally Drew Hacl~ey 2nd Lt. David Pavlicl< Wally Bishop Donny Hale Greg Reynolds Rosetnary Brannock Janathan Hall · Tani Sanders Sean Brennan Nathan Hall Tony Scardino Christopher Brown Tberesa Hansen Scott Spal Josh Carlisle Shanon Holman Ryan Stilltnan Andrew Casper Emran Huda BJl Sweet Simeon Chelf Bob James Anthony T urnocl< Dusty Clark Jason Jenson Stephen Vallejo ~1icl1ael Vanderlaan
Mil<e Clive Gabe Johnson Dan V anclerlinden 
Travis Clovis Valerie June 

Mike Conway Anna King Colin W elcl,_ 
Pfc. l~iley J. Cool< Grace Lee Christopher Welch Paul Whelan 
Sabnon Cooper J mnie Limongelli Jason Crum Brian Ling David Whital<er Ryan Daley Jessica White 
Aaron Llvod 
. 

Chris Davis Andre Willian1s 
Shannon Manson Brig. Gen. Martin Pearse Marshner cl,_ris young Den1psey Jeff Mayer 
If you would lil~e to
Michael Dougherty Andrew Maver 
. 

have a name added
Casitnir Drowleski Katie McCauldon 

to this list, please Brendan McDermott email fsantoni@nd.edu Ian NlcEwan 
Immediately after the Mass for Peace this Friday and every first Friday, Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns will co-sponsor a round table discussion on atheme related to the conflict immediately after the Mass in the Coleman-Morse Student Lounge. 
. A simple meal will be served with conversation led by Professor George Lopez. Please join us in prayer and worship at the Basilica, and for discussion and an exchange of viewpoints afterwards. 
Frid:~y, April 2, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S TENNIS 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Rogers looks to n1ake 
Irish hope to stop Hokies 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hope to turn it all around for the llokies this weekend, as the No. 37 Irish look to break the seven-match win streak of No. 54 Virginia Tech Sunday. 
After a 4-3 win over Ball State last weekend, the 
Irish have "Everyone will be had several 
playing this 
days to get 
weekend, for sure." 
back to full speed. The illnesses of Brent D'Amico Luis I lad dock Junior captain 
and Matthew Scott, the team's two top singles players, made a win over Mid­American conference power­house Ball State more chal­lenging. 
"We've been playing outside this week," junior tri-captain Brent D'Amico said."We prac­ticed for the last three days and had a day off today. 
"We've also gone inside just in case we play indoors, we're just trying to prepare for both of them." 
Additionally, the team worked on doubles, which have been inconsistent this season. The Irish dropped the 
point against Ball State, with only Haddock and Scott winning a match, at No.2. 
''I'm pretty sure [Haddock and Scott] will play," D'Amico said. "Everyone will be playing this week­
end, for sure." 
The Hokies boast a 12-8 record and feature singles powerhouse Andreas Laulund, ranked No. 57 nationally. 
"I don't think we're prepar­ing for anything specifically, 
just the whole team," said 

mark this weekend 
"I worked on a lot of
the beginning of the season, 

captain. Rogers golf course," 
clinched the win against Ball 

is taking part stuffin the off-season. King said. 
State for the Irish under con­

in her first Meanwhile,
I definitely wanted to 
siderable pressure. Barry King 

tournament Rogers
play competitively." 
and Eric Langenkamp also 

since the Notre secured her 
won matches to put the Irish 

D a m e bus ticket to 
on the board. 

Invitational Rebecca Rogers Bloomington
The Irish played Virginia 

held Sept. 27-on Tuesday,
Irish golfer 
D'Amico, noting that both he and Scott have faced Laulund in the past. 
However, the team will be depending on its younger play­ers for wins this weekend. 
Stephen Bass has won 10 of his last 12 matches, improving to 14-4 in dual matches and 20-6 overall playing at No. 3 and 4. Ryan Keckely, who bat­tled nagging ankle injuries at 

By ERIC RETTER 
Sports Writer 
Practice makes perfect. 
Or at least gets you into the starting lineup, as in the case of Rebecca Rogers, the Irish senior co­
Tech twice last year, winning 

28, and is in 5-2 both times. 
the scoringA third straight victory 
lineup for the first time since against the Hokies -that's 
last season. what the Irish are all about. 
"I worked on a lot of stuff in the off-season. I definitely Contact Kate Gales at 
wanted to play competitively," kgales@nd.edu 
Rogers said. Her coach is glad to see the 
hard work pay off. 
"We're all really happy for her," third-year head coach Debby King said. "She's really worked hard." 
The Irish are set to play in the Indiana Invitational in 
----. 
semester in the history of Notre Dame women's golf. the team has begun a slightly modified practice schedule. 
"We've really been working on [having] more productive practice rounds, and really just paying more atten­tion to the 
when the 
team con­cluded its intra-squad qualify­ing rounds. 
"More than anything, I think the difference was mental," Rogers said. "A lot of it has to do with confidence." 
Joining Rogers this weekend will be freshmen Noriko Nakazaki and Stacey Brown, sophomores Katie Brophy and Sarah Bassett and junior Karen Lotta. Nakazaki has paced the team this year, lead­ing the team in scoring aver­


Bloomington age. Brophy,
"There's definitely 
this weekend. Bassett and The field is pressure to play Lotta have each made up of 15 well. It's one ofthe competed in teams, including both of the
strongest fields yet."
some familiar team's two pre­nemeses. At the vious outings, Baylor Shootout Debby King and Brown two weeks ago, Irish coach returns to the 
Missouri fin­ished one spot behind this week's host Indiana, who won the tourna­ment. 
"There's definitely pressure to play well," King said. "It's one of the strongest fields yet." 
The tournament starts at 8 
a.m. Saturday at the par-74 Indiana University Golf course. It is a 54-hole event, with each team playing two rounds Saturday and the final round beginning Sunday morning. Scoring will be in the 'six­count-four' format, with each team represented by six golfers and the four lowest scores counting towards the team total. 
In hopes of rediscovering a way to play the way they did in the fall, which was the best 
lineup after missing the Baylor Shootout. 
As her Notre Dame golf career enters the home stretch, the hard-working Rogers has been able to keep things in perspective. 
"It's the spring of my senior year." Rogers said. "I want to be able to enjoy myself." 
She remains optimistic about the team she co-captains, both for this weekend and the sea­son. 

"I feel good," Hogers said. "We've been able to play the course, we've gotten good weather, we're motivated, and. ­there's still a lot of golf to play." 
Contact Eric Retter at erener@nd.edu 

Quality Diamonds John ~1. Marshall's ln~~orporated 1965 Jewelers I GemologistsGof..-lsmiths I Platinumsmiths Key Bank Buildin~, Suite # 10 1 South Bend~ Indiana 46601 287.-1427  

page 22 
The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 2, 2004 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish rebound to split doubleheader with Broncos 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
After seeing its eight-game winning streak come to an end, Notre Dame came right back to start a new one. 
The Irish (24-10) dropped the first game of a doubleheader against Western Michigan by the score of 2-0. before coming back to earn the split with a 5-1 victo­ry in the second game. 
It was Notre Dame's last non­conference matchup before heading into Big East play this afternoon against Connecticut. The Irish bats went cold in the first game, as the team could only manage one hit off Bronco starter Laura Stewart. 
Stewart pitched a no-hitter against Oakland Tuesday, and nearly had her second consecu­tive no-hitter before Notre Dame's Sara Schoonaert doubled in the third inning for the only Irish hit of the game. 
"Stewart did a really nice job against us, but we helped her out a lot too," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "We just weren't patient hitters and weren't good situational hitters at all." 
Heather Booth, who allowed two runs and seven hits in six innings, took the loss. 
The Irish came back with a vengeance in game two, scoring four runs in the first inning against Western Michigan's Jaymie Voss. 
Stefanie Brown and Nicole deFau started the game off with consecutive singles, and Megan Ciolli advanced both runners with a groundout in front of the catcher. Meghan Ruthrauff loaded the bases on a fielder's choice, and Mallorie Lenn fol­lowed with a single that plated two runs. 
Lenn advanced to second and Ruthrauff to third on the throw, and Liz Hartmann followed with 


A Seton Hall player tags out an Irish runner last season. Notre Dame split their doubleheader with Western Michigan Thursday. 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles looking strong since spring break 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Sports Writer 
These days, the Belles look . ; unbeatable. 
Having won five straight since returning from spring break, Saint Mary's looks to extend its winning streak this weekend facing in-state rival Valparaiso at home today. The team has looked very impres­sive as of late. 
"We're on a really good roll since spring break, and I think all of our match preparation during break training is start­ing to pay off," said Kristen Palombo, who has won her last four singles matches. "We're seeing the results, and we're looking forward to this weekend with games here 
-.. against Valparaiso and Saturday at the University of Chicago." The biggest win this season for the Belles came last week in a 5-4 victory over rival Hope that has large implica­tions for conference standings. They have also made short work of their other opponents, including shutouts against Tri­State University and Alma College. Now they turn their focus to Valparaiso. "We're looking forward to it. Even though it's really cold, and we'll be freezing our fan­nies off. we'll keep practicing to get better," freshman Grace 
Gordon said. "We're not as worried about this team as we were against a team like Hope, but we'll still come prepared to play." 
The Belles are looking for­ward to the match to sharpen their skills and face some new competition, but at the same time, they are happy to have a break from the demands of conference play. 
"Hopefully we'll continue the streak. These are nice match­es because they don't count for conference," Palombo said. "There is a lot less stress, a lot less pressure, in these match­es. But whenever you play, it's still always good to win." 
And the Belles are excited about playing without the pressure. 
"There is definitely a lot less pressure," Gordon said. "I mean, we have fun all the time, of course, but we defi­nitely find it easier to enjoy ourselves during these match­es. We're a lot less nervous, and we don't get worried about getting down in the match. 
"Matches like the ones we have this weekend help us to improve. We can work on strategies, and maybe experi­ment. or do something differ­ent on the court to improve our game on the whole." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy1@nd.edu 
a walk to load the bases once more. Schoonaert followed with a single that plated two more runs to give the Irish a 4-0 lead. Steffany Stenglein struck out and Gessica Hufnagle grounded out to shortstop to end the top of the first. 
"That's the way we need to play every game," Gumpf said. "We came ready to play in the second game and that's what we're capable of every time. We were flat and not ready to play in that first game." 
Western Michigan's Kristi Strange collected an RBI double in the fourth to cut the lead to three runs. Hartmann connected on a solo home run in the sixth inning to finish the scoring for the Irish. 
Stenglein collected the com­plete-game victory, allowing four hits while striking out six. 
Notre D arne will face Connecticut (13-12, 1-1 in the Big East) today in a doublehead­


CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer 

Megan Ciolli slides in a game last year against St. John's. 
er starting at 4 p.m., and takes on Boston College (19-12, 1-1) Sunday in a two-game series beginning at 11 a.m. 
"The bottom line about [Thursday] is that I'm glad we've got some momentum going into [today's] game [against Connecticut]." Gumpf said. "Now we just need to start thinking about UConn. That's all that real­ly matters now, is trying to beat UConn." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
9Mo.SludentSOecial 
1Bedmom 
All Utilities Including Electric Paid. 
"ifll"H ............... "tt 

'..• • . ............•... ·. ····· ...•
········s···.····a····· ·N·.····. 
. . . 

. . . . . . 
.. ·-.. -. : ·.: . >·........ · ·· ...... · ..: .: 
APARTMENTS 
3001 E. Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, IN 574-232-3333 

Stop in today or visit us on the web at www. parkjefferson.com www.castle-point.com 
18011 Cleveland Rd South Bend, IN 574-272-8100 
Holy Gross College.couldrnakeYo!Jr wish·come true. ... l{y.ponave.a•·relafiv~ dftrierid tqhh Would-like .· ... to bEfcloserto yt)u·ne~tYear;teli th~th about Holy cross c()ii~ge~·we're rid6rnextdbort6Notre 
Oa~e.Th~Y could complete our Associate ()f Arts curriculum, 
transfer;orporsue our Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies degree. 
. r Give usa call ar239~8400 ore-mail adrrlissions@hcc-nd.edu; Freshmen and . t~~h$t6r.gpplic~nts are currently being accepted for Spring and Fall admission. 
.,

HOLY CROSS .,"' 
COLLEGE~ at Neittebatne, Indiana ~ 


P.O. Box 308 • Notre D~urie, Indiana 46556~0308 574-239·8400 • FAX 574-239-8323 • www.hcc·nd.edu 
.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------­
No. 20 Irish send tl¥o teatns to San Diego 
Friday, April 2, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
No overlooking unranked Dartmouth 
save percentage in 2003. After falling to Rutgers earlier this 
By DAN TAPETILLO six games, Crosland has season to remain 5-1. 
Spom Wri1er already recorded 77 saves. His They are Jed by attack Jamie career total is Coffin, who has Downtime is not an option. 273, and he is recorded 15 When it comes down to the currently seventh "We aren't lacking goals and six fourth quarter in their on the Irish confidence, we assists for the Dartmouth game this weekend, career saves list. year. Midfield
just need to 
don't expect the No. 13 Irish (2-Midfield Brian Ben Grinnell has 
4) to bow to pressure. Rather, Giordano was also compete for 6o also been an the team plans to thrive on the recently named minutes and not integral part of game's challenges. the GWLL Player the team's suc­
just two or
"We relaxed a little lin a loss of the Week after cess, contributing
three quarters .. " 18
to Ohio Statel and you can't do his performance points. that in lacrosse," attack Pat against No. 13 Andrew Walsh said. "We stopped exe­Hofstra when he Goldstein has a
Pat Walsh 
cuting and before you knew it, scored five goals 6.9 GAA and
attack
they were up. We need to get in the 19-11 Irish leads the team in out hard and stay like that." win. ground balls with 
Walsh identified the fourth Despite a 2-4 record, Notre 21. quarter as the team's Achilles Dame is fifth in Division I in Although unranked, the team heel. The Buckeyes took advan­converting extra-man opportu­is receiving votes in the USILA tage of this weak-nities at .480. national rankings and has been ness, rallying in The Irish also outscoring their opponents by
"After the Ohio
the fourth to rank third in the more than five goals per game. overcome a 7-4 State game, we just nation in scoring, Furthermore, Dartmouth is also deficit to win 9-8. averaging 13.40 returning seven starters from
need to play hard. 
The Irish are goals per game. last year's team. 
This is an
led by Dan Berger Dartmouth is This is the first time the two and Matt I lowell, important game the first teams have faced each other who both had two unranked oppo­since 1997, when the Irish
for us." 
goals against nent Notre Dame defeated the Big Green 14-13 in Ohio State. will face this sea­Hanover, N.H. 
Walsh also Pat Walsh son. However, Although Dartmouth is hav­spearheads the attack Dartmouth will ing a successful season, the Irish efforts, reg­not be an easy Irish are confident that they are istering one goal foe to contend secure in their abilities. and two assists in Wednesday's with. "We aren't lacking confi­game. lie is currently the lead­"After the Ohio State loss, we dence, we just need to compete ing scorer in the Great Western just need to play hard," Walsh for 60 minutes and not just two 
Lacrosse League and fourth in said. "This is an important or three quarters," Walsh said. the nation. game for us." Stewart Crosland was the Dartmouth is currently on a Contact Dan Tapetillo at conference leader in GM and five-game winning streak after jtapetil@nd.edu 

Marketing? Communications? Public Relations? 
If these things interest you, APPLY TODAY for SUB Director of Publicity! 
Applications DUE on MONDAY, APRIL 5th Apps available at www.nd.eduf---sub 
Turn Applications in by 4:30pm in Student Government (LaFortune 203) 
The Student Union Board (SUB) is looking for ambitious, qualified and creative students to apply for the Director of Publicity position. You will: 
• 
Oversee all publicity for all of SUB's movies, concerts, speakers, comedians, etc. etc. etc. 

• 
Coordinate a team of qualified graphic designers and marketing assistants to use creative advertising on campus 


• Devise a plan to "brand" the name SUB 
• Write SUB's press releases 
• Manage the public relations of SUB's BIG NAlVIE events 
QUESTIONS? EMAIL JIMMY FLAHERTY, BOARD MANAGER Jflahert@nd.edu 
page 23 

ROWING 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG Senior S1affWri1er 
The newly ranked Irish will make their third appearance at the 31st annual San Diego Crew Classic this weekend. Notre Dame's impressive racing last weekend boosted the Irish into No. 20 spot in the season's first USRowing/Collegiate Rowing Coaches Association poll. 
Though Notre Dame was unranked in the preseason poll, with excellent racing, highlight­ed by a varsity four boat victory and a varsity eight crew second­place finish to No. 2 Michigan in Ann Arbor last weekend, they have earned national recogni­tion. 
Currently, Ohio State leads the poll with 383 points and 10 first-place points. 
At the Michigan regatta, the Irish also raced No. 8 Michigan State, Clemson and Eastern Michigan. In the first varsity four race, Notre Dame's crew of coxswain Kathy Long, Katie O'Hara, Danielle Stealy, Pam Jefson and Kristen Mizzi built off a strong lead to win their race three seconds ahead of the Spartans. The Wolverines fell to third in 7:19.9, while the Tigers followed in 7:36.1 and Eastern Michigan took last in 8:02.0. 
"The boat had an amazing 
start which lead to a significant lead during the first quarter of the race," Mizzi said. "After that, we were incredibly aggres­sive on every stroke and were able to maintain our lead against four very tough crews." 
The Irish varsity eight boat also boasted an notable second­place finish behind the Wolverines. Though Notre Dame's coxswain Maureen Gibbons, Natalie Ladine, Alice· Bartek, Meghan Boyle. Hache! Polinski, Melissa Felker, Katie Chenoweth, Danielle Protasewich and Jacqueline I lazen maintained a lead 1,000 meters in to the race, Michigan edged them out, crossing the finish line five seconds ahead of the Irish. Clemson took third in 
6:34.3 and Eastern Michigan finished in 6:40.2. 
The Irish will send two boats to compete in the San Diego Classic. The first varsity eight boat will row in the celebrated Jessop-Whittier Cup. The crew will compete against top-ranked teams such as Stanford, Southern California, Washington State, Tennessee, Washington, California and Texas. 
The second varsity eight crew will race in the junior varsity eight. 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carrnstro@nd.edu 
Friday, April 2, 2004 

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS 
SMC SOFTBALLWOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Undefeated Irish take on Huskies 
Belles to face tough 
record 7-0 start. Notre Dame 

MIAA rival Albion
_ By MATT PUGLISI would go on to build a 13­Sports Wri rer goal advantage at 17-4 before allowing to a trio of 
On the season, she is first with The No. 3 Irish (7 -0, 2-0 ·Golden Eagles tallies at By JUSTIN STETZ 
an average of .455 and has an Big East) look to extend their game's end. Sports Writer 
on-base percentage of .538. school-record 11-game win­"We knew if we came out, 
Out of the eight teams in the ning streak when Notre stuck to our game plan, and 
Despite a 5-6 record, Adrian conference, the Belles are in Dame journeys to Storrs, executed fundamentals," will present Saint Mary's with fifth-place in the league. 
Conn., to lock horns with Coyne said, "[the game] could 
some challenges this weekend. As coach Anna Welsh said Connecticut in a end up [being 
Last year, Adrian stole two after the doubleheader against Big East battle a rout]." 
conference games away from Alma, the offense is a crucial Saturday at noon. Foote posted 
the Belles, beating Saint Mary's element for the success of the The Huskies (2-four goals, 
were 9-2 and 4-3. In those team on Saturday and for the 5, 0-1 Big East) Fischer had a 
"Our goal was to 

games, Saint Mary's Bridget rest season. The pitchers have
be 2-o in the Big 

represent the final tally and a 
Grall had four hits. given up a combined nine runs 
team in a three­East, and I was career-high 
So far, the Bulldogs have a over the last five games. 
game stretch three assists 
conference record of 0-1 after The defense's ability to limit against Big East and Simon
happy about the 

being upended by Alma. the amount of runs being scored 
way we went about

opponents for the continued her 
However, as their second game has given the team a chance to Irish before they accomplishing season-long 
was coming to a close with a win every night they play. But as return to confer­that goal." dominance 
score of 4-4, the contest was the pitching begins to come ence play April 17 with her own 
cancelled due to darkness. along, more runs needs to be in a showdown at four-goal 
Saturday's meeting will be scored especially as the confer­
Tracy Coyne 

No. 2 Georgetown. game and sec­
Adrian's first game since then, ence tournament slowlyIf their play over Irish coach ond in as 
and Saint Mary's needs to come approaches.the season's first many con-
I 
out ready to play if they want to After tomorrow's doublehead­seven games is tests. Junior defender Jess Mikala 
win. Currently, the Belles are er, Saint Mary's will reach the any indication, the Simon's cuts to the ball in a February 
coming off a 1-0 win making halfway point of its conference Irish shouldn't have much weekend performance earned exhibition match. 
their record 8-12 on the season play with some difficult competi­trouble taking care of the her Big East Offensive Player 
and 1-3 in the MIAA. tion looming in the near future. 
Huskies. of the Week for the second After taking on the Huskies, 
Laura Heline once again Saturday's game against
"Every conference game is time this season and middle/ the Irish head home to host 
proved why she leads the team Adrian begins at 1:00 p.m. at important, and we never take defense Andrea Kinnik took Ohio on April 6. 
in batting average in Saint Mary's. 
Lthe Huskies] lightly," coach home some hardware of her Wednesday's second game as 
Tracy Coyne said. "They own as the Big East Co­Contact Matt Puglisi at 
she and teammate Erin Sullivan Contact Justin Stetz at have some good players, but Defensive Player of the Week. mpuglisi@nd.edu 
came away with two hits apiece. jstetz@nd.eduthey're struggling a bit right now. Whenever it's a confer­ence game, it's a rivalry, and we don't worry too much about the records, just going out and executing." Notre Dame picked up the first of its two conference vic­tories March 26. with a con­vincing 18-11 win over Virginia Tech at the Loftus Sports Complex. Attack Jackie Bowers and attack/middle Meredith Simon paced the Irish offense as Bowers recorded a career­high five goals and Simon equaled a season-best with seven points (four goals, three assists). In addition, middle Abby Owen (three goals, one assist). attack 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Lauren Fischer (two goals, 
one assist). and middle/attack 
HAS SOMETHING NEW FOR THE
Crysti Foote (two goals, one assist) all chipped in by find­ing the back of the net on at 
2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR! 
least two occasions. 
While Virginia Tech man­aged to hang around for a lit­tle more than half the con­test, narrowing the Irish lead 
4 Bedroom Townhome (accommodates up to 6 people)
to 8-5 with 27:57 remaining, 
Notre Dame shut the door on 
2 Full Baths and 2 Half Baths 

any Hokie comeback hopes 
with a 5-0 second half run. 
Washer and Dryer in apartment!
"We had a two-week layoff --[going into the Virginia Tech 
Covered Carports

game] so we were a little 
rusty," Coyne said. "Virginia 
LARGE Fenced in Privacy Patio 
Tech was quick and fast, and we just didn't execute as well as we did Sunday [against Boston College]." 
Sunday afternoon brought a 
This new 2400 sq. ft. 4 Bedroom Townhorne can
new opponent, yet yielded a 
_ similar result as the Irish took advantage of three sepa­
accommodate up to 6 people and can be yout new home 
rate five-goal streaks to 
deliver a 17-7 thrashing of 
next year! 

Boston College. 
"Our goal was to be 2-0 in Big East and I was happy about the way that we went 
Be the first to live in our new and exciting floor plan! 
about accomplishing that goal," Coyne said. "We had excellent transitions and just moved the ball around very well." 
Call for details! 
Recording two of the three runs in the game's first 28 minutes, the Irish found 
Turtle Creek Apartments
themselves staked to a com­
fortable 10-3 halftime lead 
272-8124
and on their way to a school­

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish duo named Players of the Week 

Softball vs. UCONN 4:00pm and 6:00pm S *FREE Notre Dame Softball/Baseball chedule T-Shirts for first 250 fans and  • Baseball vs. Villanova 12:05 pm •  
• BIG EAST Home Opener•  a between games tailgate party  • Men's Lacrosse vs. Dartmouth 1 :00 pm •  
*FREE ND Softba1l/Baseba1l  sponsored by: Famous Dave's  "Chill out with NO Men's Lacrosse"  
Schedule T-Shirts for first 250 fans Tand a between games tailgate  rack •GOLD GAME • 10:00am SPRING OPENER!!  *FREE chili for first 200 fans, sponsored by: Between the Buns *FREE kelly green chapstick koozies for first 150 fan,  
sponsored by Famous Dave's  •Moose Krause Stadium •  sponsored by: Play-It-Again Sports  

Baseball vs. Villanova 12:05pm 

.. 
Friday, April 2, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
"We can't stay as strict as make Notre Dame (what it ... we are as far as the academic is) ... academically and athlet­
Reaction 

structure is concerned ically," 
continued from page 28 because we've got to get the lloyte said. "I came to Notre black athlete," he said. D a m e "We must get the black because I 
backer Mike Goolsby said. athlete if we want to know it's
"/ came to Notre 
"It's not even a big discussion compete." a b o u t around here." Hoyte and receiver Dame because it's being the "Hegardless of who said the Carlyle Holiday each best-in
about being the 
comment, said they terms of
best -in terms of
you have to were not academ­look at it personally academics, ics, ath­
"/ don 't really think 
and say, is offended letics and
athletics and as a
anything ofit. It's not 
it true or by the as a per­
person.

false?" even a big discussion c o m -son." linebacker ments. Goolsby
around here." 
Brandon Hoyte also Brandon Hoyte agreed. Hoyte said. said he "I have
Irish linebacker 
"In my Mike Goolsby believes friends mind, it is Irish linebacker Hornung's that play false." perception of [football] at other schools," he Hornung the athlete said. "Nothing against those told WXYT-AM radio in admissions process is skewed schools, but I'm proud I go Detroit Tuesday night that and that the University should here because we do every­Notre Dame must "ease it up not lower its standards or thing right." a bit" in its admission of ath­"ease it up a bit," as suggest­letes, especially African­ed. Contact Pat Leonard at Americans. "High standards are what pleonard@nd.edu 
Smith Barney invites you to their 
Notre Dame Financial Symposium 
Defense
Planning for the years ahead. Revised tax laws, market uncertainty, a changing econoMy. Where 
continued from page 28 
does your financial plan stand? Join us at our Notre Dame Financial seminar to hear from 15 professionals on financial topics that could 
line. Linebackers Hoyte and
be important to you and your family. You can attend up to 4 
Derek Curry return, as well,
breakout sessions before the keynote speaker begins at 11:30 a.m. 
and Quentin Burrell -who 
Keynote Speaker 
may not practice this spring 
either -return to start in the
Dr. Kevin Elko 
secondary.
Corporate and NFL• Performance Consultant & Author of "Nerves of Steelw 
Senior .linebacker Mike Goolsby sat out last season 
DATE: Saturday, April17, 2004 
TIME: 8:00a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
due to injury and will return
LOCATION: University of Notre Dame 
to the Irish lineup. This makes
McKenna Hall (across from the Morris Inn) 
the linebacker core the veter­
Parking at Hesburgh Center visitors Jot 
ans of this defensive unit. 
on ND Avenue across from cemetery 
"As linebackers we have a lot of experience coming back 
RSVP: (574) 631-6691 
Reserve your space. Cost $20 per person. Refreshments and light lunch included. 
so we expect a lot of our­
We welco1;11e your friends and colleagues. Seating is limited. 
selves," Goolsby said. 
The question mark this
Your Breakout Session Speakers (each speaks twice): 
8:30 a.m.-9:05a.m. & 10:00 a.m.-10:35 a.m. 
Ralph Allen, Regional Vice President, Pioneer Investments: Stock Market Investing/Current Market Overview 
Robert Malvenda, Director Smith Barney Municipal Retail Sales: 
Bond Investing Strategies/Current Market Overview 
Joseph Russo, Director of Financial Aid University of Notre Dame: Funding College Education/Strategies and Tools for You 
Tracey A. Anderson, JD, LLM, CPA South Bend IN: Tax Planning/IRS Code Changes You Should Know 
Jeff Ochs, Insurance Consultant, 
Insurance Designers: Understanding Life Insurance for Estate/Tax Purposes 
9:15 a.m.-9:50a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 a.m. 
Bob Hartig, Regional Vice President American Funds Distributors: Why Is International Investing Important to You 
Bill Taratsas, Regional Vice President lNG Golden Select Annuities: Protecting Your Investments with Variable Annuities 
real excited to play."
THIS IS WHO WE ARE. THIS IS HOW WE EARN IT.· 
Players like sophomores 
Isaiah Gardner, Freddie
SMITHR\RNEY 
Parrish and Tom Zbikowski
c1tlgrouPt 
are working to prove them­
Mutuil funds ,and vanable annu1ty investments are subject to market risk, including possible loss of principle. variable 
•nnuittes .ue long-term anvestmenh intended for retirement planning. Taxes may be due upon withdrawals from the 
selves and obtain spots in the
contract Wrthdrawals may be sul)loct to a 10% federal penalty tox if made before age 59~ and are subject to quali· fled ret1rem.nt plan prov_isions. Cop.es of ~he prospectus. \Nhich contains more complete i~form~tion including fee_s 
defensive rotation. 
•nd expem~ will be ava1lable at the semmar Please read the prospectus carefully before 1nvest1ng. There are addi­tional nsks asse<iated with international investing. International investing may not be for everyone. Smith Barney 
"We've got athletes on this 
does not provide legal or tax adv1ce. Please consult your attorney and/or tax advisor for such guidance. 
team," Jackson said. "The
C2004 C~igroup Global Markets In<. Member SIPC. Smith Barney is a division and service mark of Citigroup Global Markets Inc and rts affrhates and is used and regiStered throughout the world. OTIGROUP and the Umbrella Device 
young guys are smart and are tr.adem.illrks .illnd service m.illrlu of Citkorp or its affiliates and are used and registered throughout the world. THIS IS WHO WE ARE. THIS IS HOW WE EARN rr is a service mark of Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Genova, Citigroup Global 
they play hard. Our confi-
Markets In< and C~rgroup Private Trust are oil affiliated companies under the common control of C~igroup In<. 
;NIrish Athletics 
Friday, April 2 
spring rests in the Irish sec­
Mark Howard, Regional loan Specialist, CitiMortgage: Strategies for Debt 
ondary. With four starters 
Management/Borrowing Money 
graduating over the last two 
lyndon Keyes, Director Interactive 
seasons, many young players
Marketing, Smith Barney NY: Financial Record Keeping Via Computer 
have the opportunity to make 
Bill Ventura, Regional Advisor, lincoln 
an impact. 
Financial: Strategies for Paying Long Term 
"As a staff, we have a lot of 
Health Care Costs 
confidence in the secondary,"
8:30 a.m.-9:05 a.m. & 9:15 a.m.-9:50 a.m. 
defensive coordinator Kent 
Bob Walsh, Public Affairs Specialist 
Baer said. "We need to really
Social Security Administration: Everything You Wanted to Know about Social Security 
count on the veterans.'' 
Baer pointed to Burrell,
10:00 am.-10:35 a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11 :20 a.m. 
Jim Casey, Regional Trust Specialist, 
Preston Jackson, Lionel Bolen 
Citigroup Private Trust: Wills, Estates and 
and Dwight Ellick as the expe­
Trust Planning Strategies 
rienced players who must 
8:30 a.m.9:05 a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 am. 
show the new players the
Jason Heine, Regional Vice President, Nationwide Financial: 401(k) Issues for Plan 
ropes. 
Sponsors-How ERISA Affects You 
''I'm really excited about the 
9:15 a.m.-10:35 a.m. (one presentation only) 
young secondary," Goolsby 
larry Sherman, Regional Director, The 
said. "There's some great ath­
Geneva Company: Selling Your Business: 
letes back there, and they're
Wh ...When ... and How 


Irish cornerback Dwight Elllck jogs during practice. The Irish secondary must replace two starters this fall. 
dence level will be high." 
Any defensive player could take responsibility for disap­pointments of a losing 2003 season. Still, Hoyte and other players understand that the formula for success lies in attitude as a defensive unit. Spring practice provides the perfect opportunity for the Irish defense to regain its identity. 
"Hunger is not something you can teach," Hoyte said. 
Notre Dame surrendered 213 yards per game passing last season, less than 10 yards more than the 204.8 yards per game the team surren­dered in 2002. The Irish gave up 127.2 yards per game on 

the ground. much more than the 95.5 yards opponents gained running the ball the previous season. 
The difference, though, lay in points. The team surren­dered 16.7 points per game two seasons ago, but oppo­nents racked up an average of 
26.2 points in 2003. 
"I think it's been going on all winter," Goolsby said. "People realize what we did wrong, what we needed to correct out there, and this is kind of the embodiment of it when we put it together on , the field." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Special to The Observer 
Two week-long dominating performances by Notre Dame softball team (23-9) earned men­tion from the Big East Conference Monday, as sopho­more first base Meagan Huthrauffwas named the confer­ence Player of the Week and jun­ior pitcher Steffany Stenglein the Pitcher of the Week. The Player of the Week award is the second for HuthraulT this season, while Stenglein earns her first acco­lade of the 2004 season. 
Huthrauff and Stenglein were two of the main reasons the Irish finished last week with a perfect 4-0 record and outscored their opponents 19-4. Ruthrauff was close to unstoppable at the plate, going seven for 12 (.583) with three home runs and 10 HBI in four games. She contributed the game-winning hits in three of the four victories and slammed two three-run home runs last week. She was previously named the Big East Player of the Week on March 1 this season. 
Stenglein's week was highlight­ed by her second career perfect game at Valparaiso on Tuesday, March 23. In a six-inning 9-0 vic­tory over the Crusaders, she struck out a career-high 14 bat­ters. 

----·---·------·--·····································-~·-·················································" 
page 26 Friday, April 2, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
comes towards ranking teams." 
The commissioners also have the daunting task of sifting through hundreds of humorous names and picking a "Top 10." Among this year's selections were "We hit it from deep and we're good in the box," "The homeless center and four guys who give him booze," "Less defense than a prom dress" and "Phil Mickelson's man boobs." 
One of this weekend's match­ups features ""Solitary, Poor, Nasty, Brutish and Short" against "Cheese and Crackers." 
"That's from Thomas Hobbes' 'Leviathan,"' said team captain Derek Webb, a graduate student 
-with the political science depart­ment. "Hobbes says that 'in the state of nature, life is solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short,' so we thought that would be a good name for us." "He's a good resource for bookstore team names," Webb added, noting that his team from Tournament XXXI, Leviathan, went to the third round. He enters the tournament with faculty member Andy Gould and three fellow graduate students, who played together last year. However, not all teams enter with that level of experience or intellectual thought behind their names. Five Fisher freshmen put together "Campus Diversity: a Jew, a Mormon, a Mexican and two guys from Philly." 
Win 
continued from page 28 
injury -both went 2-for-4 in the game. 
"I thought they all played very well," Mainieri said. "It's not easy to not play for so long and then go in there and expect your instincts and reac­tions to be there, but those kids did. They went out there, and they played a good ball­game all-around." 
Several Irish pitchers also got a chance to show their stuff on the mound against the Chargers as Chris Vasami, Joe Thaman, Ryan Doherty, Matt Whittington, Rico Bertucci and Scott Bickford each got in at least on~ inning of action. The freshman Vasami was the pitcher of record for Notre Dame, 
"We formed [the team] about a week before spring break," captain Stephen Friend said. "We talked, went around to each other and asked for suggestions, I came up for the idea for the team name because all of us are different-we all thought it was kind of funny." 
The team has only practiced once prior to their first-round matchup scheduled for this ~eekend. Other highlights of the name chart: 
+We Came, We Saw, We Lost 
+5 Hot Girls Who Will Probably Lose In the First Round But Are Hoping To Get Lucky 
+Bring On the Blonde Jokes Dolly Parton, Boat Club, and Three Other Big Busts +My Moose Brings All the Girls to the Yard 
+The Well Hung Jury 
+Marvin Gaye? Fine By Me 
+The NCAA Overlooked Us Too 
+Will Ferrell Would Have Been a Better Commencement Speaker 
+Like Mike Ditka on Levitra, We're Hard to Beat +This $20 Could Have Bought a Lot of Beer +4 Years and Lots of Beers Ago We'd Have Had a Chance 
+Rock Chalk duLac 
+Proud of Our PE-ness 
+Malpractice Waiting to Happen +The Queens of Benzene 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
"They went out there, 

getting his night. first colle­and they played a good The matchup 
giate win in ballgame all-around., with the 
allowing Wildcats will two runs prove to be the 
Paul Malnlerl 

(neither first home con­earned) on Irish coach test in league 
The Wildcats have gotten off to an unusually hot start this season, as they swept a three­game series from Georgetown last weekend. Villanova's solid play and tough pitching has Mainieri more than concerned. 
"We've got a big weekend. This weekend starts the big push for us," he said. "Villanova is undefeated in conference. They have out­standing pitching. If you look at their-pitching stats, its almost scary." 
The Wildcats currently lead the Big East in pitching with a 
3.55 team ERA and .246 oppo­nents' batting average. The Irish fall in right behind the Wildcats in second with a team ERA of 3.55 and oppo­nents batting average of .246. 
The Wildcats displayed some 
of that tough pitching in an unusual 0-0, 11­inning tie with LaSalle Tuesday 

four hits in t h r e e innings. 
The Irish struck first blood in the game, getting two runs in the secood inning on a mon­ster shot over the right field fence from left fielder Steve Andres. Freshman Mike Dury and Cooper also both had home runs in the game. Cooper's dinger was his sec­ond in as many days. 
The Irish scored in six of the eight innings they batted and, for the most part, were never really threatened in the eight­run victory. 
Notre Dame now must turn its attention to Big East play and Villanova, as the Irish host the Wildcats (17 -5-1, 3-0) in a three-game series this weekend. 
play for the 
Irish, and Mainieri is hoping to use the home-field advantage .to remain undefeated in the Big East. 
"[Villanova is] 17-5 and 3-0 in the conference, so as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't get any bigger for us than this, this far in the season," Mainieri said. ''I'm hoping we're going to have a really great crowd, some great weather and go out there and play three really great ball games this weekend." 
Play begins at Frank Eck Stadium with a doubleheader at noon Saturday, followed by a single game at noon Sunday. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

Join the Conversation! 
soth Anniversary of Brown V. Board of Education 
Monday, April 5th 7:00 -9:00 pill 
ETS Theater in McKenna Hall (CCE Basement) Screening of The Road to Brown followed by a panel discussion, "The Legacy of Brown" 
and 

Tuesday, April 6th 7:00 -,8:30 pill 
Coleman-Morse Lounge (1st Floor) For a panel discussion led by Notre Dame Students: "Desegregation and the South Bend Schools" 

Friday, April 2, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT 
WHATS ITS MY SON.
THAT HE COULDNTTHING? 
GO TO SCHOOL TODAY. 

fiVES 
So swe.en(!, whe.n:. do yov Wt\nt to eAt tlW!ijh1? ( ~t'\S~ 3ive. ...., e c.. 
l~ifi»~~t(. G\VISWCfJ 

) 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 


Yeo.h, t\.1~+ 'St1vt1d.5 w~tch 
fi"'e ... (Afte.( he~ f't\id t'or dimter; Wefe betA~·,.,~ up.) 
) \ 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 35 Thingies 61 College stu­
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dana Carvey, Emmylou Harris, dent's filing Marvin Gaye, Sir Alec Guinness 
1 Item on an auto 37 Korea Bay feed­
shop checklist er 64 Garry Trudeau's Happy Birthday: You've got the brains and the background to push your way"Check Your to the top. The year ahead will be one of hard but satisfying work. It's time for
11 Court grp. 
38 Bandar 

_at the Door'' you to put all the pieces of the puzzle together and work toward the end goal 15 Buoyancy Begawan.capi-that you've been striving for. If you pay your dues this year, the rewards will be
tal of Brunei 65 Fresh start 

greater than anticipated next year. Your numbers: 5, II, 17, 20, 38, 41
16 Nair rival 
66 Den
39 Determined

17 Tenderfoot ARIES (March 21-April19): You can expect others to look to you for answers. 67 Healthy dose of Be careful that you don't jeopardize your own emotional well-being in order to
~ 42 Gardening job
18 Taunt 
reality benefit someone else. Be sure to get your partner's approval. *"* 46 Special connec-TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Things at work have been moving quickly and
19 "Lord, is_?" 
tions you may be feeling a lillie uncertain about changes taking place. Make alternate 20 Forgo DOWN plans just in case you need to make a career move. *** · 47 Bill Haley and GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Get physical. Idle time will result in outbursts of
21 Soft drink brand 
His Comets 1 Hairstylist, temper and disagreements with others for the sake of debate. You need to 23 Lowdown recorded for it maybe express yourself creatively, so work on redecorating your space. *"" CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll get your feelings hurt at work. Don't take 
2 Despicable sort

25 Slip on 49 Big picture the foolishness of someone else to heart. Go about your business and your 27 1957 Oscar win-3 1897 Felix professionalism will shine through. *** 
50 Thrash 

ner Miyoshi Hoffmann dis­LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your generosity and openness toward others will lead to financial setbacks or difficulties with children. Someone close to your heart 
52 Drill sound covery

28 "Felix Holt" nov-may try to curtail your freedom. ** elist 53 Minute opening 4 White wine VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): One-sided infatuations are probable. Avoid getting aperitif involved with partners who are still seeing or living with someone else.30 Time set, 54 Many a trailer Deception at social functions will cause confusion. ** 
maybe, after a 5 K, for one: Abbr. 
LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Communications will be your strong point. You can
56 Magicianlike

7-Down convince others to join your cause. Travel, educational courses, entertainment
6 Over, overseas 

and socializing should be intermingled for best results. **** 
32 Negative princi-59 Program begun 
7 Informal invita­SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take care of any small but annoying business or
pie under F.D.R. 
tion paperwork today. You should take time to drop in on someone you respect but 33 Library exten-60 Solid ground, in 34 African lily 43 Rule without 55 Year that don't get to spend too much time with. *** 
8 Accord 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your partner is going to want to confront 
sion Stuttgart exceptions Clement XI 
those issues that you've been so conveniently sidestepping. Be prepared to be
9 Transportation 36 Make more became pope 

cornered and have your answers well-rehearsed. *** 
regulator of old: exciting, in 44 Tell

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Concentrate on professional goals. You may
Abbr. slang 57 Lowlands 

have to manipulate situations if you want things to go your way. Be careful;
45 Harvest

10 Bad marks someone may be onto your tactics. *** 
39 Bart Starr wore helper 58 Emmy winner 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Romantic relationships will form throughit at Green Bay John clubs or social events. Your emotions may interfere with your perception if feeding problem 48 Club you've been carrying them around from past unpleasant unions. *" 40 On a big scale 62 "Don't Bring PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put your efforts into your accomplishments and 
12 With 24-Down, 

51 Explanatory Me Down" not your failures. You need to keep your personal matters under control. 
agrees 

41 Tic·tac-toe words grp. Problems with your emotional partner will upset your career goals. *** 13 Diagnostic tool 
Birthday Baby: You'll dazzle your loved ones with your ingenuity and the For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a speed at which you operate. There is nothing that can stop you from pursuingcredit card, 1-800-814-5554. your objectives and that makes you a real concern. You'll run your parents
22 Dreary 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday ragged but they will be proud of your accomplishments. 24 See 12-Down crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com
26 Personal, e.g. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
29 Rot 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum . 31 Fishing spot 


TRAYLOR, GO SHAKE HANDS WITH THE POINTY-HAIRED 
MAN. 
I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
WHAT DOES 
I DONT
HE 
THINK IT
HAVE? 
HAS A NAME
\ 
YET. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _____ Zip__________ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an ihdispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CATUE 
1 
±
rJ 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc, All Rlghla Reaerved. 
HYBUS 
NYFLOD 
rxJ

www Jumble.com
tDEGURT t . 
_IJ I _] I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
rum: A 

( I I I J"( I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

FANCY LLAMA FIRING LAWFUL
Yesterday's I Jumbles: Answer: When she spotted a mouse in the cupboard, it was-"GNAW-FULL" 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, April 2, 2004 
page 28 
fOOTBALL 

Staying the course 
Experienced veterans will help young defensive secondary 
By PAT LEONARD 
Associate SportS Editor 
When the 2003 season began, the Irish defense on the field looked familiar. 
Cornerback Shane Walton, strong safety Gerome Sapp and defensive end Ryan Roberts were lost to graduation, but the majority of a dominant defense remained in tact. 
Still, a difference existed between the defense on the 10-3, 2002 Gator Bowl team and a 5-7 team in 2003. 
"Two years ago ... we would fly to the foot­ball to make plays," junior linebacker Brandon Hoyte said. "That kind of flying to the ball has everything to do with attitude. And that weaves -the attitude and hustle ­through the entire defense." 
According to lloyte, the defense lacked such an attitude last season. 
"At the end of last season, I couldn't look at myself in the mirror and say I played to my potential," he said. 

-With six starters returning from last year's defensive unit and a young and athletic sec­ondary, the Irish are looking to return to the form of 2002. Returning defensive ends Kyle Budinsack and Justin Tuck are not practicing this spring as they recover from surgery, though fifth­year senior Greg Pauly also returns to the 
see DEFENSE/page 25 


Heisman winner Hornung's comments not a distraction 
By PAT LEONARD 
Associate Sports Editor 
After day three of spring practice, the Irish were already answering questions about mat­ters off the field. 
Although Paul Hornung apologized Wednesday night for comments he made about Notre Dame's admission of athletes ­particularly African-Americans -the initial statements made by the 1956 Hall of Farner have sparked questions and curiosity sur­rounding the football program. 
Coach Tyrone Willingham maintained near­complete silence on the matter, prefacing any questions with a statement of his own. 
"I am in complete agreement with what has already been said by the University," Willigham said. 
Willingham discouraged any further ques­tions on the matter and deflected a question concerning admissions later in the informal press conference. 
University spokesman Matt Sturin made a rare appearance at the press conference and 
.!
stood to the· side of Willingham during the interview. 
Players had more to say on the matter, though no players -black or white ­seemed affected by Hornung's comments. 
"I don't really think anything of it," line-
see REACTION/page 25 
BASEBALL 
Irish dominate Hillsdale 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Senior Staff Writer 
Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri cleared his bench Thursday night, and the Irish reserves responded with a 10-2 victory over Hillsdale College. 
"This is what's great about today," Mainieri said. "We got a chance to play several guys that don't play on a regular basis, and to see them go out there and do well is really what made me feel good. These kids are the unsung heroes on our team." 
No. 5 Notre Dame (19-3) added the game with Hillsdale (8-15) earlier in the week to serve as a makeup for a canceled contest with Illinois March 14. 
Outfielder Craig Cooper had the biggest day at the plate for the Irish, going 4-for-6 and falling just a double short of hitting for the cycle. The 

CHRIS FEDERICOfThe Observer 
Sophomore leftfielder Steve Andres hits a two-run home run against Hillsdale Thursday. 
sophomore had three RBis Brent Weiss -who missed and two runs scored on the all of 2003 with a shoulder night. Center fielder Alex Nettey and designated hitter see WIN/page 26 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIII 
Tournament set to begin this weekend 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 
We May Suck At Life, But At Least We Can Play Basketball. 
We Can't Ball, But More Than Half Of Us Are Going To Med School. 
Our First Name Got Rejected (It Was Funny). 
These teams and the other would-be-bailers on the campus­es of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will dust off their Bookstore shoes this weekend for the opening rounds of Bookstore Basketball XXXIII, which begins tonight. 
"There are about 600 teams in this year's tournament," said Colin Harding, head commis­sioner. "It's pretty high, the high­est number I remember in the last few years." 
Preliminary rounds begin this evening and continue through the weekend. 
"We have so many teams that we sort of have a preliminary to the first round," said Harding. "It's all random for all but the 32 ranked teams." 
Rankings -for Bookstore Basketball? 
"The teams that do well in previous years tend to stick together," Harding said. "They come back and we usually rank them -chances are they're pretty good ... [but] there's no exact science to it" 
The team of commissioners also helps decide the lucky 32 who receive a first-round bye. 
"They're typically guys and girls who spend a lot of time playing basketball at Rolf's," Harding said. "They know who's pretty good and who's playing together come Bookstore time ... they're pretty vital when it 
see BOOKSTORE/page 26 
en 
WOMEN'S LAX 
SMC SOFTBALL 
MEN'S LAX 

ROWING MEN'S TENNIS 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
1-u I.LI 
Notre Dame at Saint Mary's vs. 
Notre Dame vs. 

San Diego Crew 
Notre Dame at z Connecticut 
Adrian Dartmouth Classic Virginia Tech 

Senior Rebecca Rogers cracks into the lineup as
a: s 
Saturday, 12 p.m. 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Sunday, 1 p.m. 

The No. 20 Irish send the Irish travel to the
Sunday, 12 p.m. 
The Irish take on the In a key MIAA game, 
The Irish can't over-

two boats to compete in 
Indiana Invitational this Huskies in a Big East 
The Irish will look to
-C): 
the Belles face a tough 
look the unranked Big 

races this weekend. 
weekend.

end the Hokies' win­
matchup. 
opponent. 
Green. 
ning streak. 
D..t;:
en page 24page 24 
page 23 
page 23 page 21 page 21 



