
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Last-minute factors could decide close race 

By MICHAEL BUSK 
News Writer 
Despite the bold predictions of some political prognosticators, today's presidential election is simply too close to call, according to some of Notre Dame's special­ists in American politics. 
"I think no one knows what's going on, and all the people try­ing to predict what's going to happen are grasping at straws ... There arP too many close states in the election. It's just to dose to call," said political science pro­fessor Benjamin Radeliff. 
Bethany Albertson, a doctoral candidate and visiting scholar 
Notre Dame professors say voter turnout in swing states could be key 
from the University of Chicago, said at least one of the normal rules does not apply this year. 
"In general, -the best predictor for re-election is the state of the economy ... But foreign policy changes the decision calculus for so many voters this year," she said. "I don't think the economy is the right predictor for this year's election." 
With such a dose and unpre­dictable race, last-minute factors may come into play, Notre Dame experts said. 
In past presidential elections, some registered voters on the West Coast have stayed away from the polls if they saw one candidate winning heavily on the 

fACULTY SENATE 
JaCobs proposes 2 new initiatives 
Associate provost 
talks about TCEs, 
tenure process 
By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 
Major revisions to the facul­ty tenure process and publica­tion of modified course evalua­tions could be on the horizon, according to a presentation by associate provost Dennis Jacobs at Monday's Faculty Senate meeting. 
Jacobs addressed the entire 
see JACOBS/page 4 



Nusair gives presentation on Iraq 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
Saint Mary's Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership Fellow Isis Nusair made a presentation Monday afternoon titled "The Iraq War and A.bu-Gheib," discussing the gendered and racialized nature of the U.S. invasions in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
According to Nusair, there is a long history of religious and military tension between the Muslim world and the Western world. 
"It's like a strand of history 1,000 years old, and it is inter­esting when it comes out and why," Nusair said. "I think if is important to understand the political dynamics of what is happening now to go back in history . . . and understand that the Middle East has been domi­nated for a very long time by various powers." 
Since the attacks of Sept. 11, Nusair argued, the age-old rivalry between Islam and Christianity has re-surfaced. According to Nusair, the anti­Muslim sentiment deeply root­ed in Western culture can be seen in everything -from everyday vocabulary to the mistreatment of prisoners in Iraq. 
She gave her audience the example of President Bush ini­tially referring to the war on terrorism as a "crusade." 
"If you look back in history you will see the word 'crusade' is very significant," Nusair said. 
In fact, Nusair said, the fed­eral government continued to produce very mixed speeches about Muslims and Islam in the months following the attacks, even after the poor wording was pointed out. The clash of cultures was constantly repre­sented in the media as "us against them," "light versus dark" and "good against evil," she said. 
"They tried to be inclusive but on the other hand it pro­gressed to the worse, especially in preparation for the war in Iraq," Nusair said. 
The implicative language has been normalized in western vocabulary, she said, and has 
see TALK/page 6 

East Coast, where polls dose ear­lier due to time zone differences, according to Radcliff. He said, however, that measures had been taken to prevent that from hap­pening in this election. 
"Networks have since stopped reporting early exit poll data ... That information isn't made pub­lic," he said. "The big question is going to be who's going to vote, and the last-minute decisions that come into play are much more prominent." 
The recent brainstorm that has been drenching the Midwest might well affect such last minute decisions, Hadclilf said, especially 
see ELECTION/page 4 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Students discuss sale of basketball tickets 

By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 

The Council of Representatives discussed a variety of possible solutions to issues stemming from the recent men's basketball ticket sale at Monday's meeting. 
Student body president Adam Istvan opened debate by estab­lishing that after hundreds of students were left without bas­ketball tickets after last year's sale, he, student body vice presi­dent Karla Bell and Siegfried senator James Leito met with director of ticketing and market­ing James Fraleigh to discuss concerns with the process. 
"[The athletic department's] primary concern is the fact that only an average of 2,000 of the 3,000 students who buy tickets attend the games," Istvan said. "So they want to know why they should expand the section if stu­dents don't come as it is." 
Istvan noted, however, that the Athletic Department instituted the new policy of allowing stu­dents to use individual tickets from other booklets and their own IDs to get into games in hopes of increasing attendance. 
Leito -not a COR member, but invited to sit in on discussion because of his involvement in the matter -said that there were two major problems with the ticket distribution process. One was that the 200 tickets allotted to Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students should be going to those Notre Dame students not able to secure tickets, and 
see COR/page 4 
r--------------------------­
--~--------~----~ 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Take a cue 



fro111 co111edians 
Presidential campaigns bring with them a constant barrage of media, whether in the form of writ­ten articles, television ads, bumper stickers or news reports. With Election Day finally here, I sat Molly Griffin and thought about what I 
Assistant
really remem­
Scene Editor 
bered from the 
past few months 
of campaigning. I suddenly realized 
that the bulk of everything I could 
recall came from either watching 
"The Daily Show" or reading "The 
Onion." Once I realized that "The 
Daily Show" was the unintentional 
source of most of my political 
knowlndge, I rnally began to won­
der about myself'. Was I just one of 
the "stonnd slackers,'' as Bill 
O'Heilly called "The Daily Show" 
viewers, who watched the show 
and then voted'! Was I really that 
politically irresponsibiP'! 
I pondered this thought for a long time. I wondered if I had watched Fox News, CNN. MSNBC or any of tho myriad news networks avail­able to me whether or not I would have been morn up-to-datn on issuns or morn certain about where to cast my vote. Every time I sat down t.o watch something, I would !war that this chanrwl had a liberal slant. this one had a conservative bias and so on. As an extreme rnodnratP, wlwre could I turn to for nnws with t.lw lt~ast bias possible'! 
Tlwn l had an epiphany. What nnsurns a lack of bias better than romedy'! Conwdians will discuss anything as long as it will get a laugh. and tlwir only bias is whnthnr or not something is funny. Cornndy often comes from pointing out tlw ironies and inconsistencies of our lives. which is a particularly eiToetive means of not only gener­ating a laugh during tho election season. but also revealing the real issues and ideas within a cam­paign. 
In the particularly confusing and convoluted media surrounding the Presidential election, watching Jon Stewart call evnry candidate, rngardless of party, on their errors was refreshing. Heading "The Onion's" "coverage" of the election, which mercilessly mocks both can­didatns. their positions on issues and things they have said equally, in a way that makes you laugh and think at the same time. 
I personally bdieve that politics as a whole could take a cue from comedians. Not to say that any major issues should be taken light­ly, but sometimes things are treat­ed wit.h almost absurd seriousness. It's okay to make a joke, and in the end, I think comedy keeps everyone more honest and makes over­whelming things a little more man­agnabln. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Molly Griffin at mgrij]in@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives fc1r the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO'S YOUR PICK FOR PRESIDENT? 






Nick Catella  Kevin Lora  Bob Masters  Andrea Stenftenagel  Anne Weese  Patrick Vassel  
junior Offcampus  senior Off campus  senior Offcampus  senior Offcampus  senior Offcampus  sophomore Dillon  
"Theo Epstein. He's a living god."  "Jimmy Buffett because I think everyone wants out ofthis weather and  "I voted Clinton for Emperor, but he thrice rejected the crown.  ''Anne Weese for President!"  ''Andrea because she is a hot ticket and a blonde bombshell. "  "I think John Kerry; but I wish Jon Stewart."  

into a beach atmosphere. " 

Votes from the dead may still be counted 
RALEIGH, N.C. -An untold number of ballots from people who have died since casting them will be counted this year because of the haphazard and cumbersome process of enforeing laws in many states to weed out these votes. 
With millions of voters taking advantage of new, in-person early voting in at least 30 states this year, it's even more likely that such "ghost" votes will be eounted because, in most eases, those bal­
lots  are  impossible  to  
TODAY  
0:::  


Maria Spero kieked him in the leg at an off-cam­pus restaurant. 
Spero then said "she should have kicked me harder and higher," said O'Donnell. "To physically take that out. on someone because you disagree with them, that is com­pletely wrong." 
Police Sgt. Mitch Higgins said Saturday that O'Donnell wanted to press charges antl a mis­demeanor summons would be issued. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
retrieve. Besides, it eould be days or weeks after the election before local officials get word some­one has died. 
Colorado teacher kicks student for GOP shirt 
DURANGO, Colo -A part-time college instruc­tor has apologized for kicking a student because he was wearing a Republican shirt. 
Fort Lewis College stu­dent Mark O'Donnell said he was showing people his College Hepublieans sweat shirt, whieh said "Work for us now ... or work for us later,'' when 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
UJ 
:::z::: 
~ 
LIJ 
== 
...I c( 
(,) 0 


HIGH 54
.... 
LOW 44 

HIGH LOW 


55 36 


HIGH LOV\1 
IN BRIEF 

The Career Center will pres­ent a "Career and Internship Connections Information Session" today from 4 to 5 p.m. in 114 Flanner I I all. 
Students ean sign up for the annual Mara Fox Hun today from 5 to 7 p.m. in North and South Dining Halls. The 5K run and 2-mile walk will be held on Saturday. 
International Students Services and Activities will show the film "Goodbye, Lenin, Germany" in Gennan with English subtitles, today from 7 to 8 1un. in DnBart.olo 117. 
The Senior Class will sponsor an election wateh at Smokey Bones BBQ and Grill on 4040 North Main Street in Mishawaka. today from 6:30 to 
8:30 p.m. Students should bring 
$2. 

The Ballroom Dancing Club will oll'er tango dandng lessons today from 8 to 10::{0 p.m. in Rockne 301. Sessions arc from 8 to 9 p.m., 9 to 9:30 p.m. and 
9:30 to 10:30 p.m. Cost is $4. 
Alan Graf, executive vice president and chief financial officer, FedEx Corp, will discuss "Business Ethics for a Publicly Traded Company" today from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. 
University of Chicago profes­sor Jean Elshtain will speak on "St. Augustine, Harry Pottor and the Confrontation with Evil" Wednesday at 4 p.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. 
To submit information lo be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH LOW 

47 
34 


------~-------~~ 
Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Saint Mary's students discuss food services 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Writer 

During the past semester, many Saint Mary's students have expressed concerns and questions regarding the College's food services. At Monday's Board of Governance meeting, Noble Family Dining Hall general manager Berry Bowles spoke to address these issues and concerns regarding the policies and food processing. 
Bowles gave a general overview of the pricing and the reasoning behind the meal plan options. He explained to the Board that he works for the Sodexho food company, which services many other colleges and the military. 
"I always have an open door policy and am interested in serv­ing you, the students. It is important that you let me know what you want," said Bowles. 
The founder of the new com­petitive volleyball club, Angelica Pivarunas, asked the board for co-sponsorship so that the club may travel to tournaments. The club, Volleybelles, will compete in volleyball tournaments at var-· ious colleges, including an upcoming tournament at Miami University in Ohio. The board approved giving the Volleybelles $700. 
This Thursday there will be a forum regarding the image of a 
I 

Members of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance met Monday to discuss student concerns 
regarding the College's food services, among other issues. 
Saint Mary's woman, Board members said. It will take place at 6 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
"As campus leaders we need to know the variety of opinions that are held by the students here," said Student Body Vice President Sarah Catherine White. 
The board also encouraged students to vote in today's elec­tion. Anyone who is registered through Saint Mary's must vote at Gate 8 in the Joyce Center. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Fall Day on Campus will be Nov. 7. Prospective students will be touring campus and speaking With faculty throughout the day. 

+ 
Member Sarah Brown repo­


rted to the board that she will be initiating an Energy Conservation Task Force to increase campus awareness of cutting down on energy costs. She said she hopes that enough students will volunteer to be on the task force to cut down on the energy and save the College money. 
+ Technology commissioner Patricia Mobolade reported that it is still undecided if Inform­ation Technology will make wireless service available on Lake Marion. The decision is still under consideration due to the fact that many students con­sider Lake Marion a place of serene meditation. She also reported that "SMC TV" will not be initiated this year due to the budget cuts; however, its stu­dents are encouraged to brain­storm ideas for the program, set to begin next year. 
+ Senior class president J acq­ueline Cuisiner reported that this weekend is Senior Dad's Weekend. Friday seniors and their dads will attend Heartland "Casino Night," Saturday they are invited for a Notre Dame game watch at the College Football Hall of Fame and Sunday morning there will be mass at Loretto at 9:45 a.m., fol­lowed by coffee in Holy Cross Parlor. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

page 3 


Professor publishes new book 
Special to the Observer 

A new book co-edited by University of Notre Dame political scientist Guillermo O'Donnell presents theories on how to define the quality of a democracy and the methodology for implement­ing a "citizen audit" of dem­ocratic governments. 
Published by Notre Dame Press, "The Quality of Democracy" explores a growing concern among poli­cy experts and academics over the widely varying degrees of effectiveness of new democratic regimes, particularly in Latin 
~America. It combines O'Donnell's theoretical study of how to determine quality in a democracy with analysis of data collected in an audit of Costa Rican citizens on the quality of democracy in their nation. O'Donnell, Costa Rican researcher Jorge Vargas Cullell and Argentinean political scien­tist Osvaldo M. Iazzetta co­edited the volume, which includes scholarly reflections from Notre Dame faculty members Juan Mendez and Michael Coppedge and 12 others. 
~---~--~---­
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
registration would really trans­she said. 
tion to pPrmit TCE publication, 
late into high turnout. Here at Notre Dame, ama vot­
due to a variety of faculty con­
Election
Jacobs 
"It may be that all the efforts ers will cast their balJots at the
cerns. 
continued from page 1 in voter registration that have Joyce Center, with elPeted St.
On the topic of the tenure,
continued from page 1 
generated so much attention Joseph County ollieials oversee­
Jacobs proposed adding a major 
will be like all of the stories ing the process. As at every
nPw component on teaching to 
snnato on the tPnure process 

in key swing states like Ohio, about Y2K, which turned out to other polling place in the county, .
the rPviPw process for faculty
and spokn to a joint meeting of 
Pennsylvania and Michigan. be a dud," he said. "This is not voters will fill out a sheet of
tenure candidates. 
the Faculty Affairs and Student 
"It could make a pretty big dif­to say that turnout will not go up paper specifying which candi­
"There should be some view,
Affairs Committnns about the 
ference in a dose race," he said. from 2000, only that the news dates they wish to vote lilf and
some look, at what impact it's
tnadwr (~oursn evaluation issue. 
"In general, you'd expect any­coverage does not give us a then put it in an Optiscan, which 
having on the mind of the stu­
On both topics, he put forth initia­
thing that depresses turnout good sense of what will hap­scans the paper, tallies the vote
dent," Jacobs said of teaching. 
tivns that would significantly 
overall hurts Democrats, and pen." and secures a hard copy in ease
A'i part of an effort to empha­
change the way both academic 
that's in part because there are Albertson also said that of recount. 
size teaching in the tenure
procndurns currnntly operatn. 
more marginal Democratic vot­despite the best efforts of both The polls at the Joyce Center, 
process, Jacobs discussed indud­
In regards to the TCE issue, 

ers who tend not to vote." parties, neither Republicans nor accessible through the Gate 8
ing a packet of work on two class­
.Jacobs proposnd the creation of a 
Although many journalists Democrats can count on the entrance, opened at 6 a.m. and
es taught by the faculty candidate. 
nnw mnchanism for providing stu• 
and politicians have highlighted support of undecided voters. close at 6 p.m. 
"We need to find improved
dents with helpful information 
ways to Pvaluate teaching," said 
high recent voter registration, "Historically, undecideds
about dass ofli1rings, rather than 
Jacobs. 
politieal science professor David break for the challenger ... but Contact Michael Busk at
publishing TCEs in their current 
Campbell wondered if the high this year, we just don't know," mbusk@nd.edu
He said the initiative developed
liwmat. 
of out of administrations concerns
"I want to address the question 

that TCEs did not adequately rep­
of how can we holp to improve 
resent teaching quality in tenure
the process of how students 
reviews. The packet would 
Addressing the issue of poor in December. Burns is a sopho­
ehoose eourses," Jaeobs said. 
include examples of students' 
studeo.J. attendance, represen­more business major who has
Tho new format would likely 
COR

graded projects, exams or papers 
tatives discussed the idea of let­served as SUB marketing assis­
eomprisn a separate set of vory 
and possible evaluations from 
ting students without tickets tant since April and has also
spm~ifk. multiple-choice questions 
continued from page 1 
other professors who would 
who line up before the game fill been involved in Hall Council,
and would be administnrod to stu­
observe the candidate's classes, 
the second, that the the seats still open after tip-off. women's boxing and the Folk
denl'i simultanoously with the tra­
Jacobs explained. 
University sells general tickets "Most students are there by Choir.
ditional TCE. llowever, students 
The teaching evaluation would 
to individual games first, so tip-off, so it's feasible to let peo­"After a campus-wide search, 
would be told that answors to the 
vary from department to depart­
those students not able to get ple in late," Leito said. "It's the Caitlin was far and away the
separate qunstions only would be 
ment, depending on the nature of 
season tickets do not have the easiest way to get the student best candidate," Flaherty said. 
available to studenl'i fi1r the pur­
the discipline and likely would not 
chance to try for even a single section filled every game." COR suspended the rules and
posn of choosing courses. 
be implemented for at least 3 
game. Istvan said that the approved Burns, rather than
"It gets around some of the 

years, Jacobs explained. 
Leito also said the number of University dictates athletic wait until nPxt Monday's meet­
issues that an NDToday doesn't 
"It needs to be quite adaptable," 
IDs a student can bring the department policy about allot­ing as procedure called for.
get around," Jacobs said in refer­
he said. 
morning of distribution should ting Saint Mary's and Holy + Class of 2005 president
ence to NDToday.eom, a student­
On both initiatives, Jacobs said 
be limited to two or three to cut Cross tickets, and the Big East Darrell Scott introduced a pro­
run website tlu~t maintains stu­
he was generally pleased by the 
down on the number of "casual dictates when individual game posal to be voted on next wepk
dimt nwiews of profbssors. "What 
faculty response and expected 
fans" -less likely to attend all tickets can be sold. Student that would add a representa­
I'm proposing are two sets of 
both proposals to move forward 
the games -with tickets, and government can, however, tive from the Intercultural
questions. This has in a sense a 
for further discussion with the 
suggested if students had bet­begin discussions and work on Center as a non-voting member
diflimmt purposn I than TCEs]." 
faculty and his ollice. 
ter seats, they would be more other solutions discussed at of COR.
Eventually, the responses would 

"I would say it was very produc­
likely to attend. the meeting. "It would be wise to add a
bn available in an online f(lf!nat 
tive." Jacobs said after the meet­
J.R. Garcia, representative of "Creating a central ticket student from the Intercultural
studenl'i could aecess when rehris­
ing. "On the [TCE] proposal I did­
the Club Coordination Council, collection could happen this Center to add a diversity view­
tnring f(w classes. 
n't hear tonight any major 
suggested the creation of a cen­season," Istvan said. point to t~e Council of
"The idna would be to implant 

issues." 
tralized ticket distribution Hepresentatives," Scott said.
this in lrishlink," Jaeobs said. 
John Hobinson, chair of the 
method for students to In other COR news: "It's a no-brainer."
Faculty nwmbors expressed 

Faculty Mairs Committee, said he 
exchange individual game tick­+ SUB manager Jimmy A non-voting member from
snvnral com;erns about the pro­
envisioned proposing a new TCE 
ets. The idea was later expand­Flaherty presented Caitlin the CSC's student advisory
posal's implemontation and 
resolution to senate probably 
ed by other members, who Burns as the choice to take board, VOICE, was added earli­
specifics but appnared generally 
after winter break. 
agreed that an exchange sys­over as SUB Chief Controller
rncPptivn to the concept. 
tem within individual dorms when current Chief Controller Contact Amanda Michaels at
Last spring, senate debated and Contact Teresa Fralish at 
was the best approach. John McCarthy graduates early amichael@nd.edu
ultimatoly failnd to pa'is a rnsolu-tfralish@nd.edu 



Go here 


vvvvvv.fordveh icles.corn/collegeg rad 
......____..._....._____... _.... , 
:

L.--------------to get there 
!
. ' . 
.... ' .
,.~..... 
Here's the deal: one prke, no haggling. 
Thi.s "srudent diKOt.mt" offers substantial ~vings on new Ford Motor Company vehicles based on set prkes established by Ford's Employee Purchase Plan. 
There's no catch -it's a unique offer, exclusive to ~ Khooh like yours. Save even more when you apply the current national Incentives available on the vehicle you select. 
The best part? You get what you expect. The style and features you want. No-hassle dealer experience.. A payment that's easy on your wallet and lifestyle. 


It's how you 

I!

get there! 
i@ 
®< t II $ 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 2, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE sr:RvJCrs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Six kidnapped in Baghdad 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Militants kidnapped an American, a Nepalese and four Iraqi guards in a bloody assault on their office in the capi­tal Monday, and gunmen assassinated Baghdad's deputy governor in a drive-by shooting, new violence that came as voter registration began for vital January elections. 
West of the capital, U.S. troops clashed with Sunni insurgents, and American artillery pounded suspected insurgent positions in Fallujah, witnesses said. 
U.S. forces are gearing up for a major offensive against Fallujah, the strongest bas­tion of Sunni insurgents. The order to launch what would likely be a bloody assault must come from Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, who warned Sunday that his patience with negoti­atipns was thinning. 
Ukraine election ends in runoff 
KIEV, Ukraine-Ukraine's furiously contest­ed presidential election ended in a dead heat Monday, forcing a runoff between a pro­Russian candidate and his reformist chal­lenger. Thousands of demonstrators in west­ern Ukraine alleged fraud, and international monitors said the country failed the test of democracy. 
The n,moff, set for Nov. 21, prolongs a cam­paign that has been overshadowed by worries over irregularities. The vote is seen as key to whether the former Soviet republic moves closer to the West or to Hussia. The winner will succeed outgoing President Leonid Kuchma, who clamped down on opposition during his rule. 
The United States had warned it may take punitive action if the voting was marred by irrngularities. Ukraine, which has a brigade of troops in Iraq, has been one of the top recipi­ents of U.S. aid. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Record borrowing expected 
WASHINGTON -The ·federal government, running record budget deficits over the past two years, is projecting that it will have to borrow a record $147 billion in the first three months of 2005, the Treasury Department announced Monday._ 
The department projected net borrowing needs of $100 billion for the current October­December quarter, less than the $122 billion it had earlier estimated would be needed to meet the government's obligations. 
Treasury said it is currently projecting net borrowing of $147 billion in the January­March quarter of next year, which would top the previous record net borrowing amount for a single quarter of $146 billion set in the January-March quarter of this year. 
Baby rescued from well 
FHISCO CITY, Ala. -After nearly 13 tense hours, rescuers using a powerful drill and working under bright lights Monday saved a toddler trapped at"the bottom of an aban­doned well, bringing him out to cheers, tears and eries of "Praise the Lord!" 
More than 100 people had gathered at the vacant lot, watching and praying through the night for 22-month-old Da'jour MeMillan, who was playing with his older brother and sister near his grandparents' house when he disappeared down the 14-foot well that was overgrown with grass and unknown to neighbors and firefighters. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Student charged with arson 
CHOWN POINT -Lake County's prosecu­tor on Monday asked that a 17 -year-old for­mer student be charged as adult for setting the fire that caused $2 million damage to a northwest Indiana high school, a spokes­woman said. 
The New Chicago boy was arrested Friday and was being held in Lake County's juvenile detention center, police said. lie is accused of setting the fire at River Forest High School On Oct. 21. 
Suicide bomber kills 3 Israelis 
16-year-old Palestinian Eli Amer Alfar blows himself up in a Tel Aviv market 
Associated Press 
TEL AVIV, Israel-A 16­
year-old Palestinian laden 
with explosives blew him­
self up Monday in a crowd­
ed outdoor market in Tel 
Aviv, killing three Israelis, 
wounding 32 and scatter­
ing body parts and blood­
spa)lr.red vegetables on 
the' ground. The bomber's 
mother said the militants 
who dispatched him were 
"immoral." 
The attack tested Israel's 
promise to show restraint 
during the absence of the 
ailing Yasser Arafat. 
Palestinian leaders includ­
ing Arafat immediately 
condemned the attack, the 
first since a Sept. 22 bomb­
ing in Jerusalem. 
From a military hospital 
near Paris, the 75-year-old 
Arafat "appealed to all 
Palestinian factions to 
commit to avoid harming 
all Israeli civilians and he 
appealed to [Israeli Prime 
Minister Ariel] Sharon to 
take similar initiatives to 
avoid harming Palestinian 
civilians," Arafat's spokes­
man Nabil Abu Rdeneh 
said. 
The blast occurred short­
ly before noon when· the . suicide attacker detonated an 11-pound bomb in the Carmel market, ripping apart a dairy store, dam­

aging a vegetable stall and tic bags. Rescue workers youngest Palestinian sui­checkpoint on No_v. 3, 
sending screaming shop­scoured the pavement and cide bombers only one wounding a soldier. 
pers running. dug through piles of other was as young as 16 Frustrated by Israeli 
"The explosion was cheese and spices in and his parents lashed out security measures that 
huge, there was fire and search of body parts. at the militants who have greatly reduced their 
smoke ... it' knocked me The attack was the 117th recruited him. effectiveness, militant 
over," said David Hayu, suicide bombing since the "It's immoral to send groups have turned to 
who owns a nearby butch­outbreak of Israeli­someone so young," said using woman and 
er shop. "No one knew Palestinian fighting in Samir Abdullah, 45, Alfar's teenagers to transport 
what to do. People were 2000 and was the first mother. 'They should have explosives and carry out 
looking for their sons, their since Arafat left for sent an adult who under­attacks, hoping they would 
daughters, their husbands France, where he has been stands the meaning of his raise less suspicion at the 
and wives." treated since Friday for an deeds." dozens of Israeli check­
The blast ripped off the unknown disease. In all, Abdel Rahim, 53, Alfar's points designed to capture 
dairy store's sign, covering 494 Israelis have been father, said his son woke bombers and other mili­
it with blood and leaving killed in such attacks. him up Monday and asked tants. 
loose wire dangling out of The Popular Front for for two shekels 50 cents. Also, Israelis say the con­
the wall. Lettuce and pars­the Liberation of Palestine, "Two shekels, that's what tentious barrier they are 
ley splattered with blood a PLO faction, claimed boys ask for, it's not money building along the West 
were strewn on the pave­responsibility, identifying for men," he said. "He Bank, which is one-third 
ment, along with spices the assailant as Eli Amer kissed me on the cheek completed, has significant­
and packages of children's Alfar, from the Askar and hand and left, and I ly reduced the bombings 
socks. refugee camp near the went back to sleep." by making it harder tD 
Paramedics wheeled West Bank city of Nablus. The other 16-year-old infiltrate from the West 
away bodies in black plas-Alfar was among the blew himself up at an army Bank into Israel. 

Chinese police halt ethnic rioting 
of the Han ethnic majority, according The government said the violence
Associated Press 

to Langchenggang residents inter­began after members of two families 
LANGCHENGGANG, China -Police viewed by phone. from separate villages fought over a by the thousands patrolled this cen­The fighting killed seven people traffic dispute. tral Chinese town Monday and resi­and injured 42, according to resi­"Afterward, residents of both vil­dents hunkered down in their homes dents and the government. lages assembled with weapons," the after deadly street fights between Langchenggang residents could not Xinhua report said. "One villager was members of the country's main ethnic confirm a report by The New York beaten to death on the spot and two group and a Muslim minority. Times of 148 deaths, including 18 died in the hospital one day later." 
On Monday, minivans with loud­police officers. It didn't say how the other deaths speakers strapped to their roofs Authorities imposed martial law on occurred. drove through the dirt roads of the area in Zhongmou County near A spokesman for the county gov­Langchenggang and neighboring vil­the city of Zhengzhou, residents said. ernment, Liang Songzhou, said the lages in Henan province, broadcast­Eighteen people were arrested, the traffic dispute involved a collision ing appeals for calm. government said late Monday in its between two farm vehicles, one driv­
As many_ as 5,000 people fought first official word on the fighting. The en by a Han and the other by a llui. with sticks and burned several hous­statement, carried by the Xinhua Today's llui are descended from es over the weekend in violence News Agency, didn't mention the eth­ethnic Chinese who converted to between Hui Muslims and members nicities of the rioters. Islam generations ago. 
-------~~ 
-~---------~-----~--­
page 6 Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 
Talk
Navy Seal reports n1istreatn1ent 
Associated Press 
SAN Dl EGO -The CIA 
interrogated and roughed up 
Iraqi prisoners in a "romper 
room" where a handcuffed 
and hooded terror suspect 
was kicked, slapped and 
punched shortly before he 
died last year at the Abu 
Ghraib prison, a Navy SEAL 
testified Monday. 
Blood was visible on the 
hood worn by the prisoner, 
Manadel al-Jamadi, as he 
was led into the interroga­
tion room at Baghdad 
International Airport in 
November 2003, the Navy 
commando said at a military 
pretrial hearing for another 
SEAL accused of abusing 
Iraqi prisoners. 
Testifying under a grant of 
immunity, the witness, iden­
tified only by his rank as a 
hospital corpsman, said he 
kicked al-.Jamadi several 
times, slapped him in the 
back of the head and 
punchnd him. Five or six 
other CIA personnel in tlw 
room laid their hands on the 
prisoner, he said. but he did 
not provide details. 
Sometime later, Al-Jamadi was found dead in a shower room lnss than an hour after two CIA personnnl brought him into Abu (;hraib as a so­called "ghost detainee," according to Army Maj. Gen. George H. Fay's report on the notorious prison. Such detainens wern not listed in the normal roster of military prisoners. 
Fay's report said al-Jamadi dind of a blot clot in the hnad likely due to injurins suffered al'ter being detained. Thn military pathologist's report listed thn cause of dnath as blunt force trauma 'complicated by hampered breathing. 
A CIA spokeswoman declined to comment on the hearing, but noted that the agency is conducting its own investigation into the CIA's involvement in prisoner detentions and interroga­tions in Iraq. 
The testimony about the CIA's role came during a hearing for an aviation boatswain's mate who is accused of punching al­Jamadi and posing in humil­iating photos with the pris­oner. The boatswain's mate, a 14-year Navy veteran, allegndly twisted othnr pris­oners' tosticlns and struck a prisoner in the buttocks with a wooden board. 
An Article 32 hearing, the military equivalent of a eivil­ian grand jury, was held to determine whether the boatswain's mate should be court-martialed. 
The hearing coneluded Monday. An investigating ofTicer will recommend what chargos, if any, the boatswain's mate should face. 
The accused SEAL, who rnceivod tho Purpln Heart for wounds sufTPred in Iraq, could gnt up to 11 years in prison if convicted. 
AI-Jamadi, described in an Army report as a suspeet in an attack on a Hed Cross facility, was captured by members of a Coronado, Calif.-based SEAL unit dur­Nusair said, American soldiers were represented as liberators and Afghan men as supprnssors. 

the accused SEAL, the corps­ The hospital corpsman was  continued from page 1  
man  said. After al-Jamadi  a  surprise witness during  crept into the presidential  
was  cuffed,  he  said  he  the two-day proceeding, tak­ campaign speeches. President  
watched the accused and  ing the witness stand only  Bush and Senator John Kerry  
another SEAL "body slam"  hours after reaching a  plea  regularly  make  statements  
the captive into the back of a  deal with prosecutors that  about "hunting" terrorists and  
Humvee.  would  spare  him  prison  "destroying" them, she said.  
The SEALs then drove to  time.  The woman's position in the  
an  Army  base  where  the  Besides the corpsman and  Islamic culture is another point  
accused  SEAL jabbed al­ the boatswain's mate, five  upon which westerners have  
Jamadi with the muzzle of  other members of the SEAL  built their concept of superiority  
his weapon, according to the  team  were  charged  with  over Muslims, Nusair said. In  
corpsman.  He  said while  abusing  Iraqi prisoners.  the western world, the veil worn  
some  of  the  blows  were  Charges against a chief petty  by many Muslim women and the  
excessive,  others  were  officer were  dismissed last  gender segregation are used as  
intended  to  silence  al­ week. Article 32 hearings for  proof of the culture's attempt to  
Jamadi, who kept talking  the other four SEALs have  devalue women, she said. In  
and shouting in Arabic.  not been scheduled.  Afghanistan  in  particular,  

"In my opinion it lthe portray­all was also very radst because it was rescuing women not only from their culture but also from repressive brown men," Nusair said. 
This effort to create a sharp contrast between the Muslim enemy and the freedom-loving Americans went down to the tiniest details, Nusair argued. She pointed out that the Pentagon spokesperson during the invasion of Iraq was a woman, saying she believes it to have been a calculated decision. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

At Ernst &Young the climb starts here. 
You've just completed four years of college and the last thing you want to do is end up in amindless job. At Ernst &Young we challenge our employees from the start and then encourage them to grow throughout their career. We offer some of the best professional development programs in the country. And we've built an inclusive 
environment-one that FortuneIii magazine has recognized as one of the "100 Best 
Companies To Work For" six years in a row. So if you're not interested in starting at 
the bottom, think about starting at one of the Top 100. ey.com/u:Vcareers 
FORTUNE' 
100 BEST 
ve~c~~~~i~ 
ing a joint spneial forces-CIA mission. AI-Jarnadi was subdued after a fierce struggle with 

THE OBSERVER. 






USINESS
Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,027.47 +22.93

}ones 
Same: Composite Volume. I~ IB 183 1,449,779,072 

AMEX 1,3]1:39 NASDAQ 1,974.99 NYSE 6,692.11 /4~!!~:~~;!1&~ s&PSOO 1' 130.20 +2.76 NIKKB(Tol<yo) 10,7!3f\3Q <,.J48>12 FTSE IOO(London) 4,624.20 -18.60 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.04 -0.01 22.26 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) + 1.37 +0.26 19.21 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.14 -0.04 27.97 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.63 -0.08 12.66 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -0.76 -0.03 3.90 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.93 -0.45 47.94 I0-YEAR NOTE -1.25 -0.51 40.29 5-YEAR NOTE -1.29 -0.43 32.90 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 18.67 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.86 51.76 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.40 429.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.08 94.05 

Excha Rates 

YEN I 05.8300 EURO 0.7797 POUND 0.5433 CANADIAN$ 1.2179 
IN BRIEF 

Market reconsiders biodiesel 
CHELSEA, Mass. -Few have anything good to say about this year's run-up in oil prices. They do, though, at World Energy Alternatives, a biodiesel company with a shiny antique Gulf Oil pump in the lobby -a hint that petroleum's proudest days may have passed. 
Soaring petroleum prices have narrowed the price gap between conventional oil-based diesel and more expensive biodiesel made from American soybean oil. 
"We're actually having a bit of a renaissance with people whom we tried to get excited two, three, four years ago," said Gene Gebolys, pres­ident of World Energy Alternatives, in Chelsea. "They're picking up the phone again and say­ing, 'Hey, we think this makes sense now."' 
The escalation in petroleum prices has deliv­ered the most favorable marketing moment for biodiesel and other alternative energy sources in 25 years. It has bestowed an immediate windfall on some companies and helped to assure the place of alternatives in the future energy mix. 
Southwest expands to Chicago 
DALLAS -Southwest Airlines Co. plans to add 16 nonstop flights early next year from Chicago's Midway Airport, the prime hub of its chief rival is ATA Airlines, whose parent filed for bankruptcy protection last week. 
Southwest said Monday the new flights would go to 13 cities that it already serves from Midway, including Los Angeles, Las Vegas and Philadelphia. 
Chief executive Gary Kelly told reporters last week that expansion at Midway was Southwest's top priority. Chicago is Southwest's fourth-largest operation, with 145 daily nonstop departures. 
Dallas-based Southwest said it could begin the new flights in the first quarter of 2005 without adding to its 19 gates at Midway. The service could be provided with some of the 29 new Boeing 737 jets that Southwest plans to add next year. 
Indianapolis-based ATA Holdings Corp., par­ent of ATA Airlines, filed for bankruptcy pro­tection last week and sold airport landing slots and other assets to rival AirTran Airways, a division of AirTran Holdings Inc. 


Oil giant moves to block strike 
Royal Dutch/Shell opens court action to safeguard Nigerian oil exports 
Associated Press 

LAGOS, Nigeria -Oil giant Royal Dutch/Shell Group opened a court action Monday to try to block a strike targeting oil exports in the world's No. 7 crude exporter, but failed in a first-round bid to block wildcat strikes or other union action in the meantime. 
The case comes one day after Nigeria's unions called the Nov. 16 strike over rising fuel prices here, and promised to tar­get Shell the top multina­tional in Nigeria as an "enemy" of the people for taking legal action. 
The price of crude vault­ed above the $52 mark Monday on the news. At midmorning in Europe, December crude on the New York Mercantile Exchange was trading electronically at $52.24 a barrel up 48 cents from its Friday closing. 
Federal Justice Abdullahi Mustapha in the commer­cial capital, Lagos, held only a brief hearing Monday on Shell's attempt to block the strike, post­poning the case until Nov. 18. 
Mustapha rejected a request from Shell to for­bid wildcat strikes or other union action in the interim. eum and Natural Gas labor unrest and threats Nigeria are often violent, 
Mustapha said such an Workers of Nigeria. from an oil-delta militia to and at times deadly. An order was unwarranted, Nigeria pumps 2.5 mil­block production. October general strike and made only a verbal lion barrels a day. It is the A senior Shell official in over fuel prices shut down appeal to leaders of the fifth-largest supplier of Lagos, speaking on condi­most business in the coun­country's two powerful oil U.S. oil imports. tion of anonymity, said try but did not affect oil unions to "maintain the Nigerian unions are Monday that Shell went to ·production unlike the peace." protesting September's 23 court in hopes of com­strike planned for this 
·"We will maintain the percent increases in fuel pelling unions to follow month. peace provided Shell does­prices domestically. An already-agreed-upon pro­Despite Nigeria's wealth, n't do anything to provoke October strike over the fuel cedures for grievances. the majority of its 250 mil­us," Brown Ogbeifun, pres­prices paralyzed business "We have an agreement lion people live on less ident of the white-collar but did not target oil pro­with the unions that before than a dollar a day. Petroleum and Natural Gas duction. going on strike they have Clashes over criminal Senior Staff Association of Crude prices internation­to declare a trade dispute. gangs and ethnic militias Nigeria, told the court. ally hit an all-time intra­That way we know what vying for the local trickle­
Judges also postponed to day high of $55.67 on Oct. the issues in dispute are down from oil production Nov. 18 a similar case 26, driven up partly by and what we're dealing have killed hundreds over against the blue-collar fears of Nigerian supply with," the official said. the past year in Nigeria's National Union of Petrol-disruptions among the General strikes in oil-rich Niger Delta. 

Music copyright lawsuits filed 
Washington· D.C. who had already have settled their cases out of
Associated Press 

been identified in earlier litigation court, the RIAA said. 
LOS ANGELES.-The recording but failed to settle their cases. Settlements in previous cases industry on Thursday filed another Among the universities attended have averaged $3,000 each. round of copyright infringement by students named in the lawsuits While some surveys have shown lawsuits against people it said were were Indiana State, Iowa State, the number of people engaging in illegally distributing songs over the Ohio State and Southern file-sharing has declined since the Internet. Mississippi. The individual colleges RIAA began its legal assault, other 
This latest wave of federal litiga­and universities were not named as data show millions continue to tion targeted 750 computer users defendants. share music, movies and software across the nation, including 25 stu­As in previous cases, the new law­online. dents at 13 universities, according suits were filed against "John Doe" A recent study by researchers at to the Recording Industry defendants identified only by their the University of California, Association of America, the trade numeric Internet protocol address­Riverside, concluded that traffic on group for the largest music compa­es. Music company lawyers must peer-to-peer networks has never nies. obtain the identity of defendants by declined and is at least comparable 
The RIAA claims the defendants issuing subpoenas to Internet to the same levels it was a year ago. used university computer networks access providers. Meanwhile, any would-be defen­to distribute copyrighted recordings In all, recording companies have dants in recording company copy­on unauthorized peer-to-peer serv­sued 6,191 music fans since right cases who fall within the juris­ices, including eDonkey, Kazaa, September 2003, when the industry diction of the eastern Pennsylvania LimeWire and Grokster. began waging its legal campaign federal court district will benefit 
Separately, the RIAA also sued against online sharing of music from a ruling issued earlier this 213 people in 34 states and files. To date, 1,207 defendants month. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
Rehnquist undergoing treabnent for cancer 

Associated Press 
WASIIIN<;TON -Chief Justiee William II. Behnquist rnvealed Monday that he is undergoing chemotherapy and radiation treatment for thyroid cancer, signs he has a grave form of the disease and probably will not rnturn to tlw bench soon. 
The election PVf~ disdosurn by the 80-year-old justice under­scores the near cPrtainty that the next president will make at least one appointment to the Supremo Court and probably morn. 
Hchnquist had planned to join his colleagues when they returned to hear arguments Monday after a two-week break. Instead, he issued a statement from homo about the treatment he's receiving. It said he plans to work from home and made no mention of leaving the court. 
The chief justiee did not dis­dose what typo of thyroid cancer he has, how far it has pro­grossed or t.he prognosis. 
Dr. Ann M. Gillenwater of the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Ilouston said the combination of chemotherapy and radiation is the usual treatment for anaplas­tic thyroid cancer, a fast-growing form that can kill quickly. 
About HO pnrcent of people with that type of cam~er die with­in a year, even with treatment, according to the Merck Manual of Diagnosis and Therapy. 
"Unfortunately, it rarely responds very well, and this is just a holding action for most patients," said Dr. IIerman Kattlove of the American Cancer Sodety. 

Hehnquist's statement was a more somber announcement than the one a week ago, when he lirst made public that he had been hospitalized for cancer treatment but said he planned to be back at work in a week. 
"Aceording to my doctors, my plan to return to the ollice today was too optimistic," said Hehnquist, who spent a week in the hospital. "While at home, I am working on court matters; including opinions for cases already argued. I am, and will, continue to be in close contact with my colleagues, my law clerks and members of the Supreme Court staff." 
News of Hehnquist's cancer has energized conservative and liberal groups, which have tried to draw voters' attention to the court's delicate balance on issues like abortion, allirmative action and the death penalty. 
The spotlight would have been heightened in the final week of the campaign if Rehnquist had been more forthcoming about his condition, said Dennis Hutchinson, a Supreme Court expert at the University of Chicago Law School. 
"lie doesn't want to be a fac­tor" in the election, Hutchinson said. "The one thing all mem­bers of the court hate is the assumption that they are parti­s_an .?r sensitive to partisan poli­tics. 
No cover ever 
with studet1f IU 


j$1 Sports Jar itt South Jettd 20.f6 South Jettd Ave -Across frottt Martitts Plaza 272-1766 
NU Football Headquarters Ottlitte sports ittfo 
"(}reat Food, (}reat Futf Mot1: Mot1day Night Football TuEs: CoLL£H Nr~Hr-UJ &SPECIALS lsrAUIN~ Ar •tOOl Wed: fl'l.IVIA Night -lkit1g your teatMs -Prizes 
THUU: UJ -FtRSf THURSPAY EV£RY MONTH: JASSY tRAZZ 
Fri: Live Et1tertait1tMet1t 

THURSPAY SPEACIALS


Sat: NU gatMes 

SfARf Af •2.00!
Sut1: orts -14 screet1s 




Educators predict future lavvsuits 
No Child Left Behind Act expected to be targeted to avoid sanctions 
Associated Press 
THERMAL, Calif. -The 
federal No Child Left Behind 
Act threatens costly penalties 
for schools deemed failing to 
meet academic standards. In 
response, some educators 
expect a series of lawsuits 
aimed at avoiding the sanc­
tions. 
Since President Bush signed 
the sweeping education 
reforms in 2002, the ·law has 
drawn criticism from educa­
tors debating its strict per­
formance and test require­
ments. The act requires all 
students to be proficient in 
reading, writing and math by 
2014. . 
Parents of children in some failing schools can demand transfers to better campuses. Over the next four years, ·schools must offer tutoring services, administrators and 
teachers can be fired, states can take over districts, and federal funds can be with­held. 
Coachella Valley Unified School District -which includes Oasis Elementary School -could be among the nation's !irst to challenge the law. The school board is con­sidering suing federal and state governments, claiming the distri-ct is being held to unreachable goals. 
"Coachella is the tip of the iceberg," John Perez, presi­dent of United Teachers Los Angeles, said, adding that the law "doesn't take into account things it needs to." 
According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, students at more than 27,500 schools nation­wide -almost 31 percent of all U.S. public schools -are failing at math and reading. 
Last December, Heading School District in Pennsylvania sued over its low performance rating, arguing its Spanish-speaking students couldn't read the tests. About two-thirds o(the district's 16,000 students are Hispanic; 15 percent have limited English proficiency. 
But, judges ruled that test­ing in a student's native lan­guage is not mandatory, only required "to the extnnt that it is practicable to do so." The district plans to appeal. 
"It's a wonderful title, No Child Left Behind. Who could ever disagree with that?" said Hichard Guida, a lawyer for the Heading district. "But kids are all different and, unfortu­nately, this calls for a cookie­cutter approach to education that doesn't take difference into account. Some kids will be left behind." 


Vaccine gives long-term protection 
Tests reveal progress in cervical cancer prevention drugs 
Associated Press 
·WASHINGTON -Efforts to develop the world's first vac­cine to prevent cervical cancer took a key step forward Monday with test results sug­gesting that it can provide long-lasting protection. 
Four years after getting the vaccine, 94 percent of women were protected from infection with the virus that causes most cervical cancers and none had developed worrisome precan­cerous conditions, a study showed. 
"We're thrilled about these results. The immune responses seem to be really long-lasting," said Dr. Eliav Barr, who leads development of the vaccine for Merck & Co. The company plans to seek U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval next year for an expanded ver­sion of the vaccine that also could be used to prevent geni­tal warts in both women and men. 
The new study was funded by Merck and led by University of Washington researchers who presented results Monday at a meeting of the American Society forMicrobiology. 
"They showed clear effective­ness," said Dr. Scott Hammer, a Columbia University infectious disease expert who reviewed the work but has no ties to Merck or the study. "This is a very important issue for women's health around the world." 
If the vaccine makes it to market, it would be the second developed to prevent cancer. The hepatitis B vaccine has dramatically reduced the num­ber of infeetions that progress to liver cancer. 
Cervical cancer strikes near­ly half a million women world­wide each year and kills about half. In the United States, about 15,000 women get it and about 5,000 die. 
Virtually all cases are caused by infection with human papil­loma virus, or HPV, which is spread through sex. One strain, HPV-16, accounts for about half of all cervical can­cers. 
A previous study showed that 1-IPV-16 infections were com­pletely prevented in 768 women who had received tlw Merck vaccine 18 months ear­lier. None developed precan­cerous conditions either. 
The new study followed 755 of these women for four years after vaccination. IIPV-16 infections had taken hold in seven; none developed precan­cers. In a comparison group.of 750 women who received dummy shots, infections took hold in 111 and precancers formed in 12. 
Even though protection had waned for a small number of women in the study, the vac­cine's effectiveness was still very high, said Dr. Douglas Lowy, a National Cancer Institute scientist who invented the vaccine. The government gave rights to develop it to two companies -Merck and GlaxoSmithKline and Merck's work is a little farther along, Lowy said. 
"Revaccination might be advisable at some point," but it will take more study to know whether that is necessary or would improve effectiveness, he said. 
Women in the study were ages 16 to 23 when they received the vaccine, given in three doses over six months. 


Tuesday, November 2, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 4655.6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lo1.ar 
MANAGING EDITOR  8USINFSS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Hanagan  
ASST. MANAGING EI>ITOR  
Joe Hertler  

NEWS EI>ITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR! Sarah Vabulas SI>oRTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith (N Focus EDITOR: Meghan Martin SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PIIOTO EDITOR: Paire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR! Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Kdly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROI.I.ER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
AovERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4141 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 6.31-1323 obsnnvs.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4143 <pons.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoco@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institmion. Tlw Observer reserves the right ro refuse adverrisements based on comem. 
The news is reported as aa:urately and objectively as pr.o;sibl~. Un.•igned editorials represent the opinion of th~ m;tjoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A~~ist:un Managing Editor and department editors. C'.omrnentaries, leuers and mlumns present the views of tlw authors and nor nece=rily those ofThe Obst•rver. 
Vil'wpoinr spac<' is availablt· to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.erters ro the Editor !IHL<! he signed and must include comact infimnarion. 
Qumiom "Jtflrding Obsm'tr policies should be dirm~d to F.diwr in ChiifMatt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
lltc <llawrvcr CllSI'S SIJ'J 1-411110) 11 puhli~ml MunJ.ar thr~ou~l~ r.rttl.ty cxuopt durinp: 
('"l!;lllll ~u..l \'.IL.LIUIII r.criol.h. A\uh...:ri!'IIOil m Titc Ob&cncr ·~ JIU() litr unc .lL:.aclemn: vt•;u;$'\"ilnttt1\l'\t"lllt"Mn. 
11u: ('llull.'fYcr i\ .1 ntt·mlwt uf rhc AJoMtli~rctll'rn~ All reprno:ltK'tiun riKhl~ :ut· r~rvcd 
flu:-OhOC"tVct j, l'uhJI,hcd 111: Wii<.. Q 
112<t Smuh Dinin~ 11~11 t\.!4 ~~uth l>•mng If<lll Nom: I ).&mc, IN -1h'l'iti-U;'7IJ Nm,r-f}.unr-. IN ·IM~l-11779 l'crl!ll\i..:o~l pu\l.&f,t" j•.lu\ .n N"nr D.unc 
~tulo~tltlt!ltnlJim.~oilitt~otullkn, 
l't lSTMA,, n.R 
'ientl.t.l,lfru turret uon~ Itt 
n,cOh..crVC't 
'l'l•\· t)J,\ctv~r •~ ~ lllt<ntho;or uf dtt' Ai.wci.trcd l'rna. All n:pnll.lu,·ttUIL ri~-tl•t~ ar~ 
IC'Sl'IVC'rl 
TODAY'S STAFF 

lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
For the second year in a row, many students are being denied the oppor­tunity to attend men's home basketball games. While I concede the current system regarding student season tick­ets is good in theory, it has several shortcomings in practice. Through student government, I and others have met with various officials from the athletic department to try to improve this problem, but unfortunately only small changes have been made (as I am beginning to notice is the norm at this University). From my experience there are several problems with the current situation that students and the athletic department need to realize and solve. 
First, Notre Dame students are not given enough opportunities to obtain tickets. Holy Cross and St. Mary's, which receive 50 and 150 tickets respectively, should not be given tick­ets. While, I am all for other local col­leges attending Notre Dame events (like football games and concerts where everyone gets tickets), Notre Dame students should be given first priority for tickets, and then once the demand of Notre Dame students' is met, students of' other colleges should be given the opportunity to attend. 
In addition, the ticket ol'fice should wait to sell individual game tickets until after student season tickets have been sold. This year the individual tickets went on sale this past Tuesday and already tickets to the Connecticut and UCLA games are sold out. This practice prevents students who do not get season tickets from purchasing individual tickets to the big games for which they will most likely have trou­ble finding unused student tickets. 
Second, it is too easy for the casual fan to obtain tickets. Students should only be allowed to bring two or three IDs to the ticket sale instead of six. Under the current system, many stu­dents who don't really care much about the games and go mainly for social purposes can easily obtain tick­ets by sending one of their friends to 

Put student participation before the dollar 
It is with great sadness and some anger 1 read the story about the sale of men's basketball tickets being limited to 3000 students. llow absurd is that? When did students become second-dass citizens at our school? Being an alumnus of the '75 class, I can speak directly as to the difference real fans (i.e. students) can add to the team. I was there when students wouldn't give up on the team when they battled UCLA to break the 88 game streak. Wasn't it the student body that was voted the most valuable player in the upset win over No. 1 San Francisco? lsn 't that the only time that has ever happened? 
Ask the players from those teams how valuable students were to those victories. Have we become like all other schools that put student participation and support after the almighty dollar. Students are the school and all of them that desire to purchaso tickets should be allowed to do so. During the '70s, Digger Phelps understood how mueh stu­dont support meant to the team's success. Why doesn't the administration? 
The arena seats 11,500. That would mean that 8,500 seats are "filled" with fans who do not have as much at stake as the students. How does that show spirit? WP have all witnessed the non-students sit on their hands when the game is not going well. That is when the team needs the support the most. Let's give those players as much help as possible. At least 50 percent of the seats should be reserved for our stud<mts. If not, why not'? 
Richard F. Morton Class of'75 Oct. 31 

N(~WS Sports Tiwnsa Fralish Pat Leonard QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Katn Antonacci Mike Gilloon Jeannine Privat Knn Fowler 
Viewpoint Scene 

"The future belongs to those whcJ believe in theKathnrinn Howley Ham a "The only way to have a friend is to be one." 
GraJ)hics Gottumkkala 

beauty oftheir dreams. " Graham Ebetsch Illustrator 
Ralph Waldo Emerson Katie Knorr 
Eleanor Roosevelt 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday November 2, 2004 page 11 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
It is still just a game 

I love Notre Dame football as much as the next person on !!w.'·ram­pus. I have longed to attend Notre Dame my entire life, and I'cim be about as obnoxious as they come when talking football to those whom haven't yet been converted to Irish super-fans. Despite this fanaticism, as some would call it, I remember one important thing: it is still just a game. 
Why do I point this out, you ask? The answer is simply that some stu­dents seem to forget this fact. The following situation happens at every Notre Dame game: A<> most fans cheer wildly for the Irish defense, a cry rings out above the rest, "Injure him!" or "Make sure he never plays again!" Even worse, in that moment when play has stopped and an injured opponent lies on the field, "Yeah, he's hurt!" Are fans really asking our team to attempt to seriously injure the opposing players? 
A<> loyal and hard core as many of us are about Irish football, there is no excuse fi:Jr wishing "real world" harm on opponents. Football is a game, and while we may despise our opponents as players, we are called to respect them as children of God. You may pass this off as "just a part of the game" or say, "I don't really mean it," but this does not make it any more excusable. How would that injured player's mother feel ifshe were to hear someone yelling such things? Would you want to hear such things yelled about your best friend as he lays in agony, knowing that this injury may have forever changed his life? Next time you start to raise your voice in celebration of the sight of an opponent laying motionless on the field, think again about the person that is underneath the helmet and the pads, the person that may be in serious danger as a result of that hit. God cares about his well-being, and we are called to do the same. 
Phillip Nagel 
seniOr 
Morrissey Manor 
Nov.! 
• 
Changes are necessary to tnake Notre Datne football great 
I'm writing this letter because I have finally 'had it' with Notre Dame football. I fully expect­ed the Irish to beat Boston College and beat them handily. On paper, Notre Dame was and should be the better team. At halftime, even with the score 20-7 in our favor, I like everyone else felt it should have been a much larger deficit for Boston College with all of the oppor­tunities they gave us to blow the game wide open. We all know how it worked out. Once again, our football team lost a game that we should not have lost for the third time this sea­son. The Brigham Young University loss I looked past after the great victory against Michigan. I just believed the team overlooked them in preparation for the revenge match. I had a very difficult time swallowing the Purdue loss. I did not believe they had an athletic advantage over us going into the game. Yes, they had a senior quarterback who was playing well. But, we had shown that we could beat a good team at home with our victory over the University of Michigan. Of course, Purdue has now lost two home games, one of which to a team we beat. And the Boston College loss makes me absolutely sick for so many reasons, they are innumerable. 
This letter is not meant to slander Coach Willingham and his staff. I believe he is a great representative of the University. The players have shown great class in victory and defeat. Unfortunately, the numbers don't lie: Coach Willingham has lost seven games by 25 or more points. He is 1-2 against Purdue, 0-3 against Boston College, and 0-2 against the University of Southern California with another loss extremely likely in a few weeks. I could go on with more statistics to show how poor his record is compared to previous Notre Dame coaches through three seasons. I fully expected this team to progress in his third season, espe­cially after the Michigan victory. (That was the first time we looked like Notre Dame since the victory against Florida State University two years ago.) Unfortunately, they have done the exact opposite. 
For me, it is very simple: I want to be Notre Dame again on the football field. I want to win games we are expected to win. I want to win games we aren't expected to win. I want to make halftime adjustments. I want our team to be the aggressor. Heck, I wouldn't mind the occasional tunnel fight like we had against Miami in '88 and USC in '89. I want us to show teams that we do not lose in Rockne's House. I want teams to be intimidated again when they are at Notre Dame Stadium. And I want the Notre Dame team to be more focused when they hit the road because they have to be in order to win. 
Unfortunately, I don't believe these things that I want to happen will happen under the current regime. It is not a matter of talent any more. We have a few horses. We don't have the trainers. The ongoing experiment the University has run the last 11 years to do things "right" in the football program, whatev­er this might mean, has not worked. "Right" to me is when the Notrf:J Dame football program is as large and encompassing as the University itself. We need a coaching staff that brings us back to this level, and an administration that embraces this ideal. Maybe then, I will be able to stomach the occasional loss to a Big Ten team, or worse, Boston College. 
I am tired of the bookstore having to sell paraphernalia advertising the "Glory Days" because they don't have anything to sell with respect to the present-day program. 
Mark Mikiciuk alumni Class of '97, '03 MBA Oct. 29 

U-WIRE 



I love the Red Sox 
I love the Hed Sox so much it's not even funny. If Oct. 27 became the new Christmas for New England, then the day after surely must be New Year's Day -it became a fresh start for gen-· erations of millions of Hed Sox hopefuls. Andrew Bauld The Hed Sox won the World Series. No mat­Tufts ter how many times I University say it, hear it, read it, Daily. could it be true? It is surreal, dream-like; only Tim McCarver doesn't usually call my dreams, and the Red Sox are never champions when I wake up. 
People keep saying it is going to be different now, no more loveable losers and no more "curse" to secretly revel complaining about. People snidely sneer that there is no more reason for us to care. No reason to care? If I did­n't care, would I be sitting here, not even 24-hours since the Greatest Victory in Sports History, watching reruns of this season's extra inning games on NESN? Would I still be get­ting chills watching Big Papi hit that Easter day game winning home run in the 12th or be clapping as Timlin gets the last out in a mid-season Yankees game? I am a Red Sox fan. If it weren't repetitive, I would say I bleed red­but I do. 
Standing in line for over two hours the other day outside Fenway, waiting just to get a glimpse of the exorbitantly priced World Series memorabilia that waited inside, there was only one way to describe the mood at the Fen. It was the same feeling that raced through my mind when 27 outs were finally and officially recorded, it was the 
same feeling that washed over the face 
of every Red Sox fan I hugged that 
wonderful night, it was the same 
feeling that has draped 
itself over Boston like a 
blanket we've been 
missing for far too 
long. Happiness: 
genuine, pure, 
blissful happi­
ness. No 
Fenway 
Faithful or 
proud 
member 
of Red 
Sox 
Nation 
knew 
what 
that 
word 
truly 
meant 
until 86 
years of "what if's?" were finally 
washed 
away. But 
have we 
changed? Ask 
those fans 
already looking 
forward to opening 
day against the Evil 
Empire, and you'll get your 
answer. Bill Buckner, Bucky Dent, Bob Gibson, Bambino: like Tom Petty sang, "don't come around here no more." No 
more curse; we can now talk about the 
cure of 2004. Fifty years from now 
we'll be telling our grandchildren about the exploits of these new inductees to that exclusive club of Boston legend. Generations from now the renown of Schilling and Ortiz, Martinez and Ramirez, will forever be remi­nisced and adored by the city of Boston­while the 
likes of Bellhorn and Kapler and Roberts 
will remain with us 
diehards until the day we die. I never believed in the curse, but look­ing up at a blood red moon that night made me believe in destiny. I cannot help but think of 
the countless men who have graced the ranks of the Red Sox and have come as close as many of us thought would ever be possible. 1946, 1967, 1975, 1986 ... Ted Williams, Johnny Pesky, Jim Lonborg, Jim Rice, Carl Yastrzemski, Carlton Fisk, Luis Tiant, Bill Lee, Wade Boggs, Roger Clemens, even Bill Buckner. Those dates and those names are each syn­onymous with greatness and misery ­scorn and admiration for countless Red Sox fans -but they can all take comfort now, because this victory was far too important to be constrained for this one team and this one generation of fans. This was for everyone. 

It just hit me. For the umpteenth (but certainly not the final) time, the local news is showing the video of that infamous last out rolling between the unsure feet of Bill Buckner. In the past, I've felt physically sick, but not this time. For once I smiled, because the Boston Red Sox are the greatest team in baseball, and it is not only we loyal fans who know it. 
I cannot wait for spring training and Opening Day, waking up on that glori­ous morning in early spring when Sox tickets go on sale. Have things changed? Of course they have. The Boston Red Sox are World Series Champions -but I am cheering again watching NESN run the highlight reel of Mark Bellhorn score the tying run in the bottom of the ninth against the Royals. It goes without saying, but I love the Red Sox. 
This article originally appeared on Nov. 1 in Tufts Daily, the daily publica­tion at Tufts University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
Stealing Cars, Mutant Mayhem, Gor 
Students review some oft 
REVIEWS BY MARK BEME 

Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas 
Mark: The Crand Theft Auto game series has enjoyed trmnendous success with each and evnry rPinasn of its vari­cnrs installments. c;rand Theft Auto: Vice City was dcwpnr, morn addictive and lwtter developed that each of its predecessors and was a smash hit. With all these nxpectations, it's a relief that the latest installnwnt in the snries, (;rand Tlwl't Auto: San Andrc~as offers even morn to both long-time fans and novices alike. 
Tlw latest addition to thn Cram! Theft Auto series is quite original and both tlw ganwplay and torw is noticeably difTerent from the prPvious ones. Whiln tlw prnvious games focused on 
Grand Theft Auto 
the mafia and 


San Andreas 
urban skyscrapers, this one has much 
Rockstar 
morn of a subur­ban fnnl. The Available for mafia is rnplac:ed PlayStation 2 by the gang and hugn citins havn 

Mark's Rating: A
bncm replaced with an urban sprawl. Trevor's Rating: A The inner city locations have not 
b1wn dropped completely out of the game. While the focus is definitely on tho suburbs near the beginning of the 
gamn, you move into other parts of the statn as the game progresses, each offering their own unique locales and citizens. 
This is the largest Grand Theft Auto game yet, and the player can visit loca­tions varying from the city to the coun-
Mark: What's thn perfect time of the year to nnjoy some bone-erushing hits and blood-spattering fatalities, at lc~ast in vidno ganw form? Around llalloween, of course. During tho time when people dress up as ninjas and dead people, the now rnleasn Mortal Kombat: Deception is a perfect choice to whittle away the hours. 
Like Grand Theft Auto. the Mortal Kombat series has quite a large fan base and plenty of expectations to boot. While tryside, offering a wealth of opportuni­ties along the way. 

The gamcplay has been refined while retaining the spirit of' tho series. New modes and options can be chosen to tweak your character, such as choosing a· hairstyle or riding a BMX bike. Even a two player mode has been added. If you have played the previous Grand Thdt Auto games, you know what to expect f'rom this latest edition. And t.hat',s definitely a good thing. 
Trevor: Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is a real legend in the making. The GTA series has proven itself on the 
PlayStation 2 ever 

since 2001 with the smash hit Grand Thef't Auto III. That being said, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is debat­ably one of the best titles rel·eased for the PlayStation 2 to date if you like the GTA style of game­play. A storyline 
based on killing your rivals for respect and money, cou­pled with strong language and sexual content make this game very deserving of its .Mature rating. The game funda­mentally plays the same as its prede­cessor, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, but adds many new aspects, ineluding the necessity of eating and exercising to keep up your character's strength. 
Assuming that most gamers have 

the spine and harpoon fatalities have only risen by a marginal amount over the past years, this latest installment still has a lot to offer. 
But Mortal Kombat: Deception is prob­ably the best, most quirky Mortal Kombat game yet. With a roster of 24 new and returning characters, plus some more unconfirmed characters, the roster is impressive for a 3-0 fighter. The empha­sis this time appears to be on the lesser eharacters of the previous games, such knowledge of the previous GTA games and all their infamy, there are still some weaknesses in this game to con­sider. The big one on the list is frame rate, which is just another sign of the aging P52 technology. The orange tinge that the game carries in its visual effects is also noticeable enough to annoy many gamers. 
One of the many other new features offered by Grand. Theft Auto: San Andreas is the two-player mode. Now, don't get all excited. Of all the stron-g 




Mortal Kombat: Deception 
as Night wolf and Ermac. 
If you played Mortal Kombat: Deadly Alliance, then you know what to expect from this installment in the series. Each character has three fighting styles, one involving some form of weaponry. There are special attacks that each character can use, such as Scorpion's trademark harpoon attack. And of course, there are the various fatalities that are exelusive to each of the many characters. New to the series is the inclu­sion of the "hara-
Photo courtesy of ign.com 

points in this game, tlw two-player mode is not one of them. Given that both characters must share the same screen, the amount of things Hockstar could have done with the multiplayer was severely limited from the start. However, fun can still be had from rampantly running over your room­mate in a vehide and failing the mis­sion multiple times. 
Overall, San Andreas is another solid installment in the Grand Theft Auto series. 
and when two pieces meet, the game switches to a standard match. So, although there are some elements of chess to the game, it breaks down to the player's lighting ability within the pre­tense of' playing a strategic game of chess. 
The best addition to the game is the Puzzle Kombat modo. Slightly similar to Tetris or Columns, colored blocks fall from the top of the screen, and it is the player's responsi­bility to group the 

kiri," a self-per­
colors tog'other.
Mortal Kombat: 

formed fatality When a color

Deception

that prevents the breaker falls, the other player from points earned are performing his maximized. When
Midway

own fatality. a group of' eolor is 
However, therc~·s Available for X-Box broken, the other more to this game and Playstation 2 player gets an than just the equal number of' 
Mark's Ralting: A

fighting mode. blocks added to his New additions to side. Another layer this game include of strategy is added 
the Konqunst mode and two new mm1-games, Puzzle Kornbat and Chess Kombat. Konquest mode is basical­ly a role-playing experience, where the player follows a character's lif'e f'rom the moment he is chosen by the Elder Gods to be their champion to the point when hn is old and gray. It's not the deepest RPG. but for a free add-on, it's not too bad. For those internsted in the game, expect to spend a lot of' time here, as the majority of the extra characters are unlocked in this mode. 
Chess Kombat is prc~tty self'-explanato­ry and arguably tho weakest addition. The game plays by modified chess rules, by the inclusion of 

tho ability to choose a Mortal Kombat champion from the listed characters, each of whom have their own unique abilities. This can pro­vide some grc~at intonsity to this mini­game. The only downfall is that the color breakers seem to fall too inf'rnquently. 
Mortal Kombat fans ean rnlax, as this is probably the best incarnation of' their belovt~d game. A spedal edition has bonn released as well, one that ineludes an arcade port of' tlw original Mortal Kombat for an additional $Hl. 
This game is definitely worth a look for Mortal Kombat champions and rookies alike. 
t'. 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
page 13 
Fighting and Defending a Kingdom 
hottest new video games 
ERFER AND TREVOR GASS 
Trevor: X-Men Legends-redeeming a mediocre series one mutant punch at a time. This new approach to playing as the popular comic book heroes transports you and your roommates into an action-filled, role-playing world. X-Men Legends lets you take your choice of four mutants and then throw them into an engaging storyline that stays quite true to the comic series. You can spend hours smashing around through high tech military installations, Morlock sewers, and giant astProid space stations. 
llowever, X-Men Legends shows its truP strength in the multiplayer experi­ence. The artificial intelligence in the game can be rather dull so 
four-mutant team. Having a couple long range characters like Cyclops or Gambit rain mutant attacks on the computer controlled enemies while brutes like Colossus and Wolverine hack it out on the front lines is a strategy that will serve you well. But some levels require specific char-
Mark: Lord of the Rings fans unite ­your game has arrived. Kingdom Under Fire: The Crusaders is about control­ling an army of soldiers, human and otherwise, while trying to crush the opposing forces. Orcs, ogres, giant scorpions, birds and others all unite in this action strategy in such a way that it feels as if they should owe money to .1. R. R. Tolkien's estate. 

X-Men Legends 
acter's traits, such as Iceman's ability to form frozen bridges or Cyclops' power to wield doors shut with his optic blasts. 
A trait made famous by the role­playing game genre is the ability to increase the strength and abilities of your characters as the story progress­es. At the end of the game you will have the choice of 15 characters to select from, each with a varying array of mutant abilities to beef up as well as the typical strength and agility attributes. 
However, while this game is billed as strong, action-oriented role-playing game, X-Men Legends was somewhat lacking in the area of character 

X-Men Legends 
grabbing any­
customization. orw wandering Overall, X-Men around in your Legends is a hall is a better Activision strong title. But a allornative to true video game playing alone. Available for X-legend'? Not quite. 
The game Box, GameCube 
encourages tac­and PlayStation 2 Mark: X-Men tical thinking Legends is really that should be Mark's Rating: 8-nothing special, observed when as Trevor previ­
Trevor's Rating: A-
choosing your ously mentioned. 
It's a short rush 
followed by the realization that there's been no depth, limited story and ultimately unreward­ing. 
The gameplay is about as deep as Gauntlet. Fo·r the uninitiated, all this entails is the repeated pressing of a few buttons and the rampant use of 

Kingdom Under Fire 
Although there already have been several Lord of the Rings games in release, these games only allowed the player to control a single hero while non-playable characters assisted. While the games immersed you into the setting of the movies quite well, they didn't convey the feeling of leading an army in the fight against evil. 
Kingdom Under Fire does exactly 
your characters' special abilities. The enemies come in waves, with little vari­ation beyond appearance and tough­ness. You have enemies that fire at you and those other generic enemies that attack you with their bare hands/claws/tentacles. 
If you are looking for depth to your games, look elsewhere. But for a game that revolves around the X-Men and 
that. The player still primarily controls the solitary hero, but he also controls the unit that the hero is in, along with any other unit assigned to his com­mand. Toward the end of the game, the player ends up controlling the move­ment and attack patterns that involve a vast number of troops. 
The controls are relatively simple for such a complex game. The player con­trols the select­
can also send your other units on specific tasks that will follow through to completion even after you relinquish control over them. 
This is a great game overall and is highly recommended for Lord of the Rings fans to at least rent. 
However, the game still has some problems. Kingdom Under Fire becomes almost insanely difficult towards the end of the game and the selection of hero characters is a little on the light side. 
Trevor: Unlike X-Men Legends, tac­tics are the key to this medieval real­time strategy game. You are com-· mander-in-chief of your powerful their assorted villains, X-Men Legends is not too bad. 
As a mindless action game, it is satis­fying and toward the top of the heap that fall into that particular game genre. Plus, it has a wealth of X-Men references and trivia within the game, so comic fans may want to check this one out as a rental or after the price drops. 
army, which allows you to give tactical commands to the rest of your men as well as engage in messy one-on-one, one-on-two and even one-on-three ground level combat. You can decide to remain stealthy by keeping your troops in a tight formation or space them out to allow archers to fire through your ranks. 
Once again, the customization of 
characters and 

ed unit, 
armies plays a key
Kingdom Under 
whether it is a aspect in this
Fire

unit of archers, game, like many foot soldiers, recently released 
Phantagram

cavalry, etc, role-playing games. and then Whether it is switches pri­upgrading your
Available for X-Box 
mary control to super powers, the hero when changing your hair the enemy is Mark's Rating: 8+ or changing your engaged. team's uniforms, 
Trevor's Rating: 8
However, you most games are 

playing to garners' 

desires to put a unique spin on their characters. Kingdom Under Fire is no exception. Different weapons and devices lend you and your commanding officers varying skills and abilities . 
If you liked the PlayStation 2's Dynasty Warriors, this is the X-Box's answer. More depth and strategy, and of course, better graphics keep it inter­esting. However, the graphics are not exactly stellar and the music is nothing special either. But at a launch price of $39.99, it is a game to consider. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu and Trevor Gass at tgass@nd.edu 
•• 1 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
NFL 

New York trounces Miami 

Associated Press 
liAST HUTIIEHFOHI>, N.J. ­The New York Jets gave the Miami Dolphins a little of Curtis Martin, and a little of LaMont Jordan. 
They made a perfect combi­nation. The running back duo helped the Jets embarrass the hapless Dolphins, sending their defense. to a new low in a 41-14 rout Monday night. Martin and Jordan naeh ran for 1 15 yards and a score, and the 275 yards the Jets rcu~ked up on tht1 ground arn the most in the NFL this season. 
"We always talk about being a 1-2 puneh," Martin said. "And you eould sen that from us tonight." 
Tho last tirnn tho teams met on Monday night. tho Jets prasod a 2:{-point. fourth-quar­tnr deficit for a 40-37 overtime win in 2000 in what is known as tho "Monday Night Miracle." 
Thorn was no chance of a cornebaek this time around. The Jots (6-1) scored 34 straight points, stilling the inef­f'eetivn Dolphins (l-7l on oiTensc and humiliating the proud Miami dnfense, which entered the ganw ranked fourth in the NFL. 
Chad Pennington threw three touehdown passes and went 11­of-11) for I SIJ yards before 
CLASSIFIEDS 
being lifted for Quincy Carter in the fourth quarter. The Jets fin­ished with 4 72 yards of total ofl'ense. 
"They gave us an old-fash­ioned beating," Dolphins line­backer Junior Seau said. "I tip my hat to them, for not only what they did against us but the whole year." 
New York entered the game after its first loss of the season, 13-7 to New England last week­end, but turned in its most com­plete performance of the year. Jets coach Iierman Edwards knew it was important to keep pace with the Patriots and Steelers, both 6-1 in the AFC. 
"If you can keep this bottled up, we have a chance to be a pretty good football team," Edwards said. 
The last time the Jets had two 100-yard rushers in a game was Sept. 28, 1975, when John Higgins ran for 145 yards and Carl Garwtt had 135 in a 30-24 win over Kansas City. Miami last allowed two 1 00-yard rush­ers on Oct. 21), 1989, at BufTalo, when Thurman Thomas had 148 yards and Larry Kinnebrew added 121. 
Martin, 31, has had a renais­sance in his lOth NFL season. lie came into the game second in the league in rushing, while carrying the Jets burden on the ground. 
That all changed against the Dolphins. Edwards made it a point to use both backs and wear down the Dolphins defense in the second half. Martin finished with 19 carries and Jordan had 14. 
"It feels good any time you have a 100-yard rusher and we had two," Jets left tackle Kareem McKenzie said. "How often does that happen'? That's something you can tell to your grandkids." 
The Jets defense harassed Jay Fiedler the entire game, sacking the Dolphins quarter­back four times and picking him off twice. Miami got a meaningless score as the game ended, when Fiedler threw a 29-yard touchdown pass to Derrius Thompson. Fiedler fin­ished 20-of-41 for 218 yards. 
"When you don't run the foot­ball and you don't stop the run, you don't win," Dolphins coach Dave Wannstedt said. "No one understands that more than I do because that's how we've won around here." 
The complete humiliation of the Miami defense was perhaps the most confounding part of the game. 
Pennington connected on one big passing play after another, repeatedly taking advantage of cornerbacks Sam Madison and Patrick Surtain. 
Moss healing slovv 1 y 
Associated Press 
·EDEN PHAIHIE, Minn. ­Minnesota's Handy Moss might miss his first career game because of a lingering right hamstring strain that hasn't gotten worse -but isn't getting a whole lot better. 
The Vikings will decide later this week whether or not they should rest their All-Pro receiver on Monday night at Indianapolis. 
Since being hurt before half­time of Minnesota's game at New Orleans on Oct. 17, Moss has been limited to just 11 snaps over the last 10 quar­ters. Though he leads the team with eight touchdown catches and his consecutive games streak remains alive at 
103. he's gone the last two games without a reception. 
"Can we get him back at full speed sooner if we just sit him'?" coach Mike Tice said. "Or is he going to be back at full speed the same length of time if we just play him in a limited role -based on the fact that in two weeks he did­n't take a step back'?" 
"So have to monitor that, as the week goes on. We have to do what's best for the team to achieve our goals, which are to win the division and win the world championship. We can't do what's best for a streak;, or anything of that nature. 

Players were given Monday oil, with the extra day ahead to prepare for the Colts. 
Moss was thrown to once in Sunday's 34-13 loss to the New York Giants, and he clearly wasn't able to run hard whenever he went down­field. The Vikings planned to use him frequently inside their opponent's 20-yard line, but the offense sputtered so badly that red zone opportuni­ties were scarce. 
Moss' hamstring began to tighten in the second quarter from standing around so much, and Tice decided to pull him out at halftime. 
Moss told Tice on Sunday night that he was feeling bet­ter, so the seventh-year star will begin the week listed as questionable on the injury report. 
Marcus Robinson, who led the Vikings with 91 yards receiving against the Giants and is second on the team with six touchdowns, sprained his left foot and will be listed as probable. 
"That puts us in a bind," Tice said, indicating Minn esota would scan the waiver wire this week for wide receiver depth. 


Favre set to play 
Packers QB to keep starting streak alive 
Associated Press 
GHEEN BAY, Wis. -Brett Favre has a sprained thumb on his throwing hand, but it won't keep the Green Bay quarterback from making his next start, against Minnesota on Nov. 14. 
Favre, who has started an NFL -record 216 straight games at quarterback, had the team doctor check out the thumb, which he broke last season and reinjured Sunday in a 28-14 victory against the Washington Hedskins. 
"Brett sprained his thumb a little bit. It's not as significant as last time," coach Mike Sherman said Monday. "I don't anticipate the hand or the thumb being an issue for the Minnesota ga:me." 
The three-time league MVP injured his right hand against Dallas last week. 
Favre, who has a history of playing through injuries, did­n't practice last week until Friday. Now, he can rest some more as the Packers enter their bye week. 

"It seems like every year I say, 'The bye week couldn't come at a better time.' But physically, emotionally. it's coming at a good time," Favrn said. 
This season alone, Favre has played with a troublesome left shoulder, a concussion and a softball-sized bruise on his left hamstring, along with the sprained hand and thumb. He also has had to cope with the death of his brother-in-law and the breast cancer diagno­sis of his wife, Deanna, last month. 
Against the Hedskins, Favre led the Packers on three con­secutive scoring drives, then threw three interceptions before Green Bay held on. Sherman said Favre had trou­ble holding the ball well beeause of his injuries. 
"lie couldn't grip a ball real­ly until Friday," the coach said. "And even Friday I didn't get a great feeling that he was able to grip it and deliver it with the velocity that he's used to delivering it." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar the Norre Dame office, 024 Somh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righ1 to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FoR RENT 
2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from ND MMMRentals.com 532-1408 
6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. AFTER 6/1105. ALSO: 3 BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. AVAILNOW. CALL JOE CRIMMINS:574-229· 3659 OR 679-2010. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5·7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCESTAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE 
WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
Fum. 1-bdrm. apt. for 1-2 weekend visitors. 5 miles away in a safe neighborhood. 57 4-286-9392. 
LARGE 3 bd/2 ba. 4 blocks from campus on Sarin with w/d, garage and basement. Please contact Matt at 876-1456. $1,150/mo. 

WANTED 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIXPLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-3911 NEED TICKETS Nov. 13 Pitt. Call Amy 219-872-5932 
CHILD CARE WANTED: 23-month-old twins in our home. 1 or 2 weekdays( 5-6 hours each day).Must provide own transporta­lion. Call Kara at574-621-1540. 
For Sale: ND footballtix. 
Good prices.232-0964. 
Wanted: ND footballtix. 
Top$$$ 251-1570. 
ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 

Buying and selling ND football tix, especially Boston College 574-289­8048 

PE:RSONAL 

ADOPTION-Happily married couple long to provide your newborn with a happy home, warmth, security and unconditional love. Expenses paid. Carolyfl and Kevin 1-866-206-3323 PIN#7774 SPRING BREAK with Bianchi·Rossi Toursl Over 18 years of Spring Break experience! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun I Acapulco· Vallarta-Mazatlan·Cacun & Cabo. Organize a group-Go Free! 800-875-4525 or www.bianchi­rossi.com 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $2991 Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco. Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $1591 www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800­678-6386 

.. 
Tuesday, November 2, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
ND MEN'S AND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Isban has lead after 2 rounds in California 
Special to The Observer 
LA QUINTA, Calif. Sophomore Cole Isban fired a two-over par 146 on Monday and leads by two strokes head­ing into the third and final round of The Prestige at PGA WEST, which is being held in La Quinta, Calif., at the par-72, 7,156-yard Greg Norman Course at the famed PGA WEST • complex. Isban was one of only six golfers in 
the 84-man field to shoot par or better in either of Monday's two rounds, card­ing a 72 over the opening 18 holes 


before tack-lsban ing on a 74 in the afternoon session. 
In the team standings, Notre Dame is in 12th place after posting a two-round total of 57­over par 633 (311-322). The Irish had jumped into a tie for fourth place after the opening round, but slipped back in the field during the second circuit. Still, Notre Dame is not far behind some of the tourna­ment's higher-powered squads -17th-ranked BYU is only four strokes ahead of the Irish in 11th place, while No. 23 Oklahoma is 10 shots in front of Notre Dame in seventh place and No. 10 Tournament co-host UC Davis has a one-stroke lead over 16th-ranked UCLA going into today's final round. 
Isban's day got off to an 
inausptctous start as he bogeyed two of his first three holes. However, he quickly rebounded to reel off five birdies in his next 20 holes, with only a double bogey late in his first round marring the scorecard. When the day was done, Isban had collected seven birdies and seemingly tamed the monstrous course that rav­aged the field to the tune of a 
79.96 stroke average through two rounds. 
Brown shoots 71 in first round 
Stacy Brown carded a career­best one-under-par 71 in the first round of the Edwin Watts/Palmetto Intercollegiate on Monday to pace the Irish as they are tied for third heading into today's final day of compe­tition at the par 72, 5,911-yard Kiawah Island Oak Point Golf Course. The sophomore finds herself two shots in back of the leader and in a three-way tie for third. 
Campbell University and Louisville each posted a 10-over par 298 to sit atop the team leader board after Monday's play, which featured 27 -holes of play with only the first round of 18 being released. Notre Dame along with its central region­rival Michigan both carded 12­over par 300's to claim stake to third going into the final 36­holes. 
The Mustangs currently reside in eighth-place out of the 18-team field. 
Sophomore Noriko Nakazaki fired the best nine-hole total of the round for the Irish with a 33 on the front nine. 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Broncos safety John Lynch will be sidelined at least two weeks and perhaps for a month with a fractured tailbone. 
Signed as a free agent after Tampa Bay let him go, Lynch has been a steadying influence on the Denver defense. But the Broncos struggled in a 41-28 loss to Atlanta on Sunday and Lynch went down after being hit in the side by receiver Brian Finneran. 
Angry about the hit, Lynch walked toward the Atlanta huddle and started yelling at the Falcons before leaving tne game. 
Denver coach Mike Shanahan said the block appeared legal, "but it was one of those blindside shots that kind of catches you off-guard." 
Nick Ferguson will start for Lynch next Sunday against Houston and then the Broncos have a bye. Porcher retires from Lions 
Robert Porcher retired Monday, ending a 13-year career as Detroit's career leader in sacks. 
"I've thought about this day for a lot of the last three years," Porcher said. "We all think we can play forever, and I was no different, but now. the time has come to step aside." 
Porcher, who has 95 1/2 sacks, already had announced this would be his last season, but he ended his career early after being inactive for Detroit's first seven games. 
"These last seven weeks have been tough," he said. "I had always been proud of 
NFL ROUNDUP 




Tailbone sidelines Lynch 
being part of the solution, not part of the problem." 
Panthers Morgan may be out 
The team is evaluating line­backer Dan Morgan to see if he suffered a concussion against the Seahawks. 
Morgan was plagued by postconcussion syndrome last year, missing five games and parts of four others. Once com­pletely healed, Morgan acknowledged he suffered dizziness and fatigue while try­ing to play. 
So the Panthers are taking it slow this time with Morgan, who left Sunday's loss in the Whalf. 
Coach John Fox said it's pos­sible Morgan might not play this week against Oakland. 
"You always err on the side of caution when you are deal­ing with a concussion," Fox said. 
Titans Hall has knee surgery 
Defensive end Carlos Hall had surgery on his right knee Monday after the Titans gave him a week of rest, hoping he would heal. 
Hall couldn't start Sunday in the Titans' 27-20 victory over Cincinnati and was replaced by rookie Travis LaBoy. 
"It still bothered him, so we just went in there and did a routine scope to just kind of clean it out. The doctor said there was nothing significant in there other·than wear and tear creating problems for him," coach Jeff Fisher said. 
Giants Warner optimistic 
Kurt Warner doesn't want to compare the Giants to some of the playoff and Super Bowl teams from his days. with the Rams. 
There are different players, coaches and teams, and Warner doesn't want to say too much with more than half a season to go. 
Nevertheless, Warner is excited about the possibilities for the Giants (5-2) after their stuiming 34-13 win in Minnesota on Sunday. 
"I still don't think we have played near our best football in all three phases in any game," Warner said Monday. "I think we have seen spurts of it. To play the way we have and to still be 5-2 despite all that, it's a good feeling." 
Offensively, Warner and the offense fixed its red zone prob­lem for at least a week. They scored touchdowns on four of five possessions inside the Minnesota 20. Bengals reeling after loss 
A 27-20 loss in Tennessee left Cincinnati (2-5), the NFL's most downtrodden franchise, stuck in last place in the AFC North, headed in the wrong direction. 
The loss wiped away a smidgen of hope sparked by a solid Monday night win over Denver, revealing the Bengals for what they are: a team that rises to the occasion only on rare occasions. 
The NFL's worst run defense was at it again Sunday, giving up 163 yards. A unit already missing middle linebacker Nate Webster struggled might­ily in its first game without lineman Tony Williams, out for the season with a broken ankle. 
Ravens survive without Lewis 
After going 1-1 during the two-game suspension of All­Pro running back Jamal Lewis, the Ravens are ready to make a legitimate move in pursuit of a playoff berth. 
Lewis served his punishment for violating the NFL substance abuse policy. During his absence, Baltimore handily beat the Bills before falling 15­10 on the road against the unbeaten Eagles. 
That left the Ravens (4-3) two games behind the surpris­ing Pittsburgh Steelers in the AFC North. 
"Now we're going to go for­ward and see what we're going to make happen over the next few weeks," coach Brian Billick said Monday. "We clear­ly have to be better in order to re-establish ourselves as a team that has playoff and Super Bowl aspirations." 
Chester Taylor and Musa Smith filled in capably, totaling 100 yards rushing against the Bills and 103 versus Philadelphia, but neither can match the credentials of Lewis who last year ran for 2,066 yards.

A leading finance and economics consulting firm. A dynamic culture of growth and collegiality. 
November 4, 2004 

--~-­

page 16 Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
MLB 

Arizona picks new skipper 
Associated Press 

PIIOI(NIX-Wally Backman was the scrappy, intense second baseman for the World Series cham pion New York Mets 18 years ago. lin promises to bring that samn style to the Arizona Diamondbacks as their new manager. 
Backman, who took himself' out of' contention for the Mets managing job last week, was hired Monday to take over an Arizona team coming ofT one of the worst seasons in major league history. 
"My style is hard, aggressive baseball," Backman said. "If my brother is second baseman for the Los Angeles Dodgers and if it mans taking him out at sec­ond base, that's what I expect my players to do. That's the way we play the game." 
Backman, 45, was selected minor league manager of the year this season by The Sporting News after leading Class A Lancaster to the best record in the California League (86-54). 
"This is not a rebuilding pro­gram. I'm here to win. That's what l'vn always been about and that's what the Diamondbacks an~ about," Backman said. "And we will get back to the Diamondback ways of' .the past as soon as we possi­bly earl. We will make some 

AP New Diamondbacks manager Wally Backman was a Met, left, in 1987. Backman is introduced at Monday's press conference. 
changes and this team will compete. That's one thing that every team that I've ever man­aged does." 
Backman, 45, was given a two-year contract with two team options. He was chosen over former Seattle manager Bob Melvin and Montreal Expos third base coach Manny Acta. 
Backman, an all-state wrestler as well as star baseball player at Aloha, Ore., High School, was a first-round draft pick of the Mots, the 16th selec­tion overall. He played 14 sea­sons in the major leagues, the first nine with the Mots, and finished with a .27 5 career average with 240 RBis and 117 steals. 
"He expects to win. We expect to win," general manager Joe Garagiola Jr. said, "and his players will understand that from the first day of spring training." 
He takes over a franchise that dropped to 51-111 last season, the worst record in the history of the Diamondbacks who won . the World Series title in 2001. 

GM Hunsicker quits, Astros hire Purpura 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Tim Purpura 
has wanted to be a general 
manager for over a decade. 
lie never expected to get the 
job, at least not so soon and 
not in Houston. 

When Gerry Hunsicker 
resigned as GM of the Houston 
Astros on Monday, Purpura 
immediately assumed the 
position vacated by the man 
who was the architect of five 
playoiT teams in nine years. 

Purpura worked under 
Hunsicker in each of those 
seasons, never guessing that 
his boss would leave after one 
of the most successful stretch­
es in franchise history. 

"I have very large shoes to fill," said Purpura, who was Hunsicker's assistant and the team's director of player development. "Realistically, I .thought I'd have to go some­where else to have this kind of 
opportunity." 

Hunsicker, 53, resigned less 
than two weeks after the team 
came within one win of reach­
ing the World Series for the 
first time. lie plans to remain 
with the Astros as an adviser 
through next season. 

"I will look with pride at 
what we have accomplished," 
Hunsicker said. "We almost 
got there, and I know we are 
going to get there real soon." 

Hunsicker came to the Astros in 1995 from the New York Mets, where he was the No. 2 person in baseball oper­ations. lie previously worked with the Astros as traveling secretary, minor league pitch­ing coach, scout and assistant to the general manager. 
During his tenure, Hunsicker earned aeelaim for consistently keeping the Astros competitive despite 
. their budget constraints in a medium-sized market. Hunsicker's clubs won four NL Central Division titles and finished second three times, inducting this past season. lie might have done his best job this year, signing Andy Pettitte away from the New York Yankees and luring another Yankees starter, Roger Clemens, out of retirement to join his buddy. When the Astros went into a midseason slump, Hunsicker swung a trade for All-Star center fielder Carlos Beltran and fired manager .Jimy Williams. He turned to Phil Garner, who had been out of baseball for two years after spending 10 seasons manag­ing terrible teams in Milwaukee and Detroit. The move worked. Houston reeled ofl' 36 wins in the final 46 games to clinch the NL wild card. 

Lovve, Varitek alllong 10 Red Sox filing for free agency 
Morris leads trio of Cardinal free agents; Martinez still eligible 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Hight-hander Derek Lowe and catcher Jason Varitek led a parade of 10 Hod Sox who filod for free agency Monday, two days after they were honon~d in Boston follow­ing the team's first World Series ti til~ since 1<J 18. 
Shortstop Orlando Cabrera and backup catcher Doug Mirabelli also filed along with right-handnrs Curtis Leskanie, Hamiro Mendoza and Scott Williamson; left-bander Mike Mynrs; f'irst baseman Dave McCarty and second baseman Pokny Honse. 
Loskanie filed after Boston declined a $1.25 milliim option, nlncting to pay a $1 00,000 buy­out. 
Thirteen Hod Sox have 11lnd for frnn agency since Boston won the World Series last Wnchwsday, and throe more arc eligible, induding pitcher Pedro Martinez. 
Three players from the NL champion St. Louis Cardinals filed: sneond baseman Tony 

Womack, right-hander Matt Morris and left-hander Steve Kline. 
The New York Mets declined a $15 million option on Hichard Hidalgo and opted to pay the outfielder a $2 million buyout. Hidalgo then filed for free agency along with right-han­dtHs Kris Benson and Jticky Bottalieo, left-bander .John Franeo and first baseman Todd Zeile, who plans to retire. 
"Wn are open-minded to speaking to Hichard about com­ing back next year," Mets gen­eral manager Omar Minaya said. 
Hidalgo, acquired from Tampa Bay declined an $8 Houston on .June 17. hit .228 million option on Tino Martinez 
(74-for-324) with 21 homers and 52 HBis in 86 games with New York. New York has spoken with the agent for Benson, obtained from Pittsburgh in late .July. The Mets have said they would like to re­sign him. 
Franco, the 44­and will pay him a $1 million buyout. The Devil Rays, his
"We are 
hometown team,open-minded to remain interested speaking to in re-signing the 3 7 -year-old first
Richard [Hidalgo]." 
baseman. The Devil Rays Omar Minaya obtained Martinez 
Mets general manager from the Cardinals in a trade last win­ter and he hit .263 with 23 homers 
year-old team captain, probably and 78 HBis in 138 games this 
won't be asked back. 
Organ Donation Awareness 
lfllil~@~9~~[k®~~Uil@l ~@~®W •mllilQ ~~~@ ~[ij] 
Learn how YOU can make adifference. 


Donate Life 
Sponsored by· Farley and Cavanaugh Hall 
year. 
Also Monday, right-hander Kevin Appier asked to be rein­stated from tho voluntary retired list by the Kansas City Hoyals and filed for free agency. 
Forty-thr~e players filed Monday, including Philadelphia left-handor Erie Milton, Chicago Cubs outfielder Moises Alou, Houston second baseman Jeff' Kent, Arizona first baseman Richie Sexson and Anaheim designated hitter Andres Galarraga. 
A total of 170 players have liled for free agency, and up to 46 more are potentially eligible to file by the Nov. 11 deadline. 

2004-05 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
A ··t ·· ·'1 Ll • · rl.,l·· · ·1· · · ·] ··· ·· S'11' J' _\
c or s J' rorn . . 1e .JHH. on k. ,rlg( 
AMidsummer Night's Dream 
by William Shakespeare 

Wednesday, November 3 and Saturday, November 6 Both performances at 7:30p.m. 
Leighton Concert Hall, rie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General Public $18.00 • Seniors/NO Faculty/Staff $16 • Students $12 Tickets ava1!able at the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 631-2800. The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
~UNIVERSITY OP 
~NOTRE DAME 
. t 


I ~ I

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
BCS Standings 

team rcf:ord points 
1 usc 841 .9895 2 Oklahoma 841 .9648 3 Aubum 941 .9238 4 California 6·1 .8050 5 Wisconsin 8·8 . .7579 6 Utah 8·8 .7429 7 Texas 7~1 .7370 8 Tennessee 7·1 .7124 9 Georgia 7·1 .7019 10 Miami 6·1 .6530 11 Michigan 8·1 .6086 12 Boise State 8·8 .5488 13 Florida Slate 6,2 .4738 14 Virginia 6·1 .4563 15 louisville 5·1 .4182 16 West Virginia 7-1 .4160 17 LSU 6-2 .3235 18 Arizona State 6·2 .3169 19 Oklahoma State 6·2 .2965 20 Virginia Tech 6·2 .2556 21 Iowa 6~2 .2299 22 TexasA&M 6·2 .2219 23 Southern Miss 5·1 .1284 24 UTEP 6·2 .0769 25 Boston College 5-2 .0451 
Men's Soccer Top 25 
team record previous 
1 UNC Greensboro 14·0·1 1 2 Virginia 13-2•0 3 3 SMU 12·3·0 4 4 UCLA 9-2·2 13 5 NOTRE DAME 12-2·2 5 6 UC Santa Barbara 12·2·1 2 7 Creighton 12·2·0 7 8 Indiana 11·3·1 8 9 St. John's 9-H 10 10 Boston College 10·3·1 12 11 Wake Forest 9-3·1 15 12 Maryland 10·4-1 25 13 New Mexico 11·1·1 5 13 Seton Hall 10·5·1 17 15 James Madison 134·1 9 16 Washington 10·3·2 18 17 UAB 9-4-Q 25 18 Hartwick 9-2·3 20 19 Penn State 8-3·5 HR 20 Memphis 10·3·1 22 21 Rhode Island 10·5·1 HR 22 Duke 13~3·0 19 23 Santa Clara 11·3·0 22 24 Virginia Commonwealth 9~4-1 16 25 Binghampton 10·1·5 24 
Women's Volleyball Divisiortl AVCA Rankings 
team record 
1 Washington (63) 19•0 2 Hawaii (2) 20·0 3 Nebraska 1H 4 usc 14·3 5 Minnesota 21·3 6 Penn State 19·2 7 Ohio Stale 21-1 B Florida 20·2 9 Colorado State 20·2 10 Texas 19"2 11 California 12·1 12 stanford 15·6 13 St Mary's (Calif.) 19·2 14 TexasA&M 14-5 15 Tennessee 21-2 16 UCLA 14+ 17 utah 18"3 18 Kansas State 14-7 19 UC Santa Barbara 16·3 20 Santa Clara 16-4 21 San Diego 
16-4 221 Louisville 

22t Arizona 
24 FtoridaA&M 
25 Illinois 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Toledo at Miami (Ohio) 7:30p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Rockets at Pistons 8 p.m., TNT 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 

SEATTLE -Washington coach Keith Gilbertson will step down at the end of the season, ending a difficult two years as Rick Neuheisel's replacement. 
"Coach Gilbertson and I have talked for several weeks about the football program and we mutually agreed that it needs an immediate boost," Washington athletic direc­tor Todd Turner said in a statement Monday. "Keith will finish this season as our head coach and has agreed to assist me beyond that time to develop a strategy for reinvestment 
by our university in its football program." An afternoon news con­ference was scheduled. 
The Huskies lost 31-6 at Oregon on Saturday, drop­ping to 1-7 overall and 0-5 in the Pac-10. It's the worst season in 35 years for a school that shared the 1991 national title. 
The 56-year-old Gilbert­son, a Washington native, is 7-13 in his second sea­son at Washington. 
"I want to see this pro­gram succeed and get rolling again. Whatever I can do to help, I'll do," he said. "Sure I wish we had been more successful and won more games. But there was never a day I didn't enjoy coaching over the past two years. 
Turner said the search for Gilbertson's successor would begin immediately. 
Gilbertson took over the Huskies six weeks before the start of fall camp in 2003 under tough circum­stances. 
Neuheisel was fired in July 2003 for gambling on NCAA basketball, leaving then-athletic director Barbara Hedges little time or options for filling the job. 
Hedges said at the time that Gilbertson was chosen because he was the only member of the staff with head coaching experience. 
Gilbertson previously coached Idaho (1986-88) and California (1992-95) and is 55-48 overall in nine seasons as a head coach. 
The Huskies went 6-6 last season and 4-4 in the Pac-10, barely avoiding the school's first losing season since 1976. Washington lost at home to Nevada and was blown out by California and UCLA. 
The only win this season was over San Jose State, and Washington is winless in the Pac-1 0. The last time the Huskies went without a league victory was 1973, when they were 0-7 in the old Pac-8. 
IN BRIEF 

Sixers see.k to trade veteran 
forward Glenn Robinson 
PHILADELPHIA -The Philadelphia 76ers placed 11-year veteran Glenn Robinson on the injured list Monday with left ankle tendonitis and will try to trade the former No. 1 pick. 
Sixers general manager Billy King indicated that he and new coach Jim O'Brien had reached the conclusion that trading the 31-year-old forward would be the best thing for all parties. 
"With the direction we want to go and the way Jim wants to play, it may not benefit Glenn," King said. "I don't think Glenn's lost any of his skill level. It's just the way we're going as an organization." 
Robinson, who played at Purdue and was Indiana's 1991 high school Mr. Basketball from Gary Roosevelt, averaged 16.6 points per game last season -down from his career average of 20.8. 
O'Brien said Robinson needs a change of scenery for the third time in his career. 
"He needs to start for a team and put up numbers," O'Brien said. "I think he could fit. He's just not fitting in our starting lineup." 
Robinson, who had been replaced in the starting lineup by first-round pick Andre Igoudala, took the news in stride. 
"They want to go with the younger guys and play Andre at small for­ward and that's fine," Robinson said. Rockets sign McGrady to multiyear extension 
HOUSTON -The Houston Rockets signed two-time NBA scoring cham­pion Tracy McGrady to a multiyear contract extension on Monday. 
Terms of the deal were not released. 
Before being traded to the Rockets from Orlando in June, McGrady had vowed to exercise the opt-out clause in his contract, which had three years remaining. The clause was to go into effect after this season. 
''I'm pretty happy about that. It's one thing I can get off my mind,"' McGrady told Houston television sta­tion KRIV. 
Rockets owner Les Alexander said in a statement that team officials now would direct their efforts on All­Star center Yao Ming.Shaq uncertain for season opener against Nets 
MIAMI -Shaquille O'Neal remains bothered by a strained left ham­string, yet the 11-time All-Star cen­ter hopes to play Wednesday when Miami opens its season at New Jersey. 
O'Neal missed most of Miami's practice Monday, sparking concerns that the injury is worse than feared. The Heat, however, did not place O'Neal on the injured list, indicating they believe the problem is minor. 
Still, Heat coach Stan Van Gundy was clearly disappointed that O'Neal -who sat out practices Friday and Saturday, and missed three of Miami's seven preseason games ­wasn't able to participate in Monday's workout. 
I. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 2, 2004 CLUB SPORTS 
Field hockey sweeps Kent State, Ashland 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's field hockey club swept a pair of games this week­end at Kent State and Ashland. Hebecca Mosca, Eleanor Bradley, and Leigh Madeira each seared two goals for the Irish while Kaitlin Moran and Mary Davis rounded out the balanced attack in an 8-0 whitewash of Kent State. Moran and Madeira shared goaltending duties, as well. In Moran's first stint between the pipes, she regis­tered two saves. 
In Sunday's action, the Irish eontinued their dominating play with a second shutout, 5-0 over Ashland. Madeira played goal the entire game, making six stops. Bradley and Davis ripped home two goals apiece, with Moran adding a final goal to her three assists. 
Men's rowing 
The Notre Dame rowing dub faced rocky weather and tough eompetition from over 40 di!l'er­ent dubs and organizations this weekend at the Iload of the Elk Hegatta in Elkhart. Thn novice team had a strong showing in the eights, rowing a blistering 
16:37 despite the choppy water conditions and being a man down in the boat. They earned a fourth-place finish and came in only 15 seconds behind the No. 1 Purdue boat. 
The open four event proved to be another big event for the 
Irish. They had strong showings 
in the A, B and C heats. The 
highlights of the races were a 
fourth-place finish in the B heat 
with a time of 16:21.4 and a 
medal-earning third-place finish 
in the C heat with the line up of 
Bill Blosky, Dan Kettinger, Dan 
Hobertson, and Joe Blakely and 
coxed by Kim Genesio. 
The men's lightweight compe­
tition played out with intense 
action as well. The two Notre 
Dame boats put up good num­
bers of 19:34.9 and 18:06.6 
despite a collision with Michigan 
State and other fierce competi­
tion from University of Michig:u ~ 
Northwestern University and 
Mercyhurst College. 
The big event of the day was 
the men's open eights competi­
tion. Notre Dame posted stellar 
scores in both the A and B heats. 
Bowling 
Van Koppersrnith 's 182 aver­age and personal high game of 221 led the Irish to a 21st place finish in the season opening league competition in Pittsburgh this weekend. Vance MeClenton and Jim Talamo rolled games over 190 and Pavan Sadarangani provided strong 
depth with a five-game average of 166. J.B. Bertumen and Tom Talamo were among the top five Irish bowlers and helped the squad break 800 in three of its five games, narrowly missing in the two other games. The Irish are dosing the gap on the league leaders as they look to continue advancing up the league stand­ings. 
Squash 
Notre Dame's squash club was recognized this year by the Collegiate Squash Association as an emerging team member of the CSA. Led by team .captain Sereeparp Anantavrasilp, the Irish journeyed to Penn State to participate in three matches on Saturday. With only seven play­ers making the trip, the Irish had to forfeit matches at number 8 and 9 in every contest. The Irish fell to Penn State 8-1, Haverford 8-1 and Colgate 6-3 in the finale. 
Irish freshman Mike Gelinas, playing at number 2 in the line­up, swept all three of his match­es, 3-0, 3-2, and 3-1. Sophomore James Zhang, a member of the Singapore national junior team, played number one and dropped two close matches before win­ning his third, 3-0 over Colgate. Team captain Sereepart Anantavrasillp was a solid num­ber three for the Irish and also won his third match, to give the Irish wins at the top three spots against Colgate. 
Collin Donovan, Mike McConnell, Anish Thomas and Mary Winegart played competi­tiv~ matches despite corning up short, and gained valuable expe­rience. Donavan and Thomas both won games against Penn State in a pair of lengthy match­es. 
.. 

Equestrian 
The ND/SMC Equestrian team placed second at the IUPUI show this weekend, earning reserve high point honors. In a closely bunched finish, the Irish 32 points finished just behind IUPUI with 34 points and just ahead of Earlham's 31 points. 
In individual performances, Claire Freeman and Katie Baron took second and fourth in open fences. Caitlin Landuyt earned 1st in intermediate fences, fol­lowed by Molly Schmiege, sec­ond, and Ana Hichter sixth. 
Freeman earned second in open nat, with teammates Julia Burke and Baron tying for third and Elizabeth Bell and Molly Kopacz tying for sixth. 

Andrea Oliverio garnered another first for the Irish in intermediate nat, with Schmiege second, Landuyt third, Marina Cardona Maldonado fourth and Richter fifth in an event domi­nated by the club. 
Mary Dorgant and Kristen LaSota finished second and fourth respectively n novice flat. Heather LaDue and Lauren Croaii tied for second in advanced walk trot canter, with Marta Ascadi and Kay Booth taking fourth and fifth. 
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING COMPARISON 
Lafayette Square Townhomes  Turtle Creek  Clover Ridge  Castle Point  
Washer/Dryer in Every Unit  YES  No  No  No  
4 & 5 Bedrooms  YES  No  No  No  
10 Month Lease Available  YES  Yes  No  No  
Your Own Bedroom  YES  ?  ?  ?  
August 1st Move In  YES  No  Yes  Yes  
Square Footage  1560-1860  255-1200  750-1000  737-1340  
PRICE PER STUDENT  $254-267.50  $367.50-625  $320-465  $412-551  
Best Value  YES!  NO  NO  NO  

The choice is clear! Lafayette Square Townhomes is the best place for students to live! 
OPEN HOUSE WED., NOV. 3rd 4-6 PM 
I 

Lafayette Square is located at the corner of Eddy and Cedar streets, just south of campus 
Sign your lease at the Open House and your Townhome will receive a $100 Gift Certificate·for the Bookstore! Can't make it for the open house? Call Francie at 234-9923 or email at FSchmuhl@cbresb.com for a private showing! 

¥ w•• ** 

..
. 
Tuesday, November 2, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

00 I(Q) w ~ ffiiA] [Ej ~ [Ri 

P 0 1 1 I N G P 1 A C E ®iU®ffilll1c M® []1Jll1 
should contact the •
brIng I D 
WATCH 
-12:00 a.m., COLEMAN MORSE LOUNGE Join others from the Notre Dame community to watch the incoming election results on the large screen television of the Coleman-Morse lounge. Snacks will be provided. 
POST-ELECTION ANALYSIS 
NOVEMBER 4, 6:30 p.m., COLEMAN MORSE LOUNGE 
Panelists include Susan Ohmer (American Studies & FTT), Robert Schmul (Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy, David Campbell (Political Science), and Peter Quaranto COSO's Rock the Vote student coordinator). 
Over the last ten months, the CSC-sponsored ND Rock the Vote Campaign has worked to inspire political engagement and par­ticipation at Notre Dame. Thank you to all who have worked tirelessly to make the campaign a success. May the political discourse on this campus continue on after November 2 as we move forward to deal with the critical issues of our time. 
IRAQ: WHAT NOW? 
.NOVMEBER 9, 4:15-5:30 p.m. 
HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
Faculty panelists include Daniel Lindley (Political Science), George Lopez (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies) and Gary Masapollo (Military Science). 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
noisy fan section, while a smaller their belt, the Phoxes are plan­Badin squad only had 19 players. ning on making some changes
-WolDen's 
But when great defense met a before they face Cavanaugh. continued from page 24 few big offensive plays Sunday, "There's always stuff to work an expected dose game turned on," coach Roby Coly said. "We 
Despite interceptions to halt into a rout. need to rework the offense some. two of Bronn Phillips' first-half Until 1:38 remaining in the We're going to have to play much drives, the Whirlwinds weren't first half, this game looked to be better to beat Cavanaugh. Our able to get the ball into the end a defensive struggle, if not a backfield action wasn't as strong, zone. Frustration reached its stalemate. There had only been a and we need to be sharper with highest mark when lloeck combined 42 yards of total the fake." tripped to the turf just s1weral offense, and the only seoring But those changes will make yards shy or the end zone as the drive thus far had been 10 yards Pangborn a contender against lirst hall' ended. by Cavanaugh. With the clock No. 1 seed Cavanaugh. 
"The turning point fi1r me was winding down in the first half, "We know Cavanaugh can at tlw end or the first half," Cavanaugh scored on a 41-yard throw the ball. They have a huge llonek said. "Not getting the pass to sophomore Julia team with a lot of depth," eaptain touchdown got me pretty angry, LaPointe. Katie Murray said. "I think and I play better angry." But Cavanaugh was not done. everything carne together today, 
llonck's anger seemed to With only eight seconds left, we executed perfeetly." spread through thn rest of the the Chaos returned an intercep­Whirlwinds, as the team jumped tion 24 yards for a touchdown. No. 3 Walsh 12 out to a fast start in the seeond Badin fought on in the second No. 6 Pasquerilla West 7 half. An ertieient passing game half, managing to seore on an The Wild Women of Walsh and tightmwd def'lmsn combined impressive 30-yard drive, while knew they had to get on the to build a 22-13 load. holding Cavanaugh to six points board early in order to beat 
Welsh Family's successful two­in the second half. But they failed Pasquerilla West, and that's point conversion attempt on its to eonvert the three-point con­exactly what they did. linal touchdown, as Sands found version. The Walsh offense seored twice Il<wck yet again in the back of Cavanaugh's defense was stel­in the first half, putting the the end zone. would prove to be lar, with two interceptions lead­Weasels in a 12-0 hole that they invaluable as the game moved ing to 15 points, three saeks -never managed to climb out into its final stretch. including one on fourth down -from. need. to break, and the Weasels were 
Determined not to go down so and just six yards rushing "We wanted to attack them The Weasel offense struggled foreed to turn the ball over on easily, the Babes rallied back, allowed and 81 yards total. right away, stop their offense early on, as junior quarterbaek downs. roaching the end zone on an 18-Badin had a terrific effort hold­immediately and get our offense Heather Van 1-Ioegarden had An interception by Brigid yard pass in the gamn's final ing the vaunted Cavanaugh on the field," Walsh captain trouble eonnecting with her Bolsin left the Weasels with great minute. ofl'ense to 162 yards, 87 of which Carrie Campbell said. reeeivers. field position again, but the 
Needing a three-point conver­eame on two long touchdowns. Leading the way for the Wild "We had never seen their quar­Walsh defense held firm behind sion to stay alive, the Babes took But Cavanaugh still avenged Women on offense was freshman terback before, so we were nerv­linemen Karla Bell and Mary the ball from the 15-yard line in last year's loss wit)1 a convineing quarterback Mary Sullivan, who ous about that early on," Ellen Botta. attempt to tin the game in a fash­victory. ended the day with two touch­Campbell said. The Weasels did find the end ion unique to the women's inter­down passes. Pasquerilla West managed to zone late in the seeond half as hallleagun. No. 4 Pangborn 19 Sullivan eonneeted with put a long drive together in the Van lloegarden connected with 
The quarterback's subsnqmmt No.5 Lyons 0 Charlotte Low for a 50-yard closing seconds of the first half, Maureen Spring, but it was too 
pass toward the Pnd zone was Pangborn's victory over Lyons touchdown strike early in the but the Walsh defense would not little too late. dellectml near the 10-yard linn, was pure domination as the first half. Walsh failed to convert crack. The Weasels were stopped "I think we did a fantastic job but tlwn corralled by a Babes' Phoxes forced the merey rule to on the extra point, but the Wild at the Walsh 10-yard line as the because we scored two of the wide nH:eiver. As th1~ receiver end the quartorfinal-round game Women were not done yet. half ran out. three touchdowns seon~d on lunged toward the end zone, the with three minutes to play. On their last drive of the first The Weasels had multiple Walsh all season," Weasol senior Whirlwinds' secondary eoverage Three touchdowns from quar­half, Sullivan again went deep, opportunities in the second half, captain Laurie Moore said. and pulled ofl' the flag at the 2-terback Katie Mooney were more this time hitting her mark for a but again failed to take advan­'That's a eredit to their defense." yard linn, sending the Welsh than enough to advance to the 20-yard gain. tage of them. Family sideline into a fhmzy. semifinals. Two plays later she found Van Hoegarden marched the 
Despite the difTieult loss, "We just came out really Laurie Wasikowski in the end Weasels downfield in an impres­Contact Mike Laskey, Tom Barr, Breen-Phillips captain Jaimie strong," Mooney said. "Our run­zone, putting Walsh up 12-0. The sive drive during whieh she com­Pete Cracchiolo and Mike Feltault was happy with her ning and passing was strong, but Wild Women again failed to con­peted five or her first six tosses Tennant at mlaskey@nd.edu, team's performance. there are still some things to vert the extra point, but the 12-of the second half. But onee tbarr@nd.edu, pcracchi@nd.edu 
"I think this gamn shows that work on for Cavanaugh on point lead was all they would again the Walsh defense refused and mtennant@nd.edu 

the teams probably weren't ranked the way they should've been," Feltault said. "We gave tlwrn a run fi1r their money." 
The Whirlwinds have another stilT ehallenge ahead, as they take on Walsh llall Thursday night in the smnifinals. 
Sands, a junior, knows the challnngn that fins ahnad. 
"Wn havnn't bnen to the stadi­um since my freshman year," Sands said. "It's do-or-die time." 
No. 1 Cavanaugh 28 No.8 Badin 6 
If dnfimsn wins championships, teams waiting to facn the unde­feated and top-ranked Cavanaugh Chaos have reason to worry. 
Cavanaugh avenged its loss in last year's somifinals to Badin, boating tlw Bullfrogs 28-6 Sunday aftnrnoon in the quartnr­finals. 
Cavanaugh showed up with 45 players and a ratlwr large and 
Thursday." Mooney went 9-for-13 passing, throwing filr over 125 yards. On 
· the opening drive of the game Moonoy connected with Trish Conneely for the first seore. But the Phoxes missed the extra point. Before the end of the half Mooney eonneeted again, this time with Meagan McGinley. Pangborn was successful on its extra-point attempt. The final nail in the coffin eame with another touchdown from Mooney to Katie Hiemersma. This put the Phoxes up 19-0, and it was only a matter of time until the mercy rule came into play. Quarterback and captain Traci Kazmerski went 15-for-25, throwing for more than 110 yards. Despite the yards and the solid completion percentage, Lyons failed to score due to a non-existent running game. Even with a solid victory under 
Dept. of Irish Language & Literature Roinn Theanga agus Litriocht na Gaeilge 



Eire 

'"Irish-Not just for T-Sbirts" 
Irish is the oldest vernacular literature in Europe and the living language of An Ghaeltacht in Ireland. Wide.ly spoken by Irish emigrants to the United States in the 181h, 191h and 201h century, it is spoken in U.S. cities such as Boston, New York, Chicago and San Francisco. The Department of Irish Language & Literature/Roinn Theanga agus Litriocht na Gaeilge offers courses for absolute beginners, intermediate and advanced students next tem1. 
"Discover your heritage *Learn about Ireland 
*Satisfy the Irish Studies Minor "Satisfy the Foreign Language Requirement 
"Irish bas been taught at Notre Dame since 1868. Isn't it time you took a course?" 
IRLL 102 A continuation of IRLL 101. Emphasis is placed on reading simple texts in Irish and expanding the student's linguistic, J,.>rammatical and cultural knowledge. The students grows in confidence and linguistic ability. 
lRJ,L 103 A continuation of IRLL 102. Develops the student's existing language skills. Emphasis is on expanding fluency, competency and reading litr:rature in translation. 
Spring 2005 

IRLL 101:01  T H .II :00-12:15  Prof. Sarah McKibben  
lRLL 101:02  MW.F 10:40-11 :30  t>rof. Peter McQuillan  
JRLL 101:03  T II 12:30-1:45  t>rof.  Brian 6 Concbubhair  
IRLL 102:01  T II 2:00-3:15  Prof. Sarah McKibben  
IIU.L 102:02  .MWF 9:30-10:25  J>rof. Peter McQuillan  
IRLL 103:01  T H II :00-12:15  Prof. Brian() Conchubhai·r  


~--~--~------~------~----------~-­
Tuesday, November 2, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
"We were here last year. We're penalized five times for 50 yards. in the same spot," Downey said. On the final play of the third
Men's 
"This is where we got bounced quarter, Wilmot tried to break last year. Hopefully the way we through the line for a touchdown
continued from page 24 
played in the first half serves as a and was apparently stopped in He called a trick play. wake up call." the backfield. But the referee Keenan quarterback Eric spotted the ball with a gain of a Laumann rifled a 7 -yard pass to No. 7 Knott 10, No. 2 Carroll 6 half-yard. On the next play, the wide receiver Danny Zenker who Knott overcame turnovers and Vermin scored their first touch­llipped the ball to Reed Langton. penalties to upset Carroll and down, but missed the extra point. Langton gained another nine advance into the. Interhall semifi­Knott sealed its victory when yards. nals. Patrick picked off a Wilmot pass 
"It got people into the game," After a fumble ended Knott's late in the fourth quarter. Downey said. "That's what I first drive prematurely, the Juggs wanted. We needed to call some­defense -as it would throughout No. 5 Siegfried 7 thing to get us sparked. It woke the game -picked up the slack No. 4 Fisher 0 us up a little bit and got every­and held tight. Time after time, Siegfried and Fisher battled body into the game." when Carroll threatened, the hard Sunday, but the Ramblers 
The drive went on. Knott defense came through. pulled out a close call over the 
Bunning back Alex Staffieri Justen Cheers had a sack, and Green Wave, 7-0. barreled his way into the end the defensive backs came up big, "Every time we play Fisher it's zone from 20-yards out with 1:20 as well. a battle," said Siegfried captain remaining in the third quarter Carroll's defense also played John Hughes. "They knew what for the game's only score. effectively, and it appeared for a to look for. We are just two teams 
"He was hurt all week," while that neither team would that know each other pretty Downey said. "We weren't sure if score. This changed when Knott well." he was going to be able to play. quarterback Justin Gillett, who The first half of the game was lie came through for us." passed for over 130 yards on the scoreless. as both gave up an ished with a 3-1 regular season yard touchdown pass to junior 
The Keenan defense took over day, found Willie Patrick in the interception, and both fell just record before losing to Siegfried. wide receiver Ryan McGettigan, from there. corner of the end zone for an 11-short of a touchdown. Siegfried will face Keenan at 1 and Andrew Breslin kicked the 
Morrissey threatened with yard touchdown pass. The extra "[Fisher] threw a lot more p.m. on Sunday. extra point to put the Dawgs nearly seven minutes left in the point made it 7-0 Knott. passes," Hughes said. "We had to "Next weeJ<: is a big game," ahead. game, when quarterback Pete With little time remaining in prepare for that. Our coach pre­Hughes said. "They've been play­"Our defense has played hard Sprietzer dropped back to pass the first half, the Juggs drove pared our defense well." ing good all year. They are not all year," Remen said. "Going into from the 18-yard line, but downfield in a furious attempt to In the second half, Siegfried anything we can't handle. We're that halftime, we kind of got a lit­Keenan defensive back Mark tack on to their lead. A 29-yard scored the only points of the ready to kick [butt]. We have tle frustrated with the defensive Munninghoff picked off the pass pass to Matt O'Connor put Knott game on a Steve Uphaus pass to some of the best guys in the line because they weren't making in the end zone. on the 6-yard line and allowed wide receiver Johnny Kaup for league. We've been in the stadi­the reads and plays that we knew 
"Luckily, we just came up with Eric Wooldridge to kick a 23-yard the touchdown. The extra um every year I've been here." they could make. We made some a big play," Downey said. "It was field goal as the first half expired attempt was good, and the score adjustments at halftime and one of those bend but don't break to put Knott up 10-0. was 7-0. It would stay there. No. 6 Alumni 7, No. 3 Dillon 6 started doing some defensive line situations. It came to fourth The Carroll offense tried to "The wind was blowing. It Alumni didn't need a third try stunts. I think our defense rallied down. We needed to make a play, respond in the second half and makes it tough to throw the ball," as the second time proved to be as a unit and gave the offense and we made one." relied primarily on the arm and Hughes said about Uphaus's per­the charm in their 7-6 win more opportunities and excellent 
With 4:15 left to play, Keenan legs of quarterback Kory Wilmot. formance. "He had a couple of against Dillon. field position to get in the end defender Jon Wood sealed the In the second half, the Carroll nice scrambles too." It was the second straight week zone." game with another interception offense mounted a sustained Kaup had an interception, as that the two teams faced off. After falling behind by a single o!l" Knight. drive that -with the benefit of well. Fisher also had an intercep­While last week's game ended in point, Dillon tried but could not 
"We were obviously disappoint­several Knott penalties -put the tion on its own five-yard line to a 6-6 tie, it was Alumni who close the slim gap. The two ed," Morrissey running back Nick ball on the Knott 2-yard line with prevent a first half Siefried score. snatched away a close victory teams traded possessions. The Klein said. "We thought we time running out in the third Other Siegfried players who against their rivals this time. Big Red tried to use their passing played them tough. [But] they are quarter. At that point, the Knott played well were offensive and "Obviously, we would have game to make up the lost ground. a good team. They work hard." coaches felt officiating became defensive linemen Eric Cherney liked to beat them both times," But their final Hail Mary fell 
"I think they'll be in the stadi­an issue. and Kevin Phipps, as did Alumni captain A.J. Remen said. short and Alumni escaped with um," Honsheim said. Throughout the game the Knott guard/linebacker Kyle Reis. "Any time you beat Dillon, it's the close win. 
After falling in a semifinal coaching staff was upset by the "[Reis] played a great game as always sweet. The rivalry is "For us, we were trying to match up last year, the Knights referee's performance. The linebacker," Hughes said. always big because you have make them pass," Remen said. aren't satisfied with simply an Juggs questioned several penalty Fisher played hard in the game friends that are on Dillon's team "What we accomplished in the appearance. calls. For the game, Knott was and had a good season. They fin-but dirring the game, they're not second half was being able to 

University Hair Stylist 
AllLicensedHair Stylists 

631~5144 
Full service 9AM • 9PM M·THR 9AM·7PMF 9AM·4PMSAT LA Fortune center NOtre Dame, Indiana 46566 



We are afulJ.setviCe salon that offers Haircuts •Color ~ Perms •eyebrow Arches 

offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 2nd 
(and every first Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
your friends. It was definitely a sweet win today, no doubt about it." 
In the first half, Dillon looked dominant as their option offense picked up huge chunks of yardage against a porous Alumni defense. The Big Hed took the early lead with a rushing touch­down that put them up 6-0, a lead they were able to hold until early in the forth quarter. 
"Their option and their wing offense is probably the best in the league, and they do a really good job at trying to confuse the defense," Remen said. "Their line did a really good job at sealing off and making holes for the running backs." 
But key def-ensive plays brought Alumni storming back into the game. Pat Higgins recov­ered a costly Dillon fumble at the end of the third quarter near the Dillon 20-yard line. Using the good field position to their advan­tage, Alumni freshman quarter­back Brent Locey threw a five-shut down the run and make them have third-and-long situa­tions where they were forced to pass. We were then able to bring in another defensive back to cover their receivers." 
With their first win of the post­season under their belts, the Dawgs now look to take the sec­ond step towards playing in the Stadium and competing for the interhall title. 
"We're taking it one week at a time but everyone is pumped because we're one win away from getting to the Stadium," Rflmen said. "We're going to go out there and work hard and try and improve. Just get better and do the best we can and go from there." 
Contact Tom Dmwart, John Everett, Abby Richardson and Rarna Gottwnukkala at tdorwart@nd.edu, jeverett@nd.edu, arichaO 1 @saintmarys.edu and rgottwnu@nd.edu 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments wUI be served* 
~--------.._--------------------·--~----~------­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
decibel level. face those obstacles head on. In But one Irish advantage is 2002, Notre Dame traveled to
Neyland 

they have had eight games to Tallahassee, Fla., and silenced a continued from page 24 implement their crowd of 82,000 
silent communica­tomahawk-chop­eally. The wsult of the set-up tion, so execution "You've got to ping Florida State is amplified, louder sound and shouldn't be as fans en route to a
score points to 
thn appnaranc!' of closer fans. large a problem as 34-24 victory.
take the crowd out 
"From what I here, INnylandl it might have been One reason the mig-ht be lthn toughnst placn for playing in a place ofthe game. '' Irish were able to a team to playI." Irish defPnsive like Neyland earli­win that game and end Kyle Budinscak said. "One­er in the season. silenee the
Ryan Grant
hundrPd-and-l'our thousand "As far as the Seminole fans was 
Irish running back
people and the stadium goes communication a quick score ­straight up in tlw air-it's just standpoint gons Notre Dame's first a crazy atmosphnrn from what wn'vn already play from scrim­I've heard." been working on lour mage was a ()5-yard touchdown 
N o t r n hand signals) already pass from Carlyle lloliday to l>anw will before. so right now it's Arnaz Battle. do its best to "It's just a crazy not really a factor," Irish running back Hyan simulatt~ atmosphere from Notre Dame quarter­Grant participated in that game noise comli­back Brady Quinn said. and knows it will take a similar
what I've heard." 
tions at "I just need to make early spark to quiet the practieo this sure that I'm doing my Tennessee fans Saturday. week in Kyle Budinscak job communicating to "You've got to score points to order to Irish defensive end the guys up front fLOd take the crowd out of the prepare for that they're communi-game," Grant said. "It doesn't the orange cating to each other as get much simpler than that ­partisans at well." score." Neyland. The Irish also have to While playing on the road develop special signals and brings its share of challenges, Contact Justin Schuver at silent counts to overcome the the Irish have the mentality to jschuver@nd.edu 

MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish postpone Spartans due to player sickness 

Courtesy of UND.com John Moushino earned his first Big East conference award. 

Tri-State 
continued from page 24 

advantagP in that ganw, thny wi II he on tlw road today· against Tri-Sta!t~. wlwre the BP!h~s have lost tlwir last five straight. 
"It's hnl'n dirtirult playing on tlw road this y«>ar." MacKenzie said. "Four out of those five road losses. we gave up a penalty kick and only lost by orw goal. It happnrwd so fre­quently that it can be frustrat­ing. Winning on the road has bonn difficult 
Moushino named co­Big East Player of the Week 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
The Irish are sick. And for once, that's not rdorring to their skills on the field. 
Today's game against Michigan State, tho regular sea­son linale, was canceled due to a 
because or "It's been difficult our program." 
things like that. playing on the Entering into a wlwn~ we can't soccer program
road this year. " 
control what that consistently happnns." f'inished near the 
Caryn MacKenzie
In tlw mHI. tlw bottom or the inability or the Belles' coach MIAA, the current 
BPiles to earn victories on tlw road was tl11• key fart.or in not being able to capture a MIA!\ title, especially wnsidnring tlwir 7-I record at honw. 
"We had our chances some­limns, and I gunss maybe we didn't display nnough nwntal toughrwss to ovpn·omn those obstacles on tlw road. No mat­tnr what our n~eord. wn playnd hard on thP road and vPry ran~ly did we get outplayed.." MaeKtmzie said. "llalf of our Ioss1~s wn rn times wlw n little things going diiTerently could have nwant wins. I'm disap­pointed to not be in the hunt for tho MIAA title, but we'll use 
it as motivation for next year." 
Looking to next year is one of tho few things the Belles can do at this point with their hopns for the playoffs already gone. 
"As a team, we feel like we didn't accomplish what we set out to accomplish. llopefully with the returning players, thorn will bt~ a strong motiva­tion and dosire to work hard in tho of'J'-snason," MacKenzie said. "The seven seniors leav­ing the program set a pretty high standard with their play and work f\thic. They have def­initely raised the level or play to a higher caliber for 
seniors have been 
the core or a team 
that has slowly brought tlw Saint Mary's pro­gram to prominence. 
"As a coaching staff. I feel we wero very fortunate we got the senior class to start our tenure hero at Saint Mary's," MacKonzie said. "They are one of the best senior classes nver to play here, in terms of talent, leadership skills and love or the game. They love thn pro­gram and their teammates, and it comes through every day." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy 1 @nd.edu 
stomach virus that has put most of the team out of commission. 
"More than half the team was in the infirmary today with ... some type of stomach bug," coaeh Bobby Clark said. "I just don't think there would be enough players to play the game." 
The Spartans have tentatively rescheduled the game for Wednesday, but Clark said the situation depends on the health of the .players. 
"We'll talk to Michigan State, we'll reappraise the situation !this] morning once we see exactly what's there," Clark said. 'Til listen to the medical stall' at Notre Dame [Health Services) and decide whether it makes sense to play the game on Wednesday or if there are any other options." 
Practice was cancelled Monday because of the state of the team's hmtlth. 
"It was a decision throughout the day," Clark said. "It got worse and worse with more and more people going down, and it just didn't make any sense Ito play the game]. I don't think we'd have enough players to get a team together. Something obvi­ously went through the whole team." 
On a more positive note, for­ward John Moushino -who scored the insuranee goal in Saturday's 2-0 win over Connecticut -was named co­Big East Playp,r of the WP-nk. the first conferenen accolade for the frnshman. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

"Rural + Inner City = 1/2 Percent (Invisible at ND)" 
rJoin us for dinner and a great discussion!! 
' 
, 

5:30p.m. Wednesday Nov. 3., 2004 Coleman 

. ~ 
Tuesday, November 2, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
DILBERT 
MY BOSS WANTS ME TO INVENT NANO­TECHNOLOGY STEM CELLS BECAUSE IT SOUNDS GOOD. 

PEANUTS 
11VE BEEN WAITING EVER'( DAY FOR 
A LETTER !=ROM -mAT PRETTV LITTLE 61RL I MET AT CAMP... 
SCOTT ADAMS 

~----------------~0~----------------~
.5 
f1
TRY POINTING TO 
THEN TRICK HIM
:> 
YOUR EMPTY HAND 
INTO GIVING YOU

~ 
ul
AND SAYING I "YOU 
A HIGH-FIVE. AND
e
CANT SEE THEM BUT 
YELL I "YOU CRUSHED
u 
.5
THEY'RE ALMOST 
THEM! AAAG!!!" 

.. ~
DONE!" 
"D 
< 

\I/

~ 
ell 
! 
~ 
g 
,. 
0 
~ 
-----=~--~~~~--~~~~ 
CHARLES SCHULZ 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  34 Ewe's cry  61 Mob  
Unconscious­ 37 Classic sitcom  62 "I smell  !"  
ness 5 Govt. security 10 Tell all 14 Eve's mate 15 North of talk radio  that debuted on 9/26/1964 41 sauce 42 Blue-haired lady of TV cartoons 43 Ye _ Shoppe  63 Slow-boil 64 Got up 65 Hunky-_ DOWN  

1 See 3-Down
44 7-Eieven, e.g.

16 Leave in the 2 "Garfield" dog
dust 45 Adorable "bears" 3 With 1-Down,
17 Player of Ginger tailless pets 47 Player of19 A few chips in 4 Doctor's org.
Thurstonthe pot, maybe Howell Ill 5 Overly 20 Kind of scene in 50 Halt-man/half-6 Squib on a booka movie goat creatures jacket21 Other, to Ortega 52 _-majeste 7 Ancient Greek 22 Inspirations class reading53 Org. that helps23 Player of the 

with motel dis-a Fleur-de-_
title role in counts 9 Name that's a37-Across 56 Remark while homophone of26 [Woe is mel] 
putting chips in 8-Down 30 Social historian · the pot 
10 Shivs Jacob 57 Player of the 11 Society avoider 31 Charles Lamb, Skipper 12 Nick and Nora'spseudonymously 60 Mexican fa1?t 
pooch32 Desist food 13 Spelling con-
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE tests 
--:--r=-r::CT":"".-:-:-1 18 Gray wolf 
~,;,.r-:+.+.i-1 22 Harvard, Yale, Princeton, etc., for short 
24 Rub out 
25 Not yet final, at law 
~~=+=+=+:+c:-+:::-1"!!' -=+=+:-:+.=+:-:-~ 26 Importunes 
27 Mixture 28 Greasy 29 Actor Linden or 
Holbrook 
-::+~::+.:-! 32 Magna _ -;:+-:-+.:+.::-! 33 Essay writer's class: Abbr. 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


34 Shiny on top? 45 Shoved 51 Latin 101 verb 
35 "Three Men 46 Lost 53 Prefix with nau-Baby" tical
47 Result of 36 Summer drinks 
squeezing, 54 Slightly open 38 Some prayer maybe 
55 Creativeleaders 48 Mild cigar 57 Responses to a39 Dress 

49 Japanese form 
masseur

40 Actor Chaney of fencing 58 Home stretch?
44 Boat on 50 Partner of 37-Across starts 59 Irish fellow 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
;• 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _____________ State ____ Zip______ 
... 
JUMBLE  HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION  
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion  
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words.  
TULFE  
I I I ©2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. EROUE ±  
tRYMILG IJ I I www.jumble.com  I  I  WHf=RE A PRO GOl-FER WHO HITS THE GREENS IS l-IKEl-Y TO END UP.  
KENASH Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as[J I I [J suggested by the above cartoon. Answer: IN [I I J"[I I I I J" (Answers tomorrow)  - 
Yesterday's  I Jumbles: Answer:  BULLY DECAY CELERY TALKER When the telegraph office was completed the oper­ator declared it ­"CABLE" READY  
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: LaTavia Roberson, Aishwarya Rai, Jenny McCarthy, Lyle Lovett  
Happy Birthday: Your ideas are amazing, so don't hesitate -­hit while the iron's hot. As long as you believe that you have a good plan. push until you hook up with the right people to make it happen. Your determination and drive will be impressive. Your numbers are 3. 18. 19, 23, 29, 35  
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Communication will help you get ahead and reach your goals. You will impress everyone and attract interest in yourself as well as in your future plans. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't let your personal life interfere with your work. Focus on the job and push for advancement or a career move. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Listen to the advice being given. You will be able to make a physical alteration that will bring back that youthful look. Love relationships will develop. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): There will be lots of entertaining events going on in your life today. Enjoy what you can, but don't neglect something you promised to do. *** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Focus on others and what you can do to help. The less emphasis on you and the more on those in need, the better. People will be impressed with your actions. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Watch out for someone who is trying to make you look bad. A job well done will be your safety net. Communication will clarify what you must do. ** LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make headway today, no matter what you do. Professional and personal gains are apparent. Someone you haven't seen for a while will surprise you. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your mind will be on money--making more of it and taking care of any legal or contractual matters. Stand up for your rights if you want to be respected in the future.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): An opportunity to meet someone special can be yours if you take part in a charity event or activity you believe in. A partnership will lead to a new adventure. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Put everything you've got into work. The more you do to differentiate yourself from others, the better. A unique approach will put you ahead of the competition. *** , AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The time to begin something new is now. You will pick up new skills or develop a talent if you put your mind to it today. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Back down if someone is on a rampage. You may be in the right, but that isn't likely to help you today. Steer clear of disputes. **  - 
Birthday Baby: You are a go-getter, giving your all to everything you do. You are a deep thinker and will always come up with an answer, suggestion or solution.  
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com.  ,  

--~~--~~­
r---------------------------------~ 
'., 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, November 2, 2004 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Parting the orange sea 
104,079 screaming Vols await Irish at Neyland Stadium 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor , 

Sea or (;men, ITII~et the Sea or Orange. 
Tlw Irish had a hye week to proparo, and this Saturday they take on not just No. <J TPntwssee hut also OIW or the most hostile road venues in eollnge football. 
Neyland Stadium. homo of tlw Volunteers, has a capacity of I04.079 fans and is c.urn~nt­ly t.lw third-largPst stadium in tlw c.ountry lwhind Michigan Stadium ( 107,:i01 I and Penn Statn's BnavPr Stadium (I07.~s:n 
And wlwn tlw Volunteer fans break into a rendition of Tnnnnssoe's signature song "Hocky Top," the Irish are going to know about it. 
"I know it's a really big stadi­um. It's one of those stadiums that's stacked really high and has a lot of noise," Irish line­
backer Derek Curry said. "There's going to be a lot of' orange and a lol of energy, but what better place to go and play'! What better place to go out and show the country what kind or team you really havn? 
"Tho energy that !their fans 

-

The Tennessee band plays "Rocky Top" within the confines of a capacity crowd at Neyland Stadium, one of the largest and most intimidating venues in NCAA Division-! football. 
arel going to create is actually going to help our team as well." 
Last year, the Irish traveled to Michigan Stadium to take on the Wolverines at the "Big House," falling by a score of 38-0 in front of a crowd of over 107,000. While the Neyland crowd is slightly smaller, it may be even more of an obsta­cle for a team to overcome because of the way the stadium is configured. 
Unlike Michigan Stadium, which is built low to the ground with seats expanding outward, Neyland is built in layers with seats stacked verti­
see NEYLAND/ page 22 
SMC SoccER 
10 -wins in reach for Belles 
By RYAN DUFFY Sporrs Writer 

With a roller-coaster season full of ups and downs already behind them, the Belles will look to end their year on a high note when they !wad back to thn road for today's match­up against Tri-State Uniw~rsity. 
Saint Mary's entees the gamn with a record or 9-6-1 and hopes for a 10-win season, while Tri-State has had a mueh morn diiTicult season. going 2-14-1, including 0-13-1 in conl'en~nee play. 
"''m hoping we ran gnt a lot ol' players on thn linld for our last game of' tlw season." coach Caryn MaeKnnzie said. "Our track record on the road hasn't been great this year, but I still feel good about bning able to get a lot of people in for our game against Tri-State." 
Saint Mary's emerged victori­ous in the first meeting between the teams this year, an 8-1 victory that included two goals by both Carrie Orr and Ashley flinton. Though the Belles enjoyed hom1~-l'ield 
see TRI-STATE/page22 
INTERHALL FooTBALL QuARTERFINALS 
Scares, upset plague top playoff seeds 
No. 1 Keenan survives first round 
-
By TOM DORWART, JOHN EVERETT, ABBY RICHARDSON and RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Sporrs Writer~ 
In a physical. defensively dominated first half. the No. S Morrissey Manoritns looked poisnd to hand the No. 1 Kennan Knights their first loss and an early exit from tlw playofl's. But the KnighLs qw~lled Morrissey's upsnt bid with a 7-0 victory. 
"Wn w1~rn a l'ew plays away !from beat­ing KeeiHllll," Morrissey captain Aaron Honshnim said. 
Keenan made a strong push in the sec­ond hall' after a seornlnss first 24 minutes Sunday at Stepan fields in the first round of the playofl's. 
"Wn realized if we didn't play a good
.. 
second hall', we'd bt' turning in our pads that afternoon," KePnan captain Patrick l>ownny said. "It was a good motivator. We turned up thn intnnsity." 
The rnvvnd up Knights forced and 

HILLARY THORNTON/The Observer Keenan quarterback Eric Laumann takes a hit in an earlier game. 
recovered a Morrissey fumble at the Keenan 36-yard line. Downey knew his team needed some more firing up. 
see MEN'S/page 21 
No. 2 Welsh mounts late comeback 
By MIKE LASKEY, TOM BARR, PETE 
CRACCHIOLO and MIKE TENNANT 
Sporrs Writers 

The Welsh Family Whirlwinds just cou.ldn't seem to get it going. The defense was sort and confused. There were dropped balls, eostly slips and botched opportunities. 
Then, in the second half of their playoff game against the Breen-Phillips Babes, the Whirlwinds turned it all around. 
Led by quarterback Melissa Sands's three touchdown strikes -two to wide receiver Lauren lloeck -and an instant­ly revitalized defense, the No. 2 seed Whirlwinds erased a 13-0 halftime deficit to defeat the No. 7 seed Babes 22-19 Sunday afternoon in the quarterfmals of the women's interhall football playoffs. 
The first half for the Whirlwinds was frustrating from the start, as Breen­Phillips scored on a 65-yard touchdown pass on the game's second play. Later in 

HILLARY THORNTON/The Observer 
Cavanaugh's defense has smothered opponents all year. 
the half, a perfectly executnd reverse fooled the Whirlwind defense, setting up a 15-yard touchdown pass one play later. 
see WOMEN'S!page 20 
en 
MLB
MEN'S GOLF

•, MEN'S SOCCER 
NFL

MLB 
NFL 

Irish postpone 
lsban leads field 

Backman named 
10 Red Sox file 
Lynch sidelined by 
NY Jets 41 

z Michigan State 
Arizona manager 
for free agency 
broken tailbone 
Miami 14
The sophomore Irish 
golfer leads The Prestige 

The former World 
Right-hander Derek. 
A pair of 100-yard
ti: (,) s w 
Champion with. the
at PGA WEST by two 

Lowe and and catcher 
News around the NFL 
Coach Bobby Clark 
rushers.helped the Jets 
strokes. 

New York Mets joins the 
also shows the Bait-
Jason Varitek are among 
dismantle a struggling
postponed this after­
' .. c = c:c 
Diamondbacks. 
imore Ravens could be
a slew of Boston players 
Dolphins team at the
noon's scheduled game 
on the rise. 

filing for free agency. 
Meadowlands.

due to player sickness. 
a. ti 
en 
page 15 
page 16

page 22 
page 16 

page 15 
page 14 



