

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Dean's list changes succeed 

Class of 2005 first affected by switch 
By K. AARON VAN OOSTERHOUT News Writer 
This coming spring the class of 2005 will become the first to graduate under the new graduation honors sys­tem. with fewer seniors receiving degree honors than ever before. 
Despite some student con­cerns. the University said it is pleased with the ·rail 2001 decision to raise its stan­dards. 
As a result of new criteria instituted in the fall of 2001 by the Academic Council, each college will bestow 
see SWITCH/page 8 

THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 16.2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Security changes spark debate 

NDSP, hall staff aim to fill void left by fired security monitors 
ance packages NDSP provided, their own slim career alterna­tives and the chances of the current campus dynamic sur­viving without them. 
Now, with four weeks of the new system under its belt, the Notre Dame community has seen glimpses of the answers -and delivered its own responses, from the beneficial to the bleak. 
The Officers 
With the recognizable -and often beloved -monitors as their predecessors, the new officers had to· be people before police, said Hex Hakow, director of NDSP. 
Therefore. in addition to this summer's fire safety, medical and departmental training, officers attended training ses­sions with residence hall staff to personalize their prepara­tion. 
see SECURITY/page 4 

By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Questions prevailed in April when Notre Dame Security/Police decided to eliminate security monitors ­who had been a visible pres­ence in women's residence halls since the University went co-ed in 1972 -from their ranks. 
Female rectors questioned the safety of their residents, asking who would enforce parietals, support hall staffs and calm their fears so they could sleep at night. 
Male rectors questioned the value of the monitors' replace­ment, an outdoor-based com­munity security officer system slated to patrol dorms for both sexes. From their perspective, the move meant more security, not less. 
Monitors themselves ques­tioned everything -the sever-




Main Building celebrates 125th birthday this year 
uct of the determination and By PAUL SPADAFORA devotion of Notre Dame's News Writer founding students and leaders. 
"It was rebuilt over the sum­
Ever conspicuous, the Main mer by the students and the Building celebrated its 125th religious clergy," he said. birthday this week. But for The Main Building was each candle on t·he Golden designed by Chicago architect Dome's cake, there exists a lit­Willoughby Edbrooke and was tle-known detail about the constructed in just three landmark. months from May ·to 
A product of perseverance September 1879. and vision, the Main Building's Throughout its history, the 125 years of history are as rich building has served nearly as they are significant. every function at Notre Dame, The current Main Building was said Cohen, who has worked built in 1879, after its prede­on Notre Dame Magazine for cessor burned to the ground in about 10 years. the "Great Fire" that occurred "The Main Building followed during Father Sorin's tenure at the design of most colleges in Notre Dame. America at the time. They 
., ERIC SALES!The Observer Ed Cohen, Notre Dame would build one enormous ERIC SALES/The Observer The Main Building's golden dome has become a Magazine associate editor, said The inside of the Main Building shines after a universally recognized symbol for Notre Dame. the Main Building was a prod-see DOME/page 3 major renovation that occurred from 1997-99. 

Mass bril!gs ND, SMC community together in tragedy 
O.ver 100 students and staffgather in prayer at Saint Mary's for O'Connor and Miltenberger families 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
Over 1 00 students, staff. family and friends gathered at Saint Mary's Hegina Hall chapel Wednesday night for a Mass for Ryan O'Connor, Jackie Miltenberger and their families. 
O'Connor, a 2002 Notre Dame graduate, was killed in a car acci· dent ncar the Notre Dame cam­pus Sunday morning. Miltenberger, who was also involved in the accident, is a cur­rent Saint Mary's sophomore. 
Father Michael Connors, who presided over the Mass. explained that Wednesday was the feast of Our Lady of Sorrows. 
"People are not attracted to sorrows," 

O'Connor
Connors said. "Some might find it too depress­
ing or sad, especially in death. We try to numb the pain, try to deal with our grief and sorrows. and this usually means doing so with a stiff upper lip. What we forget is that those who are left behind still suffer." 
Connors' homily focused on coping with the aftermath of a tragedy. 
"Today's gospel showed Mary standing and watching her son's death," Connors said. "She did not have to be there, she could have ducked into hiding,but she didn't." 

At the end of the Mass, Connors reminded those at the mass to continue praying for everyone involved in Sunday's accident. 
"We gather together today in times of heartbreak and sorrow to support the friends and loved ones of the people who have been touched by this terrible tragedy," he said. "May the O'Connor and Miltenberger families find in us willing, hopeful companions in their moments of need." 
Saint Mary's students were 
notified of the Mass Tuesday through an e-mail from College President Carol Mooney. 
"The reason we decided to have a Mass is that this past 
·weekend's tragic accident affect­ed the entire Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community," Mooney said. "In times of great sorrow and pain it is our tradition as Catholics to gather together in prayer." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmacys.edu 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Waiting on21 
Speaking from 208 days of expe­
rience, being 20 is a very unexcep­
tional and frustrating thing. 
What is the year twenty good for 
anyway? There are no obvious 
changes in your 
Megan O'Neil 
legal status, no 
notable 20th 
birthday perks. I News 
have never 
Production 
heard the 
Editor 
expression 
'sweet 20' and 
the excitement of being able to vote 
is two years old. Twenty isn't really 
one of those birthdays that people 
excitedly anticipate, except maybe 
for the fact that it kicks off the 
countdown to 21. 
The troubles of my 20th year 
have only been exacerbated by the 
fact that I spent second semester 
last year abroad in Spain. The five 
months of carefree bar hopping, I 
now realize, were a teasing 
glimpse of the fun that is being 
legal. It took only one 12-hour 
flight to rob me of it. 
Being a junior and 20 can curtail your social life. In all likelihood you have friends who are seniors whom you may rarely see thanks to the difference in one little digit. Major campus parties are fun, but overshadowed by the concern of hovering police. Friday night I set out for Lafayette looking forward to a little Kickoff Classic fun. The men in blue stalking the length of the parking lot put me· on edge, however and I was home by 1 a.m. I longed to be one of those cavort­ing 21 years old with unapologeti­cally slurred speech cruising from one apartment to the next. 

The cruelty of 20 is so cutting that it even bars you from helping friends commemorate their free­dom from it. Celebrating someone's 21st when you are still a few months short is punishing. First, jealousy sets in. You know from now on he will be able to take his pick of local joints on Saturday night. They will roll in at ridicu­lously late hours. laughing about some guy who was dancing funny or the girl who dropped her drink, leaving you completely out of the loop. 
Second, you cannot join your friend at midnight for his inaugural bar run nor can you entice the other patrons to join you in a ren­dition of happy birthday. 
When I complain about the bore­dom of 20 to my parents, they always respond positively with some cliche such as 'youth is fleet­ing' or 'these are best days of your life.' Clearly, they had fakes. But as I can't change my date of birth, I am going to buckle down and wait it out. Only 157 days to go. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake. please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct odr error . 
... . .... . ... .... ...... . . . .... . 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 1£?, 2004 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE STUPIDEST RULE AT NOTRE DAME? 






Anne Ellis  Cameron Lang  John Kozy  Matt Adams  
senior Pasquerilla East  senior offcampus  sophomore Alumni  junior Alumni  
"No dating on campus."  "The lack of coed dorms. "  "This isn't Nam, there are no rules."  "No freedom. Period."  

Man shows up drunk for his hearing 
READING, Pa. -A motorist's bail was revoked when police said he had the daring to show up drunk to his preliminary hearing on drunken driving charges. 
Emerson Moore Jr., 46, of Caernarvon Township, was awaiting his hearing before Muhlenberg Township District Justice Dean R. Patton when Moore got into an argument with state police Trooper Roberto Soto, officials said. 
Soto, who had arrested Moore in the drunken-driv­ing case June 20, smelled alcohol on Moore's breath 
TODAY 
a:: 


earned hundreds 'Of dollars by putting fake parking tick­ets on cars and having duped owners send him their payments. 
Investigators became aware of the scam in March 2003 after a victim tried to mail in a payment for a tick­et but had it returned as non-deliverable, a criminal complaint said. 
Prosecutors said the tick­ets were the exact copy of a parking ticket Gallagher received in February of last year, even down to the cita­tion number. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
as the two stood in the hall­way outside Patton's court­room, officials said. 
Moore, who had driven himself to court, had a blood-alcohol level of 0.10 percent. police said. The le_gal limit for driving in Pennsylvania is 0.08 per­cent. 
Student collects fake parking fines 

MADISON, Wis. -A fra­ternity member has been busted for apparently find­ing a unique way to supple­ment his college income ­fake parking tickets. 
Prosecutors said Anthony 
R. Gallagher, 23, allegedly 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
< 


(,) 

0 

HIGH 75 HIGH 74 HIGH 77
.... 

LOW 48 LOW 52 LOW 55 

51 48 

Molly Kealy  Robby Davidson  
sophomore Lyons  senior Fisher  
"No sex on campus.  "There are so many that I couldn't choose just just one."  

IN BRIEF 
Head over to Saint Mary's to see the film Chocolat tonight at 7 p.m. in the Carroll Auditorium. 
R i c h a r d. Ax s o m , c u r at o r from the Grand Rapids Arts Museum, will present a talk on "Ink and Paper as Physical Facts: The Large­Scale Prints of Richard Serra," today from 7 to 8 
p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. 
Come cheer on the Notre Dame men's tennis team as its plays in the Tom Fallon Invitational. taking place all day at the Courtney Courts and Eck Pavilion. 
Notre Dame English prol'es­sor Kevin Hart will speak tonight at 7:30 p.m. about "Poetry and Revelation" today at the McKenna Hall Auditorium. 
The Italian Club will show the Italian language film Cinema Paradiso today at 
8:30 p.m. in Welsh Family Hall. 
Saint Mary's will be spon­soring a trip to Chicago Saturday, which leaves from the LeMans bus stop at 8:00 
a.m. Tickets can be picked up at the Haggar front desk. 
Drop your resume off and pick up some applications today at the business career fair, taking place today from 3 to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse.• 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 78 HIGH 83 LOW 60 LOW 65 
Atlanta 76 I 67 Boston 80 I 65 Chicago 72 I 54 Denver 79 I 51 Houston 95 I 74 Los Angeles 78 I 62 Minneapolis 70 I 54 New York 80 I 70 Philadelphia 82 I 70 Phoenix 105 I 80 Seattle 64 I 50 St. Louis 82 I 63 Tampa 85 I 77 Washington 83 I 70 
.. ... . . . . . . .. . .... .. . . ...... .. . . -..... •. . ..... " ............... ..................................~ 
L-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
,.----------------~~ 
Thursday, September 16, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senate debates na111e change for progra111111ing board 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
Associate News Editor 
In response to the debate over the restoration of the Student Union Board's former title, Student Senate discussed the issue at their Wednesday meet­ing. 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni called for an infor­mal meeting to determine why the constitutional mandate to use the name Campus Programming Council was not followed. 
Currently, the student program­ming group uses the name Student Union Board. 
i\t the previous Senate meeting, SUB manager Jimmy Flaherty defended the continued use of the name 'SUB' even though the new constitution required the group to usc 'CPC'. citing limited time 
Do01e 
continued from page 1 
building, and that would be the university," Cohen said. "Even the dining hall used to be in the basement." 
Currently. the Main Building primarily houses the adminis­trative offices of the University. 
In the late 1990s, the University began a major renovation of the Main Building. The building's upper floors were reopened after being closed for decades due to 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS ~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
available to organize his staff and address the issue before school ended in May. 
Student body president Adam Istvan supported Flaherty and said that he and Student Affairs told Flaherty to continue to use 'SUB', as they considered the amendment process an appeal. 
Bongiovanni expressed concern about this situation at podium on Wednesday. 
"Whether it was deliberately intended or influenced by a third or a fourth party, a violation of the Constitution has occurred," she said. "To ignore it is to con­done improper action." 
Bongiovanni acknowledged the difficulties of navigating the new constitutional framework, which she conceded was still "very for­eign" to many of the student lead­ers. and said that she is not look­ing to assign blame to any of the 
structural problems, and three classrooms were added. 
Father Paul Doyle, Dillon Hall rector, said the addition of these classrooms helped return the building to its roots. "[There was]lots of student inter­play with the administrators, because students had their class­es there." Doyle said about the building's past life. "I think it's important to have students and administrators together . . . if you call it the 'administrative build­ing'. students will go there to see administrators, not to interact with the students." 
parties involved. 
"[The informal meeting] will be a process of discovery," she said. "It's about discovering mistakes and correcting them ... about fig­uring out what happened so it doesn't happen again." 
Morrissey senator Josh Pasquesi said he feared that rehashing an already closed topic would promote the stereotype of an apathetic student government. 
Other senators, including Siegfried and Alumni senators James Leito and Vijay Ramanan, supported Bongiovanni. 
Former Keenan senator Dan Zenker also came to the meeting to support the proposal. 
"It's up to you guys to be lead­ers ... and to be aware of mis­takes of the past," he said when yielded the floor. "You don't want to dwell on it, but you want to know what went wrong." 
But what makes the Main Building a special part of Notre Dame's history are the stories and traditions associated with its his­tory. 
"There was a time when you were not supposed to walk up the front steps of the main building until you've graduated," Doyle said. "It's not a tradition many fol­low anymore, but it used to be quite important." 
Although the Main Building has counted numerous priests among its occupants, some of them stand out in the building's lore. 
Father Bernard Lang was a 

The proposed meeting would take place outside the bounds of the Student Senate, and has no specified goal of a resolution or motion to take back to the floor, Bongiovanni said. The option to take the issue to the Ethics Committee was available, but Bongiovanni said she wanted to keep the situation informal to avoid friction between student leaders. 
"It's in any student's right to sit down and talk about something, there's no controversy in that," Student Affairs director Brian Coughlin said. 
No date has been set for the meeting, and because of its infor­mality, senators are not required to attend. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Rock the Vote student coordi­nator Peter Quaranta told sena­tors to encourage their con-
Holy Cross priest who lived in the Main Building in the 1920s-and was also a champion weightlifter. 
"He was the strongest or sec­ond strongest man in the world," said Jim Lyphout, vice president for business operations. 
A picture of Lang now hangs in the tunnel between the Morris Inn and McKenna Hall, Lyphout said. 
In addition to the unique back­ground of the building itself, its famous dome is just as storied. 
"You can go all the way under the dome, between the [mural] ... and the huge space between that stituents to become involved in the campus-wide fight against voter apathy. He listed a number of Rock the Vote events coming up, including faculty panels on foreign and domestic affairs and the debate between the editors of the Nation and the National Review. Quaranta also said that events centered around debate, dialogue or an issue-focused seminar could be arranged in individual dorms to spark student participation. 
"Student government and Rock the Vote are tied in that fighting apathy is fighting apathy," chief executive assistant Dave Baron said when introducing Quaranta. "If students are interested in national politics, then they'll be interested in local politics." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
and the Golden Dome," Cohen said. "You can stick your head into the statue and look out onto the quad." 
Throughout Notre Dame's his­tory, students have often scaled the dome as a mark of pride or draped it with a banner before a big football game. 
"All through [it] there are peo­ple who have carved their names," Cohen said. "It used to be a student accomplishment to climb up into the dome." 
Contact Paul Spadafora at 
pspadafo@nd.edu 
Volunteer Opportunities 
Looking for a great way to help children and reduce violence in the South Bend community? 
Come and join Take Ten. Take Ten is a violence prevention pro­gram that provides children with positive alternatives to violence. 
As a volunteer with Take Ten, a studem will assigned to a team to work with a group of kids at a local school, teaching violence prevention. 
Training sessions will take place Monday, September 20 and Wednesday, September 22. Student will begin working with kids the week of October 4. 
Please register on line at http:!/ www.nd.edu/ -taketen/applica­tion.html if you would like to join us and please do not hesitate to contact us at taketen@nd.edu or at 631-9424 ifyou have any questions. 
ISSLP Information Sessions 
Learn more about the Interna­tional Summer Servide Learn­ing Program at two upcoming information sessions. 
When: September 20 and 28, 6:00-7:00 pm 
Where: esc Lounge 
Editors of the Nation, National Review to Debate Sept. 22 
The editors ofThe Nation and addition to his work with the National Review will be coming The Nation, Corn is a Fox News to Washington Hall to debate the Channel contributor. He writes 2004 national presidential elec­on a host ofsubjects, including tions on September 22 at 7 p.m. politics, the White House, Con­
gress, and the national security Representing a liberal view will establishment. He currently be David Corn, Washington writes a web column for Theediror ofThe Nation and author Nation, called "Capital Games" of "The Lies of George W. Bush: and runs a Web site called www.
Mastering the Politics of Decep­bushlies.com.
tion." Lowry joined National Review 
Representing a conservative in 1992, after finishing second in perspective will be Rich Lowry, a National Review young writers editor of National Review and contest. He went on to becomeauthor of"Legacy: Paying the Articles Editor for the magazine Price for the Clinton years." 
before moving to Washington to As the author ofThe Lies of cover Congress in the summer of George W. Bush, Corn explores 1994. Lowry was named editor 
·several issues that have arisen of National Review in 1997. He during President Bush's term, currently writes a bi-weekly syn­such as tax cuts, homeland dicated column for King Features securirjr, and the misconceptions and is a political analyst for Fox surrounding the war in Iraq. In News. 
Free food, music at RCLC picnic this Friday 
The Robinson Community Learning Center invites all ND and SMC students for a neighborhood picnic this Friday, Sept. 17. In addition to food, the picnic will the feature jazz by the band Open Wide. The Robinson Center is located at 921 N. Eddy Street, two blocks south of Campus. For more information on the Robinson Center, go to www.nd.edu/-rdc. 
When: Friday, Sept. 17 at 5:45 pm Where: RCLC, 921 N. Eddy St. 

Thursday, September 16,.2004 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 

sides -the rectors -the ver­T." Along with Sister Susan Dunn, including Breen-Phillip<i, resi­dict is still out. In Cavenaugh, staff has pur­rector of Lyons, Doyle met with dent assistants have assumed


Security 

Badin rector Ann Napoli said posely lingered at dorm NDSP over the summer to brief the monitor's duties of flicker­
continued from page I  residents in her dorm definite­ly miss their monitor, but had  entrances around the time of parietals ­but cannot replace  the officers on Notre Dame's unique residence hall dynamic.  ing the lights 10 minutes before parietals and sitting at  
"They gained a lot of good  nothing but praise for the per­ a nightlong presence, rector  "Each rector has been asked  the main desk to watch visitors  
insight during that process,"  sonalized aspects of the  new  Sister Patricia Dearbaugh said.  what  he  or  file out. Other dorms  
Hakow said. The team. composed of four female officers and two males, also brings a variety of back­grounds, including a security officer from Bethel College, a  security force. "They're very friendly and well-trained," she said, adding that the same two officers had consistently patrolled Badin and had already become famil­ "My hall staff is not happy about [the changes]," she said. "They feel that the dorm isn't as safe for them." Like Skinner, Dearbaugh stressed that she was not being  she wants, and [the offi­cers] have done that," he s a i d "Uniformity is  "You hope that nothing bad happens when you go to bed at night. "  have asked HAs to inc! ude an outside loop in their normal rounds. Farley HA Elizabeth Duran said the prob­ 
retired human resources offi­cer from the Air  iar with hall staff. For  McGlinn  critical of the new officers. "It's good that they're outside  not a goal I aspire to  Elizabeth Duran  lem isn't taking on those extra responsi- 
Force. two former full-time security monitors, one for­mer part-time monitor and a  "It's a learning process on all sides."  rector Beth Skinner, howev­er, familiarity isn't enough. While she  -they're here, they check in every night," Dearbaugh said. "But whatever the monitors did, it was a matter of pres­ence that made the differ­ around here Far_ley RA bilities. -unity is." "It's not more work The RAs for us, it's more fear When the monitors were for us," she said. "You hope fired in the spring, resident that nothing bad happens  
seven-year NDSP veteran as shift  Rex Rakow  called the roving officers "quali­ ence." Despite the dorm's more vul­ assistants in women's halls feared the worst.  when you go to bed at night." The dorm's longtime monitor  
supervisor.  NDSP chief  fied, responsive,  nerable location, missing that  But the problems of staying  Hoberta Shupert still has a  
Four officers are  caring and good  presence has not been a prob­ up all night to pick up the  place at Farley's door, Duran  
on duty during any  at their job," she  lem at Pasquerilla East, rector  slack never materialized, said  said.  
given night. patrolling six to  believes their job description  Sister Mary Anne Mueninghoff  Kati Duffey,  a  senior RA in  "We still call it Bert's desk,"  
seven dorms apiece. So far, the  remains incomplete.  said.  Breen-Phillips.  she said, adding that the  new  
officers have worked mainly  "If this is the answer, I think  "So far,  so good," she said.  "I  anticipated  a  worse  officers were, in comparison.  
outside, Hakow said, except for  it's  a  good answer," she said.  "We're  a  hall that's  on  the  adjustment," she said, adding  "not very personal so far."  
a  few medical emergencies  "But I still continue to miss the  street, [but] I'm cautiously  that besides football weekends,  "The potential is there," she  
involving intoxicated students  presence there at night."  optimistic."  she only had to make one extra  said. "It's probably just a mat­ 
on a dorm's upper floors.  Skinner said she and her  Male rectors were grateful  round per night of duty. "I  ter of time."  
"With four more eyes and  assistant rectors have already  for the officers, inconspicuous  don't feel like I'm being called  
ears out there on central cam­ been woken up several times  flexibility.  upon  to  do  anything  too  
pus, I believe it's going to pay  in the middle of the night to  "It's been  more  of a  help  demanding."  Contact Claire Heininger at  

In many women's dorms, cheining@nd.edu 




?i3taD6 
Italian BakerY. & Restaurant 
• 
The authentic fine Italian dining 

• 
Downtown South Bend 

• 
Across from the Marriott 

• 
Chef:Adele De Rosa Ciao 


123 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 4660 I Phone: 574-289-CIAO (2426) • Fax: 574-232-0043 
t and from pA 

off." he said. Kinks remain to be worked out. 
Some rectors have raised concerns about a male officer answering a call in a women's dorm or a female officer answering a call in a men's dorm. Hakow said, adding that NDSP is working to remedy those instances. 
"It's a learning process on all sides," he said. The Rectors 
Among one of the most vocal help students who are locked out of the dorm -a problem more easily solved when an awake, alert monitor was sta­tioned at the door. 
The impossibility of fully enforcing parietals also adds to the stress factor, Skinner said. 
"I have to give myself per­mission to sleep," she said. "I can't override a decision that's been made by the University, [but] its unrealistic to make sure parietals are handled to a than an intrusion," said Fisher rector Father Hob Moss, who said officers have only needed to patrol the front lobby and 24-hour space of the hall. 
Dillon rector Father Paul Doyle also opted to keep the officers off the floors. 
"That could be a privacy issue," he said. "The rectors are trying to create a commu­nity that's not a police state." 
Doyle played a firsthand role in preparing the roving officers for the nuances of campus. 
Best of Acousticafe-10pm Zyanya y su Orquesta-10pm 
Brew and View Salsa dancing and ~featured on the Late Show. "Reservoir Dogs" -Midnight Nightclub-Midnight ~Brought to you by SUB -1Opm
Senior Night ND, SMC, HCC ID required www.legendsofnotredame.org Nightclub -Midnight 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 16, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TI·IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Britain lawmakers review security 
LONDON -In the second major security breach in London this week, five fox hunting enthusiasts stormed onto the floor of the House of Commons Wednesday to disrupt a debate on banning the centuries-old sport. 
Guards hustled the men away, but the inci­dent showed -as did the man dressed as Batman who scaled the walls of Buckingham Palace on Monday -the vulnerability of Britain's seats of power. One lawmaker said there had not been such an intrusion in Parliament since 1642. 
Security was stepped up immediately, with armed police guarding the chamber in place of the usual footmen and stewards. 
The prime minister was not in the chamber at the time. 
Two Chechen women arrested 
MOSCOW -Two Chechen women suspect­ed of blowing up Russian passenger jets last month were briefly detained by police before the lligh ts but bribed at least one airline employee to get on the planes, media reports said Wednesday. 
One of the alleged suicide bombers used an intermediary to pay $34 to a Sibir airlines employee to board a jet, even though she had a ticket for a flight the next day, the Interfax news agency quoted Russia's Prosecutor General Vladimir Ustinov as say­ing. She got on the plane two minutes before check-in closed, he said. 
The same intermediary also took a bribe from the other alleged suicide bomber to get on a Volga-Aviaexpress flight, he said. 
Ustinov said both the intermediary and the Sibir airline employee have been arrested. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Five fired in security scandal 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -Five workers have been fired for their roles in a security and safety scandal at Los Alamos National Laboratory, the lab's director said Wednesday. 
The fired workers were among 23 sus­pended this summer after two computer disks containing classified information went missing. 
The other 18 workers will retain their jobs but will be reprimanded or demoted from management, Director Pete Nanos told The Associated Press. 

Senate votes down overtime rules 
WASHINGTON -A Senate committee voted Wednesday to scuttle new rules that critics say would deny overtime pay to mil­lions of workers. as Democrats won the lat­est round in their election-year bout with President Bush over the issue. 
The 16-13 vote by the Republican-run Senate Appropriations Committee came less than a week after the GOP-led House embar­rassed Bush by approving a similar measure. 
Despite the twin rebukes by Congress, the provision could well disappear when House­Senate bargainers write a final version of the spending bill to which it was attached. GOP leaders and the White House will dominate that part of the legislative process. 
Win or lose, Democrats hope the overtime fight will drive their supporters to vote. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Bishop intends to deny communion 
EVANSVILLE. Ind. -The Roman Catholic bishop of Evansville said he would deny Communion to politicians who vocally sup­port abortion rights or gay marriage. 
Bishop Gerald Gettclfinger said Catholic politicians who publicly defy the church's teachings on such issues should expect bish­ops to refuse to include them in the sacra­ment. 
A handful of American bishops have said they would deny the sacrament outright. 
Three bodies found in Iraq 
Attacks against U.S. collaborators, car bomb kills two at military checkpoint 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD. Iraq Villagers found three decapitated bodies north of Baghdad on Wednesday and a car bomb killed two people at an Iraqi military checkpoint south of the capital in attacks that appear to be increasingly targeting Iraqis rather than the United States and its multinational force allies. 
The bodies were found in nylon bags, the heads in bags alongside them, near Dijiel, about 25 miles north of Baghdad, said Col. Adnan Abdul-Rahman of the Interior Ministry. They were all men with tattoos, including one with the let­ter 'H' on his arm. but no documents were found on them, he said. 
A U.S. military official said the bodies appeared to be Iraqis and had their hands tied behind their backs. 
While insurgents have often beheaded foreign hostages in their fight against the government and coalition forces, it is not a tactic usually used against Iraqis, who are more often abducted for money. 

Residents from a nearby village found the bodies shortly after dawn and notified the Iraqi national Turkish Foreign Ministry company said Wednesday fired on a police van north guard, said Iraqi Lt. confirmed he had been it had ceased to operate in of the capital Tuesday, Ahmad Farouk. freed. Iraq in the hope of winning killing at least 59 people. 
An Associated Press pho­A group calling itself The the release of one of its The latest car bomb tar­tographer saw the three Shura Council of the drivers, Turki Simer geted a national guard corpses lined up with their Mujahedeen said in a sepa­Khalifeh al-Breizat, kid­checkpoint in Suwayrah, heads by their sides on the rate video Tuesday that it napped by a separate mili­about 40 miles south of floor at the guard com­was freeing Gezmen after tant group. The kidnap­Baghdad, Abdul-Rahman pound before U.S. troops he converted to Islam and pers gave the company 48 said. One guardsman was collected them and handed repented working for the hours Tuesday to pull out. among the two dead; 10 them over to police. Two Americans. The developments follow civilians were wounded. wore jeans and shirts and Huseyin Gezmen, a surge in violence that A police patrol in the third wore sweat pants Aytullah Gezmen's brother, has killed more than 200 Baqouba, northeast of the and a T-shirt. All appeared told Turkey's Anatolia people in the past four capital, was also hit young. news agency that Gezmen days in a brazen and coor­Wednesday by an explosive 
Meanwhile, Plilitants called the family and was dinated campaign focused device that wounded four released a Turkish man expected return home in increasingly on the capital policemen and a civilian, identified as Aytulla two days. "We heard his -the center of authority said police Lt. Feras Ali. Gezmen, an Arabic lan­voice for the first time in for Prime Minister Ayad Insurgents are becoming guage translator who was 52 days," Huseyin Gezmen Allawi and his American more indiscriminate in taken hostage in late July, was quoted as saying. "My allies. their attacks, with a grow­according to a videotape brother is back from the Guerrillas bombed a ing number of Iraqis killed obtained by Associated dead." Baghdad shopping street as "collaborators," ana­Press Television News. The A Jordanian transport full of police recruits and lysts said. 


New Orleans prepares for Ivan 
a slight turn north on a path that Hurricane-force winds extended
Associated Press 

could bring it ashore early Thursday out 105 miles from the Category 4 
NEW ORLEANS-With 135-mph at the Alabama-Mississippi line, near storm, meaning a large swath of the Hurricane Ivan closing in with fright­Mobile, Ala. Gulf Coast could get slammed with a ening intensity, this flood-prone city "If we turn up dead tomorrow, it's storm surge of 10 to 16 feet and up scrambled Wednesday to get people my fault," said Jane Allinder, who to 15 inches of rain. After reaching out of harm's way, putting the frail stayed stubbornly behind at her land, Ivan threatened to stall over and elderly in the cavernous daughter's French Quarter doll shop the Southeast and southern Louisiana Superdome and urging to keep an eye on her cat. Appalachians, with a potential for as others to move to higher floors in tall Ivan's eleventh-hour turn may much as 20 inches of rain. buildings. have spared this bowl-shaped a Ivan's monster waves -some up 
Along some 300 miles of threat­direct hit, but forecasters said every­to 25 feet-were already destroying ened coastline from Louisiana to the one from New Orleans to the homes along the Florida coast Florida Panhandle, the churning Panhandle should be worried Wednesday. Twelve-foot waves surf, ominous clouds, swaying traffic because even the tiniest adjustment boomed ashore at Gulf Shores, Ala., lights and escalating winds were all in the storm track could change eroding the beach. A buoy about 300 the reminders some people needed where Ivan comes ashore by hun­miles south of Panama City regis­to take cover from a storm that made dreds of miles. tered waves over 34 feet high. 
page 6 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September !6, 2004 


pa~~:!pating ~ 
Kirkland & Ellis ...-.! 

september 16 
3:00pm-8:00pm 
All students regardless of degree, major, college, or year 
Student ID card required Attire is business casual 
joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side), enter gate 3 
.. 



findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating employers, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to http://careercenter.nd.edu 

• 
Click on Undergraduates, then click on Go IRISH 

• 
Enter your NetiD (AFSID) and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Search Jobs/Internships 

• 
Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 

• 
Scroll down to Keyword Search, type in BCF, then click on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on "Organization" -Positions, click on "Position Title" 



UNIVERSITY OF UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME 
MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 
The Career Center 
Abercrombie & Fitch Accenture ACNielsen BASES 
A.G. Edwards Aon Bain & Company Baker Hill Corp. Barclays Capital Becker Conviser 
Professional Review BKD Boeing bp 
cow 
Central Intelligence Agency CGI-AMS Chicago Consulting Actuaries Coachmen Industries Cochran, Caronia & Co. Credit Suisse First Boston Crowe Chizek and Company Davis & Hosfield Consulting Deloitte Deutsche Bank DirectEmployers Association DISH NETWORK EchoStar 
Communications Corp. E.&J. Gallo Winery Eaton Ernst & Young Federal Bureau 
of Investigation Federated Mutual 
Insurance Company Fifth Third Bank Ford Motor Company General Electric General Mills GlaxoSmith Kline Grosvenor Capital 
Management Harris Nesbitt H-E-B Grocery Company Hewlett-Packard Honeywell Houlihan Lokey Howard 
&Zukin Houston's Restaurants Humana Indiana CPA Society Indiana State 
Personnel Department lnteCap Johnson & Johnson Katz, Sapper & Miller* KPMG Kraft Foods LaSalle Bank and Standard 

Federal Bank McGiadrey & Pullen Morgan Stanley Morningstar Motorola National City Corporation Navigant Consulting Newell Rubbermaid News America Marketing Oldcastle,lnc. Panda Restaurant Group 
(Panda Express) Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Piper Jaffray PNC Financial Services Group PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Protiviti Pulte Homes Quicken Loans Ryan & Company* SBC Communications SCORE! Educational Centers SIRVA Smart and Associates St. Paul Travelers Steak 'n Shake Stockman Kast Ryan + Co Stryker Instruments 
Target Teach for America The Boston Consulting Group The Gallup Organization The United States Navy The Vanguard Group Towers Perrin 
U.S. 
Dept. ofTreasury, Internal Revenue Service 

U.S. 
Dept. of Treasury, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency* 


Wachovia Securities Walgreens Weiser* Wells Fargo Bank William Blair & Company WPS Resources Corporation Xerox 
* Resume drop 
..., 
~ 
tD 
U1 


THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Thursday, September 16, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,231.36 -86.80

jones 
A 
up: Same: Qc»vr: Composite Volume: 1,325 165 • 1,252,684,928 

AMEX 1,239.24 -9.30 
NASDAQ I ,896.52 -18.88 NYSE 6,546.32 +47.89 S&PSOO 1,120.37 -7.96 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,158.58 0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,548.40 +2.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +7.39 +0.78 11.33 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.88 -0.79 19.56 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.69 -0.35 20.42 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.91 -0.25 27.19 TASER INTL (TASR) + 21.90 +7.74 43.09 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.61 +0.30 49.63 10-YEAR NOTE +0.90 +0.37 41.70 5-YEAR NOTE +1.17 +0.39 33.82 3-MONTH BILL +0.55 +0.09 16.32 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.83 43.51 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) -0.70 406.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.05 94.725 
Excha e Rates 

YEN 110.04 EURO 0.8229 POUND 0.5629 CANADIAN$ 1.2965 
IN BRIEF 

Stewart to reclaim life in prison 
NEW YORK -Even at a wrenching moment of surrender. Martha Stewart was -as always -under impeccable control. 
Her announcement Wednesday that she would report to prison as soon as possible came in a light-bathed studio, before a bril­liant backdrop of color swatches, perfectly choreographed for television. She lamented that she would miss her beloved pets -cats, dogs, horses, canaries and chickens -and hoped to be free in time for her cherished spring gardening. 
"I must reclaim my good life," the 63-year­old millionaire businesswoman declared. 

Oil prices fall as hurricane fears end 
WASHINGTON -The loss of more than three-quarters of daily oil production in the Gulf of Mexico, and a significant amount of refining capacity, as a result of Hurricane Ivan should not cause U.S. motorists much long­term pain at the pump -so long as Ivan does not cause the industry any lasting infrastruc­ture damage. 
The expectation of only short-term turbu­lence within the petroleum sector helped push oil prices lower Wednesday, even as Ivan roared toward the Gulf Coast with 135. mph winds and after the government reported that tanker delays had caused a sharp drop in the nation's oil supply. 
Light sweet crude for October delivery fell 81 cents to $43.58 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 

Chipmaker admits to price fixing 
WASHINGTON -German computer chip­maker Infineon Technologies AG has agreed to plead guilty to price fixing and will pay a $160 million fine, the Justice Department announced Wednesday. 
In a plea agreement filed in U.S. District Court in San Francisco, Infineon acknowl­edged conspiring with other companies to fix prices of computer memory products between July 199'9 and June 2002. 


Economic outlook in question 
Stocks slump on lower forecast from Coca-Cola, declining monetary figures 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Stocks sagged Wednesday after beverage giant Coca-Cola Co. issued a gloomy fore­cast, and a lower-than­expected reading on industrial production for August threw the nation's broader economic outlook into question. 
Investors are watching as companies start to issue outlooks ahead of the third-quarter earnings season. With some corpo­rate forecasts falling short of expectations, worries about a slower second half are intensifying, but analysts said it's really too soon to know what lies ahead. And after four weeks of gains, it makes sense for stocks to take a pause on some less-than­encouraging news. 

"We've been saying for a while that investors need to be much more selective ... this is a stock­picking kind of market," said John Caldwell, chief investment strategist for McDonald Financial Group, part of Cleveland­based KeyCorp. "It may be that Coke's problems are just Coke's problems. On the flip side of that, there are a number of companies out there that are saying relatively good things." still be working through however, since the cartel largest customers include 
In early afternoon trad­the "soft patch" Federal is already pumping such tech concerns as ing, the Dow Jones indus­Reserve Alan Greenspan beyond the new quota. Oil Cisco Systems Inc., Lucent trial average slid 75.66, referred to in remarks futures gained 41 cents to Technologies Inc. and or 0.7 percent, to before Congress last $44.80. International Business 10,242.50. week. Pressuring the Dow, Machines Corp., so the 
The broader gauges Some of the decline was Coca-Cola fell 4.3 percent, announcement put the were also lower. The due to slower production or $1.86, to $41.01, after entire sector under pres­Nasdaq composite index at mines and utilities dur­warning results for the sure. slumped 21.07, or 1.1 ing the month of August. second half of the year Cisco fell 64 cents to percent, to 1 ,894.33. The But for investors, persist­were likely to fall short of $19.71, Lucent shed 8 Standard & Poor's 500 ently high energy prices expectations due to weak­cents to $3.33 and IBM index lost 7 .45, or 0. 7 remain the chief worry. er sales and challenging was down 53 cents at percent, to 1,120.88. In an effort to quell anx­conditions in key markets. $86.19. 
The Federal Reserve iety about global crude Celestica Inc. sank 13 There was some bright reported only a 0.1 per­supplies, the 11-nation percent, or $1.88, to news; consumer electron­cent rise in industrial pro­Organization of Petroleum $12.69, after lowering its ics retailer Best Buy Co. duction in August, sur­Exporting Countries third-quarter forecast, cit­gained 4. 7 percent, or prising economists who announced it would raise ing a drop in orders from $2.36, to $52.65, after had forecast a 0.5 percent its target oil production by several top customers, reporting a nearly 8 per­gain. The feeble rise, 1 million barrels a day which the manufacturer cent increase in second­which follows a robust 0.6 later this year. Many ana­of electronics components quarter earnings, helped percent advance in July, lysts dismissed this as a declined to identify. The by improved cost controls suggests the economy may largely symbolic gesture, Toronto-based company's and margins. 

Job market may determine majors 
tion. a retreat from computer science
Associated Press 

Yet with employment patterns studies, which was a hot area in the 
NEW YORK -It's a well-worn shifting much faster than in the 1990s before the tech bubble burst pickup line at college keg parties: past, choosing a major based on and companies began offshoring What's your major? what jobs will be in demand a few programmers' jobs. 
And in today's uncertain job mar­years down the road is a trick)i What emerged as one substitute is ket, it's a lot more. Positions once endeavor. actually one of the older -and filled by graduates with yesterday's "In the last three years, because decidedly unexciting -standbys: hot majors are disappearing or of the economic recession, the labor accounting. being shipped overseas, so a stu­market hasn't really signaled what I Last year the number of students dent's answer to the question is one ought to be studying in college," graduating with accounting degrees of the most important financial said economist Paul Harrington, the rose 11 percent, according to a sur­decisions they will ever make. lead author of the Northeastern vey by the American Institute of 
Research by professors at study. With neither wages nor the Certified Public Accountants. Northeastern University in Boston job market really growing much, Colleges are crediting the bean­shows that a college student's "it's hard to figure out in the short counter boom on the recent corpo­major is more important than what run what's going to work for me, rate scandals and the Sarbanes­college they attend in determining what my major should be." Oxley legislation, both of which put their starting salary upon gradua-The most obvious recent trend is a spotlight on proper bookkeeping. 

page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 16, 2004 
ors. University replaced the old cri­Council voted to change the each semester. However, this should come as teria of a 3.4 GPA to those stu­dean's honor list requirements, Each year, the dean of every
Switch 
continued from page 1 
graduation honors -cum laude, magna cum laude and. summa cum laude -only on those with GPAs in the top 30, 10 and 5 percent of their class, respectively. Prior to this year, any stucl~nt with GPAs of 3.4, 
3.6 and 3.8, received those hon-

no surprise to students, said officials. 
"They've known since they were freshmen that this was coming," said Dottie Pratt, assis­tant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
In the spring of 2001, the Academic Council decided that the previous criteria for the dean's list were too lax. The 
LUNKER'S 

HOME OF THE 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM AND ANGLER's INN RESTAURANT. HuGE SELECTION OF 

NORTH FACE 
JACKETS, COATS, HATS, CLOTHING BRING THIS AD INTO LUNKER's AND RECEIVE 10/o OFF NoRTH FACE ITEMS. 
LUNKER's 

APPROX. 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. TAKE ST. RD. 23 N TO EDWARDSBURG, MICHIGAN 269-663-3745 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM 
dents with a GPA in the top 30 percent in their college. The graduation honors requirements also changed at this time. 
In the semes­ter before the 
in 65.4 percent of Arts and Letters courses, half or more students received an A or A­minus. In the College of Engineering, half or more of students got 
policy changed, an A-minus or high­
"This is done to
each college had er in 45.2 percent of
make honors more
more than 30 courses. percent of its meaningful." These numbers students on the are up from 50 per­dean's list, and cent and 19 percent,
Harold Pace 
some, like the respectively, in fall 
registrar

School of 1996. 
Architecture and the College of Arts and Letters, had over 50 percent of students on the list. 
"This is done to make the hon­ors more meaningful," University Registrar Harold Pace said. "If half of the class is winning honors, is that a mean­ingful award?" 
Other factors also influenced the council's decision, among them alleged grade inflation and, according to Pratt, insur­ance companies. 
"Insurance companies give breaks for dean's list [stu­dents]," she said. 
If a company sees that more than half of the student body at a particular school is placed on the dean's list, it may stop giving breaks to students from that school, according to Pratt. 
As for grade inflation, University administrators still debate the subject. 
"Grade inflation vs. smarter students, which one is right at Notre Dame?" Pace said. "''m not sure." 
According to the 2001 Notre Dame Fact Book, in the spring of 2000, when the Academic 
Whether ·grade 
inflation or smarter students, or a combination of both, many students find the new dean's list requirements appropriate. 
"I don't think it's a bad sys­tem, because it reflects the top tier of the current students," 
said David McCormick, a junior business major. "If Notre Dame is admitting smarter and smarter students each year, the standard for the dean's list should be raised as well." 
Anne Ryckbost, 

a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, disagreed. 
"I don't like it," she said, "It's frustrating when you're shoot­ing for something, each semes­ter you don't know what it will be." 
Though dean's list require­ments generally change each semester, registrar does publish the upcoming semester's GPA requirements at the start of college must choose to post either one required GPA for the entire year, an average of the previous two semesters' GPAs or two GPAs, each based on the previous year's corresponding semester. 
This fall, for instance, the GPA requirement for the College of Arts and Letters is 3.765, and the spring requirement is 3.778. The GPA requirement for the College of Science is 3. 7 45 for the entire year. 
"We elected to move to sepa­rate ones for fall and spring because we are a large college and because we noticed a real difference in GPA between the two semesters," said Pratt of the College of Arts and Letters. "We felt it was more equitable to rec­ognize the difference." 
The other two 
colleges that use 

"/ don't think it's a two distinct GPAs 
are the First Year

bad system because 
of Studies and the 

it reflects the top tier College of Engineering.
ofthe students. " 
Requirements for graduation honors 

David McCormick 
for the senior class junior will be made avail­
able this January, 
Pace said. 
"The Latin Honors for May 2005 graduation will be deter­mined in January based upon seven semester totals (after the Fall 2004 semester) for each college," said Pace. "At that time we will determine and pub­licize the required GPAs for Latin Honors in each college." 




Thursday, September 16, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 9 





Campus Ministry 
Coleman-Morse Center 574-631-7800 
' 
ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 
frida o9.17 
Marriage Preparation Retreat Friday-Saturday Fatima Retreat Center 
Sophomore Road Trip Friday-Sunday 
S=a=t~U=r,__,d=a=J-__,0:...<:..9!....!.1=8__-l/Four:7/ 
Mass 9:00am Alumni Hall Chapel 
Mass 5:00pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
sunday o9. 19 Mass 1O:OOam & 11 :45am Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA -Inquiry Session 
10:00 -11 :30am 
330 Coleman-Morse 


special events 

Theology on Tap Wednesday, September 22nd 1O:OOpm -Legends Must NOT be 21 to attend! 


mass schedule 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass 
5:00p.m. 
Rev. Michael E. Connors, esc 


wednesday o9.22 
Catechist Formation Class 5:00-7:00pm 330 Coleman-Morse 
Emmaus Kick-off 6:00-8:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
1O:OOpm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Theology on Tap 10:00pm Legends 
Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups, Mass schedules and special campus ministry events at 
campusministry.nd. edu 
Sunday 

10:00 a.m. 
The Most Rev. John M. D'Arcy Bishop, Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Paul Doyle, esc 
Twenty-fifth Sunday in Ordinary Time 

considerations... 
Faith-It Isn't Just for Sundays Any More!! 
by Tami Schmitz, Director of Emmaus £t RCIA 
Hey, it's a new year and whether you're a "seasoned" senior, a brand new freshmen or fall somewhere in between, this is a great opportunity to set new goals for yourself. Studying harder, being a better roommate, attending Mass more often, being more patient with your girl/boyfriend, BEATING MICHIGAN (oops, been there, done that!!) or going abroad are all great goals. 
One of the most important goals we can set for ourselves is to expand and deepen the friendships in our lives. Beyond the grades, the great career opportunities and the millions of t-shirts you will accumulate over your four years, the most important part of your college experience that you will take from this sacred place is your FRIENDS: the friends you make in the dorms, on retreats, in your classes and the friends everywhere in between. The people who have shaped us and helped us become who we are is by far the most important gift Notre Dame will give us. 
One opportunity for you to form great friendships is through EMMAUS. Over 200 students participate in this program each semester. These are students from all over campus --different years in school, different ethnic backgrounds, different religious affiliations, different experiences of family and friends. But these students want to put their faith into action beyond a Sunday liturgy and they want to form friendships that matter. Emmaus gives participants opportunities to share what's most important in their lives in light of the Gospel message. 
Emmaus is made up of groups of 6-8 students who come together for 1-1 1/2 hours each week to pray, read Scripture or other spiritual writings, and discuss what is going on in their lives based on the readings. Each Emmaus faith sharing group is student led and all materials are provided by Campus Ministry. There are many types of Emmaus groups: some groups are dorm-based, while others include men and women from across campus. Some students form their won groups, and others decide to let the Holy Spirit (and Campus Ministry) decide who their group members will be. Last year Emmaus even went international. When 4 out of 6 members of one group were all going abroad, they decided to keep connected and e­mailed each other every week with their thoughts on the Sunday Scriptures and their personal experiences. They continued to pray with and for each other even though they were literally oceans and continents apart. 
Yes, Emmaus is about prayer, about faith, about our spiritual journeys. It is also about FRIENDSHIP with Christ and with one another. It's about integrating faith into EVERY aspect of our daily lives and having companions to support and challenge us when we need it most. Some Emmaus groups stick together for all four years and some change every year. All the while, we in Campus Ministry will stick beside you to help meet your needs on your spiritual journey in any way we can. 
It's not too late to set ANY goal for this year, and if "faith & friendship" are something you are looking, give us a try ... the road to Emmaus may be the best goal you have ever set and perhaps the best road you've ever taken! 


EMMAUS 
Commumtlcs uf Faith Sharmg and Scnpture Study 
EMMAUS KICK-OFF!! Small Faith Sharing Communities Wednesday, September 22 6:00-7:30pm Coleman-Morse Lounge Join us!! 
For more info contact: Tami Schmitz-Schmitz.8@nd.edu Courtney Schuster· Schuster.13@nd.edu 
Greg Ruehlmann-Ruehlmann.l@nd.edu 
Around Campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. 
Spanish Mass St. Edward's Hall Chapel 
5:00 p.m. 
Law School Mass 
Law School Commons 
7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 

1st: Amos 8:4-7 2nd: 1 Timothy 2:1-8 Gospel: Luke 16:1-13
Sunday's Scripture Readjngs 


r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-------------------------------­THE ()BSER\'ER 

IEWPOINTpage 10 Thursday, September 16, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
PO. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46~~ 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 465~ 
EDITOR IN OltEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR 8(1stNliSS MANAGER Meghannc Downes Mik!: Flanagan 
A.~S'J: MANAGING EOITOR Joe Hettler 
NEWS EDITOR• Claire Heininger Vt~:-wPOINT EDITOR! Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoeg;trden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith IN Focus EorrOR• Meghan Martin SAJN'f MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR• Mike Harkin• ADvERTISING MANAGER• Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kdly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR& Mary Allen CoNl'ROllER: Paula Garcia 
0FAC£ MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (S74) 631-7471 fAX (S74) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63!-4324 BUSINESS 0FACE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.J@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY's Om smc. I@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSIEMS & WEB ADMINISffiATORS (574) 631.8839 
Oit5tRVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independ¢nr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's ··• 
College. &lirorial ~ontent, indw:ling adverds.:ment$; is not governed by policies of the admiiiisrration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accuraiely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opiiiion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Edit<>r, Assisrant Managing Editor and department edirou. C..ommemaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu~stions ~garding ObsrrvrrpolicifS should br dirrctt'fi to EditQr in ChitfMt~tt Low~ 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
l'hcl Ohmwr tUSP~ ')1>9.2-4000) C..J,ul,!l$h«i Mond.ty tbrough llfiJo~y cat.:.:f>r dwdntt c;ogm •nJ ,oAl:.ltlun Jteriod-t. AM-ripcinn roTh(' ()hum,., i• .$100 rornncr~nnil. )'Nr: '~5 for OIIC" fC'IIlnfrf­~ Ob'"""Cf a :t tne"mhn nfrhc Al:sucii!C'd ~•. All ~pn•~u<.ti:n11 righn .reo 
~...t:~. 
"nK" Obu"fvtt j, publhht-d '': r.o.a.,Q t.ll-1 \o1,uh tJmj"8' H:!ll 024 $ouch Oinmg H•U N&mt D.vttt', JN 46,.s.6-o:779 Nom: p,,.., JN 46~)6..0779 ('c:!fiOdu:~l!>i)iU~<' r.a~d <lt Nouc U.unc: 411d il~clitio11..! •u.Nllns,olli«~J. 
~0>1'MAS1'ER 
-S<-114 Qtlt.l~• <'l.lfm:tioru ~~~ l1)t()b~mcr 
The ol»cr~r b • tncmbcs 91 the: ~:tmll'tm. ,(JI K-pf~I)('~!Qt'l r!Jh~ ""' 
-.<>!. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Teresa Fralish Dan Tapetillo Nicole Zook Kate Gales Kelly Mt.-ehan Ken Fowler 
Viewpoint Scene Lauren Galgano Kenyatta Storin Graphics Illustrator Mike Harkins Katie Knorr 


Examining anti-Americanism 
When I was growing up, it was an article of faith amongst my friends that Americans were incapable of appreciat­ing irony. This dogma was. as far as I can recall, based on nothing that deserves to be dignified with the term evidence, Peter Wicks nothing beyond the fact that it was widely Englishman believed to be so. Other Abroad common knowledge was that Americans were ignorant of the little history they had, and were consequently culturally-deprived and prone to simplistic moral absolutism. It is hard to faithfully recall my boyhood outlook, but I think I shared with my peers a vague intuition that you Yanks might have had a shot at sophistication if only you had been able to grow up in close proximity to castles. 
Having long since accorded Jerry Lewis semi-divine status, the French were in no position to assume the high ground when it came to humor, but the resentment of America's cultural domi­nance plays a far more central role in French self-understanding. The denun­ciation of American 'cultural imperial­ism' is France's true national sport. The pernicious influence of Hollywood and McDonald's are regarded with particu­lar horror. 
I have always been suspicious of the phrase 'cultural imperialism,' the rhetorical force of which relies on the suggestion that the export of American culture is a new variety of the imperial­ism of the Spanish, French and British empires. To hear some people talk you would think that U.S. Marines were currently stationed in Paris. busily frog­marching Frenchmen into the nearest McDonald's. 
I haven't seen "Super Size Me,'' the documentary in which Morgan Spurlock proves beyond all doubt that it is unhealthy to subsist on a diet that consists entirely of fast food. But I am not surprised that it is proving popular 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Getting the wrong parking permit 
I don't know if this has happened to any other off-campus Can you tell me how to get to the student lot?" 
students, but I got the wrong student parking per­mit. 
I'm sure it was my mistake. It must have happened when I paid for my permit at the beginning of the year. I think I just picked up the wrong sticker. I am always doing stupid things like that. But I didn't notice it until this morning when I got to school. 
Like every morning, I pulled into the student lot about 10 minutes before class and started looking for an empty space. I usually park in the southern quadrant of the student lot, but today when I tried to park there, a security guard stopped me. 
"You can't park here," he said. "Oh, I'm sorry," I said, "I must be mistaken. 
OBSERVER POLL 
For what will you use the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center? 
Vote by 5 p.m. today at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
in Britain and Europe. The last time I 
was in an English bookstore I saw so 
many books about the epidemic of obe­
sity in America that it can only be a 
matter of time before they are consid­
ered a literary genre. 
I am not opposed to the suggestion that obesity can be a sign of cultural sickness, but surely so too is the insa­tiable appetite for voyeuristic accounts of American obesity. 
It seems to me that these are all man­ifestations of a deep cultural insecurity. We want the inhabitants of the world's richest and most powerful country to be fat simpletons who couldn't possibly understand Monty Python because these are our consolations. We want America to be that way for the same reason we want the model to be dumb, the star quarterback to have a drug problem and the successful business­man to have bad dreams. 
I think this helps to explain why the English place so much importance on irony when defending their cultural superiority; it's where we have the most ego invested. It has been said that the distinguishing feature of English men is that they would rather be told that they are bad in bed than that they have no sense of humor. Intrigued by this claim, some years ago I put this to a group of friends back in England and they agreed unanimously -in order to make my survey scientific. I made sure that they were drunk first. 
All of these petty prejudices can be called anti-American, but it would be mistaken to regard any of them as expressing hatred of America. I never hated America and I don't think any my friends did either. But I think the hatred of America does share something in common with my adolescent snobbery; its appeal is the consolation it provides. 
Hatred of America is, I think, far more about America's status as the world's only superpower than it is about what America does with that 
"You're in it," he said, "but you'll have to park up by Eck field." As I was driving away. I looked over at the lot and saw that none of the cars parked there had my permit. Instead, they had Gurley Leep price stickers. I know, I am such an idiot. So if someone in the administration could just send me a Gurley Lnep price sticker so that I can start parking in the student lot. I would appreciate it. Again, I am sorry because this was clearly my mistake. 
Ben Nickol junior 
Off~campus 
Scpr. 15 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Expecting a carjacker or rapist or drug pusher to care that his possession or use ofa gun is unlawful is like expecting a terrorist to care that his car bomb is taking up two parking spaces." 
Joseph T. Chew author 
power. What angered many Europeans 
about America's invasion of Iraq was 
the sense that America would invade 
Iraq and there was nothing that they 
could do to change that. They were .angry because at some level they 
understood that their anger did not 
matter. Similarly, in the British press, 
Tony Hlair was widely denounced as 
Bush's 'poodle' because it was assumed 
that the Prime Minister's support for 
Bush must inevitably be motivated by 
the need to curry favour with the 
leader of the world's most powerful 
nation. 
I find that when the topic of French 
anti-Americanism comes up in political 
discussions here, particularly in politi­
cal discussions involving beer, it is usu­
ally only a matter of lime before some· 
one observes that were it not for 
America the French would be speaking 
German. The none too subtle sugges­
tion is that considering all that America 
has done for France, the French could 
stand to be a little more grateful. But if 
I am right. rrench anti-Americanism 
survives not in spite of. but in large 
part of because of this; it is humiliating 
for a once great power to need the help 
of unsophisticated cowboys. America 
saved France from the barbarism of 
National Socialism and the French will 
not forgive you for it. 
Lord Acton said, "Power tends to cor­
rupt and absolute power corrupts 
absolutely." I think it is not without sig­
nificance that the first half of Acton's 
formula is now usually misquoted as 
the less nuanced "pownr corrupts." If 
there is a lesson to be learnt from anti­
Americanism it is that powerlessness 
too has its corruptions. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in 
the Philosophy Department. lie can be 
contacted at pwicks@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

THE OBSERVER. 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 16, 2004 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Supporting the Gender Resource Center 
Realistic considerations 

I agree that all people should be treated equally whether they are black or white, gay or straight, and like Anna Nussbaum, men or women, but many of the points in her letter yesterday were not thought through. 
I agree with her that Notre Dame should have more resources available in Health Services for women such as the ability to fill medication that is typically used for birth control -but also for many other things-and assistance in the event they are assaulted, but my agreement ends there. 
Yes, it is annoying that most women's halls have more strict security than men's, but let's be honest, in many cases women need more protection then men. Personally, I even enjoyed having the dorm monitors around when I lived on campus and thought that all dorms should have had them. I know I can take care of myself, but added protection can never hurt. But putting my opinion aside, this security measure is in place in some male dorms too. 
I had to sign in and out of a male dorm this weekend. So there you go, equality. 
As far as adding more graduate pro­grams to Notre Dame, I think that would be great. I would love to come back to Notre Dame to pursue my graduate degree, but saying that stereotypical women's pro­grams like education and nursing should be added sets the women's program· back almost 100 years. Don't get me wrong, they are great careers, but insinuating that they are female oriented not only insults males in these professions, but also insinuates that women cannot hack it in your so­called male oriented professions. 
Finally, change the victory march, the most historied victory march of all time? Knute Rockne is rolling over in his grave. 
While change can be positive, it must be done keeping in mind tradition. If this isn't done, Notre Dame as we know it will cease to exist. Hopefully the Gender Relations Center will keep this in mind and look for important changes rather than getting bogged down in minor details such as a word in a song and thus allow Notre Dame to be lost in political correctness. 
Ellen Fitzgerald alumni Cliss of 2003 Sept.15 

Making progress 
I never thought I'd see the day that I was defending Notre Dame. I am in a state of perpetual frustration about the rules, in loco parentis, and the dif­ferences in the treatment of men and women. 
However, it comes down to the fact that we all chose this school. There are certain things, such as single-sex dorms, meatless Fridays, lack of birth con­trol and the possibility of being expelled for having sex, that have long been a part of Notre Dame. The University has made no attempt to hide these facts. We all knew coming in that this was a strict Catholic University. If you didn't, then I doubt you looked very hard. 
I will admit, I was raised with stories from my parents about Notre Dame glory days when Rectors helped roll kegs down the hall, and parietals were more of a suggestion. But as the daughter of a member of the first class of women, I also heard stories of men rating the bodies of women as they went through the lines in the dining halls and a professor telling students that over his dead body would a woman graduate. 
Notre Dame was a culture shock for me in more ways than those previous­ly listed. But although I did not fully understand the scope of du Lac before arriving on campus, I knew that I was not going to be having the same expe­riences as my friends heading off io Florida and Florida State. And even though I can commiserate with many of Anna Nussbaum's gripes, I think some of her demands are unreasonable. 
She wants males in the student section to stop yelling slurs offensive to women? I do not know where she was sitting, but some of the more abrasive members of the section near me were women who also continually com­mented on the promiscuity of Ann Arbor. And what constitutes offensive lan­guage because I surely wasn't offended, although those affiliated with the University of Michigan may have been. 
I also hate the argument that "women's programs" are not equally repre­sented in our graduate school. What is a "woman's program?" So what if the business school has been "traditionally male." Is that stopping you from pur­suing that career? My mother was a graduate of the business school in '76. 
Yes, there are certain aspects of Notre Dame that are extremely frustrat­ing and more conservative than what are peers are experiencing, but I have decided to focus on the positives. It has taken me two years to come to grips with the fact that the rules based on Catholic belief will never change. So instead of continuing to seethe in anger, I think the best approach to make a difference is to focus on the attitudes and comments of my fellow students. I'm pretty sure that when I come back for the Michigan game years from now, single sex dorms will still be in existence. But perhaps, more impor­tantly, the student body will have continued to evolve as it has since the '70s when the first women stepped on campus. 
Anne Michelle Reilly junior Cavanaugh Hall Sept. 15 

U-WIRE 
Rethinking the expiration of the assault weapons ban 
As the federal assault-weapons ban is set to expire this week, the debate on gun control has surged to the forefront of current issues. Leaders in Congress have been locking horns with the gun industry, the NRA has been battling gun control advocacy groups and President Bush has taken a lot of heat for supporting the ban but doing Adam little to renew it. Llchtenheld 
Hecent discussion and deliberation has proved the assault weapon ban The Wisconsin to be virtually nothing more than a Badger Herald Second Amendment issue of extreme proportions; it is difficult to decipher the legitimacy of assault-weapon use in our Bill of Rights. Nevertheless, whether you're a !1annel-wearing, camou!1age-painted, red-necked, gun-toting, conservative card-carrying member of the NRA or a tie-dye wearing, hash-smok­ing, peace-waving, pacifist liberal, you should be able to agree that the assault weapons ban deserves to expire. 
The problem with the revitalization of the ban does not lie in its intentions. There should be little doubt that restricting public access to elaborate assault weapons is in the best interest of our country. There is no reason why hunters or competitive shooters need to use AK­47s-which are designed to kill mass amounts of peo­ple in combat-as opposed to regular rifles and shot­guns-which are designed for hunting and recreation­al activities.. 
The problem with the assault-weapons ban lies in its effectiveness; it is nothing more than a legislative piece of propaganda filled with exceptions and loopholes. The ban does little to stop the circulation of all kinds of dan­gerous assault weapons. 
It is difficult to determine statistically how successful the ban has been since its implementation in 1994. People's definitions of an assault weapons differ, and it is hard to keep track of crimes committed by specific types of guns. A study done by the Justice Department, as reported by the New York Times, found that crimes committed by assault weapons have declined only slightly since the ban took effect. Because of the ban's vagueness and ambiguity, most gun manufacturers have simply changed the names of their weapons or altered their features and accessories to comply with the law. 
This obvious weakness was mocked in one case when a gun maker produced a modified version of an assault weapon and called it AB 10, with the "AB" standing for "after ban." An estimate from the Viole.nce Policy Center claims that, since 1994, more than one million assault weapons have been made in the United States despite the ban. How can a law meant to restrict the buying and selling of specific guns fail to prohibit so many of these weapons from going on the market and into people's homes? And if we know there are ways around the ban, shouldn't its expiration be necessary in order to find a more effective alternative? 
Rather than pushing so hard for the extension of an inadequate law, we should be exploring alternative pieces of legislation that could implement a more effec­tive ban on assault weapons. A prime example is the Consumer Safety Protection Act, which is currently being debated in Congress. The CSPA allows the Justice Department to regulate the manufacture and distribu­tion of weapons, as well as restrict the availability of guns determined to be a risk to public safety (such as assault weapons). 
Such proposed legislation attempts to do what the assault weapons ban was supposed to do: prohibit such unnecessary and dangerous weapons from being pro­duced and distributed to the general public. Through revisions and the closing of loopholes, a new bill could be passed that would be strong where the present ban is weak. 
The assault weapons ban has not done an adequate job of preventing gun enthusiasts from acquiring mor­phed forms of multiple kinds of assault weapons. It did 
-nothing to help prevent such high-profile shootings as the 1999 killings at Columbine High School or the 2002 sniper attacks in Washington, D.C., both cases in which assault weapons we're used. Such guns are made for combat, not hunting; they are unnecessary in the lives of the average citizen. How do we implement laws that recognize the needlessness of assault weapons and the dangers they pose? 
We don't spend valuable time and energy attempting to extend a severely flawed piece of legislation. Through its 10-year life span, the assault-weapons ban proved it was not the answer to gun control, but merely an inconvenience for the gun industry and its con­sumers. 
This column originally appeared on Sept. 14 in the Badger Herald, the daily publication at the University of Wisconsin. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE ()BSER\lER 




CENE
page 12 
Thursday, September 16, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Simpson sister finds success 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scene Editor 
What is the secret to a successful first album? Apparently an MTV reality show, a famous older sister and some hair dye ­Ashlee Simpson's recipe for greatness. Add a solid. heavily promoted debut album .hit­ting platinum after only weeks and shoot­ing to number one, and the story of Ashlee Simpson's summer is complete. One of the most-hyped albums of the summer, "Autobiography," Ashlec's debut, has taken thn focus oil' older sister Jessica and blazed a path for the younger Simpson in the music industry. 
Just months ago, Ashlee Simpson was nothing more than a guest star making appearances on "Newlyweds," her sister Jessica Simpson's reality show. She also had a role on WB's "Seventh Heaven," but was not known for much more than her last name. A lot has changed. Following the success of "The Ashlee Simpson Show" on MTV, "Autobiography" became destined for number one. 

More than hair color differentiates Ashlee from Jessica, and "Autobiography" shows that fact explicitly. One would find it difl'icult to draw comparisons between Jessica and Ashlee's albums as they arc so difl'erent from one another. 
"Autobiography" is meant to be a rock album. While it does not quite reach that standard, it definitely falls in between rock and pop. Similar to Avril Lavigne's sound, but not quite as dark in the subject matter, the album showcases a girl with talent and terrific songwriters. While Ashlee doesn't have the strong ballad voice of her sister, her scratchy voice generally works in the pop-rock scene and fits with the songs she performs. The songs are generally upbeat ­-although there are a couple slower tracks -and all are composed of catchy melodies that any teenage girl would have in her head and on her lips for days. 

"Pieces of Me" was the first single off "Autobiography," and at a tempo between fast and slow, with hints of both throughout the song. It was a perfect choice. The sec­ond single that is currently being pushed is "Shadow," which is a slow song about Ashlee living in Jessica's shadow through­out their childhood. Ashlee sings of the angst of growing up as the younger sister: "Living in the shadow/ of someone else's dream I Trying to find a hand to hold, but every touch felt cold to me I Living in a nightmare, a never ending sleep I But now that I am wide awake my chains arc finally free I Don't feel sorry for me." 

Fame has come to Ashlce Simpson and her album "Autobiography," and the main question one cannot help asking is whether or not the album would have been strong enough to stand and rise on its own, inde­pendent of all the support it found. It is a good debut album, but number one is prob­ably something that would have escaped the exact same album done by a girl with­out the last name Simpson. Overall, "Autobiography" is a fun, catchy album that is very likeable. While she does not quite hit her goal for Courtney Love rock. Ashlee stays far away from her sister's sound and in doing so made a great debut album that has made her a name for her. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
Gift of Gab is solid, but lacks beats 
By KENYATTA STORIN Assistant Scene Editor 
There is no arguing that Gift of Gab is one of the best underground rap­pers of today. lie and Chief Xcel, who form Blackalicious. have made two of the most creative and unique hip-hop albums in recent memory: "Nia" and "Blazing Arrow." Much like other pre­mier underground acts like Jurassic 5, Common and Talib Kweli, Blackalicious produces an alternative brand of hip hop that strays far from the path of popular rappers like 50 Cent and Snoop Dogg. No guns, no money, no violence here -t-his is intellectual hip-hop at its best. 
But Blackalicious is not only cre­ative, but quite talented as well. Gift of Gab has an unbelievable flow, being able to rap as quickly as Twista while using the vocabulary of a Webster's dictionary and expressing as much spirituality as a Notre Dame Rector. Chief Xcel is no slouch either, sporting some of the most unpredictable and sophisticated beats around, making him and Gift of Gab a perfect pairing. 

"4th Dimensional Rocketships Going Up" is Gift of Gab's first solo release, and although it is a solid effort, Chief Xcel is sorely missed. Production duties are instead split between Vitamin D and Jake One, and the two fail to fill even one of Chief Xcel's shoes. Aside from some bright spots like the opening track, "The Ride of Your Life," which has a surreal harp sample intertwined with a smooth bass line, many of the tracks have generic and static beats. Not only this, but the overall production lacks vari­ety, making some of the songs blend together after a while. This is not to say that the production does not have its moments for some of the beats grow on you over time, but overall it lacks the punch and creativity of Chief Xcel's work. 

On the other hand, Gift of Gab is as good as ever, once again showing why he is one of the best lyricists out there. Sometimes he is insightful, like on "Way of the Light" when~ he spouts, "Money just like everything else, it all dies I The self is lost, and it's still can I get a dime sack? I To help me focus on wealth, not material wealth I Cause true wealth resides deep inside." And like previous Blackalicious works, Gift of Gab shows he can still be quite imaginative too, like on "Stardust" where he flows, "Headed out to Mars with souls and minds that are more connected I build with elders how to conquer ignorance, the mighty predator." 
Due to the mediocrity of the album's production, in order to truly enjoy the album one must listen carefully to Gift of Gab's lyrics. His rhymes are full of clever allusions and thought-provok­ing topics that often take several lis­tens to catch because of his lightening quick flow. Unlike catchy radio-friend­ly songs like Usher's "Yeah!" or 50 Cent's "In Da Club" that are suited well for background music at parties and the like, "4th Dimensional Rocketships Going Up" is a poor choice for a casual listen. It is like the difference between putting on "Kill Bill" or "The Matrix" in the back­ground, versus "2001: Space Odyssey" or "Citizen Kane." 
"4th Dimensional Rocketships Going Up" is a very good hip-hop album, but when compared to Blackalicious, it 

Photo courtesy ot van46.com 

Gift of Gab shows off his skills In his solo debut, but his work with Blackallclous Is still better. 
almost sounds pedestrian. It lacks the wonderful chemistry between Gift of 
Gab and Chief Xcel that makes Blackalicious so unique. With the right producers, Gift of Gab is probably capable of creating a classic by him­self. but it is hard to imagine a better producer for him than Chief Xcel. For the time being, Gift of Gab should stick with what works and make another classic Blackalicious album. Then the rocket ships will really 11y. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 

THE OBSER\'ER 





CENE
Thursday, September 16, 2004 
page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
The Arcade Fire unleash electrifying debut 
By MATTHEW L. SOLARSKI Scene Music Criric 
Jack Kerouac famously wrote, "The only people for me are the mad ones, the ones who are mad to live, mad to talk, mad to be saved ... the ones that never yawn or say a commonplace thing, but burn. burn, burn like fabulous yellow roman candles exploding like spiders across the stars ... " Were Jack around today, he would probably have the words "The Arcade Fire" tattooed across his chest inside a big, red heart. 
In the live setting, The Arcade Fire cel­ebrate their madness by painting blood on their faces, shouting in unison and turning anything in the vicinity of the stage into a percussion instrument. Now, with the release of their debut "Funeral," the Montreal-based group have ossified their already-consjderable 
Funeral 
The Arcade Fire 
Merge 




''''" 
status as one of the most compelling groups making and performing music today. 
The band behind "Funeral," ironically centers on a wedding -that of husband and wife co-vocalists Win Butler and Regine Chassagne. Each also plays a slew of instruments including, but not limit~;Jd to, guitar, piano, accordion, drums. recorder. synthesizer, xylophone and bass. Joining them are Win's broth­er Will, Richard Reed Parry, and Timothy Kingsbury, who together play just about everything and seldom settle for a single instrument for more than two consecutive songs. Rounding out the ever-expanding collective, Montreal stu­dio guru Howard Eilerman rocks the drum kit, looking very much like a librarian, while pixie Sarah Neufeld adds a pinch of gravitas to the songs with her pensive violin. 
A solemn affair this funeral is not: basslines thunder beneath pulsating, jangling guitars. organs and harps galli­vant about dizzying c~imes, strings rise and cascade while a maudlin accordion sobs. Win steps in and lends his sincere, engaging vocals to the mix, at times recalling Frank Black, at times Modest Mouse's Isaac Brock and most often sounding very much like himself. 


The record opens with "Neighborhood #1 (Tunnels)." The first of four "Neighborhood" movements, it tingles with a refreshing magic realism. as Win describes a surreal nocturnal journey with his neighbor and beloved. The sec­ond "Neighborhood," "Laika," also examines escape, as Win and Regine recount the exploits of a brother who "tore our images out of his pictures ... scratched our names out of all his let­ters." The accordion figures most sub­limely into this number, which culmi­nates in a line worthy of our man Jack, "When daddy comes home I you always start a fight I so'the neighbors can dance I in the police disco lights." 
As its centerpiece, "Funeral" boasts the exceedingly gorgeous "Wake Up," an anthem to the despairing and disheart­ened. A rich, six-note guitar riff with grace note explodes into a chanted cho­rus featuring all band members. adorned in dashing harps and lush strings. The ebullient, supremely cathar­tic song finds Win and company at its end proclaiming, "With my lightnin' bolts a glowin' I I can see where I am goin' I You better look out below!" 
Having resolved to dive headlong into whatever sabotages life puts before them, the Arcade Fire prance through 

MATTHEW SOLARSKiiThe Observer 

The Arcade Fire's debut album is one of the year's best releases. 
two more stellar tracks before at last arriving at the eulogy-like closer "In the Backseat." ''I've been learning to drive all my life," declares Regine. Fading as it does into a few scattered string plucks, the album ends just as it arrived: a most vivid and entrancing dream that one will never quite forget. 
In summation, marvelous lyrics, mes­merizing instrumentation, and a vitality and emotional immediacy found in pre­cious few acts today make "Funeral" one ofthe year's most outstanding releases. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 
Nelly goes all out with new releases 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -As he tried to slip in a side door before a recent performance, Nelly got accosted by a fan waiting for his arrival. 
Nothing unusual -except the fan just happened to be uber-hip singer-song­writer John Mayer. 
"Hey Nelly, can I come in with you?" Mayer asked the rap superstar after an embrace. Nelly gave security the O.K., and his posse -which already included Murphy Lee, the rest of his St. Lunatics crew and Jermaine Dupri -grew by one. Later on, P. Diddy joined Nelly onstage for the Webster Hall perform­ance. broadcast live for America Online in front of hundreds of screaming fans. 
Everyone wants to be part of Nelly's clique these days -and who can blame them? The man who put St. Louis on the map has sold an astonishing 15 mil­lion copies of his first two albums, and on Tuesday released not one, but two separate albums -"Sweat" and "Suit" -on the same day. One is more of a party ~isc reminiscent of hits like "Hot in Herre," while the other has smoother songs that recall the smash success of "Dilemma." 
Not only does he have musical suc­cess, his Pimp Juice energy drink is a hot commodity, he's got his own cloth­ing lines and is filming his second film -a remake of "The Longest Yard" with Chris Rock and Adam Sandler. 
Q: These albums have so many col­laborations, but the most unusual is country singer Tim McGraw. How did that come about? 
NELLY: I used to see Tim a lot as far as like going around for awards shows, when "Country Grammar" first came out, him and his wife Faith. They would just tell me how they enjoyed my album. and everything I was doing. And you know how that old saying goes ­"Yo, we should do something." 
Q: Could you ever do a country song·! 
NELLY: Nah, nah. It wasn't like that. It was just me being me, pushing the limits. 
Q: What was your reaction when Spelman College students protested your appearance there to promote bone marrow donation because of your explicit "Tip Drill" video, in which you swiped a credit card through a woman's backside? 
NELLY: To me. it was a personal attack. It couldn't have been about what they said it was, because if it truly was, and this is truly your view, you're basically cutting the grass at the top instead of diggin' up for the roots, because Spelman is 10 blocks from a strip club. You're not out in front of the strip club picketing. You wait until somebody comes in there and does something very dear to his heart, such as saving a life, and doing something that should be educating the communi­ty, to come in and talk about a video? 
Q: Would you ever do another "uncut" video? 
NELLY: If I wanted to. yes, because I don't see anything wrong with it. Like I said before, it was made for adults. I do stuff for the adults but I also do stuff that appeals to kids. So, I try to keep a fine line. Hopefully, parents raise their kids and don't let music raise their kids and entertainers raise their kids. How is it that I can keep my child from see· ing a video that I did, but you can't keep your child (from seeing it) and you're there a lot more than I am? So you can't be serious. 

Q: What everyone really wants to know is ... was that really your credit card? 
NELLY: Yeah, that was my credit card! That's the thing. I think everybody is most upset about the credit card issue, but she said do it! This is a grown woman that told me, "Go ahead, do it." I never forced any of these girls to do anything. This is a job, they agreed to do it, they knew everything that was into it and these girls would be doing it whether Nelly was shooting a video or not. 
Q: You recently joined BET founder Bob Johnson as part owner of the NBA's Charlotte Bobcats. Will you have clout to say, "Hey, you need to trade this guy?" 
NELLY: [Laughs] Yeah, yeah -I think in a minute he's going to be second guessing his decision, because you know, I'm a sports nut. I'm always in it. I'm aware, and I have many friends who are athletes. I think sports and entertainment go hand in hand. I defi­nitely want to voice my opinion. But I'm just appreciative that I'm in this posi­tion. 
Q: You got some criticism for naming your energy drink Pimp Juice. 
NELLY: I don't think they understand. They hear the word, and they think, "Oh, my goodness," but you're not protesting Coke and Pepsi, and they have caffeine and stuff that is addictive and stuff that can harm you if you drink that. Pimp Juice has none of that. It's good for them. Sometimes you have to wrap it up in bad so they can get the good out of it. If you understand me, it's not even my angle. My son might come in and get two As and a B. and be like, "Man, I pimped that test!" ... It's just different these days, it's just lingo, it's just slang. 
Q: How do you respond when people say you're not a role model? 
NELLY: I don't see myself as a role model. I see myself as an inspiration. I can be an inspiration for someone who's been in the situation that I've been in and making good out of it. A role model should be someone who's close to you, someone who you can pick up and call when you're about to do something stupid or you have a ques­tion about life ... A role model should be some person who you can actually see the role of their life. You can't do that with athletes and entertainers, so I don't know why people just insist on making us role models. We'-re success stories. 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 Thursday, September 16, 2004 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Mets lose 2-0 to Braves, hours after Howe firing 
tonight."

Team drops its 21st of 
San Francisco 8, Milwaukee 1 

last 25 games played Barry Bonds barely missed his 700th homer. Bonds sent the first pitch he
Associated Press saw to the right-field warning NEW YOHK -Their manag­track, then didn't come close er was out of a job, and the again in San Francisco's rout New York Mets were out of the of the Milwaukee Brewers. sorts. "He missed his one shot Lame-duck Art Howe and his today," Giants manager Felipe listless Mets lost for the 21st Alou said. time in 25 games, with John Brett Tomko pitched a four­Thomson pitching the Atlanta hitter for the Giants, who Braves to a victory. remained a half-game ahead of The Mets fired Howe hours the Chicago Cubs in the NL earlier, making the move effec­wild-card race. tive at the end of the season. Bonds went 0-for-4 and is He was given his choice of now 0-for-6 with three walks whether to stay for the final 17 since hitting his 699th homer games _ general manager Jim Sunday in Arizona. He is Duquette asked him to remain expected tci start Thursday and Howe agreed, saying, ''I'm afternoon in the series finale at not a quitter." Miller Park before the Giants "There were obviously a lot return to SBC Park for a nine­of things happening before the game homestand beginning game," Howe said. "Once you Friday night, Alou said. get into a game, it's a game. Arizona 3, Colorado 2 ''I'm just glad it's behind us." Randy Johnson broke Steve There wasn't much energy at · Carlton's major league record Shea Stadium, and the Mets for strikeouts by a left-hander, didn't do a lot to cause any fanning 11 to lead the Arizona excitement. · Diamondbacks past the "Contrary to how it looked, Colorado Rockies. we care," losing pitcher AI Johnson pitched eight strong Leiter said. innings and finished the night Giants in the wild-card race. he gave up only one run and Cubs took advantage of a shaky St. Louis 4, Houston 2 with 4,139 strikeouts, passing The first five Los Angeles bat­four hits. He struck out four, outing by Oliver Perez (10-9). More big offense from Jim Carlton (4,136) for third over­ters hit safely, good for three improving to 4-1 in his last The left-bander, who had Edmonds and a bounce-back all on the career list behind runs, but Lawrence (15-12) nine starts. He gave up a lead­allowed three earned runs or game from Matt Morris helped only Nolan Ryan (5,714) and allowed only two hits and no off triple to Ryan Freel in the fewer in all but two of his pre­the St. Louis Cardinals surface Roger Clemens (4,287). runs after that before being lift­first but escaped with no dam­vious 17 starts, gave up 10 hits from their worst stretch of the The Big Unit struck out Vinny ed for a pinch-hitter. Lawrence age. -four homers -and six runs season. Castilla in the seventh for No. retired 18 of the final 21 batters "You never like. to get in in 5 2-3 innings. He also Edmonds' sacrifice fly 4,137. Play was interrupted he faced, and the Dodgers had those situations because it walked four and struck out snapped an eighth-inning tie' momentarily while the score­only three hits after the first takes a lot of pitches to get out five. and Morris rebounded from board flashed the statistics and inning. of them," Myers said. "I Montreal 6, Florida 2 one of his worst starts of the the crowd cheered the work­Giles hit Wilson Alvarez's first could've gone longer if I hadn't The Montreal Expos did their season, bringing the Cardinals horse of their struggling team. pitch of the sixth inning just gotten into that situation, but I best to sweep away the Florida one step closer to the NL Despite Johnson's. big night, inside the right-field pole for his definitely didn't want them to Marlins' playoff hopes. Central championship with a the paid attendance was 22nd homer to snap a 3-3 tie. score in the first. I worked out "We've battled through a lot victory over the Houston announced as 22,598 -the Philadelphia 9, Cincinnati 1 of it, but it took a lot out of of adversity these past two or Astros. second-lowest ever at Bank Brett Myers beat the me." three weeks, this is just a little Edmonds also hit his 42nd One Ballpark. Cincinnati Reds with his arm Chicago Cubs 13, Pittsburgh 5 bump in the road," manager homer, matching his career Johnson had his 12th double­and his bat. Sammy Sosa appears to have Jack McKeon said after Florida best set in 2000. The Cardinals digit strikeout game this year Myers pitched six solid found his swing, and the timing was swept by the Expos and have won only three of eight, and 203rd overall -moving innings and drove in the go­couldn't be better for the 10-4 to fall 3 1/2 games behind but reduced their magic num­within 12 of Ryan's big league ahead run, helping the Chicago Cubs. San Francisco in the NL wild­ber for clinching the division to record. Johnson has a major Philadelphia Phillies salvage Sosa hit his first grand slam card race. four.· league-high 268 strikeouts this the finale of a three-game in more than two years, and "We just have to get this "We knocked one off the season. He is 244-127 in his series with a win. also had a solo homer as the engine fired up again and click number the hard way," manag­career. "Pitching is repetitious," Cubs hit three straight in the on all cylinders again," McKeon er Tony La Russa said. "That San Diego 7, L.A. Dodgers 3 Philadelphia manager Larry first inning on their way to a added. was a tough win." Brian Lawrence settled down Bowa said. "He's only 24. rout of the Pittsburgh Pirates Tony Batista and Val Pascucci Jeff Kent hit a two-run after a shaky start to pitch six When he does it right, he's a that kept them on pace in the hit three-run homers for the homer and Lance Berkman solid innings, and Brian Giles very good big league pitcher." chase for the NL wild card. Expos in the second game. had two hits, giving him six in had three hits including a Pat Burrell hit his 23rd "He's swinging the bat Brad Wilkerson hit his ninth the last two games. tiebreaking homer to lead the homer in the sixth, his second great," teammate Derrek Lee leadoff homer in the opener, Houston has lost only four of San Diego Padres over the Los of the series, then added an said. "When he's swinging the which featured Montreal's its last 19 games, but fell two Angeles Dodgers. RBI single in the eighth to help bat like he is now, he can carry Brian Schneider getting picked games behind the San The NL West-ieau1ng Dodgers' the Phillies avoid being swept a team on his back." off by Mike Lowell's hidden ball Francisco Giants in the wild­lead was cut to 3 1/2 games in a three-game series in The rest of the Cubs aren't trick. card race. over San Francisco, an 8-1 win­Cincinnati for the first time too bad, either. Lee, Sosa and The teams resumed their "A two-run homer, and that ner at Milwaukee. San Diego since Aug. 4-6, 1995. Jason Michael Barrett connected in five-game series in Florida was it," manager Phil Garner moved within 6 1/2 games of Michaels added four hits. succession in the first inning, after the Marlins won the first said. "We didn't get anybody to Los Angeles in the division race Myers (9-9) matched his sea­and Neifi Perez added a two­two games at U.S. Cellular third, and that was the story and remained three back of the son high with five walks, but run shot in the sixth as the Field in Chicago. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
MSU tix 3 pair at face. Cash. $104 For Sale: ND footballtix. Need WA tix. Will trade PU or BC. Spring Break 2005 with STS, 



WANTED 
Now hiring Kitchen help & hostess. Apply Between the Buns Sports Bar, South Bend Ave. 
Kaplan needs PT student advisors. Flexible times. $7/hr. By Turtle CreekApts. 
Call 272-4135 for Info. 
Looking for JV Soccer coach for college prep school in La Porte area. Contact: Chris Balawender at 219­326-7450 orcbalawender@ laluiere.org 
per pair. 
Call Katies cell. 630-776-4979 
Babysil)er needed 
Oct 8 and/or Oct. 9. 7-10o. $13 per houri Call Kate (ND 97) at773-832-0689 
LOVE KIDSII Professional Mom needs help picking up children from two area Catholic schools close to ND & SMC Mon-Fri. Wonderful girls and good money for very little time involved I We would love to hear from you! Call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013. 
FoR SALE 
90 Honda Civic DX 4DR, 94K, great condition, $1700 OBO (574)289­0811 



TICKETS 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-3911 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 

Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: ND footballtix. Top$$$ 251-1570. 
ND ftballtix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 674-6593. 
Need BC GA tix. Will be used not resold. 269-684-6102. 
Need BC GA tix. Will be used not resold. 269-684-6102. 
57 4-634-3082. 

Buy/Sell ND football tix. Home & away games, including Mich. St.& Tenn. 
57 4-289-8048. 


PERSONAL 

Spring break 2005 Challenge ...find a better price! Lowest price spe­cials! Free Meals! November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 1800-426-771 0 Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
On the 43 .... God! 
Lasers!l!!llll 
Ann lies a lot 
Superscripts 
Happy Birthday Twins Cat and Christian ... even though people think you celebrate it on different days. Hope you liked the dinner. 
I'm not very applish 


Thursday, September 16, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yankees blank Royals 3-0, look ahead to Sox 
Second consecutive shutout for New York 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The New York Yankees' struggling starters are beginning to put it together -just in time for a big series against Boston. 
After struggling with his mechanics the last few weeks, Javier Vazquez found his groove and pitched New York to its sec­ond straight shutout. Yankee Stadium. since July 2. They began 
"I got my confidence back a Boston 8, Tampa Bay 6 Wednesday with a 4 1/2-game little bit," Vazquez said after The Boston Red Sox just want lead over Anaheim in the wild­throwing seven impressive to keep winning. card race. innings in a victory over the Manny Ramirez hit a Coming off a 5-2 defeat Kansas City Royals. "Hopefully, tiebreaking sacrifice fly, and against Tampa Bay on Tuesday, I'll get on a roll now." Kevin Millar and Mark Bellhorn with Pedro Martinez taking the 
Derek Jeter homered and had two-run homers to lift the loss, the Red Sox weren't about doubled twice, and Tony Clark Red Sox to a hard-earned victo­to let up. also connected for the Yankees. ry over the Tampa Bay Devil "Sometimes you hear so much They lead the AL East by four Rays. about the teams that are in first games over Boston and have a The Red Sox, who remained place that you lose focus like we day off before beginning a four games behind the New did last night," Bellhorn said. three-game series against the York Yankees, avoided losing The Red Sox blew three leads Red Sox on Friday night at three straight for the first time before Ramirez put them ahead 
At Ernst &Young the climb starts here.. 
You've just completed four years of college and the last thing you want to do is end up in amindless job. At Ernst &Young we challenge our employees from the start and then encourage them to grow throughout their career. We offer some of the best professional development programs in the country. And we've built an ~nclusive environment-one that Fortune® magazine has recognized as one of the "100 Best Companies To Work For" six years in a row. So if you're not interested in starting at the bottom, think about starting at one of the Top 100. ey.comiusjcareers 
FORTUNE. 


100 BEST 

COMPANIESg
TOWORKFORN 

to stay in the sixth inning. 
"It wasn't pretty, but (it was) a good win for the team," Millar said. Cleveland 5, Detroit 3 
Ben Broussard cleared his head, then cleared the bases. 
Broussard's two-out, two-run double sparked a three-run eighth inning, sending the Cleveland Indians to a win over the Detroit Tigers. 
"I just tried to clear my mind and go up there with a pur­pose," said Broussard, who was mired in a 3-for-34 slump in September. "Thoughts shoot through your head, so the best thing to do is take a deep breath." 
Broussard pulled the first pitch he saw from Esteban Yan (2-4) just inside the first-base bag to put Cleveland ahead 4-3. Ryan Ludwick followed with an RBI double that was inches fair down the left-field line to make it 5-3. 
Broussard came on as a defensive replacement in the seventh for the Indians, who snapped a three-game losing streak and won for just the fourth time in 12 games. 
Toronto 3, Baltimore 0 
Matt Riley pitched well after taking a ball off his face -just not well enough to win. 
Riley took a one-hopper off his jaw and collapsed after his second pitch of the game in Baltimore's loss to the Toronto Blue Jays. 
Riley laid on the mound for a few minutes, but stayed in the game, allowing two hits and seven walks in seven innings. 
"It kind of shocked me when it hit me. It jarred my brain," Riley said. "It just took me a couple of pitches afterward to gather everything together and get back on track." 
Toronto's Reed Johnson led off the first with a sharp grounder that bounced off the jaw of Riley, who went down in a heap. Johnson reached on the single. 
Riley recovered, but issued two walks and threw a wild pitch before the inning was over. After play resumed, Chris Woodward walked and Vernon Wells grounded into a double play. Riley (1-4) then walked Carlos Delgado before a wild pitch allowed Johnson to score from third. 
"You have to shake something like that off," Riley said. "We're out there playing a game and my teams needs me." 

'Ibnight! ill & Specials ALL DAY 272-1766 

page 16 Thursday, September 16, 200·1
The Observer + SPORTS 

PGA 
Sutton expects U.S. team to prepare like individuals 

teams -Woods and Mickelson,


Partners for Ryder 
perhaps? -could play together Cup will be revealed for the first time Friday morn­
in final practice ing. "There's been a lot of people talking about who they are com­Associated Press fortable with, and who they are not comfortable with," Sutton 
LOOMFIELD TOWNSHIP, said. ''I'm going to tell them Mich. -llal Sutton doesn't want tomorrow who they're going to anyone to read anything into his be comfortable with playing." pairings during the practice It was just another example of rounds at the Hyder Cup, and how Sutton has made it clear that's a good thing. this is his team, he will do things 
Otherwise, one could only his way and he is prepared to guess that Phil Mickelson will be take the criticism if it goes awry. riding the bench until Sunday. Then again, he has nothing to 
Mickelson caused the biggest lose, because the Americans stir Wednesday at Oakland Hills don't have the Ryder Cup. by taking the day off from prac­Previous captains have tried to tice, an unusual decision that match up games and personali­left everyone to wonder if ties, friends and rivals, even the American unity best two play­already was on life ers on the 
support. "There's been a lot of team. No 
Then again, the people talking about matter. The show of individual­results have
who they are

ism fits in with been the everything Sutton same.
comfortable with, and has been preach­who they are not The United ing. States has
comfortable with. " 

"Worry about won the team yourself," Sutton portion of the said. "If I get you to Hal Sutton Ryder Cup­worry about you, team captain two rounds of 
and I get the best out of you, then it will come together as a team effort that could be brilliant." 
The best illustration is the rare tack Sutton is taking this week. 
Captains usually have a good idea about teams midway through the week and start put­ting those players together dur­ing practice so they can get comfortable with each other. 
Sutton is keeping his guys in the dark. From the time his 12­man team was finalized on Aug. 16 until sometime before open­ing ceremonies Thursday, the American players will not get the slightest hint whom their partners will be. 
And Sutton's pairings during the practice rounds don't offer much of a clue. 
Tiger Woods played Tuesday with Jim Furyk, Chris Riley and Chad Campbell, all of whom have been linked as possible partners. The next day, Woods went off in a twosome with Ryder Cup rookie Chris DiMarco. Bringing up the rear was a fivesome -another Ryder Cup rarity -of Davis Love III, Jay Haas, Fred Funk, Campbell and Furyk. 
"I told them I wasn't going to set the pairings for the practice rounds," Sutton said. "Be pre­pared to beat the other two guys by yourself, and if I give you a little help, that's a bonus. So they have no clue who they're going to play with. If they know who it is, they start worrying about their partner's game instead of worrying about their own game." 
Sutton said his lineup for the opening round is set. He will let the players know during the final day of practice, and some 

'Jff, ·nnn 
-~ 
nyca~J h~s:<ons 
Iron, .uuth Bend Ht·flllltl.ll 1\lrtJOrt 
••••••• _' •• ~.f ••• 't. tl. 


alternate-shot 
and better­ball each of the first two days ­just once in the last nine match­es. 
"This is certainly a different strategy, something I've never experienced," Woods said. "I think it's refreshing. We go out there and prepare like we always do for each and every tournament, and they when your name is called, you go out there and try to get a point." 
Woods was given that freedom to stick to his routine at The Belfry in 2002, when he angered the British media and public for playing his practice round before the gates were opened, just like he does at the majors. 
And that's why none of Mickelson's teammates were disturbed when he took the day off. 
"Three practice rounds ... you hardly ever see the top players do that at a Masters or a U.S. Open or an Open champi­onship," Davis Love III said. 

him to skip Monday, Tuesday or "Phil Mickelson taking the Wednesday completely. I think day off was the best thing for captains are learning we need to him to do, and I admire that," prepare as individuals and do Stewart Cink said. our own thing." European captain Bernhard 
Mickelson was the first player Langer took the more traditional at Oakland Hills on Monday, and route. he took nearly seven hours to "As a player, I know that soon­play 18 holes by himself. He er or later you would like to filled his yardage book with have some idea who you might notes on every hole, and had a be playing [with]. or if you're caddie place six tiny flags playing at all," Langer said. around the green, chipping to "And I will let them know as each spot from bunkers and time gets closer to making a rough. decision." 
One look at his pairings during Wednesday's practice round made it clear what he was thinking. 
Lee Westwood and Sergio Garcia (3-1 as a team at The Belfry), and Luke Donald and Paul Casey (Walker Cup team­mates) played as better-ball teams for nine holes. Then, the Europeans switched to the alter­nate-shot format on the back nine, with Westwood teamed with Darren Clarke and Garcia playing with Donald. 



Narcotics Anonymous 
NA Meetings Are Now Available On Campus! 
Come and Meet with Others Who Have Been There and Can Help. 
Thursday Evenings at 7:00p.m. 
Call 1-7970 or stop by 311 LaFortune for location 
You can also access the location of this and other local NA meetings at: www.naindiana.org 
Meetings are open to any person struggling with drug use, regardless of the particular drug or combination of drugs used, including alcohol. 
()Ulu -1 r~~ & v""t &~ 
~",...,.'[),_ 
311 L4'1"""""' -1.5741 6!11· 7970 -...t...u.i-Wl"'9 


For more information contact Nancy O'Connor at63l-5432 
:~ 

When it's the presti­gious luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yearjob in the Far East, strategically cho­sen to match your career goal. 
Apply by November 5, 2004 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of :t\-1ay 2005 ) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? 
•••••• t ft. & " t. ~ J tl 41 I tl tl ~ • 4.,. f ~I If .. f f tl-•• t f f'. f ·~·n• .. 'fl, '-"' --.".,.. f if lit. • •. • t. ··~··c'. ~ ·~·~ _.....,..",..' t •·• .. • ... • '·' • 

Thursday, September 16, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
BOXING 

De La Hoya grim. but confident about chances with Hopkins 


Winner will claim $30 million payday 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -The smile was gone, and Oscar De La Hoya was in no mood to play any games. To those who think he has no chance against mid­dleweight champion Bernard Hopkins, though, De La Hoya had something to say. 
No, he's not scared to be fighting a bigger, stronger 




MAKE IT PERSONAL 

Many on the Notre Dame campus have probably been affected in some way by cancer's wrath. Maybe it was a loved one or a friend who had to battle or is battling the disease. Regardless, the toll cancer takes can be painful both physically and emotionally. But we can fight back. We can take action by participating in this weekend's events to help raise money for cancer research and education. On Friday night, 9/17, the Relay for Life will be taking place at Stepan Center. On Saturday, 9/18@ llam, the annual RecSports Domer Run begins. Make it personal and take a walk or go for a run Saturday to support those who have been affected by this disease. Either way, you will be doing your part in the fight against cancer! 
·1e1'11tts DOMER RUN 3 81-6 ~: ~o.\"-Saturday, September 18, llam 11t'" Hesburgh Library quad Uust north of the stadium). 
This year's proceeds will benefit ovarian cancer research and education. 


Pancake breakfast to follow. 
All finishers will receive a Domer Run T-shirt. 
Awards will be presented in the following categories: 
3 Mile Run -Men & Women 
* 
undergrad, grad, faculty/staff, off-campus, youth 6 Mile Run -Men & Women 

* 
undergrad, grad, faculty/staff, off-campus, youth 



Register now until Spm, September 17 in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center for $6 or $10 day of the race. 
The 2004 Domer Run is in memory of Barbara Link, deceased wife of Dave Link, Dean Emeritus of the Notre Dame Law School. 
fighter. No, he didn't take the fight just for a $30 million pay­day. 
And, yes, he does have a plan to win. 
"The reason I took this fight is I know I can win," De La Hoya said Wednesday. ''I'm not thinking of anything else because all I want is those belts. Believe me when I tell you, those belts are mine." 
For the first time in his career, De La Hoya will be an underdog when he goes into the ring Saturday night to challenge Hopkins in a fight that could end up the richest non-heavyweight bout ever. 
It's only the second fight at middleweight for De La Hoya, and he's taking on a champion who has defended his titles 18 times and hasn't lost in 11 years. 
Perhaps that's why the usual smile was missing at Wednesday's final pre-fight press conference, replaced by a grimly determined boxer who knows what part this fight will play when it's time to eval­uate his extraordinarily lucra­tive career. 

"This is the fight where I just suck it up and let everything loose," De La Hoya said. "This is for all the marbles. This is the fight that will define my career." 
For Hopkins, it's a fight that means even more than that. 
''I'm willing to leave my soul, body and life in there if it takes that," Hopkins 
"This is the fight where
said. "You rounds in camp give me a I just suck it up and let for the fight, rich fighter everything loose. " compared to his and a hungry usual 80, and fighter and went 12 rounds 
Oscar De La Hoya
I'm going four different with the boxer times. 
hungry fight­er every time. 
Hopkins is a 2-1 favorite in the scheduled 12-round fight, which will be televised on pay­per-view (HBO, $54.95) from the MGM Grand Garden arena. Already a sellout with a $14 million gate, promoters are hoping the matchup is so intriguing that it will surpass the previous non-heavyweight record of 1.4 million pay-per­view buys set in De La Hoya's 1999 fight with Felix Trinidad. 
If the fight sells as well as expected, the 39-year-old Hopkins 
could pocket "I'm going to set a fierce pace. It's going up to $15 to be a Marvin
pace. It's going to be a 
million. For a Hagler-Tommy
Marvin Hagler-Tommy 
fighter who Hearns kind of has never Hearns kind offight." fight," Hopkins made more said. "If he takes than $3 mil­a deep breath,
Bernard Hopkins
lion before I'm telling you,
boxer
and whose it's over." 
career has been marked by battles with various pro­moters and managers, the money is vindication for doing things his own way. 
"We've got two different agendas, come from two dif­ferent places and have walked two different roads," said Hopkins (44-2-1, 31 knock­outs). "He's the golden boy, but after Saturday night I'll be the new golden boy." 
De La Hoya, who has won titles in five weight divisions from 130 pounds up, will have to show not only that he can be quicker than Hopkins but also that he has the stamina to stay on his toes all 12 rounds. 
That's been a problem in previous fights, including his loss to Trinidad, where he was ahead after nine rounds but then ran the last three rounds. 
De La Hoya 
(37-3, 29 knock­
outs) said he 
sparred 130 
"Stamina is not 
going to be an 

issue," he said. "Stamina is covered, speed is covered, legs are covered. Power? It will come, too." 
Hopkins said De La Hoya had better be prepared to fight from the first round on. Though some have tried to compare the fight to the 1987 middleweight title bout between Sugar Ray Leonard and Marvelous Marvin Hagler, Hopkins said the better analo­gy would be Hagler's third­round knockout of Thomas 
Hearns in 1985. 
''I'm going to 
set a fierce 
The huge pay­

outs to both fighters is a testament to the continued ability of De La Hoya to draw paying fans despite losing two fights to Shane Mosley and his fight to Trinidad. In his last fight in June against Felix Sturm, he looked out of shape and strug­gled to get a narrow win. 
De La Hoya remains the biggest draw in boxing, with his fights on pay-per-view tak­ing in $390 million exclusive of live gates. Because he is the prime attraction, he refused a ­third fight with Mosley because Mosley wanted a dol­lar more than what De La Hoya would make and turned instead to a much riskier fight with a champion many rate among the best middleweights 
ever. ­Hopkins said he doesn't begrudge De La Hoya his place in boxing. "Oscar is good for boxing. 
Unfortunately we don't have five or six of him," Hopkins said. "Oscar brings a crowd, 
movie stars, celebrities. I have nothing to say bad about Oscar, period." 





OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVE Its WIRE SERvtcrs Thursday, September 16, 2004 

NHL 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The National Hockey League is locking out its players starting Thursday. threat­ening to keep the sport off the ice for the entire 2004­05 season and perhaps beyond in an effort by management to gain mas­sive change in the sport's economic structure. 
After the long-expected decision was approved unanimously Wednesday by NHL owners, commis­sioner Gary Bettman repeatedly belittled the union's bargaining posi­tion, talked about the pos­sibility the confrontation could extend into the 2005-06 season and said the conflict has jeopard­ized the NHL's participa­tion in the 2006 Winter Olympics. 

"If there's enough time to play some games, we'II do it," he said of this sea­son, "and if there's not, we won't." 
Bettman called it a "bleak day," claimed teams had combined to lose more than $1.8 billion over 10 years and cited bankrupt­cy filings by teams in Buffalo. Los Angeles. Ottawa and Pittsburgh. He said management will not agree to a labor deal that doesn't include a defined relationship between rev­enue and salaries. 
"Until he gets off the salary-cap issue, there's 
not a chance for us to get an agreement," union head Bob Goodenow said in Toronto, adding that players "are not prepared to entertain a salary cap in any way, shape, measure or form." 
Far apart on both philos­ophy and finances, the side haven't bargained since last Thursday and say they are entrenched for the long run. echoing words of baseball players and owners at the start of their disastrous 7 1/2­month labor war of 1994­95. 
There is almost no chance the season will start as scheduled on Oct. 13, and Bettman told teams to release their are­nas for other events for the next 30 days. Bettman said the season can't extend past June, and the lockout threatens to wipe out the Stanley Cup final for the first time since 1919. when the series between Montreal and Seattle was stopped after five games due a Spanish influenza epidemic. 
"The union is trying to win a fight. hoping that the owners will give up. That will turn out to be a terri­ble error in judgment," Bettman said. "They are apparently convinced that come some point in the season, the owners' resolve will waver, and I'm telling you that is wrong, wrong, wrong." 
IN BRIEF Battered A's fan defends 
heckling, plans to sue 
OAKLAND, Calif. -The woman whose nose was broken when Texas reliever Frank Francisco threw a chair into the stands said Wednesday she will not decide whether to sue the Rangers until after prosecutors and baseball officials complete their investigation. 
Jennifer Bueno, 41, with a large white bandage covering her nose and purple rings under her eyes, and her husband, Craig, appeared at a news conference with their attorney, who said they plan to seek compensation for her injuries. 
Craig Bueno acknowledged that, before the fracas, he was part of some "verbal bantering" with the Rangers. 
"It's part of going to the baseball game," Jennifer Bueno said. "I don't think he did anything wrong." 
"It's an American tradition," the 42­year-old fire battalion chief said of his heckling, adding that he said he and his wife bought season tickets near the visitors' bullpen just "so we can ~et on them on a little bit." Johnson blows Carlton's 

lefty record away 
PHOENIX -Randy Johnson got his 4,137th strikeout Wednesday night, breaking Steve Carlton's major league record for left-banders and moving into third place overall on the career list. 
Johnson struck out Colorado's Vmny Castilla in the seventh inning, giving the Arizona ace nine in the game and a major league-best 266 this season. 
Play was interrupted momentarily while the scoreboard flashed the sta­tistics and the crowd cheered the workhorse of their struggling team. Despite Johnson's big night. the paid attendance was announced as 22,598 -the second-lowest ever at Bank One Ballpark. 
The only pitchers still ahead of the Big Unit are right-handers Nolan Ryan (5,714) and Roger Clemens (4,287), who is still pitching for the Houston Astros. Howe fired, to remain for 
remainder of season 
NEW YORK -Art Howe was fired as manager of the struggling New York Mets on Wednesday, but decided to honor general manager Jim Duquette's request to stay in the dugout for the rest of the year. 
"The fact is, I'm not fired now. I'm leaving after the season," Howe said. 'Tm not a quitter." 
"You see it happen to other people," he said. "You always hope it doesn't happen to you." 
Howe's contract runs through the 2006 season and he's still owed $4.7 million. But with the Mets at 63-82 _ following a 66-95 finish last year in his first season. Duquette decided it was time for a change. 
"I don't want to get into an evalua­tion of Art," Duquette said. "It wasn't working." 
1 
2 
3 
4 
s 
6 
7 
8 
g 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
22 
23 24 25 
1 
2 
3 4 
5 II 
7 8 9 

--
AP 
team 
usc (52} OklahOma (1 D) Georgia (3) Miami LSU Texas West Virginia Florida State Ohio State California Florida 
Virginie~ 
Tennessee Auburn Utah Iowa Michigan Purdue Fresno state Wisconsin Maryland Minnesota Boise state Loulnllle Mempbls 




around the dial 
MLB Braves at Mets 6:10p.m., TBS Cubs at Reds 6:10p.m., Fox Sports 
WNBA Monarchs at Comets 7 p.m., ESPN2 
PGA TouR Valero Texas Open 3 p.m., ESPN 
POKER 
World Series of Poker 7 p.m., ESPN 

Thursday, September 16, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 

PGA 
Leonard headlines Texas Open 
Defending champion Armour III will also be returning to Open 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO Unheralded Tommy Armour III came into the Texas Open a season ago and broke a PGA scoring record for his first victory in 13 years. 
He hasn't done much since, posting only two top-25 finishes this year and missing 
the cut in four of "Some tournaments his last six events. 
just have that feel to 
But there's some­
it, and this is one of

thing about the La Cantera Golf Club them." course in the hills north of San 
Justin Leonard

Antonio that suits 
two-time champion 

him. 
''I've always played it fairly decent," said Armour, who shot a 26-under 254 last year to win by seven strokes over Loren Roberts and Bob Tway. "Why, I don't know." 
The 72-hole score was the lowest in a PGA tournament, surpassing Mark 
Calcavecchia's 256 in the 2001 Phoenix Open. 
Also part of this year's field when the tournament starts Thursday will be Roberts, the winner in 2002, and two­time champion Justin Leonard, a runner-up in the 2004 PGA Championship. 
In addition to his two Texas Open victories, Leonard has two second-place finishes and is the tournament's lead­ing money winner with $1.3 
million. 
"I'm kind of relaxed when I get here," s a i d Leonard, a Dallas native a n d University of Texas alumnus. "Some 
-~~ fi:L 

tournaments just have that feel to it, and this is one of them." 
The tournament is notice­ably short on big names, with many taking part this weekend in Ryder Cup play at Oakland Hills in Michigan 

and others taking the week­end off. 
Only three players in the $3.5 million event have tour victories this season and just a handful are among the leading money winners. 
Jerry Kelly, ranked 28th with nearly $1.7 million in prize money, tops the list. 
Players with tour victories this year include Rod Pampling, winner of The International; Vaughn Taylor, who won a four-man playoff in the Reno-Tahoe Open; and Heath Slocum, who tri­umphed at the Chrysler Classic of Tucson. 
Also in the field is England's Justin Rose, who had been in contention for a spot on Europe's Ryder Cup team. 
On Sunday he shot a final­round 63 to climb into a tie for fourth in the Canadian Open. 
"That's huge going into a week like this, which I believe is a pretty low-scor­ing week," said Rose, who has won $1.1 million this year. 
"''ve just got to do my best to stay patient and get out of my own way." 

Automation Alley Technology Center 
Funding and resources to speed new technology to market 
Entrepreneurs, small businesses, companies with high-potential technology ideas: The Automation Alley Technology Center is the ultimate resource for accelerating your 
concept to market. 
Connect with funding opportunities­We'll help you identify and apply for vital pre-seed funding for development and prototyping, as well as post-development funding for commercialization. Funding is available through our strong partnerships with the National Automotive Center and the Michigan Economic Development Corporation and relationships with angel investors, venture capitalists and bankers. 
00000 
Develop your technology idea ASAP­Our world-class rapid commercialization process and extensive network of professional volunteer service providers deliver the tools, expertise and experience for developing new technology solutions and getting them to market quickly. 
For the fastest route frorn concept to market, visit us at www.automationalleytechcenter.com or call800.427.5100. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
Tar Heels face early defensive struggles 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -North Carolina's defense is getting pretty good at being bad. 
After two games, the Tar Heels rank last in the Atlantic Coast Conference in every defensive category, and they very well might break the school record for yards allowed. That mark goes all the way back to 2003. 
"We know that we need to improve significantly defen­sively," coach John Bunting said Tuesday. 
No kidding. 

North Carolina gave up 549 yards in a 56-24 loss to Virginia, a week after Division I-AA William & Mary piled up 442 yards. At least the Tar Heels beat the Tribe, rallying for a 10-point deficit in the third quarter to give Bunting his first victory in an opener. 
The Tar Heels haven't dis­criminated very much, either. They've allowed opponents to run and to throw virtually at will while giving up 495.5 yards, about 10 yards less than they did last season. 
They haven't had an inter­ception in nearly a year, dating back to Sept. 20, 2003, against Wisconsin. 
"Absolutely, I can't imagine that. I really can't," Bunting said. "We're not going to get a 
lot of interceptions until we stop the running game. 
In order to get interceptions, you have to get the other team to throw more than they want." 
This from a program that produced a bevy of NFL defenders in the late 1990s and early 2000s _ Ore' Bly, Greg Ellis, Brian Simmons, Julius Peppers and Ryan Sims, just to name a few. 
North Carolina simplified its defensive schemes in the off­season and hired two new coordinators, John Gutekunst from South Carolina and Marvin Sanders from Nebraska. So far, it's only been simple to the opponent. 
Four different running backs totaled seven touchdowns for the Cavaliers, who didn't punt until the fourth quarter. 
Particularly frustrating for Bunting was a play late in the second quarter, when Virginia decided to go for it on fourth­and-1 from their own 30. Sure, the Cavaliers led 28-10 at the time, but it still was a risky call. 
Alvin Pearman made it pay off, running for 7 yards. 
"Schematically, we played that absolutely perfect," Bunting said. "But the corner­back doesn't come up and sup­port. If he does, it's a 2-yard loss." 


Thursday, September 16, 2004 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NFL 

Rivalry growing between Colts and Titans in AFC South 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indianapolis Colts measured themselves against the Super Bowl champions last week. 
This week's game at Tennessee is much more signifi­cant to the Colts (0-1). 
"This one is a lot bigger," tight end Marcus Pollard said Wednesday. "It's really worth two points because you can win on the road and you can win in the division." 
The Colts want to make an early-season impression this week in what has become their biggest rivalry. 
After losing 27-24 at New England on national television last Thursday, Indianapolis wants to prove to the football world that it hasn't taken a stop back this year. 
It's also about necessity. Another Colts loss would give Tennessee a two-game lead in what many consider a two-team division race and would assure the Titans (1-0) of no worse than a split in the season series -the first determinant in breaking a tie. 
Perhaps that's why playoff talk has already seeped into the locker room comments less than two weeks into the regular season. 
"They have something to provo, we have something to prove and the winner of this division has to go through one of these teams," safety Cory Bird said. "So it will be a fierce competition." 
During the past two years, the Titans-Colts matchup has devel­oped into one of the league's most underrated rivalries. No, it's not Giants-Eagles, Packers­Vikings or even Steelers­Browns. 
But it is almost no-holds­barred, and this week, the NFL's standard talking points ­respect the foe, focus on the next game and say nothing to rile an opponent -has taken a back seat to championship aspi­rations and pride. 

"You pretty much have to go out, hit them in the mouth and come out on top," cornerback Nick Harper said. "It's pretty much like a college rivalry but on a different level because there's so much at stake." 
For the two teams that have clearly been the class of the South, much is already at stake. 
When Tennessee swept the series two years ago, it won the division title. When the Colts returned the favor last year, they claimed the division crown. 
Hound 3 starts Sunday with a fervor usually reserved for late­season games. 
"You need several compo­nents to have a rivalry," Tennessee coach Jeff Fisher said. "Typically one is based on proximity and then, of course, the other is based on the com­petition and everything associ­ated with that." 
The difference in this budding 

rivalry is that the teams respect Steve McNair during February's each another. Pro Bowl, a bond between tho Peyton Manning said he two quarterbacks who shared 
developed a friendship with last year's MVP honors. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Replacing Manning isn't easy for Ole Miss 
Michael Spurlock, who replaced Ell Manning at quarterback for Ole Miss, has yet to post a win for the Rebels. 
Happy 21st Zl Love K-Biz and G-Force 

Cutliffe now has worst passing team in SEC 
Associated Press 

JACKSON, Miss. -The last time Mississippi coach David Cutcliffe replaced a quarter­back named Manning, he won a national championship as Tennessee's offensive coordi­nator. This time, he'd probably settle for a victory. 
Accustomed to being the best passing team in the Southeastern Conference with Eli Manning running the offense, the Hebels are the league's worst this season -a major reason why Ole Miss (0­
2) is one loss from its worst 
start in 21 years. "It's pretty obvious that we 
:; 

are disappointed with our pro­duction in that area," Cutcliffe said. "It's frustrating because we haven't accomplished much in the passing game.... We haven't given up on the sit­uation and don't think we are going to stop throwing the football." 
Cutcliffe praised Micheal Spurlock's mobility and exu­berance all preseason, then benched him midway through his second start last week against Alabama. Gangly sophomore Ethan Flatt came off the bench and sparked a quarterback controversy when he threw the Rebels' only touchdown pass of the season, then earned the probable start Saturday against Vanderbilt. 
The Hebels' questions at quarterback sharply contrast 
Cutcliffe's situation in 1998, when as offensive coordinator at Tennessee he won the national title after Tee Martin replaced Peyton Manning. 
Two games into the post-Eli era at Ole Miss, finding an effective replacement for the Ileisman Trophy finalist has been a much tougher chal­lenge. 
Eli Manning broke or tied 45 school records during his four years in Oxford, and directed a passing game which aver­aged 286 yards per game last year. 
"He left some big shoes to fill, and I think a lot of people placed so much pressure on Micheal early," Flatt said. "As far as our offense, it's been lit­tle things -a bad decision or a dropped ball or a penalty." 
The First Lesson She Learned This Year Was How to Save. 
Disposable 
Contact Lenses 
1 YEAR SUPPLY
sgg98* 
After Manufacturers' Rebate *See store for details. 
,.VEL 
• ~r the Look You Wllnl." 
BROADMOOR PLAZA 
291-4000 
,,1 ..... -............ , ............. , .•..• •••••••••••••·• ..............................·...·.-.. 

~--~--­

Thursday, Septermber 16, 2004 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
fielder Ashley Hinton evened the game later in the first half off an assist from Carrie Orr. Thanks to an assist from Orr, Hinton scored on a corner kick to tie it 1-1 at the end of the first period. 
Luckily for the Belles, the rest of the game was a much different story. 
"We were a little shaky in the first half, especially after they scored their first goal," Orr said. "But we came back out in the second half and set­tled down. Everyone did a really good job of getting their heads back into the game and just playing good soccer." 
In the final period, the score remained tied until Jen Concannon buried a cross from Carolyn Logan for her third goal this season. Logan would also assist Katie Noble for an insurance goal late in the game. 
Logan helped add to the lead again soon after with an assist to Katie Noble for a goal that put the Belles up 3-1, completing a second-half turn­around which saw Saint Mary's play with much more team chemistry. 
"We played really well together. Kalamazoo chal­lenged us, but we knew we just had to get back into our own game," goalie Laura Heline said. "They were very physical, but we came back in the second half and played them hard." 
Heline credited much of the team's success to their defen­sive effort. 
The Observer+ SPORTS 


"Our defense is stellar," she said. ''I'm so glad to have who I have in front of me. I never have to worry about whether they will play well, because they always do." 
Strong games from Katie Taylor and Shannon Culbertson allowed the defense to keep the ball in Kalamazoo's zone for nearly the entire second half. Shutting down their oppo­nent's scoring opened up plen­ty of opportunities for the Belles' offense. 
"Our defense does a great job of feeding the long ball to our forwards, which creates scoring opportunities," Heline said. "This team works well together, we have a lot of team unity." 
Team chemistry has been one of the many things this year that has kept Saint Mary's a step ahead of their opponents. 
"We played well as a team, especially in terms of playing off each other, knowing where every one is going to be, and playing as a unit," Orr said. "Everyone stepped it up when they needed to." 
The improvements in the team's all-around play have allowed them to be much more competitive in the MIAA than in the past. 

"Kalamazoo has always been a big game for us," Orr said. "In years past, they've beaten us badly. This was a great way to start off. It pre­pares us for when we travel to Kalamazoo to play them, and it sets the tone for the sea­son." 
Like all the players, Heline has her sights set on MIAA glory. 
"It was awesome to start 2-0 in the MIAA," she said. "We set our goal high; our goal is to win a MIAA championship, and we're on our way." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffyl@nd.edu 
page 21 

Barbour 
continued from page 24 
Barbour began her career in col­legiate athletics as the head field hockey and assistant lacrosse coach at the University of Massachusetts in 1981. Since then, she has been the assistant athletic director at Northwestern University and the associate athlet­ic director Tulane University. 
At Tulane, Barbour also worked for White, who was Tulane's ath­letic director at the time. When White left, she was named the ath­letic director at Tulane. 
During her three years there, she Tulane won 12 conference champi­onships. White had nothing but good things to say about Barbour. 
"As a consummate communica­tor, Sandy will engage the multiple constituencies, by way of creating a 'tomorrow' for Cal that is consis­tent with both the institutional mission and the highest intercolle­giate athletics expectations," White said. 
At Notre Dame. Barbour over­sees facilities and event operations for the 26 sports of the Irish. She also is responsible for football game management and the University's two golf courses. Barbour also had the task of facili­tating the plans of Notre Dame's $22 million. 100,000-square foot Guglielmino Center. which is set to be complete by June 2005. 
White thinks that Barbour will be a perfect lit at the University of California. 
"Simply said, Sandy Barbour is a great fit at Cal -and Berkeley is the perfect place for Sandy," White said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
IBM+ND IBM ThinkPad R51-BTS2004 IBM ThinkPad T41-BTS2004 
FACULTY. STAFE STUDENT RATES 1.6GHz Pentium® M with Integrated 802.11b/g 1.5GHz PentiumR M with Integrated 802.11a/blg Windows XP Pro Wireless Networking Windows XP Pro Wireless Networking 
14.1 inch screen 56Kbs Modem 14.1 inch screen 66Kbs Modem 40GB Hard Drive Ethernet NIC 30GB Hard Drive Ethernet NIC 256MB DDR SDRAM 3-year warranty 612MB DDR SDRAM 3-year warranty CD-RW/OVD Combo Drive CD-RW/DVD Combo Drive 
$1.649.00 $1.934.00 
Popular Options and Accessories (Discounted Pnces Roflectedl 
Targus Backpack Kensington Lock Accidental Damage 256K Flash 0rive $55.00 73P359~ $39.95 01N1575 $314.00 73P2502 $49.95 08K0214 
The featu,.ed models Include: 3Yea,. Parts & Labo,.wa,.,.anty (Battery: 1 Year"), 24 Hou,.Toii-F,.eeTechnical Support, Rapid Resto,.e Rescue and Recove'"Y Softwa,.e, Norton AntiVI,.us 2004 (OEM Edition), lnte,.net Sc,.oll Ba,., Spill-Resistant Keyboa,.d, Touchpad andT,.ackpoint, Haf"d Df"ive Shock Absof"bef". 


9 0 PAYS FREE COOlER 
RENfAl 20 &AllONS OF WAfER FREE 
*New customers only *Deposit required expires 9/30/04 
Thursday, September 16, 2004
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 


Football 
continued from page 24 
Braylon Edwards caught 12 passes but no touchdowns. Freshman quarterback Chad Ilenne often had to throw under­neath to receivers much like 
Quinn  had  done  the  week  
before.  
"We  held  them  without  a  

touchdown until that last drive," strong safety Tom Zbikowski said. "So if all you can do is kick field goals ... " 
The sentence finishes itself. 
Zbikowski [four tackles] and free safety Quentin Burrell [sixl. along with Jackson [five] and cornerback Dwight Ellick [six]. combined Saturday to support the efforts of their front seven. 
"I think we played more sound football against Michigan," Jackson said. "We were a lot more disciplined, [and! we attacked the ball more when it was in the air. We actually played more like the wide receivers when the ball was in the air, and I don't think we did that in the first game." 
Zbikowski got the start against BYU and Michigan after pre­game releases showed senior Lionel Bolen as the starter with Freddie Parish as his back-up. Zbikowski is perhaps the most pleasant surprise in the defen­sive backfield. 
"Tommy has performed well for us," defensive backs coach Steven Wilks said. "lie has things to learn, but I am truly pleased with the way he has played." 
Seniors Carlos Campbell and Mike Hichardson enter the game in nickel and dime situations to aid the pass coverage, but the leadership for the secondary exists in the starting rotation. 
"[Preston Jackson] is a true leader. not only with the second­ary but the defense as a whole," Wilks said. "lie's a smart football player. lie puts himself in posi­tion to make plays. I'm waiting to see him continue being the type of.!"ootball player I know he can be. 
Jackson scored on an intercep­tion return against BYU late in the game to give the Irish a chance, and he continued to step in front of passes last weekend to end plays and drives. 
"I worked hard this spring ... and summer to get myself faster and stronger and get in better position to make plays," Jackson said. 
Though the secondary receives due recognition for its perform­ance against Michigan, the freshman Henne did not test Burrell and the corners down­field like BYU was able to do. Michigan State could try to exploit the most likely weakness in an otherwise improved defen­sive backfield. 
"That's one of the things we emphasize and we work on each day in practice is playing the deep ball, putting ourselves in position to make a play on the deep ball," Wilks said. "It's a concern, but it's something that's not a worry. We put ourselves in good positions at times ... we just have to make a play on the ball when we're in the air." 
The win against Michigan somewhat redeems the week one letdown for the players. but that docs not change prepara­tion for a Michigan State team that always is ready for Notre Dame. 
"Our guys understand this is one win," Wilks said. "Nothing that we did last week is going to help us win this week. We have to play to the level of our compe­tition and do the things we know how to do to win this football game." 
Notes 
+ Senior linebacker Derek Curry was named to the 2004 American Football Coaches Association (AFCA) Good Works Team Wednesday. Curry is one of 11 Division-! athletes to be named to the annual team that represents community involve­ment and leadership. 
Curry has been a three-year volunteer for the Student-Athlete Advisory Council Pediatric Oncology Christmas Party. lie has volunteered at the Boy's and Girl's Club of South Bend and the Hobinson Community Learning Center, among other activities. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


NORTH QUAD GAME WATCH 
september 18 
BBQ at 4:30 p.m. KICKOFF at 6:00 p.m. Come watch Notre Dame play Michigan State on North Quad! 
Sponsored by North Quad Dorms 
vs Georgetown At Alumni Field 
**First 250 fans will receive an N D Soccer travel mug sponsored by Drive and Shine** 
·­
aturaay, September 18th at 7:30pm _. 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
utes remaining in the contest. 

Hoosier forward Brian Plotkin slotted home the insurance goal on a fast break to bump the Hoosier lead to 2-0 and effectively ice the match for Indiana. 
"We were pushing to win the game," Clark said. "We didn't come here just to make up the numbers. We got caught in transi­tion, but they're a very good team." 
The Irish nearly knotted the game at 1-1 with 15 minutes remaining when forward Justin McGecney got his head on a free kick, yet was denied by Indiana goalkeeper Jay Nolly on a spectac­ular save. 
Nolly stopped four shots on the night while Sawyer blocked three for the Irish. 
"Their goalkeeper came up big a couple times," Clark said. "We did enough in many ways to get more than we did from tonight's game, but that's the way it works." 
McGeeney paced the Irish attack, recording three shots, while fellow forward Tony Megna took a pair of his own. 
Overall, the shots were nearly even, with Indiana registering ten 

.,.....,.,, llft?S' BRING IN THIS AD AND RECEIVE 2 FREE HANDS-FREE EARPIECESI 
MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND
~PREMIER 514 W. McKinley 117 North M.ain 
Corner 1\o\cKinley & Grape 1 blk. sovth of Colf(I.JI
· * lOCATIONs· 

574.252.5820 574.288.9450 
46 15 Miami Rood 
Miami & Ireland

f< US.Cellulru: 
574.299.2860

AUYNDIIIIID AII•T 
~atrfill r.ft~f, ISol:~tJ::icbrot. flllbrrnonit·CO~·;:JJ:;J:nn 01}3-llb~:vNF rf:f'll')"l1 ~aiJ:Cdx::tm ~ •"111 tcftrsl $1'1.1Tf(t.S rtl-'.nrd. S,.rr11:Jr .I.;Jn:rnR .SJ1rret:f'r:t ·,Qd-..')M'I~an:lr. ~(lli!J-I5~1SI;rcnH•J~ ...,lrnif't$1-or;T~qll;:"'?of;o ~JQma '""' tol0l-'Mit«4<ml("'Ql[Q-t lontl S..OJIIl<,.,..,"* 1'"""'1""' .\(ol~:~ tw~~Aol.JIIO!'II~l!lrr.:> "'"'~''" rml>l """I""'JIH<JfSl9~•.J i~ khltuol:e~n«u•>U"TaJ.io" OJtr f'lnm>IOI;I<.oe~ iJ<l'<.ni" ll<<r~1D"!IO:irbaSl:•or.-.n oo<•r Cull>l"'d'"'t«<~*< k<l4''.r.rUe. l•jlli1rJ...,...rJ :rtlJ'Rs Ollt q~ fJ; 9jYnb:t:£ton ~'ti ~lilly S;n..rr;,• ~N ~nb( ~~llonoi ....'Jrirt<: nn.tr::s ;n i'r.Q.li't: A '(U t.3trg itftl C'f'~ rJa.t::4'1al'!l. ~l'l].ni rwl"rto'l"'t]_ oi:J 'flr.l :.ttl S {dltl•u:n:rrrn .nj I'JI'fr. ~'rl>e-t,\lt><? s;u~ rkt.,.nUJC>Il ru.m;;g;A IJ)o;Jb ~ilo@ tl.Y IOOJootot11m..nJ1tJ' US (~••• »huh•) ~•a• F:o .,_.. (,. ll ;uttr '" l.tt...toP~;d; ,..,_~>I ~oat~'~~·~~~~·; t.tllr.~ Ml'ln-,w\\.t..,irf.\Ue i".oolnJ lJ51 .nJ 1r"""">JM!Dl:ll11"(W ff<t<"U!!Ihoal •:.Is blo:ot NJtUS •::..tilfWUTt!l 11d3s1Dh:ca l.lLslk I" P~.Di>t>l.6:b0:::ohp._, Ml .wiJo ~......j t:Ur~· 
~ nu.1~ 1.9 m: tc-.l.QWt::~.,,, Dll'tll: d'w'l lMs. bn.n ttr.:s 11111d"'ic r..ah t;. '•'Xr ~•<85 11 tU ftmwlJ tlw}ts 'ciG, -.rJ~oJ'!)IlS .nj ;H5 r.., •nlt .\:.,,mr~ ~$XI .U u:r-.o;~ ol:Jr.dTII'fU ut,s ttl ....,ltllm>3k•l>3 (~,...,Jr.tm""'lll"! $o!Q,IIO!"I:<•Hiiti> l<Tl«<tn;,rt;< 
*Free admission with a valid Notre Da·me student ID* 

-five of which were on net -to Notre Dame's nine -four on net, and Irish took six corner kicks to the Hoosiers' one. 
The contest marked the first time the Irish have battled the No.1 ranked team in the country since they suffered a 2-0 loss to Connecticut in 1998. 
Last year, Indiana fell 1-0 to the Irish at Alumni Field. Despite the onship. During Clark's lour ynars as head coach. the Irish arc 2-2 against their traditionally power­ful state rival. 
The Irish come back home to kick off the Big East portion of their schedule, hosting Georgetown Saturday night at Alumni Field before traveling east to challenge West Virginia next Thursday. 
early-season loss. they returned to Bloomington at the end of the sea­Contact Matt Puglisi at son with the national champi-rnpuglisi@nd.edu 
Men's Invitational Warren Golf Course Gotd Game Presented by South Bend Orthopaedics **First 100 fans will receive 
a gold gamest-shirt at 12:30PM* 


Thursday, September 16, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I REQUIRE NO PAY IN MY DEFENSE,AND NO CUBICLE. I HE INTER. VIEWS WILL EAT USED PAPER., 
VERY WELL.
AND CLING TO THE CEILING. 

CHARLES SCHULZ 

DILBERT 
IF YOU HIRE ME, I WILL USE MY ENORMOUS BRAIN TO DEVELOP WORLD-CHANGING PRODUCTS. 
PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
JJ~JJJ]lbJ].
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
Late again, Higgins. We
one letter to each square, 

j 
may not need you any more 
to form Jour ordinary words. 
~~ 
LAWRC 
I I (
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
MOAXI 

tPHEWEN 
IIJ 
YNIW.jumble.com 
tBONYED 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I J I ( J 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ms: 

"( I I I I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: VENOM MINER ARMADA FAUCETYesterday's I 
Answer: What the doctor established when he mounted a diagram of the brain-A"FRAME" OF MIND 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 38 Oil-rich province DOWN 1 Tie with a cord 41 Northerly locale 1 Alta's opposite 5 Bouts 42 Quote, part 3 2 In preference to 
9 Stop running 44 Became 3 Good feeling rampant
14 Nike competitor 
4 Bonehead 15 A Swiss army 
45 1970 World's 5 Box sets? 

Fair site them 
knife has lots of 6 Say yes 
48 Impertinence 16 Musical 7 Prefix with 
49 Quote, part 4 

featuring "Little graphic or 
55 Slips by 

Girls" metric 56 Big A.T.M. 
17 Author of this a Form W-9 info: 
manufacturer

puzzle's quote Abbr. 57 "Eureka!"
19 "There you go!" 9 Pack rat 20 Text enhancer 10 U.S. security 
so Polytheist 21 Clown's prop 11 Baker of 
61 End of the quote 22 Golf cousins 
64 Handling badly renown 

23 Start of the 65 Left-handers 12 Pastel shade quote can't play it 
13 Get a line on? 26 Miss Mexico, 66 Karate skill 
18 Book after 

e.g.: Abbr. category 
Galatians: Abbr. 29 Pinch 67 Game with a 
22 Syrupy drink board30 Move through a 23 Have second crowd, say sa At any time 


thoughts 

32 Quote, part 2 69 Combines 
24 Even so 
25 "From Here to

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Eternity" island 


26 Influence 27 Realtor's spe~ialty, for 
short 28 Off-limits: Var. 31 Stumble 33 Two turns, 
maybe 34 Modern treaty 
violation 35 Disk contents 36 Songwriter 
Blackwell 
THE OBSERVER 
37 Wetlands 49 Halfhearted 58 Set aside 
39 Pixar creations 50 One of Donald's 59 Kitchen pests· exes 
61 ''The Naked 51 Gung-ho _"(1960's 
40 Lhasa_ (dog) 
43 Corrode best seller) 
52 Rework 46 Ignite 62 All Souls' Day 
53 Smallville family mo.
47 Object 
54 Grp. involved in
intentionally 63 Org. whose
''the Troubles" 
dropped on the members use 
floor 57 Like fine wines the press? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Prince Harry, Tommy Lee Jones, Oliver Stone, Merlin Olsen 
Happy Birthday: An opportunity should arise this year that will allow you a little more freedom to follow your own path. If you don't do what suits you best, you will have regrets. Your intuition will not lead you astray. Your numbers are 4, 8, 16, 26, 34, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take advantage of the opportunities that are available to you. Stop holding yourself back --if you believe in yourself you will find success. Be bold in your relationships. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is the perfect day to go after a better position or find a way to make some extra cash. You will have a much better idea what you need to do in order to feel, look and do better. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You have more going for you than you realize, so start moving in a direction that will benefit you. You have been doing too much for others and forgetting about doing for yourself. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't be too quick to make a decision; chances are someone is feeding you false information. Emotional matters will surface, so stay composed. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get involved so you can meet new people or develop a relationship you are already in. Talks will lead to beneficial results. Your persuasive personality will also charm someone. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Question your earning ability and you will discover that there are other ways to make money. You have the talent and the skills that will bring in more cash. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't bring about change today. Deal with matters as they arise and refrain from letting things get blown out of proportion. Emotions will be running high. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take care of any matters that have to do with institutions such as banks, hospitals or the judicial system. You should be able to clear up any questions that you have. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Love and romance may be on your mind. If you want to impress someone, you should do something selfless and offer your help to a worthy cause. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a good look at anything you have to sign or that could be binding before you move forward. Someone is trying to get you to do something that may not be what's best for you. ** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You are being recognized for your talent, so don't be shy --lay everything you've got to offer on the table and reap the rewards. Love is evident. ***** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Refrain from letting anyone talk you into spending money. You can make some changes to your living arrangements, but be careful if it involves someone else. Consider making a change of career. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are creative, intelligent and very aware of your abilities. You will work hard to reach your goals and you will have a practical outlook. 
Check out Eu8enia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenia/a.1·t.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Published Monday through Friday, The 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic yearObserver is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint D Enclosed is $55 for one semesterMary's Community. 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address ____________________________________ 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City ________ State _______ Zip__________ 
two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The 9bserver in your ho~~.:.. ....,...,...~.·..-.~ ....,.......... ... 
·~·· •·• •'• ,.,,, ,·,·· ,·, • ,·, ,·,, •.•. ,.,, • • ,·,-, ,.,. · • -(-" • 'f1•rl' .. ,·rr
... , ..................... .-.................................... . 
................. "". t. "I. ...............,.lr.......,......:•.•••.••.• •·•·• •• ,... ,t.,l.t.• •~,"·'· ••• ·'·.fl• 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, Seprermber 16, 2004 
page 24 

N 0 ATHLETICS 

UC Berkeley names Barbour athletic director 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Spom Editor 
After serving Notre Dame since 2000, Anne "Sandy" Barbour, deputy director of ath­letics has been named the ath­letic director at the University of California. Berkeley, Hobert J. Birgeneau, Chancellor Designate of the University of California announced Wednesday. 
Barbour assumes the position after serving as Notre Dame's 
MEN'S SOCCER 
senior athletic administrator under Athletic Director Kevin White since July 2003. 
"Unequivocally, Sandy Barbour is truly one of the brightest professionals within the intercollegiate athletics sub­sector," White said in a release Wednesday. "Sandy is also instinctively empathetic, inordi­nately task-oriented, adaptable beyond. her peers, and most· importantly, extremely passion­ate about facilitating stude·nt­athlete aspirations." 
At the University of California, Barbour will oversee 27 sports with an annual budget of approximately $40 million. 

"Cal represents everything that's right with higher educa­tion and intercollegiate athlet­ics," Barbour said at a media conference Wednesday. "I am thrilled and flattered to be given this opportunity. This is what I have been working toward my entire life. It's a dream come true, both personally and pro­fessionally." 
see BARBOUR/page 21 

Irish fall in second half to No. 1 Ind.iana 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 

Looks can be deceiving, and such was the case for Indiana's 2-0 vic­tory over Notre Dame on Wednesday night. 
The score did not reflect the tenacity of the No. 5 Irish, who dropped to 3-1-1 as No. 1 Indiana rode a pair of second half tallies to improve to 5-0-0. 
After the game, coach Bobby Oark remained optimistic. 
"There were more positives in a funny way than negatives," Clark said. "It's nice to come in against the No. 1 team in the country and play an even game. We didn't win, but we certainly played a very good game." 
Despite having trouble stringing together passing plays, the Irish had their chances to establish a lead in the first half. In the ninth minute of play, defender Jack Stewart wove through the Indiana defense until the Hoosiers wern able to clear the ball out of their dangnr zmw. 
AftPr a scoreless lirst half. the lloosiers drew first blood at the 
53:15 mark when a shot from Indiana forward Jacob Peterson ricocheted oil' St1~wart's !iJOt, past goalkeeper ChrLs Sawyer and into the back of the net for a 1-0 Indiana advantage. 
"The lad came in from the right. and [the Indiana forwards) played a nice little combination," Clark said. "It was very·well taken -a good shot taken just inside the box." 
The Irish remained fierce on the field, refusing to bow to the defend­ing national champions. In particu­lar, Joe Lampira continued to put pressure on the lloosier.defense after the hal!time break. 
Determined to deliver the equal­izer, the Irish pushed up, only to get burned with just under 10 min-
see SOCCER/page 22 

FOOTBALL 

Secondary improving every game 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles remain undefeated, improve to 2-0 in MIAA 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
Facing their first real confer­ence challenge, the Belles con­tinued to show that they'll give everything they have to· reach their goal -an MIAA champi­onship. 
Saint Mary's took another step toward its final destination Wednesday, posting a 3-1 win over Kalamazoo in its home conference opener. The win kept the Belles tmdefeated in MlAA play and extended their overall record to 3-0. 
The Belles fell behind early in the first half, with Kalamazoo scoring to make it 1-0 and play­ing a physical game that seemed to give Saint Mary's trouble. But sophomore mid-
see BELLES/page 21 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Spores Editor 

Notre Dame has given up 78 rushing yards in two games, and the Irish are only 1-1. But no cause for despair exists on the defense after handing defeat to No. 8 Michigan. 
After surrendering big pass­ing plays to Brigham Young, the secondary has fed off a hungry line and linebacking core to already make evident improvements. 
''I'd give us a B-minus," cor­nerback Preston Jackson said. "We struggled a few times the first game, but we bounced back and made some plays. In the second game, we were get­ting better and better. And as long as we correct our mis­takes and gain some confi­dence, I expect we'll be an A­plus by the end of the season." 
Michigan star receiver 
see FOOTBALL/page 22 

en 
NFL 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
PGA 

NATIONAL LEAGUE
AMERICAN LEAGUE
BOXING 
w 
(.) Indianapolis at 
Philadelphia 9
Boston 8 
Defending champion 

$30 million is at stake 
Cincinnati 1 
1-z Tennessee, 1 p.m. 
North Carolina's 

Tampa Bay 6 
Tommy Armour Ill and 

in the middleweight
defense is ranked last in
a: s 
Justin Leonard return to 

fight between Oscar de
The AFC South rival-
the ACC in every defen-

Red Sox remain four 
Brett Myers pitched
=c.:s 
the Texas Open. 

Ia Hoya and Bernard
ry will renew in Week 2 
sive category. 

games behind New 
six innings and had the
c::c 

Hopkins.
of NFL play. 

York in AL East. 
go-ahead RBI.
D.. ~ 

en 
page 15 
page 14
page 20 
page 17
page 19 
page 18 




