
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Two football players arrested in fight 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Senior Staff Wri rer 
A Notre Dame football player and former football player were arrested by South Bend Police early Sunday morning, and police say the players were involved in a fight downtown. 
Captain John Williams, pub­lic information officer for South Bend police, confirmed fresh­man Isaiah Gardner, a defen­sive back, was arrested for dis­orderly conduct and resisting arrest and senior Garron Bible, a former safety, was charged with resisting arrest. 
Bible said the incident was a "real big misunderstanding" 19, and two other men, who and said that he and Gardner Williams was not able to identi­were not in the fight and were fy. arrested by police to set an Bible said that he and example. Gardner had gone to Heartland 

Williams earlier that confirmed night and that police then went to were called Benchwarm­to the 200 ers. Heart­block of land, which South Mich­normally igan Street requires just before 3 patrons to be 
a.m. Sunday 21 or over, 
morning to was rented out respond to a for a private fight and told everyone to leave party that evening. When they when they arrived. Police were leaving Benchwarmers, arrested Bible, 22, Gardner, Bible said, a large crowd had 

Bible 
gathered around a fight, and police were telling people to leave. 
"It was crowded though, we had to wait our turn," Bible said. 
Bible said he was arrested when he questioned a police officer whom he said poked Gardner, telling him to move along. 
"A police officer started pushing my teammate Isaiah in the back," Bible said. He said he asked the officer, '"Why you gotta put your hands on him?"' 
Bible said that after he was in the squad car, Gardner was 
see ARREST/page 6 


Alumni read to legacy admissions 
When decisions draw ire, ND responds with compassion 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
When Chuck Lennon gets an angry phone call from an alum­nus whose son or daughter did­n't get into Notre Dame, he takes it as more of a compli­ment than an insult. 
''I'm glad people are interest­ed because it shows they care about this place," said Lennon, executive director of the Alumni Association. "We are obviously concerned, but I'm happy they care enough [to call] ... It shows they had a good experience here and they want their children to have a good experience here." 
Lennon, who has held his position for 23 years, has seen firsthand the University's sus­tained commitment to admit­ting and enrolling the children 

Organizers of the Fine by Me campaign distribute shirts last month. Four hundred additional shirts were distributed In time for partici­pants to wear them today In solidarity with gay and lesbian students. 
of alumni -a commitment that has led Notre Dame to claim the highest percentage of lega­cies in the country at 23 per­cent. Such figures lead to high expectations and high rewards for legacy applicants and their families, but can also result in crushing disappointment and anger, said director of admis­sions Dan Saracino. 
"Notre Dame has to walk this fine line -we have a family, and a family that should be inclusive. not exclusive," he said. "We do make a commit­ment to alumni children, and we shouldn't apologize for that. 
"But bending does not mean breaking. Bending does not mean automatic." 
While few alumni parents ­or any parents, in an ~ra when Notre Dame's academic profile 
see ALUMNI/page 6 

Fine by Me ca111paign to be held again today 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
For the second time this semester, students will don orange shirts in support of the Gay-Straight Alliance and homosexual community on campus today. The shirt campaign has been designed by the GSA to raise aware­ness and show support for homosexual students and faculty. 
Once again, GSA members have distributed orange shirts emblazoned with the slogan "Gay? Fine by me." 
"We ordered an extra 400 hundred shirts," said Mac Russell one of the event's coordinators. "300 shirts were distributed in 45 min­utes ... they're all gone now." 
Russell also commented that in addition to students, 
see GAY/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Boat Club suits held 
• 
up again 
By SHEILA FLYNN Senior SraffWriter 
More than a year after Boat 
Club filed lawsuits against 
underage patrons for misrepre­
senting themselves. Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's students 
involved in the suits have been 
offered a settlement and a 
chance to end the prolonged 
affair -a chance, students 
said, that is bittersweet. 
"I never wanted to let them win, nor do my parents," said sophomore Jeanne Etchart, one of the Notre Dame students being sued. "But I'm very ready to let the whole thing be over . . It's almost just worth it to pay it [the settlement] and be done 
with it." 
The Boat Club, or Millennium 
Club, Inc., filed lawsuits last 
April against students cited in 
the Jan. 23, 2003 raid. 
Demanding $3,000 from each 
student, the plaintiff, represent­
ed by attorney Mitchell 
Heppenheimer, claimed the 
minors were responsible for 
damages the tavern could suffer 
as a result of the raid. Forty of 
those suits were dismissed in 
August, and the remaining 150 
suits have been continually 
postponed. Boat Club, however, 
appealed the dismissals, and 
the cases will proceed to the 
Indiana Court of Appeals. 
"On May 7, there is a sched­
uled oral argument, which is a 
proceeding where you go in 
front of the three-judge panel, 
which will decide your case," 
said attorney Ed Sullivan, who 
represents approximately 40 
students. 
If Boat Club wins the appeal, 
the individual cases will be sent 
back to small claims court, 
where the defendants will face 
the original complaints. If the 
students win the appeal, the 
entire process could end. 
However, whichever party loses 
in the court of appeals has yet 
another outlet which could fur­
ther prolong the ordeal; the los­
ing party can seek a transfer to 
see BOAT CLUB/page 6 


Charges filed in Library bust 
All cited patrons were ND or SMC students 
All 21 patrons who were resulted in the use of a Taser 
By CLAIRE HEININGER ticketed during the raid -to subdue two of the arrested 
News Editor including the three arrested individuals, said Lt. Marc 
and transported to St. Joseph Mersich of the South Bend 
The St. Joseph County County Jail -were Notre Police Department. Prosecutor's Office filed Dame or Saint Mary's stu­Kathy Wanaecke, adminis­charges Friday against the dents, and 31 citations were trative coordinator for the St. three Notre Dame students issued, according to informa­Joseph County Prosecutor's who were arrested early tion provided by the Indfana Office, said senior Michael Friday morning during a raid State Excise Police. The raid of The Library Irish Pub. of the establishment also see LIBRARY/page 8 


Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


All signs. point to no 

No, I do not want to graduate. No, I do not have a job for next year. No, I do not know where I'm living. Only 24 days away and there is no indication that I should even go through with this. I thought graduating from high school was rough. 
Now before my professors read this and decide to help the situation by bumping my grade down a few points, let me explain my rea­soning. 
Last week, Saint Mary's class of 2004 got an e-mail from "Bookstore Bob" announcing that our graduation regalia had arrived and was ready for pick up. I 

; I put it off until Saturday afternoon when one of my roommates reasoned that maybe we should go and get it over with. We drove there in near silence aside from belting out a few measures with Keith Urban and drove back devising a plan to avoid sinking into the grass during the ceremony. Before hanging up my gown, I decid­ed to see how it fit. It doesn't. Apparently Jostens fails to consider body size in proportion to height. So while my gown is made for someone between 5-foot-4 and 5-foot-6, it is also made for someone anywhere ·between 100 and 200 pounds. I weigh in at the lower end, so now I'll have to deal with looking like Shamu. And the cap? Go figure -it's a little small. Okay, I guess that fails to constitute a major deterrent. I'll just crop the pic­tures. What will be difficult though is leaving my friends. There's a group of about 12 of us that are virtually insep­arable. After coordinating everything from our living arrangements to week­end plans for the past four years, we'll be lucky ifeven two of us end up in the same state. I also have a lot of close friends who are underclassmen and will be leaving in 17 days. As much as I'll hold true to my promise of coming back, it won't be the same. Whenever friends visit after graduat­ing, it feels like they've aged five years. Granted I can still look forward to hav­ing my ID double-and triple-checked at the bars... I'll admit there is one thing I am looking forward to. My friend and I agreed to be roommates in Chicago next year. Keep in mind we're looking at a place in either Lincoln Park or Wrigleyville and neither of us have jobs yet. It probably isn't the most rational idea, but I'm stubborn and she's.determined so I think we'll do just fine. As much as I don't want to, I suppose I'd better gear up for the inevitable. I'll just have to make sure that the next three weeks are filled with as many memories as those that have come before -armed with waterproof mas­cara. 
'· 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool833 8@saintmarys. edu. 
CLARIFICATION 
In the April 16 edition ofThe Observer, an article about the bust ofThe Library Irish Pub did not attribute the sentences "Three patrons were also taken to St. Joseph Counry Jail on charges ofdisor­derly conduct, resisting arrest and public intoxica­tion" and "Another student of legal age verbally threatened officers and tried to force his way out." These statements should have been attributed to Lt. Marc Mersich of the South Bend Police. The Observer regrets the error. 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU EAT AT TACO BELL? WHY OR WHY NOT? 



Ana Isabel Izaguirre Erika Martinez Jason MacWilliams Liz Marie Faarup Nell Vargas Ron Jeremy 
Senior Sophomore Senior Sophomore Junior Senior Welsh Family McGlinn Fisher Welsh Family Fisher Fisher 
"No! It's not "No. It's ':4s long as "I only went "Definitely not! "Only when Mexican food, wannabe there is a qnce and never They exploit they serve fish 





workers. " tacos. Viva el Mexico!" 
IN BRIEF 

Meet in front of Dillon on South Quad tonight from 5 to 6 
p.m. for the annual Dillon Dude Auction. Watch as Dillon resi­dents are auctioned off for dates with proceeds going to charity. 
"Counterterrorism: Are Human Rights an Obstacle or Part of the Solution?," a part of the lOth annual Theodore M. Hesburgh Lectures in Ethics and Public Policy, features Kenneth Roth, executive direc­tor of the human rights watch. The lecture will be held today in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium from 12:30 to 1:30 
p.m. and again from 4:30 to 5:30p.m. 
Campus Crossfire, a debate between Notre Dame's College Democrats and College Republicans, will be held tonight from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Lounge. 
Enjoy free Boracho Burrito at the Zane Williams concert tonight from 9 p.m. to midnight in the Lafortune Ballroom. 
The Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra, directed by Alexander Blachly, will pres­ent their spring concert in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. tonight at 8 p.m. Admission is free. 
A quarter dog eating contest will be held tonight from 11:30 
p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Lafortune elevator table. Prizes will be dis­tributed for the winners and the first 10 people to sign up. The first 50 spectators will receive one free quarter dog. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH LOW 

59 HIGH 62 43 LOW 43 
and it's really Mexican food, restroom again." disgusting. Also, not the real nearby." the workers are thing. The meat exploited. Ifyou seems to have 
want real been made by Mexican, go to mixing water Mexico dudes." and powder. " 

'Built -this City' tops worst songs list 
NEW YORK -Starship may have built this city on rock and roll, but Blender magazine is tearing it down, naming the band's "We Built This Oty" as the worst song ever. 
Some tunes on the "50 Worst Songs Ever!" list were selected for their melodies, others "are wretchedly per­formed" and "quite a few don't make sense whatsoev­er," the magazine said. 
The list, which appears in the May issue, includes songs by New Kids on the Block, Meat Loaf, The Doors, Lionel Richie, Hammer and The Beach Boys, among others. 
Blender describes 1985's "We Built This City" as "the truly horrible sound of a band taking the corporate dollar while sneering at those who take the corporate dollar." 
Geese blamed for Tahoe's pollution 
RENO, Nev. -A group of property owners thinks there might be a new culprit behind Lake Tahoe's declin­ing clarity: Goose droppings. 
Members of the Tahoe Lakefront Owners Association want scientists to study whether the bird feces are contributing to pollution that's eroding the lake's clar­ity at an average rate of more than a foot per year. 
The feces contain phos­phorus and nitrogen, nutri­ents that may help fuel the algae growth that combines with sediments to reduce clarity. 
"We're just surprised the agencies haven't taken this problem more seriously." said Jan Brisco, executive director of the property own­ers' group. 
"Everyone just sort of chuckled or laughed as if it were funny," Brisco said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
:z:: 
"' 
!C 

3: "' 
..I c( (.) 






.9 HIGH 70 HIGH HIGH 59 LOW 61 LOW LOW 44 
52 44 
61 42 
HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 78 I 57 Boston 55 I 45 Chicago 71 I 43 Denver 61 I 35 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 67 I 55 Minneapolis 58 I 41 New York 58 I 50 Philadelphia 65 I 54 Phoenix 87 I 61 Seattle 58 I 43 St. Louis 72 I 54 Tampa 81 I 66 Washington 72 I 52 


Wednesday, April 21, 2004 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Panel discusses religious issues in 2004 election 

DO YOU HAVE WHAT IT TAKES? 

w ~.·.·,·.~... : ....... ' ~~ 
.i 

To club a ..... I mean, to V\'rite the comic for the Observer 11ext )rear? Ifso, send in 5 strips to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar's mailbo:x in the Observer office b)' Wednesday, Ap:ril21st, at 4 p.m. 


By TRICI.A DE GROOT 
News Writer 
Serving in a series of events sponsored by the Hock the Vote Campaign and the Center for Social Concerns, "Politics and Heligion in 2004" functioned as a forum for students to reflect on how they see faith in poli­tics. Held Tuesday in the Coleman Morse lounge, a panel of six students shared their ret1ections based upon the doc­ument "Faithful Citizenship: A Catholic Call to Political Hesponsibility." 
Keri Oxley, Andrew DeBerry, Chris Broughton, Cecilia Garza, Ky Bertoli and Tom Feeney sat on the panel while Maureen Fitzpatrick served as organizer and Peter Quaranta as both a moderator and organizer. 
DeBerry began the forum by stating that faithful citizenship should be the idea behind vot­ing. lie expressed how he often turns toward to the seven themes of "The Catholic Social Teaching," which he feels nat­urally lend themselves to polit­ical issues. lie then discussed the importance of foreign rela­tions, terrorism, relations in Iraq, education. family and abortion, but stressed the idea of the common good. He said that when electing, we need to look at the "mentality and val­ues the leader uses" because events will arise during their term that cannot be planned for. 
DeBerry emphasized the common good goes beyond our national borders, and that we need to integrate faith and citi­zenship when voting for the concept. 
Broughton began by raising a few questions that he felt stood out from the document, stress­ing Catholics cannot have a political home as Democrats or Hepublicans and that we all differ as a result of the com­munities we live in and the experiences we have. These differences, claimed Broughton, will affect how individuals vote. 
"We have to respect that," he said. 
Bertoli entered the panel with a reflection unlike fhe other five. Instead of focusing on faith or citizenship, he emphasized the "dangers we face as a democracy in an elec­tion year." 
Bertoli said national politics aren't really that important because we are impacted more by local communities than national politics. 
"We need to take issues that are politically important to us and bring them to our commu­nities because too much is rid­ing on an institution that can do too little," Bertoli said. "We must be most critical of the lives of our own community." 
Oxley reinforced Brough­ton's claim that as Catholics we are politically homeless, but at the same time, she said that 

Junior Ky Bertoli, left, voices his views on "Politics and Religion In 2004" In the Coleman­Morse lounge Tuesday evening. Peter Quaranta moderated the panel. 
"we can choose a shelter."  "When  I think  of human  citizens of a particular commu­ 
Oxley focused  on abortion  rights, I think of economic  nity, a culture and then we are  
and euthanasia, which she  human rights," Garza said.  citizens of the United States.  
considers the fundamental  She also spoke out about the  He also said that we are read­ 
concept of human rights. She  importance of thinking crucial­ ers and authors with power to  
then went on to claim that "the  ly about foreign policy, and  shape the culture. He finished  
inherent good in  our society.  how "We should be thinking,  by discussing the President's  
isn't being adhered to in a pro­ as Catholics, what it means to  duties  according  to  the  
choice nation," and that from  be politically engaged," she  Constitution, and said that we  
an objective standpoint, items  said.  should "vote primarily on war  
such  as  war  and economic  "We need to think of ways to  and then on  those issues the  
stances can by philosophically  make stronger stances to our  president can impact directly."  
and  theologically justified  officials," Garza said.  
while  we  can  never justify  Feeney concluded by stating  Contact Tricia de Groot at  
euthanasia and abortion.  that first and foremost, we are  pdegroot@nd.edu  

Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Students find off-campus jobs 
'. 
By CLAIRE VALLEY 
News Writer 
Each year, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are faced with the decision of whether to work on campus, off campus or even at all. 
According to Notre Dame financial aid counselor Jeremy Mayernik, both work options are popular among students. He said that at Notre Dame, campus employment for students usually remains consistent at 40. 
Saint Mary's associate direc­tor of financial aid Linda Rakow said she sees similar statistics. Approximately 44 percent of Saint Mary's stu­dents were on last month's payroll, she said. 
"On-campus student employment at Saint Mary's does vary from month to month," Rakow said. 
For those who do not choose to work on campus, there are a variety of off-campus work options to select from in the South Bend area. 
Although he is aware that many students seek this option, Mayernik said there is no way to measure the exact number of those who do. 
Saint Mary's associate direc­tor of career opportunities Jeff Roberts said he maintains direct contact with students employed off campus. 
"Off-campus work is great because it expands student awareness of the world around them," Roberts said. "It creates a complimentary balance between what they experience as a student and real life." 
Those students who find better opportunities in off­campus employment cite a 

variety of motives for leaving campus including income, location and personal reasons. 
Saint Mary's junior Abby Sauers works at Malibu Tanning Salon. She has held her current position for a year, and has been working off campus for two years. Living off campus, Sauers said she opted for an off-campus job out of convenience. 
"Working off campus, you can work more hours. Right now, I work between 25 and 27 hours a week," she said. "The only downside is that you can't do homewor.K on the job like you could on cam­
"I spent last semester abroad, and so all the on cam­pus jobs were taken right away when I got back," Velez said. 
Working at Wal-Mart is more than a school year job for Velez, however. He cur­rently has an internship that will lead to a management position within the company. 
Sarah Waugh, a junior resi· dent assistance at Saint Mary's, works part time at American Eagle. In previous years she has worked on cam­pus at the dining hall and in the English department. Waugh said she now works off 

pus." "/ spent last semester campus 
Sauers said because it helps 
abroad, and so all
the extra her to leave money is an the on campus jobs campus once in added bonus to were taken right a while. working off "I work at
away when I got 
campus. She least 10 hours a currently back." week and some­makes $7 an times as many hour plus a as twenty," she
Adrian Velez 
monthly com­said. "The
junior
mission, but schedule is 
said work is not something she is financial­ly forced to do. 
However, some students find they need to work to pay bills and other expenses. 
Saint Mary's junior Lindsay Markin found off-campus employment to assist with payments from a car accident. Markin worked at the Gap for five months, long enough to get the money needed for repairs. 
"The Gap was closer to me, living off campus," she said. "Also, you get a discount at other stores besides the Gap." 
Notre Dame junior Adrian Velez works off campus at Wal-Mart in the home and garden section. 
more flexible, and I get as many hours as I want." 
Regardless of where stu­dents choose to work, Roberts offers advice. 
"Working can be a good thing while in college because it helps students learn time management and can help to further a student's career," he said. "Students who work can expand their professional net­work in different ways than students who don't work. But it is important for each stu­dent to make the decision of whether to work and where to work for him or herself." 
Contact Claire Valley at vall2244@saintmarys.edu 

Opus Apartments 
on schedule for fall 
By AMANDA SHROPSHIRE 
News Writer 
Construction remains on schedule for Saint Mary's Opus Apartments to be completed by the fall, said Michelle Russell, director of residence life. 
The addition will help accom­modate an estimated 1,500 incoming students over the next seven years and create space for 72 residents in each of the two buildings. 
"Everyone is working at a great pace and we are on sched­ule," Russell said. "The con­struction workers are here six days a week and have made great progress. The furniture and fabrics have been selected along with the wall coverings and carpet colors." 
Students' recent room selec­tion for next year included the on-campus apartments as an option for seniors. For many, room selection is a hectic time, however students cited the addi­tion of the apartments to simpli­fy the process with no additional complications. 
"Room selection is evaluated every year to determine if it is meeting the needs of the stu­dents and the College," Russell said. "The apartment selection was done early to help students make decisions about staying on campus or moving off. I imagine we will continue to do this process earlier, in order to con­tinue this service." 
In addition to housing more students, the apartments are designed to "allow seniors to live more independently" as stated on the Saint Mary's Web site. 
"The apartments actually increased the number of return­ing students we have signed up to live on campus for next year," Russell said. "The only differ­ence that was seen was that Annunciata didn't fill because the seniors chose to live in LeMans instead." 

Senior residents show enthusi­asm about living in the apart­ments. Their accommodations include one or two bedrooms, a kitchen, a living room and pri­vate baths. In addition, the building will include extra lounge and study space, laundry facilities, worship space and an apartment for a resident direc­tor. 
"We have received an over­whelming amount of excitement from the students who will be living there as they see the building move along," Russell said. "There has been a great collaboration between the College and the construction company to complete this proj­ect and make it a reality for the women of Saint Mary's. I think it was a fair process that every­one understood what their chances were." 
With the anticipation of the campus community, it can be said that the process went according to Saint Mary's Master Renovation plan. The progress of the apartments as well as the effectiveness of room selection has made drawing plans come to life for students as well as increasing on-campus residency. 
"As you can tell we are very excited about this project and think it will become part of the wonderful Saint Mary's tradi­tion," Russell said. 
Contact Amanda Shropshire at ashropOl @saintmarys.edu 

CMU 
CINTllAL MICHIGAN UN!VBRSITY 
APPLY NOW FOR IN-STATE GRADUATE TUITION! 
Central Michigan University announces new Resident Tuition Awards beginning May 2004. 
These awards automatically grant in-state tuition to any new student admitted to aCMU graduate program with at least a3.3 overall g.p.a. 
NO APPLICATION REQUIRED! 
For more information on CMU's resident tuition awards visit www.grad.cmich.edu 
Anantion All Sophomores Class of 2006 
VISIT THE RING REPRESENTATIVE 

Hammes NO Bookstore 
Wednesdav. Thursdav. Fridav April 21-23. 2004 9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 

This is yo~~r opportunity to order your Official Notre Da-~ne Class Ring for deli-very in Septevzber 'l-Vhen you return as a -rnevzber oftheJunior Class. 
This is ~he last time this school year that the fact-ory represe1ztati-ves UTili be on ca"Tnpus. 











ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TIIE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Annan asks for mission to Haiti 
UNITED N/\TIONS -Secretary-General Koli /\nnan callnd Tuesday for a broad, new 
U.N. mission in Haiti to include 6,700 troops, more than 1,600 international police and expnrts to help turn the Caribbean nation in to "a functioning democracy." 
Tlw U.N. military contingent would replace the 3,600-strong U.S.-led multinational force s1~nt to bring stability to Haiti after a three­wm~k n~bellion ousted its first democratically Plncted president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, in February. /\bout 2,000 of them are American troops. 
/\nnan said the transfer of authority to a 
U.N. force would take place by June 1, with troops in the multinational force withdraw­ing in phases as U.N. troops arrived "to avoid any soeurity gap." 
Terror suspects killed by bomb 
M/\DBID. Spain -At least five prime sus­pects in tho Madrid bombings were among the seven alleged terrorists who blew them­solves up as police moved to arrest them ear­lier this month, officials close to the investi­gation said Tuesday. 
The latest forensic tests show that suspects Mohammed Oulad Akcha and his brother Hachid Oulad /\kcha were killed in the sui­cide blast. the officials told The Associated Press. Only one of the seven people killed in the blast remains unidentified. 
With the /\kcha brothers dead, only one of the six suspects thought to be directly rnsponsible for the attacks is unaccounted for. said the officials, speaking on the condi­tion of anonymity. But news reports say police believe that final suspect. Said Berraj. may be the seventh person killed in the April 3 suicide blast in Lcganes. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Oregonians debate gay marriage 
POHTL/\ND, Ore. -A judge told Multnomah County to stop issuing gay mar­riage licenses Tuesday, but he handed gay couples a historic victory by ordering Oregon to recognize the 3,000 licenses already granted in the county. 
The decision by Multnomah County Circuit Judge Frank Bearden marked the first time in the nation that a judge has recognized gay marriage. An immediate appeal of the ruling was expected. 
"These arc the first legally recognized gay marriages in the country," said Dave Fidanque, the ACLU executive director in Oregon. "In no other same-sex marriages that have taken place has there been a court order saying the state must recognize them." 

Colorado remembers Columbine 
LITTLETON, Colo. -Hundreds of sur­vivors, friends and family gathered at sunset Tuesday to pay tribute to the 13 people slain at Columbine High five years ago in the worst school shooting in U.S. history. 
Participants bowed their heads as four F­16 fighter jets soared over the grassy amphitheater in Clement Park. a few hun­dred yards and just out of sight from the sub­urban school. They rose in unison to cheer /\nne Marie Hochhalter. who was paralyzed from the waist down in the attack and deliv­ered a message of hope from a wheelchair. 
STATE NEWS 
Severe spring storms slam state 
INDIANAPOLIS -Severe storms rolled across central Indiana Tuesday, injuring at least one person and damaging homes. 
Wayne llcnry, superintendent of utilities in .Jamestown, said he saw a tornado about 
5:40 p.m. just west of downtown of this com­munity 25 miles northwest of Indianapolis. 
"It wasn't like the traditional dark funnel, it was light colored and was picking up dnhris. It definitely had rotation to it," Henry said. "There's quite a few homes damaged and a garage that's completelygone." 


Kerry releases military records 
Democratic presidential nominee earned three Purple Hearts for tours in Vietnam 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Amid 
questions about his mili­
tary records, John Kerry's 
campaign on Tuesday pro­
vided documentation of 
Vietnam War injuries that 
included shrapnel wounds 
to his arms, legs and but­
tocks that earned him 
three Purple Hearts. 
Kerry spokesman Michael Meehan said the campaign was in the process of compiling the rest of Kerry's naval record and planned to begin posting it on the Internet by day's end. Kerry said all his military records are available to the public during an appearance Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Meehan said the Massachusetts senator and presumptive Democratic presidential nominee requested a copy of his record from the Navy last month and received rough­ly 150 pages last week. He said the campaign was in the process of scanning images of the documents Tuesday and they would be posted on Kerry's Web site. 

Conservatives, talk radio and some newspapers edi­torials have questioned whether Kerry was deserv­ing of the three Purple Hearts, fueling questions The documents also Call Treatment Record" said Kerry requested duty about his Navy service included declassified from Kerry's personal files as a personal aid in from 1966 to 1970 and the reports that explain that included a medic's Boston, New York or the seriousness of his injuries. Kerry's wounds that led to written note dated Dec. 9, Washington, D.C.. area. 
lie served two tours of his Purple Heart awards. 1968. Meehan said although duty, four months on the They show Kerry had "Shrapnel in left arm Kerry could have asked to USS Gridley frigate off shrapnel wounds in his left above elbow. Shrapnel stay in Vietnam, it was the Vietnam's shore and near­thigh after his boat came removed and appl baci­Navy's decision to request ly five months as a swift­under intense fire on Feb. tracin dressing. Ret to that he be reassigned. boat commander in the 20, 1969, and he suffered Duty." Kerry left the country in Mekong Delta. He volun­shrapnel wounds in his left Documentation for the early April1969. teered for the second tour buttocks and contusions on second two injuries show Bush campaign manager and earned all his medals his right forearm when a that Kerry was deemed to Ken Mehlman accused during the second stint. mine detonated close to be in good condition and Kerry's campaign of waf­
Meehan gave The his boat on March 13, returned to active duty fling on the release of his Associated Press 13 pages 1969. after treatment. The docu­military records, saying that included documenta­The campaign could not mentation does not the campaign's position on tion for the Silver Star, locate a similar report for describe the severity of the Tuesday to release the Bronze Star and three Kerry's original Purple injuries. A third Purple records in "due diligence" Purple Hearts. The Boston Heart. As evidence that Heart meant Kerry could is contrary to Kerry's com­Globe obtained some of the Kerry was wounded, be reassigned out of ments on "Meet the Press" records last year for an Meehan showed The Vietnam, and a document that the records would be extensive series on Kerry. Associated Press a "Sick dated March 17. 1969, made public immediately. 

IRAQ 

Gov't names panel to try Saddam 
Council. is mistrusted as an outsider combat death in April, the deadliest 
Associated Press 

by many Iraqis who want to see month since the U.S.-led invasion 
BAGHDAD -Iraqi leaders named Saddam prosecuted by Iraqis who began in March 2003. a tribunal of judges and prosecutors were present under his brutal rule. At least 1,100 Iraqis have been to try Saddam Hussein. placing a Also Tuesday, guerrillas fired a killed in fighting since the start of the longtime opponent of the ousted dic­barrage of mortar rounds at month. according to an Associated tator in the forefront of the case Baghdad's largest prison, killing 22 Press count based on reports from against him and his former Baathist prisoners in an attack a U.S. general hospitals and Iraqi and U.S. officials. inner circle, a spokesman announced said may have been an attempt to Tuesday's mortar attack was the Tuesday. spark an inmate uprising against bloodiest against the sprawling 
A senior member of Ahmad American guards. The slain prison­prison complex of Abu Ghraib in Chalabi's Iraqi National Congress ers were all security detainees, western Baghdad. Ninety-two prison­was appointed to head the all-Iraqi meaning they were suspected of ers were wounded, 25 of them seri­tribunal -a potentially controver­belonging to the anti-U.S. insurgency ously, said Col. Jill Morgenthaler, a sial choice. or to Saddam's former regime. U.S. military spokeswoman. 
Chalabi, a longtime exile who A U.S. soldier was killed by a road­"This isn't the first time that we returned to Iraq and was named to side bomb in the northern city of have seen this kind of attack." she the U.S:-appointed Iraqi Governing Mosul: It was the 100th American said. 

Wednesday, April 21, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
AluiDni 
continued from page I 

is consistently climbing believe their children's accept­ance should be automatic, many do retaliate when they feel that Notre Dame hasn't bent far enough, said vice president for University Relations Lou Nanni. 
"Some are deeply hurt, very angry. some are disillusioned, some want to understand why and ask questions, some are dis­appointed but understand," said Nanni. who receives feedback from the Development Office and International Student Services in addition to the alum­ni constituency. 
"In any family, there is a time for us to listen and absorb the blows," he continued. "We need to let them vent. take their shots and respond with kindness and compassion." 
Saracino and his staff do an exceptional job in this role, Nanni said, adding that follow­ing through on the hate mail and the backlash is just as important as delivering an out­standing incoming class. He pointed out that while many parents experience pain and resentment in the short run, in the long run the Notre Dame admissions office often earns their respect. 
"You can deliver bad news harshly or with compassion," Nanni said. And delivering with compassion. he explained, means not just "throwing num­bers" at parents who demand an explanation -such as the shrinking gap between the pro­file of legacies and of the entire competitive applicant pool -it means being sympathetic to specific situations. 
Saracino knows a lot about that. 
"I will get on the phone with a father who's on the phone say­ing 'It's not a family, my son did­n't get admitted too,'" he said. " [But] the integrity of the admis­sions process is, to me, para­mount. And that means we're not in it to be liked." 
Both Saracino and Lennon 

Arrest 
continued from page I 
also arrested. 

According to a spokesperson at the St. Joseph County Jail, Bible and Gardner were both brought to the jail at 3:21 a.m. Sunday and released at 4:56 
a.m. on a $250 bond. 

Coach Tyrone Willingham declined to comment specifical­ly on the event. 
"There was an incident this weekend, but beyond that I really can't say much more. A matter of this nature normally falls under the guidelines of our University, so we'll let them handle it," he said. 
Gardner declined to comment on the incident. 
Both men are scheduled to appear in court May 5. Bible said he has not hired an attor­ney at this time and that he is still reviewing his options. 
"We have the court date. We are going to take the necessary actions we have to do to be pre­pared for that," Bible said. "How [the police] treated the situation could have been bet­ter." 
Pat Leonard contributed to this report. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 

emphasized that alumni chil­dren's applications receive an even more careful evaluation during that process, as each is examined by a fourth reader in addition to the usual three. 
"That's where the difficult decisions come in," Lennon said. 
He said that while he tries to offer those unhappy with the University's decisions two options of their own -transfer­ring or obtaining a Notre Dame degree on the graduate level ­a few parents are left so unsat­isfied that they send back year­books, class rings and on rare occasions even withdraw their donations. 
However, over the 23 years, Lennon said he could "name on one hand" the alumni who have actually revoked financial sup­port. Far more common are those who just want to be heard, and Nanni believes Notre Dame does a good job of listen­ing. 
"A good parent is going to occasionally listen and absorb some criticism,'' he said. "And as stewards of the larger Notre Dame family, it is an important part of our role." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

Boat Club 
continued from page 1 
the Indiana Supreme Court, which has never heard such a case. The Supreme Court has the option of accepting or denying the request. In the event that the case does proceed that far, however. students will most likely be faced with increased legal fees. And the financial factor, 
. students said, is prompting them to seriously consider agreeing to the settlement. "This, overall, has been very expensive," Etchart said, citing fees paid to Notre Dame's Office of Resident Life, the State of Indiana and legal counsel. "Among my friends who I've talked to, I think every­one else is just going to do the $300." Other students, however, said th~y are confident Boat Club will lose the appeal. and therefore they are not yet agreeing to the settlement. ''I'm not going to settle, because I know that it proba­bly won't pass the appeal," said sophomore Patricia 
You could he the ffilSSlfi 
Bueso. 
Junior Tori Peppler is still undecided about her course of action but also voiced doubts about Boat Club's chance for success in the court of appeals. She said her lawyer "didn't think they had an argument that would make it to the supreme court." 
The chance that the case would go that far, however, was the factor leaving her indecisive Peppler said. 
"Then we're going to have to reevaluate our fees to the attorney, which may mean spending more money," she said. "It can be over $300 at that point." 
Sophomore Daniel Pearson, though faced with the same considerations, said he was simply "sick and tired" of the process. 
''I'm planning on taking the settlement." Pearson said. "I got an e-mail discussing it and saying that there was a good chance that we'd win, but even still. it'd be kind of nice to just be through with it." 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 

Mice born without fathers 
Associated Press 
Men, your gender just took.a hit in the animal kingdom. Scientists report they've created mice by using two genetic moms -and no dad. 
That's a first for any mammal. But don't look for this service at the corner fertility clinic. Experts say the mouse procedure can't be done in people for technical and ethical reasons. 
In fact, one of the moms was a mutant newborn, whose DNA had been altered to make it act like a male's contribution to an embryo. 
The work sheds light on why mice and people normally do need a dad's DNA to reproduce. Some experts also said it held implications for using human stem cells to treat disease. 
The achievement is reported in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Wednesday, April 21,2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 314.50 -123.35
Jones '
•mSame: Down: Composite Volume: 136 • 1,508.299,392 

AMEX 1,238.33 w20,44 NASDAQ 1,978.63 -41.80 NYSE 6,527.12 -92.93 S&PSOO 1,118.15 -17.67 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 11,952.26 0.00 
fTSE IOO(London) 4,569.00 +22.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -4.52 -0.18 3.80 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.28 -0.75 22.11 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0,78 -0.20 25.33 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.29 -0.61 26.07 STOCKERYALE (STKR) -9.88 -0.41 3.74 
30-YEAR BOND t-0.50 +0.26 52.29 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.98 +0.43 44.15 5-YEAR NOTE +1.32 +0.45 34.60 3-MONTH BILL +2.71 +0.25 9.47 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.25 36.50 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) -2.90 398.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.325 I05.95 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 108.9 EURO 0.8455 POUND 0.5611 CANADIAN$ 1.358 
COMPANY BRIEFS 
AK Steel gets new labor contract 
MIDDLETOWN, Ohio -AK Steel Corp. announced a quarterly profit Tuesday and said it hop1~s that a new labor contract at an eastern Ohio plant will be a model for agree­ments with its other unions as the company trios to reduce labor and pension costs to stay competitive. 
"It clearly is a step in the right direction for AK," said Charles Bradl'ord, an analyst with Bradford Hesearch/Solcil Securities in New York City. 
lie said AK Steel's labor costs and its pen­sion and health care expenses for retirees add $30 per ton to its steel prices over those of competitors, notably Cleveland-based International Steel Group. ISG was built from the remnants of bankrupt steelmakers and so has been able to avoid the pension and health care expenses for retirees that AK Steel car­ries, Bradford said. 
The company has steel operations in Ohio, Indiana, Pennsylvania and Kentucky, as well as tubular steel plants in Ohio and Indiana, and mnploys about 8,800 people. 
First Wal-Mart opens in Japan 
NUMAZU, Japan -The aisles are wide, the selection is huge -and Wal-Mart's first ware­house-sized supercenter store in Japan is a hit with shoppers. 
It's not Wal-Mart itself that's drawing .Japanese consumers -they're not familiar with the name that is nearly ubiquitous in the United States, and the store is called Sciyu, the name of Wai-Mart's partner in Japan. Since the store 60 miles southwest of Tokyo opnncd April 7, people have been lured by its sheer size. 
"If a big store like that opens, it's really con­\Lenient for the residents," said Koichi Watanabe, a community leader who oversaw town meetings to discuss the Supcrccntcr. "The aisles are roomy. The whole place is made for easy shopping." 
Compared to old-style Japanese stores with a mishmash of m1m:handisc crowding the shelves. the towering aisles here arc filled with rows and rows of similar products ­soda, sneakers, frying pans. The American look is to new to most Japanese. 
ENVIRONMENT AND ECONOMY 
Ocean pollution may lessen 
Presidential commission urges creation ofocean trust using oil and gas royalties 
Associated Press 

WASIIlNGTON -Citing a dire need to protect ocean resources from exploitation and pollution, a presidential commission on Tuesday urged creation of a federal oceans trust fund with up to $4 billion a year from oil and gas royalties. 
The recommendation is one of more than 250 fur Congress, the White House, federal agencies and states in the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy's nearly 500-page draft report, the first major review in 35 years. 
The Ocean Policy Trust Fund -similar to the Highway Trust Fund for transportation projects ­would come from $5 bil­lion annually in bonus bid and royalty payments to the U.S. Treasury for ofT­shore oil and gas drilling, and from "new uses of ofT­shore waters," the. com­mission said. 
Up to $4 billion of the payments would be fair game for the fund, after subtracting $1 billion for land and water conserva­tion and historic preserva­tion, said the commission, 
which envisions $3 billion Claude Berry, a fisherman living and working In the U.S. VIrgin Islands, said that a year going to federal 
business has been good lately, but he wouldn't mind more government limits. 
programs and $1 billion a year to states. hope we can win it." zone stretching about 200 after that. But it pointed to 
"Let's allocate them to Watkins said that it was miles from the continent annual ocean-related eco­this process so that we can important for federal gov­and Pacific and Atlantic nomic activity of $700 bil­pay for the recommenda­ernment to require the islands. lion in goods that ports tions of the ocean policy new ocean protections but The panel urged new handle, $50 billion from and get on with it," James avoid creating "unfunded "ecosystem-based" ways fishing and trade, $11 bil­Watkins, the retired admi­mandates" passed on to of managing that put the lion from cruise ships and ral who chairs the com­states and local govern­needs of nature ahead of passengers -and $25 bil­mission created by ments. political boundaries, while lion to $40 billion from Congress and the White Commissioners spent 2 emphasizing that people's offshore oil and gas pro­!louse in 2000, told a 1/2 years studying coastal needs must also be consid­duction. news conference Tuesday. areas, the Great Lakes ered. "If our report is adoptl~d. 
"Will it be tough to sell? and 4.4 million square The commission estimat­the payoff will be great," You better believe iL But miles of ocean -an area ed the cost of all its rec­Watkins said in a video we're going to go for it," nearly a quarter larger ommended actions at $1.3 accompanying the report. he said. "Everybody wants than all 50 states com­billion the first year, $2.4 "It's now obvious that to go after those revenues. bined, because it includes billion the second year ocean resources arc not Well, we do too. And we the exclusive economic and $3.2 billion each year limitless." 

ENTERTAINMENT 


ABC undergoes management shift 
reeling the ailing network, which ABC is firmly ensconced as the
Associated Press 
collapsed after th~ ratings failure of fourth-place network this season, 
LOS ANGELES -Disney shook up its game show "Who Wants to be a behind CBS, NBC and Fox. It is the management team at its fourth­Millionaire." averaging 9.2 million viewers in place ABC Television network The two struggled to lind hit dra­prime time, down from 10.1 million Tuesday, promoting two rising stars mas and had only mild success viewers last season, according to and firing its top two programmers developing new sitcoms. Nielsen Media Hcsearch. after only two years on the job. Steve McPherson, president of ABC is also in fourth place among 
The Walt Disney Co., which owns Touchstone Television, was named viewers aged 18-to-49, the dl~mo­ABC, elevated ESPN and ABC Sports to the new post of president ABC graphic craved by advertis1~rs and president George Bodenheimer and Prime Time Entertainment, respon­the one ABC watches most closely. ABC Cable Networks President sible for the network's prime-time The network is also the chief Anne Sweeney as co-chairs of its schedule. thorn in the sides of Disney chid Media Networks division. ABC-owned Touchstone produces executive Michael Eisner and chinf 
Gone arc ABC Entertainment many of the network's prime-time operating ofTicer Hobert lger, who President Susan Lyne, who had shows, including "Alias" and "I lope have pledged to sharehold1~rs to been expected to remain. and Lloyd and Faith" and "Scrubs" for NBC. make a turnaround at ABC tlwir top Braun, who chaired the ABC McPherson has less than a month priority. Entertainment Television Group. to finish setting the network's prime As part of the shake-up. Mark 
Braun and J.ync were appointed time fall schedule, which will be Pedowitz was named presid1~nt of in 2002 and charged with rcsur-presented to advertisers in May. Touchstone Television. 
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Gay 
continued from page 1 
many more faculty members have gotten involved this time. 
"I don't know percentages," he said. "But I know that many more faculty have got­ten shirts." 
He continued that the GSA is also using this second day to assure students their goals are positive. 
A press release issued by the GSA states, "This second day is proof that the shirts are more than just a fad. It is also an opportunity to dispel a common misconception." 
The press release explained that many people had per­ceived the orange shirts to "encourage homosexual acts," something Russell said is not true. 
"The shirt is to raise aware­ness of the homosexual popu­lation on campus and to help the homosexual population feel welcome," he said. "It has nothing to do with sex ... it's about saying that if you're a homosexual student here, that's fine." 
The GSA will not be holding demonstrations today. Instead, it is sponsoring com­munity-building activities for all students. 
"We have Frisbee on [South Quad) from 2 to 6:30 p.m.," Russell said. "Everyone can come, if they are wearing a shirt or not." 
A group dinner will follow Frisbee at 6:30 p.m. in South Dining Hall, and finally, a group picture will be taken at 
7:30 on God Quad. 
Russell also said the GSA will not be approaching the administration today with a request for club status on campus, but that an open let­ter is being put together. 
"We have an open letter, which is the letter we wrote to the administration saying that a mistake was made, and they need to recognize a place for straight and gay students to come together," he said. "It will be presented probably by the end of the school year, depending on how many sig­natures we get." 
The campaign by the GSA has been primarily sponsored by the departments of sociolo­gy and anthropology, accord­ing to Russell. 
"They have been wonderful to us," he said. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
~~~·~~·~:·~~-·i·~~~-~~·~~·~~.. ;·~··;;~ 
!COMEDY or TV WRITING -Read~ Trustin Howard's new book,l 
!"MY LIFE WITH REGIS AND; 
!JOEY." The book reveals help-! !ful structuring of comedy fo~ !both stand-up and writi'ng. ~ 
lshow-Biz stories about Jay Leno, Damon! jWayans, George Carlin, Lenny Bruce, Bobl ;Hope, Carol Burnette, Regis Philbin, andl :others, also provide helpful hints. l 
: : 
:...................................................................: 

OPENING 
KING$ DOLLAR PLUS 
Open Daily 1 Oam-8pm 
1813 South Bend Ave. 
Located in the same place as Between the Buns! 574.993.0310 574.234. 
-1! ,_... ,.,.,._., 

Library 
continued from page 1 
Attea, who was arrested for resisting arrest, disorderly conduct and public intoxica­tion, was formally charged with resisting arrest. She added that sophomore David George was charged with public intoxication and minor in consumption. George's original booking charges also included disorderly conduct and resisting arrest, but the prosecutor's office decided not to file those charges, Wanaecke said. 
Police compile a "prelimi­nary assessment" of the situ­ation before prosecutors can review all information and decide "exactly what was done and what charges are warranted," Wanaecke said. 
Mersich characterized the prosecutor's job as a "Monday morning quarterback" that carefully processes and eval­uates decisions police initially make in "15-30 seconds." 
Sophomore lacrosse player Brian Hubschmann, whose booking charges were unchanged, was charged with public intoxication, false informing and minor in con­sumption, said Wanaecke. 
Attea and George declined to comment. After repeated attempts to contact Hubschmann, his roommate relayed a message from him that he declined to comment. 
Lt. Greg Deitchley, spokesman for the District 1 excise office, said Indiana State Excise Police arrested Hubschmann and South Bend Police arrested Attea and George. All three were released Friday after posting bail, confirmed Deputy F. Datema at the St. Joseph County Jail. 
Mersich, who witnessed Attea's arrest, claimed Attea used profanities while refus­ing to obey officers' com­mands to remain inside the bar's doors. Mersich added that since Attea is not under­age, he was only required to "whip his ID out," but said Attea instead "physically pushed past policemen" on his way outside. 
"As soon as he touched a policeman in a rude, angry manner, it's battery," Mersich said, explaining that on the department's "force continu­um," officers are required to exert enough force to "one­up" the person who confronts them. 
South Bend police officers responded by placing Attea on the ground outside the bar and informing him he was under arrest, at which point he refused to· put one of his hands behind his back, Mersich said. 
"These things happen so fast," he said. "We always try to err on the side of safety." 
The officers determined the safest step for Attea and for themselves was for Captain Andrews to use a "drive­stun" -a 1.5-second Taser shot packing a level of elec­tric shock that "doesn't per­manently injure anybody" ­to Attea's back and shoulder area, Mersich said. 
"It is the most effective way that causes minimal risk to party and officers," he said. 
Mersich cited the same rea­soning in his own decision to use a Taser on George, who Mersich said was hiding behind the refrigerator in the bar's kitchen and refused to come out. ment of up to one year in 
He said there were knives, prison and a maximum chemicals and broomsticks $5,000 fine. Public intoxica­within George's reach that tion and false informing are posed a threat to both men's both class B misdemeanors, safety in the small area. each carrying a possible pun­
Using a drive-stun on ishment of zero to 180 days George in jail and a "eliminated maximum any possibili­$1,000 fine.
"These things happen so
ty of him get­Minor in ting hurt, me fast ... We always try to consumption 
getting hurt, err on the side ofsafety. " is a class C 
escalating misde­the whole meanor, with 
0 r d e a 1 , " Marc Merslch a possible Mersich said. South Bend Pollee lieutenant punishment 
"[Police) went to [Tasers) as another tool in our arsenal where we don't have to go hands-on as much with people." 
George was then hand­cuffed and escorted out of the bar, Mersich said. 

A Taser was not used in Hubschmann's arrest, Deitchley said. He added that Tasers are not issued to the Indiana State Excise Police. 
Mersich said he could not comment on the possible additional use of Tasers once the students were in the pris­oner transport van or in jail. 
Bar owner Chuck Hammons, who was present during part of the raid, said he did not witness the use of Tasers and that he had not spoken with his employees about witnessing specific inci­dents. He added he had not yet viewed his videotape evi­dence -which covers a por­tion of the sidewalk in front of the pub in addition to a vestibule where patrons wait to show I.D. -to watch the raid unfold. 
Resisting arrest is classified as a class A misdemeanor, carrying a possible punish-of zero to 60 

days in jail and a maximum $500 fine. Minor in a tavern, the citation issued to 20 students, is also a class C misdemeanor. 
However, most students in past bar busts received pre­trial diversion for minor in a tavern citations by paying fines and completing commu­nity service hours. 
Deitchley said he will for­ward the names of all cited patrons to the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission this week. Notre Dame Security/Police ­which was not involved in the raid -also expects to receive a list of Notre Dame students, NDSP director Rex Rakow said Frida~·-He added that NDSP will then forward the names to the Office of Residence Life, which after past raids has assessed addi­tional fines and community service hours to students. The Saint Mary's student hand­book, however, prevents the College from levying further punishments against students cited off-campus. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

Thursday, April 22 3:00 p.m.-4:15 p.m. 
Room 133 Mendoza College ofBusiness 
Richard Green (ND '62) has helped Blistex, a manufacturer oflip-care products, grow in sales in over 75 countries. Green has been cited by Fortune magazine as a corporate leader whose business practices are grounded in his faith. His company was lauded for paying fair wages and choosing not to leave their suburban Oak Brook, Illinois factory for a low-wage locale. 
The lecture is free and open to the public. We invite the Notre Dame/SMC 
community. 
Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business, Notre Dame Vocation Initiative, Campus Ministry & the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide. 
'',. ,_._,_.... ·. '-'. " ••• 

-~-------~­
Wednesday, April 21 '· 2004 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
IRAQ 

Blasts rock police stations, killing 55, injuring hundreds 
Nearly simultaneous bombs hit three stations, police academy in Basra; dead include 10 children on school buses 
At one station in the Saudia 
district of Basra, four vehicles 
BASHA -A series of explo­were seen destroyed including sions ripped through three police two school vans that were pass­stations and a police academy in ing that station at the time of the the southern Iraqi city of Basra attack. One was carrying stu­Wednesday, killing at least 55 dents from a girls' middle school people, including some 10 and the other carried kinder-schoolchildren, garten students. and injuring at Some 10 chil­least 238, officials "We don't know yet dren were among said. the dead, Iraqi 
A..socialcd Press 
who committed

Three near Police Col. 
simultaneous these bombings." Kadhem al­blasts targeted Muhammedawi police stations at said. It was not
Hlsham ai-Halawl 

rush hour in immediately clear
British spokesman 

Basra. At about the which bus they 
same time, a fourth explosion ripped through the police academy in the Basra suburb of Zubair . An hour later another blast targeted the same police academy. 
Forty-five people were killed in the police station blasts and 10 were killed in the police academy explosions, officials and witness­es said. The injured included two British soldiers at the police academy, Maj. Hisham al­llalawi, spokesman for British forces in Basra, told Al-Arabiya television. 
The attacks came a day after Iraqi leaders named a tribunal of judges and prosecutors to try Saddam llussein, placing a long­time opponent of the ousted dic­tator in the forefront of the case against him and his former Baathist inner circle. 
came from. 
Cars outside of the station were charred. The interior of one of the school buses was burned out, the seats shredded. 
British forces who rushed to the scene were being hampered by angry protesters, said a Ministry of Defense spokes­woman in London, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The facade of the Saudia sta­tion was also heavily damaged and th~re was a hole 6-feet deep and 9-feet wide in front of the Saudia station. 
More than 40 dead and 200 injured from the blast were brought to Basra's Educational Hospital, the city's largest, said Ali Hussein, an emergency physi­cian at the facility. 
Dozens of bodies could be seen in the morgue and in the hall­
ways of Basra's Educational Hospital. 
Another five dead and 36 injured were evacuated to a sec­ond hospital, Basra General Hospital, hospital officials said. 
Witnesses said 10 people were killed in the police academy explosions. 
"We don't know yet who com­mitted these bombings," al­Halawi said. He said two British soldiers were wounded in the al­Zubair attack. 
British military spokesman Squadron Leader Jonathan Arnold said the blasts were believed to have been caused by car bombs. Al-Muhammedawi said, however that the blast may have been caused by rocket attacks. 
Also Wednesday, about 35 Iraqi insurgents attacked U.S. Marines in the besieged city of Fallujah with rocket-propelled grenades and small arms, setting off a heavy gunbattle, the military said. No casualties were immedi­ately reported. 
Iraqi security forces, some wearing flak jackets and carry­ing weapons, moved back into Fallujah, 35 miles west of Baghdad, on Tuesday, part of an agreement between U.S. officials and local leaders aimed at end­ing hostilities. The accord calls on insurgents to hand in weapons and allows civilians to return. 
U.S. officials have warned that if guerrillas do not surrender 2003. their weapons, Marines are pre­At least 1,100 Iraqis have been pared to storm the city -likely killed in fighting since the start of sparking a new round of bloody the month, according to an fighting. Associated Press count based on 
On Tuesday, a senior member reports from hospitals and Iraqi of Ahmad Chalabi 's Iraqi and U.S. officials. National Congress was appointed Tuesday's mortar attack was to head the all-Iraqi tribunal -a the bloodiest against the sprawl­potentially controversial choice. ing prison complex of Abu 
Chalabi, a longtime exile who Ghraib in western Baghdad. returned to Iraq and was named Ninety-two prisoners were to the U.S.-appointed Iraqi wounded, 25 of them seriously, Governing Council, is mistrusted said Col. Jill Morgenthaler, a U.S. as an outsider by many Iraqis military spokeswoman. who want to see Saddam prose­"This isn't the first time that cuted by Iraqis who were present we have seen this kind of attack. under his brutal rule. We don't know if they are trying 
Meanwhile, guerrillas fired a to inspire an uprising or a prison barrage of mortar rounds at break," Brig. Gen. Mark Kimmitt Baghdad's largest prison, killing told AP. In August, six security 22 prisoners in an prisoners were attack a U.S. gen­killed in a mortar eral said may have attack on the lock­
"This isn't the first 
been an attempt to up, which was spark an inmate time that we have once Saddam's uprising against seen this kind of most notorious American guards. prison.
attack."

The slain prisoners In the tribunal were all security appointments, detainees, meaning Mark Klmmltt Salem Chalabi, a they were suspect­general U.S.-educated ed of belonging to lawyer and the anti-U.S. insur-nephew of Ahmad gency or to Saddam's former Chalabi, was named by the regime. Governing Council as director­
A U.S. soldier was killed by a general of the court, said INC roadside bomb in the northern spokesman Entefadh Qanbar. city of Mosul: It was the 100th Salem Chalabi named seven American combat death in April, judges and four prosecutors, and the deadliest month since the further judges will be appointed, U.S.-led invasion began in March Qanbar said. 


-~---~--------------~-------­
page 10 Wednesday, April 21, 2004
The Observer + NEWS 
PERU 

Catholic cardinal upset by murder investigation 
During the past decade, Luis Bambaren, an ardent critic Cipriani grabbed headlines with of Fujimori's regime, was also 
LIMA -Roman Catholic his support of security forces in asked to testify, and has made no Cardinal Juan Luis Cipriani's Peru's dirty war against far-leftist fuss about it. ultraconservative views and cozy Shining Path guerrillas. He said The investigation was opened relationship with fugitive ex­in 1991 that most human rights after a confidential witness President Alberto Fujimori have groups were apologists for claimed he overheard Montesinos frequently helped snare him in Marxist and Maoist organiza­tell a top aide that one of his Peru's tangled web of political tions. agents had infiltrated the church intrigues. He also offered Fujimori and poisoned Vargas Alzamora's 
But even his adversaries were staunch backing during the ex­food, an attorney general spokes­surprised when he indignantly president's 1990-2000 autocratic woman told The Associated announced recently that he had government -although he bit­Press. been subpoenaed to testify in an terly opposed Fujimori's family She said the case was kept investigation into the alleged planning programs, warning that quiet to protect witnesses from murder of his predecessor, . free condoms would "turn the public scrutiny, "but unfortunate­Monsignor Augusto Vargas entire country into a brothel." ly the one who broke the confi­Alzamora -at the hands of After Vargas Alzamora died, in dentiality was Cardinal Cipriani Fujimori's now-jailed spy chief, January 2001 the Vatican named himself." Vladimiro Montesinos. Cipriani, a bishop, as its first car­Cipriani's complaint prompted 
"Mister prosecutor, open your dinal from the conservative Opus friends and foes alike to jump to mysterious files and say who Dei movement, outraging political his defense and accuse the prose­mentioned me in a fictitious event activists and many Peruvians, cutor, Hector Villar, of everything because everyone knows that the including some church leaders. from grandstanding to carrying cardinal died of natural causes At his first Mass, Cipriani was out a political vendetta for the after a long illness," Cipriani said confronted by protesters chanti­cardinal's enemies. during his Palm Sunday Mass. ng, "Christ is justice, not complic­"We all agree -prosecutors in 
Until Cipriani's complaint, few ity" and "Cipriani and Peru are totalitarian. The district Peruvians would have suspected Montesinos, the same killers." attorneys of Peru are fascists. Vargas Alzamora, a liberal Jesuit, In the last year of Fujimori's They operate like a Gestapo," was the victim of foul play. Most regime, Cipriani had, in fact, constitutional expert Javier Valle still don't. He died in September become criticaf of Montesinos's Riestra said. "That's why there is 2000, four months after suffering influence. general agreement that the judi­a debilitating cerebral hemor­Fujimori has been living in his cial system must be changed." and incineration" of videotapes another attempt to discredit him .. rhage that left him bedridden. parents' native Japan, safe from Even former Justice Minister linking him to Montesinos after "Whether we like it or not, the 
But Cipriani's comments and extradition, since a corruption Fernando Olivera -himself the church took money from the hierarchy of the Catholic Church the lurid possibility of homicide scandal toppled his government under investigation for allegedly spy chief and requested an addi­deserves respect," Olivera, now have set Peru abuzz. The Lima in November 2000. delivering forged documents to tional $120,000 "donation." Peru's ambassador to Spain, told rumor mill has worked overtime In its own defense, the Attorney discredit Cipriani -criticized the The letters -one supposedly reporters. "The prosecutor, as Peruvians recall that Vargas General's Office said it only want­proceedings. written by Cipriani, and two oth­regardless of how independent he Alzmora and Cipriani were often ed Cipriani's testimony because Olivera was reported to have ers by the Vatican's ambassador is, has the obligation to substanti­at loggerheads over Vargas he visited Vargas Alzamora a few traveled to the Vatican in 2001 to Peru -turned out to be fake. ate this type of subpoena because Alzamora's strong criticism of days before his death, not with letters purporting to show Cipriani charges that the probe of he should not abuse either the Fujimori's authoritarian methods. because he is a suspect. Bishop Cipriani sought the "elimination Vargas Alzamora's death is yet law or his power." 
Associated Press 


ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Adtnissions is accepting applications for three Admissions Counselor positions! 
As part ofthe Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection ofthe first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communications within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation ofapplications and conducting group/individual in.fonnation sessions on campus. 
**One position will be an undct~st:ood one-year assignment with the possibility of permanent employment should a staff opening occur in 2005. (I 14) 
**One position will include the additional responsibility for recruitment efforts for African American students. (115) 
**One position will likely include the responsibility for recruitment efforts for international students. (I 16) 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and. familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Sawrday mornings. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2004. 
Apply on-line via Human Resources web site or submit resmne, cover Jetter and reference information by Tuesday, April 27, 2004 to: 
Admissions Counselor Job Numbers: 4007-114,4007-115, 4007-116 Department ofHuman Resources University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 
-----------~-~--------------~~-------------------------­
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
GAZA STRIP 


Four killed as Israel moves to stop rocket attacks 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY -Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said Tuesday that Israel would keep targeting llamas militants after killing the group's last two leaders in heli­copter missile strikes. 
In the bloodiest fighting in weeks, meanwhile, Israeli sol­diers killed four Palestinians in a gunfight in the Gaza Strip meant to stop rocket attacks on Jewish settlements. 
The rocket fire came in response to Israel's assassina­tion of Abdel Aziz Rantisi, leader of the militant group, over the weekend. Rantisi had replaced llamas founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin, who was killed by Israel last month. 
Sharon said the two would not be the last to be targeted. 
"We will fight terror and we will not let up on them. In that way we got rid of the first mur­derer, and in that way a few days ago we got rid of the sec­ond murderer, and that is not the end," Sharon said. 
Tuesday's fighting came as Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz visited an Israeli army position in Gaza, promoting Israel's "unilateral disengagement" plan that includes a pullout from the territory. 
Sharon's Likud Party is to vote in a referendum on the plan on May 2. 
Sharon and Likud were in the forefront of settlement building for decades, and the "disen­gagement" plan calls for dis­mantling settlements in the West Bank and Gaza for the first time. But Likud leaders are lining up behind it, and the rank and file are expected to vote in favor. 
Talking to troops at a post on the Gaza-Egypt border, scene of almost daily clashes as the mili­tary searches for arms smug­gling tunnels, Mofaz said the pullout would reduce friction with the Palestinians. 
Even after the withdrawal, he said, the Israeli military "can act freely, while remaining in 
the  area  around  the  Gaza  
Strip."  
Israel  has  said  it  would  

reserve the right to attack mili­tants in Gaza even after its withdrawal. 
The clash in northern Gaza appeared to foreshadow the type of sequence Mofaz meant -Israeli forces entering Gaza to stop Palestinian rocket fire. 
The barrage of homemade rockets -15 over two days ­was one of the largest in months. The Qassam rockets, not much more than hollow tubes with fuel and small explo­sive warheads, exploded in two blocks of Israeli settlements, wounding one Israeli and dam­aging five structures. 
On Tuesday, Israeli tanks rumbled into a buffer zone 

between the settlement of Nissanit in northern Gaza and the Palestinian town of Beit Lahiya. The military said some of the rockets were launched from there. 
Hundreds of Palestinians pelt­ed the tanks with rocks and firebombs, and then gunmen joined in. Taking cover behind a mound of sand, they exchanged fire with soldiers on a nearby hill. 
Soldiers killed four Palestinians, including at least two gunmen, hospital officials said. A 17-year-old was shot dead as he climbed on a tank, the military said. At least 33 Palestinians were wounded, six critically, hospital officials said. Four soldiers were slightly wounded, the military said. 
Palestinian health officials ini­tially said that five Palestinians had been killed but later said that one of the dead men had been listed twice under differ­ent names. 
The rocket attacks intensified after Israel killed Rantisi and two of his bodyguards in a mis­sile strike Saturday night.' Following Rantisi's killing, Hamas vowed to carry out "100 unique reprisals." 


The Return of the Prie1t1 
@ 


~t-\£OLOGY on ~4 J:3 
Join us Wednesday, April 21st@ Legends for the 
LAST ToT OF THE YEAR 
~ ' I I I 
Stump the Priests 
Free Stuff! 
with Frs. 1 Steele, CSC & Kevin Russeau, CSC ,_Pood Bring all of your unanswered questions about Catholicism I ,_rr'-Siiirts But beware, as the priests might turn it around and try to 
,_Prizes STUMP YOU! ,_.Jldmission* Doors open at 9:30p.m. C-M 
*Admission is free anytime, naturally visit us online at campusministry.nd.edu Campus Ministry 


THE 0BSER\'ER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
Anticipating graduation 
The sun is shining and it's a beautiful day. The birds' melodic chirping aug­ments my mood even with the hundreds of pounds I've lifted already today. With my calves burning and sweat streaming from my brow, I give thanks that the lack of air-condition 
Adam Cahill 
and elevators these past four years will be my last. And as I A Domer's turn to lean against Outlook the outer door of the dorm and step into the bright Indiana sunshine, I take note of what is going on around me. Cars are all over the place and I can see hugs being given in all directions. Everyone is smiles and there is a lot of laughter among the sandal-wearing population around campus. "See you next year," "Stay in touch," "Don't get in too much trouble," are just a few of the things I hear. This is how I envision the events that await me in just a few short weeks -graduation. 
It's moving out day and the time-hon­ored tradition of throwing everything you own into boxes and bags and shov­ing it into the family sedan in hopes that it will still let the trunk close is in full force. As I put the last of my boxes into the car, I see a familiar sight. The men in yellow hats and coats are out again, lawn chairs nearby, asking for a relevant life story before granting you the right to park on the University grass. The cars are lined up down the street while the usher laughs heartily with a Ford Explorer. My father snaps me back to attention. 
"Son? Are you ready to go," my father asks me. "No, not yet," I say. "I have something 
I need to do first." 
"Take your time," he says. He ven­tures into the dorm and heads for the TV lounge. 
All the parties and tests and papers are over now. The mindless hours of studying and socializing have been completed. I desperately hold onto the hope that they will bring as much reward to me in the future as the process in which I completed them did. I had the time of my life, though that's not what consumes my mind. I learned about love and friendship, dedication and passion, disappointment and hurt, but most of all I learned about myself. And after four years among the best there are, I know that I have a long way to go. It all boils down to one thing. 
Slowly, I make my way down to the Grotto, trying to take everything in ­the shade of blue in St. Mary's Lake, the lush green of the well-watered grass, the smell of summer. It's important that I remember this moment, I tell myself, because it's what I'm going to be work­ing for in the years to come. One goal. So hard, but so difficult. Walking even slower, I finally make it down the steps to the Grotto. 
There are quite a few people here, the weekend of graduation having sent many into mutual states of prayer and nostalgia. But although it's busy and has been many times before, it never seems to lose its personal value to me. The candles represent more than wax, a glass and a small harmless flame ­they symbolize wants and dreams and the future. And as I twist and turn my way through the crowd and past the gate leading to the candles I realize that I am no different. I, too, want to bless my wish upon my graduation. 
Carefully striking aflame an unused match, the candle lights up, only to have me set it down among the others. I stare at it for a second and reach into my pocket, taking out a meticulously folded piece of paper. Running it through my fingers like so many times before, I hold it by the worn edge and light it with the flame of my candle. I watch it burn for a second, drop it into the glass and walk away as the piece of paper dwindles into ashes. 
Finding my father in the lounge, I tell him that I am ready to go. He doesn't say a word but just as surely rises out of the chair and after me through the door. 
I jump into the front seat of the car and turn the ignition. The music blares from the speakers and I lurch for the knob on the dashboard to turn the vol­ume down. He slowly turns to me amused. 
"Are you sure you're ready to leave?" he asks. 
"Now, I am," I say. 
"You went to the Grotto, didn't you?" he says. I nod to him. No use in denying, I sup­pose. 
"What did you say?" he asks. 
"I asked God to help people become proud of me," I say. 
My father looks at me and smiles. "You already have, son. You already have." 
Adam Cahill is a senior history and American studies major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at acahill@nd,edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. ,., v .... 
Honoring my father 
"Hidden in the tears and sorrow are the seeds of new life and growth," reflected Vince Gurucharri, two weeks after receiving a bone marrow transplant 
Two years ago, my father was diagnosed with a rare bone marrow disorder called Myelodysplastic Syndrome, more commonly known as "pre-leukemia." A bone marrow trans­plant was his only chance for a cure. When he was unable to find a matching donor among his siblings, he turned to the National Marrow Donor Program Registry. Dad's Basque­Irish-Filipino ethnicity made finding a donor especially diffi­cult. Initially, my family was told that he had a one in a mil­lion chance of finding a donor that matched his unique genetic make-up. 
_ We were desperate. Clinging to the chance that a donor could save Dad, we got involved with the National Marrow Donor Program. My family helped plan a drive in our home­town and worked with Howard Hall to hold another at Notre 
.: :: Dame. Words fail me when I try to describe the impact of these drives on our family. Each new donor offered the possi­bility of saving my father's life. They provided much needed hope to both my family and to our many friends whom we'd .!1l: met in the hospital waiting room. I was humbled both by my reliance on others' kindness and by the outpouring of their 
: ::· :: :; 

support. 
Yet nothing compared to the day we received a phone call saying that the Registry had found a donor for my father. It was nothing short of a miracle. A few weeks later, Dad underwent intense chemotherapy and radiation to wipe out his failed marrow. I had never seen my father's body so frail. His hope in his donor's marrow carried him through very severe treatment. 
For the next two years, Dad's body endured the difficult process of adjusting to a new immune system. During this time, he was able to counsel other transplant patients, take painting lessons, stuff Christmas stockings and hug me after graduation. So many will be forever thankful for these last two years with Dad and for the lessons that he taught us in his trials about love, joy, hope and humility. Ultimately, Dad's body was unable to handle the rigor of adjusting to a new system. He died on Dec. 9, 2003. 
Many transplant patients do go on to lead long, healthy lives. I hope that even the chance to give two hopeful years of life will be enough to encourage you to register. Even if you never get the chance to donate, the sole act of registering provides hope to patients and their families, an act that is nothing short of a miracle. 
Please register to be a bone marrow donor at the Howard Hall Bone Marrow Drive on April 22. The drive will be held on the first floor of Lafortune from g a.m. to 8 p.m. Registering to be a bone marrow donor requires only a small blood test. For more information, please visit www.nd.edu/-howardlbonemarrow. 
Ann Gurucharri Class of 2003 April20 
OBSERVER POLL 
How many games do you think the Notre Dame football team will win during the 2004 season? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"No one is so generous as he who has nothing to give." 
French proverb 
---l 
l
THE 0BSER\'ER 
...


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Living with a 
miracle 

l.ym phangiolciomyomatosis. 
This name may be foreign to most readers,. but all too familiar to the women who suffer from this deadly lung disease. When I was first diagnosed with this disease-LAM for short-the doctors warned me to avoid Internet searches and the devastating reality of what this prognostic entails. Clearly, as soon as I arrived home, I searched for "LAM." . 
Within a few minutes, I learned that there are fewer than 600 women in the United States with LAM and that on average, one lives eight and a half years after being diagnosed. The disease would gradu­ally cause my lungs to decay and I would be plagued by more instances of collapsed lungs, two of which I had already suffered. Just a few hours before, I had been in the doctor's office, anticipating a clean bill of health and permission to return to classes. Suddenly, my thoughts focused on a life cut short by I.AM. 
Yet, within a. few weeks, even with LAM in the back of my mind, life went on. Along with many others. I began praying that it was all a big mistake. And we found signs of hope among it all. Most of this hope comes from the lAM Foundation. The director, whose daughter has lAM. reminded me that an 80-year-old woman has been diagnosed with the disease and is still active and playing tennis. 
In contrast. the stories of the many women who die within a few years of being diagnosed are disheartening. LAM doesn't follow any rules or one certain p'ath. When most people heard I had been diag­nosed, they couldn't believe it. Like many women who have LAM, I had to respond often to those who exclaimed, "But you look so healthy!" The JAM Foundation lends crucial support to women in all stages of this disease while never losing sight of hope and the search for a cure. 
In December, the doctors performed expansive tests to determine to what extent JAM was manifest in my body. What they found was, well, nothing. I had no signs of JAM. It was a miracle. They had seemed so sum a few months before. When the biopsy was sent to another insti­tution. it came back negative. No I.AM, no lung disease. As much as I celebrate my results, I commiserate with those who have to wait to cel­ebrate the discovery of a cure. Please be a part of the search for a cure by celebrating Thursday night at the South Bend Between the Buns restaurant beginning at 7:30p.m. There will be food, drink, karaoke and many fP~'>tivities with a portion of all purchases going directly to the JAM Foundation. 
Meredith Drakesmith 
sentor 
off-campus April20 


Over the last couple weeks I have heard several arguments from fellow students as to why we should boycott Taco Bell. All reasons have stemmed from the inability of Taco Bell's tomato workers to earn a living wage. While I believe it is our duty, as people, to assist the unfortunate and ensure equality to all, I am not sure boycotting Taco Bell is the way to do it. 
When asked what they were trying to accomplish, one boycotter responded that if Taco Bell raised the price of each taco just two cents the extra money would more than raise the pickers salary to above a living wage. 
Unfortunately, it's not that simple. If the price-setters at Taco Bell arc doing their jobs correctly, the prices are already set to a profit-maximizing equilibrium, and a two-cent increase could stand to cost the company millions in lost sales and unrealized profits. Such an event would force Taco Bell to cut jobs and close restaurants, thus exacerbating the problem we set out to solve. 
Another solution would entail forcing CEOs and executives to take a pay cut and pass portions of their salaries to the tomato pickers. This is nothing but a salary redistribution program -a Ia socialism -that questions the very cornerstones of the economy that our country is built upon and by which our average standard of living is afforded. While one cannot equate happiness with a dollar sign -standard of living-it is difficult to find a more unbiased and universal indicator of utility with which to judge a country. When a government begins mandating an ever increas­ing redistribution of wealth it finds itself trotting on a slippery slope, pitting poverty level against economic drag, which in turn hurts everyone, including those on the bottom. Many have made this point more eloquently than myself, most notably Nobel Laureate and renowned economist Milton Friedman. 
From the onset, a boycott is meant to decrease the demand for a product, in this case business for Taco Bell, which in turn directly decreases Taco Bell's demand for tomatoes. By boycotting, we have just unemployed the people we set out to protect, sending them to find even lower pay­ing jobs. Hopefully you will agree with me when I say a boycott of Taco Bell docs not make eco­nomic sense for anyone. 
Bucky Schafer 
scn1or 
off-campus April20 

Is it fine by you? 
For the second time this semester, a number of stu­dents on campus will decide today to wear an orange T-shirt that bears the slogan, "Gay? Fine by Me." This letter is written for those students. In my mind, such students fall into two categories, and I will address each of them separately. 
The first group is the well-meaning sector of people who consciously examined the meaning of the shirt and, because of the ambiguity of its wording, decided to wear it in order to express love and respect for their homosexual brothers and sisters. The second group had a totally different motive for wearing the shirt: its members believe that there is nothing inherently wrong with homosexual acts and reject the Church's teaching on this matter. 
To the "well-meaning" group: you were fooled into thinking that these shirts meant only that the Notre Dame community was showing respect for its brothers and sisters in Christ who are oriented towards homo­sexuality. There are two reasons why wearing the orange shirt did not accomplish this objective. 
The first is that it caused a scandal among your Catholic brothers and sisters and other members of the student body. The slogan on the shirt was just vague enough to cause confusion about its consistency with Church teaching. Catholics who are trying to fol­low Christ and truly love everyone, no matter what their sexual orientation, must be clear when they express what the Catholic Church teaches. Someone who knows that you arc Catholic and sees you wearing the shirt is likely to think, "Well, that person is Catholic and she supports homosexual behavior, so I guess it's OK." 
This creates division among the members of the Body of Christ. (It is simila& to politicians who claim to be "Catholic" but do not strike down legislation that is pro-abortion. People respond by thinking that the Catholic Church teaches that abortion is fine, when in fact the Church teaches that abortion is a grave moral evil.) The Catholic Church teaches that homosexual behavior is inherently disordered. The shirts do not 
express this beautiful teaching and so cause scandal. 
The second reason the shirt does not accomplish an objective.of love is that a slogan like "Gay? Fine by Me" does not express the respect that the Church tells us we must have for all homosexuals. It is instead a non-committal expression that essentially says, "Do whatever you want, it doesn't bother me." This is the attitude that has wrecked havoc in our society throughout the 20th century. It is the same attitude that produced the "woman's right to choose abortion" movement. "I support your right to choose" is code language for "I don't give a damn what you do or who you are," and the orange shirts reflect this un­Christian sentiment. Do not be deceived by modern jargon that merely reflects a political agenda. 
To the group that chose to blatantly reject the Church's teaching on homosexuality, there are bigger problems than just a lack of love for your brothers and sisters in Christ who struggle with homosexuality. One thing must become clear: love cannot be equated with tolerance. Tolerance is not a Biblical virtue. Jesus did not embrace the woman's behavior when he asked the men who had not sinned to cast the first stone. He for­gave the woman and told her to sin no more. His was a true love, because it was a call to purity of heart and body. This is the authority of Christ, and it has carried through the centuries in the teachings of his Most Beloved Spouse, the Church. What the Church teaches about sexuality comes in an unbroken and unchanged format that has existed for over 2,000 years. It is absolute folly to think that within a couple of genera­tions we can overthrow not only a teaching that has survived the centuries, but one that has been written on the human body and soul since the beginning of time. To encourage homosexual behavior is to partici­pate in thisfolly. 
Think for a moment: God has revealed his plan of salvation for the whole world right in the human body itself. The love of a man and woman reflects the love that Christ has for us. That God desires to be in com­munion with us was such an important reality to rec­ognize that he wrote it into our creation in the union of male and female. In the Bible the love of Christ for his Church-that's us! -is always described as the love of the bridegroom for his bride. Our bodies reflect this eternal reality by the fact that in the communion of male and female, new life can be conceived. God want­ed us to know without a doubt that the truth of our whole being is his sacrificial love, which when accept­ed, creates divine life within us. It is resurrection. 
Having new life in Christ is of such eternal impor­tance that when husband and wife imitate Christ in giving their bodies to one another, new life is born. This most beautiful teaching of the Church is not to be tampered with, because it is our salvation. That we were created "male and female" is the incredible reali­ty of Christ's love for us. Without the recognition that in the unity of persons the resurrection is prefigured, our lives are meaningless. Do not profane what is sacred. The homosexual act defames what God has written on our hearts. Do not discourage people from realizing the truth of their existence. · 
For the student body: As you examine the issue of homosexuality in light of the Church's teachings, take care to examine your own lives and your own sexuali­ty. Are you living out the "theology" that your body demonstrates? Are your own heterosexual relation­ships reflecting the sacrificial love of Christ? This shirt campaign suggests that the beautiful reality of human sexuality isn't being modeled in our lives. In fact, if we were more willing to live out our own heterosexual relationships in purity, we might be more willing to call homosexuals to do the same, instead of flippantly communicating that we don't care. 
Rebecca Austen Law School Cl= of 2006 April20 

THE 013SER\'ER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Latest release proves McLaughlin's poetry 
By CHRIS KEPNER Scene Music Critic 
It is terribly frustrating to watch the music world continue in its obsession with classification. Genres, sub-genres, sub-sub-genres, periods, styles ... we can't seem to be at peace until we've given everything a name. What is "jazz," "classical," "rock," "'rap," any­way? And when musicians cross the lines that we draw, we just make up new names. Fusion. Acid-jazz. Hip­Hop. Drum & Bass. House. Trance. Why do we bother with this? Isn't music sup­posed to be about feeling? About the communication of emotions? The best musicians are those that ignore all of the buzzwords out there and simply create. 



ALBUM REVIEW 

The prince of funk returns 
flopping, one would think Prince would have resigned and accepted defeat, but this 45 year old was hardly discour­aged. "Musicology" is a soulful, at times upbeat, and times more contem­plative, album that is simply well done. Even listeners who aren't neceS'sarily funk fans can't help but feel the soul in this album. Prince plays most of the instruments throughout the album himself and in doing so created impressively original material that only he could perform. Prince himself admits that in creating "Musicology," he was not looking to sell records, or gain an audience. He just wrote the funk he loved, returning to his roots and doing a consistently impressive job throughout the album. 
The title song, "Musicology," is the single that is exploding right now. With a fun, funky beat, quite possibly the quin­tessential funky beat, "Musicology" is Prince educating the world on what funk is. 
In his unique voice Prince sings, "Keep the party movin' I Just like I told u I kick the old school joint I 4 the true funk sol­diers." 
Song after song Prince will impress any formerly anti­funk listeners. Although the lyrics and even the titles of the song may seem a bit ridicu­lous, ranging from "Illusion, Coma, Pimp & Circumstance," "Life '0' the Party," "What Do U Want Me 2 Do?" and "If Eye Was The Man in Ur Life" Uust to name a few), Prince does not seem to care. That is the beauty of "Musicology": Prince does not care whether listeners like it or not, and because of that, you can't help but enjoy, or at least respect the album. 
Other high points on the album include "A Million Days," "On the Couch," "Life '0' The Party" and "Cinnamon Girl." The lyrics will con-
By BECCA SAUNDERS Scene Music Critic 
Known by most as the artist formerly known as Prince, the majority of col­lege students today do not know who Prince is beyond that call line and "Tonight we're gonna party like it's 1999." Well they may not know him as of right now, but the world is about to be reintroduced to his Highness of Funk and Pop. Prince's newest album "Musicology" has already been deemed a huge success and tremendous come back. In an album that sounds exactly like what one would imagine "funk" to sound like, Prince makes his rank clear within the world of pop. 
With his two most recent albums 
Musicolouv 
Prince 
Sony Records 


Guitarist John McLaughlin has been around for quite a while and has long been a proponent of imagination and innovation in music. He grew up in England in a highly intellectual and musical family. When he was in his twenties he was invited to New York to play with Tony Williams and Miles Davis, and thus began a long career of playing with some of the best musicians in the world. His large body of work is extremely varied and impressive. One credit that deserves special note is that McLaughlin performed on Miles' land­mark "Bitches Brew" r.ecording, and a song on that recording was actually named after him. 
In addition to a typical list of musical influences that includes Davis, John Coltrane, Bach, Mozart, Ravel and oth­ers, McLaughlin was inspired heavily by Indian music. His first group 
as a leader was called the Mahavishnu Orchestra, . which gets its name from McLaughlin's given Hindu n a m e . Needless to say, Indian philosophy and culture have general­ly had a great impact upon 
him. He has spent a great deal of time living there and studying with various spiritual and intellectual leaders. McLaughlin's influences are his explanation of the title for this album, as he states in the liner notes: "I realized that through­out my life, I 'borrow' from everyone who inspires me in some way, and not just musical: to the point that I wonder what an 'original' thought truly is." 
"Thieves and Poets" includes a three-move­ment work of the same name for guitar and orchestra, as well as four jazz standards arranged for 5 guitars and a bass. The piece for guitar and orchestra traces McLaughlin's musical journey from the "Old World," meaning English and tra­ditional style concurrently, to the "New World," or the United States and mod­ern styles of composition and improvi­sation. The standards are "My Romance," "Stella by Starlight," "My Foolish Heart" and "The Dolphin." These four interpretations are dedicat­ed to four pianists: Bill Evans, Herbie Hancock, Chick Corea and Gonzalo Rubalcaba, respectively. 
All of the music on this recording gets a perfect score for both technical profi­ciency and level of enjoyment. By now you've probably sensed the pattern in these "jazz" reviews. The albums cho­sen have been of the sort that can be appreciated by both serious and casual audiences. "Thieves and Poets" is no exception. Write about it for your music theory class or put it on while you're studying for your accounting final. Either way, you'll have a great experi­ence with John McLaughlin's latest albuin. 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 


tinually surprise listeners, as will the content, and that is what makes "Musicology" such a good album. Even if you are not a Prince fan and don't think that you ever will be, it would be difficult for listeners to not find at least one song on the album that even they can "groove" to. Give funk a chance and.embrace the artist cur­rently revered as Prince. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Newest album provides stylistic variety 
By JULIE BENDER 
Scene Music Critic 
Lieber/Stoller, Lennon/McCartney, Gollin/King -these are just a few famous names of songwriting duos since the advent of popular music in the 1950s. To make the songs that fill the airwaves takes a special talent. There needs to be an appnaling melody, accessible lyrics and catchy hooks that leave people humming these songs all day long. 
These days, the pop song production duo that is making news is the Neptunes. Made of Pharrcl Williams and Chad Hugo, the Neptunes have worked with most of the MTV pop, rap, rock and R&B stars of the day. including Justin Timberlake, Britney Spears, Jay-Z, Gwen Stefani, Nelly, Snoop, Mystikal, Kelis, Busta Rhymes ... the list goes on. Just looking at these artists in line to work with The Neptunes, obviously the talent of this' duo is some­thing that has taken the music industry by storm. 

So, what happens when these song pro­ducers take their production talents to their own music? N.E.R.D. is what hap­pens. An acronym for No One Ever Really Dies, N.E.R.D. includes the talents of the Neptunes in addition to their friend and fellow musician, Shay Haley. 
Despite the close relation, N.E.R.D. is not the Neptunes. Describing themselves on their Web site, the trio says, "N.E.R.D is the offspring of the Neptunes id, a fly-or­die, thrash-around, do-as-you-will, set­your-soul-on-fire alter-ego that subscribes to no rules, adheres to no agenda... a trio whose chemistry allows the uninhibited exploration of the sounds, emotions and impulses of self and society, of identity and belonging. Of life." 
"Uninhibited exploration of sounds" is the perfect way to describe N.E.R.D.'s sec­ond album "Fly or Die" released in March. A fol­low up to their debut "In Search Of ... ," "Fly or Die" has the initial feel of hip-hop, 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Janet's latest proves to be just average 
tage as her decidedly sex-themed project attempts to set an innocent but engaging tone. Nearly seven minutes into her proj­ect, Jackson grabs the attention of her audience as she warns at the close of "Sexhibition:" "Relax. It's just sex!" 
Jackson, after giving her audience proper counsel begins a 65-minute jour­ney down an enticing, old school road that is captivating enough to keep listen­ers tuned in but not powerful enough to claim a permanent spot in the rotation of your daily discman. 
Standout track, "My Baby," featuring rap artist Kanye West, is masterfully laid to mix a conventional sound with con­temporary beats. Collaborating with West propels what would have been "just another song" into something that radio fans can bop their heads to. Overall, "My Baby" is a fun track that does not attempt to overuse the guest artist as we have seen in many of 
By SHAWriNA FERGUSON 
Scene Music Critic 
If Janet Jackson's recent Super Bowl performance was any indication that her forthcoming album, "Damita Jo," would be sexy and full of surprises then her "wardrobe malfunction" was not in vain. "Damita Jo," titled after Jackson's middle name, provides a growing Jackson fan club with a respectable mix of pop, funk, rock and roll and rhythm and blues. Jackson collaborates with long time pro­ducers Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis for her eighth studio recorded project. 
Most notable for her soft and sultry vocals, Janet does not stray away from her trademark sound. In fact, this "girl­next-door" sound presents itself on near­ly every track of the 22-track endeavor. Perhaps this works to Jackson's advan-Janet's con­temporaries, among them J­Lo, as Jackson does not have to compensate for a lack of vocal ability. 

At significant points throughout the album, one song camou­flages with the next and it. becomes but each song has layers of influ­ences extending into nearly every musical genre. Funk, R&B, soul, new wave and classic rock all make momentary and repeating appear­ances on the album. With "Fly or Die," guitar, whistling, beats and rhyme all find a home together. 
Starting things off is the track "Don't Worry About It," with the sexual innuendos bouncing off the driving guitar background -a sort of Led Zeppelin meets hip-hop. Williams sings, "Baby, don't fool with me I If you don't want to give it up I Don't worry about it," sounding strikingly like Robert Plant. Making things even more interesting, Beatle-esque background vocals are added to the song, which closes with a smooth yet forceful guitar solo. 
"She Wants to Move" is the first single released from the album. Hand claps, raunchy guitar and piano loops fill this song, but the opening drum rhythm is what carries the song to its end. Explicit lyrics and the energy of this track make it a good song for the dance floor. 
One of the key tracks on the album is the song "Maybe." Keyboards are the dominant instrument, with short guitar wails that fly occasionally in the back­ground. The song sounds as though it could be in the repertoire of Lenny Kravitz, which is made closer to the truth by his guest appearance on background vocals, along with ?uestlove from the Roots. The melodic chorus, "I know you 
almost too easy to multi­task while listening. This is especially true post Kanye West until track 10, "All Nite (Don't Stop)," which is slated to be Jackson's next release. Opening with the spoken words, "This is sick," this upbeat, dance mix is made for the club circuit and should receive adequate airtime. Additionally, when Jackson com­
mands, "Work it like you're working a pole/Shake it 'til you're shaking the floor/Pop it like you're poppin' a cork/Don't Stop, Don't Stop" she manages to • mobilize an audience that began to drift just four tracks prior. 
The prominent ballad on this project is "Thinkin Bout My Ex" produced by Kenny "Babyface" Edmonds. The apolo­getic chorus is telling of a woman, cur­rently in a relationship, who misses her ex. Jackson sings, "When I'm holding you late at night/l'm thinkin' bout my ex/when I'm kissing you and look at you/I'm thinkin' bout my ex/and I'm sorry I didn't mean to hurt you/And I know sorry doesn't mend your broken heart." 
Immediately following this track, Janet returns to what is perhaps the most overt of all of her sex-inspired productions yet. With lyrics that are probably too explicit for this review, Janet does not disappoint thought your life was gonna be easy I you thought you had it all I but you found that you were wrong," has an appealing smoothness that blends nicely with the piano line. 

"Fly or Die" is an album that could be used as an example of the transformation and melding of music genres throughout the decades. Its "feel good" sound makes it an album accessible to lovers of all kinds of music, be it rock, metal, hip-hop, pop or soul. True to their roots, N.E.H.D.'s second album continues to show the trio's ability at their songwriting craft. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 

fans who expect a musical sequel to her "spontaneous" halftime performance. Both "Warmth" and "Moist" serve too keep listeners with specific expectations satisfied. 
With a record of accomplishment like Janet's, it is undoubtedly difficult to cre­ate an album that exceeds the master­pieces that were "Control" and "Hhythm Nation." To her advantage, her vast con­tribution to music affords her a mediocre album every now and then. Fortunately, most of the world will remember Janet Jackson for her mark on 2004, however, it will not be for this album. 
Contact Shawtina Ferguson at sfergus2@nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Nets dominate Knicks to take 2-game lead 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Once again, the New Jersey Nets were the source of the hardest fouls and the best basketball. 
The mismatch also known as the Knicks-Nets series stuck to form Tuesday night, New Jersey showing its superiority over an outmatched and banged-up oppo­nent in a 99-81 victory. 
The Nets opened a 2-0 lead in the best­of-seven series, which resumes Thursday night at New York. 
The Knicks weren't as docile as they were in the series opener when Tim Thomas was flagrantly fouled and injured, but they didn't put up all that much of a fight, either. 
"I think they were aggressive, but I don't think they were more physical," Kenyon Martin said. 
Jason Kidd and Martin led the way as the Nets took control in the second quar­ter, and New Jersey led by as many as 22 points in defeating the Knicks for the 14th time in their last 16 meetings. 
Martin led New Jersey with 22 points and 16 rebounds, and he also had the most egregious foul of the game midway through the third quarter. Although it was not called a flagrant foul, he reached around from behind Dikembe Mutombo and swiped violently at his arms, then shoved Mutombo in the back to earn a technical foul. 
"I just wanted to foul him. I didn't want to get a tech," said Martin, who was angered on the previous possession when he was elbowed in the nose by Mutombo. "Emotions were running high." 
Richard Jefferson also had a harder­than-usual foul, chasing down Stephon Marbury and clobbering him as he went up for a layup on a fast break. Marbury jumped up quickly and appeared ready to confront Jefferson, but he thought other­wise -perhaps remembering he already had been called for a technical foul -and walked to the foul line under referee Greg Willard's escort. 
"I just wanted to make sure he didn't get an 'and-one,"' Jefferson said. "He's a competitor, I'm a competitor. I'm not going to do anything to hurt him, I have too much respect for him and too much respect for the game of basketball." 
Asked if he felt the foul was dirty, Marbury replied: "No comment." 
New York pulled to 66-56· on a transi­tion jumper by Kurt Thomas late in the third quarter, but Rodney Rogers answered with a 3-pointer and a layup. 
New Jersey then opened the fourth quar­ter with a 10-4 run to end all doubt. Jefferson had 20 points, Kerry Kittles scored 16, K..dd 15 and Rogers 12. 
Marbury, one of the few offense-minded players the Knicks had left as Tim Thomas (bruised back and ankle) and Allan Houston (knee soreness) sat out, led New York with 23 points. Kurt Thomas had 18 points and 12 rebounds, and Penny Hardaway, who replaced Tim Thomas in the starting lineup, added 13 points, 10 assists and seven rebounds. 
The Nets didn't score their second fast­break basket until midway through the second quarter, but they finished with 20 points on the break to help overcome 25 turnovers. 
"For us right now, our mind-set totally has to change," Marbury said. 
Perhaps no play signified how lost the Knicks were as one less than two minutes into the second half. The Nets, as they did throughout Game 1 and much of Game 2, sent a second defender to trap Marbury at midcourt as he dribbled. 
Marbury was able to get the ball to Kurt Thomas, but the Knicks' offense came to a complete stop. Martin reached in and poked the ball loose, and Kidd streaked downcourt with it befor,e feeding a behind-the-back pass to Martin for a dunk. Th9mas shoved Martin in the lower back as he scored, and the three-point play gave New Jersey its first 20-point lead, 59-39. Pacers 103, Celtlcs 90 
The reserves were playing so well for the Indiana Pacers that star Jermaine O'Neal almost didn't want to get back in the gam_e. 
"You don't want to mess up the chem­istry," O'Neal said after Tuesday's 103-90 win over the Boston Celtics in Game 2 of their playoff series. "You don't want the opposing team to go on a run and beat you." 
After the starters struggled for the first three quarters against Boston. a group of reserves rescued the Pacers with a 21-3 run spanning the third and fourth quar­ters to give Indiana a 2-0 lead in the best­of-seven series. 
With an erratic O'Neal watching from the bench and Artest watching from home because of a suspension, Austin Croshere and Jonathan Bender ignited a lifeless Pacers team late in the third quarter. 
Croshere hit a 3-pointer at the close of the third period and Bender brought a boisterous crowd to its feet with a brilliant three-point play on a dunk in the fourth to give the Pacers a 72-69 lead. 

Bender capped the run with a 3-pointer that gave the Pacers an 82-72 lead with 
7:21 to play and left the Celtics feeling like an opportunity to steal a game was wast­ed. The series moves to Boston for Game 3 on Friday night. 
"We all took this and placed it on our shoulders to turn this game around," said Bender, who finished with 11 points and seven rebounds. 
Paul Pierce led the Celtics with 27 points, but again struggled from the field despite the absence of Artest, the NBA's . 
defensive player of the year. 
Al Harrington was the only "starter" on the floor during Indiana's surge, and he is normally the team's sixth man. He was filling in for Artest, suspended for one game by the NBA on Monday for leaving the bench during a confrontation in the Pacers' Game 1 win. 
Artest took just a few steps onto the court when O'Neal tangled with Boston rookie Brandon Hunter, but the league deemed it enough of an infraction to hand out the suspension. 
The Obsefver accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES  FoR SALE  
Get the "bleep' out of the cold! Mexico/Caribbean only $125 each way all taxes included. Other world­wide destinations cheap. Book on-line www.airtech.com or (212) 219­7000.  Why pay a landlords mortgage? Duplex 4 sale. Live in one, let the other pay your mortgage. Close to ND and downtown. Call Kim at 574-245-5040.  
WANTED  Bike+Lock $25, Desk $30, Bed $100, Desk Chair $10, mini-PA $100.  
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (!i74) 286­9359  Call Dave 234-5630 Moving to College Park?  

Catholic family offering fulltime  Furniture for sale: 3 beds, 2 desks,  
summer childcare opportunity to  dining table, Lcouch and more.  
care for 4 school age children, ages  
5 to 11, Scottsdale Mall area,  Call Aahren or Rob: 271-1637  
7:30AM to 5:00PM, wages nego­ 
liable, non-smoker preferred, own  
transportation a plus, contact  
Maureen@ (574) 231-8126.  FoR RENT  

M or F roommate in D.C. (specifi­cally Arlington, VA) starting June or 2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO July for 1 yr lease. Pis contact CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM Nicole at 574.621.8515 or mmmrentals@ aol.com nwykolf@nd.edu. Preferably fun & willing to go out! 272-1525 
L----------------------------------------------------------------------·---­
PROPERTIES... HAS A 8 BED­ROOM HOUSE ... 2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX. .. AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR .... 
WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ... CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 bdrms close to ND. 
Spring, summer or fall. 235-3655. 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky­lights. $1640/mo. 
Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 
Stay at Homestead Bed and Breakfast for football games. 
57 4-277-9834 

LARGE 3 BEDROOM house for rent. Very close to ND, 2 baths, 2 car garage, WID, just redone two years ago. $1,050/mo available 5/1. 
Call 312-375-8220 
studio apartment for rent summer  3 Bdrm. house near ND. Alarm,  Take a break from studying for  
and or school year $419 a month  cable and internet. Large yard.  finals and join Joanne  
includes all utilities cable tv high  $1000/mo. Available 5/1104. Call  Clayback(1980) Region 18 ND  
speed internet call574-339-0582  514-9999.  Alumni Board Director, and repre­ 
sentatives from your NYS home  
Nice 4 bdr. 3 car garage avail.now  alumni Clubs this Thursday night!  
or fall $1200/mo 288-9673  Info: NYS "Exam Break" Party at  
Notre Dame, Thurs. 4/22, 0  
VERY NICE 3bdrm home near  PERSONAL  Neil24 hour room, 9:30-11:30pm  
Corbys(East Bank area).  sponsored by Region 18 Alumni  
Washer&Dryer-Aiarm-Basement- Director to get admitted for FREE  
H20 softner-large yard-off street  Students and Alumni Senators are  
parking. Call Joe  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  to show up wearing something  
Crimmins:cell#514-0643  not go it alone. If you or someone  with NYS on it. (Bills, Sabres, I  
home#273-0002.  you love needs confidential support  Love NY T-shirts etc) or bring their  

 or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  NYS Drivers license. Regions invit- 
Room in luxury apartment building  Louise Gude, CSC, at1-7819. For  ed: All of Upstate NYS students,  
on the UWS for rent! Elevators in  more information, see our bi-weekly  region 18, Buffalo, Rochester,  
each tower. 2 large laundryrooms  ad in THE OBSERVER.  Syracuse, Albany, Binghamton,  
on the Lobby level. Two bicycle  Finger Lakes and Watertown  
rooms in which to store your bike all  ATTENTION MARKETING  regions. Stop by and join us for  
year round. Full size health club on  MAJORS Combine your interest in  pizza and Buffalo chicken wings  
the Lobby level with a large swim­ Marketing/Sales and your Catholic  (Hot, medium or mild with Blue  
ming pool, steam room, and sauna.  Faith.  cheese and celery -for the WNY  
24-hr. garage beneath building.  students!) Coordinate your ride  
Dry-cleaners, 2 grocery stores,bank  Earn money during the summer and  home or talk to an alum about sum- 
and restaurant within seconds of  continue to receive checks through- mer job prospects. Hope to see you  
the front door. Continuous shuttle  out the nex1 school year. Not an  there.  
bus transport to subway system  MLM. Visit us and apply at  
and buses.24-hr. doorman and  www.connectingcatholics.com  Longest classified ever.  
security desk. Fabulous location  
(63rd St. and 11th Ave.)  See the pirate.  Captain Hook!  
Great view! $11 00 + 1 /2 utilities. If  
interested contact  Dillon auction. Today.  Never pick the Senators to go all  
Nycpolo15@yahoo.com  www.nd.edu/-pmontena/sparrow  the way.  

Wednesday, April 21, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 


rooance 

Friday April 23rd lOpm to lam South Dining Hall Hospitality Room 
(Next to Reekers) .Free!!!! 
The Notre Dame Russian and German Clubs present a night ofcultural experiences, food, dancing, and music. 
... ( : ..
~ 

..L~~-'­
1 
I I 
~-------------------------------------------~ 


Don't Dump it! 
Donate it! 
Help save alife. 
Your used clothing, furniture and yes, even automobiles can give someone else a new start. 
Drop your donation off at The Salvation Army Thrift Store located at 2009 South Bend Ave. or call 288-2539. 
Register to win a $1 00 Best Buy Gift Card 
.~ ... '•'. 

,;:·:. n'hf;d~·: !$M:\l?tr'· 
• • ,... t
. ' 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
Maple Leafs defeat Senators to advance 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -The Ottawa Senators still haven't figured out how to beat the Toronto Maple Leafs. 
So for the fourth time in five years, the Senators are going home early from the Stanley Cup playoffs. 
Ed Belfour made 36 saves, and Joe Nieuwendyk scored twice on a shaky Patrick Lalime as the Maple Leafs advanced to the second round by beating the Senators 4-1 Tuesday night in Game 7. 
Ottawa is 0-4 in series against I Toronto and 0-4 in Game 7s 1 overall. The Senators avoided 
the Maple Leafs in last year's 
playoffs and reached Game 7 of · the Eastern Conference finals I before losing to Stanley Cup 1 champion New Jersey. I The Maple Leafs, who led 3-0 l after first period, will meet the I Flyers in the second round ­I beginning with Game 1 on I Thursday night in Philadelphia. I Toronto enforcer Tie Domi I sparked his team by assisting on I the frrst goal. Nieuwendyk added I two weak goals on Lalime, who I was replaced by backup Martin I Prusek to start the second. I Following Ottawa's double I overtime victory in Game 6 on I Sunday, Senators owner Eugene 
Melnyk predicted his team 
would win Game 7 easily. "We're going to kill 'em,"' he said. 
Ottawa captain Daniel Alfredsson also vowed his team would win the series after the Senators lost Game 5. It wasn't to be, largely because of Lalime's poor play. The goalie, who struggled this season, allowed three goals on just 11 shots. 
Belfour, who tied an NHL record by recording three shutouts in series. looked spec­tacular again. Fans chanted 'Ed­die, Ed-die!' throughout. 
Toronto won the series despite being outshot 238-154, and Maple Leafs coach Pat Quinn called Belfour his best player earlier in the day. 
The Maple Leafs were helped by quick starts, setting an NHL record by scoring first in all seven games. 
Toronto won the series despite the absence of captain Mats Sundin for the final three games because of a lower body injury. Owen Nolan missed the entire series because of a knee injury . 
Domi sparked Toronto by checking defenseman Anton Volchenkov into the boards, stripping the puck from him, and skating behind the net. Domi then turned and passed to Chad Kilger, who scored at 6:19 of the first. 

NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
A comedy by George Bernard Shaw 
Directed by Ann Marie Stewart Playing at Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April21 7:30p.m. Thursday, April 22 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 23 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 24 7:30 p.m. Sunday, April 25 2:30 p.m. 
Reserved Seats $10 • Senior Citizens $9 All Students $7 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the La.Fbrtune Student Center Box Oflloe. MasterCard/VIsa orders, oall 574-631-8128. 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 4 & 5 Bedroom Apartments Available 2004-2005 Free DELL Laptop Valid through April 30th Contact Justine or Nicole at 234-9923 
storage 
s 


4 MONTH SPECIAL MAY THROUGH AUGUST FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 5 X I 0 ---$149 + DEP I 0 X I 0 ---$199 + DEP CALL 247-7805 CLOSETO NOTRE DAME AND AIRPORT 
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
-MLB 
Cubs end Pirates winnings streak in 9-1 win 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH Alex Gonzalez homered, doubled and drove in four runs and the Chicago Cubs beat up on Ryan Vogelsong for the second time in a week, defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates 9-1 Tuesday night. 
Corey Patterson, Todd Walker and Michael Barrett also home­red to back Carlos Zambrano (2-0). The Cubs won for the fifth time in seven games and ended the Pirates' three-game winning streak. 
Zambrano limited the Pirates to one run and seven hits, strik­ing out four and walking two over eight innings. He beat Vogelsong (1-2) for the second straight start. 
Gonzalez had only one RBI ­a pinch-hit homer April 11 ­until delivering a two-run dou­ble in a four-run first and a two-run homer in the fifth that made it 8-1. 
Gonzalez is 7 -for-13 the last three games after having only six hits in the first 2 1/2 weeks of the season. 
Patterson added a two-run homer in the big first inning and Walker had a solo shot as the Cubs again hit three homers off Vogelsong. 
Barrett connected off Jason Boyd in the eighth. Three of Barrett's four homers this sea­son are against Pittsburgh. 
Vogelsong was Pittsburgh's 

best starter during spring train­ing and began the season by limiting the Phillies to one run in seven innings during a 6-2 victory on April 8. But he has since been roughed up for 19 hits and 15 earned runs over eight innings in a pair of losses to Chicago. 
Vogelsong lasted three innings in an 8-3 loss Wednesday, yield­ing homers to Sammy Sosa, Moises Alou and Aramis Ramirez, and was nearly as ineffective Tuesday in allowing nine runs and eight hits in five innings. 
Walker walked to start the game, and Patterson followed with a shot into the right-field seats that made it 2-0. Ramirez, who has driven in 14 runs in his last seven games, and Derrek Lee singled with two outs ahead of Gonzalez's double. 
Sosa and Alou doubled to start the fifth, and Gonzalez homered three batters later. 
Zambrano gave up a run in the sixth on Tike Redman's leadoff triple and Jack Wilson's single. Marlins 3, Phlllles 1 
Dontrelle Willis stayed perfect on the mound. He finally had trouble at the plate, though. 
Willis allowed an unearned run in 6 2-3 innings, leading the Florida Marlins to their 11th straight victory over the Philadelphia Phillies Tuesday night. 
Willis (3-0) struck out in his first at-bat, snapping his streak of 10 consecutive hits, dating to last season and including the playoffs. 
But Florida's hitters gave him all the runs he'd need to stop the Phillies' four-game winning streak. 
"It wasn't my day at the plate, but my job is to pitch," Willis said. "I love to hit. I try to han­dle the bat well. I feel it'll keep me in the game longer." 
The NL Rookie of the Year gave up four hits, struck out three and walked none. He has­n't allowed an earned run in his three starts, spanning 19 1-3 innings. 
Willis finished 0-for-3 at the plate after going 3-for-3 in each of his first two starts, including a home run last week. 
"You guys wanted me to hit him fifth or sixth. I don't hear you saying that now," Marlins manager Jack McKeon joked. "Even the best hitters take a collar once in a while." 
Chad Fox pitched 1 1-3 score­less innings, and Armando Benitez worked a perfect ninth for his seventh save in as many chances. Expos 2, Mets 1 
Jose Vidro led off the eighth inning with a tiebreaking home run, and the Montreal Expos got just enough offense to beat the New York Mets Tuesday night and stop an eight-game losing streak. 
Montreal, which had been on its worst skid since the 2000 season, trailed 1-0 in the sixth before coming back. 
The Expos (3-11), the worst­hitting team in the major leagues with a .202 average, have just 22 runs this season. They are the first team to not score more than four runs in each of its first 14 games since the 1988 Texas Rangers, according to the Elias Sport Bureau. 
Zach Day (1-1) limited the Mets to four hits in seven innings. Luis Ayala pitched the eighth, and Rocky Biddle need­ed just six pitches to complete the four-hitter and get his third save in three chances. 
David Weathers (1-1) relieved AI Leiter to start the eighth and Vidro, his first batter, connected on a 3-2 pitch. Montreal had gone 18 innings without an extra-base hit since Brian Schneider's seventh-inning triple Sunday at Philadelphia. 
Leiter allowed one run and five hits in seven innings, strik­ing out four. He had a 29 1-3­inning scoreless streak dating to Sept. 17 when Montreal scored in the sixth. 
Reds 3, Braves 2 
Barry Larkin didn't mind the face full of shaving cream. It had been a long time since he did anything worthy of a postgame prank. 
The Reds' struggling captain singled home a pair of runs ­his first RBis since opening day -to set up Cincinnati's victory Tuesday over the Atlanta 
Braves. 
During a postgame interview, teammate Juan Castro sneaked behind Larkin and filled the side of his face with a plate's worth of shaving cream, a tra­ditional way to celebrate a big moment. In his 19th season, Larkin has had few of those. 
He brought a .167 average into the game, and hadn't driv­en in a run since his RBI groundout in the season opener. Larkin, who turns 40 next week, has spread out his stance in a concession to age, but has­n't yet discovered the best way to hit out of it. 
''I've probably changed three or four times already," he said. "Hitting .160 makes you think a lot up there. I've been thinking. It's a struggle. I'll definitely take today." 
Sean Casey added three hits, including two doubles off John Thompson (1-1), helping Jose Acevedo recover from one bad pitch early in the game. 
Acevedo (2-0) has re-emerged after being written out of the team's plans the last two years. The 26-year-old Acevedo won a spot in the rotation during spring training, and has made three solid starts. 
"I don't know where he's been the last two years," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. "He has all the pitches. He was ter­rific." 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Volunteer Opportunities 
Mentors 
A male mentor is needed for a 17-year old boy. Contact Diana Cotton at 234-5914. 
A mentor is needed for a 9-year-old girl who has mild cerebral palsy. Contact Diane Herrz at 237-7860. 
Elderly 
Cardinal Nursing Center needs a male student to visit a mentally disabled man once a week. Contact Megan Waller at 287-6501. 
An elderly couple is looking for help with cleaning their garage on a Monday after­noon. Contact ldera Thomp­son at 234-0300. 
A group of healthy students is needed to help an elderly community member clean up his yard. He is available to oversee on Tuesday, Wednes­day or Saturday afternoons. He has all ofthe yard equip­ment necessary. Contact Alex LaBanco at 256-9806 
A companion is needed for an older woman, one or two times a month. She can come to Notre Dame. Contact Patty Malone at p.l.malone@worldnet.att.net 

~erica Needs a Change' Rally 
. The social action groups Alliance, MEChA, Poor ofNotre Dame wUl be People's Economic Human sponsoring a rally to highlight Rights Campaign, Amnesty the activism that can exist at International, United Notre Dame and provide the for Diversity, V-Day will impetus for constructive social participate. change in the future. 
When: Tuesday, April 27 at Student groups such as 4:30-6:30 pm Sustained Dialogue, Peace 
Where: Fieldhouse Mall Coalition, Progressive Student (next to Stonehenge) 
Students Needed for Senior Sendoff 
Volunteers are needed during Social Concerns. This event Commencement Weekend celebrates seniors who are to assist with the Service committing to a year or more Send-Off and reception? ofpostgraduate service. 
Help will be needed from Contact Andrea at 10 am to 1 pm on Saturday, ashappel@nd.edu for moreMay 15 at the Center for information. 
Children's Defense Fund Meeting 
Come to this week's Chil­When: Wednesday, April21 dren's Defense Fund meeting. at 8:15pm For more information, visit 
Where: Center for Social the ND CDF website. 
Concerns 
Summer Retreat with Jean Vanier 
Jean Vanier, founder of inspiring man who wUl focus International I..:Arche com­on "Jesus ... The Revelation of munities, will be leading a God's Love." Applications are retreat July 23-25 at Mercy­available from Andrea Smith hurst College in NorthEast, Shappell in room 120 ofthe PA (Erie, PA) for people ages Center for Social Concerns. 18-25. Jean is an extremely 
-

Wednesday, April 21, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

NCAA 
NCAA to investigate recruihnent scandals 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Denouncing a "culture of entitlement" in which recruits are treated as campus celebrities and in some cases plied with sex and alcohol, tlw NCAA will give immediate attention to mforms prompted in large part by the University of Colorado n)cruiting scandal. 
Normally, the association can take months or years to imple­ment a change of rules, but President Myles Brand has asked that the proposals be treated as "emergency legislation" and be put into elTect this summer. 
"I think there's no question the Colorado situation acted as a cat­alyst for the task force," Brand said after a two-hour meeting of the Division I Management Council, which heard the recom­rnr.ndations on Tur.sday. 
"The problem existed. and probably later rather than soon­er we would have addressed it. But with the catalyst, we addressed it now in a more em­dent time frame," he said. 
Brand formed the task force in February following allegations by two women who said Colorado football players or recruits raped them at a party in 200 I. A third woman said she was assaulted in a dorm room shortly afterward. and since 1997, at least eight women have accused Colorado football play­ers of rape. 
Coach Gary Barnett was sus­pended pending investigations of whether the football program used sex and alcohol to entice recruits, and the university last month announced new guide­lines for recruiting visits, includ­ing one night's stay instead of two. There also will be an 11 
p.m. curfew, all activities will be supervised by parents or coach­es, and recruits will be prohibit­ed from going to bars, strip clubs or private parties. 
"Colorado hoped to address the culture of entitlement by put­ting in place certain restrictions, and that's important," Brand said. "We can argue about whether they're the right restric­tions or not. 
"But part of the issue is the accountability. A single institu­tion cannot address national accountability," he said. "For that, you do need a national organization, one that also has the ability to sanction when things go wrong. So the task force actually goes much farther than Colorado could possibly have gone by itself." 
The task force recommenda­tions include a requirement that each NCAA school adopt a writ­ten policy on recruiting and who is to be held accountable for compliance. 
NFL 
Oarett appeals to Supreme Court 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Maurice Clarett filed an emergency appeal with the U.S. Supreme Court on Thesday to try to force his way into this weekend's NFL draft. 
Clarett's attorney, Alan Milstein, asked for a stay of a decision by the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals preventing the former Ohio State tailback from entering the draft. 
"We're hoping justice will prevail and Mr. Clarett will play football -which is what he was born to do and which is what he is ready to do," Milstein said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. 
Monday's federal appeals court decision put on hold a lower-court ruling that said the NFL can't force players to wait three years after high school before turning pro. 
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg will handle the case. 
The NFL said Clarett has little chance of success at the Supreme Court. 
"There was ample support for the ruling of the 2nd Circuit, which thoroughly considered and completely rejected the arguments that Mr. Clarett's lawyers have presented to the Supreme Court," NFL executive vice president Jeff Pash said. 
On Monday, Southern California sophomore receiver Mike Williams filed his own lawsuit in federal court in Manhattan, saying the NFL had issued conflicting statements about eligibility for the draft, thus causing him to sacrifice his college career. 
If they wind up being eligible, Williams would be expected to go in the first round of the draft, while Clarett might not be taken until the second or third round. 
Clarett argued in Tuesday's filing that the NFL would not suffer any harm if he is allowed in the draft -but he would be harmed if he is blocked. 
Clarett led Ohio State to a 
national title as a freshman, but he was ruled ineligible as a sophomore for accepting money from a family friend and for lying about it to NCAA and university investigators. Williams declared for the draft after a lower court ruled in Clarett's favor. 
Clarett, 20 and out of high school two years, would be eli­gible for the draft next year under the current rule. 
He dropped out of classes at Ohio State after the winter quarter, then declined to work out for scouts at the NFL's com­bine in Indianapolis in February. 


Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
I 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I 
' 
I I 
' 
I 
' 
I· ' I 
' 
I 



April23. 5:00 PM. Bookstore. 


+one $11 Shirt per student with valid student i.d. Expires 4/24/04. 
-
L..._.:· 
--_____________j 
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Hunter says altercation results from aggressive play 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Boston Ccltics rookie Brandon Hunter was not trying to start a fight with Indiana Pacers star Jermaine O'Neal when he pulled him to the ground in Game 1 of their playoff series, Hunter said Thesday. 
Speaking for the first time since the altercation, which ulti­mately caused Pacers forward Hon Artest to be suspended for Game 2, Hunter said he was sim­ply playing aggressive and got tangled with O'Neal under the basket. 
''I'm not even that type of play­er," Hunter said during the shootaround prior to Game 2. "I just went in there to be aggres­sive and try to get a rebound." 
In the second quarter of Indiana's 104-88 win on Saturday, Hunter grabbed O'Neal and threw him to the floor. O'Neal got up and immediately confronted Hunter, then drew a technical for yelling at Celtics guard Ricky Davis. 
Artest, who was on the bench at the time, started onto the court when he saw O'Neal lose his composure, but turned and headed back to the bench after 

Excerpts from 

THE CREATION Joseph Haydn & HARMONIEMESSE 

University of Notre Dame Chorale Wednesday, April21, 2004 & Chamber Orchestra 8:00 pm, Sacred Heart Basilica Alexander Blachly, director FREE and open to the public 
about four steps. Nevertheless, the league suspended him for Game 2. 
After the game, and the next day at practice, Pacers coach Rick Carlisle and O'Neal both said they believe Hunter was put in the game to bait O'Neal into an ejection. 
"They had a young. strong player throwing an MVP candi­date on the floor, and it looked like he was doing it intentional­ly," Carlisle said. 
Celtics coach John Carroll strongly denied the allegations. 
"Brandon Hunter wasn't sent in the game to do anything because Brandon Hunter didn't even match up with Jermaine O'Neal. He was matched up with AI Harrington," Carroll said Tuesday. "It was kind of an unfortunate situation." 
Hunter said he wasn't bothered by Carlisle's remarks and that O'Neal was the one who initiated physical play under the basket. 
''To me, whatever, I really don't care what he had to say, how he felt," Hunter said. "I know I did­n't do it on purpose. If it had been me trying to foul him on purpose, it would have been a lot more worse than that." 
FREE Laundry in LaFortune-4-11 pm sign up at 3pm in the SUB office FREE Tie-Dying T-shirts on South Quad -l-4pm Zane Williarns Concert-ND opener Elysium {Country Trio featuring Jessica McQuaide 
Leibowitz, Emily Hawthorn, and TJ Mathieson} 1st 30 people get a free cowboy hat! LaFortune_Ballroom-9pm-Free Boracho Burrito For about 200 (while suplies last) First 30 spectators win a cowboy hat! 
Quarter Dog Eating Contest -FREE Quarter Dogs for the first 50 spectators-Participants and Winners win FREE ND apparel! Midnight at the Huddle -Register at LaFortune Elevator Lobby 1 1 :30pm -PRIZESI! fill out the SUB Crossword puzzle in the observer and turn it in at LaFortune 203 Upcoming Events: by to enter to win the IPOD. Must be aND student to enter. 
Thursday, April 22nd ­Best of Acoustic Cafe -9-11 pm -Legends Ari Hest Concert -11 pm -Legends 
Friday, April 23rd­

-
Carnival on Fieldhouse Mall M PRIZES -FREE Subwoy! Jason LeVasseur Concert ~· 5pm -Fieldhouse Moll -Win an !POD! Saturday, April 24th ­Joy Hansen Movement Concert -1Opm -Legends -Win on XBOX! 
brought to yov by the .student vnion b<:wrd. wwvv.nd.edu/-svb 


page 22 Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Thompson to follow father as Hoyas coach 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON John Thompson III won't have to make a name for himself at Georgetown. "Pops" took care of that long ago. 
Ready to take on the pressure of living up to the legacy of his Hall of Fame father, Thompson III was hired Tuesday to coach the Hoyas back to national prominence. 
"I am John Thompson's son. I have been John Thompson's son for 38 years. I'm pretty comfortable being John Thompson's son," said 
..... Thompson III, the coach at Princeton since 2000. "The pressure that comes along with that -no one's going to put more pressure on me than myself." The elder Thompson coached the Hoyas for 27 years, turning a little-known program into a perennial national powerhouse. With Patrick Ewing at center, Georgetown made three appearances in the NCAA title game in the 1980s, winning the championship in 1984. Thompson resigned in 1999 and now works as a TV analyst, and the Hoyas haven't been the same since. His longtime assis­tant, Craig Esherick, couldn't live up to the Thompson stan­dard and was fired last month --after going 103-74. Attendance sagged, the pro­gram lost money, and the Hoyas made just one NCAA tourna­ment appearance under Esherick. They lost their last nine games this season, and the 13-15 record was Georgetown's worst in 31 years. Now comes Thompson Ill, whose name alone will draw immediate comparisons to the campus legend. The elder Thompson -whom Thompson III calls "Pops" -sat proudly in the front row at Tuesday's news conference. "He is his son -that holds a lot," guard Ashanti Cook said. "Big John's son. I think we'll be 


successful with him." 
The elder Thompson declined interview requests, saying through a university spokes­woman that he wanted the day to belong to his son. The former coach also did not appear as usual on a local radio talk show. 
A handful of coaches have succeeded their fathers in Division I basketball, but the only true comparison for Thompson III is Joey Meyer, who immediately followed his father, Ray, at DePaul in 1984. The younger Meyer was widely considered a good coach, but his career was overshadowed by the fact that he never achieved the success of his father. 
The younger Thompson, 38, comes with a successful track record. He led Princeton to a 68-42 record over four sea­sons, including Ivy League titles and NCAA tournament berths in 2000-01 and 2003­
04. The Tigers went 20-8 this season, losing to Texas in the first round of the NCAA tour­nament. 
But Thompson III will have to change his recruiting approach at Georgetown. Although both schools stress academics, the Hoyas like to require both Ivy League grades and Big East tal­ent. University President John DeGioia said he chose Thompson III in part because he "wins fairly with integrity," but DeGioia also listed a nation­al championship as a goal. 
While Thompson III grew up on Georgetown's campus, he spent his adult life at Princeton, where he played for the Tigers before becoming an assistant under Hall of Farner Pete Carrill. He said his style could incorporate influences from both schools, although the methodical Princeton offense would be a challenge to run in the Big East. 
"Maybe you see a little bit of Pops in there, and maybe a lit­tle bit of Coach (Carrill)." Thompson III said. 
ASIAN SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANT COMPETITION 
The Center for Asian Studies is sponsoring a competition for undergraduates who wish to study an Asian language not currently offered at Notre Dame. At present, this means that students may not apply to study Mandarin Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, or Hebrew. It is expected that such study will contribute to the student's further education at Notre Dame. In most cases, language classes taken elsewhere will be counted for academic credit at Notre Dame. 
The program selected can be either in the United States or a foreign country. The competition Is not open to seniors or graduate students. 
-
Applications are available at http://www.nd.edu/N or from the Center for Asian Studies (323 O'Shaughnessy); you may request one by mail by calling 1-0487. 
The deadline is April 28, 2004. 



.ii<:P-4 ~ ~d'
.ATHI.ETICDEPART?IitENf~IVERSITY OF NOTRE DA11!1E 
Proudly Presents 

TheRecSpys 
Vote onlineApril 19th-23rd @www.recsports.nd.edu/recspys 
.aarQradUate ......... Of,..):; .:>~---' 
Anne Marie Fayen-McGlinn Kasey Farrell -PW Kathryn Wolohan-Welsh Fam 
Grad/Fac/Staff Female of the Year­
Christina Risatti Susan Scube Cate Harmeyer 

Game of the Year 
Maggie's Mullet vs. We Don't Go Behind the Back-CoRee Basketball Finals DVDA and the Ruties vs. Droopy Goughes-CoRee Flag Football Finals Morrissey vs. Zahm -Ice Hockey Finals 
~··"'of the l'"e~ 
Stanford Soccer Siegfried Football Lambasted 
Grad/Fac/Staff Mala of the Yaat­
scou Gaglio 
Ben O'Donnell 
Scott Stolpa 

~ans of the Yea,. 
Alumni Hockey PW Basketball Lewis Football 



-~-------­


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
team 

1 Texas 2 Stantord 
3 Rice 4 Miami 
5 Long Beach Slate 
6 MI$Slsslppl 
7 NOTREDAME 8 LSIJ 9 Soulb Carolina 10 Wichltil Sial& 
11 Auburn 12 East Caronna 13 Southern Mlnlsslppl 14 Texasi\&M 
15 Tenn~see 16 Nebraska 17 Virginia 18 Arizona Slate 19 Florida 20 North Carolina 21 TUlane 22 Oral Roberts 23 UC Irvine 24 Arkansas 25 Oklahoma 
1 2 Rutgers 
3 4 5 6 7 
8 9 Villanova 10 11 
team 

1 VIllanova 2 NOTREDAME 3 Virginia Tech 4 Providence 5 Bo$\on College 6 Rutgers 
1 SetliR ttall 8 Sl. John's 9 Conneeucut 10 Pltlsburglt 
11 Syracuse 
around the dial 
MLB 

St. Louis at Houston, 6 p.m., ESPN Chicago at Pittsburgh, 6 p.m.; FOX Chicago San Diego at San Francisco, 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA PLAYOFFS New Olreans at Miami, 7 p.m., NBATV Denver at Minnesota, 8:30 p.m., TNT 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL Jordan Capital Classic, 4 p.m., ESPN2 
SoccER 

UEFA Champions League, 1:30 p.m., ESPN2 
COMPILED FROtv1 THE 0BSERVU\S WIRE SERVICES Page 23 
NBA 


EPA 

LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers dives for a loose ball In front of Clifford Robinson of the Golden State Warriors during the fourth quarter of their game at Gund Arena In Cleveland on April 3. 
James honored as NBA's top rookie 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND -More than 45 minutes late to a news conference, LeBron James was one teen who didn't need an excuse. 
He's exhausted. 

"They had to drag me out bed to put this suit on," James said Tuesday, when he won the NBA Rookie of the Year award. "I didn't want to get out. I thought I was going to practice 
when they woke  me  up  
this morning."  
Hey,  saving  the  

Cleveland Cavaliers is hard work, and the 19-year-old James put the final touch on a remarkable season by 
becoming the rookie award's youngest recipi­ent. 
"I knew I would make an impact this year," said James, who easily beat Denver's Carmela Anthony, also 19. "And I guess I did." 
The 6-foot-8 guard made the jump from preps to pros look easy. The No. 1 overall draft pick did more than just post jaw-drop­ping statistics night after night: He transformed Gund Arena into a hot spot, and he gave Cleveland fans reason to hope. 
"He proved to all of us that he is up for a chal-Ienge. He exceeded all of our expectations and just kept raising the bar," Cavaliers owner Gordon Gund said. 
James received 508 points to become the first Cleveland rookie honored. 
Anthony, who left Syracuse after leading it to an NCAA championship as a freshman, finished with 430 points. 
"People are going to think what they want to think," Anthony said. "I don't really know what else I could have done." 
Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat was third with 117 points in balloting by sports writers and broad­casters. Players received 5 points for a first-place vote. 3 for second and 1 for third. 
"I thought it could go either way," said James. "I thought it could be a split decision." 
In any other year, Anthony probably would have won the award for helping the Nuggets go from 17 victories to the playoffs. 
But this season belonged to James, from his 25­point, nine-rebound, six­assist NBA debut at Sacramento through his resounding windmill dunk to close his season at Madison Square Garden. 
IN BRIEF 

Indiana recruit to skip top-1 0 draft pick. He led Oak Hill to there won't be a shortage of teams college for draft a 38-0 record this season while aver­coming after him." 
MOUTH OF WILSON, Va.-One of aging 22 points, eight rebounds, Diem will become an unrestricted the top-rated high school basketball three steals, four assists and six free agent next year. players in the country announced blocks. If he had signed with another team 
Tuesday he would skip college next this year, the Colts could have 
season and enter the NBA draft. Two offensive linemen matched any otTer or received a first­Josh Smith, a 6-foot-8, 214-pound resign with Colts round draft pick in compensation. senior at Oak Hill Academy, signed a INDIANAPOLIS -Starting offen­"There were teams that showed national letter of intent with Indiana sive tackle Ryan Diem and offensive interest this year. but not at the first­in November, making up part of what guard Rick DeMulling have signed round level," Brady said. "There was some analysts considered the one-year offers for $1.368 million a team willing to give up a two (a nation's best recruiting class. each with the Indianapolis Colts, second-round pick) for him, but the "After discussions with my family leaving the team with two unsigned Colts didn't want to do it." and coaches, I believe that entering restricted free agents. DeMulling. a seventh-round selec­the NBA draft is the best decision for Diem, a fourth-round draft selec­tion from Idaho in 2001, played spar­
-
me and my family," Smith said in a tion out of Northern Illinois in 2001, ingly as a rookie, but started 14 statement. started eight of 15 games as a rook­games in 2002 and all 16 regular­
Smith has already played in sever­ie and all 16 games in 2002 at right season games and three playoff al high school all-star games this guard. He moved to right tackle last games last season at left guard. He year, indicating his jump to the NBA season and started 13 of 16 games. signed the offer with the Colts last was all but assured. NCAA rules per­"He wants to be in Indy, there's no week, but the team did not confirm mit players to compete in two all-star doubt about it," his agent, Cliff the signing until Tuesday. games following their final high Brady, said Tuesday. "He's certainly Starting cornerback Nick Harper school season or else forfeit their happy to get another year, and hope­and backup running back Dominic first year of eligibility in college. fully the Colts will want to re-sign Rhodes still have not re-signed with 
Smith is being touted as a potential him to a long-term deal. If they don't, Indianapolis. 
----------------------------------------------------~ 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 24 Wednesday, April21, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
BASEBALL 

Lopez already drawing comparisons to ND greats 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 

Irish coach Paul Mainieri thinks that maybe the city offi­cials of Upper Arlington, Ohio, have been putting something in their water. 
After all. the city that pro­duced former Notre Dame cen­terfielder and All-American Steve Stanley has now sent cur­rent shortstop Greg Lopez to the Irish. 
"I love Greg Lopez. He reminds me so much of Steve Stanley, who happens also to be from Upper 
That enthusiasm for the game of baseball is likely what Mainieri saw in Lopez last sea­son, when he inserted the then­freshman into the starting line­up at third base 40 times and even stuck with him through a late season slump. Lopez said that having Mainieri's confi­dence enabled him to be a bet­ter player. 
"Having that confidence defi­nitely helped. especially last year, where I did pretty well at the beginning of the season, but struggled late in the season," Lopez said. "But he kept his confidence in me and kept put­
ting me back out 

Arlington, Ohio, so there at third base. 
"Greg Lopez goes 
I don't know if its He has his confi­something in the on that baseball dence behind me water up there or field andjust and everyone else not," Mainieri on the field, and it
plays the game 

said. "They both really just helps
full tilt. He never
share the same out in getting your passion for life, lets up." game going and and whatever they helping people play are doing, they well."
Paul Malnlerl 

just do it full Lopez finished 
Irish Coach 

blast." the season with a 
Lopez' all-out attitude has paid off dividends for the Irish this season. The sophomore currently leads No. 4 Notre Dame in batting with an average of .373. Lopez was also named Big East Player of the Week this week for going 10­for-19 at the plate in six games with six RBis and four runs scored, combined with four error-free games in the field. 
"Greg Lopez goes on that baseball field and just plays the game full tilt. He never lets up," Mainieri said. "He's having fun, he's talking. he's energetic, and he plays with a lot of enthusi­asm." 
.250 batting aver­age, but with great potential for improvement 'in the future. 
Mainieri, who has never been hesitant to play freshmen early and often. stuck with Lopez and made it clear to the youngster that the starting spot at short­stop was his for the taking in 2004. 
"I always knew [Lopez] could hit. When I scouted that kid in high school, I just thought he was a good hitter," Mainieri said. "Last year was an aberra­tion, and I think it was partly because he was a freshman.... This year, he's playing more like I thought he could play, and I think it's made us a better team frankly." 
In fact, Lopez is in the midst of a season that could end up as one of the best all-around years for any shortstop in the Mainieri era. In the past 10 sea­sons. the highest batting aver­age by an Irish shortstop was posted by Brant Ust. whose .372 mark is one point behind Lopez's current .373 average. 
Defensively, Lopez has been ju,st as stellar, committing just 10 errors in 34 games played this year, while tallying 26 error-free games. Alec Porzel, who posted a .957 fielding per­centage in 2001, is the only other Irish shortstop in the last 10 years to post a better field­ing percentage than Lopez's current mark of .940. 
"My defense has been what I have to focus on. not so much my offense," Lopez said. "I need to stay aggressive and really make a play on the ball instead of having a ground ball make a play on me." 
As just a sophomore, Lopez already has the honor of being mentioned among the list of some recent Notre Dame greats. But even with that, Lopez knows that he cannot sit on his current praise and must continue to improve both at bat and in the field. 
''I'm excited to be right among some of the best short­stops in recent Notre Dame his­tory, especially as just a sopho­more," he said. ''I'm going to just keep doing what I have been, and try to help the team out any way I can." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederico@nd.edu 

JOANNA PAXTON!The Observer Greg Lopez swings and misses against St. John's. Lopez has drawn a lot of attention for his stellar performance at shortstop. 
In town for the game? Why ,____...., not stay with family? Gra.mma's House B&B. Now taking reservations 
or the 2004 football season and 2005 Graduation. 


2 miles north ofthe Notre Dame Toll Road exit (77). Group rates for parties of6. Phone 57 4-272-3999 
Certified mover Certified shaker Certified no tnore rnac & cheese 


Certified rush Certified freedorn Certified bring it on Certified Pre-Owned 8~1W 

-
Certified only at an authorized BMW center. 
Get warranty protection* up to 6 years or 100,000 miles. Get fle.ldble leasing and financing options. Get pure BMW. 
~ 
~­

uarch up-to-date, exten&lve inventory @! bmwu.sacom 

r----~­
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
';'NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Association 
:·~·,~···...:~. 
:;: ·.. ,::.~· 
F 0 R 

SOCIAL 
ONCERNS 
REMINDER 
Summer Service Project Internships ORIENTATION 
April 20 or April 21 
6:00 -9:00 PM at the Center for Social Concerns 
Film Symposium at the University of Notre Dame All films will be shown in the Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library, 7:00p.m. 
Thursday, April22 
Diamonds in the Snow 
Director: Mira Reym Binford mode.rator of the series 
Friday, April 23 

My Mother's Courage 
Director: Michael Verhoeven Jan-Lueder Hagens, commentator 
Saturday, April 24 
Sophie's Choice 
Director: Alan J. Pakula Laura A. Crago, commentator 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Holocaust Project, the Kurt and Tessye Simon Jewish Studies Fund, and NDcinema 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles prepare for key game --­
Today's single game against Bethel is a chance to get ready for MIAA tournament 
tant in another way as well. If By BOBBY GRIFFIN the Belles can win, they will Sports Writer have two straight wins under 
their belts, including a tough 2­
This could perhaps be the 1 eight inning win over Saint biggest week of the season for Xavier's on Sunday, that they the Belles. Saint Mary's will could use as confidence head­play one game today, instead of ing into Kalamazoo on their accustomed doublehead­Thursday. ers, which will be extremely Although Kalamazoo is 0-12 important for the remainder of in the league, and 4-23 overall, their season. it is imperative that the Belles 
The game with Bethel will be win both of the games to put a warm up of sorts for tourna­them in the best position possi­ment play, in that it will give the ble for league play. Belles an opportunity to play Saint Mary's has been blessed only one game for the first time with outstanding hitting all sea­since their match up with son and solid pitching. Several Purdue-North Central March players are batting above .300, 
25. lead by Erin Sullivan who is hit­
The MIAA tournament format ting .342. involves one single game Kate Sajewich has been stel­instead of the doubleheaders lar on the mound all season, which teams play all season in posting an ERA slightly above league play. 2.00. 
Belles head coach Anna Today's game against Bethel Welsh has stated that it will be will be played at Notre Dame. important to grow accustomed The first pitch will be at 6:30 to that change in scheduling if p.m. the team manages to make the tournament. Contact Bobby Griffin at 
Today's game will be impor-rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Become a part ofa 
Notre Dame Tradition!"" 
.... 
All students ... -returning for the Fall 2004 season -a minimum of6' 2" in height -in good academic standing 
...are eligible! 

Interested students: please contact the ~'D Band Office by phone (631-7136) or by email (ndband@nd.edu). 
This Week in the Department ofMusic••• 
ND Chorale & Chamber Orchestra Wednesday, April 21, 2004 8 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Russ Gavin, euphonium ND Collegium Musicum 
Thursday, April 22,2004 Daniel Stowe, director 
5 pm, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library 8 pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel 
Katie Hunt & Mark Thomas, organ Timothy Duhr, organ Thursday, April 22, 2004 Saturday, April 24, 2004 
8:15 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 8 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
ND University Band & Brass Ensemble Sunday, April 25, 2004 3 pm, Rotunda, Notre Dame Main Building 
Allevents FREE and open to the publici 
For more information call the Department ofMusic at631-6201. 
Wednesday, April 21, 2004
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
Bookstore 
continued from page 28 

maintain the lead." Sloppy play and too many turnovers caused the demise of Finish Line. "We lost it in the end," said a disappointed Adam Giezeman. 
Derelict 21, HP 18 

As the teams last night can contest. playing in howling wind and pouring rain is what Bookstore 
Stars an early edge and they went into half­time up 11-8. 
"Their zone [in the] second half took our offense out for awhile," Will Fayen of the All­Stars said. "We were lucky enough to over­come it. and hit some shots." 
John Cronin of the Rollers was a huge pres­ence down low all game, but "Shags" and "Skillz" of the All-Stars made several big shots to get the momentum rolling. 
With their well-rounded attack. the All­Stars hope to make some noise in the next round of the tournament. 
You Got a Bad Draw 21, 
Basketball is all about. Blazers 12
"! actually heard 
Derelict kicked the night off Although replacements had to 
one girl say I was
with its win over HP after fast fill in for two of their six-foot transitions allowed them to beat hotter than Brady post players who were out with their opponents down the court. [Quinn]." injury, You Got a Bad Draw 
"We started off pretty strong sailed to a 21-12 victory over and jumped off to an early lead," the Blazers. 
John Stevens
Brian MacKinnon of Derelict The Blazers started out well. said. Blazers member but their outside shots weren't 
Then. the team "got compla­cent" and HP looked to make a comeback by hitting some outside shots, espe­cially impressive considering the conditions. 
In the end, Derelict said it was its strong defense and rebounding that finished its opponent off and allowed them to advance to the Sweet 16. Platinum Fubu All-Stars 21, Cleveland Rollers 15 
After a long, hard-fought, physical game, the Platinum Fubu All-Stars finally overcame the zone defense that was plaguing them and soared to a victory over the Cleveland Rollers. 
The Rollers' early foul trouble gave the All-
falling, and Bad Draw's size advantage allowed them to dominate the post. 
The conditions made for sloppy play, but as Bad Draw's captain, Chris Murphy, said, "We got the job done and that's all that matters." 
John Stevens was one of the scrappy defenders who was called to fill in for the Blazers. 
"Everyone tried pretty hard on the team, but I was the go-to guy," he said. "I actually heard one girl say I was hotter than Brady [Quinn]." 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
Wildcats 
continued from page 28 
one goal before scoring their last two with under one minute to play, at that point it mattered only for statistical purposes. Northwestern. on the other hand, found enough second-half footing to bury the Irish. Wildcat Kristin Kjellman opened the floodgates, scoring 12 seconds into the half, and her teammates followed up with five more goals. 
Coyne was hopeful that Saturday's loss against No. 5 Georgetown would inject some life into her team as they head into the stretch run of the season. What she got was a flat perform­ance. 
"We just did not show up to play at all today. There might be some residual from that [loss]." she said. 
Few things went right for the Irish all day. Goalie Carol Dixon received a yellow card in the sec­ond half and had to be replaced by freshman backup Katie Linhares for three minutes, her first action of the season. 
"[Linhares] did well," Coyne said. "She had to go in at a crucial time in the game and she made a save and cleared the ball out safe­ly which was huge for the team, but we couldn't capitalize." 
Perhaps the sole bright spot for the Irish was their defense. Notre Dame has stonewalled opposing offenses, preventing 10 of its last 11 opponents from tallying dou­ble-digit goals. But the paltry Irish offense struggled mightily all day. 
"The defense played extremely well, it was the attack that let us down," Coyne said. "We just never controlled the ball and didn't real­ly settle in and run any of our plays." 
For Notre Dame to turn things around quickly will not be an easy task. Three of the team's last four games are against top 15 oppo­nents, No. 9 Johns Hopkins, No. 10 Vanderbilt and No. 13 Syracuse. As the season draws to a close, Coyne realizes that time is running short for her team to avoid these types of mental lapses. 
"If we want to be a champi­onship team then we need to develop the mental toughness that it takes to compete under all dif­ferent types of conditions facing all different types of challenges," she said. "How we respond to this is going to show a lot about our character. Hopefully we're strong enough to be able to rebound." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 


Rain out 
continued from page 28 
Irish to cancel their game with the Boilermakers. 
In 2001, a meeting with the Boilermakers scheduled to take place at South Bend's Coveleski Stadium was rained out, while in 2002, the two teams could not play due to a conflict with a Purdue-Indiana game that had to be rescheduled due to weath­er. 
No. 4 Notre Dame (30-5) will attempt to schedule another game as a makeup before the end of the regular season in order to fill out the 56-game schedule allowed by the NCAA. 
Notre Dame next returns to the field today at 5 p.m. as the Irish are scheduled to host the University of Toledo (10-23) at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Sollmann rehabbing well 
Injured second basemen Steve Sollmann met with his doctor in Cincinnati last Friday and was told that his fractured jaw is healing very well following sur­gery. 
"I met with the doctor last Friday," Sollmann said. "He said everything looks good, my bite looks good, and everything was healing quickly." 
The senior tri-captain has missed 12 games since breaking his jaw April 3 chasing down a fly ball in shallow right field against Villanova. 
While Sollmann has not been able to run or do any heavy lift­ing as of yet, he expects to get back into a training schedule soon. 
"I can do a little biking and lift­ing really light," he said. "I haven't run yet, but pretty soon I should be able to run." 
While he did lose some weight right after the injury, Sollmann says he has been able to prevent his weight from dropping too much through diet and some exercise. He says that he is cur­rently only six or seven pounds below his playing weight before the incident. 
Sollmann says that while he still doesn't have a timetable for a return to the Irish lineup, he doesn't have any doubts that,he will be able to play again some­time this season. 
"It's still up in the air right now. We're just going to sit here and see when my body says I can play," Sollmann said. "I don't see any reason why I shouldn't be able to come back at some point this year." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
D-Line 
continued from page 28 
starting four games and playing in 12 last year, he has his sights set high in 2004. 
"I want to be the best I can be and help this team out the best way I can," Abiamiri said. "I want to improve on my consis­tency. I want to be an All­American." 
And for Abiamiri, he is just now becoming familiar with the sys­tem after a season of learning. 
"Mentally, I know the system," he said. ''I'm really mastering it. Everything's just coming comfort­ably for me, so I can just sit back and make plays. I'm faster, quick­er to react, rather than thinking about what I have to do." 
Abiamiri also said he feels con­fident in the defensive line as a whole. 
"I think we should be able to set records," Abiamiri said. "We have all the talent in the world. I think we're as good as any d-line in the country, and we'll be one of the best." 
Last year as a true freshman, Abiamiri recorded 22 tackles, including 16 solos and was one of six Irish freshmen to earn a monogram. He was also named honorable mention freshman All­before he becomes the dominant American by Rivals.com at the player he strives to be. end of the season. He is using "One of the big things is we these experiences this spring to work on our technique constant­lead the li!le before Budinscak, ly," Abiamiri said. "Coach Pauly and Tuck can return. Mattison is a stickler about tech­

"I see myself stepping up nique. I know I haven't been per­because these guys are gone," fect on my technique, and that's Abiamiri said. "I think of the what I'm striving for -everyday remaining linemen, I have the to get better." most experience. I've played the And Baer recognizes the poten­most minutes of all tial of the rising them. So I see sophomore as well, myself as one of even though last
"! want to be an
the veterans and year he was sur­one of the more All-American." prised when experienced play­Abiamiri made an ers, rather than a impact as a true
VIctor Ablamlrl 
rookie."· freshman.
Irish defensive end
Right now, Abiamiri is joined on the line by Chris Frome, Matt Hasbrook and Derek Landri. 
"We have some quality depth," Baer said. 
The Irish hope that once healthy, their defensive line can become the run-stopping force it was in 2002. 
"[The defensive line] has to be our strength," Baer said. "I think that group, along with our line­backers, that has to be our strength. We get that group healthy, and I like that group." 
Abiamiri agreed, but he real­izes that he too has to get better 
"We knew he 
was talented, we 

didn't know that he was that talented," Baer said. "He's still very young, so he's got a lot to learn. He needs to become a better fundamental sort of player, technique. that sort of thing. I see a great deal of improvement this spring from him. 
"He's very talented, so you put that into the equation, into the fact that here's a guy that loves football, he's got great effort. He's the total package." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Defensive end VIctor Ablamlrl, left, and linebacker Derek Curry take a breather during Notre Dame's first spring practice. 

Wednesday, April 21, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT 
THE REAL ESTATE AGENT 

INITIAL EVERY PAGE OF 
THIS STEAMING MOUND OF DOCUMENTS. 
FIVES 
Though few people are aware of it, the raid of the popular bar 'The Ubrary" last Friday morning was actually a desperate attempt by the SBPD to recover from a disasterous mistake they had made earlier that evening... 

Mr. Father Hesburgh, we have received an Oh I know you anonymous tip leading us to believe that your didn't just say establishment is unlawfully admitting minors. that... 
\ c; 

THIS SAYS THAT IF I INSIST ON OVERPRIC­ING 1"\Y HOUSE THEN MY AGENT CAN RUN OVER ME WITH AN SUV AND ... 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
SCOTT ADAMS 

...SELL MY CLOTHES TO A SCARECROW MANUFACTURER. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
~~~~~;r"'r
rJ t J
1 _ 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
STEAE 
t 


WHAT THE: PAT­ 
RONS WE:RE: L-E:FT  
J rxtwww CALBEM jurrble.com jIJ (  I I  WITH WHEN THE: SWEET5HOP RAI5E:D PRICES. Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.  

A: 

A"( I I I I I]"( I I I I J 
-(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: RUMMY CRIME STODGY EFFACE Answer: Why the young surgeon was hired-HE MADE THE "CUT" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Durable piece of boxin' equip­

1 Crash site 
ment? 

4 Babe in the 
42 Rubbernecked

woods 43 Russian alterna­
8 Black rock 
tive

14 Language suffix 
44 Largest of

15 "Would to 
seven

you?" 
45 Commencement

16 Alchemist's con­
wear

coction 
46 Mix movies

17 Apiece, at 
Wimbledon 51 Name trump, in bridge
18 Jungle woman 
53 Jai

19 With subtlety 54 Result of a silo 
20 Wedding man 
tippin' over?

lookin' at the newspaper? 59 Nimble 23 Late-night host 63 Fit for service 24 Tripe 64 Newspaper sup­29 Surgeon's ply request 65 Batten down 32 Spill material 66 The gamut 33 Man, for one 67 Genealogy word 34 Gasket 68 Warming device 36 Sacred spot 69 Not a lick 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~:-:+:,;..j 
~=+:-I 
-=-+=-+:=+::~ 
-:-+:-:+:::+::~ 
_..,._=+::+.::+-::...._ 
~;..;+;=+;:;..~ 
...t-:+:-t:=-1 
~~:::-+::-:+-,..., '!!'t-:-~f-::-1 
~~:+.::-~ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
70 Muff 

DOWN 1 Choker compo­
nents 2 Slumbering 3 Presidential 
middle name 4 Where Suva is 5 Presidential 
middle name 6 White House 
section 7 Poetic adverb 8 Soil 9 Out on 
10 Mortal thing 11 What Carry Nation carried 
12 Diamond 13 Take a shot at 21 Slip on 22 Ancestry 25 Check 26 Analogy phrase 
27 

~~~~negro 
28 "Take this!" 30 Olympian's 
quest 31 Years of note 32 Ready for use 
35 David, "the sweet psalmist of • 36 Turkish title 
37 Old oath 

38 Carnation con­tainer 
39 Grist for DeMille? 
WILLSHORTZ 


56 Concerned with dog logo
48 Marilu Henner's "Taxi" role 57 Light stuff 62 Call at first 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address ____________________________________ City _________ State _______ Zip___________ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Celebrities born on this day: Charles Grodin, Tony Dan~. Anthony Quinn, 
•
Andie MacDowell 

Happy Birthday: Don't be afraid of change this year. The more flexible you are, the better you'll do. Put things into perspective and develop your talents in order to reach your highest potential. Your experiences will leave you with valuable knowledge that will help you make better choices in the future. Remember: Nothing ventured, nothing gained. Your numbers: 7, 10, 19, 28, 37, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't get into conflicts with those who are in a position to ruin your reputation. Listen and be diplomatic in your approach to solving existing problems. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Romance will unfold if you get out and mingle. Your empathetic nature will enable you to make the necessary changes required to tum things around for a close friend. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't push your luck with those you live with. The changes you're making will be upsetting for others. You can prosper if you put your money into your property. ***** CANCER (June 21·July 22): Do a little investigating. You need more information about educational pursuits that interest you. Enforce a strong routine in your life in order to get back on track. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money deals are present but don't overextend yourself in order to get involved. If you don't have the cash lying acound, then don't commit to a financial venture. The stress isn't worth it. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Social events will lead to new romantic connections. Don'tjump in too quickly. If a person really cares about you, he or she won't try to push you into what you may not be ready for. ••• LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Concentrate on your job. Your emotional life may be up in the air if your mate has been going through a change of heart. Be understanding but don't neglect your own needs. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Follow through on your dreams and look into doing things that have always interested you. Let your creative juices flow. Children will make a difference to your outlook. *** SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will learn a lot more if you listen to what others have to say. You may need to help out an older relative, but don't let it become a burden. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be careful while driving. Your mind will be on everything except what it's supposed to be on. Preoccupation will not only lead to mishaps but misunderstandings as well. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will face financial limitations if you haven't been putting money aside for an unforeseen expense. You must put in some extra work if you want to get out ofdebt. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotional depression is likely if you're not happy with yourself. Stop pouting and do something about your image. Nothing ventured, nothing gained. *** 
Birthday Baby: You're a little powerhouse right from day one. You must master the art of gentleness along the way if you want to be successful. You have a built-in sense of adventure and you thrive on change and adaptability. You will always want to be in a position of leadership throughout your life . 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 
..... 
.---------------------­
THE OBSER\'ER 
PORTS
Wednesday, April 21, 2004 
page 28 
FOOTBALL 
Man accused of threatening Willingham indicted 
Associated Press 

SOUTH BEND, Ind. -A Florida man was indicted Tuesday on a charge that he threatened Notre Dame football coach Tyrone Willingham. 
Andrew K. French, 24, of Fort Myers, Fla., faces a federal charge of transmitting in inter­state commerce, a communica­tion containing a threat to injure. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Donald J. Schmid declined to say who was allegedly threatened, but Willingham confirmed after spring practice on Tuesday that he was the target. 

"I think I'm one of many across the country, possibly, that could have received the same threat," Willingham said. 
Willingham declined to say how he received the threat or the con­tents. 
"I will only acknowledge that the threat was there and it is something you do take quite seri­ous," he said. 
Willingham said he was aware of the investigation but did not know that French had been .indicted, saying he told authori­ties he did not want to be informed of every step of the process. 
Schmid declined to give details of the allegations other than what was included in the indictment, which said the threat was made late last year. 1Jw case was inves­tigated by the FBI and the Notre Dame Security-Police Department. 
Rex Rakow, director of the cam­pus police department, referred questions about the threat to the 
U.S. Attorney's Office. 
French, who turned himself in to U.S. Marshal's office on Monday, made his initial court appearance on Tuesday. He was 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
The eat's out of the bag 
Irish lose second straight game, fall to Northwestern 9-5 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 

After stumbling for the first time all season against No. 5 Georgetown Saturday, No. 6 Notre Dame hoped to right itself Tuesday against No. 11 Northwestern. Instead, they fell flat on their face. 
On a cold, rainy, muddy day in Evanston, Ill., the play was as sloppy as the weather as Notre Dame (1 0-2, 3-1) fell to the Wildcats by a 9-5 score. The Irish have now lost two consecutive games after cruising to a 10-0 start. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne refused to blame either the weather or the weekday travel. 
"I don't want to make any excuses." she said. "The execution just wasn't there, [and] we played like crap." 
Both teams sputtered out of the gate, failing to generate any momentum. Irish attack Jackie Bowers finally netted the first goal almost 14 minutes into the game to give Notre Dame a 1-0 lead, but it was the last lead they would see. Still, neither offense was sharp as the teams combined for a meager total of five first half goals. At the intermission, the Wildcats led by only a 3-2 score. 
But if Notre Dame had a poor first half, the second half was even worse. A sickly offense became anemic ~ the Irish managed only 
see WILDCATS/page 26 

released on $1,000 cash bond on the conditions that he not step foot on the Notre Dame campus and that he not try to telephone anyone employed by or associat­ed with the university, Schmid said. 
French was not a student at Notre Dame, Schmid said. French could not be reached for com­ment because there was no tele­phone listing for French in Fort Myers, Fla., or South Bend. 
BASEBALL 

Purdue matchup cancelled 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 

Rain washed out the sched­uled game between 
Notre Dame See Also and Purdue "Lopez already Tuesday night 
drawing
at Frank Eck 

Stadium. comparisons to This marks NO greats"the third time 
page 24
in the past four years that weather has caused the 
see RAINOUT/page 26 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIII 
Teams advance to round of 16 
By ANNIE BRUSKY Sports Writer 
... ·· Thor and the Thunderbolts beat No. 7 Finish Line Tuesday night when the two evenly­matched, physical teams kept it close throughout the game. "We were able to get a few more breaks on offense," Travis Leitko of the Thunderbolts said. "We found some holes in their defense and were able to 
see BOOKSTORE/page 26 

FooTBALL 
Irish hope defensive line will be a team strength 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
When three key defensive line­men went down to injury for the Irish, the spring looked bleak for the defensive line. But according to defensive coordinator Kent Baer, it has been quite the oppo­site. 
. "The guys that aren't practic­ing right now, we know what they can do," Baer said. "There's a lot of guys that wouldn't have gotten as many reps [without the injuries]. In some ways, we're able to develop a little more depth because of the injuries." 
The injured include defensive end Kyle Budinscak, tackle Greg Pauly and defensive end Justin Tuck, who is recovering from a torn ACL. Tuck was sixth in the nation last season in sacks, as he recorded 13.5. He also finished third on the team with 73 tackles. 
Picking up the slack is rising sophomore Victor Abiamiri. After 
see D-UNE/page 26 

SMC SOFTBAll 

NBA PlAYOFFS 
NHl PlAYOFFS 
NFL 
NBA

NCAA BASKETBAll 
Saint Mary's vs. 

New Jersey 99, 
Toronto 4, 
Georgetown finds 
Clarett takes his 
James sets Rookie 
Bethel 

New York 81 
Ottawa 1 
a coach 
case to D.C. 
of the Year record 

Maurice Clarett filed 
Today, 6:30 p.m. 

Indiana 103, 
an appeal with the 
The Cavaliers star
The Maple Leafs 
The Hoyas hope that 
The Belles hope to use 

Boston 90 
advanced to the second 
John Thompson III fol-
Supreme Court to try 
became the youngest 
this game to prepare for 

round with their Game 7 
lows in the footsteps of 
and force his way into 
Rookie of the Year ever. 
the postseason. 

victory over the Senators. 
his successful father. 
the NFL Draft. 
page 25 
page 16 

page 19
page 17 
page 22 

page 23 




