
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 

By CLAIRE HEININGER 
Associate News Eelitor 
After a week-long approval gap between the Charlie Ebersoi-James Leito ticket and the other three student body presidentiaVvice presidential tickets, all four campaigns have stepped up their publicity efforts. 
As the sprint through the debates and the endorsements begins. the tickets of Adam Istvan and Karla Bell, Ryan Craft and Steve Lynch and Mark Healy and Mike Healy said they were focused on earning recognition from stu­dent voters and were ready to gain ground. 
"I feel like we've done a pret­ty good job compared to the time we got approved," Mark Healy said. "We've got days of campaigning ahead of us -it won't matter when we start­ed." 
Istvan agreed that the extra week of exposure for Ebersol and Lieto did not put his and the other tickets significantly far behind. 
"I don't think the week that Charlie and James had will be 
Campaign strategies differ 
Presidential tickets' publicity tactics reflect platforms, philosophies, plans, ideas 
that big of an advantage," Istvan said. "I don't think a huge game of catch-up is really needed." 
Craft said he hoped that vot­ers' choices would be based on more than a disparity in cam­paign promotions. 
"I don't think [the extra week] is a big deal," Craft said. "We don't have the big staff of the Ebersol ticket, but we're confident that the students ... will look at the issues and not the publicity machine." 
Ebersol, however, said that 
see CAMPAIGN/page 11 
Ave Maria promotes Catholic faith 
. . 
New Florida university touts itself as 'unabashedly' Catholic 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Associate News Editor 
When Eileen Matthes of Woodstock, Ill. began her college search the summer before her sen­ior year of high school. she was quickly drawn toward a Catholic lib­eral art'> insti­tution named after Mary and committed to instilling valu!'s in its studcnl'i. Healy 


"When I heard the name, I knew I was supposed to go there," she said. 
Matthes wasn't refer­ring to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, both Monaghan named after Jesus' mother, but Ave Maria University-the nation's first Catholic university to be established in the last 40 years and one devoted to meshing first-rate academics with a commitment to follow the Church's teachings. 



Thinking big 
The Florida university opened its doors last fall with a $200 million donation from billionaire Tom Monaghan, Domino's Pizza founder. Its 1 00-plus students, recruited from over 30 states, currently live and study in a converted assisted living facility in southwest Florida while construction continues on the university's permanent campus out­side of Naples. 
When the first phase of construc­tion is complete in 2006, Ave Maria will boast state-of-the-art academic facilities, a library and residence halls for 1,000 students. Development is simultaneously underway on land adjacent to the 
see AVE MARIA/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Lao to address Board of Trustees 
Report details student gov't changes 
By SHEILA FLYNN 
News Writer 
Student body president Jeremy Lao and members of his staff will present a report to the Board of Trustees today, appearing before the Board for the second time this academic year after receiving a criti­cal reception from Board members last fall. 
Student government offi­cers, led by then-president Pat Hallahan, last met with the Board in October. When they presented their report and discussed changes to the CLC, Board members responded fairly critically. They instructed student government to reorganize itself as a body and improve its credibility before asking Board members for assis­tance on various endeavors. 
"What they were saying -what I gather from it ­was, from what we were asking in regard to the CLC changes, they thought were very petty," Lao said of the officers 
The Board members told Hallahan, Lao and the other representatives that they should be more responsible to students, dealing more effectively with issues such as alcohol problems on campus. 
"I really think that they gave us some good feed­back," Lao said. lie said that Board members indi­cated that, if student gov­ernment showed progress on various issues and increased responsibility, "they'd be more willing to 
see BOARD/page 11 

EPICS program undergoes major restructuring 
By MERYL GUYER 
News Writer 
Courses that bring engi­neering students closer to the South Bend community and closer to real work experi­ence will undergo major changes in the upcoming months, said Curt Freeland, director of the Engineering Projects in Community Service (EPICS) at Notre Dame. 
The program will disappear from course offerings, though students will still have the opportunity to perform simi­lar service work in engineer­ing and continue to receive credit for it, he said. 
The EPICS courses, a spin-off of Purdue's program by the same name that was developed in 1994, comprise an engineering service learn­ing initiative that matches a group of students with a fac­ulty advisor and a not-for­profit agency in St. Joseph County. Since its inception, the program has grown to include 1,300 students on 10 campuses. 
At Notre Dame, students who wish to participate can come from any college but are asked to commit at least three semesters to their proj­ects in order to provide conti­nuity to the groups that undertake complex issues, thus providing the group with returning members and a mix of younger and older mem­bers. The agency comes to EPICS with a problem the students can solve using engi­neering. 
The problems are diverse, ranging from developing databases for a homelessness prevention network to alter­ing the structure of toys to make the small power switch more accessible to disabled 
see EPICS/page 3 


Thursday, February 5, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Revisiting SMC dining 
Well, it's been one year since my last visit to the Saint Mary's dining hall. Some of you may remember that my previous experience with food at our friendly sister college was less than stellar. But, bar­ring food poison­ing, I and my gut arc not ones to carry a grudge. 
I also figured that things may have changed for the better now that the old Noble Family l)ining facility has been reduced to a gaping hole in the ground and replaced by a gleaming new building, also called Noble Family. 
Indeed, I'm pleased to report that my experience at the new Saint Mary's dining hall was significantly better than my last. The food as iL stands isn't great (certainly not worth the trek in subzero tempera­tures, if you choose to walk over as I did). but it's not bad, either. This is good news for me and also my friends at SMC, considering the College has placed a daily cap of 50 on the number of meals that can be exchanged and used at Notre Dame's dining halls. 
On my visit, I had a pita stuffed with meat that I could clearly iden­tify as chicken. The pita came unstuffed -unfortunate for me, but typically not a problem for more competent individuals. I'm convinced that my pita was defec­tive because I co.uld not get it open. Instead, I piled the chicken on top of it and found that it tasted pretty good. 
My only disappointment over last year was with the desserts. Previously, the Saint Mary's dining hall featured gourmet cookies and brownies. Those desserts may still be there, but they've now been condensed into pudding form. 
This "pudding" looks like vomit, but tasted surprisingly better. It contained bits of cake and a lot of what I like to call "mystery prizes." One of my friends found a cherry in hers, and I tasted what I think was part of a chocolate bar and some other things I couldn't identify. Barring the shady factor, it was pretty good. 
They also had a banana split bar that every girl at that College was in line for, so I didn't bother sam­pling it (I should've brought a press pass with me so I could cut in line). 
Friends at Saint Mary's tell me the food hasn't gotten any better than last year. Maybe I just came on the right day. but I thought everything was pretty good overall. 
Finally, I was impressed with the attempt to provide some entertain­ment during the meal. When I went, you could kick a field goal and win a prize. After my prize­filled pudding I opted out, but I appreciated the creative thinking. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 

Andrew Thagard 
Associate News Editor 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and suivcs for the highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can 
corrccl our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU LEAST LIKE TO GET FOR A VALENTINE'S DAY GIFT? 









Patrick Hull Tara Devine 
Junior Freshman Alumni McGlinn 
''A fat-free "A chewed-up ''An Oreck ''An STD." ''A dear John ''A re-used 
Teresa Rlva 
Freshman McGlinn 
Nicole Hernandez 
Freshman Lyons 

Melanie Larrabee 
Sophomore 1/oward 
Rachel Kemp 
Junior Breen Phillips 

chocolate bar or dog toy because vacuum. dead roses. " I got one in seventh grade from my 'boy friend.·~· 

MICHELLE OTIOfThe Observer 

Notre Dame sophomore Danielle Webber (left) chats with volunteers from "You Can Lend a Hand," a program to benefit area Catholic schools. The group was selling coupon books In LaFortune Wednesday afternoon to benefit the organization. 
OFFBEAT 
Bushmoblle unveiled for G-8 summit 
SAVANNAH, Ga. -What's red, white and blue, runs oiT a 72-volt battery and has a top speed of 25 mph? The president's official Bushmobilc for the summer Group of Eight summit. 
G-8 organizers on Monday unveiled the electric car ­which resembles a golf cart the size of a Volkswagen Beetle -customized for President Bush to cruise around Sea Island during the June 8-10 meeting of world leaders. 
Leaders of the remaining seven countries attending Georgia need not be jealous. They'll each get similar rides decked out with decal motifs based on their own national flags. 
the  summit  in  coastal  
TODAY  
0::  

"You'll sec them on TV as [the leaders] arrive to meet­ings and dinners during the summit," said Barry Bennett, spokesman for the Sea Island Summit Planning Organization. 
Cubans In car-boat are stopped at sea 

MIAMI -Eleven Cubans trying to sail to Florida in a 1950s Buick converted into a taillinncd boat were inter­cepted at sea by the Coast Guard and will be sent back 
TONIGHT FRIDAY 
to their homeland, exile activists said Wednesday. 
Marcie! Basanta Lopez and Luis Grass Rodriguez, the two men who turned the classic car into a floating vessel, tried a similar stunt last summer and got caught. 
On Monday, the men set out again, with four other adults and five children, rel­atives said. The Coast Guard intercepted the group late Tuesday en route to the Florida Keys, picking them up oiT Marathon, about 90 miles southwest of Miami, activist Arturo Coho said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
SATURDAY 
~ 
HIGH 22 LOW 5 

letter." promise ring. 
IN BRIEF 
Attend "Globalization and the Inequality between Nations," a lecture delivered by Amitava Dutt of the eco­nomics department at 4:15 
p.m. this afternoon in room C­103 of the llcsburgh Center. The lecture is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. 
Roxanne Varzi of New York University presents a lecture titled "Shooting Soldiers, Shooting Film: Sacred War, Sacred Cinema." The lecture is sponsored by the anthropology department and takes .place this afternoon at 5 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy llall, room 119. 
Thomas llall, an associate professor at the University of Illinois, Chicago will deliver a lecture titled "Preaching at Winchester in the Earl 1\velfth Century" tonight at 5 
p.m. 
in the llesburgh Cente·r auditorium. 

Enjoy an evening with L'Arche at the Center for Social Concerns coffee house at 6 

p.m. 
The event kicks off with dinner, followed by presenta­tions from L'Archc community members. L'Archc is a world­wide movement which focuses on building with persons with disabilities. 


The Pasquerilla East Musical Company presents "West Side Story" tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Washington I Iall. 
Laugh with your friends at "Student Stand-up Comedy Night" tonight at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
~ 


HIGH 23 HIGH 
27 

LOW 15 LOW 
11 

1.1.1 
:c 
~ 
1.1.1 
3: 
-I ct 
CJ 
0 
..J 
...­
~ .­
$" :;:;.­

HIGH 23 HIGH 28 HIGH 25 LOW 18 LOW 26 LOW 10 
Houston 62 I 46 Los Angeles 66 I 48 Minneapolis 26 1 19 46 I 38 St. Louis 35 I 25 Tampa 79 I 64 Washington 36 130 
Atlanta 52 I 46 Boston 36 I 20 Chicago 28 I 21 Denver 32 I 12 New York 36 I 28 Philadelphia 36 I 26 Phoenix 60 I 40 Seattle 
Thursday, February 5, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Epics 
continued from page 1 
ch_ildren to constructing bridges and controlling ero­s,ion at the YMCA Camp hberhart. The majority of EPICS work is done on the local level. but it also has a nationwide partnership with Habitat for Humanity so now each satellite school running an EPICS program will develop separate projects with Habitat. The projects create an experience that should mirror work experi­en~e in the actual industry while providing a service to the community. 
"!We try to choose] proj­ects that have some meat to the engineering, and we've been trying to ramp that up to make the project more chaffpnging. Then we find a l"aculty member that suits the project," Freeland said. 
One of the reasons Freeland cited for changing ~he l"ormat of the program 1ncludcd the weight on fac­ulty who are not paid for overseeing projects but instead take them on as overload. At the moment l"our l"aculty members coor~ dinatc approximately 70 stu­dents. 
"The program has always been of interest to students, but the demands on faculty are so high that it really takes someone dedicated to service," Freeland said. 
Last year, the EPICS pro­gram asked for more faculty volunteers to facilitate the program, but according to Freeland the response was minimal because faculty are already overextended in teaching and research. Also, the engineering department has taken on several other service projects, and it is beneficial for the depart­ment to focus its energies on fewer programs. Freeland is in support of the structural changes that will be made to the program, but he says the way students earn credit for their work will change since now the courses will be offered through the Center for Social Concerns instead of the College of Engineering. 
"The spirit of EPICS will live on, even it the name docs not," Freeland said. 
~n ending the relationship With Purdue that is part of the EPICS framework, how­ever. the program will lose certain national sponsorship benefits that were secured for the service work, like software donated by Microsoft among others. Nevertheless, engineering students should be able to pursue service projects in the future, and Freeland doesn't see the Notre Dame initiatives, some of which have existed for three or four years, coming quickly to an end. 
To learn more about the programs begun through EPICS. visit the Notre Dame web site at http://epics. cse. nd. edu. 
Contact Meryl Guyer at mguyer@nd.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 

Senators debate student feedback 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associate News Editor 
Much of the discussion at Wednesday's Student Senate meeting centered around feed­back from students on several issues. 
Senators attended their dorm council meetings this week to gauge reaction to looking into the language requirement for business students. The discus­sion during the Senate's meet­ing was mixed and centered on the already stringent require­ments in the College of Business. 
Some of the strongest reac­tion came from students who were business majors within the senate. 
"If we want to take a lan­guage, we can," said Keenan senator Dan Zenker, "but ... there are already a lot of requirements. There's no need to make it a requirement." 
Other senators rellected that the business world is growing more international, and a lan­guage requirement would be an asset in the future. 

"I think [a language require­ment] would be great ... but I don't know how feasible it would be," said Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni. 
Senators also came to the meeting with their dorms' sug­gestions on how to renovate the first floor lounge of LaFortune. This was in response to the resolution passed by the Senate last week calling for renovation of the space. 
. Among the several sugges­tiOns were more seating, more comfortable couches or a room similar to the study lounge in the renovated library base­ment. 
Keough senator Chuck Anthony reported that his dorm was concerned the lounge should remain a "pres­t~gious place" for the prospec­tiVe students and their families who visit the campus. 
Finally, in line with their con­cern for student feedback, sen­ators unanimously approved a resolution for a "Student Union Senate Suggestion Box." The resolution recognized that the Senate has an e-mail account, ndsenate@nd.edu, that is rarely, if ever, used, and it called for "[the e-mail account] to be made available for the student body at large to submit ideas and opinions to the Student Union Senate." 
In other Senate news: 
+ Senators unanimously approved the subject of student body president Jeremy Lao's report to the Board of Trustees, which takes place today. In a letter from Lao to the Senate, Lao said, " ... the subject of our report will be to give the Board an update of the progress Student Government has made this semester in regards to creating a new structure, Church in Africa involvement and student responsibility. In addition, we will be previewing our Spring Heport on a Student Programming Endowment." 
+ 
Elliot Poindexter submitted a letter to the Senate officially informing them of the four can~idates for student body president and vice president. The letter mentioned that debates between the tickets will take place on Sunday at 7:30p.m. in the llesburgh Library Auditorium. and that the elections will be held Monday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Finally, Poindexter asked in the letter that senators "encourage the members of [their] halls to get involved in the election process." 

+ 
Senators unanimously approved Claire Fadel as the Student Union Treasurer for the 2004-05 term. In his letter of nomination, current treasur­er Don Norton said Fadel "is an extremely qualified, dedi­c~ted and hard-working indi­vidual who has the ambition drive and capacity to success~ fully serve the Student Union." Fadel served as the Assistant Student Union Treasurer dur­ing the 2003-04 term. 


Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

Thursday, February 5, 2004

page 4 The Observer+ NEWS 


Ave Maria 
continued from page 1 
campus, where a town bearing the university's name and partially owned by the institution will house 1,500 residents starting that same year. The town of Ave Maria will have the feel of an old European city, complete with a grand central church and plaza and adjoining streets lined with shops, restaurants and cafes. 
"This is the first time someone has planned a new town around a college campus," said Nicholas Healy, a Notre Dame alumnus and president of Ave Maria University.· 
ln the coming years, officials envi­sion Ave Maria growing into a nationally renowned university with an undergraduate population of 5,000 and an NCAA Division 1-A football team like that of its norther­ly neighbor. Emphasizing faith 
They also remain committed to establishing a university with a rep­utation for uphokting the Catholic faith and remaining loyal to the Church's teachings -something critics say today's leading Catholic universities have lost sight of in their efforts to achieve higher status within the academic community. 
A study published in the "Catholic World Report," conducted by the Cardinal Newman Society, for example, surveyed students at 38 Catholic colleges between 1997 and 2001 and concluded that students who graduate from such schools are more inclined to develop pro­choice views and support legalizing gay marriages and less likely to attend Mass then before they start­ed school. 
Ave Maria University hopes to combat such statistics. 
"Our intent is to be a great uni­versity that is capable, in time, of responding to the culture we're in," Healy said. "As Catholics, we need to respond to that from an intellec­tual level." 

Central to Ave Maria's identity is its adherence to Ex Corde Ecclesiae, a document issued by Pope John Paul II in 1990 that requires Catholic institutions of higher learn­ing to remain true to their religious identity and committed to the Church's teachings. The university, for example, requires new theology faculty members to take an oath of fidelity to the Church's magisterium in the presence of a bishop and stu­dents are encouraged to take advantage of adoration, rosary recitations and daily Masses avail­Kathleen Cummings. associate director of Notre Dame's Cushwa Center for American Catholicism. 
"[Ave Maria University] is distinc­tive in that it's fulfilling a need. I think there are a lot of young American Catholics who want to go somewhere where [Catholicism] isn't ambiguous," she said. "I think attending Ave Maria University is a counter cultural decision and that has great appeal among young Catholics today." 
Applicants are also attracted to Ave Maria in part because of its low 

able on campus. 
Challenging students 
University officials, 
"/ haven't been 
however, are quick to emphasize that their rejected, but I goal is to produce stu­haven't been dents who also chal­
welcomed either. 
lenge their faith, and this notion is echoed We may be looked within Ave Maria's stu­upon with dent body. 
[annoyance]
'They raise a bunch of committed adults 
because we're so and not clones," said openly Catholic." Stephanie Galuszka, a sophomore at the uni­
Nicholas Healy 
versity. "They teach 
University President 
you to be someone who can defend the on attitude from other Catholic faith. It's hard­Catholic schools er, but it's a really cool way of doing things." 
The Notre Dame CollegiumMusiclim··.·· 
OtudtlS~e.. dl!*®f: · 





C}:ltass 
i.Sll;itTmmt.;. ~<: :;at~ijm1t <i:lt~ ~·~t~~.itr(; '0<niw-­~llij ~fjuttt ~it<"~f.~t$ ·.· 
Sunday,Februt~ry 8, 2004 s:rspm~ Basilica ofthe :Sacred Hec.rt Univenity~.>INDt¥e .Dome Free andopen to the public 
F.tElUNIVt•!fl Slt' Yiii 
w ~!~;~i~Jif~~j~ 

Open to Notre Dame and 
St~ Mc.ry's Students 
Bring your ID! 

$3~00 Skqte Rental .
. 

tuition compared to other private schools ($15,150 annually for tuition, room and board -half the cost of Notre Dame) and its location, Healy said. 
"I don't know what your tern­perature is up there, but it's "70 degrees here, and the sky is clear," he said. "[Southwest Florida] is a very attractive area, and I think there is a great interest comment on other colleges or uni­versities but affirmed Notre Dame's Catholic identity. 
"I think anyone who would visit our campus would have no doubt that this is a committed Catholic university," he said. 
Michael James, associate execu­tive director of the Washington­based Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities, said that he and his colleagues are delighted at the presence of a new institution like Ave Maria University but upset with the tendency of some to hail it as a 'one size fits all' solution to American Catholic higher educa­tion. 
"Generally, the inquires we've received from media sources begin with the presumption that this proj­ect is being pushed as counter-cul­tural. It's seen as a challenge to Catholic higher education," James said. "I think that it's not a com­pletely wrong presentation; howev­er, as an association, we don't find that Ave Maria University is incon­sistent with most of our Catholic institutions that are founded on service." 
He likewise dismissed the Cardinal Newman Society study that called into question the effec­tiveness of Catholic institutions of higher learning, emphasizing that there isn't one single ideal toward which American Catholic colleges and universities are striving. 
'There isn't one narrowly defined template to what is a successful Catholic college or university," he said. 
That may be true. Ave Maria University, however, with its emphasis on faith combined with a strong sense of community in a temperate climate, seems success­ful in attracting new students. The university announced a 30 percent increase in enrollment for the spring semester, and students like Matthes and Galuszka couldn't be happier with their experience so far. 
"It's got the right mix," Galuszka said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

Matthes, in particular, said she appreciates the commitment of the faculty to nurturing their own faith, adding that it's not unusual to find professors joining in on daily Mass or adoration. 
"I wanted a college where the professors were pursuing the Catholic faith," she said. "You see them doing that, and you know that's the source of the drive and intensity of their passion for teach­ing." 
Commitment to the Catholic faith is part of the reason why students are attracted to Ave Maria, and embracing new concepts that are perceived to run counter to that of established institutions is often pop­ular among young people, said in an institution that is starting out unabashedly Catholic. A lot of stu­dents like being pioneers." 
Feeling the cold shoulder 
Ave Maria's reputation for being "revolutionary" in its approach toward Catholicism and the media's emphasis on this, however, hasn't exactly endeared it to the nation's established Catholic colleges and universities. 
"I haven't been rejected, but I haven't been welcomed, either," Healy said of his experience with officials at other institutions. "We may be looked upon with [annoy­ance] because we're so openly Catholic." 
Notre Dame spokesman Matt Storin said the University does not 

7PM 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 5, 2004 CoMPILED FROM T11E OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Beauty queen claims abduction 
DAKAR. Senegal -Peru is investigating claims that a beauty pageant contestant was lured to the West African nation of Gabon to become 67 -year-old President Omar Bongo's lover -and held for nearly two weeks when she refused. 
A spokesman for Bongo, Vincent Mavoungou Bouyou, told The Associated Press on Wednesday by telephone from the capital, Libreville, he was unaware of the allegations. 
lvctte Santa Maria, a 22-year-old Miss Peru America contestant. was invited to Gabon to be a hostess for the Miss Humanity pageant, the Peruvian Foreign Ministry said in a state­ment late Tuesday. 
French ex-PM: Ban Muslim wear 
PAHIS -Former Prime Minister Alain .Juppe on Wednesday urged a "massive vote" of approval for a bill that would ban Islamic head scarves in public schools, as Muslims opposed to the measure protested outside the National Assembly. 
Women in head scarves and other oppo­nents marched to protest the "law on secu­larism" -a move seen by supporters as key to maintaining France's cherished separation of church and state. 
A woman draped from head to toe in a French flag held a sign reading: "I do what I want with my hair," while one of the rally organizers warned the bill would divide France into two camps: "Them and us." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Senate back to work after scare 
WASHINGTON -A Senate rattled by a ricin attack began returning to regular busi­ness Wednesday, and the lack of any report­ed illnesses prompted leaders to plan to reopen office buildings. 
Even so. oiTicials continued to say they did not know how the powdery poison arrived Monday in the mailroom of Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, H-Tenn. Frist said he assumed it came in the mail because the powder was found on the tray of a machine his aides use to cut open envelopes. 
"There's been no smoking letter informa­tion that helps tic this thing together," U.S. Capitol Police Chief Terrance Gainer told reporters. 
Worker saw stunt rehearsal 
NEW ORLEANS -Before the Super Bowl, .Justin Timberlake and Janet Jackson rehearsed a tamer version of the now-infa­mous breast-bearing performance during their halftime show, a worker who saw the rehearsals said Wednesday. 
TimbPrlake practiced removing Jackson's jacket -not exposing her breast -in rehearsals several days before Sunday's game, said David Spear, who attended the rehearsals as a consultant for Pyrotecnico, the company hired by MTV to produce pyrotechnics during halftime. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Farms shrink, vanish across state 
INDIANAPOLIS -The number of Indiana farms has decreased by 10 percent over the past live years and the state has lost 400,000 acres of farmland, according to an agricul­ture census released Wednesday. 
The trends arc driven by several factors. including the growth of large-scale farms in Indiana and a decline in mid-size farms. offi­cials said. 
In 2002, Indiana had 60,271 farms com­pared with 66,707 in 1997, according to the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture, which com­piles the statistics every five years. The decline is consistent with surrounding states, said Greg Preston, USDA state statistician. 
Officials said the state's agriculture indus­try, which employs about 200,000 people, still accounts for about 10 percent of Indiana's economy. But the way farms oper­ate has changed. 
Mass. court OKs gay marriage 
State's highest court says civil union law discriminates against homosexuals 
Associated Press 
BOSTON The Massachusetts high court declared Wednesday that gays are entitled to nothing less than marriage and that Vermont-style civil unions will not suflice, set­ting the stage for the nation's first legally sanc­tioned same-sex weddings by the spring. 
The court issued the advisory opinion at the request of legislators who wanted to know whether civil unions would be enough to satisfy the court after its November ruling that said gay couples are entitled to all the rights of marriage. That decision had been written in such a way that it left open the possibility that civil unions might be allowed. 

But Wednesday's opinion by the Supreme Judicial Court left no doubt: Only The much-anticipated and abroad, including a from the court. marriage would pass con­opinion came a week June U.S. Supreme Court "The dissimilitude stitutional muster. before next Wednesday's decision striking down a between the terms 'civil 
"The history of our Constitutional Convention, Texas ban on gay sex. marriage' and 'civil union' nation has demonstrated where the Legislature will The White House called is not innocuous; it is a that separate is seldom, if consider an amendment the Massachusetts ruling considered choice of lan­ever, equal," four justices backed by Republican Gov. "deeply troubling." guage that reflects a wrote. "For no rational Mitt Romney that would "Activist judges continue demonstrable assigning of reason the marriage laws define marriage as a union to seek to redefine mar­same-sex, largely homo­of the commonwealth dis­between a man and a riage by court order with­sexual, couples to second­criminate against a defined woman. out regard for the will of class status," the justices class; no amount of tinker­But the soonest a consti­the people," said presiden­wrote. ing with language will tutional amendment could tial spokesman Scott At least one aspect of the eradicate that stain. The end up on the ballot would McClellan. case may still be subject to (civil unions) bill would be 2006, meaning that The legal battle in debate: Would marriages in have the effect of maintain­until then, the high court's Massachusetts began in Massachusetts have to be ing and fostering a stigma decision will be 2001, when seven gay cou­recognized in other states? of exclusion that the Massachusetts law. Gay ples went to their city and Conservative leaders said Constitution prohibits." couples could get married town halls to obtain mar­they would redouble their 
Paul Martinek, editor of in Massachusetts as soon riage licenses.· All were efforts to pass the constitu­Lawyers Weekly USA, said as May, the deadline set by denied, leading them to sue tional ban on same-sex that the blunt opinion eras­the court last fall. the state. marriages. es any confusion. "We're going to have to The Supreme Judicial "This now puts the pres­
"The fat lady has sung start looking for a band," Court ruled in November sure back on the and she's singing the wed­said Ed Balmelli, who put that gay couples have a Legislature to do their job ding march," Martinek down a deposit for a wed­constitutional right to to protect and defend mar­said. "It's clear from read­ding after the opinion. marry. and gave the riage for the citizens of the ing the majority opinion The case represents a Legislature six months to state to allow them to that there's no basis on significant milestone in a change state laws to make vote," said Ron Crews, which the [court] will OK year that has seen broad it happen. president of the anything other than mar­new recognitions of gay The state Senate then Massachusetts Family riage." rights in America, Canada asked for more guidance Institute. 

IRAQ 

" 
General: Bombs 'sabotage' self-rule 
advantage." So far, 528 U.S. service members
Associated Press On Wednesday, an Iraqi insurgent have died since the Iraq war began TIKRIT-A senior U.S. command­group claimed responsibility for twin March 20, including 368 by hostile er said Wednesday that recent bombings that killed 109 people at fire. Forty-five soldiers died in <1Ltacks in Iraq are the work of the offices of two Kurdish political January and three more in the first groups seeking to sabotage -or parties on Sunday. The "Jaish Ansar three days of February. The January gain leverage in -a future inde­al-Sunna" said it targeted the "dens toll was five more than in December, pendent Iraqi government that is of the devils" because of the parties' despite hopes that Saddam's capture due to take power by July. ties to the United States. The claim would weaken the insurgency and Maj. Gen. Haymond Odierno, com­could not be independently con­slow the killings from roadside mander of the Army's 4th Infantry firmed. bombs and other attacks. Division, also predicted that coali­The U.S.-led Coalition Provisional In another fatality, a Spanish mili­tion forces would be able to crush Authority plans to hand over sover­tary adviser who fell into a coma the insurgency within a year, despite eignty to a provisional Iraqi govern­after being seriously wounded in a continued American losses since the ment on June 30. The United shootout last month died Dec. 13 capture of Saddam Hussein. Nations soon will dispatch a team to Wednesday, the Spanish Defense "There are ethnic issues. People Iraq to resolve differences between Ministry said. The shootout occurred are now positioning themselves to the Americans and the Shiite Muslim in the town of Hamsa, about 25 see what their role is in the next clergy over how to choose the new miles south of Diwaniyah, where the government, and they are doing it by Iraqi leadership. Spanish troops are based. force," Odierno said after a tour of "We have six to 12 months left of Civil Guard commander Gonzalo this city, Saddam's hometown. "They this insurgency," Odierno said. "I Perez Garcia's death brought to 11 are trying to disrupt the way things think constant pressure will bring it the number of Spaniards that have are going so they can get a little down." been killed in Iraq since August. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 5, 2004 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Thursday, February 5, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
MARTHA STEWART TRIAL 


Dow 10 470.74 -34.44 
Aide: Martha sold on my tip
}ones ' 
Same: Down: Composne Volume: 
Merrill Lynch assistant says he passed inside information, leading to ImClone sale
~ 
185 • 1,621,656,192 . 
AMEX 1,209.21 -4.3~ 
Associated Press 

NASDAQ 2,014.14 -52.07 
NEW YOHK -In the NYSE 6,526.10 ~48.72 
most damaging testimony yet against Martha

S&P 500 1,126.52 -9.51 
Stewart, a former Merrill

NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,447.25 0.00 
Lynch assistant said 

ffif IOO(London) 4,398.50 +7.90 
Wednesday that the home­making mogul ordered all 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
her ImClone Systems stock 

CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -8.82 INTEL CORP (INTC) -4.27 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) -5.40 JDS UNIPHASE QSDU) -5.74 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.03 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.16 10-YEAR NOTE +0.59 5-YEAR NOTE +0.71 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
sold after she learned the 
. -2.33 24.08 
company founder was 
-1.34 30.02 
dumping his own shares. 
Douglas Faneuil, the gov­ernment's star witness, 
-0.15 2.63 
-0.29 4.76 
said he passed the tip from 
-0.28 27.0 I 
broker Peter Bacanovic to Stewart when she called on Dec. 27, 2001, on her
+0.08 49.64 
way to a vacation in 
+0.24 41.24 
Mexico. 
"Peter thought you might like to act on the informa­
+0.22 31.19 
0.00 9.12 
tion that Sam is selling all of his shares," Faneuil said he told Stewart, referring to ImClone founder Sam 
-1.00 33.10 
+ 1.80 401.70 
Waksal. 
+ 1.30 88.025 
Later in the call, Faneuil 
said he quoted ImClone's stock price for Stewart, 
Exchan Rates 

YEN I 05.5 
and she eventually

EURO 0.7976 
declared: "I want to sell." POUND 0.5459 
Faneuil placed the sell order, netting about

CANADIAN$ 1.335 
$228,000 for Stewart. 
Stewart glanced back and forth at Faneuil and prosecutor Karen Patton

COMPANY BRIEFS 
Seymour while Faneuil tes­tified, making notes on a 

legal pad. Bacanovic took DETHOIT -Sales of new cars and trucks 
U.S. automakers' sales disappoint 
notes as well, and fell more than expected in January at the 
appeared to scoff occasion­nation's two largest automakers, with market 
ally when Faneuil leader General Motors Corp. posting a 1.8 per­
described parts of the story cent decline and rival Ford Motor Co. report­
that included him. ing a 9.8 percent drop. 
As cross-examination GM said Tuesday that it was disappointed 
began Wednesday after­with the resulL'i but maintained its outlook for 
noon, Faneuil acknowl­the year. Ford. the nation's second biggest 
edged that Bacanovic automaker, said it remained optimistic a line­
never "explicitly" directed up of new cars would change its fortunes. 
him to lie about the trans­Analysts expected January sales results to 
action afterward. be tempered by frigid weather in parts of the 
Faneuil's testimony is the country, despite brisk business at the begin­
centerpiece of the govern­ning of the month. Both GM and Ford saw the 
ment's case against biggest declines in their car sales, with GM's 
Stewart and Bacanovic, car sales down 16.8 percent and car sales for 
who are accused of repeat­the Ford, Lincoln and Mercury brands falling 
edly lying to investigators 

20.1 percent. Chrysler's car sales also fell, 
by insisting they had a pre­declining 23.2 percent. 
existing agreement to sell the stock when it fell to $60. 
The Food and Drug Administration issued a negative report about lmClone's experimental cancer drug the day after the sale, sending the stock down 18 percent. Stewart saved about $50,000 by getting out when she did. 
Waksal, a former jet-set­ting New York socialite, is serving a seven-year prison sentence after admitting he instructed his family to sell lmClone shares when he got advance word about the report. 
Faneuil, 28, also described a frantic effort by Bacanovic in the months after the sale to pressure him into support­ing two separate cover sto­ries. He said the broker offered him a week's vaca­tion and a trip to Argentina in early 2002. 
Faneuil said Bacanovic first told him the reason for the sale was to gener­ate tax losses to offset cap­ital-gains taxes, then claimed he and Stewart had struck the deal to sell when the stock hit $60. 
In January 2002, as the investigation into Stewart's stock sale was growing, Faneuil said Bacanovic told him: "Listen, I've spoken to Martha, I met with her, and everyone's telling the same story. This was a $60 stop-loss order. That was the reason for her sale. We're all on the same page, and it's the truth. It's a true story." 
Under cross-examina­tion, Faneuil admitted using cocaine, marijuana and the club drugs Ecstasy and ketamine. But he described his cocaine and ketamine use as extremely limited, and said he had never been under the in!lu-

ence of drugs at work. 

David Apfel, a lawyer for Bacanovic, hinted through his questioning that Faneuil was willing to tell the government whatever it wanted to hear in exchange for not being prosecuted. 
But when Apfel asked Faneuil whether he knew it was a violation of Merrill Lynch policy to pass infor­mation about Waksal's account to another client, he implicated the broker once again. 
"Peter told me it was something I should do," Faneuil answered. "I never dreamed that he'd be telling me to commit a crime." 
A routine clause in Faneuil's 2002 cooperation agreement with the gov­ernment requires him not to break the law. 

Colgate posts $372M Q4 earnings NEW YOHK -Colgate-Palmolive Co. report­
SOFTWARE ed a 9 percent gain in fourth quarter profit, driven by improvements in Latin America and strong performances in Europe and Asia. 
The New York-based maker of toothpaste, 
Oracle ups PeopleSoft bid to $9.4B 
soap and other consumer products said its 
fourth-quarter net income rose to $372.1 mil­lion, or 65 cents a share, from $340.9 million, or 59 cents a share, a year earlier. The results beat the 63 cents a share estimate of a survey of analysts by Thomson First Call. 
Sales for the quarter rose 6 percent to $2.57 billion from $2.42 billion a year earlier, beat­ing expectations of $2.56 billion. 
Tyco reports jump in Q 1 profits 
THENTON, N.J. -Industrial conglomerate Tyco International Ltd. posted a 23 percent increase in first-quarter net income as favor­able currency exchange rates boosted rev­enues in all live business segments. 
Tyco, a top provider of electronic security and lire protection services, electronic compo­nents and industrial valves and controls, on Tuesday reported net income of $719.2 mil­lion, or 34 cents per share. That beat by 2 cents the forecast of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call. 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -Business soft­ware maker Oracle Corp. raised its hostile takeover bid for rival PeopleSoft Inc. by 33 percent to $26 per share Wednesday, setting the stage for more high-stakes drama in the high-tech soap opera. 
The all-cash offer, which values PeopleSoft at $9.4 billion, tops Oracle's previous bid of $19.50 per share. The new offer is a 19 percent premium from PeopleSoft's closing price Tuesday. 
PeopleSoft's shares gained 81 cents, or 3.7 percent, to close at $22.70 Wednesday on the Nasdaq Stock Market, where Oracle's shares declined 64 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $13.27. 

The market's lukewarm reaction reflected the uncertainties still facing the sweetened bid, most notably a nearly completed U.S. antitrust review that could scuttle a takeover that Oracle has been pursuing for the past eight months. 
Oracle is betting the new bid will win over PeopleSoft's major stockhold­ers and pressure PeopleSoft's board to drop its staunch resistance to the offer, transforming what has been a hostile battle into friendly negotiation. 
"This is our final price," Oracle chairman Jeff Henley said Wednesday. "We urge PeopleSoft's directors to seriously consider our offer and put the interests of their stockholders first." 
PeopleSoft's board will meet to review Oracle's revised bid and "make its recommendation to PeopleSoft stockholders in due course," company spokesman Steve Swasey said in a statement Wednesday. 
Oracle set a March 12 deadline for PeopleSoft stockholders to tender their shares. The shareholders will have another chance to take sides at PeopleSoft's March 25 annual meet­ing, where Oracle has nominated an alternative slate of directors to sup­plant four PeopleSoft incumbents. 
PeopleSoft's board already has twice rejected Oracle since its suitor made its initial offer of $16 per share in early June. Pleasanton-based PeopleSoft has consistently main­tained it can become more valuable by capitalizing on its recently completed $2 billion acquisition of J.D. Edwards &Co. 

.. 

ELECTION '04: 

Candidates
page 8 Thursday, February 5, 2004 
Who They Are 

Ryan Craft and Steve Lynch are both juniors from Keenan. Craft is a finance and psychology double major and Lynch is a political science major and ALPP minor. 
+ Fun facts: Ryan ran with the bulls in Pamplona. Lynch sampled his first-ever tamale in the dining hall on Monday. 
In Their Words 
+ 
Top Priority: Installing a printing station in each of the residence halls. Students would be able to access their accounts from these stations and use them within the dorms, rather than having to go to one of the computer clusters across campus.

+ 
First Priority: Ensuring that a 3-hole puncher and staplers are provided at each computer cluster for students to use. 

+ 
Notable Quote: "Our main concern is not the structure of student government. It's more impacting students' every­day lives," Craft said. 


In Our Words 
+ 
Best Idea: The installation of printers in each dormitory. Such a development would be convenient and easy, and it would cut down on lines and waiting times in each computer cluster. 

+ 
Worst Idea: A shuttle service from the C parking lot to DeBartolo. The distance from the lots to the building is hard· ly far, and the amount of time students would need to wait for the shuttle would probably surpass the amount of time needed to walk from their cars to DeBartolo. The idea is unnecessary, impractical and lazy. 

+ 
Most Feasible Idea: Staplers and three-hole punchers. The items are inexpensive and useful, and it is doubtful that the administration would oppose such a practical and cheap development for students. 

+ 
Least Feasible Idea: C lot shuttle to DeE.artolo. The University would never spend such funds and exwmd such energy to transport students such a short distance. 


Bottom Line 

Craft and Lynch throw out some decent ideas, but their suggestions and their platform are exactly that-thrown out, not thought out or researched. The candidates do not seem particularly serious about their campaign, and they have no experience with student government-a major disadvantage, because they are uneducated about how to go about implementing their plans and ideas. As representatives dealing with the administration, they would be ineffective because they appear ill-informed and not serious. While their campaign focuses on basically attainable, simple. every­day goals, their lack of knowledge about student government ultimately hurts them. 
Who They Are 
Ebersol is a junior film, television and theatre major. and lives off-campus. Leito is a sophomore an accounting major from Siegfried.
+ Fun facts: Ebersol filmed a documentary this summer in Africa with Nelson Mandela. Leito enjoys playing ulti­mate Frisbee. 
In Their Words 
+ 
Top Priority: Having the student body president appointed a member of the Board of Trustees. Ebersol said he can guarantee this platform promise and if he delivers, it will be a great boost for student-administrator relations. 

+ 
First Priority: Placing a real emphasis on listening to what students want. 

+ 
Notable Quote: "I feel really strongly about the things that we proposed. It is only worth talking about if you arc willing to accomplish it," Ebersol said. 


In Our Words 
+ 
Best Idea: Having the student body president being a member of the Board of Trustees. This ticket's top priority is also its best idea because of the possibilities it could have for increasing awareness of student needs. 

+ 
Worst Idea: Implementing a mid-semester Teacher Course Evaluation. Many students do not like filling these out at the end of the semester and having to do it twice will only create further frustrations. Also, the office that processes the TCEs will not be able to handle the overload. 

+ 
Most Feasible Idea: Placing dining hall menus outside the dining halls. This is relatively simple to do and easily their most feasible idea. 

+ 
Least Feasible Idea: Hosting a presidential debate. Ebersol said that he intends to bring high profile politicians to campus this spring and that it is highly possible for Notre Dame to host a presidential debate. Though this idea seems great on paper, it seems to be both very lofty and the least reachable plank on this extensive platform. 


Bottom Line 
Ebersol and Leito's template is very extemive and the most researched of the four candidates running for student body president this year. But this expansive platform should not be seen as merely a set of unrealistic goals. Ebersol's goals for last year's elections were researched, though they were also lofty. However, this time Ebersol, including Leito, Leito have the necessary experience in student government to know what is achievable. Additionally, they helped restructure studeat government this school year and are aware of what they need to do to get what they want accomplished. 
CHEERS, JEERS AND POLITE APPLAUSE  RELATIONS WITH ADMINISTRATORS  CAMPUS LIFE  STUDENT GOVERNMENT  ACADEMIC LIFE  FEASIBILITY  
Craft & Lynch  They admitted that little research went into their campaigp:..-W~ the little experience and··tpe rela­tive ease with\which they b,ave tl!'k~n this camp~~t;u.tu e sue­cess does ..t\look bright for them witl/ adminis­trators should they get elected.  .-...#.. ~--~2\ Their platform :ijid not address camplli Jife. '"'\ 1 ~·l·*··· ~~ 'J1l:'  Their.<pt'~i'rr~o,ncern is not Fte stru,ttu{e ~tu­den\ governnt.e'nV;but impTing '\u~ife  They did not have any specific jl:~ademic goals, but the~' 'mited plat­form di \yi d several idea~;~Draf wo ct. make stud>'h!og ea-sier. This idea~i;include a midnight finals1~ffet, staplers in the co .JlUkr-elusters and print stations in each dorm.  It sp-t(mf!Th:~\most of the~ itleas ~ t~gthe huttle -re .Rfasi­ble. rowev.cr~ also only 1ave s1x 1 as.  
Ebersa! & Leito  (''~ They a~ rrently in student,.g(}ve~nt and de4\with ad · istra­tors/rhe necessary rela­tion~ltps have already been ~stablished. .,_~....~..,.,...··­ An ope~ g ceremony with a c t and "fes­tivitie.s'.;,. or okstore Bas~tb_.i~:ll is,th ·r plan. Any (ixcuse for a concert souri't"good to us, and it soun "iike _!.b.~ can get this on~dnYlee.  A stu jent representative on the B~cd of 1h"""' to facilita e rther discus­sion? Sou ds 'ke a good idea j(O tis, an so does evalq~'ti~ the Council of Repr.~~sentatives for effi­cienc~Vr.bey are dedicated to coJJ.'U.n.1J,ln.g-"tiris year's work and making student government better.  They want to improve student ;rdvising in the College \~ts and Letters to\th level that existfirt'· the J!ege of Busi!J~~ Thig· is an ideal goal·:fo.r a student gov­ernm\p.t. and it would greatly~e"'!tcadem­ic options for many stu­dents.  This tic~ knew what would a t be feasi­ble. Th()U~h s c ideas do s~am.)ofty, tn y have the work ethic and abil­ity ti\'_;e, mo't of theic I 1deas"{_1iro~o com­pletion.·..­ 


ELECTION '04 


Candidates
Thursday, February 5, 2004 page 9 
Who They Are . 
Mark Healy is a freshman from Zahm who intends to major in Electrical Engineering. Mike Healy is a freshman from Keenan who intends to major in American Studies. 
+ Fun facts: Mark llealy's picture in the Dogbook was taken in a race car. Mike Healy has spent a night in a trash can. 
In Their Words 

+ 
Top Priority: Making student government more accessible and open to student opinion. To accomplish this, the ticket plans to place an idea box next to the TCE drop box in DeBartolo Hall. 

+ 
First Priority: Establishing a transition team with experience to smoothly enter office. 

+ 
Notable Quote: "I really think it is time for student government to open its windows and let some fresh ideas in," said Mark Healy 


In Our Words 

+ 
Best Idea: Establishing a DVD rental location on campus, possibly in the LaFortune Student Center. There is clearly a market for an on-campus movie rental establishment and both students and a business would benefit from this idea. 

+ 
Worst Idea: Holding student forums to discuss controversial issues, such as the HOTC Pass and Review and CORE classes. Previous administrations have held student forums to talk about issues such as the new alcohol policy, which were sparsely attended and not worthwhile. 

+ 
Most Feasible Idea: Posting buyback book prices from the Notre Dame bookstore online. Buyback prices are known by the bookstore, and students would benefit greatly from posting them online. 

+ 
Least Feasible Idea: llot sandwiches and fountain drinks in Grab 'n Go. Previous tickets have discussed over­hauling Notre Dame Food Services, and this idea will not be feasible without raising the cost of meal plans. 


Bottom Line While some may scoff at the fact that this is a freshman ticket, Mark and Mike Healy (no relation) are serious about improving the amount of input students provide to student government. But they have not done enough research to overcome their lack of knowledge about Notre Dame student government. Being unfamiliar with past governments has led them to propose ideas such as creating student forums on key issues, a tactic that was unsuccessful for pre­vious administrations. And while they also haven't run their platform by key administrators to check its feasibility, don't be surprised if the llealys learn from their mistakes and are viable candidates in future elections, after getting more involved with student government. 
Who They Are Istvan is a junior from Morrissey majoring in aerospace Engineering. Bell is a junior from Walsh majoring in chemical engineering.
+ Fun facts: Adam was 25 pounds lighter than the next lightest player on his high school football team. Karla is the Walsh llall I)Htscot. 
In Their Words 

+ 
Top Priority: As their top priority, Istvan and Bell hope to bring dances back to the dorms. They suggest imple­menting a "pledge" system by which on-campus students sign a document stating that they will not participate in excessive drinking during in-dorm dances. 

+ 
First Priority: The candidates' first priority is to establish an on-campus DVD rental store. As managers at the Huddle, they envision this as a prime location for the store. They have also begun discussion with Huddle general manager Jim Labella and claim he is receptive to the idea. 

+ 
Notable Quote: "There is no real fun aspect to a dorm like there was our freshman year," Istvan said. 


In Our Words 

+ 
Best Idea: The DVD rental store is Istvan and Bell's best idea, simply because of the student demand that it would have on campus. It would be a beneficial option due to its convenience for students who prefer not to, or do not have the transportation to travel off campus. 

+ 
Worst Idea: The candidate's worst idea is having student government provide marshmallows to seniors before each home football game. Security sees the marshmallows as the problem -monitored distribution would fail to add ross the issue. 

+ 
Most Feasible Idea: In addition to being their best idea, the DVD rental store is also Istvan and Bell's most feasible idea. The fact that they have already initiated communication with Jim Labella is a step in the right direction. 

+ 
Least Feasible Idea: The least feasible idea proposed by this ticket is returning SYH dances to the dorms. With tlw backlash the administration has received from students in regard to the existing alcohol/dance policy, it seems little is left to bn done that will make a significant impact. 


Istvan and Bell have the initiative to explore the best options for the student body. They present themselves in a professional manner, yet have no experience in student government on which to build their administration. Their platform outlines clear plans of action, but many of their ideas, like that to return SYR dances to the dorms, seem likely to become promises they can't keep. 


CHEERS, JEERS AND 
RELATIONS WITH 

STUDENT 
FEASIBILITY
CAMPUS LIFE 
ACADEMIC LIFE

POLITE APPLAUSE 
ADMINISTRATORS 

GOVERNMENT 
Their limited ideas on 

Having the bookstore post
According to Healy, all
student life include a 

student government 
book pri! on the Internet 
Their platforms is ill-
DVD rental location on

They do not have the 
before t ·· emester ends,
meetings p..eJ:d to be 
researdred"··aifd\they are
campuS""a:nd"h.Qt food at

necessaTy"'knoiYiedge or 
along wit a · t of books 
open totlfe pub~ic. But 
also misinform~Qipn sev-
Grab 'n Go. But can a

experience that. 4; need-
Healy 

with the diss(}hition of 
they ~J..-and not buy 
era! diiTer~nt t,!lmgs that
ticket tha,t beli~~es two

ed to deyelt;w ;~trong 
back, tbis tickets Closest 
the Executive-(i;:~binet 
they ~aignt~d on.
separ'ii~: O~fts.!~ com­

relati~i~ '1 with 
idea /t9, an academic poli­
and the~ceptioli of the 
& 
Thus, m (\,i(not all,
panics ser"(ic~ North and

administr o · to benefit 
ty.. u"~JiQuldn't be too hard 
Council ··~\ of 
their ideas ~~by default
South Diningl-alls really 

students. '\,) 
Rcpresenta i1es in the 
thougf\:~·~ces arc

Healy 
·~· 
not feasible. '
succeed where other. 

already online, but at a
fall, this ship has already
more experienced 
later date. 
sailed.
administrations failed? 


The. ideas that they have
The main objective here
Both arc Huddle man-

Their platform for the 
researched -a DVD

They didn't talk much on
agers and know how to 
is to put SY.lls, back in 

most .12.11;:t~id not 
rental i'lt' ~r:'Ot'\une and

theirJtl-ifl~;::f(j~ student
the dormS. Cnnsidering
work.J¥if:h~:gff'icials in 

address acade·fuic life,

Istvan 
service initiatives -are

govtriimenf it«;~elf. ~ut
this has beer{. tried
LaF.()r11.u4Je1 B~ll i~ a 

however, they·dld sug­
feasible. \.\'hili ,l?finging 

sine • so many~~~:gcs
before, th11ir-in,~xperi­
dor~1 prcsid~d 

gest a~~na:ti.~ to the 
back s~and 'ilcstruc­

arc tready UJide way,
& 
ence w~·t~J them 

booksto . &fin ing an
wor s rcgulau th a 
turing s d~ii(scating

it's p obably s ething
deal with 'lldministrators 
recti r. llowev , they 

alternative l;>bokstore to 
for basketbaU'games are

they ·hould , art think-
who are rtpitoriously


Bell 
havel relativl' limited 

campus wilt"'b\.ost likely 
).,,/
not feasible. 
ing about. ' 
against this idea. 
experience whh admin-
not happen. 


Thursday, February 5, 2004

page 10 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Ieman-Marse Center 631-78oo .t@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu

Campus Ministry 
C-M 
~:::~~~--·---~'--R_:_:_:_:n_#_a.:;:...;2_·_;---­
February 27·28 February 27-28 Sign up Deadline: Sign up tleadllne: February 9 February 20 

considera • ons... 
Two by Two 
Tl1e Miracle of Starb11cl<'s and a Sticl( 
. byChandr~ johnson Assistant Director, Cross-Cultural Ministry 
He sennhem our two-by~two. Six pairs .ofwilling men pumped up to pound the pavement in search ofa willing audknt¢. ThC;ly~ad a 01es~age to sell. It's sort oflike caucus canvassing. You knock on lots ofdoor~> h()phxg~meon<; will invite you in for a cup of coffee and a conversa­tion about your favorire aJndidate. That's ifYou're lucky. Or, they see you coming up the walk in your fluorescent knit cap and kinko flyers, and ptetendthey're not at home. There's always a risk when you sharey()uUhoughts and beliefs with other people. There's no guarantee you'll be received oreven respected. So why do people continue risking being misunderstood and igno.red? 
Today's g~pel explains it: "Jesus summoned the Twelve and began to send them out two .by two and gave .them. authqrity over unclean spirits. lie.instructed them co take nothing for the journey but a· walking stick~lJ.o. •food,. nci sack, no money in· their belts. They were, however, towear sandals but not a~rond tunic.''He knew what a tough job the disciples had taken on.. Getting strangerstobelieye in the probability of their own healing is no easy task. .J!utwh~t's fl10$t striki~ a b9utJ esu~'s sending i~ Ns ·undersranding ofhu!Tlan relationships. He 
·.·l$.C;lyf ~y ~he tiw.e ~he d.i~!piples ~~a.9?e~ tpeit desti~tj.on, they y.rould have had to depend on . • each· oi:hetfor emotional and physiehl stability. "With no food; backpack, • money, extra clothing, theyy.rouldhave mtalkand craft·whattheyweregoing to say and how.to say it while they ... walked together. Perfer;t .candiqates f<ir anySurvivorseries, they were on their own with a 
• ·tnes~age. ;l.n9 aset ofirt$ttlj~doris..··. ... . . . . . . . . . . . . ·· · · ''l$e Twelv~ (b:ov~ out manyd.emons; and. they anointed with oil many who were sick and wred th¢m." The disciples arrived at their respective destinations as a team well prepared to $hare ·~· r~voludonaty Hl,essap~ ·oflove> hope and ~ealing. ··Although inevitably most weten' t int:~re5te<.iill:.¥fhat they }f~dto say, the <lisdpl~s p~rsevered. The trip home was probably a blast as they shared the stories of how God had used them to reStore the honor ofmany and improve their lives. But most ofall, ihey returned home with a deeper trust and love for their friend. WhatJesus said would happen happened. . Relationships beginwith an initial conversation. The more we share about ourselves, the more We understand ourselves. Maybe that's the scary part; our knowing what we're really made of: A risk, maybe, but it's the. chance worth taking ifliving is our goal. The disciples trusted the passion ofJesu.is resolve and began a journey inward to the vortex of their own conviction. Movements begin with an idea and a willing community. I have enjoyed listening to the stories ofstudents whc. traveled to the Iowa caucus, and how much fun they had. It wasn't sp much the purpose or platform. It was the camaraderie and common experience which drove them to public service. Su.stained [)ialogue will belaunched this. weekend at Notre Dame. The program is designed to get people talking to one another. Acting on b<;lief means sharing what you believe and talking ab:>ut what matters to you. This is the genius behind Jesus sending the disciples our two by~two; If they survived rhe journey and remained friends, God would do the rest. Maybe miracles are born in conversations shared over a cup ofcoffee, during a long walk or drive, or just sitting on a secluded flight ofstairs. Giving voice to what moves you brings you closer ro yourself. As we continue our winter journey inward, take advantage of the season by opening yourselfto ~harewhaes on your miri4and listening to the thoughts of others. There 
are plenty of oppommitie:: on campus to do this. Just find what works for you. And who knows. Maybe you'll disc•)Ver Jesus's healing touch is your own. 
si 


Get involved, go on a retreat More info a applications in Room114 Apply online at c:ampusministry.nd,ec:iu 
.friday diJJ6 
Mass for Peace 

First Friday dinner & discussion .follows at eSt 
5;15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Celebration and 

.. HandbellChoir Toi.JJ' Roselle, StCharles, & Chicago, IL. 
Senior Retreat Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Asian and Asian American StudentAU·Nighter Friday, 10 p.iTl. -Saturday, 10 axn. 
saturdcry oLoTH · Encuentro Chicago 
Trip toPilsen! Chicago'sL!Wno community 
Co-sponsored with Centerfor Social Concerns · 
sundayo2.os 
RCIA Session 

··tti~~M!ri~M&~i.iJ~W~e.•.••••········.•·.····· 
·. s:po p.m... .z:oo p;ft'l~ . ·Colernan-Mdrse Lounge 
8:15p.m. .·.••· ···••·········· 
Basilica. of the Sacred Heart 
monday o:t;o9 
RCIA Community and Study Hour 6:oo,7:6o· p;m; 316 Coleman-Morse 


tuesday oz. w 
•••.Cam.pu.·~ s.·.. Jb·t.e... Study·
· · ·· · ·· ·· · · 
7:00p.m. ~s:oo p.m. 114 Coleinan~Morse 

EUe$sed.Sacrament · 9:oo p.rn. 
Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart 
··lnt~r~itb C:hristian Night J)ray~r 
Prayer seivice.for Christian· Unity 
to:oo p.jn, .. 
Golerrian+MQrs~ lounge .. 
Theology on· Tap lfThere Hop~ mtoss? ..•••..· 
.. A9/HSJ9i'(wftljJep~ifer§#ns (t~~N~T~> ~~:3~£p,.m·. <... 



campus peace initiative. 
Mass for Peace 
.... Every Friday .... 
s:ts p.m. 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
On the first Friday of each month, the Peace Mass will be followed by dinner and discussion. 
.... join us tomorrow atthe Center forSoclatConcerns ... 


mass..schedule 

Fifth SI.Jndi!yin··ordinary Tiine 

basilica of the sacred heart 
around campus (every Svhday) 
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 1:30 p.m. s:oo p.m. 7:oo p.m. 
s:oo p.m. 10:00 a.m. Spanish Mas:; Law School Mass MBA Mass Rev. Charles Gordon, c.s.c Rev. Charles Gordon, c.s.c St. Edward's Hall Chapel Law School Commons Mendoza COB 
11:45 p.m. Faculty Lounge Rev. Jim King, q;,c 
1st: Isaiah 6:1-2a, 3-8 2nd: Corinthians 15:1-11 Gospel: Luke 5:1-11 

Thursday, February 5, 2004 
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 11 

Ca01paign 
continued from page 1 
the period of solo campaigning was loss important to his ticket than their overall previous stu­dent government experience. 
"Thoro is a perception of a lwad start. I just didn't think it was a timed head start," he said. "It was a head start in terms of oxperiencc." 
Ebersol and Licto showcased their experience from the out­set, forming a website titled the "Hoad to Progress" that emphasized the candidates' familiarity with navigating the many parts of student govern­ment. 
While the Web site and cam­paign posters have been cru­cial for getting the word out, Ebersol stressed the impor­tance of interacting face-to­face with students before their votes are cast. 
"The most important part is meeting potential voters and giving them the option to ask questions," Ebersol said. "If I'm going to ask you to vote for me, I want to give you the opportunity to shake my hand, look me in the eye·, and know that this is who you want to vote for." 
lie reiterated his philosophy that the responsibility should fall to the candidates to seek out the student voters, not vice versa. 
"I believe people shouldn't have to go out and find the candidates, the candidates 

NDPRESENTS: OPERAAT THE MORRIS 
Wednesday, February 11 7:30 PM 
M~JUi:; Pet romli~II::J Art~ Ceoj~J 
t-or tickf:t:., call ~/( 4-"2:-1~-H1 HU .;-;-r t.oH tr.:x: at HOLL~::rt -H41 ~ 
ot ~«J•J may ord>tl"t tick.eh at www.M<.IfrisCenter.orq 
~UN 1 V Jl.ll SIT Y (,}P 
~NOTRE DAME 
2004 SUMMER RESIDENCE HALL STAFF 
The Office ofResidence Life and Housing is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
• 
Hall Manager 

• 
Assistant Hall Director/Manager 

• 
Desk Clerk 


The application and position descriptions are available in the Office of Residence Life and Housing or on·line at: 


orlh.nd.edulemployment 
Application deadline is February 13, 2004. 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING






off&n 


should go to the students," dorms and "pounding the Ebersol said. flesh" over the race's final few 
In contrast, Craft said that he days. trusted students' initiative to "We'll definitely go around research the candidates on door to door as much as possi­their own. ble," Istvan said. "A lot of peo­
"Students will educate them­ple complain that student gov­selves on the various plat­ernment has been too focused 
forms, as long as  on  itself, and  
they're  we  want  to  
informed," Craft said, adding that he and Lynch had been direct­ "/ believe people shouldn't have to go out and find the  turn around focus on students."  that and the  
ing their efforts towards inter­views and that they were in the  candidates, the candidates should go to the students. "  Healy report­ed using simi­lar strategies to seek out stu­ 
process of dis­ dent input.  
playing posters. "We're quite a bit behind." Istvan and Bell  Charlie Ebersol student body presidential candidate  "We've visit­ed dorms, talked to peo­ple -basically  

have distributed two such posters so far, bearing the slogans "Heal Leaders. Heal Ideas. For Heal Students." and "It doesn't have to be this way." 
"I think the student body wants to see a change. They want leaders who will do things for them, not to them," Istvan explained. "That's what the 'It doesn't have to be this way' [poster] was about -we will be who you want us to be." 
He added that he and Bell planned to supplement their poster campaign by visiting 
Board 
continued from page 1 
work with student leaders." 
"They were really honest with us in the fall, and I think that we've taken steps to address their concerns," Loa said. 
Lao, student body vice presi­dent Emily Chin and Chief of Staff Patrick Corker will today update the Board on their efforts to address those same concerns, focusing on develop­ments such as their campaign urging students to live to their full potential and their role in engaging student participation in the Church in Africa confer­ence. 
"We'll mention the structural changes that we've made," Lao said, adding that today's pres­entation will stand as a preview to the more complete spring report and to a proposal for a student programming endow­
we've formed 

our platform one hundred percent on what people have to say," Healy said. "Anything they've said, we've looked at and tried to imple­ment it." 
The llealy-llcaly ticket also has a website, which Mark Healy described as "pretty thorough on our platform." Both Istvan and Craft said their campaigns had Web sites in development. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
ment. 
Lao also said that he and his team will seek the Board's per­spective on how best to ask for additional funds. 
"They were really honest with us in the fall, and I think that we've taken steps to address their concerns," Loa said. 
The Board of approximately 60 members meets three times each year to discuss University issues and proposals. At their meeting In October, Board members unanimously re-elect­ed chairman Patrick McCartan, who will serve in the position until 2007. The Board also approved three major campus construction projects -the Jordan Hall of Science, the Don 
F. and Flora Guglielmino Family Athletics Center. and a new facility for the Notre Dame Security/Police Department and campus post ollice. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 
:utch * Michael Stars * Juicy Couture * Rock Johnson * Anna Sui * 
Granger} IN 46530 (574) 277-6693 
528 E. Colfax Ave. South Bt·nd, IN 46617 (574) 232-1822 


THE 0BSER\'ER 




IEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 5, 2004

page 12 
The Observer endorses Ebersol-Lieto 

A year ago, when Charlie Ebersol ran for student body presi­Theh again, compared to their opponents, Ebersol and Leito 
dent and earned an endorsement from The Observer, he ran on didn't have to be outstanding to earn The Observer's support. a broad platform filled with lofty promises designed to inject Adam Istvan and Karla Bell represent the best alternative to energy into a static student life on campus. Ebersollost, but Ebersol and Leito, but also present some ideas that would not be remained an integral member of student government as the palatable to students or easy to obtain, such as returning SYRs to leader of the Student Union Board and played a key role in dorms ifstudents signed a pledge that they would not drink 
restructuring student government. Now, a year after his flrst bid excessively. Mark Healy and Mike Healy had a handful of decent for president, Ebersol returns to students with a more realistic ideas, such as opening a DVD rental location on campus, but 
idea of what he can accomplish. And in a year they lack a clear plan for their administration and 
where no other ticket possesses either the student QHhe suffer from presenting ideas like hot sandwiches government experience or well-researched ideas, server in Grab 'N Go. Ryan Craft and Steve Lynch are so ' Ebersol and James Leito compose the ticket that Edi~on·al unprepared that they toss out campaign ideas as will most effectively represent studentS. .~ they pop into their heads. 
Ebersol and Leito's platform represents a wealth Istvan-Bell, Healy-Healy and Craft-Lynch, in one of ideas, but none is as intriguing as their pledge form or another, are running as student govern­to place a student on the Board of Trustees. If accomplished -ment outsiders who promise to change how student government and Ebersol guarantees this will happen-it would mark one of is run. But with the dramatic internal changes scheduled to be the most signillcant achievements ever by a student government completed on March 31, individuals who were integral in the in giving students a direct voice on the University's highest body. restructuring would best utilize the revamped student govern­
Their campaign promises also include objectives -though ment apparatus. That's what Ebersol and Leito can provide, and students may not flnd all of them to be overly impressive-that that's what students need. are readily feasible. These include an off-campus security alert The Observer endorses Charlie Ebersol and James Leito for system, a concert to kick off bookstore basketball, Eucharistic Notre Dame's 2004-05 student body president and vice presi­adoration in the dorms and many more. dent. 

Business with a conscience 
Business students here have a tremen­dous ability to do good work through their motives and actions. Interviews with six past and present students and administra­tors in the College of Business have made Andrew this clear. 

DeBerry
Former Dean of the College of Business Frank Reilly notes ND Changing business persons are Times needed to help society and individuals. On a macro level, countries need good business people to establish capital markets for sus­tainable development as shown in Southeast Asia. On a micro level, financial planners help individuals develop resources for their personal goals. 
Some counter the view that business is evil. Kim Brennan, the program manager of the Master of Science in Administration pro­gram that teaches about non-profit man­agement, believes that the for-profit sector can provide many good examples of how to run an organization effectively and make something sustainable to those who wish to serve in the not-for-profit sector. 
In order for business to be a genuine serv­ice, Reilly maintains that one's efforts need to have proper understanding. He empha­sizes that executives clearly miss the point if they don't recognize the larger purpose beyond making money. 
Senior Justin Brandon is a former busi­ness student pursuing a Sociology degree and an International Business Certificate. He notes that hunger for money is not the best motive for business. Business is intend­ed to serve people, not the other way around. Ultimately, it comes back to the people. 
Many serve by working in the non-profit sector. The Gigot Center for Entrepreneurship has several programs that students can work with. Programs range from neighborhood mentoring proj­ects with disadvantaged teenagers to inter­national partnerships with poor communi­ties in South Africa and Jamaica. These programs try to shift paradigms and tell stu­dents that they do have real, professional 

options in the non-proflt sector. 
Students can also join the Student International Business Council (SIBQ. Having a mission of "Peace through com­merce," members find innovative ways to apply their talents. SIBC Chief Financial Officer and junior accounting major, John Boots, says that the Global Development Division in particular can use student sup­port for their bednet project jn Haiti and their business school venture in Kenya. 
Despite the value of non-proflt work, it isn't for everyone. Students can also do tremendous work in the for-profit sector. The key is maintaining a value-oriented foundation. 
2003 alumnus and old roommate John Cannon, who is currently doing non-profit work in Alabama, believes that businesses inherently serve people because they fulfill a need in society. He points out that our capi­1alist economy is driven by competition, and everyone suffers when this system drops. 
However, capitalist competition neglects various social areas, and a socialist aspect of our society tries to address this through public education, medical access and a pro­gressive income tax. Consequently, Cannon emphasizes having balance and perspec­1ive. It's important to be very conscious of how one fits not only into a business but also the local community and the total soci­ety. 
Getting this perspective takes effort dur­ing undergraduate business studies. A cou­ple of students noted that the business cur­Jiculum is more about developing skills and making decisions. It doesn't necessarily challenge one to think about broader social problems or to study the larger role of busi­ness in society, let alone in light of this com­munity's Catholic character. Although our professors do comparatively well at ethical education, the Catholic character of aca­demics is a persistent concern not just for business but for all our colleges. 
The profit-minded mentality was what drove Justin Brandon away from the busi­ness school as an upperclassman. Although the business skills he acquired will still be valuable, his studies in sociology were what provided a broader understanding of corpo­rate responsibility. 
Some students aren't able to relate busi­ness to its social impact. It's not that they don't care; they just don't make the connec­tion. They have incredible power to discov­er. Consequently, Brandon encourages his peers to pursue outside studies to derive a better understanding of the role of business. 
Some corporations maintain a clear social concern while pursuing profit. For example, Boots was encouraged to pursue service work in an internship interview with KPMG. Many corporations like KPMG have organi­zations for workers to demonstrate servant leadership and responsible corporate citi­zenship. 
Doing work outside the job can be a valu­able experience, especially if one feels that their business work is not having an impact. Pro bono work may take a small percentage of one's time. Young business professionals are always welcome on community boards. Experienced executives are needed for phil­anthropic work. Any business person can be a great asset because of their unique skills in organization, strategy and develop­ment. All these efforts support an example of character both on the job and lor one's family. 
In the six interviews, one theme repeated­ly surfaced: passion. It's different for each person according to their skills and inter­ests, but when focused in some way on oth­ers' welfare, the power is awesome. 
Business students are developing special­ized skills the world needs that only they can provide. By acting on their passions with the right perspective, business people will see that they have tremendous power. 
Andrew DeBerry is a fifth-year senior majoring in aerospace engineering and minoring in Middle Eastern Studies. His col­umn normally appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at adeber­ry@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 

What new residence hall options would you like to see at Notre Dame? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Excellence is not a singular act, but a habit. You are what you repeatedly do. " 
Shaquille O'Neal basketball player 
-[1--lE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 5, 2004 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Explaining 'Vagina' 
Ah, Notre Dame. The place where children toss footballs with their fathers on Saturday football game days, donning Irish jerseys way too big for some football players. The place where young boys and girls from the South Bend community come, their heads pointed upward in amazement at the beauty that is the Golden Dome and the gorgeous landscape. 
Notre Dame, the place where family and friends visit to see their darling sons and daughters and brothers and sisters. Notre Dame, the place where you sit down at a dining hall table to see the word "VAGINA" in 42-sized font capital letters, reminding us it's "time to COME again." 
Yep, the Vagina Monologues are back in town. And conveniently, so will my 10-ycar-old brother. I can't wait to show him around campus, let him see the JACC and then take him to eat in one of our dining halls. 
Oh wait, I can't. · 
Why not? Perhaps because my 10-year-old brother, a week after witnessing Janet Jackson's star-studded breast on national TV, can't help but notice the red. eye-catching advertisement with "VAGINA" text in front of his very eyes. 
("Oh, it's okay Sean, they spelled China incorrectly.") 
("It's the name of a famous performer, Sean.") 
This is Notre Dame, the place where, for class business projects, students must run by any and every idea for advertising past the Student Activities Office. 
If I wanted to sell shirts around campus with a beer logo, I couldn't-too suggestive of underage drinking. If I wanted to sell shirts with lewd or sexual slogans across them, I couldn't-too indecent. 
And that's why it all makes perfect sense why our Department of Gender Studies can issue an advertisement in our own dining halls luring us to "come" and celebrate the highly uncontroversial issue of a woman's genitals. 
llooray, everyone say "VAGINA!" 
Join in, Scan. It's okay, I know you're 10, but sooner or later everybody will be doing it. Why pursue decency, Sean? One of the most respected Catholic institu­tions in America doesn't. 
Our administration has done a fantastic job of maintaining the old "family environment" feel-let's give them a raise. And oh yeah, Sean, tell your alumni parents to contribute an extra dollar, too. 
Ricky McRoskey 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
Feb. 4 

·The right to bare 
For the most part, I would agree with Professor Emily Phillips' comments on the Super Bowl half-time show, suggesting that the partial showing of a woman's breast is not that big of a deal. 
But two contrary facts prevent agreement: 
1. 
a breast is not "genitalia;" 

2. 
and more importantly, Janet Jackson did not show her breast. Bather, it was exposed by Justin Timberlake, a man who had no business taking that action, even if with her "OK." The message given is that a man can use a woman for his own purposes, with or without her approval. The next step is rape. 


Rev. Stephen P. Newton, CSC Rector, Sorin Hall, 1989-2000 Feb. 4 


The m.aintenance m.an, preventing disaster before it starts 
I know this might be on the inane side awaiting calls from mysterious people of things, but considering most of what I with "tips?" do involves a certain level of inanity, I Even when things do go wrong, what thought I might comment on this partic­could he possibly do to prevent a win­ular aspect of everyday Notre Dame life. dow from breaking or a heater from 
Walking casually to class the other shutting down? day, cigarette dangling from my lips There is obviously no use for him in because the frigidity of the natural these moments of dire need because world is too much for my complaining people immediately call the mainte­hands, I noticed a truck demarked with nance crews, those men equipped with the words, "Notre Dame --~ the necessary tools to actually nx 
Preventative Maintehance." 
Now, many of us might think there is nothing wrong with this truck, hoping the owner of such a truck is duti­fully running around campus protecting us all from the ruinous appliances pres­ent in the fair buildings in which we sup­posedly learn. 
However, the phrase "Preventative Maintenance" raises certain questions. 
I was under the impression most people live according to the age-old adage, "If it ain't broke, don't nx it," despite the apparent misuse of grammar. 
However, the owner of said truck obviously has other ideas in mind. I must wonder, what does this man actually do all day long? 
Obviously, there is no need for him when all things are working correctly. Does he have certain premonitions, small angels, the flight of an eagle, or any sort of variation, that tell him when something might go wrong? Has this man unlocked the secrets of divine inspiration in the modern world? Does he sit in a locked office all day long, 
things, unlike this man who, despite my various attempts to figure this problem out, 
has no tools at point in the has clearly 
his chance; moment to shine, passed. 
Or perhaps he is the mischie­vous sort, run­
ning around campus actually preventing peo­ple from doing maintenance, in which case his 
would probably be either a machete 
or a samurai sword, chopping maintenance 
crews to pieces. 
So what exactly is point? Am I won­about the clear 
of budget dol­by the University? 
No, that would be much too practical of a complaint a man such as I. 

Instead, all I really want to know is, 
what do you do, sir? And, in my attempt 
to continue the inane life, can I get in on 
it? 
John Hibley junior Off-Campus Feb. 4 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Consider the environm.ent 
Throughout the presidential campaigning, I have noticed a severe lack of emphasis placed on environmental issues and their solutions. 
In a recent on-line survey of the three top candidates, I found only one, John Kerry, who approaches environmental issues by focusing on environmental justice. 
John Edwards has the poorest environmental policy, sticking to popular issues like ANWR while ignoring the poor and uneducated who suffer the worst effects of industry pollution. 
Howard Dean is much better, focusing on health issues inter­twined with environmental policy, but it is Kerry who specifically states a federal obligation to the poor and minorities in his environ­mental policy. 
I urge voters to consider environmental justice in their presiden­tial choice. This is our generation's civil rights movement. 
Michael McReynolds senior Stanford Hall Feb. 3 




CENE
page 14 
Thursday, February 5, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Twista dazzles but content fizzles 
By KENYATTA STORIN 
Scene Music Critic 
Once you have heard Chicago rapper Twista, it is impossible to forget him. He is a ridiculously fast rapper -so fast that he could probably give the motor-mouthed MicroMachines guy a run for his money. It's been close to five years since his last album, but Twista has finally returned with his third installment, Kamikaze. And like previous Twista joints, the album has plenty of that trademark speed. But as much as Kamikaze will hit you as hard as five Kamikaze shots, the lack of depth will sober you up fast. 

When you first hear Kamikaze, you will likely be amazed by Twista's non­stop, rapid-fire delivery, but when you start to listen carefully to what Twista is actually saying, you come to realize that he really is not saying much of anything at all. As a result, most of the tracks have a tendency to blend togeth­
er after a while. Virtually all of the tracks deal with the over-used rap themes of thugs, women, sex and drugs, and Twista says nothing in his flows that has not already been said before at a slower pace. 
But this is not to say that the album does not have· its moments. Undoubtedly, the best track is the sexy lead sin­gle "Slow Jamz," with the help of acclaimed produc­er Kanye West. who even sings a little on the track. West produces a sweet, mellow beat with some creatively used Luther Vandross samples, which contrast well with Twista's rapid flow and Jamie Foxx's additional vocals. The drug anthem 

By BRIAN FOY 
Scene Music Critic 
A Crow Left of the Murder finds a very different Incubus from their pre­vious effort, 2001's double platinum Morning View. For starters, founding bassist Dirk Lance left the band over the past summer and was replaced by Ben Kenney, formerly of The Roots. Kenney promised to bring a rejuvenat­ed Incubus into the studio when recording began in October. The boys then decided to record outside their comfort zone of Southern California in favor of the pristine shores of Atlanta, Ga. Finally, the fact that guitarist Mike Einziger was experimenting with new sounds during the past Lollapalooza Tour and invariably brought this new sound into the studio would prove to be the final ingredient in the new Incubus formula. 
It is evident from the initial track of A Crow Left of the Murder that Incubus will be getting back to louder and angrier roots. The album begins with distortion and seemingly space­age sounds of Incubus's resident DJ Kilmore. It is from this chaos that Einzinger's simple guitar work slowly begins to build up with Jose Pasillas's drums and Brandon Boyd's now famous trademark croon. 
The music of the initial track and lead radio single, "Megalomaniac," appears to come from the same cre­ative mind that produced Incubus's first album, S.C.I.E.N.C.E. The verse of the song is heavily bass-driven with the guitar coming in and out until it drives the chorus home. It is also clear in the chorus of "Megalomaniac" chorus that Boyd is a much angrier man than the one· who belted out tunes such as "Wish You Were Here" and "Drive." In "Megalomaniac," Boyd screams: "You're no 

"Higher," fea­turing Ludacris, and the slow jam "So Sexy," featuring R. Kelly, are decent listens, as well. Twista also gives a breath of fresh air toward the end of the album by switching up 
his content a bit with the reflective "Hope," a tribute to deceased artists Aaliyah, Left-Eye and Jam Master Jay, and the victims of September 11. The positive, feel-good "Sunshine," featuring Anthony Hamilton, also offers a bright spot on the album. 
Aside from the content, the other problem with Kamikaze is that the pro­duction is rather hit or miss, and except for maybe "Slow Jamz," there is nothing particularly exceptional. Twista's right-hand man, Toxic, pro­duced nearly half of the album, and with the exception of "Get Me," the results are regrettably your average run-of-the-mill stuff. Even Kanye West, best known for his contributions on Jay-Z's hits "Takeover" and "Izzo (H.O.V.A.)," produces pretty tame beats on "Overnight Celebrity" and "One Last Time." 

Twista may very well be the fastest rapper in the business, perhaps even ever, but he still does not have what it takes to carry an album by himself. It is rare to find a rapper so astounding yet so restricted at the same time. He contrasts well with other rappers in guest appearances. but alone he becomes exposed as somewhat of a one-trick pony. 1\vista could have ben­efited from better production, especial­ly from Toxic, but ultimately the flaws of the album are on him. Overall. Kamikaze is like your average action movie: flashy and exciting the first time, but ultimately shallow and for­gettable in the long run. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Incubus returns to its roots 


Jesus I Yeah you're no ... Elvis." 
Upon closer inspection, A Crow Left of the Murder shares quali­ties with their s e c o n d release, Make Yourself. The t r a c k " P i s t o I a" might very well be the next single off the disc, and at times it seems like it couLd have been lifted straight from their sophomore effort. The song begins with another clip from DJ Kilmore before fading away to the riff of Einzinger's guitar and Boyd's vocals. Once the chorus begins, the introduction clip rejoins as the drums and bass crash in and heighten the already building song that only esca­lates as Boyd sings "My pen is a pisto­la." However, the highlight of the track might very well be the bridge near the end of the song that allows each mem­ber ·Of Incubus to showcase what he does best. The timing and musician­

ship are clear as the bridge feeds into the final verse and chorus. A Crow Left of the Murder is every­thing that Morning View is not -and 
.everything that it should have been. The former brings Incubus fans full circle as the boys return to their loud­er distorted roots while expanding their sound to include slower, more mellow songs. The differences in the recording process are clearly for the better and A Crow Left of the Murder is so eclectic that it will appeal to Incubus fans both new and old. 
Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 





CENE
Thursday, February 5, 2004 
Page 15 


ALBUM REVIEW 
Always a sure bet with Folds 
ByJULIE BENDER 
Scene Music Criric 
When something is good, why 
change it? 
That seems to be the philosophy of 
the piano pop prince of the decade, 
Ben Folds. Throughout his time with 
his previous band, Ben Folds Five, 
Folds produced a savvy collection of 
quirky pop ballads that earned him 
a devoted fan base and placed his 
name on the charts as a quiet yet 
influential force in popular music. 
Two years ago, Folds called it 
quits with his band mates and head­
ed out on his own with just his 
piano in tow. His album to follow, 
Hockin' the Suburbs, allowed Folds 
to further explore his narrating lyri­-cal style and his punchy piano 
rhythms, but stayed true to his dis­
tinctive sound. 
llis live album, released in 2002, 
featured more of Folds in his own 
unique genre. The album showcased 
an array of songs from Folds reper­
toire, combining old favorites from 
Speed Graphic & Sunnv 16 Eps 

Ben Folds 
Sony Records 

the Five with his independent 
releases as a solo man. Keeping with his tried and true method of piano balladeering, Folds has added two new EPs to his line of album releases. The EPs, Speed Graphic and Sunny 16, contain more of the distinct pumping beats and witty lyrics that have dotted Folds' musical past. The results are quality 
songs that con­tain nothing new or daring, but still are of a high musical standard. 
Speaking on his website about his deci­sion to release his latest music via the Internet and on five­song EPs, Folds says, "Part of me thinks I'm an idiot for 'wasting' this recording on limited release [EP's]. but I'm really into this method of recording and releasing quickly and 


-
number, sampling similar beats and themes from songs like "One Angry Dwarf," "Happier," and "Rockin' the Suburbs." The title of the song says it all: "There is Always Something Cooler Than You." Fuzzy bass fills in the background as Folds chants, "Make me feel tiny if it makes you feel tall, I but there's always some­one cooler than you. I Yeah ... but you won't be it for long. I Oh there's always someone cooler than you." 
On the song "All You Can Eat," Folds tries his hand at politics, a rare theme for him that he manages quite well. The innocent-sounding melody is deceiving once the lyrics are heard. Folds takes jabs at SUV drivers, Wai-Mart, consumer culture and obnoxious people, in general. singing with his childlike frankness that they don't care "just as long as there's enough for them." 
With a new album due out some­time this year. Folds is showing promise for his future musical endeavors with these EPs. Although he shies away from anything too new or groundbreaking, he contin­ues to be a reliable source for great music. Folds' knack for melody and lyrical witticisms make him one of the best songwriters this generation has seen. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
-
making it all about music." 
Folds is certainly good about "making it all about the music." Although the EPs do not prov~ to be his best work in recent years, the songs are still quite good and will be a hit with fans. 
Speed Graphic opens with a cover of the Cure's "In Between Days." Folds treats the song in much the same manner as the original, though with a bit more optimism and piano, proving he really does know how to be "all dressed up like the Cure." 
The second track is a Folds origi­nal, reportedly written only a week before recording. "Give Judy My Notice" has the lovely piano melodies characteristic of songs from the past like "Brick." The song tells a tale of breaking up with Folds, seeming gentle and tender while "giving Judy his notice." He does get his characteristic jibe in, however, when he sings with crass elegance, "Judy I won't ... follow you around and hold the door I I'm not sorry till you're sorrier." 
The EP also includes fast and fren­zied circular piano on "Dog" and a tune co-written with former Ben Folds Five drummer Darren Jesse, "Wandering." 
The opening track on Sunny 16 is perhaps the quintessential Folds 


Tuesday, February 5, 2004 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Martin's·double-double lifts Nets over Heat 
Associated Press 3:53 left before halftime, Miami season highs with 10 rebounds coach Stan Van Gundy took a and eight assists, and was only 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­chance and put Odom back in one point off his best effort with Kenyon Martin celebrated his the game with three fouls. The seven. first All-Star selection with 24 move paid off as the Heat closed Sam Cassell finished with 20 points and 13 rebounds, and the the half with a 14-4 run that fea­points and Kevin Garnett had 17 New Jersey Nets remained tured five points apiece by Alston for the Timberwolves, who lost unbeaten under coach Lawrence and Eddie Jones and no more for only second time in 10 Frank with a 99-88 win over the fouls by Odom. games. Garnett struggled Miami Heat. throughout, finishing 7 -of-24 
Clippers 95, Celtlcs 86

Jason Kidd added 18 points, 11 from the field, including 1-of-8 in 
With Corey Maggette sidelined, 

rebounds and four assists as the the fourth quarter. 
Nets won their sixth straight the Los Angeles Clippers needed With Minnesota trailing by 
overall and their fifth in a row something extra from Quentin three with 1:30 left, Abdur­
since Frank replaced Byron Richardson. Rahim swiped the ball from 
-
Scott. He obliged with eight 3 point­Garnett, which led to two clinch­
Scott's firing came three days ers while scoring 36 points to ing free throws by Diaw. after the two-time defending lead the Clippers to a win over The Hawks, who have yet to Eastern Conference champions Boston as the Celtics lost their win back-to-hack games this were embarrassed by the Heat, fifth straight game. season, trailed after the first, dropping an 85-64 decision in "Coach [Dunleavy] told us second and third quarters. That Miami. before the game that it was an normally means a loss, since 
The Nets returned the favor on important game tonight because they were 2-28 when losing at Wednesday, posting their sixth we were missing Corey the start of the fourth quarter. straight double-digit victory in a [Maggette]." Richardson said. But this time was different. rough game that featured a fla­"Once I hit a couple of shots, my Cassell made a 3-pointer with grant foul and seven technicals, confidence was unbelievable." 7:21 left to give Minnesota an including two that caused the Richardson scored 14 fourth­83-76 lead. The comeback start­ejection of Miami's guard Rafer quarter points and keyed a 17-6 ed on an off-balance 3-pointer by Alston in the fourth quarter. run over the fmal 7:41 when the Terry, who released the ball just 
Richard Jefferson added 21 Clippers overcame an 80-7 8 before the shot clock expired to points and the Nets had no trou­deficit. cut the margin to four. ble with Miami's defense this "I thought the key tonight was Abdur-Rahim made four free time around, shooting 45.6 per­the defensive fourth quarter we throws and Terry nailed a cent from the field. had," Clippers coach Mike jumper, offsetting a thunderous 
Lamar Odom, who was not Dunleavy said. "Whatever dunk by Garnett, and the Hawks selected for the All-Star game Quentin's mental preparation had tied it at 85. despite averaging 16.9 points was for the game, I'd like to see A jumper by Latrell Sprewell and 9.8 rebounds. had 27 points him do it again." gave the Timberwolves their last and 12 rebounds in showing Marko Jaric finished with lead before Steph(ln Jackson tied what fans in Los Angeles will three points, nine rebounds and it again with a layup on a nifty 
victory to tie the franchise record high 32 points and Jalen Rosemiss at the midseason showcase nine assists for the Clippers, who pass from Diaw. 
of 28 set last season. had 21 as the Toronto Raptorsof the NBA's top talent. have won three straight on the A defensive 3-seconds call on The victory spoiled the return enjoyed a rare blowout with aWhile the Nets never trailed road for the first time this sea­Garnett gave the Hawks a free of point guard Gilbert Arenas, victory over the Orlando Magic.
after the opening quarter, Martin son. throw, and Abdur-Rahim made it who energized the Wizards in a Orlando star Tracy McGrady made sure Miami never had a "We need as many road wins for an 88-87 lead. Atlanta pulled game played at a torrid pace missed the game because of back chance after the Heat cut a 17-as we can get and it feels good to away from there, closing the from start to fmish. Arenas, who spasms. He is listed as day-to­point lead to ~>even at the half. get that monkey off our back," game with a 21-6 run. 
missed 26 games in three stints day for the Magic, who have lostMartin, who sat on the bench said Elton Brand, who had 22 
most of the second quarter after points and 11 rebounds. "We Grizzlies 103, Wizards 101 on the injured list with a lower four straight. 
picking up his second foul, domi­knew they had been struggling James Posey scored a season­abdominal strain, was activated The Raptors went 11-for-14 
nated the third quarter with 14 and we didn't want them to get high 31 points, and Pau Gasol before the game and had six from behind the 3-point arc and 
points, five rebounds and two healthy on us." made two clutch baskets in the assists. He was a rusty 3-for-15 had their largest margin of.victo­
assists. He had 10 of the Nets' Boston has lost nine of 11 and final 70 seconds to lead the from the field and scored nine ry this season. 
first 12 points and assisted on a is 0-4 under interim coach John Memphis Grizzlies to a victory points. Marshall had 13 of his 22 first­
jam by Jefferson. Carroll. over the Washington Wizards. Larry Hughes scored 27 points half points in the second quarter 
Martin added a little showtime The Clippers snapped a seven­With the score tied at 99, Gasol to lead the Wizards, but he took as Toronto outscored Orlando in the fourth quarter blocking game losing streak to the Celtics. backed in on Kwame Brown to only one shot in the fourth quar­37-15. The Raptors scored a sea­Caron Butler's shot to set up a Paul Pierce had 22 points and put the Grizzlies in front with ter. Jerry Stackhouse, in his sec­son-high 63 points in the first fast break, and later throwing an Jiri Welsch added 20 for the 1:08 to play. After a Wizards ond game back after missing 45 half and led by 20 at halftime ­alley-oop pass for a big jam by Celtics, who were outscored 25-turnover, Gasol made it a four­games recovering from knee sur­at that point the most points Jefferson. 12 in the fourth quarter. point lead on a 16-footer from gery, scored 19. they've led by this season. 
The game had an ugly moment There were 13 lead changes the left wing with 26 seconds Much of the second half was Marshall's 3-pointer and Alvin in the third quarter when Kidd and 12 ties through the first remaining. one streak after another. The Williams' jumper gave Toronto a was knocked into the basket sup­three quarters. The victory gave Memphis Wizards went 12-0 at the end of 29-point lead in the fourth. port on a fast break by Malik coach Hubie Brown his SOOth the third quarter to take a 13-Raptors rookie center Chris Allen, who was called for a fla­Hawks 97, Tlmberwolves 89 pro victory-396 in the NBA point lead, but the Grizzlies Bosh missed the game with a grant foul. Jefferson got a techni­Shareef Abdur-Rahim had 32 and 104 in the ABA. The answered with a 16-0 run to sprained left ankle and is listed cal for pushing Allen. points, 14 rebounds and a key Grizzlies won their 10th road start the fourth. Later, a 7-0 as day-to-day. 
Aaron Williams and Rodney steal late in the game to help the game of the season, tying a fran­Washington run cut the lead Juwan Howard led Orlando Rogers led a 19-7 spurt by New Atlanta Hawks rally past the chise record. They also improved from nine to two, and Brendan with 22 points. Jersey's reserves that helped the Minnesota Timberwolves. to 8-8 all-time against the Haywood tied the game on two Toronto's Jerome Moiso, who Nets open a 42-25 second-quar­Jason Terry added 20 points, Wizards, making the Washington free throws with 1:25 to play. has played little this season, had ter lead. Stephen Jackson scored 17 and the only team in the NBA without 12 rebounds and 10 points-his 
After Williams' free throw rookie Boris Diaw had the best a winning record against them. Raptor~ 110, Magic 90 second straight double-double pushed the lead to 17 points with game of his brief career. He tied The Grizzlies need one more Donyell Marshall had a season-and the fourth of his career. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including alt spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
-
NOTICES 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! 
.. 
Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! 
S&H calculated. 
www.bookhq.com 
Large 1 Bedroom Condo 1 o min
... 
from Univ. All App. Pool Low taxes less than rent 
574-299-4997 
... .. .., ...... " .­

LOST & FOUND 
LOST: 2 Keys-one a Mercury key and the other a Honda key -on a round ring Friday night between the parking lot in back of the band build­ing and the Joyce Center hockey entrance. Please call Ga~ at 247-0560. 


WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359 

.. ' ... -­
WANTED ARCHITECT STUDENT TO HELP WITH CREATIVE IDEAS FOR A REMOLDELING PROJECT. NO DETAILED PLANS. SMALL$. NANCY 273-0322. 

FoR RENT 
B&B for JPW/grad/football for up to 12 people, 1/2 mile to ND, email 
domercondo @yahoo.com 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TC CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM 
mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 Rental House, 2004-05@ 911 Corby. Clean, 4 bed, 2 bath w hdwd firs, new windows,AC,wash/dry & alarm sys. 11 o. lease. Landlord is ND Alum. Contact Lisa @ theemurphs@hotmail.com/619­804-3359 

DOMUS PROPERTIES...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE... 2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX ... AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL 
YEAR. ... WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR...CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 


PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
You don't know how hard it is to stop smoking. Yes I do. It's as hard as it is to start flossing. 
Special today is unlimited free pizza. Note: not valid at any Mitch's Pizzaria location. 
Man, I wish I just had one, long, curvy tooth. 
That's like ...seven. 
OVER THE LINE!!! 
I'm sorry, Smokey. That was a foul. Mark it zero. 
They need spell check on their jer­seys. 

Woowoo. Valedictorians in the house. 
~----------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, February 5, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Brevvster, Irish vvin NCAA block titles 
Special to The Observer 
Sophomore middle block­er Lauren Brewster and the Notre Dame volleyball team registered a pair of land­marks recently. when the final NCAA Division I women's volleyball statis­tics were announced. 
Brewster became the first Irish player to lead the nation in a statistical cate­gory, with a 1.78 block av1~ragc. while Notre Dame notched its first statistical crown in a team category. The Irish averaged 3.72 blocks per game, with sec­ond-place Cornell finishing at 3.52. 
Bn~wster. who vaulted into the national lead in blocking midway through the season and stayed among the top two throughout the campaign, 1~dged Valparaiso's Liz Mikos for the title, when the Crusader finished with an average of 1.77 per game. Brewster. who was nanwd honorable mention i\11-Anwrica and lirst-team All-Big East this season, finislwd fourth in the nation as a freshman with a 1.68 block average. 
Brewster had one of the top blocking campaigns in Irish history. Her block average was the third-best season mark in the Notre Dame annals, just .01 off the school record. Brewster's 155 block assists matched the second­highest total in Notre Dame history, just six shy of the record she established in 2002. ller 185 total blocks were the third-best total ever for an Irish player. 
In addition to leading the Big East in blocking (with second-place Ashleigh Young of Hutgers more than 0.5 blocks per game behind, at 1.27). Brewster was tops on the Irish and fourth in the league in both hitting percentage and points. 
In conference play, Brewster posted a .403 attack percentage, by far the best of anyone in the league. Brewster also led Notre Dame in kill average 
(3.58) and was second in service aces (0.26). 
Brewster was honored as the Big East Player of the Week three times in the month of October and was one of just two players to win the award on three occasions this season. 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
Following the big win against Olivet, the Belles were looking to come out and steal a win from Calvin, a team that was 15-3 going into the game. Instead,. they were handed their worst loss of the sea­son. 
In a crusbing 65-42 loss, the Belles were outplayed on both sides of the ball and looked like they didn't belong on the same court as the overpowering Knights. 
Calvin got off to hot start, outscoring the Belles 18-3 to start the game. Saint Mary's never fully recovered, going into the half down 36-18. The Belles did, how­ever, manage to keep up with Calvin in the second half. being outscored 29-24 en route to the 23-point loss. Only other time this season, in a 68-45 loss to Washington, the Belles were outscored by 23 points. 
"We were expecting them to transition like they did last time," senior guard Katie Miller said. "We knew they were going to be a quick team, and they were." 
Calvin forced the Belles into transition defense much of the first half, pushing the ball up court quickly off rebounds. The Belles responded by attempting to keep up in the quick tempo game, and they were much less successful. 
Calvin shot 42 percent from the floor in the win, while Saint Mary's shot just 27 percent. The statistic fails to tell the whole story, as Saint Mary's was bullied on offense, unable to get good looks on many of their possessions down court. 

Guard Kristen McDonald led the way for Calvin, scoring 15 points on 6-for-9 shooting and adding five assists. Lesa Holleman and Lisa Winkle complemented McDonald on the offensive end, contributing 11 and 10 points, respectively. 
"We just weren't stopping their penetration --they were getting easy lay-ups," said Miller. 
For Saint Mary's, three players scored nine points: Bridget Lipke, Maureen Bush and Bridget Boyce. Lipke added four rebounds for the Belles in 22 minutes. 
Following the game, Belles coach Susan Bellina would not comment on the loss. ller Belles fell to 6-14 on the year and 1-8 in MIAA play. 
For Saint Mary's, turnovers have been an on-and-off problem all year. In the contest with Calvin. this problem showed its ugly head as the Belles committed 23 turnovers to their 11 assists. 
"OffeJ.lsively, it seemed like we had a lot of turnovers," Miller said. "We just weren't getting our game together, we weren't playing together as a team." 
Saint Mary's will travel to !lope this weekend, for a Saturday after­noon match-up with the Flying Dutch, who are currently first in 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles rung, suffer home loss 
the MIAA. llope is one of two teams this year to beat Calvin, so the Belles should have their hands full. 
"We just need to play together, that's all there is to it," Miller said. "We need to come out, be strong, win and have conlidence in our­selves. We seem like we go on highs, and then we go on lows." 
CALVIN 65, SAINT MARY'S 42 at the ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY 
SAINT MARY'S (6-14, 1-8) 
Creachbaum 2-5 0-0 4. Boyce 0-1 0-1 0. Pernotto 0-1 0-0 0. Miller 1-4 1-1 3. Bush 4­12 0-0 9, Lipke 4-8 1-1 9. Broderir.k 1-4 0-0 2, Malone 0-0 0-0 0. Mangan 0-2 3-4 3, Mullen 0-4 0-0 0, Boyce 2-9 5-6 9, Binhark 0-0 0-00. 
CALVIN (16-3, 9-1) Winkle 4-7 2-4 10, Estelln 2-3 0-0 4. McDonald 6-9 2-2 15. Wolthuis 1-5 0-0 2. Petlinga 1-3 0-0 2. Ouwinga 2-4 0-0 4. Campbell 0-2 0-0 0. Bentlwm 1-3 0-0 2, DeRoos 1-5 0-1 2. Heilman 1-3 1-1 3, Holleman 4-7 3-4 11. Jurgans 0-2 0-0 0. Nanninga 4-8 0-0 8. Peterson 1·4 0-0 2. 
1st  2nd Total  
CALVIN  36  29  65  
SAINT MARY'S 18  24  42  

3-point goals: Saint Mary"s 2-8 (Lipkll 1-1. Miller 1-1, K. Boyce 0-1. B. Boyce 0-5). Calvin 1-5 (McDonald 1-1. DeRoos 0-l, Pettinga 0-1. Wolthius 0-2). Foulud out: None. Hebounds: Saint Mary"s 9-33 (K. Boyce 7). Calvin 16-52 (Winkle 8). Assists: Notre Dame 11 (H.Boyce 4). Calvin 15 (McDonald 5). Total fouls: Saint Mary"s 10, Calvin 16. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

r------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­



LAFAYETTE SQUARE 
TOVVNHO~ES 
••rHE _FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS EI.OUSIJVG,, 
Apartments are available :for '04-4 05 and are tilling up f'or '05-4 06 
Call to get the REAL story and to find out why you should live at Lafayette Square. 
AMENITIES INCLUDE: ..,/' PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ..,/' 24-HOUR EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE ..,/' THE LARGEST STUDENT APARTMENTS AVAILABLE .,/ 4-AND 5-BEDROOMS UNITS ..,/' WASHER AND DRYER IN EVERY UNIT 
-
-../' ADT ALARM SYSTEMS ..,/' DISHWASHER ..,/' CLOS.E TO CAMPUS ..,/' THE B.EST VALUE PER STUDENT BY SIZE AND AMENITY PACKAGE ..,/' PROUDLY SERVING THE NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S COMMUNITY 
Refer aper...•;on or group that leases an apart1nent and receive a $500 referralfee!* 
(()ne referral Cee paid per aparttnent leased. Call Real Estate Management Cor Cull details.*) 
Lease an apart~nent between February 1 & .M"arch 1, 2004, and receive a free 1nonth,s rent!** 
Call Real Estate Management Corp f"or Complete Details** ­
You ha:ve looked at the rest, now lease the best! 
For more information, call 574-234-9923 and ask :for Justine 
Call now-! They won't last long! 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~----­
page 18 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 5, 2004 



Notre Dame Literary Festival Presents 
Sunday, Feb. 8th: 
4:00 p.m. Reekers Hospitality Room 
Free Food and

Helena Maria Viramontes 
Author of The Moths & Under the Feet of.Jesus Beverages atlllhe•l
7:30 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom Jim Shepard Author ofProject X, Vernon God Little, Nosferatu 




Thursday, February 5, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

Difficult 5-7 season hurts recruiting process 
FOOTBALL 
Winning only live games does not just mean another los­ing season for the Irish. 
Tyrone Willingham knows this now as well as anybody. 
Tlw Notre 


Pat Leonard 

Dame football 
team went 5-!:>ports Writer 7 last year, and the cfl'ects of last season's pnrformance on this year's 
:..:,, 
@lf!h 

~·-. 
''··..-::;.· 
,'1:1' 
··! 



recruiting are blatant and visi­ble. 
Sure, the Irish got their target at running back in Georgia's Gatorade Player of the Year Darius Walker. 
They got the athleticism of Anthony Vernaglia and the shiftiness of Justin Hoskins. 
But last season's class of quar­terback Brady Quinn and defen­sive end Victor Abiamiri was rated among the top live nation­al recruiting classes. 
This year's class might not make it into the top 25. 
...-. 





f]l'
·.!JIJI! w///1/.. '
.......•. 
i ·~, 1. 
'; 
: ·, :!'­
,.,'i
!,,,,. '··· 

':"""­
~ nt: ::UO.e:s dntirniteo ! . . 
.. free.·...·.-:·, ....... )·c.:<.. 
Starting a freshman quarter­back and struggling to !ill the holes in the offensive line and other positions vacated by grad­uating seniors, the Irish expect­ed to have rough times through a tough 2003 schedule. The problem was that while Notre Dame was getting thumped at home by rival USC ( 45-14) and southern powerhouse Florida State (37 -0), recruits were in South Bend visiting and attend­ing the games. 
The players obviously did not like what they saw. 
/. 


-f< US.Cellular 
Quarterback Brian Brohm and offensive linemen Jeff Byers and Allen Smith all visited on the weekend of Oct. 17. They wit­nessed a game between Notre Dame and eventual national champion USC. 
Brohm committed to Louisville. Byers went to USC. Smith eventually signed with Stanford. 
The methods of the coaching staff came under heavy scrutiny as the months passed and numerous schools, before bowl week even approached, began 
---"! 
to reach the double-digits in 
commitments while Willingham 
and his staff remained with live 
or six players verbally commit­
ted. 

Coaches weren't doing enough early, and fans complained. So the coaches invited players for visits during game weekends. 
That didn't seem to work 

either. 
Willingham explained Wednesday that he believes the recruiting process must be thor­ough, and therefore sometimes slower, in order to correctly evaluate a prospect. The aca­demic requirements of such an institution also have an efl'ect. 
That could be the case, but then why did Stanford get Smith over Notre Dame? 
Why did Virginia. a rigorous academic institution, sweep cor­nerback Nate Lyles away from the Irish? 
The common opinion said Notre Dame had lost many of its first options to competing recruiting efforts and had been forced to move to other options. 
Coaches likely would not and should not admit that any play­er was not a first option. Such an admission would hurt the health of the program. 
But the reason·so many play­ers on the oflicial recruiting list are listed at multiple positions -and the reason many of the players do not have the stats of players in past recruiting class­es is simple. 
This is a class based solely on potential. 
In a year in which Willingham and the Irish seemingly could not buy a win, they had trouble selling recruits as well. 
No one knows for sure how the players in the class of 2008 will develop. Players like line­backer Abdel Banda and defen­sive end Justin Brown have been described as having "raw talent." 
Raw talent is good, if it devel­ops. It the talent does not develop, it is a waste of a scholarship. 
"The potential is what it's all about," Willingham said. "And it's about really coaching and developing young people. Do you want to put your futures just in potential? No. Because at some point you've got to change that where it's got to be prod uc­tion." 
The opinions ofthis column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu . 
-

-





Recruiting the 



CLASS OF 2008 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, February 5, 2003 
-

-

Recruiting the 

CLASS OF 2008 
Thursday, February 5, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
John Kadous offensive lineman 6-7, 310 lbs. Tucson, Ariz. Sal pointe Catholic "A big, strong. bull­type ofrun blocker." Tom Lemming ESPN analyst Notes: First-team offensive lineman selection by multiple publications on the Arizona Class 5A all-state team ... played defensive tackle.  Terrail Lambert defensive back 5-10, 190 lbs. Oxnard, Calif. St. Bonaventure "He has speed and toughness. We should be very excited about Terrail." Tyrone Willingham Irish coach Notes: Rated 85th out of ESPN.com top 100 players ... made 87 tackles, three sacks.  Brandon Nicolas offensive/ defensive lineman 6-5, 275 lbs. Santa Ana,. Calif. Mater Dei "A technically sound player who be a good guard in college. " Tom LemmingCourt~ ot Orange County Reporter ESPN analyst Notes: 52nd on Rivals.com Super West 60 team ... made 60 tackles, 17 for a loss, and five sacks senior season.  
Ronald Talley defensive end 6-4, 245 lbs. Oak Park, Mich. Renaissance "lle needs more consistency but has the tools to play right away. Tom Lemming ESPN analyst Notes: Made 80 tackles, 42 solo and 38 assists, and five sacks.  Anthony Vernaglia linebacker/strong safety 6-4, 220 lbs. Anaheim Hills, Calif. Orange Lutheran "You can think about him being a linebacker, a tight end. a strong safety." Tyrone Willingham Irish coach Notes: Rated 95th on ESPN.com ... 631 yards receiving, nine touchdowns ... 88 tackles.  Christopher Vaughn wide receiver 6-4, 205 lbs. New Haven, Conn. St. Thomas More "lie's big. fast. physical. strong and productive. 1/e might be the best player in the class." Tom Lemming ESPN analyst Notes: 20 receptions for 650 yards, 14 touchdowns ... former basketball standout.  


Darius 

David Wolke 
quarterback

Walker 

6-4, 205 lbs. 
running back Mt. Juliet, Tenn. 
5-11, 200 lbs. 
Smyrna

Lawrenceville, Ga. Buford 
"Siwuld contribute as "A good player with a a true freshman. lie's good arm who playeda prize catch and a in a shotgun in highblue-chip athlete. " school." 
Tom Lemming
Tom Lemming ESPN analyst 

ESPN analyst Notes: 63rd on ESPN.com top 100 national 
Notes: Threw for 1 ,850 yards and 15 touch­player list ... 2,406 yards rushing and 46 TO's 
downs, rushed for eight touchdowns . ... broke Herschel Walker's touchdown record. 








OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 5, 2003 CoMPILED FROM Tnr OBSERVER'S Willi SERVtCEs Page 22 


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Pepperdine at Gonzaga 11 p.m., ESPN2 Arizona at California 10:30 p.m., FOX CH. 
NBA 
LA Lakers at Philadelphia 7:30p.m., TNT San Antonio at Seattle 10 p.m., TNT 
NHL Detroit at Colorado 8 p.m., ESPN Vancouver at New Jersey 7:30 p.m., FOX 
CH. 
TRACK & FIELD 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Marion Jones is ready to start her track career again. 
That could mean bad news for the rest of her competitors. 
Jones will run in the 60 meters Friday at the Millrose Games, her first competition in over a year since taking a leave to have a baby. Though she hardly ever competes during the indoor season, Jones want­ed to get her return under­way to prepare for the Olympics this summer. 
"No matter where I go in the world, the pressure would still be on in terms of the world media, in terms of me wanting to prove myself in the first competi­tion," Jones said. "I decid­ed, 'Why not test myself with some of the best in the world? Why not just go for it? I've never been one to run away from a challenge. I'm not doing it now." 

Jones will face a top­notch field, including teenage sensation Allyson Felix. Last June, Felix broke Jones' 200-meter high school record, finishing in 
22.52 seconds. 
In addition, world outdoor silver medalist Torri Edwards and Inger Miller are entered in the field. 
"I always seem to be the target," Jones said. "It's interesting, I see articles on Allyson. I see all the pres­sure that's coming upon her after running some great times last year. I say she's running some great times, Marion it's time for you to start running great times. Sometimes I use it as moti­vation quietly to myself." 
Jones had a baby boy last June, and went back on the track about a month later. 
Because she stayed in shape throughout her preg­nancy, her first few prac­tices were not too difficult. 
But she was desperate to get back onto the track because she missed the competition. 
So two months ago, she turned to new coach Dan Pfaff and said, "Dan, I need a competition." 
"I wanted to get back out there and get that feeling again," Jones said. ''I'm missing that feeling of pre­race jitters. I'm missing the feeling of walking out there, the crowd going crazy. I'm missing the feeling of the athletes getting behind their blocks. I can't get that in practice." 
Jones loves her new rela­tionship with Pfaff. He allows her training to be more flexible, and also has helped her improve on the long jump. 
IN BRIEF 

Daytona 500 will pay record Under an agreement announced serves the ball faster. purse Wednesday, the city will be a regular One gap on his resume? A Davis 
The season-opening Daytona 500 on tourney host as long as the NCAA Cup title, something he and the United Feb. 15 will pay a record purse of keeps its national office in States can move closer to by beating $15,972,313, an increase of nearly $2 Indianapolis. That includes the Final Austria in a first-round match in million from last year's posted Fours and the men's and women's Uncasville, Conn. awards. first-and second-round or regional "It's a Jot easier to play a big match 
It will be the biggest payout in stock tournaments, as well as the NCAA in a Grand Slam than it is to play a big car racing history, breaking the record convention, all on a five-year rotation. match in Davis Cup. It's still something of $14,030,129 set last year. Indianapolis also will be the perma­I'm learning about," the U.S. Open 
"The Daytona 500 is the ultimate nent backup site if other cities slated champion said. "The more I get out prize in stock car racing," track presi­to hold Final Fours have to drop out there, the more chances I get, the bet­dent Robin Braig said. "It only stands for any reason. ter I will get in this situation. So I'm to reason that the biggest race of the NCAA President Myles Brand called excited to get out there this weekend." year command the biggest purse." it a "unique relationship." The draw for the best-of-five match 
The race winner will take home a "There is no other venue, no other is Thursday. There are two singles minimum of $1,391,730, with second city in which we have anything similar matches each Friday and Sunday, place worth at least $986,325. The to this, in which we will have a major with doubles Saturday. last-place finisher will earn a mini­event every year and that we've com­Other first-round matchups include mum of$177,058. mitted to Final Fours, men's and defending champion Australia hosting Indianapolis to regularly women's, in advance," Brand said. Sweden, and Switzerland -led by host Final Fours "That has not happened anywhere Australian Open champion and new 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indianapolis will else, and will not." No. 1 Roger Federer -at Romania. host the NCAA men's and women's Roddick leads United States Also, Spain is at the Czech Republic, Final Four basketball tournaments an against Austria Argentina at Morocco, Canada at the average of once every five years Andy Roddick tasted Grand Slam Netherlands, Russia at Belarus, and through 2039. Maybe even longer. success. He was ranked No. 1. No one Croatia at France. 
Thursday, February 5, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 

Quarterback David Wolke of Tennessee was one of Notre Dame's first recruits to commit this recruiting season. 
national player rankings. 
Lambert joins three other defensive backs in the present class in Tregg Duerson, Leo Ferrine and Junior Jabbic. 
Ferrine and Jabbic arc per­fect examples of athletes Willingham recruits in the hopes of molding the players to his system. Jabbie is a prep school graduate, one year removed from high school foot­ball and a year older than most other recruits. 
Willingham acknowledged the year could give Jabbie an edge, but he denied recruiting players just because they are older and more mature. 
"The player must meet the same set of criteria Ias any other player]." Willingham said. "But a year may help them grow, may help them develop, which puts them in a different area. It's not necessarily an advantage for us or the school, but it may be an advantage for the young man." 
Jabbic received interest from Syracuse, Wisconsin, Boston College and North Carolina. though Lemming believes he could be a sleeper that this year's recruiting powers ­USC, Oklahoma and others ­overlooked. 
Additional recruits include linebacker Abdel Banda, offen­sive linemen Chauncey Incarnato and John Kadous, defensive end l~onald Talley and quarterbacks Darrin Bragg and David Wolke. 
Willingham also continued his habit of recruiting athletes who can play at multiple positions. 
Last year, A'mbrosc Wooden (wide receiver/defensive back) and Tom Zbikowski (wide receiver/safety/defensive back) came in as multiple position players. 
This year, the Irish have sev­eral players listed at multiple positions, as well. According to Willingham, 6-foot-4, 225­pound Maryland player Justin Brown has the toughness to play defensive end along with the quickness to play line­backer. 
Brandon Nicolas, from Santa Ana, Calif., may play offensive or defensive line. 
Vernaglia is an all-around athlete. 
Still, Willingham cannot guar­antee how much or how soon this class will contribute. 
"The question always arises as who will play," Willingham said. "I can honestly tell you, I have absolutely no idea. Some will play early. Some may play later in their careers. But that will all be determined by what they do on the field. 
"I am excited about the toughness and also the mixture that I think they bring in terms of being the type of student and person that we want at the University of Notre Dame." 
Notes: 
Indianapolis defensive end Ryan Baker made a verbal commitment to Notre Dame on Jan. 25. The 6-foot-6, 235­pound Baker, however, did not appear on the official signing list of 17 Notre Dame recruits. 
Baker, who is deciding between Notre Dame and Purdue, was unavailable for comment Wednesday night. He could make a decision as early as tomorrow, though the pres­ent time frame is a dead-period for coaches, meaning coaches cannot make person-to-person contact with a player until 48 hours after signing day, accord­ing to Willingham . 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
ness to be a great corner," Willingham said. "We look at
Signings 

Terrail and say he has those continued from page 28 skills to bring a linebacker's toughness to the cornerback 
Lambert and Vaughn proved position." in a rough year for Irish Vaughn caught 20 passes for recruiting that signing day can 650 yards and 14 touchdowns introduce some late bright in his senior season at St. spots. Thomas More in Oakdale, Conn. 
Lambert made 87 tackles, Lambert and Vaughn are late, three sacks and one intercep­solid catches for the Notre tion in his senior season at St. Dame coaching staff. Prior to Bonaventure their sign­School in ing, run­Ventura, ning backs 
c a 1 i f. , "We look at Terrail [Lambert] Darius 
returning Walker
and say he has those skills to
the inter­and Justin ception 92 bring a Hoskins yards for a linebacker's toughness to the were two touchdown. of the top
cornerback position." 
lie was a recruits of first-team the Irish California Tyrone Willingham c I a s s . all-state Irish coach Walker selection of a n d the Los Hoskins Angeles were the Times, and Lemming rated Gatorade Players of the Year in Lam bert 85th in his top 100 Georgia and Michigan, their national prospect list. respective states. 
"When you watched him in Linebacker/strong safety high school, he was a line­Anthony Vernaglia (95th) joins backer, yet he had all of the Lambert (85th) and Walker toughness, all of the foot quick-(63rd) in Lemming's top 100 




......sc-......
C.,..,,._ ,.,.., 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
LAW 

CAREERS A.S VOCATIONS 
..ll p(.uu.i<lalunm£ anJ alul'ltt.uu I'L~f!t:d r:HI tbe tiJ.tq;ntlti.m t.~l'failb tutJ .;tt.Jt,"ta_l,'luU.'t":.r'fl.,f t~lto ll(e bc:•y,Hul1'!vlt"t.~ Da..ttt.t~. 
SundaJr, February 8 
4:00 -s::30 pm  
Center fot• -Social Concerns  
Pizza ""ill he served.  
I I I I fI  Speaker~~ Bob Jones ·so 01rector·., f..eg;.1l Aid C.1 ini(.~ nf the Notre [)arne La."v School Carol Pic.r 194 Labor Rights and 1'rade Researcher; Human Rights \Vatc.h, f).C. Chris S(.:hmidt '96  II 1I .,II j  

L---~~~~:~:~~-~~-=~~-:~~~:~-~~~~--------j
ndvi 
liOTiF-DJ.Wf 
JO{i\Tl0l4 UiiTII\Tl'fi 

~~ ~-----~-------, 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 5, 2004 WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Salas set to shine in final season of stellar Irish career 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Alicia Salas knew she didn't belong on the sidelines. 
But as a freshman, the now nationally ranked senior didn't make the starting lineup of the Irish tennis team. 
"I was always used to playing in high school, so not being able to compete my freshman year was frustrating," Salas recalled. "I was sick of sitting on the sidelines." 
That was all the motivation she need­ed. 
Over the summer following her fresh­man year, Salas played tournaments and honed her skills in preparation for an eventful sophomore season. Head coach Jay Louderback noted a significant change in her abilities. 
"She was very consistent as a fresh­
man, but she didn't have a whole lot of before returning to the No. 2 spot after power," he said. "She didn't come to the teammate Caylan Leslie returned from net a lot. As a sophomore, she hit the ball an injury. Despite a shoulder injury later with a lot more pace." in the season, Salas finished with a 9-5 Playing the majority of the season at dual meet singles record and a 17-9 
No. 4 her sophomore  overall doubles record  
year, Salas posted a  with current doubles  
nearly flawless singles record for dual meets at 24-3 to lead the  "{Salas] has great control and placement. She can  partner Lauren Connelly. She finished the season ranked  
team in singles and  really put the ball  98th, with  a  Big East  
doubles wins. In April of that year, she gar­ anywhere she wants to."  Championship all-tour­nament team title to  
nered her first career  her name.  
national  ranking,  Michelle Dasso  Now, as a senior, her  
placed at 123rd. Her  assistant coach  coaches can't praise  

success that year cul­minated in a com­bined total of 57 victories in singles and doubles, earning her the title of team MVP. 
Salas saw similar success her junior year, starting the season at No. 1 singles 
•

Tnt }OHN M.ARSHALl . LAW SCHOOL 
Open House 
T
M }IW.A ~l.&1iW k~ ~yw IU 1Uei:S4 M ~ ~IU .k.am .lw. &k.liLiM ~"* p41owdbn:liba; ~" ~ ;u~~t 1:~ e~ ga ~ f1:Nm ,VII# gnu• 
.1\.a-t~.~rditf" Pcb. 1, 10 :.:.,.,._ lu rJC.wm 'lb...mday, Feb. ll; 6 8 p.m. 
-~tAd faa'Ht1 d abut that~ Wo jotm M.miW11~ lkr ud peniJi; ~. ~ wcu• otm.c ~.and UA'U YO/iU "(~ -abol.lt ilit law Khooi 


Procter &Gamble -hnern~llip ll~ tV~L. !~)S, :~C! 
PPG -tntemvlip 
2/5 Et•J:; nw Y<i ~~'o;~""''~·• tH.·.-''ll(ll~d 

Leflmln Brothers -lnternshrg 
Z/5 P~t.. so~. 

Peace Corps • Votunteer"S 2/S blL: B..C~. ~:·~. th(. ':111 ~~'fi.IH<lf'l!1l:• tw..;;-~":t-~!Aio,ojJ 
Ac:centure--lntern:mtp 
}.rl> i'l.-i, Hifi ~;1;t ! 1W 


£pic Systems -f tJt tN'n& /;'~l ~V...l' ~J-i. su. l ~(i :1~· ~~_,J.1¥t~ !,~ ~p!bC ~~rttn9/l)' 1l-~ft7:¥tf:L~ rM~r"' rtt~ 1~L.-1:~n ~.,.. T.~~-fd~1~;· ll__;.~~,...,.• Sa4'1.1l~y, F.~·l.la•r t.t. _;:30 p.l1;, 


• 
Abercrombie -full nme
~~ st WHh-~on Hall·~~t...,:d S..~ $16 . 
S!';MY~t $14 • N! ~.lril~ $19 
' 

T~m a.-..-.bblt i:t LaN;rtu~ ~Ctnt'ti" T.'~Xtt Offi.;;t. 


~:!im ;md ~ ~r.rdl ftat·B1AA.. 

(tifttOJI RtiosuriJOC:e -ful Time 
?'1! w, ~~t•. ~'"ct Hot< fl.t'l '! <1..lp!:fol~··<'Si.i:. 

her enough. 
"She has great con­trol and placement; she can really put the ball anywhere she wants to," assis­tant coach Michelle Dasso said. "She can move the ball on a dime and makes very few errors. It's hard to beat her because 
·Nt· C"'l·' 1\.. ' 

.._~ ·r. -~ ··· L :~
..~ _ .,_.. ·ov IIi . !I .. . J'-. . . , ... "-.. J 
]:: X .•, J.:.:.·t,~ lE-N[(':1~ 
\.)\i~ A·:I:~JI:--s.~j ~-Al·;; .1-~· 
~:£~ l .t~· 'M~ja•;·• kJ;;,<;·.,.-~~:I~lH';·,.,.,ta•.&l •:~·t;~VIt l•t Ji.-t.:nd 
[ m 

'2:j,~~:Z2f.f;34!:·] 
of that." 
Salas' success this fall bore witness to Dasso's observation. This fall, she earned a 12-6 record, claiming eight victories over ranked opponents. Four of her loss­es came at the hands of top-1 0 ranked competitors. She has started the spring season strong, remaining undefeated after matches against Big Ten schools Michigan, Wisconsin and Ohio State. This past weekend, she avenged her loss last season to Wisconsin's Katie McGaffigan, defeating her rival 7-6 (7-3), 6-3. 
Both Dasso and Louderback are confi­dent her winning ways will continue. 
"I think she'll do well this season," Louderback said. "She'll probably go quite a ways in the NCAA tournament. She's competitive. She doesn't like to lose." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
'I ··N·.~ 


I 
Looking "for a Job or ln"ternahlp?· 
Immediate•llcatlonDeadlinestorTop Notch Campanlesl 
,._.,~ilf%!.V It'll) jf,•fri:<i! f(t !iA;t;ii.I;J l'tt fr• /J)Jtt.'//t:JAUwtn;HrJIHf",Ti<J.,_JJ,• r~;.'ff:...~HP~J.:-~,? c,vf.f 1!.~ c:~J' i!f.it(l'· r·.-~r1!fil.v· r·:'-f}•.~~~oo 
Appllfqtlga Deqdllttet 
Target-lntenl"lhip :2/lO hX.L BUS 
Sd1fumberger-fuU Hme 211(;) :;c~ EN!.~ 
fPl Group -fu11 hme 1/K! EM:; Onr1 l4 ::nA~ :t1H• 
f?rooce·ss.iw -fuU Iimt 
/1!(,;> ~1'.1. ~~ 1-.;, ·~.;, \ tr·.t~• ll111 ill!t:tilh• f1•! •fi' :•~~~ ~ 
Iravtlenlnsun.mce -fuU Hme 
.i/l!, .r.,~l. Hi h.·~··~. IN\1 
(t~l'f I'~ ~:lPHt.~m.~ 
Group One lradlng -FuR Thoo 2/H /l&!.. K(~ ~c ~ En:., ·~r~{i ON•1 6 '%1\jtnt-:-. l"';.r<it.' ~·PI~d 
StarcpmMesio -fwJ Jjmt 
/ft4 A~i (l~t! ·;" ~.-~~'i{~t•t• h;-:tJ.. ''IJi:'!<... l 
L.-.~·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
Thursday, February 5, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Eagles 
continued from page 28 
scornd a combined 45 points, shot 17-of-66 from the field 
(25.8 percent) and 4-of-26 
(15.4 perc1n1t) from behind tlw arc. 
W1~dnesday night. Thomas kept shooting despite his lack of scoring. A large num-· ber of his misses kept hitting the front of the rim. 
Meanwhile, Quinn tried to carry the Irish (10-8, 4-4 in thn Big East) to a much­needed victory. Brey saw Quinn had the hot hand and started running the offense through the sophomore. 
With Boston College (13-7, 3-5) ahead 63-54. Quinn nailed 3-pointers on consec­utive trips down the court around a Golden Eagles free throw to cut the lead to 64­60. 
After a Boston College miss, Thomas came down and with the Irish having numbers on the break, decided to pull up and launch a 3-pointer, but missed. 
Another Boston College free-throw pushed the Eagles lead to 65-60 and a 
3-point play by Torrian Jones got the Irish as close as they would get at 65-63 with just over three minutes remaining. 
Jermaine Watson Jed Boston College with 22 paints. Sophomore Craig Smith added 20 points for the Golden Eagles. 
Another major offensive problem for the Irish was not getting any production out of forward Tarin Francis. Francis scored six points in the first 6:03 of the game, but was held scoreless for the rest of the night. Brey even took Francis out for extended periods of the sec­ond half as the Irish couldn't get Francis back into the offensive flow in the mark. 
Jordan Cornette found his touch from beyond the arc, scoring 11 points and shoot­ing 3-of-5 on 3-pointers. Cornette, Quinn and Thomas were the only Notre Dame players to reach double fig­ures. 
Overall, the Irish shot well on 3-pointers, going 10-of­24. 
Notes: 
+ Thomas had four assists Wednesday night and now has 584 in his career at 

VISIT THE STEIN ROOM lN THE UNIVERSITY CLUB ON THE CAMPUS 3oz. Special " OF NOTRE DAME 
•Executive• Cockta~ Sl:RVlNt1 SNACKS &.SANDWICHES ALL, DAY lONG 1t30AM;.9PM
c.:!:,.") 

BAR. OPEN MONDAY«FR.IDAY UNTIL 10PM ...-SATURDAY UNTIL 1tPM 


Coma in for a quick bit9. or relax and enjoy.,, BEERS
~:~~~~::or OO!Ue ~! Dnmestics .& ~rnports 
_________________,... __,.___ 
Notre Dame. David Rivers is first on the list with 586. 
+ When Smith reached 18 points Wednesday night for Boston College, he reached the 1,000-point mark in his career. 
BOSTON COLLEGE 76, NOTRE DAME 69 at CONTE FORUM 
NOTRE DAME (10-8, 4-4) 
Quinn 9-18 2-2 25, Thoma.~ 3-18 4-4 11, Cornette 4-8 0-0 11, Jones 2-8 3-3 7, Francis 3-5 0-2 6. Timmnrmans 0-1 5-8 5, Falls 1-1 0-0 3, Cornett 0-0 1-2 2. 
BOSTON COLLEGE (13-7, 3-5) 
Watson 6-10. 9-11, 25, Smith 8-14, 4-6, 
20. Dudley 5-10, 3-4, 14, Agabi 3-6. 1-2. 7, Hinnant 2-6, 0-0, 6, Marshall 2-4. 0-0; 
4. Doomekamp 0-2. 2-4. 2, Hailey 0-2. 1­
2, 1  
1st  2nd Total  
BOSTON COLLEGE 33  43  76  
NOTRE DAME  28  41  69  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 10-24 (Quinn 5-8, Cornette 3-5. Falls 1-1. Thomas 1-8, Jones 0-2). Boston College 4-12 (llinnant 2-4, Watson 1-1, Dudley 1-3, Hailey 0-1, Smith 0-1, Marshall 0-2). Fouled out: Smith (BC). Rebounds: Notre Dame 29 (Cornette 8), Boston College 37 (Agabi 8). Assists: Notre Dame 10 (Thomas 4), Boston College 17 (Dudley 7). Total fouls: Notre Dame 22, Boston College 17. 
Contact Matt Lozar ~t mlozar@nd.edu 
AWIDE ARRAY OF Single Mall Sootooes Irish Whiskies Small Batch Bourbons 

Sparring 
continued from page 28 
Fellow senior captain Stefan Borovina agreed with Dillon, say­ing these early sessions are a great way to work out the initial stiffness and get the full feel of the ring again. 
Newer boxers met the change in training with slight apprehen­sion. 
"It was kind of hard to get rid of the butterflies. And it's nerve­racking to put the head gear on for the first time, but I love it now," freshman Chris Calderone said. 
Senior Don Zimmer, who is par­ticipating in his first Bengal Bouts, likened his first sparring experience to the first time he went scuba diving. 
"It's like when you are first underwater, and its sort of euphoric, but it comes with a bit of a head rush," he said. 'Tm not sure if that's from hyperventilat­ing or getting popped in the chin." 
These early sparring sessions mark a shift in intensity from ear­lier practices, and as newer box­ers gain ring time. the battles in the Boxing Room will become more fierce. 
A number of veteran boxers, including Larry Rooney and Bill Philip, said they were excited to be sparring again, as it is a nice change of pace from day-to-day training. Club co-president and senior captain Tommy Demko agreed and recognized a change in practice tempo. 
"It's a shift of intensity," Demko said. "Guys start practicing a lot harder when they realize what they have to do. They realize this is the next step." 
The onset of sparring has also added a number of items to box­ing secretary Kristin Boyd's already lengthy daily to-do list. Boyd, a junior at Notre Dame, has been involved with the Boxing Club since last year. In addition to 
·············-··· ·-------------­
the usual processing of medical forms, consent forms, attendance sheets, accumulation of dues and soliciting of ads, Boyd gives the final consent for each boxer to spar after checking ofT a number of necessary requirements. 
"It's a lot more work," Boyd said, as she printed ofT a sparring card and grabbed a ringing phone. "I basically have final approval of who gets in the ring." 
When not sparring, the boxers practice their form and footwork under the guidance of the cap­tains. First-year captain Billy Zizic said that, in his new role, he has taken on more instructive duties. 
"We're trying to show the guys more than just fundamentals ­more contemporary boxing styles rather than the typical Bengal Bouts style of two guys back on their heels just swinging," he said. "The preliminaries will tell whether it all pays ofT or not." 
Zizic said this year's group of boxers is a great group and his own skills have vastly improved as a result of instructing others. 
"Sometimes the best teacher you can have is yourself, because you show a guy something, and it makes you think 'Wait, I can do that, too,"' Zizic said. 
When not in training, the box­ers are actively selling program ads to family members, friends and local business. These pro­gram ads are a major source of revenue for the Bengal Bouts, and all boxers are required to sell at least one ad before their frrst sparring session. 
Individuals or businesses inter­ested in purchasing ads or giving to the Bengal Mission Bouts can obtain ad cards and contact information at http://bengal­bouts.nd.edu. Individual boxers are also available to take ad requests from interested parties. 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 

irish at.hletics ~len's Basketball Saturday, V·ebruar}· 7th (ip 7:00pm vs.. #7 Pittsburgh FREE foam finger _to first 1~000 fons {•.;f;.'.. ··.· (sponsored by Burget· Ktng) ·~ McNulty Irish Dancers to perform at halftitne FREE Power Bar bites during the game (whae supplies lasl}  Track and Field Me·~lo Invitational @ Loftus Sports Center l~nday,_ l4'ebruary (ith ((!> I:OOpn1 Saturday, February 7th @ 8:30run -Gold Garnc* $*:M.cyo .Mile at 2::~0pm** *FREE Gold Game T-Shirts for 100 fucky fans during Meyo Mile (:spomored by Aeropostale)  

Unlimited ~PREMIERf< US.CeiJulat r~ l.OCATlONS'AUTIIIHIIZEII t.GEIIT  Time! MJSHAWAK.A SOUTH BEND !:il'! W .. McKinle·~ 1t7 North Mill in CeJrncr: McK.inl~·y & Gtapl~ 1 blk.. S>:.Rilh ur C~;Max b/4.. 2:!:>2.btt.:.w ~/4.2:&UW:li.l 4bll:> Mi.umi fh:.>~d Mi~mi & ltd~nd ~ l4.29~.i.20€(l ",!:_:;~j::~ '·~=~ ;!·=1~:}~::: t~~=-.: ..l·~:'!-·.:-;::.,::,~::-:-t. ;:"!f:.-:::i= :t;.!::t:'>:~~t :}. ~:~::?.~f.::t,:-~ !::·'/:t::: :':·.-::~~~tp:::t,{'M~ *i~-:1i. ~.: :;:~=:.~ ~~t~·;~~-~;:··~:~-~=:=:=~~~::-~~;~~;~!~:::.::-r==~:~:~;;~=~::~~=~:<r~·~!=-~»·;~~;:~·g:~=~~;~~~~:.~=·~~;:;~;;:i(:.;~~ ~B~..:3~~ ~o: ~~=-,; ~z..; :!~::c: ~;..:~.s;.~~~ ~~.-:~ J...-r..;:~::..i~=1:-~~-~i.!C~-r~~~-=s:~..: ~~~ u~ti.¥... ::': ~::~~ts·i: ~> :=l.~ (;::~>.~; ~=~=:: :;:{[(. :)r,-:.:-.~r:i t~'{:l} ~~-~$6.. ~tl':.~j~ .t;:;:~ ~f.::::.~~~'},-:~::: 7\,((~ .s~; ne::=1 $. !]~:,.-: ~j\>'Jl :.~: :.i:t' ;.:~:.:HJ$v:~ r~~=~~~:.;~;~~~.:~~~;~~J:~;~~~~:;~~~:;~:~(~~~~r:~;:.;~;..;~::~::~:;~~;;::~<:~·-:t~~:;~4 :~~~;~~7;~~~~~;~:i~;i cJTTfl r.\0mr:~ rrrmmnY ~~: m;~  

Thursday, February 5, 2004

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Hoyas 
continued from page 28 
held Big East scoring leader Rebekkah Brunson (18.2 points, 11 rebounds per game) in check. She managed 12 "points on 3-for-13 shooting. Six of her points came from the free throw line, and she only grabbed seven rebounds. 
"I was really pleased with our defense once again to hold them to 52 -they scored 76 on us last time we played," McGraw said. "I really think that they have made a commitment to the defensive end of the floor, and I think it's one that we didn't make earlier in the sea­son." 
Earlier this season, the Irish were knocked off by the Hoyas (10-10, 4-6 Big East), despite hold­ing a six-point lead with 55 sec­onds to go. Wednesday's game was sweet revenge for the Irish, who remained undefeated at home. 
Notre Dame never trailed in the game. Teresa Borton hit a layup to put the Irish up 2-0 in the first 16 seconds, and they never looked back. 
Georgetown cut the lead to 38­31 with 16:59 remaining in the second half. But the Irish called a timeout and proceeded to go on a 9-2 run to go ahead 47-33. After that, the Hoyas got within 10, but that was as close as they would get. 
Borton had a big game for the Irish, as she went 4-for-4 from the field for 10 points. She also grabbed four rebounds, helping the Irish pay back the Hoyas. 
"We really wanted a little bit of revenge from the last game," Borton said. "They just stole it away from us in the last two min­utes, and that really hurt us a lot. It was great to come back and win 
this game." Notre Dame held the Hoyas to 
29.6 percent shooting, and no Hoya made more than three field goals. They also out rebounded Georgetown 42-30. 
"The team knows that we are starting our best five defensive players. And if they want to start, then they need to be better defen­sively," McGraw said. "I think you're seeing a much more intense, focused group on the defensive end." 
On the offensive end, guard Megan Duffy also scored in double figures for the Irish, as she added 11 points and five assists. She was perfect from the line, hitting 6-of-6 attempts. Monique Hernandez added seven points and seven rebounds, in what was arguably her best game of the season. 
NOTRE DAME 66, GEORGETOWN 52 at the JOYCE C~NTER 
NOTRE DAME (14-7, 7-2) 
Batteast 8-15, 3-4, 20, Borton 4-4. 2-5, 10, Severe 1-4, 0-2, 2, Duffy 2-8, 6,6, 11, Hernandez 3-6, 0-0, 7, LaVere 3-7, 2-4, 8, Gray 1-1, 2-2, 4, Erwin 2-5, 0-0, 4. 
GEORGETOWN (10-10, 4-6) 
Brunson 3-13, 6-7, 12, Carlin 3-7, 3-4. 11. Lisicky 2-7, 0-0, 6, LeSueur 2-9. 1-1, 5, Bruce 1-3, 0-0, 2, Tamoulianis 1-3, 5-6, 7, 
Berggren 1-1,0-0,3  
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  36  30  66  
Opponent  23  29  52  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 3-8 (Batteast 1­2, Hernandez 1-2, Duffy 1-3, Joyce 0-1), Georgetown 5-15 (Carlin 2-3, Lisicky 2-7, Berggren 1-1, Jenkins 0-2, Bruce 0-1, Brunson 0-1). Fouled out: Bruce. Rebounds: Notre Dame 42 (Batteast, Severe 9), Georgetown 30 (LeSueur 10). Assists: Notre Dame 14 (Duffy 5), Georgetown 8 (Lisicky, LeSueur, Tyburski 2). Total fouls: Notre Dame 18, Georgetown 24. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish finally starting to grow up 
A month ago, Notre Dame led by six points over Georgetown with 55 seconds remaining in its first Big East game of the season. 
Then, inexperi­ence, immaturity and a col­lective mental and physical breakdown allowed George-Joe Hettler town to fm­ish the game with Sports Editor an 11-2 run and upset Notre Dame 76-73. 

It was Georgetown's first win over Notre Dame in 18 years, and it sent the Irish, at the time 7-6 and 0-1, back to South Bend searching for answers to fix a season quick­ly sinking into mediocrity. 
Wednesday night, at the Joyce Center, Georgetown made another comeback by starting the second half on a 10-2 run to cut a 13-point Notre Dame halftime lead to five at 38-33 with 15:52 left. But this Notre Dame team wasn't the same one that imploded against Georgetown in early January. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw called a timeout, and then watched her team score 22 of the next 30 points to bury the Hoyas en route to a 66-52 vic­tory. 
It's official-Notre Dame has finally grown up. 
"I think it was a great opportunity for us to get a game back and see just how much we have improved since the last time we played them," McGraw said. 
The Irish have searched for and struggled to find consis­tency over the past two sea­sons. Besides a couple of upset wins in the NCAA tournament in 2003, Notre Dame has not dominated its opponents for any extended period. 
Until the past three weeks of this season. 
Aside from a loss to West Virginia, Notre Dame has been nearly unstoppable. The Irish knocked off No. 4 Connecticut by 15, held No. 23 Villanova to 36 points and beat three other ranked foes en route to win­ning seven of their last eight games to improve to 14-7 (7­
2) and regain a national rank­ing (No. 23). 
It's easily been the most impressive stretch of basket­ball Notre Dame has played in the last two seasons. Outstanding defense should be given much of the credit for the turnaround. The Irish are allowing only 50 points a game to the opposition during this winning stretch. Notre Dame has also shut down opponents' star players­holding Connecticut's Diana Taurasi to 11 points on 4-of­15 shooting and Georgetown's Rebekkah Brunson to only 12 points on a dismal 3-of-13 field goals. 
It's been the enhanced defensive effort that has Notre Dame rolling through its Big East schedule. The Irish face just one more ranked foe in the regular season and are just one game behind confer­ence-leading Connecticut for the Big East title. 
One month ago, none of this seemed possible. After the Georgetown loss, it appeared Notre Dame would completely collapse at any moment, espe­cially with such a gruesome schedule on the horizon. 
But on that quiet plane ride home from D.C., the Irish regrouped and refocused for the rest of the season. 
At the first practice follow­ing the loss, McGraw and her staff went into the locker room to decide what to work on in the upcoming session. When they cam~ out, the team was already practicing, waiting to put in more work. 
"I think that was a state­ment they made to the coach­es and to themselves saying, 'We're ready to get down to business' and 'We're ready to right the ship,"' McGraw said. "And they did. From that point on we've been on a great roll." 
The Irish just hope that roll continues into the Big East and NCAA Tournament. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joe Hettler atjhettler@nd.edu. 
THE 


BSERVER 
is currently accepting applications for the 2004-2005 term for the following positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR ASST. MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Applications for Managing Editor and Assistant Any sophomore or junior business major Managing Editor should demonstrate strong interested in gaining valuable work journalistic and management skills. An in-depth experience is encouraged to apply for Business understanding of newspaper Manager. Applicants should be comfortable production, including skills in Microsoft Word, in a management position, demonstrate Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. strong organizational skills Experience with Macintosh and have a solid understanding of computers is helpful. accounting principles. 
An application for any of the above positions should be at least five pages and explain the applicant's qualifications and goals. 
Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and Business Manager applications are due by Thursday, Feb. 6 at 5 p.m. 
Submit all applications to Matt Lazar in the Observer office located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions or the application procedure to Matt Lazar and Andrew Soukup at 631-4542 or Business Manager Lori Lewalski at 631-5313 . 
.,. 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 5, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT 
.,__D_O_G_B_E_R_T_C_O_N_S_U_L_T_S_-1 ~ 
~  
NEVER LISTEN TO  @l ~  
YOUR CUSTOMERS.  ., I  

CROSSWORD 


ACROSS 35 Fish eaten 59 Cable inits. whole
1 "Gosford Park" 60 "Forever, _" character 37 W.W. II map: (1996 humor Novello Abbr. book) 
5 Zool. or astron. 3811 comes to 61 California's mind Pass
8 Stiffness 39 Owner of eight 62 Take in 
14 Street crossing other answers 63 One who waits 
Hollywood 
in this puzzle in ambush 15 Razor-billed 
40 Daring 1960's 64 Split-second16 "Yeah, right!" 
Ralph Ginzburg 

65 favor 17 x, for one magazine 
66 Stuff 18 Coast Guard 41 ···---··· rank: Abbr. 
42 Lincoln and 19 One on the go Ford DOWN 
1 Several czars
43 Be a poor public speaker 

20 Juicy fruit 
2 Female fox 23 Hackneyed 
3 Opposite of neat 44 Cavorter24 Took surrepti­4 Stopping-off 46 Slip into 

tiously 
place 25 1953 Jean 
47 Prefix with 5 Like somemeterSimmons title ground

role 48 Wild ones 
6 Matchmaker 27 Disencumber 52 Zulu, for one 
7 Religious 28 Lightning bolts, 55 The Tigers 
image: Var. in Germany 
57 Good-for-noth-8 Turf 32·Bit of a shock? 40 Two-time U.S. 49 Courtyards 32 Sirens, e.g. ing Open winner 
9 "Aha!" 50 Cleaning brand 
33 Musk or must 42 Criminal defen-51 NetANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Basketball 34 City near

datum dant, with "the" 

Phoenix 52 What gymgoers 11 German valley 43 Therefore: Fr. show off, slangi­
35 Subordinate ly12 Chief Big Bear, bureaucrat 45 Nil 

for one 53 On 36 6 on a phone 46 Ballerina

13 Reindeer group 54 Reindeer team, 39 Mincemeat 48 Photocopy pre-counting
21 Parallel ingredient cursor Rudolph
22 Dodgers' field, once For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
26 " Cinders" credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
(old comic) Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 29 Nil 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 30 School attended 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 by ian Fleming past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 

31 Rudolph's bea­Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, con 
SCOTT ADAMS 
THEY WERE DUMB  THAT REMINDS ME:  
ENOUGH TO BUY  THANKS FOR BUYING  
YOUR PRODUCT,  MY SERVICES ..DON'T  
SO THEY HAVE NO  TALK. SHHHH.  

CREDIBILITY. 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI

WILLSHORTZ 
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Jr~ 

s Answer: A novice gardener is sure to have this -A "GREEN" THUMB 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Donna Reed, Bridget Fonda, Cris Collinsworth, Mimi Rogers 
Happy Birthday: You have a lot to offer those who really don't want to think for themselves. You have a wisdom that has been earned by your incessant thirst for knowledge and experience. You are a leader and a nurturer. Others look up to you for your strength and courage to follow things through to completion. Your numbers: 3, 9, 13, 27, 31,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is the day for love. You and your partner can enjoy one another. The chores that were hanging over your head are over and a romantic time for two should be on your agenda. ***" ­TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may feel somewhat let down today. Don't let someone you love play havoc with your heart. Be patient, not stubborn. Problems with female friends may be disconcerting. ** GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): If you get the chance to travel, go for it. You will have a great time no matter what you decide to do, unless of course you choose to sit at home alone. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You need time alone with the one you love. Don't hesitate to tell others how you feel and what you want. Peace, quiet and of course a little bit of passion should be your plan. ***" LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It is best to spend a quiet day with your mate. Chances are good that you neglected their needs during the past couple of months and it's time to make up for lost time. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Travel and social activity will be a lot more fun than you had imagined. Love is in the air and you will attract potential mates. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can bring harmony back into your life. Spend time pampering yourself and get involved in projects that will enhance your appearance. **** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need a day to rest. However, if you neglected someone who loves you, difficulties may exhaust you even more. Don't bother trying to complete unfinished projects. ** SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will enjoy the comforts of your own home today. Don't hesitate to tell friends that you want the day to lazy around. This is the time to rejuvenate. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You have put yourself through an emotional wringer. It's time to mellow out and reevaluate your motives. Avoid going to crowded places. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): You will be concerned with a friend who 
.doesn't look well. Be sure to check in on them and offer your help in any way possible. Your kindness will be appreciated. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your high energy can be put to good use. Take things you don't need to charity groups for the needy. You can innuence friends to join you in your humanitarian endeavors. **** 
Birthday Baby: You were born with a built-in common sense that will help you make the right choices throughout your life. You know how to take control right from day one and you are a master at getting everyone to do things for you. Your determination will lead you where you want to go. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer. is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE 0BSERVIR 
'., 
PORTS
Thursday, February 5, 2004 
page 28 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Seventeen sign letters of intent with Irish 
Irish still waiting for official word on Baker 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Terrail Lambert did not follow his cousin's lead. 
Two years after California running back Lorenzo Booker reneged on Notre Dame and committed to Florida State on signing day, the defensive back Lambert chose the Irish over the Seminoles and became the 16th of 17 official signees for the Irish f o o t b a II See Also class of 
"Rough 5-7 season
2007. T y r o n e hurts recruiting W i II in g -process"h a m 
announced page 19 16 players as official commitments at a Wednesday press conference in the football auditorium of the Joyce Center at 3:30 p.m. The football office then confirmed the signing of Connecticut wide receiver Christopher Vaughn less than one hour after the conference ended, rounding the class out at 17 players. 

"This day has become, in most regards to some people, probably the most important day in college football," Willingham said. 
The coach did not try to dispel rumors that this year's class is less impressive than those in past seasons, but Willingham did defend the efforts of his coaching staff. 
"You have this year, a season that didn't quite meet our exp·ectations," he said. "That is another reason why I think [defensive line] coach [Greg] Mattison, our recruiting coordi­nator and our staff did an excel­lent job in working through all of the difficulties in putting together a really solid class with some very special players in there." 
The Irish recruited players from 10 different states: four defensive backs, three offensive linemen, three defensive ends, three linebackers, two running backs and two quarterbacks. 
ESPN recruiting analyst Tom Lemming had the Irish class rated 27th nationally prior to signing day. With the signing of Lambert and Vaughn, Notre Dame could climb into the top 25. 
see SIGNINGS/page 23 

BENGAL BOUTS 
Spar for the course 
Boxers take next step on road to Bengal Bouts by starting sparring duels 

By LUKE BUSAM 
Sports Writer 
The newly re-matted ring in the Joyce Center Boxing Room began its speckling process as the first drops of blood from the 2004 Bengal Bouts season struck its surface Monday afternoon. The spots of crimson will continue to accumulate over the· next several weeks as the boxers glove up for their first full contact sessions. 
These initial sparring sessions bring this year's boxers one step closer to the 74th annual Notre Dame Bengal Bouts Tournament which begins Feb. 25. Well over 100 boxers will participate in the charity boxing event this year, pushing their bodies and minds to raise much-needed money for the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 

Experienced members of the box­ing team welcomed the onset of sparring as an opportunity to polish skills that may have faded slightly and remind themselves of the full experience of the ring. 
"Its great to get your head snapped back once or twice to get back to reality," club co-president and senior captain Pat Dillon said. 
Dillon said that even experienced boxers will overestimate their abili­ties prior to their frrst spar of a new season. 
"Everybody thinks they are better than they are until they get hit by a straight riglit hand in sparring," Dillon said. 
see SPARRING/page 25 

Observer File Photo 

T.J. D' Agostino and Chris Hoffman battle In a previous year's Bengal Bouts. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Eagles soar, Irish tutnble in 76-69loss 
Notre Dame coach Mike
By MATT LOZAR Brey has talked about get­
Assistant Sports Editor 
ting Quinn more time run­
ning the point for the Irish 

The backcourt switch is to take the pressure of 
working for Chris Quinn but Thomas, giving him the 
not quite yet for Chris chance to roam free and get 
Thomas. more looks. 
Quinn tied his career high But Thomas struggled for 
with 2 5 points while the fourth straight game, 
Thomas went 3-of-18 from scoring 11 points. In those 
the field in Notre Dame's four games, Thomas has .76-69 loss at Boston College 
Wednesday night. see EAGLES/page 25 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Spprts Writer 
No. 23 Notre Dame showed Georgetown that the See Also team's first 
"Irish finally
meeting this · 
season -a starting to grow 76-73 Hoya up" victory was a fluke, page 26 as the Irish dominated the Hoyas 66-52 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish keep Hoyas on short leash 
Wednesday night. 
"I think we were a little unsure how to react at the end of the game, having more than a two-point lead," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Jacqueline Batteast led the Irish with 20 points on 8-for-15 shooting and nine rebounds, narrowly missing a double dou­ble. Batteast also had two blocks. 
Notre Dame (14-7, 7-2 in the Big East) gave yet another stel­lar defensive effort, as they 
see HOYAS/page 26 



SMC BASKETBALL  NOTRE DAME VOLLEYBALL  U.S. TRACK AND FIELD  NBA  
Calvin 65  
Saint Mary's 42  
The Belles are dominated in a  Lauren Brewster led nation in blocks  Former  Olympic gold  medalist  Kenyon Martin scores a double­ 
home court loss to the Knights. ­ and the Irish were the national leader in  Marian Jones will soon return to the  double in New Jersey's win over  
team blocks.  U.S. National Team.  Miami.  
page 17  page 17  page 22  page 16  





