---~-----­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 57 FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 19,2004 
New TCE proposal gains support 
Students, faculty express positive sentiment 

By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 
One semester after faculty and students clashed over publica­tion of teacher course evalua­tions and ultimately failed to rec­tify their differences, the two groups appear to be back on track -due to a new course evaluation proposal that promis­es to satisfy both sides. 
The new plan, proposed by associate provost Dennis Jacobs this fall, calls for the University to create a reporting mecha­nism, entirely apart from the TC:Es, for students to provide other students with information 
College 
•

remains on alert 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
A report saying that at least one cab driver has been soliciting Saint Mary's students to pose for pictures in a hotel room remains under investigation, a College official said Thursday. 

On Nov. 11, students at Saint Mary's received an e­mail from Linda Timm, vice president of Student Affairs, warning them of the situa­tion. The e-mail stated that a student or students had reported the solicitation to Saint Mary's security after being offered a "significant and intentionally enticing" amount of money to pose for 
photographs  in  a  hotel  
·room.  
According  to  College  
spokesperson  Melanie  

McDonald, various agencies in the community are work-
see DRIVER/page 4 
and assessment of classes. 
"The TCEs by themselves do not adequately capture teaching . . . . If the measures we have are unreliable, then we can't make advances in any real way," Jacobs said. 
Student government's previous proposal to publish the actual data compiled from the TCEs recognized that need, but ran into trouble when faculty -con­cerned about publicizing infor­mation used for sensitive deci­sions on tenure and promotion -voted it down last spring. 
Throughout this semester, Jacobs and student leaders 
Students Jeremy Lao, left, Jeremy Staley, back, and Vijay Ramanan see PROPOSAL/page 6 led efforts to develop a course review mechanism for students. 


NO welcomes basketball season 


GEOFF MATIESON/The Observer 
A sign outside the Joyce Center announces the first regular season men's basketball game, 
tonight. The Irish take on the Harvard Crimson at 7 p.m. 
By PETER LEAHY News Writer 
For Notre Dame students dis­couraged by the performance of this year's football team, watching ba<iketball may present a remedy for that disenehantment. 
This year's team returns nine monogram winners including four starters who will play in tonight's season opfmf~r in the Joyee Centf'r against I Iarvard. 
Junior Hob Hallman said foot­ball left him disappointed but was hopeful about the upcoming bas­ketball seao;;on. 
"I expect Notre Dame basket­ball to generate that winning feel­ing left void during the fall," he said. "I think the basketball team's success will largely depend on how Chris Thomas plays. I think this will be his year to shine." 
According to Hallman, the team would likely do well if it can get back to the NCAA tournament after missing out in 2.003-04. 
"Despite the parity in the Big East, I think we have a good shot of winning the Big East title and advancing far into the Itourna­ment]." he said. 
Freshman Mike llatke credited the depth of this year's team with his hopes for the season. 
"There's like 10 hruys who could start," he said. 
see BASKETBALL/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
White delivers address 

· SMC president gives annual "State ofthe School'' speech 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Writer 
Saint Mary's student body president Sarah Catherine White delivered the annual "State of the School" and spoke about her accom­plishments this year and vision for student govern­ment. 
White began her address to students, faculty and administrators by giving a brief history of the initiation of the Student Government Association in 1935 by for­mer college president Sister Madeleva. Madeleva began student government after she recognized students' need for self-representa­tion. 
"The creation of' student government helped redefine the Saint Mary's woman who does not shy away from the world around her," White said. 

White recalled the goals that she and student body vice president Mary Pauline Moran created last semes­ter after winning the stu­dent b(>dy president elec-· tion. They aimed to wel­come College President Carol Mooney to campus, make service opportunities more available to the stu­dent body and to oversee the building and opening of Opus Hall and the new stu­dent center. 
To weleome the new pres­ident, White started "Dessert with Dr. Mooney" in which each residence hall welcomed the new president for a Sunday evening of desserts and dis­cussion. This event has oecurred in eaeh residence hall, with the final "Dessert 
see ADDRESS/ page 6 



Campus reacts to disputed play 
The performance drew modest presents the tale of four men and
By K. AARON VAN 
crowds, 100 two nights ago on one woman in 1980s New York
OOSTERHOUT 
opening night and 139 Thursday, City, all battling various inner 
News Writer 
and stage manager Chelsea demons. The four men also hap­Mason expects the same tonight. pen to be homosexual. 
Despite anticipated controversy, "That's pretty typical f(>r a stu­"Coming from a Catholi,c school "Angels in America" flew onto dent show like this," she said. background, you don't ever really campus with virtually no protest. Not at all disappointed with the know about homosexuality," said 
According to director Steve turnout, Mason added, "if we've junior Mark Huberty at the inter­lloeplinger, this is perfectly fine. touched one person with this mission of Thursday's perform­
"It wasn't really controversy show, it's been a success." ance. "I think it's extremely pow-that I wanted," he said. "I wanted Playwright Tony Kushner's people to talk." most well-known work, "Angels" see ANGELS/page 4 

Friday, November 19, 2004. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

'Winning,' off the field 
Notre Dame Stadium ha.:; always been a place where dreams fade or dreams are made. And on that sun-drenched Sunday afternoon, a dream wa.:; put away for another fall for the Cavanaugh interhall football team. After a sea­
Kate Gales 
son starting at the top and ending first in the polls, there Sports wao;; only goal left 
Production 
unfinished-brin­ing the coveted title home to the North Quad. 
Disappointing? Yes. Devastating? Almost. But demeaning? Never. Because the team went out there before hun­dreds of fans (and a band with a half­time show) and played a hard-fought game and learned a few lessons along the rocky road that is the interhall women's season. 
And at the end of the day. without tro­phy but brimming with pride, we look back and remember the reasons that interhall football really is what Notre Dame is all about. 
My parents probably never thought they would raise a daughter who would run through the tunnel with Touchdown Jesus raising his arms behind her, who would take the field 'A-ith 50 teammates and a crowd cheering with pao;sion unri­valed by any football Saturday. 
OK, so I'm more Hudy than the Hocket, but I did have a number offans yelling my name and one verified jersey-chaser. I didn't have a golden helmet (which i<J convenient, as the last thing I want in a postgame photo is helmet"hair) but I did have a lovely set offlags and a green T­shirt that I wear V\ith unequalled pride. 
So we lost. After spending last week chalking the sidewalks in front of DeBartolo and having fun with glass­writing markers, it wasn't an easy loss to take. But there are wonderful moments over my past two seasons that deserve a moment of reflection. 
On the field, I've realized that football isn't quite a<; ea.:;y a<; it looks-and we're not even required to make tackles. I've seen that fourth-and-inches is possi­bly the most stressful time for any team, offense or defense. I learned that putting your trust'in your teammates -and yourself-is probably one ofthe hard­est things to ask ofyourself. 
But the off-field lessons are just as valuable. As post-victory parties, I learned that Jell-0 is not always what it seems, that a Suburban can't always carry as many people as you thought it would and that a whio;;per can be very, very loud. 
I've been inspired by a number ofe­mails from our head coach, Lou Perry, who will forever be "Coach Lou" to me. I learned that in the defensive huddle, anything and everything is fair game for a cheer. I saw that your best friends will always be on the sidelines cheering you on and that there's really nothing as flat­tering as a jersey chaser. 
But most ofall, I learned there's noth­ing like a team to bring people together. I consider myself incredibly lucky to have been on a team that made it to the Stadium, but I count myself much lucki­er for having such an amazing group of teammates and coaches. We'll miss some ridiculously talented seniors but for the rest ofus -there's always next year. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, a graphic in the Nov. 18 issue ofThe Observer misspelled the first name of Condoleezza Rice. The correct spelling was in the accompanying story. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF TEACHER COURSE EVALUATIONS? 







TCE?'' done with 
bubble tests when I took the TCE." 
IN BRIEF 

Notre Dame alumni Mark Lang and Nadina Bembic will give a music performance today as part of the Center for Ethics and Culture's Ephipanies of Beuaty confer­enr,e today from 9:30 a.m. to 1 p.m .. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Student Union Board will sponsor two showings of "The Bourne Supremacy" today at 8 and 10:30 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
Stanford Hall will host its "Benefit Bash" from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. today in Rolfs Aquatic Center. Events will include knockout basketball, a hockey shootout and acoustic music, and all pro­ceeds will benefit Hogar Santiago, an orphanage in Chile. 
The Kellogg Institute will sponsor a conference on "Reforming the State in Mexico: The Challenge after Fox and NAFTA" today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center and the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will · present its fall concert today from 8 to 9:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
The men's basketball team will play its borne opener against Harvard University tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail d~ailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
Alex Renfro Brandy Ellison Bridget Osetinsky Danny Richter Josh Hoen Kurt Yeasted 
freshman graduate sophomore senior sophomore senior Alumni student McGlinn Keough Stanford Zahm 
..1 never knew it ..Well, Fm a ..rm the freaky "I try and treat "What's a "I thought I was 
was such a hot teaching overachiever them fairly 
,,

issue. assistant so I who stays after seriously, but I 
take my own 20 minutes TCEs very finishing. ,, seriously. , 
don't know put much faith in how much good they're gonna do. , 


Memphis school. The stu­dents were suspended after refusing to clean up the mess they caused. 
"Given an opportunity first to apologize for their · behavior and help with the cleanup, most of the class refused to cooper­ate," school spokesman Vince McGaskill said. 
The food fight broke out Wednesday at Geeter Middle School, which has 637 students in grades six through eight. Meat loaf and chicken were on the menu. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
ERIC SALES/The Observer 
Students in the class "Technology, Nature and Death: The Problem of Antigone" lay on the ground In front of DeBartolo Hall Thursday in an effort to draw attention to their class. Other students passed out flyers explaining the project. 
OFFBEAT 
Bill Gates gets 4 million e-malls a day 
SINGAPORE Bill Gates might not use AOL, but he's definitely got mail. The Microsoft Corp. chairman receives mil­lions of Internet messages a day, said Steve Ballmer, the company's chief exec­utive. "Bill literally receives 4 million pieces of e-mail per day, most of it spam," Ballmer said Thursday. 
Spam or junk e-mails are unsolicited messages, generally advertising goods or services and usu­ally sent to many e-mail accounts simultaneously. 
Ballmer said Microsoft has special technology that just filters spam intended for Gates. In addition, several Microsoft employees are dedicated to ensuring that nothing unwanted gets into his inbox. 
''Literally there's a whole department almost that takes care of it," he said. 
Entire class suspended for food fight 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -A cafeteria food fight on "meat loaf day" led to the suspension of the entire eighth-grade class at a 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a: 
1£.1 
:::z:: 
~ 
1£.1 
3: 
....
cs: 
CJ 
0 


52 
49 


-59 45 

53 
36 


47 33 


HIGH LOW 
HIGH

..I 53 
LOW 49 
Atlanta 74/62 Boston 70/49 Chicago 64/48 Denver 65/42 Houston 83 I 67 los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 70 149 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 !'48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 

Friday, November 19, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Conference to address 


list€ning techniques 
By MEGAN O'NElL 
News Writer 
As part of its commitment to interfaith dialogue, the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIU is hosting a two-day conference this week­end at Saint Mary's titled "Called to be Compassionate Listeners." 
Two prominent figures in the field, Leah Green and Linda Wolf, will serve as facilitators for the workshops. 
The event, part of a CWIL program called "Living as Women of Faith," will focus on the importance of compassion­ate listening and the techniques one should utilize in order to be a conscious listener. 
Green founded and serves as the director of The Compassionate Listening Project, a program which focus­es largely on the Israel­Palestinian crisis. She has led 16 citizen delegations to Middle Eastern hot spots. 
Wolf, the author of numerous books, is the founder and direc­tor of the Teen Talking Circle Project. She also co-founded Global Youth Allies, an organi­zation committed to youth empowerment on an interna­tional level. 
The conference was born out of discussion at a human rights intercultural dialogue at the college last year, said coordina-
Haitian service trip to resume 
tor Sister Marianne Farina. Participants realized that real progress in the area of human rights would require compas­sionate listening and requested a forum specifically dedicated to that topic. 
"They really wanted to learn how to do it well, not just a sample of it," Farina said. 
The theme of compassionate listening. Farina added, is "striking a chord" with students and community members. 
"We don't know how to really to talk to one another, and to listen to one another deeply," Farina said. 
Publicized through student government and the student diversity board, the conference quickly filled its 35 available slots, and Farina was forced to create a waiting list. 
· Organizers hope, however, that the conference will mark only the beginning of the recog­nition of the role of compas­sionate listening in conflict res­olution. The skill, they believe, can be used both in violent world conflicts and conflicts on the campus itself. 
"Hopefully what will emerge is the notion of compassionate listening circles where we can bring issues that occur on this campus," Farina said, "and where we can discuss them openly." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

By TRICIA deGROOT 
News Writer 

After a cancellation last spring due to an unstable gov­ernment situation, the University will resume its humanitarian trip to Haiti this spring break. Since 1999, Steve Silliman, associate undergrad­uate dean in the College of Engineering, has taken nine students to Haiti for a one­week mission to repair wells and train the local population to maintain and repair their hand-pumps. 
Silliman began organizing these student seminars after his own trip to Haiti with Lifewater International, a Christian organization that helps rural poor obtain safe drinking water in 1996. 
"Once I visited there, I thought it would be a good place for Notre Dame to be involved," Silliman said. 
The seminars have taken place at different times during and after the academic year depending on several different factors. 
"The time of the trips can vary. They can be during fall break, spring break or even senior week," Silliman said. "It depends on several factors including my time, the political situation and the availability of houstng." 
Silliman canceled the last seminar, which was to take place last spring break, because of a coup in Haiti. Since such a dangerous politi-
II 

cal environment prohibited students from traveling to this mission, it has been about 18 months since the University has completed this service project in llaiti. 
Silliman usually receives about 75 applications to this program, but he is only able to take 1 0 people -himself and nine selected students. 
Once selected, these students begin training on campus for at least two hours every week. 
"The training consists of two parts -to fix hand pumps, which only takes about two to three hours' of training and to learn about the social, religious and political conditions," Silliman said. 
The main objective is not just to repair the water pumps but. most importantly, to train the locals on how to repair these pumps themselves, Silliman said. Before returning, the group will leave the Haitians with tools to continue making these repairs and the skills io help their community maintain their source of safe drinking water. 
In addition, when in Haiti, the students and Silliman will stay in housing provided by OMS, a missionary group with a significant compound in Cap Haitien. OMS also provides the group with all their food and water in addition to allowing them the use of vehicles, ensuring the students safe food and transportation while they are there. 
The program prides itself not only on the repair of India Mark II pumps and the training given to the locals but also on the opportunities it gives stu­dents to experience life in Haiti, interact with the Haitians and finally, live their faith. 
There will be an information session regarding this seminar in the next few weeks, and applications will be due soon afterwards. Students will be notified about the program in December or January. 
In addition to Silliman's serv­ice project, there are a number of other professors and organ­izations on campus who have extended their efforts to help the people of Haiti. Kenneth Filchak, for example, has got­ten his freshmen involved in raising money through Lifesaver sales. 
"Haiti is the poorest country in the hemisphere and so, with the freshmen, I started our own charity to try to win sup­port," Filchak said. 
Filchak went out and bought 200 pounds of Lifesavers and 
asked  his  students if they  
wanted to  raise money for  
Haiti.  

"The hook with the lifesavers is that $20 will save a life in Haiti," Filchak said. 
Filchak makes it a point that his students know this fundraising is not part of the class. However, even with no extra credit offered, Filchak has raised about $2,500 over the past two years with the help of his students. 
Contact Tricia deGroot at pdegroot@nd.edu 

FREE SHOW! 
.W 

.;.:;;..x ..-. ··~ 



SUB.ND.EDU 

brought·to you by the Student Union Board. 



Friday, November 19, 2004
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
Angels 
continued from page 1 
erful, in that it conveys a message of tolerance." 
In order to convey this message, how­ever, Kushner included some explicit content. In one scene, character Louis Ironson, played by junior Joe Garlock, makes love to another man onstage. 
"Personally, I don't find anything shocking in it," said Kenneth Cole, pro­fessor in the film, television and theatre department and mentor to Hoeplinger. "I would gather that there are more shocking displays on 'Desperate 
Basketball 
continued from page 1 
Like Hallman, Hatke said he expected the team to compete for the Big East title and advance into the later rounds of the NCAA tournament. 
"I think they have a legitimate shot to get to the Sweet 16. I thfuk we should get to the Sweet 16," he said. "If we really come together we could make the Final Four." 
Hatke said reaching the Sweet 16, rather than winning the Big East, would I lousewives. "' 
Hoeplinger added he posted a "Mature" warning on the promotional posters, but that students should be able to view the performance with no problem. 
"I think any student should be mature enough to handle it," he said. "It hap­pens in the world whether we endorse it or not." 
Some might argue, however, that many things happen in the world that should not be depicted on stage. 
In "Angels"' case, sophomore Chloe Bekavac disagreed. 
"It's controversial, of course, but I think it's necessary here at Notre Dame," she said. "Open dialogue is 
get to the Sweet 16 it would be a disap­pointment," Hatke said. "I think there's too much talent not to get that far. We are eas­ily one of the top 16 teams in the country." 
Sophomore Kristine Rosek shared Hatke's excitement for the season. ''I'm pumped. I'm excited. I'm psyched," 
she said. 
Rosek said she likes going to the games. 
"[I will attend] as many as I can because I'm a big nerd, and I have to study all the time," she said. 
But despite her excitement, Hosek said she felt guarded optimism about the upcoming season. 
"I think we'll get to the NCAA tourna­lacking here. It's productions like these that facilitate dialogue." 
Other audience members were con­cerned that life-changing dialogue might be difficult, however, if everyone who attends the play already finds homosexuality acceptable. 
"If (people) did have a problem with homosexuals, I don't think they would come [to "Angels")," said junior Aliya Riddle. "It's easy to avoid something you don't agree with." 
Hoeplinger's advice to those "avoid­ing" the issues raised by "Angels?" ''It's foolish to ignore," he said. 
Contact K. Aaron VanOosterhout at kvanoost@nd.edu 
she said. 

Sophomore Jenalle Slosar said she believed the team would play well, and though not a season-ticket holder-she plans to attend as many games as possi­ble. 
"If I have the chance to go see them I will," she said. 
Like Rosek, Slosar was cautious in her expectations for the team. 
"I would expect them to do better than they did last year," she said. "Quite possi­bly they could make the NCAA tourna­ment." 
Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy@nd.edu 

Driver 
continued from page 1 
ing together to closely monitor the situation. 
"Saint Mary's College Security Department continues to work with city law enforcement to gather more information," McDonald said. "Saint Mary's has and will continue to com­municate with Notre Dame and Holy Cross College regarding any develop­ments, and Saint Mary's students will receive an update as soon as there is more to share." 
The e-mail also cited that one taxi driver had been issued a no trespass order and was no longer allowed on Saint Mary's campus. 
Until the situation is remedied, Timm and Saint Mary's security are asking anyone who is propositioned to report the incident to security immediately. 
For students looking for a trans­portation option, McDonald suggested a reputable taxi company. 
"Saint Mary's has a working rela­tionship with Michiana Taxi," McDonald said. "Discount cards for that taxi service are available for stu­dents through the Security Department on campus." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

.... .... 
@ Jevce ea111er...... 
usa•••••••••••atTea­
-+First sao fans receive an ND seat: cushion 
@ •avceea•-rHeldlaDBse
"'"One lucky N D student: will have a chance to hit a half-court shot: t:o win t::uit:ion for ~chevy Trading Card Night: #2. a year sponsored by Hacienda --­-SophorTlore Class ­*Early arriving fans will receive~-os +Postgame autograph session vvit::h rnagnet. sponsored by Papa John's~~-t:he Irish Sophomore Players 
SoccerVB CDRIIBCIICID @ Al•-al Held Find "100 •abe••-•SIUIIeniS recelwe FREE ad-lsslan 
Visit:: vvvvvv.notredan,e romot:ions.corn for all t:he lat::est: ror·notional inform.at:.ion 


Friday, November 19, 2004 CoA,H'I LED FROA~1 THE OBSERVER's vvt RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.N. wants to fight drug traffickers 
BRUSSELS, Belgium -Heroin production is booming in Afghanistan, undermining democ­racy and putting money in the coffers of ter­rorists, according to a U.N. report Thursday that called on U.S. ~nd NATO-led forces get more involved in fighting drug traffickers. 
"Fighting narcotics is equivalent to fighting terrorism," said Antonio Maria Costa, execu­tive director of the U.N. OJlice on Drugs and Crime. "It would be an historical error to abandon Afghanistan to opium, right after we reclaimed it from the Taliban and al-Qaida." 
Yet while all sides agree on the goal, dis­putes over tactics surfaced. 
Afghan President llamid Karzai called fight­ing the narcotics industry his "top priority," but came out Thursday against U.S. proposals to use crop dusters, citing possible risks to the health of villagers. 
"The government of Afghanistan opposes the aerial spraying of poppy fields as an instru­ment of eradication," Karzai's office in Kabul 
said. · 
Annan urges warning Sudan forces 
NAIROBI, Kenya-U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan urged the Security Council to issue "the strongest warning" to all forces fighting in Sudan, saying that ending a 21-year civil war in the country's south would also help halt a humanitarian catastrophe in its Darfur region. 
The council's meeting in the Kenyan capital -a rare appearance outside the United States -was intended to focus attention on two wars that have left millions dead or homeless. 
Southern rebels have been fighting the gov­ernment since 1983, and the western region of Darfur erupted into violence in February 2003. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Specter wins crucial backing 
WASHINGTON -Arlen Specter on Thursday won the backing of Senate Judiciary Committee Republicans to be their new chairman, surviv­ing complaints from abortion opponents after submitting an extraordinary statement under­scoring his support for Bush judicial nominees. 
"I have assured the president that I would give his nominees quick committee hearings and early committee votes," Specter said at a news conference during which outgoing chair­man Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, said the panel's Republicans were unanimous in backing the Pennsylvania moderate. 
"I have no reason to believe that I'll be unable to support any individual President Bush finds worthy" of the federal bench, Specter told reporters. 
Scientists find human, ape ancestor 
WASHINGTON -A nearly 13 million-year­old ape discovered in Spain is the last probable common ancestor to all living humans and great apes, a research team says in Friday's issue of Science magazine. 
A husband-and-wife team of fossil sleuths unearthed an animal with a body like an ape, fingers like a chimp and the upright posture of humans. The ancient ape bridges the gap between earlier, primitive animals and later, modern creatures. 
This newest ape species, Pierolapithecus catalaunicus, is so significant that it adds a new page to ancient human history. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Voting fraud key in recount 
BLOOMINGTON -Allegations of voter fraud in Monroe County will be a key point in the recount of Republican Mike Sodrel 's apparent victory over Rep. Baron Hill in southern Indiana's 9th Congressional District. 
Sodrel's campaign responded to the request of Democrats for a recount in the distriet by claiming a "substantial number" of ine1igible voters may have cast ballots in Monroe County, which Hill won by some 7,000 votes. 
Clinton library opens in Ark. 
Center debuts with celebration, chronicles former president's 8 years in office 
Associated Press 

UTILE HOCK, Ark. -Bill Clinton, America's first baby boomer president, opened his library Thursday with a roek 'n' ron gala that hailed the $165 million glass-and­steel museum as "a gift to the future by a man who always believed in the future.'' 
Despite a steady, bone­chilling rain, nearly 30,000 people joined a celebration that included tributes from President Bush, his father and former President Carter. Rock stars Bono and The Edge of the band U2 per­formed a three-song set before Clinton spoke to a crowd that included digni­taries and ordinary folk. Poetry and gospel singing added a down-home flavor. 
"The story that began in a little house on Hervey Street in Hope, Arkansas, inspires people from every back­ground all over America," President Bush said of Clinton's rise from small­town beginnings to the White House. 
The William J. Clinton Presidential Center is a sleek, futuristic complex that contains more than 80 mil­lion items from the former president's life, including photos, e-mails, excerpts from famous speeches and gifts from world leaders. The did with my life but to see tary while also reducing sunshine, and I shouldn't library celebrates eight what they could do with poverty and making college complain about this because years of peace and prospcri­their lives," he said, accessible to more people. the ground probably needs it ty and dismisses his "because this is mostly the A steady rain pelted the and somebody is benefiting impeachment as a story of what we the people crowd throughout the cere­from it," said Clinton, who Republican vendetta. can do when we work mony, and a soldier stood was raised by a hard-work­
The 27-acre complex is together." near the podium bearing an ing widow, the late Virginia cantilevered out over the Bush called the library "a umbrella to protect each Kelley. Arkansas River-an allu­gift to the future by a man speaker from the elements. Clinton, much thinner as a sion to Clinton's desire dur­who always believed in the A tent had been set up result of his September ing his presidency to build a future, and today we thank Wednesday to shield digni­heart surgery, chuckled sev­"bridge to the 21st century." him for loving and serving taries from the rain, but it eral times as the other ex­
"What it is to me is a sym­America." was taken down because of presidents recounted stories bol of not only what I tried to A number of celebrities faith placed in an overly of past meetings with him, do but what I want to do traveled to Little Rock for optimistic weather report. and often slapped his thigh. with the rest of my life, the opening, including actors The presidents and first Sen. Hillary Rodham building bridges from yester­Ed Begley Jr., Kevin Spacey, ladies held their own Clinton, said the new library day to tomorrow, building and Robin Williams, and umbrellas and tipped dry "is like my husband: it's bridges across racial and Democratic luminaries John their own rain-slicked open, it's expansive, its wel­religious and ethnic and Kerry and Al Gore, Clinton's chairs. By the end of the coming, it's filled with life, income and political vice president. two-hour ceremony, and the exhibits tell the story divides," said Clinton, 58, Clinton pointed out that Clinton's usually poofy hair of someone who loves his 
• accompanied by his wife and during the eight years he was matted down. fellow man, who cares daughter. and Gore led the country, the "If my beloved mother deeply about all of our chil­
"I want young people to nation reduced the national were here, she would dren, who recognizes our want to see not only what l debt and reformed the mill-remind me that rain is liquid common humanity." 







Possible mad cow case discovered 
expected before four to seven days. tract a rare disease that is nearly
Associated Press 

Ranches and businesses dependent always fatal, variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob on beef are still feeling financial disease. 
WASHINGTON -The government is effects from the nation's only con­"The inconclusive result does not checking a possible new case of mad firmed case of the fatal brain-wasting mean we have found another case of cow disease, officials said Thursday, disease last December. BSE in this country," said Andrea rattling the nation's cattle industry, And Thursday's announcement sent Morgan, associate deputy administra­food processors and beef-oriented cattle prices tumbling on fears that tor of the USDA's Animal and Plant restaurant chains. foreign markets would remain closed Health Inspection Service. 
Additional checks are being con­to U.S. beef. Shares of McDonald's, The "inconclusive result" was the ducted after initial testing proved Wendy's, and other restaurant chains same term the agency used in June inconclusive on the suspect brain tis­that feature hamburgers also when two potential cases turned out sue. Officials said the animal never slumped, as did those of U.S. meat to be false alarms. Inconclusive results entered the food or feed chain. producers. "are a normal component of screening 
The Agriculture Department gave no Mad cow disease, or bovine spongi­tests, which are designed to be information on the location or origin form encephalopathy, attacks an ani­extremely sensitive so they will detect of the slaughtered animal and said mal's nervous system. People who eat any sample that could possibly be pos­results from advanced tests were not food contaminated with BSE can con-itive," Morgan said. 

Friday, November 19, 2004

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Proposal 
continued from page 1 

exchanged dialogue on the topic, and the provost's office eventually developed a revamped plan that Jacobs pre­sented at the November Faculty Senate meeting. 
Students, faculty and adminis­trators have long said they agreed on the concept of pub­lishing student feedback about classes -but diverged on how to go about it. Rethinking undergraduate edu­cation 
When Jacobs, 2001 U.S. Teacher of the Year, came to the provost's office in August, he brought a strong background in teaching excellence and intend­ed to critically examine under-Foley, 2002-03 student body vice president and an early propo­nent of TCE publication. 
Foley and others researched the issue and proposed using the TCE to share course information because it was already in place. 
"It seemed like a great way," he said. "[But] given people's feeling on the issue it's under­standable that it took two years." 
Ultimately, student govern­ment failed to succeed with this approach -but students like senior Jeremy Staley kept the idea alive since Foley's first efforts two years ago. 
"You find out the hard way ­but you still fight for it," said Staley, current student Academic Council representative and for­mer Sorin Hall senator. "The fac­ulty was very uncomfortable with [the publication] idea, but 
we also knew that 
students needed 
graduate educa­"It really boiled that information." tion at Notre In early October,
down to something
Dame. Staley presented a His proposal that students course review pro­calls for new needed. You were posal to Student course evaluations Senate with Senate
to some extent 
as just one part of academic chair 
a strategy that choosing classes Vijay Ramanan. aims to provide ln a vacuum. ,, Staley and students students with leaders met with accessible, stan­Jacobs, who wel­
Tripp Foley 
dardized informa­comed their ideas tion about course 2002-2003 student into his proposal on descriptions, read­body vice president course information. 
ing materials and learning objec­tives. 

"The larger question is how can we help inform the process by which students select cours­es," Jacobs said. 
At the November Faculty Senate meeting, Jacobs present­ed the course information initia­tive as well as a plan to reform teaching evaluation in the tenure process. 
As it stands currently, the stu­dent review plan will likely recti­fy many of the concerns that led faculty to oppose TCE publica­tion the past two years, especial­ly the evaluations' impact on tenure. 
"[The TCEI is a very sensitive subject," Jacobs said. "It's treat­ed with a high degree of confi­dentiality," Jacobs said. 
If approved, Jacobs said the mechanism would most likely include a set of 
"We have not had 
this much reception from the administration ever. Of course [Jacobs] is not taking sides -he's just trying to facili­tate," Staley said. 
Now, student leaders fully back Jacobs' proposal and said they strongly believe faculty will approve it. 
"It was like night and day between this year and last year ... The further along we get, the more clear will be the picture of what it's going to look like," Staley said. 
Ramanan, who represents stu­dents at Faculty Senate, said he feels confident the current plan will address the major issues that drew critidsm from the fac­ulty previously. 
"I think in the past maybe stu­dents have fallen into the trap of asking ... for things that are good for students but aren't nec­
essarily good for 
questions sepa­the University," he
"The data that
rate from the TCE, said. 
drafted by a com­comes out ofthis At this point, mittee of faculty, new survey cannot Ramanan said stu­students and the dents would work
be used for the 
administration with the faculty to 
purposes of
specifically hammer out the designed to pro­tenure., student questions vide students with and the mecha­feedback about nism for analyzing
Dennis Jacobs 
courses and and distributing
Associate Provost
instructors. the survey data. 
"Those [TCE] questions were written with a different purpose in mind," he said. "Is there a set of questions that would better serve the needs of the students and for which students are well-quali­fied to answer?" 
Students would complete the survey simultaneously with the regular TCE, but would receive clear instruction about the pur­pose and use of the separate questions. The data would likely be uploaded in an online format, with access restricted to students and the teacher of the course. 
"The data that comes out of this new survey cannot be used for the purposes of tenure," said Jacobs. Succeeding in the long-term 
When student leaders first broached the idea of TCE publi­cation two years ago, they want­ed simply to give students a tool to choose the right courses. 
"It really boiled down to some­thing that students needed. You were to some extent choosing classes in a vacuum," said Trip 
"They were very receptive to the idea," he said of the faculty. "I think most of the things they asked were nuts and bolts questions." 
Staley, Ramanan and last year's student body president Jeremy Lao met with Faculty Senate leaders Thursday to dis­cuss the project's next step. Current president Adam Istvan said though he is not involved with the effort, he supports Ramanan and Staley's efforts. 
For their part, student leaders said this year marks the end of a long, but now successful, process for providing their peers with real information about courses. 
"Very rarely do students get to see long-term projects proceed," Staley said. "Nobody expected this two years ago-we're very excited." Moving forward 
Regardless of the strong stu­dent and administration support, the current proposal must ulti­mately win faculty approval ­and faculty leaders say that appears more possible than ever. 
John Robinson, last year's Faculty Senate chair and current Faculty Affairs chair, said the current student review proposal resolves a key flaw in the old plan. 
"The real purpose of TCEs is two-fold -to help the teacher become a better teacher ... ·and the second is normative," he said in reference TCE use in tenure and promotion. "The best thing to do is to separate those two sets ofinterests." 
According to Robinson, the new proposal promises to do just that. 
"All we've got to do now is fine-tune it," he said. "I think Dennis [Jacobs) has hit upon the idea of a solution." 
In addition to the revamped proposal, faculty leaders also credited improved dialogue between students, the adminis­tration and themselves for this year's difference. 
"I think we're embarking on much more of a dialogue between Faculty Senate and stu­dent government. ... I think these more interactive discus­sions are going to be very help­ful," Faculty Senate chair Seth Brown said. 
But both Robinson and Jacobs cautioned that students and fac­ulty would need to resolve issues such as the survey questions themselves and exactly who would have access and how before the project takes physical form. In particular, technical aspects must be harmonized with the University's computer network. 
"Details are going to matter," Brown said. 
Students, faculty and Jacobs said the earliest the program might be ready would be for the Fall 2005 semester. But for now, a spirit of cooperation prevails . 
'Tm very optimistic that some­thing can be worked out," Brown said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

Address 
continued from page 1 

with Dr. Mooney" occurring Sunday in LeMans Hall. 
The creation of "Service Sundays" allows students with busy schedules a low time commitment opportunity to volunteer one Sunday per month at the Christ Child's Society. 
SGA has made old tradi­tions new again by restarting the "Big Sister-Little Sister" program, which pairs up every first-year student with a sophomore. This program was first initiat­ed by sopho­
"It is our job to
more class pres­ensure that we ident Claudia create and add to carry on tradi­Toth. tions at Saint
the pages that will 
"Our ultimate Mary's despite
play in the
hope is that [Big budget cuts," Sister-Little symphony of White said. Sister] will con­The student
history that is 
tinue in the body is current­
Saint Mary's 
future as a ly asking tough strong Saint College.,, questions about Mary's tradi­the identity of a tion," White Saint Mary's
Sarah White
said. woman. White 
student body president also said the
White report­ed that the Stu­Saint Mary's College Student Diver­
development of a women's center and the ideas and effort of women's issues com­missioner Katie Kelly. The Women's Center will be locat­ed in the new student center and will have a full time staff through a grant from the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership. White said she believes that bringing a women's center to campus is something that will strongly empower women. 
In the midst of progress, White reminded the audience that everyone must remain in control of the budget issues. 
"Student government treas­
urer  Molly  Welton  has  
worked  dili­ 
gently  to  


dent Academic Council has con­tinued its readership pro­gram to supply campus with daily copies of The New York Times, The South Bend Tribune and USA Today. The Student Activities Board has taken campus events to the next level by bringing bands such as "Blessed Union of Souls" and "Emerson Drive" to campus. 
The newly created student government position of chief­of-staff was filled last year by sophomore Susan Mcllduff. 
"Susan's clear communica­tion helps us to move forward as a united student govern­ment," White said. 
White also discussed the sity Board, 
Katie Kelly and the Student Activities Board have been working to host "Identity Forums" for stu­dents to come together and not be afraid to have honest discussion and look to answer these difficult questions. 
White said she and SGA are looking forward to the inau­guration of Mooney and the opening of the new student center. 
"It is our job to create and add to the pages that will play in the symphony of his­tory that is Saint Mary's College," White said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Want to start a new club? 
~ Didn't find what you were looking for at Activities Night -Hoping for ways to perfect your talent Passionate about something you think others would enjoy 
?
• 

Stop pondering the questions and get 
some answers! 
New· Club Proposals are being accepted now! Deadline: December 1 @ 5:00 PM. 
Academic o Athletic Cultural o Performing Arts Social Serviceo Special Interest 
Still have questions? Email Amy Geist 
n 
ageist@nd.edu 


Friday, November 19, 2004 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow
jones , 10,572.55 .+22.98 
{. Some: 

Composite Volume: 1,645 181 
1,458,~544 
AMEX  1~365.36  -0.60  
NASDAQ  2,104.28  +4.60  
NYSE  7.002.91  -10.55  
S&PSOO  1,183.55  +1.61  
NIKK£1(Tol<yo)  11 ,15 L93  +69.51  
FTSf IOO(London) 4,805.30  +9.40  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  -4.65  -0.23  4.72  
APPLIED MATL (AMAT)  +1.79  +0.31  17.65  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +1.97  +0.48  24.80  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.37  -0.10  27.07  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -0.10  -0.02  19.52  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.64  -0.31  48.13  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.65  -0.27  41.17  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.14  -0.05  34.76  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.34  +0.07  20.87  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.74  46.38  
GOLD ($ffroy oz.)  -2.20  442.90  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.08  99.73  
Excha  Rates  .  
YEN  104.100  
EURO  0.7715  
POUND  0.5406  

IN BRIEF 
FDA finds five drugs too risky 
WASHINGTON -At least five medications 
now sold to consumers pose such risks that 
their sale should be limited or stopped, said a 
government drug reviewer who raised safety 
questions earlier about the arthritis drug 
Vioxx. 
In testimony Thursday before the Senate Finance Committee, Food and Drug Administration reviewer David Graham cited Meridia, Crestor, Accutane, Bextra and Serevent. 
The nation is "virtually defenseless" against a repeat of the Vioxx debacle, he said. 
Merck & Co. pulled Vioxx from the market on Sept. 30 after a study indicated the popular painkiller doubled the risk of heart attacks and stroke when taken for longer than 18 months. 
The committee chairman, Sen. Charles Grassley, suggested an independent board of drug safety may be needed to ensure the safe­ty of medications after FDA approval. An "awful lot of red flags" were raised before Vioxx was withdrawn, said Grassley, R-Iowa, · and the agency disdained, rather than listened to, its own reviewers. 
Graham contended that FDA has an inher­ent conflict of interest that triggers "denial, rejection and heat" when safety questions emerge about products it has approved. 
U.S. committed to strong dollar 
WARSAW, Poland -U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow repeated Thursday that the United States supports a strong dollar and "currency values set in open markets," even as the dollar plunged to a new low against the euro earlier in the day. 
"I think everybody knows what our position is -the strong dollar, currency values set in open markets," Snow told reporters in Warsaw following a meeting with the finance ministers of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. 
Snow declined to comment any further on the dollar, stressing that he had made his posi­tion known clearly in London on Wednesday, when he said the Bush administration would continue to stick to its "strong dollar" policy ­an assertion the markets greeted with skepti­cism. 


Whistleblower complaints rise 
2002 law offering protection to corporate insiders has led to surge in allegations 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Home on 
sick leave two years ago, 
Ammar llalloum says he 
watched the Enron Corp. 
investigation play out on tel­
evision -then decided he 
had to blow the whistle on 
his own employer. 
His former company, com­
puter chip maker Intel 
Corp., says that's just a flim­
sy cover story. Halloum's 
whistleblower allegations ­
that the company purposely 
delayed payments for facto­
ry parts to bolster its earn­
ings -are the invention of 
an employee who knew he 
was on thin ice for poor job 
performance, Intel says. 
Either way, the run-in between Halloum and Intel points to the tensions goner­ated by a recent surge of workers accusing their firms of fraud or miscon­duct, a wave touched off by high-profile scandals at Enron, WorldCom and other firms. 

The rise iri workers claim­ing whistleblower status began after Congress' approval of a law in 2002 offering new protection to corporate insiders willing to flag financial trickery at publicly traded companies. Just a handful of workers stepped forward at first, but 181 filed such complaints in the year ending Sept. 30, whistleblowers at private American," said Sara whistleblowers who will making them the fastest­companies. California has Goldsmith Schwartz, an raise issues in which we growing category of whistle­strengthened its law, requir­Andover, Mass., lawyer who find some merit, but where blower cases handled by the ing employers to post its represents employers. "As they will raise them to gain 
U.S. Department of Labor. provisions insides offices people are more educated personal protection for 
Workers like Halloum and factories and setting up about these financial fraud marginal performance," seeking to take shelter a hotline to the state attor­issues, then when the said Victor Schachter, a under the new law, the ney general's office. opportunity arises to point Mountain View, Calif., Sarbanes-Oxley Act, are just The swelling chorus of out financial fraud, they're lawyer who argues on the most visible part of the whistleblowers is an out­more willing to do it." behalf of companies. "It's rise in whistleblower com­growth of recent corporate But lawyers representing very much a mixed bag." plaints, including some by scandals, attorneys and offi­companies say many of the His clients' companies employees of privately cials say. The spotlight on complaints are bogus and and other California firms owned companies, employ­corporate greed and the are largely efforts by mar­are facing a "genuine explo­ment lawyers say. high praise for whistleblow­ginal employees to squeeze sion of whistleblower 
Other workers accusing ers like Enron executive settlements out of their claims," Schachter said. · their companies of miscon­Sherron Watkins have sen­companies. Even many of Under the new federal duct are attempting to take sitized rank-and-file work­those situations are made law, companies are not shelter under state whistle­ers to once arcane account­complex, they say, because allowed to fire or otherwise blower laws and other ing practices and convinced some of the very whistle­retaliate against a worker measures. some of a responsibility to blowers who deserve to be who reasonably believes 
While most of those laws speak up. fired are also worthy of financial fraud is taking have been in places for "This isn't just people who being heard. place and files a complaint, years, states like Illinois read The Wall Street "Some of the more diffi­either with the company or have added· protection for Journal. This is the average cult problems I've had is an outside agency. 

.Evidence weighed in tobacco case 
Brody said that while the industry did He said that was evident from the Associated Press not admit that smoking causes can­decline in smoking that followed a cer until about five years ago, there 1964 surgeon general's report linking 
WASHINGTON -Government was a consensus long before that. smoking to cancer. lawyers told a federal judge Brody directed Kessler to the testi­Kessler asked how the industry Thursday they had made the case mony of William Farone, a former could argue that the companies' that the tobacco industry conspired Philip Morris scientist who worked at point of view was legitimate if aver­for decades to deceive the public the company in the 1970s and 1980s. age citizens were so sure smoking about the dangers of smoking. Farone said it "so widely accepted eauses cancer. "How can you have it Leading cigarette makers contended internally" that smoking causes dis­both ways?" she asked. the government had failed to prove ease. Brody. also reminded the judge of anything in the $280 billion racket­Brown and Williamson Tobacco the industry's public pledge in 1953 eering case. Corp. lawyer David Bernick said even to fund research into "all phases of 
Both sides provided U.S. District though the industry maintained for tobacco use and health." Judge Gladys Kessler with interim years that there was no conclusive The industry compared the effort to summaries in the trial, which began link between smoking and disease, a crusade. Brody scoffed at that. "It in September and is expected to last the public never bought the argu­wasn't a crusade for research. It was several more months. ment -meaning no one was a crusade for profits on the sale of 
Justice Department lawyer Stephen defrauded. cigarettes," he said. 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. &x Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
CoNTROLlER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
{574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PttOTO D~SK ' ' ; + .. 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE . 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obocrver (USPS 599 2..-jOOO) io punlishcd Monday um~•~ Friday au:pr durilll! exam and vacafion period$ .. A subscription to The Oh!:iervcr ~ $100 tOr~ ~&eademic y~r; $S5 fur onr-~emt~'fcr. The Observer is a membe-r of rhc Associ.ncd Pm.s. All reproduction right~ ilfC reserved. 
Th(' OhstTVcr i~ puhfiWd ar: PO. RnxQ 024 South Dining Hall 024 South Dining Hall !>lone D;une, IN 46556-11779 Notre Dame, IN 46556--07(9 
l'eriodicaJ posr.agt· p:tid at Narl't" Oamr and .tddirioJlal mailing otlk:es. 
I'OSfMASTER &nd ad:drc~ corrections ro: The Observer 
Th< 0\>s'"""r is a member of the /usQcia<cd Press. All reprodu.:rion rights ar< 
""'""'i 
Commend ticket exchange 
Student government is often ridiculed for having little effect on Now students will only be able to purchase four booklets, pro­students' daily lives. But when the displeasure over the lack of viding a better chance for the diehard fans to get season tickets. men's basketball student tickets became a hot issue at the start Not putting the single-game tickets on sale to the public until of this month, student government had an opportunity to do after the student ticket sale will also allow those students who something that concerned an issue close to many students. didn't get tickets to purchase tickets to the games of their 
And they did. For that, student government should be com­choice. mended. Student government has done its part. Now students must 
The Student Senate passed the Ticket Share take advantage of the Ticket Share program and resolution Nov. 10 -less than two weeks after OLfhe pack the Joyce Center for each home game. If the initial ticket sale. Materials were distributed that happens, more tickets will become available to hall presidents six days after that -three days and these measures won't be necessary. before the first regular season home game. The Remember that the number of student tickets is
1~1torialplan was efficient and timely. half of what it was when Digger Phelps paced the 
All students' interests were taken into account Irish sideline. Until the Joyce Center gets renovat­with this plan. The disadvantage of living in a smaller dorm ed, nobody knows if that number of student tickets will increase, allows those students to put their ticket preferences on lists in but packing each home game will be a statement to the ticket bigger dorms to have a better chance of getting tickets to the office and athletic department. games they want. In lieu of getting an electronic exchange on As the men's basketball program continues to grow under the off-campus Web site, otr-campus students also can go to any Irish head coach Mike Brey, this type of proactive change shows dorm to record their ticket desires. that student government recognized the increased student inter­
As promising and inclusive as this solution is, it does not stop est and did something reasonable and logical to foster it. When there. issues like these arrive in the future -issues that a lot of stu­
Not only did student government do something to ease ticket dents feel strongly about -student government should remem­concerns this year, but it worked with the Notre Dame ticket ber its quick action with Ticket Share and find solutions that offiee to help make the process more efficient in future years. similarly alleviate problems that directly affect the student body. 
Using football for post-election rhetoric 
Call it an academic addiction. Call it the secular public institution that recognizes and yell that he needed sex from anyone post-election withdrawal syndrome. birth control options at its health facilities, who might be able to assist him. So hav­Political junkies like this writer try to that observes a 24-hour visitation policy ing shared that same atmosphere with unwind immediately following a presiden­in coeducational dormitories, has an Tony Dorsett, I personally found his com­tial election but have difficulty with the open-minded approach to recognizing ments disingenuous when he questioned " ld t k .. campus groups, participates in the league the abilities of Pittsburgh's head coach
co ur ey Gary Caruso 
approach. Notre that permits alcohol commercials during prior to the Notre Dame game. Dame's football loss Capitol Comments televised athletic events, is generally com­It seems ironic to me that Irish fans last .weekenq to prised of more working-class students must endure a similar disappointment we Pittsburgh made from commonly much lower-income fami­Democrats suffered two weeks ago. I can that fact painfully clear to me as for the lies, has a more diverse and urban com­think of several positive ways to spin the first time this season I had the opportuni­position, prides itself in returning to more substance of this football story. After all, ty to watch an entire Irish game. As challenging academic standards and has Notre Dame's players gave every ounce of events of the game unfolded, my mind a bit of a bad boy image. So it did not sur­effort to win -well, maybe number 8 raced to formulate rhetorical tongue-in­prise me when the Pitt quarterback should learn to use his body instead of his check rapid responses. thanked his "flipping" team live on televi­arm when trying to tackle the three run­
NO-Pitt games have always been a per­sion before NBC could beep over the ners I recall who blew over him. Also, sonal contradiction for me. Following remark. that dean-cut Notre Dame image should graduation from du Lac, I entered the Let's face it, anyone can let a swear have enamored at least one bowl official University of Pittsburgh and earned a word slip from time to time, so I cannot -well again, maybe number 15 should masters degree in communications. My denounce the Pitt quarterback. At an all­cut some of those curls dancing out from heart always lies with Notre Dame, but I male Notre Dame I also learned a few his helmet before someone tears it out by attended Pitt while football great Tony "flipping" swear words. In fact, at the roots while chasing a fumble. More Dorsett led the Panthers to football Thanksgiving dinner of my sophomore importantly, Notre Dame could not ask for prominence and a national championship. year, I asked my parents to pass me the a more dedicated and savvy head football Great football achievements marked both "flipping" salt during the course of our coach who builds character -well yet universities at the time, but their philoso­dinner discussion. I quickly caught myself, again, he was the same coach who phies were as different as this year's and my parents went on as though they refused to kick a field goal when present­Republican red and Democratic blue had not heard me. ed with several opportunities during the presidential state atmospheres. The University of Pittsburgh I attended Florida State game that turned the day's 
Notre Dame embodies everything "red" with Tony Dorsett in the mid-1970s was headline into, "FSU shuts out ND at home in this year's electoral map -a private the epitome ofbad boy blue. For about for the first time in decades." institution with a faith-based identity that three years as a graduate student, I It also appP-ars that I am finally begin­espouses a strong vocal anti-abortion taught several public speaking and presi­ning my withdrawal from the spin mode position, that maintains single-sex dormi­dential rhetoric coursfls. Fortunately, I since the effectiveness of my examples is tories with parietal hours, has a hesitancy never had to face the problem of how to fading. Any spin attempts to give an to officially recognize gay student or work out a grade with an athlete who impression contrary to the absolute truth. alumni groups, refuses to allow alcohol may have carried the university's fortunes But one thing is certain. The Irish, like the commercials during its televised athletic on his shoulders but rarely attended Democrats, will survive to win another events except when participating in a cla..'iS. "flipping" day. league or post season bowl, is comprised I vividly recall one high-profile athlete of a larger percentage of students from collecting more than a thousand dollars Gary Caruso, Notre Dame 73, served as higher income famiJies, ha...:; one of the worth of parking ticket fines on his green a legislative and public affairs director in largest ROTC programs in the heartland Monte Carlo that he insisted on parking President Clinton's administration. 1/is of the nation, prides itself on a reputation along Fifth Avenue outside of the towers column appears every other Friday. 1/e for more challenging academic standards dormitories. While serving as a resident can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. and has an overall clean-cut image. assistant on a coeducational floor in the 71w views expressed in this column are 
Pittsburgh is everything opposite, or towers complex, I witnessed the same those ofthe author and not necessarily politically "blue" this election year-a athlete enter the facility after a night out those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Teresa Fralish  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  
Claire Heininger Eileen Duffy Maddie Hanna  Matt Puglisi Ann Loughery Maggie Oldham  Do you think TCE results should be accessible?  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Alyssa  Becca Saunders  
Brauweiler  Illustrator  
Graphics  Graham Ebetsch  *Poll appears courtesy of  
Graham Ebetsch  www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on I 02 responses.  


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Success is how high you bounce when you hit bottom. ·· 
George Patton general 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Do you see any ivy? 
Thank you Stephen Dick, for informing me that "Notre Dame is more than its football program" and that the world will not end if we keep losing. I can finally sleep well at night. 
I've read all the Viewpoint letters to the editor about the football team. but Stephen Dick's letter in the Nov. 18 Observer made it impossible for me to bite my tongue. 
the hype, we merely bring ourselves down to their level." It is this mentality that makes me sick. This attitude is typical of an Ivy League student: to think all other schools, especially state schools, are in some way inferior. It is this attitude I precisely wanted to avoid when coming to Notre Dame. 
What makes Notre Dame different is that the students come together in a united love for the 

First and foremost I will admit that I 
school, and with that, a love for the legacy grew up with a Notre Dame blanket in of Notre Dame Football. Notre Dame 
my crib, and have been a Notre Dame Football fanatic for as long as I can remember. I am the prod­uct of an alumni upbringing, and I warmly embrace that fact. That being said, I don't even want to talk about the football team, the coaching staff, our recruiting, or the athletes. I just want to address the school I love. 
·While I agree that Notre Dame has outstanding aca­demics and an excellent facul­ty, this is not what the school was built on. Many of us have heard Notre Dame termed as one of the "Ivy's of the Midwest." What you may fail to realize, is that this is not what Notre Dame has always been. I have spoken with 
many alumni who openly admit that if 
too many alumni the disgust they share admissions were this tough when they when students leave the football games 
students are .not concerned with our school being viewed as one of the most academically challenging 
schools in the country or being ranked among the Ivy's. Or per­
haps I should say, the students never used to be concerned with that. Instead, the cain­
pus has always become a home and the student body a family, with weekly fall out­ings to the stadium that fills us with a sense of pride, 
excitement and belonging. I fear the mentality Dick has is shared by too many ND stu­dents. Alumni feel such an intense tie to the school because of the experiences they shared here, which are almost all closely tied to football. I have heard from 

were in high school, they never would have 
been able to attend Notre Dame. An enormous 
growth in the applicant pool has allowed the 
administration to make admissions at Notre Dame 
as tough as an Ivy League. 
The bottom Jine is the University would not be 
what is today if it weren't for the football program. 
It is the football program and the spirit of Notre ·Dame that has always attracted students. "Ivy 
League" academics are a relatively new develop­
ment. 
Here's the thing: Notre Dame is not an Ivy 
League school. I did not choose to, nor did I want 
to go to an Ivy League. Many of the students here 
could have attended a Northwestern, Yale, 
Princeton or any number of schools with academ­
ics just as good as Notre Dame's. But.Notre Dame 
is different. 
Dick expressed his disappointment with some 
students' obsession with football and said that he 
would expect that of a state school because foot­
ball is all they will ever have. He added "But I 
don't expect that from us. By getting sucked into 
early, do not stay for the alma mater, or even don't purchase tickets. This school relies on the alumni, but I fear the student body is changing in a way that will cause alumni support to dwindle. 
People will always love Notre Dame, I don't deny that. But what will the school become with an increasing proportion of the students not caring about the football program or the legacy of Notre Dame? An Ivy League? No thanks. 
If you don't care at all about the football pro­gram, fine. If you think the rest of us should not care about it or ignore the losses, and you cannot recognize or acknowledge that the school is where it is because of the football program, then you should have gone to an Ivy League. That's not what Notre Dame ever was, and it's not what it should be. 
Kim Fonelka 
sophomore 
Lyons Hall 
Nov. 18 

Live tolerance, love 

Wee-mailed the articles to each other. It wasn't the first time we'd heard such intolerance. But it was the first time we'd heard such nonsense since learning that two family members -our brothers and sons -were gay. 
The letters hurt and angered us. Our brothers and sons don't have less "dignity" because they are gay. There is no inherent "brokenness" in their lives. 
They are athletes and scholars ..~ caring family members ... able and confident co-workers ... trusted friends ... the 

. life of the party. We know their hearts and their minds. And we know that they are as good -and deserve as much respect -as each of us. 
Remarkably, one of the letters said that living a gay lifestyle hurts and degrades human dignity "because we are not defined by our sexuality." Rather, we "are all defined in the same way, in the image and lik«;lness of God." 
Hello?!! If we are not defined by our sexuality, but in the image and likeness of God, what exactly is the problem? Why should people's sexuality matter? Do you think that God somehow makes a mistake -over and over again -in creating gay people? Or has the Church perhaps made a mistake? · 
Let's face it, the Church is run by people with human weaknesses, and it has made mistakes over the years. Fortunately, the Church is also run by people of good con­science, who eventually realize their mistakes and make amends. We hope that day is coming for gays. 
In the meantime, deciding how gay people should be treated isn't that difficult. What would Jesus do? Would he put on a suit and tie -maybe chuck the sandals for some wingtips -and parade self-righteously around campus? Or would he extend a hand and say, "Gay? Fine by me." 
You know the answer. We all do. Let's live it. 

Richard P. Rector (parent) Susan F. Rector (parent) Megan M. Rector alumnae class of2000 Reid F. Rector alumnus class of2004 Nov. 18 

Support water polo 
The tradition here at Notre Dame has long been one of excellence, both in and out of the classroom. South Bend, Ind. has long been known for producing excellent minds, athletes and epic beer pong battles. These champions are intently followed, often to the point of ad nauseum. Is Chris Thomas staying or going pro? Did Brady's biceps grow another inch last week? (Did you hear about Brendan's streak last night?) Notre Dame is and forever will be in the public eye and so our high-profile athletes receive considerable face time in the newspaper and on TV. While we will always hold our major athletes dear to heart, we rarely, if ever, get the chance to hear about the Scott Tagwerkers and the Jack Spittlers of Notre Dame. These two, along with the rest of the NO Water Polo club team, are some of the unsung heroes on campus. They practice at terrible times and are often lucky enough to travel to exotic locales such as Toledo, Ohio, yet they show up day in and day out for love of a game most domers have never witnessed and may never understand. This weekend, Notre Dame will host the Collegiate Water Polo Association (CWPA) National Championships for the first time. As a former team member, I know these guys deserve your support. The team has raised their training intensity all year in preparation for this tournament and has a legiti­mate opportunity to put Notre Dame Polo on the national map. Please come out to some of the matches this weekend. If nothing else, you will likely leave with a newfound appreciation for a sport usually· known only for the microscopic speedos worn by the guys. Go Irish. and good luck!! 
Zach Working senior Keough Hall Nov. 18 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

--~--------------~---­
page 10 

Campus music groups present 
A schedule ofupcoming concerts from various Notre Dame ensembles 
NO Chorale: Handel's "Messiah" Dec. 2&3 &p.m. leighton Concert Hall 
NO Glee Club Christmas concert Oec.4 6p.m. & 8:30 p.m. leighton Concert Hall 
NO UniversitY Band Dec.5 · 3p.m..
.........,.,.. ;~ifi·" '"' "'. ". ... ' ,.. ..,...,,-....,.,.,.,,
~-,...,...~.· 
. '_ .·.

·. Ling ton Concert Hall ­
NO Jazz Bands Dec.5 lp.m. leighton Concert Hall 
Advent Lessons and Carols: featuring .all of the Basilica Music Ensembles Dec.5 
1:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Hean 
NO Colleulum Musicum · Dec.B Bp.m. leighton Concen Hall 
Celebration Choir Christmas Benefit Concen tor Catholic Relief Services 

oec.11 

1:30 p.m. Coleman-Morse Student lounge 





Asian Allure is back 
The increasingly popular show highlighting diversity at Notre Dame gears up for another quality performance 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 
Asian Allure combines a diverse range of entertain­ment elements, including dancing and fashion, from a variety of different Asian cultures into one exciting and popular event. The show has been put on once a year since it first began in 1997, and has been growing in popularity ever since. The show serves to unify not only the variety of Asian clubs at Notre Dame, but also hopes to unite other minority groups and promote diversity on campus. 
The Asian American Association of Notre Dame will perform its annual show, Asian Allure, on Saturday at 7 
p.m. The Asian American Association unites a diverse group of clubs, including the Filipino American Student Organization, Hawaii Club, India Association, International Student Organization, Japan Club, Korean Student Association and the NAACP. The show aims to tweak traditional cultural ideas with a modern twist, all while helping to unite a variety of groups together. 
"It helps to distinguish one Asian culture from one another, but it brings them all together," set designer ·colin Macasieb said. 
"The theme is fusion; trying to combine traditional per­spectives through clothing and dance with modern Western ideas for people our age," publicity coordinator Lisa Nguyen said. 
The idea of fusion is supposed to reflect some of the changes in the atmosphere on campus. 
"Now that diversity at Notre Dame has increased over the past years, Asian Allure gives students an opportuni­ty to not only embrace each of our own cultures but other peoples' cultures as well," president Sarah Liu said. 
Events at the show have included such things as drag­on dancing, martial arts demonstrations, Bhangara danc­ing and fan dances. There are also a variety of models who will be showing not only traditional Asian clothing but will also be sporting examples of how Asian dress has fused with Western clothing to create the trends of today. 
Preparing for the annual show takes a lot of work: coordinating the wide variety of groups involved, practic­ing dances and skits and creating sets and clothing. 
"It takes a lot of work to organize an event like this, and executive board members [Dave Zhang and Yuko Mari] as well as the whole team have worked a lot since the beginning of the semester," Sarah Liu said. "They have devoted almost all of their time to putting this together." The show has been a major group effort on the part of all of the different clubs involved, and the final show will be the result of a lot of collaboration and hard work. 
The goal of Asian Allure is to unite not only the variety of Asian clubs on campus, but also to promote diversity and solidarity among all of the minority groups on the Notre Dame campus. "It's a good way to showcase the culture, to keep everyone aware of what we stand for and to promote diversity because it enriches lives," executive board member Dave Zhang said. 
The show seeks not only to form a bond among the dif­ferent groups, but also to promote an awareness and sense of community for all minority groups. 
"It's a great event for minority students to bond through. We're all heading toward the common goal of diversity," executive board member Yuko Mari explained. 
Tickets for the show have been in great demand, but the Asian American Association has made sure to extend the goals of the event to not only the campus but the local community. They have donated passes to the show to the Robinson Community Center's Take Ten Program, which teaches local school children about managing 
· anger. 

Saturday night's performance of Asian Allure will be a rewarding event for not only all of the clubs and individ­uals involved, but it will benefit the campus and sur­rounding community as well. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
Friday, November 19, 2004 Friday, November 19, 2004 



page 11 
Son of Glam returns to Notre Dame 

Promising hits from Metalica, Bon Jovi, Poison and others, the popular 80s cover band wi/{perform at Legends tonight 
By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 
There aren't too many social occasions when you can dress in the best of 80s clothing and not cause a scene. 
Tonight will be one of the few nights on which you might actually stick out if you don't tease your hair, pull out the Bon Jovi T-shirt and put on the leg warm­ers. 
Son of Glam, the favorite imitation 80s hair band of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alike, will return to Legends with all the tops hits of the decade. And if a night of 80s rock isn't enough to tempt students to the concert, Legen'ds will also be handing out free slap bracelets to the first 200 audience members. 
Last year's concerts at Legends and the Saint Mary's library green were a hit with students. 
"They looked authentic -they looked like an 80s hair band and sounded like an 80s hair band," Saint Mary's senior Michelle Fitzgerald said. "They sounded exactly like the original performers of each band when they played." 
"They really get into songs, and do a great job," Saint Mary's junior Kristen Vokaty said. "Everyone that went to the concert loved it." 
"They rock like rock is supposed to rock," Notre Dame junior Michel Quisao said. 
The concert will begin at 10 p.m. and is free and open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. Fans can expect to hear hits like "Livin' on a Prayer," "Enter Sandman" and "Pour Some Sugar on Me." 
"Son of Glam was the best trip to the 80s I ever 
· ""took,,:~.:,Notre Dame senior Matthew Houlihan said. "If you don't go, it's the biggest mistake you ever made regarding Legends." 
From the hair, to the clothes, to the sunglasses, Sori of Glam plays the hits of the 80s, Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu as well as performing every aspect of the decade. 


Welbilt comes to Legends Saturday 
Washington D. Cs finest independent band finally makes a stop in South Bend 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene A~sistant Editor 

Called Washington D.C.'s "most promis­ing independent [band] in the region" and with a reputation of a terrific live show, the four-piece rock quartet Welbilt is mov­ing up in the music industry. After releas­ing its first full-length album "A Beautiful Mass" in December 2003, Welbilt has been touring heavily throughout 2004. Saturday night at 10 p.m. Welbilt will be making a stop at Legends. 
The band, composed of Nathan Ihara on lead vocals and guitar, Buddy Speir on backup guitar and vocals, Nick Briscoe on bass and Bill Ledbetter on drums, formed only shortly after 2002. Two of the mem­bers played in high school together, but otherwise· the formation of the band is generally recent. 
It has not taken long for Welbilt's popu­larity to rise in the D.C. area and was called, "a tight quartet playing high-ener­gy melodic rock infused with reggae, a sound not that surprising because thfl 22­year-old lhara lists Sting and The Policfl, Sublime, The Wailers, Squeeze and Elvis Costello as influences," by the Washington Post. 
Welbilt may not be necessarily well­known currently, but with a solid fan base forming and a strong reputation, Welbilt promises to earn the promising reviews it has already received from big names and many fans. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 


---~-----------------~-------------------------------------------­
Friday, November 19, 2004 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Michigan, Ohio State renew age-old rivalry 

Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, OHIO-Michigan quarterback Chad Henne has never played against Ohio State, but he has already used the word "hate" to describe the his­toric rivalry between the Wolverines and Buckeyes. 
Henne and the seventh-ranked Wolverines (9-1, 7-0 Big Ten) will have a Rose Bowl berth and conference championship on the line when they visit the Buckeyes (6-4, 3-4) in the con­tinuation of one of college foot­ball's most storied series. 
"It's the biggest tradition in college football," Henne said. "They hate us and we hate them." 
Michigan coach Lloyd Carr didn't agree with Henne's description. 
"Hate, I guarantee is not part of this rivalry," Carr said. "And I think when he's through he would not characterize it that way. They probably have guys that say the same thing. 
'"I think if you're at Michigan, you hate to lose to Ohio State. And I think if you're at Ohio State, you hate to lose to Michigan. I think that's what Chad Henne meant, so print it that way." 
Henne has been a key to the Wolverines' success, throwing for 2,188 yards and 19 touch­downs. 
l-ijs favorite target has been Braylon Edwards, who has 76 catches for 1,049 yards and 11 touchdowns. 
This is the 101st meeting between the schools, with Michigan leading the all-time series 57-37-6. There is no question that the Wolverines have much more at stake in this encounter as the teams con­clude the regular season. 
A win would assure the Wolverines, seventh in the Bowl Championship Series standings, of a spot in the Rose Bowl and a record 17th outright Big Ten title. 
Michigan controls its postsea­son fate because it got the help it needed when previously unbeaten Wisconsin lost at Michigan State on Saturday. After the Wolverines beat Northwestern 42-20 -their seventh straight win this year, and 13th consecutive Big Ten victory -many of them huddled around televisions to root for their instate rivals. 
Though the Wolverines will come into Columbus as favorites, "The Game" has pro­duced many season-wrecking upsets. 
Ohio State was undefeated in 1993, '95 and '96 before losing to Michigan, and last year, the Buckeyes were second in the BCS rankings when they lost a return trip to the national title game with a 35-21 setback at Michigan. 
The Buckeyes are drawing strength from what happened in the Michigan game three years ago during coach Jim Tressel's first season. 
Ohio State had lost four games and was coming on· a loss-just like this year -when it went to The Big House to play 11th­ranked Michigan. The Buckeyes pulled off a 26-20 upset, knock­ing the Wolverines out of a share of the Big Ten title and denying them a trip to the Sugar Bowl. 
"I don't think we come into this game with nothing to lose because we're playing here at Ohio State, we're playing against Michigan and that pretty 
much  speaks  for  itself."  
Buckeyes  wide  receiver  
Santonio Holmes said.  

"Everything that they have right now is on the line, like going for a big BCS bowl. We have an opportunity to spoil those chances. That's our main focus right now." 
If the Buckeyes win, they'll end a disappointing season with a satisfying victory. An Ohio State win would also drop Michigan into a first-place tie and possibly a second-tier bowl in Florida. 
Ohio State knows it is going to a bowl, but whether it heads to a favorable destination remains to be seen. Right now, the Buckeyes appear limited to the Alamo or Sun Bowls. 
Neither is on New Year's Day and both are far 'removed from the spotlight the team has grown accustomed to after spending the last two holiday seasons at the Fiesta Bowl. 

MLB 

Owners delaying vote on Expos' move to Washington 
Associated Press home opener, in fact, that alter­Capitol. "Baseball is watching what is one could be baseball's negotia­
na~ives weren't even discussed. The agreement estimates the taking place here.in the District, tions with Baltimore Orioles 
CHICAGO -The Montreal Season tickets went on sale cost of refurbishing RFK and if I were them, I wouldn't owner Peter Angelos. Expos remain in limbo, already Thursday morning, and the Stadium, land acquisition and vote either," said Councilman Angelos had previously object­out of one home but not quite team announced that manager ballpark construction at $435 Jack Evans, chair of the coun­ed to having a team move just ready to move into a new one. Frank Robinson had agreed to a million. The money would come cil's Finance and Revenue 40 miles from his Camden Yards 
Instead of rubber-stamping one-year -contract extension from a new tax on the city's Committee. stadium, but he gave his bless­the Expos' proposed move to through next season. largest businesses, a tax on "I've said all along that if the ing in September after reaching Washington as expected "We didn't consider any con­baseball-related income and district fails to act, baseball will an understanding with baseball Thursday, Major League tingencies, we didn't consider lease payments by the team's go elsewhere," Evans added. that protects him fmancially. Baseball owners made the sur­any other options," said Bob new owners. "Their action, by delaying their Selig refused Thursday to dis­prise decision to table the vote. DuPuy, baseball's chief operat­But some D.C. council mem­vote, only reinforces the fact cuss negotiations with Angelos. Commissioner Bud Selig said ing officer. "We fully expect to bers have claimed costs would that if we fail to act, baseball But a baseball official, speaking the move will still take place, play in RFK next year, and be far higher, though, perhaps will go somewhere else." on condition of anonymity, said with a vote by owners coming we're planning on it." $600 million or more. District of But baseball officialS insisted previously that an appraiser by Dec. 6. The Expos' agreement with Columbia Council Chair Linda the City Council had nothing to would value the Orioles fran­
"We will get this done," Selig Washington calls for funding for Cropp postponed a Nov. 9 vote do with the decision. chise and the commissioner's said. "We just weren't quite a new stadium to be in place by on the deal, saying the District "The mayor believes he has office would guarantee its value ready with a lot of details. We Dec. 31. But the District of should spend two weeks seeking the votes to pass, and we expect for a period of time. The com­like to have all the details done Columbia government has private financing. that to happen," DuPuy said. missioner's office also would before we vote. Nothing more delayed approval of the financ­Approval requires two votes Selig said the issues that guarantee Baltimore's locally than that." ing, expressing concerns about by the council. The first is now delayed the vote were "inter­generated revenue for a period 
Baseball officials are so confi­costs of building the ballpark scheduled for Nov. 30, with the nal," describing them as of time and assist in the cre­dent the team will be in along the Anacostia River, about second vote likely coming on "housekeeping" matters. He ation of a regional sports net­Washington for its April 15 a dozen blocks south of the U.S. Dec. 14. declined to be more specific, but work. 
The Observer accepts classif~eds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
•. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for comem wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED  6·7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. AFTER 6/1/05.  DOMUS PROPERTIES • ·NOW LEASING FOR 2005·2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT. WELL  NEW 3·4 BEDROOM, 3 BATH. SAFE, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, 2­CAR GARAGE. FIREPLACE,FAMILY  Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for groupdiscounts.  SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi Tours! Over 18 years of Spring Break experience! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun!  
WANTED Female to share great Oakhill condo. start Jan. Grad  ALSO: 3 BDRM. HOME, WID, NEAR CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH.  MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS.  ROOM,LARGE DECK. $1 ,660/MO. CALL 1-574-232-4527,  Info/Reservations 1 -800·648-4849  Acapulco· Vallarta -Mazatlan-Cameron & Cabo.  
preL625/m incl. utilities. 238·2368.  AVAIL. NOW.  2-3·5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES,  OR 1·269-683·5038  www.ststravel. com  Organize a group-GO FREE!  
CALL JOE CRIMMINS:  STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS,  800·875-4525 or  
FoR RENT  574-229-3659 OR 679-2010. MISHAWAKA  SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS.  PERSONAL  Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco,  www.bianchi-rossi.com Live in the Blue Zoo! Lafayette  
/"  2·6 Bedroom homes for 05·06 Walking distance from NO  2-3 bedroom, 2.5 bath, 1,200 sq.ft +full basement  VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW. DOMUSKRAMER.COM  ADOPTION: Help us complete our family,  Nassau·, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $159!  Square Townhomes. 234-9923.  
MMMRentals.com 532·1408  + 2-car garage, $875/mo. 574-273-9000.  OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574) 234-2436 OR (574)315·5032.  baby wanted. Jeanie & Dan sn-895-9790 Toll Free  www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800·678-6386  Randy Yang is a cutie pie!! ;)  

Friday, November 19, 2004 page 13
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles open season at annual Tip-Off Classic tournament 
The Hanover Panthers hail son with a 23-5 record, includ­squad. According to Bellina, hand on what everyone on thisBy CHRIS KHOREY fro,m Southern Indiana. They fin­ing a 55-48 win over the Belles. team leadership will not be a team is doing and she's keeping
Sports Writer 
ished last season with a i3-13 Led by Lindsay Roberson, the problem this year. them focused." 
mark, led by 15.4 points per Grizzlies advanced to the second "We have four seniors who, Creachbaum is not the only 
After a disappointing 5-18 game from Angela Newkirk. round of the Division III tourna­along with the rest of the team, Belle that earned hardware last campaign in 2003-04, the Saint They skirted by the Belles with a ment before losing to are really focused on making season. Senior guard Katie Mary's basketball team is look­68-65 win in last year's tourna­Wilmington 75-50. this a good season," she said. Boyce earned the MIAA ing to take the first steps toward ment, which was hosted by This year's edition of the Belles One of the biggest factors in Defensive Player of the Year becoming an MIAA power this Rose-ll ulman. will look different than past making this a successful season award, a feat made more season. The first hurdle in "We're excited," Belles coach years. Bellina has made tactical will be the play of senior for­impressive by the fact that she is achieving that goal will come Suzanne Bellina said of the changes, including changes to ward Emily Creachbaum. only 5-foot-2. this weekend, as the Belles play IIanover game, which will tip off the offense and the use of more Creachbaum was selected as an The Belles also expect to have Franklin and Hanover on back­at 6 p.m. tonight at the Angela full-court press. all-MIAA player each of the last major contributions from their to-hack days in the annual Tip­Athletic Center. "It was three­"We've gained a lot of quick­two seasons, making her the three freshmen, guards Alison Off Classic. point game last year, a game we ness in our guard positions," she first Belle to be so honored. Tessler and Bernadette 
Rose-Hulman Institute of could have won." said. "We're going to use that to Bellina expects Creachbaum to Broderick and forward/center Technology is also scheduled to The Franklin Grizzlies are the pressure full court." be a vocal leader in the locker Abbey Baum. play in this weekend's tourna­defending champions of the Saint Mary's lost only one room. ment, but is not scheduled to Heartland Collegiate Athletic major contributor, point guard "Emily is a very focused play­Contact Chris Khorey at play the Belles. Conference and finished last sea-Katie Miller, off last season's er," Bellina said. "She has a ckhorey@nd.edu 
LPGA 
Sorenstam on top of her game and in the lead 
Associated Press at 68. "Now I know where the ball 
It was the lowest opening is going," Sorenstam. "I can be 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.­round in the ADT more aggressive with these Annika Sorenstam was hitting Championship since it moved pins if they're tucked in the the ball so well she knew four years ago to Trump corner or just behind the exactly where it was going. International, a tough course bunker. I'm not afraid of being Combine that with an unusual­with a few waterfalls for deco­a little more aggressive ly calm day in south Florida, ration and plenty of water haz­because I have a better feel." and her name atop the leader­ards for intimidation. That was evident on the par-board was no surprise. Sorenstam, going after her 4 16th, whi'ch has two bunkers 
Sorenstam birdied four of the eighth victory of the year, was to the right and a two-tiered last five holes Thursday, twice oblivious to both. green that slopes severely to with a 7-iron into greens sur­Despite another dominant the right toward the water. rounded by trouble, giving her year, she made sure her swing Sorenstam had 149 yards a 6-under 66 and a one-shot was right before showing up from -where else? -the lead after the first round of for the final tournament of the middle of the fairway, and hit a the season-ending ADT year. Sorenstam spent a few soft 7-iron some 9 feet below Championship. days with swing coach Henri the cup for the only birdie 
Cristie Kerr had a 67, while Reis, and just like that she among the 30 players in the Karrie Webb was among those looked tough to beat. field. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra Alexander Blachly, Director 




2004 Fall Concert 
Bach's "German Magnificat," BWV 10 Excerpts from Haydn's Harmoniemesse Renaissance Motets 
8:00 Friday, November 19, 2004 Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
Free and Open to the Public 
Then on the 18th, with the pin all the way back, Sorenstam hit another 7-iron that stopped pin-high about 8 feet to the right. She made that to take the lead by herself. 
"The conditions were as good as they could get," Sorenstam said. "But I must say, I thought the pins were very tough. I did­n't think it was that easy. I told my caddie that it seems like there are ridges in the front or the back. So, in that case, I thought it was difficult. 
"Then again, I felt like I was hitting the ball well." 
That wasn't the case for Grace Park, No. 2 on the money list and paired in the first round with Sorenstam. 
She nearly had a lost ball on the par-5 sixth -someone found it as she was walking back to the fairway to drop and take a two-shot penalty ­but still made bogey. She failed to birdie the next two par 5s, but still managed to scratch out a 71. Lorena Ochoa of Mexico had a 75, giving Park a good start toward winning the Yare Trophy. 
"I just didn't have anything today," Park said. 
As for her partner? Park 
smiled, looked over her shoul­der and said, ''Oh, her." 
"I feel even more horrible on a day like this when I'm play­ing with Annika," she said. "She just hits every fairway and every green. That's why she's No. 1." 
Sorenstam wasn't perfect. She did miss one green and one fairway. And the 34-year­old Swede will be the first to remind anyone that the tour­nament is just getting started. 
A year ago, Sorenstam had a three-shot lead going into the final round when Meg Mallon rallied on the back nine and beat her by one shot. 
Mallon was happy just get­ting to the first tee today, hav­ing suffered a lower back injury two weeks ago. She opened with a three-putt bogey and finished by dumping two tee shots into the water on No. 18 and having to hit a great approach into 8 feet to save triple bogey. 
It wasn't too bad in between, and Mallon walked off with a 74. 
"I felt very good today," she said. "I don't think I've had a big number in two years. I was due for one." 

Annika Sorenstam acknowledges the gallery after sinking a birdie putt on the final hole during the first round of the Mizuno Classic. 
AP 

page 14 Friday, November 19, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish ready to meet BC in Big East semifinals 
step on the court and make a best .211 on hitting.
By ANN LOUGHERY 
statement." Brewster also teamed up
Sporrs Writer 

Brown added the team antic­with junior Meg Henican to ipates Saturday's match, look­lead the Irish defense. Henican 
After claiming the conference ing to redeem itself after losing totaled 15 digs to lead the floor regular season title, the Irish to Boston College earlier this defensive effort, while look to check another item off season. Brewster took part in four of their wish list -a Big East The Eagles upended the Irish Notre Dame's blocks. Championship. in three games 30-14, 30-22, Since that game, the Irish 
The team (16-8, 9-1 in the 30-28, handing the team its have won two of the last three Big East) travels to Pittsburgh only conference loss this sea­matches they have played, in hopes of collecting its eighth son. Further, the loss snapped defeating Pittsburgh 3-0 and 
Big East Championship title Notre Dame's streak of 58 con­West Virginia 3-0, but dropping 
this weekend. Notre Dame, secutive home regular-season a match to Northern Iowa 
seeded first in the tournament, victories in Big East competi­Tuesday night 3-2. 
will first face fourth-seeded tions since 1995. Brown described the 
Boston College (20-11, 6-4) in Boston College averaged 4.67 Northern Iowa match as the 
the semifinals Saturday at 1 blocks and 20.33 digs per perfect form of preparation for 
p.m. 
The winner will take on game, limiting Notre Dame to a the Big East Championship this the victor of the Pittsburgh and .080 hitting mark. Sophomore weekend. She added that Syracuse game Sunday at 2 libero Allison Anderson and despite all of the hype built 

p.m. 
for the championship. middle blocker Shardai Davis around this weekend's match­


This weekend's significance led the Eagles' defensive es, the team will be able to goes beyond a championship efforts, with Anderson notch­keep its nerves in check. title and bragging rights, how­ing a match-high 21 digs and "They're trying to stay in the ever. The winner of Sunday's Davis recording 14 blocks. right frame of mind going into match will claim an automatic Notre Dame's offensive this weekend so they can play 
) 
bid to the NCAA tournament. standouts of the match includ­relaxed and enjoy the game,"
) . 
Coach Debbie Brown says the ed freshman Ellen Heintzman, Brown said. "It's going to take 
Irish expect to walk off the who replaced an injured a combined and inspired team courts with a Big East Lauren Kelbley, Lauren effort, but we are expecting to Championship -nothing less Brewster and Carolyn Cooper. bring the title back to Notre is acceptable. Heintzman and Brewster each Dame." 
"We're goirtg in really tallied 11 kills, while Cooper 
focused and determined to almost tied her career high Contact Ann Loughery at 
win," Brown said. "We want to with seven kills and a team alougher@nd.edu 

Not satisfied with historic victory, Irish push forward 
events that we would at the "Louisville is a much meet, and we'll be taking the also acts as an incentive. We
Team looks to build 

NCAA championships, and in improved team this year, and whole team down to Louisville know the only way we can the same we're starting and looking for a complete stay ranked is to make it to
on first win over 

order," Welsh to build a good team performance." the national championshipsranked opponent this said. "We're in conference The recent success by the and score in the top 25, some­
..We want to build on
preparation relationship," Irish has them ranked No. 21 thing that has never been
weekend at Louisville for our own Friday, but we also Welsh said. "We in the latest College Swim done in school history. invitational wan to start over. are larger and Coaches poll, marking the "By itself, the ranking meet here at deeper, though, first time in 4 7 years that the means nothing, but as an
By RYAN DUFFY We don •t want to rely
NO the week­and that should team has been ranked. inspiration to progress, it's
Sports Writer 

on it.··
end after be to our "It's a giant step for the pro­fantastic." Thanksgiving, advantage." gram, and it's very exciting," In the minds of the Irish so this will It has been Welsh said. "It's a measure­Contact Ryan Duffy at
Tim Welsh 
swim team, the historic win also be a that depth that ment of our progress, but it rduffy@nd.edu
Irish coach 
over Pittsburgh on Nov. 12 dress rehears­has provided wasn't the culmination of the al for that." the Irish with season -it was just the The Notre an extra edge beginning. Dame Invitational will be held in all their meets this year. 
The victory over the No. 17 Dec. 2-4 and will represent "What has allowed us to Panthers marked the first one of the most crucial tests beat Pittsburgh, to beat Iowa, time in the 4 7 -year history of of the season for the Irish to challenge every team we the program Notre Dame has prior to the Big East face, has been the depth of beaten a ranked team, Championships. this team," Welsh said. "We 


"We want to build on Friday, "This weekend's meet will scored 22 guys in Friday's 
but we also want to start over.  be  an additional tune-up for  
We don't want to rely on it," Irish coach Tim Welsh said.  the Notre Dame Invitational, because it will act as champi­ IGII  
"We want to go out there and  onship preparation for every­ ~~ fltDfJii~W~  
earn it all  over  again. We  one," Welsh said. "This uni­ 
know what we want to do for  fies the squad, from  a  team  Offering  
the year, and we're making  point of view.  From  an indi­ sffon:lsble  
great progress. But anyone  vidual point of view, it pre­ flying lessons  
who's watched Notre Dame athletics this fall knows that  pares each individual for their event in the upcoming  from South Bend Regklnal Airport  
you can't take any success for  invitational meet."  
granted until it's final."  Though the Irish have next  
The Irish will get their first  week in mind  as well, they  
chance to follow up Friday's  will look forward 'to taking on  
performance when they travel  a strong Louisville squad.  
to Louisville this weekend for  
a meet that will last two days  
and contain three sessions.  
Rather than participating in  
the  same standard events as  
the previous four weeks, the  
teams will swim the  same  
events as the NCAA champi­ 
onship meets, including three  
new  races  - the  200  
freestyle,  the 500 freestyle  
and the 400 medley.  
:)  "This meet is valuable to us, because we swim all the  
'I  
'I.,  
, I  
I  
'I  

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat is perfect for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo om-9:00pm Sot: 1o:oo om -B:oo pmSun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm


Friday, November 19, 2004 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
HOCKEY 
Irish to face U.S. Under 18 team in exhibition 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Writer 
The Irish will take a break from regular season action tonight as they face the U.S. National Team Developmental Program's Under­18 team at 7:35 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
This is the second year in a row that the Irish have played the Under-18 team in an exhibition, with the Irish coming away with a 4-0 win over Team USA on Nov. 14, 2003. 
Notre Dame and the Under-18 team have always had a good relationship, and several recent Irish players were once members of the National Developmental Program. 
Current Notre Dame junior Noah Babin and sophomore Tim Wallace were members of Team USA's 2001 ·squad, and recently­signed incoming freshman Jordan Pearce was the starting goalie in last year's 4-0 game. Pearce will join the Irish as a freshman in 2005. 
Sophomores Michael Bartlett and Josh Sciba were also one­time members of Team USA, although their squad never faced the Irish in an exhibition. 
Notre Dame comes into the exhibition on perhaps its best stretch of the young season. The Irish tied Western Michigan 2-2 Nov. 12, then came back and picked up their first conference win with a 3-2 victory over the Broncos. The three points on the weekend moved Notre Dame from last in the CCHA to eighth. 
"At least we don't have the entire week off; I'm happy we're at least playing a game [tonight]," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "We're pretty banged up right now -Cory McLean, Evan Rankin, Matthew Williams­Kovacs and Dan VeNard are all trying to heal from various things, so hopefully we can use this as a chance to get some of those guys healthy. 
"We'll also get a chance to try some things with our special teams, maybe play Victor Oreskovich and Tim Wallace some more on the power play and give the younger guys a chance to do something." 
Team USA comes into the Joyce 

Sophomore Ellen Johnson swims in the Dennis Stark Relays Oct. 1 at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 


FRIDAY, NOV. 19 "The Time Travelers" (Classic Americana) 
SATURDAY, NOV. 20 "Chicago's Singing Sensation" 

A Tribute to Frank Sinatra w /Peter Oprisko 
.._,._... 

**Tickets $5.00 in advance $8.00 at the door 9:00pm-12:00an~ 
Center on a tear, having recently won the Four Nations Tournament in Ann Arbor, Mich., defeating Under-18 teams from Switzerland, Sweden and Finland. 
They have not been a pushover against their collegiate opponent'i this year, either, amassing a respectable 3-2-2 record against Division I teams. Team USA owns a win over Michigan Tech (6-2) and a tie against Northern Michigan (3-3), both teams are on the Irish 2004-05 schedule. 
"[Team USA] is a very good hockey team," Poulin said. "Guys on our team like Michael Bartlett and Josh Sciba have been in that other locker room, and they know how it feels to be young kids playing against big college programs, so you know they're going to be fired up and ready to play." ·' 
Following the exhibition tonight, the Irish travel to Alaska Fairbanks for a two-game series with their conference rival on Nov. 26-27. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
BG not expected to pose a threat 
swimmers are trying to work onBy ERIC RETTER events that may not be their spe­
Sports Wrirer 
cialty. 

"[This weekend) is important 
Against an on-intimidating to see where we stand in our opponent, the Irish head into a third and fourth events," Irish very important event. coach Bailey Weathers said. "The 
The team travels to Bowling breaststrokers might work on Green, Ohio where their IMs, and the it takes on Bowling sprinters might Green in a ..We are going to race in the 200, Saturday ffi{;et at 1 try to look at some for instance." 
p.m. The Irish are One of the swim­
different people for 
looking for a strong mers who will try showing, especially our relays. , to work on some coming ofl' their big of her other events wins against will be sophomore
Bailey Weathers 
Michigan State and Jessica Stephens. 
Irish coach
Pittsburgh last weekend at the Holf:., Aquatic Center. 
However, where the Irish swimmers will hope to impress will not be in their strongest events. 
Against a mid-level opponent like Bowling Green, the team's 
Last weekend, in addition to her success in the 
relays, Stephens won both the 200 individual medley and the 200 breaststroke. 
This weekend, she will also try to pick up the 100-meter breast­stroke, an event she was beaten 
TAKE INDY BY STORM 
Please Visit: ww\v.SunlakeApartrnentHon1es.con1 888-414-9225 ww\v .SunblestApts.com 866-390-3823 
"'As You Wif;h" 'g~, -Purses -Sarongs
--Wallets -Incense 
"-' ' -Change Purses
ImPort5 
/ I oads of Silver & Beaded Jewelry, Tapestry Wall Hangings, and Crafted Gift Items, and Much, Much More!! 
DIRECT IMPORTS! LOW PRICES! 
UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTSI , , Guatemala • Bolivia· Peru· Mexico • Thailand • India 
LaFortune-Sorin Room (1st Fl.) Proceeds from sales of Jewelry guarantee the 
loving hands of Guatemalan fom•l•es 3 t•mes 
Nov 29-Dec 4(Sat.) 1Q: 30-5:50pm their average salary. as well as funds for the~r 
• educat•on. 
in by less than one-tenth of a sec­ond a week ago. 
Conversely, senior diver Meghan Perry-Eaton will go into this weekend with her routine pretty much locked in. 
She has dominated both the l­and 3-meter event'i, winning five of six events she has entered this year . 
To be sure, Stephens, and other Irish swimmers who have been hot of late, will not abandon their successes. 
"Everyone will compete in their good events," Weathers said. 
Another reason this event could be pivotal for the Irish is the fact Weathers plans on look­ing at and evaluating some of the swimmers beyond his star indi­viduals. 
"We are going to try to look at some different people for our relays," Weathers said. 
Though this weekend is not a make-or-break for the Irish as far as the win-loss columns, the way events take place could give some indication as to what the Irish need to work on for later tournaments and their hopeful NCAA run. 
"The third and fourth events are real important for us because a lot of times, that's what it comes down to in big championship meets," Weathers said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 


• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 







ATION 


page 16 Cotv\PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S vVIRE SERVICES Friday, November 19,2004 

\ 
) 
) 
) 
} 
) 
( 
j 
•' 
I 
( 
~ 
1~ 
I~ 
i 
i 
! 
I I I 
'i 
:) 
I I 
I I 
·~ 
I 
:I~ 
•/) 
11/ 
:~ 
·~
'{
:~ 
·~ 
·( 
( 
. 
1 
: ~ I 
:~ 
J 
I 
i 
) 
Men's CCHA Hockey Conference 
team CCJIA Overall 
Ohio State 7·1~0 9·3·0 Michigan 5-1~0 7·2·1 Alaska Fairbanks 4·2~0 5·3·0 Nebraska-Omaha 4-4~0 6-4·0 Bowling Green 3·2~1 5·2·1 Northern Michigan 3-,2-1 5·3·2 Michigan State 3·3-0 5·4·1 NOTRE DAME 1·4.-3 2·5·4 Western Michigan 2·5-1 4-5·1 lake Superior 2·4..0 2-6·0 Miami 2-4-0 4·6·0 Ferris State 1·5-0 4·8·0 
Women's Basketball NCAA Top 25 
team points· 
1 Tennessee(22) 1,092 2 Texas (6) 1,061 3 LSU.(11) 
1,059 4 Connecticut (6) 1,008 5 ·Georgia 888 6 Duke 871 7 Stanford 825 8 Baylor 780 9 North Carolina 744 1o Ohio State 705 11 NOTRE DAME .· 678 12 Texas Tech 624 13 Vanderbilt 550 14 Minnesota 506 15 Michigan State 442 16 Purdue 426 11 Rutgers 372 18 Boston Cotlltge 
356 19 Kansas State 21l DePaul 
, 't1]i:'i} / ~~~arq~ < ····•·••••···•····•• ·· 
•· 23 Penn state 

· Maryland Ltlulsiana Tech 
Men's Basketball 
NCAA~op•···25
. ···'');~::::':':·:':·:·:·.:.·.·· ....... 
APPoll 
1 Kansas 
Kansas 1 
2 Wake forest 
Wake Forest 2 
3 Georgia Tech 
Nortb Carolina 3 
•"4 North Carolina 
Georgia Tech 4 
5 Syracuse 
Illinois $ 
6 Illinois 
Syracuse 6 
... 7 
Oklahoma Sta1e 
Connecticut 1 
.··.·.· 
8 Connecticut Oklahoma State 8 

9 Kentucky 
10 Arizona 
11 Duke 
12 Mississippi State 
13 Michigan State 
14 Louisville 
1!) Maryland 
1B Texas 
17 PittSburgh 
18 Alabama 
19 North Carolina State 
20 NOTRE DAME 
21 Wisconsin 
22 Washington 
23 Florida 
24 Memphis 
25 Gonzaga 
Kentucky 9 
Michigan State 16 Arizona 11 Duke 12 Louisville 13 Mississippi 14 State 15 Texas 16 
Maryland rt Pittsburgh 18 . Alabama 19 
Nortb Carolina 20 State 21 Wisconsin 22 NOTRE DAME 23 Florida 24 Memphis 25 
around the dial 
NBA San Antonio at Boston 7:30p.m., FOX Indiana at Detroit 8 p.m., ESPN Memphis at Sacramento 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
PGA TouR 
World Cup Second Round 1:30 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA-While Terrell Owens would never say he's sorry for his flashy touchdown celebrations, he did apologize Thursday to anyone offended by his role in a steamy segment with actress Nicollette Sheridan for the intro to "Monday Night Football." 
"I felt like it was clean, the organization felt like it was a clean skit and I think it just really got taken out of context with a lot of people and I apologize for that," Owens said. "Personally I didn't think it would have offended anyone and, if it did, I apologize." 
IN BRIEF 

ABC and the Eagles also apologized this week, with the team saying it wished the titillating segment "had· n't aired." 
The opening, which has generated complaints to ABC and the Federal Communications Commission, showed Sheridan [of the hit show "Desperate Housewives"] wearing only a towel and provocatively asking Owens to skip the game for her as the two stood alone in a locker room. She drops the towel and jumps into Owens' arms. 
Owens had no idea the intro would create such outrage. 
"I thought it was a fun skit and that was it," Owens said. 
Owens, known for his outrageous touchdown cel­ebrations, seemed to believe the skit was gener­ating controversy because of his participation, not because of simulated nudi­ty. 
"Anything I get involved with, I'm obviously a tar­get," he said. "It hap­pened." 
The sexually charged promo goes way beyond Owens, however. Reaction -are you ready for some controversy? -has ranged from amusement to anger. 
Indianapolis Colts coach Tony Dungy found it racial­ly offensive; Owens is black 
and Sheridan is white. 
Philadelphia quarterback Donovan McNabb wasn't quite as vocal, saying he didn't find the segment offensive and believed peo­ple were overreacting. Michael Powell, chairman of the FCC, questioned ABC's judgment in airing the scene. 
Even Rush Limbaugh, who made a racially charged critique of McNabb last season, chimed in on his radio show, saying he was "shocked" by the con­tent, which was "too close to this Kobe Bryant situa­tion for comfort." 

Greek sprinters charS{ed
with dodging doping tesf 
ATI-IENS, Greece -Greek sprint­ers Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou and their coach were charged Thursday with avoiding a drug test on the eve of the Athens Olympics and faking a motorcycle accident hours later. 
Chief prosecutor Dimitris Papangelopoulos, announcing the results of a two-month investiga­tion, issued charges against the two athletes and coach Christos Tzekos. The coach was also charged with illegally importing and selling banned substances. 
Twelve others -including seven doctors at the state-run hospital where Thanou and Kenteris were treated after the alleged motorcycle crash -were charged with making false statements. 
No trial date was set, though it is not expected to go to trial for at least a year. 
There was no immediate from the sprinters or their lawyer. The sprint­ers have repeatedly denied any wrongdoing and argued they were not properly informed by testers. But Kenteris fired Tzekos as his coach after withdrawing from the Olympics. 
Kenteris, 31, won gold in the 200 meters at the Sydney Olympics in 2000, and Thanou, 29, won silver in the 100 meters. 
On the eve of the Aug. 13 opening ceremony in Athens, the pair could not be found at the Olympic Village for a doping test. Hours later, they said they were involved in a motor­cycle accident that happened because they were rushing back to the Olympic Village to be tested. They spent four days in the hospital and later withdrew from the OlymRics.Ben(ler out indefinitely with knee injury 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers forward Jonathan Bender's chroni­cally injurp,d left knee has taken yet another turn for the worse. 
Bender will be out indefinitely to allow scar tissue to heal, the latest in a series of injuries. 
"It's not good," Bender said after practice Thursday. "The doctor's re­evaluated it and I'm going to sit out for [a while]." 
Bender played 11 minutes in Wednesday night's win over the Atlanta Hawks, the first time he'd played since the season opener against Cleveland. 
Pacers coach Rick Carlisle said he didn't have a specific timetable for Bender's recovery, but the team will "have to consider sitting Jonathan out for an extended period of time to allow him to really rehab this knee right." 
Bender has been plagued by the injury for years, missing huge chunks of time, then coming back for a few games, only to miss more time. 
"We're at a point where it doesn't make sense to yo-yo him in and out and for him to keep having the set­backs he's having," Carlisle said. 

Friday, November 19, 2004 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 

build on his freshman frame of 
"200 pounds soaking wet." 
That small frame left the new 
fullback at a major disadvantage 
compared to the other fullbacks 
on the team, sending Schmidt 
onto the practice field turf time 
and time again. 
But he kept getting up and each time he got up, Schmidt's confi­dence that he could hang with Division I football players grew. 
''I'm sure [his confidence] prob­ably came from havjng his head knocked ofT a couple of times," Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "[You have toJ keep getting up and coming back at it and pretty soon, instead of getting rejected in the hole you are start­ing to move the hole a little bit, that just comes with a number of repetitions." 
That confidence has allowed Schmidt to rise to second on the Irish depth chart at fullback. He mainly comes into the game to either open a hole or catch a pass out of the backfield. He's now someone the coaching staff can rely on when they call his num­ber. 
"If you look back a couple years ago, he was very inconsistent, not real confident," Diedrick said. "Now I think he's very, very confi­dent with his ability and his play, and I think he's a little more phys­ical which a fullback definitely has to be -it comes with the ter­ritory with that position." 
Marriage and a scholarship 
Schmidt and his wife Lisa have been together since middle school. When Schmidt decided to come to South Bend, their rela­tionship became long-distance for three years. 
That was too long for Schmidt. 
"When I came here, we did the long-distance thing for three years and I was like, I'm not doing another year of this," Schmidt said. "We're getting mar­ried, and you're coming up here with me." 
The couple was married on May 15. Lisa moved to South Bend and took a year off from school so they could live together. 
"It's the best thing that's ever happened to me," Schmidt said. "It's really been the best thing in the world not having to go back to an empty apartment, but a gor­geous wife." 
Not only did Schmidt get mar­ried over the summer, but also he was awarded a scholarship. 
When that happened, it wasn't about the money for Schmidt, but more about the dedication he put in and the coaching staff recog­nizing and acknowledging it. 
"l guess when you first walk on and see guys like Timmy O'Neill and guys that have gone before you and been awarded a scholar­ship, that group of guys have been walk-ons that earned a scholarship, just from the stand­point that you earned a scholar­ship as well to be put in that cate­gory of that type of guy, first of all was just the biggest award more than money-more a thanks," Schmidt said. "All the hard work you put into it is just blows your mind that they would reward you with that. l never expected that." Coming to an end 
Schmidt played in his final home game six days ago. He had a talk with Willingham last week and the two came to the conclu­sion Schmidt wouldn't return for a fifth year. 
There are no hard feelings. 
"His thoughts were with the tilt of the offense switching to the tight end, away from the fullback, there really wasn't a place on the team for me anymore," Schmidt 
· said. "I guess coming into the sea­son and into my joining the team, my intentions were really not to come back for a fifth because I guess from the start, I looked at the fifth year for guys that were either starting or trying to go to the NFL or that type of thing. 'That's not me, I came here for the academics and school was my main focus and looking to get a job next year so that was my deci­sion." Hunning out of the tunne_l for the last time against the Panthers, Schmidt described his feeling as weird. When he came to South Bend, only in his wildest dreams did Schmidt believe he would be on the field for Senior Day. "I came here with no expecta­tions of playing football," Schmidt said. "When I walked on to the team, I really didn't think I would make it. When I joined the team, I neve·r thought I would be asked back to camp. When I was asked back to camp, I never thought I would play. It's really exceeded all my expectations. "Not to say I didn't come in with the work ethic I'm going to do everything I can to get on the field, that's definitely what my mindset was, but I didn't come in expecting to play." Four years later, he will have two monograms, one scholarship and a dream come true to show for his efforts. Not bad for someone who almost couldn't make his interhall team. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Schmidt 
continued from page 20 
ious" University of Tennessee fans in Knoxville, Schmidt knew he was looking for a good busi­ness school in his college choice. Combining that career path with always being a football fan and Notre Dame would seem like a natural fit. 
vVhen he got to campus, it was exactly that. "Once I got here it was like, 'Wow, this place is amazing. This 

Recruits 
continued from page 20 
in several areas, starting with pitching. 
He said four of the five pitch­ers are hard-throwers, all with fastballs clocked in the 90s, while the fifth, Jeremy Barnes is, as Mainieri said, "a very pro­ductive pitcher." 
"In my opinion, those five pitchers we've recruited have a chance to be as dominating a staff as we've recruited here, and we've recruited some pret­ty good staffs," Mainieri said. 
Mainieri said the lefthander, 
is where I want to spend my four years,"' Schmidt said. 
After playing football in high school, it was always in the back of Schmidt's mind that he could walk on to the Irish. Schmidt felt comfortable with the academics after his first semester, and with the coaching change, knew this was his chance. 
He sent Willingham and the coaching staff tapes of his high school days and went to talk with them. Joining the team a few weeks before spring practice started, Schmidt was able to start working out with the team and 
Sam Elam, "has as good an arm on a lefthander as you're going to see." 
Elam is ranked as the 18th best player in the nation by Team One Baseball and posted 54 strikeouts in just 26 innings last season. 
He also finished his junior season with a 2.20 ERA 
Highthander Brett Graffy was 6-1 with a 3.28 EHA for Joliet Catholic High School last sea­son, helping his team to a state runner-up finish. He is the No. 2 prospect in Illinois. 
Kyle Weiland was 6-2 with a 
3.34 ERA as a junior and had an impressive summer ball sea­son, finishing with an 8-1 
record and 1.66 ERA. 
David Phelps is the No. 1 player form Missouri and post­ed a 2.65 EllA, while striking out nearly 16 ·batters per nine innings. 
Barnes, who played shortstop as well in high school rounds nut the group as the most ver­satile pitcher. 
WhiJe he doesn't hif 90 on the radar gun, Barnes still man­aged to record a 1.36 ERA, thanks in large to part to a nasty slider. 
The other three players give the Irish not only solid defen­sive skills, but also outstanding hitters. 
Mainieri said bringing in play­ers who could hit the ball well was critical for this year's class. 
"We don't know what we're going to lose this year," Mainieri said. "A major core of our team is our junior class. 
"When you have guys that are eligible for the draft and they're good players, you have to assume you're going to lose a number of them because of the nature of the way it works now." 
Notre Dame lost three under­elassmen to the draft a season ago in pitchers Grant Johnson and Chris Niesel, and infielder Matt Macri. 
Third baseman Eddy Mendiola and left-handed hit-
G 

. 
<·--·····.·-._.·. .. -:.:· -. _..-:· ---·---.::-:-:-:": ._.... 
: -: ---··-. ::-·.. __:: ·: ... :·;: . .:
.........···•·s
.· .. 
.. 

·~' ' . ,.,, '• ,_,, ~-~·· d ' / 
to an incident outside the Joyce Center and Notre Dame Stadium before the
. 

Notre Dame v. Pittsburgh football game Saturday, November 13, 2004 involving a NOTRE DAME SECURITY OFFICER, a blonde female student, and an injured male student. Please call 800-328-71 71 and ask for Brad or Glen. Possible rewards offered. 
ting catcher David Hum should 
help give the Notre Dame line­
up more power. 
Mendiola is the nation's third­
ranked prospect at third base 
and hit .406 with 27 HBI, eight 
doubles and 12 steals in 20 
games as a junior. 
Hum hit .476 and could be 
one of the top hitting catchers 
in the country. He also added 
six home runs to lead all play­
ers in the state of Arkansas. 
"Both of them are bats," Mainieri said. "That was the importani thing. 
"We wanted a couple of guys who could really swing the bat." 
Rounding out the eight recruits is utility player, Ryan Connolly. Connolly tallied a .439 average with four home runs and 20 runs scored a sea­son ago. 
Mainieri said assistant coach­es David Grewe and Terry Rooney had a significant impact with helping to bring in such a talented class. 
"I think all the credit really goes to my two assistants. 
"They worked so hard all summer and really they didn't leave a rock unturned," Mainieri said. 
Despite the difficultiP-s of recruiting at Notre Dame, Mainieri is pleased with the eight players the Irish will 

-
bring in as freshman for the 2006 season. 
"There's a lot of challenges in recruiting for us and I think we really succeeded this year. 
"I think we're bringing in a great class." Notes 
• 
The players hail from seven different states, with two com­ing from Texas. 

• 
Mainieri said Notre Dame is unlikely to sign any other recruits for this class. 


Contact Joe Hettler jhettler@nd.edu 


Friday, November 19, 2004
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 

li Godfather 
I' 
i' 
continued from page 20
I 
.\' 
'\'\ 
early-season battle. 
'\ "I love the fact we're going there," Foster said after Ohio State's victory Wednesday. "l love that we're seeing where we are. It's only Nov. 20. We couldn't ask for a better situation. "We got otr to a good start at home, and we earned a shot to go 

points and three rebounds in the team's first three contests, dropped 20 against Arizona on Wednesday · 
The Buckeyes have shot the ball especially well, while playing stifling defense. Ohio State has connected on 52.9 percent of its shots and held opponents to just 
30.8 percent. 
On the other bench, Notre Dame has played pretty well in its own right. The Irish have won three games, including the impressive victory against a top­10 Duke team. All-American Jacqueline Batteast has been her usual self, leading the Irish in scoring and also piling up high assist totals. She's averaged 18 points and 5.3 rebounds. 
The real surprise for Notre Dame has been the play of fresh­man Charel Allen. 
Allen poured in 16 points against Duke, hit two crucial sec­ond-half 3-pointers and played nothing like her class. Notre Dame will likely rely on Allen again Saturday, especially with fellow freshman Tulyah Gaines sit­
and play for a ..We got offto a ting out with a ehampionship in neck injury. 
good start at home,
somebody else's The Irish have
and we earned a
gym." also received solid Jessica Dav-shot to go an play minutes from Courtney LaVere.
enport leads the for a championship
Buckeyes with 16 and Teresa
in someone else's
points and six Borton. Those two 
gym.,,
rebounds per arc averaging 24 game. Teammate points and 12 Caity Matter, who's rebounds per
Jim Foster
averaged 14.7 game this season.
Ohio State coach 
McGraw gave 
Notre Dame Thursday off, before practice and game-planning tonight. The Irish won't get much rest after· Saturday's game, either. They face Colorado State on Monday at the Joyce Center. Notes 
+ Tickets for Saturday's game are on sale now and will be $7 for students. Any student inter­ested in attending can purchase tickets at the Joyce Center dur­ing regular business hours. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


UConn 
continued from page 20 
"They're anxious to play," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "After playing UConn, we felt like we just gave that one away." 
According to Waldrum, ·one of the deciding factors during the Big East Championship was being focused throughout the entire match. 
"We just need to 
stay focused for kids we don't 
..They're anxious to 
90 minutes. It praise or talk
play. After playing 
wasn't anything about enough," tactically that we UConn, we felt like Waldrum said. broke down," One of the
we just gave that 
Waldrum said. ,, notable perform­
one away.
"We just lost track ances Jones has of some of their had during the key players. And Randy Waldrum postseason came we got punished when she scored
Irish coach
for it." 
Despite losing the Big East Championship, the Irish remain confident in how tliey've played throughout the season and expect Saturday's match to be no dif­ferent. 
"When we go back and eval­uate the season, we have been good all year except for the last 30 minutes of the Big East Cham pions hip game," Waldrum said. "We spent this week to make sure that we come out the same way and not let that one game deflate us. I don't think it did, so I would look for us to be very good on Saturday." 
In addition to their confi­dence, the Irish believe they
··;. will be prepared for the style of play they are expecting from Connecticut. "We got a really good handle on UConn. We have played them so often the past few years that I'm not looking for them to come up with any­thing to surprise us," Waldrum said. "(During the postseason! you try to put your players in the best ways to exploit your opposition and I think that is 
what they will do if they make any changes." 
However, the Irish have two individual players they are hoping will challenge the opposition of the Huskies and who have significantly added to the team's success during the post-season. 
Freshman Ashley Jones and junior Annie Schefter are two players Waldrum feels should receive more attention for the contributions they give the 
Irish offensively. 
"Those are two 
her first gQal 
scored of the season during the Big East Championship game. However, for Schefter it has been her guidance and knowledge of 
the sport that makes her a vital asset to the team's suc­cess. 
"She has a better under­standing [of the game] than most players and she sees the game two or three passes ahead and raises lher talent] to another level during this stretch of the playoffs," Waldrum said. "She is going to be such a big factor for the organization of the team [throughout the playoffs]." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 


nnhats 

11oves 

largest selection onlyat~ • 
Sminutes ~ 
fiom auTPaST 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 

800 feet ofGulf Beach Frontage 2 Large Outdoor Swimming Pools Sailboat, Jet Ski & Parasail Rentals Lazy River Ride, Water Slide Huge Beachfront Hot Tub Volleyball • Suites up to 12 people Airport Limo Service 
PARTY ALL WEEK! 
Live Band & OJ • Contests 
WORLD FAMOUS T1KI HuT 


Friday, November 19, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT 
THERE MUST BE MORE TO MANAGING THAN GIVING VAGUE DIR­ECTIONS AND PUNISH­ING PEOPLE FOR NOT READING MY MIND. 
PEANUTS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
ITS A 
WAKE ME UP
FORM OF 
WHEN SOME
GENIUS .. 
OF THIS IS ABOUT ME. 
• 
CHARLES SCHULZ 

II'S SEEN EIGHT WEEKS THOSE HAVE NOT SEEN THE S!~E I LAST 6EEPEO 4'0U •.. LONGE5T EIGHT WEEK5 
OF M'( LIFE! 

HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 

MIKE ARCIRION 
~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
That Mr. Van Snoot got to form four ordinary words. 

in again without paying 
KAFLE 

I I I 
<02004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TACCH 
j
rJ r
tDOPAMEj 
Tf-€ Ml5eR 

1 SNEAKED INTO TI-E
J r [J
www.jumble.com ICE RINK l?E­
CJ.U?E f-€ WA?--­

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: DECRY MOUND CANNED BAMBOO Answer: What the fireman inherited from his rich uncle -MONEY TO BURN 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Drive away 
Voters' 35 p problem 
36 Acceptance of 7 Top on pop a bet 
15 Five iron 39 A magazine can be found in
16 "Can you one
believe that guy?!" 40 Sightings 
17 Backward 42 Hard-to-meet requirement
18 Brainiac 44 Moving
19 Puts away 47 Denial
20 Decorative skill 48 Hardly macho 
21 Modern part of the ancient 
51 ResemblingHittite empire 55 Relative 
22 Animal with lyre-shaped 58 Foul horns 
59 Noshed 23 Identical 
60 Oldtime 25 Physics gangster Bugsy particle with no 
61 Fatalist's cry 
strong force 62 Tried hard
29 Lost at laser tag, maybe 63 Followed 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-::+......,,..,..f-:::-1 
8-:+±:+.:+=-~ 
~~._. 
~~.;....,~;.t 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
64 Checked out 
DOWN 1 Conglomerate 2 Far from tan 3 Place in 
Manhattan 4 Luxury hotel, familiarly 5 Steal, as 
employees 6 Itches 7 If you're tired, 
you've lost it 8 Wake-up call? 9 13-Down 
offering 10 Lay in, on the farm 11 Alternatives to finger bowls 12 Onetime buffalo hunter 13 Airport counter 
name 14 Set on a desk 22 Opinions 24 Yahoo! had 
one in 1996: Abbr. 
26 Definitely not the sound of success 
27 Some mud 
28 Film 
29 About 15 grains 
30 Cairo's river 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Joe DiPietro 

31 Dead center? 43 Wi-Fi 53 It won't hold components water
32 The Wild West was one 45 City on the 54 Laid off Tagus
33 Dig 55 Smart

46 Member of the 
37lt may be weasel family 56 Priestheard before 

charges 49 Kind of paint 
57 One there in 38 Almost 50 Not moving the first place 
41 Posters 52 Cant 58 "You, there" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ____________________~----------------­
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST HOROSCOPE  
CEU:BRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jameson Parker, Owen Wilson. Kirk  
Lee Hammett, Elizabeth Perkins  
Happy Birthday: You will have a creative edge this year. so don't waste it on  
something that will bring you little return. Focus on what's important and turn  - 
some of the negatives that you have experienced in the past into positives. Take  
on the world and show everyone your capabilities. Your numbers are 2, 8, 24.  
31, 36, 39  
ARIES (March 21-April19): An opportunity to form a partnership is present.  
With your quick response and your partner's practical outlook, you will be  
successfuL Grants or other assistance look promising. ****  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Avoid personal problems and concentrate on  
getting ahead at work. It will he important not to Jet anyone steal your thunder  
or take credit for what you do. **  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will discover a host of opportunities if you  )..  
traveL Dreams can he turned into a reality. Creative ideas will reign supreme.  
*****  
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Make some alterations that will allow you to work  
in the comfort of your own home. A creative seminar or physical fitness program  
will do you good. ***  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have a lot on yoUI: plate today. If you can pull  
off all the promises you've been making, you will stand out in the crowd and  
gain the respect and admiration of your peers.****  
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your high energy will assist you at work, resulting  
in monetary gains. You will have some unique ideas that will help you exceed  
anyone who is trying to outdo you. ***  
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can do anything you put your mind to. Decide  
what changes you want to make. Once you've made up your mind, the rest will  
be easy. Love is all around you.*****  
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone will not be totally honest with you.  
Ferret out secret information before you make a decision. Personal problems can  
be dealt with if you are practical and well-infonned. **  
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Something special is just around the corner.  
Accept the inevitable and put your energy into what is working for you. A  
relationship will turn out to be extremely beneficial. ****  
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your added discipline and responsible nature  
will enable you to accomplish the impossible. You will be offered an opportunity  
that will result in more power and cash. ***  
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Explore the possibilities available to you. The  >  
more you discover about yourself and your background, the better equipped you  
will be to make the right decision. ***  
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You have plenty to think about today. Consider  
your obligations and what you can do to adJust your position. Help will be made  
available. ***  
Birthday Baby: You love a good adventure and will search for the most interesting  
path throughout your life. You are intelligent, knowledgeable and will always  
be in demand.  
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com.  

' • 6 •• • • • • • 
. -. . . 
--------~~ -~ ~--­

THE 0 BSERVER 
\ 
p
\' 
Friday, November 19, 2004 
page 20 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
\
i . \ 
The godfather comes to town 
Muffet McGraw's son's godfather coaches preseason WNIT final opponent Ohio State 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
MufTet McGraw's son, Murphy, ) will get to see his godfather ( ) Saturday. That's because Jim '· Foster happens to coach Ohio 
State's women's basketball team. 
No. 11 Notre Dame looks to finish off an impressive start to its season with a victory in the preseason Women's National Invitation Tournament final 
!( 
against No. 10 Ohio State at the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. Saturday. 
·.·. <1. 
.. The Irish are fresh off a 76-65 victory against No. 6 Duke on Wednesday night, while the I Buckeyes have cruised through I three opponents, winning by an average score of 81-38. Ohio
~ 
i State has wins over Bowling II I Green, St. Joseph's and Arizona 
:/ 
this season. For McGraw, the game is espe­cially exciting. She and Foster 
·are so close, McGraw and her husband, Matt, named Foster the godfather of the couple's only child, Murphy. 
"We go back a long way,"
.,.' 
McGraw said. "Last year we went down there and spent some time with him and his staff. He's doing a great job with his team this year so it's going to be another great game." 

Foster is also looking forward to seeing the· McGraw family, and facing Notre Dame in an 
\\I' see GODFATHER/page 18 
!j': 
~ . 
II' ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
o/.1 
·~ 
Team thriving on momentum
'l 

'# 
I ) 
\ 
t: 
I 
I 
I 
: l I I 
I i I • 
' ~ 
1 
I / 
I i
' .;~ 
' if 
~ ·,, ' ' 
I 
/I}I 
: I! 
I· 
: k 
u 
I /,1 I /)4I 
' ·J 
I 
.~J 
!! 
:,I I 1(I 
, I '· 
I 
I 
I I 
' J 
I ' 
I ! ) I I 
i, 

NFL 
Terrell Owens apolo­gizes for his role in the steamy introduction to Monday Night Football. 
• 
page 16 

'n 
iJ 
: ~· 
[I" 
, I I ( 
' 
~ 

HOCKEY 
The team is set to take on the U.S. National Team Development Program's Under-18 team tonight. 
page 15 

Irish anxious to redeem themselves after losing to UConn in the Big East Championship 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Wrirer 
With just a week passing since the thrilling 1-0 victory over Wisconsin, the Irish pre­pare to face conference rival Cpnnectieut in the third round of the NCAA tournament. 
The two teams are set to meet Saturday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field in a rematch of the Big East Championship finals where the Huskies upset the top-seeded Irish 2-1. 
see UCONN/page 18 
fOOTBALL 

Schinidt's storybook journey comes to end 
Walk-on turned scholarship senior fullback not returning 
to team for fifth year 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Forg~~t about wearing the .blue and gold in Notre Dame Stadium on Saturdays-senior Josh Schmidt had trouble mak­ing the Zahm interhall football team as a freshman. 
Spraining his ankle while "messing around" in a pickup game, Schmidt couldn't make the dorm's tryouts but was able 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
SMC BASKETBALL
ND VOllEYBALl 
The Irish hope to 
Notre Dame travels to 
The Belles are hoping 
build on th~ir success 
Pittsburgh, looking to 
to start the season 
from last weekend's his­
bring home a Big East 
strong, taking on 
toric win -against 
Championship title. 
Franklin and Hanover 
Pittsburgh. 
in the Tip-Off Classic. 
page 13
page 14 
page 14 
BASEBALL 
Recruits 
showing 
•
promise 
By JOE HETTLER Sporrs Writer 

Another November, another top recruiting class for the Notre Dame baseball program. 
The Irish inked eight players Tuesday from across the coun­try during the early-signing period. The class has four right-handed pitchers, a left­handed pitcher, a third base­man, a catcher and a utility player. 
"I think it's a really outstand­ing class. I'm really excited about this group," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. 
Student Sports has ranked the class 21st in the nation. Notre Dame has consistently had top recruiting classes, including a No. 1 ranked group in 2002, as Mainieri and his assistants continue to build the Irish program into one of the elite in college baseball. The Irish have compiled 195 wins during the last four seasons, while Mainieri has a 399-160-1 record during nine seasons in South Bend, including a College World Series berth-in 2002. 
Mainieri said the Class of 2009 should help Notre Dame 
see RECRUITS/page 17 
to convince the captains he could be a contributor as a tail­back. 
Four months later, Schmidt was doing some more convinc­ing -to new Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham. 
"There's a coaching change right now, everybody's starting from scratch," the walk-on turned scholarship player said. "There's not going to be a. bet­ter time than right now to walk on, so let's give it a shot." 
Now with one regular season game left in his Irish career, Schmidt can't believe where his four years at Notre Dame have taken him. Walking on 
Growing up around "obnox­
see SCHMIDT/page 17 
MLB 
Baseball owners have postponed their deci­
sion  regarding  the  
Expos'  move  to  
Washington D.C.  

page 12 


Friday, November 19, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Preseason expectations mean talk ends tonight 
~ "Our group is dreaming some big dreams, and I don't want to dampen them. I just want to remind them we're certainly not there yet," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We're a work in progress. This is a marathon, not a sprint. 
"If we do want to do those things they talked about, we're really going to have to listen and understand [that] it's going to be difficult and not just pay it lip service." 
That's why tonight's game against Harvard is so impor­tant. 
It might not seem obvious. The first three games on Notre Dame's schf~dule leading up to the showdown in Ann Arbor on Dec. 4 should be three easy wins. The combined 2003-04 record for these teams was 13­70. 
But this team needs confi­dence from the opening tip. And the easiest way to gain that confidence is to win ­convincingly. 
The Irish closed out their opening night win last season over Northern Illinois in ugly fashion and beat Mount St. 
GEOFF MATIESON/ The Observer. 

Senior point guard and captain Chris Thomas said Notre Dame wants 30 wins in the program's 100th anniversary season. 
NOTRE DAME'S 25-MAN ALL-CENTURY BASKETBALL TEAM 
Bob Arnzen Austin Carr. Matt Carroll Adrian Dantley LaPhonso Ellis Pat Garrity Tom Hawkins Collis Jones Leo Kiler Edward "Moo$e" Krause John Moir Troy Murphy Paul Nowak Kevin O'Shea John Paxson Ron Reed David Rivers Dick Rosenthal Walt Sham John Shumate Jack Stephens Chris Thomas Kelly Tripucka Bob Whitmore MofllY Williams 
Centennial Gala: March 5, 2005 at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Results from summer-long voting conducted on www.und.com 

Mary's by 14 in game two. Then came three games that really hurt. 
The blowout loss to a Marquette team looking for some payback, the buzzer­beater stunner to HPJ-killer Central Michigan and just flat­out disappointment to Indiana sent Brey to his first losing record at home. 
All season, the Irish had to battle back from that three­game stretch along with other tough losses in every big game until the three-game win streak over Conncetieut, Seton Hall and Syraeuse in mid­February brought them to the NCAA tournament bubble. · 
..

Losing focus for even just 
·one game can cn~ate a hole you have to dig out of for the rest of the year, like last sea­son's 2-3 start,. 
An early-season home loss to any of the teams before Big 
_ East play starts would do just that for the Irish again this year. "Expectations are high; but if you watch a couple of the · teams we play, like Providence GEOFF Observer 
against Niagara, you can't look Torin Francis and Jordan Cornette, right, are two prominent 
past teams," Cornett~ said. members of a team exciting a campus and an entire fan base. "Harvard is going to be a tough team. They are going to type of defense that takes achieve that." go after us. You can't have any teams past the first weekend At a school dying for a big­letdowns. That's a big part of in March. It's talked about uti­time sport winner, just look at 
· college basketball is avoiding lizing the suddenly deep lO­the student tickets selling out the letdowns, and it starts man bench. It's talked about in fewer than three hours, [today]." being unselfish to utilize all of men's basketball has been 
All summer in the weight that talent. talked about for months. room, all off-season scrimmag-All of that leads to this team In the 1OOth season of Notre ing blue and -not being Dame basketball, this team white, all groundless for wants to hang its own banner preseason having big-time along the rest in the Joyce 
..Our group is dreaming 
against the program expec­Center. feisty some big dreams ... [but/ tations. Not just a Big East title ban• Division II we're a work in progress. "I think I'm ner. Not just another year teams, this along with under NCAA tournament bids
This is a marathon, not a
team has Chris in having or Sweet 1() appearances. But had more sprint.,, lofty goals for a banner next to the one that than just this team, only says NCAA Final Four-1978. getting back for the simple It all starts tonight.
Mike Brey
to its fourth fact that I think
Irish head coach 
NCAA tour­we can achieve The opinions expressed in nament in them, but at the · this column are those ofthe five years on same time author and not necessarily its mind, because it feels it can that's how he likes to look at those of The Observer. do more than that. goals," Cornette said. "By no Please contact Matt Lozar at 
It's talked about playing the means do I think we can't mlozar@nd. edu. 
Chris Thomas has talked about winning 30 games. 
Jordan Cornette mentioned Wednesday about being unde­feated heading into the Big East sched­ule; just over a month after saytng the letters "NIT" aren't in Notre Dame's vocabulary anymore. 
Sl.com's Stewart Mandel and ESPN.com's Andy Katz both predicted the Irish to be in St. Louis in April for the Final Four, with Mandel projecting Thomas as the national player of the year. 
In the locker room, in the student body and in experts' minds, expectations for the 2004-05 Irish are about as high as a team could have, and they should be. 
Right now it's all talk. This team and its fifth-year coach know that. 

Matt Lozar 
Sports Writer 
Kurz ready to make impact 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sporrs Ediror 
Fans may not have to wait until next season to see just how fruitful Notre Dame's recruiting efforts have become. 
Hob Kurz is already here. 
The 6-foot-9, 219-pound fresh­man out of Philadelphia' is the lone member of the incoming dass, in contrast to the four big names who signed letters of intent Nov. 10 to play for the Irish next season. 
But Kurz, who averaged 18.5 points, 12 rebounds and 4 bloeks during his senior year of high school, showed his new team­mates this summer that he can make an immediate impact. 
"In the summer he had really earned the respect of the older guys playing pick-up, [but] I [still] didn't know if he'd be part of things this year," coach Mike Brey said. "But in talking to coach [Martin] Inglesby, who's able to watch because he can't coach, with our older guys Rob Kurz is going to compete for it." 
Kurz played two seasons at Germantown Academy before transferring to finish his high school career at Penn Charter with Virginia recruit Sean 
Singletary. 
Brey used his freshman a good amount in Notre Dame's two pre­season exhibitions, substituting Kurz into the power forward position. 
Against St. Joe's, Kurz played 15 minutes, shot 3-for-6 from the field and hit all three of his foul shots to total nine points. He also h-rrabbed four rebounds and com­mitted just one turnover. 
Brey increased Kurz's minutes to 20 against Quincy, playing him more than all but five players on the roster. Kurz turned the ball over three times, but those can be attributed to freshman jitters. The first-year player scored four points, had five rebounds and four blocks in thn win. 
Kurz, who is as old as most current sophomores, exhibits maturity by redirecting focus oJf his individual potential and onto the team's potential. 
"You always want to start the season strong, and we want to set a tone early on how we are going to play for the season," Kurz said. "[We must] start out playing unselfishly and playing really hard, start building that momentum now so when the conference season starts, we are playing at a high level." 
As a freshman, Kurz is inexpe-

GEOFF MATTESON/The Observer 
The lone freshman can bang down low or step out to shoot. 
rienced. But he bangs down low and can step out to shoot the 15­foot jump shot. Kurz's quick development will give Brey another option with three low­post threats in Torin Francis, Dennis Latimore and Rick Cornett already established. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Friday, November 19, 2004 page 3 
The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 

•
a 
ID 

e roa 


Five key elements will guide Notre Dame back to the NCAA Tournament 
teams not miss a beat. This sea­
By PAT LEONARD 
son, Brey may have that luxury. Associate Sports Editor 
"We do have more able bodies 
to pick from," Brey said. "We Mike Brey was angry. have 10 guys, and the 1 0 guys In his fourth year as Notre we have ... will all get a shot at 
Dame's head basketball coaeh, this thing bnfore it's over." Brey watched the NCAA selection Brey said just Wednesday that committee deny his Irish a 2004 he still has not been able to nar­tournament bid. row down the lineup from those 
Notre Dame won 16 of 27 reg­10. But that is where 13rey's job ular season games and then one becomes more diflicult. in the Big East tournament. The "Somebody said to me on the Irish finished over .500 in the road this summer, 'Coach you got conference, arguably the best or all these guys, all this depth.' I second-best in the nation, at 9-7. said now does that mean And then the selection committee Thomas and Quinn are only wagged a big, Dikembe going to play 22 minutes a Mutumbo-sized finger at Brey game'?'' Brey said. "You do the that said only one word-"No." math." 
"Certainly, on Selection Sunday Brey must play his best play, I think I was a gentleman on ers, but the possible combina­national TV," Brey said. "But as tions on the court for the Irish the summer went on, I was a lit­are numerous. Brey has the tle more pissed off about not option of playing Francis and making the tournament. We did Arizona transfer Dennis everything we were supposed to Latimore in the frontcourt do." together, or Francis and Hick Brey was more than unsatis­Cornett, or Latimore and Cornett. fied with missing the NCAA tour­If all else fails, Notre Dame's nament for the first time in his coach can call on converted Irish coaching career, having swingman Jordan Cornette to joined the field of 64 in his first jump down low and fill the four three seasons. spot. Or, Brey may just insert the 
So as Notre Dame opens its capable freshman, Rob Kurz. 2004-05 season with Harvard at Any questions? the Joyce Center tonight, a cam­"They're really keeping me on paign begins to return to the my toes." Brey said. much-hallowed bracket. Playing defense 
"The theme for me has been Notre D~me ranked second in we need to play in this thing four the Big East in scoring last sea­out of five years," Brey said of son with 70.2 points per game. returning to the NCAA tourna­But the Irish also surrendered a 
ment. "We need  ninth-ranked aver­ 
to get back in it." Staying  ·~s  the summer went  age 68.2 points per outing. "I think defense  
healthy  is  on, I was a little  is  extremely  
imperative to the Irish post­season hopes, as  more pissed offabout not making the  important because ... you'll usually find more teams  
it  is  for  any  tournament.,  that can score than  
team.  But  to  teams  that  can  
make its coach happy and to validate the pre­ Mike Brey Irish head coach  defend," Rick Cornett said. "That really determines a  
season  hype,  good team from  a  
No.  20  I  21  great  team  

Notre Dame must take care of defense and communication." five major elements on the court. If Notre Dame defends well this Managing depth season, it will be as a team. 
A deep bench benefits a team Scoring machine Bussell Carter when players get in foul trouble [30 points per game in high or when they tire. Coaches school] did not play much last dream of substituting three of season due in part to defensive five starters and watching their struggles. And as Brey said about Arizona transfer Dennis Latimore, "He's got to get better on the defensive end ... but he's not the only one on that end of the floor." 
The four recruits who signed with NotrP Dame Nov. 1 0 often cited the "free-flowing" Notre Dame ofl(mse as a major rea'ion for their decision. But the Irish know that at some point, the breakdown is simple -offense sells recruits, and defense wins. 
"I really think we'll be dose to unstoppable on offense [this year)," Cornett said. "But hope­fully our defense will lead us. We've really been working on defense in the ofT-season because defense wins games." 
Winning at home 
Brey cringed at missing the Big Dance, but he knew his team had noticeable flaws. Perhaps the most evident: the Irish were not winning at home. 
Notre Dame lost seven of its 18 home games last season, includ­ing a 66-63 loss to a mediocre Indiana team and a buzzer-beat­ing defeat at the hands of Central Michigan. 
"That's definitely another goal -establishing home-court advantage," Jordan Cornette said. "[We have to] win at home consistently ... That starts with Harvard." 
Among the lofty Irish goals for the early season, team members spoke of going 10-0 into Big East play, winning all of their non­conference games on the sched­ule save a date with UClA Feb. 27. 
But that goal will not become a reality if Notre Dame does not take eare of a three-game homes stretch to start the season and a five-game streak after returning froin Bloomington Dec. 8. 
"Exhibition games are over," Cornette said. "We have to see 
· how we are going to perform at home in front of our crowd in a regular season setting, and I'm curious to see how we are going to handle that challenge." Creating chemistry Latimore's addition to the frontcourt gives Francis a 6-foot­9 body to compliment his 6-foot­11 frame. Though Latimore did not play much at Arizona, his experience on a Summer Australian tour 
GEOFF MATTESON/The Observer Fifth-year head coach Mike Brey has affirmed only one goal thus far for his 2004-05 Irish: return to the NCAA Tournament. 
with the Wildcats and his obser­vation of the Irish system last season will help him fit into the game plan in a hurry. 
. "Dennis is a great addition to our front line and I just think we have positive things coming in the future," Rick Cornett said. "We all work hard even though Torin and I are coming back from injuries. It's kind of rough, and it's really good to have some­body else to depend on down in the post. I'm really looking for­ward to this season." 
Latimore looked rusty in an exhibition game against St. Joseph's. scoring just six points and committing four turnovers in 23 minutes. But the senior cor­rected himself quickly against Quincy, scoring 12 points and committing no turnovers in just 20 minutes. 
The improvement for Latimore, and for the Irish front­court, are there for the taking. Establishing a leader 
The Irish must follow Chris Thomas. The guards are the strength of the team. And while Chris Quinn is just as important a player to this team, Thomas is 
the man with the ball most of the time. 
The senior point guard is Notre Dame's career assist leader, and last season he became the first player to lead the Irish in scoring 
(19.7 points) and assists (4.7) in the same season since David Rivers did so in the 1987-88 sea­son. 
"I think he's very focused on his team having a heck of a year, which is where his mind needs to be," Brey said. "If minds stay in that department, not only his, then we've got a chance." 
Thomas' poise and decision­making will be the determining factors between whether or not Notre Dame is good this season, or if they are great. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Irish main concern: get injured players healthy 
Injury Prone 
Six of NotiP Dame's fourteen plahers (11 not counting walk-ons) have ad significant injuries in the past year. SurePry is notPd with an asterisk and the surgery's date in parentheses. 
Rick Cornett 
left foot stress fracture* (July 23) 
Jordan Cornette 
sprained ankle 
Torin Francis 
herniated disk in back* (Mar. 8) 
Omari Israel 
torn ACL*(Feb. 2003) Rob Kurz 
broken jaw 
Chris Thomas 
left knee* (Apr. 9, arthroscopic) 
Oboenlof Gnlpt«: by MIKE HARKINS 
By PAT LEONARD Associat'e Sporrs Editor 
Notre Dame was just as busy in the spring even though the team missed the NCAA tour­nament. 
Injuries kept the Irish on their heels. 
Torin Frands had ba<~k sur­gery March 8. Chris Thomas had arthroscopic knee surgery April 9. In the summer, Rick Cornett had a stress fracture in his foot repaired July 23. 
Notre Dame's preseason expectations are lofty, but the team's health could be a major determining factor in how far the Irish go. 
Thomas, a preseason Wooden Award candidate and the team's leading scorer, is a particular concern. 
"I don't think Thomas is 100 Wooden Award candidate, percent yet but I think he's Francis, had an earlier sur­very close," Brey said before gery and a quicker recovery. the first preseason game. "We "I feel very good about the have plenty of time for him to two major surgery guys, play his way Francis and back to that Thomas," Hrey 
level. If he ..We did add more said. "I think 
was a youn-ger walk-ons to make sure Francis is 100 guy I'd be percent. Of
we had more bodies to 
worried. That course, he's had he's an older pickfrom ... WP'll be plenty of rehab. I guy, he'll play fine. l1'e'll get there . ., think we did that his way back surgery in March in a couple so he's looked
Mike Brey
weeks." very good in 
Irish head coach 
Thomas said individual work-he is not 100 outs and in the percent, but conditioning. I he feels better now than he feel good about him." did at any point last season, Brey said Notre Dame is not when he played through the alone as a team with a long injury over the final weeks of list of injuries. the season. "There's a lot of programs in 
His teammate and fellow our boat right now, just talk­
ing to !Michigan coach] Tommy Amaker the other· day," Brey said. "But we did add more walk-ons to make sure we had mon~ bodies to pick from ... We'll be fine, we'll get there." 
Senior Greg Hosl joins the roster for his second straight season as·a walk-on point guard. Notre Dame added jun­ior forwards Ben Nickol and Chris Murphy to fill the roster and help with practice match-ups. . 
Rick Cornett. who strained his back as well just before the preseason games, is expected to play tonight against Harvard. Brey said Cornett should be 100 percent by game time. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 19, 2004 
MEN'S OlJ'I.LOOK 









*Walk-on*Walk-on 
RICK

RUSSELL BOSL GREG 
JOHN CORNETTCARTERCARLSON 
FORWARD 6'1 ", 198 lbs. GUARD
FOHWARDGUAHD 
6'8", 256 lbs. No. 55-SR 6'4", 223 lbs .•
6'5", 248 lbs. 
No. 43-SONo. 4-SO 
2003-04 stats2003-04 stats2003-04 stats

High school stats Minutes 2.1Minutes 0.3
Points 10.0 
Points 0.8Points 0.7 
Points 4.5
Rebounds 3.4 .....__........__~ ____,
ReboundsRebounds 5.0 c__________, 
Rebounds 0.3 
2004-05 expectations Bosl will not play much, but the sec­
2004-05 expectations 2004-05 expectations2004-05 expectations 
Cornett was productive in the low-post ond-year walk-on will push Notre 
Carter brings instant offense. He
Carlson, also a tight end for the foot­
in Francis' absence last season. If he Dame's guards in practice. His brother, 
gained 25 pounds of muscle over theball team, joined the roster midseason 
stays healthy, Cornett should be the Mike, played for Villanova in 1998-99. 
offseason. The only step remaining
last year to add size after Torin 
first man off the bench this season.
for Carter to get minutes: defense. 
Francis got hurt. He won't play much. 



COLIN 

OMARI CORNETTE TORIN









JORDAN FALLS ISREALFRANCIS 
GUARD 
FORWARD 6'10", 236lbs. FORWARD
FORWARD 
6'5", 204 lbs. 
6'11", 252 lbs. 

6'9", 233 lbs. No. 12-SR No.15-FR 
No.5-FR
No. 34-JR 

2003-04 stats 2003-04 stats High school 2003-04 stats 
Points Points 5.8 Minutes 30.7 
Minutes 15.6 
Minutes 31.6 
Points 14.2 . 
Rebounds Rebounds 6.0"'--""-~­
Points 4.6 
Blocks 2004-05 expectations 
Rebounds 8. 8 till.~~~~_jRebounds 1.3 ~~~............~--""""---' 

2004-05 expectations Cornette moves outSide on offense With 2004-05 expectations 
2004-05 expectatio.ns . 
Falls was Notre Dame's best three­
Isreal is fully healed from his 2003 tile pte9ertcc of Latimoref'down ·lo\v. Tl!c team's biggest body-returns to the 
ACL surgery and brings an athletic, His atblt~tt(ism will h\'rlp Notre Dame point shooter last season. He will 
liri'eup with low-posteomplim'ents· in 
look to increase his role on the team, 
Cornette-esque body to the lineup with match.up withbigguaidson defense. Latimore and Cornett Alt of thc,factors 
the potential for defensive dominance. 
making key baskets in a backup role. 
point tothejunior havihg a great year. 








*Walk-on *Walk-on*Eligible transfer

ROB DENNIS CHRIS 

BEN KURZ 
LATIMORE MURPHY 

NICKOL 
FOHWARD FORWAUD FORWARD 
FORWARD 6'9", 219lbs. No. 
6'9", 238 lbs. 
6' 6", 21 0 lbs. 

6'5", 218 lbs. 31-FR 
. No. 41-SH 
No. 24-JH No. 21-JH 

2003-04 stats 2003-04 stats High school stats 
High school stats

Points 18.5 
Minutes 12.0 
Points 15.8 Rebounds 12.0 
Points 3.2 
Points 12.0 Blocks 
Rebounds 8.5 
Assists 3.0 
Rebounds 8.0 2004-05 expectations 
2004-05 expectations 2004-05 expectations 
2004-05 expectations Kurz will play right away off the bench 
The Arizona transfer adds another 
Nickol played at Gonzaga Prep and at the small forward position. Kurz 
Murphy played at Benet Academy and 
scoring threat to the Notre r)ame 
hails from Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. lie poses a step-back offensive threat and 
hails from Downers Grove, Ill. The 
frontcourt, giving Brey an inside-out 
has good moves that will keep Irish gives Brey another big body down low. 
Irish need big, skilled forwards like 
offense that will store easily and often. 
Murphy to improve team practices. 
players alert on defense in practice. 








THE SCHEDULE 
CHRIS 


CHRIS QUINN 

THOMAS
2004-05 Schedule 
GUAHD 

GUARD Nov. 19 Harvard 
6'2", 185 lbs. 

6'1", 190 No.2-JH 
No.1 -SH

Nov. 23 IPFW Nov. 26 Charleston So. 
2003-04 stats 

2003-04 stats Dec. 4 at Michigan 
Minutes 35.8 
Minutes 38.3 Dec. 8 at Indiana 
Points 14.3 
Rebounds 4.2 
'---~--~---'

Dec. 11 DePaul 
2004-05 expectations 
2004-05 expectations Quinn compliments Thomas as a 
Dec.19 Army 
Thomas was Notre Dame•s leading
Dec. 22 Marist 
point/shooting guard and does not scorer last season. He returns for his 
Dec. 28 Western Illinois 
turn the ball over. He adds outside 
fourth and final year to lead Notre Dec. 30 Samford 
shooting and backcourt leadership. 
Dame with fellow senior Cornette. Jan. 5 at Seton Hall 

Men's Preseason Polls 

I. Kansas I. Kansas 
2. 
Wake Forest 2. Wake Forest 

3. 
North Carolina 3. Georgia Tech 

4. 
Georgia Tech .o4. North Carolina 


S. Illinois S.lllinois 

Men's



6. Syracuse 6. Syracuse 
Preseason Coaches Poll

7. 
Connecticut _ 7. Oklahoma State 

8. 
Oklahoma State o 8. Connecticut 

9. 
Kentucky ll. > 9. Kentucky 



2. Connecticut ~ 

I0. Mkhlgan State ~ '"0 I0. Arizona f I. Arizona ..S:::: '"0 I I. Duke 
y 0 

12. 
Duke ~ ::: 12. Mississippi State 

13. 
Louisville U 13. Michigan State 

14. 
Mississippi State 14. Louisville 

15. 
Texas 15. Maryland 



6. Providence -..

16. Maryland 16. Texas 
17. Pit~burgh 17. Pittsburgh l"eb. 27 UClA 

18. Alabama 18. Alabama 

19. N.C. State 19. N.C. State
Mar. 2 Rutgers 
20. 
Wisconsin 20. NOTRE DAME 

21. 
NOTRE DAME 21. Wisconsin


Mar. 5 Pittsburgh 
22. Florida 22. Washington
Mar. 9-12 Big East Tournament 
23. 
Memphis 23. Florida 

24. 
Washington H. Memphis


Mar.17 NCAA Tournament 
25. Stanford 25. Gonzaga 
Obeefv..Graphic by MIKE HARKINS 
B s 




Friday, November 19, 2004 page 5 y
The Observer• IRISH INSIDE.R 
WOMEN'S QIJ'I'LOOK 

CHAREL ALLEN 
GUARD 
5'11" No. 2-FR 
High school stats 
Points  26.1  
Rebounds  10.5  
Assists  5.0  '----'-------'  

2004-05 expectations Allen brings a long, athletic body to the backcourt. Her speed will add a threat to Notre Dame's fast break and her reach will help on defense. 
MELISSA D'AMICO 
FORWARD/ 
CENTER.. 6'5" No. 33-FR 
High school stats 
Points  20.7  
Rebounds  9.1 *  
Blocks  3.5*  

2004-05 expectations The big freshman should make an impact early. She is playing behind solid veteran post players, but with time, D'Amico should see the court. 

BREONA GRAY 
GUARD 5'7" No. 32-SO 
2003-04 stats 
Minutes  11.4  
Points  2.2  
Rebounds  

2004-05 expectations Gray is a very good defender and will be used primarily in that role during the 2003 season. Gray's jumpshot and overall offense have improved. 
JACQUELINE BATTEAST 
FORWARD 
6'2" No. 21-SR 
2003-04 stats 
Minutes 32.9 Points 16.0 Rebounds 8.6 

~------' 
2004-05 expectations Arguably the best player in the nation, Batteast can heat opponents in numerous. ways. Opposing defens­es will double-team the senior often. 
MEGAN DUFFY 
GUARD 
5'7" No. 13-JR 
2003-04 stats 
2004-05 expectations The general for the Irish, Duffy can handle the ball, shoot the three and lead her teammates. She is on the verge of being an elite Big East player. 
COURTNEY 
LaVERE 
FORWARD 6'3" 
No. 41 -JH 
·~-~:::.--·· . . 
2003-04 stats 
Minutes Points Rebounds 
2004-05 expectations LaVe,re has the skills to drop 15 points and 10 rebounds a night for the Irish. The junior and Borton must take pressure off Batteast. 

THE SCHEDULE 
2004-05 Schedule 
Nov. 22 
Dec. 9 
Dec. 11 
Dec. 19 
Dec. 30 Jan. 2 
Jan. 30 Feb.2 Feb.S Feb.9 
Mar.1 Mar. 5-8 Mar. 19 Colorado State at USC 
at Dayton Washington at Marquette at Northern Illinois Seton Hall 
s 
St. John's at Conn(.•cticut Boston College at Pittsburgh at Providence 
West Virginia at Seton Hall 
Big East Tournament NCAA Tournament 
• 
Associated Press preseason All-American 

•Naismith Trophy top-50 players to watch 

• 
Basketball News preseason National Player of theYear 


. . • State FarmJWBCA
-·'""-"'' 
Wade Trophy preseason player to watch 

• 
John A. Wooden Woman's Award preseason top-30 watch list 

• 
Undy's preseason All-American 

• 
Street & Smith's


'* "Terrific 1o~ list 
-· • Wooden's women's 
Olloerver Graphic by K£LLY MacOONALo All-American 
CRYSTAL ERWIN 
FORWARD 
6'1" No. 34-SO 
2003-04 stats 

2004-05 expectations Erwin has calmed down from her fouling last season. She will be a solid Irish post player off the bench who can rebound and score this year. 
SUSIE POWERS 
GUARD 
5'10" No.3-SO 
2003-04 stats 

Minutes 5.9 Points 0.6 Rebounds 0.9 
2004-05 expectations Powers saw limited playing time last season, but her perimeter game and three-point shooting threat could be valuable to stretching defenses. 


Women's Preseason Polls 
I. Tennessee 

I. 
Tennessee 2.LSU 

2. Texas 


3. 
Texas 



l.LSU 
4. Connecticut 
4. Connecticut 
5.Georgia 

5. Georgia 6.Duke 
6. 
Duke ?.Stanford 

7. 
Stanford 8.Baylor ­


8. Baylor 
-

T-9. Ohio State ce> 
9. North Carolina T-9. Texas Tech ~ 
'"0 T-1 0. NOTRE DAME 
~ T-1 0. Ohio State 
12 North Carolina ~ 
II. NOTRE DAME "5 
= 
12. Texas Tech 
13. 
Vanderbilt U 


13. Vanderbilt 
14. 
Minnesota 

14. Minnesota 
15. 
Purdue 

15. Michigan State 
16. 
Michigan State 

16.Purdue 
17. Rutgers 

17. 
Rutgers T-1 B. Boston College 

18. 
Boston College T-1 B. Kansas State 


19. Kansas Sute 
20. 
DePaul 


20. DePaul 
21. 
Penn State 


21. Penn State 22 Louisiana Tech 
22. Oklahoma 
23. Maryland 

23. Maryland 24.Arizona 24.Arizona 25.0kbhoma 25. Louisiana Tech 
a--Grophc by MIKE HARKINS 
TERESA BORTON 
CENTER 
6'3" 
No. 12-SR 2003-04 stats 

Minutes 19.8 Points 5.8 
Rebounds 
2004-05 expectations McGraw expects Borton to make her presence felt in the paint. The senior already has shown a more aggressive style of low-post play this season. 


TULYAH GAINES 
GUARD 
5'6" No. 1-FR 

High school stats 
Points  20.5  
Assists  4.0  
Steals  

2004-05 expectations Gaines is a quick, athletic point guard who can pass and score. She loves to run the ball, and her energy ignites the Irish. She will see time a~ guard this year. 
*Walk-on

AMANDA 
TSIPIS 
GUARD 
5'10" No. 11-FH 

High school stats 
Points  12.9  
Rebounds  4.5  
Assists  



2004-05 Statistics Tsipis joins the team as a walk-on. She was a three-time All-State selec­tion in high school. The freshman will provide depth at the guard position. 

Preseason Coaches Poll 
I. Connnecticut £; 


3. Bu,;~on Colle c , 

' . . \ /;,· 6 '-"',;.s' ':1~ 
T
V Y~ l v ' ... L_ 


I2. Providence . :... 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 19, 2004 
Preseason No.1 
Jacqueline Batteast commands national respect; has teammates to help validate it 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
In the first exhibition game, Jacqueline Batteast showed everyone why she has been named the Big East Preseason Player of the Year and in Basketball News, the National Player of the Year. 
In the second exhibition game, Batteast showed why this year is different than last year. 
Batteast shone in the opener, putting up 23 points on 9-for­14 shooting. But in the second game, she struggled.. at times forcing shots. She finished with 11 points, but on 5-for-12 sh()oting. 
And the Irish still scored points -80, in fact. 
Against Illinois State in _the preseason Women's National Invitation Tournament, 
Batteast picked up two fouls in 
just as many minutes. But the 
Irish didn't miss a beat, despite not seeing Batteast but for five· minutes in the first half. 
Batteast or bust 
Last season, if Batteast didn't score against top teams, the Irish often didn't win. Take the Jan. 13 matchup with then-No. 4 Connecticut. When Batteast scored, the Irish scored. She finished with 23 points on 10­for-13 shooting. Batteast took on much of the Irish scoring 
load all season, especially in big games including the game against the Huskies and in the NCAA tournament. 
Batteast led the Irish to sec­ond place in the Big East con­ference, averaging 16 points and 8.6 rebounds per game. She had 13 double-doubles, second in the Big East. In the NCAA tournament, Batteast stepped up her averages, put­ting up 22 points and 11.7 rebounds, good enough to led the Irish to the Sweet 16. 
But if Batteast struggled, so did the Irish. This year, both Batteast and the Irish feel that dependence will not exist. 
"1 think she just needs to come out every game and rebound, play great defense," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We really don't think she needs to score 20 points every game for us to win. She cer­tainly needs to take a big role in the offense for us to win, and she's somebody who's going to be the feature for the opponent." 
A new year, a new role 
Unlike last year, Batteast is surrounded with players who are ready and willing to put points on the board. Instead of just looking for Batteast, her teammates are playing with her and putting up numbers of their own. Any player on the court has the ability to score on this year's Irish team, something that wasn't always true last season. 
"I think [my teammates] are 
the exact same as they were last year but I think this year they're more willing to score," Batteast said. "I think they're ready to step into that role. Before, it was sit back and ·watch, but I think now they're 
ready to take action." 
The Irish will look especially 
to three veteran players ­
Megan Duffy, Courtney LaVcre 
and Teresa Borton -to carry 
the load. Duffy was named the 
Big East's Most Improved 
Player last season, and Borton 
and LaVere are forces down 
low. Batteast is confident that 
those three, among others, can 
score for the Irish. 
"I know that I have four 
other people on the floor that 
can do something," Batteast 
said. "We've got people coming 
off the bench that can add 
things. So even if I'm not 
shooting well, I know there's 
other people, Megan [Duffy], 
Courtney [LaVere] and T 
[Borton], that can hurt peo­
.. 
p1e. 
McGraw has as much confi­
dence in the players around 
Batteast as she does in her 
star player. 
"I think it's important for the 
whole team to feel like they 
have a huge part in the scoring 
role," McGraw said. "l think 
everybody has to come in and 
do their part. Teams are going 
to try to take Jackie away, and 
she's going to have games 
where she's double-teamed 
and not even able to get the 
ball so I think the more Teresa, 
Courtney and Megan can 
score, the harder it's going to 
be for the other teams to take 
her away. 
"She's incredibly hard to 
guard nnw, and I think it 
would be a huge challenge for 
a team to take her away com­
pletely, but I think we have to 
have the other weapons 
ready." 
Playing on the perimeter 
This season, Batteast will play mostly the three-guard spot. With Borton, LaVere, Crystal Erwin and newcomer Melissa D'Amico, the Irish have plenty of depth at the power forward and center 


"She certainly needs to up 
running. It to. takes some take a big role in the "[Batteast] adjusting, and absolutely
offense for us to win, and 
if I keep prac­makes people
she's somebody who's 
ticing I should bettf~r." get into going to be the feature McGraw said. 
shape." .for the opponent." "And I think 
Batteast also [this team) worked on her loves to play
M uffet MeG raw 
outside shot -we're try­this summer Irish head coach ing to be a lit-
RICHARD FRIEDMANfThe Observer 
playing time this season. 

"We love watching her when she's having fun and things are going well," McGraw said. "And it's great for the younger players to look up and see how she got to where she is with all the hard work she's put in." 
McGraw said sometimes the Irish find themselves watching the Batteast. 
"It's fun to watch," McGraw said. "We sometimes have to stop sometimes at practice and almost high-five each other because we're so excited at what she can do. She's so tal­ented. She's just really gifted. And she enjoys playing." 
But Batteast won't let the hype of all the preseason awards get to her. In fact, she is trying to put them out of her head so she can focus on the tasks ahead. 
"It's a lot of pressure to be considered one of the best players in the eountry and one of the best players in the Big East," Batteast said. "There are a lot of expectations but I'm trying not to take those awards as seriously because they're preseason. 
"I think if J do what I'm sup­posed to do and I've reached my goals, there's no stopping this team. Everyone else is ready to step up." 
positions. So the best possible Irish lineup includes shifting Batteast to play the third guard position. 
Batteast is a versatile 6-foot­2 and can face-up or back down defenders. Desp-ite her versatility, Batteast said it's been an adjustment to play as more of a guard -especially on defense. 
"[Guarding guards] is really tiring," Batteast said. "I have to run a lot. I'm not used to that playing post defense. [Now,] I'm chasing someone through screens and trying to get the rebound and be the first one down on offense, so that's a lot of 
But even with her new posi­tion, Batteast wants to keep a high field goal percentage. Last season, she shot 45.2 per­cent from the field. She said she wants to get that number closer to 50 percent this sea­son. 
"I want to try to come in, rebound well and score," Batteast said. More than just a scorer 
Although Batteast is known as a scorer, she means much more to this Irish team. With three talented freshmen on the 
roster  in  D'Amico, Tulyah  
Gaines  and  Charel  Allen,  
Hatteast is  a  
player  they  
can  look  

to prepare for her new posi­tion. 
"I knew this year I would be playing a little more guard and on the perimeter, so I worked on my outside jumpshot and quickness trying to guard tle more cre­ative and not run so many 
plays just let them go and see what we can get in transition. And I think that they really enjoy playing with (Batteast)." 
Batteast also sHrves as a role 
Batteast and the Irish opened the 2004-05 schedule by scorch­guards on defense," Batteast model for the freshmen, all of Contact Heather Van Hoegarden Ing Premier Sports in a preseason exhibition game, 84-52. said. whom should see significant at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Friday, November 19, 2004 page 7
. The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
McGraw, Irish inching closer to top 
If the 2004-05 Irish make a several areas and improve in to the basket. She went out and 
serious run at the national title others from last season. recruited players like sopho­-and they can -. people may Batteast must be the best more Crystal Erwin and fresh­look back to a game during the She was as dominant as any man Melissa· D'Amico-two 2003-04 regular season as the player during the second half of players who aren't afraid. to mix starting point. last season. Now, the spotlight it up inside. For the Irish to truly 
Against No. 
shines even brighter on the sen­make a title run, Batteast -and 4 Connecticut ior from South Bend. The expec­to a greater extent LaVere, at the Joyce tations are sky-high for Batteast, Borton, Erwin and D'Amico­Center in and her team will rely on her must play aggressively in the mid-January, during the crucial periods of paint. Irish forward every game. She is the No. 1 Already this season, the Irish Jacqueline reason this team can be in the · have shown improvement in this Batteast Final Four. Other teams will be area. Borton banged her way to showed the forced to double-team her, 13 points and 11 rebounds dur-­country just Joe Hettler which should free up shots and ing Notre Dame's 73-57 victory how good she opportunities for the rest of the against Nebraska in the quarter­could be. Sports Writer Irish. finals of the preseason Women's Taking the Winning on the road National invitation Tournament spotlight away from National The Achilles heel for last sea­Nov. 14. Er\\-in, LaVere and Player of the Year Diana Taursi, son's squad, coach Muffet Borton all played aggressively Batteast poured in bucket after McGraw has already mentioned against No. 6 Duke in Notre bucket en route to 23 points, 11 winning away from the Joyce Dame's upset Wednesday. If the Nebraska in the team's second Irish will need what every cham­rebounds and a crucial block of Center as a top goal this season. Irish can continue that tough, game. pionship team needs -a little Taursi that sealed Notre Dame's The Irish are dominant at resilient play for the remainder Both Gaines and Allen \\-ill also luck. This team has the pieces in 66-51 upset victory. home -winning 23 straight of the season, they should be a give Duffy some more help in the place. They've filled weak areas 
Just like that, Batteast found games-but they couldn't find difficult matchup for any oppo-backcourt. Last season the Irish from a season ago. They've got an intangible asset that makes consistency on the road at all a nent. • were thin at the point, with the arguably the best player in good players great and great year ago. There's no excuse for Freshman contributions Duffy playing along side gradu­the nation. And they're experi­players unstoppable -complete not seeing improvement this McGraw has to be secretly pat­ated senior Le'Tania Severe and enced, talented and fairly deep 
confidence. season. The Irish are a veteran ting herself on the back for only guards Jeneka Joyce and at all positions-
With Batteast leading the way, team, returning players like bringing in a group of freshmen freshman Susie Powers as back­It's been four years since Notre Dame assaulted many of Teresa Borton, Megan Duffy, that are not only ridiculously tal­ups. McGraw and Notre Dame cut its remaining opponents and Courtney LaVere and Batteast ented but also fill the voids Notre Butwith the addition of Gaines down the nets to celebrate the turned a 7-6 start into a 21-11 who have all been through the Dame had last season. and Allen, the Irish have four program's first-ever national 
season, culminating with a trip battles. It'd be disappointing for Tulyah Gaines, Charel Allen guards, including a more experi­title. to the Sweet 16 and a near-upset Irish fans if this group couldn't and D'Amico should all see qual­enced Powers, who can con­If things fall into place this of No. 1 seeded Penn State. figure out its previous road ity minutes from the start of the tribute when needed. season, the Irish may have their 
Now, with a confident and woes. season. Gaines and Allen give D'Amico has an incredibly soft scissors out once again in early dominating player in Batteast­Playing aggressively Notre Dame two flashy. quick touch on her jump shot for a 6-April.and nearly all of the 2003-04 It's no secret during the past and athletic guards, and both foot-5 18-year old. She clogs up 
team returning-Notre Dame several seasons that Notre Dame can score and handle the ball. the paint, has the ability to The opinions expressed in this knows this year could be very has been pushed around in the Early this season, Allen has knock down the 15-foot jumper column are those ofthe author special. paint. McGraw has preached to shown an ability to mix it up and should rebound well thanks and not necessarily those of The 
For the Irish to play on the her team about playing more with the bigger players and find to her tall frame and long arms. Observer. first weekend in April, the team aggressively in terms of rebounds. She was second on Luck of the Irish Please contact Joe Hettler at must continue to execute well in rebounding and taking the ball the team with eigh! against Along with those areas, the jhettler@nd. edu. 

Are you a sophomore Accounting Major looking for great pay and a tremendous business experience? 
If so, Get a Job at The Observer! 
The Observer is now accepting applications for Controller! 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Paula Garcia at pgarcia2@nd.edu or Michael Flanagan at mflanag1 @nd.edu. 
··~ 
-
.-­
\ 

(l 










