---~------------­
... 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Iowa caucus brings attention to student voters 
34 ND, Purdue students attend Iowa caucus to work on John Edwards' behalf 

_By KATE GALES News Writer 
Notre Dame students are voicing strong political opin­ions as the 2004 campaign opens in Iowa today, reflecting an unusual contingent in an era wh.en a high number of college students and their peers are not registered to vote. 
According to the Federal Election Commission. 18-to 24-year-olds have been signifi­cantly under-represented in presidential elections. However, many Notre Dame students are registered to vote and are actively following the 2004 campaign. The first cau­cus takes place in Iowa today, where the College Democrats are currently working on behalf of Sen. John Edwards. 
Casey Fitzmaurice, president of the College Democrats, organized the trip to Iowa to support Edwards in associa­tion with Nick Smith from Purdue. 
"There's a group of 34 of us from Indiana," Fitzmaurice said Sunday. "We're going door-to-door campaigning, handing out literature and talking to [caucus voters] about why John Edwards should be the next president." 
Fitzmaurice said that inter­est in participating in the cau­cus c.ame from a variety of campus sources. 
"There was a huge response from students at Notre Dame -the College Democrats, political science students, John Edwards fans and people who just wanted to see the caucus," she said. · "[The caucus] is going to be exciting, anything could hap­pen," she added. "The Des Moines Register, Iowa's largest paper, is calling it a four-way dead heat between [John] Kerry, [Richard] Gephardt and [Howard] Dean." 
For Notre Dame students who are Iowa natives, involve­ment in the caucus can also include casting a vote. 
''I'm a registered Republican," said Christopher Disbro, a freshman from Waukee, Iowa. "I did my own research, decided what I liked and what I didn't, and regis­tered accordingly. It was an independent decision. I haven't gone to [the ·Iowa caucus] late­ly, but living in an important area has made me more politi­cally aware." 
Freshman Steve Cartwright pointed out the caucus's vital role in foreshadowing the campaign's coming months. 
"It's actually really impor­tant to support a strong candi­date in Iowa, as the caucus tends to set the tone for the entire election," Cartwright said. "If a strong front-runner emerges, the country's unde­cided voters tend to lean in his or her direction." 


Cartwright is in the process of registering to vote via the non-profit Rock the Vote! ini­tiative. 
"I should be a card -carrying Democrat by the time the 2004 presidential election rolls around," he said. "With any 
luck, I'll be voting in  the  
Pennsylvania primary  via  
absentee ballot this April."  

Rock the Vote! is one of many programs in place to register young voters. 
';I went to renew my driver's license when I turned 21, and they asked me if I wanted to register [to vote]." said junior Chris Henschen. "I never really made an effort to do it. I'm not following anyone yet, but I'll probably start watching the 

Class allows for policy contribution 
Lopez seminar provides counter-terrorism. research opportunity 
By LAURA VILIM 
News Writer 

Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students will have the unique opportunity to con­duct significant research and contribute policy recommenda­tions on counter-terrorism for the United Nations this spring as part of a new seminar designed by Kroc Institute Fellow and political science prof.essor George Lopez. 
The research seminar, entitled "Assessing the United Nations Counter-Terrorism Efforts," has its roots in a project on U.N. Sanctions and Security that was written by Lopez and David Cortright. Cortright is the presi­dent of the Forth Freedom Forum, an organization devoted to exploring options for the non­violent resolution of internation­al conflicts. 
As a result of this project, the two men were asked by several governments to examine the efforts of the recently created 
U.N. Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC), with which the Kroc Institute has been involved since the program's Copenhagen. He then began to inception. The report was com­plan ways for Notre Dame stu­missioned by the Danish dents to become involved in the Foreign Ministry, which award­project. ed Lopez and his team funds for "[I asked] what benefits are in the project after he first pre­sented his research design in see SEMINAR/page 4 election this summer." 


For freshman Ryan Iafigliola, the registration process was relatively simple, but actually voting has proven more diffi­cult. 
"They came to my high school, set up a both, and I registered," said Ohio native Iafigliola. "It's tricky to vote [while in college] because I don't live at home and have to request an absentee ballot." 
Freshman Clare Charbonnet also registered at her high school when her government teacher passed out registration forms. "[My teacher] said that anyone who didn't vote didn't have the right to complain 
see VOTING/page 4 MIKE HARKINSt'Observer Graphic 
SMC students ponder graduate school options· 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
While some Saint Mary's sen­iors use their second semester as a chance to locate their ideal career, others wait in hope of pursuing another post-gradua­tion option -graduate school. 
For those who plan to attend 
graduate school "In my field. I ·can •t process. Many next fall, this really go anywhere departments 
month marks include graduate
unless I get a
most application advisors who work deadlines. In the higher degree.·· with students to preceding answer questions months, seniors they have and pro­
Meaghan Blake
have spent vide feedback on
senior
countless hours studying for the Graduate Record Exam, requesting recommendations and obtaining academic tran­scripts. 
"The application process took a considerable amount of time and effort," said senior Meaghan Blake. 
Blake applied to seven chem­istry programs, all of which pay her salary as a teacher's assis­tant and to work in research labs. Although she pays no tuition cost, Blake said she would still attend graduate school even ifshe did. 
"In my field, I can't really go anywhere unless I get a higher degree," she said. 
In addition to students, Saint Mary's faculty and staff also play 
an active role in 
the application 
application materi­
al. 

The registrar's office is espe­cially instrumental in helping students prepare for graduate school, mostly through its work processing transcripts. The office processed over 250 tran­script requests at the end of last semester, although it is undeter­mined how many of those were 
see GRADUATE/page .6 


page 2 .. The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, January 19, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The next step 
In my opinion, there are two cat­egories under which seniors are grouped. The first is comprised of those who anxiously await gradua­tion and the "real world" of apart­ments, bills and careers that now lurk only four months away. Some even grad­uate a semester early just to get out there sooner than the rest of us. 
The second category is made up of seniors who, in all seri­ousness, wish they could be freshmen again. Heck, even high school looks good compared to the inevitable presence of responsibili­ty and expectations. These seniors will manage heavy course loads and mounds of homework with a "grin and bear it" approach just for a chance to dwell in the college lifestyle five minutes longer. 
Without a doubt, I have always considered myself to be in the sec­ond category -hands down. At no point do I want to leave my group of friends and venture off to a big city, alone, to start over without them there to make me laugh away my nervousness. Life, at this exact moment and surrounded by the people that I am, is how I want it to stay. · 
Somewhere along the way, though, subconsciously, I've come to accept that what I want and the reality of what will happen are not the same. Despite the possibility of grad school next year, I will never have the same experience that I've had at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. As much as I don't want to think about it, chances are that some of my friends and I will drift apart as life leads us in different directions. Oddly enough, it's com­forting to think that this is some­thing I'm probably not alone in fac­ing. 
Maybe instead of falling into one group or the other, we should instead find middle ground. I cer­tainly intend to take advantage of my 13-credit semester and every available moment of free time while enjoying myself at South Bend's fine drinking establish­ments. This is the same person who, the day after Christmas, bought a Christmas tree and orna­ments on sale in preparation for her apartment next year .... and the person who intentionally bought a small car to navigate through big city traffic. 
I know the real world is coming and that college life is drawing near an end, but it's not over yet. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Anne IIese Woolford 
Saint Mary·s Editor 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism ar all rimes. We do, how~er, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE THING TO DO IN THE SNOW? 



Kate Lindsay Kristina Drzalc Tom Mulcrone 
Junior Junior Freshman Welsh Family P.E. Siegfried 

"Making snow "Indoor snow "Filling my angels. , fightst·· underpants with snow ... 



Teresa Blackwell Chuy Bravo Will Secor 
Senior Senior Junior Welsh Family off-campus Siegfried 
"Jumping into "/hate snow "Shredding the some fresh and wasn•t Nar-nar. ·· snow.·· meant for this 
weather.·· 

IN BRIEF 
The Career Center will sponsor a SPEED SEARCH workshop session tonight at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom in preparation for the Winter Career and Internship Fair. The session will offer four workshops in an hour, including interview and job search strategies. 
Auditions for the spring production Arms and the Man will be held tonight and Tuesday from 7 to 10 p.m. on the Washington Hall main­stage. 
A Blood Drive will be held Wednesday from 9 a.m. to 
3:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The College Bowl, a quiz competition in which teams from campuses across the country compete in a ques­tion-and-answer game, comes to the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune from 6 p.m. to 8 
p.m. Wednesday night. 
Tickets for the Keenan Review will be distributed from 2-3 p.m. Thursday at Gate 10 of the Joyce Center. 
The Late Night Olympics, an all-night sports extrava­ganza to raise money for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics, will be held Friday night from 7 p.m. to 4 a.m. in the Joyce Center. Events will include broomball, inner tube water polo, kickball, dodge­ball, target golf, volleyball. wiffieball, and other competi­tions. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

22 
11 

28 19 

Italian wins lawsuit over coffee price 
ROME -Meddle with an Italian's cappuccino and expect a furious froth. 
In the first ruling of its kind, a justice of the peace found that a cafe in a seaside town near Rome overcharged a retired man 23 euro cents for his liquid breakfast after the currency conversion. The coffee bar was ordered to refund the price increase -about 30 U.S. cents ­plus the man's legal costs. 
The decision raises the prospect of a flood of sim­ilar lawsuits. 
"The cappuccino's vendetta!" the Codacons public-advocacy group declared in a celebratory statement. Thousands more citizens want to file complaints, the group said. 
Firefighters protest porn star on force 
KEYES, Calif. -A fire­fighter moonlighting as a porn star for a little extra cash has caused a stir in this small rural town, offi­cials said. 
Seventeen firefighters in Keyes, a town of less than 5,000 in the middle of the Central Valley's dairy country, walked off their jobs to protest Alexa Jones' other career, which they said she discussed while on the job with her husband, Assistant Chief Roger Jones. 

Capt. Herb Collier, one of the 17 who dropped their gear and resigned earlier this week, said Thursday that not only did the couple bring the topic up in the station, but Roger Jones also fired a cadet who got curious and checked out Alexa's site -without paying. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0:: 
LLI 
:c 
s 
~ 
..... 
c( (,) 



25 
13 

27 19 

0 
..... HIGH 21 HIGH 16 
LOW 12 LOW 7 
page 3

Monday, January 19, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Association honors four ND graduates 
Special to The Observer 
Four Notre Dame graduates will be honored by the Notre Dame Numni Association during ceremonies on t;ampus next week. 
The Hev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., Award, which recognizes achieve­ments in the performing arts, will be presented to John Santos, a 1979 graduate and the first Mexican-American Rhodes schol­ar, in honor of his work as an award-winning writer, producer and documentary filmmaker. 
The producer of more than 40 documentaries on culture, reli­gion, politics and spirituality, Santos received Emmy Award nominations for "Exiles Who Never Left Home" and "From the AIDS Experience." He has worked both on-and off-camera for CBS News and PBS and serves on the Presidential Advisory Commission on Excellence in Education for Hispanic Americans. 
William Schickel, a 1944 gradu­ate who directs the Maritain Gallery in Loveland, Ohio, will receive the Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., Award, for outstanding accomplishments in the fine and visual arts. 
Honored for his creations of religious art, Schickel is a painter, sculptor, stained glass maker, and architectural and furniture designer, whose creations include the triangular drinking fountain at Notre Dame's Grotto. Schickel received the American Institute of Architecture Gold Medal Award for his renovation of the Abbey of Gethsemani in Trappist, Ky., and also designed the renovation of the National Shrine of Philippine Duchesne in St. Charles, Mo. 
The Rev. Robert Griffm. C.S.C., Award will be presented to Nicholas Sparks, a 1988 gradu­ate, University benefactor and best-selling author, in honor of his literary achievements. 
Sparks' is the author of "The Notebook," "The Rescue," "A Bend in the Road," "Message in a Bottle," "A Walk to Remember," "Nights in Rodanthe," "The Guardian" and "The Wedding." "Message in a Bottle" and "A Walk to Remember" have been made into major motion pictures, and Sparks cur­rently is adapting "The Rescue" for a television series. 
Dr. Paul Wright, a 1972 gradu­ate and former cardiologist for Mother Teresa, will receive the Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award for his record of outstanding humani­tarian service. 
A volunteer for Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity, which comforts the destitute, aban­doned and dying, Wright attended Mother Teresa's beatification cer­emony in OctohP.r at the Vatican. 
HUDDLE UP 

CHUY BENITEZfThe Observer Joe Montana, a Notre Dame graduate and Hall of Fame quarterback, addressed the Siegfried lnterhall football champions at the football· banquet In December. 
Hesburgh to lectUre on Mary 
Special to the Observer Hesburgh Library's Carey 
Auditorium. 
University President Hesburgh served as Notre Emeritus Father Theodore Dame's president from 1953 Hesburgh will give a lecture to 1987. His 35-year tenure on ..Notre Dame: Our Lady" 7 included the transfer of gov­
p.m. Tuesday in the ernance from the founding 
religious community, the Congregation of Holy Cross, to a predominantly lay board of trustees in 1967, and the admission of women to the undergraduate program in 1972. 
.. \, 


\ "Re-start" Night 
\ For new & returning participants\ \ For new & past leaders 
\ \ \ 
\ 
\ \ 

EMMAUS 
i 
. J 
c:ommunitit'S ofl'a1th Shanug r.nd Scriptttn' Study
I 
I Faith isn't just for Monday, January 19th Sundays anymore! 5=30·7=00pm Make new friends, pray at Coleman-Morse 

with others and grow Lounge spiritually. Join an E1n1naus group!! For More Info Contact: Coughlin.ll@nd.edu
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

L 

Monday, January 19, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Voting 
continued from page 1 
about the government -and I complain a lot," Charbonnet said. 
Despite these students' efforts, the Institute for Public Affairs and Civic Engagement (PACE), affiliated with Salisbury University, reports that on the average, the voter's registration level of college students is 16 percent lower than that of the total voting age population. In 1972, the 26th Amendment granted suffrage to 18-to 24­year-olds for the first time. 
However, in recent years the media has emphasized a decrease in social activism among young adults. · 
Even with this negative stereo­type, Notre Dame students remain involved in the political process. Fitzmaurice and the College Democrats, in association with other organizations on cam­pus, are planning a Rock the Vote! initiative on' campus later this semester. 
"I am registered to vote [because] I want to have a say in the political system, even though sometimes the most votes doesn't equal the winner," said sopho­more Matt Frey. "I am not follow­ing a candidate as of now, but I do think some of the preliminary Democrats are more qualified than the others." 
Senior Jessica Leibowitz remembers the 2000 election as a big event on campus. 
"My friends and I really cared about the election, but it really depended on where you were from, what kind of family you were from, and who your friends were," she said. "We watched the debates, which were really important, and left the TV on all night, going to bed thinking Gore had won." 
Leibowitz, who voted by absen­tee ballot, said she thinks televi­sion exposure and campus voting drives also contributed to the 2000 election's publicity. 

This year-, some potential vot­ers remain unsure if they will participate. 
"I'm not registered to vote -I didn't turn 18 until I got here," freshman Carolyn White said. "I really don't know if I'm going to vote yet, and if I do, it will not be for Bush. I think the Notre Dame student body election is more important at present, but whoev­er gets elected as the U.S. presi­dent will still be in office when we graduate, and his [or her] presidency will greatly shape the economy and job market." 
White said that campaign plat­forms in 2004 will greatly affect the lives of Notre Dame students as they look forward to the future. 
"At the national level, students should be interested in candi­dates who support increased fed­eral aid to college students, take gutsy positions on protecting civil rights, and address the problems that we saw in high school and that our children will see -like aggressive positions on drug and gun control," Cartwright said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Seminar 
continued from page 1 
this for NO?'' Lopez said. 
First among the benefits is that the majority of this research will be conducted by the 21 students chosen to be part of the seminar. Students were selected to participate based on their interest in the areas of political science and international affairs, as well as on their resumes and grade point averages. 
In order to ensure that the decisions the students make are viable options for enhancing the policies of the CTC, the seminar is divided into two main parts. First, each student will partici­pate in collective reading and briefing sessions that will serve to bring every member to an equal level of understanding concerning the broad issues of the CTC's work. Next, each stu­dent will choose a specific topic to examine extensively with the help of one of the research directors, including Lopez and Cortright. 
"In this way, students will get to research topics that are inter­esting to them," Lopez said. 
The specific themes and queries of the project cover a wide range of counter-terrorism issues, including how to approach countries that refuse to comply with the ere. success stories of the CTC's ability to lock down terrorist funds, an examination of how individuals and organizations are placed on the terrorist list, and an assess­ment of the human rights dimension of the ere. 
When the resear:ch is com­plete, every participant will assess and critique the individ­ual elements of the final project report. Then Notre Dame and the Forth Freedom Forum will present their findings to the Danish government and an organization known as the International Peace Academy. From there, parts of the project or the project in its entirety will be presented to the Spanish government -the chair of the CTC, which can then introduce it to the Security Council of the U.N. 
Stephanie Ahern, a first year graduate student who majored in international relations, said she decided to apply for this seminar after receiving an e-mail from Lopez describing the project. 

"[The project] seemed to be a unique opportunity to combine theory and practice for a real­world, timely project," Ahern said. "My interest in studying political science is to help make a difference, and this seemed 
Johi the Care¢t· CCi1tcr Staff anda gr()u:pofND students who wiH collaborf1te ona unique project like an opportunity to do just 
over a four monthperiodto search forjobs and inten1ships throughout the nation. F-iverrioeti.ngsare scheduled for spring semester2004. All club members must attend all five 
that." 

sessions-in order to participate.
Ahern plans to do specific research on the European Union's requirements for new 
#1 .TOJlSKAR<?H ctUiJORikNTA'rf()i'fM.EETlN(;
states to be in compliance with 
Wedlte:,·day; January 21 4.·00 pm or 6:00pm, Fl(lfmer t/4
the CTC before they can become members, a decision she made 
• Learn about the club format,'imeline, 1nembership and more
after concentrating her under­
• Identify geograpb1cnl areas ofinterest among student members
graduate studies on Western 
• Review goals and objectives
Europe and developing an inter­
~~,~-~--,_______....._______________________"'""';""_ 
est in learning more about the region. Lopez believes that one of the greatest aspects of the seminar 

·. .:. :->-::··· . ..· . . 
is that participants like Ahern 
-. -Oi~cover ~II~~ue and creative ways.to tind prospective employers will gain a deeper understand­
• Gain acc¢s$Jo SJ,OO,Os worth .of on.,.!ine resources ing of how research in a class­
·.-• Begilt y()ut ~¢:6,onaljob search!trackingsystem room setting can be linked to 
~,..,.,.,....-,--"-·~~.. -.·~-··--...;.,;.·--'---,--------~--------------­
real life issues. ''This is a fairly unique on­
#3 NETWORKING STRATEGlES campus experience that is as 
1Vedne!Ul-ay, February 25 6:()0. 7:00p.m., Ji'lan11er 114 close to working for a think tank as you can get." Lopez said. "It 
• 
Gain a special insight into the strategies to build your own pwf~;;ssional network 

• 
Secure access to the Notre Dame Alumni Career Network


is rele-vant and dynamically 
• Role play session or1 informatio-r1a1 irltervicwing 
interactive. The questions are a moving target." 
·-...,-'---~~ --·-----·.---~-~.,.. ----~ ........-----..·-------------~------­
. . .. .
Ahern agrees that it is the real 
··• #4 CQN..tACt':Mk"''AG~MENT. FOLLo,v..:up, GUEST PANEL · 
life experience of doing 
Wed~tesdttj, Mti:rcli 31 · 6:00 ;.. 7:00p.m., Flanner 114
research that could have serious 
. .. : . . : .
implications on U.N. policy that 
• Job·searoh ~esstn~nt~.bot leads and not lead.~ .
makes this seminar so unique. 
• Justin thn~ recruiting ofe(}Uege gradsbyernployers
"It places· an exceptional 
• Continue alumni networking with special' guests
importance on completing this 
_____._....._.....,--'""-';......,.._...,.,...:.,._...,.,...........;,.,_;-"'--_""""-~~_,;.......;._...,.-c--··-----------~----­
work as thoroughly as possible 
-. :-:. :_-<: ---_----. : -_-. .--. • • . -. -­
to make our world saf~r." Ahern 
#5 TRANSJTlQNS F:ROM BACK PAC:K TO·BRIEFCAS.E.
said. 

Wednesday, April 14 6:00.,. 7:00p.m., Flf11mer 114 
• 
Transitions for college to career: budgeting, car buying, insurance, apartmc11t huntingContact Laura Valim at 

• 
Relocating to new cities, setting up interviews, etc, lvilim@nd.edu 


• Join an alumni club 
• 

We have an exci1'ing ·opportunity 
for YOU 'to help prevent you'th 
violence in Souf'h Bendf Learn 
ways "to help reduce violence while alk It out . .. . . ha~if19 fun Jntera,c'ting with children .• WalkIt out .. • . in .area schools. 
Wait It Out . ~ • 
• Be<;ome a member ofa Take Ten team and
Please Contact: Kim Overdyck at spend an hour a week in an area school HELP MAKE OUR tak.eten(il{nd.edu SCHOOLS
• Various schools, age groups, and meeting
Or at VIOLENCE FREE 631-9424 times to fit your schedule 
ZONES 

Visit us at • Multiple training opportunities to leam 
WUfUT nil P<in/....._.t,.lo•tPn 
more about violence and how to work with children
Y'( 
Take advantage of this opportunity
ROBINSON. 
to leave an ~~erlasting impact on
COJYif'1UNfTY 
LEARNING the youth of South B'end! 
CENTER 




Monday, January 19, 2004 Cotv\PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Suicide bomber kills 20 in Baghdad 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A suicide driver set ofT a truck bomb at the gates of the U.S.-led coalition headquarters Sunday, killing about 20 people and wounding 63 in the deadliest attack here since Saddam Hussein's capture last month. 
The bombing, which occurred during rush hour on a chilly, foggy morning, came on the eve of a meeting between U.S. administrator 
L. Paul Bremer and U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan to discuss Iraq's future, including whether Iraq is safe enough for the world body to return. 
The attack was the first vehicle bombing inside the U.S.-controlled "Green Zone" along the west bank of the Tigris River, which insurgents have targeted in the past with mortar and rocket fire. 
Three American soldiers were wounded in the attack, the military said. 
Khmer Rouge official admits mistakes 
PAILIN, Cambodia -The top surviving leader of the Khmer Rouge admitted he made "mistakes" during the feared regime's rule but denied being guilty of genocide and rejected the idea that millions of people died. 
Nuon Chea, second in command under Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot, told The Associated Press Saturday in an interview he would gladly appear before a U.N.-backed war crimes tribunal pursuing top Khmer Rouge leaders. His comments appeared to be the latest in regime leaders' efforts to get their versions on the record before being called to trial. 
"I admit that there was a mistake. But I had my ideology. I wanted to free my coun­try. I wanted people to have well-being," Nuon Chea, 77, told AP from his modest bun­galow in Pailin, the movement's former stronghold. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
AARP hit for supporting bill 
WASHINGTON -At least 45,000 people· have quit the AARP over its support for Medicare legislation last year, association president William Novelli said Friday. 
The nation's largest seniors' organization provided a key boost to Republicans who led the effort to revamp the Medicare program for older and disabled Americans and pro­vide insurance coverage for prescription drugs. 
AARP's endorsement unleashed a torrent of criticism from Democratic lawmakers and seniors across the nation accusing AARP of allowing its business relationship with insur­ers to drive its decision. Novelli has called the criticism baseless. 
But AARP officials said many members do not understand the complex legislation and are unhappy with it. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Gary zoning measure fails 
GARY, Ind. -After a two-year zoning quarrel with a company that wants to build a medical waste processing center, the city. of Gary has conceded defeat. 
The city administration had maintained that the site where Midwest Medical Solutions plans to build its processing center was not properly zoned for such a facility. 
But in a settlement filed in Lake Superior Court on Jan. 7, the city agreed that the company has the proper zoning. The settle­ment means Gary officials cannot use their zoning power to stop the state's first com­mercially operated medical waste autoclave. 
Midwest Medical Solutions wants to install two autoclaves -giant pressure cookers that sterilize with steam -to decontaminate packages of medical waste from hospitals, doctors' offices and dentists' offices. 
INDIA 


World Social Forum protests U.S., U.K 
Associated Press 
BOMBAY, India -Peace activists at the World Social Forum charged Sunday that President Bush's war on terrorism has made the world more dangerous. 
The third day of the annual gathering of peace and anti-globalization activists concentrated on linking peace movements across the world, with the focus on recent U.S.-led wars. 
Protests against unfair global trade, big business and foreign debt dominat­ed the two previous days of the six-day event, held this year at a sprawling factory complex in Bombay. 
The meeting, which attracts activists, political workers. and intellectuals from around the world, is meant to be a counter­point to the World Economic Forum in Switzerland, which starts Wednesday. 
"George Bush is the new extreme," said Ramsey Clark, who was the attor­ney general under former President Lyndon Johnson. ''If the U.S. dom­inates the United Nations as it has done in the past, there will be no security for anybody." 
Clark said countries had to stand up to the United States for the United Nations to survive. 
In the dust-filled streets of a Bombay suburb, activists jostled with folk dancers, while war sur­vivors from Iraq, Afghanistan and Vietnam recounted their experi­ences. 
Arundhati Roy, an Indian novelist who won the 1997 Booker Prize, accused Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair of failing to improve women's rights in Iraq and Afghanistan. 

"If you were to read the reports in corporate media, you would say George Bush and Tony Blair are the greatest fem­inists, but their version of feminism is a narrow and corrupt version," she said, adding that women in both countries still have few rights and little politi­cal say. 
pins and pens with inde­cent depictions of Bush were selling fast. 
Activists also called for 
U.S. troops to leave Iraq and for a tribunal of Iraqis and international experts to try Saddam Hussein, whom they said should not face the death penalty. 
The United States wants an Iraqi court to try Saddam, who has been in custody since his Dec. 13 capture. 

An Afghan peace activist, Saher Saba, agreed. "Apart from killing thousands of peo­ple, mostly women and children, the military action in Afghanistan has achieved nothing except bringing back the war­lords, criminals and fun­damentalists." 
Stage and street theater performances lampooned the U.S. president, and gift shop owners said lapel 
Two prison guards taken hostage 
Associated Press 
BUCKEYE, Ariz. -Two state prison guards were taken hostage by inmates early Sunday, and nego­tiators were called in to try to defuse the situation. 
One inmate attacked a guard shortly after 5 a.m. during breakfast preparations, then met up with another inmate in the prison yard and the two gained access to the officers' tower, said Jim Robideau, a spokesman for the Arizona Department of Corrections. 
A male correctional officer taken hostage was injured, said Cam Hunter, a department spokes­woman. Officials did not release details of the injury, but said the other hostage, a female correctional officer,was not believed to be hurt. 
Two other officers and a staff member were injured in a scuffle, Robideau said. 
All other staff and inmates were accounted for, and the rest of the inmates were locked in their cells, authorities said. 
Negotiation teams and officers from the Corrections Department, the Department of Public Safety and the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office were at the Arizona State Prison Complex-Lewis. 
Officials at the scene said they didn't know what the negotiators were discussing with the inmates. 
Joe Masella, president of the Arizona Correctional Peace Officers' Association, said that although he had no details about the situation, negotiators generally try to calm the inmates and .. make them realize that they're in a no-win situation." 
The hostages' families were told of the situation. "The families are in a state of anxiety and turmoil, just like we are here," said Bennie Rollins, another department spokesman. 
The medium-to high-security 
prison in Buckeye, west of Phoenix, houses 4,400 inmates, most convict­ed of felonies such as manslaughter and aggravated assault. 
Masella said the prison had been very short staffed at one point but that the situation had been resolved. 
He said prison staff did a good job of ensuring no other inmate distur­bances occurred after the hostage-taking Sunday. · 
"It could have been a lot worse," Masella said. "Once these inmates get a taste of blood, so to speak. there's no telling what they can do." 
Earlier this month, the prison was the site of two small fires started after an altercation between two inmates spread unrest among 80 prisoners. No one was hurt as a result of the fires, but three correc­tional officers suffered minor injuries. 
Hunter, the department spokes­woman, said the two incidents were not related. 
---~-­



Monday, January 19, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 

Episcopalians gather to protest gay bishop 
AssociatC'd PI'C$s The network has been tightlipped about most details, 
PLANO, Texas -Conservative including who wrote the charter Episcopalian are gathering draft and what it proposes. Plans Monday to establish an unprece­were fashioned up to the last dented nationwide organization minute. to unite opponents of last year's Some leaders in the church consecration of their denomina­have spoken out against the tion's first openly gay bishop. group, including Bishop Don 
Activists say the new Network Johnson of Memphis, Tenn. He of Anglican Communion Dioceses vowed to work against those he and Parishes won't be a break­says want to "sabotage" and away denomination or schism "destroy" the church. but rather a "church within a The Episcopal Church is the church." Nonetheless, it's a U.S. branch of the international potentially serious challenge to Anglican Communion -bodies Episcopal Church which trace their leaders. heritage back to 
The two-day the Church of
··we've got a $12

meeting to form the England. Many 
network involves million facility and national Anglican bishops, clergy and we just can't walk churches have lay delegates from denounced or
away from it. " 

12 diocese~ repre­broken fellowship senting 235,000 with the members, a tenth of Donald Armstrong Episcopal Church the nation's Colorado Reverend over the conse­Episcopalian. cration last 
The network's November of V. temporary leader, Bishop Robert Gene Robinson, an openly gay 
· Duncan of Pittsburgh, says the cleric, as bishop of New meeting will give the denomina­Hampshire. tion's traditionalist wing "some Still, one of the reasons conser­sense there is a future." vative parishes won't bolt is that 
The American Anglican under secular law they usually Council, which helped organize surrender their properties to the the group, has denied that the denomination. The Rev. Donald network's goal is to be a replace­Armstrong from Colorado ment for the Episcopal Church. Springs, Colo., a delegate repre­That claim started in a confiden­senting midwestern and moun­tial network memo that was tain states, says "we've got a leaked to the media last week. $12 million facility and we can't 
Council activists say the net­just walk away from it." work will be a "church within a The Episcopal Church's nation­church," not a breakaway al leader, Presiding Bishop Frank denomination or schism. Griswold, has proposed a plan 
Delegates at the meeting plan for special visiting bishops to to adopt an organizational char­minister to conservative parish­ter, elect leaders and debate how es. American Anglican Council to help conservatives in liberal leaders have rejected Griswold's dioceses. Observers and system, however, because deci­reporters are barred from the sions would rest with liberal meeting . bishops they distrust. 
For.·aa.y.,. Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
esday, January 20th 
(and every third Tuesday of the month)· 
7:00 -9:30 p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
,.,.,.,.. The Standing Committee on Gay and '='·?·lesbian Student Needs invites gay, ·tesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co*Mo. 
Various congregations in 37 

U.S. Episcopal dioceses have applied for leadership from spe­cial conservative bishops sent by the network. An ecclesiastical tangle would result if network bishops defy church law and work in a diocese without per­mission from the local bishop. 
Last week's leaked memo said "widespread" disobedience of church law "may be necessary" and conservatives should be pre­pared to risk trials in church or secular courts. 
However, the host bishop for this meeting, James Stanton of Dallas, opposes such lawbreak­ing. He hopes a positive tone will gain further support among the 43 Episcopal bishops who voted against the elevation of Robinson. (Sixty-two bishops backed Robinson.) 
But Stanton says calling the network schismatic "gets things exactly backwards" because "the act of schism" was the national denomination's approval for Robinson. 
Many overseas Anglican churches have broken ties with the Episcopal Church since Robinson's consecration. Armstrong says the network "will become the organization by which the Anglican Communion will continue to have a presence in the United States." 
Traditionally, Anglican church­es are defined by recognition from the world Anglican leader, England's · archbishop of Canterbury, and it's anyone's guess what incumbent Rowan Williams might eventually decide about the American mess. 
But Jim Naughton, communi­cations director for the Washington (D.C.) Diocese, is. confident Williams will maintain ties with the ongoing Episcopal Church: 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
. I ' 


Graduate 
continued from page 1 
intended for graduate applica­tions, said registrar Lorraine Kitchner. 
This year, 56 students attend­ed the Counseling and Career Development Center's Graduate School Night held in September. The number of interested stu­dents remains consistent from year to year, said Angela Bryant, career counselor and function coordinator. 
"Graduate school is an excel­lent step for students if it coin-
Legislators seek better rape yictim protection 
Associated Press 

DENVER -After a resort worker accused Kobe Bryant of rape, her identity was splashed around the world on Web sites, the cover of a supermarket tabloid and a radio broad­cast. The basketball star's attorney said the woman's name six times during a court hearing. 
Now, two state legislators have proposed tighter legal protections for people who report being raped, citing the hate mail and death threats that targeted the 19­year-old accuser after her name was published. 
cides with their career aspira­tions and desire for intense, advanced training in a special­ized area:" Bryant said. 
Instead of attending graduate school immediately following college, a significant number of students also remain open to the option ofapplying in the future. 
''I'm thinking about taking the GRE's because they're good for five years," said senior Jessica Kendrick. "That way, I have time to decide whether or not grad school is something I want to do in the future." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@smc.edu 
Without the extra protec­
tion, the release of identities 
"could have a real chilling 
effect and prevent victims 
from coming forward," 
Democratic state Sen. Peter 
Groff said. 
Rape shield laws in many 
states already protect the 
identities of alleged victims. 
Virtually all U.S. news 
organizations, including The 
Associated Press, have poli­
cies against releasing the 
names. 
Groff's measure would 
allow prosecutors to decide 
whether to list accusers' 
names in legal proceedings 
under a pseudonym, such as Jane Doe. 




---~---­


Monday, January 19, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks · · 

::,~~$ 10,600.51 +46.66 
*s;-;:·~~ AM£X " 1,ts~.74h><;s;·~:;2~l9 NASDAQ 2 140.46 +31.38 
NYSe ·--·--<~(~~.:. ~6;·s6z!6~;.r fi7:64·~ 
S&P 500 -1,139.83 --+7.78 
NIKKEI(ToJ<yoJ-'~to;s-5Z!~trl;1:'o~oo·£;~'!·1.!·! 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,487.90 +31.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE ODSU)  +15.69  +0.70  5.17  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +7.25  +1.97  29.13  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.56  +0.03  5.39  
JUNIPER NTWKS ONPR)  +30.53  +7.00  29.93  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.98  +0.27  27.81  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.35  +0.17  48.78  
I0-YEAR NOTE  + 1.08  +0.43  40.14  
5-YEAR NOTE  +1.62  +0.48  30.15  
3-MONTH BILL  +1.17  +0.10  8.62  
Commoditi~  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.47  34.00  
GOLD {$/Troy oz.)  -0.90  407.80  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.)  -0.90  82.25  
Exchan  Rates  
YEN  106.7  
EURO  0.8082  
POUND  0.5563  

IN BRIEF 
December industry rises slightly 
WASHINGTON -Industrial production at the nation's factories, mines and utilities rose by only 0.1 percent in December, slowing from the previous month's big increase. 
The gain reported by the Federal Reserve Friday followed a revised 1 percent November jump, stronger than previously estimated and the biggest in four years. · 
Economists were expecting industrial pro­duction to cool off a bit in December given November's brisk activity. Analysts had called for a 0.5 percent increase. 
Earlier this week, the Fed, in a more for­ward-looking survey of business conditions around the country, found the economy was gaining momentum as the new year began. The Fed reported growing signs that the nation's battered manufacturing sector was beginning to pull out of its nosedive. 
Judge blocks injunction for Gillette 
BOSTON -A federal judge denied Gillette's request for a preliminary injunction to block Schick-Wilkinson Sword from selling its new, four-bladed Quattro razor, and found no rea­sonable likelihood Gillette's patent case would succeed on one of its key claims. 
Quattro hit shelves in September, but its prospects were clouded by Gillette's argument that the four-blade arrangement was too close to a three-bladed system patented by Gillette. 
In a highly technical, 14-page ruling, U.S. District Judge Patti Saris said Gillette failed to meet the standard required for a preliminary injunction and that Gillette would be unlikely to prevail at trial on its claim of literal infringement. 
Refrigerator factory to close 
GREENVILLE, Mich. -Electrolux AB said Friday it will close a refrigerator factory here that has about 2,700 workers and move the work to an existing plant in South Carolina and a new one in Mexico. The 1.7 million­square-foot plant will continue operating into 2005, but company officials declined to pro­vide a more specific closing date. _ 
The Electrolux plant manufactures 1.6 mil­lion refrigerators annually for Frigidaire, Kenmore, White-Westinghouse, Gibson and Kelvinator. 
Fired Hollinger chair sells ownership 
Press Holdings International to buy Toronto parent ofChicago Sun-Times 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -A British newspaper company announced a deal Sunday with embattled press baron Conrad Black to take over his controlling interest in Hollinger Inc., the Toronto-based parent company of newspaper publisher Hollinger International Inc. 
News of the deal comes just a day after Hollinger International said it was removing Black as chair­man and suing him to recover more than $200 million the company claims was improperly diverted to him, an associ­ate and entities he con­trols. 
Press Holdings International's offer for Hollinger Inc. would-value the company at $326 mil­lion, plus the assumption of $1.40 million in debt. Press Holdings said in a statement Sunday that it would circulate the offer to shareholders within 10 days. 
Hollinger Inc. has a con­trolling interest in Hollinger International, a Chicago-based company Gettythat owns The Daily 
Conrad Black, who has been fired as chairman of Hollinger Inc., In a photo from
Telegraph of London, the 
November 2003. Black has agreed to sell his controlling Interest In Hollinger to
Chicago Sun-Times and 
Press Holdings International.
The Jerusalem Post. Hollinger International tressing" to part with the in Hollinger Inc. from That review is being said it was evaluating the newspapers, "but these Ravelston Corp., a private­made by a special commit­offer. fine titles must not be hob­ly held company that Black tee formed in the wake of 
Press Holdings is con­bled any longer by the cur­controls. Ravelston owns shareholder protests over trolled by brothers David rent controversies and 7 8 percent of Hollinger the fees to Black and other and Frederick Barclay, and financial uncertainty. They Inc., which has 70 percent concerns about the compa­owns several newspapers will be in good and caring of the voting rights of ny's management. The in the United Kingdom, hands and we will be able Hollinger International. special committee, which including The Scotsman, to focus exclusively on The proposed deal is is being advised by former as well as The Ritz hotel in resolving current legal and subject to Canadian regu­Securities and Exchange London. public relations concerns." latory approval. Commission chairman 
The deal, if it goes In a letter to the board of A Press Holdings spokes­Richard Breeden, is con­through, would mark the Hollinger International, woman did not immediate­tinuing its review. Its exit of one of the newspa­David Barclay said the sale ly return a call for com­report is expected this per industry's more flam­of Hollinger Inc. should ment. spring. boyant figures. Black's end the controversy, which In November, Black was On Friday, a federal ownership of The Daily he said was "significantly forced to give up his post judge in Chicago issued an Telegraph has helped harming the public image as chief executive of order at the SEC's request make him a major figure and stock price of Hollinger International to bar any interference in business and social cir­Hollinger International and after an internal review by with the investigation. The cles in England, where he undermining its credibility a special committee found SEC said in its lawsuit that holds the title Lord Black in the financial markets." that $32 million in unau­there had been efforts by 
of Crossharbour. Press Holdings said it thorized payments were corporate insiders to "to In a statement Sunday, had agreed with Black to made to Black and some of thwart and obstruct the Black said it would be "dis-buy his controlling interest his senior deputies. efforts" of the review. 
Cold weather raises crude futures 
below normal -lower than previous Nymex February-March crude spread
Associated Press 

predictions, said Andrew Lebow, an to $1.07 a barrel Friday. A year ago, 
NEW YORK -February light, sweet analyst and broker with Man Financial. the February-March spread traded crude oil futures in New York ended a Others pointed to thin trading vol­from $1 to $1.80 and settled at $1.42 shortened trading session Friday up umes and an early close heading into a on expiry, Cambria said. nearly 5 percent, or $1.63, at $35.07 a holiday weekend, which will be fol­"You've got room out to $1.20-$1.30" barrel as the market snapped back lowed Tuesday by the expiration of on Tuesday, he said. from Thursday's natural gas-related February crude oil as the front-month Strong market-on-close trading losses amid frigid Northeastern U.S. futures contract on the New York Friday showed that some traders also 
temperatures and thin trading vol­Mercantile Exchange. needed to cover their short positions, or umes. "They really bid it up," said Michael bets that prices would fall, before the 
Temperatures dropped below zero Cambria, vice president at Master market closed for the long holiday early Friday, prompting utilities in the Trading Inc. "They're goosing the weekend, Lebow said. region to warn of possible rolling black­February." The Nymex and London's IPE closed outs amid record demand for electrici­In London, February Brent crude oil early, at 1 p.m. EST Friday. While the ty. While temperatures in the Northeast futures settled up $1.13 at $30.47 a Nymex will be closed all day Monday are seen moderating during the next 10 barrel on the International Petroleum for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, days from current levels, forecasts call Exchange. the IPE will be open but will end trad­for temperatures to be 5-10 degrees Active spread trading widened the ing early at 1 p.m. EST. 
p

page 8 Monday, January 19, 2004 




•

Bush sells workers short agatn 
Th~~~ ~~ l~~.p>.~iiislj,q.~:IJ lhl<>"gQ fri.!")< iR<.:~i~<ml!g •••..• ~""'AAJ•iOC~~~h~R~Tho~,._.Jjoo~~~~~·...•. · 
::::.o;:::::,····.······ •.
li:MSo.,btJio.i;.t}I.U . ••.• . . 
N<>..t D-. IN~~6-o1'/'9. . ~~~..~~ 
.md ..tdilion.l ~offic:<!ll; ··.. · ~~tN:4bS$6-Gn~... 


News . Sports•···Oaire Heininger · J\lstin Schriver Joe lrombello · Chris Federico Matthew Matt Mooney Smedberg Scene Viewpoint Maria Smith · · Lauren Beck Illustrator Graphics·. Pat Quill Mike Harkins 

For the last time-my fingers are crossed -President Bush will read his State of the Union address to Congress and the public. This ritual of televised salesmanship will undoubt­edly see him gloss over his sorry Roque Strew record with, among other things, labor. But 
Straight,

recent events have 
No Chaser

refreshed our memory, as two prevailing themes in the disheartening narrative of Bush's term have again united: murky euphemism and crony capitalism. 
Yes, themes. Our country, since Bush's appointment, has borne wit­ness to an unrelenting parade of Beltway artifice. Policies are hawked misleadingly as, for instance, the Clean Air Act, which relaxes pollution controls for 17,000 industries across the country, or the Healthy Forests Initiative, which opens remote woods to loggers. Pretense abounds, unques­tionably, but close scrutiny reveals that businesses, not citizens, are the chief beneficiaries. 
These days, however, labor is again caught in Bush's crosshairs: overtime pay is the specific target. At the cen­ter of the battle to revamp labor law is a proposed revision of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). Last fall, both the House and the Senate voted against the plan. But with steady pressure from the White House, law­makers are expected to finalize the new rules this March. 
Established in 1938, the FLSA sup­plied working families with important employment protections -namely, minimum national standards for wages and overtime. Under FLSA rules, roughly 80 million workers are now paid time-and-a-half when they work more than 40 hours a week. In many parts of the country -even on our campus, I assure you-many of these workers depend on overtime pay for survival (if not a second job}, especially where the minimum wage lies far below the living wage, or dur­ing an economic recession. But the White House, evidently, couldn't care less. 
in fact, under the Bush proposal, a worker eligible for the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) could be ineligible to receive overtime pay. (A single worker making less than $3 3 ,17 8 and caring for two or more children could be eligible for the EITC, a federal income tax credit for low-income workers.) For the current administra­tion, that would be overextending itself. 
Critics of the proposed rules say they could lead to 8 million Americans losing eligibility for overtime pay, largely white-collar workers earning more than $65,000 a year. Labor Department officials put the figure at around 650,000 and say 1.3 million low-wage workers·now ineligible for overtime pay would start receiving it or a salary boost. 
Also, critics explain that workers ­including police officers, nurses and store supervisors, to name a few ­would face unpredictable work sched­ules and reduced pay because of an increased demand for extra hours, for which employers would not have to compensate workers, according to an Economic Policy Institute report released June 26. 
Bush is characteristically quick to brush such criticism aside-be it from unions. economists or even Congress. Needless to say, the White House and the Labor Department would never come clean about who wins and loses under their new rules. Instead, they point to the pluses of the Bush proposal: the 1.3 million who will become eligible for overtime. This is the sole evidence of their magna­nimity. 
But recent headlines should dispel any lingering faith in the nobility of Bush's aims, as they again expose with whom Bush's loyalties lie. A cou­ple of weeks ago, the AP reported that the Labor Department published tips on how employers can avoid paying overtime. These tactics range from meager raises to "payroll adjust­ments." The Labor Department added reassuringly that, for some compa­nies, the financial impact could be "near zero." Big Business can cancel out the "family-friendly" benefits of the new rules. 
In other words, while the Bush administration readies another tax cut for those earning over $200,000 a year, it is briefing employers on ways to avoid shelling out deserved over­time pay. Can it possibly be any clear­er where Bush stands on labor? Or how much he cares for working fami­lies? Our gov~rnment is blatantly teaching Big Business how to short­change workers. 
This grand new fraud shouldn't be terribly surprising. The Bush adminis­tration slights workers at every opportunity, couching each move in bogus rhetoric. This apathy -alias: "compassionate conservatism"-is boldly announced by both Bush's tax cut plan and advocacy of the Free Trade Area of the Americas. Where the latter expands the vast catastro­phe of NAFTA, the former shifts the tax burden from the wealthiest to the workers, favoring the richest 1 per­cent of Americans with $500 billion over 10 years. 
It's about time the Labor Department sends its moral compass in for repair. And for his role -lais­sez-faire laxity at least, hands-on complicity at worst-Bush should be ashamed of himself. But unfortunate­ly, and ironically, many of those worst affected by Bush's economic policies are the same ones who will vote to keep him in office. 
Roque Strew is now a political sci­ence major. In his spare time, he fights crime and writes rhymes. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Which cartoon would you rather see on the 
"One ofthe penalties for refusing to 
Today page: Dilbert or Classic Peanuts? 
participate in politics is that you end up being governed by your inferiors., 
Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
Plato

www.ndsmcobserver. com. 
philosopher 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
How can Catholics support Bush? 
After socializing this weekend, I found that most of the people that I talked to on this campus were behind George W. Bush in the upcoming elec­tion. I found this interesting, since this campus is founded on Catholic beliefs and many of the people here are Catholic. 
As a Catholic, I strongly believe that the Bush administration contradicts the underlying principles of Catholicism. Yes, I agree that abortion is an unfortunate platform of the Democrats, but it seems that the Bush administration has done plenty of killing in these past three years. It also seems like many people like to use this issue of abortion as a rationalization to h~ard money, but that's my opinion. 
What really seems to be the main issue for backing Bush around here is taxes. The rationale: "It's a dog-eat-· dog world out there. Work hard, make money for yourself and family. and let the rest fend for themselves." I think that this mentality lacks compassion and unity. Catholicism is based on a unity of people. We are all one body. We are not separate; therefore, we need to offer up ourselves (our tax money) to those who have been less fortunate in life. Instead of becoming smug in our assumption that our money should remain ours, I believe that we, as Catholics, are called to share the wealth, no matter what the 
circumstances. the United States of America. To my 
There are many other issues that I understanding, this administration would like to touch on as well. These hardly cares about the growth and eco­issues, I believe, draw a fine nomic prosperity of the world as a line between Catholicism -::::~~~~ whole. Again, I come back to 
and the Bush adminis­..,. tration, and they are as follows: 
The environ­ment: As God created the world; it is our job to care for His cre­ation. I have seen little care for this in the past three years. 
The war: The Pope was against the war from the beginning. How can Catholics be in favor of an administration that backs the war, when the head of their Church believes it to be exceedingly immoral? 
Foreign relations: It is clear that Bush idealism strives to foster the growth and economic prosperity of the United States of America, and solely 
this principle of unity. Aren't we obliged, as Catholics, to unite with people outside of our own coun­try? With our power and 
money, should­n't we care ­more about 

what's going on in places like Africa? Here's a better 
. question: "Does anyone even know 
what's going on in Africa?" It seems to me that fear has driv­en a lot of the Bush political mentalities. Bringing in a Democrat who may shake things up a bit and allow too much money 
for something so incredibly needed 
as health care is too liberal of a policy 
for many people. As for fear about 
national security, I believe that the 
United States is in the worst interna­
tional position than it has ever been. The majority of the world is disgusted when it comes to America's indulgence of power. And, as history will tell us, when animosity is raised, revenge becomes part of the agenda. In addi­tion, I think that severing ties with the United Nations was another bad move on behalf of the Bush administration. I believe this was unwise because, again, I believe that we are called to foster unity-of all people, of all nations-no matter how far-fetched or seemingly impractical. 
In conclusion, I want to say that I'm not claiming that Republicans are evil or that George W. Bush is evil. Republicans, Democrats, Bush and the people in Africa are all people under God. We are all one and we should be striving to serve one another, no mat­ter what country or economic status we come from. One way we can do this is by electing a man or woman who will help us do this in the best way pos­sible. 
My vote is for Dick Gephardt. Here is a man who knows diplomacy, humility, democracy, compassion and unity. Of those running, I believe that he is the man who will best carry out Catholicism's idealism. 
Jacqueline Cuisinier Holy Cross Hall Jan.l8 

GUEST COLUMN 
• 

Anti-Bush TV ads are weak 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Moveon.org, the anti-Bush Web site backed by billionaire George Soros, posted two 30-second TV ads last week that compared President Bush to Adolf Hitler. The ads were Derrick Maxey 
-part of a con­test hosted by the Web site 
Ohio State 

to help them 
University

"Find the most creative, clear and memorable ideas for ads that tell the truth about George Bush's poli­cies." 
The two ads were later pulled from the competition because they presumably violated a rule stating that nothing inappropriate for tele­vision would be posted. 
Judging the contest is a celebrity panel featuring the likes of Jack Black, Gus VanSant and Janeane Garofalo. Of course, who's better at determining fact from fiction or truth from lies than those among us who get paid millions to play pre­tend? _ 
While it may be astonishing that a seemingly professional organization could let such a horrific mistake "slip through," it's no big surprise, considering Soros recently made the same comparison in an inter­view with The Washington Post. The successful financier has defi­nitely been a leader in the "Hate Bush Parade," so much so that he has personally vowed to spend mil­lions to defeat Bush. His project Moveon.org is paying $7 million to air the winner of their TV ad con­test. 
If Bush is so obviously the bum­bling idiot that the left makes him 
out to be, why does it take millions 
of dollars to convince the American 
people? 

The truth is, the Democrats are in 
an incredibly horrible position. In 
order for them to stand a chance in 
2004, the economy has to do a 180 
degree turn and take a nosedive, as 
does the War on Terrorism. The tax . cuts they viciously opposed suc­
ceeded in refueling the economy 
and creating new jobs, and the war 
they regret voting for turned out to 
be the greatest military operation 
in history. The president did all this 
while successfully preventing any 
further terrorist attacks on U.S. 
soil. This is called a "miserable fail­
ure" according to presidential 
hopefuls like Dick Gephardt. 
On top of that, the Democratic Party itself is in shambles. The presidential nominee frontrunner, Howard Dean, has been labeled by the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC) as being too far to the left of mainstream. 
The DLC is the same organization that helped Bill Clinton get elected and their endorsement is essential to any democratic nominee. In a failed attempt to gain votes in the South, Howard Dean recently said that he wanted to be "the candidate for guys with Confederate flags in their pickup trucks." This of course comes from a top nominee of the party most concerned with the dan­ger of stereotypes. 
So as the president maintains his 60 percent approval rating as a result of the hard work he has done over the last three years, the alle­gations will continue. Democrats will put down their ''Make love not war" signs and, ironically enough, flock to hate parties like the one held last month in Beverly Hills, dedicated solely to hating our presi­dent. As the situation in Iraq and the War on Terror continues to improve we can expect the criticism from the Left to escalate and the childish name-callingJo become even more asinine. 
At the end of the 17th century, a Massachusetts community possibly became the first conspiracy theo­rists in the New World in their search for witches who had secretly infiltrated their town, occupying all walks of life and ultimately seeking the end to all that was good. The citizens of Salem were searc·hing for monsters and in the process became monsters themselves, seiz­ing and senselessly murdering at least 25 of their fellow townspeople. 
Fast forward to the 21st century. An American political party is in search of intolerant, imperialist monsters responsible for all the wrong in the world. The outcries of the torch-bearing mob augment to an almost barbaric rhythm as the witches are rounded up and carried to the town square. The accused look normal. They're former facto­ry workers, doctors and politicians, but the horde's most prized proces­sion is being dragged from the head offhe crowd. He's the leader of the free world, our 43rd President, George W. Bush. 
This column originally ran in the Jan. 16 issue ofThe Lantern. the campus newspaper ofOhio State University. It appears here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

< •• 


page 10 Monday, January 19, 2004 


e 
eac 


The South Bend Center for the Homeless brings out the best 0 
By MARIA SMTIH 
Scene Editor 
Fifteen years ago, a building called the Marinatha Temple stood across the street from where the South Bend Center for the Homeless stands today. During the winter months, the church ran a program for the homeless, offer­ing soup in the evenings, cots through the night and doughnuts and coffee in the mornings. 
Today, the winter shelter at the Temple has expanded into one of the best shelters for the homeless in the nation: The South Bend Center for the Homeless does not only provide shelter for over a thousand guests per year and serve around 300 meals per day; the Center's training programs, drug and alcohol treatment programs, tireless volunteers and efforts to get its guests into homes, cars and steady jobs help the homeless of South Bend get off the streets and turn their lives around. 
From its beginning, the success of the shelter has been one of the best exam­ples of cooperation between the South Bend and University communities. The Center for the Homeless gets only 15 percent of the $2.3 million it requires to stay open every year from the govern­ment, instead relying on donations from citizens, businesses, churches and other private organizations for the rest of its funding. In addition to helping the Center open, the University has donated around $150,000 every year toward maintenance, holiday meals and other needs. The Center also relies on dona­tions of leftovers from the Notre Dame dining halls to provide its meals every day. Equally important to helping the Center run are the approximately 60,000 volunteer hours put in by Notre Dame and Saint Marys students and people from the South Bend community every year. 
"The Center is remarkable in that it's 

a coming together of the University, the 
city, the people of South Bend, the busi-ness and religious communities of South Bend," said Father Richard Warner, the chair of the board of direc­tors of the Center for the Homeless. "I think, in that sense, it's unparalleled." 


The beginnings of the Center 
The Center was started when a group from the Marinatha Temple decided to try to build a shelter that would provide better services for the homeless in South Bend. Dave Link, a former dean of the Notre Dame Law School, and D'Arcy Chisholm, then working for the Center for Pastoral Liturgy, borrowed $100,000 from the federal government to put up the money for a newer and bigger building to house the shelter. Link and Chisholm, who had volun­teered to help open the overnight shel­ter at the Temple, had realized the need for a better institution to help the poor in South Bend, and made the deci­sion to take out the loan even though they were unsure how they would be able to pay it back. 
"In many ways the inspiration for what happened came from students," said Link. "There was a wonderful inci­dent one night when an old man came in on a South Bend kind of winter night. He was badly inebriated, and when he sat down on the cot to take off his shoes, he rolled off." 
When Link helped the man take off his shoes he found his feet were frost­bitten and asked a student volunteer to get cool water to thaw the man's feet. 
"I guess he thought I was a priest, because he called me Father," said Link. "He asked me if God still loved him even though he drank too much, and I told him God loved hint and got him into a cot where he fell asleep." 
"While he was asleep, one student said, 'I think we ought to do more for these people,'" said Link. "She thought we ought to teach them a skill." 
Link thought back to the incident when he saw the size of the new poten­tial, and decided from the beginning that the shelter should be more than just a shelter, bringing in services, St. Joseph and Memorial Hospitals, th_e Madison Center, the Life Treatment Center, social security representatives and other South Bend organizations to make a sort of "one-stop shopping" for the homeless. 
After paying the earnest on the build­ing, Link and Chisholm began to search for a way to refurbish the building, fin­ish setting up the shelter and repay their loan. Before taking their proposal to a national foundation. they decided to explain their vision to University President Father Edward Malloy. 
"I said, 'We better go tell Malloy what we're doing or he'll think we're crazy,' which a lot of people thought anyway," said Link. 
After reviewing their proposal, Malloy proposed that Notre Dame pay off the loan, put up the money to refurbish the building and lease the building back to the Center for the Homeless for one dollar per year. 
The University and Bendix Allied Signal, a national company whose pres­ident was a Notre Dame graduate, each donated $500,000 dollars to developing the center.· 
Link and Chisholm's efforts addressed what was becoming an increasingly great need in the South Bend communi­ty and across the nation at the time. 
"Up until that point, you rarely saw families becoming homeless, but now it was actually families with children," said Drew Buscareno, who served as director of the Center for the Homeless from July 1999 to December 2003 before becoming vice president of uni­versity relations at Notre Dame. "The idea was to develop a national model uniting higher education with local institutions. The concept seems simple, but the implementation was revolution­ary." 
The center first opened its doors on Dec. 18, 1988, six months ahead of schedule. The shelter was called on to open early after a fire at the Morning Side Hotel, an institution where offices 
of the Madison Center and Hospital had previ­ously helped the many people with men tal disorders or drug and alco­hol problems who took shelter there. The entire commu­nity worked with the shelter to be able to provide services ahead of schedule. 
"We were still painting, there were no bed and no locker&," said Link. 
In order to house the people from the Morning Side Hotel, the Center called Notre Dame and the South Bend Community School Corporation to donate beds and lockers to the shel­ter. Link appealed to the community to find clothes and food for the people at the homeless shelter. 
"I got on the radio and television and asked for donations, and the response was amazing. It blocked the streets, we filled 16 busses full of food and cloth­ing," said Link. 
"It's a big thing for us that people want to help," said Tammy Oehm, sen­ior director of Operations and Special Projects, who joined the center shortly 

Monday, January 19, 2004 Page 11 

. I 
I 
I 
I 


·ou 


ifof the city of South Bend and the University of Notre Dame 

Photo courtesy of the Center for the Homeless 

' for the Homeless. Around 100 students from ster. 
after it was founded. "When the center started there were about five employ­ees, and we could not have run without volunteers." 
The service continues 
Over the years the Center has devel­oped a wide variety of programs avail­able on-site. Now, the Center is working on programs that will allow it to become more self-sufficient with pro­grams that generate revenue and move 
it away from direct monetary dona­
tions. 

Center for the Homeless landscaping 
services and painting services offer 
guests at the Center a chance at job 
training, while they simultaneously 
raise money that goes back to fund the 'shelter. Center for the Homeless Cars does not employ shelter guests, but does generate money for the Center. Every year the Center gets cars donated from people who no longer need an old car or students who do not want to take a car home after they graduate, which they either sell at a very reduced price to a guest in need of a car or sell at auction. Car donors also receive a tax break. 
While the Center is working on gener­
ating more revenue, it still relies on vol­
unteers to run. While community volun­
teers usually work at the desk or in 
adult tutoring, student volunteers most­
ly work in childcare and youth tutoring 
programs. ND and SMC students in the 
tutoring programs are paired with a 
child at the shelter, and come twice 
every week to help the student with 
schoolwork. Around 100 students vol­
unteer with children every semester. 
"It's great for relationship building 
and consistency," said community­
based learning coordinator Annie Kelly. 
"Students are by far the largest chunk 
of volunteers," said director of volun­
teer services Felicia Moodie. "You can 
definitely tell the difference when there 
are breaks." . 
Some students volun­
teer through the commu­
nity-based learning sec­
tions of First Year 
Composition, which was 
first started around 
eleven years ago. Others 
get involved through 
class government or 
dorm events, and decide 
to stay and help out after 
the first event is done. 
Pasquerilla East senior Kathryn Lent first volun­teered through as part of a dorm event, and has stayed. for over two years. Organizes a group of about 10 students who go every Friday around 5 
p.m. to take the kids from the shelter out to do something fun for a few hours. 
"Not many things in their lives are structured and consistent, so we try to make sure people .go week to week," said Lent. ··It's great getting to do the things the kids do, you fQrget what it's like to be a kid." 
One of the most unique programs started by fac­ulty volunteers is great books seminar run by Program of Liberal Studies professors Clark Power and Steve Fallon. The professors run a seminar based on the ones offered to PLS stu­dents, where adult guests can read and discuss classic works and earn college credit. They started the program five years ago after reading about a similar program in New York City, and have about 15 students go through the program every semester. 
Power and Fallon have found that the students enjoy the chance to discuss great works, and that the class can build a sense of confidence in their stu­dents. Far from struggling with the classes, the guests have turned out to be some of their most dedicated stu­dents, and their life experiences give them a unique insight into the great works of literature and philosophy. 
"We wanted to donate time and ener­gy, and thought we could use what we do as professors," said Power. "Often we look down on the homeless, but some people say that by doing this, we prove that people who are homeless have the same kinds of abilities and insights as anyone else." 
The professors have seen some stu­dents recover from severe problems during the course. One former student who recently contacted them was for­merly addicted to heroin, and is now working on a college degree. Others return to jail or addictions. 
"We have no illusions that the small part we're doing can magically turn lives around," said Fallon. "But it has given us a chance to work with people who are making these kinds of life and death decisions for themselves. 
"We have visitors come to see the 
shelter from all over," said Oehm. "One thing that is difficult to duplicate is the community here, especially at Notre Dame." 
' 

Now and then 
Whatever people do to help, they have the satisfaction f knowing they can help turn a life around. 
Link likes to tell the story of a man who had his life turned around by a student volunteer. 
··we had an old guy who used to come into the shelter who was mean when he was drunk, and he was usually drunk," said Link. "He went through detox about 21 times on police orders, but usually fell right back off the ladder." 
The man befriended a Notre Dame student who convinced him to go through rehabilitation again, this time voluntarily. 
"I don't know if he'd ever had a friend," said Link. "But this time he stayed recovering and moved out of the shelter with a woman he met. His body was torn up and eventually he died, but >he died with a job, his own place, a wife and respectability." 
"This has grown into a fine institu­tion, and Notre Dame volunteers made it go," said Link. 'Tm pleased to have been a part and to have gotten the University involved." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 19, 2004 
NBA 
Spurs beat Celtics, snap 3-game losing streak 
Associated Press what I'll do." in the fourth quarter cut 
Paul Pierce scored 19, Mark Denver's lead to 68-62, but 
BOSTON -The NBA champi­Blount added 15, and reserve White then scored eight points on San Antonio Spurs rediscov­Ricky Davis had 14 for Boston. during Denver's 14-6 run that ered a familiar formula and "It's really tough when you go pushed the lead to 82-68. ended their three-game losing out on the court and all five Miami countered with eight streak. guys aren't on the same page straight points, the final six by 
With a strong defensive effort all the time," Pierce said. Jones, to make it 82-76 with backed by Rasho Nesterovic's "We're trying to find our way 2:55 remaining. season-high 23 points and 13 together as a team that just Anthony made a driving rebounds, the Spurs beat the came together this year." layup to pad the lead to eight. Boston Celtics 109-92 Sunday. San Antonio has beaten After Odom's basket, White hit 
"We combined 48 minutes of Boston 12 times in a row and is a jump hook for an 86-78 lead good defense with making 18-1 against the Celtics since with 1:51 left. some shots," Spurs coach the 1993-94 season. Denver center Marcus Camby Gregg Popovich said. "That The Celtics never got closer played nine minutes in the first certainly makes things easy for than 13 points in the final quarter but didn't return us." quarter. The Spurs had their because of tonsillitis. 
Tony Parker scored 20 points biggest lead of the game at 95­-all by halftime -and Tim 70 on Bruce Bowen's jumper Suns 96, Trail Blazers 92 Duncan added 15 points and with 5:14 left in the game. Joe Johnson scored 2 5 
points, including the go-ahead
seven rebounds for the Spurs. "Our defense was a lot better 
"Call in the search party, tonight, better for a longer rebound basket with 18.1 sec­because we've found him period of time," Duncan said. onds to play, and the Phoenix tonight," Popovich said, refer­Stins handed the Portland Trail ring to Parker. "Without hiin, Nuggets 88, Heat 80 Blazers their fifth loss in a row. 
Carmela Anthony scored 31
we've got problems. He's very Johnson, averaging 20 points 
points on 12-for-17 shooting to per game since Stephan
important to us. It was nice to see him be aggressive and lead the Denver Nuggets past Marbury and Penny Hardaway and none in the fourth quarter. soaring block of Ruben make some shots." the road-weary Miami Heat. were traded to New York, has Portland led 92-90 after Patterson's fast-break dunk Celtics coach Jim O'Brien Rodney White scored all 10 of scored 20, 26 and 25 points in Randolph's three-point play attempt. wasn't nearly as pleased, of his points in the fourth quarter, his last three games as the with 2:26 to go, but missed its Patterson had blocked course, after his team's fourth helping the Nuggets thwart a Suns matched their season­last eight shots, four of them by Stoudemire's stuff try moments loss in a row. Miami comeback that reduced long winning streak at three. Wallace. earlier. Stoudemire, who Boston was outrebounded a 14-point deficit to six. The Blazers have lost nine of Marion's rebound basket tied missed 18 games with a high 50-34 and outscored in the Vashon Lenard added 18 10, including two to Phoenix in it at 92-all with 1:19 to play. ankle sprain before coming paint 54-34. points and Nene 17 for the a five-day span. Marion threw up an airball back eight days ago, stayed on "Over the last two games, we Nuggets, who avoided their Shawn Marion had 22 points from 8 feet, but Johnson the bench but did not appear to too easily allowed the ball to first three-game losing streak and 16 rebounds, and Leandro grabbed it and scored to put. be seriously hurt. get to the rim, and I guess I of the season. Barbosa scored 20 for the Phoenix up 94-92 with 18.1 Wallace sank consecutive 3­would say that I will play only Lamar Odom had 26 points Suns, who overcame 21 seconds left. After Wallace pointers to put the Blazers up the people from here on that for Miami, and Eddie Jones turnovers that resulted in 28 missed a 12-footer, Marion 45-41 with 4:07 left in the first will make it a point not to let and Caron Butler each had 12. Portland points. sealed it with two free throws half, and a 6-0 spurt gave the basketball get to the rim," It was the final game of Zach Randolph scored 25 for with 6.4 seconds to play. Portland a 51-43 lead 1:41 O'Brien said. "If I have to over­Miami's longest road trip of the the Blazers, on their longest Amare Stoudemire, who before the break. Stoudemire's play people minutes to get the season, featuring six games in losing streak in two seasons. scored 16 for Phoenix, left the stuff and Marion's 3-pointer toughness that we need in that 10 days. Rasheed Wallace scored 19, game with 4:41 to play after cut the lead to 51-48 at the phase of the game, then that's Odom's three-point play early but only six in the second half reinjuring his left ankle on a half. 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
N0. 1 Duke uses late run to hold off Virginia 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. ­Alana Beard didn't need to dom­inate the whole game this time. A burst in the second half brought the same result. 
Beard overcame a miserable shooting night by scoring eight straight points in a 12-4 run Sunday night, finally giving No. 1 Duke control on its way to its 48th consecutive ACC victory, 63-52 against Virginia. 
"Alana Beard is a very special player," VIrginia coach Debbie Ryan said of the All-American, who finished 6-for-18 from the field and 11-for-12 from the foul line. "She's one of the best play­ers ever to play the game. She's a second-half player, too. She's done it so many times." 
Last time Beard played at University Hall, she scored 41 points, including two free throws with eight-tenths of a second left, as Duke survived, 60-59. This time, she missed 12 of her first 15 shots. 
But she then made three in a row and added two free throws as the Blue Devils (14-1, 5-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) turned a tie game with about eight minutes remaining into a 53-45 lead with 3:38 left. 
"I started taking shots within our offense," Beard said. "In the first half I was rushing a lot of shots." 
The Cavaliers (8-8, 2-3) fell to 1-8 in their history against No. 1 and had a three-game winning streak snapped, but were still upbeat. 
"We were with them the whole game," Virginia's Anna Prillaman said. "We just had to hold on and make a run at the end.... We just didn't get there." 
For the Blue Devils, whose last game was a 22-point blowout of No. 13 North Carolina. the final score didn't attest to how tough it had been. 
"They caused us a lot of trou­ble," coach Gail Goestenkors said. "It seemed like every score was a struggle for us." 
The Blue Devils registered season-lows in points and shoot­ing percentage (32.8 percent), but had Beard to carry them to the finish. 
She made a layup to give them a 45-41 lead and added two free throws, a drive and a putback in the next 90 seconds, boosting the lead. 
After Tiffany Sardin's jumper and two free throws closed the gap to 53-49 for Virginia, Lindsey Harding drove the length of the court for. a layup and Beard's two free throws essentially sealed the victory. 
Duke hasn't lost in league play since a 69-55 setback at North Carolina State on Feb. 18, 2001. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES WANTED 
Avon/Mark 50/40% Earnings Call B&B rooms available near campus Karen 1·B66-780-28661ndependent for JPW. $75.00 per person per Sales Rep. FoR RENT night, 2-night minimum. PERSONAL 
Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches Call 289·4455 for more info. 
AWESOME SUMMER CAMP is now accepting applications for COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! JOBSt Residential camp located in third shift drivers and inshoppers. 3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON New luxurious 3-4 bdrm 3 bath, 2· UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! Brown County, Indiana. Operated JJs offers competitive pay in a fun MO.,FURN.272-6306 car garage, fireplace, sky lights, not go it alone. If you or someone S&H calculated. by the Catholic Youth Organization fast-paced working environment close to campus $1640 monthly, you love needs confidential support 
since 1946. Serving campers aged Drivers must have dependable BULLA RD HOME.$650.M0.272· or assistance, please call Sr. Mary www.bookhq.com 7 to 17 in various programs. transportation, insurance, and a 6306 call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 Louise Gude, CSC, at 1·7819. 
Inclusive of persons with disabili· clean driving record. Call Andy or FREE MONEY Between the Buns ties. Positions available for General, Mike between 2-5 p.m. at 277·8500 4 bedroom house. AC, garage, For more information, see our restaurant is offering clubs and Specialty, and Health staff. with any questions. great location, ample space, nego· bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. organizations the opportunity to Extensive training provided starting liable rent. Contact Mike 216-408· earn free money. late May. Welcoming staff commu· 0780 or Matt 216-408-4744 if inter-LINDA TALLEY· Welcome to The 
TICKETS 
nity. For appncation and more infer-ested Observer family. Hold a "Kickback" night at the mation contact: Angi Sullivan, CYO FOR SALE "Buns· and receive a 15% donation Camp Rancho Framasa, LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION· Take heart, Colts fans. At least you from what is spent that evening. CYOCamp@aol.com or toll free JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF NO Need 2 Pitt Bball GAs. Will pay or didn't wait until the Super Bowl to 
888.988.2839, ext. 25. Online at: LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS. GILLIS IDEAL FOR 3-7 STUDENTS trade 2 UK or UConn student tx. play your worst game of the sea· Call Phil for more details. 247 ·9293 www_campranchoframasa.org. REALTY 272·6306 2773097 Call Jenny 634-4507. son, llnlike the Falcons in 1999. 
•. 

Monday, January 19, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
SMC SWIMMING
,. 

Belles remain winless on season 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
A tune-up is all the Saint Mary's swimmi~g team needs. 
Conference rivals Olivet and Kalamazoo proved to be a real challenge for the Belles in their three-way meet last Friday. Olivet defeated the Belles 126-95, and Kalamazoo beat Saint Mary's 137-98. The Belles now stand at 0-5 in the MIAA standings. 
"Kalamazoo has always been a strong team and a good challenger," Saint Mary's swimming coach Greg Petcoff said. "But it was Olivet that came to this meet ready to compete." 
Olivet slightly defeated Kalamazoo 121-118 to finish the meet 2-0. 
Despite finishing 0-2 last Friday, Saint Mary's came away from the meet with sev­eral notable highlights, as two swimmers were considered the top performers of the meet. Sophomore Kelly Nelis and senior Megan Ramsey both finished first in two events. Nelis won the 200­yard freestyle in 2:3.34 sec­onds and the 500-yard freestyle in 5:31. Ramsey won the 100-yard butterfly in 
1:10.56 and the 1000-yard freestyle in 10:57.02. Another key performance for Saint Mary's was Sarah Nowak's 200-meter individual medley in a time of 2:23, the fifth fastest time in Saint Mary's history. 
"[Nowak] was neck and neck with the girl who finished first the last 50 yards, and [Nowak] has only been training for three weeks," said PetcofT. 
Freshman Bridget Lebiedz finished fourth in the 200-yard freestyle in 2:05.32 and sixth in the 100-yard butterfly. Senior Julie McGranahan fin­ished fifth in the 1 00-yard but­terfly in 1:04.44. Junior Ashley Dyer finished fifth in the 100-yard backstroke in a time of 1:13.88 and had a sea­son best swim in the 50-yard freestyle ag. well. 
"The real battle for the girls was bringing it home," Petcoff said. "A small adjustment to their workouts will help us to come back and overtake [Olivet and. Kalamazoo] at the conference meet." 
In preparation for the Belles' next meet against Alma (0-5 in the MIAA} Saturday, the Belles will be bringing back some of the more intense and longer sets training. The team plans to train for multiple races and not emphasize just one event for each swimmer. After the adjustment, Saint Mary's hopes for season-best ·times at the MIAA Championships next month. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

RECOMMENDS 
"Is the year ahead looking much the same as the last? Another 365-day grind of deadlines? If so, try this book." 
"•••an amusing catalog of tricks, pranks, publicity stunts, and outright scams that people have played on each other over the years." . -Booklist 
ND SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish build momentum with strong weekend 
By MATT PUGLISI 
Sports Writer 

The men's swimming and div­ing team continues to pick up momentum as the Irish (5-6} fell to No. 17 Pittsburgh, 228-123, but picked up a couple of victo­ries against Maryland and Villanova. 201-140 and 282-51, respectively, this weekend in Pittsburgh. 
''We tried to use our depth to our advantage, since that's prob­ably our biggest strength," fresh­man Tim Kegelman said. 
Highlighted by the 400-meter individual medley, where Notre Dame swimmers junior David Maison, sophomore Jaime Lutkus and freshman Ted Brown, respectively, swept the event's top three spots, the Irish jumped out to comfortable leads against both the Terrapins and Wildcats. 
A day after fmishing first in the 100-meter butterfly, Kegelman helped seal the victories for the Irish with an event victory in the 200-meter butterfly Saturday. Brown finished off a strong meet with a victory in the 500-meter freestyle, and Lutkus turned in a trio of top-three finishes. 
The 282 points and 231-point margin of victory against the Wildcats both set school records for the Irish, eclipsing previous marks set in a 234-66 throttling of Boston College in 1996. 
After stumbling out of the gates to a 1-5 start, the Irish have posted four victories in their first five 2004 dual meets, losing only to the nationally­ranked, Big East powerhouse Panthers, winners of seven con­secutive Big East titles. 
"Overall, the team has just been improving a lot," Kegelman said. "We lost a lot of close meets at the beginning of the year, but we're starting to touch people out when we need to ­that wasn't happening at that beginning of the season." 
The Irish jump back in the pool Saturday when they travel to Northwestern to challenge the No. 15 Wildcats. 
Behind four event victories by senior Marie Labosky, including three· of Notre Dame's six on the meet's final day, the Irish women's swimming and diving team (5-1) toppled Illinois, 197­173, at the Michigan Invitational over the weekend. 
~'The second and third sessions we needed to step up," freshman Katie Carroll said. "We just needed to work more as a team and score not only first and sec­ond place points, but third and fourth, as well. Those points all add up." 
After winning the 200-meter individual medley on Friday, Labosky was even better on Saturday, taking the 400-meter individual medley and 200-meter backstroke in addition to team­ing with freshmen Ann Barton, Carroll and Ellen Johnson on the victorious 800-meter freestyle relay team. 
"Over the meet. I think we got progressively more into it," Johnson said. 
While the VIctory extends the Irish's dual meet win streak to four, another impressive streak came to an end on Friday as sen­ior Meghan Perry Eaton failed to win the 1-meter board for the frrst time this season. 
However, Perry Eaton quickly rebounded from the setback with a school-record 335.85 to win the 3-meter board. In addition, Carroll won the 100-meter freestyle, and senior Usa Garcia took the 200-meter butterfly to round out Saturday's individual event victories for the Irish. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

DON'T MISS OUT.ON THIS OPPORTUNITY! 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS NOW LEASING FOR 2004-2005 
Apartments and Townhomes from as low as $280/month per person. 
Call for details 272-8124 Visit us at www. turtlecreeknd. com 



l 
l 
\ 
( 
The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 19, 2004 

~~~~afaNette Square Townhomes 

. On!;• 9 Blocks frtmt C~mpu~ J.aundry Are~ with 'V{usht."'·.ro?..d Dryer Fully f\ps1pred Kitchen lflcluding Dishwasher anJ Grirb~.g~ 
Dispo::i<d 
Priv..at~ Pat~~) 

ADT Ala.rru Sy~h::m {Opti1)n:ai !'\.-loflittl>r~ng) Centr.at Air Conditio:ni..'<!g A>.>.'1igne~1 Parkln~ 
En~gy Effit'l(.,"''ll G~ H~~lh~~~ 
Pmfe.~sioflaHy. M~uag.c-.d 24·-l !~)tit Emet·gceney On..<.::aU·Mruritmancc 
t£;tl' Mt}t:~ rtl1htll'\ad~n~ Red !::State MatmgClTh.-nt Corporation . P .0. rk~x 54H South Bend, IN46624 
T~lt:lflhO:~e: 514-234-99Z3 
Facsimik 514·2J.4,.9!U.5 
Jht~d.i('i'~-ehr·e:~hmnl
~w;. ......,.,or..h 

..rb.e Finest in Student HousinS 
Notre Da111e Apa.rtt11e11.ts 
·~· 

• 
]'!W 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre D>U'UC CmnplJS 

• 
Sp-~duu~ 2:--~ln'lom A.jlru1ments Qn Nmro Uan1e Avenue 

• Cu:rmnJ t'-yc:ar& fO:;,monlh l.~f% Avail~~le OnvSitc L-.undcy Facility 2 c:k1sets.md l ~~~k' in Eath ~e-droom 

Pr1v~1<~ P~rkiDg tuh; r..otlf On"CaH Emergency Mlrintcrumcc U11 u, 4 Pet!iitln~ ?et AjlWi:n~t 
. P~()y l"klX. 54~ · SotllhBWd. IN 46624 
>Ye:leph.onc; 514-234.,9923 ra.c~~m11i::: .574-2.14-992:5 Jbbdfi.'0rbn.~b.rom 

·.·. ·. 
. ·:.... 
.Inform-ation Session 
for those interested·in the position of 
AssistantRector 
for University Residence Halls 
Wednesday, Janua.ry. 21, 7:.30-8:30 p.m.· Recker's Hospit~li,.ty Room 
Lightretresh.n1ents served 
For further information visit http:/I osa.nd.edu/ 
page 14 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Scott secures Irish victory in comeback 
kamp rounded out the top six By KATE GALES with a win over John Stone 7-6 Sports Writer (7-5), 4-6, 6-2. 
Notre Dame also took the 
Matthew Scott's recently doubles match, despite healed stress fracture in his Indiana winning the.No. 3 right foot didn't hold him back doubles spot early with Bass Saturday, but instead the sen-and Paul Hisaka losing to ior tri-captain's straight-set Ishtugatov and Kenner 8-4. victory helped start men's ten-The 18th-ranked duo of nis on the right foot with a win Haddock and Ryan Keckley over No. 51 Indiana. clinched the point against 
Scott's 6-3, 6-4 victory over Indiana's Recht and Stone 8-5 Indiana's Ryan Recht at No. 2 at No. 1, while at No. 2 dou­singles led the 49th-ranked bles, D'Amico and Scott Irish to a 6-1 victory. Due to defeated McCarthy and Praibis injury, it was the first time he 8-5. had played a complete single's "As a team, we're going to set since October. Scott is focns on doubles, which are ranked 68th in the nation. the key to winning matches.," 
"The biggest thing in prepa-Scott aid. "[Additionally], each ration for us was adjusting to of us has to build on the victo­the factor of the courts," Scott ry against Indiana and do indi­said of Indiana's fast playing vidual things we need to work surfaces. "We practiced on -to come together as a Wednesday ~nd Thursday at team and get another win." the South Bend Racquet Club Starting the season with a to prepare, which was a key road win is important for the factor for us." Irish as they enter the dual-
At No. 1 singles, senior tri-match spring season. captain Luis Haddock lost 6-7 "It's great to get the 'W' to (1-7). 6-4, 6-2 to Indiana's start off the season, but we Jakub Praibis, ranked 70th . have a lot to work on," Scott last preseason before an injury said. "We'll build on this and caused him to miss much of look forward to Texas A&M on the fall. Despite Haddock's Friday [at home]." one-set lead, Praibis rallied to "We've got a lot of potential: score Indiana'S" only points. a deep lineup, strong fresh-
Brent D'Amico defeated man class, a lot of pride," Indiana's Neil Kenner 6-2, 4-6, Scott said. "The guys are real­7-6 (7-3) at third singles, while ly hungry to prove that we're a fourth-spot Stephen Bass top-20 caliber team, and we're clinched the Irish singles victo-just out to prove that one ry by defeating Ryan McCarthy match at a time -to do our 3-6, 6-2, 7-5. best and have fun." 
At No. 5 singles, Barry King defeated Dmytro Ishtuganov 3-Contact Kate Gales at 6, 6-3, 6-1 and Eric Langen-kgales@nd.edu 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Richards, Detter selected in MLS draft 
Special to The Observer seventh pick in the fifth (47th 
overall) to the Kansas City 
The team motto of "Making Wizards. History" continues for the 2003 Richards was a third team all­Notre Dame men's soccer squad. Big East selection in 2003 after 
After achieving a top-five starting all 23 contests and play­national ranking, winning the ing close to every minute of each Big East Championship and game. He finished with one goal establishing itself as one of the and three assists in 2003 and top programs in the nation, two two goals and 11 assists in his members of Notre Dame's senior career. class were selected during the Detter played in 80 games dur­MLS SuperDraft in Charlotte, ing his career and finished with N.C., last Friday. 7 4 career points and eight game­
Kevin Richards became the winning goals. The 2003 Big first Notre Dame player to be East Championship Most selected in the MLS draft, getting Outstanding Offensive Player, he the call at the fifth pick in round earned first-team all-conference four (35th overall). Justin Detter honors and led the team with 14 followed one round later as the goals and 33 points last year. 
~·~~~ 
ORE-Ar w~LL 
CHINESE AMERICAN RESTAURANT Authentic Szechuan. Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine!! 
Help us celebrate the Chinese New Year! 
Wed. 1121 & Thurs. 1/22 
Includes Soup, Salad Bar, Appetizers. 10 Entrees and Desserts Other menu items also available 
222 Dixie WayS., S.B. 574-272-7376 
SPECIAL Buffet 5-9pm 
(2 Days Only) 
Adults $9.95 

Children under 10 
$4.95 
, 
~~~~· 

OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Monday, January 19, 2004 page 15 



NFL 
Just two seasons back,had been in his first two 

Panthers againPatriot defense 
the Panthers were the stifles Manning 36 for 227 yards and a 7­
games: He finished 22-of-NFL's worst team with a 1­
win on the road 
15 record. John Fox was Givens on the first drive 
yard TD pass to David 
hired as coach and engi­Associated Press of the game. He did, how­
Associated Press neered one of the most ever, throw his first inter­
impressive turnarounds inPHILADELPHIA-Sorry, FOXBORO, Mass -The league history. They beatception in 10 home games 

Eagles. Not this time,
New England Patriots 
Dallas handily at home inearly in the fourth quar­

either. The surprising
didn't need snow to ruin the wild-card round, then
Carolina Panthers are
Peyton Manning's perfect ter. 
won the thriller at the

But it didn't bother the 
Super Bowl-bound
postseason. Their defense Rams.
Patriots, who have won 
instead.
did it all. 
Fox's opportunistic

big games before in foul The Panthers once againTy Law had three inter­defense made the differ­
weather. They are now showed no fear on theceptions, Rodney ence Sunday, led by a16-2 and have won 14 road, shocking
Harrison added another fierce pass rush and third­
straight games. 

Philadelphia 14-3 and
and forced a fumble, and round draft pick Manning, With the victory, coach handing the Eagles theirthe Patriots beat the Colts who tied an NFC champi­Bill Belichick is 5-0 in the 
third straight NFC cham­postseason with the 
24-14 to advance to their onship game record withpionship game defeat. 
second Super Bowl in his three pickoffs. The
Patriots, who won the 
Rookie Ricky Manning
three seasons. Jarvis 
Panthers hurt MeN abb'sNFL championship two 

Jr.. a hero last week withGreen had three of the ribs in the second quarter,years ago by beating St. 
an interception to set upteam's four sacks as the 
then destroyed
Louis. 

the winning touchdown at
constant pressure made 
Philadelphia's chance forThe Pats took the open­St. Louis, picked off threethe NFL's co-MVP look its first Super Bowl triping kickoff right down the 

passes against an ailing
very average. 
since 1981 with a power­field for a touchdown on Donovan McNabb. 

Manning had thrown ful display in the thirdthe pass from Brady to 
Eight days after ending(nght touchdowns and no period.
Givens. It was 15-0 at the the Rams' 14-game home
interceptions, and the By the final quarter,half on two of Adam 
winning streak in double
Colts had scored 79 
McNabb was out of theVinatieri's five field goals 

overtime, the Pantherspoints in wins over 
game and the Eagles were

marched into The Line
Denver and Kansas City. plus the safety on the 
botched punt. 

and grabbed their first out of options. 
But Indianapolis could 
Manning's third inter­

The Colts (14-5) cut it conference crown. They'd
never get going on 
ception -off a deflection15-7 on Edgerrin James' 

gotten this far in 1996,
Sunday. Things were so 
when receiver James

2-yard TD run at the start 
their second season, but
bad that when the Colts 
Thrash was hit hard by

of the third quarter. But lost to Green Bay. This time, they extended the Mike Minter -and his 17­finally had to punt for the 
first time in the playoffs, Brady led New England to 
around the dial 
yard return was criticaLthe snap went over the two more short field goals 

angst-filled wait for a 
So was the inability of the

championship in ed in a safety. from there. Indianapolis
punter's head and result­and the defense took it Eagles' secondary to makePhiladelphia and will head
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

to Houston to meet the the same kind of plays. 
··They did a good job scored with 2:27 left on a
Pittsburgh at Connecticut 7 p.m., ESPN 
defending us but we did 7 -yard TD pass to Marcus New England Patriots on Lito Sheppard's 14-yard 
Oklahoma at Texas Tech 9 p.m., ESPN 
Feb. 1. interference penalty We turned the ball over, But Christian Fauria
things we haven't done. Pollard, making it 21-14. 
For Philadelphia, it is against Steve Smith put now 20 full seasons with­Carolina at the 1. out any kind of pro sports DeShaun Foster then pow­
NHL 

we snapped a poor snap recovered the ensuing 
on the punt," Colts coach onside kick for the 
Tony Dungy said ...We Patriots. The Colts got the 
Colorado at Tampa Bay 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
championship. The Eagles' ered through four tacklers made some miscues and ball back on downs, but 
last NFL title was in 1960, for a 14-3 lead with 4:11
NBA 

and they are the first team left in the third quarter. 
New England is a good the Patriots defense held 
Houston at Memphis 7:30p.m., TNT 
enough team to take them. to host consecutive confer­In the first half, despite advantage of that." Vinatieri ended up kick­ence championships and double coverage, Muhsin Tom Brady, meanwhile, ing his fifth field goal lose both since game sites Muhammad made a 24­was almost as good in the from 34 yards with 50 originally were deter­yard touchdown catch for 
Utah at Golden State 1 0 p.m., TNT 
TENNIS 

cold weather as Manning seconds left. mined by record in 197 5. a 7-0 lead. 
Australian Open 10 p.m., ESPN2 




(. 
'
I. 

I .tt. ' 
-.,. . -.. .........,....... ·~ ..----~;':~-~-~-.-~·· . -..~ ...__ ......"" ..... ~ 
..-~ 



Monday, January 19, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Timmermans was able to enjoy that a lot more," its shots compared to Notre For the second time this year,Defeat record career highs in points Timmermans said. "I don't care Dame's 41.7 percent. Forward the Irish find themselves in a (16), assists (four) and minutes about my points. The opportunity Hakim Warrick's game-high 19 hole. After losing three straight continued from page 20 (32) and tied his career high in was there this game for me to points included a number of to start December, they respond­rebounds (eight). Despite filling knock down some jumpers and highlight reel dunks. Guard Billy ed with six consecutive victories. Timmermans camped at the free out the stat sheet, the senior co­do some stuff. but I want to win." Edelin finished with 17 points Combine that stretch with two throw line and broke down captain would give it all away in Syracuse took advantage of with 15 coming in tough losses last Syracuse's 2-3 zone with a num­a heartbeat. .. Notre Dame'1" inconsistent the second half. week, and the ber of no-look passes. "Zero points and a win, I would defense, hitting 56.5 percent of The Irish put four Irish have no 
players in double "[Syracuse] is ten margin for error. figures but received "The one thing
times the team we 
zero points from I talked to them their bench. Thomas are right now ... about is that this finished with 13 group has been points on 5-of-18 kicked around a

Chris Thomas 
shooting and only little bit already.
S•z~lene (Sizzlelini®) ­
Irish guard 

had three assists It's not like a first
On Tuesdays, get our specialty 
compared to four experience," turnovers. Brey said.
for TWO for only $10.95! 
Forward Torin Francis led the "Resiliency is a word I used with A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, 
Irish with 17 points and 10 them back at the first team meet­rebounds, his sixth double-dou­ing around Labor Day, because I 
savory sausage or both served with 
ble on the season. was looking at our schedule, and 
izzle in:: 


The Irish came out hot, hitting I knew we had a heck of a sched­
a zesty tomato sauce accented 
their first three shots to build an ule and we would have to bounce
with peppers and onions on top 
8-2 lead. Syracuse tied it at 10 back." before a 5-0 run put the Irish up This time, there is no
of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
15-10. American, Quinnipiac or
ellini 

But that's when one of Morehead State on the schedule. Warrick's dunks turned the Half of their next 10 games are
B~-Iefie (Bellini) ­
whole game around, sparking a against ranked teams, against 13-0 run, which put Syracuse which the Irish, as Timmermans
A frosty, peach Italian work 
ahead 23-15, and the pointed out after the game, are 
Orangemen never trailed again. 0-3.
of art for $2!
ues ays 

The Irish were able to get as close as one five minutes into the Contact Matt Lozar at second half. mlozar@nd.edu
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges the follow­ing businesses which support our student caller incentive program Potawatomi Zoological Society RecSports South Bend Civic Theatre Studebagels Zolman Tire 
The names of these businesses were inadvertently misspelled in Friday's paper. The Observer regrets the error. 



Answers 
continued from page 20 
nation's elite. 
And yes, the Irish are in big 
trouble. 
Not only did Saturday's 81-70 loss mark the worst home loss of the Mike Brey era, it started to turn the heat up on Notre Dame's NCAA Tournament future. Because the way the Irish have looked against many of the top teams on their schedule thus far, one is mad to think they should to be playing in March. 
The issues are staggering. In a benign Joyce Center so quiet that pins can be heard dropping on the catwalk, the Irish have strug­gled to harness the crowd's ener­gy on the rare instances when it does rise to its feet. For the sec­ond game in a row, the Irish gave up more than 40 points in the paint, prompting Timmermans to say the Irish lack toughness. 
Most striking of all, Brey said after the game he's trying to fig­ure out how this team fits togeth­er. "We're still messing around with minutes and roles," the Irish coach said after Notre Dame's 13th game of the season. Yikes. 
Early-season losses to Indiana and Central Michigan could be chalked up to an inexperienced team trying to fmd its identity. But as Notre Dame enters a mur­derous Big East schedule, the Irish appear no closer to fmding their identity than they are to 

finding Atlantis. 

Now, Brey faces arguably his 
toughest challenge of his Notre 
Dame coaching career in trying 
to prepare this team for another 
run at the NCAA Tournament. 
He must discover how to help his team's offense run effectively through Thomas, a point guard who in big games increasingly crosses the fine line between cre­ativity and chaos. Such mistakes could once be attributed to youthful exuberance, but are now simply mistakes. Loath to putting handcuffs on his best player because Notre Dame needs his improvisation, does Brey finally need to rein in his star guard? 
He must figure a way to force the Irish to play tougher and meaner in a league renowned for its physical play. The Irish · responded well when Timmermans was called for a technical foul after the giant Dutchman got involved in a shov­ing match trying to protect other Notre Dame players. Will a healthy Timmermans see more playing time? 
Brey must convince his charges that their success comes from playing within their abili­ties. Torrian Jones struggled early in the season when he launched jumper after jumper. But a heart-to-heart talk with the head coach convinced the senior to return to his slashing style of play. Will Brey have similar talks with similar players with similar problems? 
Lastly, Brey has to mold the wounded psyche of a team that "feels like we're 0-4" in the league, the coach said. In September, Brey gathered his team and stressed the impor­tance of resilience. But resilience is different from playing hard (which Thomas said the Irish didn't do), from playing with pride (which Jones said the Irish didn't do) and from playing tough (which Timmermans said the Irish didn't do). Is it really that easy to take them one game at a time when the Irish are in dan­ger of not playing in the most important ones at the end of the season? 
"We just kiad of gave up on ourselves," Jones said. "I know that this team is stronger than that." 
Notre Dame's season is far from over. Rut each loss to a tough team means that the mar­gin for error grows increasingly smaller. 
And ifthe errors continue to pile up, the hollow sound the • final horn caused Saturday won't seem so bad compared to the hollow feeling the Irish will feel if they learn on Selection Sunday they're playing in a postseason tournament with three letters instead of four. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd. edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 


The Observer + SPORTS 
Monday, January 19,2004 
'This is a great win, enjoy it tonight, we're ofT tomorrow and it is back to business on Monday,"' West Virginia coach Mike Carey told msnsportsnet.com. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

page 18 
Loss 
continued from page 20 
hit a three to make it 41-33, West Vtrginia. A Teresa Borton layup cut the lead to six with 11:53 to play, but a pair of Mountaineer jumpers put the lead back into double digits. 
"In the locker room everybody just said, 'Guys this is exactly what happened last year,"' West Virginia senior Michelle Carter told msnsportsnet.com. "We came out and laid down for them and they beat us. We just said we're not going to let that happen to us this time." · 
The Irish cut the iead to eight 
Bible 
continued from page 20 
Carlyle Holiday, linebackers Mike Goolsby and Derek Curry, defensive end Kyle Budinscak, 
Source· Notre Dame Sports Information 

·;tticnpus BzBLe SvuOy (CBS) 
FlKST Meerrnq op 2n~ 'SemesTeR, Tuesday, Januaf{y 20 7:00-8:00 p.cn.. 114 CoLeman-Mou.se ConpeRence Room 

A.ll students welcome! No prerequistes. 
No registration required. Just come~ 

again with 5:24 remaining, but a West Virginia putback boosted the lead into double digits again. Notre Dame got it to single digits on more time at 3:32, but West Vtrginia answered with a layup to give them a double digit lead for good. 
Notre Dame outrebounded West Virginia 33-32, and the Mountaineers took 16 more shots than the Irish, negating the good shooting of Notre Dame (22-for­44). West Vtrginia was automatic at the foul line; hitting 17 -of-18 attempts, compared to the Irish who only made 3-of-12 from the stripe. The Mountaineers only turned the ball over nine times on the game. 
Kate Bulger led three 
defensive back Preston Jackson, defensive lineman Greg Pauly and tight ends Jared Clark and Billy Palmer. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 



For further information contact: Campus Ministry 
631-6633. 
Mountaineers in double digits with 20 points, while Yolanda Paige had 14 points and six assists. Janell Dunlap added 10 points. 
Meanwhile, Courtney LaVere was the only other Irish player in double digits, with 10 points on 4­of-8 shooting. 

It was the first win in 12 games for the Mountaineers against the Irish, Notre Dame's seventh road loss. This year, the Irish are 2-7 away from the Joyce Center. 
"This is a great win, but like I told our girls after the game, 


Monday, January 19, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 
HENRI ARNOLD

PEANUTS CLASSICS CHARLES SCHULTZ JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 



CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 30 Announcement 56 Jefferson at J.F.K.: Abbr. Memorial site in
1 Pitcher Washington31 Fragrant oil 5 Fresh-mouthed 59 Prefix with 10 Irish Spring 32 Airport surface dynamic 
alternative 34 Deuce topper so Wallet fillers 14 The Crimson 
35 They can follow 61 Church council Tide, familiarly 
the starts of 18­
621ke&_

15 Perform better and 56-Across Turner (1960's­
than and 4-and 70's duo) 33-Down16 Fashion 

63 Baby girls maymagazine 36 Turnpike turnoff 

be dressed in it 11 Corrosive liquid 40 Molded 64 Ages and ages 18 Unwanted loss 42 Scrooge 65 School on the of intellectual Thames
43 Jar part 
workers 46 Mideast's Gulf 

20 Jellystone Park 
DOWN
ofresident 1 Online auction 47 Zoological

22 Caught at a site
classificationrodeo 2 City on the
48Ginger_

23 Engine sounds Brazos 
24 1968 hit UHarper 49 P\s opposite, in 3 Move to a new England
Valley_" land 

26 Chicago-to-50 Fathers 4 1987 Woody Miami dir. Allen movie 
51 Finish second 27 Grass units 
5 Recovers from 

53 Birthday party 25 Skye caps 38 Actor Gibson 47 Ogres
drinking, with 

29 Sir's partner serving "up" 27 Dracula 39 Meddle 50 Grafting shoot transformation
6 Surrounding 41 Eye color 52 Wine holder 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
28 Env. contents
glows 42 Painter Chagall 53"Money_ 7 Christmas tree 29 Expert objecr
43 Portable
topper 32 Not live computer 54 Florence's river 8 Reagan-era mil. 
33 F.B.I. statistic 55 Express regret 
44 The Big Ten's 
program 35 Walk in water Fighting_ 57 Jamboree grp. 
9 Hither and 37 Opinion opener 45 Muffle 58 Sailor's yes 
-::+i:+.:-t 10 Goose egg 11 Pass, as time For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
12 Most cunning credit card, 1-800-814-5554.

~-:+.~:-t 13 Kept an eye on 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday ~-=+=+.:::+::+.:+::i 19 Pulitzer Prize crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. category 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 '"::"t:+::~:+:-+=t 21 1930's boxing past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). champ Max 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 
....;;...!,.;;;..&,...;..L.;,;.&.;.;.,..-,., 24 Trimmed nytimes.com/leaming/xwords . 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
---------------------------------------~---------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer ­and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ 
-

City _______ State ____ Zip 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: Dolly Parton, Robert Palmer, Shelley Fabares, Jean Stapleton 
Happy Birthday: Your sensitivity will be at an all-time high this year. Get your priorities straight and don't let anyone get away with anything that might end up costing you emotionally or financially. Prepare to take advantage of any opportunity that comes your way. Your numbers are 12, 16, 23, 25, 37, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need an outlet today. Go to the gym or for a long power walk in order to blow off steam_ *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Dealing with hospitals or other institutions will be difficult today. Look to those you trust for sound advice. You should be putting your efforts into making a little extra cash on the side. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You should get involved in something that you really believe in today. If you attend a group meeting you are likely to make new acquaintances. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't hesitate to put in a few extra .hours at work. However, be prepared to try to satisfy the ones you love as well as your boss.** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may be a little confused regarding your personal life. It's time to reevaluate your motives and your emotional commitment. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You should be looking over some of your personal papers. You will be prone to take a financial risk or think that you have more money in the bank than you do. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You had better be careful when dealing with others. You could easily offend someone unintentionally. Be sensitive to the needs of those around you and you won't have a problem. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It may not be a regular workday for you but that is no reason to sit idle. Put your energy into finding new ways to make a little extra cash. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should be on the move today. The ·::.. more ground you cover the better. Travel for business or pleasure will lead to new connections. ••••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Personal problems may etnerge if you overreact to situations going on with loved ones. It may be time to check your own motives. •• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should plan to do things with friends today. Your entertaining personality will bring you popularity. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): It is best to fend for yourself. You should avoid overspending or taking financial risks. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will have a way with words that adds to your charm and your personality. You have strong ideas, and will stand up for your beliefs. You always take the road less traveled in order to create an intellectual challenge. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 

FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

02004 Tribune Media Servic:ea. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
FYLOT 

I I I
tDEDUIG 

WHAT THE: C.OUPU: DID WHeN THJ:

IJ I I 
CARPE:TING WAS WWN.)urille.com INSTAL-l-EO.
tRATVAC I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
X ] I I
u...~~'"'----''---'--....a....--' suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print ans.-.er here: 
[XIJA[IIJ
(Answers tomorrow) ..
-

Saturday's ·1 Jumbles: KINKY BALMY ENJOIN IMBIBE Answer: A quarterback can turn into this on the bench -A"LINE" MAN 

THE 0BSER\'ER 

p
Monday, January 19, 2004 Page 20 

FOOTBALL 
Starting safety decides not to apply for fifth year 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
When it came down to applying for a fifth-year of eligibility, Garron Bible didn't have to make a decision -his two ailing shoulders did that for him. 
The senior defensive back, who has one-year of eligibility remaining, will not apply for the opportunity to play a fifth year for the Irish in 2004. 
"It came down to personal reasons and injuries," Bible said. Bible said he plans to undergo recon­
structive surgery to repair both his Bible·started the 2003 season as the 
rotator cuffs but may  starting strong safety  
still exercise his final  before losing his starting  
year of eligibility at another school. "I haven't ruled anything out yet,"  "It came down to personal reasons and injuries.,,  job when Glenn Earl moved from free safety to strong safety. He did not start again until the  
said Bible, who plans  Boston  College  game,  
to graduate in May with a double major in Political Science  Garron Bible Irish defensive back  after Earl went down with a season-ending injury.  

and Computer Applications. "First thing I'm going to do is get my surgery done." 
Bible recorded 33 tack­
les, including two for a loss. He had 32 tackles as a reserve back his junior season. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Out of their league 
Defending national champion Syracuse proves too much for Irish in 81-70 victory 
By MATT LOZAR-Associare Sports Editor 

Ten months removed from advancing to the Sweet 16, the Irish found out Saturday night that they are a long way from getting back to anywhere near that level. 
A disappointing 81-70 loss at 

I . the hands of defending nation­al champion Syracuse showed the Irish what it takes to be considered in the class of the Big East in 2004. "I think they are that much better than us right now. I think they really are.... They are a measuring stick program in the Big East, obviously, and· if you aspire to be in their ter­ritory, there they are," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. "We are not in their territory, not this particular team right now. They are really, really good, and we aren't in that ballpark, and we may never be in that ballpark this season, but there are some things we can do better." For the second straight game, an opponent dominated Notre Dame (8-5, 2-2 in the Big East) in the paint as the Orangemen outscored the Irish 46-26 from inside the lane. Every time there was a loose ball, Syracuse (13-1, 3-0) seemed to get on the floor and grab it or be one step ahead of the Irish. 
The loss was Notre Dame's fifth straight to Syracuse and 1Oth loss in the past 11 games against the Orangemen. It was also the worst home loss in the 

TIM K,A.CMAR!The ObseiVer Syracuse forward Hakim Warrick dunks over Irish forward Torln Francis In Notre Dame's 81-70 loss to No. 17 Syracuse 
Mike Brey era. 

"They kill us every time they want to," Notre Dame guard Chris Thomas said. "I don't know if we are scared of them. They are 10 times the team we are right now." 
What got lost in Notre Dame's third home defeat in its last four Big East home games was a career night from center Tom Timmermans. With his back finally feeling healthy enough to play major minutes, 
see DEFEAT/page 17 

Brey must help Irish find answers to early struggles 
The final horn echoed -yes, echoed -in a half-empty Joyce Center Saturday, but the Irish had long ago given up. 
A couple of seconds after 
Hakim Warrick threw down the fmal of his four slam dunks, Irish coach Mike Brey sig­naled for a timeout, a 


gesture as Andrew meaningless Soukup 
as it was 

useless. Sports Writer 
Warrick's dunk had given the defending national champions an 18-point lead, and although 3:51 remained in the game, an Irish team unable to contain a Syracuse run had wilted. Trudging back to the bench with a defeated gaze in his eyes, Irish point guard Chris Thomas looked at his team­mates and saw absolutely noth­ing. 
"They are getting dunks and easy lay-ups, and we are walk­ing up and down the court looking at Coach, looking at each other," Thomas said. "There's no expression on our faces. 
"We are just getting killed." 
Yes, Syracuse is really that much better than Notre Dame. Yes, Syracuse is a measuring stick that schools often use to compare themselves to the 
see ANSWERS/page 17 
Bible said he enjoyed most of his time at Notre Dame, especially those moments with his teammates. 
"The biggest positive is the experi­ences from my teammates on and off the field," he said. "I learned a lot in my four years here, and most of it as been good." 
Bible joins wide receiver Ronnie Rodamer as the two players that have elected not to apply for a fifth year. Notre Dame players that have applied for their fifth year include quarterback 
see BIBLE/page 18 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish suffer letdown in loss to West Virginia 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
After defeating two top-'25 opponents in four days, Notre Dame was unable to sustain that momentum against West Virginia Saturday, losing 64-51. 
Notre Dame was led once again by Jacqueline Batteast, who reg­istered her third consecutive dou­ble-double with 22 points and 10 rebounds on 1 0-of-14 shooting. 
Batteast has been dominating in Big East play this season (four games), averaging 19.3 points on 
63.5 percent shooting and 10 rebounds. Her performance Saturday, however, was not enough to catapult h_er team to victory. 
After jumping out to a 10-4 lead after about seven minutes, the Irish fell apart. West Virginia (11-5, 3-2 Big East) went on a 24­0 run in the next eight minutes, putting them ahead 28-10. 
Notre Dame (9-7, 2-2 Big East) committed 17 turnovers in the first half alone, and took 18 fewer shots than the Mountaineers in the first half. This poor performance allowed West Virginia to build a 36-17 halftime lead, as they scored 17 
of their  36  points off Irish  
turnovers.  
However,  last  year  in  

Morgantown, the Mountaineers built a 13-point halftime lead, only to lose to the Irish 66-59. For a while it seemed as though history might repeat itself, as the Irish started the half with a 6-0 run. Jeneka Joyce proceeded to 
see LOSS/page 18 


MEN'S TENNIS 

SWIMMING &DIVING SMC SWIMMING NBA WOMEN~s HOOPS NFL 
Notre Dame 6,Indiana 1 

The men win two of 
The Belles finish third in The Spurs easily defeat No. 1 Duke comes away The Patriots and

three meets over the 
their weekend meet and the slumping Celtics in with a convincing 63-52 Panthers advance toMatthew Scott leads the 

weekend while the 
remain winless in the 

Boston. win over ACC rival Super Bowl. 
Irish to a win over their women beat Illinois. 

MIAA. 

Virginia.
in-state rival. 
page 14 page 13 page 13 page 12 page 12 page 15 




