--"'Il
.-----------~--------·~--~--------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------­

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 20 MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 20,2004 
Performing Arts Center debuts 

Opening is cheered by FTT 
By MADDIE HANNA AND 
MOLLY GRIFFIN 
News Writers 
Students and professors from the Film, Television and Theatre Department donned costumes in celebration of their new home Friday as they, the marching band and onlookers paraded to the grand opening of the new Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
"This is where our students are going to learn in a way they never have before," said Peter Holland, chair of FTf. "Every bit of the building is teaching space." _ 
Holland, clad in Shakespearean garb, explained the history behind the PAC, which he said was first dis­cussed in the 1940s and then more seriously considered 16 to 18 years ago. 
"It always takes a long time for a university to commit to a project this big. I think, crucial­ly, what this shows is that the University believes in the arts." 
John Haynes, executive direc­tor of the PAC, expressed his relief in finally opening the cen­ter. 
"[The PAC] took10 years of dreaming, and planning, and building and designing," he said. 
The PAC is a $64 million, 151,000 square-foot building that houses five different per­formance halls. It was under-
see PAC/page 4 



ROTC cadets conduct local field training 


Chili's gives to charity 
Restaurant will donate all of today's profits to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital 
By PETER LEAHY News Writer 
While baby back ribs may be enticing, students have a better reason to stop by Chili's this month -supporting St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. 
To raise money for children in need, the Mishawaka Chili's is donating 100 percent of today's proceeds to the hospital, a lead­ing research institution and care provider specializing in treating cancer and other catastrophic illnesses. 
Students who attend Chili's tonight will see their dollars go to a good cause. 
Though the Chili's promotion is new this month, campus organizations such as Up Till Dawn have previously sponsored events to support the Memphis, Tenn. hospital. 
Senior Carolyn Campbell, executive chair finale event coordinator of Up Till Dawn, said funds collected at Chili's will go towards helping families with expenses. 
"Families coming to Memphis that have to relocate are provid­ed with housing free of charge," Campbell said. 
Families will also receive care for free and do not pay anything 
see CHILI'S/page 4 
By DANIELL£ LERNER News Writer 

The Notre Dame Army ROTC battalion trudged through the woods and slept under the stars this past weekend while conducting their semi-annual field train­ing exercise. 
The field training, or FTX, is a military training event intended to prepare juniors for a leadership camp the summer before senior year. 
Over 80 cadets -freshman through juniors -and senior staff left Notre Dame at 1:30 
p.m. Friday and returned Sunday. 
Despite holding previous trainings in Fort Custer, Mich., this year's battalion kept it local in South Bend. 
see ROTC/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Neighbors 
sue coach over fence 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame head football coach Tyrone Willingham has faced crit­icism about his gridiron offense and defense before, but now it is his wrought-iron fence that is 
coming under fire. 
On Sept. 10, the Quail Ridge at Knoll wood Homeowners Association filed suit against 


Willingham Willingham and his wife, Kim, at the St. Joseph County Circuit Court, contending that the fence under construction in their backyard is in violation of the association's covenants. 
The lawsuit demands that the Willinghams stop the project and change their plans to comply with the neighborhood's bylaws. 
Stephen Studer, attorney for the Willinghams, said the fence going up -described as 5-feet high, black, stylistic and imitation wrought-iron -is not against a community covenant, as it runs seven to nine feet within the prop­erty's perimeter. Landscaping will be added in the area between the fence and the legal border. 
According to association rules, perimeter fences must be split­rail with chain-link unless a vari­ance is granted by the architec­tural review committee. 
Association attorney Shawn Ryan said the fence is still in viola­tion of the covenant, regardless of its location. 
"Whether it's three inches, three feet or three yards doesn't 
see FENCE/ page 6 

MSU offers mixed welcome 
By SARAH BARRETT News Writer 
As students gathered on North Quad to eat free burg­ers and hot dogs and watch Saturday's game together, many fellow Domers trekked the two and a half hour car ride to Michigan State to sport their green shirts and support the football team in person. 

And as students and alum­na geared up for the game, many prepared themselves for an out-of-Notre-Dame experience and dealing with jeers from the opponent. 
Notre Dame senior Gina Fenice traveled to East 
see MSU/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 20, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN 


The first 
• 
Sip 
Friday will forever go down in history for me as a special day. On Sept. 17. I cel­ebrated the first night I was ever able to drink. 
Before I go on, I should probably explain why this occasion was so momentous for me. 
I am a senior in eollege. I am 21, and have been, for five months now. So, you may be asking yourselfwhat has taken me so long to take up a bottle of alcohol. 
At the age of 17, I was diagnosed with Systemic Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis. Long story short, it means I have a chronic illness that tries to destroy the cartilage between my joints (read: not a pretty disease to suffer from). 
And so at 17, I started a regimen of high-powered medications, including a pill form of chemotherapy, to slow down my immune system and keep my body functioning up to par. 
In high school, it wasn't a big deal that I couldn't drink. But college was a different story. In an environment where parties include alcohol, I never really meshed. 
I went to parties, stayed sober and helped my friends get home. In all my col­lege years, I never had alcohol. 
But three weeks ago, after years of waiting (and begging), I received word that I was allowed to go off my medica­tion, opening the door to drinking. I had started the process of weaning off my medication over a year ago, in hopes that I could be off and drinking by my 21st. But my birthday came and went, and I continued on in my role as D.O., waiting for the day when I could give up the title. 
Three weeks off the medication, with­out a flair up, I was ready to go. I put my drinking face on, hit a party and headed straight for the hard alcohol. 
It only took two rum and coke's (mind you, there was quite a bit of rum -since my roommate and I had to get our $3 worth of alcohol) before I understood what drinking was all about. 
It's not that I wanted to fit in or see what I was missing. It's not that I felt pres­sured after all these years to finally get drunk. It was that I wanted to make up my own mind about something that I had­n't been able to do and previously was only described to me. 
And while I don't advocate drinking on a regular basis, it was fun, and ifyou're 21, and responsible, go ahead and do it. 
Yes, I staggered. Yes, I said some idiotic things. And yes, I had a bit of a headache when I woke up the next day. 
Will I be drinking every weekend? Probably not. But would I trade that expe­rience? Not for anything in the world. 
Because while I may be a lightweight, but that's a label I'll take any day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@sain tmarys. edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
An article in the Sept. I 7 edition ofThe Observer incorrectly stated that this year's football ticket price increased by 20 percent. The actually increase was 40 percent. The Observer regrets the error. 
A graphic in the Sept. I4 edition ofThe Observer inadvertently omitted several countries from a list of Saint Mary's study abroad programs. The College offers programs in Ireland, Italy, Semester Around the World, Austria, Australia, France, Spain, Haiti, Jamaica, European Tour, South Korea, Honduras and Ecuador. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 54 I so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST AND WORST PART OF THE FOOTBALL GAME? 


Chris Ulad  Andrea Pherson  Pat Schafer  Arlette Sanez  Vinh Nguyen  Jessica Maciejewsie  
sophomore Stanford  sophomore BP  sophomore Siegfried  sophomore BP  sophomore Stanford  junior Pangborn  
..The best  "The worst was  "The best  "Watching Ty·s  ..Ty going to the  "The best was  
moment was  when Michigan  moment was  excitement  bathroom.··  when Zbikowski  




stripped the ball and ran for the touchdown. The worst was whenMSU blocked the punt.·· 
IN BRIEF 

Rev. Carolyne Call, director of Saint Mary's Office of Civil and Social Engagement will give a lecture Tuesday at 
12:15 p.m. on "The Psychology of Forgiveness: Implications for a Theology of Peace," in the LeMans Stapleton Lounge. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team will play Albion College at Saint Mary's College soccer fields on Tuesday at 4 p.m. 
President and chief execu­tive officer of SRC Holding Corp. Jack Stack will give a lecture Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business on "A Stake in the Game of Business." 
On Wednesday, David Corn, editor of The Nation and Rich Lowry, editor of National Review will hold the debate "Face Off: Election 2004," at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
The Hon. Ann Richards, former governor of Texas, will speak Thursday at 7 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
The film "Bon Voyage" will be shown Thursday at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. in The Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
The Marcus Roberts Trio will perform Friday at 9 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

78 57 


HIGH LOW 

knowing that State returned the strip fumble running down we ·re going to the kick for a return, and the and throwing win by the touchdown worst was when down his head-second when Ty wasn •t Ty went to the phone·s after quarter. •• there. The best bathroom.·· Zbikowski ·s was wznnzng. •• touchdown. , 

ERIC SALES/The Observer 

The women of Badin, right and McGlinn race during the Keough Chariot Race Saturday morning at McGlinn fields The race also included mud wrestling and joust­ing. A DJ and food were also available for the listening and eating pleasures of the event goers. 
OFFBEAT 

Alligator captured in hot tub 
ROYALTON, Ill. -A worried neighbor's call to Animal Control led to a bizarre scene at a south­ern Illinois home: Four officers wrestling an alli­gator out of a hot tub, a house filled with animal cages, and the arrest of a man wanted by the mili­tary for desertion. 
VVhen Broy and another officer reached the home Monday, they spotted the 5-foot-long, 80-pound American alligator in a wooden enclosure attached to a garage. They called the Illinois 
Department of Natural Resources and Royalton Police for a little help. 
To get the alligator, Scott Ballard of the IDNR pulled on chest waders, stepped into the tub and grabbed the animal. Broy and two others then dragged Ballard and the alligator out to the ground and struggled to tape the alligator's jaws shut. 
Suspects end up behind bars-at zoo 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil -Two Brazilian car theft suspects started their life behind bars while still on 
the run when they chose 
a cage in a Rio de Janeiro 
zoo to hide from police, 
officials said on Monday. 
A zoo keeper said the 
pair were found hiding in 
an enclosure where deer 
and tapir are kept after 
police chased the fugitives 
into the zoo on Sunday. 
"Apparently police 
thought that the bandits 
were going to take the 
animals hostage, but, 
thank God, that did not 
happen. They just wanted 
to hide," the keeper said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:::1: 
ti 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
cc 
(.) 


65 51 


82 54 

80 55 

0 
.... HIGH 78 
LOW 65 

Monday, September 20, 2004 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Guiterrez honored for new book 
Special to The Observer 
Father Gustavo Gutierrez, the Jolm Cardinal O'Hara Professor of Theology at the University of Notre Dame, recently received the Yves Congar Award for Theological Excellence from Barry University in Miami Shores, Fla. 
Father Gutierrez, a native of Peru and member of the Order of Preachers, was honored for his work as a professor, theologian and author. His book, "A Theology of Liberation," is considered the foundational text for liberation theology, a largely Latin American movement which calls attention to the Catholic Church's vocation to resist the oppression of the poor. 
The Yves Congar Award for Theological Excellence, named for the late Cardinal Yves Congar, O.P., recognizes the contributions of contemporary theologians who work, write, teach and move tra­dition forward to meet current challenges. 
Father Gutierrez's other books, which have been translated from Spanish into several languages, touch on issues of spirituality and Latin American history. They include, "We Drink from Our Own Wells: The Spiritual Journey of A People," "On Job: God-Talk and the Suffering of the Innocent," "The Truth Shall Make You Free," "The God of life" and "Las Casa: In Search of the Poor of Jesus Christ." 
Father Gutierrez received the 2003 Prince of Asturias Award for Communications and the Humanities, which honors scien­tific, cultural and social work con­ducted internationally by individu­als, groups and institutions whose achievements represent an exam­ple for mankind. 
Kerry aide to speak on campus 
Special to The Observer 
Marco Trbovich, director of labor policy for Sen. John Kerry's presidential campaign, wi!l deliver a lecture titled "The Power of Labor in Presidential Politics" at 8 p.m. Sept. 29 in Room C-1 00 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies at the University of Notre Dame. 
Sponsored by Notre Dame's Higgins Labor Research Center as part of the McBride Lecture series, the talk is free and open to the public. 
Trbovich is on leave from the United Steelworkers of America (USWA). where he serves as an assistant to Leo W. Gerard, international presi­dent of the organization. A graduate of Indiana University, Trbovich previously worked as a journalist for United Press International and the Detroit Free Press. He also served as director of the Massachusetts Port Authority and as assistant director of transportation and development for a White House task force on youth employment. Before joining the USWA, Trbovich was a communications consultant, organizing campaigns in both the public and private sectors. 
The USWA represents approximately 1 million work­ers and retirees in North America and is dedicated to advancing the health and wel­fare of workers and their fami­lies through organizing, collec­tive bargaining and political action. 
Established in 1977 by the USWA "to better understand the principles of unionism and our economy," the McBride Lecture honors the fourth international president of the union, Lloyd McBride, who served from 1977 to 1983. The series was initiated in 1978 to give recognition to the work of a pioneer of the USWA, Joseph 
P. Molony, who served as vice president from 1965 to 1973. The invited speakers represent various aspects of journalism and the labor movement. 
Dunn appointed as engineering fellow 
Professor reaches elite level of membership, becoming 7th Notre Dame engineer honored 
Special toThe Observer 

Patrick F. Dunn, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been named a fellow of the American Society of Engineers (ASME). 
Fellow is the highest elected grade of membership in ASME and is conferred upon a mem­ber with at least 10 years of active engineering practice who has made significant con­tributions in the field. Dunn is the seventh member of Notre Dame's aerospace and mechanical engineering facul­ty to be named a fellow. The others are Hafiz M. Atassi, Frank P. Incropera, Thomas J. Mueller, John E. Renaud, Albin 
A. Szewczyk and Kwang-Tzu Yang. 
Dunn is a graduate of Purdue University, where he also earned his doctorate in aerospace engineering and fluid mechanics in 1974. After receiving his degrees, he taught at both Purdue and Duke Universities and in 1978 joined the engineering division of the Argonne National Library. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1985, 

Dunn served from 1998 to 2002 as director of the University's Hessert Laboratory for Aerospace Research, and in 1999 served as director of the College of Engineering's London Program. His research at Notre Dame has focused on the dynamics of aerosol for­mation, transportation and deposition. 
Dunn is the author of "Measurement and Data Analysis for Engineering and Science" and "Uncertainty Analysis for Forensic Science" and he has published more than 125 papers on micro-par­ticle interaction, fluid dynam­ics and other topics. Founded in 1880, ASME is a 120,000­member professional organi­zation focused on technical. educational and research issues of the engineering and technology community. ASME conducts one of the world's largest technical publishing operations, holds numerous technical conferences world­wide, and offers hundreds of professional development courses each year. ASME sets internationally recognized industrial and manufacturing codes and standards that enhance public safety. 

Please attend our recruitment presentation at 7:00 p.m. on Monday, In Citigroup's Global Corporate and Investment Banking Group, our commitment to training is renowned in the industry. Whatever your skills, your background or your degree, maximizing
September 20th, 2004, at the Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn-Notre your potential early means you'll make an impact from day one. Because, by contributing to
Dame Avenue, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
your continued growth, you can contribute to ours. 
Our Investment Banking, Sales and Trading and Public Finance 
Divisions will be represented. Hope to see you there! rt•s about you at www.oncampus.citigroup.com 
~ ©2004 Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Member SIPC. CITIGROUP and the Umbrella Device are trademarks and service marks of Citicorp or its affiliates and are used and registered throughout the world. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Citibank are affiliated compa­
c1t1groupJ nies under the common control of Citigroup. Citibank and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. are equal opportunity employers MIF!ON. Names and images do not reflect actual employees of Citigroup, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. or Citibank. 

Monday, September 20, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
PAC 
continued from page 1 
written with a portion of a $33 million grant from the late Edward DeBartolo in 1989, and was named in honor of his wife, Marie. 
Holzman Pfeffier Associates of New York and Los Angeles designed the building and con­struction began in September 2001. 
To ensure optimal sound, the building rests on seven differ­ent foundations to provide acoustic isolation between the various performance halls. The roof is also one foot thick in order to drown out the aircraft noise that results from the flight path over campus. 
However, Haynes said the PAC's state-of-the-art technolo­gy is not its only draw. 
"What it [the PAC] is really for is to touch you in some way." Haynes said. "That's what I'm looking forward to, to change Notre Dame and make it a place where arts and cul­ture are a primary value. Success is not just putting the greatest artist on the stage but having the students respond to that, the community respond to that." 
Ken Dye, director of bands, praised the PAC as "elegant [and] first class." 
"It's a new era of music mak­ing," he said. "The acoustics are fabulous, better than any­

Chili's 
continued from page 1 

above what their insurance covers, Campbell said. Donations from fundraisers such as the Chili's event ensure the hospital can provide care where in the world, better than the Sydney Operahouse. The DeBartolos made a gift, made it [the PAC] come to fruition." 
Senior Lena Caligiuri, a the­atre and English major, was impressed with the new PAC. 
"We feel really lucky to have at least one year in this build­ing," Caligiuri said. "It's just so far beyond the resources we have at Washington Hall." 
Anna Marie Ortiz, another senior and theatre and English major, who wore an elaborate red and white lacy dress remi­niscent of Marie Antoinette, said she enjoyed the opening celebration. 
"Oh, I think it's a lot of fun," she said. I'm excited they decided to make an event out of it." 
Visitors at the open house were able to view performanc­es and films in the five major venues housed in the PAC: 
+ 
The Patricia George Decio Mainstage Theatre seats 350 and is intended for use as a traditional theatre space. It has a fly loft for backgrounds, as well as an orchestra pit for live music. 

+ 
The organ in the Chris and Ann Reyes Organ and Choral Hall was built by one man over two years from a 400-year-old Douglass fir, and the carvings were done by his sister. The venue seats 100 people. 

+ 
The Judd and Mary Lou Leighton Concert Hall is the most versatile of all of the spaces. This 900-seat venue 


has adjustable acoustics and can be used for anything from rock concerts to single-person recitals. 
+ 
The Michael Browning Family Cinema is the only the­atre in the state of Indian with Dolby THX sound, which was developed by famed Stars War director George Lucas. THX is the most rigorous standard for film sound projection systems, making the sound both clear and loud. It seats 250 people, and is the site for the weekly NO cinema showings. 

+ 
The Regis Philbin Studio Theatre is called an "Experimental Theatre" or "Black Box." It is a small, 100­person theatre that is painted black and has no fixed seating. This allows shows to achieve a level of intimacy and flexibility that is missing from a tradi­tional theatre, and the black space allows for more effective use of lighting. 


The PAC contains four class­rooms, and it has numerous facilities intended for student use including 14 editing bays, a recording studio, a design classroom and a student lounge. It also contains faculty offices, a costume shop, laun­dry facilities, rehearsal spaces and kitchen/catering areas on the main floor and in the base­ment capable of serving up to 500 people. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu and Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
MSU 
continued from page 1 

Lansing, Mich. with a large group of her friends after winning tick­ets through the student union. 
Fenice said although she had fun, it was no place like home. 
"Notre Dame's tailgates are more family-friendly," Fenice said. "I felt like we were harassed quite a bit -although not unexpected -for wearing our green shirts." 
Notre Dame senior Chrissy Rochel said she felt the State fans wer.e not as reserved in their harassment as Notre Dame fans usually are. 
··1 still enjoyed numerous tail­gates and the really cute frat guys," Rochel said, adding that the men were "much better look­ing than the guys at Notre Dame." 
Notre Dame freshman Kristen Buzzitta said while the experi­ence was different than her home football game experience, she thoroughly enjoyed the cama­raderie ofthe day. 
"It was a different experience [to watch a game off campus] than it is here at Notre Dame, but everyone bonded and cheered together," Buzzitta said. "Complete strangers would see our Notre Dame T-shirts and invite us to join their tailgates." 
As the hamburger line dwin­dled on campus, the slightly 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 

Notre Dame senior and army ROTC battalion commander Patrick Robinson was happy with the decision. 
"Staying local provided more time for training and less time for transit," Robinson said. '!his was more convenient and allowed us to come home earlier for recov­ery." 
Armed with a compass, map and protractor, cadets set out Friday afternoon directing them­selves through the fields of St. Patrick's Park for day land naviga­tion training. 
During night land navigation exercises at White Field, the cadets practiced pace counts and compass use in the dark. 
Given sleeping bags and pon­chos, the cadets were allowed only five hours to sleep, with each cadet waking for a one-hour shift of fire guard patrol. 
"It was definitely an experience for lots of people who haven't done it," sophomore Ryan Larson said. 
New to the FTX this year, the battalion went paint balling in Osceola for battle drill training. Battle training simulates real-life battle situations and forces cadets to work together in groups. The simulation aims to improve com­munication skills and monitor reactions to stressful situations. 
In the past, the Army ROTC has used blank ammunition, but using paint balls gave a more realistic smaller but ever noticeable sea of green stood out in the crowd of white-clothed State fans. 
While fans at the stadium enjoyed themselves, cheering on the team, Rochel and her friends watched the game from a local bar and were not treated as warmly. 
"When we scored people would throw ice at us," she said. "Everyone was yelling at each other. There were some people that would be nice and come up to tell us that we went to a great school, and that they were Notre Dame fans as well, which is always nice. It was by far a better experience than the horror sto­ries I heard from my friends who attended the Michigan game last year." 
The Notre Dame turnout at Michigan State was large-large enough to cheer the team onto victory. 
And for most students who ventured north, it was a pleasant atmosphere. 
··overall, it was a positive expe­rience and was really interesting to see a game from another cam­pus," Rochel said. 
Fenice believes with another check in the win category, noth­ing else really matters. 
··we came out with the victory," she said. "[The MSU fans] didn't have a lot to say after the game -the score said it all." 
Contact Sarah Barrett at sbarret2@nd.edu 
feel, cadets said. 

··It gave us down-range feed­back rather than just making noise, plus it was more fun," Robinson said. 
The pairing of junior leaders with freshman and sophomore cadets contributed to the experi­ence. 
"The exercise integrated all three classes, working together and getting direct feedback was the best improvement," Larson said. "It was also very helpful because you could see where you were shooting and ifyou had been shot yourself." 
The past weekend left a good impression among cadets. 
Saint Mary's junior Vanessa Hooper-Yan noticed a positive atti­tude throughout the battalion. 
"In general, everyone was more motivated this time. Everyone wanted to be there," she said. 
The FTX also succeeded in preparing juniors for camp. 
··1 definitely feel prepared for camp in the summer. I received really productive feedback and got a lot out of it," Hooper-Yan said. "I now know what I need to improve on." 
Others feel this semester's train­ing reflects the continuing devel­opment of the Army ROTC pro­gram. 
"It is amazing how Army ROTC has developed over the years," Robinson said. "We acquire new leadership skills throughout all four years and this was defmitely a unique leadership experience." 
Contact Danielle Lerner at lern6311 @saintmarys.edu 

regardless of patients' financial status. 
Today's event is part of the month-long effort dubbed Create a Pepper to Fight Childhood Cancer. Customers are encouraged throughout September to donate $1 and color a Chili's pepper logo to try to reach the final goal of $2 million for the facility. 
The company raised $50,000 in a similar effort two years ago but looks to improve upon this mark in honor of National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month. 

Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy@nd.edu 

Thitlk.il't.g· .A.IJ(:•uot a. Ca.ree.r ·i-r:t llt\'1'es·tnteilt ·Ban.ki11g? 
T11esday, September 21, 2004 
Morris Inn Alumni Room 

6:30 p.m~ -8:30 p.m.. 

Learn more about "\vhat the Investtnent .13anking _.:-\..nalyst Progratn at ~'illia.m Blair & Company can offer you! 

brvatJDea&BakiJII • Aalet:M.m.lt«"..tllest • Equity•n: rda • ~·~~ • ~(.:apitti Wimun 1Wr··~,t.LC :trlW...W.U.~ Chfc41p, ~--.SU.DUMO wr;n~~~.~~ CHIC.\00 HAJO'fOJID LONOON SAN fBA.~JK'O TO.lttO VADUZ ZUIUCH 
Se Habla Espariol TONY SERGIO 

[JUALITY SHOE REPAIR 
Over 40 Yrs. Experience 
574/246·9700 Orthopedic Work Fix Any Leather Replace Zipper Open 9 a.m.-6p.m. M-Sat. Saddle Repair 1508 Mishawaka Ave., 
South Bend, IN 46615 

----------------.-------------------~------­

Monday, September 20, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
China transfers power peacefully 
BEIJING-Hu Jintao became the undisput­ed leader of China as the country completed its first orderly transfer of power in the commu­nist era on Sunday with the departure of for­mer President Jiang Zemin from his top mili­tary post -giving a new generation a freer hand to run the world's most populous nation. 
Jiang, whose term was to have run until 2007. resigned at a meeting of the ruling Communist Party's Central Committee that ended Sunday. 
Analysts did not expect Jiang's exit to affect Beijing's stance on relations with the United States or Taiwan, economic reform or other key issues. Jiang and Hu are not known to have had any major policy disagreements and both support continued capitalist-style reforms and one-party communist rule. 
lsrali helicopter fires on Gaza City 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -An Israeli helicop­ter fired a missile at a car in Gaza City late Sunday, residents said, killing a senior Hamas militant leader, the latest Israeli attack in the territory it plans to leave next year. 
Witnesses said parts of a dismembered body were pulled from the wreckage. Hospital offi­cials said six were wounded, two seriously, all bystanders returning from a mosque. 
Witness Omar Arfa, 52, who owns a fast food stand nearby, said the street was full of cars. "A spark came from the sky, then there was a huge explosion in part of street," he said. 
The Israeli military had no official comment. But military sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said an Israeli attack helicopter carried out the attack. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Antidepressants need warnings 
WASHINGTON-Alarmed at a recommen­dation that antidepressants for children carry a strict new warning label, some parents are not letting their kids take the drugs as part of a clinical trial for young people who have attempted suicide. 
Government health advisers said last week the labels on these drugs should have bold warnings surrounded by a black box to draw attention and say that, in some cases. the medication increases suicidal thoughts and behavior. 
A study financed by the National Institute of Mental Health is designed to determine whether treatment -medication or behav­ioral therapy, alone or combined -can pre­vent future suicide attempts. 
Kerry and Bush address terrorism 
WASHINGTON -Playing on the fear factor, Vice President Dick Cheney suggested in a campaign speech there might be another ter­rorist attack on the United States if John Kerry were in the White House. 
President Bush's opponents' are raising their own worst fears, including the potential for more wars during a second Bush term. 
"That's fear-mongering," said Joseph Carafano, a 25-year Army veteran and for­mer West Point professor who now is an ana­lyst. with the conservative Heritage Foundation. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana schools must pass test 
INDIANAPOUS -Indiana's statewide test­ing that begins Monday could be the last chance for some schools to prove to the feder­al government that they have improved sever­al years of low scores. 
Ten Indiana schools must significantly improve their Indiana Statewide Testing for Educational Progress-Plus scores. Otherwise, the federal government might force them to reopen as charter schools, replace principals and teachers or surrender to state or private management. 
--... -• • -• '1: --~ •• ~· .. --•• • ... • ... -... ~ -­
-
-~------------'---------------------........ 
IRAQ 

Brutal violence escalates in Baghdad 
As January elections in Iraq approach, about 300 people have been violently killed 
Associated Press  
BAGHDAD -Militants  
sawed off the heads of  
thre~ hostages believed to  
be Iraqi Kurds in a grisly  
videotape that surfaced  
Sunday. hours after Iraq's  
prime minister said  
January elections would be  
held on schedule and  
asserted that American  
and Iraqi troops were win­ 
ning the fight against an  
increasingly bold insur­ 
gency.  
In another sign of contin­ 
uing instability 17 months  
into the U .S.-led occupa­ 
tion of Iraq, a suicide car  
bomb killed three people in  
Samarra ­a northern city  
that U.S. and Iraqi com­ 
manders have portrayed  
as a success story in their  
attempts to put down the  
insurgency.  
Over the past week,  
about 300 people have  
been killed in escalating  
violence, including bomb­ 
ings, street fighting and  
U.S. air strikes. Last week,  
U.N. Secretary-General  
Kofi Annan warned there  
could not be "credible elec­ 
tions if the security condi­ 
tions continue as they are  
now."  
But Iraqi Prime Minister  
Ayad Allawi, who spoke  
Despite attempts to make democracy prevail with the upcoming January elections, vio­with reporters after a  
meeting with British leader lence has heightened in Iraq. Toy guns are becoming a popular attraction for children.  
Tony Blair in London, said his interim government was determined "to stick to  tions. Reneging on the vote would risk angering the  Republican and Democratic senators urged  Bush's re-election commit­tee in Nebraska.  
the timetable of the elec­ generally cooperative  the Bush administration on  
tions," which are due by Jan. 31.  Shiite religious establish­ment.  Sunday to face the reality of the situation in Iraq and  The decapitated bodies of the three slain Kurdish  
"January next, I think, is going to be a major blow to terrorists and insurgents," said Allawi, who is heading to the United Nations for  Shiites, who are in the majority in Iraq, are eager to translate their numbers into political power. But alongside the  change its policies. A major problem, said lead­ers of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on CBS' "Face the Nation,"  hostages were found on a road near the northern city of Mosul, said Sarkawt Hassan, security chief in the Kurdish town of  
this week's General  increasing violence, sever­ was incompetence by the  Sulaimaniyah. He said the  
Assembly session. "We are adamant that democracy is going to prevail, is going to win in Iraq." Allawi, a Sunni Muslim, has been insistent about  al cities in the Sunni Muslim heartland north and west of Baghdad are out of U.S. and Iraqi gov­ernment control, with insurgents holding sway,  administration in recon­structing the country's shattered infrastructure. "The fact is a crisp, sharp analysis of our poli­cies is required. We didn't  three were members of the peshmerga militia of the Kurdistan Democratic Party. The videotape, posted Sunday on a site known for  
holding elections on time because of pressure from Iraq's Shiite Muslim com­munity and its most pow­erful cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, who fought for early elec­ particularly in the city of Fallujah. That raises ques­tions on whether balloting can be held there -and the legitimacy of elections held without adequate Sunni participation.  do that in Vietnam. and we saw 11 years of casualties mount to the point where we finally lost," said Sen. Chuck Hagel, a Vietnam War veteran who is co­chairman of President  its fslamic militant content, shows three young men, two of whom hold up iden­tity cards. Seconds later, each has his throat slit and his head placed on the back of his body.  








Hurricane causes massive flooding 
were still without electricity Sunday, the night with evacuees on the gym
Associated Press 
most of them in Florida and floor at Wheeling Park High, one of 
WHEELING, W.Va. -Hundreds of Alabama. several Red Cross shelter sites, after people evacuated their homes The hurricane and its remnants a brief tour of the area by road. Sunday in parts of Ohio, West had been blamed for at least 50 "I saw mobile homes uprooted and 
Virginia and Pennsylvania as rivers deaths in the United States, 16 of tossed downstream," he said. "I saw 
and small streams were swollen them in Florida, and 70 deaths in the human lives uprooted." beyond their banks by the torrential Caribbean. Downriver. residents had been rain dumped by remnants of The Ohio River crested Sunday at urged to evacuate parts of Hurricane Ivan. Wheeling at about 9. 3 feet above Moundsville, where the Ohio crested 
The Ohio River inundated parts of flood stage, after submerging the at 10 feet above flood stage. Wheeling and other West Virginia city's riverfront park and amphithe­A highway paralleling the West river towns, as well as communities ater. It mostly covered the city's Virginia shore of the river was 
on Ohio's shore, and the Delaware midriver Wheeling Island, which blocked in several places between River flooded parts of New Jersey holds residential neighborhoods and Wheeling and Parkersburg, and the and eastern Pennsylvania. Wheeling Island Racetrack and Ohio River bridge in New In addition to flooding, hundreds of Gaming. Martinsville was closed, state emer­thousands of homes and businesses West Virginia Gov. Bob Wise spent gency oflicials said. 

Monday. September 20, 2004 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
amended proposal. No such proposal was present­HAITI
Fence 

•
remant e, 
ustra 1a 


Information Meeting 
Wednesday, Sept. 20, 2004 5:30-7:30 PM Room 155 DeBartolo 
Students in the .College of AL & BA only 
ed, but construction on the fence continued from page 1 was halted when the lawsuit was 
filed, Studer said. change the defmition of a perime­"We stopped construction right ter fence," Ryan said. "The away and asked that the board sit covenants do not specifically down and look at the plans," he define perimeter, but common said. "We don't think the board sense tells us that it would include members have ever seen the loca­a fence that is slightly set in to the tion of the fence, and we want property, like the one in question them to look at it to see that we're 
is."  being reasonable."  
The Willinghams  Neighbors  have  
approached  the  ..It's a uery nice  played a vocal role in  
board in 2002 about the project,  fence, and they've  the conflict, but each party claimed to have  
and since that time  gone to great  the community's sup­ 
were  granted  a  expense to create  port on its side.  
variance allowing the ornamental fence to be placed  something upscale thatfits in  Ryan said com­plaints from resi­dents alerted the  
around the pool  with the  board  to  the  con­ 
but not extend beyond the sides of  neighborhood.,  struction, while Studer said 12 of the  
the house. Studer  Willinghams' neigh­ 
said the suggested  Ryan Studer  bors wrote letters in  
fence would have  attorney  support of the fence  
inconveniently  plans.  
bisected the back- In  actuality,  the  

yard, and was not an acceptable board has discussed changing the alternative. Association's covenant regarding 
Studer said the purpose behind fencing allowances, but amend­the fence was to keep neighbor­ments can't be made without the hood children and pets from acci­approval of two-thirds of resi­dentally falling into the pool and dents. to alleviate privacy concerns. "The board talking about 
"It's a very nice fence, and changing the covenants and they've gone to great expense to changes being approved are two create something upscale that fits different things," Ryan said. "The in with the neighborhood," Studer Willinghams just jumped the said. . gun." 
The rationale behind the A hearing has been scheduled Association's covenant is to pro­for Oct. 6, and while no meeting tect the open appearance of the between the parties before then neighborhood, Ryan said. has been scheduled, attorneys for 
The suit was signed and pre­both sides said one is not out of pared for filing on Aug. 20, Ryan the question. said, but the board waited until Sept. 10 to give the Willinghams Contact Amanda Michaels at the opportunity to make an amichael@nd.edu 
At least 50 dead in storm surge 

Associ.ned Pr~s Jeanne didn't appear likely back flood waters. 
to hit the storm-battered "We don't know how many 
ONAJVES, Haiti -Tropical southeastern United States. It dead there are," Latortue Storm Jeanne killed at least was expected to turn south said. "2004 has been a terri­50 people in Haiti after batter­over the next two days and ble year." ing the neighboring head back out into the The prime minister also Dominican Republic with its Atlantic, away from Florida declared the city a disaster lashing winds and deadly and other states that have area and called on the inter­storm surge before it pushed been battered by three major national community to provide off into the open sea on storms already this season. immediate humanitarian aid. Sunday, officials said. At least 50 deaths were The deaths from Tropical 
Floods tore through the blamed on the storm in Haiti, Storm Jeanne come four northwestern coastal town of said Brazilian Cmdr. Carlos moHths after torrential rains Gonaives and surrounding Chagas, assistant to the U.N. and floods killed more than areas Saturday night, covering force commander overseeing 3,000 people along the crops but not fully engulfing Haiti's peacekeeping and Haitian-Dominican border. Six homes. Prime Minister Gerard other missions. months ago rebels ousted Latortue and his interior min­Several others were report­President Jean-Bertrand ister toured the area in a U.N. ed missing and feared dead. Aristide, which left hundreds truck, but were not able to Unlike the Dominican of people dead and led to the reach many areas because of Republic, much of Haiti is arrival of more than 3,000 flooded roads. deforested and unable to hold U.N. peacekeepers. 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2004 for Fall 2005 and Spring 2006 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 

Monday, September 20, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 284 46 +39.97
Jones ' · 


·ft ~. ~636,~ 
AMEx· ····t~~4:7~;7s n;nrff:'t.s,w··t 
NASDAQ 1,910.09 +6.0 1 
NYSE .· ....·;h.> 
6~604J)() .. ,, o+--29~39 S&PSOO 1' 128.55 +5.05 NIKKEI(Tokifo)· 11~()8~.49·· .456.$~Zs FTSE. IOO(London) 4,591.00 +34.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +2.39  +0.48  20.59  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.92  +0.25  27.51  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -2.19  -0.43  19.16  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +2.49  +0.28  11.51  
QUALCOMM.INC (QCOM)  -3.89  -1.57  38.83  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.84  +0.41  49.17  
I0-YEAR NOTE  + 1.43  +0.58  41.27  
5-YEARNOTE  +2.23  +0.73  33.49  
3-MONTH BILL  +2.21  +0.36  16.68  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.67  45.59  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  + 1.10  407.60  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +3.00  99.075  
Exchan  Rates  
YEN  110.03  
EURO  0.8219  
POUND  0.5583  
CANADIAN$  1.2990  

IN BRIEF 
United Airlines needs $500 million 
CHICAGO -Struggling to put together a new 
bankruptcy exit plan, United Airlines said 
Friday it is in talks with its unions about the 
need for an additional $500 million in cost cuts. 
The cuts at the nation's No. 2 carrier would 
come on top of $655 million in yearly cost sav­
ings the company identified two weeks ago and 
$2.5 billion in wage and benefit cuts it made a 
year ago. They also would be separate from 
United's tentative plan to end employee pension 
plans, which would save the company $4.1 bil­
lion in payments due over the next five years. 
Chief Financial Officer Jake Brace indicated 
Friday that those moves still are not enough in 
the face of sharp increases in jet fuel costs and 
competition from discount carriers -problems 
also plaguing other major airlines. 
But the pilots' union signaled its growing impatience after 21 months in bankruptcy. 
Three defruad bank of $173 million 
MIAMI -Three men were sentenced to prison for their roles in defrauding the Florida branch of Espirito Santo Bank of Portugal of $173 mil­lion, the U.S. Attorney's Office in Miami said. 
Dominick Parlapiano, director of a joint ven­ture between the bank and two brothers from Key Biscayne, was sentenced Friday to 12 1/2 years, prosecutors said. Carlos E. Mendez, the venture's vice president, got nine years and tech­nology specialist Otto Ambrosiani was sentenced to five years. 
The three were ordered to pay full restitution to Espirito Santo and have agreed to testify against Eduardo and Hector Orlansky, who headed the venture called E.S. Bankest, prosecu­tors said. The three pleaded guilty in May to charges including conspiracy, wire fraud and bank fraud. 
E.S. Bankest specialized in a business called "factoring." It bought a company's outstanding bills at a discount, then tried to collect the bill in full, pocketing the difference as profit. But Bankest inflated the value of the bills it bought, prosecutors said. 
The venture paid for its purchases with loans from Espirito Santo, which raised the money by selling debt to its clients, an indictment said. Espirito Santo was left with $173 million in debt after the scheme unraveled late last year. 
Napster revived once again 
Roxio Inc. buys the Napster brand name, plans on selling music over the· Web 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Call it 
the kitty's third life. 
Roxio Inc. bought the 
Napster brand name and 
feline logo at a bankruptcy 
auction two years ago and 
with the acquisition of 
another music service, 
pressplay, relaunched the 
once-renegade file-swap­
ping pioneer as a legal 
music service last October. 
Now in its latest reincar­
nation, Roxio has shed its 
CO-burning software busi­
ness and plans to concen­
trate solely on selling and 
delivering music over the 
Web. It will adopt Napster 
as its corporate name, trad­
ing under a new ticker sym­
bol. 
The pure-play move will 
mark Napster's birth as the 
name of a public company, 
but more importantly, arm 
the company with resources 
to help survive the rough­
and-tumble as other deep­
pocketed, powerful rivals 
enter the crowded online 
music space. 

In the past two weeks, Microsoft Corp. debuted its online music service, and Yahoo Inc. acquired online jukebox provider Musicmatch Inc. EMI until it becomes profitable, access on their computers to ple of years, McGuire said. Group's Virgin is among Gorog said, "and we're on a more than 750,000 songs. Most music download those expected to soon join clear path to do that." With the debut of a "Napster services allow users to buy a the fray, which already Roxio's revenues grew 24 To Go" premium service this song for about 99 cents, includes the pioneer of legit­percent to $29.9 million in fall -initially set to cost an burn it to a CD an unlimited imate downloads and the the April-June quarter com­additional $5 a month -number of times and trans­current market leader, pared with a year ago, subscribers soon will also be fer it to some kind of Apple Computer Inc. though the company had a able to transfer the tunes to portable device. You buy it; 
Roxio's sale of its software net loss of $2.6 million, or 8 compatible portable music you own it. business to Sonic Solutions cents per share, dragged in players. With a subscription, songs for $80 million in cash and part by the Napster unit's Napster must "deliver are essentially leased. Once stocks will give Napster a $8.1 million loss. compelling marketing mes­a customer stops paying, cash base of more than But Gorog said Napster's sages to educate consumers access to the music catalog $100 million once the deal sales are growing at a dou­about the value of a sub­disappears. closes, expected by year's ble-digit rate -it increased scription rather than a Napster offers both end. by more than tenfold to $7.9 download model," said Mike options, as does 
"One of the most impor­million that quarter -and McGuire, analyst with RealNetworks Inc.'s tant questions for our he projected online music Gartner G2 market research Rhapsody and America investors is, 'Does Napster revenues will reach $30 mil­firm. "The consumer has to Online.I n c . ' s have the staying power to lion to $40 million this fiscal see that it's a better way, not MusicNetAtAOL. stay and thrive?' Having the year. just a different way, to get But Gorog and other sub­cash answers that ques­Analysts say Napster has their music." scription proponents say tion," said Chris Gorog, chief its work cut out. The relatively easy con­their model gives listeners executive and chairman of Napster's key strategy is to cept behind the pay-per­more freedom to explore Roxio. ramp up its subscription download model will make music and listen to thou­
It will be more than service, which costs users it the more dominant of the sands of tracks without hav­enough to cover Napster $9.95 a month for unlimited two for at least the next cou-ing to invest a buck apiece. 

IBM attempts to settle lawsuit 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -IBM said Friday it is in talks to settle a mammoth law­suit alleging a pension plan adopt­ed by the firm in the 1990s dis­criminated against 140,000 older workers. 
IBM agreed this week to settle a small part of the lawsuit, involving just a few thousand workers, in a case that has been closely watched by scores of large companies with similar pension plans. 
After a judge ruled in favor of the workers in February, the company said an overall judgment involving its cash balance pension plan could cost more than $6.5 billion. That would be the largest pension judg­ment in history. 
The Illinois judge in charge of the case had been expected to announce damages soon. But IBM on Friday asked him to postpone the decision on payments to other employees, saying the company is "in discussions regarding a possible resolution of some of the remedies. issues and/or claims in the suit." 
The class-action lawsuit chal­lenges IBM's cash balance pension plan. 
Traditional pension plans reward workers for sticking with a compa­ny over time, increasing their retirement benefits at a much faster rate during their last years of service. Cash balance plans are 
computed using a formula that awards benefits at a steady rate through a worker's tenure. 
Opponents say cash-balance plans instituted when experienced workers are already nearing retire­ment age deprive employees of anticipated gains and leave them without enough working years to accrue cash balance benefits equal to what they would have received had the company kept a traditional pension. 
The partial settlement, disclosed in court filings Wednesday, involves employees who worked for the company for less than five years ­a very small portion of the 140,000 workers affected by the lawsuit filed in federal court in Illinois. 

page 8 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS 
Madonna addresses Kabbalah conference 
Associated Press TEL AVIV. Israel -Pop star Madonna called for world peace Sunday at a conference on Jewish mysticism, a high­light of her five-day pilgrimage to the Holy Land. Israel hopes the star -the biggest pop celebrity to visit in years -will revive tourism battered by four years of Mideast violence, and govern­ment officials were on hand at a Tel Aviv hotel to share the spotlight, the glory and the photographs. Madonna, wearing a low-cut dress with a black and white leopard pattern, said she was hesitant to come to Israel "after seeing so many news reports about terror attacks." "I realize now that it is no more dangerous to be here than it is to be in New York," 


Aspiring physician crowned Miss America 
Associated Press ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. ­Deidre Downs passed up med­ical school so she could compete for Miss America. Now she plans to spend her reign advo­cating for pediatric cancer vic­tims. "People don't like to associate cancer with children," she said Sunday. "Children with cancer need a voice, and I want to be that voice." 
she told the gathering. ing for tourism. 
Madonna was raised a "If she comes here and goes Roman Catholic. but she has back and was happy with her become an avid devotee of visit, it means for a lot of people Jewish mysticism in recent who were afraid to come here 
years.  She  has  that they can  come  
adopted the Hebrew name Esther, wears  "A Kabbalist  without any prob­lem," Ezra said.  
a red thread on her wrist to ward off the evil eye and report­edly refuses to per­ . sees the world as a unified whole.  Speaking without notes, Madonna said the people she met during her five-day  
form  on the Jewish  A Kabbalist  Holy Land trip "have  
Sabbath. Tourism officials  asks why.,  one thing in common -we want to create  
hope  the  singer's  peace in the world."  
well-publicized visit  Madonna  "We want to put an  
to Israel will calm fears that have kept  singer  end to chaos and suf­fering," she said,  
many  potential  "but most of all we  

tourists away from the Holy want to put an end to hatred Land, despite its religious and with no reason." other attractions. The singer said she was not 
Israeli Tourism Minister representing a religion. Rather. Gideon Ezra said Madonna's she said, ''I'm here as a student visit was better than advertis-of Kabbalah. A Kabbalist sees 
Downs, of Birmingham, Ala., outlasted 51 other women to win the pageant Saturday, impressing the judges with her smarts, beauty and singing prowess. Competing head-to­head against Miss Louisiana, Jennifer Dupont, Downs turned in a strong performance singing ''I'm Afraid This Must Be Love." 
The 5-foot-1 0 1/2-inch brunette graduated magna cum laude from Samford University 
CNN Documentary explores challenges of our education system by following four new Teach For America teachers working in some of the nation's 

toughest schools. 
SCREENING AND TEACH FOR AMERICA INFO SESSION Tuesday, September 21. 7:00 PM DeBartolo 131 
TEACHFORAMERICA 
www.teachforamerica.org 
in Birmingham. A Rhodes Scholar finalist, she was accept­ed to the University of Alabama's medical school in Birmingham but delayed her entry after winning the Miss Alabama title -on her fifth try. 
"I guess I was just a sucker for punishment," she said. 
Downs paid her way through college using nearly $50,000 in scholarship money won compet­ing for Miss Alabama. She'll get the world as a unified whole. A Kabbalist asks why." 


While many Israelis wel­comed the singer and her entourage, others were uncom­fortable with the mission. 
Over the years. observant Jews have considered Kabbalah a powerful, even potentially dangerous undertaking to be tackled only by the most quali­fied and learned men. Now, many Orthodox Jews reject the adoption of Kabbalah by non­Jewish pop figures as a dese­cration of the holy. 
Early Sunday, Madonna went to the Givat Shaul cemetery outside Jerusalem to visit the grave of a famous Jewish mys­ticist. 
Guarded by police, Madonna and husband, Guy Ritchie, walked past rows of tombstones to the grave of the Kabbalist sage Rabbi Yehuda Ashlag. 
$50,000 more for winning Miss America and could make sever­al times that much in appear­ance fees during her yearlong reign. 
Downs' victory capped a shorter Miss America telecast that showed more skin and fewer talent routines. Whether the changes succeeded isn't known yet. Nielsen Media Research ratings come out later this week. 

Monday, September 20, 2004 
Pop star ties the knot again 
Spears weds fiance 
. . 

zn surprzse ceremony 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Pop singer Britney Spears married her fiance, dancer Kevin Federline, in a surprise ceremony, her record label said Sunday. 
"She did marry him yester­day," Jive Records spokes­woman Sonia Muckle said. She declined to provide further details. 
The wedding was held Saturday evening at a private home in the Studio City area with 20 to 30 people attending, "Entertainment Tonight" said on its Web site. 
Nicole King, a spokeswoman for BWR Public Relations, which represents Spears, did not return a message seeking comment. 
Spears, 22, and Federline, 26, announced their engagement in June after dating since early this year. 
It was the second marriage in nine months for Spears. 
In January, she married childhood friend Jason Alexander in a surprise wed­ding in Las Vegas. That mar­riage was annulled 55 hours later. 


Monday, September 20, 2004 page~
The Observer + ELECl'IUN NEWS 


Pentagon uncovers Bush letter
Kerry advertisement 

attacks war spending 
Ad links cost ofIraq war to domestic problems 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Democrat John Kerry links the cost of the Iraq war to problems at home and vows in a new television ad to both "defend America and fight for the middle class." 
"Two hundred billion dollars. That's what we are spending in Iraq because George 
The war has cost about $120 bil­lion, according to the White House Office of Budget and Management. 
Bush has never said there's no money for education or health care. Kerry's campaign bases the claim on its interpretation of Bush's budget proposals for edu­cation and reports of rising health 
care premiums. 

Bush chose to go it Bush's campaign
..Two hundred
alone," Kerry says in said the ad was
billion

the ad, to start airing another Kerry flip Monday in 13 com­dollars. That•s flop, noting that in 
AP petitive states where August 2003 on 
President George W. Bush smiles as he receives a standing ovation at the 126th National
what we are
he is on the air. "Now NBC's "Meet the 

Guard Conference In Las Vegas on Sept. 14.
spending in Iraq 
the president tells us Press" Kerry said we don't have the because George war spending should 
Associated Press
resources to take be increased "by
Bush chose to 
care of health care whatever number of
go it alone. , 
WASHINGTON -The latest
and education here billions of dollars it 
at home. That's takes to win." 
records to surface from 
President Bush's service in the
wrong" John Kerry "After attacking the 
Texas Air National Guard show
Suggesting that president for not

presidential

Bush ignored domes­spending enough on 
that one commander took an

candidate

tic ills while focusing on the war abroad, Kerry says: "As president, I'll stop at nothing to get the terrorists before they get us. But I'll also fight to build a stronger middle class." 
The $200 billion estimate reflects the campaign's calcula­tion of funds already spent on combat and reconstruction in Iraq, and money anticipated to be spent through next summer, based on congressional reports. 
Iraq, John Kerry is 

now attacking the president for spending too much," said Bush campaign spokesman Steve Schmidt. "John Kerry's hyp­ocritical attacks and continually shifting positions on Iraq are cost­ing him the trust of the American people." 
Kerry spent Sunday in Boston, off the campaign trail. His eco­nomic plan calls for rolling back Bush's tax cuts for people earning more than $200,000 a year. 
unusual interest in the con­gressman's son during his basic training. 
The officer in charge of the unit where Bush took his basic training wrote to then-Rep. George H.W. Bush in 1968. The officer's letter was not released Friday, but the elder Bush's reply was: "That a major gener­al in the Air Force would take interest in a brand new Air Force trainee made a big impression on me." 
Bush, who was elected presi­dent 20 years later, wrote that his son "will be a gung-ho mem­ber" of the Air Force, and its instructors had "helped awaken the very best instincts in my son." 
Democrats called the exchange proof of preferential treatment. 
The letter and other material were the latest in a stream of documents released about President Bush's service three decades ago during the Vietnam War. His critics say Bush received preferential treatment as the son of a congressman and U.N. ambassador. Critics have also questioned why Bush skipped a required medical examination in 197 2 and failed to show up for drills during a six-month period that year. 
The Pentagon uncovered the documents during a search in response to a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit by The Associated Press seeking all Bush's records from the Texas Air National Guard. A federal judge ordered the Defense Department on Wednesday to hand over to the AP all newly discovered Bush records by next Friday. 
The AP lawsuit also led to the release this month of previously undisclosed flight logs for the years Bush spent as a trainee and pilot, mostly on the F-102A fighter. 



6th annual 
If God is calling you 
CORBY NIGHT 
Join us. 
Think you might have a vocation? Join the Holy Cross 
community at Notre Danze for an hour of prayer, pizza, 
and informal discussion. 

Tuesday, Sept. 21,8:45 pm at Corby Hall. 
Fr. Dan Parrish, C.S.C., ordained Aprill7, 2004. 


-........._ ··-·-··-··-··· ..· .:./ =~:.-==~ .. -}. _....-··· 
.··••·
·--.... 
....--· 

page 10 ih~ Obs~;;.-. PAID .ADVERTISEMENT 


·'"'Monday; September· 20,-2004 page 11
--~ The Observer+ ·PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

0 N s 
M U S c Marcus Roberts Trio 
Friday, September 24, 9 p.m. 

$37.50, ND/SMC/HC $30, All Students $15 
After astounding a Notre Dame audience last year, Marcus Roberts returns. The Marcus Roberts Trio will delight and amaze you as they spread the word of jazz. They are masters of several forms-gospel, ragtime, swing, pop and bebop, from which they have forged their own unique sound. When they play you can hear the future of jazz in America. 
Here Come the Irish 
Friday, October 1, 9 p.m. 

$18.75, $15 ND/SMC/HC, $10 Students 
A spirited jam session performed by ND Alumni who are now professional musicians including Kennedy's Kitchen, Celtic Fire, Sean Ryan, Danielle Svonovec, and The O'Neill Brothers. Join us as our favorite musical Demers come home to celebrate the opening of the performing arts center. 
Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul Friday, October 8, 9 p.m. $43.75, $35 ND/SMC/HC, $15 Students 
Eileen Ivers rose to prominence as a nine time all·lrish fiddle champion and as the fiery fiddler of "Riverdance,JJ but her passion for exploration has catapulted her to rarified air where only virtuosos ploy. Her boldly imaginative style earned her the title "Jimi Hendrix of the violin" from a New York Times reviewer. Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul storm the stage with matchless energy and an eclectic spirit. Respectful of their Irish roots, they infuse their concert with fresh vitality drawing from the rhythms of Latin and African music. Eileen Ivers will change the way you think about the violin. 
A L E 
F L M 
BON VOYAGE 

Thursday, September 23 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
11 Bon Voyage, o rich, teeming French farce set in and around Bordeaux in 1940 on the eve of the German occupation of Paris, is a triumph of narrative ingenuity." 
Stephen Holden, NEW YORK TIMES 
''an absolutely gorgeous film to watch.N Jack Mathews, NEW YORK DAILY NEWS 
"A beautifully crafted film with a star-studded cast, directed with o lightness of touch.n Judith Prescott, HOLLYWOOD REPORTER 
ORDER YOUR TICKETS EARLY 
N 0 w 
T H E A T R E Avanti: A Postindustrial Ghost Story 
by Jessica Chalmers 
http://avanti.nd.edu 
Friday, September 24, 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, September 25, 7:30p.m. 
Sunday, September 26, 2:30p.m. Sunday, September 26, 7:30p.m. Monday, September 27, 7:30p.m. Thursday, September 30, 7:30p.m. Friday, October 1, 7:30p.m. Saturday, October 2, 7:30p.m. Sunday, October 3, 7:30p.m. 
A collaboration with The Builders Association 
Performed at the Deluxe Sheet Meta I Factory, Downtown South Bend 
$18, ND/SMC/HC $16, All Students $12 
An original multimedia theatrical production, written by Notre Dame's own OBIE-award winning playwright Jessica Chalmers. 
Our screenings of NO Cinema.have consistently sold out each week. Ensure yourself a seat at our next screening and avoid the lines by calling 631-2800 to order your tickets by phone.· You may also stop by the Ticket Office in· the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center between noon and 6 p.m. to get your tickets early. Cinema tickets will go on sale Mondays for tha_t week's movie. 

Discounted tickets are underwritten by the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There ore a limited number of student discounts available. 

Call 574-631-2800 
,. 0 ·J> .... ..::. • • ••~ ,~ • • •• • ' • .. • ";' c; .._ 4-0 .., •"· 6 • ..,. • .:. • Oo ... ... .,.. • ­

THE OBSERVER 

p 

Monday, September 20, 2004
page 12 
.THE OBSERVER 










Silly doctors, health is for kids
JHI~ JJ.iir~.;ws-;"'N.trr. AtMn -,u1s;,q.;_Mi?~ 
P:O. Box Q• Nom:: Dame, IN 46~56 024 South Dining Hall, Now: Dame. IN 46)5<). 
EDITOR lN CHIEF Matt Wza.r 

MANI\GING EDrroR  BOSJNESS MANAGllll  
Meghanne ..DQW;Ms  Mike Flan.apn  
AssT. MAN4GlNC EOITOR  

NEWS Enrro.as Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT Emro.as Sarah Vabulas SP()kfS EDlTOll; H~ther Van Hoegarden saNE· EDITOR; Maria Smith •··· lN Focus Eorro~t: Meghan Martin •. SAJNT MARrs EDrroR: Angela Saoud •·· •• ·.•. Pooro EDrroR:. Claire Kelley ..··· GRAPHICS Emro.as Mike Harkins ADvERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESI~ ~AG£R: Kelly Nds()n . . .. . .•...·. SYsTEMS AJ)MINISTBAT<).Rs M~ AJkn ..•.••••.. ••• ••.•••• ·•·. .. >• · .. . . . · CQmaoU$ Pauk car~ht : > • 
.pu~~;i~~-i•
. Univeciity ofNottt:; Dame du ~and Saint Mary's. . . 
· • Colleg~. &:lifotW cxWt~t. i~hlding ad~~~. W .. ..· • not goieritedby policies Ofdie .administiarion ~elfher ·••••• inscituij,qJ')..J¥.:.0b~er reserves·the dghfoo ~e •• ·•·· adver~ts b~ on ®U:nt. •..• ·. •·.• •..•••.·•·•·· · .••. ···••. • 
··. 
..·.·. :m ~ is. tep<)rted liS ~~dy.mi:l ob}eqiVf:lYll$ .. . possible~ u~ ed:itori.ak represent the opinion ()f the majority ofthe Ed.itcir in Chief; Martag;Uig Edi{Q.r; .· ·~r:iitit Managirig &litot and (k~tediti)N 
.•.· · · 
.Commentaries, letters arid columns present the VieM of the authors and not n~ly' tho5e 6fl1k .·. Observer. · 
=/<.· Vrewf('int~pacei~ avai~t() allteadet.";.Thefu:e ·• : > expression ohUopinions through let:tersis encotir:aged. ···•·· · 
Lette~ oo the EditQ'r must be signed and fP\Ut include •· ·.··· · 
POST 0FFIC£ INFORMATION Tho OINCi-Wr (IJ~I'S>~99 2·~) it J><lhllshocl Mc>nd.y th""'lll' ll<Kby """"""'~ ...c.;.
•..•. ;:':::t~~A0~'~Th~~t.$)~(~~~i< 
.. ·Thc~is~~~~~Hi~l'«-ti.Alll<l'~O,:<iOtJr!il><•~· • 
....,•••t . . . . . ..... 
'1"1..06""'"' i<>p~ .., . I\(): :a.,. Q ~· ~~<R !Jimitg }i:ol( . . g~lj S<i~Qi {)if>~ ~.,. . 
N<>"" D.-. it{~5j6.()Tl'J . NoM o-..JN 465sll-lirn · · Pet~ jx>S<ag.< p;i;d u NW.t Dome: ..,d..t<firiooal "'Oilllls o!Ji.,... .· . · 
. . . . 

~r-~~~..;n; ,; < . . . ..·. > > ·.
• 

Th<'»m"' · · ··.· ·. > < .. ··••· •·····.. . i . 
n.Obi<s••:r ;; • ~b<r.9i:~hloi:i~ ~ All~~ <ill<~.,.
-··r····· . . . .. .. .. . ... 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Angela Saoud ··············Matt Puglisi Eileen Duffy .·•. ·..... Eric Retter . Jen Howling..···.·•• • /Kate Seryak . 
. · Viewpoint > . • •.• : Scene ·. · 
· .. Justin Spack > Chri~tie Boisen Graphies . ruustrator · Mike Harkins Meg Dwyer 
I am sick and tired of all this talk about being "healthy." In order to be "healthy," college students are con­stantly ordered to eat this, not eat this, do this exercise, play this sport and at the same time not stick this finger down Joey Falco this throat in this bathroom stall after 
this meal. Forty ounces of Where, then, do we Falco draw the line between eating healthy and eating dis­order? How, then, are we supposed to exercise properly while balancing a full load of classes, jobs, clubs and desig­nated hangover time? And why, then, if a known cause of obesity is late night snacking, does this University tempt us like a Biblical serpent with delicious hot dogs every midnight at a price that would allow a Kathy Lee Gifford sweat­shop worker to have seconds? Clearly, no warm-blooded, omnivo­rous human being enrolled at this University can possibly live up to the health standards placed upon us by the so-called "doctors" who specialize in this type of nutrition. It's kind of like being the short, chubby, uncoordinated, white younger brother of Michael Jordan -you're just never going to live up to anyone's expectations, and will probably just end up becoming one of those guys who tries to Roofie fresh­man girls in order to satisfy an inferior­ity complex. Obviously, this is not the sort of psychological treatment that nutritionists should be levying upon the minds of already-disturbed college stu­dents, and it has to stop now. For example, a close examination of the fitness levels suggested by these "experts" reveals several inconsisten­cies with the Notre Dame collegiate lifestyle. The biggest problem, of course. is this thing that members of the medical profession refer to as "car­diovascular exercise," which apparent­ly manifests itself in the form of jog­ging, aerobics, basketball or soccer. Unfortunately. it has been scientifically proven that the average Notre Dame student will never be able to participate in any of these activities on a regular basis. Jogging has become an impossibility due to the exponential rise in swan 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

excrement around the lake paths. Aerobics require bright spandex cloth­ing, which as we and the Princeton Review both know, will only result in all sorts of rude "Fine by me" comments on the walk over to Rolfs. Basketball may be fun for some people, but after being shutout in the first round of Bookstore by five drunk girls wearing pirate costumes, you wouldn't want to play the stupid sport ever again either. Interhall soccer will obviously entail playing against several Latino students, but the human shin can only take so many kicks before it loses too much blood to continue supporting the rest of the body. If we cannot possibly live up to their fitness standards, you would think that we could at least come close to matching their levels of healthy eating. Well, think again, because after subjecting myself to several days of cruel, torturous experimenta­tion, I have discovered that the aver­age Notre Dame stu­dent has a better chance of shot gunning a beer on the altar during a televised Basilica mass than staying within the 2500­calorie daily limit set by nutritionists for peo­ple our age. 
If you don't believe me, take a look at the twenty-four hour period from Friday to Saturday afternoon on an average football weekend. Without going into too much detail, let's assume that a student (we'll call him Chip) decides to celebrate the beginning of the weekend by drinking a forty-ounce bottle of a fine malt liquor like Mickey's (523 calories). Still unable to quench his thirst, he consumes another bottle (523 calories) and then heads ofT to the pep rally to support his football team. Later that night, after a manly 1000­calorie dinner in the dining hall, we can assume that Chip goes to a party and over the course of the night man­ages to drink ten cans of Keystone Light (104 calories each). a bottle of Guinness Extra Stout (153 calories), and while hitting on a girl across the street, three pina coladas (342 calories each). 
Bright and early the next morning, Chip finds himself outside tailgating for the Irish football game, and by ten he has already knocked back six cans of Keystone Light (1 04 calories each) and three doughnut sticks smuggled from South Dining Hall (316 calories each). Four hours, nine beers. a boxed wine chug, an Irish Car Bomb, three ham­burgers, two hotdogs, a brownie and 
over 3,000 calories later, Chip finally enters Notre Dame Stadium after complet­ing an amazing twenty-four hour binge that included the consumption ijliiiiliiii\ of 8,825 calo­ries. 
As you can see, this completely average Notre Dame 
student, tak­ing part in completely 
average Notre Dame activities, wound up ingest­
ing the daily caloric equivalent of a pregnant polar bear. Couple with this the 
already-proven impossibility of consistent exercise on this campus. and the typical Domer like Chip is faced with quite a dietary dilemma: Does he still make it to quarter dogs on Sunday night? 
Joey Falco is a sophomore political science major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at jfalco@nd. edu . 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily ofThe Observer. 

Are you registered to vote? 
broken winged bird that cannot fly." 
Langston Hughes 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
author

www.ndsmcobserver. com. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Hold fast to dreams, for if dreams die, life is a 
OBSERVER POLL 




Who hijacked the culture of life? 
-~ 
Some whose long lives are still being transformed by the culture of life as it was taught and modeled by a few Catholic prophets in the '40s and '50s are puzzled by the reframing of the basic 
premises of that cul­ 
ture in the last 30  Edward  
years. The political  Manier  
and legal wars waged  
over Roe v. Wade have  Guest Column  
taken their toll on the  
culture of life. War  

can destroy cultures as well as nations and individual lives. 
Political campaigns and legal disputes of all sorts characteristically oversimplify profoundly complex issues. The world of the 24-hour news cycle and instant blog­ging highlights clever sound bites and graphic imagery. Gov. Mario Cuomo, in a famous address at Notre Dame, sought to avoid the trivialization of the culture of life for partisan political purposes by urging that one could be "personally opposed" to abortion, while denying it should be criminalized. 
That distinction misses the heart of the matter. For Catholic Christians, the heart of that culture is life lived in a communi­ty devoted to the imitation of Christ, cru­cified. Period. Full stop. In that context, and in the Abrahamic tradition more broadly, sexual rep_roduction is a sacred responsibility drawing two persons into participation with the divine creative plan for human life on earth. The culture of life must be rooted in of a community of faith whose members all recognize the transcendent value of each human per­son and live accordingly. 
One can learn much about the demands of such recognition by reading "The Irreducible Needs of Children, What Every Child Must Have To Grow, Learn and Flourish" by Dr. T. Brazelton and Dr. S. Greenspan, and "Parenting from the Inside Out, How a Deeper Self­understanding Can Help You Raise Children Who Thrive," by Dr. Dan Siegel. 
The value of each child is transcen­dent, incalculable. The tasks of parent­hood are not for moral cowards. They do not consist of transitory charitable episodes; they require dozens of years of continuous self-sacrifice. The lives of parents, those who fail as much as those who succeed, show us the real meaning of opening up a human marriage to acceptance of the divine will. 
Brazelton, Greenspan and Spiegel should be required reading at every pre­Cana conference preparing young people for marriage and parenthood. They fore­ground truths about human development the abortion wars have shoved into the fuzzy background of a furious debate over the mythical point at which human life begins. 
The political and legalistic formalisms crafted for the vicious in-fighting inspired by the abortion wars tell us nothing about human development or parenthood. Their slogans have no more real meaning than the chant of "We're number one!" 
"Roe v. Wade has brought the holo­caust to the United States!" "The morn­ing-after pill is murderous." "Fetal stem cell research must be prohibited!" "All abortion for any purpose is murper and should be punished by criminal sanc­tions in criminal courts!" "Human life begins at conception!" And equally, "Individual choice is the most important human value!" 
These epithets are war cries, calling us to the ramparts, to despise and deride those with whom we disagree. They destroy the spirit of agape love essential for any culture of life. They are all equally based on false premises, indefen­sible by anything but the method of authority. 
The early stages of human life consti­tute a continuous process with many equally crucial stages in the human gonads, particularly the ovaries and the human uterus. Research by human developmental biologists suggests that the moment at which a human sperm enters a human egg is an event whose near-term result has been determined by the microstructure of a developing egg in the last stages before ovulation. University of Colorado developmental biologist Jonathan Van Blerkom, among others, has accumulated evidence that the failure of most fertilized eggs to develop past the eight-cell stage is trace­able to inadequate cellular respiration caused by accumulating mutations in maternal genes for the mitochondria providing the energy for orderly cell divi­sion. If human life begins at conception; it often ends, by natural causes, quietly and unmourned, very soon thereafter. 
It is a philosophic, legal and dramatic conceit to think human life is a concate­nation of atomic points in time, the moments, as sportscasters love to tell us, at which the tide turns. 
Dogmatic insistence that "life begins at conception" is blinded by the metaphor of life as a race, started with the crack of a gun. This metaphor has hijacked the mandate to nurture all stages of every human life. It has tricked us into hating the Samaritans who do not worship where we worship. 
Edward Manier is a professor in the philosophy department. He can be reached at A.E.Manier.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Republicans stack the vote 
This Wednesday, the College Republicans voted unanimously against democracy. 
During a motion to support outreach to the community, the College Republicans had the audacity to tell Rock the Vote commissioners that they would rather have citizens not vote than vote for their opposition. On the table was a program to register and educate ignorant vot­ers in the area through the TRANSPO citywide bus system. By distributing flyers, students through Rock the Vote would help South Bend commuters register and find their polling loca­tions on Election Day. The goal was simply to help citizens learn where to exercise their civic duty. The motion failed. 
The club rejected any funding or involvement with this initiative. Based on prejudicial assumptions regarding race and income, the College Republicans claimed they had no inter­est in helping these concerned citizens reach the polls. Any of the twelve bus routes, they alleged, ··'ould simply help Democrats in November. The College Republicans would rather citizens not know where to vote than to vote Democrat. 
As a Republican, a minority and an Ameritan, I am deeply offended by the position of this organization. In addition to their racial and eco­nomic profiling, College Republicans have decid­ed against a fair election. This club would rather win with an unrepresentative minority than let democracy truly work. 
If President George W. Bush is truly worried about Indiana on Election Day, the College Republicans have a lot more to worry about than this nonpartisan college group. Regardless, if you are a Democrat and want to vote in November, don't tell the College Republicans. They would rather you stay silent. Rock the Vote, on the other hand, will not stand for this position. We are committed to helping any and every citizen take part in the democratic process, regardless of party. A true win on Nov. 2 is not only for the poJitical party that takes power, but rather for every American who fills out his/her ballot. 
Philip Wells 
)UnJOf 
Dillon Hall Sept. 18 

Affording monitors 
I'd like to share my viewpoint on your recent subject of hall mon­itors and cramped space. 
As a parent of a female sophomore, I support the hall monitor. I assume there is no other reason for firing the monitors other than money. . 
Well, I would think the Notre Dame administration should and can find money for Our Lady's most treasure asset: the students. Maybe Notre Dame can divert some money from athletics budget to reinstate the monitors or even build more dorms. Or maybe raising $100 a year on the kids' tuition: $100 x 9000 students equals a lot of monitors. Or divert some of the money from the $3.50 Cokes sold at foot­ball concession stands. I think the money is there to enhance student's life in every mun­dane way. Parents pay tuition and expect their children to be safe, and have a good education. 
By the way, when will Notre Dame convert some of the extra space in the 7 5 million dollars Performance Arts building to dorm space? 
Joe Chan 
alumnus 
Class of'84 
Sept. 18 
U-WIRE 



Cold War's threat replaced with terrorist reality 
In an episode that made the Abu Ghraib prison debacle look like a game of drunken twister, militant Islamic terrorists have momentarily stopped hiding behind the Koran, instead hiding behind school chil­dren's bodies. 
The school siege in Tommy Purvis southern Russia result­ed in over 300 deaths, 
California
some children shot in 

State-Fullerton
the back as they fled for 

Daily Titan 
safety. As a result, Russia is destined to learn from the Chechen rebels what has not yet been learned in the United States. 
Terrorism is not the enemy, terrorism is a tactic employed by the enemy. The enemy is militant Islam. Whether the battleground is the Persian Gulf or Chechnya, the mili­tant Islamic movement remains, and allow­ing it to spread will be deadly for both sides. 
Extreme Islamic fundamentalists have hijacked Islam. Their goal: driving western influence from Muslim holy lands and areas of dense Muslim population in order to create militant Islamic governed nation­states. Killing a militant Islamic terrorist brings death to a person but allows an ide­ology to live. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin has been pressured by U.S. officials to sit down at the peace table with Chechen rebels but has been unresponsive. Putin insists that Russia will conduct peace talks with Shamil Basayev, their most wanted terrorist, when the U.S does the same with Osama Bin 
Laden. The irony would be amusing ifthe 
threat was not so deadly. 
The Cold War did not create militant Islam, but it did create al-Qaida. These Islamic militants are spread around the globe, including f..hechnya. Sharnil Basayev is a product al-Qaida's efforts. After the school crisis, Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov declared that Russia reserves the right to carry out pre-emptive strikes against deemed threats. Ivanov, who has been in contact with U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfield, also feels that the U.S. administration is more receptive than most of Europe to Moscow's proposed pre-emption. Ivanov feels that Moscow and Washington see eye to eye in combating terrorism. Islamic militants have placed their bet in the form of international terror­ism They have upped their ante with the attack of innocence in Beslan. The only nations capable, ready and willing to call their hand must respond. 
If John Kerry takes office, the Patriot Act will surely expire. And, as he has demon­strated this week, Bush isn't really a fan of renewing sunset laws, even if it's what Americans ask for. 
This article originally appeared on Sept. 18 in The Daily Titan, the daily publication at California State-Fullerton. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

page 14 Monday, September 20, 2004 


Pittsburgh favorite The Clarks rocks Leg 
ing them since. Davi
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN 
"I showed up at 5:30 to see the game so I Th
Assistant Scene Editor 
could be front and center," Moore said. pace "Everyone who just randomly makes their Can The Clarks proved on Saturday night that way in is in for a treat." lyric much of its well-deserved success comes Ahead of schedule fans were also in for a thin: from its ability to put on a fabulous, energy­treat when lead singer and guitarist Scott drin infused live show. Blasey took time before the show started, soun For an hour and a half, the Pittsburgh­and before most of the crowd was admitted, On exported rockers tore through a set list that to mingle and autograph shirts. whe: included mostly fresh material from their "It's awesome to be here." Blasey said. dan~ latest album, "Fast Moving Cars," which was "I've never been here, and you grow up 200: 
released this year. Longtime fans were also hearing about Notre Dame so to finally get to this lucky enough to hear older be here... Luckily it was a tar favorites that have become beautiful day today too, we wer concert staples from popular walked around some and it's CrO\
"'t's awesome to be

earlier albums like 2000's "Let beautiful here." Mim it Go." here ... you grow up Blasey and the rest of the rock Even though members of The hearing about Notre band burst into the show An Clarks have not yet gained the with their hit "Better Off whe1
Dame."

recognition they truly deserve Without You," which made it the for their ability, they have a onto MTV's extremely main-COVE distinctively hardcore fan base. Scott Blasey stream Total Request Live Thrc 
What they lack in fame, they lead vocalist and guitarist when most of the crowd was ban' make up for in listener loyalty. in high school. The song alre Devoted fans began lining up demonstrated the band's men for the 10:30 p.m. concert mysterious ability to make Pem immediately after the Irish defeated things like breaking up sound like fun. ever Michigan State, to secure spots at the front The Clarks kept up the cheery tempo for Th of the crowd. the entire show, pounding through new perf~ 
"The Clarks always give a great concert," songs like the punk-driven "You Know en til said sophomore Pete Lavorini. "They're from Everything" and the infectious "Shimmy eras Pittsburgh so they're awesome." Low." The crowd clapped along to "Gypsy featt · Other early fans echoed the sentiments. Lounge" and "Hell On Wheels," which the The 
"The Clarks are awesome, and I've never band performed on the Late Show with have been to a show in Pittsburgh that wasn't sold out," said senior Eva Garon. 
While the Pittsburgh natives showed up in full force. cheering loudly at any mention of Notre Dame and even more at any men­tion of their home city, other fans had jumped onto The Clarks' bandwagon after hearing a live show. Law student John Moore 
~ ·. saw them when they opened for 
; l 
.. ; another band and has been follow­·'. 



Left, drummer Dave Minarik smiled throughout the concert. Middle, lead singer and guitarist Scott Blasey put down his guitar to dance along with the music for several songs II latest album "Fast Moving Cars" as well as older favorites. 

Monday, September 20, 2004 page 15 

,ends after the Irish rock the Spartans 
·id Letterman. 
h.e first song to slightly slow the rapid e at all was the title track "Fast Moving s." Once again, potentially depressing cs were woven into a bright melody: "And tking I could right all these wrongs/And n.king till the pain is all gone" never nded so enjoyable. 
n.e of the highlights of the show came m Blasey put down his guitar to sing and ce to concert favorite "Boys Lie" from 2's "Another Happy Ending" album. At 
point in the show, Robert James on gui­and Greg Joseph on bass ·e coming out toward the 
"Fun will keep you alive," Blasey told the crowd, taking time later to laugh and high­five front row fans. 
After dancing along to "On Saturday," The Clarks bowed out to return backstage. A rau­cous "Here we go Steelers" chant quickly brought them back out to play a cover of Marvin Gaye's "What's Going On." 
When one fan wrote a request on a piece of paper and put it onstage next to the set list, Blasey leaned over to read the handwritten note before offering congratulations to an engaged couple, much to the delight of those 
who heard. 

The band closed with the 

wd as drummer Dave "Fans from Pittsburgh stellar Clarks classic arik broke a drumstick from love them and to "Cigarette," its first hit. Fans dng out so hard. threw a cigarette and
them, {The Clarks] 
n.other high moment came Pittsburgh Pirates hat ~n Blasey turned soprano as have already made onstage; Blasey picked up
't ,,
band roared through a l . the cigarette and put the hat er of "Kiss" by Prince. on, dancing around stage. ·oughout the show, all the The singer, who has a pen­
Megan McCormick 
td had to do to excite an chant for smoking during ~ady energized crowd was senior concerts and taking shots of 
n.tion a certain city in nsylvania, at which point ~yone cheered louder without fail. 1e Clarks always seems to genuinely love forming, with Minarik smiling almost the re time and Blasey posing for fans' cam­; during songs like "Let it Go," which was ured in the 2001 movie "Summer Catch." 
band members also want their fans to e as much fun as they. 
Jagermeister from fans, 
politely declined a light from a girl in the non-smoking environs of Legends. 
After the show, the audience seemed only disappointed in the ineffectiveness of a "one more song" chant after a fantastic set. 
"The Clarks are extremely down to earth and put their all into every show," said Pittsburgh native and senior Megan 
McCormick. "They may not be 

mainstream according to the music industry but fans from Pittsburgh love them and to them, they've already made it. They are one of the best live bands I've ever seen; sometimes they sound better in person than on their albums. The show was incredi­ble." 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 

Ike "Boys Lie." Right, excited fans crowded close to the stage to high-five the band members and sneak peeks at the set lists, which Included new material from their 
Monday, September 20, 2004 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Yankees dominate Red Sox again, increase division lead 
ASsociated Press 

Cleveland 8, Kansas City 3 for the Minnesota Twins in a 
NEW YORK-The New York Kyle Denney was much more 1victory over the Baltimore 
Yankees battered Pedro relaxed. The rest of the Orioles on Sunday. 
Martinez, chasing Boston out of Cleveland Indians played with By winning his 12th consecu­
town with their second rout in a more of an edge, for a change. tive decision, Santana (19-6) 
row. One day after Cleveland man­tied a Twins record set by Scott 
Gary Sheffield, Derek Jeter ager Eric Wedge said his team Erickson in 1991 and matched and Jorge Posada homered off was playing like it had run out by Brad Radke in 1997. an ineffective Martinez, and of gas, Ben Broussard hit a "When he's out there, it's Mike Mussina gave the resilient three-run homer to help unbelievable, "Radke said. Yankees another excellent out­Denney earn his first major Santana struck out five of his ing Sunday as New York opened league win, over the Kansas last six batters, jubilantly jump­a 4 1/2 -game lead in the AL City Royals on Sunday. ing off the mound after Tim East with an 11-1 victory. "The guys did a much better Raines Jr. went down swinging 
"They put us in the rearview job, no doubt about,"Wedge to end the eighth. He allowed mirror a little bit,"Red Sox said after Cleveland avoided seven hits and didn't walk a manager Terry Francona said. getting swept in the three-game batter. extending his scoreless 
Alex Rodriguez also connect­sweep and won for just the fifth inning streak to 30. ed in the second consecutive time in 16 games. "That's amazing, man,"catch­offensive outburst by the "We've had a strong approach er Henry Blanco said. Yankees, who outscored their all season and got it back Michael Restovich hit a two­longtime rivals 25-5 the past today. "Wedge said. "We showed run homer, and Luis Rivas and two days after a deflating loss more energy. These players Blanco each had solo shots for Friday night, when star closer have to work for one another if the 1\vins, who can clinch their Mariano Rivera blew a ninth­they are going to win. They did third straight AL Central title inning lead. that." with a victory over the White 
"We take a lot of pride in Shortstop Omar Vizquel Sox on Monday in the opener of coming back with thought Wedge's comments a three-game series at Chicago. intensity, "Rodriguez said. Saturday were effective. "I'm just doing my 
It certainly showed. The "We showed signs of awaken­job,"Santana said. ''I'm happy this season when he pitches guess I just have confidence the Yankees' hitters lit up Derek ing,"Vizquel said. "For one to be in this situation." during the day. way I'm pitching on the road. Lowe artd Martinez, and the thing, we got more than three Bruce Chen (1-1) stayed with Garcia pitched shutout ball Today, l just had a good game pitchers shut down the highest­hits." Santana for a while, but four of into the eighth inning in the plan and I used all my pitches scoring team in the major Broussard's 14th homer the six hits he allowed were Chicago White Sox's victory on both sides of the plate." leagues with a pair of dominat­capped a five-run third inning homers -by Rivas in the third, over the Detroit Tigers on Redman outpitched Bobby ing performances. off Denny Bautista (0-3) as Blanco in the sixth and Sunday. He improved to 8-0 Madritsch (5-3) in a showdown 
After taking two of three in Kansas City failed to sweep a Restovich in the seventh. with a 2.72 ERA in his nine day of left-banders, helping Oakland the series, the Yankees have team for the 57th consecutive "There was nothing l could starts. win two of three in Seattle to some breathing room -their series -since taking three do,"Chen said. "I tried to keep "I was throwing everyihing move three games ahead of largest lead over Boston since straight from Texas on Aug. 26-up with him, but he outpitched· and they were working,"Garcia Anaheim in the AL West. before games of Aug. 31. New 28, 2003. me." said. "I like pitching day "These last few weeks, guys York has 13 games remaining Denney (1-1) gave up one run Chen, a veteran of nine games." are coming out a little more as it closes in on its seventh and six hits in five innings to organizations and eight major Garcia (12-li) easily handled focused and ready to play,"said straight division title, while the rebound from a poor major league teams, was coming off the Tigers and appeared head­Jermaine Dye. who had two Red Sox play 14 more. league debut. his first career complete game ed for his first shutout of the doubles and a single. 
"We just feel like we're the Toronto 9, Tampa Bay 7 -a five-hit, one-run perform­season, but loaded the bases Texas 1, Anaheim 0 best team in baseball,"Sheffield Tampa Bay Devil Rays and ance in a win at Toronto on with one out in the eighth Fighting to stay in contention, said. Toronto Blue Jays are battling Monday. Brought up from before being replaced by Arnie the Texas Rangers knocked the 
The teams play another for last place in the AL East -Triple-A Ottawa on Aug. 25, Munoz, who gave up a sacrifice Anaheim Angels down a notch. three-game set next weekend at and it showed Sunday. Chen struck out seven and fly to Dmitri Young. Rookie Chris Young held the Fenway Park. By then, the Red Vernon Wells homered in walked one in seven innings. In "His velocity wasn't there (at Angels to five hits in six-plus Sox might be too far back to Toronto's five-run third inning five starts for the Orioles, he first), but he ended up innings, and Kevin Mench sin­catch New York, though they and the Blue Jays beat the Devil has a 2.45 ERA. great,"manager Ozzie Guillen gled in the only run Sunday as still have a 5 1/2 -game lead Rays in an error-filled game. Baltimore had its chances. said. the Rangers beat the suddenly over Anaheim in the wild -card Guillermo Quiroz had two Raines hit a one-out double in Garcia allowed one run and punchless Angels. race. RBis for the Blue Jays, who the first, but he was thrown out six hits, struck out eight and Shut out by the Rangers for 
"If we get to the playoffs, moved two games behind at third on perfect throws by walked three in 7 1-3 innings, the second day in a row, the believe me, we're not going to fourth-place Tampa Bay in the center fielder Lew Ford and and was backed by homers by Angels fell three games behind be the ones who are AL East. shortstop Cristian Guzman. Paul Konerko and Carlos Lee. AL West-leading Oakland and scared, "Martinez said. Aubrey Huff and Tino "He's the best pitcher I've Oakland 2, Seattle 1 remained five back of Boston in 
Boston lost its first series Martinez homered for the Devil faced this year,"Raines said. Mark Redman sure likes the wild-card race. since dropping two of three Rays, who made three errors Miguel Tejada -the only wearing those gray pants. Texas stayed five games back Aug. 13-15 against the White and are trying to avoid a last­Orioles starter who didn't strike Redman continued his run of of the Athletics. Sox. The Red Sox also lost con­place finish for the first time in out-led off the second with an success on the road, pitching 6 "You could tell when we carne secutive games for only the sec­their seven-year history. infield single, but he was erased 2-3 steady innings, while Eric in here after the Oakland ond time since Aug. 7. "Let it go down to the last day when B.J. Surhoff grounded Chavez and Erubiel Durazo series), we weren't going to fold 
Serenaded with a haunting if it has to,"Tampa Bay manag­into a double play. Larry Bigbie each drove in runs to lead the the tent,"Texas manager Buck chant of "Pe-dro, Pe­er Lou Piniella said. singled with one out in the Oakland Athletics over the Showalter said after his team dro,"Martinez (16-7) lasted only Minnesota 5, Baltimore 1. third, but Santana struck out Seattle Mariners Sunday. took two of three following a five-plus innings and allowed Johan Santana just keeps get­Brian Roberts and Raines to Redman (11-12) had lost his four-game split against the eight runs, matching a season ting better, progressing deeper end it. two previous starts -both in Athletics. worst. He had pitched at least into his personal zone of pitch­"With a guy like him, there is Oakland, where he's 3-6 with a major leagues in hitting at six innings in 18 straight starts ing dominance. no plan, "Tejada said. "You just 7.81 ERA in 14 starts. He .285. Anaheim has been shut since June 2 at Anaheim. Santana won his 11th straight try to touch the ball. He can get improved his road record to 8-6 out 10 times this season ­
The Boston ace, who couldn't start with another stellar per­you out on any pitch." with a 2.88 ERA in 16 starts. three in the last five games.any­hold a three-run lead in the formance, striking out. a career Chicago 6, Detroit 1 "If you look at the numbers, way. Fortunately, Brian got a eighth inning of Game 7 in the high 14 in eight shutout innings Freddy Garcia is unbeatable it's a joke,"Redman said. "I big out for us." 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The: Observer reserves the: right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
r Looking for a playful, kind, and ND ftball tix bought &sold a.m. SPRING BREAK HOORAY BEER!III responsible person for occasional 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS! WANTED babysitting FoR RENT The BEST Spring Break Under the Hooray for the 
J 
of my 2 children (7 and 3yrs) can JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, Sun! Camel-Camel play LOVE KIDS!! Professional Mom Jill at 288-7118. NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND Available 1 bedroom Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan..Cancun needs help picking up children from FOOTBALL GAME CALL Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo &Cabo. Portion Sizes??? 
two area 674-6593. 1 0/26/04-5105 Book by Oct 31 = 
r 
i' I' Gatholic schools close to NO & TICKETS call Mary AnneBenedict FREE MEALS The fat kid SMC Mon-Fri. Wonderful girls and Need BC GA tix. Will be used not 607·723-7363 &FREEDRINKS! takes the cake 
good money for BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX resold. 269-684·61 02. Orgranize a group­
I r 
very little time involved! We would PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES GO FREE! Guys love to hear from you! Call Karen 273-3911 800-875-4525 Keep your head up 
PERSONAL 
Stonehill at 272·5013 FoR SALE or www.bianchi-rossi.com We're going to 
I' For Sale NO football tix. Good Spring Break 2005 with STS, win this year Nanny Needed From 9127-10/1 7 prices. Condo-Villa Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. To my Walsh girls· Get to practice and am to 5:30 pm in Granger tor 2 232-0964. 16113 Bent· Tree Dr. Hiring campus Chili's 3-1 is happening kids, ages 4 and 7.0ne person all Granger reps. Call for group discounts. Monday day or split part time. Non-smoker, Wanted: NO football tix. Open Sun. 26-Sep. 2-4pm. tel. 271-Info/Reservations ----------It wasn't so fun willing to transport kids must. Top$$$ 1474, 1-800-648-4849 Congrats Walsh Football Bicycles, bags and some lies Contact Jen 674-9876. 251-1570. 217-2004 www.ststravel.com. on tying Cavanaugh Made for a bad night 
.... '" •• , , .. , ., ! • t _.., \ ' I,... , .. I ( ... ...E} I f .. , ..!!., )I,,.I·,) I • .r .~I I ) ": .I i I z ) I ' ~· . ·, " ' I i r-r • 1 I 1. r r , I i "'' -,. ): i i ..~. ~ i·'......, • I " •••.• i i , •"' ..., ....... y·... , ... I J' -·. i 
-


-------------------------~---------------------1 
Monday, September 20, 2004 

The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 


Manning, Colts' offense impressive in win at Tennessee 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Peyton Manning had plenty of help from the Indianapolis Colts OI1 Sunday. Steve McNair didn't get the same treatment from his Tennessee Titans in the first game between the NFL's co-MVP quarterbacks. 
Manning threw for 254 yards and two touchdowns, and Nick Harper intercepted McNair's pass in the end zone in helping Indianapolis rally for a 31-17 vic-
Interested in working fo.r tbe Juggler? 
Organizational Meeting 
-~··Thursday, Sept. 23 
7 p.m. 
Notre Dame Room 2"d Floor, LaFortune 

E-mail juggler@nd.edu for m.ore inforDlation 
appy Birthday 
irthday' Birthday 

ope you didn't pass 
ut on someone's 

oilet 

tory over Tennessee. 
Edgerrin James also ran for 
two touchdowns and 124 yards 
as the Colts (1-1) avoided losing 
consecutive games in the regular 
season for the first time since the 
middle of the 2002 season -now 
a span of 26 games. 
"Anytime you win down here, 
it's a good win," Colts coach Tony 
Dungy said. 
The Colts outscored Tennessee 
28-7 in the second half, forced 
two turnovers and sacked 
McNair three times in winning 
their third straight game in this 
series. 
The Titans had plenty of 
chances to bury the Colts in a 
deep hole before a record crowd 
of 68,932 in this early AFC South 
showdown between the only 
teams to win this division since 
realignment. 
"We never talked about 0-2," Manning said. "Tony never said, 'We can't be 0-2.' It never came up. We just said it's an AFC South game. It's a double-dipper. We have a chance to get up in the division and give the Titans a loss. 
Seattle 10, Tampa Bay 6 
Mike Holmgren caught himself before he got too critical of his Seattle Seahawks. 
Mistakes or not, they are unbeaten after starting a season with consecutive wins on the road for the first time in 10 years. including Sunday's victory over the punchless Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
"I wasn't particularly pleased with how we played offense, but I'll take that on my shoulders," Holmgren said after his defense forced three turnovers and set up the Seahawks' only touchdown. 
"But we're 2-0. This is a tough place to play. I feel great about the win. I just wish we'd have executed a little better on offense." 
With Shaun Alexander running at less than full speed, Seattle's high-octane attack was held to just 182 yards -89 fewer than a sputtering Tampa Bay offense that has failed to get into the end zone in two games. 
Marcus Trufant returned an interception 41 yards to set up Matt Hasselbeck's second-quar­ter touchdown pass to Koren Robinson. 
Rookie Michael Boulware put 
the fmishing touches on the victo­
ry, intercepting Chris Simms to 
end the second-year quarter­
back's bid to pull off a comeback 
after a bizarre sequence of 
penalties that went against the 
Seahawks. 
Simms, with help from two 
roughing the passer penalties 
and a pass interference call, 
moved the Bucs (0-2} from their 
12 to the Seattle 26 in the closing 
minutes. Both roughing calls 
were on Chike Okeafor, the sec­
ond wiping out an interception by 
Trufant. 
"We have to be smart in those 
situations. No one was trying to 
do it on purpose," Holmgren said. 
"But that's too many on one drive 
for me. It got a little tense there." 
Dallas 19, Cleveland 12 
As many times as the Dallas Cowboys hurt themselves with penalties, turnovers and missed opportunities, the Cleveland Browns somehow outdid them. 
In a game that featured five interceptions in a span of six pos­sessions -most coming in the fourth quarter -Dallas did enough things right to beat Cleveland Sunday. 
"It's not the kind of game I like to be involved with," Cowboys coach Bill Parcells said. "But, we got away '"ith it.'' 
Vinny Testaverde threw for 322 yards and a touchdown, but accepted much of the blame for not putting the game away. He missed open receivers, including several in the end zone, and put the Cowboys in trouble with three late interceptions. 
Dallas (1-1) scored just two touchdowns and a field goal despite getting to at least the Cleveland 43-yard line on 10 of its 11 drives. The rest were squandered by Testaverde's pick­offs, a fumble by rookie Julius Jones, a missed field goal and two punts. 
The combination of big yards -441, the most since 1999 ­and few points was similar to last week, when the Cowboys had 423 yards and 17 points. Difference was, Dallas lost last time. 
"We did some soul-searching and made it happen," safety Roy 
Emmaus lOck-on Wednesdav. Sept. 22 8:00-1:00 p.m. CO:MO lounge
-~ 
,~ ...-­
Get 

small Faiiii-Sh niUas Make evarvdav a SUndav 

Williams said. "I can breathe a 
little easier and go to sleep easi­
er." 

Cleveland (1-1} came in off an 
impressive victory over Baltimore 
in the opener and was looking to 
go 2-0 for the first time since 
1993. Dallas' highlights included 
a flea-flicker to Keyshawn 
Johnson, which set up a 1-yard 
TD pass to third-string tight end 
Jeff Robinson, and a 33-yard run 
by Dexter Coakley on a fake punt 
that set up a field goal. That drive 
didn't continue because of an 
unsportsmanlike conduct penalty 
on Johnson. 
New England 23, Arizona 12 
When a team wins 17 in a row, 
some of them are bound to be 
ugly. 
New England's victory over the 
sputtering Arizona Cardinals on 
Sunday was one of those. 
"What streak?" coach Bill 
Belichick said. "We're just trying 
to win a game." 
That one-game-at-a-time 
approach has worked for almost 
exactly a year. 
After a bye next week, the 
Patriots (2-0) can tie the NFL 
record of 18 straight victories 
with a win at Buffalo on Oct. 3. 
Corey Dillon gained 158 yards 
on 32 carries, and Tom Brady 
threw two first-half touchdown 
passes to Daniel Graham. 
Eugene Wilson intercepted 
Josh McCown twice, leading to 10 
points for the Super Bowl cham­
pions. Brady was 15-of-26 for 
217 yards. He was intercepted 
twice. 
But big performances didn't 
add up to big points. 
New England drove to the 
Arizona 2-, 10-and 2-yard line in 
the second half. but had to settle 
for short field goals by Adam 
Vinatieri each time. 
"It's frustrating," Brady said. 
"Sometimes you come out of 
these games almost with a sour 
taste in your mouth, knowing you 
could have performed so much 
better." 
With the exception of a costly 
fumble, Dillon had the kind of 
day he envisioned when he left 
lowly Cincinnati after last season. 
"I didn't come here to rot away and take L's," he said. "1 wanted to be part of something that's a winning tradition, and this is it." 
Wilson's second interception, on McCown's ill-advised pass into double-coverage, gave New England the ball at its 49 in the fourth quarter. Brady threw 27 yards to David Givens. one of his six catches for 118 yards. The drive stalled on fourth -and -1 at the 2. and Vinatieri's 24-yard field goal put New England up 23-12. 
Givens got more playing time because Deion Branch was knocked out with a knee injury on the final play of the first half. 
"A guys goes down, we have ammunition to back him up," Givens said. "We have five guys (receivers} who can all play." 
,.

Arizona managed just 167 yards, 117 through the air and 50 on the ground. For the second week in a row, the Cardinals scored just one touchdown. Coach Dennis Green, who made his reputation on offense, was disgusted. 
"We're not on the same page, and that's a shame." he said, "because system-wise, style-wise this is probably the best offense in the National Football League right now. It's hard to believe that we developed it. It's hard to believe that we created it and we don't know how to run it." 
-.. • ~ ... ~ ':. -... 4---: ": -.... -­


,......rT\,.,-.., JI!Tr""\ """" "" f '1 L_ ).~ 
n page 18 Monday, September 20, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Vick scrambles, Falcons win 34-17 in St. Louis 

I 
1\
I, I) I I 

. I 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -Standing in his end zone, looking for a receiver, Marc Bulger had big plans. 
"I was going for a home run," Bulger said. 
Atlanta defensive end Brady Smith had other ideas, stripping the ball from Bulger and catch­ing the fumble in the air for a touchdown to help the Atlanta Falcons beat the St. Louis Rams Sunday. 
After the Rams rallied from a 14-0 deficit to tie the game at 17 in the third quarter, the Falcons outscored St. Louis 17-0 in the final quarter. 
"That's one of my favorite takeaways of all time," Falcons defensive coordin.ator Ed Donatell said. 
Bulger said: "I was a half-sec­ond away from letting the ball go .... It could have been a touchdown the other way." 
Instead, Smith beat Rams left tackle Orlando Pace and then reached with his left hand for Bulger, knocking the ball loose before Bulger began to bring his 
arm  forward-in  a  passing  
motion.  
"I wish they  were  all that  

easy," said Smith, who was cred­ited with a sack, forced fumble and fumble recovery in addition to what he said was his first touchdown since high school. 
"It's a dream play for a defen­sive lineman because usually you have to run 80 yards to get in the end zone. It was just right there." 
The Falcons' front four had four sacks, including two by end Patrick Kerney. Cornerback Bryan Scott added another sack. Bulger wasn't sacked in the Rams' season-opening win over Arizona. 
Led by quarterback Michael Vick's 109 yards running, the Falcons (2-0) outgained the Rams (1-1) on the ground 242­30. 
Baltimore 30, Pittsburgh 13 
The Baltimore Ravens rebounded from a stinging defeat by running over the hated Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Jamal Lewis rushed for 62 yards and two touchdowns and Chester Taylor added a career­high 76 yards on the ground to lead Baltimore to a victory Sunday. 
Eager to atone for a season­opening 20-3 loss in Cleveland, the defending AFC North cham­pions dominated the team they consider their biggest rival. 
"Anytime you can bounce back from a game like we had last week and win like this, it's huge," Ravens receiver Kevin Johnson said. ''We are going to get where we need to go." 
The destination is the Super Bowl, a trek that would have been more imposing if Baltimore (1-1) lost to Pittsburgh (1-1). Detroit 28, Houston 16 
Joey Harrington was the hap­piest guy in Detroit when the Lions drafted Roy Williams. 
It's easy to see why. 

Harrington threw three touch­down passes, tw9 thanks to Williams' spectacular catches, to 
An idea that's really taken off. 
At GE, we believe in the power of ideas. Ideas that not only have created the GE 90, the world's most powerful jet engine, but have continued to propel countless aircraft through the skies. 
We invite you to come power your ideas at GE.We offer careers in Human Resources, IT and Sales & Marketi 
gecareers .com/notredame An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Today is the last day to apply for an on-campus interview with GE. 
Submit your resume on Go Irish by Sept. 20! 
.~·. imagination atVJOrk A diversified technology, financial services, media company . 
. 


lead the Lions past the Houston Texans on Sunday for their first 2-0 start since 2000. 
Williams, the seventh pick overall in April, hacl four recep­tions for 73 yards. 
"He is a natural receiver who uses his hands as well or better than any receiver I've seen," Harrington said. Chicago 21, Green Bay 10 
Lovie Smith didn't take long to fulfill his No. 1 goal of beating Green Bay. 
But the man who helped him do it wasn't around afterward to celebrate. 
Mike Brown, whose 95-yard fumble return for a touchdown sparked the Bears' victory over the Packers on Sunday, was lost for what could be an extended period with a right Achilles' ten­don injury in the waning min­utes. 
When Smith was hired as Bears coach on Jan. 15, he declared his top priority was knocking off the Packers, the two-time defending division champs. 
"I've never been in a fight where some guy told me he was going to beat me up and he beat me up," Packers linebacker Nick Barnett said. 
Not only did Smith declare the Packers his top prize, but said he knew just how to beat them. The last two times he'd faced Green Bay was as the St. Louis Rams' defensive coordinator and the Packers committed a combined 10 turnovers in those games. 
Brett Favre threw two inter­ceptions Sunday, but the killer was Ahman Green's fumble just before halftime. 
On first down from the 2 just after the 2-minute warning, linebacker Brian Urlacher stormed into the backfield and stripped Green. Brown scooped it up and rumbled 95 yards down the Bears' jubilant sideline to give Chicago a 14-3 halftime lead instead of a 10-7 deficit. 
It was Brown's fifth defensive score, a team record, and the second-longest fumble return in Bears history. 


Monday, September 20, 2004 ·page 19
n

The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Rice's streak ends as Raiders pick up first win of season 
ASsociated Press 
Raiders will no longer rely as I'll just start another one and ed almost every other play dur­OAKlAND, Calif.-Reality hit much on Rice in their talented get another 200." ing Oakland's second-to-last · Jerry Rice in the final minutes receiving corps. Rice's record Rice is still a starter, but has drive. He came out with 2:37 and his spontaneous reaction streak of 274 games with a said he's willing to accept a left during a Buffalo timeout was somewhat shocking: He catch ended, and Curry caught lesser role for the Raiders (1-1) and threw his helmet to the kicked a yard marker and five passes for 89 yards and a if it helps the team rebound ground, causing it to bounce 
hurled his helmet at the 
touchdown in the Raiders' 13-from last season's 4-12 debacle. over a metal bench. ground. 10 victory over the Buffalo Bills He didn't get a pass thrown his He yelled in frustration and 
Rice didn't figure his team­on Sunday. way until 2 1/2 minutes before paced the sideline for several first attitude would lead to the "I expect to catch footballs," halftime -and that was the minutes, twice taking a seat end of his NFL-record recep­Rice said. "I never thought it only one. alone on a bench. tions streak. would come to an end like this. The last time Rice didn't catch Afterward, he joked about the 
But Ronald Curry's big day But, you know, it's OK. It's all a pass was Dec. 1, 1985, at whole thing. Sunday is a sign the Oakland right. It happens. Life goes on. Washington. Rice was substitut-"Oh yeah, I was working on 

(THAT'S WHAT GIRLFRIENDS ARE FOR) 

• 
Unlimited Nights and Weekends 

• 
FREE Text Messaging through November 13th 


f< US.Cellular
•Includes Nationwide long Distance 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
300 Bonus Minutes reQuireS activation of anew TalkTracker® service With $30 ~vation lee. Bonus Minutes expire 60 days from laSt refiH and are available in the local caRing area only and are used after package minutes. Bonus Minutes oo not apply to roammg, directory assistance oc international cal charges. Unlimited Nights and Weekends promotioo is alimi1ed line offer ooly available oo T~Tracker Trackel1'ack Plans S40 and higher. Night and weekend mirutes_ are valid Mooday~Friday 9pm to 5:59am and all day Salllrllay and Sunday. Free Text Messaging through 11n3104. thereafter S5.9fw'mo. for 250 messages. Must cal to cancel. PrornOOonal phooe otfer reqUires activation at a new TalkTraclc8r serw:e.l'rlrTIOOooal phooe IS SUbject to cnange. Urnited time dfer. Restrictioos may apply. Rlr TalkTraCker coverage and restridionS, see the coverage map and brochure available in u.s. Cellular stores and authoriZed agems. C2004 u. S. Celular Corporation 
.....
.·-~~-"-~·-,_·-.··· ....... _. 

my kicking, just in case 
(Sebastian Janikowski) had a 
little trouble, "Rice said of boot­
ing the 30-yard marker. "I'm a 
competitor. You get a little frus­
trated at times and I apologize 
for that. Otherwise, I just enjoy 
the game and I love being a 
part of it, and I want to con­
tribute to the team. It didn't 
happen today." 
Drew Bledsoe's first career 
game in Oakland wasn't much 
fun, either. Playing before 
Raider Nation for the first time 
in his 12th season, Bledsoe was 
sacked seven times and strug­
gled for the second straight 
week to take advantage of good 
field position. 
Three of the sacks came in 
the first half, when Bledsoe's 31 
yards passing were only seven 
more than those of Bills punter 
Brian Moorman. In Buffalo's 
first two games, it has failed to 
score on five drives of 10 plays 
or more. 
N.Y. Jets 34, San Diego 28 
Curtis Martin and the New 
York Jets are off to a hot 
September start, thanks to 
another big day in sunny San 
Diego. 
Martin scored on the Jets' 
first two possessions and 
became the team's all-time 
rushing leader, helping New 
York to a win Sunday over the 
Chargers, who lost quarterback 
Drew Brees to a concussion. 
Martin scored on runs of 1 and 2 yards and finished with 119 yards on 32 carries. With 8,185 yards in seven seasons with the Jets, he broke Freeman McNeil's old team record of 8,074. Martin has 11,984 yards in 10 NFL sea­sons, good for 11th on the all­time list. Next up is Thurman Thomas with 12,074. 
Chad Pennington threw two touchdown passes for the Jets (2-0). and rookie safety Erik Coleman had an interception and a fumble recovery. 
The Jets are 2-0 for just the second time in 11 seasons. 
"September ghosts. whatever, I don't buy into it,"Martin said. "We just haven't been playing well in the beginning of the sea­son. We've got the right attitude this year and we are playing better, period." 
The Jets jumped to a 17-0 lead, then didn't fold when the Chargers finally got into the game. 
The Chargers (1-1) were booed often during their home opener. Brees sustained a con­cussion late in the third quarter on a helmet-to-helmet hit by safety Jon McGraw, who was called for roughing the passer. 
Brees finished that drive and was in for two more posses­sions, throwing a 33-yard TD pass to Reche Caldwell to pull the Chargers to 27-21 with 7:38 to play. 
Brees was pulled for 41-year­old Doug Flutie with less than four minutes to go and the Chargers trailing 34-21. Brees wasn't happy about it, throwing his helmet on the sideline and having a heated discussion with coach Marty Schottenheimer. 
Brees went from being impressive in a 27-20 win at Houston to being awful, throw­ing two interceptions and losing a fumble. By midway through the third quarter, he'd thrown as many interceptions as com­pletions, finishing 8-of-19 for 146 yards. 
a 

page 20 Monday, September 20, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Marlins keep wildcard hope alive, avoid sweep 
-
Associated Press and Alou doubled up the left­single with two outs in the ninth center field gap for a 3-1 lead. off Mesa for his 2,000th career 
MIAMI -With their playoff Sammy Sosa was walked inten­hit. The Mets stood on the hopes fading and their pitching tionally, and Michael Barrett hit dugout steps and applauded the staff taxed by an onerous a two-run double for his third milestone hit, before Zeile came September schedule, the Florida straight hit. out for pinch-runner Gerald Marlins received a boost from an "The umpire has the fmal say," Williams. unlikely source: their fifth Graves said. "If he says he's safe, Cota had both of Pittsburgh's starter. he's safe. You can't let that affect hits against Aaron Heilman (1-2) 

Ismael Valdez pitched six you. I couldn't get the ball down in the first seven innings. Cota, innings to help the Marlins earn at all. Every sinker I threw was catching while Jason Kendall their 14th shutout of the season, up, and against a team like that, serves his three-game suspen­and they averted a series sweep with a lineup that never ends, sion, led off the third with his by beating the Atlanta Braves on you can't afford to get the ball fifth homer. He also singled in Sunday. up." the fifth, helping the Pirates 
Jeff Conine drove in all of the Jon Leicester (5-0) pitched a improve to 4-1 against the Mets. runs with a two-run homer and perfect eighth, and LaTroy Pittsburgh 6, N.Y. Mets 1 an RBI single. Hawkins finished for his 23rd The Pittsburgh Pirates are 
"It all has to do with fighting," save in 29 chances. running an aggressive campaign ') to push for Jason Bay as the NL 
I 
·, ) Valdez said. "It was a huge game Glendon Rusch, starting for us. We needed this." because Matt Clement was Rookie of the Year. The slugging 
The defending World Series pushed back to the second game outfielder's numbers might champions, clinging to slim of Monday's doubleheader at speak for themselves. hopes in the playoff race, won Florida, faced one batter over Bay hit a two-run homer-his for only the second time in six the minimum through six 24th -to set a team rookie games. They remained 4 1/2 innings. record and Dave Williams games behind wild-card leader "He was a factor, because he pitched six shutout innings to San Francisco and trail NL East gave us a chance to win," Cubs help the Pirates complete a dou­three hits over the first six because it won the season series leader Atlanta by 8 1/2 games. manager Dusty Baker said. bleheader sweep of the New innings. He walked two and 11-8 and Chicago would get the 
"There's still hope," manager "He made some great pitch­York Mets with a victory Sunday. struck out seven. wild -card spot. 
,.., 
\ Jack McKeon said. "We're going ers," said Barrett, the Chicago The Pirates won the first game Former Pirate Kris Benson La Russa wants to clinch it on i out there and giving it our best catcher. "He was hitting his on backup catcher Humberto (12-12) had a streak of 18 the field. He stormed out of his shot. We still think we have a spots." Cota's home run and a combined shutout innings until the fourth. postgame news conference after chance to win this thing. Who's Wilson allowed five hits in three-hitter by Ryan Vogelsong, Jack Wilson led off with a double angrily responding to a question to say we can't win seven or eight innings, struck out six -Salomon Torres and Jose Mesa. and Bay hit a 2-2 pitch over the about delaying the traditional 
_eight or nine in a row? We've including leadoff batter Corey Despite missing the first month left-center wall. champagne celebration. done it before." Patterson four times -and of the season while recovering Todd Zelle got an infield single "Yeah, we're celebrating," La Florida fans haven't given up walked none. He is 0-4 in 10 from offseason shoulder surgery, in the ninth off Mesa for his Russa barked. "What the hell h'ope. The announced atten­starts since beating Milwaukee Bay is hitting .294 with 7 5 RBis. 2,000th hit. kind of question is that? That's a 
dance was 41,525, the Marlins' on July 8, twice leaving games "He has my vote," Pirates Arizona 3, St. Louis 2 rule for the thing when you're 
, I 
I) largest home crowd since April with leads that were blown by manager Lloyd McClendon said. In Tony La Russa's version of tied at the end of the season. 
10. his bullpen. "He's been phenomenal, espe­the NL standings, the St. Louis We've got another 14 games to The Marlins are scheduled to Pittsburgh 1, N.Y. Mets 0 cially with the number of at-bats Cardinals still have to win one go, man." play their third doubleheader in Humberto Cota homered, Ryan he's done this in." more game to clinch the Central The clubhouse was unusually11 days Monday against the Vogelsong allowed two hits in With his 24th homer, Bay division title. quiet and subdued after the Chicago Cubs, one of four teams seven innings and the Pittsburgh passed the club mark he shared The Cardinals manager game. The Cardinals start a tO­ahead of Florida in the wild-card Pirates beat the New York Mets with Ralph Kiner (1948) and refused to acknowledge his team game trip Monday in Milwaukee. ... race . to stop a five-game losing streak Johnny Rizzo (1936). already had clinched the divi­"The formula says we clinched,"They're all pretty much must­in the first game of a double­"The closer you get to it, the sion, both before and after we clinched," pitcher Jason wins from here on," Conine said. header Sunday. more you think about it," Bay Sunday's loss to the Arizona Marquis said. "You've got to be 
He broke up a scoreless duel in Vogelsong {6-12) allowed just said. "You try not to think about Diamondbacks. happy about that. But it does the sixth against Russ Ortiz (14-two singles, both in the fourth it, but it was in the back of my St. Louis ensured its third divi­seem a little depressed in here." 
9) with a two-run homer, then inning, leading the Pirates to mind. When I got back to the sion title in five seasons on Drew Baur, one of the singled home an unearned run their ninth victory in 21 games. dugout, I kind of let out a sigh. I Saturday when the Cardinals Cardinals' owners, said simply::! in the eighth. He walked three, hit a batter and don't think it's sunk in yet. beat Arizona 7-0, and San "No shampoo today." 
I . 
I i Chicago Cubs 5, Cincinnati 1 struck out three. ''I'm really proud of what I've Francisco and the Chicago Cubs Before the game, even though
I) With a little help from an Salomon Torres pitched a per­done. I can't explain it. Things both lost. T-shirts commemorating the
I • 
I umpires, the Chicago Cubs won fect eighth, and Jose Mesa got have just gone really well for me. Those results guaranteed that achievement already were onf for the sixth time in seven three outs for his 40th save -I just wanted to get settled in St. Louis will finish no worse sale outside the ballpark and games. becoming the sixth pitcher in here and prove that I belonged. I than tied at 97 wins with the public address announcer John Neifi Perez opened the ninth major league history to have at think I've done that and now I Cubs, who also would be guaran­Ulett referred to the clinching of 
inning by reaching first base on least four seasons with 40 or just need to continue to get bet­teed a playoff berth. Under base­a playoff spot, La Russa pre­a disputed call, and Moises Alou more. ter." ball's rules, St. Louis would be ferred to ignore the mathemat­
hit a tiebreaking two-run double Todd Zeile reached an infield Williams (2-1) held the Mets to awarded the Central title ics. that sent the Cubs on to a victory over the Cincinnati Reds. 
"We know what's at stake," Alou said. "That was a big win for us." 
Chicago, which remained a 
ND LAW FAIR 
half-game behind San Francisco
)\ 
in the wild-card race, trailed 1-0 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21
r before pinch-hitter Ben Grieve's
:·l 
sacrifice fly off Paul Wilson in the 
11 a.m.-3 p.m.
eighth. Perez opened the ninth against 
JACC Concourse 
Danny Graves {1-6) with a bunt and reached when first-base umpire Jim Reynolds ruled that 
Enjoy a double. order of chicken, steak 
,} thir.d baseman Ryan Freel's :j throw pulled first baseman Sean 
or combo faji.ras (e.noueh for fwo)
l''J Casey off the bag for an error. i' Replays indicated Casey stayed 
for jus± t111* 
I on the bag, but he tried a swipe
l 
i tag on Perez, anyway. «'"( "I don't know if he was on the
l; 

bag or not, but he never touched 
Please come chat with Admissions
.l! 
i

me," Perez said. "That's why 
IT
( {Reynolds} called me safe." 
Representatives who will answer your Reds manager Dave Miley was 
I 
" 
questions and provide information and
~; ejected for the third time this season when he threw his cap to 
materials on law schools. 
the ground while arguing the call 
GRILL &BAR
;! 
with Reynolds. 

II 
I "Bad call," Miley said. "I didn't 
Students of all levels are welcome to this
need a replay. I saw the replay, 
M.ISIIAWAI<A but I didn't need one. That was a 
informal event.
4610 Grape Rd.
huge call in the game. That was a big out in the game. The first 271-1330
l, out of any inning is a big one." I
*Mar vahd .;.::::;:;;
i1 Aramis Ramirez then singled, 
••••••••••••~~~i~~i@l~J&l$.~~f~~lltt~~:~~;~~t~~~j~~Jt~~tt~til~~~w~~iM1tf1¥t~~~~t%~ 
•' 

Monday, September 20, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Jaguars defeat Broncos, pull out another close victory 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -The Jacksonville Jaguars are accus­tomed to playing close games. Now they're finding ways to win them, too. 
The Jags lost three games in the final minute last season and finished 5-11. They've won twice this season in the waning seconds. 
Denver running back Quentin Griffin fumbled a handoff on the 23-yard line with about 30 sec­onds to play, allowing the Jaguars to escape with a 7-6 victory over the Broncos on Sunday. 

Last week at Buffalo, Byron Leftwich connected with rookie Ernest Wilford for a 7-yard touchdown pass as time expired to give the Jaguars a 13-10 win. 
"We're keeping the cardiolo­gists busy in town," coach Jack Del Rio said. 
Jacksonville (2-0) has played outstanding defense both weeks. But the unit almost gave this one away down the stretch. 
Carolina 28, Kansas City 17 
DeShaun Foster showed the Carolina Panthers should be just fine without Stephen Davis. 
Running around and through Kansas City's soft defense, Foster carried 32 times for 174 yards, including a team-record 71-yard burst, in leading the defending NFC Champion Panthers to a victory over the 
e First Lesson She Learned Year Was How to Save. 
Disposable 
ntact Lenses 
YEAR SUPPLY 

98* 
flJiiiittY After Manufacturers• Rebate *See store for details. 
BROADMOOR PLAZA 
291-4000 
RECIPIENTS OF THE 
2004 CHARLES E. SHEEDYAwARD 
FOR EXCELLENCE IN TEACHING 

William H. Leahy A. PeterWalshe 
Professor ofE(onomks and PolicY { Studies Protessor ofPolitical Science 
Presentation will be on Friday, September 24,2004 at 4:00p.m. Annenberg Auditorium ofthe Snite Museum Reception tofo/IMJJ 
UNIVERSITY ' OF NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Chiefs on Sunday. 
The total was 4 yards short of the team record held by Davis, who is out indefinitely after spraining his knee in practice last week. 
"I had no idea that I was close to the record," Foster said. "I just wanted to get 150 yards," he said. "You always have to step up when somebody goes down." 
The Chiefs (0-2) were still within reach at 21-17 when Foster iced the game with his long gallop, which was followed immediately by a 3-yard TO run that gave the Panthers an 11­point lead with 10:35 left. 
"It wasn't that big," Foster said. "I went to the left and made a little cut back right and it was open." 
The play unfolded like a night­mare for the Chiefs, who showed no signs of making any improvement to one of the NFL's sorriest defenses. 
New Orleans 30, San 
Francisco 27 
The New Orleans Saints dodged a hurricane and the San Francisco 49ers and survived the loss of their biggest offen­sive weapon Deuce McAllister. 
Aaron Brooks rallied the Saints in the final two minutes, taking them 59 yards and hit­ting Donte' Stallworth for a 16­yard touchdown and a victory over the 49ers on Sunday. 
Ashley Ambrose intercepted Ken Dorsey's pass with :04 left to preserve the victory. 
"It's very hard to win in this league," Ambrose said. "You have a lot of games that come down to three points or less. This was one of those games. You have to play a full 60 min­utes because a lot of them are going to be settled in the last few minutes." 
The 49ers got to the Saints 1 on Terry Jackson's long run with a short pass, but offensive 
pass interference against 
Brandon Lloyd nullified the play. 
On the next play, 1-\mbrose 
grabbed Dorsey's pass. 
The Saints spent the week in 
San Antonio, practicing on three 
different fields while they wor­
ried· about their homes. 
McAllister, who sprained his 
right ankle on the third play, 
spent the rest of the day on the 
sideline in an orthopedic boot. 
McAllister will have an MRI 
exam on Monday. 
N.Y. Giants 20, Washington 14 
The New York Giants' defense 
presented embattled coach Tom 
Coughlin with his first game 
ball. The gift wrapping was 
courtesy of the Washington 
Redskins. 
Linebacker Barrett Green 
scored on a 16-yard fumble 
return and the Giants forced 
seven turnovers in a win on 
Sunday that was Coughlin's first 
since taking over as coach in 
January. 
"Everybody on this defense 
felt we didn't perform well last 
week," Green said, referring to 
a 31-17 loss to Philadelphia. 
"This week we felt like we had 
to send a message to get this 
team going." 
The seven takeaways were the 
most by the Giants in a non­
strike game since 1986 against 
Washington in clinching the 
NFC East title. New York went · on to win its first Super Bowl. 
While few think these Giants 
are a contender, this was the 
best they have looked in a while. 
The win snapped a franchise 
record-tying nine-game losing 
streak. New York lost its last 
eight under Jim Fassel in 2003. 
It also took some of the pres­
sure ofT Coughlin, who has been 
criticized by players and media 
for his no-nonsense approach. 
"We definitely needed a win 
with all that was going on 
around here," defensive end 
Michael Strahan said. "Winning 
helps heal some of that." 
Show us your Student ID and receive 
% 
OFF 

ALL SALON SERVICES 
& 

HAIR CARE PROD.UCTS 
Monday -Thursday only Regular price haircuts 
$13.95 

I,I 

page 22 Cof..1PILED FRO,h.,\ THE 0BSERVEltS vVIRE SERVtCES Monday, September 20, 2004 

'', 

' 
'\ 




: j : ~ 
I J 
: I 
'( 
I I I ' 1 
I I I I 
I / I I I) 
!(j. :~! :JI!' 
I I 
I ( I J I I 
I J 
I I, 
I·
1) 
:; 
lj~ "< 
tl 
~ i t· 

around the dial 
NFL VIkings at Eagles 8 p.m., ABC 
MLB 

Cubs at Marlins 3:35 p.m., WGN Cardinals at Brewers 6:35 p.m., FSN 
POKER 2004 World Cup Series 8 p.m., ESPN 
GOLF 


Associated Press "I don't think we'll be "These guys are grand," 'USA, USA, USA.' I wanted the favorite next time," U.S. captain Hal Sutton to hear some of this," 
BLOOMFIELD TOWN­Phil Mickelson said. "No said. "If you know any­Langer said. "You work 12 SHIP, Mich. -The Ryder matter what the world thing about golf, and you months for this. I'm going Cup won, Sergio Garcia rankings say, I think we'll watch these guys play this to celebrate all night." and Lee Westwood raced be the underdog. And week, you would know For the Americans, the 
to their boisterous fans hopefully, we'll play like that they are very good hangover will last two and unfurled the European they have." players." years. Union flag, the new symbol The final stroke of this And they sure know how "I've been on the wrong of dominance in these Ryder Cup rout was fitting. to party. end of this celebration the matches. Padraig Harrington Harrington, Paul last two times," David 
They came to Oakland rammed in a 25-foot par McGinley and Darren Toms said. "I don't know Hills as underdogs. They putt on the 18th hole for a Clarke wrapped them­what it is, but we've got to celebrated as underdogs. point that counted only in selves in Irish flags. Colin find the right formula." 
By now, everyone should the record books. Montgomerie ventured The Europeans are not 
know better. Europe 18 1/2, United into the throng for a group only winning, they are 
Europe again proved to States 9 1/2. hug unlike anything he has winning big. be the best in the Ryder The score was astound­ever felt. "Obviously, our results Cup with its greatest per­ing. The winner was famil­"Bernhard, Bernhard, would suggest that," 
formance Sunday, handing iar. there's only one Bernhard Clarke said. "We come the Americans their worst Europe has won the Langer," the fans sang to here with a big heart, full loss in the 77 -year history Ryder Cup four of the last the European captain. of hopes, full of expecta­of the matches. five times, and seven of 10. "All I heard all week was tions. 
IN BRIEF 

Purdue's Orton remains "His demeanor is different, such the hopefuls were pared down to 12 humble in midst of awards that I can't see that impacting him," over several strenuous months of 
INDIANAPOLIS -Purdue's early Tiller said. "I'm not at all concerned auditions. He contrasted that to the season success has been good to about Kyle Orton or any hype sur­2004 team, whose players were quarterback Kyle Orton. rounding his play as much as I assured roster slots. 
After a career day against Ball would be concerned about hype sur­The players that brought home a State on Saturday, Orton took home rounding our team." bronze medal from Athens did not three awards, the Walter Camp Knight critisizes Olympic practice together long, and he said Football Foundation national offen­Team play and coaching for that reason they did not develop sive player of the week, Big Ten SAN ANTONIO -Texas Tech into a team whose players were 
offensive player of the week and coach Bob Knight said Friday that toughened by a common struggle. Cingular Wireless/ABC Sports All­the U.S. Olympic men's basketball Hall of Fame budget is cut America player of the week. team didn't win the gold medal in SOUTH BEND -The City Council 
Orton was 23-for-26 for 329 yards Athens last month because the play­has moved toward cutting by 
and a career-high five touchdowns ers were too pampered on and off $200,000 the amount of money it on Saturday. He also ran for a score the court. gives to support the College Football in No. 18 Purdue's 59-7 win over the Knight, speaking to a gathering Hall of Fame. 
Cardinals. sponsored by the San Antonio Sports The cut came in a budget amend­
In two games this season, he has Foundation, said things would have ment introduced Councilman David thrown for 616 yards and nine been different had he been the Varner, who says it is time for the touchdowns with no interceptions. team's coach instead of Larry Brown. hall, operated by the National 
As the awards, and the Heisman He recalled his own Olympic expe­Football Foundation, to start sup­talk, start piling up, coach Joe Tiller rience in Los Angeles with a squad porting itself. said worrying about how the senior that included Michael Jordan, Chris His amendment, which was from Altoona, Iowa, will handle the Mullin, Sam Perkins and Joe Kleine. approved 5-4 during Sept. 13's coun­
attention is the furthest thing from More than 70 players were invited cil meeting, would trim city spending his mind. to try out for the team, he said, and next year by about 25-percent. 
Monday, September 20, 2004 
page 23

The Observer+ SPORTS 
SMC SoccER 

Saint Mary's can't net game-winner, ties 1-1 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Spans Wrirer 
Sometimes, it's just one of those days. 
Saturday was one of those days (or the Belles, who pulled off a 1-1 tie with Alma College "We played fairly well, but we after two overtimes despite just couldn't finish," sophomore having numerous chances to goalie Nicole Leach said. "We put the game away. didn't play bad at all. We just 

Saint Mary's took nearly 25 had some trouble getting it into shots on goal throughout the the net. I guess it was just one game but was unable to convert of those days." time and time again. The Belles came out slowly 
' -· .:.:: :.. ·: :·:;:: _::. ;. .· ...::::·<. :::-<:·(/::::.. :: :-:::·:-::::;.-:-;:..·... 
There's no better place to begin YPJ#I": ca-r:~t thah sf.Pa~l Tra~elers. As America's 2nd largest property-casua!tyii1$.uieband6rie<6fthe largest financial firms, we offer a wide variety of qpporfunitiesand training with our exceptional development pro­
grams. Whether you'd like to begin your career in Actuarial Science, Finance, Information Technology or Insurance, we have the program for you. If your degree is less specialized, we offer programs for Liberal Arts majors. We also have leadersh :::·~ftt=t/J 
development programs and specialized product training. If you're looki · pany that is interested in personal contributions and career h,JIQOI(I'l.. J~tnmr~r~: ::::::'' 


We are coming t() Resume Drop Dati!! · Pre4ritervi.(!\vllnformation Session: 10104/04 Time: 6pm • 7pm 
Location: TBD Interviews: 1 0/05/04 (2 sessions) 
If you can't join us, please submit resume to: College R St. Paul Travelers, One Tower Square, lMN, .. ·· rtf~~rd;tc··~r:· QQUISS)M;'E)(J':''''' Fax: 860-277-1970. E-mail: college~®~tpaQ1~1tt~'$1~1i'S~t:ortt 
For more information cwt.~u:l'QliJ onioortu=rmH~s stpaultravelers.corl'l :: > 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

INNSBRUCK 
Information Meeting 
With Professor Gernot Gurtler, Director ofthe Innsbruck Program 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 311 DEBARTOLO 
4:30-6:00 pm 
Applications Available wwwlnd.eduf.......intlstud Questions?-Weher.l5@nd.edu Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004 
against Alma, giving up a goal early in the first half to fall behind 1-0. Saint Mary's kept the ball in its opponent's zone for much of the first half, but was unable to get on the score­board. 
"We tend to come out slow, and then take most of the first half to settle down and get into our groove," sophomore Caroline Stancukas said. "It was not a lack of an effort on our part -it was just a bad day." 

The Belles entered the half trailing 1-0, marking the first time they have been trailing at the half all year. Coach Mackenzie and the players con­sidered switching the team's defensive strategy for the sec­ond half from the flat-back four, the new system Mackenzie has implemented this year, to a sys­tem known as the sweeper/stopper defense, which the team used at times in the past. 
"We thought about switching, but we don't really want to fall back on something else just because the flat-back four isn't working," Stancukas said.-·­
Saint Mary's appeared to shake its early sluggishness after the half, coming out strong in the second half and tying the game at 1-1 when Jen Concannon knocked in a corner kick from Carrie Orr for the equalizer. 
The Belles used strong defense the rest of the way to keep the game even. 
"Our defense played well; the other team probably only had about five or six shots on goal during the entire game," Leach said. "We dominated them, no question. They were a good team, but we were obviously stronger. It was just one of those days where we couldn't quite get it in the net." 
Despite the team's strong sec­ond half play, the Belles were unable to take the lead, and settled for a tie after two 10­minute periods of overtime. 
"It was really a great effort by the team," Stancukas said. "We played as hard as we could through two overtimes, so peo­ple were going for up to 110 minutes. It was a real good effort all-around." 
Although they remain unde­feated in MIAA conference play, the Belles were disappointed to come away with only a tie. 
"We just got unlucky as far as not getting the win; we had our chanc'es," Leach said. "If some of the calls went our way, and some of the balls bounced our way, we could have easily won." 
Rather than focus on their shortcomings, however, the team looks forward to the future. 
"The first thing we said when we got off the field was, 'We can't wait to play them again on our home field,"' Leach said. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy1@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles lose in 4 games, drop to 1-7 on season 
By JUSTIN STETZ 
Sporrs Writer 
The Belles lost their second 

straight volleyball match on 
Saturday, falling to Adrian 
College in four games. 
Saint Mary's finally came out 

strong, winning the first game 
but failed to capitalize and lost 
the next three. 
The loss drops the Belles to 1­

7 overall this season. They have 
lost five of their last six divi­
sional matchups and currently 
reside in seventh place in the 
MIAA. 
The match marked only the second time this year that Saint Mary's was able win the first game in the match. 
In game one, they defeated the Bulldogs, 30-25. The Belles lost the second game, managing to score only 17 points. 
Adrian College then made it three in a row by winning games three and four, 30-20 and 30-28. 
It was the defense that strug­gled on the night and failed to nold back Adrian's offensive attack. 
"Statistically speaking, and from game experience, I can confidently say that it was the defense," Saint Mary's Michelle Turley said. "Offensively, Adrian presented us with a stronger block than we are used to see­ing, and our defense should've been stronger and more reli­able than it was." 
On the day, Elise Rupright 

and Turley played well on 
offense. registering 14 and 13 
kills, respectively. The defense 
was lead by Michelle Gary and 
Amanda David, both of whom 
had 17 digs. Shelly Bender was 
third on the team with 11 digs 
of her own. 
Saint Mary's has struggled from its first game of the sea­son. 
Their defense and overall communication continues to hamper the team's growth and effectiveness. These problems need to be addressed quickly if they have any hopes of advanc­ing into the tournament. 
"I think we are still in the process of trying to solidify a starting lineup," Turley said. "We have a lot of people com­peting for the same spot right now, and most days it just depends on whoever is playing _,... better, but hopefully as the sea­son continues to develop we will have a better indication of who those starters are." 
The win moves Adrian College to 6-7 on the year and puts them in fourth place in the conference with an overall record of 3-1. 
Saint Mary's does not take the court again until 7 p.m. Wednesday when it travels to the University of Chicago. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

Unbeaten 
continued from page 28 
spectacular, making six saves and also received some help when her defenders cleared two other Irish shots off the goal line. Notre Dame didn't help its own cause either, hit­ting the crossbar twice. 
But the Irish roster seems to get deeper every game. Senior defender Kate Tulisiak scored the first point of her career when she intercepted a pass and then assisted on Cinalli's game-winning goal. Tulisiak missed much of the 2003 sea­

' 
'I son with a back injury but is :l making the most of her senior­year comeback. "It's an awesome feeling to be able to contribute to the 


'I 
') Sixth 
\ continued from page 28
d 
): 
II 
'I finals, really only about 15 teams go in there with the mindset that they'll win it. The No. 1 on a top­15 team like that 
J ) always gives you 
Monday, September 20, 2004 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 

team like I was able to do tonight," she told und.com. "Last spring, I gained a lot of confidence just playing in games and the same goes with this summer" 
"Our depth was a key tonight because of the tempo of the game," Waldrum said. "It was end-to-end, like an NBA game." 
Syracuse gave the Irish a scare as well. After sophomore Jen Buczkowski's fourth goal of the season gave the Irish a 1-0 lead early in the first half, Notre Dame held the lead until Syracuse's Kelly Bailey sailed a crossing pass into the Irish net to even the score at one. The feat was a rare one as only two other schools in the last 3 7 games have come from behind to tie the Irish. But with 7:11 to play, Thorlakson took a pass 

'H\\td CAN A 

ROAD TRIP 
TEACH US ABOUT 

CAREER CHOICES? 
• 

The journey can lead to amazing discoveries 
For some, moving toward the unknown can cause uncertainty. Others embrace the adventure with open arms. That's why we take an individual approach in supporting your needs, instilling conf1dence through training, taking time to help evaluate the many options available and providing you with guidance to move in a new direction. At Wachovia, that's our commitment to your career. · 
To learn more about Corporate and Investment Banking Analyst opportunities, please join us at 
The Morris Inn 

7:30_p.m., Wednesday, September 22 Refreshments will be served 

junior Eric Deutsch, who fin­ished in a tie for 12th place with a 10-over par 
220. In two tough tournaments, Deutsch has posted two top-20

~ 
performances, a good start by~~ any standards. Deutsch, who is

',,, 
very close to teammate Scott ' 1 Gustafson who was injured in a 
' / 
, ·I car accident Thursday took his '•/ 
friend's misfortune very hard. However. according to Jasinski. he showed great mental forti­

!il 
tude in his performance this

: J 
weekend. 

"He wasn't sure he'd be able to play," Jasinski said about Deutsch's initial reaction to the accident, "but he was able to turn that around and go per­form. His attention to what the team needed was extremely good." 
Gustafson is recovering from 
his injuries, and 
should rejoin 

I the ability to hid "The neat part about the Irish team a bad round, in three weeks
our team is that we
and he's not at to a month. 
that point yet," keep finding more and His absence 
Jasinski said more guys who can will provide an about Isban, opportunity for
contribute good 
before conclud­some of the
rounds."
ing "The good team's younger thing is that he players to be wants to be that thrown into the
John Jasinski 
guy, and all the mix a little bit
Irish coach 
intangibles are more.l part of his Two of those game." players were
l Despite this Jasinski is still freshmen Greg Rodgers and very confident about the makeup Mike King, who finished tied for of his team and its' prospects for 37th place after finishing with the season. 228s. Sophomore "The neat part Shane Sigsbee, about our team is playing in his first that we keep fmd­"His attention to event this season ing more and and turned in a
what the team 
more guys who 239 to finish in
needed was
can contribute 72nd. good rounds," he extremely good" Despite the said. scare and the loss 
One of those of one of his bet­
John Jasinski 
contributors is ter players,
Irish coach 
Jasinski sees an 
opportunity for a 

positive to come from the accident. 
"Our team chemistry hasn't been such where there's a big push to take the bull by the horns," Jasinski said. "Everyone knows [Gustafson] played a huge role, and now there's going to be pressure on some other guys, who could really step up in his absence." 
Contact Eric Retter at erener@nd.edu 
from Candace Chapman and knocked the ball past Orange goalkeeper Shannon Myers to provide the difference in the game. 
Despite the win, Waldrum wants his players to remain sharp with a lead. 
..We basically stopped playing until they tied it up," he said. "It was frustrating not to put them away when we had the chance." 
Notre Dame is now one of only five teams remaining in the 308-team pool of Division 1 collegiate soccer with an unde­feated record. This marks the ninth time in the last 13 years the Irish have been perfect through eight games. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
Ifyou are unable to attend, please review the positions we have posted with University Career Services. 

WACHOVIA SECURITIES 
Uncommon Wisdom 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIO NAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
ATHENS, GREECE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Julliet Mayinja International Study Programs Office, And Returning Students 
**************************************************** 
Monday, September 20, 2004 5:30-7:00 PM 127 Hayes-Healy 
···•················•·································•························ 
Applicaton Deadline: May 1, 2005 for Spring, 2006; Nov. 15, 2004 for Fall 2005 & Academic Year 2005-2006 Applications available on-line: www.rd .edu/-intlstud/ 
: 1J 
I. I. 
I ) I') 
Monday, September 20, 2004 
page 25

The Observer+ SPORTS 
Champs 
continued from page 28 
then my body started to feel it about half way through. I had never run an 8K before, so I was wondering to myself how I was doing," Watson said. "I kind of came around with like a mile to go. Luckily my teammate, Vinny Ambrico, was right there and we worked together to pass the guy who was right behind [Moore]." 

The Irish led all 30 schools 

with an impressive 19 points. Gonzaga came in second with 106 points and Xavier took third with 139 points. Rounding out the top 10 were Dayton, DePaul, Loras, Detroit-Mercy, St. Vincent, Holy Cross and St. Martin's. 
I 
' 

W®&JE!NRJ® ~g@ fllmiJil uan 
tragedyintojoyfear into relief 
~@0[Ji) Orru~© o®cru~~ ,?'.:.' S'p:(·-~a-----~lr-.. t;-o:-h-ope­
d IImn.-,·. ·.. .
..:). . .....:.... ! .· .. 
Loss into Life ··~ 
Every organ donor has the potential to directly enhance 50 lives. "The Gift of Hope~® is the most lasting legacy we can leave. Take time to talk to your family about your organ and tissue donation wishes. 
8:15PM Tuesday, September 21: Donation Information Night at 8:15 in the McGlinn Hall Chapel 
8:00PM Thursday, September 23: Prayer Vigil at Grotto 
To learn more about Organ Donation and McGlinn Hall Organ and Tissue Donation Awareness Week visit 
wwvv.nd.edu/---mcg I inn 

lw{o~to"" Mutt~s SPM :t~ ~Ayas-ltEiALY 
T1A.a5J:)Ay, seP1eM~eR­ :21  
0~  
MON]:)A:y,  OCTO~eR­ 4  

Ryan Johnson, sixth, Austin 

Weaver, seventh, Daniel Driscoll, 
eighth and Dan Curren, ninth, 
also placed in the top 10 for the 
Irish. 
"We started a little bit fast out 

of the gate because we know 
that the first mile at the ND 
Invite is going to be pretty quick, 
so we wanted to get a little taste 
of that," Watson said. 
Notre Dame's impressive showing was not surprising con­sidering the Irish have won the National Catholic Invitational for 1 0 years in a row, and 1 7 of the 25 races ever. 
The women were equally impressive on Friday, continuing a streak of dominance in this event, winning the Invitational for the eleventh time 'in 13 years. 
Moore wasn't the only Notre Dame runner to win individually. Junior, Stephanie Media fmished first in the women's race with a time of 17:38. Teammate Sonni Olding finished second with a time of 17:40, in what was her first race as a Notre Dame run­ner. Olding, who was highly tout­ed by coaches prior to the sea­son's start, proved she deserved the praise with her finish. 
"It was a low key meet for our whole team, so it's a good confi­dence builder for the team to do really well," said Madia. "I haven't run, ever, with our new freshman, Sonni, and it was great to get to race with her and fmd out what it's like to be in a meet together. I think it was good practice for both of us." 
Also finishing in the top 10 for the women were Jean Marinangeli, who finished in sixth place and Elizabeth Webster. who finished in eighth place. 
While the women did not dom­inate their opponents to the same extent that the men ,did, their 28 points were good enough to defeat second place DePaul by a solid 59 points. Rounding out the top 10 finish­ers were Gonzaga, Bellarmine, Xavier, St. Thomas, Dayton. Detriot-Mercy, Holy Cross and Mercy hurst. 
Notre Dame will need to con­tinue running well this Friday, when it hosts the Notre Dame Invitational. 
"We have a lot of work to do as a team, and the ND Invite is a whole new competition level, but I think it's always great to get a good race under your belt," Madia said. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish drop invitational final to South Carolina 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Many volleyball experts 

expected the Irish to lose to 
USC this weekend, but they 
weren't thinking of South 
Carolina. 
The No. 2 Trojans withdrew 
from the Gamecock Invitational 
in Columbia, S.C. this weekend 
because of Hurricane Ivan. 
In their absence, host school 
South Carolina defeated Notre 
Dame in four games, 30-28, 25­
30, 30-22, 30-23 Sunday after­
noon to win the tournament 
and deny Notre Dame the invite 
championship after the Irish 
beat Michigan State 30-22, 24­
30, 30-21, 30-19 on Friday. 
The loss to the Gamecocks 
came despite another fine effort 
from middle blocker Lauren 
Brewster. 
The reigning Big East Player of the Week, Brewster had two excellent matches this week­end. 
She led the team in five statis­tical categories against Michigan State while her six aces against South Carolina, with four coming on a single rotation in the third game, were the most by an Irish player since Angie Harris had a school-record nine against Syracuse in 1995. 
Brewster's efforts put her on the all-tournament team along with teammate Ashley Tarutis. 
The win over Michigan State was the first for Notre Dame over the Spartans since 1994. 
Two aces by Adrianna Stasiuk, five kills from outside hitter Ellen Heintzman and a game-clinching ace by Meg Henican helped to serve up game one up for the Irish. 
Michigan State darted out to leads of 14-8 and 25-12 in game two with seven kills from Kim Schram and 15 assists by Maggie Griffin. 
Brewster helped the Irisb 
keep it close with her five kills, 
but Schram's final kill evened 
the match for Michigan State. 
Notre Dame constructed an 
11-6 lead in the third game 
before the Spartans trimmed 
the Irish lead to 13-12. Five 
kills each from Heintzman and 
Brewster enabled the Irish pull 
away for a 2-1 match lead. 
The Irish never trailed in the 
fourth game as they out hit 
Michigan State .268-.062 and 
pulled away for the 30-19 victo­
ry. 
The Irish jumped out to an 
early 13-5 lead in the first game 
of Sunday's championship 
match against South Carolina, 
but the Gamecocks would not 
go away. 
They went ahead on a 17-4 
run before Lynae Vanden Hull's 
final kill delivered the game one 
win to South Carolina. 
The second game saw the 
Irish record 21 kills along with 
a .409 hitting percentage as Notre Dame led from the start and never looked back. 
The Irish played their best 
.. 

game of the match, committing 
only three errors, to even the 
score at one game apiece. 
In game three, it was the Gamecocks' turn to start quick­ly as they built a 6-2 advantage before Lauren Brewster's four aces propelled the Irish to a 9-6 lead. 
The teams gave up little ground to each other during the middle of the game until South Carolina won seven straight points, behind two aces from Vanden Hull, to go ahead 25-17. 
South Carolina led by as much as nine early in the fourth game, but the Irish fought back / late to cut the deficit to only 25­22. 
That would be as close as it got though as the Gamecocks ran away in the end to win the match and the tournament title. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 20, 2004 
Hoyas 
continued from page 28 
and Wednesday, respectively. 
"A lot of folk had been wor­ried about getting goals," coach Bobby Clark said. "It was nice to see a few lads getting on the score sheet, and hope­fully we'll get a few more games when we'll get some goals." 
In yet another contest where the Irish dominated the periph­eral stats, outshooting the Hoyas 22-5 and taking seven corner kicks to Georgetown's two, it was the Hoyas that struck first. 
In the 34th minute, midfield­er Danny McAnally slotted home a feed past the out­stretched left hand of Irish goalkeeper Chris Sawyer from point blank range to stake Georgetown to a 1-0 advan­tage. 
"It was a disappointing goal," Clark said. "To be honest, from our point of view, we shouldn't be allowing serves in, but goals happen." 
The lead didn't last long. 
Less than a minute after Georgetown (3-4-0, 0-1-0) broke the 0-0 tie, Yoshinaga's chip from the right edge of the box sailed over Hoya goalkeep­er Andrew Keszler's head and into the left post side net to knot the game at 1-1. 
"The nice thing is that we got the reply very quickly," Clark said. "That got us back in the game." 
Following Yoshinaga's equal­izer -his first career goal ­the Irish continued to produce scoring chances, constantly putting pressure on the Hoya defense until freshman forward Joe Lapira put the Irish in front for good at the 71:47 mark. 

Taking a pass from forward Brian Murphy, Lapira beat the last Hoya defender before fir­ing past an approaching Keszler at the top to the box for the eventual game-winning goal. 
Yoshinaga picked up his sec­ond goal of the night, drilling a shot from 18 yards into the upper right corner to double the Irish lead with 14:07 remaining. 
Forward Tony Megna fin­ished off the Irish scoring del­uge with his first goal of the season on a through ball from midfielder Ian Etherington just over three minutes after Yoshinaga found the back of the net, pushing the Irish advantage to 4-1. 
Megna's tally capped off a three-goal, seven-minute Irish run. 
"I thought in the second half we were brilliant." Clark said. "Once we went ahead -once we got the second goal -I felt it was just a matter of time, and if the game had gone on much longer, we would have possibly scored another couple of goals." 
Notre Dame returns to action Thursday when it travels to Morgantown, W.Va. to battle West Virginia before visiting Villanova Sunday afternoon. 
The Irish finish off their four­game stretch against Big East opponents when they welcome Boston College to Alumni Field Oct. 1. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

CLAIRE KELLEY !The Observer 

Mldflelder Jan Etherington, right, makes a cut against a Georgetown defender In the second half Saturday night. Etherington recorded assists on goals by Alex Yoshlnaga and Tony Megna. 
,., 
(U ;s
.••
·. 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles place 26th of 31 at ND Invitational 
By ANNA FRICANO 
Sports Writer 
Megan Gray led the way for the Saint Mary's Friday at the National Catholic Invitational held at the University of Notre Dame. 
Gray, who was 30 seconds shy of her season's best run, fin­ished 89th and was the fastest Belles runner. 
Coach Dave Barstis opted to treat the run as a workout rather than prepare for the race as the team usually would. 
Moreover, the team faced the challenge of running against Division I schools including DePaul and Gonzaga, among others. The team finished 24th overall out of 31 schools, but has come out of the race feeling better prepared for next week's conference meet. 
The squad felt it was better off after having run the difficult race, and it improved on many of its goals for the team. 
The Belles were mainly con­centrating on improving their splits and running together as a team. 
And run together they certain­ly did. 
The top four finishers for Saint Mary's all completed the race within one minute of each othe~ . 
Another standout for the Belles on Friday was sophomore Katie White, who had her best team finish of the year and fell shy of her best time by 16 sec­onds. 

Most importantly, though, is the strength of the team that can be seen from the weekend's top finishers. 
It is evident that any number of runners could step up for the Belles when they compete in their first conference meet next week. Gray and sophomore transfer Meghan Murphy seem to have added a depth to the team that will only help them in upcoming weeks. The two new­comers of the season simply add to the list of top finishers that could emerge from the team. 
"I am not going to put it past these girls to get fourth or bet­ter at the conference meet," Barstis said. 
The Belles certainly seem to be on the path to accomplishing that goal. 
The first indication will come in less than a week when the Belles compete in the MIAA Jamboree at Hope College. The runners all plan on using Friday's race to their benefit, expanding on the improvements they made to prepare for the crucial conference meet this week. 
The team walked away from the Catholic Invitational with an overall success and one more race under its belts, which will only aid them in taking on the conference beginning Saturday. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
The Centerfor Ethics andReligious Values in Business and The Institutefor Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 

Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
(Sponsored by tbe .John A. B~rges Endowment) 
"A Stake in the Game of Business" 
Jack Stack, CEO SRM Holdings 

Tuesday, September 21, 2004 
7:00 p.rn. 

Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
There will be a reception following in the Atrium. Mr. Stack will also be signing his latest book after the lecture 

--------• 
Monday, September 20, 2004 page 27 
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT 
I HAVE A QUESTION FOR THE ETHICS HOTLINE. 
PEANUTS 

E 3 
IS IT OKAY TO RETYPE
c5 
@»• 
THE DIRECTIONS ON E MY BOSS'S PRESCRIP­
i• 
TION MEDICATION?
1 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I KNOVJ I CANT DO THIS NEXT THING BECAUSE I'VE TRIED . 
CHARLES SCHULTZ 

CROSSWORD 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
C2004 Tribune Media SeNices, Inc. All Rights Reaerved. 
BALOT 
j
I I r (] 
~ DEFAUL I 
WHAT THE FLORIST 
FAC.EO WHEN BUSI­
IIJ 
WWW.Iumble.oom 
NESS IMPROIED.

tTRUSEY I 
Now arrange the circled letters to] [) [] form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A"( I I I)"( I I I I I) 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: ANNUL GOURD KETTLE COBALT Answer: The banker hired the seer because he need­ed-A "TELLER" 
WILLSHORTZ 

police drama39 Villain 

53 Norse thunder 46 Can't stand god 58 WB competitor 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kevin Zegers, Alison Sweeney, Jimmy Fallon, Trisha Yearwood 
Happy Birthday: Get your strategy in place and analyze your situation so you are prepared for any unexpected challenges. If you are organized, you will have nothing to worry about and everything to gain. This can be a terrific year as long as you are ready to reach your goals. Your numbers are 9, 10, 17, 26, 
35,44 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Prepare a budget. Chances are good that you will be able to afford what you want, but you will have less stress if you know 
your limitations and stay within your means. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The more active you are, the less trouble you will encounter. Idle time may lead to trouble with the very people you spend the most time with.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your mind may be on your work and what you can do to improve your situation. Don't worry so much. You are versatile, intelligent and your options are far greater than you realize. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Time spent interacting with others will bring favorable results both personally and professionally. Good ideas will be shared and something very creative should develop.***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Problems at home are likely to fester. Either get things out in the open and move on or get out of the line of fire so that you can give yourself more time to think. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Plan a day trip and you won't be disappointed. This is a perfect day for love and romance, so don't waste it by working on things that can be left for tomorrow. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take a walk down memory lane. Visiting old familiar places will clarify whether you need to make changes in your life or not. You will likely run into someone from your past. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let this highly creative day go to waste. This is the perfect time to present what you can do. Someone is likely to spot your talent and make a few positive suggestions. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't rush ahead with a deal without knowing if it is a legitimate and viable plan. Research is your greatest resource, so be sure to use it. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Spend time with family, friends or your partner. The time spent with the people you care about will enhance these relationships. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will probably need some serious l\dvice when it comes to your personal life. A move or change is apparent and will be 
-

beneficial to you in the long run. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will attract attention no matter what you do today. Your sensitive and compassionate nature will lead to a very close connection with someone you really care about. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are everyone's best friend. You are easy to get along with, eager to help and always interested in what everyone else is doing. You are smart, determined and very much a team player. 
Cherk out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.rom and eugenialast.rom. 
ACROSS 1 Pitches four balls to 6 Cain's brother 
oInsurrectionist Turner and others 
4 Not reacting chemically 5 Muse of history 6 Monogram part: Abbr. 7 Pilfer 8 Kitchen gadget that turns 0 "Faster!" 2 No great_ 3lcedtea flavoring 6 Full complement of fingers 7 Sob 
oBefore, in poetry 
1 Classic gas brand 
34 Composer Rachmaninoff 
36 Midsection muscles, for short 
37 "Faster!" 40 Knight's title 41 Rat or squirrel 42 Dye containers 43 Western Indian 44 Linear, for short 45 Rope-a-dope 
boxer 47 Fixes 49 1960's-70's 
space program 52 "Faster!" 57 Cramped space 59 Rich cake 60 Primer dog 61 Sharif of film 62 Gives an 
audience to 
~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:-T":"'T':":"T"':"'T"=-r:::"T':~ ~~:+=+=+.::+::::+::::-f -:-+~=-+-==-t 
-=+-=+-:-+.:-:+::::-i 

63 Band with the 1988 #1 hit "Need You Tonight" 
64 Monthly payment 
65 Birds by sea cliffs 
DOWN 1 Bit of smoke 2 Contrarians 3 Bloodsucker 4 Volcano that 
famously erupted in 1883 5 Acts of the Apostles writer 6 Bank holdings: Abbr. 7 Dull 8 Mozart's "a" 9 Circle 10 Daughter of a sister, perhaps 11 Ben Stiller's mother 12 Bit of business attire 13 Narrow water passage: Abbr. 19 Washed-out 21 Money for retirement 24 What a satellite may be in 
-=+-=+-=+=+=+:=+-::-+:-:+:::-i 25 Digs with tw:gs? ~-=+~,..-+-,~:-i 27 Kennel club info 
-----------------------------------------~---------------------~---------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Co1nmunity. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
... 


-----------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 
p
Monday, September 20, 2004 


ND SoccER 

Leaders of the pack 
Freshman Yoshinaga nets first two career goals in victory 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
Now that's more like it. 
Freshman forward Alex Yoshinaga snapped a 235­minute Irish scoring drought with his first of two goals as No. 14 Notre Dame beat up on Big East rival Georgetown, 4-1, Saturday night at Alumni Field. 
Prior to their four-goal per­formance against the Hoyas, the Irish had experienced some difficulty converting prime scoring opportunities. 
Notre Dame (4-1-1, 1-0-0 in Big East) took 34 shots against Evansville last Friday before finding the back of the net and failed to score against both Cal State Fullerton and Indiana on 36 combined shots last Sunday 
see HOYAS/page 26 

Irish win pair of nail-biters to renzain undefeated 

By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
After establishing itself as the team to beat through the first six games of its non-conference schedule, No. 1 Notre Dame carried that reputation through its first two games of Big East conference play as well. 
The Irish (8-0-0) emerged unscathed from their first weekend as the top team in the nation, posting a pair of narrow one-goal victories on the road 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

by blanking Connecticut 1-0 on Friday and closing out Syracuse 2-1 on Sunday. 
Both games were very close, and it took a clutch goal with under eight minutes to play in each contest to decide the game. Freshman Amanda Cinalli buried her fourth goal of the year in the upper right cor­ner of the net with 6:26 to play against Connecticut to give the Irish their only goal of the game Friday. 
On Sunday, Katie Thorlakson continued her torrid offensive pace by notching her team-high sixth goal in the 83rd minute to give the Irish the lead over Syracuse. The goal was Thorlakson's third game-win­ning goal this season. 
Meanwhile, the Notre Dame defense, led by Big East Defensive Player of the Week Melissa Tancredi, continued to suffocate opposing offenses, limiting both the Huskies and the Orange to only two shots on goal. The Irish have barely allowed any of their opponents to shoot, much less to score. 
Their defense has allowed just 21 shots on goal in eight games. 
It didn't take long for the Irish to face a stiff challenge from a conference opponent as the Huskies gave Notre Dame a dogfight in the Big East opener Friday night. In what turned out to be a defensive struggle, the Huskies did everything to keep the Irish out of the net. UConn goalkeeper Megan Jessee was solid and often 
see UNBEATEN/page 24 
page 28 
MEN'S GOLF 

DUSTIN MEN NELLA/The Observer 
Freshman Greg Rodgers follows through on a put at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Irish take sixth of fifteen at Invite 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
In the sporting world, good things can happen when a challenge is pre­

1
sented. The Irish certainly chal­lenged themselves this I 
'
weekend, as they hosted the anticipated field for the 
2005 NCAA Regionals in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
It can easily be argued that the Irish, who were ranked 92nd in the Golfweek/Sagarin Index before the weekend, accomplished the former as well, finishing sixth out of a field of 15 teams, most of whom were ranked ahead of them. 
The team finished with a total score of 892, 21 strokes behind tournament champions Kent State, but only four strokes out of third place. 
Sophomore Cole Isban led the team this weekend, fin­ishing in a three-way tie for fourth place. He fin­ished with a three-day total of 216, a total that includ­ed a career best 2-under par 68 on Sunday. Irish coach John Jasinski was very pleased in the per­formance of his rising star, but says Isban still has a way to go before becoming a true No. 1 player. 
"My definition of a No. 1 is fairly strict. In the NCAA 
see SIXTH/page 24 


Both teams dominate Invite competition 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 

Talk about starting off the weekend on the right foot. liter­ally. 
The Irish came up big Friday, as both the men and women took home first place in the National Catholic Invitational, easily defeating the other schools in the field. 
Seven of the top 10 fmishers in the men's race were from Notre Dame, including those in first, second and third place. 
Junior Tim Moore, who placed first with a time of 24 minutes, 58 seconds, led the Irish in his first college victory. Freshman Jake Watson and junior Vmcent Ambrico finished second and third, respectively. Watson, whose time of 25:06 was eight seconds behind Moore, placed second in his f"trst college race. 
..I was feeling pretty good, and 
see CHAMPS/page 25 


en 
NO VOLLEYBALL
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
SMC SOCCER 
FOOTBALL

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
SPORT 
1-IU u 

Belles struggle at ND 
Irish finish second at 

Belles drop to 1-7
Saint Mary's 1 
Colts 31 
Notre Dame 31 

z lrtvitational, finish 26th 
Gamecock Invitational 
overall after suffering
Alma College 1 
Michigan State
Titans 17 
in 31-team field. 

after losing tournament 
second straight loss to
Belles unable to score 
Quarterback Peyton 
24
a: :3 

final to South Carolina. 
Adrian College. 
Irish force six

game-winning goal in 
Manning, Indiannapolis 
c:s 

hard-fought match. 
turnovers in road win.

offense dispose of
c:z: 
Tennessee. 
= 
a.. =c 

page 17 
Irish Insider

page 26 
page 25 

page 23 
page 23
en 
_,I 


O
THE Monday, September 20, 2004 BSERVER Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 24 

Zbikowski leads defensive effort in 31-24 Irish win 

Photo Illustration/MIKE HARKINS AND CHUY BENITEZ Tom Zbikowski, left, hits Spartan running back Jason Teague and gets his hands on the ball. Middle, Zbikowski strips the ball from Teague and turns toward the endzone. Right, Zbikowski sprints on his way to a 75-yard fumble return for his first career touchdown, putting the Irish up 14-7. 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer  sour feeling in the locker room," defensive end Justin Tuck said. "Even though we got the win, we  ready to mount a scoring chance. On second-and-1 0, Zbikowski stripped Spartans running back  group of running backs that compliment each other as far as their style," Willingham said.  new quarterback, Drew Stanton starting with an 89-yard kickoff return by DeAndra Cobb after  
didn't like how we finished. I  Jason Teague of the football and  With that drive, the Irish went  Grant's touchdown.  
EAST LANSING, Mich.  -On a  guess as a defense,  as a team,  ran 75 yards for his first career  ahead 28-7 on a 6-yard touch­ With the score at 28-1 7, Corey  
cool Saturday night on the hostile  we're picky right now."  touchdown to put the Irish up  down run from Grant.  Mays hit Jehuu Caulcrick on the  
turf of Spartan Stadium, the Irish  The Irish trailed 7-0 early  14-7.  "We just did what we came  1-yard line, jarring the ball lose  
found the spark they had been  when D.J. Fitzpatrick's punt was  ''I'm a team player just doing  here to do," offensive lineman  on momentum-killing play for  
missing-balance and boldness.  blocked in the end  zone  and  the best I can," said Zbikowski,  Bob Morton said. "We wanted to  the Spartans. Quentin Burrell  
Tom  Zbikowski seized  the  picked up by Michigan State's  who finished with a team-high  establish the run. We didn't do as  recovered in the endzone for a  
vacant role of defensive play­ Jerramy Scott for the first touch­ nine tackles, including six solos.  well as we wanted to in the first  touchback, and the Irish got the  
maker, Darius Walker and Hyan  down of the game. After the Irish  ''I'm not going to go looking for it  half so  we  decided  we  were  ball back, and scored a field goal  
Grant combined for 164 yards on  were forced to punt  but if that oppor­ going to do it in the second half.  two possessions later to go up  
the ground and Brady Quinn  again on  the next  tunity  arises,  I  We came out and that drive was  31-17.  
completed 11-of-24 passes for 215 yards, including a touch­down to Matt Shelton and a key  possession, Zbikowski picked off a pass by  ..When you have good defense, you  have to make that play." The Irish lit up  the pinnacle of what we want to ,be. Morton anchored an offensive  "It was big," Tuck said of the goal line play. ··we needed that. We don't get that one, this game  
third-down conversion to Jeff Samardzij a to give the Irish a 31­24 victory in East Lansing. "When you have good defense,  Spartans quarter­back Stephen Heaves and returned it 22 yards  stay close until something good happens.,,  the scoreboard again when Quinn found Shelton in the end zone for a  line that gave Quinn the time to complete passes to five receivers during the game, and the run­ning backs necessary blocks to  is a lot more interesting than it was, so that's a big play. We just made up our minds that we weren't going to let them in - 
you stay close until something  to put the Irish in  35-yard  touch­ produce significant yardage on  that was our mentality."  
good happens," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "Our defense has done a great job in  scoring position at the Spartan 13. A 4-yard run  Tyrone Willingham Irish coach  down. Although the Irish would not score again in  the ground. "It's easy on me," Quinn said of the 7 5-yard drive that consisted  The Spartans would register a touchdown with 9 seeonds to go on a four-yard rush by Stanton  
all three ballgames in keeping us  from  Walker and  the  half,  Derek  of all runs. "It's just dominating  that capped an  eight-play 63­ 
in that position."  three consecutive runs Grant put  Curry and  Mike  Hichardson  football with the offensive line  yard  drive.  but  it  was  not  
Notre Dame capitalized on six  the Irish at the goal line on third­ would both register interceptions  and I give all the credit to them.  enough.  
turnovers by Michigan State and  and-goal. After Hashon Powers­ to keep the Spartans out of scor­ They play hard, they play physi­ This finish left the Irish hungry  
despite allowing a rushing touch­ Neal was stuffed on third down,  ing range, ending the half with a  cal and they got the job done."  for  more,  as  they  were  not  
down in the waning moments of  Quinn  faked  a  handoff and  21-7 lead.  The defense capitalized on six  pleased.  
the game and 341 yards of total  strolled untouched into the end  In the second half, the Irish  turnovers, recovering three of  "You just can't be satisfied,"  
offense, notched its second con­ zone for his first career rushing  came out strong as Walker and  the Spartans' five fumbles  as  Tuck said. "You can never be as  
secutive win against a  Big Ten  touchdown on fourth-and-goal.  Grant traded carries in a seven  well as picking ofT three passes  good as you can be."  
team.  With the scored tied at seven,  play, 75-yard march to the end  in the first half.  
"The fact is, we dido't finish  Michigan State  was  deep in  zone.  But, down 28-7. Michigan State  Contact Kate Gales at  
like we wanted to, and it was a  Notre Dame territory and looked  "We're trying to develop  a  mounted a comeback behind its  kgales@nd.edu  

player of the game 
stat of the game 
play of the game 
quote of the game 
Tom Zbikowski 
6 

Corey Mays's hit on Jehuu Caulcrlck 
"'The only thing better than two great legs are four. , The redshirt freshman safety forced 
Notre Dame forced six Michigan 
Irish linebacker Mays hit Canlcrick a1 two fumbles, recovered one for a 
State turnovers -three fumbles 
the Notre Dame 1 -yard line toforce a 
Bob Morton 

touchdown and intercepted a pass 
and three interceptions -a 
fiunh/e and give the Irish the ball back. 
Irish offensive lineman 
in his third collegiate game. 
season-high. 
leading 28-17. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.­
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 20, 2004 
report card 
8­8­8 8 
c 
B 
A­
D 8 
well enough to get the victory, but acknowleged there are
2.63 
still improvements to be made on both sides of the ball. 
adding up the numbers 
total yards ol offense lor Notre Dame against 388 Michigan State 
total yards of offense for Michigan State against the Irish defense
341 
total receiving yards on three catches by 
123 
MaH Shelton, a career high 
1 
rushing touchdown by Brady Quinn on a quar­terback bootleg -it was the first rushing 
touchdown of his career 

Matt Shelton's average yards per 
48 7 
touchdown catch • 
213 
number ol yards gained by Darius Walker in his first two games of collegiate football 
Tyrone Willingham's record against his alma 
4 1 
mater Michigan State ­
9 
total turnovers between both teams. Michigan State turned it over six times, and the Irish 
three times 

quarterbacks: Quinn got the job done, but missed a few open receivers. He hit Shelton on the long ball twice, but tried to force the ball to Stovall in the end zone, resulting in an interception. 
running backs: Walker and Grant com­
plemented each other well, however 
neither had an outstanding game and 
Grant fumbled once. They combined 
for 164 yards with one touchdown. 
receivers: Shelton and Samardzija stepped up in the place of Stovall and McKnight, who were quiet all night. The duo caught seven passes between them, good for 188 yards in the air. 
offensive line: The offensive line strug­gled in the first half, but in the second half picked it up. They engineered a seven-play, 75-yard drive on the ground in the third quarter. 
defensive line: The line had trouble stopping the run, giving up 165 yards on the ground after stopping Michigan last week. They recorded two sacks, however, but overall did not play as well as they could have. 
linebackers: Mays made a big play at the goal line, Curry picked off a pass and 
Goolsby registered six tackles. 

defensive backs: Zbikowski made big plays all night, with a two fumbles forced, a fumble recovery, an interception and a touchdown. The secondary picked three balls and prevented the big play. 
special teams: The kick coverage was poor, as shown by Cobb's 89-yard touchdown return. Fitzpatrick missed a 37-yard field and the Spartans blocked a punt for a touchdown. 
coaching: The Irish made adjustments in 
the second half offensively, and the 
defen'ie made big plays when it had to. 
However, the offense still struggled at 
times. but has shown improvement. 
overall: Notre Dame played 

EAST LANSING, Mich.-He hov­ered silently, waiting for the quar­terback to make the decision ­pitch or run. 
And when Michigan State quarter­back Stephen 
Reaves made the toss to Jason Teague, Notre Dame safety Tom Zbikowski went after the back and the hall. 
The next thing 


everyone knew  Heather Van  
No. 9 ripped the  Hoegarden  
ball out of  
Teague's arms and took off  Sports Editor  
down the field.  

The former quarterback had the ball in his hands once again, putting six on the board for the Irish after his first career trifecta -the forced fumble, the recovery and the touch­down. But don't forget, this was after he recorded his first career interception earlier in the game. 
And who says Notre Dame doesn't have a playmaker? 
Zbikowski proved critics wrong with his opportunistic play against Michigan State, in his third career collegiate game. 
"He's been tremendous," defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "He still has a lot to learn, but I like his atti­tude, that he's willing to learn, he seems to play hard." 
For the safety who was one of the most highly-touted players out of high school and redshirted as a freshman, this was the game he knew he was capable of having. lie showed why he was a USA Today All-American in high school. 
Zbikowski did what his coaches and teammates knew he could do ­make plays. 
''I'm glad we got him in there," Baer said of the redshirt freshman. 
But Zbikowski was just one of many Irish who made plays on defense. Corey Mays hit Jehuu Caulcrick at the goal line to knock the ball loose for Quentin Burrell and preserve the 28-1 7 Irish lead. Mike Richardson, seeing significant action for the first time this season, intercepted a pass, returning it 32 yards. Derek Curry also picked one off and took that one back 35 yards. 
All in all, the magic number 
was six-six "'We,ve just got to keep defense gave up turnovers forced getting better.,, 341 total yards ­by the Irish 165 on the ground defense. It saw and 1 79 through
Kent Baer

the hesitancies in the air. And that redshirt freshman Irish defensive coordinator was without 
All of a sudden, the Spartans were baek into the game. 
Down 28-17. they had the ball on the Notre Dame 1-yard line. That's when Mays jarred the ball loose from Caulcrick, and the Irish got the ball back. But they fumbled it over to Michigan State, and the Spartans appeared to have life again with 
3:39 to play in the game. That's when Stanton was hit by none other than Zbikowski, and Kyle Budinscak recovered, clinching the game for the Irish. 
Without the big plays on defense, 
the game becomes much more chal­lenging for Notre Dame. The Irish 
quarterback Reaves. It capital­ized with three interceptions and also forced five fumbles, recovering three. The defense scored just six points themselves, but 1 7 points were put on the board after they got the ball back for its offense. 
The defense was the key to the Irish win. But they were almost the scape­goat. 
The Irish went into the half lead­ing 21-7, what seemed to be a com­fortable lead. But the Spartans never gave up. 
Spartan coach John L. Smith inserted Drew Stanton into the game after the half, and he started moving the ball. Stanton ran for 53 yards in the second half on just eight carries. liP threw 12 passes. completing eight or them. good for 11 () yards. 
Stanton, who 

moved the offense effectively in the second half, play­ing the entire game. 
But the Irish know they have work to do. "We've just got to keep getting bet­ter," Baer said. 
But they got the job done Saturday night. They forced the turnovers when they needed to, and they scored some points of their own. This defense takes it personally. 
And that's exactly what the Irish need to do and have done since the loss to Brigham Young. 
Take things personally. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact /leather Van 1/oegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu. 
Monday, September 20, 2004 page 3 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Shelton, Samardzija come to play 

By ANN LOUGHERY Sporrs Writer 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -They used to be Notre Dame's best-kept secrets. 
Wide receivers Matt Shelton and Jeff Samardzija have always been reliable players capable of moving the ball down the field. They were the ones making significant but subtle plays on the field. 
But their talent isn't a secret any­more. 
In Saturday's 31-24 victory over Michigan State, the two proved they were legitimate threats to opposing defenses. 
Shelton cruised into the end zone after catching a 35-yard pass from quarterback Brady Quinn. The senior also caught a career-high three passes, good for a career-high 123 yards. 
He has become the official deep threat on a team that was lacking one. 
"Given the opportunity, I think I can just go out there and do it," Shelton said. "Brady's putting the ball in places where I can make a play. And I'm com­ing up with the play." 
Give him the ball, and he's just about unstoppable. 
Shelton evaded the Spartan secondary to catch a 53-yard pass from Quinn ­the longest pass of the game -for a first down in the second quarter. When asked about his ability to make the big plays, Shelton shrugged his shoulders, saying that he is thankful for opportuni­ties to help the team. 
"God blessed me with some speed and hands to catch the ball every once in a while, and I do what I can," Shelton said. 
While Shelton struck early with two of his catches in the first half, Samardzija sparked the offense late in the game, catching all four of his passes for 65 yards in the fourth quarter. 
Quinn scanned the field, searching for the open Samardzija on several occa­sions, especially on third down. lie found Samardzija three times to con­vert on third-and-long, extending the Irish drive each time. Samardzija says he thrives on these down-to-the-wire situations. 
"I like being in that situation when the pressure is on, and if anybody's going to make a catch, it's going to be me," Samardzija said. "If they're going to want to put me out there on 3-and-5 or 3-and-6, that's great. That's just what I need to do for the team." 
In just the fourth quarter. Samardzija 
Zbikowski earns national award 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
EAST LANSING, Mich. After his two outstanding plays in the first quarter helped Notre Dame to build a lead that would prove insur­mountable to Michigan State, Tom 71 ikowski was named the national Defensive Player of thP vVeek by the Walter Camp Football Foundation Sunday. His interception stopped a potential Michigan State scoring drive with the Irish trailing 7-0, and he would strip Jason Teague of the ball later in the quarter and take it in for a 75-yard touchdown. 
"That was truly a great play on Zibby's part," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "It is something we talk about and work on every week in terms of stripping the ball." 
The redshirt freshman safe­ty, who played quarterback and defensive back in high school, has stepped up as one 
CLEMENT SUHENDRA/The Observer Irish receiver Matt Shelton makes a catch over Michigan State cornerback Roderick Maples Saturday night. Shelton caught three passes for 123 yards. 
was able to break loose from the Michigan State defense, hauling in a 31­yard reception on third-and-four, put­ting the Irish in field goal range. 
"It's very exciting to know that at any time, you can be the one getting a chance to make the play," Samardzija said. "When you see Brady open up like that [and make long passes], you only get big eyes and get excited knowing that you're going to make a play." 
Even after such a successful weekend at Michigan State, both Shelton and Samardzija have already set their sights on the Washington game. Shelton said that, while individual efforts are impor­tant, the team as a whole must focus on execution. 
"Execution is the biggest thing we've been working on," Shelton said. "During BYU week, we didn't execute like we know we can and we should. The past two weeks, we've done much better, but we still haven't executed like we know we can." 
And going into next week, Shelton said he will be ready for whatever comes his way. 
"I'll take any plays I can get," he said. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
of the defense's major play­makers. 
"I think he's pretty physical, he's really got a knack for get­ting after the football so we just have to keep him going," defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. 
In the defensive backfield, Zbikowski proved vital to the Notre Dame offensive effort. 
zone untouched and handed the ball to the referee. 
He would also connect with five different receivers during the game for 215 yards, one touchdown and one intercep­tion. 
"Brady's seeing a lot of things and will continue to see a lot of things a lot better," 
Willingham 
said. 

"We got the --we got the win, However, win, that's the there were a
that's the most 

most important number of
important [thing].,, 

[thing]," incomplete Zbikowski said. passes that "Just being in Quinn attributed 
Tom Zbikowski 

the locker room to nervousness.
Irish safety

we're not satis­fied, we know there's a lot more improve­ment and we're going to keep that every single week." 
Quinn runs it in 
Quinn's touchdown in the first quarter, which came on a bootleg after a fake handofT to Grant. was the first rushing touchdown of his career. Quinn had most on the field fooled as he ran into the end­"You have to 
settle yourself down and be clutch in those situations," he said. 
Vaughn sees first action 
True freshman Chris Vaughn played in his first col­lege game this weekend, reg­istering one tackle and catch­ing a seven-yard pass. !lis tackle came on special teams. where he playPd as a "gu'!l­ner" for the first time in his career. Vaughn said he was glad to get into the game. 
"The last two weeks have been tough but I think they've definitely made me a better person and a better player," Vaughn said. "I wasn't looking to do anything but help the team win." 
Where's Willingham? 
Coach Tyrone Willingham was absent from the game at the beginning of the third quarter. He was seen running out of the tunnel approxi­mately five minutes into the period, after Michigan State's DeAndra Cobb returned a kickoff for a touchdown. 
After the game, \Villingham declined to comment on his whereabouts. 
Game captains 
Captains for Saturday's game were running back Hyan Grant, kicker/punter J)..J. Fitzpatriek, linebacker Brandon lloyte and corner­baek D\vight Ellick. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Notre Dame  14  7  7  3  31  
Mich. State  7  0  7  10  14  
First quarter  

Michigan State 7, Notre Dame 0 
Jerramy Scott 0-yard blocked punt return with 12:1-8 remaining Drive: 0 plays, 0 yards, 0 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 7 
Brady Quinn 1-yard run with 4:42 remaining 
Drive: 6 plays, 13 yards, 3:37 elapsed Notre Dame 14, Michigan State 7 
Tom Zbikowski 75 yard fumble recovery with 
0:07 remaining Drive: 1 play, 75 yards, 0:06 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 7 
Matt Shelton 35-yard reception from Quinn with 8:52 remaining Drive: 3 plays, 59 yards, 1:10 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 7 
Ryan Grant 6-yard run with 5:39 remaining 
Drive: 7 plays, 75 yards, 2:56 elapsed Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 14 
DeAndra Cobb 89-yard kickoff return with 5:28 remaining Drive: 1 play, 89 yards, 0:11 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 17 
Dave Rayner 23-yard field goal with 14:55 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 31 yards, 3:38 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 17 
Dave Rayner 23-yard field goal with 14:55 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 31 yards, 3:38 elapsed 
Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 17 
D.J. Fitzpatrick 23-yard field goal with 0:57 
remaining Drive: 7 plays, 40 yards, 2:32 elapsed 
Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 24 
Drew Stanton 4-yard run with 0:09 remaining 
Drive: 8 plays, 63 yards, 0:41 elapsed 
statistics 

return yards 

time of possession 


s 
48-173 rushes-yards 35-165 11-24-1 comp-att-int 15-34-3 6-200 punts-yards 5-224 2-2 fumbles-lost 5-3 4-22 penalties-yards 3-20 19 18
first downs 
passing 
Quinn 11-24-1 Reaves 7-20-3 Stanton 8-12-0 
rushing 
Walker  26-98  Caulcrick  15-85  
Grant Thomas Quinn  11-66 5-10 4-1  Stanton Teague Trannon  8-49 6-21 1-12  
receiving  - 
Samardzija Shelton  4-65 3-123  Teague Scott  4-14 3-71  
Stovall  2-17  Brown  3-43  

tackling 
Zbikowski  9  Smith  12  
Goolsby  6  Harmon  11  
Landri  5  Hayes  6  
Burrell  5  Herron, Jr.  6  
Hoyte  4  Maples  5  

---------------------------~------------------------­
Monday, September 20, 2004

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
l 
I 
~ 
I I 
i• 
I)
1:
,, 
:( 
I 
I I I I\ 
1: 1'­
I I I 
'I I,'I 
I' 
I' 
I 
I' 
I 
~ l 
t'i 
,I 
I' I'> 
r­
1 
I 
II 
>I 
II 
: t 
~ 
r, 
I' 
. ! 
, I 
I --·· 
'i 
) 
)l( 
I 
; I 
··'"'­
~· 
(~ 
\ 
\ 
~­



TOPPING THE PARTANS 

The Irish defense led the team to the road win, forcing six turnovers result­
ing in 17 Irish points. Tom Zbikowski forced two fumbles and recovered one, returning it for his first career touchdown. He also had an interception. Offensively, Matt Shelton and Jeff Samardzija led the Irish receivers with a combined seven catches, and Ryan Grant and Darius Walker were a two-head­ed rushing attack. Walker and Grant ran for 98 and 66 yards, respectively. Michigan State mounted a late comeback, but the Irish were able to prevail in the end over coach Tyrone Willingham's alma mater and improve to 2-1. 

CHUY BENITEZ and CLEMENT SUHENDRA/The Observer 
Ryan Grant, top left, carries the ball against the· Spartans. Darius Walker, top right, breaks a tackle in one of his 26 carries. Derek Curry, middle left, returns a intercep­tion. Brady Quinn, bottom left, hand the ball to the referee after scoring a first quarter touchdown, and Jeff Samardzija, bottom right, breaks a tackle late in the game. 












