

-
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 95 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20,2004 . NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Ca1npus prepares for Junior Parents Weekend 

... 
Committee chair outlines activities for 3-day event 
By CLAIRE HEININGER Assistant News Editor 
When 2004 Junior Parents Weekend chairperson Meg Harty's father was a junior at Notre Dame in 1961, JPW was nothing like the extrava­ganza it is today -in fact, he "barely remembers it," Harty said. 
That didn't stop him, though, from telling his daughter about the 52-year­old tradition. Since her fresh­man year, Harty and her par­ents have been planning and thinking about their own JPW experience. 
But the more they talked, 
see JPW/page 4 
ND students launch Operation Rice Bowl 

jUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND Non-juniors consider rridav,_ limited options for campus activities 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Junior Parents Weekend begins today, launching three days of events aimed at Notre Dame's juniors and their par­ents. 
But what about the other 6,000 undergraduates? 
Although she's a senior, Ana Farach can't escape the week­end, which draws thousands of parents from around the country. 
"My boyfriend is a junior, so 


I'll be eating dinner with his parents at some point," Farach said. 
see PLAN/page 6 
Trustees finish campus visit 
reality," Mahoney said. The committee was also 
By NATALIE BAILEY After witnessing the VISI­glad to hear that all the 
News Writer ble progress of the student apartments are filled for 
center and next year and 
With a new president and apartments, that the selec­several new buildings, the trustees "These buildings tion process change is the buzz for the are excited to represent the went so smooth­Board of Trustees on the see students ly, she said.
Board of Trustees·
Saint Mary's campus enjoy them, The Student Life 
commitment to
through Friday night. she said. Committee joint­As part of the Board's "I think the student life and ly met with the 
,,
visit, student trustee Sarah students are Mission commit­
success.
Mahoney sat in on the going to love tee to explore Facilities and Grounds and the new build­the topic of pro­Student Life committee ings, and they Sarah Mahoney moting and meetings Thursday. will be a great student trustee experiencing 
Facilities and Grounds recruiting tool diversity while focused on updating the for prospective maintaining trustees on the several con­students," Mahoney said. community and staying true 
struction projects. "These buildings represent to the Mission Statement. 
"All projects are looking the Board of Trustees' com­Twelve students shared great, and the student mitment to student life and apartments are becoming a success." see TRUSTEES/page 6 
ND students study education 
Education majors make trek to SMC for classes 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
News Writer 
Operation Rice Bowl is com­ing to Notre Dame this Lent, giving students a chance to donate to the work of Catholic Relief Services. 
Sponsored primarily by the Sophomore Class Council, it is the first time in recent memory that the program will be held on campus, according to Brin Anderson and Julia Miller­Lemon. co-chairs of the pro­gram. 
Operation Rice Bowl is a pro­gram of donation throughout Lent. Participants receive a small box and are encouraged to donate change to the bowl throughout the season. 
"It is so easy," Miller-Lemon said. "At this campus, especial­ly, we don't realize how much we have. With the rice bowls, students can make an impact every day." 
Seventy-five percent of the donations will go to Catholic Relief Services projects in 
see BOWL/page 4 
By STEPHANIE YAHN News Writer 
Riding his bike over snow-cov­
ered train tracks wasn't exactly 
what Nick Kheriaty had in mind 
when he envisioned traveling to 
class. But in order to get his 
teaching credentials, the Notre 
Dame senior had to take his 
interests across the street to 
study in the Education Program . at Saint Mary's College. 
It has been over 40 years since 
Notre Dame dissolved its own 
education school, but few 
remember a time before stu­
dents studied education at Saint Mary's. In order to continue serv­ing undergraduate students who wanted to ·obtain teacher certifi­cation, the University worked with Saint Mary's to allow stu­dents to participate in the College's program. 
At that time, Notre Dame was an all-male university and stu­dents mainly went into second­ary education rather than ele­mentary education. 
"That has all changed now," said Julie Turner of Notre Dame's Institute for Educational Initiatives. 
Currently, 28 Notre Dame stu­dents are enrolled in the Education Program at Saint Mary's. An additional 25 are tak­ing introductory courses that will help them determine if and how they want to proceed in the pro­gram. Should they decide to con­tinue, the students will submit applications for acceptance into the program. Eleven of the 28 students presently admitted are males and a majority of the stu­dents share a common focus in secondary education. A handful focus on elementary educatjon. 
Notre Dame students are quick 
see TEACHERS/page 6 
Friday, February 20, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Identity 

criSIS 
It's only normal for the college student to be caught in some sort of identity cri­sis. But I wonder, is the same degree of self uncertainty permissible for the administration of a university? 

Initially, you may ask, "Can an insti­Lauren Galgano ·tution even have an identity crisis?" I 
Viewpoint
propose two key 
Copy Editor 
words that will 
clear the matter up 
immensely: "academic freedom." 
"Academic freedom" is a 50 cent phrase that will buy you a better rank­ing in U.S. News. Want to compete with Ivy League schools? You had better be hosting sexually explicit theatre presen­tations, selling the most controversial books written by pro-abortion activists in your bookstore and denying any accordance with Catholicism other than some unfortunate traditions due the cir­cumstances of the University's founding. Otherwise, there goes your respect in academia. 
Given these criteria. our administra­tion seems caught in a very tight spot. 
To be clear, I honestly believe that our great administrators want to maintain the uniquely Catholic atmosphere that generally permeates the grounds of this beautiful campus. 
However, the question now becomes, "Why are we so determined to sell our­selves short?'' Trying to conform to the mold of a secular society only diminish­es what Notre Dame stands for, leading to inherent contradiction. 
Let me provide some concrete exam­ples. 
In one breath, we are told that certain 
politically charged events -I don't 
believe I have to name the two most 
recent-will be allowed on-campus in 
the name of"academic freedom." 

Shortly before one of the productions, however, the administration was forced to remove a provocative "advertising" display for the production from LaFortune. I suppose if we can't have Notre Dame women parading around in bikini tops in a public forum, we should just put them on stage and sell tickets. (I think you get my point ... ) 
likewise, the Queer Film Festival slipped in under the guise of"academic freedom," as well. Never mind the fact that these films presented propaganda explicitly contrary to Catholic teaching. 
So what is my point? Am I advocating that we should neither be "academic" nor "free" at this University? Not in the least. 
In fact, by denying conformity to the culturally accepted relativist secularism, I suggest that we could be freer to embrace our true identity through a sin­cerely introspective look at our defini­tively Catholic heritage. 
Want to discuss homosexual issues during this current wave of unrest in our nation? Attend the symposium panel discussion examining the govern­ment's regulation of traditional and same-sex marriage unions to be held Feb. 25 at 6 p.m. in the Eck VIsitor's Center Auditorium. This panel will fea­ture three speakers presenting three dif­ferent approaches to the issue. 
Surely such a dialogue requires a strong adherence to "academics" as well as to "freedom of speech." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CLARIFICATION 
A Feb. 19 article that reponed on Student Senate said that srudenc body president-deer and vice president-elect Adam lsrv.m and Karla BeU did not attend the Wednesday meeting. Isrv.m said that he and BeU showed up after the end of the Senate meeting. and that they missed the rest ofthe meeting because they were meeting with athletic department officials reagarding the distribution of srudent basketball eickets. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU MOST LOOKING FORWARD TO ABOUT JPW? 

Amy Kern Junior Lewis  Hillary Schwarb Junior Lewis  Justin Tuck Junior Siegfried  Rachel Polinski Junior Lewis  Stefanle DIHert Junior Walsh  Tommy Bramanti Junior Dillon  
..Going  "Paul Freeman.  "My mom is  "The father­ "Your mom ...  "To spending  




time with my parents who I love so much.,. 

IN BRIEF 
Give the gift of life by donat­ing blood today from 9 a.m. to 
3:30 p.m. at Rolfs. The event is sponsored by RecSports, University Health Services, IrisHealth and the South Bend Medical Foundation. Reserve a spot by callling 631-6100. 
The Thomas Aquinas Symposium will take place today from 4-8 p.m. at the Moreau Center's Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. Attend presen­tations by Cathleen Kaveny, a Notre Dame professor, and Father David Hollenbach, a professor from Boston College. 
FlipSide presentes Movie Night. The fun starts at 6:15 
p.m. tonight with pickups at various campus locations. 
ND Express will host open billards. Take on your friends from 9 p.m. to midnight. 
Bryan McCree, a comedian from Mad TV and Comedy Central, will perform tonight at Legends at 10 p.m. 
Station One will perform tonight at Reekers at 11 p.m. 
Enjoy night club dancing at Legends. The fun starts at mid­night and continues until 4 a.m. 
The class of 2004 is sponsor­ing a trip to Chicago for sen­iors. Enjoy sightseeing and a Bulls game in the windy city. The bus departs Saturday at noon and returns at 1 a.m. Tickets are $25 and can be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

30 20 

HIGH LOW 

shopping with yeah that,s bringing me her daughter erg 
,,

mom. Jessica's dad.,, pound cake. •• race challenge . ., 

DAVE ROONEY!The Observer 

Rising temperatures bring Increased construction work to campus. Workers above continue the construction of a building adjacent to Stephen Center that, when com­pleted, will house the post office and Notre Dame Security/Pollee. Construction picked up at other sites on Juniper Road and DeBartolo Quad as well. 
OFFBEAT 
Woman fined for registering cows to vote 
LONDON Brenda Gould is in trouble again for registering her cows as voters. 
For the second year run­ning, the woman from Newmarket, near Cambridge in eastern England, has listed two names on the registration form who turned out to be COWS, East Cambridgeshire District Council said Thursday. 
The previous year, in addition to registering two cows as "Henry and Sophie Bull," she listed "Jake Woofles," later found to be a dog, as eligi­ble to vote in local govern­ment elections, the coun­cil said. 
This year she indicated that her address had been split into two properties, that she resided in one part and that two other persons lived in the sec­ond, a council spokesman said. The persons she claimed lived in the sec­ond property were, in fact, her cows. 
Man plans topless coffee shop In Maine 
MADISON -Tired of the same old Starbucks and Dunkin' Donuts? The 
Madison Planning Board tonight takes up a man's application to open a top­less coffee shop on Main Street. 
Normand St. Michel says his plan to employ partial­ly nude waitresses is intended to boost the establishment's chances of success. He says the idea is to do something differ­ent to attract coffee drinkers. 
St. Michel says he also wants to run a clean busi­ness in which no alcohol will be sold. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

.... 
<
(.) 


0 

HIGH 42
..J 
LOW 41 

40 
20 

34 17 

Friday, February 20, 2004 page 3
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Students attend conference 

SMC RHA wins school of the year award 
By TERESA NOWAKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students trav­eled to the University of Indianapolis to participate in the Indiana Residence Hall Organization Conference with 12 other schools from the state. 
Twelve of 13 women went to learn about campus venues offered at other colleges and universijies, and hopefully implement them at Saint Mary's in the future. Francis Bruder, a national communi­cator coordinator for the Residence Hall Association and a Saint Mary's student, sat on a board and judged presentations or bids that reflect each school's ·accom­plishments. 
"[It gives us a] chance to network with other RHAs, to forms bonds and connections with other students who could have an·idea with what we're going through," Saint Mary's RHA president Shay Jolly said of the conference. 
This year, Saint Mary's won the bid against one other school for school of the year. 
In this competition, five Saint Mary's women presented a 20-page bid that included all of the activities the College has done for its women in the areas of academics, athletics, student life, service and stu­dent government. 
Each woman described what 
third in the spirit bid and third for the banner bid. 
Jackie Wright, the new assistant director of the Indiana Residence Hall Organization also received this position through present­ing her bid. She will be in charge of taking roll and minutes 
has happened and relaying infor­
"The title ofschool
in the past year mation to and
ofthe year could
with each cate­from delegates in gory. Many top­not have been each college and ics were dis­university in
earned without 
cussed includ­Indiana. Wright
every single
ing tutoring, hopes to establish Reading Day, person·s help. •• an effective system layout of stu­of communication dent govern­and· implement
Shay Jolly
ment, the programs from
president of
newly-made other colleges. fight song, Saint Mary's RHA Through these 
classes being offered, new apartments and programming for campus clubs and events. The bid was presented to the representatives from the schools that attended the con­ference. 
"The title of school of the year could not have been earned without every single person's help," Jolly said. 
Saint Mary's also captured 
awards, Jolly 

hopes that the stu­dent body will recognize the organization's hard work. 
"We've jumped over so many bounds this past year; it's amazing," she said. "We are doing things to better the school." 
Contact Teresa Nowakowski at nowa9294@saintmarys.edu 
SMC gears up for 
winter benefit walk 
By TERESA NOWAKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Students from Saint Mary's and members of the· South Bend community will join together for a walk-a-thon Sunday in support of a local day center. 
The Winter Walk will raise funds for Saint Margaret's House, which aims to foster a safe environment for women and children. The center helps female victims of addiction, homelessness and domestic abuse to find jobs and create more stable lives for themselves. It also provides education for these women and their children. 
"[This will] be a fun way to support Saint Margaret's House, which I know is a good cause," said Jacqueline Cuisinier, spirituality chair of the junior board at Saint Mary's. 
The walk covers 1.5 miles and begins at St. James Cathedral at 2:30 p.m. Saint Mary's students will meet at 
1:30 p.m. in LeMans circle in order to carpool to the cathedral together, Cuisinier said. 
After the walk, there will be a reception offering refreshments to celebrate the accomplishment of the walk's completion. 
The Winter Walk has been an annual event for many years in the South Bend community, and Saint Mary's has a tradition of participa­tion. This year, Beth Bennett, student director of the Surv Center who serves as a liai­son between students on campus and community service organizations around South Bend, said she wanted to get the entire section of her hall involved. 

"As a campus, Saint Mary's is very involved in Saint Margaret's," Bennett said. 
This, she said, can be seen in the fact that several clubs have signed up to participate in this walk, including BOG and the cross country team. 
"[The walk lets] people experience what it is like to walk in the shoes of those who don't have transporta­tion, especially in the win­ter," Bennett said. "Another big point is to get people involved, meet [the women at the center] and see what they are all about." 
Jill Vlasek, a resident assistant in Holy Cross Hall, said the walk sounds like a good service opportunity. 
"It seemed like a fun way I could give back to the com­munity," she said. "[It's a] fun way to do service and get some fresh air." 
Contact Teresa Nowakowski at nowa9294@saintmarys.edu 




CJS/1

"' · · ·· · · · ""'· ··.. ... r· :.. ·:. ·.. 1· 71'::·:"!J 
'-TI 
C~tlt3Stions: c.alt>.-Jorn-. or -S~llvta J.1llalat . -. .~'l 
Friday, February 20, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 


Bowl 
continued from page 1 
countries across the globe. The remaining 25 percent go to the local diocese. 
Students are encouraged to place their bowls somewhere that will create a daily reminder to give. The money will be collected from April 5 to April 7. 
"Having boxes on [the stu­dents' desks during Lent serves as a daily reminder that we have so much during this reflective season," Anderson said. "We have so much and so much to give." 

Five thousand bowls will be distributed this Monday from 8 to 11 a.m. outside of DeBartolo and O'Shaug­hnessy and Tuesday from 9 
a.m. to noon. They will also be passed out both days at the dining halls during lunch and dinner, and at the LaFortune Student Center from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. There will also be free Krispy Kreme donuts for the first 500 students at DeBartolo and O'Shaughnessy who par­ticipate. 
"My hope would be to get the entire campus to make an impact," Miller-Lemon said. 
Contact Anna Gelhaus at agelhaus@nd.edu 
experience efeyanl chiu"rJ_<7 
WLl~seasona/;ClaLr. 
Visiting your son or daughter is made extra s~ial when it includes dining at Sorin's, convenietly located at The Morris Inn on the beautiful cap1pus of Notre Dame. The staff of 
season has to offer. 

R._..,,.,.zejqru Rr:coN<mttrukd 
ti..'IL-2020 
www..wrlnnul.com 
JPW 
continued from page 1 
the more Harty realized she wanted to go farther than simply prepare for her own 
,chance at JPW -she wanted to enhance the weekend for all of her classmates, as well. So she responded to an ad, earned the top position on the JPW committee and got her opportunity to influence tra­dition from the inside out. 
''I wanted to take an active role to make this JPW 10 times better," Harty said. "I saw the opportunity to have a hands­
"JPWis not 
on effect to will also be high­make it a necessarily the lighted on wonderful midpoint, but it is a Saturday, when experience." each dorm will
significant turning 
Harty said her host a luncheon.
point . .,
hands-on The official JPW efforts began Mass and the a little late, as "Walk of Fame"
Meg Harty
this year's president's dinner,
JPW chairperson
JPW commit­both with 
academic, spiritual, social and residential aspects of the University. The week­end kicks off with the "Star­Studded Premiere" Gala in the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. tonight, a semi-formal cele­bration to welcome all guests and emphasize family, Harty said. 

Saturday, each of the University's four colleges ­the College of Arts and Letters, the College of Science, the Mendoza College of Business and the College of Engineering -will each host workshops to expose parents to their sons' and daughters' 
academic experi­
ences. 
Residence life 

tee switched advisors in October, and therefore had a "lot of catching up to do" compared to the committees that typically begin in April. 
However, she said she felt confident that the creativity and dedication of her fellow members had added up to a weekend that would please students and parents alike. 
The 2004 JPW theme is "And The Nominees Are," a title that gives a nod to "the Oscars, movies, everything Hollywood," Harty said. 
"We wanted to show that everyone is a winner ... we should all look at what we have at Notre Dame and appreciate it," she said. 
Beginning today, the more than 3,200 parents and jun­iors who purchased tickets to the weekend's events will have the chance to share the 
?FR40M THE PRODUCERS OF OAD TRIP AND OLD SCHOOL 
NO ACTUAL 
EUROPEANS WERE 
University 
President Father Edward Malloy, will be held Saturday night in the Joyce Center. JPW 2004 will con­clude with a "Roll the Credits" closing brunch, an activity Harty hopes will draw a fitting close to the weekend while still emphasizing that "it's not the end yet." 
"JPW is not necessarily the midpoint, but it is a signifi­cant turning point," she said, adding that for many juniors, the year ahead will be a hec­tic one of job searches and graduation plans. 
"For now, it's a chance to all get together with our fam­ilies, to enjoy the weekend and to celebrate this wonder­ful University,·· she said. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
FBI logo appears onCDs 

Associated Press LOS ANGELES -The FBI said Thursday it is giving Hollywood film studios, music companies and soft­ware makers permission to use its name and logo on their DVDs, CDs and other digital media in hopes the labels will deter consumers from making illegal copies. FBI officials said the idea was conceived jointly by the agency's cyber crime division and representa­tives of the entertainment and software industries, who claim they've lost bil­lions of dollars due to digi­tal piracy. "This anti-piracy seal should serve as a warning to those who contemplate the t h eft of int e 11 e c t u a l property, that the FBI will actively investigate cyber crimes and will bring the perpetrators of these crimi­nal acts to justice," said Jana ·Monroe, assistant director of the FBI's cyber division. Like the warning mes­sages that have appeared on VHS tapes and DVDs for years, the new labels spell out that unauthorized copy­ing and distribution of digi­tal content is punishable by up to five years in prison and a fine of $250,000. It will be up to the indi­vidual entertainment com­panies and software manu­facturers to decide whether to display the new FBI warnings. 


Friday, February 20, 2004 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Two suspects arrested in murder 
DOHA, Qatar -Qatar said Thursday it has arrested two suspects in the assassina­tion of former Chechen President Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev. 
Yandarbiyev, 51, was killed Feb. 13 when a bomb ripped through his car. His teenage son was wounded. 
The Interior Ministry said two suspects are being questioned in his death. No fur­ther details were available in the ministry statement, carried by the Gulf state's national news agency, QNA. 
Yandarbiyev, Chechnya's acting president in 1996-1997, had lived in Qatar since 2000 and was wanted by Russian authori­ties for suspected terrorism and links to al­Qaida. Moscow had been seeking his extra­dition. 
His assassination occurred one week after a bombing in a Moscow subway killed 41 people and wounded more than 100. President Vladimir Putin blamed Chechen rebels for the bombing. 
Russia boasts of future weapons 
MOSCOW -Russia successfully tested a space vehicle that could lead to weapons capable of penetrating missile defenses, a senior general said Thursday. He insisted the device was not meant to counter U.S. efforts to develop an anti-missile shield. 
Analysts said the device may be part of a campaign to bolster. Russia's global clout and burnish President Vladimir Putin's image ahead of March elections he is expected to win. It could also be an effort to restore prestige to the country's mili­tary, whieh has suffered near collapse since the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. 
Col.-Gen. Yuri Baluyevsky, first deputy chief of the General Staff of the Russian armed forces, gave few details about the device tested Wednesdav, but said it was a 
hypersonic vehicle  - one  that moves  at  
more than five times the speed of sound  - 
that could maneuver in orbit.  

NATIONAL NEWS 

Astronomers spy solar system 
LOS ANGELES -Astronomers said Thursday they have found a frozen object 
4.4 billion miles from Earth that appears to be more than half the size of Pluto and larger than the planet's moon. 
If confirmed, the so-called planetoid would become the largest object found in our solar system since the ninth planet was first spied in 1930. 
Preliminary observations suggest the frozen celestial body is 10 percent larger than Quaoar, an 800-mile-diameter object found in 2002. 
Diocese details abuse claims 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -A bishop who led the Roman Catholic Diocese of Springfield sexually abused two boys while he was a • parish priest and asked them to keep quiet years later when he was made auxiliary bishop, a lawyer for the two alleged victims said Thursday. -• 
Attorney Roderick MacLeish Jr. said Bishop Thomas Dupre, who stepped down as head of the diocese last week, abused the two altar boys beginning in the 1970s, when one of his clients was 12 and the other was an adolescent. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Kernan's proposals blasted 
INDIANAPOLIS -. Republicans blasted Gov. Joe Kernan's proposals to increase security' at the Bureau of Motor Vehicles Thursday, saying the investigation Kernan ordered ignored the agency's problems. 
"They really didn't look to expose the wrongs that are occurring," said Rep. Jeff Espich of Uniondale, the fiscal leader for House Republicans. "It essentially becomes a whitewash." 
CoMPILED FROM Tt··-IE OBSERVER's \VIRE SERVICEs page 5 
IRAQ 






U.S. troops happy to leave Iraq 
Soldiers reflect on service in Iraq, excited to be headed back home 
Associated Press 
ON A C-130 OVER IRAQ 

-The throb of the engines 
of the C-130 Hercules is 
deafening, but the soldiers 

laugh and joke. A few nap. ·one soldier totes her unit's banner, a sure sign this is more than a ~emporary jaunt. . 
After almost a year in Iraq, these members of the Army's 32nd Signal Battalion are going home. More than 100,000 other weary Americans and their battered equipment are doing the same, being replaced by fresh forces in a massive rotation -the biggest since World War II -playing out until May. 
"I'm floating on cloud nine," said 25-year-old Staff Sgt. Joe Luna of Visalia, Calif. 
The moment a U.S. sol­dier pines for is saying goodbye to Iraq, where a brutal insurgency has con­founded troops who thought they'd be hailed as liberators. On bases across Iraq, stores cater to that longing by selling coffee mugs emblazoned with the · words "Happiness is seeing Iraq in my rearview mir­ror." 
The units trickling out of 

the country are many of Arriving troops descend the jetway to a terminal full of greeters welcoming them back those who joined the March from Operation Iraqi Freedom, July 30. The Bangor, Maine airport Is the gateway to invasion. Some have seen the U.S. for servicemen and women returning from Operation Iraqi Freedom. combat and lost members. All faced tough living condi­Baghdad, then we ended up only to be told they would ture are rife with fears, tions. going backward," Luna said have to stay on. All said especially about being 
The Darmstadt, Germany as his unit piled green duf­they wanted to hug parents killed. -based 32nd Signal fel bags near a tent at the and children, sleep without Camp Anaconda is regu­Battalion hit the ground in Army's Camp Anaconda being woken by explosions, larly pounded by rebel mor­Kuwait on March 5, setting near Balad, Iraq. or stroll without a rifle. tars. Since June, dozens of up communications net­Now, Luna said, going "I want to get drunk," U.S. soldiers on the base works as the invasion force backward -to home base blurted out 26-year~old Spc. have been wounded and a rolled into Iraq, Luna said. in Germany -sounds just Yvette Inocencio of Miami, few have been killed by the The group was sent south fine. waiting with friends from shrapnel-spewing blasts. when mortar fire killed a It's been a long wait. her unit, the 864th Overall in Iraq, 545 U.S. soldier. Soldiers spoke of the frus­Engineer Battalion, for troops have been killed and 
"It was rough. It seemed tration of counting the days their flight. 2, 700 injured since combat like a race to get to to an expected departure The weeks before depar-began March 20. 

San Francisco to sue over gay marriage 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -After sanc­tioning more than 2,800 gay mar­riages in the past week, the city sued the state of California on Thursday, challenging its ban on same-sex marriages on constitution­al grounds. 
Two judges already are consider­ing challenges from conservative groups seeking to halt the marriage spree that began last Thursday. The city's lawsuit, filed late Thursday afternoon, asks that those cases be consolidated into one. 
"The city and county of San Francisco is going on the offensive today to protect the mayor's action" allowing gay marriage, City Attorney Dennis Herrera said. 
Mayor Gavin Newsom said he doesn't regret giving out marriage licenses before the city filed a legal challenge to the state's marriage laws, but added that he's glad the question is now in the courts. 
"I think what we have done is affirm marriage here in San Francisco," Newsom said. "We affirmed it because we are celebrat­ing people coming together in their unions. I feel affirmed as a married man by what's happened here in San Francisco." 
A lawyer for a group trying to halt the gay marriages described the city's move as a delaying tactic. 
"This is as much a maneuver to keep this in court and keep the i~sue alive as it is anything else," said Benjamin Bull, an attorney with the Alliance Defense Fund. 
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said San Francisco's same-sex marriage licenses "fail to meet legal stan­dards." 
"The attorney general has assurerl me that he will vigorously defend the constitutionality of the law" bar­ring gay marriage, Schwarzenegger said. 
The city is asking Superior Court Judge James Warren to declare 
·unconstitutional three sections of 
the California Family Code that 
define marriage as a union between 
a man and a woman. 
City officials want the judge to 
determine if barring same-sex cou­
ples from marrying violates the 
equal protection and due process 
clauses of the state constitution. 
On Tuesday, Warren gave the city the choice ·of ending the same-sex wedding march or returning to court in late March to show why the process has not been halted. The city said it would continue issuing such licenses until forced to stop. 
Judge Ronald Quidachay is consid­ering a lawsuit filed by another con­servative group, the Campaign for California Families. He said Tuesday he was not prepared to issue a rul­ing, and scheduled another hearing for Friday. 
Like the city, conservatives want the two cases consolidated into one, but they want Quidachay to hear it instead of Warren. 
------------------------------~------~----------------­
Friday, February 20, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
"I feel that we are well served by the program at Saint Mary's," 
Teachers 

she said. "To have our own pro­
continued from page 1 gram would be somewhat of a 
duplication.... [The faculty and 
to point out there are common staff] are very easy to work with, 
misperceptions about studying at . . . very cooperative and support­
Saint Mary's. Kheriaty admitted it ive of our students." 
was intimidating to be the only In spite of the inconveniences, 
male in his classes. students spoke highly of the bene­
'The stereotypical perception of fits and rewards that they have 
the program is that it is easier in experienced. .comparison, but [the classes] are "I've really enjoyed the classes," 
still very demanding," said senior South said. "They are taught by 
Brian South, pointing out that 11 very capable professors." 
courses are required for the con­Kheriaty likewise praised the 
centration -one course more program. 

than his English major. "Student teaching has been a 
Both Kheriaty and South's focus great opportunity," he said. "In a 
is in secondary education. The lot of other schools you have to go 
requirements are even more rig­a fifth year to student teach. I am 
orous for elementary education glad that I will be certified when I 
students. In addition to taking graduate." 

required education courses, these Both students are also busy stu­
students must also balance their dent teaching at local high schools 
course load with requirements for to fulfill their imal requirement. 
their majors. South is a 1Oth grade English 
Such demands put pressure on teacher, while Kheriaty teaches 
a student's class load and could physics and physical science. 
hinder opportunities to study Following a successful completion 
abroad. of the semester, each will need to 
"It is completely viable as long take two tests before receiving 
as you're able to schedule your their Indiana teaching credentials, 
courses around the major," said which Kheriaty said are also 
South, who studied in Australia applicable in 37 states. 
during his junior.,year. While occasionally the road has 
Despite the demands, there is a been bumpy, they said, advisers 
large network of support and such as Cannon and Turner work 
advisors meant to help students. to help make the transition 
In addition to advisors in their smoother. Turner said she has 
majors and through the Saint spent a lot oftime talking with the 
Mary's program, Turner advises First Year of Studies and the 
the Arts & Letters education stu­College of Arts & Letters to facili­
dents, and Sister Kathleen Cannon tate the transition. 
assists students in the College of "I hope that I can help provide 
Science. information and support to the 
In spite of the levels of interest students and be an advocate for 
in the Education Program, Turner them," she said. 
said she does not believe Notre 

Dame will implement its own edu­Contact Stephanie Yahn at 
cation program anytime soon. syahn@nd.edu 

playing in the band concert, and return to campus at I'm a sad loser who's not about 1 a.m. Sunday morn­

Plans 
doing anything else," Fowler ing, leaving time for the game and sightseeing in
continued from page 1 said. 
However, there are still Chicago said senior class 
Other students' plans options. president Jazmin Garcia. weren't so concrete. For Saturday night, Legends Garcia said the trip will freshman Jeremy Klein, it's will host The Singles, a give seniors an entertaining going to be just another Detroit band billed as getaway this weekend. weekend. "Beatle-esque power pop." "It's a good opportunity for 
"We usually make plans at Also on Saturday, the seniors to get out of town, go the last minute," Klein said. Sophomore to Chicago and "We're probably going out to Class Council see the Bulls," dinner or a movie." will sponsor a "It's a good Garcia said. "It's 
Entertainment options in free Casino opportunity for also a chance to the dorms will be even more Night in the see Ryan
seniors to get out
limited than usual, as many LaFortune Humphrey, a rectors are keeping a lid on Ballroom. of town, go to Notre Dame grad­dorm parties. Knott Hall rec­Class presi-Chicago and see uate." tor Brother Jerome Meyer dent James The Orlando
the Bulls. , 
sent an e-mail to residents Leito said Magic drafted Tuesday asking them to treat prizes will Humphrey, a 6­visitors "with the customary include about Jazmin Garcia foot-8 forward, in Knott Hall friendship and $1,000 in. elec­senior class president the first round of courtesy." tronics from the 2002 NBA 
The e-mail also asked resi­Best Buy, draft, but he was dents to refrain from large including a DVD player, a traded later in that season to social gatherings, especially MP3 player, a television and Memphis. those involving alcohol, over more. Tickets for the trip are the weekend. The Class of 2004 will available in the LaFortune 
Some students, like senior sponsor a trip to Chicago on box office for $25. Lauren Fowler, were down­Saturday to watch the Bulls right pessimistic about the take on the Memphis weekend. Grizzlies at United Center. Contact Matt Bramanti at 
"Other than studying and Buses will leave around noon mbramant@nd.edu 

Trustees 
continued from page 1 
their thoughts in a round table discussion with the trustees. 
"Students did a great job in articulating their honest experiences relating to diversity, mission and com­
munity," Mahoney said. Mahoney will serve as the student trustee through the final meeting of the year in April. 
"I am very grateful for this opportunity to serve the Saint Mary's women as their student trustee, and this has been a very enjoyable expe­rience for me," Mahoney said. "It has allowed me to see how policies are made 
within the College as well as to understand the complexi­ty of providing for the entire student's well being. We have great role models on the Board, and it has been my pleasure to work with them and serve the students at the same time." 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail1407@saintmarys.edu 


I.-lafayette Square Tow:t:thomes· 
·:-:,;-:-: 

''All the fun of college., vvithout the education'' 
New Three Person Rates -$298.0.0 P·er Person, Per 1VIontl1 
Proudly Severing the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Cotnmunft:y The LARGEST SfudenfHousing Apartments Available 4 & 5 Bedroom Units ·wASHER andDRYER in Each Unit • Dishwasher • 24..,..Hour Etnergency Maintenance 
• ~.. ADT .Alarm Syste1ns 
Close to Campus 
For More Tnfonnation: Real Estate Manage:ri1ent Corporation 
P.O. Box 540 South Bend~ IN 46624 Telephone: ·5 74.,..234-9923 Fac.sitnile~ 574..234:..9925 
• Jblad@cbresb.com 
You've tried the rest, now live at the best! 
Notre Dame Apartments · 
Starting at just $120.00 per person, per month! ; 
+ Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Crunpus 
• Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue 
+ 
Current 1-year & 10-month Leases Available 

+ 
On-S-ite Laundry Facility 

+ 
2 Closets and 1Desk in Each Bedroom 


• Private Parking Lots 
+ 24 -hour Emergency Maintenance 
• Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment 
For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporati.on 
P.O. Box 540 South Bend~ IN 46624 Telephone: 574~234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 
Jblad(@.cbrcsb.com 


Friday, February 20, 2004 


page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
}ones 10,664.73 -7.26 
1ft s.;~. c:~~~ 
AMEX  1,243..57  -0.86  
NASDAQ  2,045.96  -30.51  
NYSE  6.,715.29  ····3.85  
S&PSOO  1,147.06  -4.76  
NIKKEI(Tokyo)  10/753~80  0.00  
FTSf IOO(London) 4,515.60  +72.70  


COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
APPLIED MATL (AMAT)  -0.81  -0.18  22.13  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT)  -1.16  -0.31  26.46  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -2.32  -0.71  29.89  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  ·1.70  -0.41  23.68  
ADCTELECOMM (ADCT)  -I 0.62  +0.36  3.03  
,  Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.12  -0.06  49.09  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.07  +0.03  40.52  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.17  -0.05  30.15  
3-MONTH BILL  0.00  0.00  9.12  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.16  34.64  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.50  410.30  
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.)  + 1.50  95.675  
Exchan  Rates  
YEN  I 07.1  
EURO  0.787  
POUND  0.5281  

IN BRIEF 
Stocks mixed on bad report 
NEW YORK-A drop i~ housing starts and 

a rally in the U.S. dollar on currency markets 
sent stocks lower Wednesday as the news gave 
investors an incentive to collect profits. 
Rough winter weather was to blame for the 

7.9 percent drop in residential building con­struction last month from December levels, the largest tumble in a year. However, the pace of residential construction in January was up 4.1 percent from the same month a year ago, giving investors a little good news to go with the bad. 
In addition, gains by the dollar, coming off 

all-time lows against the euro, sank large-cap 
stocks that had benefited from the low dollar 
in overseas sales. 
"Large-caps will take the hit for the dollar rising," said Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at Spencer Clarke LLC. "That's sparked the selling you're seeing here." 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 42.89, or 0.40 percent, to 10,671.99. 
Enron's Skilling takes his walk 
NEW YORK -Adelphia's John Rigas did it, so did Tyco's L. Dennis Kozlowski, as well as countless other corporate executives. But this was the perp walk that so many have been waiting for -a former Enron CEO being led in handcuffs. 
Sure, it took some time to get here -it has been more than two years since the collapse of the energy giant once considered one of the most innovative companies in the world. 
But to many people whose lives were badly damaged by the Enron fraud, that matters lit­tle now that Jeffrey Skilling has taken the first steps in what could be a long walk of shame. He might finally have to face his day in court. 
The SO-year-old Skilling became the highest­profile former Enron executive to face crimi­nal charges when he was indicted Thursday for participating in widespread schemes to mislead government regulators and investors. 
He resigned from Enron in August 2001, a surprise move that came four months before the company filed for bankruptcy amid disclo­sures that officials had hidden billions of dol­lars in debt and inflated profits to boost the stock price. 



Bank CEO lectures on corporate fraUd 
By MATT BRAMNTI News Writer 
Few executives would envy Steve Watts. He's the presi­dent and CEO of Sobieski Bank, which became embroiled in a fraudulent­loan scandal when a former loan officer distributed near­ly $10 million in unautho­rized loans in 2001 and 2002. 
Watts gave the fmallecture Thursday in the Mendoza College of Business annual Ethics Week series. Scores of students an·d professors filled the Giovanini Commons to hear the executive discuss his work to repair serious ethical problems at one of South Bend's oldest compa­nies. 
The fraud apparently took place when Andrew Ujdak. then director of loan opera­tions for Sobieski, approved about $9.5 million in fraudu­lent loans, crippling the South Bend-based bank and drawing the attention of fed­eral regulators. 
Until his guilty plea in August 2002, he was a mem­ber of the South Bend Common Council, the gov­erning body of the city. Watts said Ujdak's amicable per­sonality and charm made him well-liked at the bank. 
"He was a very popular person, a publicly-elected official in South Bend and he made friends easily," Watts said. "He was welcomed into our group of employees." 
However, that welcome helped Ujdak carry out a fraud that has had a tremen­dous impact on the 30-per­son bank. 
Much of the unauthorized money went to James Nekvasil, Jr., who has a con­siderable criminal record, including convictions for arson, car theft and a previ­ous instance of bank fraud in the 1990s. Nekvasil allegedly used some of the money to buy land and start building houses. However, the con­struction business was just a front, prosecutors said. They alleged Nekvasil left the homes unfinished and skimmed money from the project to finance a life of excess, including gambling 

jaunts to Las Vegas, sports cars and a $300,000 speed­boat 
Watts started at the 111­year-old bank in January 2003, and immediately began to clean up the mess. He was faced with nervous employees, picky bank examiners and furious shareholders, all demanding answers. 
Watts said the fraud case exposed procedural weak­nesses at the bank. 
"Things that were lacking [included] dual control and internal control practices," Watts said. "There did not appear to be a need for a lot of close dual control." 
In addition, Watts said the bank's longstanding culture was not conducive to whistleblowers. 
"The culture there was very autocratic, ... very top­down," he said. "If an employee observed a prac­
tice that was against proce­
dure or an unethical prac­
tice, they were not encour­
aged to report it." 
However, he said when the 
fraud began to surface, 
employees were cooperative. 
"Once it was discovered, a 
lot of information was bro­
ken down and a lot of people 
came forward," he said. 
"Some of them, I expect, will 
testify in the upcoming tri­
als." 
Watts said one of his key 
duties upon joining the bank 
was to rebuild morale 
among the remaining 
employees. 
"They were embarrassed for themselves and the organization," Watts said. "They were faced with the realization that someone they were friends with, worked with and worked for had done something wrong. Once that trust is breached, it's very difficult to get back." 
Furthermore, employees were worried the bank might not survive the ordeal. 
"All employees are share­holders; a part of their retirement is based on the overall value of the stock," Watts said. 
In order to improve flag­ging spirits among employ­ees, Watts invited their input when making high-level decisions. 
"We had a much larger group in our strategic plan­ning session," he said. "We brought it down to the lowest entry-level positions in the company and asked them what their opinions were." 
The executive also worked to establish new procedures to ensure such a devastating lapse in integrity would never happen again. 
"We had to re-evaluate 

what our own expectations 
were for ethical standards," 
he said. "We also needed to 
reinforce what we said our 
expectations were." 

Those expectations came 
down to a commitment to 
honest customer service, 
backed up by effective con­
trols behind the scenes. 

"The primary aspect of our 
business is service," he said. 
"People expect their bankers 
to act a certain way." 

Watts borrowed a line 
from former president 
Ronald Reagan used in dis­
cussing arms control negoti­
ations with the Soviet Union 
-"trust, but verify." 

"We always wanted to 
trust the employees that we 
worked with, but we also 
had to verify [their work,]" 
Watts said. 

Not all employees bought 
into the new ethical stan­
dards at Sobieski. Watts said 
he fired about six employees 
who didn't support the new 
ethics practices. 
"If you find your value sys­tem and ethical standards are different from your employers, you won't be very happy there," Watts said. 
While rebuilding confi­dence among his employees, Watts had to cooperate with federal bank regulators, who were sent in to investigate the fmancial controls at the bank. 
He said before the scandal broke, regulators routinely gave Sobieski a clean bill of health, but that changed after an internal audit dis­covered the fraud. 
''If things are going along just fme on the surface, [reg­ulators] don't spend a lot of time," he said. "Once a prob­lem is discovered, they dig down really deeply." 
That digging led to signifi­
cant restrictions on the 
bank's operations. In May, 
the Office of Thrift 
Supervision, a Treasury 
Department agency that reg­
ulates savings and loan insti­
tutions~ issued a supervisory 
agreement effectively ban­
ning the bank from making 
commercial loans. In addi­
tion, the bank had to sell off 
certain assets in order to 
boost its capital, including 
the houses left unfinished by 
Nekvasil. 
"I've got a couple of nice homes for sale, and I'd be happy to take offers," Watts joked. 
Watts said that since the 
OTS agreement, Sobieski has 
put more emphasis on lend­
ing to individuals. 
"There was a perception that we were out of the loan business entirely," Watts said. "We've had to focus on mortgages and consumer loans." 
However, the consumer business might not be enough to save the strug­gling bank. Sobieski released its earnings Tuesday for the last quarter of 2003, posting a $2.8 million net loss, com­pared to a $738,000 profit for the same period of 2002. 
The news got worse Thursday, when the OTS imposed further regulations on the company and down­graded its condition to "undercapitalized." 

Watts remained guardedly optimistic about the future of the company. The bank will open a new facility Monday, replacing an older branch. 
Watts said many cus­tomers have stayed with the bank, despite negative media attention. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
-------·-------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, February 20, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
CYPRUS 

Cypriot leaders meet in airport 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders held a dramatic meeting Thursday at a rusty, abandoned airport that was once Cyprus' gateway to the world, opening talks seen as the best chance in decades to reunify this Mediterranean island divided by war. 
Fears that extremists could try to disrupt the talks, held under high security in a U.N. buffer zone, grew with the explosion of a small bomb in front of a senior Turkish Cypriot official's home Thursday. The blast wounded one person. 
Greek Cypriot President Tassos Papadopoulos and Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktash indicated they staked out tough positions as they began negotiating. 
"It is too early to talk of satis­faction," Papadopoulos said later. "One issue may not be resolved and this may destroy everything." 
But the two leaders are under a strict U.N. timetable and face intense European Union pres­sure to reunite the island before it enters the EU on May 1. If the island remains divided, EU laws will apply only in its interna­tionally recognized south -and Turkish troops in the north could be considered to be occu­pying EU land. 
"The situation is now better than ever and is a real opportu­nity that should not be missed," EU Expansion Commissioner Guenter Verheugen said, adding that the EU was ready to spend $330 million to help integrate Cyprus if it is unified. 

Denktash and Papadopoulos earlier agreed upon a March 22 deadline to reach an accord. If they fail to do so, Greek and Turkish officials will join the talks. If their involvement fall short, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan will fill in the blanks. 
The arrangement has raised hopes of 
"I think we are

a settlement, which issues which are would be put to a close to a solution outside the referendum on framework of
no matter how 

each side of the the plan." 
difficult the 

island on April 21. Greek Cypriot 
U.S. State road is.·· leaders say all Department 200,00 Greek 
spokesman Richard lassos Glannltsls Cypriot refugees Boucher praised should have the Greek foreign minister right to return to
both sides "for the how difficult the road is." 
The two sides are deeply divided on such issues as the number of Greek Cypriot refugees who can return to the north, how many Turkish sol­diers would remain and the amount of power the central government would have. 
"We presented our views to make the plan more compatible with EU laws for the benefit of both the Greek and Turkish Cypriots," Papadopoulos said. "The Turkish side raised 
political will they have demonstrated in returning to the talks, and we encourage them to continue their work in a positive vein." 
"The historic process is begin­ning today," was the headline of Kibris, the largest newspaper on the Turkish side. 
Greek Cypriot housewife Mari Georgious said she is "praying for a settlement so that the peo­ple of Cyprus can live in peace and harmony in a reunited Cyprus again." 
Greek Foreign Minister Tassos Giannitsis said: "I think we are close to a soiution no matter the north. 
The refugees left after Turkey's 197 4 invasion, which followed a short-lived coup by supporters of union with Greece. 
Denktash fears that large numbers of returning refugees would change the character of the Turkish north and says the 100,000 called for in a plan out­lined by Annan is already too much. 
"By making Greeks come and live with us you cannot main­tain hi-zonality," Denktash said after the talks. "We insisted that hi-zonality is strengthened." 
ENGLAND 

Five prisoners will return from Cuba 
Associated Press 
LONDON Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said Thursday that five Britons jailed at the U.S. military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, will be returned home in several weeks. But they could be arrested again upon arrival. 
Straw told reporters at a news conference that discus­sion were continuing on the fate of the remaining four British citizens being held. 
"Once the detainees are back in the U.K., I understand that the police will consider whether to arrest them under the Terrorism Act 2000 for ques­tioning in connection with pos­sible terrorist activity," he said. 
Earlier Thursday. Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen told his parliament that a Dane held at Guantanamo Bay will soon be released. 
Danish media have identified him as Slimane Hadj Abderrahmane. He was trans­ferred to the U.S. Naval base in Cuba in February 2001 after being captured in Afghanistan. 
"Under Danish law it is not possible to put him on trial. He will come to Denmark as a free man," Foreign Ministe·r Per Stig Moeller said during a debate in parliament. 
State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said the detainee would be released soon. He did not provide a more specific time frame. 
He said Secretary of State Colin Powell had spoken with the Danish Foreign Minister Per Stig Moeller about the situ­ation. 
At the White House, spokesman Scott McClellan said the United States has received assurances from Denmark and Britain that the detainees being released will not pose "any future threat to America or our friends and allies." 
Five other Guantanamo pris­oners -a Spaniard and four Saudi Arabians -were recent­ly released and returned to their countries for detention or prosecution. 
"These detainees who are at Guantanamo Bay are people who are a threat to our coun­try. That's why they were detained there, they are a dan­ger to America and our friends and allies," McClellan told reporters. 
"We have been provided assurances from those coun­tries that we are returning those detainees to that they will make sure that they do not pose any future threat to America or our friends and allies," he said. 
JP"V\T...Take full advan.t:age of-it:!
Quality 

Diamonds 
••••••••••••••noon•••••-1 
® 


Turt:.le Creek Apart:.ment:.s... 

Living here is a tradition your social. life can't afford to miss out on! 
Bring your parents in for a tour and sign for your
John M. Marsl1all's 
apa.rt.IT1ent for next school year ON THE SPOT.
Inl":C!rpor-.ated 1965 
No waiting No wondering
Jewelers/ Gt~mologists 
No hassles

Goldsmiths I Platinumsmiths 
CALL FOR AN APPOINTM.ENT TODAY~~~ 
Key Bank Buildin_g, Suite #1.01 Turtle Creek Apartments 574-272-8124 "\;'\/VVW. t·urtlecreek:nd.coirL 
South Bend* Indiana 46601 






Unli111ited Minute 


MISHAWAKA  SOUTH BEND  
514 W. McKinley  117 North Main  
Corner McKinley & Grape  1 blk. south of Colfax  
574.252.5820  574.288.9450  
4615 Miami Road  
Miami & Ireland  
574.299.2860  

•A1rt1me offer vahd on two-year consumer serv1ce agreements of $39 95 Cfld higher Promot1011al phone subJect to change Fmne i)'JCtng ncludes a$30 ma1~11 rebate Customer IS responsible for all sales taxes Reduced access fee valid for f1rst 
3rrooths of 24-rnonth Serv1ce Agreement Free lncomlflQ Mnutes available nlocal calling area only N1ght aoo weekend mnutes ;:re valid M-F 9pm to 559 <Wn and all day Saturday and SU'lday NJQht and weekerd m1rutes a1e available 1n local calling area Ol)ly Option of 3000 N1Qhts ard Weekend M111utes. w1th a 7 pm start tme. 1s ONlY good on the prornot1onal rate piCWJ of $39 95 for 1(XX) mnutes Roam1ng charges. fees. strcharges and taxes may apply Act1valim fee $30 All serv­
~PREMIER

f< US.Cellular. ICe agreements Stb)ect to Cfl early termnat1on fee Other restnct1ons may apply $ee store for details l1m1ted t1me offer
* 
lOCATIONS"

AUTHORIZED AGENT OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 28, 2004 

Friday, February 20, 2004 page 9
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
First lady defends education plan 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -Laura Bush on Thursday defended "No Child Left Behind," the cen­terpiece of her husband's education policy, from critics who say it's underfunded and overemphasizes the importance of testing. 
"The testing that a lot of people object to is not puni­tive," the first lady said while visiting a magnet school that mixes academic studies with technology coursework to prepare stu­dents for jobs in the 21st century. "You are giving a test so you'll know what you need to do. You can't solve the problem unless you can diagnose it." 
Leading Democratic presi­dential candidates have crit­icized the education plan for holding schools accountable for big improvements with­out giving them enough money to succeed. 

"I know that there are some states that are not happy with it, but I will say that critics say that there's 
not enough money appropri­ated with it but there's more money in the No Child Left Behind Act than there's been in any previous federal law ever before," Mrs. Bush said. 
In a brief news conference Thursday, Mrs. Bush also said she's confident the president will be re-elected but hopes it's not a dirty campaign. 
She said the Democrats' claims that Bush did not report for National Guard duty in Alabama are an attempt to "divert attention" from her husband's success­es. 
"We've just been through a Democratic primary where the candidates themselves have spent more than $100 million running against the president," she said. 
Mrs. Bush, a former librarian, said she thought the Patriot Act should be renewed, despite opposition from civil rights groups that argue it violates privacy rights and constitutional free speech. 

"I think it's very important in the fight against .terror­ism," she said, adding that she understands the con­cerns of librarians who have rallied against the act as an infringement on First Amendment rights. "I also know that no part of that act has been acted upon in a library." 
Las Vegas was the last stop on a three-day trip by Mrs. Bush that involved edu­cation and fund-raising events in Arkansas, California and Nevada. President Bush won Nevada in 2000 with 49.5 percent of the vote. The Las Vegas area was the only part of the state that he lost to AI Gore. 
The first lady went to Advanced Technologies Academy, a school in the Clark County School District where stude.nts have regular coursework, including advanced placement classes. The school also offers pro­grams in graphic design, computer science, business, information technology and other fast-growing fields. 
Remains found buried at fake doctor's house 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Police believe the same day a Manhattan financial analyst vanished last year, a phony physician treated her for a growth on her tongue -with deadly results. 
Authorities were awaiting the outcome of an autopsy Thursday to confirm that a decomposed body discovered entombed in cement at the medical impostor's Newark, N.J., mansion was that of the ana­lyst, Maria Cruz. The fake doctor, Dean Faiella, remains a fugitive. 
Detectives were "working on the hypothesis that she may have received treatment for a condition called black tongue, from which she may not have survived," said police spokesman Paul Browne. He offered no information on the type of treatment. 
The decomposing body, found Wednesday inside a suitcase buried in a floor slab in the Newark house, matched a description of the 35­year-old Cruz, including the fact she had breast implants, police said. 

Faiella, 44, was arrested in 2002 for practicing without a license and illegally possessing medical drugs but apparently continued to see patients at a Manhattan apartment, authorities said. He pleaded guilty in June 2003 but allegedly fled to Costa Rica before his scheduled December sentencing. 
Cruz was last seen April 13, 2003. Using automatic teller and credit card records, investigators determined that Cruz left her own apartment that day and werit shop­ping at a department store near Faiella's apartment, where she may have died. 
The woman's family reported her missing April 18 after she failed to pick up visiting relatives at the air­port. 
Around the time of the disap­pearance, Faiella had several bags of cement delivered to his Newark mansion, authorities said. The cement was used to build a raised platform in the house before Faiella sold the building in May and fled the country in September, they said. 
SMC Student Activities Board is holding auditions for amateur comedians. 
Two Winners will be chosen to open for 
D.t\TPIIAN. Winner of NBC'• 
Lat eo.,;, Stantlillfl. 
on March 19th at 7pm in O'Laughlin Aud. 
Auditions will be Friday February 27th, starting ii16:30pm. Space is Limited. Please sign up early to reserve YOUR audition spot, by contacting SAB@saintmarys.edu. 
..Ifyou get an audition, you will be nctified by SAB on Feb..20. •• 

NASA to prepare rescue shuttle 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­NASA said Thursday that the shuttle will remain grounded until early next year, and once launch­es do resume, a second spaceship will be on standby to rescue the 
astronauts if their craft is dam­aged in flight. 
Because of the Columbia disas­ter one year ago, NASA decided last month that all shuttles from now on will be devoted to com­pleting the international space station. That way, the astronauts can inspect and repair their ships at the orbiting outpost and await rescue there if the damage is too grave. 
The rescue shuttle will not nec­essarily be on the launch pad, but will be ready to fly to the space station within 45 to 90 days, shut­tle program manager Bill Parsons said. That is how long seven addi­tional astronauts could remain aboard the space station before food, oxygen and other supplies ran out. 
NASA had been aiming for its first post-Columbia launch as early as next fall, but Administrator Sean O'Keefe said it would now be no earlier than 
January 2005. Because of a new safety requirement for daylight launches in order to photograph the liftoff from multiple angles, the space agency is limited in the number of days it can send a shuttle to the station. 
O'Keefe said five or six potential launch dates are available in January. "If that looks like it's forcing anybody to do anything in a way that pressures that sched­ule at all, we'll defer it to March if need be," he said during a visit to Orlando, Fla. 
The space agency has yet to decide which shuttle -Atlantis or Discovery -will make the first post-Columbia flight and which one will be the standby. The fleet has been grounded since Columbia shattered over Texas on Feb. 1, 2003. 
This will be the first time the space agency has had a rescue ship waiting in the wings since 
the days of NASA's first space sta­tion, Skylab, in the 1970s. NASA deputy associate admin­istrator Michael Kostelnik said it is too soon to say whether a shut­tle will be on standby for succeed­ing missions as well. · ''I don't believe that there's an awful lot of extra training or extra things that we have to do for a rescue mission," Parsons said. "It would just be going to the inter­national space station, docking, picking up crew, making sure that we had the appropriate hardware and different things that we need­ed to bring that crew on board and then return safely." In the case of Columbia, such a rescue would have been impossi­ble. The shuttle did not visit the space station; it was in an entirely different orbit than the station and lacked the fuel to get there. Any shuttle sent to Columbia's aid would have had to fly in for­mation, and spacewalks would have been needed to transfer Columbia's seven astronauts over to the rescue ship. The shuttle that lifts off on the first flight since Columbia will incorporate numerous changes. including improvements to the external fuel tank and the leading edges of the wings. The changes were prompted by the Columbia accident, in which a piece of foam broke off from the external tank during launch and damaged the wing, dooming the spacecraft during re-entry. 

J..aoo-648-4849/ www.ststravel.com 



THE OBSERVER Welcome Parents 
P.O. Box Q. No!TC Dame:. IN 46.556 

0.24 South Dining Han, NOtre Daine. IN 46;5:6 Junior parents, welcome to campus. For many of you, (Juniors who haven't yet completed these tasks. please use << . EDitoR 1N Cl-llEf other than the start and end of your child's career at Notre this as a checklist so a disapproving scowl isn't the first Andrew Soukup Dame and the occasional football weekend, this is the only thing you get when you see your parents.) 
MANAGING EDITOR 8UstNJlSS MANAG£8. time that you will spend time on campus that you pay over So welcome to this clean and sanitized Notre Dame. We $30,000 a year for your child to attend. are sure that you will enjoy it as much as we do in the 12
Scott Broofudu-~ Lori ~ki 

But lest you think this is just a normal week­hours that it stays this way after you leave. end at Notre Dame, we want to clue you in to 0 The But in all seriousness, this weekend is for some of the preparations for your arrival. Oserver you and your children. It is the only time that 
NEWS EmroR~ ·Meghanne Down~ The seniors have been shipped off to Chicago •al a weekend on campus does not involve sepa­VIEWPOINT EDIIDiti Santh Vabula.s 
and the underclassmen have gone to Windsor ~on ration anxiety, as it does for the parents at
Edi

Sroms EDITOR; JoeH«d¢r to avoid the wrath of rectors who have moved l! freshman orientation and for the students . SeEN£ brrott: M.lti:l SnHrh · parietals two hours earlier. The University has leaving Notre Dame at commencement. It is a dispatched front loaders to move piles of snow. The janitors wonderful opportunity to see what your child has been
SAINT MARY's EolTOll: Anneliese Woolford 

have been hard at work to make sure that even the bath­doing for the last three years and to make up for all of those 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 

rooms don't smell. And your sons and daughters have been phone calls that your child never made. We truly hope that
GRAPHICS Eorroru Mike Harkins :. · 

hard at work, too. They have done their laundry for the first all juniors and parents cherish this opportunity to meet 
ADVERTISING MANAGEit: Maura CenedeJia; . · 

time in weeks and washed their sheets for the first time all friends, meet professors and also meet other parents. Once 
AD 0ES1GN MANAGER: TC)Ql. Haight 

year. The custody of alcohol -the forbidden hard variety you get over the initial anxiety of parents and students SYSTIMS ADMlNTSTMl'OR: •Ted Bangert and beer alike -has been appropriated to a friend who spending an evening together. it will be a great weekend, WEB ADMINISTJlAT()Rt Todd Nieto won't have the watchful eye of parents in the room. The the last until May 15, 2005 -and no one wants to think 
CoNrROll.E.R: P'au.lit Garda · • scantily-clad pictures have been removed from the walls. about that date just yet. 
CONTAGTUs ...· OFRCE MMIAG£11. & GENERAL fHFO (574) u}~f747J 
. FAX .. 
t~74Pf5t~6927 
AIJVERSTISING . 


Shopping wisely
{574l~M-69® ... ~s¢~d@n~t«lu •-. -· . _·•· •· •Eomm.tN CHIEF _-•. _ _ •• •-. ·•·-·-··• ....-. _·_ .-<• .. .• _-. ·· .· . (S.74l63J-4S42 ·-···• .. > ···.··• Mwcitl!i··eomm·•&-A8StsrAN1.MiiiAGiic•~:Diroil· Most of the food I eat is organic. place where old Volkswagen vans are aisles of the larger markets. (5'74} P:31·454l • ·obsme@nd.edu ·•· Despite this fact, contrary to what many resurrected and where more people Strolling the aisles of the Garden 
· ·· ·BusiMss OFRC£ 

might think, I am far from chic. I would probably know where to find a good veg­Patch, I am led to conclude that part of 
. (574) 631~5313 

also make the claim that I am not what gie burger than could point you jn the the reason for this continued success is 
..·.· ······ ..... NEWSOUK .. 

New York Times columnist David Brooks direction of a decent hamburger. I found the sheer civility of the shopping experi­
.<?14> $~J~S:~Z$ •~~~;l~nd.e~u .. .·... •:· :.... •... •• V1EwPOUIT D£stc ··• •• ••••· • ..• ···• }•· would classify as a an organic diet more difficult when I ence. It lacks the frenzy of crazed shop­()74)•63~~530$ :.•...:-•viewwijjtl@n~tedu "hobo." I make too John arrived in South Bend. That is, until I pers in every aisle, the long lines at 
. SPORTS DESK .. . . . . . 

little money, I dress lnfranca happened upon a tiny place known as checkout, the feeling that your senses 
(574) ~3~~4)~ th~~ts.l~~d.ed~ .•••••••.•••.• too poorly and my the Garden Patch, tucked away a few are being barraged at every moment by car can claim well blocks ofT Grape Road. Its nondescript a display trying to sell you something you
Dissident
over 100,000 miles. sign is unlikely to attract attention from really do not need. But I think the deeper I am a poor gradu­Poetry anyone not intending to find it. reason. and one which I share, is the ate student willing to When you walk in the door, it might desire of many shoppers to support a pay what others feel like you have stepped back in time. local business in an age when such might think is a ridiculous amount of The doors do not open automatically, no places are quickly disappearing. The money for food grown without the use of one greets you, there is one checkout Garden Patch boasts a character sorely fertilizers and pesticides. And while I station and the whole place is smaller missing from the chains of every sort honestly feel most of this food tastes than most homes. Since 1956, the . that spread like a virus across our coun­noticeably better-compare Annie's Garden Patch has survived under the try. Shopping there is a way to support Organic Macaroni and Cheese with Kraft ownership of the same family and is run the kind of independent local businesses and you will clearly see what I mean -I today by Jay Freterickson, the original whose existence prevents America from also feel this decision is one grounded in owner's son. Ironically enough, the losing any sense of local and social justice. Garden Patch sells few fruits regional charm. It also provides 
Rather than a "hobo," I place myself and vegetables, a sad conces­a way to buy foods that are among those simple-living qua<;i-hippies sion to the fact that, as the good for the Earth, often from the Pacific Northwest who eschew owner remarks, "few peo­better for the people who giant corporate grocers and prefer small ple eat produce today," produce them, and most "natural food stores" or local coops but also because many of important better for one's owned by a collective of people. Perhaps its customers buy their own body. we are the communists of the food chain, produce at South Bend's The prices might seem but our numbers are growing. It was not nearby Farmer's Market. high the first time one always this way. I grew up on a subtle Instead it provides a steps into such a store, combination of home cooked Italian­wide variety of organic but the fact is that American meals and StoufTers 1V or naturally grown pack-· Americans pay far less Dinners, packed with the preservatives aged and bulk products. for their food, as a per-without which any American childhood One of the store's great­, centage of income, than would seem incomplete. I thought noth­est virtues, contrary to the / citizens of any other indus­ing of this. common suspicion of natural trial nation. This perspective 
Then I started to learn about the food stores, is its prices. The reveals places like the Garden genetically modified organisms placed in Garden Patch offers many prod-Patch provide wholesome food at most non-organic food, about the unsus­ucts at prices below those of larger a reasonable price. And frankly, the taste tainable agricultural practices often used supermarket chains. This is in part can't be beat. to produce such food and about the because of a conscious effort to buy large 
l'"t' ~55 ...,, ~ -....... . . 

chemical residues left on the produce I amounts of products from distributors John Infranca is a theology graduate 
The ()b..,..cr il'J"ubllthNOI: . 

~4-~,;.,;,o~, PirilAI fl•lf • . •.• ·. ate. The food I found in most supermar­during sale periods and pass those sav­student. His column appears every other Nou.-Dame.iN<Iti$~ •. · •. • kets simply did not seem like food any­ings on to customers. Over the years the friday. He can be reached at 
~~~Of':~<i4s~u~···· 

11114 .aditidl>~ it>~~· . more, more a product of science than a Garden Patch's business has stayed jinjran 1 @nd.edu. product of the Earth. steady, despite competition from two The views expressed in this column are Making the switch to organic food was new natural food stores in the area and those ofthe author and not necessarily easy when I lived in Portland, Ore., a the addition of such products in the those ofThe Observer. 



OBSERVER POLL
News Sports. < << 
AndrewThagard . Heather Van· ·. ·· 
Should the student government 
.. Amanda Michaels .·. -•Hoega.rd.en-_
•:•Megha.nne Downes . constitution be amended 
Kate Gales 
so that, in the future, the Senate 
Viewpoint··· 
·•-m1e Better 

._._.. · Nicole Clery will not decide an election
sc.en.:e· 
in which a candidate does not 
Graphics Ken Dineen 
achieve a majority??
Graham Ebestch Maria Smith · · 

mustrator *Poll appears courtesy of Katie Knorr www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 113 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Don't ever take a fence down until you know why it was put up.,, 
Robert Frost poet 

GUEST COLUMN 



The other minority 
Every day the Viewpoint articles seem to be about how someone on campus is offended and underrepre­sented. Here is a little about the most underrepre­sented group on campus-an "alternate lifestyle" group that ought to be offended. Although a larger group than any racial minority, no popular presidential candi­Ryan date ever adopts a plank in their 

laflgllola
favor, no Notre Dame media 
writes about them and no one · seems to acknowledge their exis­Just Keepin· 
tence. It Real 
They are a minority of a differ­ent kind -a minority by choice, no doubt. In fact, they are an interesting bunch because they have the ability to disappear on week­ends, or so it seems to those who are a part of the "popul~r;" social scene. You guessed it-I am talking about the alcohol-free student. 
The first question you must be thinking is, "Why?" Undoubtedly there are many reasons a person may choose not to drink. I could fill the rest of this column with reasons why I do not. Instead, I will summarize some of them in one paragraph. 
Have you ever eaten at a homeless shelter? Talk to the people there. See what they tell you. Have you ever read the Bible or even read about the philosophy of Socrates? Examine what they say about drunken­ness -stating that it is frowned upon is a gross understatement. Have you ever considered what drinking says about yourself? I will tell you -it says that you are not good enough as you are, so take this substance to change you -to make you do things that, if you were thinking straight, you would never be doing. And where does the fun part come in between the getting fat, puking, poor decision making and increased chance of physical or sexual assault? I tend to think I can have a much better time while sobe~,,:~-pd. per~onal1y, I,rea}~ze 'th~. once I decide ~~ 
1 

do something, I do it all-out and never halfway, so I would be especially at risk if I started. Per}laps others use rationale similar to mine. 
Now, if you were not convinced before you read that, I will bet my No. 1 dime that you still are not. My goal is not to change you -it is to demonstrate from where nondrinkers may be coming. With that in mind, consider this issue from my viewpoint. 
This school encourages drinking, while doing little to offer opportunities for those who wish to abstain from it. As a university supposedly adamant in its Christian fervor, I think this is a bold statement, yet true. 
Even regarding the transportation of alcohol, du Lac says, "Students must ensure that the containers are closed and in suitable packaging such that the con­tents of the package are not readily identifiable as alcoholic beverages." In other words, "Go ahead and bring beer in, but please do not hurt the school's pre­cious image by showing that side to any chance visi­tors." In addition, do not forget Frosh-0, which in men's halls, anyway, mainly consists of upperclass­men telling the new students how to avoid getting in trouble when they drink. Lastly, even the gym and Huddle close earlier on weekends -heck, what are kids doing here? Go out and drink off your week. 
Want further proof? Eighty-five percent of students here are reported as drinkers as compared to only 80 percent of students nationally. In addition, 27 percent of last year's freshmen were nondrinkers as com­pared to only 12 percent of the entire student body. Students are subtly pressured and, by and large, they give in over time. 
The students themselves are more ridiculous than the administration. I am convinced that the average student spends 50 hours a week studying and none thinking. Students cheered when smoking was banned from buildings, and many now support ban­ning it at entrance ways, and perhaps entirely from campus. Nevertheless, when it comes to alcohol ­
which is at least as large an annoyance to the inno­
cent-drunken students do not hesitate to fill dorm 
hallways, puke in the sinks or invade rooms. You call 
yourselves my Notre Dame family, but I can tell you 
this -no one in my family has ever acted like that. 
So what is my point? To students who drink, stop acting like non-drinkers have some sort of social defect. To students who have chosen not to drink. be proud and unafraid to let people know that yours is the high ground, and it shows character and integrity. 
As for the administration, I have a special request. Please consider bringing Notre Dame's dorm system up to date with the rest of the country. Of course, I do not mean with respect to parietals, but rather by giv­ing housing options to those who do not want to drink. Nearly every majqr school in the nation offers students the option of signing up for a designated substance-free hall or floor-or at least asks ques­tions about it when assigning freshmen roommates. This place currently does nothing and ignores the problem. The two new reside_nce halls proposed in the master plan offer the perfect opportunity, and ran­domly selected dry hallways would be sufficient until then. 
Although I expect to hear quite a bit of negative responses about this article, both in the newspaper and personally, realize that my requests do not in any way prevent current drinkers from continuing; so calm down. As for fellow nondrinkers, I would love to receive letters of support and to hear your thoughts because, contrary to popular belief, we do not hang out with each other in the library every Saturday night. 
Ryan Jafigliola is a freshman engineering major. He can be reached at riafigli@nd. edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•'"":tf 
LETIER TO THE EDITOR 


Request for apology is reverse discrimination 

While scanning The Observer for grammatical errors to mock with my friends as usual, I came across yesterday's story about The Observer's editors defending the paper at the Student Senate. 
Shocked that The Observer did, in fact, have editors, I read the article with bemuse­ment, and I was rewarded with the latest nugget of absurdity from the Politically Correct Police. 
In a frighteningly Orwellian twist of language, the Diversity Council, enraged by the multiple perspectives being expressed in the recent Viewpoint debate on atfrrmative action, asked the offending editors for an apology. Apparently, tolerance for the views of others applies only when those beliefs fall within the officially sanctioned orthodoxy of multiculturalism. 
This incident highlights the contradictions behind the diversity craze that has swept across America's campuses. Advocates of diversity presumably support the free exchange of ideas among students with varying beliefs and backgrounds. Proponents of afflrmative action and the Supreme Court's decision upholding preferential policies at universities specifically invoke this educational benefit of a classroom charged with mul­tiple viewpoints as a rationale for the pursuit of a diverse student population. 
Unfortunately, diversity as it is currently enacted in higher education rarely means actual. spirited debate among competing beliefs and arguments. Instead, a superficial diversity is practiced, where ethnicity is seen as the predominant influence on a person's belief system. The faces of such a diversified classroom may accurately reflect the ethnic composition ofthe country, but the entire goal of such diversity is defeated when every­one agrees or when an opinion deemed potentially offensive is stifled, as the Diversity Council requested. 
As the ideology of diversity becomes increasingly institutionalized and entrenched in academia, actions to quiet dissenters, like those of the Diversity Council, will become increasingly common. Under the guise ofsensitivity and tolerance, those who question the logic ofdiversity and multiculturalism will continue to be attacked as ignorant and racist troglodytes. 
The Diversity Council fails to realize that its hypersensitivity and/or eagerness to con­demn and dismiss opposing perspectives undermine its ostensible purpose, and its request for an apology dilutes and perverts the true meanings of the terms diversity and tolerance. In the future, please don't continue to proselytize from your Gospel of Diversity while threatening excommunication to those heretics who dare to disagree. 
Patrick Carney junior Fisher Hall Feb. 19 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


page 12 Friday, February 20, 2004 Friday, February 20, 2004 



Laughs at Legends 
Humor Artists present their first all stand up show of the semester 
By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 
Putting yourself on stage in front of a crowd is never easy. Putting yourself up there with no lines, no props and no idea what situation you're going to have to deal with is even harder. Yet this is what the Humor Artists love to do, and it is a challenge they take on every time they put on a show. 
"It's a blast for the performers because we constantly get fresh material, and the comedy is live," club co-president Bob Masters said. "We're out there without a net." 
In Thursday night's all 
impersonate the world's worst gynecologist, Elvis impersonator or other categories, Sound Like a Song, in which the performers have to improvise songs based on their lines and Two Lines, in which characters have to act out a scene using only the two lines that have been chosen for them. The show resembled a local version of ABC's "Whose Line is it Anyway?" with a Notre Dame twist. 
Thursday night's performance was the first test of the type of show the Humor Artists hope to establish more regularly on campus. By setting up weekly or bi­weekly performances, the group hopes to pull in a more regular audience. 
The Humor Artists is a mixed bag of tal­ents and personality, with about 20 mem­bers who participate more or less depending on time and inclination. Group members Peter Wicks and Mike Bradt 

. 
have done semi-professional stand-up comedy, while others simply enjoy the challenge of being asked to play an obses­sive-compulsive auto mechanic or a drunken Kermit the Frog on a moment's notice. 
Besides the 12 members of the improvi­sational group and the five members of the Stand-Up Club, the group has a few other members who participate in the larger shows. Last semester's Night at the HApera featured the whole group in improvisational as well as scripted skits. 
Some of the group's alums go on in comedy, trying to establish themselves in 

stand-up show at ':4t first you tend to be 
Legends, the group tried 

reserved; you don't want to
out its talents in a series 

of unscripted games that jump up. The biggest thing forced performers to is just to practice and be 
think on their feet and 

willing to throw yourself out
to quickly come up with 

there.,,
lines. Some of the group's favorite games include World's Worst, 

Bob Masters 
in which the performers 

comedian 
groups like Second City in Chicago and the Groundlings in 
L.A. For others it's just a hobby. 
The group is open to all students but tends to be self-selecting. 
"We don't cut peo­ple, because it's really sink or swim," club co-president Ernie 
Grigg said. ,..After the first show, when you're up there in front of an audience people usually leave 
on their own if it's not their thing." "Some kids have it and some kids don't, but you can work on it." 
That is exactly what the group does every Wednesday and Sunday when they get together to run practice skits, play improvisational games and build group rapport. 
"At first you tend to be reserved; you don't want to jump up. The biggest thing is just to practice and be willing to throw yourself out there," Masters said. "What makes improv comedy special is it is entirely dependent upon up audience. It works best when it's live and we have a responsive, excited crowd." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


•

tn 


One of Detroit's garage rock bands comes to Legends on Saturday night 
By PATRICKVASSEL 
Scene Writer 
Just a few years ago, MTV and a variety of rock critics hailed the return of "garage rock" bands. With little studio assistance and relying mainly on scratchy voices and crunching guitars, bands such as The White Stripes, The Strokes and The Hives found their niche and fame. The Detroit-based genre was quickly spun into a popular phenomenon allowing hundreds of bands to come out of the garages and onto radio stations. 
The Singles is a band from the suburbs of Detroit that has man­aged to rise above the hype and emerge as a group with a distinct sound and catchy songs. Formed in 2001 behind lead vocalist and guitarist Vince Frederick, the band is comprised of Will Yates on lead guitar, Dave Lawson on bass and Dave Knepp on drums. 

From left to right, Dave Knapp, Dave Lawson, Will Yates, and Vince Frederick are
Fred~rick, who doubles as the 

the members of The Singles. .•. ·•a••lc;,. ...n • t.a t· ·!"'· ··I
lead. singer and ~ongwrite~;, 


describes the band's sound as "Just straightforward rock 'n' roll, obviously with the influence of the old school bands but with the energy of today." Frederick became lost in the music of the '1950s and '60s in high school after being introduced to his parent!)' Beatles and Chuck Berry records at an early age. The influence is obvious listening to any track off their debut album, "Better than Before." 
Songs such as the single "He Can Go, You Can't Stay" open with catchy riffs and a driving sound reminiscent of the early days of rock, but The Singles blend their energy perfectly with this sound to create songs that are both pop and powerful. This sound is so different from any other band out there that it is difficult to draw comparisons. Though often grouped with bands like The White Stripes, The Singles are almost in a genre by themselves. 
The Singles hold high expecta­tions for Saturday's show at Legends. 
"Touring has gone just as good or better than we expected," Frederick said. "This is our first album and we didn't really know what to expect, but we've had some amazing turnouts at these shows. We're young, not road­weary or anything, and still ready to go." 

Following this current tour around the country, the band is looking forward to heading to Germany in May. 
With a song currently sitting at No. 4 on the German college charts, The Singles are eager to play for their growing European fan base. Frederick said the band, after playing in Germany, hopes to do a sweep through Europe, start­ing in Holland and France and fin­ishing up in the United Kingdom and Spain. 
Later this year, after the 
The band will collaborate with pro­people listen to it," Frederick said. ducer Tony Hoffer, whose credits "You know, there's a lot of acts out 
include  a  Beck album,  there, but everyone  
and most recently the  wouldn•t. be able to  
new Supergrass disc. The Singles are a young band with a new  " ... just straightfoward rock n •roll, obviously  do it if people didn't listen. When we're all done, we want to  
sound and explosive  with the influence of the  be able to look back  
energy, and they aren't wasting any time. Frederick said one of the band's most impor­ old school bands but with the energy of today . .,,  and see a natural progression of our music. We don't want to just keep  
tant goals is to make  putting  the  same  
sure their sound does­n't ever become stale. Their album "Better  VInce Frederick lead singer  record out there." And The Singles are already pro- 
than  Before"  has  gressing  toward  
received solid reviews  success  beyond  

and still sounds great after a few lis­Detroit-and beyond the garage. tens, but The Singles want to keep The Singles perform Saturday at moving and keep progressing as a Legends at 8:45p.m. band. 
"Right now, success is being able to keep making records, and just to have Contact Patrick Vassel at pvassel@nd.edu 



European tour, the band is plan­The Single's released their album "Better Than Before" under the Rainbow ning to work on its second album. Quartz label during late August in 2003. 

page 13 




tation 

After four years, the band continues to play together 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
Plenty of people talk about starting college bands. But when twins Pete and David Miller met Lawrence Santiago during a spring visitation before their freshman year and said they should start a band if they all ended up at Notre Dame, they meant it. 
The next fall the trio found themselves 
in school together, and true to their 
word began playing with Pete Miller on 
drums, David Miller on guitar and 
Santiago as lead singer. 
Keyboard player Mike Maimone joined the band after meeting Santiago in Zahm Hall. 
At first, the musicians played under the name The Island Boys and were later known as Housebound. During their sophomore year, Santiago came up with the name Station One, and they stuck with it. The group has also switched bassists a few times, recruiting sophomore Bobby Seus to play with the group at the beginning of this year. 
. , The group may have gone through a few changes, btll four yenrs·Iat~r-1:he Millers, Santiago and Maimone are still playing together. Tonight from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. at Reekers, fans of the Notre Dame music scene will have a chance to hear the band debut several new songs and play their old favorites. Classifying Station 

"It was very different playing in a band than in p i a n o recitals, and it was a diffi­cult transi­tion," Maimone said. "But it's a lot of fun and a lot more reward­ing." 
Pete Miller said the band has a "very diverse style" and has been described as a "hybrid between Sublime and Maroon 5." 
. The band covers a lot of current 
1 hits but also. 
Photo courtesy of Station One
enjoys writ­

Pete Miller, Dave Miller, Lawrence Santiago and Mike Maimone
ing its own 

formed their first band together during their freshman year. 
Ope into a genre is difficult. The musi­ "We have a very diverse  Nirvana type stuff," Maimone said. ''At first  
cians  come  from  a  style. We're sometimes  we  weren't sure about  
wide variety of musi­cal tastes and back­grounds, and every­one has their say in  described as a hybrid between Sublime and Maroon 5· ''  covering Timberlake, but it's fun." Over the past four years the band has  
what they play. The  played at many bars,  
Millers played in a punk band in high school, while  Pete Miller drummer  parties and competi­tions in the area. During their freshman  
Maimone  played  year,  the  group  won  
classical piano.  third place in NAZZ,  

Santiago, not limited to band vocals, the SUB-sponsored battle of the bands, also played Bernardo in the Pasquerilla and the following year they won first East Musical Company's production of place. 
West Side Story last weekend. The band tapered off during their jun-

Photo courtesy of Station One 
music. Sometimes they work alone, but most of the compo­sitions are a collaborative effort. 
"Lawrence has us covering Se:fiorita by Justin Timberlake, but we also play a lot of ior year when the lead singer and key­board players both went abroad, though the Miller twins and a new set of musi­cians still took third place in the compe­tition. 
While the group enjoys performing on campus, they have found the Notre Dame music scene to be somewhat con­stricting. 
"There are a few really good bands. It's just people don't know about them, and there's not enough places to play," Maimone said. "We've been trying to play at Legends this semester, but there aren't enough slots for all the bands, so we're starting to look at bars. -· 
"The music scene could be good. There are a lot of talented musicians here, but it also doesn't seem like people are incredibly interested in campus bands." 
With the group members probably parting ways after graduation, tonight's show at Reekers could be the beginning 
_,

of the end for the band. 
"Obviously we don't want to give it up, but everybody wants to be a rock star," Maimone said. "We're going to do the best we can to get a demo recorded and send it to labels. 
"We all have pretty set plans, but we'd all prefer to do a tour or something this summer if we could." 
Station One is currently working on their website, www.stationonenation.com, where the group will soon have posted biographies of the band members and pictures of the band. 
Tonight's show will also feature Layden, a local band including the Millers' younger brother James. The younger Miller plans to attend Notre Dame next year and hopes to continue to play with his band after starting school. 
The chance to hear one of Notre Dame's few but proud campus bands will be free and open to all students. 
Station One has performed at competitions, parties and bars, including Notre Dame's former Senior Bar (now renamed Legends). Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
) 
~ 
I I 
') page 14
' \ The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
'I 
:~ 
'I ·~ 
:l FENCING 
:~ 
I I 
: l :~ Irish hope to end season with win 
I\ 
...._ 
already [so] I don't expect that The freshmen can already enough for fifth best all time 
'I 
By MATT MOONEY we'll lose." feel the sense of urgency to in school history. 
'' 
·i I I Spores Writer Matches that the Irish begin the defense of the Despite suffering only one 
~; 
expect to win allows for many team's national title. loss all season, Snyder says Season finales are rarely of the backups to get the bout "I'm nervous that I might the men's team still has a bit­more anticlimactic· than this experience necessary for them not qualify for the NCAA's ter taste left in their mouths. 
I~ one. to earn a monogram. While because I know that we need ''I'm disappointed still about 
'I '\ The Notre Dame men's and the starters may begin the to qualify 12 to win, and I dropping that one match to 
~ \. women's fencing team will matches, the subs will likely don't like that pressure," ruin our streak, but everybody
",,· 
cruise into West Lafayette on enter as soon as the clinching freshman epeeist Amy buckled down and started 
' 
Saturday as the only ranked 14th victory has been secured. Orlando said. working harder," he said. 
I: 
[I team in the West vs. Central Senior foilist Derek Snyder However, she feels prepared, St. John's dethroned Notre Dual meet. The Irish will face feels that this is the chance for pressure or no pressure. Dame from the top spot in the ... teams all hailing from the the walk-ons to get some ''I've been in training and polls and Snyder is already Midwest, including Michigan, deserved recognition. going to individual competi­looking to the post-season for Michigan State, University of "They are as much a part of tions, but I'm ready," she said. redemption. Chicago, Wisconsin, Detroit­the team as anyone else," he "Purdue is also just a good ''When I lose to someone Mercy and host Purdue. said. "They can definitely take warm up for Penn State." before I go into the NCAAs it Notre Dame will have a rela­care of their own business this Saturday will close another just makes me want to beat tively easy fencing weekend weekend and do really well." successful regular season as them more. I want to get for the first time all year. After The West vs. Central meet the Irish fencing teams com­revenge. The whole team is weathering all but one of the equates to the calm before the bined for only one dual loss all looking forward to upsetting tempests brought on by storm of the impending post­year. The top-rap.ked women's St. John's," Snyder said. numerous top 10 opponents season. However, Bednarski team will look to clinch their .After their season ending (six for the women, seven for feels any competition whether first undefeated regular sea­dual meet, the Irish will not the men). the absence of a top strong or weak serves as valu­son since the 1994-95 season. fence again until the Midwest school gives coach Janusz able experience. Adding to the record books, Fencing Conference Champ­Bednarski plenty of room to "I expect tough bouting and the women will also try and ionships beginning March 6 at breath. confirmation that the team is stretch their streak of consec­the Joyce Center. "We are expecting a bit strong enough to be one of the utive dual match victories. weaker teams," he said. "We top teams in the Midwest," he Their current mark stands at Contact Matt Mooney at went through the giants said. 34 matches which is good mmooney@nd.edu 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Friday, February 20, 2004 

Big East 
continued from page 24 
second. 

The men's squad (169.5) cur­rently sits in third place behind No. 16 Pittsburgh (234) and Virginia Tech (191.5) and ahead of Rutgers (152). 
A pair of third-and a trio of fourth-place finishes put the Irish in the hunt at the of the meet's first day. 
Freshmen Tim Kegleman (200-yard individual medley) and Ted Brown (500-yard freestyle) each took third and sophomore Jaime Lutkus (200­yard individual medley), fresh­man Scott Coyle (3-meter board) and the 500-yard freestyle relay team (Kegelman, freshman Tim Randolph, sophomore Doug Baumanand junior Frank Krakowski) all placed fourth. 
In addition, senior co-captains Matt Obringer (500-yard freestyle) and Josh Dermott (200-yard individual medley) contributed sixth-and seventh­place finishes, respectively. 
The meet continues today and concludes Saturday, with pre­liminaries at 10:30 a.m. and event finals at 6 p.m. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at 
mpuglisi~nd.edu 


Team faces final preseason game against D~nnison 
another step to where we want comers. In addition, the veterans tions," Walsh said. "You By DAN TAPETILLO to be at the end of the season ... bring stories of last season's suc­get a good feel for 
Sports Writer 

the NCAA tournament." cesses and failures, giving the where you are when The Irish have failed to qualify Irish a starting point for this sea­the season starts."
r Sunday will be the last oppor­for. the tournament in the past son. Despite having their tunity for the Irish to test their two years and barely missed the "We met after the Maryland sights set upon postsea­skills before the training wheels 16-team field after finishing No. game last season and talked son action already, the must come off. 18 in the nation last season. about what we wanted to do this Irish are fully aware of 
After two impressive wins over Several returning seniors will year," Walsh said. "The guys are the importance of every Mercyhurst (22-4) and Boston be leading the preseason No. 11 hungry and determined to do a game. With each game, Cannons (14-11), Notre Dame Irish into their final exhibition lot better than last year because the team will not onlywill play in its final exhibition game, in hopes of getting the we were so young." focus upon their oppo­
game against Dennison before team on the right foot on their In this final tune-up match, the nent's strengths and the start of the regular season. way to the tournament. Under Irish are presented with the weaknesses, but also Although exhibition games are the leadership of veteran attack­opportunity of finishing 3-0 dur­the basic fundamentals often dismissed as unimportant, ers Matt Howell and Dan Berger ing exhibition play. This has of the game. 
CHIP MARKS/The Observer 
they are a chance for team to and goalie Steward Crosland, boosted the team's confidence, Although Sunday's 
The men's lacrosse team takes on Air
practice their newly developed Walsh expects the team will see and showed how the Irish have match against 
Force last April. 

skills. Moreover, exhibition much success. Already, Crosland matured since last season. This Dennison marks the games are a tool for determining have lead by example. register­will be the last match before the final exhibition game, the end play hard and do the basics like the team's expectations for the ing 14 saves against Boston Irish face No. 17 Penn State dur­result could have a significant get ground balls," Walsh said. "I 
( rest of the season. Cannons last weekend. ing their first match of the regu­impact on the first games of the think that'll make us come out on 
"It is our last time to play These three seniors, in addi­lar season. season. However, the team feels top at the end." against another opponent and tion to 10 returning starters, "I think it'll be good for us to confident that experience can see where we are at," sopho­have made the preseason learn­get a lot of work in. It will let us overcome any apprehension. Contact Dan Tapetillo at 
\i 
more Pat Walsh said. "It is also ing experience easier for new-work out things in game situa-"We just want to go out and jtapetil@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds muse be prepaid. 
r CLASSIFIEDS 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Guitar tutor for my son. 233-6242. MOVING TO CHICAGO? 1903 Oak Park Dr. Rental: Lv. Msg. Condo for sale by 2ND 1995 2BR/1B, 1/2 ile ND, great area.NOTICES WANTED grads. Bright 1 ·bedroom condo on incl. Stove, refrig,washer/dryer. PERSONAL 
24th floor in secure building steps $625 mo. COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Wanted-Old paintings, especially from lake & public transportation. 273-1717 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Search 24 bookstores Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286· FoR RENT 1 0-15 minute walk to grocery & not go it alone. If you or someone 
with 1 click! S&H calculated. 9359 Wrigley Field. May 2004 closing. 1006 White Oak Dr. you love needs www.bookhq.com 2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK 773-929-3178 or Rental: 3 BR/1B,1 mile ND, confidential support or assistance, Looking for full or part-time work? TO CAMPUS nasserweiss@ hotmail.com great area. incl Stove, refrig, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, Large 1 Bedroom Condo Reach Your Potential in outside MMMRENTALS.COM wasner/dryer $850/mo. esc, at 10 min from Univ. 
sales with Media Direct, mmmrentals@ aol.com 272-1525 New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 273-1717 1·7819. For more information, see AIIApp. Pool a growing cable TV sales, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky-our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERV· Low taxes less than rent 57 4-299· marketing and audit company DOMUS PROPERTIES ... lights. $1640/mo. Call574-232· E. Washington area, ER. 4997 Salary plus commission. HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 4527 or 269-683-5038. Last 4 BR House Bonuses, health benefits and BEDROOM HOUSE ... avail. for 04105. WID, #1 Spring Break Vacations! ( Freshmen check out paid training. Hard working, enthu-2 BEDROOM DUPLEX ... AND 
NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF Furnished, B-Ball, Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, www.nd2007.com siastic people wanted. Sales experi-THREE 3 BEDROOM ND GREAT AREA FOR 5-6 STU· V-Ball, Sec.Sys., Bahamas & Florida! Best ence is a plus not a CONDOS AVAILABLE DENTS 2n3097 
11 mo. lease, 109 N. St. Peter. Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! www. RepublicanConnections.com requirement. 
FOR THE 2004·2005 233-9947 Book Now! 800-234-7007 Exclusive member only site for Phone 1-BOQ-376-7961 SCHOOL YEAR .... VERY NICE 3bdrm home in 
endlesssummertours.com conservative WEARE ALSO EastBank area w/washer-dryer & 920 Oak Ridge Drive Rental 
singles. Find someone Summer Camp counselor for chil-STARTING TO LEASE alarm system inci.Nice 3Bdrrn/1B Ranch, How big are your cells? 8X8? Ours who shares your values I dren w/disabilities. $7-$11 hr., 35 FOR THE 2005·2006 SCHOOL yard for volleyball etc-great area close are 9X9. No big deal. Site opens Valentine s Day. hrlwk, summer only. 5 sites in YEAR ... full bsmtWalk to Corbys&StJoe to ND includes 
Email Webmaster@ Summit County, Ohio. Visit CONTACTKRAMER AT OFFICE Church. Call Joe stove, new refrig. I love you Mom! I miss you, Dad. republicanconnections.com for www.akroncyo.org -download an 234·2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR Crimmins@ 57 4-514· washer/dryer. $960/mo. information. application. EOE SHOWINGS 0643(cell)or574-273·0002(home) 273-1717 I would definitely be the girt. 5'5". 


Friday, February 20, 2004 page 15
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NO SOFTBALL 



Irish travel to Palm Springs 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Fresh off a 4-1 start to their season, Notre Dame stays on the road to visit the warm climates of Palm Springs. Calif., for the Palm Springs Classic this week­end. 
The Irish kick ofT tournament play against Utah and Pacific today and then face No .. 8 Stanford on Saturday. Notre Dame completes play Saturday with an exhibition against the 
U.S. Olympic Team. 
The team then faces their fourth ranked opponent in 10 games when it completes tour­nament play against No. 12 Tennessee Sunday morning. 
Notre Dame's 4-1 start, which includes a win over then-No. 8 Nebraska, is the best start for the Irish since 2001 when the team won its first eight games. 
The Irish played well in last weekend's UNLV Classic, defeat­ing every team they played at the tournament except for No. 2 California. Notre Dame played the Bruins tough, outhitting their opponent 7-4. but still lost 2-1. 
The Irish face their second ranked team from California this weekend in Stanford, who is a ncar-flawless 8-1 so far this year. The Cardinal's only loss was to then-No. 6 Alabama in extra innings Feb. 7. 
Tennessee, like Notre Dame, has been a bit of a surprise so far this season. Left out of the USA Today/National Fastpitch Coaches Association preseason poll, the Lady Vols have gone 11­1 to move to No. 12 in the national rankings. 

The Lady Vols' lone loss this year came at the hands of then­No. 23 Oregon State, who defeat­ed Tennessee 2-0 on Feb. 7. 
The Irish were carried offen­sively last weekend by juniors Liz Hartmann and Megan Ciolli. Hartmann hit .500 at the UNLV Classic with seven RBI and three home runs, including a game­winning shot against Nebraska. 
Ciolli, one of 40 players select­ed to USA Softball's player of the year watch list, hit .625 in the tournament. 
Notre Dame's pitching, a strength last season, has contin­ued to be impressive this year. Despite allowing 15 runs com­bined in the tournament, only seven of those were earned runs. 
Junior Carrie Wisen picked up two wins in relief, and sopho­more Heather Booth and junior Steffany Stenglein each collected wins. The team's ERA for the tournament was 1.44 and Irish pitchers struck out 29 batters in 34 innings. 
This weekend's tournament will be a bit of a homecoming for that pitching trio, as all three players are from California. In addition, Notre Dame has four position players (Hartmann, Carissa Jaquish, Mallorie Lenn and Meghann Ruthrauff) who hail from the Golden State. 
Contact Justin Scbuver at jscbuver@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Stanford remains unbeaten with win 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Stanford ~ survived another threat to its perfect season. 
Josh Childress scored a 
career-high 36 points and the 
top-ranked Cardinal rallied 
from a 13-point first-half 
deficit to beat Southern 
California 76-67 Thursday 
night for its school-record 
22nd consecutive victory. 
Stanford (13-0) clinched a 
share of its fourth Pac-1 0 title 
in six years with three weeks 
remaining in the regular sea­
son. 
But perfection has been 
harder to maintain recently. 
The Cardinal came from 19 
points down and won at 
Oregon on Jan. 31, then Nick 
Robinson hit a buzzer-beating 
3-pointer to hold off Arizona 
on Feb. 7. 
USC (10-13, 5-9) threatened 
until the final minutes after 
Stanford blew an 11-point 
lead in the second half. The 
Trojans tied it for the final 
time at 65 on a basket by Jeff 
McMillan. 
But Childress hit a 3-pointer 
and scored another basket for 
who had been solid from the 
free-throw line earlier in the 
game, made just 2-of-5 in the 
final1:15 when they trailed by 
three. 
After that, Stanford scored the game's final six points to end USC's upset hopes. 
Rob Little added 20 points for Stanford. 
McMillan led USC with 21 points -one off his career high. Rory O'Neil added 14, and Desmon Farmer scored 11, all in the first half when he carried the Trojans. 
The Trojans (1 0-13. 5-9) have lost seven of their last nine games. 
USC started the game strongly, playing aggressive defense and getting hands in the faces of Stanford's shoot­ers. Childress was the Cardinal's only offensive threat in the first half. when he had 18 points. 
Stanford trailed 36-28 at halftime, a virtual repeat of the teams' Jan. 24 meeting, when the Trojans led by six at the break in Palo Alto. 
Just like in that game, the Cardinal dominated the start of the second half. Stanford outscored USC 27-8 to take a 55-44 lead with 10:48 remain­ing. Matt Lottich had 12 points and Stanford twice scored off consecutive USC turnovers. 
But the Trojans weren't done yet. 
They used a 16-5 spurt to tie the game at 60 with 5:16 left. O'Neil scored nine points and had two big blocks. 

a 70-65 lead. The Trojans, 

·:  ..  Attention: StUdents ONLY, Ib You :Have Plans for Spring Break? can help~ I.Dok for the scratch off sticker on 20oz Coke products in your dorms Fird. the Sun or Sn.otvflake & Win! ! PriZES: 2 $500 Travel Vouchers 50 Stainless Steel can Holders 200 Coca-Cola T-shirts In conjunction with Notre Dame Food Services and Coca-Cola Copyright 2004. The Coca-Cola Company, "Coca-Cola" and the contour bottle design are trademarks of the Coca-Cola Company.  

-

Friday, February 20, 2004 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles make presence felt at Championships 
,_ 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
What a difference a year makes. 
After the first day of competi­tion and only five races, the Saint Mary's swimming team is already making its presence known at the MIAA Championships. 
Despite finishing the first day of the meet in sixth place, Saint Mary's has already swam away with noteworthy performances and are ahead of their seventh­place fmish last year. 
Saint Mary's swimming coach Gregg Petcoff wanted an energy­charged beginning to the meet, and the Belles responded to his call Thursday night. 
During the first individual race, senior and team captain Megan Ramsey came away with a sec­ond-place finish in the 500-yard freestyle finals with a time of 5 minutes, 14.22 seconds. 
"She got out there and swam," Petcoff said. The exceptional performances did not end in the 500-yard 

freestyle. Sophomore Sarah Nowak continued her remark­able season by finishing eighth in the 200-yard individual medley finals with a school-record time in 2:17.16. 
"This is her first conference meet and it can be a little intimi­dating, but she handled it like a pro," Petcoff said. "Like Sarah, people are going out there and swimming." 
The team also placed fourth in the 200-yard freestyle relay in 1:44.31. 
Saint Mary's is now looking towards the second day of com­petition, hoping to perform as well as they did in the first five events. The early leaders at the championships are Hope with a team score of 185 points and Calvin with 119 points. Saint Mary's has 55 points in sixth place, closely followed by Albion with 50 points. 
"It is truly individualized, but we are having so many people stepping up to help the team," Petcoff said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

, 
I 
1\ 
lj
, 
I 
~ 
I I 
I 
J 
I I I I I, I I I I I 
I, 
-"/ 
r 
tch * Michael Stars * 

I I 
'J 
r
I 
' 
'! 


ldshmied * Blue Cult
.l 
:~ 

ple * Herve-Chapeli 

/ 

:: t * Seven Jeans * Fren

:l I 
I• 
,I 
' 
:I 
'(
:~ 312 W. Cleveland Ave. :~ (}ranger, IN 46530
:I'I 

(574) 277-6693 

, I '. 
'I 
528 E. Colfax Ave.

'· 
I~ 
., 
South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 232-1822 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish finish preseason play 
By MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writer 

One way to gauge a team heading into a new season is by comparing them to the best. 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will do just that as they continue their preseason play by traveling to New Jersey much different team than Team Canada. Against the Tigers, the Irish will face one of the lacrosse giants of the northeast. However, junior attack Jackie Bowers feels that experience against the nation's premier lacrosse school will serve as a measuring stick for her team. 
"We have nothing to lose," 
Bowers said. 
"They're the 

this weekend. "We have nothing champions the 
There, the team past two years and 
to lose.,,

will participate in that's the level we the Princeton want to be at. If Invitational Jackie Bowers we don't do as 
where the No. 17 Irish attack well, that will 
Irish will meet the preseason No. 1 and two-time defending national champion Princeton Tigers. 
The match against Princeton follows Notre Dame's 17-9 exhi­bition victory over Team Canada last weekend. Notre Dame dom­inated the team's first preseason match of the spring, jumping out to a 12-4 halftime lead and never looking back. 
Princeton, however, will be a 
show what we 
have to work on to reach that [level]." 
The lacrosse team can expect a similar caliber opponent once the regular season begins. Notre Dame's schedule is chock full of ranked teams, with nine teams appearing in the preseason top 
25. Four of those nine are in the top 10, including Big East rival No.6 Georgetown. 
"A lot of people don't know how good we are with most of the top teams being out on the East Coast," Bowers said. "Our expectations are to prove to other top 10 teams that we are a force to reckon with." 

Bowers feels that some team­mates have a lot to prove indi­vidually. 
"We have a lot of older play­ers who haven't been given the opportunity to really contribute and they've waited a long time for that," she said. "A couple juniors have been in the pro­gram for three years and their turn Lc;; finally up to show every­one what they have." 
Some of the newcomers also have to step into roles. 
"We do have a couple fresh­men we'll look to have con­tribute, mostly [midfielder] Megan Murphy, she's been play­ing very well," Bowers said. 
Notre Dame will kick ofT their regular season a week later on Feb. 27 when they battle California. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 


.. ----'-----· 
Friday, February 20, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S TENNIS 



Irish travel to Chicago to face No. 37 Northwestern 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 
The No. 50 men's tennis team joins the JPW-induced exodus from campus this weekend, traveling to Chicago for a match at No. 37 Northwestern before returning to host No. 40 Southern Methodist University. 
"All we've done is to hold serve," head coach Bobby Bayliss said, reflecting on his team's performance through the dual-match season. "We haven't done anything exceptional, but we haven't stumbled, either." 
This weekend and the coming weeks will be telling for the Irish and their postseason destiny. 
"It will certainly be a chal­lenge," Bayliss said, calling his team "guardedly optimistic." 
"Our next six matches are extremely important for our postseason plans, as far as where we finish and where we might be seeded [in the NCAA Tournament)," he said. 
The Irish face a quick turn­around, playing at Northwestern at 4 p.m. and returning to face SMU here at noon the next day. 
"Our guys will have a limited social life that evening, hopeful­ly," Bayliss said, but he remained optimistic despite the tight schedule. 
"Sometimes you play your best tennis when you're in a screwy situation," he said. 
The 8-3 Wildcats are 5-1 at home, with four of those wins against ranked opponents. Junior Chuck Perrin has been a key factor for Northwestern this year as they claw their way up the rankings. after dropping a close match last 
"Northwestern has beaten weekend to No. 20 Texas. i.ed by teams in the top 25, and senior Gwinyai Chingoka, a Arkansas, who was No. 25 last 2003 All-WAC selection, the week," Bayliss said. "We know M1,1stangs will be a challenge for they're playing at a pretty good the Irish. The noon match on 
level."  Sunday comes  
"Notre Dame  only  hours  
is a better team than its ranking  "'Our guys will have a  after the team returns from  
indicates,"  limited social life that  Chicago.  
Wildcats head  evening. hopefully. ,.  "SMU hasn't  
coach  Paul  played  as  
Torricelli said in a Northwestern  Bobby Bayliss  extensive of a schedule ye.t,"  
press release.  Irish coach  Bayliss  said.  

"They always are one c ~ the stronges~ ,..;ams in the region. I think we bring out the best in each other every year." 
The Southern Methodist Mustangs are 2-3 this season 
WILLIAM MERRITT CHASE 
Four Paintings from the Lilly Endowment Collection 
An historian~ i:ndependent 
1.1 
;~
... 
.,;.
scholar Latwette McCarthy » wfl.. llflrn~re on Monda'ii'
VJ,;~~-• . · · · 1t 
February 21 1:0 am in the 
I . 
Anr~nberg Auditorium. 
lecture and exhibition are 
!ret! and open to the pub=li=c. 
·for~ inkrmation 574.63 i.5466 www.nd,edu/-sniteart 
'ih~ e:;:NH~i~~l ;s ·~..tli'"-~:M~i h\1 :1 i.i~·:t!'it
•.•,: ' .•. ,;t,,J.. ...• •:d: :. ,..-••..• .,.! .::s··­
..............t(•.iri 6~ =: ;h;.r .......~dt).\!J1r~~~~r. . ..... l:::t.. •.y,~, . ~ ....-~"'<~·
~ 
n'=t~;1 !Jylh~ kJ'il~~~~'{lh M.UH!t.t"l r..~f Art 
"Both teams 
beat us 4-3 last 
year, both matches were close, and we'd like to reverse those scores this year." 
A key point of the match will be doubles, an area that has plagued the Irish through the dual-match season. Freshman Ryan Keckley and senior Luis Haddock have comprised the No. 1 doubles team ranked No. 18 nationally, and senior Matthew Scott and junior Brent D'Amico have played consistent-

Staying on Campus This Summer? 
Don't miss this GREAT opportunity to earn extra money 
And a FREE ROOM too! 
Notre Dame Family Hall is looking For: Friendly, Enthusiastic, High Energy Students . To Welcome Alumni and Friends Back to Campus 
Call 631-8807 TODAY! 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to end season positively 
By STEVE COYER 
Sports Wrirer 
After a long regular season, the Belles hope to end on a high note. 
Saint Mary's (7-17) has fallen short of its high expectations set at the beginning of the year, but the team has the chance to accomplish one of its goals on Saturday against Olivet College. 
Olivet (9-15) currently shares last place in the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MIAA) with the Belles, as both teams have a 2­11 conference record. With a vic­tory, the Belles would avoid a last place finish and gain momentum going into the league tournament. 
On Wednesday, the Belles pre­vailed 64-59 over Kalamazoo (13-11) to record their first victo­ry of the season against a team ly at No. 2. In last weekend's match against Wisconsin, Bayliss switched Keckley and Scott, giving the team a quick win at No. 2 but losing close matches at No. 1 and No. 3 with the duo of Eric Langenkamp and Paul Hidaka. 
"No. 3 has been our question mark," Bayliss said. "They're all sort of competing for the ability to play in that third doubles slot." 
Bayliss is leaving the option of breaking up the top two teams open to debate. 
"Our switched teams [at No. 1 and 2 against Wisconsin] stayed in the nucleus of four people," he said. "If we have to break up one of the teams and split them in order to strengthen us at the bottom. it may be something we'll consider." The Irish face Northwestern at the Combe Tennis Center in Evanston, Ill., 4 
p.m. Saturday and Southern Methodist at 12 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgaJes@nd.edu 
with a winning record. 
After a string of disappointing 
losses, the critical win against 
Kalamazoo has given the Belles 
renewed confidence as they look 
towards the playoffs. 
In their first league win of the · 
season. the Belles decisively 
defeated Olivet 77-69 in a game 
where the bench accounted for 
33 of Saint Mary's points. 
Since then, the Belles have relied less on their bench and more on forward Emily Creachbaum, who scored 18 points in Wednesday's victory and 26 points in a loss last Saturday to Alma. 
Creachbaum, who received a nomination for MIAA player of the week, only managed 10 points in a previous matchup against Olivet due to foul trouble and the defense of center Amanda Johnston. 
Johnston scored 32 points and grabbed 12 rebounds last time against the Belles and looks to be the biggest weapon for Olivet, both on offense and defense. 
While the Belles will carry momentum into Saturday's game, Olivet likewise will come in confident after a 102-72 victo­ry over Tri -State. 
In the shootout against Tri­State, Olivet had five players score in double figures and the team shot 12-for-28 from 3-point range. 
Every year from the 1999 to 2003 season. either Saint Mary's or Olivet has held last place in the MIAA. 
The two teams have alternated years of last place finishes. Last year Saint Mary's was in last, so if the pattern holds Olivet will take last this year. 
The Belles play their final of the regular season Saturday at 3 
p.m. at Olivet. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

Friday, February 20, 2004
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
BASEBALL 

Irish anxious to st~rt season today in the USC Classic 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Athletic Department could save some money by canceling the baseball team's flight to Los Angeles this weekend. 
After all, Irish head coach Paul Mainieri says his team is so ready for its season opening matchup with San Diego State today in the USC Public Storage Classic that it could fly to the West Coast without the aid of a jet. 
"We're chomping at the bit. We're so excited, I don't even know if we'll need an airplane to fly out to Los Angeles," Mainieri said. 
After being cooped up indoors all winter, the Irish -who are ranked as high as No. 10 by Collegiate Baseball Magazine ­are finally ready to hit the field 

, I and kick off the 2004 season 
' 
·, 
;~ I 

pitcher] Chris Niese} that as long 
i 
! starting with three games this weekend against San Diego State, Southern California and 
' 
Louisville. 
"After preparing all fall, then the weather turns bad and you're locked indoors, you're seeing everyone around the country start to play games before you, you just get real anx­ious to play," Mainieri said. "It's just a natural excitement, but 

I, also with the fact that we've been indoors for so long. We're just anxious to get out there and get after it and see what we've got." 
Notre Dame's first test of the season comes today against San Diego State, a team coached by 
Major League Baseball great and 15-time National League All-Star Tony Gwynn. 
"If they have [Gwynn's] skill, then I'll be worried," said Mainieri of the Aztec skipper, who won eight National League batting titles in his 20 seasons and retired with a .338 career batting average. "But I told [Irish as Tony Gwynn is coaching them and catcher Sean Gaston, could and not hitting third in their line­see time in the field along with up, I feel much more confident pitchers Dan Kapala, Jess about beating these guys." Stewart and Jeff Samardzija. 

The Aztecs (6-8) hold an who saw playing time on the important advantage over the football field in the fall as a wide Irish because they have already receiver for the Irish. played 15 games this year 'Tve always had a lot of guts (including an exhibition opener when it comes to playing fresh­against a San Diego State alumni men," Mainieri said. "Sometimes squad). they make mistakes, and some­
"They have a big advantage times they can be a little incon­because they've been outdoors sistent. My feeling is that if they and their players have been play­deserve to play, and they are ing," Mainieri said. "Certainly going to be the best guys to help their players are further the team, they are going to be advanced into the season, but the better ones out there." that's just the way it is, and The Irish begin their 2004 sea­we've been dealing with this son at 5 p.m. today against the every year. I think that having a Aztecs. day of practice outdoors when we [got] to Los Angeles Thursday Contact Chris Federico at b~fore our first game will help us cfederic@nd.edu immensely, and I think we will make up for it in a real hurry." 
Niesel, who was 9-1 last sea­

son with a 2.65 ERA. will likely start for the Irish against senior right-hander Scott Shoemaker, who is 1-2 this year with a 6.23 ERA. 
Saturday, the Irish will face the host team USC (1-3), who has gotten off to an unusually slow start this year. 
Notre Dame sophomore left­bander Tom Thornton, who went 5-1 last season with a 1.81 ERA, will likely face off against sopho­more lefty Bobby Paschal who owns the Trojans' only win this season and allowed one earned run in six innings pitched in his only start this season. 
Sunday, a pair of freshmen will square off on the mound, as Notre Dame's Derik Olvey will face Louisville right-hander Justin Valdes. 
Olvey will likely be one of many Irish freshmen to see action in the three games over the week­end. Center fielder Danny Dressman will probably be in the starting lineup against the right­hander Shoemaker today, and Mainieri said that fellow fresh­

CHIP MARKS/The Observer The Irish travel to California for the USC Classic where they face San Diego State to start the season. 

You can too, all you have to do is bring your parents to the leasing office this weekend and sign up! 
It•s the building attached to the swirrnning pool, right by the TURTLES© 
TURTLE CREEK APRTMENTS www.Jurtlecreknd.com 

------------·-·----------~ .. . 

-, 
i 

men, first baseman Mike Drury I I 

Announcing the Year 
-:-. ., ..·.·. 

2004 Annual A wards of Hi\PPY 21ST> the Albert Ravarino . BIRTHD~Y1-------Italian Studies Travel <]~N~l11t\N l'OTJI-Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program 
is pleased to announce the year 2004 annualcompetition for travel in support ofsummer 
research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not. to exceed 
$3,000.. and will not nonnally coverallexpenses.·Notre Dame graduate and 
undergraduate students who areplanning to pursue research or a formal program of 
summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one 
yearqfItalian language. The course work will nomtally be in Italian; will involve the
,, 
I study ofItalian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program atthe UniversityofNotre Dame. 
LOVE & KISsES--•--·······-----Recommended programs for foreign study include. but are not limitedto: Loyola-.-----·__ ·······-· '',, •.•.·__ .-...·.··-· .•. _-..-. f. University in Rome, Boston Universityin Padua. UCLA in Pisa. Miami University inMOM &>DAD··----
Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consultthe materials on Italian foreign study .in the Department ofRomance Languages. I 343 o·shaughnessy HalL 
I 
(:OUt>ON • ..C:OLWN..COl.Jf'O~L\.Ol;l'()N•.\~OlJPON-t~otJVt.1N._<.'X)LJP0N_J).')lli!OK.COl.IP():N : I Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1) an explanation ofhow the proposed research or forcign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame . 
2) a pcrso!la! statement indicating t_heir background. interests, and long-term goals 
3) a descnpt10n ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow 
4) a budget indicating the costs i,nvolved 
5) the na.Ines oftwo references. , 
I I Application Deadline: Thur-Sday. March 41ht 2004
AUTHENTIC 5U65 SINCE 1956 
I I Albert RaV'arino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
I 

I Progrant in Italian Studies 
I 

I A nEE ·WRAP OR SUB! 343 o•Shaugbnessy Hall 
University of Notre Dame

• PURCHME ANY SUil Oil WRAP WITH A FOUNTAIN DRINK. AND MT ANOTHER SUI 01WRAPL.4U!MIM..HJ.·····~.V~~,MI·. VALlO I.MlL MARCH 31, 2004AT MtCttANA LOCATIONS USTED. NOT VAUD wmt AHf OTHER OFFER, 
COLPONOR SPECIAL ~·MISHAWAKP... 5718 N. MAIN ST. ACROSS AOt.ol SAM$ O.UtiN THE FAUlLY V10E0 stJil.DINC. 247-oo56 • •SOUTH BEND-SR 935 It AUTEN RO. IN THE FAMit.YVI)EO BUI.OfN(i. 277-fi20 • • DOWNTOWN-IN 1lE L08$Y Of' THi <XJLI.Bii fOOT1W.l HALL. OF F.-ME. 246-0136 
. _,._ 



--------------------------------------------------------· 
' 



'i .. 
Friday, February 20, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Doubles key for Irish today against BYU 
By ANN LOUGHERY Spores Writer 
Inconsistent doubles matches may be No. 20 Brigham Young University's Achilles heel as they face Notre Dame today at 4 p.m. 
"They had some impressive wins against William and Mary and Southern California, but they've been up and down in doubles," coach Jay Louderback said. 
The Cougars (7 -2) bested Kansas 7-0 and are fresh off a 5­2 win over Denver last weekend. 
No. 26 Notre Dame (5-1) col­lected a trio of wins last weekend against Virginia Commonwealth 4-3, Boston College 6-1 and Virginia Tech 5-2. Doubles matches were Notre Dame's forte this weekend, as they swept doubles in each meet. 
"Those three matches on the road really boosted the kids' con­tidence, especially since we did so well in doubles," Louderback said. "We've been concentrating on doubles in practice, so it was good for the kids to see their hard work pay off." 
The primary difficulty the Irish must cope with this weekend will be the speed at which the Cougars serve and return the ball. Louderback said that preparing the team to overcome this obstacle has been of utmost importance this week. 
"We've been getting the kids ready for balls to come at them hard," Louderback said. "We see this meet as a good opportunity to play someone ranked ahead of us." 
At BYU last year, the Cougars fell to the Irish in a close 4-3 decision. Notre Dame posted four wins in singles, but failed to capture the doubles point. 
"We'll go in wanting to win, but every match is going to be tough,·· Louderback said. "But the more matches we play, the better we'll play." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame indoor track and field teams go into this weekend's Big East Championships looking to add to their trophy cases. The men are the defending champions and a repeat title is on their minds. The women won two years ago and, after a second place finish last year, they are in position to reclaim their title. 
However, winning the meet, to be held in the Carrier Dome in Syracuse, N.Y., will be no easy task for either squad. 
The women, currently ranked No. 17 by Trackwire.com, will see their main competition coming from No. 12 and defending confer­
ence  champion  Miami  
Hurricanes.  
Sprinter  Ayesha  Boyd  

expects the Irish to give Miami a run for their money this weekend. 
"They are dominant in every event, and we would love to go out and beat them," Boyd said. 
NO TRACK AND FIELD 
Big East Championships await Irish 

Among the favorites expect­
ed to contend for an individual 
title is sophomore distance 
runner Molly Huddle. Her 
3,000-meter time of 9:08.60 is 
second in the conference to 
Providence's Kim Smith. 
Huddle is also a member of 
the women's distance medley 
relay team along with Lauren 
King, Kristen Dodd and Kerry 
Meagher. Huddle and King 
were members of last year's 
team that won the conference 
title. They are poised to repeat 
this year if they can knock off 
Georgetown. The Hoyas 
defeated the Irish at the Meyo 
Invitational two weeks ago by 
0.67 seconds. King, a junior, is the defending conference champ in the mile and is expected to contend again this year. 
Senior Boyd and junior Tiffany Gunn lead a strong pack of Irish sprinters set to score big team points. Gunn, out of Little Rock, Ark., has qualified for the meet in the 60-meter hurdles as well as the 200, 400 and 500 meters. 
Boyd is qualified in the 60­meter dash along with the 200 and 400 meters. She took third place in the 60-meter dash in last year's conference meet. 
The men's team should see its stiffest competition from Connecticut and Georgetown. Those squads finished second and third respectively in last year's meet and both return numerous placers. 
The men will use the experi­
ence of veterans like senior 
Godwin Mbagwu and juniors 
Selim Nurudeen and Trevor 
McClain-Duer to keep their 
hold on the conference cham­
pionship. Nurudeen, a 
Friendswood, Tex native, 
placed second in the 60-meter 
hurdles at last year's Big East 
meet. Presently he has the top 
time in the Big East in that 
event at 7.79 seconds. 
Mbagwu is the defending conference outdoor champ in the long jump. Presently, he is fourth in the Big East in that category while he is ranked first in the triple jump with a distance of 15.31 meters. 
McClain-Duer will join soph­omore Ryan Postel as the favorites to win the 400­meters. Postel ranks third in the conference with a time of 
47.33 
seconds while McClain­Duer is in eighth place at 

48.00 
seconds. 


The Irish men have won every conference indoor 5,000-meter championship since Notre Dame joined the Big East in 1996. Senior Todd Mobley and sophomore Kaleb Van Ort will try to keep the tradition alive as they current­ly rank third and fourth in the conference respectively. 
Sophomore Thomas Chamney and junior Eric Morrison will compete in the 800 meters. Both are in the top ten of the conference in that category. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


act one 
v~riting for hollywood 
WASHINGTON DC May 9-June 5, 2004 HOLLYWOOD July 5-July 31, 2004 
At ACT ONE's intensive, four-week program, you will learn the business of writing for film and television, hone your grasp of scriptwriting as an art-form, and deepen your commitment to Christ. 
• Instruction from top writers and producers like Angelo Pizzo (Hoosiers, Rudy), Ralph Winter (X2: X-Men United,, and Dean Batali 
(That 70's Show, Duffy the Vampire Slaye~. 
• Mentorships with established writers and produ(ers. 
See www.actoneprogram.com for an appli([]tion and details. Or coli (323) 462-1348. 
Application deadline: Mardi 7, 2004 

UPPER DECK 
• 
Notre Dame Graduation Tent Parties at Coveleski Stadium-Friday and Saturday Nights 

• 
Great for JPW and Graduation Parties 





215·1181 



-

~ 

. 
' • '"'T
~ 
I • 




OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 20 


' 
·~ 
I 
·' 
I, 
I 
I 
I\ I I ' ( I 
) 
I 
~. 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL SATURDAY Villanova at Seton Hall, Noon, NBC NOTRE DAME at Connecticut, 2 p.m., CBS Ohio State at Indiana, 8 p.m., WHME 
NBA 
Timberwolves at Pistons, 8 p.m., TNT 

, 'I 
Cavaliers at Knicks, 1 p.m. Sun., ABC 
NHL 
Avalanche at Wild, 7 p.m. Sun., ESPN2 

Co~\1PILED FROJ\t 1'nr: 0BSERvrn:s \VIlli SERVICES 
NBA 
ASsociated Pn:ss 
DETROIT -Rasheed Wallace is headed to the Detroit Pistons, who only had to give up reserves and draft picks to land the frontcourt scorer they cov­eted. 
Wallace was moved to Detroit in a three-team trade Thursday after play­ing only one game for the Atlanta Hawks, who acquired the temperamen­tal player from Portland last week. 
The two-time All-Star has averaged 16.1 points and 
6.7 rebounds during nine NBA years and 17.1 points and 6.6 rebounds this sea­son. 

Getty Rasheed Wallace, left, of the Atlanta Hawks and Kenyon Martin of the New Jersey Nets battle}or a loose ball. Wallace was traded to Detroit Thursday in a multi-team deal. 
Pistons get Rasheed yYallace in 3-team deal 
"It gives us a real shot to compete at the highest level in the NBA right now," Dumars said. 
In a deal put together shortly before the NBA trading deadline, the Pistons sent center Zeljko Rebraca, guard Bob Sura and a first-round draft pick to the Hawks. That pick will come from Milwaukee this year if the Bucks make the playoffs. 
Detroit also sent guards Lindsey Hunter, Chucky Atkins, its first round pick this year and cash to Boston, while the Celtics shipped forward Chris Mills to the Hawks and guard Mike James to the Pistons. 
IN BRIEF 

Pacers' Artest injured 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers forward Ron Artest will be out indefinitely after having surgery Thursday to repair torn ligaments in his left thumb. 
The Pacers had no immediate timetable for his return, but seemed to be bracing for an extended stint without their best perimeter defender and second-leading scorer. 
"The good news is it's not his shooting hand, the bad news is it's a surgery," Pacers coach Rick Carlisle said. "Surgeries take a while to recover from." 
The All-Star first injured the thumb when it got caught in the jer­sey of New Jersey forward Richard Jefferson during a game against the Nets on Jan. 17. He aggravated it Tuesday night against the New Orleans Hornets when he fell in the third quarter. 
Artest clutched his thumb for sev­eral possessions, but played the rest of the game. He missed practice to 
"That fact that we didn't have to break up our team and we were able to add the guy we did, it made it a no-brainer move for us," Dumars said. "It created cap space and we didn't mess with our core, so it was a great deal for us." 
Besides adding Wallace, the deal will put Detroit about $10 million under the salary cap this summer. 
Atlanta acquired Wallace from Portland to clear cap space and will now could be about $20 million under the salary cap after the sea­son. 
Sura has averaged 8.1 points and 3.5 assists dur­ing his nine-year career 

Friday, February 20, 2004 
and Rebraca has averaged 
6.2 points and 3.4 rebounds in three NBA seasons. 
"I think this is what's best for the Hawks," Hawks general manager Billy Knight said. "I'm trying to build a team for the long haul in the best way possi­ble. Rasheed's a heck of a player, but I think this is best for us and best for him." 
Cleveland coach Paul Silas said he couldn't understand why the Hawks made the deal. 
"That's going to make the Pistons awfully tough," Silas said. "I just don't know what some people are thinking about." 
j 

have the thumb examined Wednesday, when it was determined he has a torn ligament. He had sur­gery for a similar injury when he was a sophomore at St. John's. 
Artest flew to New York on Thursday to have the surgery per­formed by the same doctor who operated on his hand while he was in college. 
AI Harrington will start in Artest's place. 
LSU secures Saban 
BATON ROUGE, La.-LSU's Nick Saban has signed a seven-year con­tract that guarantees at least $2.3 million this year, making him the highest paid college football coach. 
The deal was approved Thursday by a panel of the LSU governing board and was expected to easily receive final approval from the full board Friday. 
Saban can earn an extra $400,000 based on postseason game appear­ances and team graduation rates, similar to the incentives included in his previous contract. Under the incentives built into the contract, Saban could make up to $2.7 mil­lion this year and up to $3.4 million in 2010, the final year of the con­tract. 
The coach signed his new contract a few weeks after ending specula­tion that he would leave for an NFL team after leading the Tigers to the •.
..

Bowl Championship Series title, 
,.

their first national championship in 
' 
more than four decades. 

"Nick Saban is the finest coach in America, and we were committed to paying him accordingly," LSU ath­letic director Skip Bertman said. .•~ "He has brought unprecedented success to this university and has built a program of championship caliber both on and off the field." 
The new contract grows from the $1.6 million he earned in 2003, which had a stipulation that required him to make at least $1 more than the highest-paid coach. 

Friday, February 20, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish to face sold-out arena crowd against 6-17 Pittsburgh. 
• 
that," McGraw said. "We haven't lost nine straight games dating
By JOE HETTLER 
played that many games this back to Jan. 14. 
Spores Editor 
year in that type of environment. Notre Dame is in sole position Purdue and Tennessee were of second-place in the confer­Muffet McGraw has 12,000 about as close as we could get to ence, two games behind reasons to be concerned about simulating that. Hopefully, some Connecticut. Notre Dame has two Saturday's game against of those people at the game will difficult games against Miami 
Pittsburgh, and none of them be Irish fans." and Rutgers next week before include the actual Panthers bas­Notre Dame (16-8, 9-3 in the ending the season with Syracuse. ketball team. Big East) looks to win its second The Irish beat Miami earlier this As part of its "Pack the straight· road game for only the year on the road and have not Peterson" promotion, Pittsburgh second time this season against a faced Rutgers. 
sold tickets to the game against Pittsburgh (6-17, 2-11 Big East) "We still have four tough Notre Dame for $1. The tickets team that lost 97-42 to games to go, starting with are sold out. Connecticut Tuesday night. The Pittsburgh on Saturday," 
"You're always concerned Panthers are in second-to-last McGraw said. "We've got back when you go into a setting like place in the Big East and have up to the No.2 seed, but now we 
Cleveland and Ironwood Roads/180l/ Cleveland Road/ South Bend, Indiana 466371(574)272-Bl/0 
Select Units Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 

• 
2 Bedroom Apartments still available 

• 
Security patrolled nightly 



BIClck CulturCll Arts Council Presents: 

Blak l<ofeehouse 
Repr~senting 
FebruClry 201h, LClfortune BClllroe>rn 
7:00 P.M. $5@ door 

have to protect it by doing our part and winning these last four games.;, 
The Irish beat St. John's on the road Tuesday 69-56 behind a double-double from Le'Tania Severe and 15 points from Jeneka Joyce. The Irish are 13-4 in .their last 17 games and con­tinue to build an impressive NCAA Tournament resume. Six of Notre Dame's wins have come against top-25 opponents. 
LaToya Kincaid and her 14.5 points and 7.6 rebounds per game lead Pittsburgh. Besides Kincaid, no other Panther player 
Offense 
continued from page 24 
perimeter players to carry the bulk of the Irish offensive load. When Francis was in the game, his presence in the post made it difficult for guards Chris Thomas, Torrian Jones and Chris Quinn to penetrate the lane. 
That changed just two days later against Connecticut. Although the Irish had shown signs of using big men to screen perimeter players, Notre Dame unleashed a full-fledged attack called "five-out," where all five players move around the perime­ter setting. That left lanes in the paint for guards to drive and shoot easy lay-ups or pass the ball to the perimeter for a 3-pointer. It also helped that Tom Timmermans and Jordan Cornette, the two big men who played the bulk of the minutes with Francis out, were excellent passers and had the shooting range of a guard. 
"It's tough to guard, especially when everyone is hitting their shots," Cornette said. 
The player who has arguably benefited the most from the open­floor approach is Jones, who is nearly averaging a double-double in the last three Irish wins. As the team's best penetrator, Jones has taken advantage of the open lanes averages more than eight points per game. Pittsburgh's offense has struggled all season, tallying just 57.2 points per game. 
, Pittsburgh is led by first-year coach Agnus Berenato who joined the Panthers in 2003 after 15 seasons as head coach at Georgia Tech. She was 223-209 for the Yellow Jackets during her tenure as coach. Her frrst season at Pittsburgh has been a difficult one, as the Panthers have strug­gled in Big East play. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
he's found when driving to the basket. He'll either score (he's averaging 13 points in the last three games) or pass the ball to the perimeter (he had a team-high six assi..o:;ts in a win against Seton Hall). But he's also capitalized on his ability to rebound at will. For instance, in Notre Dame's wins against Connecticut and Syracuse, the 6-foot-4 guard was grabbed a team-high 12 rebounds. 
"For someone who slashes as much as me," Jones said, "this has opened up a lot of opportunities." 
Thomas and Quinn have also benefited from the open lanes. When one drives, defenses either collapse and free up a 3-point shooter or defend the perimeter and give up a short-range jumper. And with the way the Irish are shooting lately -Notre Dame has made 43 percent of its 3-point shots -the Irish have shown they can take apart either a man-to­man defense (like Connecticut or Seton Hall played) or a zone (like the one Syracuse occasionally 
slipped into Monday). 
"Coach Brey said it best. he said 'that sometimes it takes certain teams longer to find their niche,"' Jones said. "Unfortunately, we had to lose Tarin to find it. We realized that opening the floor up and run­ning five-out is the best way for us to run our offense." 
Conta<.:t Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

-
-
--
Divine Mercy Gifts Church Goods and Supplies BOOKS • MUSIC • CARDS STATUES • ROSARIES JEWELRY • BIBLES Open: Mon.-Fri. g:30-6:oo Sat. to:oo-s:oo 1/2 Mile North of Notre Dame on SR 933 320 DixieWayN. 574 277-1400 www.divinemercygifts.com  
The Colonial Pancake House Family Restaurant OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 6:30-2:30 PM • Gourmet coffee • Daily lunch specials • Batters made from • Come see our ND room scratch • OPEN FOR OVER 35 YEARS • Famous apple pancake • Call us for all occasions -& jumbo omelettes ask for Dave THANK YOU FOR·--------------· YOUR BUSINESS •Enjoy one complimentary I 1Entree when a second I I I 1Entree of equal or greater 508 N. Dixie Way1.______________ ..1Value is purchased Exp 2005 1 SB, IN 46637 (574) 272-7433  


Friday, February 20, 2004 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Thomas 
continued from page 24 
After struggling early in the year, Thomas is playing arguably his best basketball in a Notre Dame 

uniform. Over the last four games -a loss to Pittsburgh  "We've got great fans, and the one· thing I never understood is why they  doesn't get an open l 0 0 k . Because if  
and wins against Connecticut,  are so hard on Chris. ,  he does, he's going to  
Seton Hall and  knock  it  
Syracuse  Jordan Cornette  down ,  "  
Thomas is aver­ Irish junior  Torrian  
aging  26.5  Jones said.  
points, the first  "That opens  

time in his career he has up opportunities for all of us." scored 20 points in four With the way Thomas is straight games, while shoot­playing now, Brey just dis­ing an astonishing 50 percent misses the criticism his point from 3-point range. guard received early in the 
"The kid has been fearless year. for us," Brey said. "I want Thomas, who tested the him to play daring because he NBA Draft waters last sum­has to play daring." mer, will face a similar choice 
Brey believes Thomas, this year. However, if he 
whom the head coach called the team's best player in January, faced an unwarrant­ed amount of criticism when he struggled early on. But much of those 
..rin fully expecting to coach Chris Thomas again next year.·· 
Mike Brey Irish coach 
struggles came because Thomas was drawing the opposing team's top defender. In the past, teams had to worry about shutting down prolific threats like Matt Carroll, David Graves and Dan Miller. This year, howev­er, teams ran body after body at Thomas, who in turn shoul­dered more of the responsibil­ity for carrying Notre Dame. 
The result was a wave of

~i 
t' criticism directed at a hard­working player NBA scouts said was more mature but had yet to demonstrate it in a game. "I think people were unfair," Classmate Jordan Cornette said. "I think the fans here have been unfair and too hard on him. We've got great fans, and the one thing I never understood is why they are so hard on Chris. He pours his heart out there everyday, on the floor and in the locker room." Brey made several adjust­ments to take some of the pressure off Thomas, who at one point in the season was shooting career lows in terms of percentages from the field and from 3-point range. He increasingly split point guard responsibilities with Chris Quinn, enabling him to rest more while on the court. And 
-
l ·~ ·~ 
') 
')
'} 
'1
'> 
( 
f 
~ 
( 
I 
i 
I 
r/
i 
I 
) 
~ 
? 
' 
) 
...... " 
the Irish starting driving to the basket more, which freed up the rest of the Irish offense to get rolling just as Thomas was poised to explode. 
"He comes off a screen and he has two to three guys fol­lowing him trying to make 
sure he 
declares for the draft, rules say that he cannot withdraw his name and return to col­lege. And while Brey said he does­n't want to 
discuss Thomas' NBA prospects during the season, he has an inkling as to what the Irish guard might do. 
''I'm fully expecting," Brey proclaimed, "to coach Chris Thomas again next year." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Open for lunch, dinner and late night fun There is always action at Bookmaker's 
Watch all your favorite sporting events on 14 screens 
M n
0 
Tues 
Wed 
Thurs Fri, Feb 20 Sat, Feb 21 Sun 

Defense 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame has a three-game win streak heading into Saturday's rematch against the Huskies. 
During a spurt in which Notre Dame lost six of eight games, the Irish had difficulty preventing opposing teams from going on big runs that always seemed to steal the momentum away from the Irish. 
"It's an awareness thing," Cornette said, "We weren't very attentive and teams were getting easy lay-ups. Those are momentum plays. But I think we've been very aware and getting back on defense and haven't been given up those plays." 
So after a heartbreaking loss against Pittsburgh, Brey want­ed the Irish to focus more on preventing the speedy Huskies 
Award 
continued from page 24 
one of the hardest working players he has coached. 
"You coach so long, and you have a few players that stand­out that go through your pro­grams, and you always remem­ber that they set a standard for your program and [Pruzinsky] is one of those kids," Waldrum said. "Her work ethic is tremendous." 
Before her senior year she was named preseason Big East Defender of the Year. She was 
2046 South Bend Ave 
272-1766 

Specials all day long Every Thes. is ND Night, DJ; and specials starting at $1.00 all day long Karaoke 9-12 and all day specials, starting at $2.50 Lunch and daily specials Live music with Darryl Buchaman Live music with Darryl Buchaman Sports all day and all you can eat Buffet $5.95 
from running circles around the Irish. The formula Notre Dame employed two weeks ago was effective Monday once again against Syracuse. 
The Irish defense starts with guards Chris Thomas and Chris Quinn, whom Brey had to encourage not to cheat toward the basket to get rebounds. When they cheated toward the basket, other teams ran their fast break more effectively. 
"We'd have one or two guys out of position, and that was making all the difference," Cornette said. 
It continued with Torrian Jones finding a balance between knowing when to crash the boards and when to get back on defense. And final­ly, taking better shots meant the difference between having rebounders around the basket. In general, the longer the shot attempt, the more likely the Irish were to fall back on defense because unpredictable caroms off the backboard on long shots gave teams opportu­nities to score in transition. 

And while this approach meant that the Irish might be conceding offensive rebounds, that hasn't been the case. The Irish are averaging just over 11 offensive rebounds in its last three wins, one less than their season average. 
Brey believes this Notre Dame team is the most defen­sive-minded team in his four years at the helm of the Irish. But Notre Dame's recent suc­cess comes in part because of its improved transition defense. 
And Brey plans to run the drill at the start of every prac­tice. 
"It's the first thing we do when we're done with pre­practice shooting," Brey said. "It gets us in the right frame of mind. We have a high basket­ball IQ, we just had to put in something more to work on it." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
named to the Big East first­team as a junior, Big East sec­ond-team as a sophomore and Big Rookie of the Year during her freshman season. 
Waldrum said watching Pruzinsky develop over the past five years has been a pleasure. 
"I always realted her to what I think of as a true professional athlete," Waldrum said. "She was one of those kind of play­ers that came in everyday and did her job. You didn't know if she was having a good day or a bad day." 

Pruzinsky is the sixth Notre Dame athlete in nine years to receive the award, which is awarded to one male and one female athlete each year. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
NO EKPI'BIS lilllar·du Rlall 
Lafortune Student Center 
8-Ball Tournament 
Friday, Feb. 27, 9:00pm 
*Prizes awarded to 
top two finishes *Limit of 16 Participants *Sign up today in ND 
Express Billiards Hall 

TURTLE C.·R······•·E···.··.····EK····.. A·····.~A ········ ..·······M·.··E···.: ··. ····s·.• 
... ..... .......... ...................... Pn.RT NT 
The student's #I choice in OFF-CAMPUS housing! w-ww.turtlecreeknd.com 574-272-8124 
•
,, " 
-·J... 
Friday, February 20, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT SYCOPHANT SCHOOL ~ 
FOR PRACTICE, I'LL a MAKE STATEMENTS ANDYOU MUST LEARN TO 8 YOU AGREE. REMEMBER
AGREE WITH YOUR ~ 
TO USE YOUR FAKESUPERIORS NO MATTER i SMILES.
WHAT THEY SAY. ~ 

SCOTT ADAMS 
STATEMENT ONE: I SHOULD BE PAID 'tOO TIME& MORE THAN YOU 
BECAUSE I HAVE TO LOOK AT YOUR FACES. 
~~) 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
fiVES 
Chemistry: Narcotics Production 

Even if you can't get o. legitimate job following graduation, there·s always a 
place for every major in the underground drug industry .....
'. 
Business: Political Seienee: 
Distribution 
Consumption 
HMm..•.

psst .... hey bvd4y ... :r -*hil\k 1'11 he 

WILLSHORTZ 

37  Zelnicek  49 Cold  58 First name in  
(celebrity's maiden name) 38 Fun or song fol­lowers 39 Charged 40 Do the dishes?  51 At full throttle 52 Perplexed pro­nouncement 53 Some remains 55 1998 Sarah McLachlan hit  diplomacy 59 A.C., e.g. 61 Schnook's cry 62 Chemical suffix 63TV/_ 64 Vet's service  
47 Moundsman  56 Mark Twain's  spot  
Dave  jumping frog  65 "Lord, is _?"  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.corn/crosswords ($34.95 a year).. Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.corn/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME \ Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
ORFYT 
[_J I [) 
02004 Tribune Media SetVicea, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RETIG 
riJ 

WHAT THE Bf:AUTY 
QUEEN WORE. 'M-a'-l 
SHE GRf:ETE:D THE
RUBETT I 
WINNING ORIVf:R.
CIJ [] 
Now arrange the circled letters to  
form the surprise answer, as  
suggested by the above cartoon.  
(Answers tomorrow}  
Yesterday's  I  Jumbles: Answer:  MERCY MIRTH DULCET GALAXY How Grandpa felt when the kids listened to rap  
music-"EAR-ITA TED"  
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  

Celebrities born on this day: Gloria Vanderbilt, Cindy Crawford, Ivana Trump, Robert Altman, Sidney Poitier, Patricia Hearst, Jennifer O'Neill, Andrew Shue, Bobby Unser 
Happy Birthday: You are changing so fast that even you are having trouble keeping up to the pace you've set. Gauge yourself carefully and write down all those great ideas you have. This is an exciting period in your life, so gear up and get ready. If you are quick to put your plans in motion, you will find yourself moving in a positive direction that will ensure success, prosperity and good will. Your numbers: 18, 21, 27, 32, 39,47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Out with the old and in with the new. You can make career changes today if you so desire. Believe in yourself, and you will convince others to believe in you as well. Go after your goals. *** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Don't disagree with loved ones if you want to keep the peace. It is best to focus on your hobbies or children and avoid the trivial differences you may be experiencing with your mate. *** GEMINI (MAY 21-JUNE 20): Your involvement in institutions or large corporations will result in beneficial changes. You can make residential moves successfully. Money-making opportunities are present. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can expand your circle of friends if you are willing to join clubs or groups of interest. Your sensitive ways will charm potential mates. Avoid overindulgences. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect friction from your mate if you have been flirtatious with others. You may want to put your efforts into making your surroundings more pleasing. Home renovations should cheer up the whole family. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-SEPT. 22): You will have a greater interest in travel and foreign cultures. Take time to look into the possibilities of taking a trip or acquiring knowledge about different cultural backgrounds. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Money-making ventures will be profitable. , Setbacks may occur, but they won't put a damper on the deal. You can make~' residential changes conducive to a more comfortable lifestyle. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Love connections may develop quite quickly. Don't be afraid to follow your heart. You will be 'willing to bend in order to make this connection work. Friends and relatives may not approve. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your work ethic will be most honorable. Greater respect and admiration will be yours. Co-workers will be willing to lend you a helping hand. You can get recognition for a job well done. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Look into philosophy courses. You'll want to change your direction in life. You can make alterations to your appearance that will make you feel more at ease. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll have problems getting those you live with to pitch in and help. Your ideas may be good, but talking others into helping you pay for the changes will be another story. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll impress others with your insight and empathy. You can help friends and relatives with personal problems that they can't face alone. Your selflessness will result in lasting connections.*** 
Birthday Baby: You will be able to influence those you encounter throughout your life. Your ability to make sense out of whatever you are confronted with will enable you to make the changes necessary in order to continue down a positive path. You were born with an ability to land on your feet. 
Visit Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Antediluvian 16 What "they" have been say­
ing 17 Helter-skelter 18 Jazzman 
Adderley 19 "Fiashdance" director Adrian 20 Some records, for short 21 Rusedski of ten­
nis 23 Break 25 MAdventures in 
Good Music" host Karl 29 Mideast map abbr. 32 Little bit 35 Melt alternative 36 Present for a picky person? 41 Hangover suffer-er's lament 

3 Captivate a crowd, perhaps 
4 Carrier of "bad" cholesterol, briefly 
5 Sugar 
6 "Only the Paranoid Survive" author 
Grove · 7 A criminal may be caught in one 
8 Successfully navigate a nar­row passage 
9 Part of a bray 
10 Suffix with opal 
11 Modern address starter 
12 Dander 
13 Regulus is in it 
14 Gridiron great Ford 
15 City planning concerns: Abbr. 
42 It often has islands 43 N.Y. neighbor 
44 List keeper 45 Tip of one's tongue? 
46 Big name in for­eign news 48 Good source of antioxidants 50 Indian improvi­sation 54 Little bit 57 Sommer of Berlin 60 Three in a sea­son: Abbr. 61 Biblical battlers 66 Extremely rare 67 Holistic health remedies 
DOWN 1 Blowing away 2 Whale spotter 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  22 Beginnin'  
~=-r,-r.:~  24 Goes where  
one shouldn't,  
maybe  

-::-trl:::+.:i 26 Basic counters 27 E'en if -=+=+-:-:+:-+=4 28 A Dutch master ~-rl=+::+:+::i 30 Give what for 
secure 
33 "_worse than death" 
34 One with a spe­
--:-t=+=+-:-+:-':"1 cial touch 
36 Leg of lamb 

------------~-~-~-~----------------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
-
Name ____________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City ___________ State ____ Zip______ 
-

,. 
\­
,. ''· 
',I 


Friday, February 20, 2004 page 24 
=========::..::.=========================:=============--=====~~--=-=-----==-:_::_:_-_:__:::_.__ -----­
MEN'S BASKETBALL 


What saved the season 
The Irish carry a 3-game win streak into Saturday~s rematch at Connecticut 
) . 


Chris Quinn, who stepped up scoring with Francis Jordan Cornette demonstrates Notre Dame's Big East Player of the Week Chris Thomas eludes sidelined, shoots against Seton Hall on Saturday. Improved transition defense against Ben Gordon. Connecticut's T~liek Brown on Feb. 14. 
STORIES BY ANDREW SOUKUP 

Loss of Francis opened up the floor for hot-shooting Irish offense 
Torin Francis lay behind the Notre Dame bench two weeks ago as trainers worked feverishly on his back to alleviate the back spasms, and teammates tried to knock ,: off Pittsburgh. It would be another several days before an MRI revealed Francis was sidelined indefinitely with a 
,, bulging disc. '~-But when Francis didn't return in the loss to Pittsburgh, ~~ the Irish were staring at a tough February schedule with­
out their most reliable low-post presence. The road to the J• NCAA Tournament appeared to run off a cliff. ( Then, the Irish got rolling. 
f 
\'· "That's what so great about sporl'i," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "You're always trying to work it as an exact sci­ence, when sometimes, things just happen." 
~ ',. 
With Francis out of the lineup, Notre Dame turned to its
~-. 
•_.I 
~ 
~ ' see OFFENSE/page 21
~ 
' 
~ 
' 
-' 
~-\ 
L 
..
t i ND SWIMMING AND DIVING
~-~ 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
<I 
r~­
t':­
; \ Men and women start 
Pruzinsky wins Big East honor 
.\1 
• ·. U; 
t; 
By JOE HETTLER 

~' solid in Big East meet 
L 
Sports Editor 

;!'; 
~ ~ 
~~ 
~ By MATT PUGLISI m Sports Writer 
: i' 
~ ! 
After the first day of the Big East Championships in New York, the women's swimming and diving team is neck and r:} neck with Rutgers in an effort to I ' claim its eighth consecutive Big
r 
r . 
East title. The men's squad fmds I itself locked in a four-way race
ll 
I• for the title. If. i\, Led by event victories from the 200-yard freestyle relay team 
a~ 
(freshmen Katie Carroll and I~ Rebecca Grove, junior Katie
if' · 
II . Eckholt and senior Danielle 
I . 
I Hulick), senior Meghan Perry I Eaton (1-meter diving) and 'I Carroll (200-yard individual 
ij 
:~ 
NO WOMENS BBALL

I ~ • 
I'
,· 
Notre Dame vs. ,, PittsburghSaturday, 2 p.m. 
The Irish travel to Pittsburgh to take on the Panthers who are 2~ 11 in the Big East. 
page 21 

Tighter defense has keyed a trio of high-profile Irish victories 
The drill was simple in its execution, yet its results were spectacular. 
Irish coach Mike Brey devised a way to open prac­tice two Sundays ago where the five Irish starters would take the ball down the court without any defense and score. As soon as the ball went through the hoop, Notre Dame's five backups took off down the court to simulate a fast-break situation. The idea was for the starters to get used to getting down the court quickly to prevent quick baskets. 
"You have to get back and communicate right away," Jordan Cornette said. 
The day after Brey had the Irish run the drill for the first time, Notre Dame beat Connecticut. Since then, they Irish haven't stopped running it ·-and 
see DEFENSE/page 22 
Thomas's potent play helped the Irish fight back into the spotlight 
A giddy Mike Brey stood next to a smiling Chris Thomas while waiting for ESPN's camera crew to get set up for a post-game interview after Notre Dame beat Connecticut 80-74 Feb. 9. 
And as a mass of students swarmed behind the pair -many of whom booed Thomas when he struggled in a home win against Miami -Brey looked at Thomas and boldly told a national television audience, "He is our program." 
The way Thomas has been playing lately, Brey's statement seems fairly obvious. 
Sure, Notre Dame has a plethora of other talent that can generate points. But when Thomas plays well, so do the Irish. When he struggles, Notre Dame strug­gles. 
. see THOMAS/page 22 
medley), the No. 20 Irish record­
Vanessa Pruzinsky's reaction 
ed 199 points -on Thursday, good 
told the story. 

for second behind Rutgers 
Asked how she felt about 
(199.5) and in front of third 
being named the 2003-04 Big 
place Virginia Tech (180.5). 
East Female Scholar-Athlete 
Including Carroll, the Irish 
of the Year, Pruzinsky simply 
took four of the top eight spots 
said, "I had no idea I won 
in the 200-yard individual med­
that." 

ley as senior Lisa Garcia took 
Anyone that knows 
second, freshman Ann Barton 
Pruzinsky shouldn't be sur­
placed fifth and senior Marie 
prised she was too busy to 
Labosky finished eighth. 
notice her recent a ward. 
Hulick and Grove chipped in 
During her time at Notre 
second-and third-place fmishes, 
Dame, Pruzinsky stayed very 
respectively, in the 50-yard 
active, playing defender on the 
freestyle and the 400-yard med­
women's soccer team and 
ley relay (Hulick, Carroll and 
graduating as one of the best 
sophomores Christel Bouvron 
to ever play under coach 
and Courtney Choura) placed 
Randy Waldrum. In her "free 
time", she managed to earn a 
see BIG EAST/page 14 
perfect 4.0 grade point aver­
age as a chemical engineering major. 
After graduating in May with an undergraduate degree, Pruzinsky took graduate class­es last fall. She recently accepted a job in New Jersey · 
and is in the process of mov­ing there right now. 

"It feels great to be named that after putting in a lot of hard work at Notre Dame, both academically and on the soccer field," Pruzinsky said. "I had to manage my time well and any free time I did have, I had to make sure I was study­CHIP MARKS/The Observer ing and putting in the work off Vanessa Pruzlnsky carries the the field." 
ball in the NCAA tournament. 
Pruzinsky returned for a fifth-year after injuring her the Irish fell to Michigan in the 
ankle and missing her senior NCAA tournament 1-0. season. She helped lead the Wladrum said Pruzinsky was 
Irish to a 20-3-1 record and a No. 2 national ranking before 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
NO TRACK AND FIELD 
BASEBALL MEN'S TENNIS 

USC Public 
Notre Dame vs.

Notre Dame vs. 
BYU 
Northwestern

Stora~ Classic 
The Irish travel to the 

Notre ame vs. 
Carrier Dome for the 

San Diego State 
Saturday, 4 p.m.

Friday, 4 p.m. 
see AWARD/page 22 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame vs. Princeton 

Preseason play con-
Big East 

eludes as the Irish face
The Irish travel to

Doubles will be the 
Championships. 
No.1 Princeton.
The season is under-
Chicago to face the No. 

key for the Irish against 
way for the Irish. 
BYU. 
37 Wildcats. 

page 16
page 19 
page 18 
page 17

page 19 


<. 

THE DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS 

----------------The Observer 2 February 20,2004 --------------­

THE DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS 
~7 want to make Notre Dame a better Notre Dame~ and diversity~ in its broadest sense~ will make Notre Dame better.,, 

S T 0 R Y By MEGHANNE DOWNES 


e wants to make Notre Dame a better Notre Dame. As a student in the '60s and a father in the '90s, he believed Notre Dame lacked something key to making it better. Now, as an administrator in 2004, he is committed to filling this void by mak­
ing Notre Dame more diverse. 

Dan Saracino, associate provost and the director of admissions, graduated from the University in 1969 able to count on one hand the number of blacks in his class. 
Through enhanced recruiting, the University once known as a haven for white European Catholics is a far cry from the dire situation it was in during the pre-civil rights era. Today, it boasts a freshman class 
of which 21 percent are minorities, the most diverse in history. However, Saracino believes more can be done. 
"The primary goal I have is to improve diversity," 

Saracino said. "I want to make Notre Dame a bet­
ter Notre Dame, and diversity, in it'i broadest 
sense, will make Notre Dame better." 
For Saracino, improving diversity is not a narrow endeavor. It expands beyond the typical definers such as race to more personal characteristics, . such as whether the applicant's parents are edu­cators or whether the applicant would be a first­
generation college student. 
The man who makes diversifying Notre Dame his 

mission took an indirect route into the field of 
higher-education admissions. Upon graduating 
from Notre Dame, he had planned to attend law 
school but opted to defer for a year to work in the 
admissions office. A year later, his request for 
another deferment was denied, and he remained 
an admissions counselor. 
"It was the first time I thought I was in a profes­sion," Saracino said. "I just thought I was ·doing service for Notre Dame. 
Saracino's service focused on building minority recruitment, and Notre Dame implemented a pro­gram designed to increase this. Today, that pro­gram boasts its own department within the Office of Admissions, with individual counselors who specifically recruit black, Asian and Hispanic minorities. The program also relies on its minority alumni board to recruit area students who would be a good fit at Notre Dame. 
"What we are doing is still the same as back then -trying to reach those young men and women who should be hearing the story of Notre Dame and are not," Saracino said. 
In 1977, he left Notre Dame to become the direc­tor. of admissions at Santa Clara University in California. During his 20-year absence from Notre Dame, the University saw its minority numbers steadily rise coupled with the closing gap between the percentage of men and women who were admitted. Though Notre Dame's numbers might have increased relative to diversity, there was still something missing. 
His daughters, who attended Notre Dame in the '90s, often returned home telling him that Notre Dame provided a quality education but was lack­
ing something due to the absence of diversity. 
"My daughters didn't realize they had diversity [in California] until it was taken away from them," Saracino said. 
In 1997, Saracino returned to Notre Dame as director of admissions with a mission to continue to improve Notre Dame and to make it more diverse. ­
But that word is not limited to race for Saracino. He believes that Notre Dame needs to construct its incmning classes so they are more ethnically, socio-economically and geographically diverse. 
Saracino denies claims that the University's desire to become more diverse is an attempt to become more like Stanford or institutions in the Ivy League. 
"We are not trying to be something we arc not," Saracino said. "We respect them but we don't want to emulate them. Ifit means it does get more comparable, so be it." 
He said he frequently hears from alumni who complain that their children have not been accept­ed at Notre Dame. His response is that Notre Dame has become more difficult and the admissions office will uphold this standard and not sacrifice the overall quality of the class. 
Preferential aid packages are offered to ethnic minorities, Notre Dame Scholars, children of edu­cators, first-generation college students and other students who are desirable for Notre Dame. 
Though Notre Dame usually can recruit these desirable students from elite college prep schools, Saracino believes this limits the dynamic of the class. · 
The University needs to reach out to the smaller schools that are scattered across the country, he · said, to create a more diverse applicant pool that is still committed to academics, service and faith. This includes reaching out to frrst-generation cof­lege students to increase the socio-economic diver­sity of Notre Dame's undergraduates. The admis­sions office originally believed that it would fmd first-generation students through its minority recruitment program. but Saracino said they soon discovered that many parents of minorities had attended college due to changes in the civil rights era. 
To even further diversify the applicant pool, Saracino said, Notre Dame is now a gender-and religious-blind institution. 
He linked the religious and ethnic diversity to the expansion of the varsity athletics program and said ·recruiters are after the best student-athlete ­not the best Catholics. 
Though the percentage of Catholics in recent incoming classes usually hovers around 83 per­cent, Saracino said religious affiliation does not affect an applicant's chances and that the percent­age of non-Catholic admitted students reflects the applicant pool. ''I'd rather have a Jewish or Methodist student who believes strongly in his faith than just an applicant who checks the Catholic box," Saracino said, 
Saracino believes Notre Dame would not have been a top-20 academic institution when he attended as a student because it was too limited as only a white, Catholic university. He said this is not necessarily a bad thing, as a passion for Notre Dame and community service existed but the University needed to evolve. 
Since his early days in the admissions office Saracino said his mission has been the same -to make Notre Dame a better Notre Dame by diversi­fying it. Though he would never trade his '60s edu­cation, he said the best thing he saw a decade after graduation was co-education. Since the '70s, he said he has whole-heartedly believed that Notre Dame is a better institution because of its commit­ment to increase the amount of ethnically diverse and international students. 
Saracino returned to Notre Dame to help diver­sity evolve even further and believes that the future Notre Dame student will have a face that is a mosaic. 
"The future is a student who is a mosaic in the truest sense," he said. "You couldn't say it was male or female or white, black, brown or Asian. It would be a true mosaic with a hundred different experiences." 

The Observer 3 February 20, 2004 
THE COORDINATOR OF SPRING VISITATION 
nThe reality is the form might be special and unique, but the students that these prospectives are meeting ... that is what Notre Dame is about.,, 


S T 0 R Y By SHEILA FLYNN 


hen Gil Martinez hears people criticize Spring Visitation Weekend, he laughs. 
"I always kind of chuckle a little bit when I hear criticism -people saying, 'You know, this isn't really what Notre Dame is about,"' said Martinez, the coordinator of Spring Visitation 
Weekend. "The reality is the form might be special and unique, but the students that these prospectives 
are meeting ... that is what Notre Dame is about." 
Martinez, a 1984 Notre Dame graduate, worked for University admissions from 1988 to 1993. He returned in the summer of 2003 · and now specializes in Hispanic recruitment. When the former Spring Visitation Weekend coordinator took another job, Martinez was asked to replace him. 
" It's something that I feel, personally, very committed to," Martinez said of the diversity · recruitment event. "This place is so special in terms of opportunities that it grants people." 
He knows firsthand. When Martinez entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1980, he was the first person in his entire family to attend col­lege -much less to leave his hometown or home state of New Mexico. 
"It was just great -a great experience, in terms of the support, not only from friends, but from the University, as well -especially making the transition from basically a non-college family background," Martinez said. "I found that it was really helpful in just helping me to maneuver through the bureaucracy, through the administrative tasks that I needed to do in order to graduate." 
It is his own experience and subsequent con­fidence in the welcoming atmosphere of Notre Dame, Martinez said, that he carries with him when he speaks to Hispanic and other minor­ity students. 
"They want to be in a place where they are going to feel supported, whether it be by peers, administration or faculty, and I believe that this place does it," Martinez said. "There is a stability here, and it's a stability based on a very good philosophy." 
The point of Spring Visitation is to show stu­dents this stability and environment, Martinez said. The University flies in approximately 160 competitive minority students-black, Asian, Hispanic and Native American -who have never visited campus before. They are hosted by current Notre Dame students, and the weekend, at the end of March, includes pre­sentations by speakers -football· head coach Tyrone Willingham, for example, spoke last year-and sessions with faculty and adminis­trators. The various cultural events concen­tratcd during the weekend are celebratory and entertaining for prospectives, he said, but they are not the sole focus of the visit. 
"Our students, just in being who they are ... those seniors in high school are really obser­vant about that," Martinez said. "They get a sense the tone of the student body is one that's caring -a group_ that cares for each other, a group that is success-oriented, a group that is not so much going to be stealing your biology notes before a major exam." 
Martinez said that, every year, the visiting 
.4

The Observer Februaty 20, 2004 
students comment most on their time in the dorms, in the dining halls and with Notre Dame students, in general. He said they real­ize the presentations and ethnic events are not typical of everyday life at the University; while they appreciate the entertainment, Martinez said the prospectives are more con­cerned about what their personal experiences will be like. 
"It is a special weekend and, in a way, it is unique relative to what a student will experi­ence every other weekend, but it's not differ­ent, say, than a student that would come on a football weekend, where there impression of Notre Dame is that football weekend," Martinez said. 
Martinez said he hopes this year's Spring Visitation Weekend will prove as successful as those in previous years. Last year, approxi­mately 7 4 percent of the visiting students chose to attend Notre Dame, he said. 
"The Spring Visitation Weekend is a key component, though not the only one, for the increase of the number of [diverse1 students willing to bring themselves here," Martinez said. 
"People are, more and more, coming to an understanding that this is who we are, this is what we're about, in terms of helping all stu­dents that are academically competitive." 


MINORITY ADMINISTRATOR 
nBy the experiences that l,ve had and that I,ve done and what I,ve brought, I think it adds to that puzzle, if 
you will, of creating that total picture of a diverse ca1npus and a diverse community.,, 


STORY BY SHEILA FLYNN 

THE INTERNATIONAL STUDENT 
nPeople are a lot more comfortable with each other [in Nicaragua]. Back home there is no difference ifyou ,re white or black. ,, 


aca 
STORY BY TERESA FRALISH 
I 
mmediately after picking up his 93-year-old mother­in-law from the airport last year, Roberto Gutierrez decided against giving her a South Bend tour or even a tour of her new room in the family's recently-purcha'ied home. 
Instead, he brought her to campus. 
"She, of all people, always had a good sense ofthe pulse of a community," Gutierrez said. "She said, 'You know, this feels like home."' 
Gutierrez agreed. It was that same sense of family and home that led him to leave South Texas for South Bend and accept the position of vice pres­ident for public affairs and communication at the University. 
Gutierrez has dedicated his life to serving the Latino com­munity through media and communications. He helped promote the first national Latino newspaper for Catholics in the United States, co-founded the Hispanic Telecommuni­cations Network in 1982 (which produced the only national Catholic evangelization series televised for U.S. Latinos) and received an honorary doctorate from Notre Dame in 1999. 
"That has really been a hall­mark, if you will, of my career, my life and the a"pirations that I've had over the years," he said. "To help promote the val­ues -the best values -that the Latino community brings to the table in this country:" 
"We do bring values offamily, values of faith, values of lan­guage," he said. 
A first-generation Mexican­American, Gutierrez grew up, attended college and estab­lished his career in San Antonio. But he left that city to respond "to a call to be of serv­
.
ICC. " , 
"Being able to do storytelling on television is probably the best job that any person could 
.~ ...-..,, 
have in the world," Gutierrez 
said. "When I had done that for 
20 years, I realized that God is 
calling me in a direction at this 
time in my life. 
Gutierrez said he feels that University -President Father Edward Malloy has set Notre Dame in the right direction, and this belief led him to enthusias­tically accept the post. 
"I think he saw the need to try to diversifY the campus and continues to do so in many ways, adding faculty and staff that represent, really, what the Church is in America," Gutierrez said. 
"Do we have a long way to go? Absolutely. But I think my coming here was really a response to an invitation and ... by the experiences that I've had and that I've done and what I've brought, I think it adds to that puzzle, ifyou will, of creat­ing that total picture of a diverse campus and a diverse community." 

E 
lena Lacayo may blend easily into the Notre Dame landscape, may _ have been born in the United States and may appear to be white. But this sophomore from Managua, Nicaragua sur­prises many when they discov­er she is both a minority and international student. 
"People don't know anything about me and they automatical­ly assume I'm white," said Lacayo. "I consider myself bicultural." 
Because of her background, however, Lacayo's perspective on minorities, diversity and stu­dent life at Notre Dame remains unique. 
Though childhood experi­ences prepared her in some sense for student life at an American university, Lacayo said she found it difficult to understand the social atmos­phere at Notre Dame, where gender relations often seemed strained and barriers appeared to exist between campus minority groups and the gener­al student body. 
"People are a lot more com­fortable with each other [in Nicaragua]," she said. "Back home there is no difference if you're white or black." 
Compared to Central American culture, Lacayo said specific terms used in the United States to describe race and ethnicity didn't make sense either. 
"I asked these girls in my dorm if it bothered them if I described them as black. ... Both were African-American and I started talking to them about the term African­American," said Lacayo. 
In this small group, discussing whether "African-American" or "black" accurately described some minority groups in the 
United States feels safe, Lacayo said. 
"I asked them if they spoke with me because I was asking or because I wa'in't white ... but. they admitted that' they were open with me because I was a minority," she said. · 
But Lacayo said she enjoys talking with other minority and international students about race and culture, and feels like she can fit in well with a wide range of ethnic groups on cam­pus. Among white students however, she finds this willing­ness to talk sometimes lacking at Notre Dame. 
"A person has to be forced to step out of their bubble [and] the minorities are the ones that concede. They're the ones that have to adjust," Lacayo said. "They have to live in a foreign world. I understand why [this] happens -I just wish people were more aware of it." 
The Observer 5 February 20, 2004 
~~~~~---~~------~ 

THE MAJORITY MINORITY 

The Observer 6 February 20, 2004 ------------------­
THE MAJORITY MINORITY 
u/ guess I was nervous because it was different and I zvas white. Looking back it seems kind ofsilly.,, 

STORY BY MEGHANNE DOWNES 

ill Herbert loves to dance and so does the first friend he made at Notre Dame, Mark Tupas. Through tlieir mutual love of dancing and friendship, Herbert discovered a new culture and formed a group of friends in which he found himself -a white male -to be ironically a 
minority. 
Though Herbert was used to only dancing at parties, Tupas drew upon his heritage and took his danc­ing to the stage. After much convincing, Herbert joined the Filipino American Student Organization and soon found himself performing traditional Filipino dances for the club's spring show, Fiestang. 
Herbert said going to dance practices was easy because he was there to dance; yet he was still nervous. 
"I guess I was nervous because it was different and I was white," Herbert said. "Looking back it seems kind of silly." 
Herbert said he did not want to be the "big dumb white kid" who looked out of place during performanc­es. However, he knew he would stand out and had to be pe~fect with his dancing. 
The more he danced, the more friendships he developed and Herbert realized that it made sense to become more involved with FASO because of whom he became friends with. 
He admitted that every once in a while he and his friends will joke about how he, a white stu­dent, is in an active participant in an ethnic club, but he said he always feels welcome and his presence has never been an issue. 
However, people outside of FASO have ques­tioned his presence. Herbert thinks these are rather natural questions as it is unusual on this campus for students to do what is not expected of them. 
"I think sometimes I get that resistance," Herbert said. "It will be a real anonymous thing like Spring [Visitation]. I have always been a host and well the prospectives seem a little sur­prised. Though they are my peers, they are younger, so they don't say anything." 
However, not everyone conceals their suspi­cions or suppresses their opinions. 
At activities fair night and other programming events he participates in, he said there are always students, including Asian students, who give him puzzled looks and are reluctant to lis­ten to his pitches to become involved in FASO because it seems awkward to them that the face of an Asian ethnic club would not be Asian. 
Herbert learned to overlook the bewildered glances and became more involved in the organ­ization. He helped plan In Focus and danced traditional dances such as the Maglalatik and Tinikling at Asian Allure, Fiestang and various 
other MSPS events. 
Though Herbert may not be Asian, he does rely upon his own experience to successfully draw students into the club. 
"It's the quietest ones who are on the edge that you bring into the fold and try to make them feel as welcome as much I was -particularly for a lot of mixed race students," Herbert said. 
Herbert said there are not many other non­Asian students like himself who are involved with PASO; however, this ethnic boundary does not simply exist between Asians and non­Asians, but on a more micro-level amongst Asians. 
Though there are several non-Filipino Asian students who participate, Herbert said this is a rather significant step for these students, as their heritages· and ethnicities are distinct. 
Herbert said that one of the problems at Notre Dame is that students do not realize that diver­sity is not something that is a given but that requires being open minded and seeking out this diversity. 
"One of the most common complaints is 'why do all the black kids sit together in the dining hall?"' Herbert said, "They probably ask the same thing. You have to be willing to put your­self in the situation where you are the minority in order to learn." 
He said Notre Dame is an interesting place for 
The Observer 7 Februaty 20, 2004 
diversity due to its small concentrated commu­nity, which creates much solidarity amongst minority ethnic groups as opposed to larger state schools, which are more culturally diverse, where ethnic clubs are not as predominant or strong. 
"In tenns of diversity here, Notre Dame isn't the place to go if you want to walk around and see a rainbow of faces," Herbert said. 
."If you are really into something, you can find people of similar interests who are of different color." 
For Herbert, his interest in dancing acted as the bridge. 
Herbert said this is the mentality he tries to spread amongst his white friends. Though his white friends, who do attend events, usually do not take an active interest in joining FASO, Herbert said he believes the socializing aspect between his two groups of friends is beneficial because it at least brings them together so they can start to see life from a different perspective and to begin to talk about issues. 
"My opinion is [diversity] is something that has got to be worked on. People shouldn't avoid the school. I think it's a contribution we can make. I didn't come here because of the football but because it was a good school. A lot of people come here looking for a specific type of environ­ment -I expected to come here finding good academics and to find myself -something that I have done." 

THE QUEER STUDENT ATHLETE 
fitil,m tired ofbeing a marginalized voice. l,m tired ofbeing alienated. I,m a part ofthe community too. ,, 

S T 0 R Y By CLAIRE HEININGER 


s a scholarship athlete, Jeneka Joyce is already part of a select crowd on campus. But it's anoth-·! er group that she belongs to that truly sets her apart -students who don't hesitate to talk about their homosexuality. 
"It's not a big deal, it's not some crisis," Joyce said simply, confident that her own choices and her own life are resolutely balanced. "I speak up. If people are mute about it, there is no way that change can come about." 
Speaking up wasn't always that easy. When Joyce began questioning her sexuality during her first two years at Notre Dame, she felt as if she was the only one who didn't fit the straight­laced image the University's identity pre­scribes. It didn't help that all homosexual stu­dents seemed to be classified under the same don't-ask-don't-tell heading, since Joyce firmly disagrees that sexuality can fit into a neat little box. 
A clear-cut sexuality, she said, "is not neces­sarily the case -I think it's more on some kind of continuum." But while the senior now open­ly describes herself as "queer," a term she said is "pretty much all-encompassing of sexualities that are different from heterosexuality," mem­ories of confusion and isolation still linger. 
"Now it's different because I'm involved in the gay/lesbian/bisexual community," she said. "I know a lot of people. But when I wasn't involved and I didn't know any other gays on campus, I didn't think anyone else was -it definitely seems like there are no gays at Notre Dame." 
However, several conversations at the end of Joyce's sophomore year revealed just the oppo­site. Talking with her close friends, she real­ized that although gays on campus were still a mostly silent minority, she was anything but alone. 
"In college, you're growing, your self-identity is becoming more solidified, you're going through lots of changes and coming into your­self," she said, recalling the talks that opened her eyes and strengthened her resolve. "It turned out that some people I was already friends with were bi, and when we started talk­ing about things, I kind of opened up." 

It was this support system that gave her the confidence to seek out other students facing the same struggle. Now the co-chair of OutreachND, Joyce helps provide a forum for what she calls a "tight-knit circle" of about 40 non-heterosexual students to relax, socialize and voice their frustrations about everyday life on a conservative campus. Strength in num­bers, she said, has become a powerful asset. 
"I think we're finally making enough noise­we have enough people who aren't afraid to wear 'Gay Irish' or 'Gay's Fine by Me' shirts" around campus, she said. "We have enough people willing to push the envelope and to take a stand." 
Despite the courage displayed by her peers, Joyce admits that pushing towards acceptance at Notre Dame is a slow and painful process. And while she is excited about the recent pub­lic strides that the University has made in the direction of tolerance -listing off the Notre Dame Queer Film Festival, OutreachND and the Gay/Straight Alliance as powerful indicators ­she is concerned that students' casually snide remarks still cause a lot of private pain. 
Joyce said she defends herself-and other less vocal victims of such stereotypes-albeit with a more politically correct retort than she some­times wishes. 
"I say that there's a lot of variability within our society and I feel it's unfair to stereotype someone because of how they look or how you perceive their behavior," Joyce said. 
"What else can you say, 'Shut the hell up?"' 
No matter how civil the response, the impor­tant thing is that Joyce responds. Unlike those who suffer in silence -a circumstance to which she can relate -she now refuses to remain hidden in the campus background. And she knows that just because she might not fit any mold, and definitely does not fit the Notre Dame mold, it doesn't mean that she doesn't belong. 
"I'm tired of being a marginalized voice. I'm tired of being alienated," Joyce said. ''I'm a part of the community too." 
In the public eye, she is also a part of the bas­ketball team. But team life, she said, is some­thing she keeps completely separate from her sexuality, and asked The Observer not to speak with her teammates. 
"When it comes to personal things, I keep some things to myself," she said. "I go about my business and go to school like everyone else ... [sexuality] is not an issue." 
Mindful of these separate spheres, Joyce believes there is a time and a place for vocally pushing acceptance to the forefront. 
"Publicity is very good," she said, addressing the controversy that arose when Notre Dame chose to host the Queer Film Festival this month. "These are issues Notre Dame needs to recognize -we're everywhere. A little acknowledgment would be nice so we don't feel like outcasts in the community here." 
She characterized the acknowledgment earned on campus thus far as minimal, but still highly significant. Although she called steps like the _festival "baby steps" toward recogniz­ing and accepting alternative lifestyles, she said that the strength of voices like het own is still a vast improvement from years past. 
"I think it's good to have voices of dissent [that] are not in line," Joyce said, adding real­istically, "And any step forward at Notre Dame is tremendous." 


THE QUEER STUDENT ATHLETE 

The Observer 9 February 20, 2004 
AN ATHEIST 

The Observer 10 February 20, 2004 
AN ATHEIST 
~7 no longer needed a god or needed the faith in my life, so it just kind offell out of its traditional place.,, 

STORY BY SHEILA FLYi'JN 

hen Adam Loverro's friends and fa1nily visit ·Notre Dame, he brings them to Mass at the Basilica. He takes them on the usual campus tour, highlighting the University's trademark spots, such as the Grotto. But to him, personally, the religious locations hold no special 
meaning. At one of the most vocally religious institutions in the· country, Loverro is an atheist. 
"I know it means something to them, and so if they're visiting or if they'd like to go, then I have no problem going," Loverro said of Basilica Mass. -. "The Grotto's a really nice place, and it's one of the places people come to see;" he said. "If I'm giv­
ing someone a tour, I'll bring them down there if there's time. I won't avoid it." 
But the senior has only been to the Grotto on about four or five occasions, mostly when giving such ­tours. He feels no need to go there and pray, because, after he began high school, he· decided there 
was no need for God in his life. 
"After taking a history course and learning all about the Protestant Reformation ... all of that stuff, the history of the Catholic Church, the history of every church . . . I was-no longer enticed by the whole idea." Loverro said, also explaining that he believes "the Bible is wrought with inconsistencies." 
"I no longer needed a god or needed the faith in my life, so it just kind of fell out of its traditional place." 
Loverro was baptized a Roman Catholic, and he attended church regularly until about fifth grade, when his family moved and their routine became disrupted. 
"I didn't go for the next three or four years," Loverro said. 
And then he entered high school and rethought his religion, and his entire Catholic identity fell by the wayside. He expressed no interest in being confirmed, and his family did not pressure him. 
"I don't think that my belief is a reaction to the Church's failure, but more of a [view that] there's nothing in God, himself or her­self or itself, that is strictly what I need to determine my own set of moral values and ethics," Loverro said. "I didn't see the pur­pose of devoting myself to one or any of the faiths. 
~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~eOb~Ncr 
"I took what I agreed with and what I believe in morally and ethically from the teachings, but ... I don't use God as a basis for those practices." 
Despite his disregard for faith and religion, however, Loverro chose to attend college at Notre Dame. After visiting campus during his senior year of high school, Loverro said he was struck by "the way I was welcomed and the beauty of the campus." 
"I just really liked the feeling of the place," he said. "It's the community here and not the faith ... that I was attracted to." 
And it is that same "community aspect" which occasionally draws him to Sunday Mass in his dorm, Zahm Hall, Loverro said. 
"I really enjoy Mass at Zahm," he said. 
"During the homily, I'd say I always listen to what the priest says, and usually it's a message that can be taken without the con­text of faith," Loverro said. · 
He said while the priest "usually refers to examples of Jesus, I can associate the exam­ples without needing to believe that Jesus is God's son." 
And Loverro said that, regardless of Notre Dame's strong commitment to religion and the overwhelmingly Catholic identity of the student body, he has never encountered hos­
11 Februacy2~2004 
tility or negative responses to his atheistic principles. 
"I haven't gotten any negative response at all," Loverro said. "I've gotten curious looks, but nothing more than that." 
He and his friends -most of whom do have faith in a higher power, Loverro said -will tease each other about believing or not believing, but none of the banter is ever mean-spirited or derogatory, he said. 
"With my closest of friends, when it just happens to come up, they're like, 'Oh,"' Loverro said, or, "Wow, I didn't know that­that's interesting. 
"The typical questions follow," he said, but the subject of his atheism has always been dropped or accepted "once those questions were answered." · 
Loverro attributed that acceptance and tol­erance to learning and knowledge, citing a friend in high school who, uneducated about her own faith and the beliefs of others, had difficulties discussing his atheism. 
"She had .r;.nore of a problem talking about it, not dealing with it," he said. 
At Notre Dame, though, where students are living and studying in a highly exploratory University environment, he has found every­one more open to discussion and acceptance. 
.' 

r~
\ 
~ 
' 
~ 
\ 
:~ , THE FIRST BLACK HEAD COACH 
:( '-.
:~ ''... I run a program that none of those things matter. The color ofa guys skin makes no difference. :~ •. His religion makes no difference. Only his ability to perform and help the team matters.,, 

S T 0 R Y BY ANDREW SOUKUP 

he phrase remains Tyrone Willingham's most basic mantra. He says it so often that the words are cliche when they pour out of his mouth, and the writers who spend day after day around the foot­ball coach smirk and discard the quote. . 
But if they knew where it came from, what Willingham endured both as a child and a professional, then they would know the 50-year-old's favorite expression, "the best player will play," isn't just a trite sports phrase. 
Willingham says it because he believes he was once the best player. And he didn't play. 
That day has long passed, and Notre Dame's 
first black head coach in any sport refuses to 
discuss specific instances of the racial battles of 
I 
his past. But the sting on his face is evident when he talks about segregation in his home­·~ town, when he talks about watching coaches
I 
start white players over black players and when he talks about the sorry fact that only five of the 117 Division I-A football coaches are black. 
"You know there's a better way," Willingham said. "You know life doesn't have to exist that way." 
But for the longest time, it did. 

Willingham grew up in Jacksonville, N.C., a city filled with hostile race relations and segre­gated schools. Every morning, he rode the bus to the minority school, more than a mile past the white school that was within walking distance of his house. 
His family lived in a mostly black neighbor­hood, and in the early years of his life, Willingham rarely felt segregation's effects. But as he grew older, he began to ask questions. Why are their books better? Why do we have to go into separate bathrooms? Why are their schools in better shape? Why do we have to eat at different tables? · 
His parents' responses helped shape Willingham the boy into Willingham the man. 
"They believed there were two kinds of people -good people and bad people," Willingham said. "There were good Caucasians and bad Caucasians, and good African-Americans and bad African-Americans. Which kind of person you wanted to become was up to you." 
Fittingly for Willingham. the most integrated aspect of Jacksonville was its athletic fields, where Willingham had been playing sports for most of his life. There, he said, kids from all eth­nicities played together without racial preju­dices, and the teams Willingham were on won virtually every athletic title in Jacksonville. 
But parents were often the ones who ensured those boundaries stayed in place. And even though Jacksonville's school system integrated in 1966, the future Irish coach never wondered if coaches could still play white kids over black kids. "[It wasn't that] somebody could," Willingham said with steel in his voice. "Somebody did." 
The closest Willingham will come to giving a concrete example of his past struggles comes when he was in high school. With the team's white starting quarterback sidelined by injury, the head coach turned to Willingham. He made the most of his opportunity, playing well enough to catch the eye of Michigan State and eventual­ly walk-on to the Spartan football team. 
But ask him if there were other circumstances behind his second-string ranking in the first place, and Willingham grimly smiles and says, "That is partially correct." 
What is the other part? 
"We won't go into that." 
Why not? 
"Those are feelings that don't need to be rehashed," the coach says after an extended pause. "Do you have to have an awareness of the past? Yes. But it's what you do in the future that makes all the difference. 
"I make sure that as a head coach that I run a program that none of those things matter. The color of a guy's skin makes no difference. His religion makes no difference. Only his ability to perform and help the team matters. To create a world where there is true equality based solely on your playing, that is the future." 
That mentality is classic Willingham -a for­ward-looking coach who refuses to dwell on the past. But the very fact that Willingham refers to his hopes for a future quality and not his analy­sis of a present one implies that the Irish coach believes society still has much to accomplish. 
Willingham points to the fact that nobody brought up race when he decided to replace black quarterback Carlyle Holiday with white quarterback Brady Quinn midway through Notre Dame's 2003 season -a situation that shows remarkable progress to Willingham's own high school experiences. And while Willingham generally avoids discussing specific instances of racial problems, he's not afraid to criticize the fact that only four percent of all Division 1-A football coaches are minorities. To that, he attributes a mentality against hiring minority coaches that exists in some athletic offices around the country. He felt that mindset when he was an assistant coach and his opin­ions were ignored -he won'l say at which school -and believes that attitude still persists. 
"You have to look at the numbers, and that's what I've said for years and years," Willingham said. "It's an easy thing to adjust. You gotta hire the best people. That's how simple it is. Whether they are Asian, African-American. it doesn't matter." 
12 Febmary 20, 2004
The Observer 
Willingham disagrees with those who claim that Notre Dame's decision to hire a black coach was largely a public-relations move in the wake of the George O'Leary fiasco. On the contrary, the third-year Irish coach said, Notre Dame took a risk in hiring a minority when hiring a white coach would have been the safer move. 
"I think it might worked the other way, that [race] ·was more of a detriment," Willingham said. "It creates more of a split among those who might have an interest in the issue.... If there is a decision to be made, it's easier to go with the safe decision than one that involves a dive~sity of interests." 
But as to why it took 162 years for Notre Dame to hire its first black head coach, Willingham declines to answer. "Only the people who have been here and been in a position to hire are able to speak on that issue," he said. 
The black Methodist is grateful for the warm reception he has received from the white Catholic Notre Dame community. -But as one of just five minority coaches -UCLA's Karl Dorrell, San Jose State's Fitz Hill, New Mexico State's Tony Samuel and Mississippi State's Sylvester Croom are the others -Willingham argues that he is in a group of coaches who are held to a higher level of scrutiny. Where the pressure comes from -other hopeful minority candidates, high-level administrators, fans ­he doesn't say. He only says the pressure exists. 
"As a minority, you're held to a much higher standard than anyone else in terms of your transition," Willingham said. "Even though, in many situations, you may be as qualified as other coaches. Everybody would say that's not fair." 
But what would Willingham say? 
"I would say that's not fair." 

Then again,'few things in life have been fair 
for Willingham. Faced with racial oppression his entire life, the Irish coach simply met the challenges directly. And instead of trying to get others to change via speeches and pontificating about the state of race in college athletics, Willingham prefers to show his beliefs in the way he runs his football program. 
"There's a saying on our football team that a man with a backbone is more valuable than a thousand with a wishbone," the coach said. "You don't convince anybody. It's not a matter of who follows, it's how you value yourself. Do you really stand up for what is right?" 
' /' ~-I 

THE FIRST BLACK HEAD COACH 


-----------~--------------------------------------------­
THE UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT 

:I 

' ~· 
( ; 


of the President's office 
The Observer 14 February 20, 2004 
THE UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT 
...-We don ,t project precise numbers but we set targets and goals for ourselves, and we try to get as close as we can. We will continue to try to closely monitor the demographics of the United States.,, · 

.' 


STORY BY ANDREW THAGARD hen Father Edward Malloy reflects on Notre Dame and his time here, he does so through a variety of perspectives -as a former undergraduate student in the 1960's, as a professor in the Department of Theology since 197 4 and as the University president since 1986. 

Malloy's years at Notre Dame have allowed him to .become intimately familiar with many aspects of the University, including the concept of diversity at Notre Dame-a central tenet of his administration. Since Ma}loy took the helm of the University 17 years ago, the percentage of underrepresented minorities at Notre Dame has increased from 7.5 to more than 20 percent. 
"That's a big change," he says with an obvious sense of pride. "In that span of time, that's a big change." It's also a change that hasn't come easily, according to Malloy, who must balance Notre Dame's unique identity as a Catholic institution with a rapidly evolving concept of diversity. 
Indeed, when he was an undergraduate stu­dent, the number of underrepresented minori­ties in attendance was "miniscule" and diversi­ty existed mainly in the socioeconomic sense as applicants were lured to the University by lower tuition rates and its Catholic identity. 
Today, the University continues to attract a unique blend of students from different eco­nomic classes, including minority students. These efforts, Malloy said, have been facilitated in part by an increased commitment to financial aid. 
"We've been able to say in recent years, 'lfyou get into Notre Dame, we can put together a [financial aid] package that will allow you to attend,'" he said. 
In addition to an increased presence of minor­ity students, Notre Dame also boasts diversity on the intellectual and political levels and increasingly in representation of students who choose to study here from international locales, he said. 
In other areas including the religious and philosophical sense, Malloy said, the Notre Dame is less diverse -something that the University president doesn't necessarily believe is bad. 
In this regard, Notre Dame must also honor the commitment to its Catholic identity-and in doing so, Malloy said, it contributes to the diver­sity among institutions of higher learning in the United States. 
"What I like is that we're remaining faithful to our mission and sense of purpose," he said. "I believe that we have put a huge amount of effort into exploring what it means to be a Catholic university and looking at din1ensions of that and trying to foster it over time." 
While Malloy is pleased with the progress in promoting diversity that has occurred during his tenure, he's quick to point out that Notre Dame still has a lot of work to do in this regard, especially in hiring minority administrators and faculty members -an effort that must begin at the departmental level, he said. 
"We still have a long way to go," he said. "It takes a University-wide effort to diversify the faculty." 
Malloy said that he believes that his work in making increased diversity a "team" effort and emphasis on opportunities to learn about differ­ent perspectives outside the classroom, has simultaneously eased the adjustment that minority students face and increased the pro­Inotion of diversity among the general student body. 
"I encourage people with common back­grounds to get together socially in an informal way," he said. "I think the social networks of support are really heipful for diversity here." 
In the future, Malloy said that he wants Notre Dame to reflect the different aspects of diversi­ty he highlighted in its undergraduate student population. While his future goals do not include specific quotas, he believes that the University's direction should be shaped in part by the changing demographics of the nation and the U.S. Catholic Church. · 
~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-TheOb~Nff 15 ~bruary 2~2004 
"We don't project precise numbers but we set targets and goals for ourselves, and we try to get as close as we can," he said. "We will con­tinue to try to closely monitor the demographics of the United States." 
Malloy doesn't know what exactly the country or Catholic Church will look like in the future from a demographic perspective, but he believes that it will be shaped by an increased Latino presence, particularly Mexican­Americans. This and other national trends should be reflected in Notre Dame's student population, he said. 
At the same time, however, he believes that certain University traditions -including prior­ity given to children of alumni -should be maintained and will serve as an asset in increasing n1inority recruitment as alumni choose to send their children here. 

"That's a variable that I expect to be kept up ­and that will have an influence as well," he said. 
Diversity, Malloy said, isn't a definitive goal to be reached but a never-ending process that requires a degree of flexibility and adaptability. He's confidant, however, that the University is up to the challenge. 
"We want to consistently re-evaluate our­selves on the basis of factoring information [to achieve] a combination making the most sense as a Catholic institution and as a national insti­tution," he said. "We've been very fortunate because the people connected to Notre Dame ... pride Notre Dame's distinctive mission and identity." 


STORY BY CLAIRE HEININGER 

-

hen Father Edward Sarin founded the University in 1842, diversity at Notre Dame was not yet a catchphrase, a controversy or an aspiration -it was an oxymoron. The students of the early years were male. They were white. They were straight. They were Catholic. And there 
was no question about it. 

Questions, as we all know, arrived. Questions persist. Questions arose about who belongs here and to what extent. Questions now arise about diversity itself. One thing is certain -diversity means more than these categories. Narrowing its definition to sex, race, religion and sexual preference, though clearly the most glaring sources of discrimination, is only a starting point. While this series has largely focused on these four areas, diversity as a term and as a goal is more far-reaching. Unlike the uniformity that char­
acterized our campus at the beginning, it cannot be nailed down. 
The University's mission dictated a specific reputation, and attracted a specific kind of student. But while its foundation -. and much 
of  its  formation  - was  characterized  by  
homogeneity,  several  individuals  along  the  
way provided ripples of change.  

President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh was one of those individuals, as he became a vocal supporter of both civil rights legislation and coeducation during his tenure. Deeply aware of the difference between the appearance of diversity on the surface and true interaction. he encouraged students and faculty, then and now, to ground their beliefs about equal rights in Catholic values. 
Influential figures were not all as visible as Hesburgh, but often they needed to share in his resolve. Wayne Edmonds, the first minori­ty to broach another sphere inseparable from the Notre Dame name -football -endured racial epithets from fans and segregation dur­ing Southern road trips. Josephine Ford, the first woman faculty member to receive tenure, 
.watched priests get promoted and eventually filed a sexual discrimination suit against the University. David Garrick, the most well­known priest to publicize his homosexuality at Notre Dame, felt so ostraciz.ed that he resigned in protest. 

As lines began to blur and barriers began to topple, standing up for diversity became less about standing alone. Current University President Edward Malloy and Director of Admissions Dan Saracino are united in their emphasis of economic diversity, as evidenced by an increased emphasis on financial aid. Both also insist that minority recruitment does not have an adverse effect on Notre Dame tra­ditions -and that the future mosaic of stu­dents will reflect both the University's consis­tent character and the United States' changing demographics. 
The stories of unique students of today reflect a similar theme of solidarity and strength. Nahyan Fancy can afford to speak out for Muslims because ef the United Muslim Association standing behind him. Rick Friedman can feel comfortable discussing his 
16 February 20, 2004
The Observer 
sexuality because of the OutreachND support 
system that offers him refuge. The Notre 
Dame community of today is the most diverse 
in University history-not only in its breadth, 
but also, tellingly, in its depth. 

Despite these strides, cynicism and disillu­sionment remain -often because the University has not done enough to diminish them. It is easy to identify clusters in the din­ing hall that are grouped by race. The University's anti-discrimination clause still does not explicitly include homosexuals. We cannot narrow diversity to four areas, yet the "norms," as we perceive them, are still firmly .entrenched. In large part, Notre Dame admits that it still has a long way to go to accomplish 
its goals. 

However, to dismiss the exceptional individ­
uals showcased in this series as blips on the 
uniformity radar would be selling them short. 
Just like in 1842, diversity at Notre Dame is 
not a catchphrase. It has been, is now and will 
be about tangible experiences, authentic sto­
ries, and above all, real people. 






