
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
NO profs journey to Kashmir to promote, study peace 
• 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
Two Notre Dame professors and members of the Kroc Institute are traveling to Kashmir Tuesday to promote and study the peacemaking process in the volatile region. 
Dan Philpott, director of undergraduate studies at the Kroc and assistant professor of political science, is traveling on behalf of the International Center for Religion and Diplomacy (ICRD), a Washington, D.C.-based non­governmental organization. Cynthia Mahmood, director of graduate studies at the Kroc and an associate professor of anthropology, will travel as an observer for the Institute. 
The trip is centered around a three-day seminar on reconcili-ation in Islamabad on the Pakistani side of Kashmir but will also include meetings with politicians, militants and reli­gious leaders. Their visit comes at a crucial time for the war­torn region, which is controlled partly by India and Pakistan. Leaders from the two nuclear powers have announced plans to host the most significant peace talks since escalating vio­lence broke out in 1989. Control of the region has been a con­tentious and often bloody issue since the two nations gained independence from Britain in 1947. 

While smaller in scope when compared to the work of gov­ernments and high-profile inter­national negotiators, the mission of ICRD is no less ambitious. 
"We're talking about some­thing much more than a peace settlement," Philpott said. "Our goal is to build up a movement of reconciliation in Kashmiri society." 
Indeed, Philpott and Mahmood said true peace can only be achieved when the ordinary Kashmiri citizen changes his perception of the situation and opens his heart. The seminar, the sixth in a series led by sen­ior ICRD vice president Brian Cox, includes 10 lectures each followed by group discussions. The event culminates in a rec­onciliation service. 
"Its purpose is to impart a moral vision of reconciliation [on] the participants that will occur through a transformation of hearts and rebuilding of bro­ken relationships," Philpott said. "Ultimately the seminar chal­lenges the participants to look at the suffering of their community 
see KASHMIR/page 6 
Observer names editors 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer has hired 
department editors for all but 
one General Board position, 
incoming Editor in Chief Matt 
Lozar announced Sunday. 
Three of the 1 0 positions are being filled by those who have served in the posts since January. Those rehired include Viewpoint Editor Sarah Vabulas, Scene Editor Maria Smith and Controller Paula Garcia. Mike Harkins was rehired as the Graphics Editor, a position he has held since March 2003. 
The six new General Board appointments are: +Claire Heininger, News Editor 
+ 
Heather Van Hoegarden, Sports Editor 

+ 
Angela Saoud, Saint Mary's Editor 

+ 
Claire Kelley, Photo Editor 

+ 
Carrie Franklin, Ad Sales Manager 

+ 
Kelly Nelson, Ad Design Manager The appointments are effec­tive March 15. 


"Each person selected brings significant talent and experi­ence to their respective posi­tions," Lozar said. "I am confi­dent the staff assembled will build on the tradition of excel­lence The Observer has estab­lished." 
Heininger, a sophomore from Howard majoring in American Studies and minoring in jour­nalism, started working with The Observer during the fall semester of her freshman year. The Ann Arbor, Mich. native 
see EDITORS/page 6 
ND questions grade inflation 
Smarter students, professor priorities may explain rise 
Editor's Note: This is the first in a two-part series exploring grade inflation at Notre Dame. 
By JOE TROMBELLO Assistant News Editor 
As the professor hands back the examination book­lets, an anxious student eagerly flips to the front page and finds a grade of "A" written in bright, red pen. Gleefully, she breathes a sigh of relief and slips the test into her backpack. 
What she may not realize is that her grade isn't so sparkling as it may first appear. The distribution of grades at Notre Dame -as at many other colleges across the nation -has steadily been on the rise. 
see GRADES/page 4 MIKE HARKINS/Observer GraphiC 
Schools nationwide battle issue ofgrade inflation 
By JOE TROMBELLO Assistanr News Editor 
Notre Dame is not the only university to recognize the presence of grade inflation, as rising grades have been prob­lematic at other highly regarded institutions nation­wide. 
"I think it's a well-known fact that students across the nation are receiving higher grades than their peers of 20, 30 or 40 years ago," said Chuck Hoboski, director of admissions operations at the Notre Dame Law School. 
Grade inflation at Harvard University made national news when the Boston Globe reported in 2001 that more than 90' percent of Harvard's students were graduating with honors. 
see TREND/page 3 

Student hosts show prospects campus life 
By TRICIA de GROOT News Writer 
The freshmen who hosted prospective members of the Class of 2008 last week wanted their guests to feel like just the oppo­site. 
Instead of merely taking the prospects on campus tours and to informational meetings -activi­ties that any visitor could attend -the hosts did their best to expose the new students to cam­pus life from the inside out. 
These host students, selected by the Notre Dame Admissions Department because they expressed an interest in enter­taining prospective students at the activities night in September or because they responded to an e-mail requesting host students, said they introduced their prospects to the Notre Dame experience by taking them to classes, showing them their favorite places on campus, bring­ing them to the opposite sex's dorms and taking them to special events such as Bengal Bouts and interhall hockey games. 
Freshman Joe O'Brien said that his own campus visit as a prospect last year encouraged him to pass along the tradition. 
"I was one of the people who was hosted last year, and I thought it was a good experi­ence," he said. O'Brien added that showing his visitor Notre Dame's unique residence hall atmosphere was a first priority. 
"I wanted [the prospective stu­dent] to know about the dorm communities and the sense of pride that we have for ourselves. I really emphasized the fact that here we accept everyone and that 
see HOST/page 6 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Ready to start 

I'd be lying if I said I wasn't scared. After being named the 38th editor in chief for The Observer four weeks , ago, my head hasn't stopped spin­ning. 
Hiring depart­ment editors, working on the budget and trying to learn every­thing possible from outgoing editor in chief Andrew Soukup 


(who took this 
Matt Lozar 
paper to another level, just look at the honors on 
Editor in chief
today's page three) has made me feel like I'm not ready to take over running the campus newspaper. 
But then I look at the people sur­rounding me, and I know the year will be a success. 
My managing editor Meghanne Downes and assistant managing edi­tor Joe Hettler have the same pas­sion for The Observer that I do, maybe more. They know how to put in 30-40 hours a week while balanc­ing a full class load and not go crazy. 
These two talented people run the biggest two editorial departments at The Observer, and I couldn't be more blessed to have them right by my side for the journey. 
The department editors we have chosen possess a wealth of experi­ence in their individual depart­ments. I have full confidence in them to keep their sections running at the high quality they run each and every day. 
Yes, we will make mistakes, and I know my friends along with the rest of campus will point them out. My goal every day is to publish a perfect paper, and I get aggravated when something doesn't lineup correctly or there's a typo in an article. 
But I promise when we do make mistakes that we will learn from them and do our best not to make them again. 
I came to Notre Dame set on join­ing the marching band. I tried out, but didn't make it. I thought the world was over. I was on the phone to my parents what seemed like every day telling them I didn't belong here. 
Prior to that shock, the idea of writing for the campus newspaper never entered my mind. But I came to The Observer as a band reject and the rest, as they say, is history. 
Today's my first official day as the editor in chief of The Observer. I don't think my head's stopped spin­ning, but I'm just learning how to deal with the job a little more every day. 
Because Friday morning at 4:45, when leaving the office and knowing my plane for Minneapolis was departing in less than three hours, I got the keys, a handshake and some words of encouragement from Andrew. 
That's wh~n I knew I was ready. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Lazar at mlozar@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The photo of Pat Quill that appeared in the Friday, February 27 issue ofThe Observer was inaccurately credited. Chuy Benitez was the actual photographer. The Observer regrets the error. 

Monday, March 1, 2004
The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT FAKE TANNING? 


Chelsea Madison Dave Shwelberger Steve Heiny Ken Kalahan Megan Lloyd Mike Maus 
Senior Senior Sophomore Junior Junior Sophomore off-campus Keenan Siegfried off-campus off-campus Siegfried 
"Smells like "I'm not "Do they have a "It hurts my "It's better than "Some people burnt flesh but prejudiced bed that can fit melanin." Tan in a Can!" here just 




. l ? ,
feels so good against orange two ... gzr s. in the dead people." ofwinter." 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 
Campus band Sudsbury Shore performs at the Up 'Til Dawn Fundralser sponsored by Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids Sunday at Legends. Proceeds from the event, which featured student performances and auctions, will be used to support St. Jude Children's Research Hospital In Memphis, Tenn. 
OFFBEAT 
Jen and Ben dominate worst-film awards 
LOS ANGELES -The honeymoon's over for Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez, but their mob-comedy flop "Gigli" really cleaned up Saturday at the Razzies, the first movie to take all six top trophies in the annual dishonorable-men­tion awards. 
Golden Raspberry Awards voters picked "Gigli" as 2003's worst pic­ture, Affieck as worst actor, Lopez as worst actress and the two as worst screen couple. "Gigli" filmmaker Martin Brest also took the Razzies for worst director and screenplay. 
Cops compete to Issue traffic tickets 
PORTERDALE, Ga. -A contest between two police officers in a small Georgia town to see which one could issue the most traffic tickets was stopped by a judge who overheard the ~pparent winner talking about it, the mayor said. 
Part-time Porterdale police officers Erin Cox and Frank Jackson wrote about 150 tickets in January, which was significantly higher than in previous months, Mayor Paul Oeland said. 
Library chooses phones 
over clogs 
HOLLAND, Mich. -If there was any question about this west Michigan community's Dutch her­itage, consider that it's now OK to have a cell phone in the city library -but wooden shoes remain banned. 
The Herrick District Library Board voted Thursday to reverse its ban on cell phones, while decid­ing to keep the traditional Dutch shoes ofT-limits.-· 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0:: 
LLI 
~ 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
. 
~ 


(.) 
..... 0 
HIGH 56 HIGH 44 HIGH 47 HIGH 46 
LOW 48 LOW 39 LOW 33 LOW 33 
shouldn't bother." 
IN BRIEF 

Audition for Irish Idol, Notre Dame's version of the hit reality television show American Idol, tonight from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. in the rxowley Hall of Music. 
Attend the flrst mass in the Last Homily Series, tonight in the Alumni Hall chapel at 9 p.m. Father James King will preside. 
Come listen to Gonzaga University president Father .Robert Spitzer, who will be speaking on "Restoring the Culture: Life and the Pursuit of Happiness" at 7:30p.m. tonight in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Spitzer is well known for his work in the pro-life movement. 
Watch the film Bill Moyers Reports: Trading Democracy today from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. A discussion led by Martin Wolfson, associate professor of economics, will follow. 
Find out "Why All the Passion?" at a panel discussion of the Mel Gibson film The Passion of the Christ, beginning Tuesday night at 7 p.m. in 141 DeBartolo. Participants will include profes­sors from the Theology and Film. Television and Theatre depart­ments. 
Learn How To Be An Effective Leader at a presentation conduct­ed by John O'Connor of Hewlett Packard tonight from 8 to 9:30 
p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Center Lounge. He will share his insights on what leadership skills are necessary to have the desired impact on student clubs and organizations. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 41 HIGH 36 LOW 28 LOW 24 
Atlanta 66 I 54 Boston 46 I 37 Chicago 59/ 39 Denver 43 I 22 Houston 72 I 59 Los Angeles 59 I 50 Minneapolis 44 I 30 New York 57 I 42 Philadelphia 64 I 47 Phoenix 66 I 50 Seattle 52 I 36 St. Louis 63 I 40 Tampa 78 I 58 Washington 67 I 51 
' ( 1 J ~ 
I 

' 
page 3
Mondar, March 1, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

FASO sponsors lOth annual Fiestang festive! 
Bigger, better Saturday evening cultural celebration included dinner, dancing 

"There's a lot of work put into different time periods to be 
By KATIE MOUNTS 
it with months of preparation," shown, she said. 
News Writer 
he said. "I was so surprised and Vi nalon said that students so proud of everyone that was who had previously been unfa­
Saturday night marked the involved.... It was more won­miliar with Filipino culture told lOth annual Fiestang -a derful than anything I could her they liked what they saw. Filipino cultural celebration of h~ve imagined." "I feel that a lot of people dinner and dancing that has The event began with a were pleasantly surprised by advanced a long way since its catered meal of how much fun they inception. traditional had," she said. 
John Lira, co-president of the Filipino cuisine, "[The festival] gave
"'Overall we were
Filipino American Student which was fol­a little bit of insight Organization (FASO). has· lowed by a pres­very happy with into the culture." attended Fiestang since its first entation of cul­While more
the show. It turned
show in ·1995, and said that tural dances by improvement
out better than we
interest and attendance have members of means more effort, "improved drastically" since FASO. The First had expected. , the co-presidents then. He remembers when Class Steppers agreed that it was dancers had to be brought in to and Ballet worthwhile.
Eileen Magno
help with the student perform­Folklorico also II [This year has]
FASO co-president
ance, and that only about 40 made appear­been a lot of work people attended -a number ances. and a lot more that has multiplied since. "Overall, we stress," Magno 
Co-president Charlene Vinalon were very happy with the said. "It's been a really good estimated more than 450 stu­show," FASO co-president experience, and I wouldn't dents, faculty and community Eileen Magno said. "It turned trade it for anything. 
II 
members attended this year's out better than we had expect­FASO's next event, "Lumpia event. "Each year, it just gets ed." Night," will take place on March bigger and bigger," she said. She attributed some of this 25 as a part of Spring Visitation 
Lira credited the recent pub­year's success to the change in Week. 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer licity regarding diversity at format to a themed skit. The 
Performers celebrate Filipino traditions Saturday evening during Notre Dame with helping show's theme, Time Machine, Contact Katie Mounts at 
FASO's annual Flestang. increase interest. enabled different dances from kmounts@nd.edu 
Observer honored at convention 
Observer Staff Report 
MINNEAPOLIS The Observer was named Best of Show by The Associated College Press at the Best of the Midwest College Newspaper Convention Sunday. in the category of tabloids at four-year schools. 
Individual staff members 

Trend 
continued from page 1 
According to Harvard's stu­dent paper, The Crimson, fac­ulty and administrators par­ticipated in rigorous discus­sions to curb the problem, converted the grading system to the standard 4.0 scale and capped the percentage of stu­dents graduating with honors to 60 percent. Despite their efforts, an article appearing in the Feb.13 edition of The Crimson reported the infla­tion again seems to be on the rise -2002-03 data revealed the mean grade point average to be 3.41 and 47.8 percent of grades were in the A range. 
Notre Dame faculty have said the national increase in 
also took top honors at the convention. 
Andrew Soukup received a first place in feature writing for the story "Groody bound for national championships" from the March 28 edition of The Observer. Scott Brodfuehrer and Meghanne Downes were awarded first place in news writing for their 

the overall GPA," Roboski said. "We also review the courses and major ... the rigor of the college attended, letters of recommendation from faculty and other fac­tors." 
Roboski said scores on the LSAT have proven to be bet­ter indicators of first-year law school per­formance than under­
# graduate grade point average. 
stories "Elam convicted of sex­ual battery" in the Sept. 1 Observer and Downes won first place in page design for the front p::tge design of the Oct. 28 Observer. 
Soukup also received third place in sports writing for his feature on Darrell Campbell, "Controlling his anger," in the Oct. 17 Observer. 
"I believe the LSAT is well-known fact promotion generally a better indi­a n d
that students 
cator because GPAs of tenure,
across the nation 
applicants cannot be frequently easily compared," he are receiving gave stu­said. dents .low
higher grades ... " 
Charles Kulpa, chair grades. of the department of "I regu­biological sciences, said Chuck Roboskl larly gave GRE scores prove Director of admissions Cs and important in the gradu-Notre Dame Law School occasion­
ate school ally Ds," applications his he said. 
the way grades are assessed. 
Li Guo, assistant professor of classics, attended graduate school at the University of Chicago and taught a number of courses there. He said that that school, with notoriously challenging grading stan­dards and less emphasis on classroom teaching s c o r e s w i t h
"/think it's a 
respect to 

department " T h e 
..Standardized
grades reads. University of Chicago has tra­means that tests are a way of "Standardized tests ditionally not put emphasis they have to taking into account are a way of taking on classroom teaching ... as a rely more into account grade result, professors are not
grade inflation. " 
on stan­inflation." he said. afraid of ... grading [students dardized Faculty said that more] rigorously. Notre Dame test scores, Charles Kulpa general applications has a much more rigorous a m o n g Department chair to medical and busi­teaching evaluation system in other meth­ness schools have determining promotion and
Biological Sciences
ods, to bet- been fairly consistent  tenure cases."  
ter  access  with respect to GPAs.  
graduate  and  law  school  In addition, Notre Dame  
applications.  professors who have taught  
"As  we  make  admission  at other institutions said they  Contact Joe Trombello at  
decisions,  we  view not just  have noticed  a  difference in  jtrombel@nd.edu  

CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
presents 
2004 Lenten Lecture Series Honoring the Sisters of the Holy Cross 
Race, Gender, and Class: 




Issues 
S piritu ____ 
March 2, 12:15-Love in Action: 
1:00 p.m. Social Class and Spirituality 
Margaret R. Pieil, Ph.D. 
Assistant Professor Moral Theology/Christian Ethics University of Notre Dame 
March 16, 12:15-Redemptive Suffering: 
1:00 p.m. Loving Your Enemies 
Jamie Phelps, OP, Ph.D. 
Director and Professor of Systematic Theology 
Institute for Black Catholic Studies 
Xavier University of Louisiana, New Orleans 
March 30, 12:15-Beauty, Body, and Justice: 
1:00 p.m. Women and Spirituality 
Susan A. Ross, Ph.D. 
Professor of Theology and Faculty Scholar Loyola University Chicago 
All lectures will be held in Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall 
Free and Open to the Public 
Saint M~s College 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
For information call (574) 284-4636 or E-mail manuszak@saintmarys.edu 
• 
page 4 Monday, March 1, 2004
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
SAT score of 1218, while 84 ing grade inflation. Most have The downside of grade Infla­ing institution." percent of students who said the rise is primarily due to tion Boyd said artificially inflating 
Grade 
continued from page 1 
According to the Office of Institutional Research, the per­centage of University under­graduate courses in which half or more students receive a grade of A or A-has climbed from 43.6 percent in the spring of 1994 to 64.0 percent in spring 2003. The College of Engineering has experienced the most dramatic increase during this period-from 24.6 percent in spring 1994 to 39.7 percent in spring 2003 -an increase of almost 120 per­cent. The study showed the College of Arts & Letters hav­ing the highest percentage with 7 4.1 percent in spring 2003, while the College of Architecture had only a 2 5 percent mark in the same semester. 
Faculty in the College of Science, which experienced a rise in A grades from 25 per­cent in 1994 to 42.1 percent in 2003, said that grade inflation in this decade has tapered off. Charles Kulpa, chair of the department of biological sci­ences, said he· believes infla­tion in his department has flat­tened after increasing some­what during the '80s and '90s. 
"We have a number of cours­es where [the average GPA] is around a 3.0," he said. "In some courses it's higher. " 
Faculty and students nonetheless have expressed a divergence of opinions over these statistics, with many cit­ing the dramatic increase in student profiles -such as SAT scores and high school class rank over the same time peri­od -as explaining this grade increase. Seventy-nine percent of students entering college in fall 1993 were ranked in the top 10 percent of their high school class and had a mean entered in 2003 ranked in the top ten percent of their class. These students had a mean SAT score of 1359 (the test was re-centered in 1996, partially explaining the rise in SAT scores). 
The historical perspective 
Joseph Walter, chair of the department of pre-professional studies since 1971, said grade inflation began to occur at Notre Dame and across the nation in 1972 with the institu­tion of the Vietnam War draft. 
"If you gave students Ds and even Cs, they would come in [to your office] and literally cry," he said. "More often than not, they were off to Vietnam. They begged you not to [give that grade]. This was true not only here, but it happened at other universities and all over the nation. 
Walter said students in his Analytical Chemistry class in the 1967-68 academic year earned 19 Cs, four Ds and two Fs. By 1972-73, only one stu­dent earned a C, the lowest grade in the class with five grades of B-. No student earned a C or below in a simi­lar course in 1987. 
Walter said medical schools have also seen a similar rise in student profiles on applica­tions. He said in the 1950s and 1960s, students generally applied to two or three medical schools and had an average GPA of approximately 2.7. 
"That student would not be admitted today," he said. "As years [have gone by]. the train­ing and caliber of students has increased." 
Walter estimated that the average GPA of a student cur­rently accepted into medical school is a 3.4. Higher caliber students 
Faculty members within dif­ferent colleges have expressed a diversity of opinions concern-the better quality of students Notre Dame has been able to accept. 
"I'm not so sure that it's grade inflation," Walter said. "I perceive it as the caliber of students are increasing, you would not expect to have as wide a range of grades. Most students would be fairly simi­lar." 
Sam Gaglio, assistant dean of the Mendoza College of Business, said the rise in grades makes sense with the corresponding increase in the profiles of admitted students. 
"We have good students and a lot of people are working at a high level," he said. "It's feasi­ble to have a lot of good stu­dents, especially given the tightening of the admission requirements," he said. 
Gaglio said faculty often choose not to curve grades so that students will receive Cs or Ds. Assessing grades in this way, he said, would unfairly penalize many. 
"The assumption is that grade inflation is a bad thing," he said. "We have to make sure not to penalize our good students. I'm not going to arbi­trarily give someone a C.... The intent here is to make sure we give the right kind of grade." 
Mark Roche, dean of the College of Arts & Letters, said grade inflation isn't necessarily a problem if it means students are simply receiving better teaching or more attention from instructors. He said grades should not simply serve to differentiate students but rather to assess the knowledge that students have obtained. 
"The main purpose of grades is to document whether a stu­dent has achieved the learning goals of the course," he said, "[not] to demarcate differ­ences." 
· Laf-ayette Square To~\rnhon1cs 
"All the fun of college,'lvitbout the education" 
Nelv Three Person Rates -$298..00 :Per Person, Per 1\'lonth 

• Proudly Severing the Notre Dame and Saint Mru:y's Community' The LARGEST Student Ho:usjng Apartments Ava11ahlc
• 

4 & 5 BOOroom Units WAsHER and DRY'J5{ i:n Each Unit Dishwasher 
• ·2.4..Hour Emergency Maintenance • ADT Alarm Systems• Close lo Campus 
For More lnfommtion: ·R~tl Es1~e Manag:~...ml. CQI"}:'ltXa!km 
P.O-IJox 54() , _ _..,. South Bend, lN 46624 Tclcpherlc~ 57+-234~ 9923 Fac!i:i'rn11e: 574-234-9925 J'bladt@~~r~!:!...~Q!:H. 
Yon've tried the rest, nolv live at the best! 
Notre Dame i\JJa.-·tments 
Starting at just $120..00 per person, per month! 
• Just 4 Blocks S<.~uth ofthe Notre Dame Campus 
• Spacious 2·Be:droom Apartments on Notre Dame Av~I.U! 
+ Current l-ycar & 10-molllh {..ea..'>es A\·ailable 
• 
On-Site Laundry Faci1i'Y 

• 
2 Clos-ets and lDcsk in E:lch BOO:room 

• 
Prlv:ale Parking Lots 

• 
24 -hour Emergency Maintenance 

• 
Up to 4 PcrS<ms Per Apartment 


For-More lnfUTI'flati~m: Real Estate Managemcs1t Corporation 
P.O. Box: 540 South Bend. tN 46624 Telephone: 5 74-234-9923 
Fn.csi.milc: 574·234-9925 
Jblad~i)(:hrt:sh,com 

Sunny Boyd, associate pro­fessor of biological sciences, says rampant grade inflation can severally impact the credi­bility of an institution, and believes that distinguishing students who have worked very hard in a given course and thoroughly understand the material is important. 
"When we have larger cours­es with a diversity of people, I'm sure there are differences in knowledge and effort, and these differences should be reflected in grades," she said. "It's also important to our credibility as an institution that grades reflect knowledge. ... We want to maintain our reputation as being a demand-grades in order not to damage a student's chance of graduate school acceptances ultimately proves detrimental to all par­ties. 
"My approach is making the course rigorous enough tbat I can feel comfortable that stu­dents who get As deserve them," she said. "I have not been influenced by the idea that I should help students get into medical school by giving them higher grades. Giving people that are not academi­cally strong [artificially high grades] is not doing anybody a favor." 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 


6olf Lessons 
Open to Faculty. Staff and Students 
Starting March 16th 


Learn the proper 
Swing 1Khniquc. Short game and putting skills 





Monday, March 1, 2004 Co~tPl LED FROA-\ THE OBSERVER'S vVI RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraqi council misses deadline 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iraq's U.S.-picked lead­ers failed to meet a Saturday deadline for adopting an interim constitution but were expected to find compromise soon on con­tentious issues including the role of Islamic law and the status of women. 
Earlier Saturday, the top U.S. administrator in Iraq, L. Paul Bremer, met with members of the Governing Council in an attempt to over­come their differences. An official in the U.S.­led coalition, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a charter could be completed Sunday. 
At issue are efforts by conservatives to enshrine Islam as the main source of law in Iraq, Kurdish demands for that they not lose their self-rule federal region and Shiite attempts to dominate the new government's presidency. 
Israeli gunship targets militants 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -An Israeli helicop­ter fired. missiles at a car in the Gaza Strip on Saturday, killing three people-including an Islamic Jihad militant -and wounding 15 others, doctors said. 
One of the dead was identified by his family as Islamic Jihad militant Ayman Dahdouh. The other two victims were not immediately identified. 
The car was pulverized, and Palestinian security officials strained to keep order around the scene as surging crowds jumped on the wreckage and called for revenge. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. steps up bin Laden search 
WASHINGTON -The United States is rounding up and questioning the relatives of fugitive al-Qaida leaders to generate informa­tion on the possible whereabouts of Osama bin Laden and his top deputies. 
So far, the information received is uncon­firmed and does not mean the terrorist leader's location has been pinned down or his capture is imminent. U.S. officials caution that rumors ofsignificant progress are overstated. 
On Saturday, Pentagon and Pakistani offi­cials denied an Iranian state radio report that bin Laden had been captured "a long time ago" in Pakistan's border region with Afghanistan. 
Cops grill kin of missing family 
TAYLORSVILLE, Miss. -Investigators searching for a family of three who disap­peared on Valentine's Day questioned one of their relatives Saturday and searched his property in southern Mississippi. 
Earnest Lee Hargan, an adopted cousin of the missing family, was in custody and was being questioned, said Warren Strain, a state Highway Patrol spokesman. 
Authorities also closed ofT a county road on both sides of Leaf River Veterinary Services as part of the investigation. The clinic was given as a residence address by Hargan, whose wife is a veterinarian, Strain said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Spring skunks swarm, spray state ELKHART-Spring is in the air -and it stinks. 
While the groundhog may receive more media attention, some Hoosiers say it's skunks that are the true heralds of the coming of spring. And if the smelly critters are to be believed, it's here. 
"You can always tell when the frost comes out of the ground. That's when all the skunks come," said Dave Hess, who farms in northern Indiana's Elkhart County. 
''I've noticed the last three days, all of a sud­den they're on the move big time," he said. "It's springtime." 
Perhaps that's because in spring a young skunk's fancy turns to thoughts of other skunks. Males of the species travel more dur­ing February seeking mates for the annual courting season. 
And to a skunk seeking a new den, an accessible basement may be irresistible. 
HAITI 




Aristide resigns, flees into exile 
Top judge assumes power as capital descends into anarchy; U.S. wants U.N. aid 
Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE  
President J can-Bertrand  
Aristide resigned and flew  
into exile Sunday, pressured  
by foreign governments and  
a bloody rebellion. Gunfire  
crackled as the capital fell  
into chaos, and Washington  
dispatched Marines.  
The Marines were expect­ 
ed to arrive Sunday night, a  
U. S . official said , and  
France also said it was  
sending troops. They would  
be the vanguard of a multi­ 
national force that the  
United Nations Security  
Council was to consider  
later Sunday, and the Bush  
administration hoped for  
quick approval.  
"The government believes  
it is essential that Haiti  
have a hopeful future. This  
is the beginning of a new  
chapter," President Bush  
said at the White House. "I  
would urge the people of  
Haiti to reject violence, to  
give this break from the AFP  
past a chance to work. And A Haitian rebel shouts "peace" Sunday as a truck of policemen drive by in the  
the United States is pre­Canape Vert district of Port-au-Prince. On the same day, Haitian president Jean­ 
pared to help." Bertrand Aristide stepped down and fled the country amid U.S. pressure. 
After word spread of the  
president's departure,  supreme court said he was  3 1/2 weeks ago when  Jacques Chirac. She said  
angry Aristide supporters  taking charge of the gov­ rebels began driving police  the troops would arrive on  
roamed the streets armed  ernment, and a key rebel  from towns and cities in the  Monday and they would  
with old rifles, pistols,  ,leader said he welcomed  north.  work "in coordination with  
machetes and sticks. Some  the arrival of foreign  A U.S. official, speaking  the United States."  
fired wildly into crowds on  troops.  on condition of anonymity,  A 50-member Marine  
the Champs de Mars, the  "I think the worst is over,  would not say how many  anti-terrorist security team  
main square in front of the  and we're waiting for the  Marines were expected in  has been in Port-au-Prince  
National Palace.  international forces. They  the speedy deployment,  for several days helping  
On the main John Brown  will have our full coopera­ which President Bush  secure the U.S. embassy.  
Boulevard, Aristide follow­ tion," Guy Philippe told  ordered only hours after  Canadian troops were seen  
ers armed with shotguns  CNN.  Aristide fled under pressure  guarding the airport in  
set up a roadblock; at the  The U.N. Security Council  from the United States and  Port-au-Prince.  
same spot, hours later, they  planned consultations for  former colonial power  Though not aligned with  
had disappeared -leaving  later Sunday, and the  France.  rebels, the political opposi­ 
behind the bullet-riddled  United States hoped it  France decided to send a  tion had also pushed for  
bodies of three men  would approve a resolution  detachment of between  Aristide to leave for the  
sprawled inside an all-ter­ to authorize international  120-140 soldiers to Haiti,  good of Haiti's 8 million  
rain vehicle.  peacekeepers for Haiti,  said Catherine Colonna,  people, angered by poverty,  
The head of Haiti's  which erupted into violence  spokeswoman for President  corruption and crime.  

Ethanol tanker explod,es in Atlantic 
Blast kills at least 3 crewmen off Va. shore; Coast Guard searches for survivors 
additional survivors being found pened," Gray said of the rescued 
Associated Press 

grew increasingly slim. Hannum crewmen, who are Filipino and did 
PORTSMOUTH, Va. -The Coast said some of the crew members not speak English. "They're very Guard searched the frigid Atlantic wer~ sleeping at the time of the quiet, subdued, like you would Sunday for 18 crew members of a explosion and some were on deck, expect." tanker that exploded while carrying so it's unlikely that they were wear­The crew members have declined 
3.5 million gallons of ethanol. Three ing gear that would protect them interview requests, Gray said. crewmen were known dead and six from the cold water. Hospital chaplains helped the crew others were rescued. The survivors were rescued from talk to their families in the 
"Our first and foremost concern a life raft within three hours of the Philippines by telephone. will be finding the 18 people that accident and flown to Sentara Coast Guard officials said that are missing," Coast Guard spokes­Norfolk General Hospital. They were most of the ethanol spewed from the woman Krys Hannum said. treated for conditions including tanker had evaporated, but fuel 
Hannum said there was no reason hypothermia and had to be decon­from the ship's storage tanks has to believe the explosion was any­taminated after being found covered formed a 9-square-mile oil slick in thing other than an accident. with a petroleum-based substance. the Atlantic. 
Two Coast Guard patrol boats and One survivor was in serious condi­Guardsmen don't yet know how a C-130 airplane and helicopter tion, two were in fair condition and much of the fuel aboard the ship were conducting the search about the three others were released spilled; but they say it was carrying 50 miles off Virginia's Eastern Sunday morning, hospital spokes­48,000 gallons of stored diesel fuel Shore. woman Vicky Gray said. Two Coast and 193,000 gallons of fuel oil. 
"We're going to search as long as Guard personnel treated for minor Environmental officials are most it's reasonable and hope they're injuries also were released. concerned about the fuel oil, a alive," she said. "They look like they've been sticky, heavy, molasses-like sub­
But with water temperatures through an ordeal and they're very stance that was used to power the below 50 degrees, the likelihood of introspective about what hap-vessel. 
, .... , ....................................... . 
.. , .. ~ .......................................... · ......................... -.... -............ -.............. . 


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 1, 2004 
Kashmir 
continued from page 1 
and [decide ifi they want to speak words of encourage­ment." 
While this seminar is geared to a mostly Muslim crowd, pre­vious ones have included Hindu, Islamic and Buddhist partici­pants. To date, 350 people have attended the seminars and 100 graduates have continued to discuss reconciliation within "cell groups." The seminars and renounced his vendetta." 

The man, Philpott said, has gone on to become an active core group member and initiate aid programs that help victims of violence, particularly widows and orphans. 
While the results of its work are generally less visible, ICRD has found a great degree of suc­cess in a movement with elite and grass roots elements. By · meeting with regional politi­cians, militants and religious leaders, Philpott said he hopes to further develop relationships of trust and create important net­

Host 
continued from page 1 
"I wanted [the prospective stu­dent] to know about the dorm communities and the sense of pride that we have for ourselves. I really emphasized the fact that here we accept everyone and that despite the lack of frats and everything that it's all still fun and exciting," said O'Brien. 
Becky Scholl-Maguire, another freshman host, said that the fam­ily aspect of Notre Dame was most important to share. 
"I tried to convey the sense of family and tradition and explain how everyone has so much pride in Notre Dame and is happy that they are here," she said. "I tried to provide a good experience for her because my visit to Notre Dame was when I fell in love with the school." 
Freshman Kathleen O'Brien agreed with Scholl-Maguire that meeting current Notre Dame stu­dents made her prospect feel more welcome. 
"I think it's really important for her to get to know the type of people that go here because that is what made the difference for me," Kathleen O'Brien said. "I also wanted her to know what separates Notre Dame from other schools, [such as] the fami­ly atmosphere and tradition." 
Tommy Clarkson said that a dose of student life was equally -if not more -important than experiencing the University's academic setting. 
"I wanted to make sure that he saw there was life outside of classes and that he got to get an inside look at what the students do during their days," Clarkson said. 
He added that he had received positive feedback from his visitor. 
"I thought it was a pretty good experience he got to see a Jot of what the day to day life of a stu­dent is," he said. "[The prospect] asked questions and seemed genuinely interested." 
These freshmen will continue to host students until the Class of 2008 makes their fmal decisions. 
Contact Tricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 
other works have 

..We've all 
led to the forma­

tion of core accepted that a groups dedicated certain degree of 
to promoting 

risk taking is 
peace on both sides of the line of inherent to this control that sepa­work rates the Indian and Pakistani 
Cynthia Mahmood
parts of the 

Kroc Institute
region. These cell groups are what Mahmood calls "a cadre of foot soldiers for peace.'' 
The events also have some­times had dramatic effects on the participants. During a semi­nar held in June 2001 on the Indian side of Kashmir, a Muslim man had a life-changing experience. Eight years earlier, the man had witnessed the assassination of his father and later his brother and was him­self shot repeatedly and left to die. 
"He survived the shootings through nine surgeries [but] for eight years he was on a vendet­ta to find and kill the gunmen," Philpott said. "At the seminar he had a transforming experience and ... he stood up and forgave the slayers from his heart and 


Editors 
continued from page 1 
previously worked as an assis­tant news editor. 
Van Hoegarden, a sophomore from Pasquerilla West, is an accounting major from Burr Ridge, Ill. She has covered women's basketball and volley­ball. 
Saoud is a junior majoring in English writing with a minor in early education. Originally from South Bend, Saoud lives in Holy Cross Hall and is currently working with the South Bend Tribune as an academic intern. 
Kelley, who is currently abroad in Rome, began shoot­ing sports and news last year. The junior English and art his­tory major from Columbus, Ohio originally lived in McGlinn. 
Franklin, a Welsh Family jun­ior, is majoring in political sci­ence and Arabic studies. The Cincinnati native joined The :)bserver's staff as an account executive. 
Nelson, a junior from Pasquerilla West, began work­ing for The Observer during the spring of her freshman year. The pre-med and psychology 
double major is a  native of  
Rockford, Ill.  
Vabulas  took  over  as  

Viewpoint Editor in January after previously working as the Scene Editor. A sophomore from Marrietta, Ga., she lives in McCandeless Hall and is major­ing in communications and the­ology. 
Smith was rehired in January as Scene Editor after studying abroad during the fall semester. A native of San Diego, Smith lives in McGlinn and is majoring works. The trip is of interest to Mahmood in part because it comple­ments her work focusing 

on war and peace and  
,, . conflict resolution.  
Although the  
two praised the  
potential benefits  
of the trip, they  
also acknowl­ 
edged the possibil­ 
itre 
y of danger in traveling to the  
egion despite the group not ncountering problems in the  
past. "\Ve've all accepted that a cer­ 
ain degree of risk taking is  
inherent to this work,"  
tMahmood said.  
Despite the dangerous area  
at 
nd tension between the coun­ries, the group has the consent f India and Pakistan. 
o 
"All of the work we've done  
ot 
ver there has been done with he knowledge and approval of  
both governments," Philpott said.  

Contact Andrew Thagard at  
atbagard@nd.edu  Date: Wednesday, March 3  
in the Program of Liberal Studies.  Time: 5:30p.m.  
Garcia first joined The Observer in January when she was hired as controller. A soph­more accounting Oak Brook,  Location: esc Coffeehouse  
oI Please RSVP by Monday, 
ll., Garcia lives in Pasquerilla East. Harkins, a junior manage­ March 1st at' 1-6841  
ment information systems  
m 
ajor from Dillon, originally hails from Canton, Mich. The Observer is still accepting  Sponsored by MSPS  
applications for the Web  
A 
dministrator position. Please  
direct all inquires to Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu.  
Come and join the Campus Bible Study Learn »'hat Jesus taught by reading and discussing .His Jvord.s. 1 day a \Veek-1 hour per session Attending CBS lvould be a solid Lenten practice. ---­), 1\rleeting every Tuesday at 7:00pmi•­=?,~~it! in room ll4K Coleman-Morse Center II --I·• I -i Ifneeded, Bibles provided. f..,or more info call Fr. Al631-5955 Campus Ministry  


Monday, March 1, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

fc,~':s 10,583.92 +3.78 
""."" Same: ~ Composite Volume:
2,185 /81 • 1,503,463,808 
··<')'···

AMEX 1,254A1 +9.27 , NASDAQ 2,029.82 -2.75
NYSE. ... , 
6,69~~37 +14.71 S&PSOO 1,144.94 +0.03 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 11,041.92 0.00 FTSE. IOO(l.ondon) 4,492.20 -23.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -1.02  -0.30  29.20  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.11  +0.03  26.53  
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW)  +1.92  +0.10  5.31  
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI)  -2.00  -0.06  2.94  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO}  -0.81  -0.19  23.16  
,  Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.30  -0.64  48.57  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -1.53  -0.62  39.84  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.83  -0.55  29.45  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.54  -0.05  9.27  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.65  36.16  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  + 1.30  396.80  
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.)  -0.25  95.95  
Excho  Rates  
YEN  109  
EURO  0.8013  
POUND  0.5355  
CANADIAN$  1.336  

COMPANY BRIEFS 
Disney shareholders await vote 
LOS ANGELES -Michael Eisner probably 
won't lose his job at the annual Walt Disney 
Co. shareholders meeting this week in 
Philadelphia but his foes intend to make sure 
he at least feels nervous about the possibility. 
Ex-board members Roy E. Disney and Stanley Gold hope Wednesday to persuade at least 20 percent of shareholders to withhold their approval for Eisner and three other board members. The company is preparing for a dissenting vote as high as 30 percent. 
Eisner's re-election to the board is not in 
doubt because he is running unopposed. 
Sprint to combine tracking stocks 
OVERLAND PARK, Kan. -Sprint Corp. announced Sunday that it will combine the company's two tracking stocks into a single common stock under the FON symbol on the New York Stock Exchange. 
In 1998, the company created a tracking stock for its wireless business, Sprint PCS, · which trades on the NYSE under the symbol PCS. Sprint has just over one billion PCS shares and about 906 million FON shares out­standing. 
PCS common stock will be eliminated and each share of PCS common stock will be. con­verted into one-half share of FON common stock on April 23, 2004, leaving about 1.4 bil­lion total shares outstanding after the recom­bination. 
Visa to expand car rental coverage 
NEW YORK -Visa USA announced that it will provide car rental insurance to all of its credit card holders. effective. today. 
The company, based in San Francisco, said the insurance -also known as collision dam­age waiver coverage -previously was avail­able only for select cards. &. 
"As a result of these changes, an additional 75 million Visa card holders. and more than 185 million in total, will now benefit," said AI Banisch, senior vice president for Visa's con­sumer ·credit products. 
To get the coverage, consumers must use their Visa card when renting a car and decline the rental car company's offer of collision damage coverage. 
-ENTERTAINMENT 

~The Passion' pulls in $118M 
Religious furor, debate fuel massive box office receipts; already year's top draw 
A.oisociated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Mel 
Gibson's gamble on "The 
Passion of the Christ" paid 
off enormously. riding a 
storm of religious debate to 
a $117.5 million haul in its 
first five days, according to 
studio estimates Sunday. 
"The Passion," which 
debuted on Ash Wednesday, 
rocketed to the No. 1 box­
office slot for the weekend 
with $76.2 million from 
Friday to Sunday. 
It was the seventh-best 
three-day opening ever, 
behind "Spider-Man" at 
$114.8 million and such 
Hollywood franchises as 
"The Matrix Reloaded" and 
the first two "Harry Potter" 
movies. 
"The Passion" put up the 
second-best five-day figures 
for a movie opening on 
Wednesday, behind last 
year's "The Lord of the 
Rings: The Return of the 
King" at $124.1 million and 
ahead of "Star Wars: 
Episode I -The Phantom 

Menace" at $105.6 million. the controversy has obvi­Newmarket Films, which place with $5.9 million. The 
The first movie released ously helped in creating will get a cut of Gibson's horror spoof "Broken 
in 2004 to cross the $100 awareness." profits. Lizard's Club Dread" pre­
million mark, "The Passion" Some Jewish and "The Passion" provided a miered at No. 10 with $3 
easily passed the weekend's Christian leaders have said box-office jolt for theaters, million. 
No. 2 flick, "50 First Dates" they fear "The Passion" will whose ticket sales were Playing in 3,043 theaters, 
at $88.7 million, as the revive the notion that Jews running 7 percent behind "The Passion" averaged a 
year's top-grossing film. . collectively were responsi­last year's. After four whopping $25,041. com­
Once considered a niche ble for Christ's death. straight weekends of pared to $3,367 in 2,703 film that would appeal Gibson has denied such declining revenue, the top cinemas for "Twisted." mainly to conservative accusations, and key cast 12 movies took in $132.1 The success of "The Christians, the bloody members -including Jim million. up 53 percent from Passion" is more remark­chronicle of Christ's cruci­Caviezel, who plays Christ. the same weekend a year able considering it was shot fixion swelled to block­and Maia Morgenstern, a ago. in two dead languages, buster proportions us Jewish actress who plays "The Passion" took in Aramaic and Latin, and Gibson rallied church Mary -said Gibson more money than the rest plays with English subtitles. groups to support it and approached the film with of the top 12 combined, The movie's violence, accusations of anti­great respect for Judaic tra­with other new movies including a savage depic­Semitism brought main­ditions. making barely a ripple. tion of Christ's scourging stream attention. Gibson put up the movie's The Ashley Judd crime and crucifixion, also did not 
''It's an event movie," said $25 million budget and will thriller "Twisted" debuted deter movie-goers, who lift­Bruce Davey, Gibson's part­reap most of the returns. at No. 3 with $9.1 million ed "The Passion" to the sec­ner in his film company Hollywood studios passed from Friday to Sunday. ond-best R-rated opening Icon Productions. "It all on the movie, so Gibson put "Dirty Dancing: ·Havana ever behind "The Matrix began with the grass-roots it in theaters through inde­Nights," a prequel to the Reloaded" at $91.8 million campaign we started, but pendent distributor 1980s hit, opened in fifth for its first weekend. 
lABOR RELATIONS 



Grocery workers vote on contract. 
markets by special agreement while began.
A.oisociated Press 

the ~ontract was negotiated. Under the expired contract, work­
LOS ANGELES-Grocery workers The 4 1/2-month dispute gained ers paid no monthly premiums for spent a second day Sunday voting on national attention because it was health benefits and a $10 capay for a tentative contract that would end seen as a referendum on affordable doctor's visits and prescriptions. a strike and lockout that has crip­employee health care. Presidential The new offer includes no premi­pled Southern California's grocery candidates John Kerry and John ums for the first two years of the industry for nearly five months. Edwards were among those who ral­contract. Beginning in the third 
Thousands of members of the lied behind the grocery workers. year, however, workers would pay United Food and Commercial Many employees said Sunday they $5 a week for individual coverage Workers union stood in lines to vote, were eager to return to their jobs and $15 a week for family coverage, said Barbara Maynard. a UFCW and voted to ratify the deal. according to a union fact sheet given spokeswoman. They had until mid­although sorr.e observed that the to workers. night to vote on the offer, which offer was not much different from Employees said their co-payments requires them to pay for health ben­one the union rejected in October. would increase to $25 for a doctor's efits for the first time and includes a It was unknown whether replace­visit and $100 for treatment at a one-time bonus but no raise. ment workers would be immediately hospital emergency room. 
The tentative agreement between released if the contract was The proposed agreement differen­the union and grocery stores covers approved by union members. tiates between current workers and 70,000 employees of Albertsons Inc., An agreement was reached Friday. those hired after Oct. 5, when the Kroger Co. and Safeway' Inc. Workers said the contract offer old contract expired. New employees 
Since Oct. 11, about 59,000 work­included a ratification bonus of 30 would receive a lower wage rate. ers have been on strike or locked cents for every hour worked in the and it would take them longer to get out. Others continued working at year before the strike-lockout raises. according to the fact sheet. 

...... " ... .. . . . .. .. .... . . ..... ... . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. . ., .. .. . . . . . .. .. .. . . .. ... .. .. . .. .................. ..
... 

THE 0BSER\1ER 
p
page 8 


Monday, March 1, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 


Emerging from the sea of apathy
P.{). ~~ Q, No{fc: Dame, 1N 4~5% · 
014 South D.lning Hall; No~ Dafile, 1~ 46))6. > · 
EDI'l'Oll IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 

MANAGING EotTOR BUSJN£SS MANAGER S~ort Btodfuehm Lod teWalski · 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR Sheila Flynn 


. . 

.NEWS EDITOR~ Meghanne·Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah.Yabulas 
SPOJ!TS Enr'tOlU Joe H<:tder ... .. Sct!Nll. EDlWtt:· Milria Smith ) .·.. sAINT MARY•s EDrroR: Anneliese Woolford .. ·. ... . . PHoto EDITOR: Tirnl(ac;:m.ar >GWHICS EDrroRt Mike Harkin~.. · 
•ko\IEKnsJNG MANAGER: ·MauraCen~della AD DESIGN MANAGER:. Tom Haight. <.. 

. S~ AnM~TAATOIU Ted Bangert.····· . 
W£8 ApMINiiTRATOR: .Todd Nieto ···• ... 
· Comaoll.ERt Paula Gaida ···•······ ·. · 
CoNTACT Us Ot=AC£ MANAGER. & GENERAl htFO . . · (574)63JH{47l 
FAX. . 

...... ·.· ... ·.· .. (574)6~1-6927 ·.··. \ ·• .• . ...· • AoVERTISIJIG > . . ·• .·.. ···•· · · ·· ·· ·. .<:S7'4t{)~X~69oo . ~!l~¢md®n4JdU .. · .. c .. >>. ; .·. EDITOR IN CHIEF .. 
. .. < ....... ·><••t~Z4L9~1,~?1,t••..•• \ ) . . .. MANAGING EDllO~ & ASSlSTAHfMANAGJMG EDitOR •·· ... (571t) ¥Y.3ld54l obsro~!ld;eEJ,~ .·•·.· .••...·.·•
{ :~~~::lg;~·................. 
·.· .. ··.· 
<>···.· ··•.·.· ·..··.·.•··. NooDesK..·.·.·. ···•····.·· ············• •· . 
($:14) §Jl~532.3.. ··•· Qb$n~:,t®nd,edu Vt£WPOINT DESK ••.· .·. 

(5-74) 6~FSM3. > •. vi(lwpoint...l@l!}d.edu 
< > .• .• SPORTS DESK ·..·... ·.• ...........•· .••..·.·•.•.••·• ..•. 
(5;74)~3h4543 .. sport5.l@ll<ledt}·· 
> SCENE DESK > ·.·.· . . . 

(5:N>•6•~·•1S454o •...••·•· scer\e.l@nlf~eytU······•·······•·<SAINT MARY's·DE8K< > >< ·........ . 
(574) 631~4324 ·• sinc;J@Itd.~dli <> • ..• ··•• ·•··. ··.·•• •······•··.·•• ·..· . PHoro Om ; ···•·•··· .·.·.•······......·.•··· ······ · 

·~?:7tis~~s~~fa·•x;:;.;~~i•••••••••·•·•···.··
·... {574) 6Jlc88~9 . . 
Dn~~~RONLLNE / 
www.adsm,observer.cont : 
POLICIES .. 

.......... 1be Observer is .theindependent, d.ailjrrt~paper .. published in print and online by die 5tudd1ts()fthe University ofNotte Dame tful.ac andSaine .Mary's •. College. Editorialcontem,induding adverrisetnentsi is · notgoyernedby policies ofthe administrationQf either 
.io$citurlori;TIWO~er ~~ the rigb(to reMe ...... • ..... advertisements ba5ed ()J'l wllrel)t. .... . >. \ . ..· ..•.•. \ .·. ······The news Is reported as acc:tltardyand obJieccivdy as 
•.• possible, l.Jnsi~d editoriah represent dw opinion of·· ..• •• the maj<@y Ofw¢ Edi~fin Cllici;.M~g>E.di~9r~ 
• AssisllintN{ailaglng Editor and.deparrrt161r ediron. •... Comrnen~ letters and columns present the viewS ofthe auth<Jrs and IWt n~ily dtOSI! l'fJ]~ · · · •· 
..· Obseivc:t. .... ... . . .. . 
VIeWpoint 5paceis av:Uiable to all readers~ The free expression ofall opinionuhrough lette~ is en~;ouraged, Letters to theEdWkttiust bt signed and fuil$t fudUde conract informati()n, . . 
Queuirms ~garding Observ~rpoliciesshimld be di~ ttt Editol' i11 ChiifAndrewSifflkup. ·· 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th< ()\l"";.t,. (IJSJ>S:59<Jl,~M) i$ pohli>hod Mon<Ur '~"'ugh l'ri<Py .,.apr ~"'"'& ...;,...& .._.<iU.. p.;,~ A~rip<ior> 11ir·1~ ~· ii 1Hlll'f<>r 01\< ..,.4.,;< 
,..,,~~5fp'""" """"""'' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Th<OI>•rr<,..iip9hUsW~: • .<I'QS:TMJ.STEJt.•. . . . .... ·. . • • • . . 024 S..iirh DiniA§ Holf . 
S<tld .ddm$ «>rlec,ipii$W. .•.··•·• . 
Noit. Po~m~. IN #>%-W7'l · T&.. Clli.<irn• · l'tt~al JXioiOJlt P<i<l ~ ~~ Dorbr: .OO;.floxQ · · . • . : ilhd •drl<tllli.ill initl~b$ crlkd: > · Ol~.Sriud; Dmirli H411 . NU.tt ~nm.; IN ,lii~56-0n? 
'11rc (Jfuc,,,, Is,;. mcti>hci oftho As<oclaml tm... All reprodUction riJb" ~rc' 
'"""'""&. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Claire Heininger Chris Federico Andrew Thagard Megan Hawley 
Matt Bramanti Steve Coyer Viewpoint Scene • • Eileen Duffy Maria Smith 
Graphics Illustrator Mike Harkins Pat Quill 
One of the greatest legacies bequeathed by the Baby Boomer Generation is the wave of apathy and cynicism embodied by Generations X and Y. Baby Boomers are our parents, our professors and our politicians. 
Bill Rlnner
While they exposed the true nature beneath 
A Voice of
the postwar 
Reason
American utopia, their deconstruc­tive legacy has left a philosophical void in our genera­tion's souls. Only recently have we begun to turn the tide. 

Political correctness became the shining light of the disenfranchised; moral relativism, the cornerstone of academia; and divorce, the natural consequence of marriage. American leaders, once revered for their strength, turned into one-liners for talk show hosts. Now the largest reli­gion in America can hardly be dis­cussed openly, much less expressed outwardly. 
Their minds were opened, now ours are closed -not to the plurality of moral codes and personal philoso­phies, but to the adoption of a single one that can serve to define the self.. Why such reluctance? Perhaps the parallel trend of diminishing personal responsibility offers clues. 
The "it's not my fault" mantra is now celebrated by everyone from trial lawyers to psychiatrists to opportunis­tic civil rights leaders with quick-fix solutions for problems that in part could be solved through a bit of per­sonal contemplation and self-motiva­tion. In such an atmosphere, the most difficult thing one can do is develop a personal philosophy that might be blamed for personal shortcomings at some point in the future. Defining oneself on purely situational grounds to maximize short-term gains seems to be the only rational path to follow. 
Scourged for their purportedly nar­row-minded or intolerant world views, traditional liberals and conservatives gave way to the self-proclaimed mod-


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

erates. The term "moderate" by itself 
offers little information about one's true philosophical grounds, if they exist at all. Still, a young generation instructed by its elders that the great­
est sin one can commit is to insult another's views converged towards this ambiguous center, where comfort generated apathy. 
Educators at every level only fed this apathy by instructing their stu­dents to deconstruct their hollow viewpoints and embrace a shallow hymn of multicultural understanding that discouraged ideological pluralism in favor of ethnic and cultural diversi­ty. The latter is an essential compo­nent of modern society, but the prospect of celebrating philosophical diversity causes many to recoil in fear of offending those with conflicting views shaped by something as funda­mental as ethnicity. 
Today our generation faces the task of redefining itself through individual rather than collective means. Focusing on how cultural identity helps shape the self is a small step in the right direction, but overcoming the fear of expressing a firm ideologi­cal or political view is the most crucial component. We cannot rely on an overriding cultural wave of epic pro­portions; instead, we must look inward and confront the voice in our head that says the easiest path is that of least resistance. 
After regaining confidence in our values, the next step is outward expression in a more public forum. Remember that kid in your first-year classes who asked all of the stupid questions, knowing his professor would mercilessly shoot him down every time? Despite his ignorance and stubbornness, he was still the bravest one in the classroom. Taking a lesson from his example might prove more enlightening and worthwhile than previously assumed. 
While a few professors relish the ability to sweep their students' values away as a misguided strategy for opening their minds, you must not fear expressing your opinions, partie­ularly if they diverge from the profes­sor's. Instead of interpreting a profes­sor's challenge to your opinion as merely an opportunity to discard it, take the challenge as an opportunity to question and possibly reaffirm your own values. If you do decide that your previous biases and opinions were flawed, then find a revised view to fit in its place rather than falling into the sea of apathy. 
The tragic events of September 11 will define our generation as we decide whether or not to overcome our indifference and engage ourselves in the surrounding world. Being forced to use an incident of such tremendous magnitude as an opportu­nity to explore one's personal identity is regrettable but completely neces­sary. This year's election will afford us an opportunity to decide the future path of the nation, domestically and internationally. 
Disregarding individual perceptions of President George W. Bush, he threw down the gauntlet to the international community by considering terrorist attacks against the nation an act of continuing war. His subsequent for­eign policy decisions attempted to address the root of the problem both directly and indirectly, and the coun­try now must either fully commit to his vision or replace the playbook entirely. 
Do you support the path of the nation, or should we make a drastic· revision? Make up your mind, raise your hand, voice your opinion and defend it vigorously. Otherwise, the sea of apathy is wide enough to fit anyone who's up for a swim. 
Bill Rinner is a junior economics major studying abroad at the London School ofEconomics. He wishes to thank a dear friend who provided invaluable input for this column. His column normally appears every other Friday, and he can be contacted at wrinner@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 

How many midterms do you have? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Opinions have Y!iater power than strength ofhands., 
Sophocles Greek tragedian 


.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------~ 

Restoring order in Haiti 
The violent tenor of Haitian politics is tragically stubborn. Already overthrown once, the Aristide government is again faced with a coup d'etat, albeit one proceeding in slow motion. Citizens, inured to upheaval as they are, haven't seen anything like it. A retired hotelier, reports The Economist, admitted he'd witnessed "quite a few revolutions, but this 
is the weirdest one."  Roque Strew  
Apprehending the scale of atrocity visited  
on the people of Haiti over the years isn't  
easy for Westerners. How many coups amount to "quite a few?" Aristide himself  Straight, No Chaser  
put the tally at 32 revolutions. Since the  
beginning of the 19th century, when Haiti  

won independence from France, the Haitian military has been 
the centerpiece of the country's unceasing turbulence. 
Among the poorest of the world's nations, Haiti had been ruled under military dictatorship by the Duvalier family, from 1957 to 1986, when popular sentiments exploded in favor of Duvalier's removal. Not long after, Haiti made a colossal step toward democratic government. In 1990, Jean-Bertrand Aristide was elected president by wide margins. Inevitably, a military junta followed several months later. 
One of the brighter episodes in America's murky career in interventionism in intent (if not outcome) was President Clinton's deployment of 20,000 troops to Haiti in 1994. As The New Yorker noted, the goal of the deployment was novel: to "restor[e] an elected democracy to power." The optimism of Clinton's highly unpopular decision was undermined by its nar­row focus: returning Aristide to power, rather than fostering institutional democracy. Nevertheless, it signaled a profound . shift in foreign policy for America. More importantly, however, it marked the end of the Duvalier's cruel reign. 
Surprising everyone, both the international community and the Haitian electorate, Aristide turned out to be a garden-vari­ety populist despot. The radical metamorphosis of a Franciscan priest, devoted to altruism, into the textbook crooked dictator, could not be predicted. In retrospect, some lay blame on the deep roots of corruption in the country's political culture. 
But the watershed came in 2000, when Aristide allegedly rigged the popular election. America swiftly meted out punish­ment. After the sham election, Sen. Jesse Helms spearheaded a Republican push to dam aid to Haiti, withdrawing roughly a half a billion dollars, annually -not the best policy toward an impoverished country verging on famine. The embargo stran­gle"d an economy already on life support. 
The election matter also solidified internal resentments and suspicions. Perceived corruption and a failing economy were undoubtedly key in fueling anti-Aristide sentiment. Soon an amorphous rebel force began to assemble. What began as a ragtag militia has begun steadily t6 adopt the traits of a profes­sional army. Numbering around 500 troops, the National Resistance Front for the Liberation of Haiti has already cement­ed control in northern Haiti. 
And rebel forces aren't exactly sterling paragons of democrat­ic values. In fact, they recall in some respects the Northern Alliance that helped the United States remove the Taliban, only far worse. Among their leaders are commanders of death squads, murderers, and the notoriously corrupt officers who served under Duvalier. 
Without a doubt, these men cannot be permitted to take Port­au-Prince, the capital. Despite the imperfections of the Aristide government, it should not be violently overthrown again ­especially by an improvised group of rebels with shadowy agen­das and ominous histories. Corruption seems to be inescapable for now, but there clearly exists a lesser of two evils. At first, the American peace plan, involving an arrangement where the opposition and Aristide share power, seems to be the most promising. Comprehensive international involvement would later enable Haiti to wean itself off this temporary power-shar­ing arrangement. Despite the opposition's rejection of the American plan, on Feb. 24, this remains the best course of action. 
Again, comprehensive international involvement is crucial. The cut-and-run school of interventionism -Afghanistan one of the school's most visible casualties -ought to have J;een abandoned by now. George Packer summed it up best in The New Yorker: "Dramatic interventions followed by elections aren't enough." According to The Economist. France under­stands this, proposing "an international police force to restore order, and aid to prepare for a presidential election under a government of national unity." A short-term commitment isn't a commitment at all. 
There can be no reticence. America must put itself fully behind the formation of a strong, legitimate Haitian government -a need essential to stabilizing the country. Sowing the seeds of democracy over historically arid ground -general among neglected, developing nations-demands full commitment. Anything less is unavailing, costly and immoral. 
Roque Strew is a junior political science major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at wstrew@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Homosexuals deserve tolerance and acceptance 
Homophobic aura permeates campus 
I am angry. I am disheartened. Most of all, I am 
sick and tired of students and administrators at 
this University ostracizing gay people. 
After getting that off my chest, let me continue by stating that I am not pointing fingers in any way, nor am I attempting to attack any individual or group. My agenda is one driven strictly by rage and concern for the well-being of this University which is supposed to be grounded in justice and in Catholic morals. However, it seems to me -and to a lot of other undergraduate students with whom I have spoken -that many people, both in the Main Building and within the student body, in their struggle to cope with the presence of homosexuali­ty at Notre Dame, have gone astray from basic human morality. By failing to embrace the prob­lem and tackle the issue of homosexuality head­on, we are failing as good Catholics .and as good human beings. 
I understand that in being a Catholic university, Notre Dame must fight to uphold Catholic beliefs and doctrines; however, is this the right thing to do if it means alienating a segment of the student and faculty population? By not doing more to equate gay, bisexual and lesbian students with the rest of the student body, we are actively engaging in dis­crimination ourselves. By claiming, as Chris Brophy recently did in the Irish Rover, that official club recognition for the Notre Dame Gay-Straight Alliance would "further the current threat to Notre Dame's Catholic identity and moral stance," we are failing to recognize the fundamentality of basic equality for all people regardless of sexual orienta­tion. 
It is hard to formulate an argument against this, no matter ho•.v radical your own personal religious beliefs are. Notre Dame has been for years, and still is, practicing discrimination by failing to reach out to those of homosexual orientation and attempting to equate them, on a human level, with the tremendously heterosexual campus popula­tion. Sure, certain areas of this University are doing much to fight for this cause, and they should be commended and applauded. However, it is my personal belief that the current administration, as well as the current student body leadership, is not doing nearly enough to make attending Notre 
Government needs to retain separation of church and state 
In recent national developments, San Francisco has been marrying gay ~ouples, Ohio has passed a Defense of Marriage Act banning gay marriage and President Bush has issued a call for a constitutional amendment defining marriage as between one man and one woman. In his address, Bush declared marriage to be "A sacred insti­tution between a man and a woman." 
I, for one, do not understand how this translates into a constitution­al ban on same-sex marriages. I was raised in an America that holds separation of church and state to be of the highest importance in running a gov­ernment. I still believe that this separation should be kept as strong today as it was when the United States was founded. 
Offering the gay and lesbian community civil union as the only option for a connection is a form of systematic segregation and discrimina­tion based on sexual preference. This is an attempt by President Bush to bring back the "sepa­rate but equal" ideas that our country thought were in the past. Either marriage should be strictly non-secular, or it should be granted to all loving couples. 
President Bush has also stated that his announcement is a .showing of moral and ethical leadership. Is it not our right to be immoral so long 
Dame more tolerable, more bearable and most 
importantly, more acceptable, for students of dif­
ferent sexual orientation than the majority of those 
who attend this supposedly ''family-like" institu­
tion. 
To my knowledge, nobody who ran for student body president this year made the topics of homo­sexuality or diversity an issue of importance on their platforms. Personally, this is frustrating and maddening, for it does not take a survey or a spe­cial report by The Observer to realize that Notre Dame is not exactly a melting pot of racial or sexu­al diversity. In fact, all it takes to realize this is two eyes. 
Let me finish my literary rant here by stating that it is certainly up for dispute whether or not an aura of homophobia exists here at Notre Dame; however, have those people who have been fight­ing against the Queer Film Festival and the official recognition of the Gay-Straight Alliance ever stopped for a moment and thought about what it would be like to be a homosexual student attend­ing this school? Or how about what it would be like to be openly homosexual and attending Notre Dame? (For there are many students at this school who are gay but, fqr whatever reason, are person­ally ~scouraged from being open about it here on campus.) 
As a resident of Zahm, I am used to being con­stantly ridiculed as living in the "gay dorm" on campus. This is, however, great testimony to the existence of a certain semblance of homophobia that does indeed exist here. How would you feel if you were gay and lived in Zahm? You would not be happy. In fact, being a gay student in any dorm at Notre Dame is difficult, and we, the heterosexu­al population here at Notre Dame, need to do much more than we are currently doing in order to reach out to our fellow gay, bisexual and lesbian students and fight to get them the equal status and recognition that they so fundamentally and right­fully deserve. 
Matthew Walsh 
sophomore 
Zahm Hall 
Feb. 26 
as it does not infringe on the rights of others? Last time I checked, iftwo men get married, my rights have been in no way violated. Banning gay mar­riage is a case of Bush leading his people to water and sticking their heads in it, trying to make them drink. Being a moral leader in our nation is as sim­
ple as setting a good example and prevent­ing the infringement of personal rights by the actions of others, not forcing morals on others. If morality is not a choice, how truly moral is it? 
These are things we should consider this summer as we pre­pare to vote in what for most of us is our first presidential elec­tion. Do we want a president who blurs the separation of church and state that we as a 
nation have held as a cornerstone of government for over two hun­dred years? A president who denies civil rights based on sexual prefer­ence? Do we want a president who tries 
to impress his morals and beliefs on us as though we had no ability to chose how to live on our own? 
Ponder well, my friends, for these questions will follow us for the next seven months and beyond. 
Kevin Osborne freshman Keenan Hall Feb. 25 

page 10 Monday, March 1, 2004 



Above, a reporter interviews members of The Order about several conspiracy theories, including the idea of a takeover by people with the last name Jackson. To the left, a f!Zember of a white supremacist organization. Below, leaders from several organizations gather to preach.
•

Photos courtesy of 
MEGAN RYAN 

By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 

Hate is an emotion with many faces. It can be blatant and vio­lent, but it can also be quiet and subtle and grow in places where it would never be expected. 
Steven Dietz's play "God's Country," performed by the Department of Film, Television and Theater last weekend, and examines the full range of racial hatred. The play fol­lows the true story of a white supremacist neo-Nazi group known as The Order that operated in the Western United States in the early 1980s. The group participated in for­gery and robbery in order to raise funding for its anti-Semitic ini­tiatives. The group plot­ted the assassinations of prominent Jewish pub­lic figures. Eventually several members of The Order were convicted of the murder of Denver­based Jewish radio talk show host Alan Berg, that becomes the focus of the play. 
Dietz describes the full spectrum of racial hate in his play, moving from inti­mate personal interactions between Order members and their families, to Order cere-· monies and actual transcripts of courtroom investigations. The play moves in an increasing­ly intense montage of scenes cul­minating in the conviction of nine Order members. Many of the members portrayed in the play are still serving jail sentences today. The play was not easy to watch or to perform. 
"It was intense, it really was," senior Adel Hanash said. "The whole time you have to tell your­self this really happened. This is based off real events." 
"We actually had someone walk out of auditions during the skin­head scene," senior Justin Williams said. ··They were so upset by it they left." 
"God's Country" provides actors with a different sort of challenge from many plays. Dietz uses an ensemble cast in which actors are assigned numbers instead of names. There is no main charac­ter or lead, and several actors play more than one role. The play also features a nameless boy a·nd a nameless voice, which are crucial to the play's development. At many points th0 actors seem to be less individual characters than part of an overarching characteri­zation of hate and the institutions that support or oppose it. The method is particularly effective considering the topic -as the members of racial hate groups band together under a unifying idea. The actors in the play band together to portray a unified con­cept. 
Cast chemistry is an important aspect of a play where the actors have t 0 w o r k together so closely. Many of the actors in the play have worked together before, and their history together showed in how well the cast inter­acted in last weekend's perform­
ance. 

Hanash, cast as Actor Three, was one of the few characters that played a single role and did not frequently interact with the other charac­ters. 
"A lot 

"God's C• 
of my 
part is just to watch w h a t 


goes on 

Director: Megan Ryan 
onstage. 

Writer: Steven Dietz 
and to 

Starring: Justin Williams, S 
watch.it 

Hanash, Cheryl Turski, Patrie: 
c o m e 

David Buckley, Drew McEJligotogether Conner, Patricia Gilbert, Britt w a s 
Tabor 
am a z­ing," he said. "So 

much of what they did, they had to be at the same pace, on the same level, and it really clicked." 
"God's Country" is a play about 

Monday, March 1, 2004 page 11 


vicious i d e o ­logues and 

r.a b b 1 e ­rousers, and all the actors were more than vehement enough for their roles. However, the most rousing scenes, especially those performed by senior Tom Connor, might have been more effective if the play had some scenes of greater subtlety to provide a con­trast. By the end of the play the scenes had all reached a volume 
that was especiallyountry" deafening
A 
for audi­


e n c e members seated in 

the front  
row, only  
a  few feet  
:arah Loveland, Adel  from  a  
:k Vassel, Lena Caligiuri,  shouting  
,tt, Megan Olive, Tom  lawyer or  
:any Bacon and Meghann  w  h i  t  e  
suprema­ 
c  i  s  t  
preacher.  

Much of the play revolves around a young boy, played by Brittany Bac?n in the FTT production. The boy IS the son of Order members and is 
being brought up to believe in their doctrines of racial hatred. He also serves to highlight the duality in the characters of people who seek to strengthen their love of home and family through unequiv­ocal hatred of other groups. Bacon played the part of a young boy very convincingly, but the play would have benefited from a more developed personal interaction between the boy and his parents. 
The lab theater in Washington Hall can be a difficult venue to use effectively, since at points it puts the actors less than a foot from the audience. However, it gives groups the luxury of choosing where to seat the audience to most effectively watch the play. For "God's Country," direc­tor Meg Ryan chose to have the audience sit on either side of the perform­ers. The arrangement can make staging difficult since the actors must always be facing away from some audience members. However, this production of "God's Country" took much of its power from having the audience so close and sur­rounding the performers. This is a play about hate prospering in small commu­nities -in hometown America, and watching the play from close enough to see the labels on Bacon's jeans and smell the 
cigarettes Alan Berg, played by Adel Hanash, smoked onstage only brought the play closer to home. 
"I think this play was probably originally designed for a normal stage, and the technical aspects would have worked better on a normal stage," Williams said. "But being right up in someone's face was an advantage. It made the show so much more intense and powerful." 
Ryan also used costume color well to contribute to the collective sense of the play. Most of the actors dressed in black and white, and occasionally red or blue, whether appearing in business suits or preaching in robes. Berg stood out in his brown corduroys as someone outside the circle of what was going on, and clearly a victim of dangerous circum­stances. 
The cast only had a month to rehearse before performing its show, and several actors had con­flicts with other plays or graduate school auditions in Chicago. The short rehearsal time only made their emotional performance of a difficult play that much more effective. 
"To be presented with something like that was a great opportunity," Williams said. "The play itself is not fun, but getting to do some­thing different and portraying a character that I am nothing like is the interesting part of theater." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
Above, the· ensemble cast of "God's Country" gathers at the beginning of the play. A nameless boy (Brittany Bacon) holds the candle. To the right, a member of a white supremacist group tortures aformer student leader ofhis order. Below, members of The Order salute one of their leaders.
•

Photos courtesy of 
MEGAN RYAN 


Monday, March 1, 2004
page 12 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
HOCKEY 






For the Irish this year, the sky is the limit 
Let's put this thing in perspec­tive. 
The last time Notre Dame swept Michigan at home in hockey was March 5-6, 1982. Freshman goalie David Brown, who started and won both games for the Irish this weekend, wasn't even alive. 
For that matter, nei­ther were Mike Walsh, Jason Paige, 
T.J. Jindra, Neil Komadoski, nor Rob Globke -who all scored goals in Notre Dame's sweep. 
These guys sure looked like they were born to beat Michigan. 
"Me being a freshman, I really wasn't that aware of the Michigan rivalry," Brown said after Saturday's 5-2 victory. "I've sure learned how to hate them though in the days leading up to this weekend." 
There's no question this week­end meant a lot.more to the Irish than the visiting Wolverines. Michigan needed only two points to clinch the CCHA regular season champi­onship, while Notre Dame was fighting for home ice in the first 

Justin Schuver 
Associate Sports Editor 

round of the CCHA playoffs. 
The Irish were pofsed to make a compelling case for inclusion in the 16-member NCAA tourna­ment. Michigan, meanwhile, was hoping to move up in its seeding -the NCAA is already a lock for the maize and blue. 
Notre Dame certainly looked like the team who wanted it more Friday, outshooting Michigan and really doing a great job on defense of stopping the Wolverines' speedy for­wards. Wearing brand-new green jerseys, the Irish played as perfect a game as they have all season, eventually defeating their visitors from the north by a score of 4-1. 
During that game, Michigan's starting goalie AI Montoya injured his groin and was replaced by Noah Ruden. Ruden returned to start Saturday night as well. 
"We talked before this game, and I said that Michigan was really going to come out and rally around [Ruden]," Poulin said Saturday. 
Notre Dame's coach might want to consider moonlighting as a fortuneteller, because that's exactly what happened. The Irish didn't even get a shot on Ruden Saturday until 8:44 into the game. · 
Luckily for the Irish, that first shot also turned out to be a goal. Notre Dame's early lead only seemed to infuriate Michigan, though, who came back in the second period with two goals in less than three min­utes to take the lead. 
At that point, Notre Dame could have folded. After all, they'd already done more than anyone had expected of them ­beating Michigan at the Joyce Center the night before. It would have been easy to have taken the two points from Friday and play a less-passionate effort Saturday-to just be satisfied with a split. 
It was Senior Night, though, and Notre Dame's seniors had more pride than that. 
"Us seniors have been through a lot of games in the past where we were getting outscored, and we learned to stay patient and work through it," senior for­ward Globke said. "We knew that we just needed to keep playing our game and that things would work out eventual­!y. " 
It made sense then that Komadoski -a senior -would score the goal to make it 2-2. 
Just another example of David (Brown and his teammates) beating Goliath. This season, the Irish have knocked off a total of four teams who are currently ranked in the top six (No. 1 ~oston College, No. 3 Maine, No. 4 Michigan and No.6 Wisconsin). 
Assuming Notre Dame doesn't completely collapse toward the end of this season, the first NCAA Tournament berth in the school's history could be on the horizon with that kind of impressive resume. They've cer­tainly shown they are capable of beating the country's very best. 

In discussing the play of his seniors Saturday, Poulin had a quote referring to the only one who didn't play-T.J. Mathieson, who has a 3.812 GPA in Aeronautical Engineering. 
"He'll certainly be the best astronaut in that bunch, I'll tell you that much," Poulin said. 
A fitting comment, considering that Mathieson and the rest of his teammates now have every right to shoot for the stars. 
The ideas and views present­ed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd. edu. 

l. 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Second half barrage lifts Irish in season opener 
shared some goals. At the end of Following senior attack Dan The first half saw the Irish get ond goal 16 seconds after a By PAT LEONARD the first half, [a two-goal lead] is Berger's third goal of the game on the board first with a goal timeout called with 1:56 Sports Writer nothing. In the second half, with 12:30 remaining, junior from sophomore midfielder remaining, and Berger scored 
though, I think we made some midfielder Craig Bishko won the Brian Hubschmann (two goals, his second of the day at the 1:03 
Recent meetings between plays offensively and shot the ensuing face-off and raced four assists). The teams then mark. Notre Dame and Penn State ball well." upfield. Sophomore midfielder traded goals throughout the While Corrigan's effective have been one-goal victories Notre Dame (1-0) entered the Pat Walsh (three goals, two half. · usage of timeouts helped set up and overtime nailbiters. The contest ranked No. 11 in the assists) would find the ball and Junior midfielder Will Jones a 7-5 halftime lead and laid the same pattern seemed to take Lacrosse Magazine preseason score at the 12:24 mark, just six led the Nittany Lions attack, groundwork for a blowup sec­hold of the Irish season opener rankings and No. 14 in the seconds after the previous goal. scoring his first goal of the game ond half, the coach refuses to Sunday -in the first half, any-Inside Lacrosse Power poll. No. "We went from sharing face­to make the score 2-1 at the "take the credit. 
. way. 17 Penn State (1-1) had defeat­offs and loose balls to getting a 7:10 mark of the first quarter. "Our guys came out with great 
Behind four goals from sopho­ed Ohio State 5-4 prior to lot of them." Corrigan said. "We He finished with three goals and poise in those situations," more midfielder Matt Karweck Sunday's loss. dominated face-offs in the sec~ one assist. Corrigan said. "When you get and three goals and three Notre Dame presented a much ond half." Following a Charlie Perry goal playmakers in a comfortable sit­
. assists from senior midfielder more dynamic offense than that Winning face-offs and beating for Penn State at the 6:38 mark uation, they react. We take Matt Howell, the Irish took a 7-5 of the Buckeyes. Six Irish play­the Nittany Lions to ground balls of the second quarter, however, advantage when we get a man halftime lead and turned it into ers scored at ·least two goals, in the second half turned the the Irish closed the first half up." a 17-7 win at Meyo Field with four players tallying two or stereotype of a close Lions-Irish with three straight goals. Berger Junior midfielder Brian Sunday, outscoring the Nittany more assists. battle into a rout. scored off one of Howell's three Giordano also scored two goals Lions 10-2 in the second half Coming out of halftime with a Despite three Irish penalties, assists, and the Irish got two and had two assists, while sen­and 5-0 in the fourth quarter. 7-5 lead, Notre Dame got on the the defense anchored by goalie goals before the half, which ior midfielder Nick Petcoff 
"This game has been a battle board first with a Karweck goal Stewart Crosland and sopho­came ·after timeouts that added an assist. every year," Irish coach Kevin at the 14:41 mark of the third more defenseman D.J. Driscoll Corrigan called to set up plays Corrigan said. "And it was the quarter. held the Nittany Lions to just in the offensive zone. Contact Pat Leonard at same way today for a half. We After that, it was all Irish. two goals in the half. Hubschmann tallied his sec-pleonard@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: Part of a necklace in Hayes-Healy Friday morning 2120. Call 631-6375 to identify. 

35 hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Visit www.akroncyo.org-download an application. EOE 
FoR SAtE 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
VERY NICE 3 bedroom home in East Bank area with washer-dryer and alarm system included. Nice yard for volleyball etc • full basement. Walk to Corbys &St. Joe Church. Call Joe Crimmins @ 574-514-0643 (cell) 
2 bdim apt. for rent. AIC, WID, dish­wasl"oer, spacious, close to campus. New appliances. $650/mo. Available 411 but flexible. Gall Paul 514-3188. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE. .. 2 BEDROOM HOUSE ... 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2004-2005 Academic year-Available June 1, 2 Bdrm -2 Bath • Fully Furnished • Security System. 
(626) 441-1275 or salwty@earth­link. net 
or 574-273-0002 (home) 2 BEDROOM DUPLEX ... 
PERSONAL

. FOR SALE-Like new weights set NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF NO AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON-with incline bench, leg lift. Will deliv-GREAT AREA FOR 5-6 STUDENTS East Washington area, Last DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 
WANTED 

er. $150 2n-3097 Four Bedroom House availiable for 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
277-1345 2004-2005 school year WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO not go it alone. If you or someone 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially New 3/4 bdrm homes close to NO, Washer/dryer, Furnished, Basketball, LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 you love needs confidential support 
Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-1995 Red Chevy Camara V6. 3 full baths, 2-car garage, Volleyball, Security System, 11 SCHOOL YEAR ... or assistance, please call Sr. Mary 
9359 33,290 actual miles. Original owner, frpl, skylights. month lease CONTACTKRAMER AT OFFICE Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819'. For 
excellent $1640/mo. Call 574-232-4527 or 109 N. St. Peter. 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 more information, see our bi-weekly 
Summer Camp counselor for condition. 654-7439. 269-683-5038. 233-9947 FOR SHOWINGS ad in THE OBSERVER. 
children w/disabilities. $7-$11 hr., 

Monday, March 1, 2004 page 13
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



I I ~ 
I 
I II 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Seton Hall at Connecticut 7 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

Lightning at Avalanche 8 p.m., ESPN2 Blackhawks at Predators 8 p.m., FSN 
GOLF 

Associated Press  until the 25th hole, Woods  events before he won his  mat.  
CARLSBAD,  Calif.  - turned a terrible tee shot  40th tournament.  "Right from the first tee,  
Tiger Woods made it sound so simple, even after mak­ing it look so hard. "It all boils down to what  into an unlikely birdie, then roared past putt-starved Davis Love III to win the Match Play Championship  Woods earned $1.2 mil­lion, the biggest first prize ever on the PGA Tour, and reminded everyone who's  it's eyeball-to-eyeball," he said. "That to me is a great rush." His amateur record was  
my dad always told me when it comes to match  for the second straight year.  No. 1 in the world -and who's the best when the  among the best ever -three straight U.S. Junior  
play," Woods said. "All you have to do is just be better than your opponent that day. All you have to do is win more holes than you lose."  "He's obviously the best. at what he does," said Love, who failed to win a hole over the final 17. "That shows even more in match play. He can play the  world gets together. He won for the eighth time in the 14 official World Golf Championships he has played. Even more impressive is  Amateurs, followed by three straight U.S. Amateur titles. His professional record is starting to catch up. Woods is 20-3 in this  
When he tapped in a 4­foot par putt on the 34th hole Sunday, Woods proved again that he has no match.  game no matter what rules you put out there." Woods won for the 40th time on the PGA Tour in just his 149th start, the  his back-to-back victories in the Accenture Match Play Championship, the most unpredictable format in golf because of the five  tournament, and 30-5-1 overall in match play. That's why Love knew he was in trouble when he failed to build a big lead in  
Spraying his tee shots all over La Costa Resort,  quickest anyone has reached that milestone.  18-hole matches required to get to the finals.  the morning sessien, miss­ing three birdie putts inside  
unable to take the lead  Jack Nicklaus played 221  Woods thrives on this for­ 10 feet.  

IN BRIEF 
BCS aJ;lrees to add fifth The current BCS bowls are the White House proposes game lo increase access Rose, Sugar, Fiesta and Orange. One steroid summit 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. -The Bowl of those bowls pits the top two The White House wants to organize Championship Series agreed to add t~ams in the BCS standings in a a summit of representatives from the a fifth game Sunday, increasing championship game, which will be major sports leagues and the U.S. access for schools not part of col­the Orange Bowl next season. The Olympic Committee to discuss steroid lege football's most lucrative post­Rose, Fiesta and Sugar host the use by athletes. season system. other games. Officials at major league baseball, 
The champions of the six BCS . Oregon president Dave the NFL, NBA,-NHL and USOC con­conferences -the Big East, ACC, Frohnmayer, a member of the BCS firmed Sunday they were contacted by SEC, Big 12, Big Ten and Pac-10-Presidential Oversight Committee, the White House about such a meet­will maintain automatic berths in said the fifth bowl would join in the ing. one of the five games. The remain­title game rotation. He also said the The White House had no immediate ing four spots will be at-large Rose Bowl would retain its long­comment Sunday. berths to be decided by a complex standing ties to the Big Ten and Pac-Spokesmen for the NFL, NHL, NBA formula using national rankings. 1 0 champions during years in which and baseball said those sports would 
The fifth bowl is still subject to it does not host the title game. The participate but added no date had final approval based on market via­other bowls also would have the been set. bility, but all indications point to it chance to protect conference ties. NFL Players' Association executive being in place when the new BCS Frohnmayer said existing bowls director Gene Upshaw said he would contract takes effect before the probably will get the first shot at be interested in taking part in the 2006 season. becoming the fifth BCS bowl. Cities meeting -but only if others partici­
"This agreement is a significant expected to show immediate interest pate. victory for college sports and high­include Atlanta, Dallas, Houston, "We're not looking to be in a posi­er education," NCAA president Jacksonville, Orlando and San tion to be the only ones at a summit," Myles Brand said. Diego. Upshaw said in a telephone interview. 
. . .;;-;;.; •• ;;. •• ;..~;.~ ...... 4io ••• ,. •• 

Monday, March I , 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page IS 


Men's 
continued from page 20 
for the Irish. Thomas finished 
with six assists and zero 
turnovers, while Quinn had four 
assists and turned it over once. 
The Irish broke out of a two­game losing streak and look to build some momentum in their last two Big East games before the conference tournament. · UCLA (11-14) lost for the 11th time in 13 games. The Bruins haven't had back-to-hack losing seasons (they finished 10-19 last year) since 1940-41. 
The Irish rebounded from a poor shooting performance against Providence Tuesday to make 12-of-26 3-pointers and shoot 48 percent from the field overall against the Bruins. From the start, the Irish were on fire and used their hot long distance shooting to build a 29-9 lead. 
The Bruins, who looked total­ly out of sync in the beginning of the game, eventually pulled it together and got as close as 31­
23. But a jumper from Quinn put the Irish back up 10 and sparked a 13-2 run to close out the half, where the Irish shot 9­of-18 from behind the arc. 
After pulling within eight in the first half, the Bruins never cut the lead down to single dig­its again. 
The Irish close out their home regular season schedule Thursday when they host Georgetown at 7 p.m. 
Note: 

Brey said at his Thursday press conference that forward Torin Francis, who has been sidelined since Notre Dame's 

ople * Herve-Chapeli · t * Seven Jeans * Fren.....:&....,,.•.• 

win over Connecticut Feb. 9, will probably not return to the court for the Irish this season. 
Francis averaged 14.2 points and 8.8 rebounds in 20 games this season. 
NOTRE DAME 75, UCLA 60 at the PAULEY PAVILION 
NOTRE DAME (14-11, 7-7) 
Cornette 1-5 0-0 3, Jones 3-6 1-2 7, Timmermans 9-15 0-1 20, Thomas 8-17 0-0 21, Falls 0-1 0-0 0, Quinn 7-14 2-2 20, Cornett 2-4 0-0 4. 
UCLA(11-14, 7-9} 
Ariza 3-10 3-4 10, Cummings 5-11 0-0 10, Hollins 3-5 7-9 13, Crispin 1-3 0-0 3, Bozeman 1-5 0-0 2, Thompson 4·8 0-0 10, Rubin 3-6 0-0 6, Walcott 0-0 0-0 0, Fey 3-5 0-0 6, Hoffart 0-0 0-0 0. 
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  44  31  75  
UClA  25  35  60  
3-point goals:  Notre  Dame  12-26  

(Thomas 5-10. Quinn 4-6, Timmermans 2-4, Cornette 1-4, Jones 0-1, falls 0-1), UCLA 4-12 (Thompson 2-2, Ariza 1-5, Crispin 1-3, Cummings 0-1, Rubin 0-1). Rebounds: Notre Dame 31 (Timmermans 8}. UCLA 29 (Ariza 10). Assists: Notre Dame 16 (Thomas 6), UCLA 9 (Leader Bozeman 4). Total fouls: Notre Dame 13, UCLA 12. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Despite the loss, the Irish remain second in the Big East
Women's 
standings. They can clinch the continued from page 20 No. 2 seed in the Big East tour­nament vvith a win Tuesday 
In the second half, Notre against Syracuse, or with a Dame came out strong, keep­Villanova loss to Pittsburgh ing the score close in the first Tuesday. five minutes. But the fact Batteast cut the remains that the lead to 34-32 ..We just lost Irish have strug­with 14:54 gled on the road
everything -we
remaining. this season,
didn't fight.,
But when going 5-9 away Rutgers went on from the Joyce a 19-4 run, Center.
Muffet McGraw 
including eight "At this point in 
Irish coach
consecutive 
makes, the Irish 
hopes were demolished as the 
Scarlet Knights led 53-36. 
Notre Dame didn't get any 
closer than 12 the rest of the 
way. 
"We got momentum going in the second half, and we really didn't keep it," McGraw said. "We just lost everything -we didn't fight. We didn't com­pete." 
For the Irish, it was just another Georgetown, Seton Hall or West Virginia -all Big East road games that the Irish could have won. 
"We've had this problem all year long," McGraw said. "We have struggled to win on the road because we don't have the right attitude when we go into a road game." 
Batteast led the Irish with 25 points on 10-for-17 shooting. Megan Duffy had 14 points and four assists on 5-for-9 shooting. 
Cappie Pondexter led the Scarlet Knights with 20 points and four assists. Michelle Campbell added 16 points on 6-for-7 shooting, and Chelsea Newton scored 11 points on 5­for-5 shooting. 
For the game, the Irish shot 
40.8 percent, but Rutgers shot 58 percent overall, the highest mark by a Notre Dame oppo­nent this year. 
the season I don't 
feel very good about us finding [what it takes to win on the road] all of a sudden," McGraw said. "I think it's something that each player really has to look and say, 'What can I do better?' Right now nobody's doing their job." 
RUTGERS 69, 
NOTRE DAME 55 
at the LOUIS BROWN 
ATHLETIC CENTER 
.. 
NOTRE DAME (18-9, 11-4) 
Batteast 10-17 4-4 25. LaVere 2-8 2-4 6, Severe 0-3 2-2 2. Duffy 5-9 2-2 14, Hernandez 1-2 0-1 3, Joyce 1·5 0-0 3, Borton 0-0 0-0 0. Gray 0-1 0-0 0, Flecky 0-0 0-0 0. Erwin 1-4 0-0 2. 
OPPONENT (17-10. 9-6} 
Hurns 3-6 1-2 7. Campbell 6-7 4-6 16. Pondexter 8-14 3-5 20. Newton 5-5 1-3 11, McCullouch 1-3 0-0 2, Locke 0-4 0­0 0, Jett 3-7 0-0 7, Cahoe 1-1 0-0 0, Richman 2-3 0-0 4. 
1st 2nd Total RUTGERS 27 42 69 NOTRE DAME 24 31 55 
3-point goals: Notre Dame 5-11 (Duffy 2-3, Joyce 1-5. Batteast 1-2. Hernandez 1-1), Rutgers 2-9 (Jett 1-4, Pondexter 1-1. Locke 0-4}. Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 27 (LaVere 7). Rutgers 29 (Campbell 9). Assists: Notre Dame 12 (Severe. Duffy 4). Opponent 18 (Hurns, Pondexter, Newton, Jett 4). Total fouls: Notre Dame 20. Rutgers 17. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
312 V\( (:leveland Ave. (}ranger, IN 46530 (574) 277-6693 
528 E. Colfax Ave. South Bend) IN 46617 (574) 232-1822 
. ,• 

lTndergraduate members ofthe gay, lesbian, and bisexual com.munity are invited to apply for n1cmbcrship on the 
Standing Committee for Gay and L.esbian Student Needs. 
APPLICATIONS arc now available in the (}ffice of Student Affairs (316 !vfain Building) or on the Standing Cotntnitt.ee web sit:c http://\\'\v\v.nd.edu/--scglsn/ 

Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Friday, ~tarch 5} 2004, and can be submitted at the Oflicc of Student Affairs. 

The Office of Student Affairs is now acce1Jti11g nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award 
For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due b.Y March 16, 2004. 


\ 
\ 
~ -~ 
\ 
\ 
' 
·\ 
\I 
I\ 
·: I 
I I 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, March 1, 2004 
A Panel .Discussion of the Mel Gibson 'Film 
The Passion. ofThe Christ 
at the University ofNot.re Datne 
Tuesday~ .~lfarch 1..:1004 
7:00P.M. 141 l)cBartolu 

l'artkipanu~ John c~utadin.i. Thtclogr Peter llollan<.t Film, Ttlt1-~ 4rui Thtatrt. Fr. jero:me 11. Neyrey. SJ~~ 'rht4*logy Rabbi "Mkhaell\.. Signer. Thtmog}' 

Stro1~oored by Campu.s M inirtf}· Film. Tdcviiio.n. and Tbeatrt N D I lt>k"~C:.au!t l'ro~c-t Theology DepantDL'"'ttl 


l
I I 

Monday, March 1, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

plate in the inning. start against NAIA Florida got picked off rounding third two runs scored and a pair of Sophomore shortstop Greg Memorial. and was tagged out in a run­RBis.
Offense 
Lopez led the Irish against Sophomore outfielder down to end the game. The Irish found themselves in continued from page 20 Winthrop, going 4-for-6 with Bren·nan Grogan hit his first The loss was the first of the a 2-0 hole to Minnesota early 
six RBis, four runs scored and career home run against the season for Florida Atlantic, before Macri's two-run homer three top 25 opponents a home run. Lions, and freshman catcher who fell to 11-1 on the year in the fourth tied the game at Florida Atlantic, Winthrop and First baseman Matt Edwards Sean Gaston had a four-hit day. and had been ranked as high 2-2. The Irish would take a 4-2 Minnesota -by a combined was 3-for-4 with two RBis and Lopez had a pair as No. 12 coming lead later in the inning on RBI score of 41-15, plus a 12-3 vic­a pair of runs scored and of doubles for the into the weekend. singles from Grogan and sec­tory Saturday afternoon over catcher Javi Sanchez went 3-Irish in a 2-for-3 "It was truly an The Owls took ond baseman Steve Sollmann. NAJA opponent Florida for-5 and also had two RBis performance. the early lead in The Gophers rallied for four
amazing weekend. 

Memorial. and two runs scored for the Freshman the game in the runs in the top of the fifth to 
"It was truly an amazing Irish. pitcher Jess Once again, we just third inning. reclaim the lead at 6-4, but the weekend. Once again we just Junior pitcher Chris Niesel Stewart got the played great in before the Irish Irish tied it up again in the bot­played great in every facet of was again dominating on the win for the Irish came back to tie tom half of the inning.
every facet ofthe

the game," Mainieri saic;l. mound for Notre Dame, getting in his first career the score at 1-1 in In their next at bat, the Irish 
game.,

"These teams that we've played his second win of the season­start, allowing the top of the blew the game open with seven are really good teams, and in while allowing only one earned two runs in five fourth on yet runs on four hits as 12 batters two of the tlwee of the games, run over seven innings pitched innings pitched. another solo home came to the plate in the inning
Paul Malnlerl 

we made them look not so with five strikeouts. Classmates Chris run off the bat of for the Irish. Notre Dame
Irish coach 

good. And really I think it was "We know what [Niesel] is Vasami and Jeff Sanchez. would add six more runs in the a case of our kids playing well going to give us every time," Samardzija, who Sophomore lefty next two innings. in every facet again." • Mainieri said. "He had another also plays wide receiver for the Tom Thornton got the start for Freshman right-hander Derik 
With the four wins on the quality outing and put a lot of Notre Dame football team, also the Irish and contributed seven Olvey made his first career weekend, the Irish improved to strikes in there and made the got time on the mound in the solid innings, allowing two start on the hill for the Irish, 6-0 on the season -the best other team try to beat him." contest. earned runs on six hits. allowing five earned runs on start for an Irish squad since Winthrop got five of its six Notre Dame 3, Classmate Ryan Doherty got seven hits in 4 1/3 innings 1960. runs in the ninth inning Friday Florida Atlantic 2 the win for the Irish, pitching a pitched. Notre Dame 19, Winthrop 6 with Notre Dame entering the In arguably the best game of scoreless 1 1/3 innings to end Freshman Dan Kapala got 
The contest with the Eagles inning up 19-1. the weekend, the Irish needed the game. the win in relief for the Irish, got off to a slow start Friday Notre Dame 12, Florida a one-out, ninth inning solo "Tom Thornton, for the sec­working three innings and afternoon, as the game Memorial3 home run from Edwards -his ond straight week in a row allowing one run. remained scoreless through Against the Lions, the Irish third of the season -to secure against as good of competition The Irish travel to San three innings;· before the Irish put 11 runs across the plate in the win in a nail-biter. you're going to find in the Antonio Saturday for the Alamo plated six runs on seven hits in the first five innings, as The eventual game-winning country and in as difficult a City Irish Baseball Classic, the top of the fourth as Notre Mainieri played many o-f his shot came off Florida Atlantic setting as you're going to find where Notre Dame will face Dame sent 10 batters to the players that do not usually closer Craig Hughes, who had in the country, just completely Southern Illinois, Texas-San 

Extra Extra Read All A.bout lt!! 
Turtle Creek has released apartment assignments for 2004-2005. CHECK YOUR E-MAIL! 
Still looking for a place to live for next year? Come join your friends and live at Turtle Creek! 
Call us today! 574-272-8124 www.turtlecreeknd.con1 

Spring Break Survivor Days Come to the University Health Center Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday March 1st -3rd 9 am to 9 pm for 'healthy survival' kits, refreshments, raffles, and more! We want you to be a healthy, happy, safe... 

Sponsored by: University Health Services. University Counseling Center, RecSports and the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
'0 .; Q ....... 4 -.( ' =· ... ..: • ;w ~· ~ f 1 ~· 0:
-.--... ~ "' 
not allowed a run in his previ­dominated the other team," Antonio and Penn State. ous 13 2/3 innings pitched on Mainieri said. "He did a great the season. job and gave us a chance to Notes: 
Edwards also had a game­win with seven solid innings. • Freshman centerfielder tying solo home run to lead off "If we keep getting that kind Danny Dressman sprained his the seventh inning. of pitching out of him for the ankle trying to beat out a bunt 
Florida Atlantic had an rest of the year, we're going to in the game against Florida opportunity to tie the game in be tough to beat." Atlantic and was unable to play the bottom of the ninth follow­Notre Dame 19, Minnesota 7 .Sunday against Minnesota. ing a leadoff single from cen­In their final game of the Mainieri said he is unsure of terfielder Tim Mascia, who weekend, the Irish used a 19-Dressman's status for next later stole second. After a run, 19-hit offensive attack to weekend. groundout and a walk by left top the Golden Gophers. • Junior pitcher Grant fielder Anthony Albano, the Gaston lead the potent Irish Johnson, who is trying to work Owls had runners on first and offense, going 5-for-6 from the back from Tommy John surgery third with one out. plate with three runs scored that sidelined him for all of the 
But pinch hitter Robbie and three RBis. Shortstop Matt 2003 season, was unable to Widlansky hit into a fielder's Macri was also dominant at the play over the weekend due to choice as Albano was thrown plate, going 4-for-6 with five tonsillitis. out at second, and pinch run­runs scored and a career-high ner Mike McBryde -in the six RBis. Grogan finished the Contact Chris Federico at game for Mascia at second -day 4-for-5 from the plate with cfederic@nd.edu 

l.Jo,re to talk al1out Nc>trc Dan1c? l.A)oktng for a job for next year? 
T'hc ()ftice ofUndergraduate i\dn1issions is no-vv hiting(n1:.tlc and female) tour guides. 
Find the application online at http://admissions.nd.edu/tourguidc.pdf or pick one up in Room 220 ofthe l\1ain Building. 
Please return the <...'ompkred application to 210 l\Jain Buiiding by 
:\-larch 5th. 
Trainingwill take plac:c the week of ~1arch 29th. but work will not begin until Fal12004 . 
.A few summer tour guide positions arc available. 
Ifyou have any questions. please contact Jill or Gabc at 1-7505. 
-... Qo_ ..... _ _ _ _ .:. •
"......................~.--------------..--------------------------'~ ­
~ 

-------------------------------~--------------~~--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
. ' ' >\ . 
l 
\ I 
\
I ­
I page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 1, 2004 
\ 
'I 
Paige's earlier goal and Amado's the Notre Dame goal. Globke, who deflected a Paige ND-Paige (Josh Sciba. Lebda). 4:27 PP. second-period goal. It was the Poulin immediately called a shot from the blue line past
I \ Sweep 
Shots on goal: Notre Dame 26. Michigan

} third three-point game of the timeout to try and settle his Ruden at 7:10 of the third peri­
24. Power plays: Notre Dame 2-of-3. continued from page 20 defenseman 's career and his troops. od. Michigan 1-of-5. Goalies: David Brown 
second with three or more "Michigan really rallied "It was really important for us 23 saves out of 24 shots (NO). AI Montoya 14 saves out of 17 shots. Noah
knew what I could do. I got my assists. around their young netminder," to come out tonight and play just 
Ruden 8 saves out of 9 shots (UM).

chance to prove myself and I For the game, Notre Dame he said. "They got us out of our as good as we did [Friday was able to really take advan­outshot Michigan by a count of game in the second period with night]." Globke said Saturday. 
NOTRE DAME 5, MICHIGAN 2 

tage of it." 26-24. . those two goals, so we took the "It's something that we dis­at the JOYCE CENTER 
The Irish have made a living Saturday, Michigan came out timeout to just try and settle cussed earlier and something knocking off ranked teams on and bottled up the Irish in the things down some." that the coaches put upon us 1st 2nd 3rd Total the road or neutral sites this sea­defensive zone seemingly all The move worked, as defense­and we were able to come NOTRE DAME 1 2 2 5 son, with No. 1 Boston College, game, outshooting Notre Dame man Neil Komadoski scored at through." MICIIIGA'J 0 2 0 2 No. 3 Maine and then-No. 4 4]-16. Notre Dame capitalized 15:43 of the second with a hard Notre Dame closes out its sea­
SCORING SUMMAHY 

Wisconsin their first victims. on its few offensive looks, how­slap shot from the blue line to son on the road, traveling to first Period This was the first and only time ever, scoring four goals against the top right corner that eluded Lake Superior State for a two l\D-Mike Walsh (Hob Globke. Lebda). 
8:44 PP.

that Notre Dame had a chance to Ruden before Cory McLean iced Ruden. Just 17 seconds later, T.J. game conference series against defeat a ranked team at the the game in the third period with Jindra outskated a Michigan the Lakers starting Friday. 
Sec.ond Period • Joyce Center, and in front of two an empty-net goal. defender to a loose puck in the UM-Jeff Tam bellini (Dwight Helminen.
NOTRE DAME 4, MICHIGAN 1

consecutive sellouts, the team The Irish scored on their very corner and made a backhanded Eric Werner). 0:20. 
at the JOYCE CENTER

took advantage ofthat chance. first shot of the game at 8:44 of pass to Amado, who was skating UM-Andrew Ebbetf (Jason Ryznarl. 
2:19.

"We always say that each the first period, when Mike down the slot. 
1st 2nd 3rd Total ND-NPil Komadoski (Tom Galvin. 

game is worth two points, but I Walsh threw a shot at the net Amado whipped the puck past NOTRE DAME 0 3 1 4 :\1ichael Bartlett). 15:43. think that there are certain that appeared to hit a Michigan ·Ruden and gave Notre Dame the MICHIGAN 0 0 1 1 ND-Amado (Jindra). 16:00. points throughout the season defenseman before beating lead back, setting off an enthusi­
SCORING SUMMARY Third Period

where you look back and say, Ruden to the short side. astic celebration from the crowd. 
First Period ND-Globke (Paige, Brad \'\'anchulak). 

'Okay, that's where we took the When Michigan came out i.n The Irish took advantage of that No scoring. 7:10. next step,"' Irish coach Dave the second period, it came out momentum and tried to pull ND-McLean (unassisted) 17:25 EN. Second Period 
Poulin said. "I think this was a with a vengeance, with Jeff away even more, but Josh Sciba 
ND-T.J. Jindra (Matt Amado. Brett Shots on goal: Notre Dame 16, Michigan

very big weekend, not just on the Tambellini scoring the equalizer hit a post and Lebda shot just 
Lebda). 1:17. 41. Power plays: Notre Dame 1-of-5. micro level [of this season] put just 20 seconds into the frame. high on a breakaway near the ND-Cory McLean (Aaron Gilll. 1041. Michigan 0-of-6. Goalies: Brown 39 perhaps even on the macro level Less than two minutes later, end of the second period. ND-Jason Paige (Wes O'Neill. Lebda). saves out of 41 shots (NDJ. Ruden 11 [in the history of the program]." Andrew Ebbett gave Michigan its The Irish would need to wait 14:35 PP. savPs out of 15 shots (UM). With their wins this weekend, first lead on the weekend when until the third period to get their 

Third Period the Irish moved up in the RPI he poked a loose puck past insurance goal, but it came off UM-Eric Nystrom (Brandon Rogers, Contact Justin Shover at rankings from No. 16 to No. 13, Brown during a serum in front of the stick of senior forward. Rob Matt Hunwick), 3:15 PP. jschuver@nd.edu 
and currently sit at the same level in the PairWise Rankings ­two of the biggest components in deciding the 10 at-large bids for the 16-team NCAA Tournament. 
They also took a large step toward securing home ice in the first round of the CeliA playoffs -which goes to the top six teams in the conference. Notre Dame currently sits tied for fifth with Alaska Fairbanks with 29 points, and only one point behind fourth place Ohio State. 
Friday night's game started with a relatively defensive first period, as neither team could get a goal against either Brown or Michigan's All-American goalie Al Montoya. The Irish solved Montoya just 1:17 into the sec­ond period, as Matt Amado made a perfect cross-ice pass to 
T.J. Jindra, who roofed the puck over Montoya for an early Irish· lead. 
Notre Dame would add to its lead less than 10 minutes later as Cory McLean scored on a breakaway, beating Montoya through the five-hole as McLean was being chased by a Michigan defenseman. 
"I knew he was chasing me, but he was a defenseman and I just wanted to use my speed to hopefully get by him," McLean said. "I was able to get by him and luckily the puck went in for me." 
The Irish would make the score 3-0 when Jason Paige scored a rebound goal on the power play· at 14:45 of the sec­ond period. Montoya crumpled to the ice following the goal after apparently injuring himself and was replaced by sophomore Noah Ruden. 
The change in goal sparked the Michigan offense, as the team got on the board on a power play at 3:15 of the third, with Eric Nystrom scoring on a deflection. Nystrom's goal broke Notre Dame's streak of 36 straight penalty kills. 
Notre Dame responded with a power play goal of its own ­with Paige again collecting loose change and pushing the puck past Ruden. 
"That goal [to make it 4-1] was a very big goal, because Michigan's a very good team and we didn't want tu give them any momentum," Poulin said. "Coming back and answering their power play goal with one of our own was enormous." 
Senior defenseman Brett Lebda picked up an assist on that goal and also assisted 





CZ'o support tfte .9lmerican Cancer Societg... 
$7 per 6uncli, $3 per vase 
On safe {uring.cfinner at :J{prtli ant£Soutli 'lJining Jla{fs on Montfag ancfTues{ag, Marcli 1st ant£2JUf or at !l{ecSports unti{:Friiag, Marcli 5tfi 



DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 

FIVES 
Grotto: Use with Caution. 
PleASe. Lord> Scv+h Bend 
r.,...,,c.Ot•\Q reo.lly ur••-.. OS e 5 o~e 
··rA\ce ;t bAcI< ••. , 

Protes~d?' TAKE lT BACK 11
) .
\ Bi3 Willy! ~Vhy 
den'+ yo.. c4l t'f' my h<.\<:k ~ i g
gvy! 

.. ' 
Monday, March 1, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
~Jd! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, Look out
Ooopsl 
belowto form four ordinary words. 

.. ) YOHBB 
rJ 
1 
C2004 Tribune Media Ser.~ices, Inc. All Rights RD8eNed. 
ROSYR j
I I r (] 
~ NIEFED j
J r
1 www.jurrille.rom 
~GURCOH I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J I I (J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print anS\\er ffire: r I I I JANDr I x J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Saturday's I Jumbles: DRAFT HOARD FINISH SOOTHE Answer: What the fashion writers gave the latest skirt 
.. 
length-"SHORT' SHRIFT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 With 27 -Across, get hitched 

1 Layers 31 Cigarette
7 Sound of a light-residue
ning bolt 34 Ukr., once

1oCut the hair of 35 Flight paths 
14 Main argumenf 37 Reason for turn­
15 Frank Sinatra's ing down anFool to invitation
Want You" 41 Capulet rival 

16 Top-notch 42 Stars and 
17 Losses, in Stripes land 
/ accounting 43 Ocean
18 Charlie Rose's network 44 Guess: Abbr. 
19 Serving with 45 Film director chop suey Craven 
20 Jonathan Swift 46 Nightwear, for pamphlet about short Ireland 
49 Helios' Roman 23 To be given counterpart away 
51 Calf's mother 24 Court 
53 Jai 25 The whole she­54 2003 teen com-
bang 

edy 26 Twisty turn 
59 Practice, as 27 See 29-Across skills 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
60 Apply 61 Territory 62 In addition 63 Spy novelist 
Deighton 64 Show clearly 65 Spelling con­
tests 66 "Acid" 67 Caught, as fish 
DOWN 1 Machine-gun by plane 2 One's wife, slangily 3 Changes the 
decor of 4 Actor's whisper 5 Point at the din­
ner table? 61mplores 7 Nothin' 8 Olympian repast 9 El_, Tex. 
10 Noel 11 Clark Kent's gal 12 Ancient 
Peruvian 13 Speed away, with "our 21 Number of teeth Goofy has 22 Popular discount 
shoe store 27 Tel Aviv native 28 Worthless part 
30 Bandy words 32 Capitol Hill V.I.P.: Abbr. 
WILLSHORTZ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ____________________________________ ___ 
City ________ State ____ Zip__________ _ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: Dinah Shore, Ron Howard, Harry Belafonte, Alan Thicke, Timothy Daly, Robert Bork, Roger Daltrey 
Happy Birthday: You've got your act together, and it's time to show everyone exactly what you have to offer. Your shrewd business sense will impress associates and colleagues. You will be honest and straightforward, gaining popularity and a good reputation in your chosen field. This is a perfect year to move quickly, focusing on exactly what you want to accomplish. Your numbers: 7' 10, 27, 33, 41' 45 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You can gain approval and get kudos, by asking for help and putting a little heart into your speech or request. Rewards, gifts or money from investments, surrenders or taxes can be· expected. ** TAURUS (April20-May 20): A change of attitude has probably disrupted your home environment. Verbal abuse may lead to walkouts or rash statements you may regret later. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Red tape will be impossible to clear up today. You may as well work on projects that will allow you to make progress. In-laws or relatives will oppose your intentions. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your family is probably feeling neglected and unloved. You have been so busy t:r)iing to figure out what to do next that you've forgotten you're not alone. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Once again you find yourself having problems with co-workers and employers. You are ahead of your time, and trying to stay in one spot is just asking too much.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may find yourself changing crowds. Boredom has led you in new and unique directions, which offer interesting friendships. ***** LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be emotional if you have been extravagant or let children or friends take advantage of you financially. You should channel your efforts into getting rid of bad habits. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Coarse language may cause you to want to get out of the house. You are better off visiting friends or relatives than entertaining at home. **** SAGITTARITJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): This will be a difficult day to deal with co­workers. You are not likely to be treated well, and your boss may make it hard for you to do your work effectively. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can look into new jobs, but don't count on getting help from someone who may have promised you assistance. Financial limitations will have to be dealt with on your own. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You won't get the reaction you want from your mate today. Intimate relationships with colleagues will lead to gossip that could easily affect your position. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may divulge secret information without realizing it today. Be cautious not to get involved in office chatter that will cause problems for others. **** 
Birthday Baby: You will have a strong sense of who you are and what you want to do from a very young age. Your ability to push yourself and your beliefs .,will always put you in the limelight. You are sensitive toward others and therefore will be well-liked throughout your life. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 


Puzzle by Zach Jesse 
33 President after F.D.R. 34 Drunkard 35 Get better, as wine 36 Drs.' group 37 Afternoons and evenings, briefly 38 Caviar 
39 Kinda 
40 Wackos 
45 Internet start­
up? 
46 Flexible 
47 Actress Rule 
48 Like finished 
contracts 50 Nabisco cookies 
52 Continuously 53 Come clean 54 Ishmael's cap­
tain 55 Spy 56 Select 57 First lady's resi­
de nee 58 Hawk's opposite 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network,· nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. . 
tr"l'l 1 •1•1111 ~J·t• I I ...... f I trt• t 111"'1 1 It •t'l f 111'1111 1•11 II tftl.. , It PI_, I I tt•tot I I fPI .. t I •t•IC I I •1•1• t ••,•14 I I tltlolll •••14 I I,.., .. J 
-----~ ----------·------------------------, 
THE OBSER\'ER 
p

Monday, March 1, 2004 

page 20 

HOCKEY 
Rude hosts 
~· 
\ 
' 
Irish sweep No.4 Michigan in crucial home series 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Spores Editor 

Not even green jerseys could stop the Irish this weekend. 
The Irish (17-11-4, 13-10-3 in the CCHA) swept Michigan (23-10-1, 18-7-1) at home for their fourth sweep of a CCHA opponent 
at the Joyce Center this year. None was biggerthan this one, though, as Notre Dame convincingly defeated the No. 4­
ranked team in the coun­try and first place team in the conference. Wearing alternate uni­forms each night, the 
S I 

ee A SO "For the Irish 
this year, the sky is the limit"­
page 12 
Irish first defeated the Wolverines 4-1 Friday wearing their green jerseys. They completed the sweep Saturday in their gold jerseys, defeating Michigan 5-2. 
No matter what color sweater, the story was the same, with Notre Dame having the early momentum in each game before Michigan would make a run to either cut into the deficit or tie the game back up. 
A constant in goal for the Irish through those potent Wolverine offensive outbursts was freshman goalie David Brown. 
Brown, who has had one of the best rook­ie seasons ever in a Notre Dame uniform, 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish stumble in road loss to Rutgers 
watch-very frustrating." 
By HEATHER 

Notre Dame (18-9, 11-4)
VAN HOEGARDEN started off strong jumping out 

Sports Writer 

to an 11-6 lead to start the game, behind six straight 
There's no place like home points from forward -but don't tell the Irish that. Jacqueline Batteast. They already know it. However, the Irish were 
After defeating No. 21 Miami unable to sustain that effort, 
by 3 5 points at home Tuesday, the Irish traveled to  "It was really  allowing Rutgers to climb back into  
Rutgers and expe­rienced yet anoth­er road loss. The Scarlet Knights  disappointing to watch-very frustrating.,  the game, scor­ing eight of the next 10 points. But the Irish  
(17-10, 9-6 in the Big East) shot the lights out (72.7 percent from the  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  scored eight straight points to give them a 24-23 lead  
field) in the sec- with  3:39  

ond half, leading them to a 69-remaining in the half. Rutgers 55 win. responded with two late shots "We gave them wide open to put them up three at the 
layups and easy shots," Irish half. 
coach Muffet McGraw said. "It was really disappointing to 
en 
HOCKEY 
1.1.1 

t Notre Dame 4, 
•I 1--u z Michigan 1 
f 
a: ~ 
Notre Dame 5, 

~~ == Michigan 2 
c:E 

was good -and at times great -this weekend, stopping a combined 62 shots in the two victories. 
"It's just started since the beginning of the 

see WOMEN'S/page 15 year," Brown said after Saturday's game. "Coming in as a freshman, no one really 
see SWEEPIpage 18 

~ The Irish swept No. 4 
Florida Atlantic Classic 
with a loss to the Scarlet 
a. =Michigan this weekend. 

Notre Dame 3, in Boca Raton, Fla. 
Knights. 

Florida Atlantic 2 page 20
page 20 
page 20

i en 
BASEBALL 
Irish beat three top 25 teams 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
Don't tell the Irish hitters they're not supposed to be in mid -season form yet. 
Just the second weekend into the 2004 season, No. 10 Notre Dame (6-0) put 53 runs on the board with 57 hits over the course of four games to sweep the Florida Atlantic Classic in Boca Raton, Fla. 
"I don't remember us every swinging the bat this well early in the season," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "Usually our hitting is that last thing that comes around. This year it seems like or guys have just come right out of the gate get­ting good swings. We're not striking out very much, we're drawing some walks and we're hitting the ball hard." 
The Irish also used solid starting pitching and nearly perfect fielding to knock off 
see OFFENSE/page 17 



MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish bounce back at UCLA 
Irish center Tom Timmermans sinks career-high 20 points in Notre Dame victory over Bruins 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 
The only thing left for Tom Timmermans was to look at the bench and call his own number for an isolation clear-out. 
Timmermans scored a career-high 20 points in seemingly every way possible for a 6-foot-11, 270­pound center -3-pointers, baseline jumpers and inside post moves -as the Irish defeated UCLA 7 5-60 Saturday at the Pauley Pavilion. 
The 20 points from Timmermans combined with 21 points from Chris Thomas and 20 from Chris Quinn coming off the bench outscored the 10 Bruins who saw the court. 
Timmermans finished 9-of-15 from the field and connected on 2-of-4 3-pointers. Coming into Saturday, Timmermans had made two 3-pointers in his career. Saturday was the second time this season Timmermans had set a career high for points. 
Thomas and Quinn alternated running the point 
see MEN'S/page 15 

BASEBAll 
ND WOMEN'S BBALL 

Notre Dame 19, Notre Dame 19, 
Rutgers 69, 

Winthrop 6 Minnesota 7 
Notre Dame 55 
The lOth-ranked Irish 
The Irish again strug-

Notre Dame 12, went 4-0 over the week­
gled on the road as they 
fell to 9-6 in the Big East

Florida Memorial 3 end and won the 
MEN'S BASKETBAll 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Notre Dame 75, 
Notre Dame 17, 
Penn State 7
UCLA 60 
The Irish opened the
Irish center Tom 
Timmermans scored a 
2004 season at home 
career-high 20 points 
with a commanding vic-
Saturday to help the 
tory over the Nittany 
Irish to a win. 
Lions. 
page 20 
page 12 






