
Police continue investigation, await results 
By HEATHER 
Family, friends VAN HOEGARDEN 
remember O'Connor
News Writer 
South Bend police said Monday that the investigation of a fatal By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN crash Sunday morning was pend­News Writer ing results from a blood-alcohol test on the driver of the car and Lt. j.g. Ryan O'Connor, a 2002 the reconstruction of the acci­Notre Dame graduate, died Sunday dent. at St. Joseph's Regional Medical 
St. Joseph County deputy pros­Center in South Bend of injuries sus­ecutor Ken Cotter said he expects tained when he was hit by a car to make a decision on whether to while walking with friends after 
. file charges later in the week as leaving a local bar early that morn­more information comes to light. ing. No charges were filed as of O'Connor, a former Siegfried Hall Monday, Cotter confirmed. resident, was in town last weekend 
Ryan O'Connor, 24, died for the Notre Dame-Michigan game Sunday at St. Joseph Hospital as at Notre Dame Stadiwn. a result of injuries sustained in "That's where he was," his 18­
the crash that occurred in the year old sister Siobhan O'Connor 1800 block of South Bend Avenue said from the family residence in at approximately 3:27 a.m., West Chester, Penn. "He was proba­South Bend Police officer William bly so happy [Notre Dame] won, and Kraus said in a news release. he was there." 
CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 

Members of Selgfried Hall gathered Sunday for a memorial mass In honor of Ryan O'Connor, a 
see O'CONNOR/page 6

see ACCIDENT/page 4 former Notre Dame student killed In a car accident Sunday morning. 

Police cite 29, arrest 2 over 
w-eekend 
Observer Staff Report 
The joint task force of Notre Dame Security/Police, State Excise Police, St. Joseph County Police and South Bend Police issued 29 cita­tions and made two physical arrests on Saturday amidst the events surrounding the Michigan game. 
NDSP director Rex Rakow said the most common citations handed out were minor in consumption, minor in possession and public intoxication, though reports from all the officers on duty were not yet compiled for statistics. 
Excise officers handled the two arrests made, according to Excise officer Sergeant Michelle Traughber. 
Elizabeth Ryder, 20, was arrested before the game on charges of pos­session of a fake ID. minor in pos­session, minor in consumption and resisting law enforcement. Ryder is not listed as a student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross. 
John Khym. 25, was arrested on charges of public intoxication and battery to a police animal. Khym reportedly struck the Excise police horse Beau when officers told him to leave the parking lot after the game. 
No citations were issued during the field rush and altercations reported after the close of the game broke up before NDSP could respond, said Hakow. 
Rakow added the number of cita­tions and arrests at the Michigan game was about even with those at other home games. 
Interest in overseas programs remains high 

Info sessions occur this week 
By LYNN SIKORA 
News Writer 
The lure of Europe is in the air this week as students clamor to attend information sessions for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's overseas pro­grams. 
Study abroad programs are becoming increasing popular at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's as both schools seek to expand their overseas offer­ings. 
Though officials won't know exact numbers until applica­tion deadlines have passed, initial student interest is high this year. 
"It is hard to gauge the numbers because it varies year to year due to curriculum and security," said Thomas Bogenschild, director of inter­national study programs at Noire Dame. "We are expect­ing a similar turnout as last year, but we won't know what the impact of the bombing in Madrid will be for example." 
Within the past few years, Notre Dame has placed among the top schools in the nation for the number of students who study abroad. 
Generally 800-900 Notre Dame students study abroad per year, said Bogenschild, and the number rises to 1,100 to 1,200 when specialized pro­grams such as the Rome architecture program are included. 
Last year, Notre Dame initi­ated a new program in Italy and a yearlong option in London. 
Notre Dame's largest study abroad program, in London, will offer the yearlong option for a small number of stu­dents next fall. It w11l. target students who focus on British studies and could benefit from 
see ABROAD/page 4 
.. 

Marcia Minniti helps junior Danielle Webber from Paquerilla West browse pamphlets In the International Studies Office. 
Leave of absence offers additional option for international study 
Studying Abroad Countries where abroad programs are available 
Saint Mary's  Notre Dame  
Programs  Programs  
Austria  Ireland  Austria  China  Greece  Mexico  
Australia  Italy  Australia :  Egypt  Ireland  Russia  
France  Jamaica  Brazil  France  Italy  Spain 
Greece  Mexico  Chile  Germany · Japan  U.K.  
Haiti  Spain  

*Some countries have programs in multiple locations 
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Gra hie 

By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
Although Notre Dame's study abroad programs rank among the nation's best, some students find themselves craving immer­sion in a culture not on the list. 
Undergraduates who instead wish to choose their own loca­tion may apply to the University for a leave of absence. 
"Leave of absences are 
designed to supplement the study abroad offerings of Notre Dame," said assistant dean of arts and letters Jennifer Nemecek. "Non-western loca­tions are viewed very favorably by the committee." 
Currently, 16 slots are avail­able to Arts and Letters stu­dents, said assistant dean Jennifer Nemecek. The number varies depending on the College 
see ABSENCE/page 4 

r--------------------------------------------~­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A vvin for the ages 

The result was the same -a W in the win column. The same frantic rushing of the field. The same win over a despised rival. The same energized feeling around campus for days after-Rama 
~ards. So w~y Gottumukkal 
d1d Saturdays a 
win over 
Assistant Scene
Michigan feel so 
Editor

much sweeter 
than the victory 
at Notre Dame Stadium of two years 
ago? 
Maybe it was because everyone and their mothers expected Notre Dame to lose. Heck, even Vegas had the team being steamrolled by the Wolverines, making us 13.5 point underdogs. ESPN cancelled its GameDay visit to South Bend at the last minute to make the trip down to the other USC (the University of South Carolina) campus for the Georgia game. "Hardcore" Notre Dame fans, sober and otherwise, heckled their team at the pep rally. But it was more than all that. 
Even if a part of me always believed we could pull out a victory over Michigan. another could not have imagined how emotional a game it would be. How could any game top a 25-23 victory with cor­nerback Shane Walton capping a nail-biter by batting away a two point conversion to preserve the win? It simply seemed unfath­omable for any football game in my Notre Dame career to compete with that 2002 victory. 
But suddenly, there we were two minutes into the fourth quarter. Up 14-12 over a Michigan team that everyone said could beat the Irish with one hand tied behind its collec­tive back. A faint glimmer of a real­ization started to dawn on the back of my mind (and probably the minds of many thousands of other fans). Could we possibly rush the field of hallowed Notre Dame stadium soil after an improbable win against Michigan? 
And then it happened. In a win for the ages, Notre Dame football kept Michigan to only one touchdown and a handful of field goals to pull out the victory. Within minutes, thousands poured onto the field, despite the ushers' futile efforts to prevent the mass exodus. It was deja vu all over again. But for some reason it wasn't. It was just a little different. Our team had just crushed Michigan, avenging last year's lop­sided loss, and all was well in the world and Domerland. 
In many ways, this win was a fit­ting way to balance the scales after a year and a half of bitter disap­pointment following a thrilling 2002 football outing. Even as ESPN.com was hurriedly scrambling to feature the Irish on the front headline, the best news came from the stadium announcer proclaiming to a mosh pit of thousands that Notre Dame had once again reclaimed its right­ful throne as Division I's winningest program. 
At that moment, it was clear that this truly was a win for the ages. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and smves for the: highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We: do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we: have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can corrc:cc our error. 
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD STUDY ABROAD ANYWHERE, WHERE WOULD YOU GO? 




Dan McSwain Jim Hyde Marisa Sandahl Meg Barreto Paul Romine Tad Skotnicki 
senior senior junior junior sophomore sophomore O'Neill O'Neill LeMans LeMans Zahm Morrissey 
"Canada, "Narnia, for "I would love to "Moscow." "I've always "Sweden, because I hear some Turkish get lost in dreamed of because I like 
it's like a whole delight." Tokyo." 
different country down there." 


Worker allegedly spits In officer's drink 
LUFKIN, Texas-Two young men face felony charges after one of them allegedly spat in a drink he was serving to an East Texas police officer. 
Brian Strban, 19, and Nathaniel Allen Baker, 22, were workers at a Lufkin Sonic Drive-In where the incident allegedly happened Sept. 3, according to a police affidavit. 
Both were arrested last week and charged with second-degree felony tampering with a con­sumer product. If con­
victed, both could be sen­tenced to 20 years in prison and fined up to $10,000, The Lufkin Daily News reported in its online editions Monday. 
In a statement, a spokeswoman for the Oklahoma City-based Sonic hamburger chain said both workers were fired. 
EU ministers tackle spelling of Euro SCHEVENINGEN, 
Netherlands-Before the 10 countries that joined the European Union this year can adopt the euro 
as their currency, they have to spell it correctly. 
The new threat to euro­zone stability surfaced unexpectedly Saturday at a meeting of finance min­isters from the 25 European Union coun­tries. 
Dutch Finance Minister Gerrit Zalm. the host, said everyone was sur­prised to find some new­comers were spelling euro differently in their native tongues than the rest. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
c::: 
LIJ 
:X: 
~ 
LIJ 
3: 
-I 
~ 
c( 
(.) 


HIGH LOW 



HIGH LOW 
0 

HIGH 84 HIGH 73
...I 

LOW 62 LOW 51 
going to blondes and Oxford." well-designed furniture. " 
IN BRIEF 
Come hear a vocal and piano concert by soprano Georgine Resick and pianist Doris Stevenson in the Annenburg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art tonight at 7:30 p.m. 
The Domer Run will take place on Saturday starting at 11 a.m. A 3-mile run, a 6-mile run and a 2-mile fun walk will take place with a pancr.ke breakfast immediately follow­ing the race. Proceeds from Domer Run will benefit ovarian cancer research and education. Register in advance at Holfs Sports Hec Center. For more information, call631-6100. 
There will be an Interdenominational Prayer Service tonight at 9 p.m. at Sacred Heart Chapel in lloly Cross Hall at Saint Mary's. All faiths are welcome. 
On Friday, self-guided tours of Debartolo Performing Arts Center will be offered. Campus entertainers will provide con­tinuous entertainment in all five venues from 4:30 to 10 p.m. 
The film "Rebel Frontier" will be shown Wednesday from 4 to 5:30 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The Relay for Life: "Fighting Irish Fighting Cancer" will take place at the Stepan Center beginning Friday at 6 p.m. and continue until Saturday at 10 
a.m. For more information, call 631-6829. All proceeds will go to the American Cancer Society. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

75 50 

75 57 

Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Members talk about cancelled service trip 
said they hoped the University By MADDIE HANNA would reconsider its decision and News Writer allow the trip in the future. 
"I really don't want to make this [trip] the issue," SIBC advisor
Members of the Campus Life Susan Soisson said. "The issue isCouncil discussed a cancelled that Notre Dame students need to summer service trip to Ethiopia at have access to the poverty-strick­their Monday meeting. 
en in the world." 
Student body president Adam Students scheduled to partici­Istvan said he would seek further pate in the trip expressed frustra­examination of the cancellation tion with the decision. 
before considering any action. 
"If you can put yourself in myAccording to Student shoes, boarding a plane and giv­International Business Council ing a lady your ticket, and shemember Michael Rossmann, the asks you to call this number, how University's General Counsel can­would you feel?," said Dancelled the trip to Ethiopia within Zenker, one of the students in the hours of their scheduled depar­group.
ture. However, Rossmann said Jimmy Flaherty, president ofthat SIBC didn't need approval the Student Union Board, said the from General Counsel. 
University might have considered"Very worthwhile experiences liability issues in making the deci­
may be put in jeopardy," 
sion.
Rossmann said. "We're Catholic, 
While the CLC agreed that
and bishops have said that we school policy regarding approval 
have a call to solidarity with 
for trips deserves clarification,Africa. These issues are really Istvan expressed fear of acting important." 
too quickly. 
Rossmann said the only reason­CLC decided to further research ing for the cancellation given to the issue and potentially meethim was the State Department's 
with members of the General
cautionary warning about travel Council before moving forward. 
to East Africa. Despite the warn­"I feel that more discussion ining, Rosmann felt his group was this group would be necessary,"still well-prepared. 
Istvan said. "We've only heard"We had researched the situa­
one side of the story." 
tion for months, taken the proper steps," Rossmann said. "What we did was completely correct." Contact Maddie Hanna at 
Others involved with the trip mhannal@nd.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Nevv CSC member added to COR 
Observer Staff Report Student Body president The council also discussed Adam Istvan said he strongly student safety in the South
Council of Representatives supported this idea. Bend area.
members continued their "This addition brings Members said they would
discussion from the previous advice about where we're consider creating a bus serv­
week about the addition of 
going with the service ele­ice that would ferry students
new members at Monday's 
ment of student life," he to and from activities. Beforemeeting. 
said. deciding on specifics, mem­Center for Social Concerns 
After discussion, COR bers will survey students on
representative Andrew Whit unanimously agreed to add how to best design the bus
spoke about the possible new Whit to the council as a non­program and how it might be esc member. 
votng member. paid for. 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Students discuss budget cuts 
$1,000," she said. mation session," said Bauer
Shortfall will be 

Welton noted that final said. higher than expected numbers would be available Student body president at next week's meeting. Sarah Catherine White 
Student Activities Board reported to the board that 
By KELLY MEEHAN president Lauren Fabina Sunday night was the first 
News Writer thanked the board for its "Dessert with Dr. Mooney" 
help with Thursday's at Holy Cross. White said 
Saint Mary's Board of Twilight Tailgate and she was pleased with the Governance met Monday to Blessid Union of Souls con­turnout and thought that discuss a variety of issues cert. new College President Carol including expected cuts to "Everyone had a smile on Ann Mooney enjoyed the the College's overall budget. their face and was having event. 
Treasurer Molly Welton tons of fun," Fabina said. After the meeting the told the board the budget Elections commissioner board went to its retreat to cuts would be higher than Anna Bauer also told board talk about its goals for the previously anticipated. members seven tickets College during the upcom­
"The budget is way down, would be running for fresh­ing school year. and cuts may cause each man class officers. board to loose anywhere "There was a really good Contact Kelly Meehan at from a couple hundred to turnout at last week's infor-krneehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

LONDONPROG APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2005, SPRING 2006, & FULL YEAR 2005-2006 
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 101 DeBartolo 6:30pm 
ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME! 

Tuesday, September 14, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Absence 
continued from page 1 
and fluctuates from year to 
year based on available funds. 
Students must apply simul­

taneously to the program of 
their choice and to their col­
lege at Notre Dame to be 
granted a leave of absence. 
Locations in Africa, where 
Notre Dame maintains only 
one program in Cairo, tend to 
be the most sought after as 
well as sites in South America. 
Due do the financial burden, 

the application process for 
leave of absence status has 
become more difficult in 
recent years. Nemecek esti­
mates that she received 20 to 
25 applications for the College 
of Arts and Letters' quota of 
16 per year. 
"It has gotten competitive over the years. The program used to be bigger," said Nemecek. "I just try to work with the students to put together the best application possible." 
Applications are due the weeks before the fall and spring breaks for the following semester and are evaluated by the Committee of Academic Standing. Students are responsible for researching credible programs. 
"There are tons of accredit­ed abroad programs out there that offer great academic experiences," said Nemecek. "We look for those that are academically comparable to Notre Dame, ones that are academically challenging with good safety and security pro­cedures and policies." 
Once students are accepted and their foreign studies begin, they are no longer for­mally enrolled at Notre Dame. Federal grants such as Pell funding remain intact, but participants forfeit any finan­cial aid received from the University for that semester. 
For students with special regional interests. a leave of absence can be the perfect 
Accident 
continued from page 1 
St. Joseph County deputy coroner Rex Hakow said O'Connor's cause of death was severe head trauma and that an autopsy will not be performed. 
Police said O'Connor, recently returned from mili­tary service in Iraq. had left a bar with a group of friends to walk to a local restaurant. 
Several of the group had already crossed South Bend Avenue at Vaness Street when O'Connor and another person stopped on the west side of the street. According to a police statement, a wit­ness said that O'Connor ran across the street for an unknown reason, into the path of a northbound car driven by 19-year old Jackie Miltenberger of South Bend, a sophomore at Saint Mary's. Kraus said Miltenberger's car, which had one passen­ger, was the only one on the road at the time of the crash. 
"We'll never know if he saw that car or not," Kraus said. "There's no way we'll ever know." 
Kraus said that per proto­col. Miltenberger was given a blood alcohol content test at thn scene and then taken to option. 
Sophomore Michael Rossman is applying to study in Uganda with the School of International Training, which . focuses on international devel­
opment 
" I have always been inter­
ested in Africa, particularly 
East Africa, and have always 
wanted to go there," said 
Hossmann, an economics and 
theology major. 
If accepted, Rossman will 
live with a Ugandan family 
and study the history of mis­
sions and the church in East 
Africa. 
"I will really get to experi­
ence the culture there, maybe 
more so than with some other 
Notre Dame programs," said 
Rossman. 
In other cases leave of 
absence can serve as a backup 
when other plans fall through. 
Senior Courtney Kohout 
studied abroad in Seville, 
Spain last spring at the 
University of Seville. 
As an official student at the 
university, Kohout attended 
class entirely with Spanish 
students. The result, she said, 
was that she truly felt 
immersed in the culture, as 
opposed to some programs 
that feel like an American col­
lege in a foreign setting. 
"I would recommend this to 
anyone," said Kohout. "It was 
absolutely amazing, my lan­
guage skills improved so 
much." 
In Seville, Kohout also main­tained contact with Notre Dame. When the Madrid bombings occurred in March, Nemecek contacted all the Arts and Letters students on leaves of absence, said kohout. 
Coming back to Notre Dame, however, was more difficult then she expected. 
"It was hard for me to get back into housing," said Kohout. "I was at the bottom of the list, below the fresh­man." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
the St. Joseph County Jail for another test. Kraus said she was not arrested, but he would not comment on the results of either test. 
Kraus did not know how fast Miltenberger was going on South Bend Avenue, although he did say the speed limit is 35 miles per hour. 
According to Kraus, that section of south Bend Avenue is fairly well-lit, but he noted that the street lamp at Vaness intersection was out at the time of the accident. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Roccd¥ 
Restaurant 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 

an additional semester of immersion in British culture. 
Notre Dame's other new program will be located in Bologna, Italy. The program, intended for Italian majors with advanced language skills, offers direct emersion through a consortium with Indiana University-Bloomington, said Bogenschild. 
The application deadline has been moved to Nov. 15 so ISP can better coordinate operations with the London program and allow more time to process the applica­tions. 
The online application allows Notre Dame students to apply for multiple pro­grams, and Saint Mary's stu­dents can download or request a paper copy of the applications. Acceptance 
Firefighter dies in line of service 
First woman forestry firefighter killed in fire 
Associated Press 
ARNOLD, Calif. -The California fire chief who hired the woman firefighter killed in a wildland blaze near Yosemite National Park says she was a skilled, natu­ral leader. 
Eva Schicke (SHY' -kee) died Sunday when flames overran her elite seven­member crew in a rugged canyon. Officials say a sud­
den  wind shift may  have  
played a role.  
Schicke  was  the  first  

female firefighter killed on duty from California's Forestry Department. 
Battalion Chief Jeff Millar (muh-LAR') says he recruited Schicke more than four years ago after watching her skills and leadership as a guard on the Cal State-Stanislaus bas­ketball team. Millar's wife was the coach. 
Mourners in the town of Arnold have put up a road­side memorial that includes flowers and balloons arranged between a pair of boots, a helmet, gloves and a shovel. A bulletin board included notes from friends and colleagues. 

Fw~Ov~P~IAtvTowvv! 
Since 1951 Spc~cializing in Italian Entt·ees Tues. -Thurs.: ti:OOP~·I -II :OOPM F..i. -Sat.: ():OOPM -1:OOAM :)'{i 1\ortii St. Louis South Bt>nd, II\ t)74-2'B-24(i.4 

ProJ'ricHJrs \\'arrcn l\: Linda 

notification begins in early February after fall semester grades have been posted, according to Bogenschild. 
This fall also marks the first year that Saint Mary's has offered information ses­sions for College programs on Notre Dame's campus. 
Although both schools send a large number of students overseas, Saint Mary's focus­es on smaller, more special­ized programs, said College study abroad advisor Sarah DeMott. Roughly, 150. Saint Mary's students study abroad each year. 
"We can accommodate stu-· dents and their interests in a different kind of way while still maintaining the core essence of Saint Mary's College in the search for aesthetics and truth and the support of a higher Catholic education," DeMott said. 
Notre Dame offers study abroad programs in about 25 locations while Saint Mary's sponsors major pro-
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -In addition to advice, encouragement and inspiration, Oprah Winfrey had a special gift for every member of her audience -a $28,000 car. 
The syndicated talk show host handed out car keys to all 276 people in the audience who had come 
grams in about 5 different cities. 
One example is Saint Mary's Semester Around the Program, which offers stu­dents the chance to study and travel through much of Southeast Asia. The fall semester program is open to both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's undergraduates. 
The core program is based in India, but the schedule was altered when the pro­gram was last offered in Fall 2003 due to the SAHS crisis in Asia, said DeMott. 
Saint Mary's will also offer "Environments of Ecuador" this year. Additionally, stu­dents can now apply for stu­dent travel grants. 
Also this fall, Saint Mary's has launched a new online application website for all programs except Rome, Italy. Application deadlines range from Oct. 15 to Dec. 1. 
Contact Lynn Sikora at siko0495@saintmarys.edu 
twelfth car. But when the audience members opened the boxes, each had a set of keys. 
"Everybody gets a car! 
Everybody  gets  a  car!  
Everybody  gets  a car!"  
Winfrey  yelled  as  she  

jumped up and down on the stage. 
The audience members screamed, cried 

Oprah gives alVay over 200 new cars 
for the taping of the premiere of the 19th season  ':4 little idea grew into a big idea. "  and each then  hugged other -followed  
of "The Oprah  Winfrey out to  
Winfrey Show."  Mary Henlge  the parking lot  
"We're calling this our wildest  Pontiac spokeswoman  of her Studios  Ilarpo to see  
dream season,  their Pontiacs.  
because  this  all  decorated  

year on the Oprah show, no with giant red bows. dream is too wild, no sur­One woman stepped up prise too impossible to pull onto the frame of a driver's off," Winfrey said on the side door, put her head on show that was taped the roof and hugged the Thursday and aired Monday. vehicle. 
Making sure the audience The cars, which retail for was kept in suspense, $28,400 fully loaded with Winfrey opened the show by options, were donated by calling 11 audience members Pontiac onto the stage. She gave "A little idea grew into a each of them a car -a big idea." Mary Henige of Pontiac G6. Pontiac told The Associated 
She then had gift boxes Press. distributed to the rest of the She added that Pontiac audience and said one of the will pay for the taxes and boxes contained keys to a the customizing of the cars. 

~t Sports ~ar itt South ~ettd 2046 South ~ettd Ave -Across frotM Martitts Plaza 272-1766 NU Football Headquarters Ottlitte sports ittfo 
"C.reat Food, C.reat Fut1 Mott: Mottday Night Football&-Specials startittg at $1,0 Tues: College Night -UJ e. Specials Wed: TRIVIA Night-~rittg your teatMs -Prizes Thurs: UJ -First Thursday every tMottth: Jazzy C.rass Fri: Live EtttertaitttMettt Sat: NU gatMes 



ORLD &NATION 
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 CoMPtLEo FROM Tt-lE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
North Korea explains explosion 
SEOUL, South Korea -North Korea said Monday that an explosion last week that raised a huge mushroom cloud was the planned demolition of a mountain for a hydroelectric project, and the reclusive gov­ernment invited a British diplomat to visit the site to confirm the story. 
The North's explanation came as a number of officials and experts from the United States and elsewhere said they did not believe the blast Thursday near the Chinese border -which raised a cloud more than two miles wide -was a nuclear test. 
But a Bush administration official said the United States has indications that the North is trying to conduct a test. The explosion and concerns over Pyongyang's nuclear ambi­tions set off a heated back-and-forth between the White House and Democratic rival John Kerry. 
Hurricane Ivan heads for Cuba 
GEORGE TOWN, Cayman Islands -A strengthened Hurricane Ivan headed toward the tip of western Cuba with 160 mph winds Monday after pummeling the Cayman Islands with flooding that swamped homes and fierce winds that ripped off roofs. 
The slow-moving, extremely dangerous Category 5 storm, one of the strongest on record to hit the region, killed at least 68 people across the Caribbean before reaching the Caymans, and threatens millions more in its projected path. 
Parts of low-lying Grand Cayman, the largest island in the territory of 45,000 peo­ple, were swamped under up to 8 feet of water Monday and residents stood on rooftops of flooded homes. A car floated by the second story of one building. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Rigged letter sent to governor 
HICHMOND, Va. -Letters rigged to ignite when opened and bound for the governor's offices in Virginia and West Virginia were intercepted Monday, officials said. Governor's offices in at least 15 other states got similar letters last week. 
The letter that arrived in Richmond never threatened Gov. Mark R. Warner, said Bill Leighty, the governor's chief of staff. The let­ter, addressed to "executive chambers" in the state Capitol, was uncovered at a central postage-handling facility, Leighty said. 
A letter to Gov. Bob Wise of West Virginia was intercepted there. 
Like the letters received last week, both bore a return address :from Nevada's maxi­mum-security Ely State Prison." 
It's a sad reminder that we live in a dan­gerous world," Warner said. 
Justice abuse investigation 
WASHINGTON -The Justice Department's watchdog office has opened an investigation into the arrest of an Oregon lawyer that was based on what turned out to be faulty FBI analysis of a fingerprint linked to the deadly terrorist attack in Spain last March. 
Glenn A. Fine, the department's inspector general, said the antiterrorism Patriot Act may have been improperly used in the arrest of attorney Brandon Mayfield. 
Mayfield, a Muslim convert, was arrested May 6 on a material witness warrant. ­
LOCAL NEWS 
Simon reveals headquarters in park 
INDIANAPOLIS -Shopping-mall giant Simon released the design of its new head­quarters today -unveiling one of the most anticipated new Downtown Indianapolis buildings in decades. 
The 15-story, $55 million structure will sit across Washington Street from the Statehouse, occupying about 25,000 square feet of a city park known as Capitol Cpmmons -a site that has sparked contro­versy 
U.S. bombs suspect hide-out 
Airstrike on Fallujah's residential neighborhood kills 20 and wounds 29 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD, Iraq -U.S. warplanes pounded a sus­pected hide-out of al­Qaida-linked militants in the Sunni insurgent stronghold of Fallujah on Monday, killing at least 20 people and wounding 29, officials and witnesses sald. Seven of the victims died when a shell hit an ambulance, a hospital offi­cial said. 
The strike came a day after a surge in violence killed 78 people and wounded about 200 across Iraq as insurgents hammered central Baghdad with intense mortar and rocket bar­rages and violence appeared to spiral out of control. 
The U.S. military said jets carried out a preci­sion strike on a site in Fallujah where several members of a group led "by Jordanian-born terror suspect Abu Musab al­Zarqawi were meeting. 
"Intelligence sources reported the presence of several key al-Zarqawi operatives who have been responsible for numerous terrorist attacks against Iraqi civilians, Iraqi Security Forces and multi­national forces," the mili­tary said in a statement. 
The military said reports pita! official, Hamid their stalls, wounding sev­was transporting goods to indicated the strikes had Salaman. eral people and shattering an American military base achieved their aim, but "The conditions here are windows, witnesses said. in Mosul. did not name the opera­miserable -an ambu­U.S. forces pulled out of Explosions rocked cen­tives. lance was bombed, three Fallujah in April after tral Baghdad on Monday, 
In Fallujah, witnesses houses destroyed and men ending a three-week siege but the location or nature said the bombing targeted and women killed," the that left hundreds dead of the blasts was not the city's residential al­hospital's director, Rafayi and a trail of devastation. immediately clear. Shurta neighborhood, Hayad al-Esawi, told Al­The U.S. Marines have not South of Baghdad, damaging buildings and Jazeera television by tele­patrolled inside Fallujah assailants broke into a raising clouds of black phone. "The American since then and Sunni local police station in smoke. . army has no morals." insurgents have strength­Latifiyah and forced the 
Dr. Ahmad Taher of the Witnesses said U.S. war­ened their hold on the city. handful of officers inside Fallujah General Hospital planes repeatedly swooped On Monday, a videotape to leave before blowing up said at least 20 people low over Fallujah and that purporting to show the the building, police said were killed, including artillery units deployed on beheading of a Turkish Monday. Nobody was women and children, and the outskirts of the city also driver kidnapped last injured in the Sunday 29 others wounded. An opened fire. The explosions month in Iraq surfaced on night blast, said police Lt. ambulance rushing from started at sunrise and con­the Web site of an al­Col. Sahi Abdullah. Iraqi the area of the blasts was tinued for several hours. Qaida-linked militant police have regularly been hit by a shell, killing the One explosion went off group led by al-Zarqawi. attacked by insurgents driver, a paramedic and in a marketplace in On the video, which could who view them as collabo­five patients inside the Fallujah as the first sellers not imm~diately be veri­rators with American vehicle, said another hos-had just begun to set up fied, the victim says he troops. 

Kerry chides Bush on weapons ban 
Half a continent away, the issue said Brendan Daly, a spokesman for Associated Press seemed different to Democratic Rep. House Democratic leader Nancy Brad Carson of Oklahoma, a key fig­Pelosi. The California lawmaker sup­
WASHINGTON -Sen. John Kerry ure in his party's drive to gain a ports the ban but has not made its sought to make President Bush pay a Senate majority this fall. . extension a priority. political price Monday for the expira­"He opposes reauthorization of the Under her leadership, minQrity tion of a partial assault weapons assault weapons ban," said Democrats have worked to force ban, but other Democrats reacted spokesman Kristopher Eisenla. "He eight pieces of legislation to the floor warily on an issue that has hurt the is a champion and a supporter of gun in tllil past two years, including one party in recent elections. owners rights." relating to electricity reliability. But 
"George Bush made a choice today. The party's divisions were on dis­because there is .no caucus consen­
He chose his powerful friends in the play in the House, as well. There, sus on the weapons ban, Daly said, it 
gun lobby over the police officers Rep. Carolyn McCarthy, D-N.Y., and is not among the eight. 
and the families he promised to pro­others called for a new ban -at a "It's a shame that they're not as 
tect," the Democratic presidential news conference that none of the active as we'd like them to be on 
candidate said a few hours after the party's top congressional leaders this, but the NRA's history on this 
end of a decade-old ban on 19 types attended. speaks for itself," said Rob Recklaus, 
of military-style weapons. "It's an issue that cuts both ways," a spokesman for McCarthy. 

page 6 Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 
that he was more safe on a ship in Mass in Siegfried that honored freshman on the Villanova basket­ciate vice president for Student the Middle East then he was cross­O'Connor. ball team. Affairs.
O'Connor 

ing the street." Siegfried rector Father John "He was always playing basket­"It's a devastating thing for 
At Notre Dame, O'Connor was a
continued from page 1 

Naval ROTC participant for four years.
After spending six months on a "His tragic loss on Sunday morn­ship overseas, O'Connor was happy ing is heartfelt among all associat­

to be back on land, and as an 

ed with the battalion," the Navaladded bonus. back on the campus HOTC program, said in a statementof Notre Dame, tho university he released by Lt. Tun Joyce Monday.
loved. 

"As with the rest of the NO com­"You could just tell how happy he munity, we are saddened by hiswa.<> to be back." Siobhan said. 
passing. This accident representsO'Connor visited the campus as more than just the loss of a recentpart of his two-week leave follow­
ing his return fi·om a six-month  alumnus. for he was more than just an NO  
deployment to the Middle East. lie was assigned to the USS Lcyte Gulf. a ship assi1,rrwd to protect petroleum tanks in the waters of the Persian Gulf. llis ship wa.<> stationed just oil' the coast of Bahrain and Iraq, where he served as a surface war­fare officer.  "He was truly a Notre Dame man­he loved Notre Dame, he loved his family, he loved his friends, he loved Philly, he loved the Jersey Shore." Fred Hanft friend  student ... Our dear­PBt sympathies go out to the O'Connor fami­ly whose loss undoubtedly cannot be measured in terms of service or poten­tial." O'Connor was a lifelong Notre Dame fan, as is his family. !lis dad, Jim, was a seminarian as a Iloly Cross priest for four years and his mom,  
O'Connor rnturn1~d from his tilur of  Mary, graduated from Saint Mary's.  

"Everyone in our family lovesduty Aug. 13, when his ship arrived Notre Dame, so we were happy to
at il<> homeport in Norfi>lk, Va. 

have someone go there," Siobhan"lie wasn't a die-hard naval olli­said. "lie really loved it there.cer, but it was something to do That's where he wanted to go sinceallt~r collnge, a great job," Siobhan he was a little kid. I still remember said of her brother, who entered when he got the acceptance letterthe program to pay fiJr college. "lie ... he was so happy."had so many friends on the ship. Fred I Ianft, a Notre Dame gradu­lie got to see so many phtcPs." ate who knew O'Connor for sixAnd when O'Connor arrived at years, said he was a dedicatedhome safely. his family was friend and family member. rnlievnd. • ­"He was truly a Notre Dame man"We wern worried about him -he loved Notre Dame, he lovedbm:ausc they get crazy over there. his family, he loved his friends, heMy mom did most of the worrying. loved Philly, he loved the JerseyWe were glad to have him home," Shore," Hanft said after Sunday'sSiobhan said. "That's just ironic 
Conley also remembered O'Connor ball with me in the driveway," 
fondly. Siobhan said. "He loved sports; he 
"He was a great was very active." guy," Conley said Because of his during the mass. good health, "For me, who spans "He was such a O'Connor was able the years here, he to help others, as he
good guy You
might as well have was an organ donor. been one of you. It couldnt't askfor a "He was a real was just like yester­better brother. " healthy guy, so he's day that they were going to be helping living in the sections a lot of different
Slobhan O'Connor
upstairs and at people," Siobhan 
Mass here." sister said. "It didn't hav.e 
Siobhan said her to be that way ... brother was dedi­but it is comforting . cated to his family that it's not a·com­and friends, seeing them whenever plete waste." he could, even with his military O'Connor died Sunday with his commitment. parents at his side. They flew into 
"As soon as he got a day ofT, he'd South Bend after hearing about the go sec someone," she said. "He accident that morning. Notre Dame wanted to be with people." Security picked them up at the air­
Siobhan remembered the time port and took them to the hospital O'Connor drove to Notre Dame where Father Mark Poorman, vice from Norfolk to see one of his older president of Student Afl'airs was sisters, who was a student at waiting, along with Bill Kirk, asso-Boston College at the time, because she :1ad driven up to sec the game in South Bend. 
"Whenever he got two days ofT, he always saw either family or friends," Siobhan said. "He was really good at keeping in touch." 
Siobhan said Thanksgiving was O'Conl).or's favorite holiday, when the family went to New Jersey to spend time with relatives, including his two other si<>ters, Maureen, 22, and Flannery, 20. 
"That was his favorite time of the year," Siobhan said. 
O'Connor also loved sports, espe­cially cross country and track and field, both of which he participated in during high school. 
He also played basketball with his youngest sister, who is now a them," Poorman said. "We've real­ly gathered around the O'Connor family." 
Kirk emphasized the fact that the University tried to show its support with the presence of himself and Poorman at the hospital. 
"It's very powerful the way this community comes together even after people have graduated," he said. "You want to be that comfort. that support, on behalf of the University." 
O'Connor's body will taken to Philadelphia, via military escort with one of his best friends from Norfolk. Siobhan said her brother will have a Catholic funeral, but will still have the American flag draped on hi<> ca.<>kct. 
"He wa.<> such a good all-around guy," she said. "You couldn't a.c;k for a better brother." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at edu 
===== 

Morgan Stanley Invites You. • • 
FIRMWIDE PRESENTATION 
Morgan Stanley, a global leader in investment banking, is looking for people with a passion to 
join the exciting world of finance. Corporations, governments, and others come to us for the 
most innovative solutions to the most complex problems, including financial restructuring, 
mergers and acquisitions, and privatizations. Providing those solutions takes energy, talent, 
teamwork and a devotion to excellence. 
How far can an investment banking career take you? Morgan Stanley is the place to find out. Whatever your aspirations, we can give you the tools and the opportunities to achieve them. 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 
7:30 p.m. The Morris Inn 
Visit and apply online at: www.morg·anstanley.com/careers 
~ 

Morgan Stanley 
Morgan Stanley is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer committed to workforce diversity. (M/F/0/V) © 2004 Morgan Stanley 


-
-----------~---------------., 
page 22 Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
thursday
september 16 
3:00pm-8:00pm 
All students regardless of degree, major, college, or year 
Student 10 card required Attire is business casual 
joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side), enter gate 3 

findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating employers, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to http://careercenter.nd.edu 

• 
Click on Undergraduates, then click on Go IRISH , 

• 
Enter your NetiD (AFSID) and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Search Jobs/Internships 

• 
Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 

• 
Scroll down to Keyword Search, type in BCF, then click on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on "Organization" -Positions, click on "Position Title" 



1$1 
w 


UNIVERSITY OF UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME 
MENDOZA
The Career Center 

COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 
participating tD 
AAA Chicago Abbott Laboratories Abercrombie &Fitch Accenture ACNielsen BASES 
A.G. Edwards A on Bain & Company Baker Hill Corp. Barclays Capital Becker Conviser 
Professional Review BKD Boeing bp CDW Central Intelligence Agency CGI-AMS Chicago Consulting Actuaries Coachmen Industries Cochran, Caronia & Co. Credit Suisse First Boston Crowe Chizek and Company Davis & Hosfield Consulting Deloitte Deutsche Bank DirectEmployers Association DISH NETWORK EchoStar 
Communications Corp. E.&J. Gallo Winery Eaton Ernst & Young Federal Bureau 
of Investigation Federated Mutual 
Insurance Company Fifth Third Bank Ford Motor Company General Electric General Mills GlaxoSmithKiine Grosvenor Capital 
Management Harris Nesbitt H-E-B Grocery Company Hewlett-Packard Honeywell Houlihan Lokey Howard 
& Zukin Houston's Restaurants Humana Indiana CPA Society Indiana State 
Personnel Department lnteCap Johnson & Johnson Katz, Sapper & Miller* KeyCorp 
3 

Kirkland & Ellis .... KPMG '-1 Kraft Foods LaSalle Bank and Standard 
Federal Bank McGiadrey & Pullen ~ Morgan Stanley 
tD 

Morningstar Motorola 
U1 

National City Corporation Navigant Consulting Newell Rubbermaid News America Marketing Oldcastle, Inc. Panda Restaurant Group 
(Panda Express) Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Piper Jaffray PNC Financial Services Group PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Protiviti, Pulte Homes Quicken Loans Ryan & Company* SBC Communications SCORE! Educational Centers SIRVA Smart and Associates St. Paul Travelers Steak 'n Shake Stockman Kast Ryan + Co Stryker Instruments Target Teach for America The Boston Consulting Group The Gallup Organization The United States Navy The Vanguard Group Towers Perrin 
U.S. 
Dept. ofTreasury, Internal Revenue Service 

U.S. 
Dept. of Treasury, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency* 


Wachovia Securities Walgreens Weiser* Wells Fargo Bank William Blair & Company WPS Resources Corporation Xerox 
* Resume drop 
~------~-----------------------------------­
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 


MLB 
Former owners step up to the plate for Bush 
Texas government professor. "He
Baseball's supporters 
was the face of the Texas Rangers, as well as a substantial
of Bush fundraise for 
partner in the economic side forpresident's re-election some years, and that enabled him to become acquainted with all of Associated Press these figures." 
Three of Bush's former fellow 

WASIIINGTON -Baseball own­investors in the Texas Hangers ­ers once passed up a chance to Bill DeWitt, Marshall Payne and hire former colleague George W. Craig Stapleton -are campaign Bush as the sport's commissioner, Hangers. Stapleton's wife, Debbie but now they're working hard to Stapleton, who is Bush's cousin, is keep Bush at bat in the White a Pioneer. I louse. "George Bush knows a lot of 
More than a dozen current and people in baseball," said Craig former owners and family mem­Stapleton, a co-chairman of bers arc among the president's Bush's re-election campaign in top re-election fund-raisers, an Connecticut. "So we've tried to Associated Press review found. talk to people that know George Seven arc Bush "Hangers," each Bush well through baseball. He raising at Least $200,000, and six gets a lot of support from baseball arc "Pioneers" who have brought people -not only executives and in $100.000 or more. owners but baseball players." 
The Bush campaign has also For example, FEC reports show, received direct contributions from baseball interests. cared about baseball when he from 1989 to 1994. There was Bush received $2,000 contribu­owners and executives of more Bush also has picked up contri­was in it, and not just the Rangers talk back then that he might suc­tions from Orioles slugger Rafael than half of the sport's 30 teams, butions from players and coaches as a business entity." ceed Fay Vmcent as commission­Palmeiro, who played for the the AP analysis of Federal -including a manager he once Baseball is part of the Bush er, but the job went to Milwaukee Rangers when Bush was an Election Commission reports fired. Bobby Valentine, axed by legacy. His father, former Brewers owner Bud Selig. Bush owner, and from New York found. Bush as manager of the Texas President George H.W. Bush, was a baseball traditionalist, Yankees third baseman Alex 
Those include $2,000 contribu­Hangers in 1992, gave the presi­played first base for the Yale opposing interleague play and the Rodriguez, the highest-paid play­tions from owners George dent the maximum $4,000 this baseball team, and the younger addition of a wild card playoff er in the game. Steinbrenner of the New York year. Valentine said he's not sur­Bush took up the game as a Little team. Bush turned to another former Yankees, Fred Wilpon of the New prised Bush has support from Leaguer in Midland, Texas. He His investment of just $600,000 Texas Hangers investor, Mercer York Mets, Carl Pohlad of the baseball owners. also organized a stickball league turned into $15 million when he Reynolds III, to be his campaign Minnesota Twins. Peter Magowan "People got to work with him at Phillips Academy in Andover, sold his share of the team while fmance chairman. of the San Francisco Giants and side by side and saw his passion Mass. preparing to run for governor of "Having experience in baseball, Michael llitch of the Detroit for the game and passion for his With the benefit of family con­Texas. Mr. Reynolds was able to reach Tigers. work," Valentine said in an inter­nections, Bush helped put togeth­"The baseball platform was for out to many people to encourage 
Democratic nominee John view from Japan, where he is er a group of investors to buy the him to springboard into politics," them to get involved with the Kerry, by contrast, has taken in manager of the Chiba Lotte Texas Rangers and then became said Bruce Buchanan, a longtime campaign," said Bush campaign money from only a handful of Marines. "They saw that he really its managing general partner Bush watcher and University of spokesman Scott Stanzel. 


page 20 Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Virginia Tech's Vick faces fine, community service 
Associated Press  Vick to stay· away from the  bly be readmitted in the spring  
teenage girls.  after completing a. drug educa­ 
CHRISTIANSBURG, Va.  - "Marcus has and does apolo­ tion and counseling program.  
Suspended Virginia Tech quar­ gize for hurting so many peo­ Any more criminal, athletic or  
terback Marcus Vick pleaded  ple,"  defense  lawyer  Marc  university violations would  
no contest Monday to a misde­ Long said. "I believe this is  a  result in permanent dismissal.  
meanor charge of contributing  life-changing experience for  Long said Vick has told him  
to the delinquency of a  minor  Marcus Vick."  he plans to re-enroll at Tech  
after a  night of drinking with  Vick  was  arrested  in  this spring. Tech spokesman  
underage girls.  ·  February with teammates Mike  Larry Hincker said Monday  
Vick,  younger brother  of  Imoh and Brenden Hill after an  that Vick's status at the school  
Atlanta Falcons quarterback  encounter with 14-and 15­ remains unchanged.  
Michael Vick, received a sus­ year-old girls at the quarter­ Last month, Vick pleaded  
pended 30-day jail sentence,  back's  apartment  in  guilty to reckless driving and  KRT  
was fined $100 and ordered to  Blacksburg.  no contest to marijuana pos­ Virginia Tech's Marcus Vick (right) and California's defensive  
perform 24 hours of communi­ Tech suspended Vick for this  session related to a traffic stop  back Daymeion Hughes grab each other's face masks during  
ty service. The judge ordered  season and said he could possi­ this summer.  the Insight Bowl last season.  

NFL 
Galloway expected to miss up to 6 weeks with groin irljury 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Tampa Bay's already thin receiving corps was further depleted Monday when the team learned Joey Galloway will miss four to six weeks after aggravating a groin injury. 
Coach Jon Gruden said the speedy 1Oth-year pro, obtained in an off-season trade from the Dallas Cowboys, has a tear in his left groin that is more seri­ous than the Bucs anticipated. 
Galloway missed most of the preseason with a sore groin and aggravated the injury in the first half of Sunday's 16-10 loss to the Washington Redskins. He came up limping turning to try catch a pass that glanced off his hands in the end zone, costing the Bucs a touchdown. 
"I can't say it didn't complete­ly heal or was completely healed, but he was cleared to play and practiced well," Gruden said. "He just made a slight turn for a ball and aggra­vated it on the way down. It's just unfortunate. We're going to miss him." 
The loss is especially damag­ing because the Bucs also are without last year's leading receiver, Keenan McCardell, who is holding out for a new contract after catching 84 pass­es for 1,17 4 yards and eight TDs last season. 
The team is also missing Joe Jurevicius, recovering from back surgery after sitting out most of last season with a knee injury. Charles Lee, who got a chance to play last year when Keyshawn Johi1son was shelved because of differences with Gruden, has been slowed by a sore hamstring and did not play against the Redskins. 
Galloway was obtained in the trade that sent Johnson to Dallas during the off-season. Still considered one of the fastest players in the NFL, Gruden was counting on his addition to add another dimen­sion to the offense. 
Tampa Bay was limited to 169 yards at Washington, including just 30 on the ground. The defense scored the team's only touchdown, and Martin Gramatica's 4 7 -yard field goal was set up by a long kickoff return. 
"It was a combination of thein playing very good defense and 
us not taking advantage of some 
opportunities when they pre­
sented themselves. In the end, 
that was the deciding factor," 
Gruden said. 
Galloway had one catch for no 
yards and watched the second 
half of the game from the side­
line on crutches. 
Rookie Michael Clayton or for­
mer Green Bay and Detroit 
receiver Bill Schroeder will 
replace Galloway in the starting 
lineup. Jurevicius is on the 
reserve non-football injury list 
and is eligible to return after six 
games, so Gruden said there are 
no immediate plans to sign a 
receiver. 
Clayton, the team's first-round draft pick, had sev1:1n receptions · for 53 yards in his debut. Schroeder, who will assume· 
Galloway's role as the primary 
punt returner, had two catches 
for 26 yards. 
Galloway had 261 receptions 
for 4,122 yards and scored 41 
touchdowns in his first four pro 
seasons in Seattle. A contract 
dispute wiped out half his 1999 
season with the Seahawks, and 
he was a disappointment the 
past four years in Dallas, includ­
ing 2000, when he suffered a 'season-ending knee injury in his first game with the Cowboys. The groin injury is not expect­ed to require surgery. 
"As I understand, he will be 
off his feet for a couple of weeks 
and then resume his rehab," the 
coach said. "It is a significant 
tear ... and we are looking at 
four to six weeks. It's going to 
take some time." 


I I I I I I I I I I 
l -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

r----------------------------------­
~-~-----~~-~~--~~ ~-~­
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ SPORTS 


SENIOR PORTRAITS! 
EXTENDED! 
Sign up on the Internet NOW @ 
www. LaurenStudios.cotn 
to ensure your place in your 2005 Dome Yearbook! 

NCAA FooTBALL 
Cal's Lyman heals 
Receiver recovers from a series ofsurgeries 
Associated Press 
BEHKELEY, Calif. -Almost the only thing Chase Lyman has kept healthy while playing football is his head. 
Thank goodness for that -it certainly saved his sanity. 
To best diagram his injuries, start at the top of his 6-foot-4, 210-pound frame and work down. There was his troublesome shoulder and a hurt finger, appendicitis and a severely torn hamstring, a banged-up knee and a sprained ankle. 
All that has added up to five surgeries for No. 10 California's senior rnceiver. 
llere's how bad his luck has been: lie dislocated his finger on the first day of fall camp two years ago and five minutes later tore his hamstring muscle ofT the bone -causing him to need sur­gery, redshirt and miss what would have been his true junior season. 
"I'm done with surgery, I'm done with injuries," Lyman says now. "It's great to be back on the field with all my friends. I spent the majority of two years hurt." 
Everyone around Cal sure hopes he stays healthy. Lyman is on a roll. 
lie caught five passes for a career-high 149 yards and a touchdown in Cal's 52-49 .Insight Bowl win over Virginia Tech last 
Who: When: 
Where: Why: 

season and has carried that suc­cess into this year. In two games for the Golden Bears, Lyman has caught seven passes for 210 yards and two touchdownS. 
"Chase is awesome," quarter­back Aaron Hodgers said. "He makes great catches. I can just throw the ball up. I threw some not-so-great passes and he got them." 
Star receiver Geoff McArthur has been slowed by a strained oblique muscle so far, leaving Lyman to take most of the plays at receiver in practice. 
Lyman is hoping for many more big games this fall. But he'll have to wait until the team's Pac-1 0 opener at Oregon State on Oct. 2. The Bears' game scheduled for Thursday night at Southern Mississippi was postponed Monday because of Hurricane Ivan. 
"I expect this out of myself, and I expect this out of the team," said Lyman, who grew up in nearby Los Altos Hills and remembers all the Bears' bad years. "Our goal is to put drives together and score every time we touch the ball." 
He took several months off after the bowl game last season to make sure he recovered physical­ly. He ran a 4.45 in the 40-yard dash during the spring, and worked all summer to get his time down into the 4.3s. 
"It was really those cou.ple months where I could shut every­thing down and give everything a rest and get back to 100 percent," he said of last winter. 
TENNIS 

Federer begins A111ericanization 
Federer rubs elbows with celebrities after winning U.S. Open 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Roger Federer played pingpong with Regis Philbin. He met Tony Danza, who told Federer he makes it look easy on the court; Federer informed Danza that "Who's the Boss?" was huge in Switzerland. He was inter­viewed by Charlie Rose and John McEnroe. And then it was off to Los Angeles, where a Vogue photo shoot awaits. 
The Americanization of Roger Federer began Monday, his first · full day as the U.S. Open cham­pion and the on~y man since 1988 to win three Grand Slam titles in a year. 
The globalization of Federer -the person and the tennis player -was completed long ago, of course. With big fore­ment's final featured two sets at hands, tough-to-read serves, love. And, it turns out, Federer on-the-run lobs, can't-possibly­did it all with a head cold. get drop shots, improving vol­What does he think when he leys, etc., etc., etc., Federer hears so many people describe does it all. He can outslug you his play as beautiful, a sort of from the baseline: outquick you artistry that's a wonderful con­at the net and simply outwit trast to the hit-as-hard-as-you­you. can school of tennis gaining in 
Federer made Lleyton Hewitt popularity over the years? look like a weekend hacker in "I don't want to be cocky or the first and final sets of a 6-0, anything, but I feel the same, in 7-6 (3). 6-0 victory Sunday at a way. I know I'm playing nice the U.S. Open, the first time in tennis," Federer said. "It's very 120 years that the tourna-simple. I know there is no extra 
Class of 2005 
Final Week 
Sept. 20-24 
LaFortune 108 
To be in the 2005 Dome 



I • }: .. 
.. ·=r:·.-:)1'· 

-., 
7" ·~ .... -' 
movement in my technique that makes me look strange. Movement and technique have to fit together. I found the right balance, and that's what gives me all this praise." 
His game is as varied and flu­ent as his-language skills: In a span of 10 minutes Monday, he went from speaking English with a dozen print reporters to doing a standup TV interview in Swiss German to doing a radio interview over a cell phone in French. 

~~~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
After convincing 20-3 victory Sunday, fans remain on cloud nine 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio-More than an hour after Sunday's game, the parking lots outside Cleveland Browns Stadium were still full of partying tailgaters, and the few cars that did leave pulled away with their horns blaring. 
For a change, the honking was­n't in anger. 
Cleveland won its first season opener since rejoining the league, a convincing 20-3 victory over the Baltimore Ravens, who were out­played in every phase by a Browns team seeking redemption and respect. 
Everything felt different on a sun-splashed afternoon along the shores of Lake Erie. 
Jeff Garcia, the Browns' new quarterback, scrambled, made big plays and even jumped into the Dawg Pound to celebrate a touchdown. Cleveland's defense swarmed "like bees to honey" on Ravens running back Jamal Lewis, and 73,068 fans stood, barked and screamed like they once did for Jim Brown and Bernie Kosar. 
It was one of the few times since their rebirth in 1999 it felt like the Browns were back -all the way back. 
"It's a great feeling," said defen­sive tackle Orpheus Roye, one of the few players available in the locker room Monday. "Hopefully, we can keep this going." 
Getting started had been Cleveland's problem the previous five seasons. The Browns had begun each year since '99 with a loss, all of them at home. 

But feeding off the positive vibes created by a weekend-long trib­ute for the Browns' 1964 NFL championship team, Cleveland played perhaps its most complete game since Butch Davis took over as coach in 2001. 
"It was a double exclamation point at the end of a great week­end," Davis said. 
That's a big improvement on the usual question marks. 
Davis credited Cleveland's flaw­less special teams, the Browns' gang-tackling on Lewis and not turning the ball over against one of the NFL's toughest defenses as the keys to victory. 
Finally 1-0, the Browns are not starting a season in a hole. 
"It's a better way to set the tone than the alternative," Davis said. "But it's just one game." 
There were plenty of positive signs, though. And Garcia's debut may have been the most opti­mistic. 
After a shaky start, the three­time Pro Bowl quarterback threw a 46-yard touchdown pass to Quincy Morgan in the third quar­ter before calling his own number on a bootleg and going 3 yards for the clinching TD late in the fourth. 
Garcia's scoring toss came on a play that looked doomed from the start. He danced in the pocket weren't going to be intimidated by looking for a receiver, and unable Ray Lewis, Deion Sanders or any­to find one, he pump-faked one else wearing purple and 
enough to get safety Ed Reed to bite and come up. 
Garcia then floated the ball to a wide-open Morgan, who only had to haul it in and not trip over any blades of grass on his sprint to the end zone. 
"His scrambling, staying alive in the pocket, that was a vintage vet-black. 
Linebacker Andra Davis got into it with Ravens tackle Orlando Brown, who had to be pulled away from the exchange of hand­shakes between the teams' cap­tains. 
"There was a lot of emotion at the start. Nobody was going to back down," said Andra Davis, who joked about the topic of con­versation. "We talked about the Presidential election. But we did­n't get far enough to find out who was voting for who." 
The Browns' landslide win caused Garcia to throw an open-house party following the game. The gesture underlined his lead­ership and a new bond among Cleveland players. 
Garcia now just needs to work on the guest list. "I was mad. He didn't invite the head coach," Davis said. 

Colts' Vanderjagt strives for perfection 
Kicker has great expectations for the season after missing game-tying field goal 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Mike Vanderjagt thinks he should make every kick for the Indianapolis Colts. Anything less is unacceptable in his world. 
So when Vanderjagt missed a potential game-tying 48-yarder last week at New England, he grimaced, clapped his hands once and walked away feeling sick. Gone was the NFL record of 42 straight field goals and a 21-month stretch of perfection, but not the confidence that has made him one of league's top kickers. 
"It was supreme disappoint­ment," Vanderjagt said Monday. "I have higher expectations of myself than anyone could possi­bly imagine." 
Since joining the Colts in 1998, Vanderjagt has typically met his lofty goals. 
He has scored at least 100 points in a club-record six straight seasons and is an amazing 14 of 20 all-time on kicks from at least 50 yards. 
And few kickers could match Vanderjagt's success in 2003 when he made the Pro Bowl for the first time, became the fourth kicker in league history to complete a perfect season by making all 37 field goals and 46 extra points and broke the NFL record for consecutive field goals with his 41st in the sea­son-finale at Houston. He extended the record to 42 last week before pushing the 48­yarder wide right. 

Now, Vanderjagt must start over. 
"It meant the world to me because I expect perfection, and I was achieving it," Vanderjagt said of the streak. "So it was very disappointing." 
But one miss has not changed Vanderjagt. 
He still holds the distinction of being the most accurate kicker in NFL history, with a field-goal percentage of 87.5, and by most accounts, he's also the league's most confident kicker. 
He's embraced fans who try to chastise him, welcomes time­outs teams take to freeze him and even has been caught mak­ing a money sign while stand­ing on the sideline before a game-winning or game-tying kick. 
That's just Vanderjagt. 
"Mike is cocky," cornerback Nick Harper said, smiling. "He's as sure a thing as you get." 

Narcotics Anonymous 
NA Meetings Are Now Available On Campus! Come and Meet with Others Who Have Been There and Can Help. 
Thursday Evenings at 7:00p.m. 
Call 1-7970 or stop by 311 LaFortune for location 
You can also access the location of this and other local NA meetings at: www .naindiana.org 
Meetings are open to any person struggling with drug use, regardless of the particular drug or combination of drugs used, including alcohol. 
()IPa -1 ,4~" "!)_, &~ 
~-~""-'D­
31/ .t4-;-...-15741 631-7'i70 
....... ..t.w.J-~ 
~ 

September 14, 2004 page 17
The Observer + SPORTS 
Lions' Rogers sidelined for the rest of the season 

ALLEN PAHK, Mich. -Detroit wide receiver Charles Hogers will miss the rest of the season after breaking his collarbone for the second straight season. 
The No. 2 pick in the 2003 draft was injured going for a pass Sunday in the !irst quarter of the 20-16 victory over the Chicago Bears. X-rays revealed a fracture near the one he got last year during a bye week practice. 
Hogers played only the !irst five games of his rookie season because of the injury, catching 22 passes. 
lie will have surgery later this week or early next week and will be placed on injured reserve, coach Steve Mariueci said Monday. 
"I just spoke with Charles, and he's very disappointed." Mariucci said. "I told him that's he not to blame. lle's 23 and ho's got a lot of football ahead of him." 
Cornerback Dre' Bly, also injured in the Bears game, will miss the next two games, Mariucci said. Bly sprained a lig­anwnt in his knee in the opening quarter. 
Broncos 
Cornerback Lenny Walls could miss up to a month after dislocat­ing his right shoulder in Denver's opener. 
Walls, who started all 16 games for the Broncos last sea­son, played the nickel spot in their 34-24 win over Kansas City on Sunday. Coach Mike Shanahan said it looked like a of those appeared serious. in an off-season trade from the four-week injury, but could be Buccaneers Dallas Cowboys, has a tear in his less. Wide receiver Joey Galloway left groin that is more serious 
Hunning back Garrison I learst will miss four to six weeks after than the Bucs anticipated. injured an ankle and receiver aggravating a groin injury. Galloway missed most of the Ashley Lelie hurt a shoulder, Coach Jon Gruden said the oft­preseason with a sore groin and although Shanahan said neither injured 10th-year pro, obtained aggravated the injury in the first 
looking for a bright future? take a look at bp. 
Visit us on Career Day Thursday, September 16 

• 
Considering a future in a fast-paced industry? Think bp 

• 
Desire to work with commodities? Think bp 

• 
Interested in business development, trading, operations? 


Think bp 

We're looking for high-energy people to join our Integrated Supply & Trading three-year rotational training program. Come learn more about our team and what we have to offer. 
learn more about us at www.bpcareercentre.com/us BP is an ~qual opportunity employer 
half of Sunday's 16-10 loss to the 
Washington Redskins. He came 
up limping turning to try catch a 
pass that glanced off his hands in 
the end zone, costing the Bucs a 
touchdown. 
"I can't say it didn't completely 
heal or was completely healed, 
but he was cleared to play and 
practiced well," Gruden said. "He 
just made a slight turn for a ball 
and aggravated it on the way 
down. It's just unfortunate. We're 
going to miss him." 
The loss is especially damaging 
because the Bucs also are with­
out last year's leading receiver, 
Keenan McCardell, who is hold­
ing out for a new contract after 
catching 84 passes for 1,174 
yards and eight TDs last season. 
The team is also missing Joe 
Jurevicius, recovering from back 
surgery after missing most of last 
season with a knee injury. 
Charles Lee, who got a chance to 
play last year when Keyshawn 
Johnson was shelved because of 
differences with Gruden, has 
been slowed by a sore hamstring 
and did not play against the 
Redskins. 
Sea hawks 
Running back Shaun 
Alexander has a bone bruise on 
his right knee, but could play in 
this week's game at Tampa Bay. 
"It might be a week or two," 
coach Mike Holmgren said. 
"There's a chance he can play 
this week. We'll just have to see 
how it goes." 
Said Alexander: ''I'm a fast 
healer. I'll be all right." 
An MRI exam disclosed the 
injury, which was reported as a 
knee sprain during Seattle's 21-7 
win Sunday at New Orleans. 
Alexander rushed for 135 yards 
on 28 carries, ran for two touch­
downs and caught a TO pass. 
49ers 
Starting QB Tim Rattay has a separated right shoulder and Ken Dorsey, the former University of Miami star and a seventh-round draft pick in 2003, will start in New Orleans on Sunday unless Rattay's injury heals much more quickly than expected. 
Rattay was injured while get­ting sacked by Atlanta's Rod Coleman in the second quarter of the 49ers' 21-19 loss to the Falcons on Sunday. Dorsey took over and led two scoring drives in his first NFL action. But after Dorsey got a stinger in his right shoulder late in the third quarter, Rattay returned and led three lengthy drives, throwing two touchdown passes. 
But an MRI exam on Monday revealed a serious shoulder sepa­ration for Rattay, who has strug­gled with a groin injury and a sore forearm during the off-sea­son and training camp of his first year as the 49ers' starter. 
"I was just getting over the groin and I got the forearm," Rattay said. "And then I was get­ting over the forearm. and I get this. I'm keeping those guys busy in (the training room)." 
Ravens 
Ethan Brooks, who replaced Jonathan Ogden at left tackle in Baltimore's 20-3 defeat at Cleveland, will miss at least two weeks with a sprained knee liga­ment. The Ravens hope to have Ogden, who missed Sunday's game with a sprained knee, back for this week's home opener against Pittsburgh, but are still without center Mike J<lynn (frac­tured shoulder blade). 
In addition, wide receiver Travis Taylor aggravated a groin 
injury and probably will be side­
lined this week. His departure 
Sunday left the Ravens with only 
three active receivers: Randy 
Hymes, Devard Darling and 
Kevin Johnson. 
On the defensive side, Kelly 
Gregg, a three-year starter at 
nose guard, will undergo knee 
surgery this week. 
"We were hoping that we could 
stall that for a while and do it at 
our choosing, but it needs to be 
done now," Billick said, adding 
Gregg will need around two 
weeks to recuperate. 
Eagles 
Rookie guard Shawn Andrews 
will have surgery on the right leg 
he broke Sunday against the New 
York Giants and coach Andy Reid 
said he will be placed on injured 
reserve. 
Reid said the Eagles would 
probably look for another line­
man, though they could use 
recently signed Steve Sciullo. "He 
needs more time," Reid said. 
Cornerback Lito Sheppard will 
wear a cast on his broken thumb, 
but will practice and play. 
Falcons 
Jim Mora's roots as a defensive 
coach were obvious Monday as 
he reflected on his first victory as 
an NJ<L head coach. 
Mora inherited an Atlanta 
defense that gave up more yards 
passing and more total yards 
than any other team last season, 
but he says the defense he saw in 
Sunday's 21-19 win at San 
Francisco will be a source of 
pride, not embarrassment. 
"The thing I liked about our defense, I looked out at them and said 'That's a hard defense,'" Mora said Monday. "They're unyielding. They're hard. They had an edge to them, an attitude. They were knocking the dog out of the ball carriers and getting after it." 
In 2003, the defense gave up more than 400 yards seven times. Thanks to two late touch­down drives by the 49ers, the Falcons gave up 359 yards Sunday -an improvement, but still more than Mora would like. 
Even when giving up the two late drives, the defense delivered two big fourth-quarter plays. Cornerback Aaron Beasley returned a goal-line interception 85 yards to set up the decisive touchdown by Warrick Dunn. and defensive tackle Rod Coleman batted down Tim Rattay's pass on a 2-point con­version attempt with 40 seconds left. 
Vikings 
Michael Bennett's knee is feel­ing better after a workout, but Minnesota coach Mike Tice prob­ably will sit his starting running back again next Monday in Philadelphia. 
Tice said Bennett is progress­ing quickly, but he has enough confidence in his backfield depth to hold him out at least another week. 
"We'll wait until Mike feels almost perfect," Tice said. 
Backup Onterrio Smith, appealing a four-game sub­stance-abuse suspension, rushed for 76 yards and caught a 63­yard TO pass against the Cowboys. Tice also has rookie Mewelde Moore and Larry Ned in the backfield. 
Moe Williams. who started in Bennett's place, will be closely monitored this week after sprain­ing his ankle in the opener. Tice doesn't expect Williams to prac­tice Thursday, "but we'll see how that goes. He's a tough guy." 
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Cubs capitalize on opportunities for 7-2 victory 



Service. 
Associated Press 
It was Castilla's fourth multi­

CHICAGO -The Chicago Cubs homer game of the season and made Frank Brooks' first major 32nd of his career. league start one to forget. Joe Kennedy (8-6) matched his 
Sammy Sosa homered for the career best with his eighth victo­first time in more than two weeks ry, allowing one run on five hits as part of a five-run first inning, in five innings. He struck out and Derrek Lee had three RBis in eight and walked three in 
Chicago's victory over the Colorado's seventh consecutive Pittsburgh Pirates on Monday victory over the Diamondbacks. night. Paid attendance was a fran­
"It's tough to have a game plan chise record low of 22,070, and because you don't know what the actual turnout was smaller. you have," Lee said of facing a Arizona lost its 101st game of new pitcher. "It's basically go by the season, and 1Oth in its last 11 feel. We just attacked him." outings. The Diamondbacks fell 
Moises Alou and Neifi Perez 58 games below .500 and 20 1/2 also homered for the Cubs, who behind the Rockies, their nearest pulled within a half-game of idle competitor in the NL West. San Francisco in the NL wild­Mets 9, Braves 7 card race. Mike Piazza and the New York 
Brooks had been 0-0 with a Mets made sure manager Art 
0.93 ERA in six relief appear­Howe had at least one thing to ances for the Pirates. But he last­smile about Monday. ed only one inning as a starter, Piazza and Richard Hidalgo allowing four earned runs, three homered, pinch-hitter Craig 
hits and a walk. Brazell came through with a go­
"Obviously, it wasn't that good ahead double and New York ral­of an outing when you only go lied past the Atlanta Braves in one inning," Brooks said. "I was the first game of a doubleheader. expecting to go at least five It was an uplifting victory after innings, keep us in the game and a newspaper reported Monday give us a chance to win. But that the slumping Mets have that's not how it went." ''I'm sure he hasn't lost many start. He had one walk and five homers and 1,000 RBis. already decided to fire Howe 
Things went sour quickly as when he gets a five-run lead." strikeouts. "It's Vinny's night to shine," after the season. He said if that's Perez, the Cubs' second batter The Pirates did have their Paul Wilson failed for the ninth Colorado manager Clint Hurdle true, he wants to be let go imme­who isn't known for his power, chances, putting runners in scor­time to win his 10th game. He said. "We throw that term 'great' diately. homered to left on a 3-2 pitch. ing position four times against allowed three runs and six hits in around pretty loosely in sports, "I didn't read any stories. I did-Brooks (0-1) then walked Aramis Maddux. But the Cubs defense seven innings. Wilson is 0-4 with but when you start putting up , n't even know what was going Ramirez and Alou hit what was especially stingy a 7.36 ERA in nine starts since he numbers like that there's some on. I don't think that changes should have been a routine Grudzielanek saved a run with a beat Milwaukee in his last start substance to it." anything," winning pitcher Aaron grounder to shortstop Jack diving, two-out catch in the third before the All-Star break. He also Castilla, who also made a pair Heilman said. "We've got to go Wilson. with men at first and third -and left two games with leads before of smooth plays on defense, qui­out there and give it everything 
But Wilson bobbled the catch Pittsburgh couldn't bring any of the bullpen blew saves and spent etly is having a standout season we've got, every game, every and made another error with a the runners home. 18 days on the disabled list with after being signed as a free agent pitch, every inning. I don't think wild throw to first, allowing Reds 4, Phillies 3 back problems. by the Rockies. it's changed our approach at all." Ramirez to go to third and Alou Jason LaRue drove in the go­The Phillies took a 1-0 lead on He has 32 home runs, and his After the Mets spent all after­to second. Lee drove both home ahead run on a fielder's choice Jim Thome's sacrifice fly in the 119 RBis are just two behind NL noon answering questions about with a single to left, giving grounder in the eighth inning first, but the Reds responded leader Scott Rolen. Howe, they came back from a 
Chicago a 3-0 lead. and the Cincinnati Reds snapped with three runs in the bottom of "It means a lot," Castilla said. three-run deficit to win for only 
"We would have been out of the Philadelphia Phillies' six­the inning. "Any time you can hit more than the third time in 22 games. the inning if Jack throws that game winning streak with a vic­Ryan Freel led off with a single, 30 home runs and drive in more With less than 1,000 fans in the cleanly. It's probably a double tory Monday night. stole second and third and scored than 100, it's a great season. I'm stands at the start, Heilman (1-1) play," Pirates manager Lloyd Wrly Mo Pena led off the eighth on D'Angelo Jimenez's single. feeling great physically. I don't earned his frrst major league win McClendon said. "But you still against reliever Felix Rodriguez Jimenez stole second and scored think I've lost anything defensive­in more than a year and Wilson need to make pitches." (5-8) with a double into the right­on Adam Dunn's bloop double ly or offensively." Delgado also homered for New 
The Cubs weren't done with center field gap and moved to down the left-field line. Jacob Castilla is the 104th player to York. Brooks, either. Sosa sent a 1-0 third on pinch-hitter Darren Cruz drove in Dunn with a single reach 300 home runs for his "Good pitching, timely hitting, pitch deep into the left-field Bragg's sacrifice. LaRue followed up the middle, snapping a 0-for-career. Earlier this year, he and hopefully we can get the stands for a two-run homer, his with a sharp grounder to second 10 slump. passed Jorge Orta for the most nightcap," Howe said. frrst since Aug. 26. It was Sosa's baseman Placido Polanco, who Philadelphia tied it at 3 on hits by a Mexican-born player. Jae Seo started the second 30th homer of the season, giving made a diving backhanded stop David Bell's two-out infield single ''I've tried never to take my job game against Atlanta's Paul him 10 straight years with 30 or but couldn't get up and throw in and Pat Burrell's homer down for granted. I try to work hard Byrd. more. time to get Pena at the plate. the left-field line, his 22nd. every day, day in and day out," Andruw Jones hit a two-run 
Brooks finally got out of the Joe Valentine (2-3) got the final Rockies 9, Diamondbacks 2 Castilla said. "I have 13 years in shot to help the NL East-leading inning when Mark Grudzielanek out in the eighth for the win, and Vinny Castilla reached two the big leagues. To stay here, you Braves build a 4-1 lead, but Jaret grounded out and Paul Bako Danny Graves pitched the ninth career milestones with one big have to be very consistent." Wright (14-7) couldn't hold it. struck out. But the five-run lead for his 39th save. swing of the bat. Luis Gonzalez hit a three-run New York scored five times in was more than enough support The Phillie " !I five games The 37 -year-old third baseman homer off Arizona starter Casey the sixth. Piazza hit a two-run for Greg Maddux (14-9). Maddux, behind idle San Francisco in the hit two of Colorado's five home Fossum, then Castilla, Jeromy homer, and Brazell's two-out, making his 600th career start, NL wild-card race. runs in the Rockies' hammering Burnitz and Brad Hawpe had two-run double down the right­scattered five hits over seven Gavin Floyd gave up three runs of the Arizona Diamondbacks on solo shots off reliever Lance field line gave the Mets a 5-4 scoreless innings, striking out on four hits in the first inning Monday night. Cormier. lead. two while walking just one. before settling down to allow just Castilla's second one -off Castilla's second home run of "I didn't have my best stuff, the 
"He's tough when you give him four more hits in the final five reliever Scott Service -drove in the night -and 32nd of the sea­stuff you'd like to have, but I was a lead like that," McClendon said. innings of his third big league two runs to give him 300 career son -drove in two runs off Scott getting through it," Wright said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LaSalle Grill Restaurant and Club ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-Buy/Sell NO football tix. Home & LaSalle are hiring for the following 2378p.m. away games,including Mich.St.& WANTED postions: Cocktail Server (Must be FoR SALE TICKETS 288-2726 Tenn. 
over 21) Main Dining Room Server 57 4-289-8048. Need 4 GAs to Purdue (Must be 21) Flexible Hours avail-HOUSE FOR SALE 915 E. BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, (313)886-4189 able. Please pick up applications at Washington Close to campus; 3 PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY NO 
115 West Colfax Avenue, any time bdrm 1 .5 bath & lots of 3911 FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 
PERSONALS

Now hiring Kitchen help & hostess. after 2:00PM closets/storage, 2 car garage. 289-674-6593. Apply Between the Buns Sports 5922. For Sale: NO football tix. Good Bar, South Bend Ave. Looking for JV Soccer coach for col-prices. Need BC GA tix. Will be used not Spring Break 2005 with STS, 
lege prep school in La Porte area. 232-0964. resold. 269-684-6102. Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. 
Short-Nanny Needed From 9/27-Contact: Chris Balawender at 219-FoR RENT Hiring campus reps. Call for group 10/1 7am to 5:30pm in Granger for 326-7450 or cbalawender For Sale: NO football tix. Good Need BC GA tix. Will be used not discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800­2 kids, ages 4 and 7. One person all @laluiere.org Apartments available at College prices. resold. 648-4849 www.ststravel.com. day of split part tie. Park for the 2005-2006 school year, 232-0964. 269-684-6102. Non-smoker, willing to transport kids Kaplan needs PT student advisors. 1 ,200 square feet, two bedrooms, Listen to PL, JCap and the Clown a must. Flexible times. $7/hr. By Turtle two full baths, patios, $975.00 Hurry Wanted: NO football tix. Top$$$ Need WA tix. Will trade PU or BC. Tuesday nights at 7 p.m. pm WVFI Contact Jen 674-9876. CreekApts. Call272-4135 for info. call Patti at 235-7234 251-1570. 57 4-634-3082. to hear the latest in sports talk 

THE OBSER\'ER 

CENETuesday, September 14, 2004 
page 15 MOVIE REVIEWS 
Over-the-top documentary delivers the goods 
By RYAN ROGERS 
Scene Critic 
Morgan Spurlock. director, producer and masochist of the film "Super Size Me," points at America's fat gut with blatant disregard for its feelings. 
The documentary features Spurlock, an award-winning graduate of New York University, hinging on McDonald's food for an entire month, three meals a day. During Spurlock's eating adven­tures he must adhere to three rules. IIe can only eat things available over the countr.r at McDonald's (water and vita­mins includnd), he can only super size wht~n it is offered and hr. must eat evnrything on the menu at least once. Spurlock also calculates the average amount of exercise 
This film is very funny, and Spurlock is witty and thoroughly entertaining. It also offers a wealth of information for those unaware of the extent of damage that fast food can do to one's body, focusing heavily on facts. Spurlock is armed to the teeth with slats, numbers and professional opinions about the nutritional value of an average visit to McDonald's. 
The best part of this film is the fact that, while it clearly defames fast food chains, it does not look to them for answers. As the film states, fast food is a business and as long as there are cus­tomers there will be no change in prac­tice. Ultimately, the customer has to make the change. This ending does seem pretty abrupt and forced but regardless "Super Size Me" delivers all 
it promises. 

the average While most
11Super Size Me"
Anwrican gets daily people under­(which happens to be 
stand that fast as insignificant as food is not walking to and from healthy, the a car) and practiced film exposesDirector: Morgan Spurlock 
this same workout some rather 
Writer: Morgan Spurlock 
routine. alarming facts. 
Starring: Morgan Spurlock, Bridget 
In addition to his Doctors tell 
Bennett and Dr. Stephen Siegel
personal McDonald's Spurlock that 
bingr., Spurlock also 
travels around the United States in an attempt to unlock the answer to the question "why is America so fat?" In his pilgrimage, he interviews various doc­tors. nutritionists and teachers to high­light different points of view and differ­ent areas of concern for the health of America. 
he will die as a result or this diet. They beg him to stop the experiment. Spurlock falls into depression. lie develops cirrhosis of the liver as a result of his diet. Children are offered few healthy alternatives to french fries in school lunches all across the country. Interviews reveal ridiculous popular opinions, thoughts (or lack 
Plot provides little thrill in snake sequel 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Critic 
There seems to have been an interest­ing trend sweeping through Hollywood lately. Movies that were average at best and undeserving of sequels are now receiving second chances to push their characters and themes back on film. When the first "Anaconda" film came out. not many people saw it. Those that did probably didn't expect to see a sequel. Well, they got it in the form of "Anacondas: The Hunt for the Blood Orchid." 
Wanted or not. the movie is here, and should be judged on its own merits. Unfortunately, its numerous flaws out­weigh those merits. The whole movie feels rec·vcled and lacking. The script would have been more deserving of a direct to video treatment as opposed to the theatrical release that it received. 
The movie begins with some pharma­
ceutical company's 11Anacondas: The Hunt for the location employees convinc­used to set up
for the Blood Orchid"
ing the organization their movie. A to continue funding 
good portion of their project. The the indigenous reason'! A possible wildlife within "Fountain of Youth" the movie wasDirector: Dwight H. Little
in the form of the false. Set in
Writer: John Claflin and Daniel Zelman 
blood orchid flower, Borneo, the
Starring: Johnny Messner, KaDee 
found only in the isle movie bor-
Strickland, Karl Yune and Eugene Byrd 
of Borneo in Asia. rowed animals Blood orchids only from South bloom for a couple of months every America and Africa. This can be seen as seven years or so. and the team has only a small complaint though, because if a few weeks left in the current cycle. you are interested in seeing a movie Needless to say, the company finances with 40-foot snakes it is unlikely that an expedition quickly and our victims realism is a high priority. 
are introduced. Sadly, as they progress through the movie, they find that the blood orchid location also happens to be near the local anaconda mating ground. Since the blood orchid prolongs life, these snakes are slightly larger than average. But as usual, the characters never wonder about the obvious coinci­dence before launching into their quest 
If you couldn't tell already, this is a flawed movie. Where's a good place to start with the complaints? The plot was formulaic, with all the impending deaths obvious well in advance. The characters feel recycled; there's the greedy corpo­rate guy, the courageous loner, the horny jerk. If you are looking for some­thing new or innovative, look elsewhere. At least the first movie had some memo­rable characters with charisma, such as Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube, and the always classy Jon Voight. 
Another complaint is that the film­makers did not do any research con­
cerning the 
natural wildlife thereof) and myths about nutrition. Random people interviewed on the street can more easily sing the Big Mac song than the National Anthem. 
As any film about the weaknesses of the human body, "Super Size Me" pres­ents some graphic images. Spurlock burps and vomits while consuming his meals. A medical procedure is per­formed on screen. Very personal things are revealed about Spurlock's body in his many visits to the doctor. Although this may be difficult for those with weak stomachs, it is very honest filmmaking. 
Spurlock not only puts his body on the line but also his pride. 
Spurlock knows his film's limits. The film runs just over an hour and a half and that is plenty. The film ends before beating its points into the ground, which is a difficult line to walk. 
Those seeking a tremendously groundbreaking documentary should look elsewhere, but ultimately "Super Size Me" proves itself to be funny, intel­ligent, and refreshing. 
Contact Ryan Rogers at rrogers2@nd.edu 

This brings us to the positives in the movie. The snakes look pretty nice on the screen. Being purely CGI animated, they move fluidly and create a lot of moments that are just plain fun to watch. If this movie had received the direct-to-video treatment, the snakes would have undoubtedly suffered in appearance. So it is probably for the best that it got a theatrical debut. as without the CGI this movie would proba­bly have been far less than what it is. 
Although formulaic and recycled, this movie certainly has some redeeming values saving it from earning the infa­mous single shamrock rating. The plot, despite complaints, still provides some entertainment if you lose any high expectations and the creatures are well done. 
However, you may still want to check out the first one if you are in need of a giant snake fix. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
---------~--·------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE 0BSERVIR 
CENE
page 14 
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
DVD REVIEW 

1 Kill Bill: Vol. 2' fails to make the cut on DVD 

By BRANDON HOLLIHAN Scene Critic 

Of all the films just dying for extras ­bonus footage, interviews, commentary, whatever it may be-the "Kill Bill" DVD series is a truly disappointing release, in light of all the buzz created while the films were still at the box office. This is like an Irish victory at Florida State being followed up by a home loss to Boston College, in case you need an idea as to how let down you should feel. 
At least "Vol. 2" is the better of the two movies. Picking up where "Vol. 1" left off in Tokyo. we open with the Bride (Uma Thurman) giving a prologue speech recalling her apparent death and subse­quent revenge. "I've killed a [heck] of a lot of people to get to this point," she sneers, "but I have only one more," that being Bill (David Carradine), her former boss/lover and the one most responsible for her attempted murder. Along the way the Bride encounters two other remain­ing members of the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad: Budd (Mark Madsen), who's allowed his life to take a turn for the worse; and Elle Driver (Daryl Hannah), Bill's current flame and the Bride's ultimate rival. 

"VoL 2" hits its peak and most fun in the middle of the plot. Here, the action and exchanges between the principal characters are at their most engaging, plus there's the bonus of the indescrib­ably great 'Chapter 8: The Cr:uel Tutelage of Pai Mei,' with Gordon Liu uncannily assuming the role of the White Lotus priest and thus creating one of the best movie characters ever. Canadine's portrayal of Bill is also convincing and entertaining, but I feel we see too much of him. His interaction with other cl1ar­acters ought to have been limited to just the Bride and their child; a concept of mystique to his character needs to be upheld. 
Any flaws the film may contain, how­ever, are negligible when compared to the packaging of the DVD as a whole. As with "Vol. 1," there is no audio commen­tary -a pretty ludicrous mishap, given that Quentin Tarantino's insight is the kind of stuff fans of his films would die 
for. There is movie pre­miere footage on the DVD, but it's just Robert Rodriguez's band Chingon playing a song from the film's end cred­its. There's also only one deleted scene, a show­down between Bill and a thug named Damoe (Michael Jai White) and his cronies, which is nothing to write home about. 

The major special feature is a behind­the-scenes look at "Vol. 2 ,'' which is decent, but even then it leaves you want­ing more. For example, Tarantino dis­cusses Carradine's star turn in the 70's TV series "Kung Fu." or Liu having been worked in films outside of the "Kill Bill" series that featured the character Pai Mei. Would it really have been too much to dig up some of these things and do features on them? Tarantino shares his love for classic martial arts films with great intensity, and yet the viewer feels left out in the cold. 
That's why the "Vol. 2" DVD doesn't get the recommendation one might think it would have deserved. If you're an owner of the "Kill Bill" set, take heart in the fact that you have a pair of very fun movies in your dorm room, and that many people in your section respect you and find you very cool. Otherwise, this set is for fans only. at least until the inevitable "Kill Bill Special Edition Box Set" shows up somewhere down the line. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Zombies, thrills raise horror film from death 
shut down, it also conveniently released a horde of zombies with a penchant for flesh. The first movie ended with a cliffuanger, as Alice fell back under the control of the Umbrella Corporation. 
"Resident Evil: Apocalypse" begins exactly where the other one ended, with some of the opening scenes overlapping between the two films. The story is introduced for those who missed the previous movie through a voice over by the Alice charac-
However, all is not well in Evil land. The story is filled with numerous plot holes. At one point in the film, as the heroes are running away from the walk­ing dead they decide to visit a graveyard. The action is plagued with the quick camera shots that directors use to "heighten" tension and mask the actors' actual fighting prowess. The movie itself feels like one big action scene, as the characters are given relatively little 
screen time to 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Critic 

It has been the year for sequels. Hollywood must be running out of imagi­nation, as this year has been dominated by spin-offs to successful formulas. "Spider-Man 2,'' "Shrek 2,'' "Alien Vs. Predator" and even "Anacondas" have all received the sequel treatment. Some sequels have been memorable than oth­ers. The latest movie in this latter vein has been "Resident Evil: Apocalypse." 
Many people may think back to the first "Resident Evil" and recall that it didn't exactly rock the world. The actors weren't huge, as it starred Milia 
·Jovovich, a girl some may recall as being a bit actor in "The Fifth Element" and "Zoolander." It put forward a vaguely "Alice in Wonderland" storyline as an Alice fought against the tyrannical nature of a computer called the Red Queen designed by the Umbrella Corporation. When the Red Queen was ter, and almost develop. The char­
11Resident Evil:
immediately acters themselves the audience is Apocalypse" alternate from plunged into the 
believable to ludi­action. The virus crous, such as one has broken out of "tilllllll.!j:l zombie killer's the facility it was ..,,, decision to hunt in in during the first Director: Alexander Witt a tube top and a movie, and now Writer: Paul W.S. Anderson short skirt. Umbrella has the Starring: Milla Jovovich, Oded Fehr, Of the two entire city locked Thomas Kretschmann and Mike Epps movies Paul W. S. 

down. This leaves a few brave indi­viduals that are still locked within the city to find a way out. Fortunately, they are helped by a couple of Umbrella's own. 
Almost before the first "Resident Evil" was released, the sequel was announced. Ever since then, the second movie promised to surpass the first in every regard. There was going to be more action, more critters and most important, more zombies. And in that aspect, this sequel succeeded in every category. There is more action. There are more critters and there is now a city full of zombies for your viewing pleas­ure. 
Anderson is cur­

rently responsible for writing (this and "Aliens Vs. Predator"), this one left me with a better feeling on how the movie went. However, this one may be the improved one as it was directed by Alexander Witt instead of Anderson himself. 
Overall though, the film was pretty enjoyable. The brain needs to be left at the door, but the movie provides some decent entertainment for those into this kind of genre movie. If you liked the first, you will most likely enjoy this sec­ond look at the Resident Evil world. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------~-~­

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
John Kerry: A renewal of responsibility 
A recent Observer columnist wrote that a vote for president was somehow a more dift1cult. but ultimately more rewarding path. This claim of President Bush's more tough-minded approach is nothing more than a reiteration of the president's political persona: unyielding bravado. A quick comparison of Mr. Bush's record and Sen. John Kerry's plan reveals that John Kerry will return a much-needed responsibility to the presidency. 
Two key examples, among many possibilities, provide an adequate glimpse of President Bush's reckless first term in which political concerns most often trumped serious issues. 
First. Mr. Bush's enormous tax cuts have provided scant economic stimulus and are little more than a boon for his more wealthy constituents. They have turned a projected $400 billion surplus into a $500 billion deficit: a $900 billion regression. The Economic Policy Institute says these cuts will not engender needed investment and only lead to large debts. Instead. Mr. Kerry would take the sensible approach of rolling-back the tax cuts for only the wealthiest Americans. while retaining the tax cuts for the middle-class and working poor. Sen. Kerry is also known for a rigorous policy of costing-out all proposals so that every piece of his plan for America has a definitive revenue source. 
President Bush thrust the United States into an unnecessary war and grossly mismanaged occupation of Iraq as he foolishly succumbed to the neoconserva­tive block among his advisors. who believe that hawkish and risky military operations are the only way to promulgate democracy in the world. Sen. Kerry, who voted for the use of force in Iraq as a last resort, would have only invaded Iraq if the U.S. had exhausted all other plans and been sure that Iraq was a danger to the region and to the United States. This was not the case with President Bush. More importantly, Mr. Kerry would have led an occupation of Iraq that anticipated the residual troubles of a war-torn Iraq. 
In the end. the U.S. has encountered many serious problems during Mr. Bush's tenure and he has failed to address them. Opposite the Bush record. Mr. Kerry's plans show his commitment to responsible and thoughtful leadership. 
Colin Taylor Co-Presidenr, College Democrats junior Keough Hall Sept. 12 
To the man in the yellow jacket: thank you 

With the last few minutes of the game standing between the Irish and a huge win over their oldest rival Michigan, I was about to chew a hole in my Notre • Dame keychain and kept pinching myself. Merely an hour earlier. my friend had turned to me and said that if we won that game, we were going to rush the field. Apparently, many other people had had that same notion, and with 20 seconds left in the game, the sea of green started cascading down in a rush of people. purses and eventual bleacher shards. At one point during the descent. there had amassed such a crowd that my body was no longer touching the ground. 
The intensity was exhilarating until I got to the wall, where the surge from behind was so strong that I could not get my legs up and over. Earnestly afraid of being crushed, I glanced up and saw a man in a yellow jacket standing down on the field, apparently very concerned about what he was witnessing. Our eyes met. I mouthed the word "help," and he stretched his arms towards me. Grateful. I simply leaned over, threw my arms around him and slid over the wall in what must have been the epitome of grace. Good thing I wasn't wearing a skirt. 
Not only to that one usher but to all of them, I wish to extend a big thank you. I was certain that you were going to try to stop the inevitable. Instead, you helped a few flimsy students in their quest for the football field. My friends even told me that they had heard ushers asking people during the fourth quar­ter not to hurt each other while rushing the field. Saturday, the ushers showed some real wisdom and kindness for a student body that probably never shows gratitude. So once again, to the nameless selfless people in the yellow jackets who love Notre Dame too much to leave it, thank you. You deserve another big hug. 
Clare Charbonnet sophomore Cavanaugh Hall Sepr. 12 
page 13 
U-WIRE 

Hurricanes signal neartng crisis 
As Hurricane Frances pummeled the Gulf Coast, we heard the wrenching sagas of heroic police and firefighters, evacuating and escaping families, and those left behind in the hurri­
Bryan

cane. We heard the 
tragedy of destroyed Balin 
homes, families and 
The Johns 

livelihoods. We heard 
Hopkins

the miraculous. 
News-Letter

heartwarming stories 
of loved ones reunit­
ed and lives saved. 
What we did not hear, though, is 
why natural disasters such as these 
are occurring more and more fre­
quently. Natural disasters are fre­
quent in the news: Wildfires in the 
West. blizzards in the East, droughts 
in the Midwest and, of course, hurri­
canes in the Gulf. 
Typically, TV news stations do 
their exposes, tell their stories of 
life, death and the human spirit, and 
move on. There is little thought 
given to how and why these natural 
disasters occur. and surely no 
thought is given to why they seem to 
be covering more and more major 
disasters each year. Natural disas­
ters are seen as sudden, uncontrol­
lable, random and most of all, iso­
lated events. 
The startling truth is that natural disasters such as wildfires, floods and hurricanes have seen a dramat­ic increase in their regularity and intensity over the last 20 years. From the period between 1990 and 2000, the total number of natural disasters around the globe has risen from 650 to 850 per year. 
To prevent this sort of scenario from occurring, the developed nations of the world, including the 
U.S.. finally signed the Kyoto Protocols in 1997. after 10 years of debate. These protocols, mandating the reduction of global emissions by 
5.2 percent from 1990 levels, is an important, though not dramatic. step toward dampening the effects of global warming. Though coun­tries including the European Union, China, Canada and Japan have rati­fied the agreement. the Bush admin­istration withdrew the U.S. from this agreement pending "further envi­ronmental study." 
Though a vocal group of lawmak­ers, environmentalists and world leaders protested this move, the Sept. 11 attacks overshadowed and buried this type of story. More "pressing" issues such as global ter­rorism were then espoused by the government and the media, and environmental issues were given lit­tle airplay due to time constraints and public disinterest. 
This disinterest fed a "one-track" psyche that gives a narrow group of issues and dangers an overempha­sized amount of attention, allowing others to fade into a mishmash of "secondary" issues such as trade tariffs. veterans' affairs and envi­ronmental issues. This dangerous mindset allows the public and offi­cials to "forget" issues that are not immediate to the survival of the nation and its citizens -at least until they are at such a point that they are creating catastrophic effects to our national well being. 
Though global warming may not be an urgent issue of public debate, it will not simply go away. If we do 
not act soon, the exponential 
increase of natural catastrophes 
caused by global warming will not 
only further ravage our planet. but 
also has the potential to cause the 
breakdown of the existing world 
order. A recent Pentagon report. 
first publicized by the New York 
Times, outlined how such a change 
will force the U.S. to secure recours­
es vital to its survival if global 
warming continues at its current 
pace. To do this, the U.S. will be 
forced to act solely in its self-inter­
est, violating international law. 
Smaller countries will be forced to 
fight among themselves for a 
decreasing amount of fresh water. 
arable land and natural recourses. 
In essence, global anarchy will once 
again instate itself as typical of the 
human condition. 
To avoid this, we must have a 
broader vision as a country that 
must both address immediate issues 
of national importance and deal 
with ongoing issues such as global 
warming and energy dependence 
that have no immediate perceived 
effect today but will cost us dearly 
in the future. Both political parties 
and the public must recognize this 
today, or they face an uncertain 
future where the smaller, more 
attainable reforms o·r today will be 
replaced by much more far-reaching 
and draconian reforms in the future. 
Sadly, only a truly catastrophic event directly linked to global warming will sway the minds of many across the U.S. to take action, but there is hope that scientists. activists and "enlightened" politi­cians can once again bring the issue of climate change back into the realm of debate in America. States can also act on their own to limit emissions, thus forcing automobile companies to develop more efficient cars. Conservation groups can band together and enlist the help of sym­pathetic politicians such as Senator John McCain. This meta-group of activists can then respond to disas­ters such as Hurricane Frances by arguing the case that global warm­ing is at least partially to blame. 
In turn, the U.S. electorate will become more aware and concerned with legislation such as the Kyoto Protocols. thus forcing politicians to adopt these concerns. Finally. JGOs can mandate energy-efficient and clean-burning technologies in any investment abroad made by U.S. corporations. and censure those who are not following these prac­tices in the U.S. and abroad. 
In short. through public concern, governmental mandates and finan­cial incentives, the U.S. will, know­ingly or unknowingly, follow an agenda very similar to those of the Kyoto Protocols. A cleaner, more well-educated America will take the first crucial steps in altering the course of climate change from one of ignorance and catastrophe to one of pro-activeness and prosperity. 
This column originally appeared on Sept. 13 in the The Johns Hopkins News-Letter, the daily publication at Johns Hopkins University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE ()BSER\TER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Tuesday, September 14, 2004 


THE OBStRVER 

SPOllTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR> Maria Smith IN Focus EDITOR• Meghan Marrin SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHoTO EDITOR> Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADvEJITISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER> Kelly Nelson · SYsTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen . CoNTROW!R: Paula Garda 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 


Walt Whitman, the great American poet, once wrote, "Future years will never know the seething hell and the black infernal background, the countless minor scenes and interiors of the seces­sion war; and it is best they should not -the Peter J. real war never gets in Quaranto the books." One hun­dred and twenty-two 
A Call to 

years later, Whitman's 
Action
words could not ring more true. 

No one would disagree that the United States is a country at war, but how many of us directly feel the effects of war? As our country has waged two wars over the last three years, it has become as trendy to talk about war. Yet, we contin­ue our quotidian lives with little con­sciousness of fellow Americans being brought home in body bags or Iraqi civil­ians being bombed. We are certainly not starved for war-talk, but we keep miss­ing the human realities of war. 
This summer I traveled to Phnom Penh, Cambodia, a land that knows too well the realities of war. From 1969 to 1973, the United States dropped 540,000 tons of bombs on Cambodia as a "sideshow" of the Vietnam War. Following the war. the Khmer Rouge, a communist-militia strengthened by poverty and suffering from the war, came to power in 197 5. During four years, the Khmer Rouge killed more than two million Cambodians. This auto­genocide resulted in the deaths of more than one-fourth of the population and more than 80 percent of the educated members of society. In 1979, the Vietnamese overthrew the Khmer Rouge, but ushered in a decade of occu­pation and conflict. In 1993, the United Nations organized elections, but prob­lems of poverty, corruption and violence have persisted. 
Almost 25 years after the war and genocide, the people of Cambodia con­tinue to feel the effects. First, the abject poverty and societal corruption are a result of devastated infrastructure. Second, the extremely high rate of tuberculosis cases in Cambodia, most of which result in death, is easily traced to the war years. Third, problems with landmines and uncontrolled small arms continue to kill many. Finally, the culture of fear continues to plague the society. Twenty-five years later, the Cambodian people continue to face the effects of war and genocide everyday. 
When I walked through Tuol Sleng where thousands of people were tor­tured or stared at the tree at Choeung Elk against which babies were smashed to death, the temptation was to turn away from the human realities. The temptation was and remains to simply see these events on a conceptual level, but to never give them a human face. As humans, there is a seduction to war as long as we avoid the "seething hell" of which Whitman writes. 
This summer, when I asked my stu­dents at the University about war and peace, they spoke with solemnity and somberness. They speak about losing family members, about fear, about their broken society. For them, war. though perhaps unavoidable at times, is never a good thing. War kills and destroys. And for them, peace is not a flowery concept; it is a dream of a day when they will not live in violence, despair or fear. 
The story of Cambodia is not exclusive. It is a common story for people from El Salvador, Congo, East Timor, Colombia, Uganda and most of the world's coun­tries. It is a story that many U.S. veter­ans know too well. These people speak of the realities of war that never get into the books, but are never erased. 
In our country today, we have every reason to face the human realities of war as more than 1,000 U.S. troops have been killed in the ongoing war in Iraq. The deadly fighting in Iraq has become a quagmire with no end in sight. More U.S. troops were wounded in August than any other month in the war. Every day, someone's son. daughter, father or moth­er is being killed in a war that Donald Rumsfeld claims will only get worse in the coming months. 
The saddest part of it all is that you and I are so easily able to avoid these human realities. We cheer at football games and dance at SYR's with little consciousness that our fellow Americans are fighting and dying. For too many of us, the war in Iraq or the genocide in Sudan are nothing more than headlines in the newspaper. 
Of course, this seems to be just what the powers-that-be want us to do. The Pentagon has banned photographs of dead soldiers. including the coffins in which they rest. There was even talk that those holding candlelight vigils for the dead U.S. troops last week were "hurting the war effort" and "unpatriot­ic." While it would seem that bearing witness to the sacrifices of our troops would be the patriotic thing to do, we are told to do the opposite. 
In a very important book, "War Is a Force That Gives Us Meaning," Christopher Hedges, a veteran war cor­respondent, writes. "War makes the world understandable, a black and white tableau of them and us. It suspends thought, especially self-critical thought. All bow before the supreme effort. We are one." In a culture of war, thought is often the first casualty. 
The only answer· :acing the human realities of yesterday, today and tomor­row. 
Peter Quaranta is a junior political science and international peace studies major. He can be contacted at pquarant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Ken Walsh Ami Loughery Tricia DeGroot Chris Khorey 
For what will you use the DeBartolo 
Viewpoint Scene·· 
"Freedom is not worth having ifit does not 
Katherine Rowley Rama Performing Arts Center? 
include the freedom to make mistakes."
Graphics Gottumukkala Desiree Zamora Illustrator 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
Mahatma Gandhi 
Katie Knorr 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
------------.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

, ') 

Tuesday, September 14, 2004 

AVE SPES UNICA
CRUX~ 

The CoNGREGATION 
of HoLY CRoss 
invites you to join us tn celebrating the 
VIGI.( 
of THE FEAST of 
OUR LADY 
of 
SORROWS 
PRINCIPAL PATRONESS 
OF THE CONGREGATION 

Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
at u:oo P.M. 
beginning in front ofthe 
Log Chapel 
~ 

With Recitation of the Holy Rosary and Candlelit Procession through campus 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
S
imeon said to Mary his mother, "Behold, this child is destined for the fall and rise of many ill Israel, and to he a sign that will be contradicted (and you yourself a sword will pierce) so that the thoughts of many hearts may he revealed." -LuKE 2: 34-35 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Changes sought in nevvborn testing 
Better testing could result in safer births 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Gracie Clay's mother says her child could still be alive had she been born in, say, Mississippi instead of Georgia: Which state you live in determines whether your new­born is tested for several dozen rare but devastating inherited diseases. 
Many of these illnesses, like the one that killed 19-month-old Gracie last February, can be treated easily if parents know in time. Testing requires a single drop of blood. But many states mandate newborn testing for only a fraction of the diseases. 
Next week, a government advisory committee is expected to move to end the geographic disparity, as it debates whether every state should test every newborn for 30 genetic illnesses. 
"We should not be having babies die because of not having a test that's relatively simple," says Dr. R. Rodney Howell, a University of Miami pediatrician who chairs the panel that advis­es Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson. 
The influential March of Dimes. which has a seat on that advisory panel, isn't waiting. Last week it decided to increase its own newborn testing recom­mendations from nine diseases to 30, persuaded by a long­awaited study from leading 

geneticists that forms the crux of ease. next week's debate. But new technology called tan­
That study, soon to be pub­dem mass spectrometry can lished in a medical journal, "will analyze a single drop of blood put a lot of pressure on states," for more than 40 other serious, predicted March of Dimes' med­sometimes life-threatening, ical director, Dr. Nancy Green. genetic diseases. "Regardless of what the advisory Many are metabolic disorders 
committee does ...  with such tongue­ 
this is going  to  twisting names that  
irrevocably change newborn screening in the U.S."  ''The state you live in decides the fate of your child if  they go by acronyms, like the MCAD that killed Gracie Clay. These  
Meanwhile, what's the advice  you're not aware. "  otherwise healthy babies lack  
for expectant par­ents? Check what tests your state  Molly Clay mother  enzymes that change stored fat into energy, mean- 

requires now. If it's fewer than 30, "we do have to suggest that the family at least consider a private screening lab," Green says. Extra testing costs $25 to $100, depending on the lab. 
"If I'd just known about new­born screening," laments Molly Clay of Atlanta. Although a pub­lic health worker, she didn't learn until Gracie died that Georgia tested for eight diseases, but not her daughter's. The state is adding that one to its list. 
"The state you live in decides the fate of your child if you're not aware," says Clay, who encourages parents to seek that supplemental testing. 
Today. every U.S. baby is test­ed for two rare diseases that can cause retardation if untreated: hypothyroidism and the meta­bolic disease phenylketonuria, or PKU. Most also are tested for sickle cell anemia, a blood dis­ing going more 
than a few hours without food can be fatal. Gracie, for example, had some middle-of-the-night vomiting that seemed like a routine stom­ach bug, but she died hours later in her sleep. Had anyone known she had MCAD, a quick glucose injection almost certain­ly would have saved her, Clay says. 
These are very rare diseases, thought together to strike about 4,000 babies a year. But a recent federal analysis suggests that more than 1,000 a year may go undiagnosed because of state testing variation. 
Fifteen states require testing for five or fewer of the diseases, according to the U.S. National Newborn Screening and Genetics Resource Center. Nineteen states test for 25 dis­eases or more; the rest fall in the middle. 

US falters in education rankings 
Nation still leads in spending per student 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The United 
States is falling behind other 
countries in having a high­
school-educated public, with 
the gap widening the most 
among young adults, a new 
comparison of industrialized 
nations shows. 
A total of 87 percent of U.S. adults age 25 to 34 have fin­ished high school. which puts the country 1Oth behind quality, because many of them are already ahead." 

Although titled "Education at a Glance," the yearly report has ballooned into a 450-page compilation. Measuring 30 countries, it relies mostly on data from 2002 and 2001, although its achievement fig­ures date to 2000. Organizers call those the most current numbers available. 
The United States has a higher share of its population with at least a four-year col­lege education -38 percent -than any country other than Canada. The United States is second. behind 
such nations "Ifwe are less competitive Norway, in 
as Korea, adults age 25
educationally, we will soon
Norway, the to 34 who
become less competitive have earned
C z e c h Republic and economically. " such a college Japan. education. 
The older But in high­
Rod Paige
the popula­er education, 
Secretary of Education 
tion. the bet­the United 
ter the United States fares -it remains first in high­school completion among older adults and fifth among adults age 35-44. But other nations are making fast gains among younger adults and passing the United States on the way. 
"They're catching up with you in the proportion that fin­ish school (and) the proportion that go to college," said Barry McGaw, director of education for the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which develops the yearly rankings. 

"The one area you remain ahead is how much you spend," McGaw told U.S. reporters Monday. "They don't need to catch up with you on States is slip­
ping, too, as other countries with tradition­ally lower college rates are closing the gap, the report says. 
"If we are less competitive educationally, we will soon become less competitive eco­nomically," Education Secretary Rod Paige ~aid. "That's just a cruel fact." 
The high school findings come as President Bush, in a tight re-election race, has promised more spending and testing in later grades to ensure a high school diploma has value. His opponent, Democratic Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts, has criticized Bush's administration for fail­ing to enforce the high school graduation provisions of its own education law. 
Paige said educational 

progress by any country is 
good news but .warned that 
U.S. slippage could erode its leadership in the world. He commended good schools yet said taxpayers must shed their mentality "that every school is above-average, especially our own." 
Among other findings: 
+ 
The United States finished near the top in fourth-grade reading performance in a com­parison of nine countries. But while four countries showed increases from 1991 to 2001, the U.S. performance was unchanged. One country, Sweden, dropped in perform­ance. 

+ 
The United States spends more per student on all levels of education-$10,871 ­than any other country. Per­student spending in other nations ranges from less than $3,000 in Mexico, Poland and the Slovak Republic to more than $8,000 in Austria, Denmark and Norway. 

+ 
The United States has the highest number of teaching hours per school year in the primary and high school grades. and the second high­est for middle-school stu­dents. 


Under the nation's educa­tion overhaul of 2002, schools must show yearly progress for many historically disad­'Vantaged groups, including minorities and children who speak little English. No other country in the economic coalition has committed to measure achievement that way, a method designed to ensure schools do more to help underperforming chil­dren. 



page 10 Tuesday, September 1,4, 2004
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

INDUSTRY DAY •Oit 
PARTICIPATING COMPANIES* 
JOYCE CENTER CONCOURSE ENTER GATE 1 OR 2 
BRING YOUR STUDENT ID CARD (IT'S REQUIRED) ATTIRE IS BUSINESS FORMAL 
Accenture American Cast Iron Pipe Company (ACIPCO) Anson Industries Bank of America Bechtel Bettis, Inc. Belcan Advanced Engineering &Technology Biomet The-Boeing Company The Boston Consulting Group BP Bristol-Myers Squibb Calphalon Corporation Carrier Corporation CC Technologies Central Intelligence Agency Civil & Environmental Consultants, Inc. Cowhey Gudmundson Leder, Ltd. Crowe Chizek and Company LLC DaimlerChrysler Corporation Deloitte Consulting Delphi Automotive Systems Denso International America, Inc. (Resume Drop} 
Discover Financial Services (Resume Drop} Eli Lilly and Company Exelon Corporation Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI} Federal-Mogul Corporation General Electric Gilbane Building Company Hewlett-Packard Honeywell Indiana Department ofTransportation Ingersoll-Rand International Truck and Engine Corporation ITAC (Resume Drop} Johnson & Johnson Liberty Mutual Lockheed Martin Corporation 
Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC 
Motorola 
NAVAIR 

Northrop Grumman** 
Oceanit Laboratories, Inc. (Resume Drop} 
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory-Battelle 
Pennsylvania Department ofTransportation Pierce Associates, Inc. PPG Industries Procter &Gamble (Resume Drop} Progressive Insurance 
Protiviti, Inc. 

R.A. Smith & Associates, Inc. Raytheon Schlumberger Technology Corporation SKF USA Inc. St. Paul Travelers Stryker Instruments The Vanguard Group Turner Construction Company Unisys UPS United States Army Corps of Engineers United States Marine Corps United States Navy United Technologies Corporation (Resume Drop) Vedder Price Kaufman & Kammholz Walsh Construction Company Westinghouse Electric Company Whirlpool Corporation Witcher Construction Company Xerox 
*Companies listed in bold will be interviewing on Thursday, September 76. **Northrop Grumman will also be interviewing on Friday, September 77. 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Wednesday, September 15 
Industry Day Banquet Joyce Center, Monogram Room Reception, 4:30 p.m. Dinner,5:00 p.m. 
Wednesday, September 15 
Career Fair Joyce Center Concourse 6:45 -9:45 p.m. 
Thursday, September 16 
Interview Day Flanner Hall 
8:00 a.m . .:. 5:00 p.m. 
SPONSORED BY THE JOlNT ENGINEERING COUNCIL, NOTRE DAME STUDENT SECTION OF THE SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS, 
THE CAREER CENTER, AND THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 

Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Inaccuracies revealed inPeterson tnurder trial 
Associated Press 
HEDWOOD CITY. Calif. ­Satellite navigation devices used to track Scott Peterson's car after his wife's disappear­ance sometimes developed glitches, once indicating he was driving 30,000 mph, an expert in the technology acknowledged Monday at Peterson's murder trial. 
Prosecutors allege Peterson acted like a guilty man and lied to friends and relatives about his whereabouts during the search for his wife, Laci. Defense lawyers maintain he was trying to avoid media attention. 
People involved in making and selling the global position­
than 30,000 mph. Loomis said that was about a "1 00-second" glitch. 
Prosecutors are trying to prove that Peterson killed his 8-months-pregnant wife on or around Dec. 24, 2002, then dumped her weighted body in San Francisco Bay. 
The bodies of Laci Peterson and her fetus washed up on shore in April 2003 not far from a marina where Scott Peterson says he launched his boat that Christmas Eve morn­ing for a solo fishing trip. 
Police have testified they fol­lowed Peterson to the Berkeley Marina three times as authorities scoured the bay for evidence. Defense lawyers claim their client was checking up 
ing  satellite  "There were some  on search efforts,  
devices police used to monitor Peterson's trav­els defended the reliability of the  rare cases where it was offby 15 to 20 yards.''  hoping police would find clues, as well as looking for two witnesses who may have  
devices  but  been at the mari­ 
acknowledged they have limi­ Peter VanWyck Loomis Trimble representltlve  na that Christmas Eve morning.  

tations. 
"It's not exact­ly perfect," said llugh Roddis, chief technology officer for Nova Scotia-based Orion Electronics, which sold the GPS devices to Modesto police. 
Peter Van Wyck Loomis, whose company, Trimble Navigation. made the devices, testified "there were some rare cases where it was off by 15 to 20 yards." 
In an effort to head off defense attacks on the devices. prosecutor Hick Distaso noted one instance when a tracking device showed Peterson's vehicle was moving at more Witnesses testi­
fied Monday that the GPS devices tracked Peterson to the marina at least three more times in January 2003 after police ended their physical surveillance of Peterson on Jan. 11, when they figured he had become aware he was being followed. 
During pretrial hearings, defense lawyers fought to keep GPS testimony out of the trial. claiming it was unreli­able and prone to errors. GPS technology had not yet been qualified as acceptable evi­dence in a criminal trial in California. 
FDA looks at antidepressant labels 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Tom 
Woodward's 17-year-old 
daughter Julie committed sui­
cide by hanging herself. He 
blamed the antidepressant 
that the teen had been taking 
for seven days. 
"We are certain that Zoloft 
killed our daughter," said 
Woodward, one of more than 
70 speakers enveloping federal 
health advisers Monday in an 
outpouring of emotion, tears 
and anger. 
Others witnesses, like 
Cynthia Wainscott, urged the 
Food and Drug Administration 
not to take away drugs that 
have reduced suicide rates 
among depressed youths. 
Two FDA advisory panels are considering whether agency action -including stronger warning labels -is needed on antidepressants because they have been linked to suicidal tendencies among children who take them. The joint panel will weigh the benefits of nine drugs given to depressed children against the risk that the remedies may increase suicidal thoughts and actions. 
"Drug companies have pur­posely deceived the public about the safety and efficacy of their drugs," Woodward said, calling for a strong, black warning on packaging for pop­ular antidepressants. 
Susan Bro. spokesman for Zoloft manufacturer Pfizer, would not comment on Woodward's allegations because of pending litigation. Zoloft, she said, is a "safe and effective drug when used as prescribed." 
Wainscott showed panel members a photograph of her granddaughter Jessi, who she said began suffering from depression at age 11. Now 15 and on medication, Jessi has returned to her normal self, her grandmother said. 

"Tell them not to do anything that will make people afraid to go for help," Wainscott said Jessi told her. Wainscott, chair of the National Mental Health Association, quoted her grand­daughter as saying antidepres­sants meant "there are no invisible strings pulling me down." 
Tarek Hammad, an FDA sen­ior medical reviewer, told the panel an additional 2 percent to 3 percent of children are likely to incur increased suici­dal thoughts from taking any antidepressant 
He told "Drug companies safe." Taylor reporters that have purposely said. looking at all the FDA epidemi­
deceived the public 
drug company ologist Andrew studies created a about the safety Mosholder. who complete pic­and efficacy of pushed for the ture. "Then, you closer look at
their drugs. " 
can see signifi­suicidal behavior cant findings," among children Hammad said Tom Woodward taking antide­Relative risks father pressants, noted 
locked up in prison, prema­turely dead or survivors of attacks by rampaging teens on antidepressants wore T-shirts and pins and carried photo­graphs of their lost loved ones. 
"Where were you when I got shot?" demanded Mark Taylor, 21, who survived· mul­tiple gunshots fired by the Columbine High School attackers, including one teenage gunman who had been taking an antidepres­sant. 
"As Americans, we should have the right to feel safe. 
And, if you were 
doing your jobs, 
we would be 

of suicidal behavior or thoughts were highest among youths taking Luvox, Effexor and Paxil and lower among youths taking Celexa, Zoloft and Prozac. 
Untreated depression is a serious illness that threatens the children's lives, said Dr. Laurence Greenhill, speaking on· behalf of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, which represents 7,000 child psychi­atrists. He said he found it reassuring that the FDA's detailed analysis did not find a single completed suicide among 4,440 depressed youth in drug company-sponsored clinical trials. 
Parents whose children are 
a clustering of 
serious events 

involving suicide within the first four days after youths discontinued Paxil treatment. 
Mosholder was praised by grieving family members for requesting clarification last year from Paxil manufacturer GlaxoSmithKline. The data he received in May 2003 sug­gested a link between Paxil and increased suicidal acts among children taking it. 
Dr. Robert Temple, director of the FDA's office of drug evaluation, told reporters he had no regrets delaying the testimony at a previous hear­ing because he still thinks Mosholder's data may be flawed. 
Lawyers work to find jurors in capital case 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La. -Serial 
killings suspect Derrick Todd 
Lee went on trial for his life 
Monday with defense attorneys 
losing an effort to toss out the 
entire pool of potential jurors. 
State District Judge Richard Anderson rejected defense contentions that discrimination may have played a role in par­ing down the original list of 
1.300 people summoned for potential jury duty to just over 
400. The 400 filled out ques­tionnaires last week. 
The lead prosecutor in the first-degree murder case against Lee expected to take at least a week to find 12 jurors and four alternates. Lee's lawyer said seating an impar­tial jury in Baton Rouge will be impossible because of the extensive media coverage, and he wants the trial moved. 
But the judge said he would first try to find local residents who can give an unbiased ver­dict of whether Lee beat and stabbed 22-year-old Charlotte Murray Pace in a violent strug­gle throughout her home. 
Lee was arrested in May 2003. Authorities said DNA evidence linked him to the murders of seven women between April 1998 and March 2003 and the assault of a nurse who is expected to testi­fy that Lee tried to rape and kill her. 
Pace was killed May 31, 2002. Her partially clothed body was found in her room­mate's bedroom and she had been slashed, beaten and stabbed 81 times with a flat­head screwdriver and a knife. Detectives said her hands were bruised, suggesting she fought her attacker. 
Lee, 35, who sentenced last month to life in prison in· the murder of Geralyn DeSoto. Prosecutors did not seek the death penalty in the DeSoto case because they felt they couldn't prove the required "aggravating circumstances," such as a rape committed with a murder. to secure a death sentence. 
He could get the death penal­ty if convicted in the Pace case. 
Attorneys on Monday ques­tioned only six potential jurors, three of whom were dismissed. 
One prospective juror said she believed Lee was guilty of 
• the murder but could make her decision based solely on the evidence. Over defense objec­tions. the judge kept her in the pool, but she could be removed later in the process. 
The prospective jurors who were sent home were released over their views on the death penalty, not because of any bias against Lee. 


University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay, or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
Wednesday, September 15, 2004 7:30PM 119 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004 Academic Year 2005-2006 'Fall 2005-Spring 2006 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
President Bush seeks hurricane relief funds 
Septe111ber 11 conspirator on trial 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The White House has decided to increase its newest request for hurricane aid to about $3.1 billion, and was expected to ask Congress for the money Tuesday, Bush administra­tion and congressional aides said. 
President Bush had been expected to submit a $2.5 billion request Monday covering some of the damage that Hurricanes Charley and Frances inflicted on Florida. 
But administra­money for midwestern farmers hurt by drought and floods this year. 

"They are not the only ones who have been hard hit in the last few years," Conrad said of Floridians. 
When Congress approved Bush's initial $2 billion request for hurricane aid in a single day on Sept. 7 -with no amend­ments -Senate leaders agreed that lawmakers would be allowed to seek money for their own states' prob­lems in the next 
tion otficials decid­ed to add addition­ "There are probably a  hurricane pack­age.  
al  funds  for  the  lot more people who  Senate Majority  
Hooding and other damage that Charley and Tropical Storm  will come forward and say, 'We have emergencies.'"  Leader Bill Prist. R-Tenn., said he did not know what would happen.  
Gaston caused in  "We don't want  
southeastern states like Georgia, North Carolina and  Bill Frist Senate Majority Leader  this to become a Christmas tree." he said. But he  

Virginia, said one congressional aide, who like the others spoke on con­dition of anonymity. 
The election-year request was a politically sensitive one because of its effect on Florida, once again a potentially pivotal state in this November's elections. 
White House budget office spokesman Chad Kolton said offi­cials were still finishing the request's details. 
Administration officials were hoping Congress could act quickly on the request. But its speed was in question because lawmakers from other regions said they would try adding additional funds for natural disasters their areas have suffered. 
Sen. Kent Conrad. D-N.D.. said he and a bipartisan group of sena­tors would try adding about $2.5 billion to the measure, including also acknowl­
edged. "There probably are a lot more people who will come forward and say, 'We have emergencies."' 
The aides said the request would not include potential dam­age from Hurricane Ivan, which is projected to hit the Florida Panhandle or other Gulf Coast areas later this week. 
Aides said $1.5 billion of the money would be for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which helps individual and state and local agencies after natural disasters. 
The remaining money would include funds for other federal agencies that are either dis­bursing aid or that sustain damage at their facilities. That includes the Small Business Administration, NASA and the Defense Department. 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

Prosecution can seek death penalty 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -An appeals 
court ruled Monday for a second 
time that the government can 
seek to execute Zacarias 
Moussaoui, the only US defen­
dant charged with a role in the 
al-Qaida conspiracy that led to . the Sept. 11 attacks. 
In a ruling that allows trial 
preparations to proceed. the 
court also said Moussaoui must 
be given access to statements 
from three al-Qaida witnesses 
who made statemen~s that may 
help his defense. 

The opinion appeared to give 
Moussaoui's lawyers their first 
opportunity to submit questions 
to the al-Qaida leaders. two of 
whom planned the Sept. 11 
attacks. However, an explana­
tion of the defense's new author­
ity was blacked out by the 
judges because of national secu­
rity concerns. 

Moussaoui, the only U.S. 
defendant charged with crimes 
related to the Sept. 11 attacks. 
contends he had no role in plan­
ning the hijackings. The three 
high al-Qaida officials in custody 
could reinforce that claim. 

In afflrming a lower court rul­
ing, the three-judge panel found 
"the enemy combatant witness­
es could provide material. favor­
able testimony on Moussaoui's 
behalf." 

But the panel said the lower 
court's remedy of removing the 
death penalty was not the prop­
er way to penalize the govern­
ment for refusing to grant 
Moussaoui adequate access to 
the witness statements. 

Rather. the court said, the 
solution should have been for 
the defense. the prosecution and the judge to decide which state­ments in support of Moussaoui would be presented to a jury. The defense must have a major role in crafting a compromise, the court said. 
In reaffirming the death penalty, the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va.. said "no punitive sanction is warranted" by the government's attempt to protect national secu­rity by limiting defense access to witness statements . 
U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema in Alexandria. Va.. also had barred any Sept. 11­related evidence, but the appeals court also threw out that ruling. · 
Two of the al-Qaida witnesses are top Sept. 11 masterminds Ramzi Binalshibh and Khalid Shaikh Mohammed. The opinion identifies the three witnesses as 
A. Band C. 

Moussaoui was arrested on immigration charges after offi­cials of a Minneapolis flight school became suspicious of his poor flying skills. 
The commission that studied the Sept. 11 attacks reported that Mohammed may have instructed Binalshibh to send money to Moussaoui to help pre­pare him as a substitute pilot. 
Mohammed "denies ever con­sidering Moussaoui for the planes operation," the report said. "Instead he claims that Moussaoui was slated to partici­pate in a 'second wave' of attacks." · 
The commission said, howev-· er, it believed "the effort to push Moussaoui forward in August 2001 lends credence to the sus­picion that he was being primed as a possible pilot in the imme­diate planes operation. Binalshibh says he assumed Moussaoui was to take his place as another pilot in the 9111 operation." 
The court opinion said each of the three witnesses has made statements to interrogators that would support Moussaoui, and one would undermine a possible government theory that Moussaoui was to have flown a plane into the White House on Sept. 11. 
Witness A's statements are "consistent with Moussaoui's claim that he was to be part of a post-September 11 operation," the court said. 
Frank Dunham Jr.. the federal public defender representing Moussaoui. declined to comment on the ruling. 
Attorney General John Ashcroft called the ruling a vic­tory for the government, saying it "once again affirms our belief that the government can provide Zacarias Moussaoui with a fair trial while still protecting national security interests." 
The court said crafting wit­ness statements for the jury must be "an interactive process" among the trial judge Brinkema Moussaoui 's lawyers and prosecutors. 
A section of the ruling was entitled "Submission of Questions by Moussaoui." While a fuller explanation was blacked out, the heading would only have significance if this was being allowed for the first time. 
The court said "accuracy and fairness are best achieved by compiling substi­tutions that use the exact lan­guage" of summaries of wit­ness statements. 
Defense lawyers should identify portions of the state­ments that Moussaoui may want to admit into evidence, and the government has the right to object, the court said. 

Turkish man killed by al-Qaida linked group 
In Ankara, a Turkish Foreign

Hostage en route to 
Ministry official, speaking on 

US military base condition of anonymity, said the ministry was aware of the video but was unable to confirm 
Associated Press Kumdereli's death. Kumdereli was abducted Aug. 
CAIRO. Egypt-A videotape 14 outside Mosul after delivering purporting to show the behead­water to a U.S. base in Baghdad. ing of a Turkish truck driver kid­Another Turkish driver, Mustafa 
napped last month in Iraq sur­Koksal. was taken hostage with faced Monday on the Web site of him; four days later, the Turkish 
an al-Qaida-linked militant government said he had been group. rescued. On the video, the victim identi­The man who identified him­
INNSBRUCK 
2004-2005 Academic Year 
fies himself as Durmus self as Kumdereli. reading from Kumdereli. Speaking in Turkish, a piece of paper. was standing he says he was transporting next to another hostage. The goods to an American military militants identified the second base in Mosul. Arabic subtitles man only as another driver 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of 
the program 

accompanied his words. whom they decided to release Afterward, a black screen. because he had been abducted
Information Session 
reading "the execution" appears. before a warning was issued. It 
followed by warnings from was not clear who he was or 
masked, armed militants to for­what warning they referred to. 
eign drivers, and grisly footage Kumdereli, who said he was 
ofthe beheading. from Tarsus, Turkey, advised
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
The authenticity of the video. truckers not to haul supplies to which was digitally dated Aug. Iraq. He also called on Turkish
312 DEBARTOLO 
17, could not be verified. It was companies and his government posted on the Web site known for to consider the interests of "their carrying statements from own citizens and stop helping the 
4:30PM 

Tawhid and Jihad, a group led occupiers." by Jordanian militant Abu He said in Turkish that he was
Applications Available wwwlnd.edu/-intlstud 
Musab al-Zarqawi that has transporting goods to an beheaded other foreign hostages. American military base in Tikrit; The Web site had been inac­the Arabic subtitles indicated it
Questions?-Weber.l5@nd.edu Application Deadline: December 1, 2003 
cessible in recent days before was to a base in Mosul. Past resurfacing Monday at a new reports have indicated he was address. abducted near Mosul. 


THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
page 7 
Sony group acquires MGM 
Dow 10,314.76 +1.69 Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian sells company for third time in its history
}ones 
A 

Up: Same: DoWfl: Composite Volume: Associated Press 815 I 1256 • 1,269,172,000 
LOS ANGELES -A con­
AMEX 1,246.18 +1.91 
sortium led by Sony Corp. NASDAQ 1,910.38 + 16.07 has agreed in principle to acquire famed Hollywood
NYSE 6,581.81 +13.51 
studio Metro-Goldwyn­
S&PSOO 1,125.82 +1.90 
Mayer Inc. for nearly $3
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,253.11 0.00 billion, MGM said late FTSE I()()(London) 4,558.50 + 13.50 Monday. 
The company said it received a cash deposit of
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
$150 million on Monday
INTEL CORP (INTC) + 1.12 +0.23 20.80 
from Sony, along with pri­O~CLE CORP (ORCL) + 1.53 +0.16 10.62 vate equity companies Providence Equity
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.87 -0.24 27.25 
Partners Inc., Texas JDS UN I PHASE UDSU) +3.23 +0.11 3.52 Pacific Group and DLJ CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.03 -0.21 20.25 Merchant' Banking Partners. 

MGM said its manage­30-YEAR BOND -0.56 -0.28 49.43 ment will recommend the deal, which it called a
I0-YEAR NOTE -0.69 -0.29 41.51 
"proposed merger" to its 
5-YEARNOTE -0.50 -0.17 33.75 
board by Sept. 27. 3-MONTH BILL -0.43 -0.07 16.16 Sony has agreed to pay $12 per share for MGM,
Commodities 

45 cents more than MGM's 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.06 43.87 
closing price of $11.55 GOLD ($rrroy oz.) +2.20 406.00 Monday on the New York Stock Exchange. The deal
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.10 93.525 
also calls for Sony to . Excha Rates assume about $1.9 billion 
YEN II 0.01 
in MGM debt. EURO 0.8152 Sony's winning bid comes after Time Warner
POUND 0.5563 
Inc. dropped out of the CANADIAN$ 1.3012 competition earlier Monday. 
The sale would mark the third time billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian
IN BRIEF 
has sold the film studio, once best known for its MGM's library will gener­agreement with MGM at a Sony has also Ivan causes oil prices to jump musical hits like "Singing ate $440 million in cash price that would have rep­approached cable televi­in the Rain" and "Meet Me flow in 2004 by exploiting resented a prudent use of sion giant Comcast Corp.
WASIIINGTON -Oil prices shot up more 
in St. Louis." Kerkorian, only 1,500, or about 36 our growing financial about becoming a minori­
than $1 a barrel Monday as traders focused 
through his Tracinda percent, of its titles on' the capacity." ty investor in the new
on the changing path of Hurricane Ivan, which 
Group, owns 74 percent of newer DVD format. Parsons, who has often company after the
prompted several large oil and natural gas 
MGM's outstanding Time Warner had been said Time Warner is inter­Sony/MGM deal closes,
producers to evacuate rigs in the Gulf of 
shares. The sale to Sony seen as the front-runner ested in expanding its although no deal has been
Mexico. 
wou ld for MGM going into the presence in cable televi­reached, according to a
"It's all fear, it's all speculative buying," said 
net him about $2.1 billion. weekend. sion, hinted Monday that source familiar with those
Agbeli Ameko, managing partner at the 
Sony is expected to But Sony raised its offer, the cash it saved from the discussions.
Denver-based energy research firm 
shutter MGM's current setting off a bidding war MGM bid could be used to Comcast and Sony have
Enercast.com, adding that the actual loss of 
production, with the pos­that Time Warner con­bolster its cable ·presence. reached a deal to distrib­
supply, at least for now, was negligible. 
sible exception of the cluded it did not want. "We are confident that ute Sony's Columbia/Tri­
Light sweet crude for October delivery rose 
"James Bond" franchise. "As we pledged to our there are other capital Star film library on
$1.06 to settle at $43.87 per barrel on the 
MGM also produces films shareholders, we allocation choices that will Comcast's video-on­
New York Mercantile Exchange as Ivan pum­
under the United Artists approach every potential enable us to continue to demand platform, the
meled the Cayman Islands, then strengthened 
label. acquisition with strict build shareholder value," source said.
to a Category 5 storm, with maximum sus­
But MGM has a consid­financial discipline," Time Parson said. That deal could expand
tained winds of 160 mph, as it headed for 
erable library of more Warner chairman and Time Warner is known to include MGM's library
western Cuba. 
than 4,100 titles, includ­chief executive Dick to be interested in bidding of films and result in
As a precautionary measure, Shell Oil Co. 
ing the "Pink Panther" Parsons said. on the cable assets of Comcast making an
announced that 750 workers would be evacu­
and "Rocky" franchises. "Unfortunately, Time bankrupt Adelphia investment in the new
ated from the Gulf of Mexico and that approxi­
Analysts have estimated Warner could not reach Communications Corp. company.
mately 272,000 barrels of oil and 880 million cubic feet of gas would be shut-in, or cut off. 

Stocks higher as profit worries ease 
NEW YOHK -Optimism that thl:l embattled technology sector was due for a rer.overy·sent stocks modestly higher Monday despite a new revenue warning from semiconductor compa­ny Broadcom Inc. 
While Broadcom, which makes chips for tel­evision set-top boxes and other electronics, said high inventories resulted in delayed ship­ments, investors were encouraged as it said future quarters looked brighter. · 
"Tech acts like that. You couldn't have said a good thing about tech last week, and now we're seeing some buying," said Bryan Piskorowski. market analyst at Wachovia Securities. "Overall, I think the market's becoming comfortable with the economic slowdown over the summer. I think we see now that it's not something pervasive or some­thing that's going to continue." 
Investors were also encouraged by a new report by J.P. Morgan Securities, which said disappointing earnings would not be a factor in the year's overall results. 
Sears sells new products online 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Sears, Roebuck and Co., which has successfully sold its tools and appliances on the Web, is counting on having the same magic with bedspreads and sweaters, thanks in part to expert­ise gained by its purchase of Lands' End Inc. 
The company's venture into online sales of home furnishings and apparel, which officially launches Monday, may be consid­ered late. But executives say tap­ping into the expertise of Lands' End -which it acquired two years ago and is considered a leading innovator of online selling -will enable Sears to jump ahead of the competition. 
"We are going to leapfrog further than anybody else right now online," said Bill Bass, vice presi­dent and general manager of Sears' customer direct division. "We're starting where Lands' End is and pushing it further." 
Sears.com has incorporated some of the same features that Lands' End pioneered on the Web, such as the "virtual model," where cus­tomers can enter body measure­ments such as waist and bust size to get an idea of how the outfit will look. But there are other features not yet available on Landsend.com such as a zooming technology that focuses on fabric and texture of the merchandise. Sears.com customers 
. can also switch colors for all prod­uct illustrations, not just on the vir­tual model. And while Lands' End sells home furnishings online. it does not have a virtual decorator, something that Sears.com now has. That tool allow~ customers to click on such choices as bedding, floor finishes and paint to create a bedroom in cyberspace; a virtual kitchen will be added this fall. Other stores like The Home Depot Inc. have· similar virtual decorators, but Sears' ver­sion is more sophisticated, allowing consumers to pick such details as paintings and lamps. 
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 page 23 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yankees' manager Torre left speechless after Royal upset 
bullpen cleared. pressure."
Kansas City shocks New 
Texas reliever Doug Brocail Kelvim Escobar (10-10) became 
York with 17-8 victory was seen screaming at a male a double-digit winner for the fan, and the pitcher had to be fourth time in his career, but lost restrained by his teammates and his shutout bid when Jose Lopez
Associated Press 
bullpen coach Mark Connor. homered with two outs in the 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.-Joe Torre Others also had to be held back. seventh. Escobar allowed one run was left speechless by the New Francisco then tossed a chair at and six hits, walked one, threw a York Yankees' latest embarrass­a fan in a lower box to the left of wild pitch and struck out seven. ing loss. the Rangers' bullpen along the Scot Shields got two outs in the 
Two weeks ago, when right-field line. The chair hit one eighth, and Francisco Rodriguez Cleveland shocked the top team man in the head, then bounced got four outs for his 12th save in in the AL with a 22-0 clobbering, and clobbered a woman in the 19 chances. · the Yankees manager called his side of the head on her left tem­Escobar has won three out of players to a meeting. ple. his last four starts and five out of 
But after the Kansas City Security ran to the scene and a seven. Before that, he lost six of Royals scored 10 runs in the fifth small section of fans was cleared seven decisions. inning of a 17-8 rout Monday from their seats. The incident "For some reason lately, I feel night, Torre decided just to let it caused a 19-minute delay. Dave real good-real strong," he said. go. Rinetti, vice president of stadium "I've been throwing a lot of 
"I don't know what I would say operations, stood in front of that strikes. That's been the key." to them," Torre said. "We didn't section for the remainder of the Orioles 9 Blue Jays 1 pitch very well. We know we can game. Bruce Chen pitched his first score runs, but in order to win In the 10th, Mark Teixeira complete game to win for the first you need to pitch. It was not a scored the go-ahead run on Brian time in over two years, and good day." Jordan's infield grounder, .but Rafael Palmeiro homered during 
John Buck hit a three-run Cordero couldn't hold it as the a five-run opening inning to lead homer and Angel Berroa had two Rangers had their three-game the Baltimore Orioles past the hits and scored twice in the filth winning streak snapped. Toronto Blue Jays Monday night. inning. The A's have won 10 of 14 Chen (1-0) allowed just five hits 
The Royals sent 15 men to the meetings between the division and a run in his first win since plate against four pitchers in the foes this season, and Oakland April 21, 2002, for Montreal ver­biggest inning against the started an important season-end­sus the New Yor:k Mets. He struck Yankees since Boston scored 11 ing stretch of 20 straight against out five and didn't walk a batter. in a 13-7 victory on May 31, the AL West. Pitching for his sixth team in 1998. Teixeira led off the lOth with a three seasons, Chen threw his 
It was the second double-digit triple and also homered for the first career complete game a inning in a week for the Royals, fourth straight game and doubled night after the Orioles used 10 the AL's losingest team. They twice. pitchers -a major league record scored 11 in the third inning of a Bobby Crosby hit a tie-breaking in a nine-inning game. 26-5 victory Thursday over the sacrifice fly in the eighth one bat­Toronto starter Justin Miller (3­Detroit Tigers. ter after Carlos Almanzar 4), pitching a day after his grand­
On Monday, Kansas City scored plunked Nick Swisher in the right father died, got two outs in the on a walk, a balk, two wild pitch­leg with the bases loaded to score first before allowing seven es, a home run and three singles the tying run. straight batters to reach. and dropped New York's lead to Xs starter Tim Hudson allowed Miguel Tejada hit an RBI single, three games in the AL East over two homers in a game for the Palmeiro hit a two-run homer idle Boston. first time all season. and Jay Gibbons and Larry Bigbie 
While the Yankees go for a Angels 5, Mariners 1 hit consecutive run-scoring sin­championship, the Royals are Garret Anderson and the gles. nearing the end of a miserable row to the Yankees and beaten out. But several hard-hit balls in Anaheim Angels made sure they Toronto reliever Sean Douglass season -concentrating on not , them only twice in their last 10 the first three innings produced remained focused against the replaced Miller to start the sec­breaking the franchise record of meetings at home. only two runs. lowly Seattle Mariners. ond. 100 losses. Brian Anderson (4-11) went six "We hit balls as hard as we've Anderson hit a three-run Vernon Wells drove in the lone 
"Every time a team is in first innings and gave up nine hits and hit them all year," shortstop Alex homer to back Kelvim Escobar's run for the last-place Blue Jays, place they don't want to play a three runs. Rodriguez said. A team like this, seven strong innings, leading the who have lost four straight. last-place team because the last­Even after taking a 12-3 lead, you hit them hard over the head Angels to a win Monday night. Chen allowed just three hits place team wants to show they the Royals kept coming, scoring maybe they'll give up and we can "Anything we can get nowdays over five scoreless innings before belong in the big leagues," Royals five in the seventh. put them away early." is good," said Anderson, who Russ Adams led off the sixth with manager Tony Pena said. "They "Even after that inning, you felt Athletics 7, Rangers 6 added that the Mariners beat a single. Two batters later, Wells have nothing to lose." like it's a close game, being the Eric Chavez singled in the win­Boston twice in a four-game tripled. 
Berroa wound up with five hits Yankees, that they have the ning run in the bottom of the series. The Orioles added four runs in and scored five runs and Buck potential to come back with that 10th inning, leading the Oakland "You can't look at them as a the eighth off Kevin Frederick on also had a single and two doubles lineup," Buck said. Athletics to a wild win over the team that's not making postsea­Jay Gibbons' RBI single, Brian and a career-best five RBis for The game began as though the Rangers on Monday night in a son," he said. "They're going out Roberts' two-run triple and Dave the Royals, who had lost six in a Yankees would do the blowing game that was delayed in the there to do the best they can. Newhan's sacrifice fly. 
ninth after Texas reliever Frank They're trying to beat us." Twins 5, Tigers 3 Francisco hurled a chair and hit The Angels moved 4 1/2 games Lew Ford homered and drove 
-
two fans. behind idle Boston in the AL wild­in two runs to back a strong out­Mark McLemore drew a bases­card race, but they couldn't make ing by Brad Radke, leading the
Stz~}efl.e (Sizzlelini®)­
loaded walk to score the tying up any ground on Oakland, which Minnesota 1\vins to a victory over
On Tuesdays, get our specialty 
run, then Chavez broke an 0-for-kept its two-game lead over the Detroit Tigers on Monday
for TWO for only $10.95! 
13 stretch with his drive to shal­Anaheim in the division with a 7-night and a sweep of the four­
S.in·· 
A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, 
low center off Francisco Cordero 6 victory in 10 innings over Texas game series. 
(3-2), who blew his fourth save in at home Monday night. Augie Ojeda also homered for 48 chances. After the game, many Angels the Twins, who have won six
savory sausage or both served with 
a zesty tomato sauce accented
Bellini 

Justin Duchscherer (6-6) players were gathered around a straight, and 11 of 13. 
with peppers and onions on top 
pitched the lOth to earn the vic­TV in their locker room watching Radke (11-7) allowed a run and
of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
tory for the Xs, who maintained the Xs-Texas game. seven hits in seven innings to their two-game division lead over "It's going to be a dogfight right improve to 17-6 lifetime against
Tuesdays 
B~-Iefie (Bellini)­
the Anaheim Angels. to the end," Angels catcher the Tigers. He struck out two and 
A frosty, peach Italian work 
Alfonso Soriano tied it at 5 with Bengie Molina said of the didn't walk a batter. 
of art for $2! 
two outs in the ninth on his sec­Oakland-Anaheim battle for the Juan Rincon threw a scoreless ond homer of the night -his first division championship. eighth, but Joe Roa gave up two Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­
multi-homer game this year and "We're just trying to win our runs in the ninth before Joe seventh of his career. Moments games, that's all," Molina said. Nathan got the final out for his
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for 
later, with Hank Blalock at the Seattle's Ichiro Suzuki went hit­43rd save in 46 chances. 
lunch or dinner to celebrate 
plate, the Rangers' bench and less ...:.... 0-for-4 with a walk -for Jason Johnson (8-14) allowed the third time in four games, but four runs -three earned -and still is on pace for 262 hits, which 10 hits in seven innings. He would break the 84-year-old walked three and struck out two. major league single-season But the Tigers closed within record of 2 57 set by Hall of two runs against Roa in the bot­Farner George Sisler. tom of the inning. Carlos Pena 
Suzuki was asked if he was drew a one-out walk, and one out feeling the pressure of trying to later, Eric Munson also walked. catch Sisler. Jason Smith followed with a dou­
"It doesn't matter if it's the first ble to center, scoring Pena and or the 700th at-bat of the year, Munson to make it 5-3. there is always going to be pres­Nathan came in and got Curtis sure," he said. "It doesn't matter Granderson, in his first big league who you are, you're going to have game, to ground out to end it. 





OUND THE NATION 
Page 24 CoMPrLED FROM,I'HE 0BSERVER~s WBU st:RvtcEs Tuesday, September 14, 2004 

NFLWomen's Volleyball ·AVCA Polt 

team record points ·· 
1 Minnesota (31} H. 1,559 2 Soutllarn Caf (22) 5·t 1,506 3 ~~hlngton (7) lH) 1,441 
4 ' Ftorlda 6~1 1,358 5 Penn State (3) 6--0 1.,345 .. 6 UClA (1) tH ·una 7 Hawan fi.O 1;284 9 llllnoli (1) s-o·· 1,071 10 uc-santa Barbara 5.0 •. 1,070 11 Colorado Slate !H 1,049 12 TexasA&M 4·2 794 13 Stanford 4-2 787 14 California 4-2 708 15 Aritona 5+2 673 16 Kan"s Slate 5-3 606 17 Lnuis11111e 5·1 561 18 P~pperdfne 2-3 492 19 Santa Clara 4·2 482 20 Ulyola Marymounl 6--1 301 21 Long Beach Slate 4-ll 274 22 Tennessee fi.O 216 23 San Ofego H 207 24 Kansas 1.0 191 25 Dhlo Slate 6-t} 134 
NFL 

AFC East tQam ·· record perc. PF!Q PA/G. New England 1·0 1.000 27.0 24.0 NYJ~ts 1~0 1.000 $1;0 2At(J Buffalo 0-1 .000 10.0 13A) Miami 0·1 .000 to 17.0 
AP
AFC North 

Green Bay Packers' running back Ahman Green, left, drags Carolina Panthers' 'defender Mike Rucker Into the
team record perc. PPIG PA(G endzone for a third quarter touchdown In the Packers' 24-14 win Monday night. 
CleVflland ' 1·0 1.000 20.0 3.0 Plltiburgh 1-0 uoo 24.o 2to Balllmort~ 0~1 .000 3.0 20.0 Clnacloalll 0-1 .000 24,0 31.0 
Packers, Green dismantle Panthers, 24-14 
said. "Our philosophy is ried them all last season after the game, preventing
Associated Press 
we'll wear you down -the Panthers were out him from talking to the 
CHARLOTTE. N.C. -before you wear us down." of sync from start to fin­media for more than 45 The Green Bay Packers The Packers could have ish. minutes. he ran with ease dealt the Carolina· had that chance in "We didn't get in a during the game and gave Panthers the kind of January, if not for Favre's groove, and when we did no indication that this was defeat now familiar to errant final pass on his get the opportuni'ties, we the first time this year Super Bowl losers. first snap in overtime of didn't make the plays," Green Bay's entire offen­
Ahman Green ran up, the divisional playoffs. The said Stephen Davis, who sive unit was on the field down and all over the pass was intercepted and ran for just 26 yards. "It's together. defending NFC champion set up Philadelphia's win­all of us. We've got to get "We basically showed Panthers, scoring three ning field goal. better." what it takes to win touchdowns to lead Green Carolina then beat the Green scored -On touch­games, which is a com­Bay to a 24-14 victory Eagles to advance to the down runs of 3 and 6 plete game," Green said. 
NFC East 

Monday night. That made first Super Bowl in team yards and rushed for 119 Carolina, meanwhile, team rect>rd JrerC< PF/G · PA/G · 
Carolina the sixth straight history. yards against a Carolina showed just how bad its Phlladelpflla 1-0 1,1100 31.0 . U.CI 
team to lose in the Super But the Panthers looked defense that only gave up patchwork offensive line Wulllnglon 1·0 uoo J&JJ nur 
Bowl and drop its ensuing nothing like that team on four individual 100-yard really is. With three of its Oall<ls 0·1 .000 17.0 35.0 
-
season opener. Monday night. rushing games last sea­starters from last season NY Giants 0·1 .000 11'.0 31.0 
"I was surprised at how Unable to stop the run son. gone. a rotating group of 
well we ran the ball," or run the ball -the two Although he had to aging veterans has gamely
NFC North 

quarterback Brett Favre main principles that car-receive intravenous fluids tried to fill the holes. 
team record perc. ···••• PPJG PA/G > Deltoll 1·0 1.000 20.0 tU 
Mlnn111ota . 1-0 1.ooo ;3u .no Green Bay 1-0 1.000 .24,0 tU> 
IN BRIEF 
Chicago 0·1 .ooo . 1.u zti;u ·· Bowdeq not ready to give "It's way too early to panic," added declined to comment while television
NFCSoutb 

up on Rix Bowden, who has spent most of the cameras were rolling, then later 
tea.m record perc... PFJG . 
TALLAHASSEE. Fla. -Chris Rix past three autumns defending Rix, chose to go back to the subject him­Atlanta Nl 1.000< ZtD 19ff 
will remain Florida State's starting now 24-11 in four seasons leading self. 
Carolina 

.quarterback despite a dreadful per­the Seminoles, who dropped from Ivan forces rescheduling of 
New Orleans 0·1 .ooo ·. ·· JA~~< ~1;~ •••••••••· 
formance in last week's loss at No. 4 to 8 in the latest media poll. Cal-Southern Miss 
Ta!l\pa 
~ay .. · ::~ :~:: ./ i~~ ( 16;4< . 
Miami. "lt's not time." HATT1ESBUHG, Miss. -The Coach Bobby Bowden announced Mets manager would rather uncertainty of approaching
NFC W;~i •) ( ::...:?jj)ljjljljj 
his decision at a booster luncheon on be fired immediately Hurricane Ivan forced postponement teain record pero; > IPrtAi 
Monday. NEW YORK -If the free-falling of Thursday night's game between St.LOUI' Hl 1.000 i.tM 11M. 
f. / 

Rix. who is Bowden's first-ever New York Mets have already decided No. 10 California and Southern Sqttlfl 1+0 1.000 ..•• ~-0 1i0i ... 
four-year starter. became Division !­to fire manager Art Howe, he wants Mississippi. Arizona 0·1 .ooo 1o.o 11.o 
A's only quarterback to go 0-5 to be let go imq~ediately instead of "Our utmost concern at this point san Fran 0~1 .000 1\tO 21:0 
against the same school after failing after the season.' is the safety of our student-athletes, to lead the o!Tense to a touchdown in "Why put me through this?" he coaches, stall·. fans and community," Friday night's loss at the Orange said Monday. ''I'd rather have it hap­Southern Miss athletic director Bowl. pen now. There's no sense in wait­Hichard Giannini said in a statement "People want to give up on Chris," ing." Monday night. "We don't know the
around the dial 
Bowden said. ''I'm hoping that's his The Daily News reported Monday exact path of the hurricane or the bad one for the year." that Mets owner Fred Wilpon was potential damage it may cause and 
Rix completed 12 of 28 passes for persuaded to fire Howe at the end of had planned to make a d~cision 108 yards, threw two interceptions • the season during a meeting of club Tuesday morning." 
BASEBALL 

Pirates at Cubs 7:05 p.m., WGN 
and lost two fumbles. including a executives last Friday. Cal athletic director Steve
White Sox at Twins 7:05 p.m., FSN 
critical one in overtime in the 16-10 Howe"said he hadn't read the story, Gladstone issued a statement earlier
HOCKEY 

loss. He ranks 10th in the Atlantic but general manager Jim Duquette Monday saying the game had been 
Toyota World Cup: Finland vs. Canada 
Coast Conference's passing statistics told him about it when he arrived at postponed and would probably be 
with a 61.0 efficiency ranking. Shea Stadium. Howe repeaiedly rescheduled in December. 
7:00 p.m., ESPN2 

Tuesday, September 14, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Adrian 
continued from page 28
Belles' Bethel trip crucial 
launching 30 shots on goal and 
Struggling team cannot afford many more losses 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team hopes to earn its second win of the season as they travel to take on Bethel College today. After beating Tri-State University over the weekend, the Belles are look­ing to start a new streak. 
"Capturing our first win against Tri-State gave our team some much needed con­fidence and showed us how good it feels to win as a team," junior outside attack­er Michelle Turley said. 
A year ago, Saint Mary's lost to Bethel at home on Oct. 2 in three straight games. So far this season, the Pilots are 3-1. In its first tournament of the season, Bethel knocked off two ranked teams by wide margins. The Pilots should be a difficult test for the Belles. 
"Our focus is always the 
Tri-State 
continued from page 28 
Calvin College remains on top of the league, staying undefeated with an MIAA record of 3-0 and an overall record of 7-1. Kalamazoo is also 3-0 in the conference and challenging the Knights for the top spot. 
The loss drops Tri-State to 0-4 in the MIAA and 0-8 overall. 
Middle hitter Shelly Bender and outside attacker Michelle Turley played well offensively in the first game against Calvin. Teammates Anne consistently keeping the ball near their opponent's goal.
same whether we are playing court. 
Center midfielder Ashley
Bethel or Tri-State," Turley The game will give Saint Hinton scored an unassistedsaid. "We need to play as a Mary's a good idea of where goal to open the game, and 
team and with intensity~ and it now stands in the MIAA 
Colleen Courtney extended thedrive, while playing our game and where they are headed. 
lead to 2-0 with a goal assistedand having fun." The Belles need every win 
by Shannon Artnak and
In last season's match, jun­they can get to ensure they 
MacMillan. MacMillan then
ior middle hitter Shelly will still be playing come 
added a goal of her own off anBender and sophomore libero November. Anne Cusack performed well 
"Our focus is
on defense, as did sophomore always the same setter Lauren 
whether we are 
Temple. 
playing Bethel or
On offense, Michelle Gary Tri-State. " and Elise Rupright provid­
Michelle Turley 
ed valuable play, 
outside attacker
but it wasn't enough as they 
were defeated 30-26, 30-28 being well rested will help us 
goalie] Laura Heline, whoand 30-22. to regroup and refocus for made some great saves. We
Over the last couple of our matches this week." 
had lots of opportunities
years. Bethel has had its way The game begins at 6:00 because of the number of shotswith Saint Mary's. The Pilots p.m. at Bethel. Following the 
on goal, and overall, I'm
have swept the Belles in game, the Belles will not play pleased with our whole team's
three games during each of again until Saturday after­the past two seasons. noon against Adrian. That 
assist by Emily Wagoner and
"Having a 

Hinton to seal the game for
few days off 

Saint Mary's. 
gave everyone 

The team's strong play
a much needed 

allowed coach Caryn
rest, " Tur I e y 

Mackenzie to get almost every
said. "We were 

player into the game, including
all feeling the 

all the freshmen. Mackenzie
exhaustion 

was happy with the way the
from the com­

team opened up the year.
petitive sched­

"We did some good things on
ule we had the 

both ends of the field
last two weeks, 

Saturday," she said. "We got
so hopefully 

great play from [sophomore 
Nonetheless, after record­game will start at 4:00 at ing their first win and getting Saint Mary's. some rest this past weekend, 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
the Belles are excited to Contact Justin Stetz at finally get back out on the jstetz@nd.edu 
Irish fall flat at Lady 
Cusack and Amanda David 
offered help defensively on 
the night, as well. 
During the second game, 
the defense was led by 
Cusack, freshman Elizabeth 
Stohl and Turley. On offense, 
Rupright and Bender helped 
the Belles play a solid game 
and put points on the score­
board. 
The Belles came out strong 
in the second match. They 'won the first game against Tri-State by a score of 30-21 and were able to capitalize on the win by claiming the 
next two games. 
Saint Mary's performed 
strong in the second contest 
against Calvin but could not close the match with a victo­ry. Once again, dropping the 
Northern Invitational 
event, sandwiching an impres­sive 298 team score between a
Write sports. Call 1-4543. 
mediocre 309 and 314. "We struggled a lot with con-performance." 

In past years, the extremely aggressive style of the Adrian team might have proved too much for Saint Mary's. But this year, the team seems capable of meeting such a challenge in stride. 
"They played a really strong, physical game against us, but we stepped up to the plate and did not take them lightly," Courtney said. "Everyone worked well togeth­er; our team chemistry is look­ing really good. A team at Saint Mary's has neYer been this strong, and we want to reset the standard at this school." 
With its win against Adrian, the team moves one step closer to its goal of bringing the MIAA title to Saint Mary's. 
"This was a great way to start off in the MIAA," MacMillan said. "We gained a lot of momentum from a win like this. We've set our goals high. We don't want to be a team that gets taken lightly. We want to be the team that no one wants to play." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy1@nd.edu 
first game made it very diffi­cult for the Belles to make a comeback. 
The Belles lost the first game of each of their previ­ous five matches going into the Tri-State match. Three of the losing matches ended in just three games, with the Albion and Kalamazoo con­tests going to four games before Saint Mary's was defeated. 
Calvin defeated Tri-State in three games in the other match. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
The weekend was a bit of a disappointment for the Notre Dame women's golf team. 
The team traveled to Ann Arbor, Mich. to compete in the Lady Northern Invitational, where it placed eighth in a field of 15. The Irish logged a 57-over-par 921. Host Michigan won the event, shoot­ing a combined 881 to hold off second-place Ohio State by four strokes. 
The Irish had trouble staying steady over the three-round 
sistency," coach Debby King said. 
However, the weekend was not completely lost for the Irish. Juniors Katie Brophy and Lauren Gebauer each scored an 11-over-par 227 to finish in a five-way tie for 17th. In Saturday's second round, Brophy shot a 3-under 69, helping to bring about the team's impressive round that afternoon and giving herself the second best single round score of the tournament. Gebauer continued her strong play from a week ago and has begun the season as one of the Irish's strongest golfers. 
"[Gebauer]'s really been on a roll right now," King said. 
Sophomore Noriko Nakazaki finished tied for 26th after she shot a 229, and joined Gebauer as the only golfers to shoot in the 70s for all three rounds. Karen Lotta, who set the Warren Golf Course single round record a week ago, struggled on her way to scor­ing a 241 for the Notre Dame team. 
"This just goes to show you how it can be from one week­end to the next in golf." King said. "Last weekend she shot a 68 and this weekend she's struggling to break 80." 
Freshman Jane Lee and sophomore Stacy Brown rounded out the Notre Dame lineup in Ann Arbor. In her second tournament for the Irish, Lee shot a 244, and Brown finished with a 247 in her first appearance in the scoring lineup this season. 
After this weekend's per­formance, King sees some defi­nite areas to focus on improv­ing for upcoming events. 
"We're going to start next practice with green reading and putting," she said. "I got the stat sheet back. and it seemed to be a common flaw this weekend." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Chain 
continued from page 28 
where they play their hearts out against us," linebacker Mike Goolsby said. "The whole time I've been here. they've been great games. Hopefully that won't be the case this ynar." 
The last time the Irish played the Spartans in East Lansing at night was in 1998 coming off an upset of defending national champion Michigan. 
The Spartans came out fired up and built a 42-3 halftime lead. 
All of the ingredients are there again for the Irish to be upset -a nationally televised game, at night and on the road. 
That's why this team is trying to usc what it learned at BYU to prevent all the hard work that went into stunning Michigan from going to waste. 
"They play real hard against us, especially a night game," defensive lineman Justin Tuck said. "It's a buzz saw. It's going to bn a tough game going in there and coming out with a victory. 
"The first thing we were talk­ing about after the game was Michigan State. A win against Michigan is great, but it means nothing if you lose [after]. 
"If we're not focused, they can easily embarrass you. That's our focus right now." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish vvin Valparaiso Invitational 
Driscoll, Johnson finish one, two in 
individual race 
By STEVE COYER 
Spom Writer 
For the second straight sea­son, a Notre Dame cross country team recorded a vic­tory at the Valparaiso Crusader Invitational. 
The men's team swept the top six spots in the race and captured first place with an overall score of 15. After a 2003 victory at the Crusader Invitational. the Irish women finished third behind Western Michigan and Wisconsin­Madison. 
Sophomore Dan Driscoll led the Irish men with a time of 
25:30 on his way to the indi­vidual race title. Teammate Hyan Johnson finished only fractions of a second behind Driscoll to take second place. 
The men's team ran as a pack throughout the race. Only 27 seconds separated 

the top six Irish  runners.  
Senior  Michael  Manning  
placed third with  a  time of  

25:34 running alongside jun­ior Austin Weaver. who fin­ished fourth. 

Junior Vinnie Ambrico took fifth place at 25:45 to ensure the Irish a perfect 15 point score for the invitational. 
The Irish women had a score of 53 against a competi­tive field to take third place. Junior Elizabeth Webster captured third place to lead the team with a time of 22:30. 
The women's team did not have its top eight runners present at the Crusader Invitational. Coach Tim Connelly instead sent his less experienced runners to race in a major competition. 
"We returned most of our team from last year that fin­ished lOth in the NCAAs," Connelly said. "We've got some kids that, with time, are going to contribute." 
Irish Sophomore Katie DeRusso came across the fin­ish line at 23:19 to take 13th, 14th and 15th spots consecutively to give the Irish a final score of 53. 
Western Michigan won the women's race with 35 points followed by Wisconsin­Madison in second with 41 points. 
The men's and women's teams' upcoming meets include the National Catholic Championship and Notre Dame Invitational. Both races will be held at Notre Dame. 

eighth place. Jennifer Walls, Jennifer Richard and Contact Steve Coyer at Christine Arnerich took the scoyer@nd.edu 
For more lnformatiqn contact Nancy O'Connor at631-5432 
FOOTBALL 

Goolsby returns to special roots 
Linebacker moves to special teams to help the unit improve 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 

Yes, that was the starting middle linebacker playing out­side of his normal role on the defense Saturday against Michigan. 
Mike Goolsby talked to run­ning backs/special teams coach Buzz Preston last year about getting on special teams because Goolsby was disap­pointed in the unit's lack of production. 
"Those are my roots," Goolsby said. "It's just some­thing watching last year. I was disappointed in our special teams performance in that area. That's something that's near and dear to my heart because I realize how impor­tant they are." 
Holiday gets on the field 
Head coach Tyrone Willingham mentioned in the' off-season that Carlyle Holiday could return punts at some point during the season. It did­n't happen at Brigham Young, 
but in the week "Being on the Mich. for its pre­
leading up to sidelines against game and score­the Michigan board shows
BYU really kind of 
game, the throughout the day
hurt me." 
coaches Saturday. approached Last week, ESPN Holiday, and he pulled the show
Carlyle Holiday 
said he was from the Notre
Irish punt returner
ready. Dame-Michigan 
Holiday game and went to proved he was, averaging 70 the Georgia-South Carolina yards on his seven returns game. Saturday. The impact of Hurricane 
"As soon as I switched from Ivan on the originally picked quarterback, I think it was game for GameDay this week going through their minds to -LSU-Auburn -could have get the ball in my hands," something to do with the Holiday said. "Special teams change. was a big part of it. I wanted to make some part of contribu­Contact Matt Lozar at tion. Being on the sidelines mlozar@nd.edu 
When it's the presti­gious luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yearjob in the Far East, strategically cho­sen to match your career goal. 
Apply by 
November 5, 2004 

Inten~s1Pd? ~9 or younger? HaYl' you now (or will "vou h~1v~ bY. the end of :\lay 2005 .f nn ~D dt~gree'? No (~ast Asia 
, . •)
expenence: 

against BYU really kind of hurt me." 
The only potentially major mistake Holiday made was not calling for a fair catch with a Michigan defender barreling down on him. Holiday drew a 15-yard interference penalty, but he attributed the decision to being inexperienced. 
"I saw him corning, but I'm new at this," Holiday said with a smile. "I don't know what a fair catch is in those types of situations. I just want to make a play." 
Tyrone dances 

That emotion fans saw from Willingham didn't end on the sidelines Saturday afternoon. 
It overflowed in a dance from the coach in the locker room. 
"That's the second time I've seen him do that," Goolsby said. "The other was !at] FSU lin 2002]. lie was up on a chair. It was real smooth." 
As for Goolsby's score for Willingham's locker room dance? 
"It was a 10." he said, "just because we won." 
GameDay make-up? 

According to its Web site, the ESPN College GameDay crew 
will be venturing 
to East Lansing, 



Tuesday, September 14, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
MY SECRETARY IS OFF I AND I NEED TO MAKE COPIES OF THIS ...  OH I I GET IT! YOU IMMEDIATELY ASK THE ONLY WOMAN IN THE DEPARTMENT TO DO IT. :\\\%~$!1  I WAS GOING TO ASK WHERE THE COPY MACHINE IS, BUT THIS WORKS, TOO.  

CHARLES SCHULTZ 
PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HOPOW 
j

rJ r I I 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
WENYL 
j 

±(j
I I r 
DALINS 
www.juJrble.com 


:~
tNOBBOA Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

IJ I I I 
Ansmr: 

"( I I I I J" rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: LAUGH JUICE ELIXIR TINKLE
Yesterday's Answer: 

What the couple did when the upstairs neighbors had a dqnce party-"HIT' THE CEILING 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 33 Punch in the 59 1973 #1 Rolling 1 Sir, in India stomach Stones hit 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ben Savage, Fiona Apple, Jean response Smart, Scott Vickaryous 
6 Gounod produc­60 Bench site tion 36 Shirts and 61 Long-distance 
Happy Birthday: Opportunities are still present, but you will have to take
blouses

11 Word with toll or letters 
advantage of them quickly. You are in a much better position than you realize,roll 37 Beetle Bailey's 62 Sailors' stories so don't sell yourself short. Partnerships may change, but it will be you who 14 acid commander comes out on top. Your numbers are 2, 13, 21, 34, 39, 48
63 Like a beach 15 Cartoonist Kelly 
38 _'acte (inter­

ARIES (March 21-April19): Plan to work on the intricate projects you have
mission)and others 

DOWN begun. Keep yourself available to receive phone calls --something interesting 
16 Singer on half 39 With 4-Down, could develop.*** 
1 Doofusmodern printing
the 1984 album TAURUS (April20-May 20): This is the perfect day for perfection, so spend
2 Parisian pal
"Milk and fluid a little time and money on you. You will be on top of the world and everyone Honey" 40 Farm fence fea­3 Drunk's utter­will be happy to help you. ***** ance GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't worry about the little things that people 
17 Hard-to-please tures 
say. Know in your heart that you are doing your best. Problems with your
4 See 39-Acrosslabor protester? 41 Prefix with -gon 
home or someone you live with are likely, but stay calm. ** 
5 Political protest
19 Bird's beak 42 A paramedic CANCER (June 21-July 22): Open up to friends. Let them know your story
of sorts
20 rtrtrt may look for and you will find solutions. Love is in a high cycle, so don't be shy. **** one 6 Because of, LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make some changes regarding how you earn
21 Unc's wife 
your living or how much you make. Prosperity is apparent if you are swift to
44 Employ with"to"23 Busta Rhymes 
invest in yourself and your future. *** 
rhymes 45 Popular Ford 7 Successful 
VffiGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let the little things get you down. You can
negotiation
27 Like some of 47 Skilled in rea-accomplish a lot at a personal level if you open up and let your true feelings be
results
the Sahara soning known.*** 
aThe "E" of LlliRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Secure your financial position. This is the perfect
28 Flies off the 49 Eve's downfall 
B. P.O. E. time to deal with legal or health issues. Keep everything out in the open so that
handle 50 Lose at the 
you aren't accused of withholding information. ***
9 Way to go: Abbr.
29 West Indian bank? SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can place yourself in a high-power position native 51 Race unit 10 "Steps in Time" among your peers if you take charge today. Make decisions with confidence 30 Mar. 17 figure, 52 Cheap promo­
autobiographer and everyone will be willing to back your choices. **** 11 Pretty woman's SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be inclined to take on too much
from 58-Across tional trip? 
34 Holy Roman 43 www.yahoo.com, 50 Bridge builder, 
or lead people to believe that you can handle more than you can. Don't
31 Hooch 58 See 30-Across e.g.: Abbr.
hat? emperor, 962-73 e.g. embellish or you will end up losing the respect of the very people you are
12 Singer Bryant 
35 Swiss money 44 Pilgrimage to 53 Italian article trying to impress. ** ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 _Smith, first Mecca CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It's time for you to mix business with female jockey to 37Talk back 54 Actress pleasure. The more versatile you are, the better equipped you will be to handle
45 Actress Shire 

win a major race Vardalos greater responsibilities. ***** 
46 Besides, with

38 Creepy: Var. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A move or change to your living
18 Cross and 55 "The Wizard of
"from" arrangements is apparent. Opportunities for financial gains through
Parker products 40 Toronto ballplay-Oz" locale: Abbr.
47 Actor Alan investments and games of chance are looking positive. *** 22 Where: Lat. er 56 Bitter PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be open to new experiences resulting 
48 "The 

in doors opening, romance flourishing and new friendships developing. Your 
23 Musical breaks 41 Multicar acci-Highwayman" 57 Slinky or 
sensitivity and compassion will draw special people to your side. *** 
24 -Detoo dents poet Alfred boomerang ("Star Wars" 
Birthday Baby: You are practical, hardworking and very precise about
droid) 
everything you do. You are a perfectionist who knows instinctively when
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
25 Plaything that something is good, beautiful or worthwhile.
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
yips? 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com.
26 Vacation spots crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
32 Globe solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ___________ State ____ Zip_______ 
~--------------~------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 14, 2004 
page 28 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Undefeated Irish earn No.1 ranking 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
When the smoke cleared from a competitive weekend in women's soccer, Monday's Soccer America magazine poll showed Notre Dame standing atop all the rest with the No. 1 national ranking. 
The Irish (6-0-0) defeated 

No. 11 Arizona State 2-1 and jumped to the top spot after previous No. 1 North Carolina (5-0-1) blemished its perfect record with a scoreless tie against now No. 13 Tennessee. 
Notre Dame last held the No. 1 ranking in 2000 when it breezed through the regular season before bowing out in the NCAA semifinals to eventu­al national champion North Carolina. 
The Irish have already proven their mettle early in the season, defeating three teams who, at the time, were ranked in the top 15, including then No. 4 Santa Clara. Utilizing a creative offense and stingy defense, the Irish have established themselves as one of the nation's most complete teams, outscoring opponents by a 21-5 margin. 
Junior forward Katie Thorlakson has led the way on offense with a team high 17 points. Last week, she became the first women's soccer play­er in school history to be named Big East Player of the Week in two consecutive weeks. 
Senior Candace Chapman and sophomore Jen 
Buczkowski have provided ample support on the offensive end while fifth-year defender Melissa Tancredi has anchored a formidable defense. 
Other national polls will be released later today to deter­mine if Notre Dame is the con­sensus No. 1 team. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 

Chain unites entire team 
Defense's attitude infects and 1notivates rest of Irish players 
By MATT LOZAR Spores Writer 
Everything having to do with the number 38 is over. Now it's about focusing on a chain. 
The Irish brought a new point of motivation onto the field, courtesy of Derek Curry, prior to handing 

d 0 w n See Also 
revenge to Michigan. "Goolsby returns 
'That chain to special roots" is about unity, about page 26 
playing together as a team, about being unselfish. That's all it's about," Curry said. "It's not about me, the defense, the offense or special teams. You are only as strong as your weakest link. 
"It's something our defensive coaches came up with, and I think it's excellent to say what this season is about. Nobody else gave us a chance, but we knew what we had in this room, so that's what it was about." 
The loss to Brigham Young put a lot of doubts in the minds of fans, but Saturday's win restored a lot of confidence in the Irish. Now the chain will bring a message of what this team has experienced. 
"It reminds us of everything we've gone through," defensive lineman Kyle Budinscak said. "Without the effort of every­body on the team, we are all nothing. We've worked con­stantly in the off-season to do something like that. Before we pat ourselves on the back, we have 10 more [games) to go." 
The first of those 10 -with 


CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer 

Derek Curry presents a chain to his teammates to signify the unity and link of efforts on offense, defense and special teams. 
Budinscak assuming the Irish go to a bowl game -starts Saturday in East Lansing against Michigan State. 
The Spartans have been a pesky team for the Irish ·over the past seven seasons. winning six of those last seven contests between the teams -the best mark of any Irish opponent over that time frame. 
Nobody can seem to put a fin­ger on why Michigan State has had so much success against Notre Dame. 
"The one thing about this game is Michigan State is going to play their best game," Curry said. "No matter what we see on film or what we see before, they always play their best game against us, no matter what the season looks like." 
Many of those seven games have been close, coming down to one play in the closing min­utes. Like many opponents, Michigan State sees Notre Dame as the biggest game on its schedule. A win over the Irish can make a team's season. 
"It's just one of those cases 
see CHAIN/page 26 
SMC SoccER 

Forn1er n1anager lifts squad to beat Adrian 
By RYAN DUFFY Spores Writer 

This time last year. sopho­more forward Cat MacMillan was the soccer team's manag­er, cheering the Belles on from the sidelines. This year, she's the one leading them to victo­ry. 
MacMillan -playing in her first collegiate game -scored a goal and added an assist to help Saint Mary's defeat Adrian 3-0 in the team's first conference game. 
"I knew I had to work hard to get to where I am. and I've given everything I have to try to contribute to this team," 
said MacMillan. "This is a 
team where every single play­
er contributes something." 

Like many of the players, MacMillan feels an added incentive to succeed this sea­son. 
, "We definitely have a lot to play for this year," she said. "This is the first year where Saint Mary's has had a team with this kind of talent and drive, and we're looking to take that far. We want to earn some respect for our school and its athletic program." 
The Belles' offense was impressive in the first step of their quest for an MIAA title, 
see ADRIAN/page 25 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles win, move up in conference 
By JUSTIN STETZ SportS Writer 

The Belles got their first taste of victory Friday night in the second game of the Saint Mary's 
Triangular. See Also 
Saint Mary's fell to Calvin "Belles' Bethel College in 
trip crucial"
the first game of the page 25 evening, los­ing in three games by scores of 30-19, 30­25 and 30-23. But the Belles were able to defeat Tri-State later ~on in a three-game sweep. Playing two games in one day didn't seem to affect the team's performance. 
"Playing two games on Friday night isn't much differ­ent," middle hitter Elise Rupright said. "There is enough time to regroup and make adjustments in between the games." 
Currently, th·e Belles are 1-5 overall and 1-4 in the MIAA. The win pulled Saint Mary's out of last place in the confer­ence and could give them some momentum going into their next game on Tuesday against Bethel College. 
see TRI-STATE/page 25 


en 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
MLB 
NFL

NFL
NCAA FOOTBALL 
LLI

1-
c.,) Men's team wins at 
Irish finish eighth 
Owners support 

Galloway could 
Rogers out for

Vick faces fines, 
z Valparaiso 
at Lady Nortllern 
Bush re-election 

miss six weeks 
season

required service 
Dan Driscoll led the way 
Notre Dame logged a 
Current and former 
The Lions' receiver

Virginia Tech's 
The lOth year Tampa 
a: :3 
=c:s with an individual race vic­
57-over-par 921 in a 
baseball owners are 

Marcus Vick faces 
Bay veteran could sit 
broke his collarbone 

tory as the Irish swept the 
disappointing week-
among the highest con-
and will sit out the sea-

penalties for contribut­
out extensively with an
c::c 

top six spots and won the 
end. 
tributors to the re-elec­

ing to the delinquency 
injured groin. 
son for the second 
invitational. 
tion campaign . 

of a minor. 
straight year. 

a.. ~ 
page 25 

page 20
page 26 
page 21 
page 20 
page 17

• en 




