

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 



De111ocrats campaign for Donnelly 
Students assemble to register South Bend residents and listen to the candidate 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame students gath­ered Sunday afternoon to reg­ister South Bend residents to vote and listen to Joe Donnelly, Democratic chal­lenger of U.S. Rep. Chris Chocola, talk about his cam­paign. 
About 20 students departed Main Circle to knock on doors and register people to vote. Each student carried a clip­board with voter registration forms and absentee ballots. Organizers said the group would target traditionally lib­eral neighborhoods, mostly on the west side of South Bend, that were likely to vote for Donnelly. 
"We're hitting neighbor­hoods that have a turnout around 20 percent. These are Democratic neighborhoods," said Jonathan Diffley, Donnelly's press secretary and a 2004 Notre Dame grad­uate. 
Diffley said the team of stu­dents covered about 500 
houses, which  equals  one  
precinct.  
Notre  Dame  College  

Democrats became involved with the Donnelly campaign through Notre Dame sopho­more Helen Adeosun, out­reach coordinator for the club. Over the summer, Adeosun worked for the Donnelly campaign and con­tinued helping once the school year started. 
Though Donnelly staffers have been working to register 
see DEMOCRATS/page 4 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 10 


Gunshots fired near local bar 


Observer file photo Students walt to leave The Library last year In the early morning hours of April 16. On Sunday, trou· ble broke out near the bar, causing police to come. 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
Gunfire near a popular student bar early Sunday morning confused patrons and left two victims wounded with minor leg injuries, police said. 
The shooting occurred on the 100 block of East Wayne Street at approxi­mately 2:58 a.m. Though Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were in. attendance at The Library Irish Pub, neither victim was a student, said Captain John Williams, public information officer for the South Bend Police Department. 
see GUNFIRE/page 4 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Irish fans react to Saturday's football defeat 
By KATE GALES 
News Writer 
Friday's optimism for the upcoming Notre Dame football season has disappeared faster than BYU quarterback Matt Berry's 37-yard completion that sealed the Cougars victory over the Irish Saturday night. 
"The excitement of the sea­son has gone down tremen­dously," said sophomore Packy Cain. "The games themselves are still going to be fun ­we're still going to have a good time -but the expecta­tions for the football team went down a lot." 
Many students expressed disappointment for the game but support for the team. 
Senior Rozann Carter was disappoinhld with the out-


Students fear effects of hurricane 
Category 4 storm 
Frances drops over 13 
inches ofrain on east 
and central Florida 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Although South Bend may be over 1,000 miles from the Florida coast, many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents are feeling the effects of Hurricane Frances. Just one week after the powerful Hurricane Charley, students from Florida are particularly concerned with Frances' path and the damage it could cause to their homes, friends and families. 
"My family has been stuck inside for three days, waiting out the storm," said Notre Dame sophomore Patrick Maus of Fort Lauderdale who 
see FRANCES/page 6 come, but holds optimism for the rest of the season. 


"The first game sets the tone for the season," Carter said. "I think we can come back and have a good season, but it was not a good game." 
Carter's sentiments were echoed throughout the student body. 
"After one game we are already looking to next year for a national championship," said sophomore John Searson. "We make Bob Davie and Ron Powlus look good." 
Like many fans, Searson faced crushing disappointment head-on after the game's con­clusion. 
"It made me feel totally Irish, drinking away my sor­rows," he said. "My Irish her-
see REACTION/page 4 

BENITEZffhe Democratic candidate Joe Donnelly speaks to the Notre Dame College Democrats Sunday afternoon at LaFortune. Earlier that day, students campaigned In South Beod on his behalf. 

page 2 Monday, September 6, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Morinon upbringing i1npacts 
•

experiences 
When people at Notre Dame find out I'm not a Catholic, they occasion­ally ask if it's weird being around so many people from a different reli­gious background. The answer, gen­erally, is that it 
can be a little strange, but it's never been a problem. 
When people find out I was raised Mormon, they usually ask how many wives 

my father has. Although I'm  Marla Smith  
sometimes tempt­ed to ask how it  Scene Editor  
feels to be part of  
the religion that  

spawned the Spanish Inquisition, I 
g~erally laugh it off. 
Don't get me wrong. I like Notre Dame, and my loyalty to Mormonism has faded as I've grown older. Nowadays I go to Mass far more often than I enter a Mormon church. Despite being born in Salt Lake City, when people ask me seriously I don't claim the title of being Mormon. Like a lot of the things we all grow up with, Mormonism increasingly fades into the back of my head as I get clos­er to a Catholjc campus. 
But like a lot of those things we don't think we think about, my Mormon heritage frequently rears its head and reminds me where I come from. When the first points appeared on the board for BYU during the foot­ball game, I was surprised to realize how much I was rooting not for my future alma mater, but for my father's. 
I didn't quite dare to cheer for the Cougars during the game for fear of having something thrown at my head by the numerous highly vocal fans surrounding me, and as usual, I kept my mouth shut through jokes at the expense of Brigham Young. Needless to say, after an entire game of keep­ing my mouth shut while people theo­rized about how many wives the players had, I was secretly more than a little satisfied to see BYU vindicated with a victory. 
Since Saturday night I've had a few friends tell me that after that game, they're considering switching to the Mormon God instead of the Catholic one. Of course, a football game isn't the way to choose a religious faith, and despite all the differences that exist I'd like to think that wherever people go to church it's still the same God watching the Irish and the Cougars play. 
But I have to admit I felt a lot of BYU pride for a few minutes when I saw the final score. Things may 
• change over time, and I may still be glad I go to Notre Dame instead of BYU, but watching the game made me realize that in some part of my heart I will always be a Mormon. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WERE YOU SURPRISED WITH NOTRE DAME'S LOSS TO BYU? 





Chris Brown 
Freshman Keenan 



Lauren Prease 
Junior Welsh Family 

"Yes, they were "I could not "!was "Yes, the game "Yes, I was "Yes, it took us so close, but it care less." disappointed. is won in the surprised we a long time to 
Claire Hagan 
Senior McGlinn 
Chris Slmino 
Junior Morrissey 
was sloppy play.". 
Pollee dog takes bite out of bystander 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. ­This police dog didn't take a bite out of crime -he bit an elderly man watching authorities conduct a search being filmed by a local TV crew. 
The canine that was tracking a gunman bit John Terry, a resident of Senior World retirement community, who was watching the search Wednesday. 
Terry did not require medical treatment, police said. He was sitting on an outdoor swing surveying the scene when the dog 
TODAY 

..... 
~ 
(.) 

.9 HIGH 83 
LOW 65 
We're rocky on trenches." defense." 

came up from behind and bit him on the right arm. 
A camera crew from Evansville TV station WEHT was taping the police search, and got the bite on video. 
Sgt. Stephanie Loehrlein said police dogs seldom bite bystanders but "dogs can make mistakes." 
"It doesn't happen very often, but occasionally, we will have an incident," she. said. 
Barbecue draws crowd 
SPARKS, Nev.-Some 300,000 people are expect­ed to pig out on about 130,000 pounds of pork ribs. 

The 16th annual Best in the West Nugget Rib Cook­off got off to a sizzling start Thursday, and cooks up ribs through today. 
Every rib at the cook-off weighs the same and is cut the same, Oakes said. That way, every rib chef is work­ing with the same product as they compete for first place in the Nugget's bar­becue contest. 
First prize is $7.500, a 4­foot trophy and, perhaps most important, bragging rights. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
( 

( 

HIGH 75 HIGH 73 LOW 59 LOW 56 


scored." get started. You can only come back so many times." 
IN BRIEF 

In recognition of Labor Day, administrative offices will be closed today. 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team face off tonight against Albion College at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will take on Valparaiso University on Tuesday at 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
Come see the film "Super Size Me" in Debartolo Hall's Browning Cinema on Thursday at 7 and 10 p.m. Tickets are available at the door or in advance by calling 631-2800. 
Watch the band Blessid Union of Souls in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's on Thursday at 7 p.m. Tickets are available in the Office of Student Activities and the Office of Special Events until the day of the show or the tick­ets run out. 
Classical pianist Jacqueline Schmidt, tenor Paul Appleby and cellist Noelle Thorn will perform Friday from noon to 
1:30 p.m. in Debartolo Hall. For more information, call 284­4625. 
Get your copy of "Monk's Travels: People, Places, and Events" signed on Friday from 4 to 6 p.m. in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Come to the football pep rally on Friday at 6 p.m. at the Joyce Center Arena. Doors will open at 5:15p.m. for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 79 LOW 59 


Atlanta 81 I 69 Boston 72 I 62 Chicago 80 I 60 Denver 76 I 48 Houston 93 I 73 Los J\ngeles 97 I 73 Minneapolis 74 I 52 New York 76 I 66 Philadelphia 78 I 66 Phoenix 101 I 78 Seattle 72 I 52 St. Louis 77 I 60 Tampa 87 I 78 Washington 76 I 53 

Monday, September 6, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 


Schools prep for class on holiday 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 
While businesses, post offices. public schools and gov­ernment facilities around the nation are enjoying a much­deserved break for Labor Day, classes are still in session in the Notre Dame community. 
"If they have kids, their kids are out of school. That's a huge inconvenience to them," she said. Students are pleased, how­
ever,  that  many  campus  
amenities  remain  open.  
Subway,  Burger  King,  

Starbucks, and Sbarro are 
open at Notre Dame, as well as Saint Mary's eateries 
But don't "Everbody has the Dalloway's and 
assume the cam­the Haggar
day off, so why
puses are fully Snack Bar. Both functional today. don't we?" campus libraries Key administrative and the Notre offices at both Dame Box Office
Katie Szewka 
Notre Dame and 

Saint Mary's freshman will also hold
Saint Mary's are closed. including the offices of financial aid and the Presidents' offices. Student resources such as Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, First Source Bank and Saint Mary's Health and Wellness will also be closed for the day. 
Most students are not happy to be attending classes. 
Katie Szewka, a Saint Mary's freshman, did not have school on Labor Day last year. 
"Everybody has the day off, so why don't we?," she said. "Don't the professors deserve a day off?" 
Szewka's roommate, fresh­man Alban Gremmels, was also concerned about her pro­fessors. 
regular hours. 
Many students 
are looking at the bright side of attending classes on Labor Day. Notre Dame senior Kathryn Wendel is one of them. 
"I feel like it is okay, because we get an entire week at fall break," Wendel said. "So I think of fall break as five Labor Days all in a row when we can go somewhere nice, maybe see the sun, and sit by the pool sipping a nice cold drink." 
But Wendel will have to wait to plan her trip until tomor­row, when Anthony Travel reopens. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 


Effects of Fresh111an 15 visible 
With weight rising, schools combat scales 
Associated Press 

AUSTIN -All-you-can-eat dorm dining. Late-night pizza parties. Tacos, burgers, barbe­cue, beer. 
It's a recipe for the "fresh­man 15" -as in 15 more pounds for the new college stu­dent. 
It only took a week for Tarun Nimmagadda, a 17-year-old freshman from India, to start student. 
His study followed 80 stu­dents at the beginning and end of their first semester of col­lege. Both men and women gained an average of about five pounds the first semester, which would total 15 pounds over a year if it continued at the same rate, he said. 
Eating large portions at meals and snacking -particu­larly late at night -appeared to be the cause, he said. 
Brandy Shih is a food service 
nutritionist and die­
titian at the 
University of Texas, 

gaining weight "You're just 
generally the first

at his new 
brought into this or second largest

home, the 
situation where university each year 

University of 
with about 50,000

Texas. you're free from 
students. Shih said

"I am 
your parents, you 
she gives new stu­

weight-con­
can do anything dents an "Avoid the

scious, and I'm 
Freshman 15" pam­

trying to guard you want." 
phlet and other

against doing 
brochures when

that, but I'm 
Brandy Shih students seek her

not quite suc­
nutritionist and help.

ceeding. I've 
Overeating and

just gained dietician 
around five pounds," said the 6-foot-tall Nimmagadda. 
He says he ate at McDonald's and Wendy's out of conven­ience the frrst few days before the dorm dining room opened. 
The freshman weight-gain phenomenon is no myth, researchers and dietitians say. 
"It is real," said David Levitsky, a professor of nutri­tional sciences and psychology at Cornell University who stud­ied freshman weight gain three years ago at the urging of a lack of exercise can 
be problems for stu­dents away from home for the first time. she said. 
"You're just brought into this situation where you're free from your parents, you can do anything you want," she said. "There just needs to be balance and moderation." 
UT's dorm dining halls and Web site have nutritional infor­mation on school menu items. 
Keeping weight off has never been a problem for Christy Worley, 18, a trim freshman from Houston. She doesn't expect to start gaining now ­ifshe keeps exercising. 
"You can check back with me in a year, see if I've gained it," she said with a smile. 
On the same day, Alison Howland, an 18-year-old fresh­man from Okinawa, Japan, was also moving in to her dorm, which has an all-you-can-eat dining room. 
"Everybody knows about the freshman 15," said Howland. She says she plans to work out in a campus gym. do lots of walking and take advantage of the dorm's salad bar. 
Campus dietitians say lots of calories also come in sweet­ened beverages, like caffeinat­ed energy drinks students use to stay awake. 
Alcohol can add pounds, too. 
University of Texas health officials offer an anonymous online student survey about drinking. One section tells stu­dents the equivalent of how many cheeseburgers they "drank." It classifies a standard drink as having 100 calories, and a cheeseburger at about 350 calories. 
The flip side of the "freshman 15" is eating disorders among students too worried about gaining weight, said Monica Krygowski, a UT dietitian and nutrition educator. Up to 25 percent of the students referred to her for counseling have an eating disorder, whether it's anorexia or bulim­ia or another problem, like binge-eating or compulsive dieting, she said. 


Marketing Human Resources Internships 
nternational Business Council 
www.nd.edu/--sibc 
Finance Accounting 
Business Consulting Global Development Information Technology 
TUESDAY 


Informational Meeting September 7th at 7:00 pm Jordan Auditorium · Mendoza College of Business 
Monday, September 6, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Gunfire 
continued from page 1 
The Library -popularly 
known as Finnegan's -is 
located at 113 East Wayne, 
but Williams said he did not 
know if the shooter or victims 
were inside the bar at any 
point. 
One suspect was arrested 
and transported to the St. 
Joseph County Jail, Williams 
said. Though he was unable 
to comment on specific 
charges against the alleged 
shooter, Williams confirmed 
that preliminary charges 
were forwarded to the St. 
Joseph County Prosecutor's 
Office Sunday. 
Williams said he and four 
other officers were stationed 
near the intersection of 
Michigan Street and East 
Wayne Street in downtown 
South Bend when a woman 
alerted them to a fight start­
ing around the corner near 
The Library. As the officers 
arrived on the scene, 
between six and nine shots 
were fired, causing bar 
patrons and onlookers to 
scatter on the sidewalk. 
Inside the bar, word of 
mouth spread fast. 
"Really you didn't get to see 
anything," said senior Jacque 
Wilson, who added that the 
music also drowned out any 
sound of the shots. As 
patrons who had spotted the 
police cars and ambulances 
told the crowd about the 
shooting, Wilson and her 
friends moved to the back of 
the bar and clustered around 
the pool tables, she said. 
Library owner Chuck 
Hammons circulated through 
the bar explaining the situa­
tion to his confused guests, 
Wilson said. 
After about 15 to 20 min­
utes, patrons were sent out 
through a side door to seek 
cab rides home instead of 
through the chaotic front 
entrance, she said. 
Despite rumors inside The Library that up to four people had been shot, Wilson said she never felt endangered. 
"It was definitely a secure situation," she said. "At no point did we think something horrible would happen to us." 
She added that she would not be discouraged from attending The Library in the future because the incident could have occurred any­where. 
"It could've just as likely happened at [The) Boat [Club) or [The) State [Theatre) or Heartland," Wilson said. "It's kind of the risk you face going out in any city." 
It was not immediately clear who initiated the fight or provoked the shots, Williams said, adding that details of the shooting are under police investigation. 
A vehicle belonging to the suspect was also impounded at the scene, he said. 
Williams could not confirm whether shots had been fired from the car but did not rule out the possibility. 
Both victims were released from the hospital after being treated for their wounds, Williams said. 
Though he saw Hammons on the street, Williams said he did not speak with the owner. The Observer was unable to reach Hammons for comment. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

was rehashed on offense as the defensive backfield was
Reaction 

one crucial step too late on continued from page 1 guarding the long ball. 
"I saw no evidence of that itage showed through last experience at all, basically night." because the offensive line 
Expectations were high couldn't block anything," said going into Cain. "People T y r o n e are sneaking
"The excitement of
Willingham's through, Brady third season, as the season has gone [Quinn] was fans expected to down tremendously. " throwing bad 
see an improved passes. It was­offensive line n't going to get and a more dom-Packy Cain the job done." inant passing Notre Dame sophomore Even for game. Instead, a those who sputtering ver-were not sion of last year's struggles raised on faith and football, 
the game was less than men, though." impressive. And senior Kathryn Wendel 
"It was the first Notre Dame is one upperclassman who is football game I've unsure of ever seen in my upcoming
"Ifwe couldn't

life," said J.J. games. Cappa."I thought beat BYU, what "I was really it was going to be will next week be excited just really enjoyable, about beating
like?"

but it was really the crap out of disappointing." everyone this Like Carter, Kathryn Wendel year," Wendel Cappa remains said. "I was real­
Notre Dame senior 

optimistic. ly disappointed. 
''I'm still excit-If we couldn't ed for the rest of the season beat BYU, what will next but I don't know how well week be like?" we're going to do," he said. "I think I'm a lot more optimistic Contact Kate Gales at than some of the upperclass-kgales@nd.edu 
Bend's west side. "I realized that I needed to
DeDloc•ats .a 1 be involved. One man who opened the door didn't speak
continued from page 1 

English," said sophomore Pete Lavorini. "It was diffi­people throughout the sum­cult. but in a good way." 
mer, Adeosun  At the end of  
said  Sunday  the  afternoon,  
marked first Notre  the time Dame  "I realized that I needed to be  students had succeeded in registering about  
students  involved. One man  40 people, and  
b e c a m e involved with door-to-door  who opened the door didn't  then gathered to hear Donnelly himself speak at  
campaigning. "It fills that  speak English."  a College Democrats meet­ 
gap we between campus  have the and  Pete Lavorlnl Notre Dame sophomore  ing. About 100 people were at Sunday's meet- 
the communi­ ing.  
ty," she said.  Donnelly spoke  

Adeosun said groups of to the students about the students plan to gather each issues of this year's election Sunday until the election and and the importance of involv­register people in South ing young people in cam­paign politics. Donnelly, a er," he said. "If we don't Notre Dame graduate and have a Congress that stands Notre Dame law school up for what's right, I can't alumnus, is running against tell you what will happen." one-term incumbent Chris Donnelly also discussed his Chocola. and Chocola 's congressional 

"What's going on in this race, saying it was one of a country in small number the long run of seats that
"What's going on in this 

is going to could go affect you a country in the long run Republican or lot more is going to affect you a Democrat. 
than it's "This deci­
lot more than it's going 

going to sion is so criti­affect me," to affect me. " cal. Our con­he said. gressional seat In addition here is a 50-50
Joe Donnelly

to young district," he
candidate for U.S.

people and said. "We 'II 
Representative

the election, have a Donnelly also Democrat touched on some key nation­president and a Democrat al issues, such as the war in House if you are willing to Iraq and economy. work hard. It's up to you." 
"The next time we talk about going to war, those Contact Teresa Fralish at decisions will be a lot hard-tfralish@nd.edu 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 6, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Two earthquakes rattle Japan 
TOKYO -1\vo strong earthquakes, one mag­nitude 6.9 and the second magnitude 7.3, rat­tled western Japan within hours of each other Sunday night, injuring 14 people, shaking buildings in Tokyo and triggering tsunami waves. 
Damage and injuries appeared to be limited because both quakes were far off Japan's coast, and the region shaken most strongly by them was a sparsely populated rural area, Wakayama, 280 miles west of Tokyo. 
But tall buildings in Osaka, Kyoto and Nagoya shook, while buildings swayed in Tokyo. 
'Most wanted' Iraqi captured 
BAGHDAD, Iraq-Iraqi authorities claimed on Sunday to have captured Izzat Ibrahim al­Douri, the most wanted member of Saddam Hussein's ousted dictatorship, but there was confusion over the report, as the Iraqi defense minister said word of his arrest was "base­less." 
There have been incorrect reports of al­Douri's arrest in the past as U.S. and Iraqi forces hunt for the man who was once one of Saddam's most senior deputies. Sunday's report centered on a raid near al-Douri's hometown of Adwar, north of Baghdad. 
Iraq's top information official told The Associated Press that al-Douri was seized while receiving medical treatment at a clinic near Adwar and that DNA tests were under­way to confirm his identity. Al-Douri reported­ly suffers from leukemia, and needs blood transfusions. 
"We are sure he is Izzat Ibrahim," informa­tion official Ibrahim Janabi said. "He was arrested in a clinic in Makhoul near Tikrit and Adwar and 60 percent of the DNA test has fin­ished." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush's documents are missing 
WASHINGTON -Documents that should have been written to explain gaps in President Bush's Texas Air National Guard service are missing from the military records released about his service in 1972 and 1973, according to regulations and outside experts. 
For example, Air National Guard regulations at the time required commanders to write an investigative report for the Air Force when Bush missed his annual medical exam in 1972. The regulations also required commanders to confirm in writing that Bush received counsel­ing after missing five months of drills. 
Democrats expect to reclaim lead 
WASHINGTON -Democrats on Sunday said President Bush's post-convention bounce was triggered by "four days of mean, vicious attacks" on John Kerry, and would be short­lived. 
They vowed a nonstop, two-month offensive to make up for any lost ground as Kerry made personnel changes at the top of his campaign for the fmal sprint to Election Day. 
Bush campaigned Sunday in battleground West Virginia, telling supporters a Democratic administration would "stifle job creation" with tax increases. 
Both campaigns forged ahead without wait­ing for the traditional Labor Day kickoff, spar­ring over the tone of the contest, two wars 30 years apart and the president's domestic per­formance. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana first lady stays busy 
INDIANAPOLIS -In the year since the late Gov. Frank O'Bannon died, former Indiana first lady Judy O'Bannon says she has stayed so busy with volunteer work and overseas trips that she has had little time to grieve. 
Tears still well in her eyes at times when she thinks of the man she married in 1957, but she says she has not broken down because she's been too busy living. 
"I am busy. I always have been a busy person. I've often said, 'I just don't want to miss any­thing,"' she said. 
RUSSIA 

Funerals for hostage victims begin 
Relatives of children killed in the Chechen terrorist takeover mourn their losses 
Associated Press 
BESLAN Mothers wailed over the coffins of their children Sunday and dozens of townsmen dug graves in a football field­sized piece of scrubland next to the cemetery. Funeral processions snaked through the streets of this grief-stricken town as Russians began to bury vic­tims of the terror attack on a school that left more than 350 people dead. 
Frantic relatives also were still searching for 180 people still unaccounted for -many of them children -two days after the bloody climax of the hostage crisis that left few families untouched in this tight-knit, mostly industrial town of 30,000. 
Weeping mourners placed flowers and wreaths at the graves, including one where two sisters Alina, 12 and Ira Tetova, 13 were laid to rest together. Relatives walked toward the cemetery bearing por­traits of the dark-haired girls and simple wooden planks -temporary grave markers -bearing their names and the dates fram­ing their short lives. 

Both listed the date of death as Sept. 3, 2004, the day the hostage seizure -Kudziyev, 25, said. "The 338, but he later said in tel­identify themselves. the third deadly terrorist grief is for all of our peo­evised comments that the The health ministry said attack to strike Russia in ple." number was 335. 207 of the dead had been just over a week -ended Officials in the southern The regional health min­identified, but some bodies in an a bloody wave of North Ossetia region istry said 180 people were were charred beyond explosions and gunfire as scrambled to identify and missing after the three-day recognition. Questions also commandos stormed the confirm the number of peo­hostage crisis, which began remained about the num­school and hostages fled ple killed amid conflicting when armed attackers raid­ber and identity of the after powerful blasts shook reports, apparently con­ed School No. 1 on Sept.1, hostage-takers -heavily the building. fused in part because of the the first day of classes, seiz­armed and explosive-laden 
Wails of mourning large number of body frag­ing students, teachers and men and women reportedly women echoed from court­ments collected at the parents attending opening­demanding independence yards where families made school. day ceremonies. for the nearby republic of ritual meals, while survey­North Ossetia's health ITAR-Tass later cited a Chechnya ors used wooden planks minister Alexander Beslan city official as saying More than 700 people and string to mark new Soplevenko said at least that a list of children unac­needed medical help after graves being dug in a field 340 people were dead, counted for included 176 the crisis, and Interfax near the town's cemetery. while his deputy Taimuraz names. Russian media quoted Dzugayev as saying 
"When a person goes to Revazov said 324 fatalities speculated that some of the that as of late evening 386 the cemetery for a burial, were confirmed. The missing could be among the remained hospitalized in it's sad, but nothing like Interfax news agency quot­wounded brought to hospi­the region, including 184 this -when you dig graves ed regional government tals in North Ossetia, children. Several badly for your children," volun­spokesman Lev Dzugayev unconscious or too deep in wounded victims have been teer gravedigger Anzor as saying the toll stood at shock -or too young -to taken to Moscow hospitals. 

Clinton's bypass will be 'ordinary' 
surgery at Loyola University Health procedure before something more Associated Press System, who along with other sur­serious occurred," the statement geons speculated about staffing said. 
Former President Bill Clinton's shortages. Clinton spokesman Jim Kennedy heart bypass, expected Monday or Clinton has been in New York said more than 26,000 get well mes­Tuesday, likely will be an ordinary Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia sages have been posted on the Web replumbing of his ailing heart, not since Friday after suffering chest site. He declined to be more specific some new whiz-bang robotic or pains and shortness of breath. about when Clinton would have the "keyhole" surgery, leading surgeons The former president and his fami­surgery, saying, "I don't think there's say. ly issued a statement on the Clinton going to be an announcement about 
And just as his operation is likely Foundation's Web site on Sunday, it ahead of time." to be the same as the average saying they felt "blessed and grateful Medical reasons could explain the American's, the delay in his surgery for the thousands of prayers and surgery delay. Some suggested it also suggests a problem typical for messages of good will we have might have been put off to allow his many patients: doctors and nurses received these past few days." body to clear dye, injected for diag­off for the holiday weekend. "While bypass surgery certainly nosis purposes, and Plavix, a blood­
"I am surprised they are waiting isn't something to look forward to, thinner Clinton was reportedly given that long," said Dr. Mamdouh we are very lucky that the condition that could cause excessive bleeding Bakhos, chairman of cardiovascular was detected in time to have this during and after the bypass. 

page 6 The Observer+ NEWS Monday, September 6, 2004 

Frances 
continued from page 1 
lost an awning on his home when wind toppled a tree in his back yard. 
Hurricane Frances dropped over 13 inches of rain this weekend on Florida's central and east coast, causing massive flooding. 
The storm. whose cloud cover was once estimated to be the size of Texas, 
caused Saint "My family has down as the Mary's sopho­town does
been stuck inside 
m o r e all it can to 
Stephanie for three days, prepare for 
Haskins' par­waiting out the Hurricane ents and Frances.
storm." 
younger They shut brother to down the evacuate. Patrick Maus University of Haskins lives sophomore Central 
two  miles  
from  the  
beach  in  Boca  Baton.  

Everyone within five miles from the coast was forced to evacuate. 
Haskins has lived in Florida her whole life. and has experienced many hurricanes, including hur­ricane Andrew. 
"There are trees down everywhere. I have friends just one mile away from me who have to rebuild their whole house after a 
Florida 
where many of Mangeney's friends attend college. Mangeney said residents were trying to prepare and get away from the hurricane's path. 
"I am very grateful that Hurricane Frances is pass­ing over my town," said Saint Mary's sophomore, Caitlin Stack of Saint Petersburg, who had to board up her windows to prepare for Hurricane Charley. Her town did, 
giant oak tree fell on it. It is weird how homes can be destroyed so close to your home, it just d e p e n d s where you are. said Haskins. 
The family of Mary Pauline White, a Saint Mary's senior, recent­ly moved to Naples. Charley was 
"There are trees down everywhere. I have friends just one mile away from me who have to rebuild their whole house after a giant oak tree fell on it." 
Stephanie Haskins sophomore 
however, receive a significant amount of rainfall. 
Hurricane Frances, once a cate­gory four storm, was downgraded to a catego­ry two storm before mak­ing landfall at Sewall's Point, north of Palm Beach, 
their first hurricane expe­rience, which made them 
extra  prepared for  the  
potential  wrath  of  
Frances.  

Hurricane Charley hit Florida while White was away from home, working with the Olympics in Athens, Greece. 
"It was hard not being there when it hit, and to just hear about it on the news in Europe," said White. 
Charley hit closer to her home than Frances will, but White's family is still feeling its affects as many people are evacuating to Naples to escape Frances. 
Joanna Mangeney, a Notre Dame sophomore, of North Lauderdale said that all the schools in her area have been shut 
around 1 a.m. EST on Sunday. It is projected to continue in a northeaster­
ly  direction  across  the  
United  States  over  the  
next few days.  

Contact Kelly Meehan at krneehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Michael & Co, salons 
"One ofAmerica's top salons" -Salon Today magazine 
-Would like to invite you to try one of our New Talents for the latest in Hair fashions for men & women. -We have several Hair Designers eager to show this season's hair styles and complementing highlighting and hair colors. 
-When you call for an appointment request the 
Student Discountspecial and 
receive 2 0% offwhen you present your s:ucadD* 
*Valid only with participating designers 
South Bend  Mishawaka  Elkhart  
521 E. Jefferson Blvd.  236 W. Edison  1900 Berry  
233-1554  256-5600  574 262-2702  
2041 E. Ireland  
291-1001  


Hurricane Frances strikes Florida 
Devastating storm floods streets and knocks out power with fire-hose force 
Associated Press 

FOBT PIEBCE, Fla. Hurricane Frances' wind and water whacked swaths of Florida with fire-hose force Sunday, submerging entire roadways and tearing off rooftops even as it weakened to a tropical storm and crawled inland with heavy rain. More than 5 million people lost power. 
Over 13 inches of rain fell along Florida's central east coast, flooding some areas four feet deep. as a weakened Frances edged across the state toward Tampa and the Gulf of Mexico. In its wake, trees and power lines were leveled, bro­ken traffic lights dangled and beachfront roads were littered with coconuts, avocados and tree limbs. 
"I was just waiting for the house to blow down," said Diane Wright, who rode out the storm in a mobile home in Fort Pierce. 
Hers didn't. But even shelters weren't spared: The roof at a school housing evacuees was partially blown off. 
The scope of the enormous storm was evident Sunday as bands of rain and gusty wind extend­Bahamas, where thousands were forced from their homes. 
Frances razed several mobile homes and made a mess of marinas, throwing dozens of pleasure boats against the shore or on top of each other. 
Gov. Jeb Bush and 20 state and federal emergency officials surveyed damage Sunday as they flew from Tallahassee to 

West Palm Beach, "There are still some of the area but the governor dangers on our hit by Charley, said it was too which killed 27
streets where the 
early to assess the people. 

extent of the dev­hurricane passed. " By late afternoon astation. Sunday, Frances Officials warned had been down­
Jeb Bush

the aftermath graded to a tropi­
Florida Governor 

ed the length of "/ was just waiting were arrested in the state's 430­
for the house to Palm Beach, mile east coast Orange and Indian
blow down. " 

from the Keys to Biver counties. 
Jacksonville and Once a Category 4 beyond along the Diane Wright hurricane with Georgia coast. It Florida resident winds of 145 mph, was expected to Frances slowed and move into the pan-weakened to a handle Monday, then into Category 2 storm as it neared Georgia and Alabama. Florida. Winds receded to a 
The storm was blamed for at peak of 105 mph before it made least one death in Florida after landfall at Sewall's Point, north a man was killed when his car of Palm Beach, around 1 a.m. hit a tree near Gainesville, and EDT. One gust was clocked at two earlier deaths in the 115 mph. 
could pose even greater risks. "There are still dangers on our streets where the hurricane passed," Jeb Bush said. "Please be patient." 
President Bush talked to his brother on Sunday afternoon to assure Floridians that federal resources were in place to help respond, a White House spokesman said. 
Some 8,000 members of the 
National Guard were assigned to recovery efforts. Suspected looters 

"We don't know what all of our damage is yet, but we know it could have been a lot worse," Martin County administrator Buss Blackburn said. 
Initial reports of destruction did not rival the estimated $7.4 billion in insured damage caused by Hurricane Charley in southwest Florida three weeks ago. Frances' path overlapped with 
cal storm, with 
maximum winds near 70 mph and its center about 20 miles east of Tampa. The storm, which was crawling west-northwest at 10 mph, could regain hurricane strength over the Gulf of Mexico before renewing its plodding assault on the Florida Panhandle. 
The storm shut down much of Florida on the traditionally busy Labor Day weekend. 
At one time, about 2.8 million residents in 40 counties were told to evacuate from coastal areas, barrier islands, mobile homes and low-lying areas. The largest evacuation in state histo­ry sent 108,000 people to shel­ters. 
Airports in Miami, Fort Lauderdale and Martin County reopened, but those in Orlando and about 10 other cities remained closed. Officials in Miami and Fort Lauderdale told evacuees they could return home. Miami's airport was crowded with tourists whose vacations were ruined or inter­rupted by Frances. 

Check out the... Sacrament of Confimation 
Are you a baptized Catholic who has received their first Corrrrnunion but has never been Confirmed? 

Are you wondering whether you need to be Confirmed to get married in the Catholic Church? 
would you like to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students who are dedicated to growing in their faith? 
It's not too late to join the Confirmation Preparation Program! 
Siegfried Hall Chapel on Tuesday, Sept. 7th at 7:00pm 

Formoreinfo: 
Fr. john Conley, CSC at 631-7888 Megan Thomas at 631-3389 or stop by the Office of Campus Ministry in the Coleman-Morse Center with any questions. C-M 



THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, September 6, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,260.20 -30.08
jones 
.A.
up:· Same: Down: Composite Volume 1,351 170 .. 921,595,968 
AMEX 1,243.17 +0.07 NASDAQ 1,844.48 -28.95 NYSE 6,510.44 -24.61 S&PSOO 1,113.63 -4.68 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,022.49 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,550.80 +32.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -7.30 -1.58 20.05 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.85 -0.5 I 27.11 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.85 -0.55 18.75 Am.JED MAn (N1Al) -3.86 -0.63 15.70 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.51 -0.06 3.91 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND + 1.52 +0.76 50.61 10-YEAR NOTE +2.36 +0.99 42.93 5-YEAR NOTE +3.74 +1.26 34.98 3-MONTH BILL +3.13 +0.49 16.12 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.07 43.99 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -5.50 402.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.675 96.70 
Exchan Rates 
YEN 110.37 EURO 0.8284 POUND 0.5627 CANADIAN$ 1.3000 
IN BRIEF 
U.S extradite chief of Mexican oil 
MEXICO CITY -The former director of Mexico's state oil company was extradited Thursday from the United States to Mexico, where he faces charges of diverting funds to a presidential campaign. 
Rogelio Montemayor arrived at Mexico City's international airport aboard a commercial flight from Houston. Federal agents escorted him to a hangar controlled by the attorney general's office for processing. 
Montemayor had gone to the United States in 2002 and had been fighting extradition. But he recently obtained an injunction to prevent him from being held in Mexican prison while awaiting trial. 
Following a medical exam and official proto­cols that took about an hour, Montemayor was released. He left the hangar with his lawyer. He carried an envelope stuffed with files and refused to speak to reporters. 
Prosecutors say he was involved in diverting as much as $170 million from funds of the state oil monopoly, Pemex, through the oil workers union and to the 2000 presidential campaign of the then-ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRJ. 
Brazil's economy forecasted to rise 
SAO PAULO, Brazil -Brazil's government got a big boost Friday when the new head of the International Monetary Fund praised its economic policy and economists raised their growth forecast for the continent's largest economy. 
Since taking power in January 2003, the administration of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva "has maintained coherent macroeco­nomic policies and formulated an ambitious agenda of structural reforms," IMF managing director Rodrigo de Rato said after meeting with Silva and senior government officials in Brasilia, the capital. 
"These courageous policies are bearing fruit." said de Rato, a Spaniard and economist by training who took over the top job at the Washington-based lender three months ago. 
He said he agreed with the conclusion of economists surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires, who raised their expectations Friday for Brazilian economic growth in 2004. 

Weak market greets Labor Day 
Voters address labor and economic issues as top priorities in the upcoming election 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A spotty job market and stagnant paychecks cloud this Labor Day holiday for many work­ers. highlighting the impor­tance of pocketbook issues in the presidential election. 
"Working harder and enjoying it less," said econo­mist Ken Mayland. presi­dent of ClearView Economics, summing up the state of working America. 
Voters say jobs and the economy are among their top concerns in an election year marked by a struggling labor market seemingly unable to gain footing. 
In August, businesses added 144,000 jobs, sug­gesting that a sustained increase in hiring may be coming. Economists have hoped for that for months. 
An economy in transition may help to explain the bumpy job market. Technology and global com­petition are siphoning many 
U.S. jobs. Skyrocketing costs for health care, pensions and other benefits also are curtailing hiring. 

"If a company experiences an increase in demand that cannot be met with the cur­rent work force, it may find alternatives to hiring full­time employees, such as enough to yet recapture all pensions are included, com­third of respondents said outsourcing overseas or of the losses of the recession pensation growth exceeds they were dissatisfied with contracting with a tempo­in the post-recession peri­inflation. Economists say the amount of stress at rary help agency," said John od," said Martin Regalia, wages will rise as hiring work. Other leading com­Challenger, chief executive vice president and chief picks up. plaints included advance­of Challenger, Gray and economist at the U.S. Nearly two-thirds of 1,050 ment opportunities and Christmas, a job placement Chamber of Commerce. full-time workers in a Labor health and retirement bene­and research firm. Hiring is surging in health Day survey by Harris fits. But half of those sur­
That is a concern for care. Demand is up for Interactive and Kronos Inc. veyed said they find their President Bush's re-election social service workers. said they have increased job job very satisfying and four campaign, which had tried Architecture, accounting, responsibilities in the past in 10 rated it somewhat sat­to make the case that the engineering and other serv­six months. One-third said isfying. economy was "turning a ice businesses are adding they were working longer The number of payroll corner." jobs. So are restaurants, hours and 62 percent jobs has grown by 1.7 mil­
Analysts say that despite a stores and hotels. Workers claimed they had not lion in the past 12 months. summer slowdown, the with construction skills are received a pay raise. But the economy still has economy is gaining steam sought. "The job market is still lost 913,000 positions since by most measures. Also, the People are working longer very weak," said Mark Bush took office.in January employment outlook is hours. As a result, produc­Zandi, chief economist of 2001. much improved from the tivity is more efficient, limit­Economy.com. "Employers In August, 8 million peo­past two years. ing the need for more have the upper hand in any ple were unemployed, with 
"We have an employment employees. negotiation with employees, an average duration of 19 sector that still has a consid­But wages and income, and that's weighing on com­weeks without work, com­erable amount of slack, an adjusted for inflation, are pensation, particularly take pared with 18.6 weeks in employment sector that is down or flat by most meas­home pay." July. The unemployment definitely improving, but ures. But when benefits In a poll conducted for the rate, however, fell to 5.4 one that hasn't improved such as health care and AP by Ipsos-Public Affairs, a percent. 

Stocks lead Wallstreet downward 
Schwab's CyberTrader. "It's not light­index dropped 28.95, or 1.6 percent,
Associated Press 
ing a fire under anyone, nor is it sug­to 1,844.48. 

NEW YORK -Technology stocks gesting the economy is on the edge of The Dow Jones industrial average led Wall Street lower Friday after an a serious contraction. So the market fell 30.08, or 0.3 percent. to uninspiring employment report failed can focus elsewhere, with oil prices 10,260.20, while the Standard & to mitigate investors' concerns over likely the biggest hinge for the mar­Poor's 500 index was down 4.68, or Intel Corp.'s profit outlook. The major ket right now." 0.4 percent, at 1,113.63. indexes finished the week mixed. One day after a sharp drop in crude For the week, the Dow gained 0.6 
Investors were satisfied with -but oil sparked a major stock rally, a bar­percent and the S&P rose 0.5 percent, not impressed by -the Labor rel of crude was quoted at $43.99, while the Nasdaq fell 1 percent. It Department's latest reading on unem­down 7 cents, on the New York was the fourth straight week of gains ployment, which fell to 5.4 percent Mercantile Exchange. for the Dow and S&P, while the from 5.5 percent in July, and the Meanwhile, profit warnings from Nasdaq reversed direction after two 144,000 jobs created in August was Intel continued to weigh on the mar­positive weeks. close to the 150,000 Wall Street ket, hurting not only technology Due to the Republican National expected. shares but also raising concerns Convention and the usual slowdown 
"I think this continues the pattern about third-quarter earnings in other in trading before Labor Day, volume of decent economic growth," said Ken sectors. on the major markets was extremely Tower, chief market strategist for The tech-focused Nasdaq composite low during the week. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT -­
page 8 Monday, September 6, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
n.l....,......,. ~"-'-:s...n.tP....-.-'!I.H«Ift~ 

Taking it to the extreme 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Oam~.lN 46~51'! 
024 South Dining Hllit, Nom Dame,IN 46~56 
EDitoR IN OUI!F Mart Lour 
MANAGING EDITOR  80S!Nl!SS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. M~GING EDITOil  
Joe Hertler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger Vtt:WPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas Sroars El>Jtoll: Heathtt Van Hcegarden SeEN£ EDITOR: Maria Stnitb IN Focus EDITOR: Meghan Martin SAIN'r MA.ars EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire! ~!ley GJW'HICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADvE1mSING MANAGER: Carrie Fnnklin At> DllSl!~N MANAG.tiU Kelly N1:1$on SYsTEMS ADMINISTRATORi Mary AJlen 
CoNTROUJ!R; PauLa Garda 
OFFICE MANAGER &GJ:Iil!IIAL INfO (574) 6>H741t fAX (574) 631-6947 Al!v£lU'IStNG 
(S74) 631-6900 ob$er~d@nd.edu "'' 
EDITOR Ill CHIEF {574} 6~1·454.2 MANAGIIIG EOITOfl 
(574) 6314541 ohsm~nd.edu AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4314 
8USIII£SS OFACii 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK (574) 631-5323 ob5news.1@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.\@nd.edu ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 sctn~l@nd.edu 
SAINT Mt.Rv's OE$11 (574) 631-4324 llmd@nd.edu PliOTO ow (574) 6JJ.8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMIIIIS'ti!AlOIIS (574) 6.31-88.39 
on~~RVERONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, dally ncwspap¢t published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including ad~rs, is not governed by policies ofthe administrarion ofeither inscitucion. The Oh=ver reserves the right to refuse advertisetUent$ ba.sed oo ooncent. 
The news is reported as acrurardy aru:1 objectively as prusible. Uruigned editori.:ili represenr r:he opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, AMhliUlf Mmllging Editor and departm¢m ed.ic<m. Commentaries, letters and columns present the view5 ofthe authors and not neccssa.rily those ofThe ObsetVer. 
Viewpoint spw;e is av:Uiable 10 all readef'. The fr<,e oxpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and mU$1: include contaCt information. 
Qut.rtiom rrganling ObimJerpalid~ rhould~ dirrct6tl ta EJita, in Chii!/Matt J..qzar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
l'l>d CJIN<.-(USPS 599 2·-lil pul>lJ>I><>d ~U,...p F•i<&¥"""!>'dwtlnt ~Wn .nd ~Natlbci JK'tiodt. A aublluifMilm ill The~' ~i $'U)0-rot mf-eaUmlt ~:U,forano~ . 
1""()b......,.;. •.......ber ol'd>< "'-"'.,J~.!.it .<,;.,4oc•W. riPum 
..,..,j, 
The~c.Tm't.p~IUMw:t•rt 1\().llo><Q IJU S.u<l> Q;m•& H.U 0~4 S.o<l> IMO>& H.U t-~ .... b...t,lt-1~~ Nom O.....ll-1 ~'11-0m 
t~·M><Ikol~·p~d .. Noctoll­
..Ja~.u ...o~ ...;n••"""""· 
~d .J~ «Hr:tef~­
Th<Ob........ 
TJ,~ {)bu,"t:'P iJ f Mmlbn oJ ~~m.d Jlrm. AJt lqJ.~~ioa r~tt IU'I: 
....,.....j, 

Morgan Spurlock did to the Big Mac 
what Michael Moore did to George W. 
Bush: He slapped it across the face 
like a disgruntled pimp. 

For anyone unfamiliar with Spurlock, he is the outspoken filmmak-Joey Falco er behind the sur­prisingly popular documentary, "Super Forty Ounces of Size Me," which Falco coincidentally will be playing this Thursday night in the new Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts, courtesy of ND Cinema. The film, which attempts to graphically expose the disturbing health hazards brought about by the billion-dollar fast food industry's iron­fisted grip on the appetite of an ever· fattening nation, instead brings to light a far more troubling truth about American society in general. 
Much how Moore's efforts to expose the dirty little secrets of the Bush administration in "Fahrenheit 9/11" had to be taken with a grain of salt by the general public because of the filmmaker's known penchant for extremist tactics, Spurlock's basic premise also loses much of its credi­bility because of his blatantly extreme exaggerations of the eating and exer­cise habits of the average American. Not surprisingly, this same obsession with extremes is a disease that plagues our society as a whole, not just in the esoteric world of spotlight· seeking, money hungry Hollywood filmmakers. 
Take a look at the recent trend in network television, for example. The past few years have seen program­ming executives scrambling to find shows that can even extract a raised eyebrow from an American public already jaded by love triangles on "Jerry Springer," Saddam Hussein sex scenes on "South Park," and freakish­ly brilliant Mormon nerds on "Jeopardy." Consequently, television shows have long since given up on striving for artistic quality and now 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
experiment with ridiculous gimmicks 
like immersing a coterie of clueless 
Amish kids in the Los Angeles night 
life. animating everyone's favorite 
ambiguously gay duo, Siegfried and 
Roy, or bringing back that freakishly 
brilliant Mormon nerd for another 
run on "Jeopardy." 
However, nowhere is this ubiquitous tendency toward extremism more evi­dent than on this very campus. Take, for example, last spring's highly pub­licized Taco Bell boycott in protest of the corporation's treatment and pay· ment practices toward its tomato farmers. Perhaps in a society where pushing things to the extreme was not a prerequisite for making any sort of political statement, this boycott could have been accomplished through intelligent letters to University and Taco Bell officials. calmly informing students of the hard facts of the situa­tion and allowing them to make their own decisions. or simply telling Taco Bell employees to "hold the tomatoes" when ordering a mouth-watering Chalupa Supreme. Instead, campus groups engaged in a series of over­the-top vegan hunger strikes and on­site protests that made it easier for South Bend residents to get into an abortion clinic than into a Taco Bell. 
Likewise, when certain campus groups took on the noble task of improving homosexual acceptance on our stereotypically close-minded and conservative campus, extremist tac­tics once again took precedence over pragmatic solutions. How can one for­get the Sea of Orange that engulfed the campus last semester. blatantly informing the world -and the edi­tors of the "Princeton Review" -that being gay was fine by us? Once again, while these certainly were the most noble of intentions, a more utilitarian course of action would have at least involved getting the gay students rec­ognized as an official campus organi­zation by student activities. Instead, the American need for extremes took over. and our fight for homosexual 
acceptance was manifested through 
tacky orange shirts that would have 

gotten anyone wearing one beaten up 
for committing a fashion foul in even 
the gayest neighborhoods of San 
Francisco or Greenwich Village. 

And then. of course, there's Notre Dame football. an omnipresent bas­tion of extremism for the past two decades. Typically, as soon as the Irish chalk up two or three wins at the beginning of a season, the ultra­cocky braggart within every Notre Dame fan emerges, and often absurd claims of winning a 12th national championship begin to surface as early as mid-September. Then, on the opposite extremity of the spectrum of Notre Dame fanhood, the second that the football team struggles and loses a game to a bunch of no-talent hacks from Utah, thousands of outraged Irish loyalists pull out their torches, pitchforks and empty Guinness bottles and begin banging on the doors of the Main Building, demanding that a new head coach be hired to turn things around. 
Clearly, this tendency toward push­ing the envelope to an unnecessary level of extremes is a basic fact of American life that we as a people will simply have to learn to tolerate and at least in some respects, learn to enjoy. True. nobody benefits when politi­cians fall into this pitfall and force the public to choose between two outra­geous extremes. even though most people would prefer a more moder­ate, conciliatory position on issues like abortion and gay marriage. 
At the same time, though, there's nothing funnier than an Amish guy drowning in the Pacific Ocean. 

Joey Falco is a sophomore American Studies major and admitted extrem­ist. /lis column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at jfal­co@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Students and players deserve better 
On Saturday night it became official. Notre Dame is completely irrelevant in the world of college football. The pro­gram that prides itself on having the richest history in the game made it clear from the first series that they could not compete anywhere near the elite level of championship teams past. The 11 national titles look ever distant in the rearview mirror as this program drives quickly toward mediocrity. 
While our current coaching staff has proven to recruit talented players and groom them into fine young men. they lead a program that falls further from relevance with each passing week. Coach Willingham is an admirable man, but the teams that he has fielded over the past three seasons have failed to produce the results that Notre Dame should expect. 
Unfortunately, because the Irish foot­ball team has slipped so far from the glory days, a new bar has been set for Notre Dame. Frankly, Notre Dame stu­dents haven't known any better for their entire lives. A single loss used to crush Notre Dame faithful; this is no longer the case. With Saturday night's loss, the Irish have lost twice as many games as they've won in the last 15 contests. These losses are greeted with the apathy familiarity breeds. 
This letter is no attack on the effort level and passion of the football players. They played their hearts out on Saturday, and, to be frank, they deserve far better. The fact of the matter is that it's clear that the leadership of this pro-
TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL AngdaSaoud Pat Leonard 

Eileen Duffy Ann Loughery Jen Rowling Mike Gilloon Viewpoint Scene Do you gamble in your dorm? 
Justin Spack Christie Boisen Graphics mustrator 

Mike Harkins Meg Dwyer Vote by 5 p.m. today at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
gram does not have what it takes to make these men national championship contenders. 
Notre Dame needs a successful football program. I've loved Notre Dame for longer than I can remember, and I will continue to support our teams. But everyone who loves Notre Dame deserves more than this. Championship football built Notre Dame, along with a commitment to academic excellence and a strong Catholic tradition. I hate to think we're being robbed of all that this great place could be. 
Sean Devlin Junior Kconan Hall Sepc. 5 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"In three words I can sum up everything I've learned about life: it goes on." 
Robert Frost poet 




~-~-~-----------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, September 6, 2004 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Football season is not over yet 
Attacking legitimacy of 'Fahrenheit 9 /11' 

After watching "Fahrenheit 9/11," I, like many, wondered if President George 
W. Bush had indeed engaged in the most elaborate deception in American histo­ry. So I did some research. I was amazed to find article after article outlining the lies and distortions of Michael Moore. And believe me the news outlets were hardly conservative. To pass this "mockumentary" off as a legitimate piece of filmmaking is disingenuous as best. 
Moore creates the image that Bush personally authorized the departures of planes carrying the Saudi royal family. Unfortunately, the facts do not support his conclusion. Richard Clarke, who served as Bush's counter-terrorism czar, claimed sole responsibility for the flights. He told The Hill "It didn't get any higher than me ... I take responsibility for it. I don't think it was a mistake, and I'd do it again." Clarke even called Moore's version of the episode "a tempest in a tea pot," calling his decision to make the bin Laden family flights a big part of the film's indictment against Bush "a mistake." To be sure, Mr. Clarke is no friend of Bush's-he authored a bestselling book criticizing the President's handling of the War on Terror. 
Furthermore, Moore claims the war in Afghanistan was not to rid the country of the al-Qaeda sponsored Taliban regime, but rather for the construction of an oil pipeline by a company called Unocal, which happens to be based in Bush's home state of Texas. Steven Coli, managing editor of the Washington Post, debunks this myth by pointing out that the Unocal pipeline project was entirely a Clinton administration proposal. It died in 1998, two full years before Bush 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

was elected. 
Later in the film, Moore introduces Iraq as a "sovereign nation" which "had never attacked or killed or even threatened any American." He seems to forget that Iraq provided sanctuary to the likes of Abu Nidal, the most wanted terror­ist in the world at the time, Abdul Yasin, the chemical wizard for the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, and most recently Abu Mussab al-Zarqawi, a top Al-Queada operative, who moved to Iraq after not before 9/11, not to mention the financing of suicide bombers against Israel -where many Americans reside-or the daily anti-aircraft raids conducted by the Iraqi army on U.S. planes patrolling the no-fly zone protecting the northern and southern regions of the country. For more on the "truth" regarding the film just do a simple Google search. 
It should come as little surprise then that "Fahrenheit 9/11" was broadcast on Cuba's national television with the resounding endorsement of Fidel Castro. Not to be outdone, Hezbollah, the Middle East-based terrorist organization, has offered to promote and distribute the film throughout the Middle East. With friends like these, who needs enemies? 
Michael Derocher 
senwr 
off-campus Sept. 5 
This is only the beginning for the Fighting Irish. Not the beginning of the end, the beginning of the season. Saturday's disappointing loss to Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah came as a major shock and let­down for all of the Irish Nation. To both students and fans, I urge you to take a deep breath. Take a deep breath before condemning the program, or the coach­es, or even the players. 
I, like many fans, spent a long Sunday morning trying to figure out the Irish loss. Some people have already put this season in the books as a losing one, giv­ing up on a team that has only played one game. No matter what the score was Saturday night, who we are playing next or who we are playing two months from now. only one game has been played. There is still a lot of football and a lot of fight left in this team. 
I know I saw mistakes this weekend, I know I didn't see a perfect Irish squad on the field. Nevertheless. what I also saw was a group of players who did not, under any circumstances, give up. 
The Irish have been tough situations before, yet they have managed time and again to show the grit and will power necessary to climb out of it. The Irish have always fought back. 
So thorough all the disappointment and criticism we will face from the 

media, fans and even ourselves in the We are still Notre Dame, we still have 
coming week, I ask you, the Notre that magic nobody can describe, yet 
Dame student body, to set the only true fans can understand. The throngs of people at the Grotto, the Christmas­like lines at the book­store, the smell of the bratwursts, the sounds of the band at Bond Hall, the never-ending field of cars and flags in the parking lot, the procession of the play­ers, fans, cheerlead­ers and the band to the Stadium, the 
cheers, the push-ups, the fight song, the alumni and sub­way alumni young and old, the packed dorm masses, the alma mater. These are things no victory or defeat can 
giving the team that boost when they change or diminish. They are staples of 
need it most. no matter what the odds. this University and of college football, 
and they comprise the very soul of this team and its fans that no sports writer or disgruntled fan can tarnish or cheap­en. 
People all over the world will watch this game on their televisions or listen to it on the radio or internet and wish that they had the opportunity to share in this experience. 
Remember that as you make your decisions on whether or not to go to the Dillon Pep Rally Thursday night, the JACC pep rally Friday night and the pre-game festivities on Saturday morn­ing, because we, as Notre Dame stu­dents, shouldn't have to make those decisions. We should be there support­ing our team with all our hearts no matter what our record is or what any fan or alumni might say because they are our team and they will play their hearts out for us on Saturday, win or lose. 
This is only the beginning of the sea­son, and I for one am still excited to be apart of the greatest fall tradition in sports-Notre Dame football. Now everyone breathe in and breathe out. See you on Saturday. 
Ryan Retartha 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Sept. 5 


RYAN STASIK-BASS 
ABOVE, JAKE SINNINGER-GUITAR MOOG, SYNTHESIZERS, VOCALS RIGHT, KRIS MYERS-DRUMS, VOCALS 


NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, September 6, 2004 BSERVER Brigham Young 20, Notre Dame 17 
Rocky Mountain low 
An inconsistent offense leads to a 20-17 loss at the hands ofthe Cougars 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
PROVO, Utah -A pair of kickers spelled doom for Notre Dame Saturday night in the shadow of the Rocky Mountains. 
Brigham Young kicker Matt Payne pinned the Irish (0-1) deep in their own territory with six punts inside the 20­yard line, and former kicker Todd Watkins collected 115 receiving yards including a 3rd-and-long completion late in the fourth quarter that allowed BYU to run out the clock en route to a 20-17 win. 
Watkins transferred to BYU {1-0) this summer after his time as a receiving and kick­ing standout at Grossmont (Calif.) Junior College. His other key reception set up BYU's first touchdown in the first quarter. 
"When you look at this game," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said, "it really came down to about three big passes that they had. It really made a difference, but it was compounded by our inability to do anything on special teams or to mount any serious kind of offense." 
Notre Dame's offense strug­gled, especially the rushing attack, with the Irish accumu­lating only 11 net yards of rushing on 21 carries. Irish quarterback Brady Quinn was forced to go to the air early and often, finishing 26-of-47 for 265 yards and one touch­down. 

"They did a good job of stop­ping our running game, which they were really able to get in more than five minutes into after starter John Beck was side after Berry completed a we felt we would be able to on us, especially in the first the first quarter, as Naufahu injured on a hit by Irish line­37-yard pass to Watkins with use," Irish offensive coordina­half." Tahi scored on a five-yard backer Brandon Hoyte, found a little more than a minute in tor Bill Diedrick said. "It real­Payne's ability to punt the touchdown run after Watkins Austin Collie open for a 42-the game. ly kind of forced us into a ball deep and pin the Irish on made a 50-yard reception yard touchdown reception Notre Dame had only one pass-pass-pass-pass kind of their own side of the field only after he beat Irish defensive about midway through the timeout left after exhausting mode, and with as many dif­helped to escalate the prob­back Carlos Campbell. Payne third quarter. its first two earlier in the half, ferent schemes and blitzes lems Notre made the Collie got separation from and BYU knelt the ball to set that they bring I thought they Dame had on Cougars' lead Irish safety Quinton Burrell off the celebration at Lavell
"/ thought they put quite

put quite a bit of pressure on offense. Notre 10-0 with a and made a fingertip-catch on Edwards Stadium. 
us." Dame's aver­a bit ofpressure on us. " 44-yard field the pass from Berry. It doesn't get any easier for The Cougars employed a age starting goal with 1:31 The Irish answered with the Irish as they return home unique 3-3-5 defense that field position to play in the 4:24 left in the third quarter, to face Michigan this
Bill Diedrick 

Notre Dame appeared to have for the game quarter. when Rhema McKnight caught Saturday, a team that defeated
Irish offensive coordinator 

difficulty reading throughout was their own P a y n e a short screen pass from Notre Dame 38-0 in last year's the game, especially in the 22-yard line, drilled 1:1. field Quinn and took the ball for a meeting in Ann Arbor. first half. and three of goal in the 54-yard touchdown. "You've got to be able to 
Quinn was sacked three Notre Dame's 16 offensive second quarter to make the Momentum appeared to shift come back [from both your times by the BYU defense, but drives began behind the Irish score 13-0, but Notre Dame for Notre Dame with 8:19 in highs and lows] and unfortu­he also spent a large portion 10-yard line. was able to mount a drive late the fourth quarter, when Irish nately this is a low," Diedrick of the game avoiding pressure "I think any time you look at in the half that resulted in a cornerback Preston Jackson said. or being forced to make short the percentages, anytime you D.J. Fitzpatrick 21-yard field intercepted a short pass from "This one hurts, but it does­throws in 3rd-and-long situa­have to go 90-plus yards as goal and a 13-3 halftime Berry and returned it 38 yards n't stop here." tions. opposed to a shorter field your score. for a touchdown to cut the 
"[BYU] brings a lot of guys chances of scoring are quite a Backup BYU quarterback BYU lead to just three points. on the blitz from all different bit less," Diedrick said. Matt Berry, who came into the But any hope of an Irish Contact Justin Schuver at places," Quinn said. "At times BYU got on the board a little game in the second quarter comeback went by the way-jschuver@nd.edu 


player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Matt Payne The BYU kicker consistently pinned Notre Dame deep in its own part of  3-for-16 Notre Dame's third-down  Austin Collie's 42-yard touchdown reception  'We should have won this game. We definitely have enough talent and we should have come out with the win."  
the field, and hit two key field goals  conversion rate  The freshman wide receiver made a  
to help the Cougars to victory.  terrific fingertip-catch to put BYU up  Brady Quinn  
20-3 in the third quarter.  Irish quarterback  

page 2 The Ob_server+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 6, 2004 
report card 

F 8­
F 
8+ 
quarterbacks: Quinn played pretty well, mnsidering an endless pa.•;;s rush by the BYU delimse. lie had too many throws that wern short of the first-down mark­er on key 3rd-and-long situations. 
running backs: There is no excuse for a 
tmun to collect only 11 yards rushing, 
rngardless of the complexity of the ddensn it is faeing. Thomas' two fum­
bles don't help this unit's grade. 
receivers: If you eount tight ends, the Irish receivers had a pretty good night. There wenm't any big drops, and McKnight's TD scre1m pass was a big play in a night of few Irish big plays. 
offensive line: The ofTensive line looked lost against the BYU blitz, and they didn't do a good job making holes for the running backs, either. Quinn was rushed on nearly every pass. 
defensive line: The line helped put pres­sum on the BYU quarterbacks, and lwlped lead to Jackson's intmception by f(Jreing Berry to get rid of the ball quickly. They helped shut down the Cougars' run. 
linebackers: Thn linebackers did a good 


8 
D 
8­F 
lose these kinds of games. With an upcoming game 
1.68 
against Michigan, the Irish have to gnt better in a hurry. 
adding up the numbers 
net yards rushing in the game for Notre Dame. 
11 
74 
yards in penalties for BYU. The Irish were unable to make the Cougars' pay for those 
mistakes. 
number of punts by Notre Dame, its highest total since· an Oct. 2, 1982 win against 
11
Michigan State 
.. nu.mber of fumbles by starting running back Travis Thomas In just seven carries 
number of punts by BYU kicker Matt Payne that 
6 
pinned Notre Dame behind its own 20-yard line 
263 
yards passing by BYU quarterbacks John Beck and Matt Berry 
interceptions thrown by Brady Quinn, a bright 
Q 
spot on an otherwise dismal night offensively 
22 
Notre Dame's average starting field position for the game 
+ 
job of shutting down BYU's running game, and Iloyte and Curry each came up with a sack. 
defensive backs: The defi:msive backs were burned on several big plays, but Jaekson did score a touchdown off an intereep­tion. 
special teams: McKnight made several poor deeisions in the rHturn game, but Fitzpatrick kicked a field goal and averaged 42.8 yards a punt. 
coaching: The Irish didn't look rnady to play, <Uld tlw l.l~am ha.'i shown little improw~­ment over Willingh<Ull's la.<>t two years. Although the 3-3-5 ddhnse i<> eomplex, Notre I);Ulln had all summer I.IJ prnpare. 
overall: Notre Dame should not 

PHOVO, Utah-lie's been here before and thrived. But it might not be as simple as it was at Stanford. 
Five years ago, Saturday, Tyrone Willingham was 
the head coach of a Stanford team that was coming off a 3-8 season. Humors placed his job in jeopardy. When the start of the 1999 season 


rolled around.  Heather Van  
Sept. 4 would  Hoegarden  
be a test. a way  
to see if he was  
fit to lead the Cardinal to vic- Sports Editor  
tory. And it was  
a disaster;  

much like this year's Sept. 4. 
In 1999, Stanford was dominated by Texas, losing 69-17 in Austin. Kent Baer's defense gave up more points in a game then any other 
. Sta.nford,team had. The season 
wasn't off to a good start-much 
like this year. 

This Sept. 4 brought Willingham more troubles, this time in the form of blitzes, deep balls and punts inside the 20. It resulted in a loss to BYU in Provo, and once again, Willingham's job status is questionable, with Notre Dame alumni waiting in the wings to demand a new coach again. 
But wait, what happened five years ago? Willingham didn't lose his job. In fact, it was quite the opposite. He got his team motivat­ed, prepared and -perhaps most importantly -ready to win. And win they did. The 1999 team went on to win 
eight of its next 10 games, defeat­ing the likes of USC and even Notre Dame. Willingham took his team to the Rose Bowl with an 8-4 record, 7-1 in the Pac-10, where then-No. 22 Stanford lost to then-No. 4 Wisconsin, 17-9. 
But this isn't 1999, and this isn't Stanford. 
This Irish team has a lot of work to do. The offensive line needs to pick up their game, the secondary can't get beat on the deep ball and the running game has to improve. 
After the game Saturday, offen­sive lineman Dan Stevenson was searching for answers on why his line, comprised mostly of returning starters, didn't get it done, as BYU's 6-foot-3 receiver Todd 
Watkins had five catches for 115 
yards, ineluding a 50-yard toueh­
down. Freshman Austin Collie 
broke free for a wide-open, 42­.yard touchdown. "Those two plays, we didn't get the job done," Baer said. 
These big plays can't happen if 
this team is to have success. The 
big plays must be minimized, and 

this will be espeeially challenging 
against Michigan. 
Brady Quinn must be able to 
throw the ball deep. Without a 
deep threat, the Irish offense will 
sputter, just as it did Saturday. 

They must be able to run the ball. 
Without a run 

game, nothing will 
the Irish rushed open up, and Quinn
At Notre Dame, /just 
for just 11 will be forced to
doing what it takes to

yards all game. throw short even "I don't really win] isn't enough. on third-and-long know what hap­situations, just like
Winning is a way oflife,
pened, we just he did Saturday,
and it is expected. 
came out here resulting in the 
and didn't per­form as well as we could, as well as we should," Stevenson said. "We just didn't do what it took to win." 
And at Notre Dame, that isn't good enough. Winning is a way of life, and it is expected. 
The 2004 Irish and Willingham must turn things around very quickly if they want to improve on last year's 5-7 finish. The loss in Provo is over. It's done. Now the Irish can go two ways. They can concede the season, or they can fight. If they choose the latter, there are numerous improvements they need to make before they face a potent Michigan offense that scored 43 points Saturday. 
The seeondary must get better. 
Irish converting just 3-for-16 on third down. 

The man behind all this is Willingham. And he knows he's under a microscope. But he's been there before. 
It's a matter of whether or not he can get it done at Notre Dame, because there are still 10 games to play. Can he turn a loss to BYU into a positive, some sort of moti­vation for next week? Or will it just be what it is now -the beginning of the end of Willingham's career at Notre Dame. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Heather Van 1/oegarden at lzvanhoeg@nd. edu. 

---------------------------, 
Monday, September 6, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Special teams a big factor in loss 

By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
PROVO, Utah -lie bobbled the snap, avoided the Irish defense, kicked a 58­yard punt on the run and watched as it wa..<; downed at Notre Dame's 2-yard line. 
Brigham Young's punter/kicker Matt Payne showed the world why he was selected as an honorable mention All­American last year, with six of his nine punts dropping inside the 20-yard-line. HYU's special teams, led by the senior Payne, made plays all night, keeping the Irish pinned in il'i own territory. 
Payne averaged 46.8 yards per punt, with a long of 63 yards. 
"Our kicking game did such a good job of pinning it back in the second quarter especially, and late in the game with Payne," BYU head coach Gary Crowton said. "They gave us a chance to win down the stretch." 
In the second quarter, the Irish received four BYU punts and started on their own nine-yard line, 11-yard line, four-yard line and 20-yard line. Each possession resulted in a punt, except the last, which resulted in a ILl. Fitzpatrick 21-yard field goal to end the half. For the game, the Irish got the ball in BYU territory just once, when they recovered a fumble on the Cougar 36-yard line. 
Payne helped pin the Irish back with a combination of precision and accuracy. 

"I always thought he was one of the bet-· ter all-around kicker and special teams players in the country," Crowton said. "I remember two years ago, we were second in the nation in net punt[ing]. We wanted to get back and do that again last year. We changed our punting scheme a little bit and did some things we thought could help in his skills and so we can get guys lot of mental mistakes on my part [in the yards. Fitzpatrick pinned BYU inside the down there. [Payne[ did a great job." return game]." 20-yard line two times. 
Payne also kicked two field goals for When Notre Dame took over at the four­One bright spot for Notre Dame was BYU, one in the first quarter of 44 yards yard line, the offense sputtered, gaining red-shirt freshman Chase Anastasio, who and another in the second, good for 53 zero yards on three plays and punting the returned a kick for 40 yards in the third yards. ball back to BYU, who started its drive on quarter. However, this was not enough, as 
But on the Notre Dame end, it was more the Notre Dame 33-yard line. Payne then the Irish failed to score despite the good than Payne's performance that hurt them. hit a 53-yard field goal to give the Cougars field position. Punt returner Rhema McKnight struggled, a 13-0 lead. "What we couldn't get going was much making questionable punt catches and let­"[BYU's big plays] really made the differ­offense to put us in a good position [to ting others go. In the second quarter, he ence, combined with our inability to make win]," Willingham said. "We also hurt our­caught a kiek at the Notre Dame one-yard good decisions in our special teams area, selves with our inability to do anything in line that appeared to be carrying into the and not do anything there and not being the special teams area. And I think the end zone. lie returned it just three yards, able to mount our true offense," Irish inability to be effective in those two areas pinning the Irish on the four-yard line. coach Tyrone Willingham said. really hurts." 
"The kicker was kicking the ball to the For the Irish, Fitzpatrick punted 11 far right and it was really tough to get times for an average of 42.6 yards per to," McKnight said of Payne's punts. punt, including a long of 56 yards. One Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at "That's no excuse, though, it was really a punt was partially blocked, going just 21 hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Both Zbikowski and Burrell see the field 
•
scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Notre Dame  0  3  7  7  17  
BYU  10  3  7  0  20  
First quarter  

Brigham Young 7, Notre Dame 0 
Naufahu Tahi 5-yard run with 9:47 remaining (Matt Payne kick) Drive: 6 plays, 75 yards, 1:58 elapsed 
Brigham Young 10, Notre Dame 0 
Payne 44-yard FG wilh"1 :31 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 29 yards, 3:24 elapsed 
Second quarter Brigham Young 13, Notre Dame 0 
Payne 53-yard FG with 1:34 remaining Drive: 4 plays, -4 yards, 2:04 elapsed 
Brigham Young 13, Notre Dame 3 
D.J. Fitzpatrick 21-yard FG with 0:00 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 77 yards, 1:34 elapsed 
Third quarter Brigham Young 20, Notre Dame 3 
Austin Collie 42-yard reception from Mall Berry (Payne kick) with 7:47 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 62 yards, 1:27 elapsed 
Brigham Young 20, Notre Dame 10 
Rhema McKnight 54-yard reception from Brady Quinn (Fitzpatrick kick) with 4:24 remaining Drive: 1 play, 54 yards, 0:13 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Brigham Young 20, Notre Dame 17 
Preston Jackson 38-yard interception return (Fitzpatrick kick) with 8:19 remaining 
statistics 
total yards rushing yards 

~11*1 
passing yards 
. .
~ 
return yards 

Ji) 
6 
21-11 rushes-yards 35-22 
26-47-0 comp-att-int 22-33-1 
11-40.8 punts-yards 9-46.8 
2-1 fumbles-lost 3-1 7-55 penalties-yards 9-74 15 13
first downs 
passing  
Quinn  26-47-0  Berry  15-23-1  
Beck  7-10-0  

rushing 
Wilson Thomas Powers-Neal Quinn  9-22 6-2 1-0 5-(-13)  Tahi Brown Beck Collie Berry  12-31 12-15 3-12 1-(-3) 5-("31)  
receiving  

McKnight  8-92  Watkins  5-115  
Fasano  4-60  Brown  5-15  
Powers-Neal  4-24  Collie  3-54  
Freeman  3-28  Tahi  3-31  
Stovall  3-23  Coats  2-32  
Thomas  2-28  Kukahiko  2-14  
Jenkins  2-10  Pilla  1-4  
Hale  1-(-2)  
tackling  

Goolsby Campbell  11 8  Poppinga Jensen  12 9  
Hoyle  6  Soelberg  7  
Burrell  6  Burbidge  7  
Curry  6  Heaney  7  
Zbikowski  5  Francisco  6  
Laws  5  Luellgerodt  3  
Pauly  5  M. Brown  3  
Tuck  5  White  2  
Ellick  3  Marquardt  2  
Carlson  3  Nua  2  

By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
PROVO, Utah-Irish coach­es surprised many when the starting defense for Notre Dame came onto the field and both Quentin Burrell and Tom Zbikowski ran onto the turf. 
Burrell and Zbikowski were expected to compete for the starting position at free safety, with Lionel Bolen the project­ed starter at strong safety, but Notre Dame's coaches elected to start both players on Saturday. 
Zbikowski moved over to strong safety and made five tackles, while Burrell played free safety and made six tack­les. 
"It was a decision we made last week," Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "We wanted to get our best players on the field and I thought we did that and I thought [Zbikowski) played really well." 
Grant remains parked on 
bench 
Notre Dame running back Ryan Grant, who said earlier in the week that he felt "about 95 percent," did not play in Saturday's loss as he contin­ues to recover from an injury suffered in practice earlier this fall. 
Sophomore Travis Thomas started the game in Grant's place but proved ineffective behind a line that struggled to pick up blitz packages and run block. Thomas fumbled twice, losing one, and collect­ed just two yards on six car­ries. Senior Marcus Wilson took over after Thomas' sec­ond fumble and ended the game with 22 yards on nine carries. 
Irish coaches refused to attribute Notre Dame's lack of a running game to the loss of Grant, who collected over 1,000 yards rushing for the Irish in 2002. 
"I don't think it can place our inability to run the foot­ball on the absence of Ryan," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "I think more than anything else it was their defensive scheme and our inability to get much of a push up front that kept both our passing game and our running game from being what we wanted it to be." 

Hobbled Hoyte still able to contribute 
Irish linebacker Brandon Boyte played several produc­tive minutes for Notre Dame on defense Saturday, despite the fact that he injured his arm in practice last week and did not participate in the pre~ season scrimmage Aug. 27. 
Boyte finished the game as Notre Dame's third-leading tackler with six tackles total including five solo tackles and two tackles for a loss. He also had a sack for a loss of eight yards. 
"Brandon played a pretty good ball game," Baer said. "He was all over the place and looked pretty good out there." 
Boyte was second on the team in tackles in 2003 with 7 4 behind team leader Courtney Watson, who had 117 total tackles. 
Defense remains offensive 
Preston Jackson's intercep­tion return for a score in the fourth quarter of Notre Dame's loss to BYU Saturday marked the 27th time the Irish have scored on defense during the past six seasons [1999-2004]. 
That mark ties for the eighth-best scoring defense in the nation during that time period, but Jackson's return didn't make up for a lack of ability to stop the Cougars receivers on key plays. 
i>u"{Jackson's. interception] was a big play," Baer said. "It's something we always talk about as a team is scoring on defense, but we needed to get another one. "The ball was on the ground a few times and we didn't get it, there were some crucial situations there where we just couldn't make it happen." 
Game captains 
Captains for the game Saturday were defensive end Kyle Budinscak, linebacker Derek Curry, tight end Billy Palmer and fullback Rashon Powers-Neal. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 6, 2004 




SEASON-oPENING NIGHTMARE 
The Irish started the 2004 season the wrong way -falling 20-1 7 in the crisp Rocky Mountain air to a BYU team that Notre Dame handled easily at home in 2003. Poor tackling, defensive lapses and an invisible running game combined with a raucous crowd and a Cougar team that just seemed to want it more, ultimately spelled disaster for the Irish. In a game that was supposed to set the tone for the rest of the season, the Notre Dame faithful are now left with even more questions than before. 


CLAIRE KELLEY and TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer Cornerback Preston Jackson returns an Interception 38 yards for a touchdown (top feft). BYU's Todd Watkins makes a long catch late In the fourth quarter that allowed the Cougars to run out the rest of the clock (top right). Rhema McKnight scores the only Notre Dame offensive touchdown of the game on a 54-yard recep­tion (center left). McKnight comes up just short of the first down marker on third down (bottom left). Irish defensive end Justin Tuck misses tackling BYU running back Curtis Brown (bottom right). 

THE 

OBSERVER 
page 11 



A RIA S M IT H 
ongs from other artists, including au! Simon's "50 Way to Leave Your over" and Van Halen's "Hot For eacher."
[ 
Like most jam bands, Umphrets McGee is rarely played on the radiO, 
d many of the fans were not famil­with a lot of the band's music. rtheless, students came for the 
owned instrumental performances nd enjoyed the show. "They're one of the best bands for 
mprovisation out there, I already w that," said Drew Pittman, a sen­or who works at WVFI. "It was 

insane." "It was awesome," said senior Rashelle Simpson. 
"The show overall was excellent. The fans were great and the band was even better," said senior Wyetta Palmby. 
The band's tour schedule will take them all over the country in the next few months, but curious fans can catch their show in Bloomington, Ind. on Oct. 7. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

Monday, September 6, 2004
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Michigan's Henne throws two touchdowns en route to vvin 

tive," Hoeppner said. 
Associated Press 
No. 24 Purdue 51, Syracuse 0 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Chad WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -No. 
Henne was expected to go unno­25 Purdue came up with big plays 
ticed while wearing a headset on and long touchdowns on offense, 
the sideline at Michigan Stadium. which was no surprise. 
The freshman quarterback The dominating defense even 
ended up having 110,815 fans caught the Boilermakers off 
watching his winged helmet and guard. 
right arm. Kyle Orton passed for 287 yards 
Jlenne threw two touchdowns and a career-high four touch­in a surprising start for Michigan, downs to lead the Boilermakers to helping the eighth-ranked a victory over Syracuse on Wolverines to a 43-10 victory over Sunday, their frrst shutout in four Miami of Ohio on Saturday that years. ended the nation's longest win­'The defense obviously played ning streak. great. Nobody expected this," 
"You got 100-some thousand Orton said. "I knew they were fans out there when you look up," going to be a good defense, but I Henne said. "It's like, this isn't didn't think they would be this high school." good this early. We've got a lot of 
Matt Gutierrez was supposed to great athletes." start, but he was relegated to Orton, a senior, and the experi­holding on kicks because of a sore enced Purdue offense produced arm, creating an opportunity for 571 yards and seven touchdowns. Henne. Rick Leach is the only The defense has eight new other quarterback to start as a starters and was expected to take freshman for the Wolverines. a while to develop. Instead, it held Leach led Michigan to a victory on Syracuse to 197 yards, forced four Sept. 13, 1975, at Wisconsin. fumbles and added three sacks 

llenne, wearing the same No. 7 and two interceptions. mistakes on a one-year trial basis. of the season. second quarter with a knee injury. 
Leach and Drew Henson wore, "We did a good job flying to the In a two-minute span late in Greenway looked every bit the Oklahoma State 31, UCLA 20 was 14-of-24 for 142 yards with ball and keeping up our pursuit," the first half, the replay system all-star Saturday, returning one of PASADENA, Calif. -Vernand one interception. Purdue linebacker Stanford drew the ire of the record crowd his two interceptions for a touch­Morency rushed for 261 yards 
"He made one mistake," said Keglar said. "We were very suc­of 82,116 at renovated Camp down and blocking a punt that led and two touchdowns and Michigan coach Uoyd Carr, who cessful with our penetration. We Randall Stadium and both to another score in Iowa's opening Oklahoma State beat Saturday in chose to start Henne after also stayed in our alignment and Wisconsin coach Barry Alvarez victory over Kent State. the season opener for both teams. Thursday's practice. "But consid­tried not to overpursue." and UCF's Dave Huxtable, who His performance was part of a With the Cowboys' ground ering running out into this stadi­The last Purdue shutout came assumed head coaching responsi­dominating defensive effort by the game clicking, Oklahoma State's um after he just got out of junior­in the 2000 season opener against bilities with George O'Leary 19th-ranked Hawkeyes, which Donovan Woods threw just eight senior prom, I was impressed." Central Michigan. attending his mother's funeral in held Kent State to 110 total yards, passes in his college debut. The 
Carr would not say who he No. 21 Wisconsin 34, UCF 6 New York. minus-13 yards rushing and redshirt freshman completed two planned to start at Notre Dame MADISON. Wis. -The Big Sanders' 50-yard fumble return forced four turnovers. passes for 23 yards and ran 15 next week. Ten's instant replay got an imme­for a touchdown was called back "It was a lot of fun out there yards for a score. 
Braylon Edwards caught six diate thumbs-down. to midfield when the replay offi­today," said Greenway, who made OSU. facing UCLA for just the passes for 91 yards and two TDs, "I did like it before ... but I don't cial ruled Sanders had a knee 10 tackles and shrugged off the second time and winning for the and David Underwood gained 61 like it anymore," said Wisconsin down when quarterback Steven magazine's remarks. "It was nice frrst, did not have a turnover, but yards with two touchdowns on 22 linebacker Dontez Sanders, Moffett's fumble bounced into his to get my first and second pick, recovered two Bruins' fumbles carries. whose 50-yard fumble return for hands. and to score was very nice, too. and intercepted two of Drew 
After a scoreless first quarter, a touchdown was nullified upon Anthony Davie;; then gained 21 We want to hold (opponents) Olson's passes. Michigan led 24-0 midway further review in the 21st-ranked yards on a play· that forced him down as much as we can, espe­The Cowboys' veteran offensive through the third quarter. Badgers' rout of Central Florida from the game with an eye injury. cially against a team like Kent line consistently overpowered the 
The RedHawks then made it on Saturday. The referee announced a review State so we can get rolling a little Bruins' young defensive front, so interesting with a field goal, Mike Players and coaches on both by the replay official had found bit for the rest of the season." Morency often sprinted through Smith's 1-yard TD run and a drive teams criticized the experimental that Davis stepped out of bounds From the start, Iowa made gaping holes and was untouched deep in Michigan territory. system for being used at odd at the Central Florida 41 instead sure the Golden Flashes never got until he was already into the 
"I thought the momentum was times, delaying the game and not of the 28. on track offensively. Kent State UCLA secondary. wearing white and I felt pretty being used when it should have -Upon further review, he correct­crossed midfield for the frrst time The 5-foot-10, 215-poundjun­good about our chances," on a close touchdown before half­ed the call to show Davis stepped late in the third quarter. Antwan ior carried 29 times and scored RedHawks coach Terry Hoeppner time. out at the 29. Smith, playing in place of sus­on runs of 22 yards and 1 yard. said. "It caused more confusion for No. 19 Iowa 39, Kent State 7 pended starting quarterback Josh Morency topped 200 yards rush­
With a chance to pull within a the refs than anything," Central IOWA CITY, Iowa -Chad Cribbs, had little time to find ing twice after taking over for the score, Ernest Shazor returned an Florida defensive lineman Frisner Greenway took a big step toward receivers and was forced to begin injured Tatum Bell late last sea­interception 88 yards for a TD to Nelson said. proving at least one critic wrong. nearly all possessions deep in son, gaining 269 yards against give the Wolverines a 30-10 lead The Big Ten is the first confer­Iowa's junior linebacker was Iowa territory. Kansas and 227 against Baylor. with 9:01 left to play. ence to use instant replay to dubbed by at least one preseason Smith was 18-of-32 for 96 Manuel White carried 20 times 
Turnovers were a problem for review officials' calls. The NCAA magazine as overrated, unworthy yards, splitting time with fresh­for 145 yards for the Bruins, the RedHawks throughout. authorized the conference to use of others' predictions that he was man Tommy Sitko, who was including touchdown runs of 60 
"Their defense was destruc-video replay to correct officiating a lock to be all-Big Ten at the end knocked out of the game in the and 4 yards. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Nanny needed BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX Need BC GA tix. 0-1 and counting ... 1-2 days a week PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-Will be used not resold. NOTICES 12:00-8:00pm. WANTED 3911 269-684-61 02. I miss you Mo and Nancy! 
Must have own transportation. 

Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apart-Call for interview 2 NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF For Sale: NO football tix. Good Need BC GA tix. David, ment. 1909 Lincolnway West 651-3633. NO.CLOSE. IDEAL FOR 2-4 PEO-prices. 232-0964. Will be used not resold. Your haircut is awesome! $450/month. 246-4634 PLE.VERY REASONABLE RENT. 269-684-6102. With love from your stylist 
Part-time cashier needed 277-3097. For Sale: NO football tix. Good College Football Hall of Fame. prices. 232-0964. 'We will rise from these ashes" WANTED Afternoon shifts. Clean 1 bedroom, 1 bath apartment. PERSONAL I hope ... Fax resume to: 235-5720 or 1909 lincolnway West $450/month. Wanted: NO football tix. Top $$$ SOCCER REFEREES -needed for call 235-5733. 246-4634 251-1570. Young NO alums need Hey, it could happen 
south side elementary school local-TURTLECREEK APT for ed near Erskine Golf Course on 2 bedroom apartment for rent. NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-MICHIGAN wknd. Yeah 161 Cavanaughlll Miami Street. $30 per soccer game. FoR SALE $525/month. Students welcome! 2378 p.m. 288-2726 Will pay top $$$ and 'We have carpet and lights . . I mean, Call574-291-4200. 1909 lincolnway West. finance partyfor you and friends. what more is there?" 
Oscilloscope Digital 1 00 MHz 246-4634 WANTED: GA home football tix. Call Will accept bestproposal. Need 4 GAs to Purdue (313)886-$1500. 276-8507. After 5 p.m. call 784 Contact CPOEMD@AOLCOM "Jimmy, you scared the bejeebers 4189 273-2428. 1 bedrorn apartment 20 minutes to 8638. out of me." 
campus, located on St. Joseph Spring Break 2005 Challenge .. find "I'm sorry, Mom, about your bejee-LaSalle Grill Restaurant and Club Condo. 1434 Marigold Way #114. River. Available for University JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, a better pricel bers" LaSalle are hiring for the following Large 1 bedroom w/garage,perfect games Call 57 4-295-5672 NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY NO Lowest price specials! postions: Cocktail Server (Must be condition, most appliances stay, FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 674-Free Meals! yeah, um about !haL over 21) Main Dining Room Server 6593. November 6th deadline! 
(Must be 21) Flexible Hours avail-Open House Sun. 9/12,2-4pm. Hiring reps-earn free trips AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH! able. Please pick up applications at Near entrance of North Shore NO alum needs 2 tix for Michigan and cash I 115 West Colfax Avenue, any Condos on right. $73,000. A businessman needs season tir.k-game on Sept. 11 . Please call Mary www.sunsp!ashtours.com Come on Cubbieslll time after 2:00PM Call Reed 276-4131 . ets for clients. 277-1659 at 917-763-6842. 1-800-426-771 0 Make us proudII! 
TICKETS 


-~--~-----­

-·IH}c;: .•' ?r I'T ~ r ")-q.r;o 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 6, 2004 
'<:THEATRE 
'. A.r..rti: A p_..;~~o......:..l Glt..t S't..-y by je!:l:lio:1 d-.:1hner5

U S I C 
Friel<!-~ Septe!nlloer 2.4, 7:30p.m. Lilll...lll c-.-J.-o.-.~t. ......... 
Sc11'U"d<ry, Seoi:ol'eoi"Ji)er 2;5, 7;30 p JYI .

.....:.It W')fi+-,.,._..-;.
-..... SuHby, Seo1:teo•"li)er 26, 2:30 p.m.' . Su-.:h~ Septenher 19, 6 p.m. 
Su'ek1y, Seol:teol"li)er 26, 7:30 p.m. t75, I'IDfS•VC/HC tc.:>. J.ll S1udenl5 t 25 
o"k-1-.:l<ry, Seoplel"li)er 27, 7;30 p JYI. lhu-!!'l(ler~ Septe!"li)er 30, 7;30 p JYI . 

.M..r.UII R.l1111t11 Tri. 
Fridel); Od'ober 1, 7 ;30 p.m. Frid<ry, Seopteor~)er 24. 9 p JYI. 
Sc1tu-d<ry, O::tober 2, 7;30pJYI. t37.50, I'ID/SoVC/HC t30. All Srude.i5 t 15 
·,y·,y,y~~loe 15i ZleiYI <!!o.<D m Su'ek1y, O::tober 3, 7;30 p JYI. 
a-It'• ~.wn.lt e:-.__.. 
Perforrned by T1-., Bulder5 J=oc:ie•lion 

Thu-!!'l(l<ry, Seol:teol"li)er 9 Frid<ry, Seopteol"li)er l 0 
Performed <It ~.., Deol~ Sheet o'>l.et<1l F<ld"or); 7 p.m. ~lnd 10 p.m. ,A 12:10 p.m. dHIYIIloer m..e:ic cor.oert Do·,-,1-to·.-,n Sc•Ji, Be.HI
. 

. in ~.., Peo1-.:teo Az!OI..i)l)." H(•ll , ' No tid:.et •-!!'l(•ry . t 16, ND/SoVC/HC t 16, All S11Jo:le.i5 t 12 
I, .,~..,. Cl...l. Ki*'ou e:-...... . J.t' ori{j1-.:111wltin'Je(lie• ~'~•trio:• production, Frid<ry, Seoi:teol"li)er 1 0. 9 p JYI. writl'el' by Notre D<nneo',: o·,-,1, oeiE-c~.y<r<fFree li~ el"((lil<lbleo ·.-,-imir(l ple1y-,yrigl"t jeo~o:1 d,dmer5. 
c L E B R A T E I T I I 
ND ()rp&n HouMo Cammunity Opan HouMo 
F1i d:ry, ~~*'e!IYI~.>!II" 17, 4 p Jn.-10 p.m., Fc~a.~lty, Sc1ff cmd Siuckmb: S..mdcl'l' ~~ioelm~..)l!l· 19, 12 I"JOon -5 p.1n. Geme.d PJ.)Iic 
CorM end Ol!llebrc~ tl"l<'!l opsri I"(I of you•· pe.·b1ni I "(I c1·b: Ol!lnts•·! Enjoy c1 5Sif·d rsctsd tou· ~wough tl"l<'!l fcdlity. ,\h::pe: ¥)II ~.>!I cl"o.,oc:ilcbls. Nc:hs D::1ns end rsgi ond ~>S1fonne.-:s ¥)II :shQ¥,-o::ll's ~'sir .x,m:ickudJs tdsnb: in dl ~ -.,:ol!l "'e.'us:s. 

0 MARIE P. DEBAR'JOLO CENTER FOR n-IE PERFORMING AR1S 
Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra with Wynton Marsalis 
September 19, 2004 8 p.m. 
Leighton Concert· Hall 

Reserved Seats $75 Notre Dame and f:ai nt Nlarys facu l1y and staff tickets $60 All sh.dent tickets $2 5 Call 574.631.2000 for tickets 
Vi at http:/Ir::er fcn-n ngc.rts.nd.e.du for rnare in for malien. 
Discoute:l ~ ckets c•·e u-..:lerYtri lten by ~'Jeo D£crtolo Certer br t~'Jeo Per fcnnirg .A.Jts 
LC..O IS >-v.NAGED BY lc>.t ARTIST'S LTD. >..v.NAGERS 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Page 14 
team 
1 Southern California 
2 Oklahoma 
3 Georgia 4 Florida Stale 
5 Miami 
6 LSU 
7 Texas 
8 Mlcblgan 
9 OhiO Slate 
10 West VIrginia 11 Florida 
12 California 
13 Kansas State 14 Tennessee 
15 VIrginia' 
16 Iowa 
17 Utah 
18 Aubum 
19 Miisourl 20 Clemson 21 WJ~onsln 22 Minnesota 23 Maryland 24 Oreyon 25 Purdue 

team 
North Carolina NOTRE DAME Florida State 
UCLA 
Virginia 
Santa Clara 
Clem1oll 
Portland 

around the dial 
MLB Devil Rays at Yankees 12 p.m., ESPN Phlllies at Braves 12 p.m., TBS Expos at Cubs 3 p.m., ESPN2 Devil Rays at Yankees 3:30p.m., ESPN Red Sox at Athletics 9 p.m., ESPN 
GOLF Deutsche Bank Championship 2 p.m., ABC 


AP 
Ohio State's Troy Smith tries to escape the grasp of Cincinnati's Jamar Enzor during the second quarter of the Buckeyes' 27-6 win Saturday. Ohio State was one of 17 ranked teams to win on Saturday. 
Perfect start to season for teams in poll 
Associated Press 

A perfect day for ranked teams produced little change in the Top 25 on Sunday. 
Ranked teams went 17-0 Saturday, the opening day of the college football sea­son around most of the country. It was the first time ranked teams had a perfect record on a day in which 10 or more played since Aug. 31, 1996. That day, ranked teams went 11-0. 
And it was only the sec­'ond tirrie ranked teams rolled through a full slate of-games unbeaten since the mid-15'60s. 
Add No. 1 South·ern California's victory on Aug. 
28 and Utah's wi-n Thursday night, and teams in The Associated Press media poll started the sea-· son 19-0. 
USC, off a lackluster 2.4­13 victory over Virginia Tech, gained three first­place votes (51) and six points (1,609) in the latest rankings, but the Trojans' lead over No. 2 Oklahoma shrunk from 74 points to 61. 
The Sooners got 10 first­place votes and 1,548 points. No. 3 Georgia received the oth~r four first-place votes and 1,481 points. Like most of·t-he ranked teams, both 'the Sooners and Bulldogs post­ed double-digit· wins against lesser competition Saturday. 
The exceptions were LSU and Clemson, and both dropped in the rankings after scrambling to win at home in overtime. 
LSU, the defending BCS champs, slipped two spots to No. 6 after a 22-21 overtime victory against Oregon State. The Tigers were fortunate, to say the least. Beavers kicker Alexis Serna missed all three of his extra-point attempts, including the final one in overtime that ended the game. 
"Those gt,~ys that came ilt, they outplayed us and 
' beat us all over the field," 'LSU. defensive tackle Kyle Williams said. "We snuck one out." 

Clemson dropped five spots from No. 15 to No. 20 after rallying to beat Wake Forest 37-30 in dou­ble OT. 
Benefiting from LSU's drop from the top five were No. 4 Florida State and No. 5 Miami, which each moved up a spot. The Hurricanes and Seminoles will play Friday night, a game originally scheduled for Monday night and post­poned because of Hurricane Franc~s. 
Behind LSU, the top 10 stayed the same with Texas, Michigan, Ohio State and West Virginia all winning big. 
The Longhorns had the easiest go of it with a 65-0 win over North Texas. 
IN BRIEF Seahawks a chic pick to 
make Super Bowl 

BRISTOL, Connecticut -The fran­chise which last won a playoff game 21 years ago is headed to the Super Bowl. 
No, it's not the Arizona Cardinals, who have made one postseason appearance in the last 21 years. 
The chic pick for Super Bowl XXXIX in Jacksonville appears to be the Seattle Seahawks. 
"We've managed to keep these guys together, and they've kind of grown up together," Seahawks coach Mike Holmgren said. "Now we'll see how far we can go." 
Holmgren needed five years to take the Green Bay Packers to Super Bowl glory. Of course, then he had future Hall of Famers Brett Favre and Reggie White. 
In Seattle, Holmgren has a 41-39 record in flve years with two playoff appearances. Last year, the Seahawks finished 10-6 and lost a playoff overtime game at Lambeau Field to Holmgren's former team. 
All 11 starters return on offense, which is contingent on Pro Bowl left tackle Walter Jones signing his one­year tender as a franchise player and the defense is steadily improving under coordinator Ray Rhodes. 
"I think we do believe now that we're capable of beating anybody," g_uarterback Matt Hasselbeck said. Ecuador needs to be more 
adventurous, coach says 
MONTEVIDEO --Ecuador coach Luis Fernando Suarez said his team needed to be more adventurous after they lost 1-0 away to Uruguay in his first match in charge on Sunday. 
"We still have organization, defense and concentration but that's not enough for a team to qualify [for the World Cup)." he told reporters after Ecuador mustered only one dangerous shot on goal. 
"We need to be more adventurous in attack." 

The defeat left Ecuador with 10 points from eight games in the ten­nation South American World Cup qualifying group -level with their QPJ!Onents.NHA play:er arrested on 
weapons charges 

WASHINGTON -Free-agent for­ward Rodney White and two other men face weapons charges after a uniformed Secret Service officer reported seeing them randomly shooting into the air early Sunday. 
Authorities identified the men as White, 24, of Denver; Anthony 0. Butler, Jr., 21, of Detroit; and Kyle A. Doman, 25, of Bowie, Md. 
White averaged 7.5 points and 2.3 rebounds with the Nuggets last sea­son, his second year in Denver. He also played one season in Detroit. 
Police pulled over a sports utility vehicle carrying the three and found an unspecified number of guns and a knife inside, Secret Service spokesman Tom Mazur said. 



Monday, September 6, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 


Men 
continued from page 20 
were fabulous for us. It's a credit to them and us that we're able to run along with losing two of the best defenders in the Big East." 
After the goal, which came off a corner kick for Oregon State in the first five minutes, Sawyer would not see a ball behind him for the rest of the weekend. 
Stewart penetrated the oppo­nent's defense at 36:11, while forward Justin McGeeney added the game-winner at 48:42. Norman and Alex Yoshinaga were credited with assists for the Irish. 
"Oregon State was a very direct long ball team, we had to compete in the air and we strug­gled with that a little bit," Wiese said. "Boston was very conserva­tive, they had a lot of people behind the ball ... I don't even think they had a shot until maybe 
15  or  20  minutes into  play  
today."  
Stewart  struck  again  on  

Sunday, hitting the net with John Stephens' assist at 32:59 to put the Irish on top for good. In the 60th minute, Norman would demonstrate his offensive mind­set by padding the Irish lead with an unassisted blast. 
The Irish were named runner-up in the adidas/IU Credit Union tournament, losing 6-4 on a goals-scored tiebreaker to host Indiana University. Both teams went 2-0 over the weekend. Stewart, Sawyer and McGeeney were named to the All­Tournament team. 

"Every year it's a different team," Wiese said. "It's new play­ers and I think we have a good blend of experienced players and those with some youth on the team." 
Wiese is happy with the team's progression so far. 
"We're happy with where we are at this stage of the season, for sure," he said. "We all recog­nize that there's a lot of growing to do, [but] we got two wins." 
The Irish have the week off before hosting the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament with Evansville, CS Fullerton and Indiana University next weekend. 
"It's important to get off on the right foot ... we know we have a lot to do to get better~" Wiese said..":rhe goal is to get better every week and if we get ,better every week, well be in a good position to make some noise in the postseason." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 



Belles 
continued from page 20 
tournament and again to Albion College. Then, howev­er, the Belles won four straight games. 
The Belles hope the same pattern will develop this sea­son. 
Today, the Belles travel to Michigan to face conference foe Albion College. The Britons 
are currently 2-3 and 1-1 in the MIAA. On the season, Sarah Slamer and Elizabeth 
ConvEStatio 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 


(and every first Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
Moore lead the Britons in they hope to get their first kills and total attacks. win and 
In 2003, Albion finished 10-move up in the conference 22 overall and 3-11 in league standings. Last year, a slow play. Early last season, they start and conference strug­beat Saint Mary's in five gles hampered Saint Mary's hard-fought matches. During throughout the season. that contest, Rupright The Belles may adjust their recorded eight kills and a attack to seek a better way of total of 28 attacks, while scoring and playing stronger Bender added four kills to go defense. A strong conference along with her 24 attacks. finish is vital in securing a 
This year, Saint Mary's will high seed in the MIAA tour­try to avenge last year's loss nament come November. and gain some momentum The game begins at 7 p.m. 
going into the rest of the at Albion. season. Today's game is very Contact Justin Stetz at important for the Belles, as jstetz@nd.edu 

QUALITY SHOE REPAIR 
Over 40 Yrs. Experience 
574/246-9700 Orthopedic Work Fix Any Leather Replace Zipper Open 9 a.m.-6p.m. M-Sat. Saddle Repair 1508 Mishawaka Ave., 
South Bend IN 46615 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·,
Now leasing quality houses 
close to campus for the 2005/6 and 2006/7 school years. 
Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 
57 4-532-f895 
L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 

~~ -----~ 

page 16 Monday, September 6, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 

Adidas 
continued from page 20 
found a chink in her armor. Schefter took a pass from for­ward Amanda Cinalli and turned towards the goal. Cardinal defender Lindsay Hunt took Schefter down with a hard foul and, on the ensu­ing penalty kick, the Irish for­ward skipped a low drive past Barnhart and into the right­hand corner of the net. 
"It was huge," Schefter said. "We deserved to beat this team and it would have been a dis­appointment to walk away 0­
0." 
The Irish had trouble finding the back of the net, but Stanford struggled just to get a shot. The defensive trio of Melissa Tancredi, Gudrun Gunnarsdottir and Christie Shaner bottled up the. Cardinal offense, including star forward Marcie Ward. Notre Dame goalkeeper Erika Bohn easily handled what few chances 
"I really thought we con­trolled pretty much the whole game," Waldrum said. "I didn't feel like they were dangerous at all." 
The Sunday game against the Broncos proved to be a 

Ryder's head and into the net. In three and a half minutes, Notre Dame turned a hotly contested tie game into a blowout. 
"I feel pretty good," Thorlakson said. "I go out every 
much more "/ really thought we game and try to physical and perform. If there
controlled 

wide-open con­is a chance that I
pretty much the 

test. Both teams can win, I'm played aggres­whole game." going to go for it." sively and "I think there's logged signifi­no doubt she is
Randy Waldrum 

cant sconng one of the best if
Irish head coach 
chances. The 
Broncos played the Irish to an even 2-2 dead­
lock for the first 38 minutes of the second half until Thorlakson took control. She took a pass from Buczkowski, beat a defender. and drilled a shot past Santa Clara goalie Julie Ryder to give the Irish a 3-2 lead. 
But that was just the begin­ning. Only two and a half min­utes later, Thorlakson took a pass from Schefter and sent a 
came her way "The back line was to preserve 
amazing today. [Staying 
her first 
sharp} is definitely one of
shutout of the season. the hardest things. Being "The back 
a goalkeeper. some 
line was ama­
games I just stand back
zing today,·~ Bohn said. th(!re." "(Staying sharp] is defi­
Erika Bohn·
nitely one of 
Irish goaltender 
the hardest things. Being 
crossing pass over the mid­dle that deflected off one Irish player and right to the feet of Can­dace Chap­man. The seni·or for• ward buried her shot, .and thB r.out was­on. 
Thorlakson not the best for­

ward in the coun­try," Waldrum said. "She's taken off this year and she does it in big games." 
However, the game's physical play did take its toll. Fourteen minutes into the second half, Notre Dame forward Mary Boland took the brunt end of a collision with Bronco defender Carrie Schuler. The two were chasing down a ball at mid­field when they crashed into each other. Both players dropped to the ground, and Boland clutched her right leg. 
After several minutes, Schuler walked off under her own power, but Boland -an Irish captain -had to wait for a stretcher. 
"If [she's] out for a while, she'r,; a huge loss because she's a captain, she's one of our heart and soul leaders on the team," Waldrum said. 
Despite tbe injury, Notre Dame still collected some hardware.. over the weekend. Thorlakson was named Offensive Most Valuable Player for the tournament while teammate Tancredi was the Defensive MVP. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
team final. Since the team is talented and deep, King pre­
Golf 

dicts difficulty in picking the continued from page 20 tournament teams for each 
------------event. at even par and broke the "It's going to be tough get­previous individual tourna-ting the top 5 or 10 players 
ment record by 9 strokes. this year" she said. "This 
Notre Dame shot a com-week has already proved it, bined 914, finishing 12 spots and our individuals have behind Iowa State and 7 been as good as the tourna­back from the second-place ment team." Washington State Cougars. In Leading the tournament spite of the disappointment team was sophomore Noriko of not winning, King is very Nakazaki, who placed sev­pleased with her team's per-enth with an overall score of formance and chooses to 227. Juniors Katie Brophy focus on the positive points. and Lauren Gebauer each 
"I looked in the record shot a 230 to finish in a 5­books. and we were 24 way tie for 12th that includ­strokes lower than any other ed sophomore Stacy Brown, home tournament," King who was also entered as an said. "That's quite an accom-individual. Freshman Jane plishment." Lee shot a 231 and finished 
Though the whole team in 17th, and senior Suzie played well. senior Karen Hayes scored a· 234 to end up Lotta had a day to remember tied for 22nd. on Sunday. In the tourna-As the season gets under­ment's final round, Lotta way, King wants to focus on broke the Warren Golf consistency. Course record by shooting a "Anyone on our team can 4-under par 68 to finish tied play well on any given day. for second place with a three but we need to be able to do round total of 221. it over three rounds," she Unfortunately for the Irish. said. Lotta was entered as an indi­vidual, meaning her scores Contact Eric Retter at could not count towards the eretter@nd.edu 

a goalkeeper, some games I just stand back there." 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum was relieved to get the win. especially considering how his team dictated the pace of the entire game, out-shooting Stanford 17-3. 
scored her third and final goal of the game just over a minute later when a punt from Irish goalkeeper Erika Bohn bounced over the Santa Clara defenders and right to Thorlakson. She chipped a shot over the retreating 


"-II#25ladv Irish Vollevball! 11"­
Tuesday# September7th at 7 P.M. v.s, Valparaiso 



First 500 fans receive a schedule glass sponsored by Between the Buns and Coke 


-*Free Admission to Notre Dame Students With a Valid ID* -. .
• 

· · Visit UND.com promos and giveaways link for all up to date promotional information . 
~~-------, 
I 
l 
I 
page 17 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 6, 2004 
1 f').l Do.. f"i·~ 1.t_Q.' EJ·fV
• J G:, u u "~ d·J .. l '.rt<····•·m:>.'.ol!f'·-w~·..·.·.w-•w-·.w.·.·.·.w·····-·.w..w.w•.w.w.·~.--~'"""·'.""-.\.·····"""''"···•~w-·)F·;;,4,'.....~.·-•·-·.w.•.·.w.-.-.·.·.·.-...-.·..-.-.-..w.w.w•w-·.w.-.•-.-.'Jili>':~!<l{-·························--·"'····--·····-'--'·""""''""'''_._..., ........................ ~.~»>-> 

~ 
i 
:1 
·I 
I I I I 
:1 
.,J 
~-I 
~ T 
~ (~) ~ 
!l~2 i iol l ::::I
l I
.m.w.w... · ....-..·.···••-'••••"'•'••W••••'••':!....•
.AI' '! 
l 
I 
i ! 
I 

l 
i 
·I 
. l 
I 
I I 
-r 


, 
~ ~:~) 
3C:! 
:; .... 
~ (:;J. 
.: ...... 
*' 

............. · .. . . . ......................... ···········•· ..... ·.·.····• ;'!#< 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 6, 2004 
NO VOLLEYBALL 


No.2 Nebraska zooms past Irish despite solid effort 
After a shaky start 
Friday, Notre Dame falls just short of 
win on Saturday 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
In the drag race of college volleyball. Nebraska is one of the faster cars. Notre Dame can move quickly too, but this weekend the Irish couldn't keep up with the Cornh uskers. 
No. 2 ranked Nebraska came away with a pair of vic­tories in matches held Friday and Saturday night in the Joyce Center against the No. 24 Irish. 
The Cornhuskers won Friday in three games 30-19. 30-28, 30-24 while they need­ed the full five games to put away the 
Nebraska team in front of 
1.609 fans, the second largest non-pep rally crowd in Irish volleyball history. Nebraska won the first game 30-19 with a very strong effort from 6­foot-5 freshman Sarah Pavao. Pavan had six kills in her first collegiate game and ended up with a team high 16 for the match. 
The two teams traded points most of the way throughout game two. It looked like Notre Dame was ready to pick up the victory when Irish setter Ashley Tarutis lofted the ball over the net and out of Nebraska's reach to tie the score at 28. The Cornhuskers. however, stopped the Irish momentum and scored the next. two points to seal game two._ 
After. th,e Irish tied game three at 7 early on, the Cornhuskers went on a 12-5 run to seal the game and 
match victo­
Irish on Saturday 30­23. 26-30. 24­ "/ was really frustrated with our play in the first  ry. Nebraska relied on out­side hitter  
30, 30-19. 15­ match, but in the second  D  a  n  i  
10. Irish middle  match we almost had it."  Mancuso and middle block­ 
blocker  er  Melissa  
L  a  u  r  e  n  Lauren Brewster  Elmer in the  
Brewste.r  Irish middle blocker  third game to  
came  away  play  solid  
with  mixed  defense  and  

emotions about Notre Dame's prevent many Irish spikes performance this weekend. from hitting the ground. 
"I was really frustrated with Brewster said there is a lot our play in the first match. to learn from playing a team but in the second match we of Nebraska's caliber this almost had it," she said. "We early in the season. are excited to come back "With two freshmen starting tomorrow and work on our for us we haven't played mistakes in practice." together very much," she said. 
Friday's match showcased a "Playing a team like Nebraska hustling Notre Dame squad this early on helps us learn matched against a talented each other's weaknesses and strengths." 


Notre Dame played much better Saturday night as they took Nebraska to the brink of defeat before losing the fifth game. The Irish had a good shot at an upset as Nebraska only led 11-10 in game five before kills by Pavan and Cornhusker outside hitter Jennifer Saleaumua cemented the win for Nebraska. 
The Irish led 2-1 after three games and were anticipating an upset thanks to the play of Tarutis and Brewster. Tarutis had six kills and fourteen digs while setting up a season high 51 assists. Brewster had eighteen kills, seven blocks and five digs to pace the Irish. 
The Nebraska win made it five in a row for the Cornhus.kers over Notre 
Dame. 

Notre Dame's next match will be against Valparaiso Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. This will be the last home match until mid­
October for the Irish,  as they  
will  soo_n  depart on  a  five­ 
week road trip.  

Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nq.edu 


CLEMENT SUHENDRNThe Observer 

• l 
Monday, September 6, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

DILBERT 
IF YOU RECOMMEND MY COMPANY'S PROD­UCT TO YOUR BOARD I THERE MIGHT BE A LITTLE SOMETHING FOR YOU LATER. 
PEANUTS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
BEFORE YOU DECIDE I 

THE NARRATOR
LOOK AT THIS DVD 

MIGHT REFER TO
TITLED, ''IS BRIBERY 

YOU BY NAME WHEN
RIGHT FOR YOU?·· 

SHE DANCES. 
CHARLES SCHULTZ 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Amoid and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NEUSE 
j
[J [ I I 
Cl2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
YOSIN 
1 
rJ b 
XJ 
WHAr D-IE CHAMPION GOLFER OFFE::REO HIS 
t RAPPOL 
I In 
AMATEUR I~RTNERS. 

www.jumble.com 
PHELER j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
I I r [J 
Answer 
[lXJO(lJXXJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Jumbles: LOONY TAWNY OUTCRY ROBBER
Saturday's Answer: How she felt after modeling cllothes all day ­
"WORN" OUT 
EUGENIA LASTWILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Assassinating 56 Wings: Lat. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Cathy !]uisewite, Freddie Mercury,
1 Musical genre 33 Oldtime actress 57 Romantics' 
Raquel Welch, Michael Keaton 

pioneered by Massey awards? Bill Haley and 34 Join, in wood-60 1/soo of the 
Happy Birthday: Accept the help of someone who is more focused and who His Comets has the vision to see exactly what you are trying to accomplish this year. The
working Indianapolis 500 
only thing you are lacking is the ability to stay on course, so the help will be
5 Cove 

36 La Paz is its 61 Have a mad well worth its weight in gold. Your numbers are 5, 12, 14, 22, 29, 40 > 10 Partner of ready cap. crush on and willing 37 President after 62 Colorful gem ARIES (March 21-April 19): Talk to a trusted friend about your concerns. Love is in a high cycle, so don't forget to tell the one you love that you care or,
14 Unattractive Tyler 

63 [No bid] if you are single, get out and meet someone new. **** tropical fruit 38 Sun-bleached TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Take a moment to consider your past and what 
64 Changed direc­

15 Voting site 39" Ben you had always hoped you would accomplish. If you haven't followed through, 
tion, as a ship 
rethink your present direction. Someone from your past will help you. *** 
16 Hit with the fist Adhem," Leigh 

65 Actor Billy of GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be emotional and fidgety and very easy
Hunt poem

17 Sunbather's "Titanic" to upset today. Step back before you get yourself into trouble. Say little and award? 40 Finish you will save yourself from making a terrible mistake. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Not everyone will be upfront with you, so trust
41 Duelist Burr19 Sandwich fish 

DOWN your instincts. Don't donate or give to a cause you know little about. *** 42 Was bright, as LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take part in a fund-raiser or an event you believe in.
20 Still 1 Slippers' color 

the sun Your good will and generosity will impress others. Don't leave yourself cash 
21 Before, in poetry in ''The Wizard 
poor.****
43 Mark for mis-of Oz"

22 Interpret without VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have to be careful not to take on too
conduct 

hearing 2 Shrek, for one much, overindulge or feel sorry for yourself today. Look back and remember 45 Gas ratings how you handled situations in the past. Don't make the same· mistake twice. ** 
24 1051 on monu-3 Blood problem 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You need something new in· your life that will ments 4 One of the stimulate your mind. Travel to a place that will inspire you or talk to people 
47 Kuwaiti leader 
48 Sun or planet

25 Edward who same bloodline who have already tried something that interests you. ***** wrote ''The Owl 49 Depot baggage SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do something a little different today.
5 Portugal and

handlers Moneymaking deals are apparent, and contracts are looking good. Read the
and the Spain together 
fine print and make sure you get everything in writing. *** 
Pussycat" 52 Actress Joanne 

6 Snout SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Love is likely to take a tum depending 26 Temples in the 53 Next-to-last 28 Big recording 39 "Moby-Dick" 51 Scotch's on how you treat people today. Emotional matters may rise to the surface,
7 Auction unit

Far East Greek letter artists' awards? captain partner putting you in a difficult position. *** 8 List-ending abbr. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Although your mind may be on work and 
29 Brainy 41 Song for a diva 
52 Dreadful getting ahead, it is important to take a break and regenerate. Take time off
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Tickled pink 

30 Dictation taker 42 Olympic gym-today and you will do that much better tomorrow. *** 
53 Insect stage 

10 Off course nast Kerri AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be able to jump through hoops 
31 Nary a soul 
54 Go across today. Nothing will be too hard or too much trouble. You will be creative,
44 Roasts' hosts

32 Affixes (to) impressive and ~ill attract love and romance. *****
award? 
55 of Man

46 beef PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be careful, someone may be trying to take
35 Wedding

12 Moon goddess advantage of you. ·stick to your own projects and don't get left doing everyone 
58 See 35-Down 13 Old-time excla­
else's chores.. Don't waste· this creative cycle. ** 
expressway

38 Good sports-59 Family relation,mation 
manship 50 Director Kazan for short Birthday Baby: You are a creative dreamer. Your visioru goes far beyond what 18 Mrs. F. Scott most could comprehend. You are charming, smart and a little ahead of your 
Fitzgerald time. For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
23 Nectar source 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Check out Eugenia's Web sites at as.troadvice.com and eugenialast.com: Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
detective played crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

by Tony 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000Shalhoub 
past puzzles, nytimes.corn/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 27 On one's own solvers: nytimes.corn/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address ____________________________________ _ 
City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, September 6, 2004 
page 20 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

... 
Irish capture Adidas Classic 
Thorlakson continues point streak as Notre Dame defeats Stanford, Santa Clara to win tournament 


By MATT MOONEY Sporrs Writer 
Entering the Adidas Classic this weekend, Notre Dame faced its biggest test of the

... 
young season. They passed. The No. 2 ranked Irish (4-0­
0) defeated the No. 13 Stanford Cardinal (0-2-1) by a narrow 1-0 margin Friday, rescued by an Annie Schefter penalty kick goal. On Sunday, in the highlighted match-up of the weekond, Notre Damfl blitzed No. 4 Santa Clara (1-1­
1) by a score of 5-2 and was named ·champions of the Adidas Classic. 
Midfielder Katie Thorlakson continued solid play that made her last week's Big East Player of the Week, contributing on every Irish score against the Broncos with three goals and two assists. Thorlakson remains a one-player wreck­ing crew with a team-high 16 points [l'ive goals and six assists] in only four games. 
"I think I'm carrying a lot more confidence, our team is 
ND WoMEN's GoLF 

,.. 
Irish hit all-time low score 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
II' tlwrt1 WPrn PvPr a time to focus on t.hn silvPr lining, now would bn it. 
Tho Notre Danw womnn's golf' tnam l'ailPd in tlwir bid to win the Notro Damn Womnn's c;oll' Invitational for tlw third consncutivn ynar, finishing third in their snason opnning nv!'nt. Despite com­

-
ing up short in the standings, the Irish set a team record by shooting the lowest combined seore ever by a Notre Dame womon's team at Warren Golf course -24 strokes below the old record. 
Coach Debby King attrib­utes the loss to a much stronger f'ield than in previ­ous tournaments. Iowa State led tho pack, bmaking invita­tional records for both lowest round and lowest overall 

score. The Cyelones shot a 294 for Saturday's second round and a 902 over 54 holes. 
"The field was a lot tougher, but Iowa State really surprised us," King said. 
Louise Kenney led the Cyclones, shooting 216 to earn the individual as well as the team championship. Kenney linishfld the weekend 
see GOLF/page 16 
--==~============================================-==--~­
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Francis defeats Belles in 3 
By JUSl'IN STETZ Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's dropped their second straight contest of the season Saturday as they lost in thrne snts to the University of Saint Francis Cougars. Once again, the team failed to play their game, falling by 
scores of 24-30, 14-30 and 28-30. 
Against Saint Francis, Saint Mary's allowed 45 kills and 108 attacks, which were sim­ilar to the numbers they gave up against Alma. Opponents' statistics have been indica­tive of the match results this season. 
The Belles are currently 0­

2 on the season and 0-1 in the MIAA. The Cougars, who won 
the Mid-Central College Conference last year, improved their record to 3-3. The Belles had a similar slow start in 2003, losing twice in the Saint Mary's Triangular 
see BELLES/page 16 
carrying a lot more confidence and it's showing on the field," she said. "Our goal all week­end was to come out with two wins and we did it." 
Irish coach Handy Waldrum was pleased with his team's performance, but he wants his team to understand there is still a long road ahead. "!These arel two good wins early in the season. but there's still a lot of big games loft," he said. "You can't waste these two wins by not taking care of business the rest of tho sea­son." 
Against the Cardinal, Notre Dame had little problem creat­ing shots, frequently outrun­ning the Stanford defenders. The Irish had trouble scoring, however, with Cardinal All­America goalkeeper Nieole Barnhart waiting in net. Barnhart made save after save, including a lunging header and a spectaeular dive to save what would have been a goal from point-blank range. 
Finally, with eight minutes left in the game, the Irish 
see ADIDAS/page 16 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Crouse, High i111press in back-to-back -wins 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
Four goals. Three days of tour­nament play. Two games. And one best-ever 2-0 start for men's soccer head coach Bobby Clark. 
The Irish opened the season with back-to-back victories against Oregon State on Friday and Boston University on Sunday. Defender Jack Stewart came through offensively with goals in each contest, and Nate Norman put up the winning assist in Friday's 2-1 victory and 


CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 
scored an unassisted goal to seal 

Defender Kevin Goldthwaite
Sunday's 2-0 shutout. 
did not play due to injury.

"It took us a little while to set­tle in," assistant coach 8 rian Wiese said. "Call it first game jit­defenders, tri-captain Kevin ters ... but after we lost that first Goldthwaite and Dale Hellas, goal, we settled down and played were out with injuries, forcing some very good soccer." Ben Crouse and Chris lligh to fill 
Clark was unavailable for com­in on the back line. ment. "That's why ·you have a deep 
Oregon State struck first in team," Wiese said. "We didn't Friday's mateh, slipping one past miss a beat. [Crouse and Iligh) standout goalkeeper Chris Sawyer. Two of the starting see MEN/page 15 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
NFL 
NCAA FOOTBALL
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Nebraska 2 

Seahawks NFC favorite 
Michigan 43 ·
Ranked teams dominate 
Notre Dame 0 
Miami (Ohio) 10

Mike Holmgren's Seattle team has 
Teams ranked in the Top 25 
• The Irish lost two matches on 

received a lot of preseason attention. 
went 17-0 over the first weekend 
separate weekend days to the 

Quarterback Matt Hasselbeck leads a 
Purdue 51
of college football play. 
Syracuse 0 
Cornhuskers. 

potent offense with a slew of receiving 
threats. 

page 14
page 18 
page 14 

page 12 




