
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 66 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NDSP warns of increased theft during finals 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
With final exams rapidly approaching, Noire Dame stu­dents strive for an inerease in their grade point average while Notre Dame Security Police aims for a decrease in campus crime. 
In a memo posted on its web­site, NDSP warned students of heightened criminal activity prior to, during and after finals week. According to NDSP Assistant Director Phillip Johnson, instances of theft and robbery are more frequent at this time of year because crimi­nals tend to capitalize on stu­dents' increased immersion in their studies. 
"We see more theft at the end of the semester because some criminals are opportunists," Johnson said. "They take advan­tage of how busy students are and how they can be distracted preparing for final exams, the holidays and travel home." 
In addition, the memo cau­tioned students to be especially vigilant of their belongings in the library, study areas around cam­pus and dining halls, as these have been prime locations for theft in past years. 
Thefts occurring over winter .break are often more serious than those before and through­out final exams. Last year, a number of College Park resi­dents were shocked to find their apartments had been robbed over winter break. The string of break-ins left some students without their video game sys­tems, laptop computers and DVDs. 
In an effort to prevent similar robberies at off-campus housing complexes, NDSP has offered secured storage for those stu­dents who do not reside on the Notre Dame campus. According to NDSP, valuables will be placed in a storage room that will be both locked and alarmed for the entire duration of break. Off­campus students are also invited to thwart any potential robberies 
see THEFTIpage 4 


Turtle Creek to get face-lift 

New owners to invest in apartment upgrades 
Saint Mary's study day trial continues 

By KATE ANTONACCI News Writer 
The Turtle Creek Apart­ments will be undergoing major changes after the Apartment Investment and Management Company (AIMCO) purchased it for $11.8 million. 

AIMCO, the largest apart­ment management group in the country, took ownership of the property two weeks ago and has already made plans to improve the popular student housing complex. 
"We are here to serve the Notre Dame community," Randy Fein, executive vice president of the University 
Communities Division of AIMCO, said. "AIMCO really gets involved in the commu­nities where it has apart­ments, so we want to get involved in the South Bend community as well." 
The complex, located to the east of Notre Dame, was 
see SALE/page 4 

By KELLY MEEHAN News Writer 
In an effort to help students relax and prepare for finals, Saint Mary's will continue to observe its study day by not holding classes Friday. 
The first study day was imple­mented for the 2003 fall semester after many years of student gov­ernment campaigning. Two years ago, the Academic Affairs commit­tee approved a proposal to give students the Friday before finals ofl'. 
On the study day, professors are prohibited from holding a manda­tory class session. There are reports of teachers holding review sessions on this day, but none have been confirmed as mandato­ry class sessions. , 
"Saint Mary's was in the minori­ty in the fact that it did not have a study day, compared to other , institutions of higher learning," Mary Pauline Moran, vice presi­dent of the Board of Governance, said. "Considering the amount of work students have in the last two weeks of each semester, I think the study day offers a little relief for students." 
The purpose of the day is to allow students time to prepare their notes, study or simply relax prior to the onslaught of final examinations. Concern over how productive students actually were on the study day originally led to questions over its continuation. 
Students were invited to take a survey at the conclusion of the 2003-04 school year to indicate their feelings about the study day, and how they took advantage of their time out of class. Survey results are currently being evalu­ated by both the administration and the student government, and should be available soon. 
"It is my belief that the study days will continue in the future," student body president Sarah 
see STUDY/page 4 


Racism, sexism addressed in second SMC identity foru111 
"Having a targeted group and being able to speak candidly about the issues of the shirt and diversi­ty, and how our student body understands these issues [is important to] how the student body can implement ideas in the future to be more proactive and implement change on campus." 
The shirt, sold during Pride Week earlier in the semester, has spurred protest on campus. Kelly said the forums are meant to facil­itate better student understanding "of what the protesters were try­ing to say and SAB's response." 
"The SAB members did not intend [the shirt] to be racist or sexist or classist," she said. "At the same time people who are think­ing more critically on the shirt and seeing how critically it would be a 

By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance sponsored a second Identity Forum Tuesday evening in Regina Hall in hopes of deter­mining what a Saint Mary's woman really is. 
The forum turned out to be an intimate meeting of minds as 11 BOG members and students met to discuss such issues as racism, sexism and the definition of the Saint Mary's student. 
Katie Kelly, BOG Women's Issues commissioner, organized the event. 
"I think it was very successful at this point with the dynamics of the issues on campus," Kelly said. 
negative representation [is a good thing]." 
First-year student Alexandria Zakrzewski attended the forum in an effort to "find out about what the feelings are on the image of Saint Mary's." 
"I hadn't gone to the first one, so coming to the second I was look­ing to find an image that could be used when I go out, go home or visit new places,' she said. "People will say, 'What is Saint Mary's,' and I want to be able to answer." 
Zakrzewski said she felt the forum was very successful, and hopes that it will help the student body work tlrrough problems such as sexism, racism and class issues. 
"I think that it will help us find a 
see FORUM/page 4 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


In the arllls ofMorpheus 
It has beconw a pattern. By the 
end of the semester, as the dark 
days descend on us and the work 
piles up, I turn nocturnal. My most 
productive hours are between 
midnight and 
four in the Claire Kelley 
morning. 
Over the years, 
I have learned Photo Editor 
not to right this 
inevitable shift 
in my sleeping schedule because 
by rncognizing and yielding to my 
insomnia at night, I get the most 
work accomplished. And there are 
othnr benPI"its -I am allowed a 
daytinw nap, and I have fantastic 
dreams. 
Because my sleep cyeles are intnrwoven into my longer periods of consciousness I often remember my dreams. And these dreams have bneome inereasingly realis­tic. I find mysnlf questioning whether an event really happened or if I imagined it. I am slipping slowly into a dual existence-the one that I create, and the one I must interpret. 
Embarking on this existential way of life has sharpened my per­ception of reality. I pay more attention to little things-the f"lower sitting nnxt to my keyboard at thn LaFortune computer duster, thn declaration of love inscribed in a library carrel on the eighth f"loor. and the person who returns my lost II> -because these are the subjects of the fragments of mnmory that will resurface later in a drnam. 
My mind has a life of its own even arter my nyes shut and I am temporarily disengaged from the physical world. 
Yet lucid dreams, or dreams in which you know you are dream­ing, can allow you to play out any stressful seenario to a successful conclusion -like taking an exam, running a race or confronting a problem -thereby positively influencing your waking life. And, if I think of a scenario from my day as I fall asleep, I can some­times set the content of my dream. 
I love being awake late at night at Notre Dame. A calm stillness comes over the campus, and I feel an eerie sense of camaraderie with those who arc still awake. 
Lately I have found myself at the library around 1:30 a.m. on the fourth floor doing research for an English paper. On multiple occasions I have heard muffled classical music coming from the office to the right of the elevator. 
I peer into the small window in the door, and in the reddish soft light at the end of a room sur­rounded with bookshelves, I see an older man reading a newspaper and tapping his foot to the rhythm. I am tempted to talk to him. 
Maybe I will in my dreams. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Claire Kelley at ckelley2@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: ALL / WANT FOR CHRISTMAS IS ••. ? 

Alan Rodriguez  Lauren Armstrong  Charlie Horn  Regina Muscarello  Diana Valenzuela  Steve Fabian  
sophomore  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Keough  Farley  Dillon  Badin  McGlinn  Stanford  
'11 new  "Your  "A good football  "A trip to Ohio.,,  "Chris  "An error-free  
,roommate.  coach.,  Scaperlanda or  Question ofthe  
to be Korean. ,  ,,Day.  







Woman auctions father's ghost on eBay to ease son's fears 
HOBART, Ind. A woman's effort to assuage her 6-year-old son's fears of his grandfather's ghost by selling it on eBay has drawn more than 34 bids with a top offer of $78. 
Mary Anderson said she placed her father's "ghost" on the· online auction site after her son, Collin, said he was afraid the ghost would return someday. Anderson said Collin has avoided going anywhere in the house alone since his grandfather died last year. 
In a description titled 
TODAY 


dressed young men showed up, ate salmon and steak, and started to brawl. 
"It was very peculiar. They were not rude or vio­lent to my staff," said Ian Rogers, who called police when fighting broke out Wednesday evening. 
As it turns out, for decades, members of Oxford University's Bullingdon Club have had a tradition -they dress up in smart suits and ties, dine in a quiet pub or restaurant, then trash the place. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
"This isn't a joke," Anderson told Collin's story on eBay: 
"I always thought it was just normal kid fears until a few months ago he told me why he was so scared. He told me 'Grandpa died here, and he was mean. His ghost is still around here!"' 
Upperclass Oxford hooligans trash pub, destroy crockery 
LONDON -The owner of the 15th-century White Hart pub in sleepy Fyfield, near Oxford in southern England, was not amused this week when 14 well-

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 


IN BRIEF 
Unchained Melodies will present their winter concert tonight from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. in the Morrissey Manor chapel. A $1 donation is requested to benefit the Center for the Homeless. 
The Center for Social Concerns will host a fundrais­ing dinner to benefit the women and children of Cambodia tonight from 6:30 to 9 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse student lounge. 
The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum will present a Christmas concert tonight from 8 to 9 p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Christmas concert: Empire Brass will perform its Christmas concert Friday from 8 to 10 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be obtained through the DeBartolo ticket office. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will take on Michigan State Friday from 8 to 10 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will play Washington Friday from noon to 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will play DePaul Saturday from 5 to 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

36 25 


35 20 

...J c( (,) 



0 
HIGH 45 HIGH 38 HIGH 41
...I LOW 35 LOW 35 LOW 27 

44 
38 
Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 162 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 751 49 
Wednesday, December 8, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Student team wins $12,000 prize 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer team wasn't the only group from the.University to win a major championship over the weekend in North Carolina. 
A team of five MBA students from Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business won the $12,000 first-place prize Saturday in the Fuqua Product Strategy Case Competition at Duke University in Durham, 
N.C. Organized by Duke's Fuqua School of Business, the competi­tion is the first and largest busi­ness school case challenge focusing on product strategy. 
Second-year MBAs Jordan Carlson, Maria Diaz, Jim Ham, David Paredes and Kevin Wolf defeated teams from second­place Emory University, Cornell and Harvard Universities, and a second team from Notre Dame, composed of first-year students Jenny Bailey, David Chow, Sharon Moore and Christine Yoon. 
The final case study chal­lenged the participants to help the Lawn & Garden Care Group of John Deere & Company grow at Of" above industry bench­marks. The teams received the case Friday morning and had 24 hours to formulate a strate­gy and presenttheir recommen­dations to a panel of judges who are managers with John Deere. 
A third team from Notre Dame participated in the pre­liminary round of the Fuqua competition, along with stu­dents from Dartmouth College Columbia, New York and Northwestern Universities, the Universities of Chicago, Michigan, Minnesota and Pennsylvania and UCLA. 
Professor wins Grawe111eyer award 
Special to the Observer 
George M. Marsden, the Francis 
A. McAnaney Professor of History at Notre Dame, is the 2005 recipi­ent of the Louisville Grawemeyer Award in Religion for his biogra­phy of early American theologian Jonathan Edwards. 
Given jointly by Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary and the University of Louisville, the annual award includes a cash prize of$200,000. 
Titled "Jonathan Edwards: A Life," Marsden's biography "por­trays Edwards as exemplifYing the tension between the Puritan evan­gelical heritage and the secular world and mindset then emerging out of the Enlightenment," said award coordinator Susan R. Garrett, professor of New Testament at Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary. "This central cultural tension of Edwards' era surfaces today as the ongoing struggle between evangelicalism and intel­lectual inquiry in American Christianity and in the American political process." 
An expert on the history of Christianity in America, Marsden holds bachelor's degrees from Haverford College and Westminster Theological-Seminary, and master's and doctoral degrees in American studies from Yale University. He taught at Calvin College and Duke University before coming to Notre Dame in 1992. He has written or edited more than a dozen books on the history and present state of fundamentalism in America and the culture of American university education. 
Marsden has received fel­lowships and awards from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Pew Free­dom Trust and the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation. 
In addition to the Grawemeyer Award, Marsden's "Jonathan Edwards: A Life," published by Yale .University Press, won a Bancroft Prize from Columbia University, the Merle Curti Award from the Organization of American Historians, and the Annibel Jenkins Prize from the American Society for Eighteenth Century Studies. It also was named one of 10 "Books of the Year" for 2003 by Atlantic Monthly, one of eight "Best Religious Books of 2003" by Publishers Weekly, and one of 12 "Notable Religious Books of 2003" by Richard Ostling of the Associated Press. 

Psychology professor publishes autism book 
Special to the Observer 
A new book, titled "The Development of Autism: A Self-Regulatory Perspective," by Thomas L. Whitman, a professor of psychology at Notre Dame, provides a unique perspective on the nature of autism and how it develops over time. 
Intended to serve as a col­lege textbook and as a guide for parents, teachers, and therapists and other profes­sionals, Whitman's book examines the key symptoms used in defining autism and other characteristics that are important for understanding the development of the disor­der. Major psychological, social and biological theories of autism are reviewed and a new theory of autism is pro­posed that explains how peo­ple with autism develop a unique self-regulatory system that results in withdrawal from their social environ­ment. The book also summa­rizes educational and bio­medical interventions that have been utilized to treat the disorder. Finally, the impact of autism on families is exam­ined and recommendations are made to parents and pro­fessionals regarding how families and children with autism can best be served. 
The book emphasizes even though autism cannot presently be cured, imple­mentation of early intensive intervention programs can prevent many of the develop­mental delays associated with the disorder and help people with autism lead more typical lives. Currently, Whitman and his students, in conjunction with the new Regional Autism Center at Logan in South Bend, are helping families of children with autism to implement this type of pro­gram. 
Whitman, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1967, focuses his research in the areas of early child develop­ment and intervention. He has a special interest in studying the factors associat­ed with resilient development in at-risk children. He has been involved in several lon­gitudinal studies evaluating the effects of medical and family environments on the socio-emotional and cognitive development of children. 
Whitman teaches courses in developmental psychology, autism, developmental dis­abilities, behavior therapy, applied behavior analysis, psychology and medicine, and human resiliency. 
"The Development of Autism" is published by Jessica Kingsley Publishers and is available at, or can be ordered through, Barnes & Noble and Borders. 




Perfect Christmas Gift for Mom and .Dad 



New DVD Release Only $19.95 
AMan for All Generations: Life sLessons from Fr. Ted Hesburgh, CSC 
~1\5~­
#·"'~·


Now available in the Notre Dame Bookstore -< . 0= 
NOTRE DAME 
Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
lege students, as they own 
would get something done on the Other students like sophomore 15 university communities 
second day." Sheila McLauglin plan to balance
Sale 
Study
in seven states. He added 
Although the goal of the day is work and fun on their study day. continued from page 1 while his management team 
continued from page 1 to provide students an extra "I think that the study day that can do nothing about drink-· 
opportunity to prepare for exams we are given is a great idea," originally put on the mar­ing in apartment units, 
Catherine White said. and rest, many students will use it McLaughlin said. 'Til most likely ket in mid-September by Los underage drinking in com­
Although many Saint Mary's as an opportunity to go out and sleep in and then hit the books-I Angeles-based real estate mon areas will not be toler­
students are grateful for their partake in soda! activities. have three exams to pn~pare for. I firm CB Richard Ellis for ated. 
. study day, some would like to see First-year student Alexandra plan on hanging out with my $12.25 million. "We operate nationwide 
a second study day added onto the Hathaway has decided to head to friends too, espedally the ones Plans to improve the 192 student complexes, and we 
academic schedule. Chicago on Thursday night to see leaving next semester." units and much of' the sur­pretty much understand the 
"I think that a second study day her sister and get some Christmas The study day is planned for the rounding property are student renter. We respeet 
would be nice," first-year student shopping done before returning to Friday before 11nals week next already und!~rway. student rights, but we also 
Christine 1-Iaunert said. "I have a campus on Saturday. semester as well, and is expected "We are going to spend enforce rules and regula­
goal to get a lot of things done on "I wanted to take a little break to eontinue in the future, pending $500,000 replace the tions that are common," 
Friday, but in reality I will proba­from this hectic week, clear my the results ol'the_student survey. kitdums to new modern-day Fein said. "Our intention to 
bly just end up sleeping in and head and then come back ready to kitehens. We're yanking out uphold the general tradi­
then going to the basketball game. focus for the rest of the weekend," Contact Kelly Meehan at the kitchens and putting in tions assoeiated with Turtle 
If we had two days, I know I Hathaway said. kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu new appliances," Fnin said. Creek, however, at the same 
That budgnt will also go time, we will enforce the toward re-carpnting, re­law." fencing, landscaping, instal­Students were given notice 
"Break-ins on campus are should be removed from the
ling a hard-wired smoke­before AIMCO brought in 
infrequent," Johnson said. "But vehicle beforehand, said
Theftalarm system and other their management team to 
most often, burglary in a resi­Johnson.
general safety and lifestyle Turtle Creek. This group continued from page 1 dence hall happens when some­According to Johnson, the sim­
improvements that are includes new property man­
one enters an unlocked room." plest and best way to avoidnnednd at Turtle Creek, Fein ager Delphina Smith, who by requesting a Home Watch For those students opting to stolen valuables is to avoid leav­said. previously managed a prop­from local authorities. leave their cars at Notre Dame ing them on campus over break.
"(Turtle Creek isl dated. erty in West Lafayette, near Despite the small number of while they travel home for the "If it's something you can't liveEverybody loves that loca­Purdue University. 
robberies reported in dorms holidays, NDSP will Jock and without, take it with you,"
tion, but it's dated," Fein At this time, lease rates 
over break, NDSP asked all on­give "special attention" to the D2 Johnson said. 
said. for Turtle Creek have not 
campus students to also remain parking lot. NDSP cannot guar­AIMCO was attracted to increased. Any changes will prudent and use common sense antee no car break-ins will Contact Katie Perry atthe property because of its be determined in the future. 
to protect their belongings. occur, however; so valuables kperry@nd.edu
"closest to campus" loca­"We have been renting tion, very strongly for both the Fein said. The average spring and for next year. I 
·­
size of a Turtle Creek apart­think people are excited ment is X65 square feet, and about the improvements," 
!ems will be taken into eonsidera­"My goal·as the Women's Issues the complex includes a Fein said. 
tion. Two responses likely to be eommissioner is to help facilitate
Foru01 
implemented were a newsletter these discussions because the ball court, pienic areas, asm about their new acqui­
swimming pool, sand volley­AIMCO expressed enthusi­written in conjunction by the core issues of diversity have faced our
continued from page 1 
group members and concerned campus for a long time, and I feel center, among other ameni­"Student groups that want 
grills and a 24-hour laundry sition. 
students and diversity training. that the shirt aided in bringing the ties, making it a desirable to use facilities or work with 
more structured way of working Kelly also said it has not yet been discussion to light," Kelly said. place for students to live. us in terms of leasing -we 
through problems and issues on discussed whether this training "We need to look at the next Aware that off-campus are wide open to work with 
campus," she said. will be campus-wide, for all stu­semester and see how we're going housing units are often the anybody," Fein said. 
Kelly agreed the dialogue was a dent leaders or just for student to move forward." sites of student parties, Fein 
success, and said several sugges­government.. Both suggestions will said that AIMCO is accus­Contact Kate Antonocci at 
tions for student government be discussed further at upcoming Contact Nicole Zook at tomed to dealing with col-kantonoc@nd.edu 
actions to eliminate such prob-BOG meetings. wok8928@saintmarys.edu 








s I B c 
Student International Business Council 
ThankYon Congratulations to the 2004 Board ofDirectors 2005 Board ofDirectors 
President: Jake Roffman President: Tim Lavelle COO: Daniel Silva COO: Joe Rehmann 
CFO: John Boots CFO: Erin Cook SPC: Steve Wierema SPC: Mike Loranzo Finance: Tim Lavelle Finance: Rich Walsh 
Business Consulting: Hunter Craig Business Consulting: Brendan Barrett 
Human Resources: Erin Cook Human Resources: Rachel Schiros Marketing: Melanie Lauck Marketing: Kevin Rauseo Accounting: Jason Kingery Accounting: Brett Brennfleck 
Global Development: Daniel Degen Global Development: Patrick Riveron . Information Technology: Joseph Dubbs Information Technology: Mike Delagarza Internships: Mike Panzica and .Ana Bermudez Internships: .Ana Bermudez and Matt Somma 
s'\\JDE/y)' 
~·  ~  
www.nd.edu/~sibc  ~ §  '  ~ ~  
\)  .  ~  
·~  ~  
1\!t.m  '\~~  






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, December 8, 2004 CoivWlLED fROiv1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ghanaians exercise voting rights 
ACCRA, Ghana -Urged to wield the "power of the thumb," Ghana's people exercised it in force Tuesday pressing ink-moistened thumbs to ballots in an presidential election marking the growing steadiness of some older democ­racies in sub-Saharan Africa. 
Voters were deciding the re-election bid of economic reformer President John Kufuor, waiting for hours in lines that built long before dawn in the Atlantic coast capital. · 
Ghanaians hope the "power of the thumb," a phrase plastered on posters across the West African nation, would prolong more than a decade of peace in a country where coups once were commonplace and democracy was dismissed by the butt of a gun. 
Afghan leader sworn in 
KABUL, Afghanistan -President Hamid Karzai took the helm Tuesday of a country whose revival is threatened by a surging opium trade and a persistent Taliban insur­gency, pledging to bring stability and pros­perity to Afghanistan even as rebels staged attacks near the Pakistani border. 
With the speeches over and foreign digni­taries departing his solemn swearing-in cer­emony, the affable Karzai begins a challeng­ing five-year term under pressure to heal ethnic divisions and repair the war-ravaged nation's decrepit infrastructure. 
Wearing his trademark green robe and lambskin hat and with his right hand on a copy of Islam's holy book, the Quran, Karzai appeared jittery as he repeated an oath of allegiance read to him by the white-bearded chief justice, Fazl Hadi Shinwari. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. soldier court-martialed 
BERLIN-A U.S. tank company command­er accused of killing a critically injured Iraqi driver for radical cleric Muqtada al-Sadr will be court-martialed, an Army spokesman said Tuesday. 
Capt. Rogelio Maynulet, 29, of Chicago, will be tried on charges of assault with intent to commit murder and dereliction of duty, which carry a maximum combined sentence of 20 1/2 years, said Maj. Michael Indovina. 
During Maynulet's Article 32 hearing the equivalent of a civilian grand jury investiga­tion witnesses testified that the driver had been shot in the head when Maynulet saw him. A fellow officer said Maynulet told him he then shot the man out of compassion. 
New York eases drug laws 
ALBANY, N.Y. -State lawmakers voted Tuesday to scale back some mandatory prison terms under New York's infamously harsh drug laws, which critics said caused low-level offenders and addicts to spend too much time in state prison. 
Among the reforms would be to change the current maximum sentence of 15 to 25 years to life to a sentence of eight years to 20 years. making offenders eligible for release in less than seven years. 
The proposal would also eliminate the maximum term of life for the most serious offenses. A common sentence of three years to life for many offenders would become a determinate sentence of three years, making offenders eligible for release in just over 2 1/2 years. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Man killed by wildebeest 
NORTH LIBEHTY -A wildebeest that was part of a man's menagerie of exotic animals trampled him to death on his northern Indiana farm. police said. 
It was unclear what caused the roughly 500-pound wildebeest, an African antelope also know~ as a gnu, to attack Klaus "Dick" Radandt, 64, in the barnyard behind his home Sunday in North Liberty, about 10 miles southwest of South Bend. 

Kofi Annan plans to 'carry on' 
Secretary-General rejects calls to resign from top post at United Nations 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS Secretary-General Kofi Annan rejected calls for his resignation from several 
U.S. lawmakers, saying Tuesday he will "carry on" at the helm of the United Nations for the next two years. 
Five Republican mem­bers of the House of Representatives on Monday backed a GOP senator's call for Annan to resign amid allegations of corruption in the U.N. oil-for-food pro­gram. But outside the United States, there is no clamor for the secretary­general to step down, and he has picked up support from many of the 191 U.N. member states. 
Annan said he plans to concentrate on reform of the United Nations in the last two years of his term, a process that began last week with the release of a report by a high-level panel that analyzed global threats in the 21st century and made 101 recommen­dations on how to tackle them. 

"I have quite a lot of work to do and I'm carry­ing on with my work," Annan said when asked when he would respond to those calling for his resig­nation. "We have a major European Union in backing that the issue, though, because of the oil-for-food agenda next year, and the the secretary-general. related to oil-for-food, is to allegations, but it was Sen. year ahead, trying to And after Annan's have the investigation go Norm Coleman's demand reform this organization. monthly luncheon Tuesday on in a thorough and objec­for Annan's resignation So we'll carry on." with the 15 ambassadors tive fashion. That's the key. that made headlines last 
Was he definitely saying on the powerful U.N. And you can't make up week. The Minnesota no, he would not resign? Security Council, Germ­your mind before the facts Republican, who is leading "I think you heard my any's U.N. Ambassador are in. You just have to let one of five congressional answer," Annan replied. Gunter Pleuger said: the facts speak for them­investigations into the 
Although President Bush "Nobody in the room called selves." accusations, said Annan refused to back Annan last for Kofi Annan's resigna­Algeria's U.N. Ambass­presided over the "greatest week, his closest interna­tion. On the contrary, we all ador Abdallah Baali, the fraud and theft" in the his­tional ally, British Prime expressed our confidence current council president, tory of the United Nations. Minister Tony Blair, gave in the secretary-general." said Annan told members Two weeks ago, the the secretary-general a U.S. Ambassador John that an initial report in . Senate Permanent Sub­strong endorsement Mon­Danforth, standing nearby, January by former U.S. committee on Investiga­day, saying he is doing "a was asked whether he had Federal Reserve chief Paul tions, which Coleman fine job ... often in very dif­joined in the expression of Volcker, who is heading an chairs, said it had uncov­ficult circumstances." confidence. Like Bush, he independent inquiry into ered evidence that Saddam . 
The French and Spanish had previously sidestepped the program, will be made Hussein's government leaders telephoned their any endorsement of public as will a follow-up raised more than $21.3 bil­support Tuesday. Arab Annan. report in May. lion in illegal revenue by nations sent a letter of sup­·"I have great confidence Several U.S. newspapers subverting U.N. sanctions port, joining the 54 African in the secretary-general," and columnists have called and the oil-for-food pro­nations and the 25-member Danforth replied. "I think for Annan to be replaced gram. 


Pentagon addresses sexual assault 
of the problem."' Academy, in Colorado Springs, Colo., 
Associated Press 

He quoted his own report on the began to emerge in January 2003. It 
WASHINGTON -Air Force academy in the Dec. 3 memo. The led to the sacking of the academy's Academy commanders over the past Pentagon did not release his full leadership and wholesale reviews of 10 years failed to recognize and deal report. military policy on sexual assault. with the seriousness of sexual In response to this and other sexual Last year, nearly 150 women came assaults against female cadets, assault issues in the armed forces, for.ward with accusations that they according to the Pentagon's inspector David Chu, undersecretary of defense had been sexually assaulted by fellow general. for personnel and readiness, said the cadets between 1993 and 2003. Many 
In a memo to Defense Secretary Pentagon would soon implement a alleged they were punished, ignored Donald H. Rumsfeld that was released new military-wide policy protecting or ostracized by commanders for Tuesday, Inspector General Joseph E. the confidentiality of people who speaking out. Schmitz wrote, "We conclude that the report being sexually assaulted. A summary of Schmitz's report overall root cause of the sexual "First and foremost, we want vic­blamed but didn't name eight Air assault problems at the Air Force tims to come forward for help," some­Force officials for their roles in poli­Academy was the 'failure of succes­thing that hasn't happened enough in cies that oversaw sexual-assault sive chains of command over the past the past, Chu said. reporting at the academy. They are 10 years to acknowledge the severity The scandal at the Air Force dealt with in Schmitz's full report. 

page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
Pearl Harbor honors attacks 53 years later 
Veterans recount memories of infamous day 
Assodatcd Pres; 
I'EABI. IIABBOB, Hawaii ­
Tears ran down thn wrinklnd 
chnnks of S 1-ynar-old Waynn 
l'mtsn on Tw·sday as lw mcallml 
tlw dnstrudion hP witnnssnd on 
l>n1~. 7. 1941. 
"I had a bird's-eyn view to 
watch live battleships go down," 
said l'nasn, who was an IIS-year­
old snaman aboard tlw USS Sicard 
destroyer wlwn tlw Japanese 
launelwd a surprise attack on 
l'narl llarbor. 
l'nasn. of Fort Myers. Fla., was 
among thn dwindling numlwr of 
survivors who rPturnml to tlw sill~ 
of t.hnir most haunting memories 
to honor fallon romradns on the 
(,:kd anniversary of" tlw w-;sault. 
"On l>eremhPr the 6th, I was a 
boy," !'ease said. "On I>ncnmbnr 
the 7th, I bncamn a man, sudden­
ly. I 1-,rrnw up in mw day. I grnw up 
in two hours you might say." 
Cnn1monins WPfl1 lwld on shorn 
and on thn gleaming white monu­
ment straddling tlw subnwrged 
USS Arizona. 
Thn anniwrsarv took on added 
meaning with U.S. troops still 
fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Sen. DaniPI lnouyn, D-IIawaii, 
saluted the nation's rnsilinnen, 
l.hnn and now. 
"It was a day when weaker souls would have surrnndernd," Inouye said of thn attack that thrust t.hn Unitnd States into World War II. "ll was a day that gavn rnal mPaning to our name, tlw United States of America." 
lin addml: "Today, the obstruc­tions and challnng<•s arn many -Uw ugly voices of hatrnd and thn liiH~onsdonabln adions of tnrror­ism around us intPnding to makn us afraid." 
Inouye, a rncipiPnt of the Medal of llonor, spokP to morn than I,000 pnoplP at tlw USS Arizona Mnmorial visitor center. 
.lust 17 and living in llonolulu at the l.irnn, lw latnr lost his right arm s1wving in l~uropn as a mnm­lwr of the Army's dist.inguishnd 442nd Heginwntal Combat. Tnam, made up almost entirely of .Jap;mns!•-Anll'ricans. 
!\ rnonwnt of siiPne11 at 7:55 
a.m. marknd tlw time bombs lwgan to fall ovnr Lhn harbor. llawaii Air National Cuard jnts roarml ovnrhnad in a missing-man f(lrnmtion. 
Tlw somlwr cPrnmony, under ovnn~ast skiPs with an oenan hrPPZn, I"OIH"Iudnd with a 21-gun ~~t.lutn .~uul a Navy bugler playing 
laps. 
/\bout two dozPn l'narl llarbor survivors atlPndPd tlw ceremony, a numhnr that dm'iilws nvery year. They wnn1 giwn a standing ova­tion and latPr signnd autographs and posnd f(n· pirtun•s. 
"It's rnally nnat to sen thmn out hnrn and snn pnopln that wnre in tlw war and nxpPriPIH:nd thn wholn thing," said l>avn Casados, of lkd Blufl". Calif. "It's a privilngn to sne Uwm." 
Otlwr Cl1r<1tnoniPs wnn1 lwld amund thn country. In Little Hoek, Ark., retired U.S. Air Corps Col. David Moffat recalled standing guard at an airf"inld when the attack bngan. "Tiwre ww; a statn of confusion. Our weapons w11n1 lork11d up," he said. "Onn oflienr ran to his plmw in pajamas." 
Zenji Alw, XX, a .lapannsn divn­hombnr pilot who partieipated in tlw attack, also paid tributn in llawaii to the Ameriran livns that wnrn lost. lin mnt l'narl llarbor survivor Hiehard Fiske during tim 50th anniversary C!~rmnonies in 1991 and thn two became friends. 

Thn two men made a pact -Alw would send Fiskn monny nach year to lay two ros11s at tlw memo­rial each month, mw f(>r him and one for Fiske. Fiskn promised to continue tho tribute lhr as long as hn lived. lie diml April 2. 
Wearing white glovns and a dark suit. Abn laid down the roses and bowed to the rnarbln wall list­ing tlw names of those killed aboard tho Arizona and prayed. 
Thn surprise attack on Pearl llarbor and other military bases on Oahu lasted two hours. TwPnty-one ships wnrn heavily damaged, and :~20 aircraft were damaged or dnstroynd. In all, 2,390 people were killed and I, 17R wounded, according to the National Park Servien, which maintains the Arizona memorial site. 
!'ease said lw is finally free of n1sentment toward the Japanese. "It's hard to get over it," he said. 

Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for the latest promotional information 

Rite of Welcome 
Candidates and their ,'iJ.!VIJ.«ors: M.ich ael Beverly-(/Jayton Allison Lori Becht-Rob Bl'cht Mark Emery-C'eliillJ Emery Michael Greer-Nicholas Hurt 
Christopher Hollon-HJ lleckner Paul .Johnston-Anna Hattigolli Chris McLemore-h:d Wolfe Spencer McSorley-ChriH Scapt.•rlanda Megan Pohl-Emi/y Weber Jeremy Rabideau-Rick Clawson Justin Rice-'1'llomlJ8 Barr Sarah Roseberry-E/eigh Radigan Dan Stevenson-Greg Huehlmann Kari Willhite-Ty.wm Rotlwrmich Christy Yarnell-Lc-zura Bertone 
C-M 



Fire safety measures saved lives 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO-Lessons learned in a deadly 2003 high-rise lire may have saved lives this week when a lirfl broke out on tlw 29th. floor of a downtown skyscraper, !"ire olTieials said Tuesday. 
Six people died in the fin~ last year at a county govern­ment building, prompting authorities to overhaul many r1-1seun teehniquns. Their rnforms were put to tlw test Monday as names began shooting from windows at LaSalle Bank's corporate h1~adq uarters. 
As workers huddled inside, hundreds of lirnl"ightnrs went to work against thn lire, but a much smaller tnam of res­nwrs rushed into thn building with just one job: finding workers trapped by smoke and flames. 
The l"ire burned for 5 112 hours Monday night. and more than 30 people were injured -most of them lirnlighters ­but none died. 
Authorities crnditnd the new 
"Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults" 
This Sunday at the 11:45am Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart we will recognize those members of the Notre Dame community who are seeking to become fully initiated into the catholic faith community in the Rite of Welcome. These women and men have met together over the past several months to explore their faith and the Catholic Church more deeply through the RCIA pro­cess. Catechumens seek full initiation through the sacraments of Baptism, Eucharist, and Confirmation; Candidates are already baptized and seek to be received into Full Communion with the catholic Church through the sacraments of the Eucharist and Confirmation. The Rite of Welcome gives all of us an opportu­nity to encourage these men and women as they continue their journey of initiation in the months ahead. 
Catechumens and thoir Oodvaro.11ts: Ricky Austin-F'11bitw lfdob Ryan Brennan-A-fat! Paprocki Milo Dodson-V'i1my Versagli Nikki Dorough-Joshua Sw1.1Lin Jared Galvan-.lrJhn Fahy Amy Guimaraes-Karen Cnv11naugh Brent Mitchell-Pt:lt Hus.<~ell Mindi Odle--Siwne .F'imble Adam Russ-Brian 1/;~rono Phil Snowberger-Karen Chtw Michael Torres-Nate Farley,CliC Marilyn Villarreal-Annie l.fJrhe,., 
rescue tactics for saving lives, but said they were also fortu­nate that stairwell doors in the 43-story building stayed unlocked and that many work­ers listened to f'irel'ightMs' directions and remainnd in place. 
"The lights were out and it was piteh blaek, and the smoke was so thick you could­n't sen your hand in front of your faee. But at every landing there was a fireman konping us moving," ~aid .lim Hubnns, an attorney who was reseund after about 40 minutes of sit­ting on the f"loor, the only place workers eould lind air to breathe. 
The l"ire department on Tuesday continued to snareh for duns about the cause of the fire that started on tlw 29th floor and spread to the 30th. 
Workers reportfld some con­fusion, complaining they sometimes could not get through to lire officials on the telephone and could not always make out instruetions being broadcast in hallways. 

Many n1mained behind doors they darml not open for fear of letting in more smoke. 
But it was dear firnlighters had learned from the October 2003 fin1 at tlw Cook County Administration Building, where vidims' bodies wnrP found in a stairwell 90 min­utes after lirnfightnrs arrived. 
This time, members of a "rapid ascent. team" arrived knowing hofornhand thnir only mission would he to search for trappnd occupants. 
"Thny start going up and down stairwnlls and floor by floor, searching from top to bottom," said department spokesman Larry Langford. 
or tho 450 fire departnwnt personnel on the scene, as many as 75 did nothing but search for people insidn, Fire Commissioner Cortez Trotter said. 
Tho search led to dozens of workers who, with stairwnlls and hallways l'illing with smoke, could only dose office doors, stuff jackets and rags along the floor to keep out smoke, and call 911. 
THE 0HSERVER 






USINESS
Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 


10,440.58 -106.48

}ones 
,$1»>. 
· Up: Some: Dc:Jwn: COmposite Volume: 780 145 • 1,424,536,576 
AMEX 1,389.61 -18.93 NASDAQ 2,114.65 -30.26 NYSE 7,014.72 -67.86 S&PSOO 1,177.07 -13.18 NIKKB(Tokyo) 10,873.63 108.33 FTSE IOO(London) 4,728.70 +5.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +11.37 +0.92 9.01 NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) -1.71 -0.69 39.58 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.21 -0.53 23.48 GENT A INC (CMGI) +4.39 +0.09 2.14 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -2.39 -0.13 5.31 
Treasuries '"' 
30-YEAR BOND -0.26 -0.13 48.96 10-YEAR NOTE -0.33 -0.14 42.26 5-YEARNOTE +0.06 +0.02 35.57 3-MONTH BILL +0.18 +0.18 22.02 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.48 41.46 GOLD ($ffroy oz.) -1.90 453.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.55 97.50 
Excha Rates 
YEN I 02.9 EURO 0.7447 POUND 0.514 CANADIAN$ 1.208 

IN BRIEF 
Yukos faces another tax bill 
MOSCOW -The main subsidiary of Russian oil giant Yukos has been hit with a new $1.2 billion tax bill for 2003, a news agency report­ed Tuesday, raising the unit's total tax arrears to more than $5 billion. 
Interfax, citing an unidentified source in the Tax Ministry, reported that the bill had been levied Friday against Yuganskneftegaz, which pumps more than 60 percent ofYukos' oil. 
A spokesman for Russia's biggest oil produc­er could not immediately confirm the report. 
Before this new bill, Yukos and its sub­sidiaries faced a total tax bill of $24.5 billion for 2000-03. Of that amount Yuganskneftegaz already faced total claims of some $4 billion, according to Yukos officials. 
Yuganskneftegaz has become the focal·point of the Russian government's crackdown on Yukos and its owners, led by jailed former CEO Mikhail Khodorkovsky. 
Johnson & Johnson plans merger 
INDIANAPOLIS -Health care giant Johnson & Johnson is reportedly in advanced negotia­tions to acquire medical device maker Guidant Corp. for more than $24 billion. Guidant shares rose more than 5 percent by midday. 
The New York Times in Tuesday's editions quoted unidentified executives close to the talks as saying the two companies were trying to conclude a merger within a week, but that discussions were delicate and a deal could still fall apart. 
There has been speculation for months that the two were discussing a merger. Company spokesmen declined on Tuesday to comment on the report. 
"I think it's fair to say the two parties have been at the table two or three times this year," said stock analyst Dhulsini De Zoysa of SG Cowen & Co. 
Indianapolis-based Guidant struck a deal in February to help market and produce the Cypher drug-eluting stent made by J&J sub­sidiary Cordis Corp. The companies also agreed at that time to drop patent challenges each filed against the other. 
J&J's products also include Band-Aids, Tylenol pain reliever and the anemia treat­ment Procrit. 
Colgate plans to cut 4,400 jobs 
Consumer products giant Colgate-Palmolive aims for employment reductions 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Colgate­Palmolive Co., the con­sumer products giant behind brands like Ajax detergent and Irish Spring soap, plans to cut its worldwide work force by about 12 percent, or about 4,400 jobs, and close one-third of its fac­tories as part of a four­year plan aimed at boost­ing its sales and profits. Its stock climbed nearly 8 percent. 
The moves announced Tuesday come as the con­sumer products industry has been grappling with higher costs in raw mate­rials, gas and packaging, all of which have put more pressure on profits. 
Colgate-Palmolive also faces increasing com peti­tion from larger rival Procter & Gamble Co. which has taken big bites of the market with an increased focus on skin­care and beauty products as well as pet care prod­ucts. 
In September, Colgate­Palmolive issued a rare warning that its profits would fall short of expec­tations as it faces tougher competition and increased expenses as it headed into the last quarter of the year. tions were being issued Colgate." media outlets for advertis­
New York-based Colgate Tuesday, but didn't identi­Colgate said Tuesday ing. said Tuesday it would fy the facilities. that the plan would result It plans to accelerate reduce its global work The news sent Colgate's in charges against earn­marketing innovations force from its current stock up $3.64 to $49.93 ings of between $550 mil­and new products espe­level of 37,000 and close a in late trading on the New lion and $650 million cially in markets that it third of its 78 factories York Stock Exchange after taxes over the four feels have high potential worldwide during the Burt Flickinger III, man­years, but would generate such as Eastern Europe, course of the four-year aging partner at Strategic savings in the range of Russia, China and parts of restructuring effort. The Resource Group, a New $250 million to $300 mil­Latin America and Asia. savings from those clo­York-based industry con­lion annually by the fourth In the conference call, sures would be invested in sulting group, said the year of the program. Mark noted that the sales and marketing ini­new plan is a "strong ini­In 2005, the charges are restructuring focuses on tiatives. tiative but it is too little, expected to amount to the "de-emphasis on the 
During a conference call too late." $200 million while the production end of the with investors, chairman "Colgate has been milk­savings should amount to business, and an added and CEO Reuben Mark ing its worldwide brands $45 million. emphasis on-the-ground said that the job cuts for far too long, for both Colgate hopes to distribution, sales and would come mostly from its sales and marketing," improve its financial per­promotion efforts." manufacturing, and said he added. "As Colgate's formance by reducing the Mark added that the that factories -both gen­brands have been under­number of manufacturing plan involves a "substitu­eral plants ancl special marketed, it is much easi­centers with which it does tion of people who meet purpose plants -are er for retailers' private business and managing today's needs better being closed worldwide. label and other rival globally all purchasing unfortunately than other He added that notifica-brands to undercut from office supplies to people." 

Auto manufacturers sue California 
Jar challenges have been filed against fuel economy standards. 
Associated Press 
the state's clean-air efforts, the most State regulators sidestepped the 
FRESNO, Calif. -Automobile manu­stringent in the nation. issue by regulating carbon dioxide facturers sued Tuesday to block State air regulators did not immedi­emissions, not fuel economy. But the California regulators from adopting ately respond to telephone messages alliance argues that "carbon dioxide the world's toughest vehicle-emissions seeking comment. and fuel economy are synonymous," standards, arguing in a lawsuit that The regulations are scheduled to be noting the U.S. Environmental the standards are the federal govern­phased in beginning in 2009. The Protection Agency uses carbon dioxide ment's responsibility. California Air Resources Board esti­emissions to gauge the vehicles' fuel 
"Federal law is designed to ensure a mates they would cut exhaust emis­efficiency. consistent fuel economy program sions in cars and light trucks by 25 The alliance said complying with the across the country," Fred Webber, percent and in larger trucks and SUVs California standards would increase president and chief executive of the by 18 percent. the cost of a new vehicle by an aver­Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, They would require automakers to age of $3,000. It also said the regula­said in announcing the lawsuit, which use better air conditioners, more effi­tions would reduce consumer choices had been expected since the regula­cient transmissions and smaller because manufacturers would likely tions were adopted in September to engines. dump vehicles with higher emissions, reduce greenhouse gases. The lawsuit contends that only the such as full-size pickups with large 
The complaint was filed in federal National Highway Traffic Safety engines. Air regulators estimated the court in Fresno, where previous simi-Administration has the authority to set cost at about $1,000 per vehicle. 
.------:-----------·~----­
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
EGYPT 

Prelilllinary Israeli-Palestinian peace agreelllent reached 
the plans, and predicted contin­cease and desist from acts of comment, but reports on MENA them." uml improvement in Israeli­terror, then we shall refrain usually reflect govnrnment .Just as Egypt was talking of a 
CAIIW -Egypt reported Egyptian relations. from acting against them, opinion and news. new truce, however, llamas Ttwsday n~arhing an under­In .lorusalem, an Israeli offi­except in the case of persons Asked about the MEN;\ statn­militants broke throe weeks of standing with Israel, llw cial, speaking on condition of posing an immediate danger," ment, State l>epartm1mt deputy rnlative ralm in Gaza, setting ofl" Palestinians, thP United Stales anonymity, weleomed a possible he said. spokesman Adam Ereli told a bomb that killnd a soldier and and Europe for a eompn~hen­truen. Palestinian officials were not reporters in Washington, ''I've triggering Israeli n~taliation sive selllmnent ol' the Israeli­"II' tho l'alnstinians come up immediatnly available for com­seen the reports but I don't that killed four l'alnstinian gun­l'alestinian conflict that would with a truce, that is to say they menl. Egyptian officials had no have anything to corroborate men. include a truro and a peace 
Associated Press 
conference in the American capital rwxl summer. 
Tlw report by Egypt's stato­run nPws agPncy, MENA, ranw amid increased optimism over tlw (Warn proc«-ss after the de a t h o I' I'a Ie s l i n ian I~~ad e r Vasser Aral'al last month and the prospect ol' l'aiPstinian nle!:­tions in .January. 
Hgypt. tlw first Arab country to makP (H'aen with Israel. has taken an ;u·tivP role in nwdiat­ing betwe«-n tlw two sides. and thorn have IH•Pn signs ol' increasingly warm tins bntwe1~n IsntPI and I·:gypl. 
MI·:NA said Hgypt's plan. which was d isnrssnd with lsranli PrimP Minister Ariel Sharon and othl'f ofTi!:ials, includml tlw withdrawal of all lsnwli l'orrns from Gaza and a plan for I ·:gyptian border troops to hn rnsponsibiP for se1:urity ol' tlw I·:gyplian-l'alnstinian border and the Palestinian side ol' tho bordnr with Israel. 
MI•:NA said a dialogue among l'alnslinian factions on a eease­lirn agr1wrnenl would begin in March in Cairo. Tlw n~port said Egypt would senk an intnrrHt­lional 1waee eonl'nrnnee in Washington rwxt .July to discuss 



our LadY oFGuattalupe 
Thursday_, December 9 
5:15pm Mass at the Basilica 
Presiaer, Rev.. Richara Warner, c.. s.. c 
Celebrate the Feast ofSan juan Diego and Commemoration ofthe Feast ofOur Lady ofGuadalupe with music by: 
El Coro Primavera The NO Folk Choir Mariachi NO 
Winter Sale From 12/8/04-12/18/04 


r30~ @)[1[1 r30~ @)[1[1 
~~IYJNJ~ 
~~Bv~9

lJb&jGJBC11f&j9 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 


IN THE ECK CENTER 

Excludes all Bowl/Playoff game merchandise, textbooks, professional reference, 
computer hardware and software. Sale does include all clearance merchandise. 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

Wednesday, December 8, 2004 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
UKRAINE 
Staletnate hit in election retnatch 
Associated Press 
KIEV-Lawmakers fought over and failed to pass legal reforms aimed at ensuring a fair rematch of Ukraine's fraudulent presidential runoff, accusing each other Tuesday of acting in bad faith as several thousand orange-clad protesters besieged parliament and chanted, "Parasites! Parasites!" 
The demonstrators, supporters of opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko, have grown impa­tient over lack of progress in approving the electoral amend­ments sought for the Dec. 26 repeat vote. 
Yushchenko supporters say the changes will close loopholes for fraud that marred the Nov. 21 runoff and prompted the Supreme Court to cancel the vic­tory of Kremlin-backed Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych. 
But a loose coalition of commu­nists, socialists and pro-govern­ment factions in parliament agreed to pass the electoral changes only together with con­stitutional changes, which would turn some presidential powers over to parliament. 


Yushchenko has balked at the changes, saying that allies of out­going President Leonid Kuchma want to weaken his authority should he win. 
In Sofia, Bulgaria, Secretary of State Colin Powell rejected Russian charges of Western polit­ical manipulation in Ukraine's electoral process. Powell addressed the 55-nation Organization of Security and Cooperation in Europe after hearing Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov suggest the West was interested in a power grab in Ukraine. 
Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 
Assistant Rector 
for University Residence Halls· 
Tuesday, January ll, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Recker's Hospitality Room 
OR 

Wednesday, January 19, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Recker's Hospitality Room 
Lightrefresh01ents served 
For further information visit http:/I osa.nd.edu/ 
Irish Sports Report is your inside guide to all there is 
to know about Notre Dame sports. With exclusive photos, award­winning national writers and unmatched "on-the-ground" resources, Irish Sports Report provides insight you can't get anywhere else. For only $45.95 receive 21 comprehensive issues, published weekly during the football season, monthly after the season. In addition, our annual Notre Dame Football Preview is included. Irish Sports Report is a must-have subscription for all true Irish sports fans. 
SAUDI ARABIA 
Americans targeted by gunmen in attack 
Associated Press 
JIDDAH -The militants stormed into the compound's inner courtyard, firing their guns from behind trees, burst­ing into offices and shouting: "Where are the Americans? Where are the Americans?" 
Lying in hospital beds, wounded U.S. consulate work­ers provided new details Tuesday about an attack that killed nine, injured at least 10 and showed America's contin­ued vulnerability to terrorist groups capable of conducting sophisticated surveillance, on even the most heavily guarded sites. 
The militants 
ness and caution and pru­dence is called for." 
To bolster diplomatic securi­ty, Defense Department offi­cials said a Marine Corps anti­terror team would go to Jiddah. Typically, there are 50 Marines in such teams, trained in providing security and conducting raids in urban areas. 
Sa,udi officials, meanwhile, said four of the assailants were Saudis a·nd one remained unidentified. 
None of the three identified by name -Fayez bin Awad al-Juhaini, Eid bin Dakhil Allah al-Juhaini and Hassan 
bin Hamid al-
Hazimi 

"clearly under­·"Each one ofthe appears on the 
stood how cars kingdom's list of
terrorists took a
entered the com­26 most-wanted pound, and they group ofus, and militants. Saudi were conducting they started officials did not surveillance," say whether the
shooting at the
U.S. Ambassador al-Juhainis were James C. guards." related, or pro-Oberwetter said vide details Tuesday. about them.
Salah Abdel Qawi
He contended Four of the five
Alyafiee
security meas­attackers died.
attack victim
ures had largely The five slain 
worked because the attackers' car could not get past the consulate gate, forcing them to enter the grounds on foot. The attack­ers also never made it to the main consulate buildings, where most Americans worked. 
Still, as Oberwetter offered condolences to the families of five slain consulate workers, he said, "the events of yester­day show the need for improvement. We will exam­ine what additional steps need to be taken." 
State Department spokesman Adam Ereli warned that there could be more attacks in Saudi Arabia. 
"Our operating assumption is that there are still terrorist elements active in the king­dom, targeting U.S. citizens and facilities, as well as other commercial and civilian establishments," Ereli said. "Therefore, maximum alert-
consulate employees were from Yemen, Sudan, the Philippines, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. The director of King Fahd Hospital said a total of 10 wounded were brought there, and eight remained Tuesday. Two American staff members were slightly wounded, but the cir~ cumstances remained unclear. 
One of the wounded con­sulate employees, Salah Abdel Qawi Alyafiee of Yemen, said the militants first stormed into the consulate courtyard, then held people as human · shields as Saudi forces rushed in and engaged the attackers in a fierce gunbattle. 
"Each one of the terrorists took a group of us, and they started shooting at the [Saudi] guards," he said. "And thanks to God, the Saudis did not shoot at random. They aimed at the terrorists." 
Alyafiee, who works as a dispatcher at the consulate, said he kneeled down as the firing began, and then was shot. 
"I don't know whose bullet hit me," he said. "I was on the floor and my face was to the floor." 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 


r----------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

Race matters at N.otre Dame 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 
MANAGING EDI'n>R 8USINF.'>S MANAGER Moghanne Downes Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR Joe Herder 
, NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHIC'S EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DF.'>IGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CoNTROLLER: Paula Garcia 

Faith Gospel Choir, told me, "African­America, many whites deceive them­American students feel completely dis­selves to believe 50 years of desegre­
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

illusioned because coach Willingham gation and 18 years of affirmative 
(S74) 631-7471 

FAX was a rare symbol that African­action can erase a 500-year history of 
(574) 631-6927 Americans do matter here." Kamaria the slavery, violence and segregation. ADVERTISING Porter, a fellow columnist and campus The racial landscape of Notre Dame 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu post-race "color­Peter Quaranta activist, said, "Ty was a face that black needs to change, especially in this 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

blind" conception students could see to feel grave moment. Last year, 
(574) 631-4542 

ofsociety. While nQt totally out of the com­students launched
MANAGING EDITOR A Call to Action 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu such a vision tick­munity. To see a whole "The past week's Sustained Dialogue, a ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR les the conscience, stadium gesturing in rev­group committed to 
events have 
(574) 631-4324 it fails to account for the very real erence of an African­breaking down stereo­
BUSINESS OFFICE highlighted the 
racial divides and injustices that still American man at the end types and promoting con­
(574) 631-5313 

exist throughout America as well as of the third quarter, given long road we still structive dialogue. 
NEWS DESK 

here under the Dome. On Nov. 30, the the history, was a source McEwen-Torrence, one of
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu have to march 
VIEWPOINT DESK University fired Irish head coach of pride for so many of the founders, said, "It's 
before our
(574) 
631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu Tyrone Willingham, leaving the black us." Willingham was a not that students here are SPORTS DESK community stunned, disillusioned and leader, a role model and university fully racist. It's that people are 

(574) 
631-4543 sports. I @nd.edu 



angry. This sudden move not only a source of inspiration for commits itself to unwilling to go out of 
SCENE DESK 

called the priorities of the university black students that feel their comfort zone and
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.cdu values ofequality 
SAINT MARY'S DESK into question, but highlighted racial displaced at this step on anyone's toes." smc.l @nd.edu divides that persist at Notre Dame. In University. andjustice. " Pushing ourselves to go PHOTO DESK this complex watershed moment for Thus, the swift and outside our comfort zones 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu our University, it is crucial that we stop insensitive departure of to see the experience of 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 

running from the reality that race mat­Willingham sends many signals to the another is a key step, but one has to
(574) 631-8839 

ters. black community. Many believe the wonder if dialogue is enough. The decision to fire Willingham, the recruitment of black students will suf­The black community is organizing first time ever that the University fired fer immensely. Jelani McEwen­itself for action in the wake of the
OBsERVER ONLINE 

a coach before his initial contract Torrence, one of the founding leaders recent events, and we can only hope 
www.ndsmcDbserver.com 

expired, was made of Sustained Dialogue, that they will act loudly before we POLICIES under a cloud of said, "The Willingham head home for winter break. Rhea The Observer is tho independent, daily newspaper secrecy. Meetings firing shows that the Boyd said to me, "When I first heard, I
"This win-or-die 
published in print and online by the students ofthe 

were held on Monday University is not com­was shocked, disappointed and con­
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's attitude is problematic 
night and on Tuesday mitted to making fused. Now that the shock has worn 
C'..ollege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 

morning, involving for a university that Notre Dame more off, I am passionate for change." Boyd
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 

only seven men. Yet, it diverse." believes the black community must act
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse prides itselfon values, 
appears that the win­Speaking with many in this moment. I agree. Yet, even fur­
advertisements based on content. 
but even more 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as or-die mentality of a black students, I found ther, the whole of the Notre Dame 
possible. Unsigned editorials repre.•ent the opinion of few Board of Trustees problematic is that such disappointment community must act in this moment to the majority ofthe Ediror in Chief; Managing Editor, leaders was the driv­university officials and indignation to be speak for values and justice as A.;_•istant Managing Editor and department editors. ing force for the deci­the overwhelming con­opposed to profits and pride. 
C'..ommentaricos, letters and columns present the views sion. failed to understand the sensus. Whether or To simply perceive the situation in ofthe authors and oot necessarily rhose ofThe 
This win-or-die atti­racial implications of not this is actually the narrow terms of football prestige is to 
Observer. 

tude is problematic for such an action." case, perception is all miss the broader ripple effects. The
Vi<wpoinr space is available to all readers. The tree 

a University that that matters. And this past week's events have highlighted
<'Xpression ofall opinions through letrers is encouraged. 

prides itself on values, changing perception the long road we still have to march
Letters to the Ediwr must be signed and must include mnract in!ormarion. but even more problematic is that will have significant ramifications for before our university fully commits University officials failed to understand the future of our University. itself to values of equality and justice. QuLstions rrgardiug Oburverpolici~ should b~ the racial implications of such an Really understanding the impact of We find hope, though, from the words diTt'cted to F.ditor iu Chief Matt l.ozar. action. Before and after the decision, this moment requires understanding of of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., "Let us no one contacted or communicated the black experience at Notre Dame. realize that the arc of the moral uni­POST OFFICE INFORMATION with the black community of Notre Many black students feel they do not verse is long, but it bends towards jus­rhc= (lbJcrv~r (USt"'~ <;9<:) 2-iOOO) is publi.ohed Monday rhrou~h Friday u:ccp1 during Dame, especially certain black admin­belong here, that they have no place tice." n•m .md ¥.n..aciun peri~ Atubroo.np1ion 10Th~ OhserYCr i~ $100 tOr •me llCldemi~­yt'oll': SH lur one ~au:r. · 
istrators. It is irresponsible and wrong within the Notre Dame narrative. The Ohlcrv~::r u <~.lnembet ol1he A..oc•.ared Prus. A!lreproductiun r•Gim are that University officials failed to use Many have faced racial slurs, insulting Peter Quaranta is a junior political 
f('tti'Wd. 

more sensitivity regarding a decision remarks from rectors and feelings of science and international peace stud­
The Oh-M:Mr" pUbilshN M. P.O.So~tQ 

Ol4 Suuth Dimng II ,all 021 South Dining HJ.ll that may not have been racially-moti­alienation. Baxter told me, "Black peo­ies major. He will write from Uganda
Noc~ Dilme, IN 46')"i6-IJ77\} Notr~; Dame, IN 46~~6·0779 I'C'tUKiu.:al pu•tii8C p11id at Not~ 0.11mt 

vated. but is certainly racially-impact­ple at Notre Dame are tired of being next semester where he will be study­
.md addn1unal ma11ing otlica 

ing. invisible." Another student told me, ing. Contact Peter at pquarant@nd. edu 
/'OSTMA!>TER 

The response of black students has "Every day, I regret coming here. I The views expressed in this column 
~end addruo~, comaioru eo; TheOhKrvcr 

been outrage and disillusionment. don't want anyone else to go through are those of the author'and not neces­llu: Ol~rvcr u. a memhn nf the ~arc..t Pro.,. 1\11 n·prnduetiun ''Khl:l art" Terri Baxter, president of Voices of this." At Notre Dame and throughout sarily those of The Observer. 
rt'IC!'Vni. 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Teresa Fralish Matt Puglisi Amanda Michaels Pat Leonard 

How many finals do you have? 
Megan O'Neil Matt Wormington 
Jeannine Privat Scene a. 0 Viewpoint Becca Saunders b. I Eileen Duffy Illustrator c. 2 
d. 3 
Graphics Graham Ebetsch e. 4 
f. 5 or more
Desiree Zamora 

*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 137 responses. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Whenever you find yourselfon the side ofthe majority, it's time to pause and reflect." 
Mark Twain author 



THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, December 8, 2004 page 11 
U-WIRE 
Don1estic terrorisn1 is a n1ethod of control 
Since Sept. 11, 2001, the national political dialogue and the social world we live in has been transformed by real and imag­ined threats of terrorism. Billions of dollars are being spent internationally in the "War on Terror" and domestically in the Department of Homeland Security. Fighting terrorism has become the new American priority. 
But what kind of terrorism are we fighting? Kate Terrorism is the use of violence, targeted or McCormack random, to cause disruption or destruction 
University of

and to send a message. This violence is 
Jtttlsconsin

intended to instill fear and cause behavioral 
The Daily

and societal changes. Current policies are 
Cardinal

designed to fight one type of terrorism, yet there are citizens of this country who are ter­rorized every day who experience continual and pervasive threats to their physical and mental health and well-being but are given few tools to fight it. 
Violence against women in this country is domestic terrorism. Incest, child sexual abuse, rape, sexual assault, sexual harass­ment and violence against domestic partners are all overwhelm­ingly crimes committed by males against females with devastat­ing results on the lives of individuals and society overall. 
Most of us, men and women, do not need to hear the statistics because many of us have experienced this violence firsthand or through someone we love. 
So where is the "War on Domestic Abuse?" Where is the "War on Hape?" 
The public obsession with international terror-what many Americans imagine as attacks that will come from young men from countries we really do not know much about is unproduc­tive and overshadows domestic problems. The vast majority of Americans can do little to prevent terrorist attacks and the pub­lic has little control over intelligence and military operations. We should be discussing what we do have control over-the domestic terrorism that occurs in our homes, our schools and our streets every second of every day. 
Women, solely because of the body they have been born into, are subjected to a constant, elevated level of danger. In the United States, "every hour 78 woman are raped. That's 1,872 per day, 13,000 a week, 52,000 a month, 629,000 a year," according to the National Center and Crime Victims research and Treatment Center. Over a lifetime one in four women will be the victim of sexual violence. 
Abuse within marital and romantic relationships is also perva­sive. The leading cause of injury for women in America is inti­mate partner violence. 
Thirty percent of women report having been physically abused by a boyfriend or husband at some point in their lives. While men are most likely to be killed by strangers, women are more often killed by a partner or ex-partner. 
Some may say international terrorism has greater catastroph­ic potential, but while the effects of continual violence are not spectacular, they add up to more damage, monetarily and socially. The long-lasting impacts on girls and women's function­ing as a result of violence cannot be ignored.. Women face eco­nomic hardships due to missed work and lost wages, doctor and emergency room bills or counseling costs. They also spend sub­stantial time and emotional and physical energy trying to heal and move on with their lives. 
An individual woman can be devastated or troubled for years by a single attack and women in abusive relationships have their lives controlled for decades. Domestic violence also has long­term effects on children. Violence against women in this country is a form of terrorism because it serves as a method of control, "all forms of violence [against women] can be defined as issues of power and control where one person or a group takes power and control over another individual or group" according to Worcester & Whatley. 
Popular wisdom tells women that the best way to avoid vio­lence is to restrict their own behavior -do not walk alone or drink or dress provocatively and so on. This advice is convenient because it serves to maintain the status quo and requires no action from anyone but the people likely to be victimized. 
Those in power choose to place an overwhelming focus on the outside enemy of international terrorism rather than on than on domestic terrorism because making internal changes might threaten their own positions and because women's voices are still unequally represented in high-level policy making. 
The media chooses to focus on the catastrophes -rather than quiet. everyday suffering because its impacts are subtler, less obvious and harder to sell. We need to challenge the illogical hypocrisy of spending billions fighting elusive, unknown enemies while refusing to confront the violence occurring in our own homes and personal lives. The worldwide campaign, 16 Days of Activism Against Gender Violence, began Nov. 25 and will run through Dec. 10. Dozens oflocal and student organizations are taking part in it. 
This article originally appeared in the Dec. 6 issue ofThe Daily Cardinal, the daily publication at the University of Wisconsin. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Spare the accolades 
My name is Carlos Gutierrez and I am currently a senior finance and political science double major. I am from Mexico City. Recently, students and professors alike have congratulated me for the nomination of Carlos Gutierrez (ex-CEO of Kellogg), by the administration of President George W Bush, for the position of Secretary of Commerce. Indeed, the overwhelming accolades received from the Notre Dame community have been incredibly supportive and have allowed me to become an instant celebrity among my peers. However, I can­not with good conscience continue reaping the benefits of this nomination; therefore, I have to make some clarifications: 
1. The man nominated to the cabinet is not the same as the Carlos Gutierrez writing this letter. 
2. I have never worked for the Kellogg Corporation or have sold cereal from the back of van in Mexico City in 1976. 
3. 
I do not have .a moustache. 

4. 
I am not from Cuba. 

5. 
And most importantly: I have yet to find a job. I am so sorry to disappoint and inform the 27 people that have e-mailed me so far about thisevent, includ­


ing the three people I do not know. Thank you Notre Dame. 
Carlos Ignacio Gutierrez 
senior 
Keenan Hall Dec.6 

Facebook: craze or crazy? 
Okay, so maybe my roommate who refuses friends on facebook. This way there will be no to join facebook has a point. Technology harsh feelings because now you will be has ruined the basics of life. Now 
able to select who your real friends AIM serves as the best way to are and who are the friends that ask someone out, have the you just say hi to because they "talk," break up with your said hi first. This is also a hot lover, apologize to your good idea in case you have a ex-hot lover or stalk your level-four friend who next one. talked behind your back or 
It has gotten even worse hooked up with your ex with the advent of face­and you would like to book. I mean, is there move them down to level really a polite way to one. reject a "friend?" And On second thought, what if you haven't spo­maybe we should just for­ken to this so-called get the facebook, forget "friend" since high school? AIM and have adult conver­That's four years of not sations in person, or at the being friends and suddenly very least over the phone. they're listed up there next to your weekly dining hall date that Dana Gleason has guided you through the arduous senior changes of stir fry and cereal selection off-campus since freshmen year. My solution: let's rank Dec. 6 
As one of the women who participated in the silent protest against the Saint Mary's Pride Week shirt. I would like to clearly state why I and others whom I know find this year's Pride Week shirt to be a poor representation of our student body. 
I fmd this year's Pride Week shirt to represent an underlying sexism in the Saint Mary's com­munity. The woman depicted appears to be more likely to attend a finishing school than a challenging academic institu­tion. The image was originally used for a Vermouth ad. For this reason, the woman is pur­posely meant to appear avail­able as a sexual object. Her facial expression, bare neck, and tilted head are an example of a common insinuation of sex­ual availability often seen in representations of women in Western art. For these reasons, I do not feel that the figure on the shirt is a positive represen­tation of women -particularly considering the stereotype that exists in the Notre Dame I Saint Mary's community of Saint Mary's women being sluts (for instance, the shuttle being called "the sluttle"). 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defending the Shirt protest 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
European rock groups visi 
Franz Ferdinand, The Hives and Snow Patrol keep audience: 
featuring recent names with new hit sing 
By LAUREN WENDEL Scene Writer 
As throngs of alt-roek fans filed into Chicago's Aragon Ballroom Sunday night, tension and antieipation filled the spacious venul'. Three of today's hottest rising bands, Snow Patrol, Tlw Hives and Franz Ferdinand, took the stage and gave the audience its fill of thrashing guitar riffs and stage ki<~ks. It was the final day of' a three day concert sproe f'oaturing nine bands producnd by Chicago's alterna­tive nH~k radio station Q101. 
Snow Patrol, a mid-tempo rock group from Belfast, took the stag<' promptly at 6 p.m. As a still widely unknown 
U.K. group, tlw rrowd was slow to warm to its qui()t vocals and raw pop antlwms that an~ also displayed on its third album "Final Straw" (Univ<~rsal 2004). At times, this quin­tet sounded symphonic with its intrinsically layered pro­ductions such as "Hun," but could switch tempos and ere­ate intirnatl' portraits of lov<~ with "Wow" and "Chocolate." Tlwir most WPII known song, "Spitting Games" garnered tlw largest erowd responsn of' tho set. 
Front man (;ary Lightbody did not lot this apathotic rPsponsl' darnpPn his erwrgy IPvol. lie jumped around onstagn for thP vast majority of Snow Patrol's half' hour snt, always tPPtPring on the brink of crashing to the floor. Despite soml' vocal problems, he was able to delivnr nach song clParly and with emotion. At times he even made quirky hand rnovPnwnts as though he was attempting to fore<' power into his guitar. Bassist Mark McClelland added to the band's enPrgy level as wnll by singing along with the fpw rnPrnhPrs in the crowd who knew their lyrics. 
Overall Snow Patrol's songs arn somewhat underdovel­oped, always leaving one wanting something more. 

courtesy
llowevnr, the band's lyrics are noteworthy, as it dwells on 

Originally from Glasgow, Franz Ferdinand, composed of four members, is best known for it's recent hit
common thenws using morn subtle lines that evoke raw 

The band's set was noticably tame compared to that of The Hives In Chicago.
emotions. Popularity and musical talent asidn, these live musicians displayed a love of' their music unfound in many current artists. antics from this talented and fun band. exceeds that of every band presently together. 
The energy spark of Snow Patrol only grew into a raging With his dapper black shirt and white suit, lead singer "Main Offender," with its high octave endnote inferno as the rwxt band claimed the stage. The Hives, a Almqvist strutted, jumped and kicked around onstage like ing guitar riffs, proved to be a set highlight. quintet from Sweden, are widely known for their highly the lost twin of Mick Jagger, all while screeching lyrics band's newer singles from their thi energetic live performances and arrogant proclamations about everything from politics to death to girls. The "Tyrannosaurus Hives" (2004) such as "Walk. I sueh as "Hello Chieago, we are The Hives and we are your aggressive and bombastic guitar playing of Nicholaus and "Two Timing Touch and Broken Bonos" new favorite band" and "America loves The Hives." With Arson. along with his chaotic eyebrow movements and noteworthy. names such as llowlin' Pelle Almqvist, Dr. Matt darting stares, added not only intensity but also spontane­The lighting fit the show, chaotic and flashin Destruction and Chris Dangerous, one must expect such ity to the set. The showmanship exhibited by The Hives crisp white accents that helped highlight th 
Live from Chicago ... 
Snow Patrol 



Snow Patrol, a four me ! pedal rock and US altel 
Wednesday, December 8, 2004 

[s Chicago 

eking in a concert 
bleached white blazers. Along with its plastic, pageant queen waves, these outfits projected the band to a state of rock royalty not many recent bands have been able to suc­cessfully capture. 
Taking a cue from the llives most recognizable single "Hate to Say I Told You So" (Veni Vidi Vicious 2000), many left thinking that indeed the hype is true. The Hives are the best live band, possibly ever, and should become "everyone's new favorite band." 
After witnessing a Hive's set, it is difficult to appreciate the lower energy and more complex lyrics of a band such as Franz Ferdinand. The majority of the young audience wisely decided to wait for Franz's set, but seemed to lose momentum as the predictable set progressed. If Snow Patrol were the appetizer of the mini-festival, The Hives the complete full course, Franz Ferdinand would be the sweet dessert you don't know if you have enough room for. 
This foursome from Glasgow. Scotland has been pegged as a future force ol' contemporary rock, but have yet to prove their talents aside from a debut album. Their single "Take Me Out," in rotation for months around the country, had the largest crowd response. Yet, the three unreleased songs that were also performed squashed any momentum picked up from this widely known single. 
There was an unspoken tension among group members onstage, probably attributed to a full touring schedule of radio Christmas shows and the recent release of bassist Bob Hardy from hospital where he was treated for a severe stomach ailment. The band appeared somewhat uncomfortable onstage, and rarely moved aside from slight dance moves and an occasional thumbs-up sign from lead Alex Kapr_anos. 
Overall its songs were fun to dance along to, a self-pro­claimed goal of the group, but overall Franz Ferdinand lacked surprises and energy at times. The best song of its set, "This Fire," was the last to be played in a three-song encore, allowing the audience to get one last burst of energy out before the drive home. 
The concert would have been more consistent if Franz Ferdinand played the second slot, helping to build up even more energy in the crowd for The Hives. All three bands 

u m added a different flavor of rock for the crowd to sample, alk" leaving one to believe tha·t these three bands may just also become your new favorite bands. 
with .shly Contact Lauren Wendel at wend8627@saintmarys.edu 

Photo courtesy of www.snowpatrol.amrecords.com r group from Belfast, presented its unique mix of distorted British lve guitar pop during the Chicago concert. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
page 13 

A chat with Father Hesburgh 
New video offers private thoughts of the University President Emeritus 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
On Monday evening the Alumni Association of Notre Dame released what it hopes will be a difl'erent look into the life of University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh. Members of the Alumni Association, the Notre Dame community and the South Bend community were invited to watch the first screening of "A Man For All Generations," a 30-minute video created from a series of interviews with Hesburgh. The former president spoke briefly following the screening. 
The film offers Hesburgh 's views on the questions real people might ask about if they bad 30 minutes to talk with the Holy Cross priest about his life. Hesburgh discusses happiness, marriage, love, loss and other problems relevant to people of all ages and in all places. 
Over the years the world has become familiar with the event­able with free associating." Hesburgh discusses faith very ful life of Hesburgh through The idea for a different kind seriously in the video, but men­numerous documentaries, books of video came up during the tioned it in his comments fol­and articles; and the attention filming of another documentary lowing the screening with more to Hesburgh's accomplishments on Hesburgh's life. "[Sister humor. "Anyone working or liv­is well deserved. Even on paper Judy] was listening to him talk, ing at Notre Dame is going to Hesburgh's list of accomplish­and she said, 'He's such a jewel, have a special life," Hesburgh ments is a tribute to his I wish we could talk to him said. "The best thing to do is courage, faith and abilities. about life."' At the time, the wake up every morning and Hesburgh has done a great deal idea seemed especially perti­thank God we're here instead of for many causes and organiza­nent since it arose not long after Kokomo or somewhere else." tions, especially in the area of the death of former Executive "A Man For All Generations" human rights. It is nearly Vice President Father Edmund will be available for purchase in impossible to imagine Notre Joyce. "His friend Father Joyce the Hammes Notre Dame Dame without the former presi­had died about six months ago," Bookstore. The video is priced dent. Hesburgh's focus has not Zielinski said. "It emphasized at $19.95 on DVD and $24.95 only been limited to issues con­the fact that Father Ted is 87, on VI-IS. cerning the University. He has and while he's still in good held 15 Presidential appoint­health, we wanted to record Contact Maria Smith at ments and served four Popes in him on a personal level." msmith4@nd.edu a variety of roles. 
With the new "A Man For All Generations" NewGroup Media, the production company for the film, was aiming for something different from a traditional doc­umentary. The film is shot in various locations around the Notre Dame campus including the Grotto, the Basilica, Hesburgh's office and the porch of Sorin College. Shots from past moments in Hesburgh's life are also interspersed throughout the interviews. "These were nice intimate loca­tions for him," said producer Christopher Salvador. "We did­n't want another documentary." 
The film tells very little about the facts of Hesburgh's life and focuses instead on his attitudes towards faith and relationships. The segments build a portrait of the belief that allowed Hesburgh to accomplish all the things he did. 
On the attitude of Hesburgh throughout the interview, Sister Judy Zielinski, a Franciscan nun who conducted the inter­views for the video, said. "He was very genuine and frank with us ... He was most comfort-


~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Cowboys upend Orange at Jimmy V Classic 
Oklahorna State wins while Lucas scores only five  Graham's two big plays. Ivan McFarlin scored with 2:20 to go to cap the run and give Oklahoma State a 62-49 lead. "We call ourselves the road  Pittsburgh, which opened the game with a 12-2 run and had its first 20-point lead at 30-10 with 9:04 left in the first half. No. 14 Texas 86, North  
Associated Press  warriors and this was a great win on the road," Graham  Texas 57 Brad Buckman didn't block  
NliW YOBK  -Two top-l'ivfl  said.  every shot North Texas put up.  
teams known for their differ­ It just seemed that way.  
ent stylns of dnfense wnre even  No. 11 Pittsburgh 70,  Buckman scored 18 points  
for :{4 minutns.  Memphis 51  and blocked seven shots ­ one  
Thnn Oklahoma State took  Carl Krauser and his New  short of the Texas single-game  
over  and  the  fil'th-ranknd  York  teammates won another  record  - in  leading  the  
Cowboys beat No. 4 Syracuse  "home" game.  Longhorns to  a  victory over  
74-(>0 in thn Jimmy V Classic.  Krauser, one of seven  New  North Texas.  
"That socond half we proba­ York  City  area  players  on  ''I've  got  long  arms,  
bly played  as wnll  as we  can  Pitlsburgh's roster, scored all  Buckman said. ''I've got to use  
play," Oklahoma State coach  but two of his 17 points at the  them for something."  
Eddie Sutton said. "That first  free throw line in  a  victory  Buckman picked up three  
half.  I told them they playnd  over Memphis in the .Jimmy V  blocks in the first three min­ 
likn  they  had  rwver  been  Classic.  utes  and swatted shots all  
coached. That first half was  TIHl  Panthers  (6-0),  who  game  long against  a  Mean  
onn  of the worst halves I've  have held all their opponeuts  Green team that started the  
seen in a long. long time."  this  season  to  less than 60  game 1-of-15 from the floor  
Stephen Graham scored  16  points, improved their reCOrd  and put up  seven airballs in  
points, including two  three­ at Madison Square Garden  the first hall'.  
point plays in tlw final 4 1/2  since 2002 to 12-3.  "That's terrible. I don't care  
minutes, for Oklahoma State  "I  am  overwhelmed every  who you're playing or where  
(6-0), which  was able to  pull  time I step on that court," said  you're playing," said Leonard  
away from  a  45-all tie with  Krauser,  who  is  from  the  I Iopkins, who led North Texas  
6:32 to play as the Orange (7­ Bronx. "This is the court all  with 13 points.  
1J couldn't hit from the field or  thn greats have played on and  
the fren throw line.  I get to  play on  it in front of  No. 17 Iowa 76, N. Iowa 73  
"That was  a  trern11ndous,  my family and friends. I  am  All Greg Brunner needed  
physical defensive battle,"  lucky to play in the Big East.  was a  APlittle nudge from coach  
Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim  The Garden is very special."  Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim cannot watch in the second halfSteve Alford at halftime.  
said. "Wn playnd dnfensively  Pittsburgh  coach  Jamie  of a 7 4-60 loss to Oklahoma State Wednesday night. Brunner responded in the  
as wnll as we can tonight."  Dixon knows how important  second half, scoring 12 points  
No.  11  Pittsburgh  beat  the junior is to the Panthers.  in  a  3:22 span to help Iowa  Gottfried said. "We got open  means something."  
Memphis 70-51  in the other  "lie's not  a  senior but he  build what seemed to  be  a  baskets  in  our  transition  Mike Wilkinson scored 18  
game of the doublnheader at  does provide senior leadership  commanding 13-point lead.  game. I really felt like we ran  points as the Badgers (5-1)  
Madison Square Garden.  and that carries over to our  Brunner finished with 23  out of gas. We didn't have that  began a three-game stretch  
John Lucas hit a 3-pointer­ guys," Dixon said.  points, but the Hawkeyes sput­ burst of energy at any point in  against their in-state rivals  
his first field goal of the game  Chris Taft  - another New  tered down the stretch. They  the second half where we were  with a victory. Wisconsin plays  
- to  break that last tie and  York native  -had 13 points  struggled to  beat Northern  ready to get out and run."  at Marquette on Saturday and  
start a  17-4 run that inCluded  and  10  rebounds  for  Iowa, which lost despite 25  The Tide did have Kennedy  hosts Wisconsin-Milwaukee on  
points from Ben Jacobson.  · Winston and Chuck Davis to  Dec. 15.  
"Coach got into me because I  keep  the  game  in  control.  
was playing horrible defense  Winston scored 21  points and  No. 25 Gonzaga 54,  
and I think that kind of moti­ had seven rebounds and five  Washington St. 52  
vated me," said Brunner, who  assists, making 4-of-6 3-point­ Gonzaga was held 29 points  
also had four rebounds and  ers.  Davis had 18 points and  below  its  season  average,  
two assists. "I just think the  nine rebounds but Alabama's  threw the ball away more than  
whole team atmosphere picked  bench didn't score a point in  usual and shot just 41 percent  
up and we played really well  limited minutes.  from the field.  
together. I wanted to win this  But the No. 25 Bulldogs still  
one bad."  No. 24 Wisconsin 65,  held  on  for  a  win  over  
Wisconsin-Green Bay 55  Washington State in  a  game  
No. 18 Alabama 72, Alabama  After Wisconsin scored the  that wasn't decided until the  
State 54  game's first 12 points coach Bo  Cougars missed three shots in  
Alabama came out running,  Ryan  got  what  he  really  the closing seconds.  
putting  up  3-pointers and  expected  - a  tough  time  Ronny  Turiaf  scored  17  
scoring quickly, as usual.  against Wisconsin-Green Bay.  points and Adam Morrison  
Then, the Crimson Tide (7-1)  "These kind  of games  - added 12  as  Gonzaga (6-1)  
started feeling the effects of a  every possession is a  battle,"  survived Washington State  
triple-overtime game and an  Ryan said after Wisconsin beat  coach Dick Bennett's trade­ 
unproductive bench in a victo­ Wisconsin-Green Bay 65-55,  mark withering defense for its  
AP  ry over Alabama State.  extending the longest current  third straight win since losing  
Gonzaga's Adam Morrison raise s his arms In celebration after  "We got out there and  ran  home winning streak in NCAA  to  No.  1  Illinois  in  late  
the Bulldogs defeated Washin gton State, 54-52 In Pullman,  early," Alabama coach Mark  Division 1 to  32 games. "It  November.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
AskHR 
AskHR 
WANTED 
Interested in a lucrative career in Pharmaceutical Sales? www.beapharmarep.com Disc jockey at Legends. Love of music & familiarity with equipment a must. Call Aaron at 631-2973. 
Looking for 2 club staff members at Legends. Do you like the nightclub atmosphere? This could be the perfect job for you. Call Aaron at 631-2973 
FoR SALE 
17630 JUDAY LAKE 3 BEDRM HOME. LAKE PROPERTY.NEAR CAMPUS.BROKER OWNED.272­6306,329-0308 
CORBY PROPERTIES 5-bedroom home available second semester. Call Eric at 315-3215. 
FoR RENT. 
6-7 BORM HOME CLOSE TO NO. WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. AVAIL.NOW. CALL JOE CRIMMINS: 574-229-3659 OR 679-2010. 

2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 
Walking distance from ND 
MMMRentals.com 532-1408 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NliAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234­2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year ­Available June 1, 2005. 2 Bedrooms -2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System. Fully Furnished. (626)441-1275 or Salvaty@earth­link.net 
NEW 3-4 BEDROOM, 3 BATH. SAFE,CLOSE TO CAMPUS,2-CAR GARAGE. FIREPLACE,FAMILY ROOM,LARGE DECK. $1,660/MO. CALL 1-574-232-4527, OR 1-269­683-5038 
MISHAWAKA 2-3 bedroom, 2.5 bath, 1,200 sq.ft +full basement+ 2-car garage, $875/mo. 574-273­9000. 
Large 4-bdrrn,2.5 bath home, 1.2 miles north of NO. Lvg.room,dining room, large kitchen,fam room w/frplc. 3-season patio w/built-in BBQ & much more. Call Wayne 574-339-1638 
CORBY PROPERTIES 2-3-4-5 Bedroom homes near campus. Furnished, security system, w/d, newer appliances, phone, cable, utilities included. $400/per student. Call Eric at 315-3215. 
House for rent across from ND. 
Avail now and for 2005-06 school 
yr. Call 232-0875. 

House for rent walking distance 
from campus. Call 273-91 02 
2-6 BDRM HOMES. NOW & 
2005/6. 272-6306 

HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED­
ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI­
TION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Sean 532-1895. 
PERSONALS 

FREELANCE ONLINE TUTORS Instruct 3-12 grd stdnts;lntemet con­nex reqd; tutor/teach exp. prefrd jobs @brainfuse.com 
ADOPTION: Help us complete our farnily, baby wanted. Jeanie & Dan 8n-895-9790 Toll Free Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity 
Party Cruiser 5 Days $2991 Includes 
Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, 
Nassau, Jamaica From $459! 
Panama City & Daytona $159! 

www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800­
678-6386 
Spring Break 2005 with STS, 

Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts.lnfo/Reservations 1-800­
648-4849 www.ststravel.com 

SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi Tours! Over 18 years of Spring Break experience! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta­Mazatlan-Cameron & Cabo. Organize a group-GO FREEl 800­875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com 
THIS IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER UNTIL 1/12/05. HAPPY HOLIDAYS AND GOOD LUCK WITH FINALS. SEE YOU NEXT YEAR. 
-----------. Wednesday, December 8, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 

you deserve a break. 
Thursday, December 9 9:00pm-11:OOpm 
Legends 
c: 
0 
'"' 
u ::s 
"' 
"0 
u.J 
u 
0 .::: 
.... v"' 
Ill 

-~ 0 ACE goesu 
"' 

c: Latin 
.... "' 
"' 
"0 
c: 
Ill 


iACE... eso es cambiar el mundo! 
0 

~Bono
"' 
c: 
0 
a. 
"' 

NFL 
Chiefs coach looks forward to Sunday 
Cunningham returns as coordinator to face former team 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Gunther Cunningham is proof that time, and a healthy lack of ego, can heal any pain. 
Cunningham first came to coach in Tennessee bitter and upset over being fired as head coach of the Kansas City Chiefs. He returns on Monday night to coach against the Titans as defensive coordinator of the Chiefs, and he said Tuesday it will be especially emotional for him. 
"I tell you, it took me 10 hours to say goodbye to the support people in that facility when I went back. You just can't imag­ine, when you get to be my age and you feel like your whole life bas fallen apart professionally, and you meet people like I met down there," be said. 
"And that starts with the head coach." 
Cunningham credits Titans coach Jeff Fisher with resurrect­ing his care~;Jr by hiring him as linebackers coach in 2001 short­ly after the Chiefs fired lfun after a 16-16 record in two seasons. Cunningham learned of his firing on the Internet. 
He came to Nashville, a short drive from where his mother lived, and took over a veteran group of linebackers. The Titans switched gears in 2002 and went younger with Keith Bulluck and Peter Sirmon. 
"He had a real way of forming a special bond with each person and kind of figuring out what each person's personality was and pulling you aside at the right time," Sirmon said. 
Cunningham said being on Fisher's staff revived his love of the sport. 
"I walked into the room every day or into the office and it was camaraderie, it was respect and it was people feeling about the game like I feel about -it," he said. "That is when I decided I could do anything." 
Even going back to Kansas City. He wanted the chance to prove that he could succeed, so be took over the same job be held between 1995 and 1998, even though he also had been talking about a similar position with the New York Jets and Atlanta Falcons. 
Cunningham hasn't had much success yet with a defense where the personnel didn't change from 
·last year despite finishing 29th. He joked that the worst thing in Kansas City has been the room where coaches eat at night. 
"Every once in a while I go in there, and there are all these former head coaches' pictures up there and I am between Marty (Schottenheimer) and Dick Vermeil. And I keep thinking I am dead every time I see it. You are not supposed to come back and see that picture on the wall," he said. 
"That is the only time I think 
about it, but it has been great." 
The linebacking corps the Titans (4-8) put on the field against Kansas City (4-8) won't feature the starters Cunningham coached last season. Sirmon is qut after tearing his left ACL in July, and middle linebacker Rocky Calmus tore his left ham­string last week, putting him out for the rest of the season. 
Only Bulluck remains healthy. 
He took a moment on 
Thanksgiving to call 
Cunningham and thank him for 
helping him reach the Pro Bowl 
last season. 

WORLD FAMOUS DUELIIG 
PIAIO SHOW EVERY IIGHI 
BUY ONE SANDWICH OR WRAP .:&& GET SECOND ONE AT 1/l PRICE &GrllfN WITH CURRENT STUDENT ID! 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
OLYMPICS 

IOC begins Jones dope investigation 
Marion Jones faces charges of using banned drugs 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Tho IOC oponed an investigation Tuesday into doping allegations against Marion Jonns, who eould even­tually bo strippnd of hnr five modals from the 2000 Olympics. 
lntnrnational Olympic Cornrnittnn presidPnt Jacques Hogge set up a diseiplinary eommission to look into the elaims made by Vietor Conte, head of the California-basod lab aeeusnd of illegally distributing stnroids. 
Contn told ABC's "20/20" in Olympic decisions can be chal­lenged within three years of the gamns' dosing ceremony. The Sydney Olympics ended more than four years ago, on Oct. 1, 2000. 

But Thomas Bach, the Corman lawyer and IOC mem­bnr who heads the three-mem­ber investigative panel, said the thren-ycar rule shouldn't apply in this easn. 
"I don't think it plays a roln," ho told The Associated Press in a tnlephone interview. 
Pound sitid there was no actu­al doeision taken in Sydney and the allegations arc only coming out now. 
Jones, who did not win any medals at the Athens Olympics, has been under investigation for months by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, but has not been 
a broadcast "The /OC is fully charged. USADA airod Friday that committed to bringing has said it will 
he gave Jones take Conte's alle­
to light any elements

performanco­gations into 
nnhanr.ing drugs that will help the account. beforn and al'tnr truth prevail. " Conte, head of tho Sydnny the BALCO lab, 
Olympics. lie said he worked
International Olympic 

said he watehod with Jones from Jonns injod hnr­Committee August 2000 to 
solf with human 
growth hormone. 
"The allegations made by Mr. Conte are extremely serious and tho IOC is fully comrnittod to bringing to light any ele­nwnts that will help the truth prevail," the IOC said in a state­nwnt. 
Jonos won three gold medals (I 00 mnters, 200 and 1,600 relay) and two bronze (long jump and 400 rnlay) in Sydney. She rnpoatodly has dnnied ever using banned drugs, and has threatened to sue Conte for September 2001. 

lie said he designed a doping regimen for her that included the previously undeteetable steroid TIIG, the endurance-enhancing hormone EPO, human growth hormone and insulin. 
Bach said his first move will be to request a transcript of the ABC program. 
"First of all we have to check carnfully whether the allega­tions concern the time of the Olympics, and then we have to determine who is concerned," 
defamation. "Victor Conte is someone he said. Attorney Bach said the
who is under federal 

Bieh Nichols investigation 
rniteratnd that indictment, facing could cover 
.Iones has con­serious prison time and athletes other sistontly than Jones
has a record ofissuing a

dnnied us!~ of mentioned in
host ofcontradictory.

pn r form ance­the program. enhancing inconsistent statements." The panel will drugs, passed ask for ath­a lin detector letes' state­
Rich Nichols

test and has ments and 
Marion Jones' attorney 

maintainod could ask them 
thn same 
physical appoaraneo. 
"Vietor Conte is someone who is under fedPral indictment, f'adng serious prison time and has a reeord of issuing a host of' contradictory. inconsistent statenwnts," Nichols said in a statenwnl. "Vietor Conte's alle­gations are not true and the truth will be n~vnalPCI for the world to son as the legal process moves l'orward." 
Tlw U.S. Olympic Committee did not imim~diatPiy rnturn a call sneking comnHHlt. 
World Anti-Doping Agency ehinf' l>iek Pound. a senior IOC nunnb1~r. has said .Iones should bn stripped of' her medals if Conto is telling the truth. Any dedsion on the medals would be made by the IOC exneutive board. 
Hogge advoeatns a "zero tol­nrance" poliey on doping. 
"I hope the truth will nnwrge," he said last week. "We want tho truth. We want to know what happened and the more we know. tlw better." 
Under tlw IOC 1:harte r, to appear at a 

hearing, although "we are not in a posi­tion t~: l'or~e anybody to appear, he said. 
Bach said he doesn't expect to finish the probe before the next IOC board mneting, which takes place Feb. 10-11 in Turin, Italy. 
Under Hogge, who succeeded Juan Antonio Samaranch in 2001, the IOC has taken a much tougher stance on doping. The IOC sanctioned a record 24 ath­lcti~S for doping ofl'enses during the Athens Olympics in August. 
The IOC has also been investi­gating the 1999 doping case involving American sprinter Jeronw Young. He tested posi­tive for a steroid in 1999 but was cleared by a U.S. appeals panel and won a gold medal in Sydney as part of the 1,600 wlay team. 
The IOC could strip the entire team -including five-time Olympic champion Michael Johnson -of the gold medals. Thn IOC is waiting for thn Court of Arbitration fm Sport to rule on an appeal by the U.S. Olympic Committee. 
unch and Conversation 
For Gay, lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, December 9th 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 

friends, and supporters to an 
informal lunch and study break at 
the Co-Mo. 



Write Sports. Call1-4543. 
Wednesday, December 8, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Surging Bills have sudden postseason hopes 
Associated Press 
OHCIIAHD PARK, N.Y. -Pat Williams is a big man with a big heart and appetite. So imagine his dilnrnma when the Buffalo Bills were back to their bumbling selves at the start of this season. 
Most every time the defensive tackln went out, he couldn't escape tim critics and questions about what was wrong with his team. 
"You w1mm't hearing anything good from nobody," Williams rn<:allnd. "I heard it all the time, 'What's going on here?' or 'What's going on with Drew IHindsonI'?"' 
It got so bad Williams consid­ered not going out for dinner anymorn. 
Fortunatnly for the :n7 -pound Williams. it never led to such drastic measures. To the relief of Williams-and restaurant own­ers who stood losing a bulk of thnir business-he can now eat out in peace. 
Williams is hungry and so are tlw Bills, who have gained a sud­den appetite for the playoffs. They've overcome an 0-4 start to win six of their last eight, a run that's put Buffalo back in con­tention with four games remain­ing. 
Buffalo's chances remain slim. At 6-6, the Bills are tied with Cincinnati and .Jacksonville and sit a win behind Denver and. Baltimore in the race for the AFC's sixth and final berth. It's no help that the Ravens and Jaguars hold the tiebreaker for having defeated the Bills this season. 
History's against Buffalo, too. Only one team, the San Diego Chargers in 1992, has overcome an 0-4 start to make the playoffs. 
Arithmetic aside, after three miserable seasons under Gregg Williams in which the Bills went a combined 17-31, there's a sense of hope suddenly emerging under rookie coach Mike Mularkey. 
Faulted last season for lacking mental toughness, a knock that led to Gregg Williams' dismissal, the Bills are displaying a new­found tenacity. And they've found an offense ever since Willis McGahee became the starting running back in October. 
As much credit as McGahee deserves -the Bills are 6-1 with him starting-it's Mularkey who has brought focus to a team that was better than its 6-10 record in 2003. 
If Williams irritated his veter­ans by using air horns for wake­up calls during his first training camp, and persistently blamed the players and media for the Bills' woes, Mularkey came in with a low-key, inclusive approach. 
A former Steelers player and offensive coordinator, his best attributes are his creativity and flexibility: 
+ Mularkey addressed the Bills' early-season penalty problems 


Open Study Hours: 

Dec 9  lOpm to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Dec 10  lOpm to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Dec 11  Sam to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Dec 12  Sam to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Finals Week Dec 13-17  Sam to 3:00am  
*Dec 17 DeBartolo closes 30 minutes after last scheduled exam through the Registrar~s Office. 36 Non-technology rooms, first come/ first serve 


See Building Support Person ifyou have specific needs: Room 103~ 104, or 105. 
Coleman-Morse: l st Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Same dates as listed above. Always-Free Snacks! Need assistance? See Building Support Room 101 
O'Shaughnessy: Sunday 1:OOpm to 3:00am. Monday-Thursday 5:00pm-3:00am. Rooms: 10S, 109,204,206,207,20S,209. Same dates as listed above. 
Snacks during Study Days courtesy of: Business Operations Campus Ministry Student Union Board 
***Good Luck with Finals*** 


by borrowing from .Jets coach IIerman Edwards in bringing officials to throw flags in prac­tice. 
+ lie bolstered the team's stum­bling goal-line offense by bulking up his line with Pat Williams and fellow massive nose tackle Sam Adams. 
+ And he came up with the "Cheeseburger Solution" to help end the team's road troubles. Comparing travel itineraries with other NFL coaches on the East Coast, Mularkey learned that some serve their players cheese­
burgers as an extra meal when making trips to the West Coast. 
It worked when the Bills ended a six-game road skid by beating Seattle 38-9 last month. 
Mularkey also has shown unwavering resolve. At a time when the Giants 
. turned to Eli Manning and the Cowboys flirted with Drew Henson, Mularkey didn't give in to critics demanding he bench Bledsoe in favor of first-round draft pick J.P. Losman. Bledsoe responded with three of his most effective outings of the season, a stretch in which he's thrown eight touchdown passes, one fewer than in his previous 11 games. And sudden­ly, it's not inconceivable Bledsoe will be back as the starter next 
season. 
Instead of giving up following the 0-4 start, Mularkey rallied his team with a "Why Not Us?" mantra, urging his players to ignore outsiders' attempts to tell them how bad they were. 
And these aren't the same 

bumbling Bills, even if they're still far from the level of the team that won an unprecedented four consecutive AFC titles in the early 1990s. 
It's that history current Bills will always be measured against -until they actually win a Super Bowl. 
There's truth to the saying Buffalo is a drinking town with a football problem, where a pas­sionate fan base believes it has more answers than Ken Jennings on ".Jeopardy." 
Had Bills president Tom Donahoe listened to half the cranks who called sports talk shows in September, he would've resigned, Marv Levy would be back as coach and McGahee would never have been drafted. 
Effective December 1st, 
college I university 
students can take advantage 
of TRANSPO's 31 Day Student 
Pass. Unlimited rides for 31 
days, only $25. Show 
your valid schooiiD 
when using the 31 Day 
Student Pass. For Pass 
sales locations, call 233-2131 
Merrv Christmas! 


OUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE QgsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
NFL 
AFC East 
team rt~cord pl~n· . PF PA 
New England 11-1 .917 330 189 NY Jets 9·3 .750 254 175 Buffalo 6·6 .500 260 224 Miami 2·10 .167 196 269 
AFC North 
tnam rN~or·d pnrt: . PF PA Pittsburgh 11·1 .917 273 184 Baltimore 7-5 .583 233 191 Cincinnati 6-6 .500 268 272 Cleveland 3-9 .250 240 308 
AFC South 
tnam rPrord pPrC. I'F PA Indianapolis 9·3 .750 431 263 Jackonsville 6·6 .500 198 225 Houston 5·7 .417 236 289 Tennessee 4-8 .333 231 294 
AFC West 
t(•(llll ri'('Ord pPlT. l'F PA San Diego 9-3 .750 339 238 Denver 7-5 .583 274 212 Kansas City 4-8 .333 341 326 Oakland 4-8 .333 234 328 
NFC East I.Pam n'!'ord pPrc. I'F PA Philadelphia 11-1 .917 340 181 
NY Giants 5-7 .417 209 230 Dallas 5-7 .417 236 328 Washington 4-8 .333 169 201 
NFC North 
tnam rncord pnn: . PF PA Green Bay 7-5 .583 318 294 Minnesota 7-5 .583 305 286 Detroit 5-7 .417 218 269 Chicago 5-7 .417 196 235 
NFC South 
tmun record perc. PF PA Atlanta 9-3 .750 232 242 Carolina 5-7 .417 249 257 Tampa Bay 5-7 .417 233 203 New Orleans 4-8 .333 253 344 
NFC West 
tPam reeord perc. PF PA St. Louis 6-6 .500 253 305 Seattle 6-6 .500 278 266 Arizona 4-8 .333 192 253 San Fran. 1-11 .083 198 336 
Men's Central College Hockey Association Standings 
team M!AA OlJerall 
Ohio State 9-2-1 11-4·1 
Michigan 9-1-0 11-4·1 
Northen Michigan 6·3-1 8·4·2 
Bowling Green 5-3-2 8·4-2 
Nebraska-Omaha 5-6-1 7·6·1 
Alaska Fairbanks 5-5-0 6·6·0 
Lake Superior 4-5-1 5·8·1 
Western Michigan 4·7·1 8·7·1 
Michigan State 4·6·0 7-8·1 
Miami(OH) 3-6-1 7·8·1 
NOTRE DAME 2·7·3 3·8·4 
Ferris Slate 2·7·1 5·10·1 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Notre Dame at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN Oklahoma at Purdue 9 p.m., ESPN Minnesota at Nebraska 9 p.m., ESPN2 

NCAA FooTBALL 

Associated Press 
BOISE. Idaho -Boise State coaeh Dan llawkins signed a live-year, $2.6 mil­lion contract extension on Tuesday that could keep him with the Broncos through the 2009 season. 
''I'm very excited about what we have accomplished and even more exeited about what is possible in the future," Hawkins said in a statement. 
The contract will pay Hawkins a base salary of $525,000 per year. 
The deal appears to take another highly desirable coach off the market. Hawkins' name has come up as a possible coaching candidate at places such as Washington, Mississippi and Stanford, and at Florida before Urban Meyer got the Gators job. 
California coach Jeff Tedford, who had been speculated to be a target of Washington's search, also signed a live-year extension on Monday. Louisville's Bobby Petrino, whos<~ agent eontacted Ole Miss, released a statement Tuesday saying he planned to stay with the Cardinals. 
Hawkins' new deal is packed with incentives. 
If Boise State wins at least six games, Hawkins would receive a 5 percent raise the following year. Eight or nine wins guarantees a 1 0 per­cent raise, while winning 10 or more games would give llawkins a 15 percent raise. 
Additionally, llawkins will get 1/12 of his salary if Boise Slate finishes in the top 25, and Jw would get an additional $10,000 bonus if the Broncos finish in the top 
10. 

The contract also allows Hawkins to receive 1/12 of his salary bonus for a con­ference championship and a 5 percent bonus for a bowl appearance without a con­ference championship. 
If Hawkins stays at Boise State until 2008 he will receive a $350,000 bonus 
IN BRIEF 
Garciaparra re-signs with 
Cubs for $8 million 
C1IICAGO -Nomar Garciaparra enjoyed his brief stay with the Chicago Cubs so much he's coming back. 
The five-time All-Star shortstop agreed to a $8 million, one-year eon­tract with the Cubs Tuesday. The deal also ineludes performance bonuses for games started and plate appearances. 
Garciaparra hit .308 with nine homers and 41 HBis with Boston and Chicago last season. Garciaparra said at the end of the season that he'd con­sider coming back to the Cubs, but he wanted to test the free-agent market for the first time in his career. 
Garciaparra spent the first 8 1/2 years of his career with the Boston Heel Sox before being traded to Chicago on July 31 as part of a four­team deal. 
lie played only 81 games last year because of Achilles' tendon, left wrist and groin injuries. But when he's healthy. the two-tinu~ AL batting cham­pion still has plenty of power, hitting .344 and driving in 28 runs from July 1 to Aug. 31. 
Garciaparra is a career .322 hitter with 182 home runs and 710 HBis. lie's hit .300 or better in seven sea­sons. and had a careercbest 30-game hitting streak in 1997. He's been to the playoffs three times, and set an AL division series record in 1998 with 11 RBis in four games. Play:ers authorize union to 
reach new steroid agreement 
PHOENIX -Baseball players gave their lawyers the go-ahead Tuesday to reach an agreement with owners on tougher testing for steroids. 
Commissioner Bud Selig repeatedly has called for more frequent testing and harsher penalties for steroid use, stepping up the intensity following reports of grand jury testimony in a steroid investigation that includes Barry Bonds, Jason Giambi and Gary Sheffield. 
"We're very pleased they're eoming to the table, and we hope we can achieve a program that works," said and if he stays until tlw end of tlw deal 201 0 lw gets an additional bonus of $150.000. If llawkins wants to leave Boise State, it will cost him or his new team $850,000 to buy out the eon tract. 
J) u r i n g II a w ki n s ' fo u r years with Boise State, as head coach, Boise State has won three consecutive Western Athletic Conference championships and compiled a 44-6 record, including a perfect 11-0 this year. 
Since llawkins took over at Boise State four seasons ago. the Broncos led the eountry in scoring twice and are second this year. 
Bob DuPuy. baseball's chief operating officer. 
"What you will see is a significant reduction," union spokeman Greg Bouris said. Sprewell suspended one game for vulgarity 
MINNEAPOLIS -Latrell Sprewell was suspended for one game by the NBA on Tuesday for yelling a sexual vulgarity at a female fan. 
The Minnesota Timberwolves swing­man's comment to a heckler was picked up by a courtside mierophone and could be heard on broadcasts of the team's game against the Los Angeles Clippnrs on Saturday. 
It's the latest in a series of problems for the 34-year-old Sprewell. 
The former All-Star also demandnd that the Timberwolves extnnd his con­tract or trade him. saying, 'Tve got my family to feed." 
Sprewell, who will make $14.6 mil­lion this season in the final year of his deal, drew eritieism from NBA com­missioner David Stern. 
---------------------------------------------------, Wednesday, December 8, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Cowboys' Jones has Dallas feeling optimistic 
Associated Press 
IHVIN(;, Texas -The Dallas Cowboys can only imagine how different their season might be had .Julius .Jones been healthy the whole time. 
"It's his fault that we lost seven games. It is," receiver Keyshawn .Johnson said, smil­ing. "Ask him, I tell him that after every lime that he scores a touchdown." 
If the rookie who missed eight gamns kenps running like this, the Cowboys (5-7) just might sneak into the playoffs. 
Jones ran for 198 yards and three touchdowns Monday night at Seattle, scoring the last on a 17 -yard draw play with 32 seconds left in a 43-39 win. That was just more than a minute after Johnson's acrobat­ic 34-yard catch in the back of the end zone and a recovered onside kick. 
With Jones back in the lineup, the Cowboys have won consecu­tive games for the first time since September and are still in playoff contention. He has 429 yards rushing and five touch­downs on 93 carries in three starts since returning from a broken shoulder blade suffered in his NFL debut in Week 2. 

"The running back was pretty good, in case you didn't notice," coach Bill Parcells said. "I told the team this, that we're better off right now as a team than at any point this year.... We've just got more balance in our attack, and we're a bit better 

Must be 21 or older with a valid ID to purchase drinks 
Ill

r1 
y, 
c. 
th 
• 

Senior Night 
DJ & Live Music from 10:30 pm to Close 99¢ Drafts & Wells 
$5 cover charge 
417 North Michigan 
574-233-5981 

now." 
Thanks to the rookie whose durability and toughness was being questioned by Parcells earlier this season. 
Dallas, which had lost six of seven before the last two wins, still has a chance for its second straight playoff appearance under Parcells. The Cowboys are among six 5-7 teams a game behind in the standings for the NFC's second wild-card spot. 
The Cowboys would have the tiebreaker against Seattle 
(6-6), which is George
"I told the team this,
tied with St. even get in, end­
Louis for the that we're better off ing his streak of NFC West right now as a team 139 straight lead. They also games played.
than at any point this 
have wins Jones isn't only 
year.
against surprising other Chicago and people with his Detroit, two of performance.
Bill Parcells 
the other 5-7 "I had high
Cowboys head coach
and of
teams, their regular-season finale is against the New York Giants. 
"Hopefully, we can get up enough energy to play the last month good," Parcells said. ''I've always told my teams what you do after Thanksgiving, that's what counts." 
Jones missed the season opener because of sore ribs, and then had just five carries in his debut against Cleveland before breaking his shoulder. He didn't play again until Nov. 21 at Baltimore, when he start­ed to answer the questions Parcells had about him. 
In his first start, Jones had 30 carries for 81 yards, and four days later carried 33 times for 150 yards and two touchdowns in a Thanksgiving Day win over Chicago. Only Emmitt Smith (237 yards) and Tony Dorsett 
(206) have rushed for more yards in a Cowboys game than Jones did against the Seahawks. 
"Once again, I proved that I 

·can handle the load," Jones said. "I go out every game with a chip on my shoulder to prove something." 
Jones had 30 ofthe 31 carries Monday night, the other going to Vinny Testaverde when the 41-year-old quarterback scram­
bled away from pressure. Eddie didn't 
expectations 
myself. I go out 
and expect myself to perform at the best level, top level," he said. "But I am some­what surprising myself." 
And showing why Parcells was willing to trade out of the first round in the draft when he had his choice of any running back, and waited until the sec­ond round to get Jones from Notre Dame. 
One of the team's primary concerns last April was to get a running back. and none had been picked when Dallas traded its No. 1 to Bufl'alo and moved down 21 spots. Steven Jackson, Chris Perry, Kevin Jones and Tatum Bell were all gone when the Cowboys got another turn. but Parcells had Jones targeted when he opted out of the first round. 



page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
CLUB SPORTS 

Equestrians clai111 High Point Honors over the vveekend 
Special 10 The Observer 
The Notrn Dame/Saint Mary's equestrian club competed in two shows this weekend at Taylor University. On Saturday, the Irish' 23 points plaeed thmn behind lirst place Illinois (:~I points), and second plaeo Indiana (30 points), but on Sunday, tlw riders c.lainwd II i g h Po i n t II o n o r s w i t h :~ X points. 
In Saturday's competition, Kal.in Baron garrwrnd first in open llats and second in open fences with KPlsey Ostberg taking fourth in the same events. Molly Kopacz, fourth, and Julia Burke, sixth, also scored points in open llats. 

Three Irish riders -Chelsea Brown, Marina Cardona and Andrea Oliverio -took 1st in their intermediate flats divi­sions. Ana Hichter and Molly Schmiege finished third and fourth. 
Other team highlights for the day included Mary Dorgant's third place in novke fences, a fifth for Schmiege in interme­diate fences, and a 2-3-4 finish in novice flats by Brittany Gragg, Catherine Linn, and Hayden Piseal. 
Heather LaDue and Lauren Croall tied for second in advanced walk-trot-canter, with Katy Booth sixth. 
This enabled Croall to qualify for regionals. Anne Trout's sixth place finish in walk-trot completed the scoring. 
In Sunday's action, the Irish captured first places in five events. 
Katie Baron in open flat, Andrea Oliverio in intermedi­ate flat, Molly Schmiege in intermediate fences, Heather LaDue in walk-trot-canter and Anne Trout in walk-trot all took blue ribbons. 
Oliverio and Croall each tqok second, Dorgant and Marina Cardona third, Piscal, Linn, and Schmiege fourth, and Liz Bell, Ana Hiehter, and Laura Hale l'ifth place, and Julia Burke sixth in their Hvents to complete the team scoring. 
Women's Ice Hockey 

A short-handed women's ice hockey club droppPd two games at Ohio State this wonk­end, 10-3 and 9-3. 
The Irish were without the 
services of several key defen­sive players in Columbus. In eaeh game, the Irish had morn shots on goal than the Lady Buekeyes. 
Julia LaPointet, Jacky Kehler and Saint Mary's Megan Mattia with an assist from Natalie Grasso each scored for the Irish in the first game. 
Mattia scon~d twiee more in Sunday's game, with an assist from Erin Walker on the first goal, and LaPointe scored unassistnd for the f'inal tally. Kara Brennan played in her debut at defense for the Irish. 
Emily Williams and junior for­"We had two good days this ward Cara Wright, who is play­week !of practice). and it really
Dayton 

ing for the first time since helped us," McGraw said. "We transferring from Arkansas. were able to put some things in, 
continued from page 24 

Williams averages 14.2 points work on some things." 
pPopiP corning, so it's excit­and 5.:~ rebounds per game, Notre Dame has bcei1 led so ing." while Wright adds 11.5 points f~1r by .Jacqueline Batteast, who But as usual, I>uf'f'y is most and X.3 rebounds. averages 19.9 points and 6.6 eoncerrwd with gntting the win. Williams and Dully are famil­rebounds per game. Duffy is 
"But really, the most impor­iar foes. Williams played her averaging 14.X points and has tant thing is to get bad on a high school basketball at 19 steals in eight games. winning track," she said. "Take Beavercreek High School, the The Irish know they must get Iplaying at horne I rival of Duffy's a road win to bounce back from out or it -we high schooL last week's disappointing loss. 
"But, really, the

have to rebound While there, "Any game on the road ean be from our Michigan most important Williams won the dangerous," McGraw said. "It's State loss." state champi­important for us to have a lot of 
thing is to get back

The Irish will onship and com­focus." 
on the winning 

face a diiTernnt piled a 99-6 And with all the added pres­team than tlwy track." record. Duffy was sure of family and friends in havo been used to also coached by attendance, will Duffy be espe­this season. as the Williams' father cially nervous? 
Megan Duffy 

Flyers havf~ big, in AAU basket­"I hope I'm not nervous," she 
Irish guard 

agile post players. ball. said with a smile. "I think I'm Against Michigan "We've known more excited. We'll see how it Stat1~. they l'acml 6-l'oot-4 Kellie each other since we were 10," goes. Hopefully I won't be nerv­Hoehrig, who was big, and as Duffy said. "She's a riot. We talk ous. I'll just be excited to see Irish coach Mull'nt McGraw said online occasionally, and she's a everyone." after that game, "takes up so good kid. She's the leader of much space." McGraw said the their team, so it'll be fun." Contact Heather Van Hoegarden Center Teresa Borton blocks out during Notre Dame's loss to post players Thursday will pres­Dayton will be playing its sec­at hvanhoeg@nd.edu Michigan State Thursday. Borton scored nine points in the game. ent a dill'erent look for the Irish. ond game with head coach Jim 
"It's a little different chal­.Jabir back on the sidelines after 

lenge," McGraw said of the a 35-day medical leave due to Flyers. "This is a team whose heart problems. post players are good away The Flyers come otT a 65-55 
Free Checkingl
from the basket, can beat us oil' overtime win against Wright the dribble, a little more versa­State Tuesday night. McGraw tile than what we've seen." hopes that for the Irish, the 
Leading the charge for the time otT and extra practice will Flyers will be senior guard make a di!l'erence. 

NEVER STOP EXPLORINGTM 
A thick fleece coat is perfect for winter. Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own 

Just one of our
or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 

many free products 
G

and services. 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAl CREDIT UNION
~ 
DUTPDST Hours: 


You can bank on us 
Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:00pm 
to be better 
~ 
Sat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm Cold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm 

574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
lndapendent of the University 



Wednesday, December 8, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 

McDonald's All-A111erican Ga111es co111e to South Bend 
By MATT LOZAR 
Sp6rts Writer 
About a year ago, the South Bend Regional Sports Commission started exploring the idea of bringing the McDonald's' All-American Games to South Bend. 
The group's hopes were to bring the event to the area a couple of years down the road. 
Tuesday, it was announcing ticket sales. 
Along with former NBA first­round pick and Notre Dame great LaPhonso Ellis and the McDonald's Corporation, the commission kicked off ticket sales for the 28th annual McDonald's All-American high school games to be held at the Joyce Center on March 30, 2005. 

"It is absolutely amazing how incredibly quick how things came together, South Bend Regional Sports Commission chairman Thorn Villing said at Tuesday's press conference. "Little did we know the stars would converge as they did, and we were awarded the games." 
Ellis was a McDonald's All-American in 1988 before play­ing for four years in South Bend. Ellis currently sits in first place on the all-time Irish career blocks list, third in all­time rebounds and 13th in all­time scoring. 
When selected as an All­American in 1988, Ellis said his life was shaped more by what happened the day before than on the court in Albuquerque, N. 
M. that weekend. 
"The day before we had a special opportunity to do some­thing different. We visited some of the children who benefit from all the proceeds from the McDonald's All-American Game," Ellis said. "As a 34-year old husband and father of four, that charitable aspect of who I am was planted back in 1988 by the McDonald's Corporation and its charities." 
Past participants in the game include Michael Jordan, Magic Johnson, Kevin Garnett, LeBron 
James,  Carmelo  Anthony,  
Dwight  Howard  and  Notre  
Dame's  Chris  Thomas  and  

Courtney LaVere. 

The PowerAde Jam Fest will be held on Monday, March 28 at "Bethel College and was won in 2004 by Candace Parker, the first time a female ever won that event. 
Tickets for the All-American game, ranging from $25 to $100, are available by phone, at the Notre Dame ticket office or online. Separate tickets are needed for the JamFest and are available at the Bethel College box office and by phone. 
Proceeds for the event will go directly to Ronald McDonald House Charities of South Bend and Fort Wayne. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Zook takes over Illinois' football program 
Associated Press winning a league title in 2001. Athletic director Ron played extremely well for him." with state guidelines passed. 
Zook, a native of Ohio and a Guenther said he wanted to find Zook received a five-year The deadline was Monday. 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -Former former assistant coach at Ohio a coach with integrity, who was deal, worth about $1 million a Florida fired Zook on Oct. 25, Florida coach Ron Zook took State, said taking the job was committed to academics and year, according to university two days after the Gators lost at over Illinois' struggling football an easy decision. with a strong ability to recruit. spokeswoman Robin Kaler. Mississippi State, satisfying a program Tuesday, returning to "I was raised in the. Midwest. I He called Zook "a perfect fit." Zook and Guenther talked last growing groundswell for his his roots and promising to turn coached in the Big Ten," he "He's a players' coach," Tuesday, but Illinois could not ouster that began two years around a team that has sunk to said. "It's one of the finest ath­Guenther said. "His players name a new coach until a two­earlier -after he· replaced the bottom of the Big Ten since letic conferences in the land." picked up on the passion and week waiting period to comply Steve Spurrier. 

State01ent 
continued from page 24 
among our football players." The statement represents a consensus of the group's 18­

member national board, said Danielle Boucree, the group's chairwoman and a 1991 Notre Dame graduate. Boucree said Tuesday that she and other black alumni were shocked at Willingham's firing. 
"They didn't think about the ramifications to the African­American community," Boucree said. "If they are truly dedicated to expanding ethnic diversity in the university, this action isn't in line with that." 
When Willingham was hired, Boucree said, there was a slight increase in applications from black high school stu­dents, whom she said may have felt more welcome on campus by his hiring. 

"This action does quite the opposite," she said. 
Black Alumni of Notre Dame raises money for scholarships and helps the university recruit and mentor minority students. 
Boucree said some members of the group wanted to give up their positions in protest and no longer help recruit stu­dents, but they changed their minds. 
Boucree said the group is willing to help the university repair the damage caused by the firing. And she said if a similar situation arises, she hopes the university consults people of color and thinks about the impact on the black community. 
About 40 black students met with some Notre Dame admin­istrators Sunday to discuss Willingham's firing and how they felt betrayed by the uni­versity's action, a student who . attended told the South Bend Tribune. 
Increasing diversity has been a major goal for the Notre Dame administration. 
Black enrollment at the uni­versity has been gradually increasing in recent years. This semester, black students account for 3. 7 percent of Notre Dame's undergraduate student body. 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
Indiana 
continued from page 24 
"Coming off a loss like we had, there's no time to feel sorry for ourselves," Irish guard Chris Quinn said. 'We've got to bounce back and be ready to play [to[night." 
After the 2003-04 season, which saw the Irish drop a number of tough losses on national television and to ranked teams, they know how to deal with the kind of defeat they had Saturday in Ann Arbor. 
That's why Irish co-captain Jordan Cornette isn't con­cerned about a hangover from the Michigan loss. 
"With those guys, I'm never really worried about bouncing back," Cornette said. "We've had our share of tough losses since I've been here, and we know how to bounce back. These guys are excited for another challenge." 
In their first road game of the season, the Irish got off to a disappointing start, going down 27-16 with three min­utes, 36 seconds remaining in the first half. 
That start was surprising considering the veterans in the starting lineup that should haven known how to play well on the road in a 
tough  environment  like  
Crisler Arena.  
"It's just one  of those  men­ 

tal things. It's not an X or 0 thing. It's the whole starting lineup being ready to perform right after tip-ofT." Irish sen-
Anderson 
continued from page 24 
forward Emily Creachbaum, who enters the game red hot. 
She has scored in double­digits in naeh of the last two games and live out of the last six. Creachbaum also leads the team in rebounds per game. 
However, some Belles are in need of a turnaround against Anderson. 
Junior Bridget Boyce will look to rebound from a tough performance against Olivet on Saturday. Her six-point effort was a season-low for Boyce, and she will need to approach he·r 16.H-point average for the Belles to have an effective offensive performance. 
This is the only meeting of the teams this year, and they ior Dennis Latimore said. "I don't feel like the whole start­ing live was ready to go, com­posed and poised to go out there the first live to ten min­utes of the game. 

"We have to accept respon­sibility and hold ourselves accountable." 
Assembly Hall will be an even tougher place to play than Crisler as this is obvi­ously a big in-state rivalry. 
Going down double digits early in the first half is not the recipe for success tonight against the Hoosiers. 
The Irish feel they've learned what they need to do to prevent that from happen­ing again. 
"The main thing for us is staying focused and paying attention to detail, especially in game situations, and there's going to be a lot of those coming up," Cornette said. "It's going to be loud. It's going to be tough to hear and tough to communicate. You have to deal with those intangibles and handle them if yo~ want to be a great team. 
If the Irish are in the posi­tion late in the game tonight as they were Saturday against the Wolverines, then Brey will be satisfied -especially given the past history of Notre Dame at Indiana. 
''I'd love to be in those game situations in Bloomington [tonight] and see if we can make the correct decisions down the stretch," he said. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
did not play last year. 

The Belles' schedule in the next three weeks includes Tri­State University at home Saturday, The Saint Xavier Tournament from Dec. 27 -29, hosting Calvin College on Jan. 6 and at Hope on Jan. 8. 
Thursday's tip-off is at 7:00 p.m. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu 



~~..e~ 
STUDENT OPEN SKATE 
SATURDAY DECEMBER 11, 2004 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. JOYCE CENTER ICE RINK 
~~ 
Bring your 10 for FREE admission and skate rental 
Open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
Call RecSports at 1-61 oo for more Information. 

TOPNOTCH TRAINING FOR REWARDING CAREERS 
in Biomedical Science Check out the 

Interdisciplinary Graduate Program in CELL and MOLECULAR BIOLOGY 
College of Medicine at the University of Cincinnati 
http://cellbiology.uc.edu or ask Notre Dame alum Emily Deye Bosco! boscoe@email.uc.edu 
• 
Excellent research opportunities in world-class labs 

• 
Special strength in cancer biology 

• 
Opportunities to publish and attend notional meetings 'n",-·""'T, interactive atmosphere! 


stipend, full tuition, and health benefits lir 
UNIV£RSITY OF \\,'l.. Cincinnati 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, December 8, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 31 Halloween 65 Arid lunch fare? 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Aaron Carter, 17; Tino Martinez, 37; 
1 Prince before 66 Vehicles carry­
Edd Hall. 46; Tom Waits, 55 

being kissed, in 35 Name ing goods to a fairy tale market 
Happy Birthday: Take advantage of all the changes going on around you.
38 "Git out!" 

Change can be very lucrative and exciting, so jump in with both feet Engage in
5 Wooden-soled 39 Composer 67 Ruin 
whatever is going well at the moment and you will get ahead. Your numbers are
shoe 

David famous 6, 19. 28, 34, 41,45 10 Suddenly asks DOWN
for "Home on the Range" ARIES (March 21-April19): Do what you must to keep the peace. A personal14 Terza 1 To's partner or emotional situation will escalate if you are too vocaL Don't get behind in your
40 Spanish "but"

(Italian verse chores.***
2 Symbol of con­

form) 41 Sun or moon TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can get plenty done, but not at the expense 
stancy 

of your health. Put yourself first and prepare to do something that will eliminate 15 Meeting place 42 Halloween din-3 Melville novel stress as well as get you into tip-top shape.*** ner fare? GEMINI (May 21-June 20): On-the-go is the best place for you today. Love, 
16 Russian city on 4 Clothing 
romance and mixing business with pleasure should be your goaL You can pick
the Oka 44 Andean country 

5 Audited, with up helpful infonnation as welL ***** 17 _about (near) 45 Arctic CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be summoned to do things that may not
"on" 

make you happy. Family matters will leave you feeling cornered. Do what you 
46 Baltimore's

18 General Mills 6 Suffering must but don't let anyone make you feel guilty if you say no.**
Museum

brand LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may have a lot to deal with today. Your genuine 
7 Wrinkle remover

49 were sincerity and insightful ideas will put you in the best position when it comes to
19 Flag 
aAlgerian port competition or a challenge. **** 
52 Healthy

20 Eating VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can do the social thing another time. Today
9 Story

Halloween dish? 10 Large amount of plans into a victory. *** 
Halloween-is meant for hard work and big payoffs. Turn some of your well-thought-out 
style? 58 Pro 

stew ..,_-+-11-+--LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Push friends and family to help you get a job done 23 Cameo gem 59 Foreword faster. Tension may mount and some may feel resentful, but once all the work 
11 Stellar hunter 

is done, offer a treat that will make everyone feel good about contributing. *** 
24 Kicks so Kind of trip 
12 Candidate of SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Catch up on personal paperwork. You will come 25 Bovine advertis-62 Seine summers 1992 and-1996 across a moneymaking venture that will help your financial situation. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Give your best effort when helping someone
ing icon 63 Tangle 

13 Flexible Flyers 34 Smoke 46 1990's Israeli 53 Money-related: in need and a favor will be granted in return. A relationship that can benefit you 29 Russian river 64 Bond foe P.M. Abbr. will develop to a new level of comfort. ****
21 Big name in 35 Hand out 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Taking a pushy approach will work against --------------movie theaters 36 Constellation 47 More than tickle 54 Singer Paul you. Let people come to you. The more you do yourself, the better the results. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
22 Resorts animal ** 
r.:T':'"T":=-t 

48 Ad photo cap-55 Pakistani ian-AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel and you will discover valuable infonnation 
=L=-t_:"-' 25 Cities Service 37 Physicist Niels 
tion guage that will help you make an important decision. Children will enlighten you in
competitor 

40 Mideast grp. ways you never thought possible. ***** -:::-trl:-:+:::+::-1 26 Bert who sang 49 Showy flower 56 Of two minds PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Financial gains can be made. Winnings, gifts, 
42 Cad 

insurance or money that you are owed can line your pockets. Focus on home and 
"If I Were King 

50 Diagonal spar 57 Grit family. ***
of the Forest" 43_nogood 
27 Social-climbing 44 "Pretty _" 51 Dungeon sight 61 _-wop Birthday Baby: You are outgoing, worldly and yet very calm, cool and collected. type You have an inner strength and wisdom beyond your years. You have endurance and will never back down or give up. 
-:-t-:':+:+::-1 28 Altar avowal For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a -:-:+:~~~ 29 "Whoops!" credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
30 Clinton's attor­crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

ney general Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00032 Frankenstein's past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).

-=+..+::-+.:::-! assistant, in film 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ..:..;.;.J..;::;.a..;~,;,~ 33 Ballet wear solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
r-------------------------.ur-----------------------~ 
YOUR BLINDING 
I HOPE YOU DIDN T FLASHES OF THE 
DRIVE YOUR CAR. OBVIOUS MADE ME 

YOU'RE NOT SUPPOSED 
~@~~~~~
SIGHTLESS FOR 
TO DO THAT WHEN THREE DAYS. 
YOU'RE BLIND. 

.5 \II 
,; E 

,
" 
E 

cr:
0 
0 
t:: 

~ 
Cll J:l 

~ 

.'6 

Q 
I 
~--~~~~~~~--------~d~~~--~~----~~~~~_, 

PEANUTS 
SEE? TI4ERE THEY ARE ... THOSE ARE THE GLOVES I'D LIKE TO 6Uif PE661( JEAt-.1 
FOR CHRISTMAS .. 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
W~ERE ARE lfOU I TAKE IT BACK .. 601N6 TO 6ET 1-4E'S PROBABLY ONLY TWENW-FIVE WORTH FIFTY CENTS 
DOLLARS? 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
UNREP 

I rJ I I 
©2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
WATHE 

rJ 
1 
YIMWAD 
j 
1 
rr 
www.jumble.com 
HOCCUR 
r I "~ 

.____,l_,._...'-L:.·-A"'-'----'----'----'
I I 
Answer here: 
A 

..rI I I J" rI r J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: OAKEN NUTTY BOTANY FAMOUSYesterday's Answer: What she did when she dated the fencing star 
-TOOK A"STAB" AT IT 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
E-Q-U-1-0-U-S. 
Iwin! 
"~Oh,t~f:~tNot 
WHEN TI-ll:: 50L-DIER? HAD A ?PEL-l-ING C.ONTE?T, IT TURNED INTO--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ______________ State _______ Zip________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, December 8, 2004 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Jn..state showdown 
Irish look for first victory in Bloomington since 1973 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writt·r 
Irish lwad eoad1 Mikn Bn~y isn't hiding thn obvious from his team concerning thn Notn~ l>anw-1 nd iana series. 
"Tiwy'vn had our number for a long time," Brey said. "I know wn havfm't won down there sincn 197:~. and I kind of nxplainNI that to our guys that thP sPries has bnnn very onn-sidnd, that tlwir program has lwnn tlw marquis pro­gram ovf~r time. 
"It would be a good win for our program. obviously for this team to, to beat them on their floor." 
The Irish play thn Hoosiers tonight in Bloomington with history not exactly on thnir side. Indiana has won eight in a row in this series, 13 of the past 14 overall and the last 13 at Assembly Hall. 
All of those negative factors going against the Irish leave thnm no time to stay down about their second-half col­lapsn at Michigan Saturday. 
see INDIANA/page 22 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish set to challenge Flyers 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
After a disappointing loss at home last week against No. 12 Michigan State, Notre Dame (7­
1) is back in action Thursday night. The Irish, who dropped from No. 3 to No. 5 after the loss, saw their 25-game home winning streak snapped Thursday in the 82-73 overtime loss. 
So now they hit the road to face unranked Dayton (4-3) at 7 
p.m. Thursday. 
Thursday's game will be a homecoming of sorts for Irish point guard Megan Duffy. Dully attended Chaminade-J ulienne High School, just 10 minutes from the university. 
'Tm excited," Duffy said after Tuesday's practice. "It's a good opportunity to play in front of family and friends before I get out of Notre Dame and I have 
see DAYTON/page 20 


FOOTBALL 

BlackND alutnni speak out 
Associated Press SOUTII BEND. -Some black Notre Dame alumni say the recent firing of foot­ball coach Tyrone Willingham will hamper the school's efforts to recruit and retain blaek students and teachers. Black Alumni of Notre Dame, a group representjng about 2,000 Notre Dame graduates, has issued a statement of support for Willingham and is mailing letters to all of Notre Dame's trustees expressing their concern over his firing last week. "The decision made by the Administration is both premature and unprece­dented," the statement said. "It disregards (Willingham's) outstanding first season, off-field suc­cess and increased integrity and academic strides 
see STATEMENT/page 21 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles ready to battle Anderson Thursday 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 

After losing consecutive double-digit leads in the past week, the Belles look to rebound Thursday night against a non-conference opponent in Anderson University. 
However, the Belles won't be the only ones with chips on their shoulders in the contest. 
Although Saint Mary's comes into the game on the heels of two tough losses, the Ravens come in on a worse skid -Anderson will enter the Angela Athletic Center with a six-game los­ing streak to start the sea­son. 
For the struggling Havens, guards Heather Terflinger and Emily Bailey eaeh aver­age over 10 points a contest 
and cn~ate the majority of offensive opportunities for the team. 
Terllinger is also shooting a team-high 60-percent from long distance. 
To counter this, Saint Mary's must bring its top defense, especially the pres­sure that has forced over 60 steals in just seven games. 
The Belles have been quite effective to this end. 
In fact, after her two steals in the Saturday loss to Olivet, Katie Boyce became the fourth Belle to break double-digit steals on the season. 
In the key, Stacie Jennings has grabbed just under eight rebounds a game, including three per night on the ofTen­sive board. 
Battling .Jennings on the inside will be Saint Mary's 
see ANDERSON/page 22 
en 
HS BASKETBALL 
CLUB SPORTS 
NFL 

OLYMPICS
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
~ 
LLI 
(.') Ticket sales start for 

Equestrians garner 
Dallas running back 
Boise State head coach 
The investigation of 
Oklahoma St. 74 
z the McDonald's high 

High Point Honors at 
Julius Jones rejuvenates 
Dan Hawkins signs a 5­
Olympic track start 
Syracuse 60 
school All-American 

Taylor University over 
the Cowboys offense. 
year, $2.6 million con-
Marion Jones doping 
The No. 5 Cowboys
:3 
C) t: = Garnes to hosted by 
the weekend. 

tract extension. 
charges begins. 
knock off the No.-4 
South Bend on March 
Orange.
cc 
30,2005.
a. t:i page 21 

page 20 
page 19 
page 18 
page 16 

page 14
en 





