
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students promote Sudan awareness 
Group distributes green ribbons as part of a two-step plan to inform others of the genocide 
By JEN ROWLING News Writer 
A group of Notre Dame stu­dents has collaborated on campus to build awareness and take action against the atrocities in Sudan. 
Senior Stephanie Aberger, one of the founders of the group, said this group was a collaboration of many ideas. 
"It was originally a sub committee of Peace Collation but grew into a bigger group drawing from students from groups all over the campus," Aberger said. "What hap­pened was that individuals with different ideas about organizing Sudan events 
came together and deter­mined that there was a need for an umbrella organization to oversee and coordinate events regarding the Sudan." 
The group has formulated a two-step plan, awareness and action, to battle the situation in Sudan. Currently the group is in the awareness phase while finalizing plans for action. 
"The campaign is now focused on raising awareness -making people aware that genocide is happening right now," Aberger said. 
Patrick Corrigan, an origi­nal member of the Notre Dame Sudan Steering 
see RIBBONS/page 6 By TRICIA de GROOT 


News Writer 
For the past 20 years, MegaLife Insurance Company has served as the insurance provider for Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students, but it was not until shortly before this academic year that the University came to the understanding that Megalife did not cover a:ll club sports. 
Although many of the 29 club sports affiliated with the University are covered by MegaLife, those in which stu­dents are traveling and com­peting -rather than partici­pating on campus -are not. 

"Mega has always covered our 'club' sports that act like intramurals on campus and only Notre Dame student par­ticipants," said director of University Health Services Ann Kleva. "It was an unfor­tunate assumption by the ath­letic department that Mega covered any club sport." 
The actual policy was iden­tified this year when an undergraduate parent was considering purchasing MegaLife for her child who wanted to play organized intercollegiate sports, Kleva said. The parent contacted 
see MEGALIFE/page 3 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

OIT hails tech plan a success 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 

The Office of Information Technologies is hailing the deal with SBC Communications to install a new Voice over Internet Protocol (VoiP) net­work as Notre Dame's move to join the technological wave of the future, and is optimistically looking toward the five-year transition to the new system. 
Negotiations for the VoiP network -which will be one of the largest of its kind in the country -began approximate­ly a year ago, and the contract was signed in early fall, according to OIT's chief tech­nology officer and assistant provost DeWitt Latimer. 
The new system boasts a unified mailbox -allowing users to read their voicemail from their e-mail client and listen to their e-mail on their phone -"click-to-call" func­tionality from computers, "find me, follow me" call routing options and a "plug-and-play" service for the addition of new phones and service and loca­tion changes. 
"It [the VoiP system] is going to be the technology of choice," DeWitt said. "All the features it makes possible are viewed as future needs that our users are going to want. Not all of them will be necessary at first, but over next five to seven years, they will become more and more common for !the] entire user community." 
Officials are currently debat­ing whether to extend the service to students, or keep it isolated to faculty, staff and administrators. DeWitt said the 
see OIT/page 6 

Notre Dan1e celebrates International Education Week 
Association of International Educators names University's abroad programs among the top 13 in the nation 
~ 

By ADRIENNE RUFFNER  ment as a foreign service officer in the U.S. Information Agency and  abroad ear-h year," McCarry said. "More Ameriean students should  "Our national leaders are begin­ning to understand that study  universities. McCarry also spent a great deal of time traveling.  
News Writer  answered students' questions  study abroad  abroad  is  "I traveled and was hooked for  
As International Awareness week came to a close at Notre Dame, executive director of the Alliance for International Educational and Cultural Exehange Michael McCarry spoke  about his experiences and about general U.S. policy. He emphasized the importance of international study not only for personal experience but also for widening student<;' understandings of international relations.  to expand their perspec­tives. This is why the recognition of Notre Dame is so impor­ "Our national leaders are beginning to understand that study abroad is really important. To me, that's a home run.,,  really impor­t a n t " McCarry said. "To me, that's a home run." After grad­uating from  life," McCarry said. These experiences drew McCarry to the U.S. Information Agency. He worked in China short­ly after the Tiananmen Square massacre and focused on reestab­lishing diplomatic relations  
Friday ·at a forum on international  The report praised the pro­ tant."  Notre Dame.  between the United States. and  
policy and ii<> effect'> on American higher education. The weeklong celebration coin­eidnd with a report released by the Association of International  grams' vast curriculum and stu­dent'>' enthusiasm about studying abroad. McCarry cited statistics compar­ing the number of American stu­ He also noted a pro­posal in Congress to establish a  Michael McCarry Alliance for International Educational and Cultural Exchange  McCarry studied in Melbourne, Australia as a Rotary  China through education. The Alliance for International Educational and Cultural Exchange, where McCarry cur­rently works, oversees 75 foreign  
Educators naming Notre Dame's  dents abroad to the number of for­ Lincoln  executive director  Scholar.  lie  exchange programs in the United  
study abroad programs among the  eign students in the United States.  Fellowship  noticed major  States.  
top 13 in American universities.  "[About] 575,000 foreign stu­ program,  differences  
McCarry, a 1971 Notre Dame  denl'l study here each year, while  which would help fund programs  between American universities  Contact Adrienne Ruffner at  
alumnus, described his involve- only 175,000 Americans study  that send students abroad.  and more specialized Australian  aruffner@nd.edu  


Monday, November 22, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A picture is vvorth... 
It's tough to describe adequately a pownrf'ul pieturn with pedestrian words, but thorn are some times when it's worth trying. One I saw Saturday night deserves the ell"ort, as it accomplishes what only tho Ken Fowler great pieces of art do -it tells the story of some-5;ports Writer thing seemingly unrelated to the subject matter that is terribly impor­tant. 
On the lef't. this photo shows Chilnan President Hicardo Lagos and first lady Laura Bush smiling at reportors as they entnr the ballroom in which an APEC gala dinner is about to eommence. To the right, l'rnsidont Bush has stopped his progress, and he appears to be dnd­plwring the reason for tho commotion coming l'rom tlw background. 
IIn is stuck lwtwenn going l'orward and turning hack to resolve tho prob­lmn. 
In this 1:asn, his problem is that a Chilean polko oflicnr refused Bush's top on-site Secret Snrvke agent ontrancn into tho building. Clearly, a question of' security arises when a l'ornign police l'orce prnvonts the Anwrican president's personal securi­ty ddail l'rom oseorling him into a largo building. 
Stuck with tlw options of' eitlwr con­tinuing on the path set boforn him­walking away from tho mnfrontation and trusting a foreign foree to main­lain security and safety in what could be a dangerous situation -or going back and ending the possible security throat immediately, Bush ehosn the latl11r. Not surprised at tho decision? Then pie turn is doing its job. 
Tho scene that ensued was not as breathtaking as some have made it out to be. Bush reached into the pile and snapped his fingers, and the dis­pute was settled -the Chilean police would allow his Secret Service agent into the dinner. It took a little while for the scene to calm down, but Bush's presence was the deciding fac­tor in how the situation would turn out. 
In analyzing the sequence of events, maybe you will afTectionately joke about the brazen attitude of our cow­boy president and that he solves problems the way real people do. 
On the other hand, the Pacers­Pistons brawl may come to mind, and you might think that the most power­ful man in the world should not be meddling in the middle of a melee. 
Whatever you think of the situation, the picture itself includes that story of something completely unrelated but incredibly important -a foreign leader walking ahead (to the left) as an American president, to the right, says "Hold on, I have to take care of something." 
It demonstrates how tough deci­sions can tumult a president and a country, and it embodies the active, provoeative policy of the Bush admin­istration in foreign lands. 
In a picture full of personifications, that's the overriding theme; in a world full of analogies, that's the main conflict of the day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU NOT THANKFUL FOR? 







Tim Chlon sophomore Siegfried  Landen LaSyone sophomore Dillon  Tara Makowski Chloe Bekavak sophomores Badin  Lindsey Martin freshman Welsh Family  Tony Schweiss sophomore Morrissey  
"Organic Chemistry. "  ''I'm thankful for everything. ''  'The freezing weather in South Bend."  'The state of Ohio."  "Superman or the wind tunnel effect on South  
Quad."  


JOANNA PAXTON!The Observer 

Members of the Notre Dame figure skating club perform between the first and sec­ond periods at Friday's hockey game. The club was founded in 1997 under the Student Activities Office. One year later, it became a club sport under the University's RecSports program. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 
The leeture "Gender and Transgcnder Identities: Issues Faced by Transgender College Students" will bn given today by Syraruse Univnrsity prof'es­sor Hob Puseh from 12 to 1 
p.m. at Saint Mary's College in Staplnton Loungn. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will take on Colorado State tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Cnntnr Arena. 
Kellogg fellow Michael Coppedge will give the lecture "The Conditional Impact of the Economy on Democracy in Latin America" on Tuesday at 
12:30 p.m. in C-1 03 llesburgh Center. 
The seminar "An icc-active protein from an Antarctic nematode" will be given by David Wharton, associate pro­fessor of Zoology at the University of Otago, New Zealand on Tuesday at 4 p.m. in room 283 of the Galvin Life Science Building 
The Saint Mary's basketball Norwegian senior roughs reacted instantly, grabbing a week. Several firms have 
team will take on Manchester up purse snatcher hold of the purse and complained. 
College on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in OSLO, Norway-A purse struggling with the 30-"They are very upset 
Angela Athletic Facility. snatcher in a small year-old thief. about it," said police Capt. Norwegian town picked the During the struggle, the John Givens said. "And we 
The Notre Dame men's bas­wrong 88-year-old woman senior citizen dragged the want it to stop." 
ketball team will take on IPFW to rob, since she was with young man ofT his bike and Givens said it costs com­
on Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the a tough younger man at onto the asphalt. panies to clean the mess. 
Joyce Center Arena. the time. So officers plan to step up And her 78-year-old New crime grips Alabama: patrols in areas where the 
The Notre Dame men's soc­friend end up sending the Potty tipping vandalism has occurred. 
cer team will play Tuesday at thief to the hospital, and DOTHAN, Ala. -A new "We have started paying 
7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field then to jail this week, the crime has reared its stinky closer attention to those 
against Ohio State in the sec­local newspaper Moss head in southeast sites," Givens said. 
ond round of the NCAA tourna­Avisen reported Friday. Alabama: Potty tipping. Anyone caught vandaliz­
ment. The report said the thief Someone has been over­ing a portable toilet would was on a bicycle when he turning portable toilets at be charged with criminal 
To submit information to be 
included in this section IJf The 
snatched the purse in four construction sites in mischief, a misdemeanor. 
Observer, e-mail detailed infor­30 miles south of Oslo. company reporting that Information compiled 
Raade, a small town about the Dothan area, with one 
mation about an event to The 78-year-old man four or five were flipped in from the Associated Press. 
obsnews@nd. edu. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
:::c 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
....I 
ct 
(.) 


0 
HIGH 48 HIGH 40 HIGH 34
..... 
LOW 28 LOW 28 LOW 22 

50 35 

45 27 


HIGH LOW 

...----------------------------­
~ 

Monday, November 22, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Alurnna na111ed Professor of Year 
Campbell Free selected for her outstanding teaching, C01J1mitment 
Special to The Observer 
Rhona Campbell Free, a University of Notre Dame graduate and professor of eco­nomics at Eastern Connecticut State University in Willimantic, has been named 2004 
U.S. Prof­essor of the Year. 
Selected for her out­standing teaching,


commitment Campbell Free to under­graduate students and influ­ence on teaching, Free received top honors in the master's universities and col­leges category, which includes more than 600 colleges and universities nationwide. The award is presented annually by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Free is the second Notre Dame figure in three years to earn a U.S. Professor of the Year award. Chemist Dennis Jacobs, now a University vice president and associate provost, was honored in 2002 in the research and doctoral universities category. "What makes Hhona Campbell Free unique is the creative and open approach 
she brings to teaching," said John Lippincott, CASE presi­dent. "While she is deeply committed to her discipline of economics, she enthusiastical­
Since 1981, the U.S. Professor of the Year program has recognized excellence in undergraduate teaching and mentoring. Campus provosts 
ly uses pedagogi­cal approaches and tools more common to other disciplines to reach and moti­vate students. Dr. Free starts with the premise that all students can be successful in her economics courses, and her optimism enables her to devise dif­ferent ways of reaching students whose levels of experience and interest vary." 
A member of the economics faculty at Eastern Connecticut State University since 
'These U.S. Professors of the Year have distinguished themselves in their profession by their commitment to advancing knowledge and to motivating, inspiring, and empowering their students." 
Lee S. Shulman Carnegie Foudation president 
and academic vice presidents make nomina­tions, and cur­rent and former students, col­leagues and peers from other institutions par­ticipate in the selection. National winners in four categories receive a $5,000 prize from the Carnegie Foundation. 
"These U.S. Professors of the Year have distin­guished them­selves in their profession by their commit­ment to advanc­
MegaLife 
continued from page 1 
department of ri<>k management with her question about cover­age, and the issue was brought to the attention of Kleva and the athletic department -leading to a change in the understand­ing of what activities are cov­ered by the policy and the exact benefits of the plan. 
The athletic department has been educated on what the stu­dent insurance plan entails, Kleva said, including an under­standing of the difference between the insurance defini­tion of intramural and club sports. 
Many students also assume MegaLife covers all sports, Kleva said, but do not realize that club sports that involve travel -including water polo, sailing and crew -are not included in the package. Explicit information to the contrary is available, Kleva added. 
"It is specifically stated annu­ally in the insurance brochure under 'exclusions' that club sports are not covered," she said. "It is unfortunate that stu­dents don't read their brochure or check their policy, or attend educational classes that are offered to answer questions and to discuss their program." 
In January 2005 there will be a reviewing of the current poli­cy, Kleva said, in which MegaLife will provide the University with two plans, one with complete club sport cover­age and one without the new consideration. 
The Student Medical 
Insurance Advisory Committee will be helping reevaluate the policy in the upcoming months and will take into consideration the expense increase a more inclusive plan would require, Kleva said. Unfortunately, it is predicted a more inclusive plan would be extremely expensive, possibly even prohibitively expensive, she said. 
"We can only have one plan, as the number of students who would use the sport benefit is not high enough to bear the total financial risk," Kleva said. 
Students playing club sports are not the only group the University will need to take into consideration during its review process. 
Currently, there are 1,850 graduate students and 175 undergraduate students using Megalife as their insurance provider. The University requires all graduate students either to enroll in the school­sponsored plan or to show proof of comparable insurance cover­age, while such a mandate has not been established for the undergraduates. 
Therefore, the needs of the graduate students, including allergy medicine coverage and increased coverage for nuclear medicine, must also be taken into consideration. 
However, in the mean time, Health Services does not see the current plan as a problem. 
"I have never received a ques­tion or complaint about this [club sports] exclusion while I have received many questions about other exclusions," Kleva said. 
Contact Tricia deGroot pdegroot@nd.edu. 

1983, Free earned her mas­ter's and doctoral degrees in economics from Notre Dame in 1980 and 1983, respective­ly. She is known for her inno­vative ideas and cross-discipli­nary approaches to instruc­tion. "Some professors take a difficult subject and compli­cate it," former student Mark Yeomans said. "It takes a spe­cial teacher to be able to take the same subject and make it accessible for all students." 
ing knowledge and to motivat­ing, inspiring and empowering their students," said Lee S. Shulman, president of the Carnegie Foundation. "Through their contribution to excellence in teaching and extraordinary dedication to their students, they have dig­nified and elevated the profes­sion of teaching and created a legacy of knowledge and prac­tice that others can build upon." 

page 4 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 22, 2004 

DEPARTMENT 0 F M U S c PRESENTS 

Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra 

Thursday, December 2, 2004 at 8 p.m. Friday, December 3, 2004 at 8 p.m. Handel's Messiah www. nd.edu/-music/ensembles/ chorale. html www.nd.edu/-music/ensembles/corch.html leighton Concert Hall Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $3 all students 
D P A C PRESENTS 
The Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concert 
Saturday, December 4, 2004 at 6 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. http://gleeclub.nd.edu leighton Concert Hall Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $3 all students All proceeds benefit the Center for the Homeless. www.dh.net 
NO University Band 
Sunday, December 5 at 3 p.m. www. nd.edu/-ndbond/ leighton Concert Hall Free and open to the public 
NO Jazz Bands 
Sunday, December 5 at 7 p.m. www.nd.edu/-ndband/ leighton Concert Hall Free and open to the public 
NO Collegium Musicum 
Wednesday, December 8 at 8 p.m. www. nd.edu/-music/ensembles/ collegium.html Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Free and open to the public 
NDPRESENTS 
A CHRISTMAS CONCERT AND A CONCERT TO GIVE FOR CHRISTMAS 


Empire Brass Christmas Concert 
friday, December 10 at 8 p.m. http://performingarts.nd.edu/empire.shtml 
Start your holiday season at the DeBartolo Perform­ing Arts Center with a Christmas Concert by The Empire Bross in the leighton Concert Hall. These fabulous musicians will play some familiar holiday favorites as well as some music from Christmases past. There will even be o sing-a-long. The Empire Brass enjoys an international reputation as North America's finest brass quintet, renowned for its brilliant virtuosity and the unparalleled diversity of its repertoire. 
Tickets $44, $35 faculty/staff, $15 all students 
The Chieftains 
Sunday, January 30 at 8 p.m. http:/I performi ngarts.nd .edu/chieftoins.shtml leighton Concert Hall 
The first word in Irish Music is the Chieftains. In 
1989 the Republic of Ireland appointed them the official musical ambassadors for Ireland. They have exported Irish music to every corner of the world and finally they come to Notre Dame. Their appearance is far overdue. There are a lot of groups who ploy traditional Celtic music, but they all owe a great debt to the Chieftains who paved the way For them. There ore few concert experi­ences as completely fulfilling as an evening spent in their company. 
Tickets $48, $38 faculty/staff, $15 all students 
LIVE AT THE MORRIS 

St. Petersburg State Ballet Theatre 
performing Romeo and Juliet at the Morris Performing Arts Center Thursday, January 13 at 8 p.m. 
A timeless love story danced by one of the leading ballet companies in Russia. This Romeo was choreographed by Serge Vikulov to the beautiful score by Sergei Prokofiev. 
St. Petersburg State Ballet Theatre draws upon the long and storied history of Russian Ballet. Under the direction of Askold Makarov; former leading soloist of the Kirov Ballet, the company enjoyed a growing reputation for its ability to innovate while interpret­ing the classics of the Romantic period. After Makarov's death in 2000, Yuri Petukhov took the reins of the company and has considerably widened the scope of the comp~ny. 
Tickets $15-$38 

Call the Morris Performing Arts Center Ticket Office at 235-9190 or buy on line at ww.MorrisCenter.org 
Discounted tickets are underwritten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. 

sign up for updates at 

MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS http:/ /performingarts.nd.edu 
Call 574-631-2800 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 22, 2004 Colv1PILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Violence continues in Baghdad 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Insurgents battled American troops in the streets of Baghdad on Saturday, killing a U.S. soldier in an ambush and gunning down four government employees in signals that the guerrillas remain a potent force despite the fall of their stronghold of Fallujah. Nine Iraqis also died in fighting west of the capital. 
In Fallujah, where U.S. Marines and sol­diers are still battling pockets of resistance, insurgents waved a white flag of surrender before opening fire on U.S. troops and caus­ing casualties, Marine spokesman 1st Lt. Lyle Gilbert said Saturday without elaborat­ing. 
Al-Arabiya television quoted Iraqi guerril­las fleeing Fallujah as saying they had run out of ammunition and many fighters who stayed behind were badly wounded. 
Scientists warn of fish toxins 
SETE. France -Each day at 4 p.m., the trawlers come back, alive with giant bass, mackerel and squirming eels, at the end of a fond chain that links family dinner tables to poisons in the sea. 
Besides mercury which can damage the brains of fetuses and young children and can affect healthy adults, there are PCBs, dioxins and flame retardants with unknown long­term effects. 
It is the same from andent Mediterranean towns like Sete to big city docks in Asia, America's Gulf ports, or harbors in seeming­ly pristine Nordic waters. Industrial waste permeates every ocean. 
Although rich in omega-3 fatty acids vital to the heart and brain, many fish contain toxins that build up over time in the human body. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
House passes $388-billion bill 
WASIIINGTON -Republicans whisked a $388 billion spending bill through the House on Saturday, a mammoth measure that underscores the dominance of deficit politics by curbing dollars for everything from education to environmental cleanups. 
Lawmakers approved the measure by a biparti­san 344-51 margin on what might be the last day of their postelection session. 
Though not in doubt, passage was taking longer in the Senate. Abortion-rights supporters there were opposing a provision in the bill making it easier for health care providers to decline to pro­vide abortions or offer counseling and referrals. 
9/11 commission reforms fail 
WASHINGTON -In a defeat for President Bush, rebellious House Republicans on Saturday derailed legislation to overhaul the nation's intelli­gence agencies along lines recommended by the Sept. 11 commission. 
Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-ill., sought unsuccess­fully to persuade critics among the GOP rank and file to swing behind the measure. 
l Iastert's decision to send lawmakers home with­out a vote drew attacks from Democrats and capped an unpredictable day in which prospects for enactment of the measure seemed to grow, then diminish. almost by the hour. He left open the possibility of summoning lawmakers back in session early next month. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Plans for shelter put on hold 
VALPARAISO -Plans to convert a Porter County motel to a homeless shelter have been shelved after the state turned down a social agency's request for funding. 
Christian Community Action officials said the Indiana Housing Finance Authority turned down its grant and loan applications to fund the proposed $3 million project to turn the 54-room Best Western into a shel­ter. 
CHILE 

Bush attempts to improve image 
The president met 'With leaders ofMexico and Chile to build relationships, U.S. reputation 
Associated Press 

SANTIAGO -President Bush aims to dispel the perception of U.S. neglect of Latin America and bur­nish an American reputa­tion damaged by the Iraq war, undertaking a sec­ond-term diplomatic offensive in the region akin to his recent courting of Europe. 
Bush was meeting Sunday with the leaders of Mexico and Chile on the last day of a 21-nation economic summit of Pacific Him leaders in this scenic capital. 
Mexican President Vicente Fox's top goal in relations with the United States is the reform of American immigration laws. Bush has proposed allowing undocumented workers to get visas to work legally, but the visas would be only temporary and provide no path to cit­izenship _ an approach that Mexican officials have signaled they would embrace, even if reluc­tantly. 
Meanwhile, Bush's top goal with Mexico remains enhanced border security and he has done little to push his immigration reform plan since he pro­posed it in January. Aides "pull-aside" conversation Bush's Exhibit A for how make a very visible state­suggested ahead of the with Peruvian President free trade can benefit two ment about the U.S. com­meeting between the two Alejandro Toledo during countries, said a senior mitment to fighting ter­leaders, once the tightest the summit. And on administration official, rorism and to highlight of foreign allies in a rela­Monday, on the way back speaking on condition of American contributions tionship strained by the to the United States, Bush anonymity. That could be that have helped to bring Iraq war, that more sup­is stopping in Colombia helpful as Bush pushes for some stability to a country port for the immigration for a few hours of meet­forward movement on a ravaged by decades of legislation would be forth­ings with President Alvaro hemisphere-wide accord, guerrilla war, the official coming from Bush. Uribe, a conservative resisted by countries such said. 
The Asia-Pacific gather­whose war against nar­as Brazil and Venezuela. "We put a lot of political ing was ending Sunday. coterrorists and leftist Meetings with the lead­support into Uribe," the But the president was rebels has received major ers of Colombia and Peru official said. "We want to remaining in Santiago funding from the United also could help the presi­underscore that commit­after the forum's close for States. dent focus on lowering ment and show that this is an official state visit with Taken together, the trade barriers, as the something that, number Chilean President Ricardo emphasis on a few allies United States is in the one, is paying big divi­Lagos. The two nations during Bush's Latin process of negotiating an dends for the American last year signed a free­American stay has broad­Andean free-trade pact people, it's paying big div­trade pact and will likely er goals for the White covering those two idends for the Colombian look for ways to expand House. nations as well as people." the trade between them. The high-profile meet­Ecuador. But turning around the 
The president also was ings with the Chilean But mostly, visiting U.S. reputation in South expected to have a brief leader, for instance, are Colombia allows Bush to America will not be easy. 

Lawmakers hope for intelligence bill 
Associated Press During a chaotic Saturday that was the bill deal with illegal immigration. 
intended as the final meeting of the Congress did manage to pass a 
WASHINGTON -Unwilling to con­108th Congress, negotiators 3,000-page, $388 billion spending bill cede defeat, congressional leaders announced a compromise on the that covers most nondefense and expressed hope Sunday that lawmak­intelligence bill. Hours later, opposi­non-security programs for the budget ers could return next month to tion from the Republican chairmen of year that began Oct. 1. resolve a turf battle that has blocked two committees stymied the legisla­But there will be a delay in getting passage of an overhaul of the nation's tion, which would create a national President Bush's signature. The intelligence agencies. Much depends intelligence director. hang-up is because of a single line in on whether President Bush is more Reflecting Pentagon concerns about the bill that would have given two active in bringing his own troops in the legislation, California Rep. committee chairmen and their assis­line, they said. Duncan Hunter of the House Armed tants access to people's income tax 
"For us to do the bill in early Services warned that the bill could returns. December it will take significant interfere with the military chain of The Senate approved a resolution involvement by the president and the command and endanger troops in the nullifying the idea; House leaders vice president," said Senate Majority field. Wisconsin Rep. James promised to pass it on Wednesday. Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn. "It will take Sensenbrenner of the House Then, the spending bill will head to real focus on their part." Judiciary Committee demanded that the White House. 
Monday, November 22, 2004 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Ribbons 
continued from page 1 
Committee, believes there is a larger messago that needs to be spread. 
"The important thing about this situation is that the geno­cide is preventable if the international community would aet," Corrigan said. "Tho Sudanese government would likely disarm the Janjaweed militia and pre­von t thorn from killing Africans in Darfur if the international community put pressure on it to do so." 
The Notre Dame Sudan Steering Committee consists of about 20 students campus­wide with a large number from Amnesty International and Africa Faith and Justice Network. 
"Most people don't know about this," Corrigan said. "If people at Notre Dame learned of the atrocities, it would shock their conscience, and they would want to take action." 
The team of students eom­prising the steering commit­tee has finalized plans to build awareness. Members of the committee are passing out green ribbons, as part of a larger national campaign which began at Harvard University. One hundred humanitarian and faith-based organizations are now wear­ing green ribbons. 

Each ribbon distributed at Notre Dame contains infor­mation about Sudan. A peti­tion has also been submitted to pass the ribbons out at dorm masses. In the mean­time, students can find the green ribbons at the Center for Social Concerns. 
"Wearing a green ribbon is something for everyone," Corrigan said. "People from engineers to business people to peace studies majors and everything in-between can wear these ribbons, because we are all responsible for our government's response to ter­rible situations in the world." 
The committee has posted signs around campus with a photo of an innocent victim­ized young girl reading "Never Again" and is provid­ing facts on the genocide. Currently, the group is also working to place a petition to be read at Sunday dorm masses. 
After heightening aware­ness, the group plans to take action. Tentatively set for Jan. 26, the committee will formulate a symposium com­posed of the most highly­qualified speakers on the Sudan genocide. A possible speaker is Nick Kristof, a New 
York Times journalist who Sudan. Government attacks has written on Sudan. have resulted and the 
"We are currently inviting Janjaweed, armed nomadic speakers and fundraising as Arab tribesmen, have been we need to raise a great deal used to subdue the rebellion. of money to bring in the cal­Arab militias have been iber of speakers," Aberger accused of ethnic cleansing, said. killing, raping and torturing 
A writing campaign will innocent victims. The accompany the panel speak­Sudanese government has ers in the action plan. The also been convicted of assist­steering committee's plan ing the militia in air bomb­includes writing letters to the ings over the region. 
U.S. Catholic Bishops and The United Nations called 
asking them  the Darfur  
to condemn the geno­ "Most people don't know  situation the world's  
cide and provide a m o r a I voice.  about this. Ifpeople at Notre Dame learned of the atrocities, it would shock  w o r s t humanitar­ian crisis. The vio­ 
Letters will also be written to  their conscience, and they would want to take action "  lence has claimed at I e a s t  
the  U.S.  70,000  
government  Patrick Corrigan  lives  and  
requesting t h a t humanitari­ Notre Dame Sudan Steering Committee  has forced 1.8 million people  
an  aid  be  from their  
provided  homes.  

along with pressure on the Father Robert Dowd, politi­Sudanese government. cal seience and Kellogg 
Civil war in Darfur began in Institute Faeulty member, 2003, after two primarily said the genocide in Darfur is black African rebel groups, a eomplex situation. Sudanese Liberation "This is genocide for politi­Movement/Army and the cal reasons. While it seems Justice and Equality that some progress has been Movement, revolted against made, I fear this erisis is once the government that they again slipping outside our claimed neglected western radar screen. More pressure must be asserted on Sudan," Dowd said. ''I'm not a big fan of sanctions. I don't think they all work that well and often they hurt the very peo­ple they are intended to help. However, targeted sanctions on the bank account of elites and travel bans on leaders of the Khartoum (Sudanese) government may work" 
Daniel Lindley, a political science and peace studies professor, said the United States has classified the situ­ation in Sudan genocide. Secretary of State Colin Powell referred to the case as genocide. 
With more people taking notice throughout the govern­ment, organizers on campus are hoping students will take notice too. 
"I think our effort to raise awareness about Sudan is going to grow exponentially ... every day the green rib­bons are more and more of a presence on our campus," Aberger said. "Students rec­ognize that this is a genocide and they understand that promises of "never again" after the holocaust, after Rwanda are empty if we remain bystanders to the cur­rent genocide." 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 
OIT 
continued from page 1 
problems lies in the fact that surveys have shown students don't find value in the current dorm phone systems, and the University is reluctant to extend the service if it won't be used. 
"We are cognizant that lifestyles are changing, so we're looking the idea that if it's not a cell phone or instant messenger or e-mail, is it a mode of communication that students want tn or will use," DeWitt said. "That's why there's a hesitancy. We're not sure where the students will be two to four years out." 
DeWitt said that the University was motivated to switch to the new service in part because its current Legaey phone system contract is set to expire in January 2006. 
"With the contract expiring a little more than a year from now, we needed to take some type of definitive action," he said. "Instead of reinvesting with Lflgacy system, we saw this as the right time to take Notre Dame down the path they were eventually going to need to go down." 

Despite being more techno­logically advanced, DeWitt said the new system will eome at no extra eost to what the University currently pays for phone service. 
The transition between the current Centrex-based system and VoiP will take place over a period of three to five years, starting with a six-month trial with a limited set of users early next year, said DeWitt. 
"If all goes well with the trial, we'll start rolling it out to the balance of the campus," DeWitt said. "The exact order of doing that hasn't been decided, but new eonstruction like the Jordan Hall of Science will get it by default." 
Hegardless of how many users the University connects to the system, DeWitt said he sees a potential problem in users' adaptation to the new teehnology. 
"I don't foresee any problems with the aetual system, but I think most of the energy and potential angst will come around the training aspect of it," he said. "We know some people are apprehensive about the transition, whieh is why we're really going to put the emphasis on user training aspeet of this." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
MCNAIR SCHOLARS PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME 
ANNOUNCES THE 2004-2005 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. DON POPE-DAVIS 
AND MS. MARY NICHOLS (1-7514) 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2004 
7:00 -8:00 PM 

(Hors d'oeuvres will be served) 
IN ROOM 119 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
OR 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans 
IRISH ATHLETICS FOR TUES., NOV. 23rd 
#20 IRISH MEN'S BASKETBALL 
#5 Men's Soccer vs. Winner
IH vs. IPFW at 7:30 pm 
ofMemphis vs. Ohio State 
~ Joyce Center Arena 
at7pm A
• One lucky Notre Dame student will have a chance 
to hit a ~~. ..".~"·"~half-court shot to win tuition for a year 
Alumni Field ..., 
"fl-EGION sponsored by Hacienda 
• First 100 Notre Dame students receive • Notre Dame Porn Squad will be performing at half! 
free admission to the game
• Find a Notre Dame student not going to the game and use their student ticket! Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promotional information 
Monday, November 22, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 456.91 -115.64
}ones ' 
'~ Same: Composite Volume: 
949 139 1,523,990,016 

AMEX 1,364.81 -0.55 NASDAQ 2,070.63 -33.65 NVSE 6,947.19 -55,72 S&PSOO 1,170.34 -13.21 NIKK£1(Tol<yo) 11 ,082. 84 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,760.80 -44.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
+9.53 +0.45 5.17 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) 
-3.74 -0.66 16.99 INTEL CORP (INTC) 
-2.58 -0.64 24.16 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.78 -0.21 26.86 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.61 -0.51 19.0 I 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.29 +0.62 48.75 10-YEAR NOTE +1.92 +0.79 41.96 5-YEARNOTE +2.53 +0.88 35.64 3-MONTH BILL +0.43 +0.09 20.96 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.51 48.89 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.1 0 447.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.73 99.00 
Excha Rates 

YEN 103.1900 EURO 0.7674 POUND 0.5382 CANADIAN$ 1.1930 
IN BRIEF 
Legal complaint filed against Russia 
MOSCOW -The main shareholder of the embattled oil company Yukos has filed a legal complaint against Russia over the planned auction sale of Yukos' biggest production unit, the Interfax news agency reported Saturday. 
The Russian government announced a day earlier that it will sell a majority stake in pro­duction unit Yuganskneftegaz to meet Yukos' multibillion-dollar back-tax bill. 
Group Menatep Ltd, the main Yukos share­holder, took legal action under the Energy Charter, an international treaty for protecting investments in the energy sector, Group Menatep's managing director Tim Osborne said, according to Interfax. 
"We are talking about the expropriation of our property, and we intend to protect it through all possible legal means," lnterfax quoted Osborne as saying. The news agency translated the comment into Russian. 
Osborne said Group Menatep initiated legal action under the auspices of the Energy Charter, an international treaty that establish­es a legal framework to protect investments in the energy sector. 
Two more airlines plan bids for gate 
INDIANAPOLIS -At least two more dis­count airlines plan to bid for the gates used by bankrupt ATA Airlines for its hub at Chicago's Midway International Airport. 
Lawyers for America West Airlines and Southwest Airlines told a federal bankruptcy court judge on Thursday that the companies intended to make separate bids for part or all of ATA. 
That action came two days after AirTran Airways formally offered to pay nearly $90 million to take over operations at all 14 of ATA's Midway gates. 
Judge Basil Lorch III on Thursday set Dec. 10 as the deadline for interested buyers to submit bids. The bids will be opened and reviewed Dec. 13, with Lorch to pick a win­ning bid Dec. 16. 
Gilbert Viets, ATA's chief restructuring offi­cer, said that Orlando, Fla.-based AirTran was the only one of 10 other airlines to respond to inquiries ATA made this summer about a pos­sible merger or sale of the Midway gates. 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Nike co-founder resigns position 
Phil Knight steps down as president and chiefexecutive officer ofcompany he built 
Associated Press 

PORTLAND Phil Knight, who built Nike Inc. into the world's largest shoe maker while catapulting celebrity­athlete endorsements to new heights, has stepped down as president and chief executive officer of the company he co­founded. 
Knight, who left the helm of the $12 billion athletic shoe and cloth­ing company on Thursday, will be suc­ceeded by William D. Perez, head of S.C. Johnson & Son Inc., maker of Glade air fresh­eners and Drano drain cleaner. 
Knight, 66, will remain chairman of the compa­ny's board of directors, the company said. He did not give a reason for his resignation, which is effective Dec. 28. 
"I am confident that as CEO of Nike, Inc., Bill will lead Nike's extraor­dinary team of people to create an even bigger and better global compa­ny," Knight said in a statement. 
A former University of AP 
Phil Knight stepped down as president and chief executive officer of Nike Inc.
Oregon track star, Knight 
He will be succeeded by William D. Perez, head of S.C. Johnson & Son Inc.
founded Blue Ribbon Sports, Inc., with Bill 
orders, up 11 percent to a n d E x c h a n g e ships. And I'm a strong
Bowerman in 1968. 
$1.4 billion -reversing Commission. believer in 'Just Do It,"'
Knight's first shoes, 
a declining trend in the Nike has had its share Perez said in a state­which he sold out of the 
national shoe market of critics -including ment.
trunk of his car, had over the last several activists who brought Analysts said the movesoles made on 
years. attention to working con­did not come as a com­Bowerman's waffle iron. 
Knight's combined ditions at the company's plete surprise.
The company was salary and bonuses for foreign factories. Nike "It can be likened to
renamed Nike in 1972. 
this year were nearly says it has improved when an Andy GroveUnder Knight, Nike 
$3.7 million, up from conditions. steps aside at Intel or
redefined celebrity-ath­
nearly $2.5 million last Perez, 57, has been Bill Gates hands thelete endorsements, laud­year. president and chief exec­reins to Steve Ballmer ating stars such as Michael He was ranked No. 22 utive of S.C. Johnson Microsoft. It's somewhatJordan and Tiger Woods on this year's Forbes list since 1996. He has the passing of the torch,"as emblems of the com­
of the 400 wealthiest worked for the consumer said Paul Swangard,
pany's ethic. 

Americans, with an esti­products company for 34 managing director of theAlong the way they've mated net worth of $7.4 years. Warsaw Sportsmade the swoosh one of billion. Perez said he would Marketing Center at the
the most recognized 
Knight still owns about stay true to Knight's University of Oregon in
trademarks in the world. 
28 percent of the voting vision. Eugene.
In September, Nike 
shares of Nike Class B "You can feel the inno­"I think it's a natural
reported a 25 percent stock and 92 percent of vative spirit that Phil transition -though a
increase in first-quarter 
the nonvoting Class A and his team inspires rather significant one in
profits. The company stock, according to fil­from product design, to the history of this com­also reported a large 
ings with the Securities retail to athlete partner-pany," Swangard said.
increase in its U.S. 

PeopleSoft rejects Oracle's bid 
Associated Press 

PLEASANTON -PeopleSoft Inc.'s board of directors said it rejected Oracle Corp.'s $9.2 billion takeover bid Saturday, continuing its staunch resistance a day after the company's own shareholders tendered more than 60 percent of stock to Oracle. 
The board unanimously concluded that Oracle's latest $24-per-share bid is inadequate, the company said in a statement posted on its Web site Saturday. It marked the sixth time the Pleasanton-based business soft­ware company snubbed its bitter rival since the takeover battle nearly a year and a half ago. 
"The board reiterated that it will not sell the company for less than it is really worth and that the compa­ny's business plan creates superior value for stockholders," PeopleSoft said. 
On Friday, PeopleSoft's sharehold­ers tendered 61 percent of the com­pany's stock in support of Oracle's bid. Oracle had threatened to drop its $24-per-share offer if it didn't receive an endorsement from most PeopleSoft stockholders -a threat that prompted 228.7 million shares to tender, according to a preliminary tally released late Friday. 
Bolstered by the investor vote of confidence, Redwood Shores-based Oracle called upon PeopleSoft to sur­render, sending a letter to PeopleSoft's board requesting a meeting as soon as possible and extending its ofTer until Dec. 31. 
But PeopleSoft decided to fend off Oracle, saying "numerous conversa­tions we have had with our largest stockholders over the past 10 days" led the board to believe that a major­ity of stockholders don't think the offer reflects the company's real value. 
"This majority is comprised of stockholders who did not tender their shares, as well as stockholders who tendered but told us that they believe PeopleSoft is worth more than $24 per share," George "Skip" Battle, lead director on PeopleSoft's transac­tion committee, said in the statement. 

---------, 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday November 22, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

Giving God his kicks 
The nt'Ws is reported as accuratdy anJ objectively as pm.sible. Unsigrlt'd editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, A<Sistanr Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe { )bserwr. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The lree l-xpres,inn ofall opinions through lt·tters is encouraged. l.l·l!crs 10 the Editor must be signed and must indude wntact infCJmt:uion. 
Qumiow rt!garding Obs~rvrr polici~ should be directed to F.ditor in ChiefMatt Loz11r. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ohf.corvcr (US~ W'.l2·..1jtll)l)l Hpublt~hcd M1111d.iy dnnugh l'riday ucep1 durin~ CX.Im o~ml VJ.l.';ltttln pn10th. A "'hk:upuon w Tile (.)i)ic:rvtl h $lOU tar one le"Jdcrnu: yt'm $'}o; [nr UIIC ~m~IC'I. 
!'he: OI>Krv('f I\ a member nl rhc: A»o.,;,,urd Prt5S. AU n:prothu.:lifln righr~ arc: 
rt!oei'VCd 
l"hr Obtc-rv.·r f) puhlu;hnl "' P.O.IloxQ 
o.H ~•urh Ilmms H.aJI Olot Somh Dining l I.til Nu~r~:~ D.m1c:, IN 4ft'i'i6-077'J Notre: D.unc:. IN 1Hl55h·On9 l'c:wll:lu:.!lpn~t.t~ p;tid .tt Nmre [}.A.nu: .mJ Jddir•••nal rn.uhn~llflil.e\. 
POSTMA.'Ht;R 
~end addrO:'-\ ~nrrc:clioru co: ThrOili>Crver 
Thr Oh..c:rvcr i• 11 mcmhc-r ut ~~~ h»o:k.i&lcli Pre&'!., All u•pf11CIUt-1ion fiKhb .uc mocrv«l. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
TODAY'S STAFF QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Angela Saoud Heather Van Kelly Meehan Hoegarden 
Jen Howling Eric Retter Viewpoint Kevin Brennan 

"To err is human; to forgive, divine."
Justin Spack Scene Graphics Christie Boisen Desiree Zamora Illustrator 

Alexander Pope 
Meg Dwyer 
author 
1~0. Box Q, Notre Darm·. IN lr6'i% 014 South !lining H.rll, Notre llarnc, IN 46'i56 EDITOR IN CIIIEF MJI! Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGEII  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
As.~'l~ MANAGINl; Enrro11  
Joe I killer  

NEWS Eorron: Claire l kiningcr VII'WI'OINT EDITOR: S;lfah Vahulas 
SI'OIITS EDITOR: lleatht•r Van Hocgardcn 
SCENE EDI r<>R: Maria Smith 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud 
PHOTO EOITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPIIIC~ ElliTOil: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carril· hanklin 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Ndson 
SYSTEM~ ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allt•n 
CoN·mmi F.R: Paula ( ;arcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
('i74) 631-7471 fAX (')74) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
('>71) (>.\1-(,900 ohscad~ 11 nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(57·i) (,.~1-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR (174) (,j l-'i'i41 obsme@1nd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-432·1 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-531.3 
NEWS 0ESK 
('>74) (,j I-S.12.l obsnrw.,, I @nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT 0ESK 
(574) 631-530j viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS 0ESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1 i[l>nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
('\74) 631-4540 scenc.l@'nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
('i74) 631-8767 pl)oto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(174) 631-88.~9 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
Tht· Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the Universiry ofNmre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. F.ditori.tl content, induding advertisemen!S, is not governed hy policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on coment. 

I miss kickball. It can actually bo quito ealming to rmninisen back to those hal­eyon days in elementary school when tho most taxing issuos on my mind were things like rmnmnboring to run to first basn-not third ­aftpr booting the Joey Falco ball into the out­field, and when Forty Ounces to expressing my Falco attraetion to girls was as simple as not pegging them in the face as they trottnd around the bases. Without a doubt. though, tho most exhilarating aspect of playground kickball, at least for eight-year-old. pop­ularity-driven narcissists like me, was tlw guarantoed-to-elicit-toars proeess of picking teams. 
Of course, tlwm wore tho natural ath­lotos who were always among the first pirkod. Most often, aftPr that, eame sonw of the morn athletie girls-the tomboys, as they wen~ so flatteringly rnferred. Then, the rosters were usually rounded out with tho nocessary pieks of tho less-coordinated boys, the girly-girls and tlw kids who would clearly prefer to be reading Goosebumps books instead of getting tlwir sneakers dirty on a kick­ball liold. Finally, thorP was always the inevitable battle over which team would got stuek with the fat kid, regardless of how good he may or may not havn been. 
As silly as it sounds, that superficial playground process for choosing sides in a competition really has loft lasting implications on the way in which adult society operates today, especially in the world of polities. America's two major parties, after all, have been picking and trading players for their teams from a lineup of issues and ideas for the past 150 years, each desperately searching for those key platform policies that will consistently elnar the bases with their powerful kicks. Needlnss to say, today's Democratic Party is playing with a bench full of fat kids. 
As the 22 percent of Americans who voted for their president based solely on his stance on issues of morality know, Democrats have been stuck with adding to their team two of the worst politieal kickball players ever conceived -the pro-choice stance on abortion and the right for homosexuals to marry. These end-of-the-bench, guarantned strike­outs, which certainly may reprnsnnt positive charaetnristics of the Dem!HTatie Party's unending quest for equal opportunity, have really proven to be the Achilles heel of a kickball tnam that is already going up against one of the most formidablo foes in thn history of political competition. 
Yes, the Hepublican Party dearly 
had thn first pick in this indn­Almighty consistently playnd tlw scribably significant proeess of role of t.lw l'al. kid waiting tnam assembly, and they against tlw wall in tlw nlnc­ingeniously chose the only toral ganw or kkkball, with invincible player to ever no candidatn 1wnr wanting take part in tlw game or to blatantly !TOSS thP politics -the holinst of sacred barrinr bntwPnn holies. the creator of 1·hurch and statn. John lleavnn and Earth, lie F Kennedy, altPr all. who is what is, the one Anwrica's only Catholic and only God almighty. president, bandy won Clearly, by choosing his Plnetion hn1~ausn of God to bat deanup for votPr fnars that his poli­thnir already loaded cins would dirndly lineup of tax cuts and rPiket thn will of tlw honwland sncurity, the Vatican. Son. John F. Hepublicans managed to K1~rry, on thn ~~ontrary, pull oil' the equivalnnt of essPntially lost this elec­adding l)avid Beckham's tion bncause lw could not foot to a kindergartnn kick­eonvinen votnrs that lw was ball tPam. Naturally, thny Catholic enough. provnd to bn unstoppable (]early, timns arn changing. against the Democrats' squad of God has cnased to be that chub-
fat camp dropouts. 
Simply taking a look back at the elec­tion makes it quite dear how much the Hepublican team relied upon a few grand slams from its lleaven-sent all­star. Prior to the election, s!weral Catholic priosts and bishops openly admitted to sensing that divine provi­dence would play a part in returning Bush to the White House, and exit polls from Nov. 2 eventually showed the born-again Evangelical managed to cross the transubstantiation gap and take 52 percent of the Catholic vote away from a practicing Catholic. 
On top of that, while addressing the 2004 National Urban League Conference this summer, the supposed chosen candidate of Jehovah announced the federal government's political and religious partnership with such groups as Boston's Black Ministerial Alliancn, thn Mntro Denver Black Church Initiative and various otlwr minority church groups, and in thn end, this holped him piggyback on Cod's shoul­ders once again whiln ganwring tlw votes of 30 pnrcnnt of all non-white mains and 24 pnrcent of all non-white lim1alns-both sharp incrP.asns from ;woo. 
The funny thing is, for de1~ades, the 
by playground wallllower who patinntly waits on the bnnch with the girly-girls and the nerds while the cool kids battle it out on the kiekballlield. lie has, instead, become so dominant and so popular, that it is sal'n to say that neither team can possibly win without Him. So now, the question bnc9mes, will the Democrats make the wise decision and attempt to add God's powerful foot to their team in 2008? 
Or will they stubbornly stick with their lineup of fat kids? 
Joey Falco is a sophomore American Studies major. 1/e can be reached at jfalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obseruer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Men always want to be a woman's first love ­women like to be a man's last romance." 
Oscar Wilde author 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Monday, November 22, 2004 
page 9 
Flexing the heart muscle 

for love -with its flowers and Bob Masters tank-tops and pastel popped­collar polo shirts. Love should 
Fall on the Floor 
always be bold. There's noth­
and I Laughing 
ing courageous about falling in love when the whole world smells like lilac and dew-drops. I don't buy into such simple purple-prose notions of affection. They're for Hallmark and my junior high school poetry. No, I'm from the Midwest. I'm made of sterner things. 
That's why for me, the greatest season for romance is the late fall. There's something about those days when snow and rain and grayness combine into one big stew called "Midwest November" that stirs my pas­sions. The first brisk chill that requires me donning a sweater sends along a secret message: get up, get on your feet and get living. The last few days of the sea­son when it's still possible to go out without a jacket speak volumes to me. They say, "listen my son, ask someone out, stop being so afraid and rage against the dying of that romantic light because there are only so many chances left before it starts getting dark at 4:30." The fall is a constant reminder that things must change and I, for one, don't want to be left on the romantic losing end because I sat out of the game. And, really, nobody can fall in love in February any­way. There are too many jackets in the way. 
The end of fall is really a metaphor for acting on possibility. There's no greater reminder of the short time we have left to us to find that true love than watching the leaves turn color, realizing that we, like the leaves, are not meant to last forever. Yes, as the fall shows us, we must act and act now. 
But above all, gentle reader, there is one ultimate reason why the fall is perfect for romance. This reason cannot be measured by the heart nor understood by the mind. No, it only can be explained by the good people at card services. 
I'm talking, of course, about Flex Points. 

With the coming of the frost and the Great Pumpkin, around this time every year I begin to run out of Flex Points. This, I have come to find out, is a common experience for most of our campus. Unlike the U.S. government, we cannot continuously spend money somebody else gave us for as long as we want. China may graciously not come collecting on our national debt but tell that to the fine coffee-providers at Starbucks who have begun to look at me funny when I offer to pay for my latte with funds ear-marked for Social Security. 
Like a boy playing backyard baseball up until the very last light of day, I've pushed my card-swiping ability to the limits, squeezing every last Flex decimal point out of my ID. Oh, how I lament my misspent August, when every coffee was venti and every value meal was supersized. The majority of my Flex Points were surely spent in this vain enterprise, feeding my body but neglecting my soul. Only now. do I grasp the inherent connection between my heart and my meal plan. 
A man of my average looks and simple social graces requires a well-funded romantic mobilization force to level the dating playing field so unfairly tilted in favor of the varsity athlete. What I lack in looks and letter­man status must be made up for in the ability to pur­chase smoothies. 
In days of yore I would simply ask my father for a piece of the family estate, thus providing a small year­ly income that would allow me to maintain a cottage, a country wife and a pack of hounds. But alas, this is modern-day America and this is not the first time 21st century notions of dating have let me down. 
As I have come to find out, for those of us not on the football team, wooing can't be done on the cheap. Like a big-money lobbyist firm, Flex Points peddle influ­ence, convincing skeptical young ladies that I am a man worthy of their affection for I am the great provider of submarine sandwiches. 
For the regular Joes of Notre Dame like me, the hope of impressing a young lady is an uphill battle. Thanks to Flex Points, however, we have two powerful allies -Burger King and quarter dogs. Yes, I believe it was Sir Francis Bacon who professed in his famous essay "On Love" that "love can find entrance not only into an open heart, but also into [the Huddle]." Ab Flex Points, the meal plan-melter of hearts. 
Of course, if they should fail, there's always virtues such as sensibility, character, tenderness, personality, politeness, kindness, charity, gentleness, empathy, decorum, spirit and graciousness ... but Notre Dame didn't give me 230 of those. 
Bob Masters is a senior English major. You may con­tact him at amasters@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Relllelllber and respect SMC history 
On Thursday, Student Activities Board hosted a feedback session to address the issue of the recent Pride Week T-shirt. The shirt featured a woman and the words, "Women with Knowledge." Like so many other issues, it has drawn the w.rath of a few women for promot­ing the wrong stereotypes about Saint Mary's women. It has also led to identity forums where women have gathered to discuss what exactly a SMC Chick really is. The ideas put forth varied from sluts to intelligent women with class. More recently, the debate has led to an attack on shirt colors, Saint Mary's mascots, the French Cross and even the American Flag. 
Needless to say, Saint Mary's has a history as an elite women's college. We are the Belles for a reason. To disregard this part of our history is destroying a part of who we are. Of course, there are a few stereotypes that I believe all of us would like to change, but within reason. The pride shirt says who we are -women with intelligence and represents the majority of the students here on campus. If you dis­agree with the shirt, you have the freedom not to buy one. 
I do not support the effort to have these sym­bols of who we are removed. Like it or not, we are Americans in America. This is our country and we should be able to express our sense of national pride. 
Just because not all of us are American does not mean that we should walk around on eggshells. We should respect their right to dis­play national pride, and in turn, they should respect our right as well. Once again, if they disagree with the symbols on our gear, then they have the ability not to wear it. 
Similarly, we are a catholic college, founded by sisters of the Church. As a student, you choose to come here and in making that choice, you agree to accept the things that are a part of our culture and identity. If you dis­agree with what makes us unique, go find a college or university that is so wrapped up in political correctness that they are willing to give up their history, culture, traditions and identity. 
Taking these concepts out of student life jeopardizes our right to liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
Cheryl Barker Regina Hall 
JUlllOf 
Nov. 18 
U-WIRE 
Powell leaves behind legacy of international popularity 
Colin Powell's recent resignation as Secretary of State was bad enough. It was one thing to lose one of the greatest public servants this country has seen in years, but to make things worse, Powell's replacement will be . 
National Security Matthew Reid Advisor Condoleezza 
Massachusetts

Rice. So much for 
Daily Collegian 

President George W. 
University of

Bush's plan to 
Massachusetts­

bridge the gap in 
Amherst

this already divided country. 
In his Nov. 3 acceptance speech, follow­ing the concession of Sen. John Kerry, Bush admitted he failed at unifying the people of the United States. The gap between the left and right was wider than ever when Bush won a second term, but he said he would do everything in his power to fix the problem. He isn't off to a good start by placing someone who is pos­sibly farther to the right than he is as the nation's top diplomat. 
Any balancing that Powell was doing in the Cabinet has all but disappeared. And as the Iraq situation gets worse and worse, and the death toll rises higher and higher by the day, we need Powell's pres­ence more than ever 
Rice replacing Powell, on the other hand, is about as far of a downgrade as you can get. She lacks the experience on the diplomatic stage that Powell pos­sessed and has never been one for diplo­macy. She represents everything that is w.rong with the Bush administration, which would seem to hinder the whole "bridging the gap" thing Bush had in mind. And on top of all that, she didn't even want the job in the first place, hav­ing said she was primarily interested in the Secretary of Defense position. 
I do realize that Rice is a brilliant, strong-willed person. She was a professor (at Stanford, no less) in her mid-20s. Ten years later she was advising one President Bush, and a little over 10 years after that she was advising another President Bush. She is decisive, fierce and confident. 
But does that make up for the fact that she played a crucial role in the preemp­tive invasion of Iraq, leading to the deaths of God-knows-how-many lives? Does it make up for the fact that she covered up the truth along the way? Does it make up for the fact that in the process, she helped ruin our alliances with several European nations? Hardly. 
With Rice in the driver's seat, there will be no question whether or not she believes in what the President is pushing for. Bush no longer has to deal with a Secretary of State that doesn't share his excessive fever for the war in Iraq, and all can be one big, happy family. In the end, that's seemingly the whole point of Bush's second-term team, to make a Cabinet of as many like-minded (and essentially right-minded) people as possible. 
This article originally appeared in the Nov. 19 issue ofthe Massachusetts Daily Collegian, the daily publication at the University ofMassachusetts-Amherst. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Monday, November 22, 2004 
Top ten online titne wasters 
Taking a look into the top 10 ways that the Internet distracts college students from school 


By MARIA SMITH, MOLLY GRIFFIN, 
CHRISTIE BOLSEN and RAMA 
GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Writers 

People have praised the Internet as one of the greatest tools ever to be invented. Its uses never end -communication, learning, e-mailing profes­sors your papers instead of going to their offices, etc. 
But even ignoring the fact that the Internet may be dominated by indecent Web sites, no one can deny that it has provided endless ways to avoid your work. In honor of the approach of finals, here are some of the biggest time wasters provid­ed by the Internet. 
1.AIM 

AOL Instant Messenger ranks among the biggest computer time-wasters available today, and it has quickly become an integral part of the lives of many college students. You assign yourself a screenname, and you can "chat" with other peo­ple by typing using dialogue boxes. You get a buddy list with all of your friends' screennames, and you can spend hours checking away mes­sages that people put up when they aren't around their computer. If you ask most college students, Instant Messenger is more than just a time waster -it's an integral part of how they communicate with other people. 
2. The facebook 

Talk to anyone about the facebook, and you'll probably hear them complain about how much time they waste on it. The facebook is a kind of online yearbook, but you get to choose your own photo and create your own profile. If you happen to be surfing the facebook and see someone that you know, you can invite them to be your friend, and they can confirm or reject you. The facebook is a spreading presence at universities across the nation, so it's quite possible for you to spend hours looking for people from your high school, lind that boy or girl you like in calculus class or browse through the wide variety of clubs, such as the Awkward White Guy Club or the Committee to Helocate Notre Dame to the Bahamas. 
3. ESPN.com 

Between the Facebook and AIM, there's plenty of time wasting to go around. But just in case, ESPN.com is easily a top choice and a home away from home for procrastinators -at least those that happen to be sports fans. Whether you want the latest predietions and/or rants from Dickie V. ("You gotta love the Dukies and their diaper dandies this year, baby!") or just want to see video and hear commentary on the fallout between the city of Detroit against the Paeers, ESPN.com is the place to go. On top of all that, it's easily one of the best sites on the net for live scores, stats galore, columns from sports experts, game wraps and fantasy leagues that'll keep you occupied until the wee hours of the morning-or at least until 15 minutes before that 8 a.m. biology exam. 
4. Online shopping 

The irresistibility of online shopping can be summed up in two words-convenience and selection. Even people who are too lazy to get up out of their chairs can max out their credit cards at the Gap, Best Buy and virtually any other store that more motivated shoppers actually walk around in to go shopping. Besides the allure of acquiring a new wardrobe or stereo system while sitting around in your underwear, there's the fact that you can shop online at stores which might not exist in South Bend except on the World Wide Web. 
5. lyrics 

When you need the perfect song for your profile or away message, your other time-wasting Internet pastime, you can now Google those mum­bled songs that you hear on the radio. Plus, you can now use search engines to learn lyrics and impress people with your ability to sing all the words to "Callin' Baton Rouge." Whatever your reason for needing to know all the lyrics to any song, you can spend your time on Iyriesdepot.com instead of writing your papnrs. 
6. Online Games 
Back in elementary and middle school, it was easy to waste hours playing Tetris, solitaire or Snood on the computer. Sadly, nowadays, nothing has changed. At least back then you could take it off your computer. Now, you can look up almost any game online instantaneously, and before you know it another hour of your life is gone. 
Particularly addicting games can easily bn found at www.zone.msn.com, the appropriately named www.addictinggames.com and even our own www.ndtoday.com. Use with caution, because the closer finals come, the more tempting they are. 
7. The Onion 

The Onion is to newspapers what "The Daily Show" is to TV news. The Onion mocks everything from politics to the banal details of everyday life, and does so by making everything, no matter how silly, read like a real news articles. With news headlines like, "Teen Handed Awesome Responsibility of Closing Subway Alone" or edito­rials titled, "What Happens at Yucca Mountain Stays at Yucca Mountain," you can waste a lot of time reading entertaining, albeit fake, news. The Onion also offers collections of its news articles in book form for those who wish to spend even more time reading slightly made-up news. 
8. homestarrunner.com 
If you want to figure out how big a time waster www.homestarrunner.com has bocome, try mak­ing your buddy icon a picture of Trogdor and see how many people recognize him. Then compare with how many people recognize a picture of Koli Annan. The results may be frightening. Homestar Hunner and his cartoon buddies can become a true addiction; at first, they may only be mildly funny, but before long, you may be spending the better part of an afternoon sifting through Strong Bad e-mails, cartoon shorts, character videos and of course Teen Girl Squad. You might even feel like the characters have beeome your friends. But remember, real friends will help you pass your classes. 
9. Blogs 

The blog scene has been growing continuously over the past several years, and has recently exploded. Admittedly, some of these blogs are useful. Political blogs, for example, can be a great way to lind well-constructed arguments on public policy or international relations, which will never make it to newspapers. But keeping a livejournal or a deadjournal is not only an ellicient way to waste not only your own time -you can waste the time of many of your friends simultaneously. Keeping in touch with your friends, you say'? !low many times have you read multiple entries out of a journal of someone you barely know or never met'? This is clearly a huge time waster. 
10. Maddox 

A lot of people only know www.maddox.xrnis­sion.eom from the famous page "I am better than your kids," featuring critical commentary on chil­dren's artwork. People who take the time to explore the rest of the site will discover that Maddox is rude to every other class of people. The kids' pictures are funny, but an article about why Christopher Heeve is sel!ish and arrogant'? Criticizing "The Lord of the Rings" for not having lesbians? How inappropriate can you be? 
Maddox is proof that people love to have people to hate. The best way to stop him from writing is not, of course, to write hate e-m ails and give him fodder for more postings, but people continue to write and he continues to make admittedly humorous, but invariably rude, responses. A sick cycle, you say'? Don't assume you're immune, and be careful about visiting Maddox. 
Contact Maria Smith, Molly Griffin, Christie Boisen and Rama Gottumukkala at msmith4@nd.edu, cbolsen@nd.edu, mgriffin@nd.edu and rgottumu@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, November 22, 2004 
page 11 
A ''Fusion'' of cultures 
Saturday night's Asian Allure impresses a full house with fashion, dancing and more 
By JANE MITSCH Scene Writer 
Roots and wings seemed to be persistent themes throughout Saturday night's Asian Allure. After last year's stint off campus, this year's performance came back to its original venue at Washington Hall, but took off with a new theme, "Fusion," featuring a whole new blend of traditional and contempo­rary fashion, dance and culture. 
As in the past, the organizers and performers did not fail to pack the house. Crowd-pleasing featured guests at Asian Allure included TroopND, First Class Steppers and the brand new addition this year, Project Fresh. The emcee Liz Tran best described the "Fusion" per­formances as "a little bit of old school, a little bit of new school, a lot of crazy school." 
Asian Allure model organizers combed campus for versatile clotheshorses to show off tradition­al, formal and casual fashion. "Old school" couture, belonging to the clubs and the models' own closets, included .authen.tic traditional pieces ranging from India, Korea, Japan. Hawaii and the Philippines. Formal and street clothes were also picked out by the models. 
The Vietnamese Student Association featured a new lineup this year with the flirtatious Non-La Bamboo Hat Dance and the humor­ous New Year Mua Las Dragon Dance. The Filipino American Student Organization performed its perennial crowd-pleaser, Tinikling, with the traditional costumes and steps, as well as a modern version with a hot hip-hop beat and street clothes. The brave men in loincloths also performed the solemn warrior dance, Uya-Uy. The Hawaiian Club performed a graceful hula dance. The Korean Student Association incorporated a rich Korean history with a beautiful fan-dance put on by the women, with a talented contem­porary culture as shown by K-Pop's boy-band-worthy moves. 
The Japan Club presented a 

seamless blend of traditional and 
modern culture with its Fisherman's 
Dance Plus, with everything from 
kimonos to cheerleaders. The 
Indian Association once again put 
on a highly energized, colorful and 
well-received dance, culminating in 
an exciting gymnastic feat. 
"Since most of us have never been 
to all these places in Asia, these 
clubs bring the exotic diversity right 
here to South Bend," sophomore 
Indian dancer Himanshu Kothari 
said. "If the students in the audi­
ence were unsure before about the 
value of diversity on campus, this 
entertaining show will convince 
them." 

Some of the non-ethnic clubs fea­tured at "Fusion" were also big hits. The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute demonstrated the skillful grace and threatening strength of Tae Kwon Do and Jujistsu. TroopND brought the freshest moves to Washington Hall, putting the SYR and Boat Club dance floors to shame. The First Class Steppers outdid themselves again this year with more acrobatic moves and par­ticipation from the ladies. Last but .,not least. a brand new club on cam­pus called Project Fresh made its debut, winning the crowd approval right away for an auspicious initia­
tion into the hearts of students. 
By now most of the individual eth­
nic clubs have their own perform­
ances, like the Indian Association's 
Bhangra Bash and FASO's Fiestang, 
but the coordinators and Asian 
Allure veterans believe this 
"Fusion" is still necessary. 
"[We] thought that Asian Allure 
was a good chance for all the clubs 
to come together with a united front 
and feature a multifaceted Asian 
culture," senior model Joe Tan said. 
"And we all believe in the diversity 
dialogue. Not only ethnic diversity 
but other minority participation 
hopefully encourages some more 
students to break out of their com­
fort zone and see what we can do 
together." 

Contact Jane Mitsch at jmitsch@nd.edu 

Above, the show featured dancers dressed as a dragon. At right, the Indian Association performs a bhangra dance. Bottom right, the Vietnamese Student Association performs the Non-La Bamboo Hat Dance. Bottom left, the Korean Student Association performs a fan-dance.
•

PHOTOS BY CLAIRE KELLEY 


page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 22, 2004 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles start season vvith disappoinhnent in loss to Hanover 
were off. We had a lot of an early 12-6 lead, but experi­led the Belles with 22 points. battling back in the second 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 

turnovers, and I think we just enced an offensive lull late in She hit several key shots dur­half and refusing to give up.
Sports Wri[er 

panicked." the first half, and Franklin led ing Saint Mary's comeback Lipke attributes this toughness 
Saint Mary's had no answer by a score of 38-29 at halftime. attempt. to the makeup of this year's 
The Saint Mary's basketball for Hanover's star forward The Belles refused to stop Freshman Allison Kessler team. season did not start out exactly Laura Little. Little scored 17 fighting, however. also played a vital role in the "We were down, but came as the Belles had hoped, as the first half points to give Saint Mary's opened the sec­Belles' second half run. back," Lipke said. "I think that tPam lost both of its games in Hanover a 31-19 lead at inter­ond half with a 10-3 run, clos­Kessler brought energy off the was because of the chemistry this weekend's Tip-OtT Classic mission. The Belles were ing the gap to two points. The bench and contributed eight and the girls on the team. held at the Angela Athletic unable to gain any ground in team stayed relatively even points in the second period. Chemistry is going to be a key Center. the second half. with Franklin for the remain­"She really lit a spark and for us for the rest of the sea­
On Friday night, the Bnlles Center Maureen Bush led der of the game. With 2:30 left, carne out and played awe­son." fell to llanover College 63-38. Saint Mary's with nine points, Bush hit a turnaround jumper some," Lipke said. The Belles hope this chem­Saint Mary's struggled to get and forward Emily in the lane to cut the Franklin Lipke had 10 assists, and istry will translate into suecess anything going offensively, Creachbaum contributed seven lead to 55-53. Creachbaum pulled down 1 0 on the court in the future. scoring only 19 points in eaeh points and sveen rebounds. In the final two minutes, rebounds for Saint Mary's in Saint Mary's will look for its half. The team shot an anemie The Belles played much bet­however, Franklin connected the losing effort. first win Tuesday night when it 21 pereent from the floor in ter in Saturday's contest on 9-of-10 free throws, and While disappointed with the takes on Manchester College at llw game. against Franklin College, Saint Mary's failed to come up outcome, the Belles were the Angela Athletic Center. 
"We just had a rough first despite failing to pick up the with the big shots to make a pleased with their perform­game," Belles' point guard victory, losing 66-57. final run. ance on Saturday. The team Contact Kevin Brennan at Bridget Lipke said. "Our shots Saint Mary's jumped out to Junior guard Bridget Boyce showed excellent character by kbrenna4@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S BOXING 

Women hold first annual Baraka Bouts finals 
title. spurt, followed by defensive tac­Successive blows to the head of Galmarini def. Mooney 
By TOM DORWART, RYAN 

Rickert def. Burgin, junior feath­tics from both fighters. Williams's Whealan late in the third round welterweight
KIEFER and 

erweight strength in the early rounds sealed the decision for Borys. The battle of the Phoxes of
KATESERYAK 

Emily Hickert edged senior proved enough for her to earn the Canavan def. Libardf, super Pangborn was won by sophomore
Sports Wri[ers 

Sarah Burgin in the final, in a victory. welterweight /\gus Galmarini who earned the 
tight, hard-fought match. Miller def. Wu, junior In a bout that proved to be one unanimous decision over fellow 
Aller three months of training, "It's a f.'leat workout," first-time welterweight of the more closely contested sophomore Kathleen Mooney. The hundrods or thousands of push­boxer Hickert said. I thought it Dominant from the outset, fights of the day, Megan Canavan two eombatants, who live on the ups and sit-ups and hours of run­was a really aggressive bout. It sophomore Kelsey Miller won the defeated her sophomore class­same floor of Pangborn, were ning, the women boxers finally was a good fight." title over classmate Aileen Wu in mate Julie Libardi in a split deci­cautious at the outset as the first stopped into the ring this week. Irvine def. McCormick, junior a unanimous decision. Miller was sion. Both fighters threw aggres­round yielded limited aetion. For 22 boxers, their hard work lightweight poised to attack from the opening sive combinations in the early The fight took a decisive turn in was surnly well worth it. Senior Melanie Irvine used her bell, using a barrage of punches going with Libardi backing the second round; however, as 
Sunday at 2 p.m. the first bell experience to her advantage as that sent her opponent to the can­Canavan into a corner, taking the Galmarini was able to land com­sounded, at the Joyce Center, for she defeated freshman Colleen vas within the first minute of the early advantage. binations that left her opponent the inaugural Baraka Bouts McCormick in a unanimous deci­bout. Canavan came back with an on her heels. Galmarini's success championships. For the first time sion. The trend continued in the see­inspired performance in the sec­eontinued in the third round, as ever, the women's boxing club The senior was savvy and ond round, as Wu was unable to ond round, however, attacking she used her left jab to gain con­was able to hold a tournament. aggressive, using combinations to prevent Miller from backing her early, and landing a high percent­trol of a match that appeared Last year the women fought in gain the upper hand early. into the corner and gaining the age of her punches. It was awkward for both of the combat­nxhibition bouts. McCormick gave a valiant upper hand. Despite having her Canavan's most effective round as ants. 
"No other school has women's effort, but found herself on the strongest performance in the it propelled her to a victory Runde def. Popoff, boxing," Emily Rickert said. "It's a receiving end of too many blows third round, Wu was still forced to despite suffering a blow in the supenniddlewelght: good opportunity" from her opponent. Irvine wore go on the defensive as Miller tried third round that sent her mouth The final for the super mid­White def. Paladino, flyweight down McCormick in the later unsuccessfully to deliver the guard flying out of the ring. dleweight title was the last of the 
In the flyweight championship stages, putting her on the defen­knockout blow. Miller's consisten­Oguchi def. Welch, night. Emily Popoff and Kate bout, junior Paige White defeated sive for the majority of the final cy throughout was more than suf­middleweight Runde, both from Walsh Hall, frnshman Meghan Paladino, in a round. Irvine's consistency ficient to award her the decision. The final middleweight match faced off in the ring. split decision, after three one­throughout the three rounds Borys def. Whealan, junior up for the 2004 Baraka Bout<> was Popoff started off strong, fiercely and-a-half minute rounds. reflected her seniority and was middleweight between Leslie Oguchi from delivering several jabs and ending 
"You put in a ton of work dur­enough to give her the title. Senior captain Amanda Borys Farley and Maria Welch from in a jab-eross. Runde, however, ing the season -long hours," Williams def. Jackson, was masterful in a textbook per­Welsh Family. Oguchi hit Wekh soon had her against the ropes. White said. "Getting in the ring lightweight formance that resulted in a unani­with several uppercuts during the During the second round, she skill­and eoming out on top in front of In a match marked by early mous decision over junior Meghan second round, only to be bom­fully planted a huge right cross on a large crowd of people defmitely aggression from both fighters, Whealan. Borys eame out firing, barded by Welch in a last-second Popoff. Runde continued to attack makes it all worth while. It was a freshman Emily Williams landing several punches early that comeback. This bout was close on the cross while Popoff strugglnd great match. I'm just excited to emerged victorious in a unani­forced the referee to step in and until late in the third round when in her defensive position. The two have come out on top." mous decision over junior Erica send the combatants to the cor­Oguchi pinned Welch up against eirded several times in the third Rulz def. Flckey, featherweight Jackson. Williams used her left ners. the ropes. However, Oguchi came round, followed by a final meeting 
In the featherweight division, hand to keep her opponent off­Borys continued her dominance out as the winner in split-decision of gloves, however Hunde was senior Grise! Ruiz overpowered balance, a strategy that gave her after the stoppage and into the of a well-paired match. declared the winner by unani­junior Jessica Fiekey for the title. an early advantage in the light. As second round, landing combina­"It was an excellent event," mous decL<>ion. I leading into the third round, the the match progressed, she began tions to the head and body of Welch said. "It was so great for bout was still close, but Ruiz cor­using a right jab to set up her Whealan. The junior was on the the girls to showcase all of their Contact Tom Dorwart, Ryan nered Fickny nearly 30 seeonds powerful left, using this technique defensive for the majority of the hard work this season. We are Kiefer and Kate Seryak at into the round and dealt several to pin her opponent against the match, suffering a big right from working to make each other bet­tdorwart@nd.edu, solid blows. Huiz held on to her ropes in the second round. The Borys in the third round that ter and to raise money for the rkiefer 1 @nd.edu and lead the rest of the way for the final round featured an early resulted in another stoppage. cause. kseryak@nd.edu 
The Observer accep[s classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 l.m. a[ [he Notre Dame office, 024 Sou[h Dining Hall. Deadline for nex[-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds mus[ be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cems per charac[er per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righ[ w edi[ all classifieds for comem wi[hou[ issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR NEW 3-4 BEDROOM, 3 BATH. Spring Break 2005 with Still partying after all these years ­LEASING FOR 2005-2006 LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year-SAFE,CLOSE TO CAMPUS,2-CAR STS,Americas #1 Student Tour Lafayette Square Townhomes! 234­
WANTED SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS-Available June 1, 2005. 2 Bedrooms GARAGE. FIREPLACE,FAMILY-Operator. 9923. ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED -2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security ROOM,LARGE DECK. Hiring campus reps. WANTED Female to share great HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. System. Fully Furnished. (626)441-$1,660/MO. CALL 1-574-232-4527, Call for group discounts. Wow 
Oakhill condo, start Jan. Grad pref. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, 1275 or Salvaty@earthlink.net OR 1-269-683-5038 Info/Reservations We are almost therel! 

625/m incl. utilities. 238-2368. STUDENT 1-800-648-4849 NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY 6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. 2 bdrm,1 bth house for rent. 425 www.ststravel.com Chicago??? SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. Napoleon.
FoR RENT ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS. AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. Walk to campus $575 p/mo. Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity I Luv my sorority girls 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE HOME,W/D,NEAR 273-4682. Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes (And those who decided to stay in MISHAWAKA WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, and study or go to Chicago) 2-3 bedroom,2.5 bath, 1.200 sq.ft + OR AVAIL.NOW. CALL 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Nassau, Jamaica From $4591 full basement + 2-car garage, CONTACT: KRAMER JOE CRIMMINS: Walking distance from ND Panama City & Daytona $1591 UNCLE BJLUIII $875/mo. (574)234-2436 OR 574-229-3659 MMMRentals.com www.SpringBreakTravel.com 574-273 9000. (574)315-5032. OR 679-201 0. 532-1408 1·800-678-6386 Yes, they lost they war. 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 22, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE 0LSSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
College Football Polls 
AP 
team 1 usc (48) 2 Oklahoma (9) 3 Auburn (8) 4 California 5 Utah 6 Texas 7 Louisville 8 Georgia 9 Miami 10 Boise Stale 11 Virginia Tech 12 Iowa 13 Michigan 14 LSU 15 Tennessee 16 Virginia 17 Boston College 18 Arizona Slate 19 Florida Stale 20 Wisconsin 21 West Virginia 22 TexasA&M 23 Oklahoma Slate 24 UTEP 25 Florida 
Coaches 
team 
USC(48) 1 Oklahoma (7) 2 Auburn (6) 3 California 4 Texas 5 Utah 6 Georgia 7 louisville 8 Miami 9 Boise State 10 Virginia Tech 11 LSU 12 Michigan 13 Iowa 14 Tennessee 15 Virginia 16 Florida State 17 Wisconsin 18 Boston College 19 Arizona State 20 West Virginia 21 Texas A&M 22 Oklahoma State 23 Bowling Green 24 UTEP 25 
Men's Swimming & Diving CSCAA Top 25 
team  uotes  
1  Auburn  199  
2  usc  189  
3  Florida  188  
4  Stanford  172  
4  California  172  
6  Minnesota  156  
7  Arizona  155  
8  Texas  144  
9  Michigan  134  
10  Virginia ·  130  
11  Tennessee  119  
12  Kentucky  112  
13  North Carolina  97  
14  Indiana  93  
15  Northwestern  82  
16  Georgia  80  
17  Purdue  78  
18  Hawaii  68  
19  Texas A&M  49  
20  Wisconsin  40  
21  NOTRE DAME  37  
22  BYU  31  
23  Pittsburgh  24  
24  Alabama  20  
25  Florida State  14  

Men's CCHA Hockey Conference 
team 
Ohio Slate Michigan Nebraska-Omaha Alaska Fairbanks Bowling Green lake Superior Northern Michigan Western Michigan Miami Michigan Slate NOTRE DAME Ferris State 
CCflA 
H·1 7-1·0 5-4·1 4-2·0 3-2·1 3·4·1 3--2·1 3-6·1 3-5-0 3·5·0 1-4·3 1-6·1 
Overall 
9·4·1 9·2·1 7·4"1 5·3-0 6·3·1 3·6·1 5·3·2 5·6·1 5-7-0 5·6·1 2·5·4 4·9·1 

around the dial 
NFL 
New England at Kansas City, 9 p.m., ABC 
NCAA BASKETBALL Davidson vs. Duke, 7 p.m., ESPN2 BYU vs. North Carolina, 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Ron Artest was suspended for the rest of the season Sunday, and two of his Indiana Pacers teammates must miss a total of 55 games for fight­ing with fans during a melee that broke out at the end of a game against the Detroit Pistons. 
Overall, the NBA issued some of the harshest penalties in its history by banning nine players for more than 140 games. Artest's suspension is the strongest ever levied for a fight during a game. 
"The line is drawn, and my guess is that won't hap­pen again -certainly not by anybody who wants to be associated with our league," commissioner David Stern said. 
Indiana's Stephen Jackson was suspended for 30 games and Jermaine O'Neal for 25. Detroit's Ben Wallace -whose shove of Artest after a foul led to the five-minute fracas ­drew a six-game ban, while Pacers guard Anthony Johnson got five games. 
''I'm sick about that for Indiana. I'm devastated for them," Pistons coach Larry Brown said. "And we lost our heart and soul." 
Four players -Indiana's 
IN BRIEF 

Brehaut wins Pebble Beach 
Invitational by one stroke 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. -Jeff Brehaut made a 5-foot birdie putt on the 18th hole Sunday for a final­round 3-under 69 and a one-stroke victory over Kevin Sutherland at the Pebble Beach Invitational. 
Brehaut, who is winless in five PGA Tour seasons, finished at 9­under 279 at Pebble Beach Golf Links and was one of just three golfers who broke par in windy con­ditions. The event included players from the LPGA, Champions, Nationwide and PGA Tours, as well as mini-tour players, club pros and amateurs. 
"All of us were in trouble out there," said Brehaut, who finished 149th on the money list with $448,914. "But I hung in there and did I want had to do." 
Strong winds blew throughout the round, leading to firm greens and comparisons to the course's condi­tions when it hosted the U.S. Open. 
Reggie Miller, and Detroit's Chauncey Billups, Elden Campbell and Derrick Coleman -were suspend­ed one game apiece for leaving the bench during the initial fracas. 
All of the suspensions are without pay. Artest will lose approximately $5 mil­lion in salary, while O'Neal's suspension will cost him nearly 25 percent of his $14.8 million salary for the current season. 
Players union director Billy Hunter, calling the penalties excessive, said an appeal would be filed Monday. 
"We have to make the point that there are bound­
"The wind was tough, and it was a tough day to get a birdie and an easy day to get bogeys," said Brehaut, who earned $60,000 of the $300,000 purse. "The final putt was a perfect, easy putt and I knew I had to do something with it." Freshman point guard leads Virginia over Arizona 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. -Highly touted freshman Sean Singletary came to Virginia to play in the ACC. He arrived at a school picked to fin­ish eighth in the conference and not expected to make much noise. 
Two games into his college career, the former Philadelphia schoolboy star is already working to change that. He had 15 points and made several big plays Sunday night as the Cavaliers beat No. 10 Arizona 78-60. 
"We just have something to prove," the 6-foot point guard said. "I know a lot of people are overlooking us. They picked us to be in the bottom of the ACC. We're just going to stay humble about this win. 
I I I 
I 
I 
1 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

I 
l I 
I 
l 
I I I I 
1 
I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
aries in our games," Stern said. "One of our bound­aries, that have always been immutable, is the boundary that separate the fans from the court. Players cannot lose control and move into the stands." 
Artest, O'Neal and Jackson began serving their suspensions Saturday. 
Artest's penalty was the most severe because of his checkered history. Artest being provoked into run­ning into the stands by a fan who threw a drink did not appear to be a mitigat­ing factor in Stern's deci­sion. 
"It was unanimous, one to nothing," Stern said. 

"We're in the beginning of the sea­son, so it's nothing to be all hyped up about. We're going to stay humble and go to practice and work hard." 
The Cavaliers (2-0) looked like the more highly touted team against the Wildcats (2-1), who left after the game for New York and a Preseason NIT semifinals game against Michigan on Wednesday night. Erulles move to 9-1 behind Mc'Nabb's four touchdowns 
PHILADELPHIA-Rattled, hurried and battered for 2 1/2 quarters, Donovan McNabb kept his poise, stayed in the pocket and picked apart Washington's secondary. 
McNabb tied a career high with four touchdown passes, leading the Philadelphia Eagles to a 28-6 victory over the Redskins on Sunday. Three of those scoring passes came in the second half. 
The Eagles are 9-1 for the first time since the 1980 season, when they opened 11-1 and went to the Super Bowl. 

page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, November 22, 2004 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish deserved 111ore in vvins 
PITTSBUHCII-The Irish 
worn gyppnd. 
Junior Lauren Brewster earned a unanimous selec­tion to thn /\11-Big East Ann Loughery First team and was 
nanw Sports Writer 
Tou rnanwn t 
MVI', while junior Laurcm Knlbley and 
snnior Emily Loomis gar­
nnrnd spots on the All-Big 
East Sneond tnam and hon­
orable mention respnetiw~ly, 
Still. somehow that doesn't seem suf'lieient. 
Notrn Damn was thn first Big East Champion ever to fail to win a major award, as Pittsburgh collected honors f'or the playnr of the year and rookie of thn year. It is surprising that Big East coaehns-who vote to deter­mine the awards' recipi­ents-didn't reeognizn more Irish players. 
Notre Dame has proven itself' more than deserving or aeeolades and praise throughout the season. 
Thn Irish argued their case this weekend, handing losses to the bewildernd Boston College and Pittsburgh teams -both of which antieipated wins against Notre Damn l'or the Big East Championship. 

Mter defeating the Irish earlier t.his season, Boston three kills and .286 on hit­College expncted to repeat ting. its suecess and eruise to a Bouncing bark from such a spot in the championship disheartening loss in the first game. Pittsburgh had its game is a noteworthy sights set on a baek-to-back accomplishment for championship after beating any team. But what Notre Dame last year at the makes this recovery 

Joyce C11ntm en route to a especially praise­played
Notre Dame was
Big East title. worthy are the cir­serves as a But the Irish had other cumstances the witness to
the first Big East plans. Irish had to fare. Champion ever to the charac­Boston College kept Notre Heading into the ter the
fail to win a major
Dame at arm's length Big East throughout the first game, Championships, the capitalizing on the eolleetive­Irish set lofty ly listless Irish team. Wide­expectations for 
eyed and visibly  them- 
frustrated, the  selves. As the  
Irish relied on individual efforts and  Notre Dame has proven itselfmore  first-seeded team in the tournament,  
could not put  than deserving of  defeat seemed  
together a group-based attack to over­ accolades and praise throughout  like an unlikely option for the talent-laden  
come the  the season.  Notre Dame  
Eagles.  team.  
llowever.  Thriving on  

al't11r a brief respite between their momentum from the games, a renewed and second game, the Irish col­l'oeusnd Irish team walkod onto tlw eourts. Thn hard­nosed Notr11 Dame defense f'on~1~d Boston College into nngative numbnrs with the Eagles recording a -.083 hit­ting pnrcent<tgP, just seven team kills, and ton 1~rrors. 
Kelblny, freshmen Ashley Tarutis and /\drianna Stasiuk. Bn~wstor and junior captain Meg llenican mu~h ~~hipped in three digs and sophomorn Daninlln llerndon also addNI a dig to thn Irish effort. 
Thn Irish played textbook ofTonse as well, finishing with a .500 on hitting and 17 kills in thn S11cond game, led by Loomis, Tarutis. and Brewster. Tarutis con­tributed 12 sets, creating opportunities for each of her teammates to take their share of swings. Brewster tallied nine kills and regis­tered .900 on hitting and Loomis followed up with lected wins in each or the following games they played last weekend -including those in their match against Pittsburgh Sunday. 
The poise that Notre Dame dis­
team has

award. 
displayed throughout the season. 
Although the team seemed overlooked in regards to individual awards, at the end of the day, they walked away with what was most important­the Big East Championship. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd. edu 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish defend rank versus Louisville 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Sportd Writer 

With a national ranking to defend, the Irish wasted no time in presenting the new direction for their program over the weekend. 
Swimming at Louisville in a throe­session, championship-style meet, No. 21 Notre Dame (6-1) finished strong in its first-ever meet as a nationally-ranked team, posting a 242-117 victory against the Cardinals. 
"That was very exciting news for us but we're trying to pay absolute­ly no attention to [the ranking]." Irish head coach Tim Welsh said. "We're glad that the ranking hap­pened and we think that it gives some validity to what our ambitions are tbr the year. But we know that ranking doesn't make us one one­hundredth of a second faster and we know that if we're not fa<>ter in February, we're not going be happy." 
After being tied with Louisville 45-45 after Friday's events, Notre Dame came out strong and pulled away on Saturday. The Irish won 11 of the 15 events on the final day of the meet, garnering strong per­formances from senior Frank Krakowski. Krakowski led the way for the Irish, winning both the 100­yard butterfly and 100-yard freestyle and also taking part in the first-place 200-medley relay. 
The Irish rotated their swimmers out of their normal events during the meet but won twiee on Friday despite missing some of their top competitors, who were unable to miss class on Friday but joined their teammates in Saturday's events. Swimmers such as Krakowski, who were used to swimming key strokes in relays. were rotated to individual stroke events and they performed very well. 
"Balance and depth are our two best features," Welsh said. "Because we were not limited by the number of swimmers we could put in eaeh event [at this meet], we 

A thickf1eece coat isperfect for 1-vin.ter. Askarzyyak. 
3(X) We igllt Po la1tec0 fleece provicle s et.ce ptio118l -.VCJimth. ~8r it on itsmvn or zip it into 8 she [for -.-re hve8t lle r protect io 11. 
did a bunch of things we hadn't 
done before. But it was all within 
the structure of [asking! how we 
supplem1mt what we've done so 
that we get bettor." 

Krakowski, the eurrent Notre Dame rneord hold11r in the 50-yard freestyle, helped his teammates Doug Bauman, Tim Handolph and Louis Cavadini post a lirst-place time of 1:36.96 in the 200 medley relay. He would go on to win the 1 00-yard butterfly race, with a time of 51.51, and set thn paee again in the 100-yard freestyle (47.88) event. 
The 100-yard freestyle race proved to be one of the two points caches for the Irish, as the Irish daimed seven of tho top night spots in the event. Junior Tyler Grenda Jed the way in the other raee, win­ning the 1 00-yard broa<>L<>troke with a time of 59.06, as Notre Dame took the top nino spot<> in the event. 
"I think one of the key features of' this team is that they are a very focused group of guys," Welsh said. "We have been focused on our ambitions and our desires for achievement ever since the first time we met in Au!-,'llst and we've been able to sustain that in each one of our meets." 
The Irish will take to the water again on Dee. 2-4 a<> they return to the Holts Aquatie Center to partici­pate in the Notre Dame Invitational. The annual championship-style meet will close out the team's fall semester campaign and it will be the tenth year that the Irish have hosted the event on the first week­end after Thanksgiving. 
"We think of it as our final exam for the first semester," Welsh said. "We look at this event and say, 'Okay, where are we at the end of the fall?' and then we try to adjust what we're going to do next after that meet. I think what we're all learning is that we have a chance to be a pretty good team. We know that we have to keep on improving to do it, but we have a chance to be a pretty good team." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkalaat rgottumu@nd.edu 

]&a Jll. Gmpe Road M.Siunva.ka~ ltrNam 
2W·jOCO 

~r.JS:" Ma.~t.-.FH. ~ Ja:aJ mJ -s;toopm ~t; ~ Ja:aJ mJ -8:oopm Swt.~ J.2:-oopm-6:00pm 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, November 22, 2004 
page 20 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

<. 
Not this time 
Notre Dame beats Connecticut, avenging its only loss ofthe season 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
The No. 2 Irish turned in another impressive perform­ance during the third round of the NCAA tournament with a 2-0 shutout over conference rival Connecticut, who dealt the Irish their only loss of the year in the Big East Tournament. 
From the beginning of the match, Notre Dame controlled the game offensively. At the end of the first half, the Irish held a 12-3 lead in shots made. 
However, this dominance offensively did not help the team to convert these early opportunities into points. 
The team struggled to score until the 66th minute of the game, when senior Candace Chapman headed a ball in off a cross from freshman mid­fielder Ashley Jones for her 11th goal of the season. 

"She comes on immediately and handles it like a veteran," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said of Jones. "The hard part is now [because of the Irish talent] getting her the minutes she really needs and deserves. She just gets better each week. I thought she was fan­tastic tonight." 
Despite the difficulties in scoring up until the goal made by Chapman, Waldrum was not troubled with the team's inability to put the ball into the net. 
"The whole night I felt like we created enough chances that we would get one," Waldrum said. "I felt like we had a good handle on the game from the opening whis­tle." 
The Irish extended its con­trol on the field, into second half by scoring another goal 
see UCONN/page 18 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Men win against Harvard 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 

Irish coach Mike Brey summed it up best. 
"If you get 18 more shots than your opponent, turn them over 19 times but 
only score 66 See Also points it's "Irish needed going to be 
an early
interesting," Brey said. scare" It was 
page 16 
interesting to say the least Friday night in Notre Dame's 66-59 win over Harvard in the season opener at the Joyce Center. 
After building a 16-point halftime lead, the Irish allowed the Crimson back into the game in the second 
see CRIMSON/page 16 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish travel to Terre Haute for NCAA Championships 
' 
tinue that pattern. delivered in big meets -most that for the next five or six days." today. Huddle had been a top fm­By STEVE COYER With second-place finishes at notably a one-point victory over The women's team began the isher all season and placed 41st Sports Writer the Great Lakes Regional, the Georgetown to claim the Big East season with high expectations overall at last season's NCAA 
No.5 ranked men's team and the title. but has had to overcome injuries championship. 
Notre Dame has consistently No.6 women's team qualified for "It's been an amazing year to and other setbacks along the "At the beginning of the year proven itself to be among the the NCAA championships along go from unranked to fifth," Irish way. we had better hopes but things best in the nation this year. with 31 other teams. coach Joe Piane said. "They've After missing the regional race have not fallen into place," Irish Today at the NCAA champi­Despite beginning the season been on a high for the past six with a sore foot, star runner onships, the team looks to con-unranked, the men's team has weeks, and we hope to continue Molly Huddle may still not run see NATIONALS/page 18 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Wins over Pitt, BC give ND title 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
PITTSBURGH -Their coach likes to call them the "two Laurens." Others just call them Big East champions. 
Notre Dame s w e p t See Also Pittsburgh 30-"Irish deserved 
23, 30-26, 30­26 to win the more in wins" Big East 
page 14
Tournament title behind the consistent, strong play of Lauren Brewster and Launm Kelbley. 
Brewster, named the tourna­ment's most outstanding player, recorded five blocks in the cham-

Irish defensive specialist Meg Henican digs a ball Sunday in the see CHAMPS/page 18 Irish win over Pittsburgh in the Big East Tournament Championship. 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Batteast natned MVP of WNIT in Irish l'Vin 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 

On the best offensive night of her career, it was Jacqueline Batteast's defense that sealed Notre See Also Dame's vic­
"Team 
tory. Batteast responds to 
tallied a challenge"
career-high 

page 17
32 points and made a critical block of a potential 
see OSU/page 17 

en 
MEN'S SWIMMING
HOCKEY 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
NBA 

SMC BASKETBAll 
WOMEN'S BOXING 
LLI
1--
(.) U.S. National 

Notre Dame 189, 
Notre Dame 242, 

Hanover 63, Saint 
Baraka Bouts 

Mary's 38
Bowling Green 
Louisville 117 

NBA Commissioner
z Team 7, 

David Stern annow1ces 
Notre Dame 2 

112 
The women's first
I:C :3 
Notre Dame dominat­

suspensions from the
The Irish fail to play 

The No. 21 Irish used 
Franklin 66, Saint 
bouts were a success, as 
ed behind the strong 

Pacers-Pistons game 
Mary's 57

their depth to improve
solid defense as the 

11 championship bouts
cc 

brawl.
Under-18 National 

their record to 4-2. 
performance of Frank 
were fought Sunday. 
== 
Krakowski.
Team dominates.
=c 
page 14 
page 13

page 16
en page 17 

page 12 
page 12 
Monday, November 22, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
~----------------~E~----------------~~r:~~~~~~~~~ ~ BUT AFTER Th.JENTY ~ YOU KNOW WHY I LIKE
WHEN I WAS YOUR ! YEARS OF NOT GETTING => TALKING TO YOU?

AGE I ASOK I I TOO ~ EITHER ONE I I MADESOUGHT THE THRILL -g CONVENIENCE MY BECAUSE I AM AOF VICTORY AND THE 

i 

NEW MISTRESS. 
GOOD LISTENER.? FLESH. 
PLEASURES OF THE 

CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 
u.II-IAT IF I DECIDED TO 11VE I-lAD A LOT OF PROBABLY, ~OWEVER, BECOME A WAITER SOMEDAV? EXPERIENCE FEEDING NOT TI-lE SORT OF HUNG MY DOG ... 
TO PUT ON A RESUME .. 

-
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
'*"'~•'r' "n··r
.. w.v ;:~.ur J~*-'•'il'
R+ln 111 IH~tr1 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
DAIBE 
I I I 
02004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Righls Reserved. 
RYHUR 

± 
WHAT THE COP TURNED PHY?IC.IAN DID FOR HI? PATIENT'? PAIN.
J r I I
1 j

www.jumble.com 
STEJAM 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

(Answers tomorrow} Jumbles: UTTER KNACK PLEDGE JAGUARSaturday's 
Answer: How some schoolgirls pick their friends ­APART 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Chicago-to­51 "Family Feud" Atlanta dir. phrase

1 The "D" of D.J. 5 Huge hit 
34 Factory­56 Wading bird emissions 
57 Painting stand 10 Nile reptiles 

testing grp.14 Great Salt 
58 Cafeteria carrier 
35 "The Weakest

Lake's state 59 Space shuttle
Link" phrase 15 Cosmetician 
launcher 
37 Photo

Lauder 60 Attire
(picture-taking16 Junk e-mail times) 61 "The the 
17 "The Price Is limit"
38 Cotton Right" phrase 
39 Bassoon's 19 Trig function smaller cousins DOWN 20 Eugene O'Neill's 40 Et __ (and 1 French " for the others) nobleman Misbegotten" 
41 Protective wear 2 "How was 21 Some necklines for airborne know?" do this 
toxins 3 __ Adams, 23 Flatters, with 43 Wonder to patriot with a "up" behold beer named 26 Egypt's capital 45 Nursery 
after him 

supplies 4 One peeking at answers on a 27 2004 Olympics 
city 46 "__ Gump" 
28 Made a 47 Oreo fillings test cashless 
5 Spanish gents 
49 Wonderland 

transaction 6 1980's PC's ran
cake message 31 Accomplisher 
on it

50 Loooong 32 Up, on a map sandwich 
7 Lots and lots a Finish, with "up" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 All-female get-together 
~-=+~:*:*-~:-! 1 o State confidently to -:+::::-ioi....,.ot--:-t:':-1t-=-~ 11 "Wheel of Fortune" phrase 
OU~~~~W.~·· 12 Sign of hunger 
; 13 "Peter Pan" J-7-,Bi-:-f-:-+-7+-:+-:.+.:-+.::+c+.+-+.::+=+:7! pirate 
18 Future indicator .-=+:=+::-! 22 Like a ballerina's body 
-:-+-;;+:+:-+:::-! 23 No-goodnik -:-t=+~=+::-t:-+.:::-1 24 Paradise :+.t~:'+.~:+=+.::-i 25 "Jeopardy!" 
phrase 

THE OBSERVER 
WILLSHORTZ 

26 Atkins diet 36 Fanatical 48 Singer McEntire concerns, briefly 
40 Handcuffs 49 Gaelic tongue 28 __ well (is a 
42 Brunch cocktail 52 Former Mideast good sign) grp.
43 Roadside stops 

29 Glimpses 53 Noah's craft 
44 The Cadets, in college sports 30 Make potable, 

as sea water 54 Palindromic 32 Partner of 46 Ones you just cheer crannies adore 
55 Part of CBS: 35 Flip out 47 Goatee's locale Abbr. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554 . Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Goldie Hawn, Ken Griffey Jr., Troy" Aikman, Cherry Jones 
Happy Birthday: You have a strong creative anility that is in a highly uisciplincd cycle this year. Don't wa~te time, hut rather focus on your dreams and aspirations. Put aside the time you require to take an honest stab at fulfilling your creative goals. Your numbers are 3,12.15.33,37.41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will he very intuitive today. This trait could get you in trouble if you aren't diplomatic. Be tactful or prepare to be uefensive. 
*** 

TAURUS (April211-May 211): Get back to basics and check out some of the olu familiar places you used to go to. A chance meeting with someone from your past may lead to an array of new possihilities. **** GEMINI (May 21-Junc 211): Don't take anything or anyone for granted. The more you accomplish. the better you will feel about yourself anu your future. Avoid disputes. **" CANCER (June 21-July 22): You need to get away and have some fun. Visit a friend or invite someone to stay with you. It wouldn't hurt to be a little selfish today. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do a little decorating or cheek out real estate properties that interest you. The more you do to budget your books before the end of the year. the better. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22}: You will be offered some information that will enable you to make an important decision. Family matters can be tended to. A little help offered will bring you a huge return later on. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put in a little overtime and you will have a head start. You are up for a challenge and can easily find solutions to any work-related problems that you are facing. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Today is all about doing things that will improve your emotional and mental outlook. Pampering and taking time out to read or do the things you enjoy should be penciled in. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Everything will center on your home. The busier you are, the better. Invite friends over or plan to get involved in neighborhood events. Accommodate the ones you love. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Do a day trip that will include family or friends. Passion and greater commitment are apparent today. It's time to let others know how you feel. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Remember past experiences and the people you've met along the way. An old goal may surface, giving you a new outlook on future prospects. It's never too late to go back. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be outspoken, and this should lead to some answers you've been searching for. Once you have the information required, make your move swiftly. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are highly intuitive. You have a creative ability and are sensitive to others. You are caring and unselfish, always putting the ones you 
""":>·
love first. 

Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenia/ast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip__________ 
-~­

...--------------­
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, November 22, 2004 
Cha01ps 
continued from page 20 
pionship match and disrupted the Panther offensive attack all afternoon. 
"Lauren !Brewster] does so much for us," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "IIitting out of the back row, playing defense and good serving ... I'm just happy for her and happy for the team. It'll be a fun bus ride back home." 
Kelbley should enjoy a rest on that bus as she played this week­end for the frrst time since Nov. 5 due to a nagging foot injury. However. her play was anything but painful. She led the Irish in kills for the match with 14 and had only two errors on 35 swings for a .343 hitting percentage. 
"IKelbleyl was awesome all weekend," Brown said. "The committee [that selects the tour­nament MOP] had a hard time picking between the two Laurens. Coming ofl' of her injury and play­ing with a ton of heart and exe­cuting really well. She was huge for us at the net hitting and blocking." 

Brewster and Kelbley, first and second team all-Big East selec­tions respectively, have now been a part of two conference tourna­ment championship teams in their three years on the squad. 
Notre Dame's two freshman starters, Adrianna Stasiuk and Ashley Tarutis, played steadily in their first collegiate postseason tournament. Stasiuk was second on the team with 10 kills while Tarutis hit .429 and added 34 assists from her setter position. 
"It's really exciting [to win the tournament] because it's my first year here," Stasiuk said. Neither team performed particularly well offensively as the Irish and the Panthers hit only .191 and .225 respectively. However, Notre Dame's defense forced Pittsburgh into making 24 errors. 
"When your side is consistent it's easy to force errors on the other team," Stasiuk said. "We just controlled our side of the net and let their errors come." 
Notre Dame will head to California for the Baden Thanksgiving Tournament Friday and Saturday against UC-Irvine and Long Beach State. The NCAA tournament then starts Dec. 2 and Brown feels the Irish have a shot against whoever they draw. 
"We know that we're playing better volleyball now than we were a week ago," Brown said. "We're more confident and that's important. We want to play our best volleyball at the end of the season." 
NOTRE DAME 3, PITTSBURGH 0 at the FITZGERALD FIELD HOUSE 
NOTRE DAME ;{O 30 :lO 
PITISBURGU 23 26 26 

NOTRE DAME-Kills 49 (Kelbley 14), Assists 47 !Tarutis 34), Digs 64 (llenkan 25), Blocks 13 (Brewster 5), llitting per­centage .225 (Tarutis .429). Aces 1 (Kelbley 1) PITISBURGU-Kills 53 !Andreyko 15). Assists 52 (Macke 33), Digs 75 (McGrane 23), Blocks 1 (Miller, Whaley, Macke 1), Hitting percentage .191 (Whaley .529), Aces 0 
Notre Dame 3, Boston College 1 
After losing to Boston College in the regular season, the Irish returned the favor in Saturday's semifmal match with a four-game 25-30, 30-15, 30-26, 30-20 victo­ry over the Eagles. 
Notre Dame hit .339 for the match, paced by Brewster's stel­lar second game in which the junior hit .900 with nine kills on 10 attempts and no errors. She could not have come through at a better time. The Irish looked sluggish in the game one loss, hit­ting only .222 with five errors and barely threatening the Eagles. 
"[Brewster] just decided that [losing the match] was not going to happen," Brown said. "She said 'I'm going to take over' and she obviously has the ability to do that." 
Kelbley was thrilled to be a part of a win on Saturday. 
"It felt wonderful to get back on the court," Kelbley said after posting a match-high 20 kills with only three errors for a hit­ting percentage of .425. "I've been waiting for this moment all week. It's really hard to be on the sidelines and watch your team­mates play." 
"[Kelbley] came up with a lot of really key swings," Brown said. "I just think that the team is more comfortable and plays with a lit-
tie more confidence when she's in there." · 
The Eagles scorched the Irish defense with a .316 hitting per­centage in game one. But Brewster's five blocks and Meg Henican's three digs held Boston College to a percentage of -.083 in the pivotal game two. The out­stretched arms of Kelbley and Emily Loomis at the net forced the Eagles into making 10 hitting errors compared with only two for the Irish. 
NOTRE DAME 3, BOSTON COLLEGE 1 at the FITZGERALD FIELD HOUSE NOTRE DAME 25 30 30 30 BOSTON COLLEGE 30 15 26 20 
NOTRE DAME-Kills 74 (Kelbley 20), 
A~sists 66 (Tarutis 53), Digs 74 (llenkan 
20). Blocks 13.5 (Brewster 6), Hitting per­
centage .339 (Cooper .524). Aces 1 
(Tarutis 1) 

BOSTON COLLEGE -Kills 54 
(Andersen, Niemczweska 14), Assists 52 
(Host 44), Digs 70 (Anderson 22), Blocks 8 
(Uasebroock 3), Hitting percentage .168 
(Niemczcwska .370). Aces 7 (Andersen 2) 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 



Lorenzen was a dominant pres­ence for the Connecticut offense. 
"She gives you so many weapons," Waldrum said. "She is just a warrior. I think she is one of our best players and one that we can't do without. And she is probably one of our more underrated ones." 
The Irish improved their all­time record in the NCAA tour­nament to 29-10-1. Notre Dame will now face the second highest seed left in the tourna­mimt. No. 5 Portland in the quarterfinals. 
Heading into the next round, Notre Dame is the highest seed remaining in the tournament. Top-seeded North Carolina fell to Santa Clara 1-0 in the quar­terfinals, No. 2 Penn State loss to Maryland 1-0 in the second round and No. 3 Virginia was upset by Duke 3-0 in the sec­ond round. 
"I think even as short of a time period of eight to 10 years ago, it was still just Carolina, and it was a shock in some ways that they got knocked out this soon," Waldrum said. "[But now] I think there are a lot of teams that can win it." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
ERIC SALES/The Observer 
Stephanie Madia and the Irish take to the course today. 
Nationals 
continued from page 20 
coach Tim Connelly said. "We have enough talent for a top-1 0 finish or better." 
The Irish will rely on Lauren King, Stephanie Madia, and Kerry Meagher to have strong performances if they are to fin­ish in the top 10. King led the Irish with a 21st place finish at nationals in 2003. 
The men's squad will be at full strength for today's race lead by Kurt Benninger, Kaleb Van Ort and Tim Moore. Van Ort was Notre Dame's top finisher at nationals in 2002 and Moore placed 89th overall in 2003. Vincent Ambrico, AJ Andrassy, Ryan Johnson and Sean O'Donnell also will compete. 
"We're healthy and enthusias­tic," Piane said. "They'll be ready to run once we get on the bus on Friday." 
Both Irish teams have had their share of experience at the NCAA meet. The men have com­peted in 11 of the past 13 national championships while the women have qualified for the past five years. 
This year's national race will be held in Terre I Iaute at the La Vern Gibson Championship Course. The Irish have previous experience on the course and hope to use this to their advan­tage. 
"The kids love the course and are comfortable with it," Connelly said. "In the past we've run fairly well there." 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

UConn 
continued from page 20 
game off a penalty-kick. Junior Katie Thorlakson knocked the goal into the cen­ter of the goal, directly under the crossbar for the 2-0 lead and final margin. 
Waldrum attributed the team's success in the second half to its composure on the field and not losing focus after the first half. 
"I think the most important thing is that you keep your game plan and maintain your composure, Waldrum said. "You just have to keep plugging away and getting those oppor­tunities." 
In addition to the many opportunities the team had offensively, the Irish defense played a critical role in stop­ping Connecticut's offense. 
"!Defense] has been the cor­nerstone for us the past couple of years," Waldrum said. "I think this could be one of the best backlines Notre Dame has ever had." 
In addition to the strong per­formances in the back by Melissa Tancredi and Gudrun Gunnarsdottir, sophomore Kim 
Dream ofbeing published? 
Submit to the Journal ofUndergraduate Research! 
DEADLINE: December 8 at 5:00 
The Journal ofUndergraduate Research is a peer-reviewed journal in the College ofArts and Letters. Submissions should be 20 pages in length, based on original research by an 
undergraduate, and emailed to ujournal@nd.edu 
Questions? Contact Marianne at ujournal@nd.edu 
Monday, November 22, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
HOCKEY 
U.S. National Team defeats Irish handily 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associarc Sporrs Edi10r 
Youth was served at tho .loyr~n Cnntr~r Friday night, as tlw U.S. National Tnam Dnvelopmnntal Program's Undnr-18 tnam dnf'Pated thn Irish 7-2 in an nxhibition gamn. 
Spneial teams aceountnd for f'ivn of the Undnr-18 tnam's sevnn goals, with thrne goals coming on thn pownr play and two goals scornd whiln Tnam USA was shorthanded. 
"It was a tough night all­around for us," Irish coach Dave Poulin told und.eorn. 
Tnarn USA outshot the Irish 21J-27 on the night. but Poulin fnlt the stat was misleading in terms of saying who dominat­ed. 
"We let our goaltnnders out thnrh all alonn tonight," he said. "Tho shots wPre very rnislnading. They had quality chances all night long." 
The Irish lnd Party in the game, and Team USA came back to tin tho contost at one goal apiece after the f'irst period. Team USA then exploded in the second peri­od, scoring three unanswered goals -induding two short­handed tallies -to take a 4-2 lead after tho Irish scored a goal late on the power play. 
Throe more goals for Team USA in the third pP-riod put the game away completely. 
The Under-18 team contin­ued its impressivfl pp,rf'orm­ance so far in the 2004-05 sr~ason. Tr~am USA improved its rocord to an impressive 4­2-2 rm~ord against Division I eollegiatn teams. 
Notre Damn forward .Josh Sciba opnned tlw scoring at 14 minutns, 24 seconds of tho opening period to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. Seiba collect­nd a pass from Wes O'Neill, and then whipped around behind the net to score on a wraparound goal before Team USA goalie Jeff Frazee could gPt back in position. 
The Irish lead was short­lasted, as just 22 seconds later Hyan Stoa beat Irish goalie David Brown for a goal. 
Stoa would score again just 
I:15 into the second period, and Phil Kessel followed at 
8:02 -both goals were shorthanded. 
"The two short-handed goals were the game," Poulin said. "We eouldn't bounce back from that." 
Jack Skille scored for Team USA at 10:11 of the period, but Notre Dame's Tim Wallace came back to score for the Irish at 12:18 of the second. 
Kessel, Jason Lawrence and Jack Johnson scored goals for Team USA in the third period to put the game out of reach. 
Notre Dame returns to action this weekend when it travels to Alaska Fairbanks filr a two-game series with its conference rival. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team responds to challenge 
Irish use late 12-0 run to put away Buckeyes 
There were just over five minutes left in the game. Down by eight, it was time for the Irish to decide if they were going to make a run for the 
game or just chalk it up as an early-sea­son learning experience. 
Five min­utes later, they were raising a tro­


phy, waving  Heather  
to their fans as the pre- Van Hoegarden  
season WNIT champions.  Sports Editor  
Notre  

Dame could have easily given up Saturday night. The Irish could have gone home with their heads up and proud of the way they played. against No. 6 Duke earlier in the week, proud of the way they fought that night against Ohio State. But not this team. 
Not this year. 
"We definitely didn't want to leave here with any moral vic­tories," Irish forward Jacqueline Batteast said. 
And it was Batteast who wouldn't let her team do just that. 
The All-American finished with 32 points and dominated the Ohio State defense. She played good defense and rebounded. She was the heart and soul of the Irish tPam. 

With four seconds to go in the game, point guard Megan Duffy turned the ball over and Buckeye Caity Matter was wide open in the corner, ready to shoot the game-tying three­rnsponded. pointPr. But Battcast was ready The Irish were intP.nsP. They to help her teammatn. She played this game likn it was an sprinted from half-court and NCAA tournamrmt. game. It was got to the corner just in time to unlike a year ago at this time, block the shot, preserving the when Notre Dame lost to Irish win. Colorado in overtime, (>7 -(>3, 
It was Batteast who wasn't after failing to come through in leaving with a moral victory. the stretch, both ofTensively With 2:30 to play and the Irish and defensively. down (>4-60, Batteast shot from This year's team was up to the right elbow. The ball hit the the challenge. They stepped it 
front of the rim,  up on defense,  
bounced up, rolled  and on offense,  
around and went in. Batteast ran down the court yelling in exubera­ "We definitely didn't want to leave here with any  they did what needed to be done ­got the ball to Battnast.  
tion. Battcast had  moral victories. "  For Notre  
taken the Irish  Dame it was a  
team on her shoulders, scoring seven points in  Jacqueline Batteast Irish forward  game to build on, a game to turn back to. It was  

their 12-0 run to end the game. It didn't matter how Ohio State tried to guard her. It didn't 
matter where she was on the 
court. 
She was going to score. 
She was going to win. 
And so was the Notre Dame 

defense. 
After they were down eight points, the Irish decided to step it up on defense. They scram­bled to get in shooters' faces, rebounded and didn't let the Buckeyes score. No shots went in -not even a free throw. The Irish played man-to-man, but it was their team defense that was most impressive. Helping, talking, rebounding -they played textbook defense. 
Ohio State was held scoreless the last 5:18 of the game. This Irish team responded. Batteast NCAA tourna­
ment-type expe­rience without the repercus­sions. But Notre Dame played as though this game had reper­cussions. They played like their season was on the linn. Every last player on this Irish team wants to win, and it shows. 
So the Irish lifted the trophy to the crowd as they extended their home-winning streak and showed the country they are a different team from last year. 
And as a result, No. 10 Ohio State was left with the learning experience. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact /leather Van 1/oegarden at hvanhoeg@nd. edu 

osu 
continued from page 20 
gamn-tying 3-point attempt from Ohio State's Caity Matter with two seconds left to secure No. 11 Notre Dame's 66-62 vie­tory against the No. 10 Buckeyns in the final of the pre­season Women's National Invitation Tournament on Saturday evening at the Joyce Center. 
"I think the biggest play of the game was Jackie's block," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "She had to run about 20 feet to get that. She had a spec­tacular night, a career night. I think in every huddle we said 'Go to Jackie,' no matter what play we're running." 
The Irish trailed 62-54 with 
5:18 remaining when Matter made a layup. The Buckeyes did not score the rest of the game as Notre Dame went on a 12-0 for the come-from-bP-hind win. 
Battnast started the run by sinking two free throws and thnn eonvnrting a 3-point play with 3:59 left. The All­American had her back to the basket and dnfender Stephanie Blanton on the left side of the court before spinning toward tho baseline and banking in the field goal. Battnast's free throw made it 62-51J. 
After freshman Charel Allen grabbPd the rebound on Ohio State's next possession, Notre Dame guard Megan Duffy drilled a tough 3-point shot with a defender's hand in her face to tie the gamn at (J2-62 and srmd the almost 4,000 fans at the Joyce Center into a frfln­zy. 
"I was most proud of when we got down night late in the game and we madP our run," McGraw said. "We didn't give up. We didn't panic. We tight­flned up on defense and we Wflre able to get the ball to Jackie and Megan hit a three. We did a lot of smart things. We didn't turn the ball over a lot during that stretch." 
Batteast agreed with her coach. 
"We were at home, we had the crowd behind us," the sen­ior forward said. "We were very determined. There was a lot of time left to just be down by eight. Everyone on this team is so confident. We knew as long as we had no more mental lapses, we could start to swing things our way." 
Appropriately, Batteast put the Irish ahead for good at the 
2:45 mark when she hit a jumper. Notre Dame had the ball and a three-point lead with just 11 seconds left, when Dufl'y turned it over. Ohio State's Tamarah Riley grabbed the ball and fired it to a seemingly free Matter in the right corner of the baseline. 
But Batteast anticipated the pass and dashed over just in time to stuff the shot and final­ize Notre Dame's fourth victory of the season. 
"I was thinking I didn't want this game to go into overtime," said Batteast, who was named the Most Valuable Player of the tournament and to the all-tour­nament team moments after the game ended. "Matter was wide open, and I just did my best to get in her way; I just happened to hit the ball." 
Duffy, who was also named to the all-tournament team, fin­ished the game with 15 points on 5-of-7 shooting and added six assists. She also had an uncharacteristic nine turnovers. No one else for the Irish scored more than six points. 

Ohio State was led by center Jessica Davenport, who was nearly unstoppable for much of the game, en route to 23 points on 7 -of-1 0 shooting. But Notre Dame didn't allow her to take a shot during the final four min­utes of the game. 

Notre Dame finished the pre­season WNIT with wins against two top-1 0 teams and an all­but-guaranteed spot in the top­1 0 rankings when the newest poll comes out. But the Irish won't have much time to enjoy the 4-0 start. Colorado State visits the Joyce Center tonight for a 7 p.m. tip. Notes: 
+ 
Batteast moved into lOth place on Notre Dame's all-time scoring list with 1,401 points during her career. 

+ 
The Irish have won 24 straight games at the Joyce Center, which is the second­longest streak in school history. 


No. 11 NOTRE DAME 66, No. 10 OHIO STATE 62 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (4-0, 0-0) 
Battnast 11-23 10-12 :{2, LaVern 1-7 1-2 :{,Borton 1-4 2-2 4, Dully 5-7 2-2 15, Gray 1-2 2-3 4, Allen 3-3 0-0 6, D't\mieo 1-2 0-0 2, Erwin 0-5 0-0 0 
01110 STATE (3-1, 0-0) 
Munoz 3-4 0-2 6, Davenport 7-10 9-9 23, Hoskins 3-6 0-0 6, Wilburn 3-6 0-1 7. Matter 5-15 3-3 13, 11owB 0-0 0-0 0, Batth> 0-1 0-0 0, Packer 0-0 0-0 0, Dark 0-2 0-0 0, AllBn 2-5 0-0 5, Blanton 0-0 0-0 0, Hiley 
0-3 2-2 2  
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  29  :H  66  
Ohio State  25  37  62  

3-point goals: Not.re Dame 3-6 (OuiTy 3­4, Batteast 0-2) Ohio State 2-12 (Allen 1-2. Wilburn 1-2, Matter 0-6, Dark 0-1, Hoskins 0-1) Fouled out: NonB. HBbounds: Not.re Dame 36-22 (Gray 6), Ohio State 28­19 (Davenport 7). A~sists: Notre Dame 12 (DuiTy 6). Ohio State 15 (Wilburn 6). Total fouls: Not.re Dame 16, Ohio State 20. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 22, 2004 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish needed an ear1y scare 
First comes the preseason talk. Then begins the in-season walk. As Notre Dame found out Friday night, that walk is not an easy one. 
But the Irish are safe after their first reg­ular season game. And struggling for a half against Harvard may not have been a bad thing. 
Notre Dame's first test-a home game against an Ivy League team that finished 4-23 last sea­son -exposed areas of concern, even for a team whose senior point guard called for 30 regular. season wins. 
The Crimson out-rebounded the Irish and outscored them in the paint. J Jarvard had more sec­ond half points and a better field­goal percentage. 
The most puzzling statistic at the game's final was the score, (,6-59. !low could Notre Dame, ranked No. 20 in the Associated Press poll and No. 21 in the ESPN/USA Today poll, only beat llarvard by seven points? 
Simple. 
It was Notre Dame's first game. 
Dennis Latimore was making his first app£mrance on the court since 2002. 
There were only two Irish play­Prs in double figures. And among other reasons, perhaps the most significant: Harvard was not that 

Pat Leonard 
Associate Sports Editor 
bad. 

"I don't think I'm mad that it wasn't a blowout," Notre Dame forward Jordan Cornette said. "I guess if we had performed to the level that I had expected us to perform to, I think it might have been a blowout, just because I think we do have the more tal­ented players, but Harvard played a heck of a game out there." 
Notre Dame does have more talent. But the Crimson's two leading scorers, forward Matt Stehle and center Brian Cusworth, outplayed the Irish frontcourt and almost negated a woeful I larvard backcourt per­formance (19 turnovers). 
Cusworth exhibited flashes of excellence that have appeared in only two other players in the past two seasons at the Joyce Center: in 2002, Marquette's Dwayne Wade; in 2003, Syracuse's Hakim Warrick. 
Meanwhile, Irish shooting guard Chris Quinn had the best game of any of his teammates, scoring 20 points and hitting all seven of his fouls shots. Harvard coach Frank Sullivan even called Quinn one of the best players in the country. 
But Quinn's ell"orts on ofl"ense were only good enough because Notre Dame pulled itself together for the final three minutes. 
And after the game, Notre Dame coach Mike Brey was not mad, but he was not happy. 
"If we average 65 points a game, we're dead," Brey said. "We've got to score more. It's real simple." 
Being an offensive team that thrives on motion and shooting, the Irish can rarely afford here­after to play poor offensive bas­ketball. But Friday's game may have helped the Irish get a bad egg out of their system. 
"[A close game] keeps every­body honest, but I don't think our guys got ahead of themselves at all," Brey said. "They know this is a long road, and I told them, 'You kind of start building your resume tonight."' 
Ultimately, that is just what Notre Dame did. 

For every top-25 blowout Friday night (No 10 Michigan State 104 Florida A&M 72), there was a closer call like Notre Dame's. 
For every highly-ranked team that humbled its opponent (No. 19 N.C. State 100, East Carolina 66), there was a top squad who kept it closer than they would have liked (No. 25 Stanford 93 San Francisco 83). 
And for every top-25 scare (No. 1 Kansas 68, Vermont 61), there was a lauded program with two­preseason All-Americans that saw things fall apart (Santa Clara 77, No. 3 North Carolina 66). 
At the end of the night, the No. 1 team in the country had one loss. Notre Dame had one win. And as far as an optimistic Thomas is concerned, that means his team only needs 29 more. 
The opinions in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

No. 21 Irish test depth 
Facing Bowling Green, the No. 21 Irish had more on their mind than just coming away with a vic­tory. The team wanted to test its own depth, racing some swim­mers who were lower on the depth chart and pushing their strongest swimmers to focus on their third and sometimes, fourth, events. That being said, the Irish took care of business this weekend, traveling to Bowling Green and winning 189­112 over the winless Falcons, improving their record to 4-2. 
Freshman Caroline Johnson led the onslaught for the Irish, winning three events over the weekend. She won the 50-yard freestyle and the 200-yard back­stroke, an impressive feat consid­ering she had never before raced in those events for the Irish. In the latter event, the Irish took the top three spots, with senior Kristen Peterson and freshman Morgan Bullock touching the wall after Johnson. 
"I was really pleased with [Caroline's] swims," Irish coach Bailey Weathers said. "Her swim in the 200-free was real helpful for us, and it makes [our other 

CD/12$9-:1000 for more detolls 

freestylers] more flexible." 
Johnson also swam the back­stroke leg of the 200-medley relay. She was joined on that team by freshman Natalie Burke, junior Christel Bouvron and sophomore Krissy Archer. 
Sophomore Ann Barton led two dominating Irish performances, leading the way for the Irish to take the top four spots in the 100-yard backstroke and setting the pace for a 1-2-3 finish in the 400-meter individual medley. Sophomore Ellen Johnson, fresh­man Noemie Brand and sopho­more Kiley Gooch finished behind Barton in the backstroke, and Barton's sister and senior co­captain Kelli finished in second and freshman Laura Stafford fin­ished third in the Individual Medley. 
Ellen Johnson led yet another medal sweep for the Irish, win­ning the 100-yard freestyle, trailed by sophomore Jessica Stephens and freshman Kayla Graham. Johnson also won the 200-yard freestyle, winning the event by more than two seconds with a time of 1 minute, 53:39 seconds. 
Stephens did not come away from the meet without a victory, however, taking first place in the 100-meter breaststroke. The win gives her 10 for the season, tying her for first place with Ellen Johnson among Irish swimmers. 
In the 200-meter breaststroke, senior co-captain Georgia Healey won the event with a time of 2:26:04. 
On the diving board, senior Meghan Perry-Eaton continued her dominance this season, win­ning both the 1-meter and 3­meter events easily. The victories give her 11 out of 12 in the events she has entered. 
Weathers is optimistic for his . team after the strong perform­ances of swimmers who haven't always led the charge in the pool. 
"We've hoped from the start to have a lot of people to help us and that's come to light for us," he said. 

back to the looks we got for our shooters, you've got to take
CriiDSOD 

those. Offensive efficiency put a lot of pressure on us
continued from page 20 
tonight." 

Harvard tied the game at 57 half with lapses in defensive with just over six minutes intensity and offensive efficien­remaining. The Crimson rode cy. 7-foot sophomore's Brian 
"I just think it was focus," Cusworth's 13 second-half Irish forward Jordan Cornette points in the comeback. said. "We were looking up at The Irish then clamped the scoreboard and saw we down on defense, not allowing had a comfortable lead. I don't the Crimson to score for a think in college basketball no stretch of 5:41 and slowly built matter who you are playing, a six-point lead by making 
you can get com- their free throws  
fortable. It's going to be a battle for 40 minutes. I think we saw we got  "When you smell blood you have to go for the kill. ''  and a tough jumper from Thomas. After playing in the first half  
up double digits and thought we started playing  Jordan Cornette Irish forward  like all of the preseason expectations  

comfortable and you can't do that. 

"When you smell blood you have to go for the kill." 
The Irish (1-0) used a 17-3 run in the middle of the first half to break open a game tied at eight to a 25-11 advantage. During that run the Irish had five steals and in the half, the Irish had 10 steals and forced 13 Harvard (0-1) turnovers overall. 
Chris Quinn led the Irish in the first 20 minutes with 14 points on 5-of-9 shooting as the team shot 45 percent. 
All of those turnovers led to a number of easy baskets at the other end, but in the second half, those easy baskets stopped and Quinn, along with the rest of the Irish went ice cold. 
In the second half, Harvard only committed six turnovers, outrebounded the Irish 25-16 and had a 46 percent field goal percentage compared to Notre Dame's 21 percent. 
That allowed the Crimson to chip away at the Irish lead. When the Irish couldn't force turnovers, their offense stalled relying on jump shots and their outside shooters went cold ­Chris Thomas, Colin Falls and Quinn went a combined 4-for­22 in the second half. 
"From about the 15-minute mark to the five-minute mark, we weren't moving or running the floor. You have to get a couple there," Brey said. "I can't complain because I think said they would, 
the Irish strug­gled in the second half to get an opening night win. 
In the end. that's all that matters. 
"It's the first game of the sea­son, it's one of those games where you feel like you got a loss, but you look back at that Central Michigan game last year," Irish forward Dennis Latimore said. "Me personally, I'm happy we got the W. If it wasn't by 30, 4 or 10 whatever, I'll take that win." 
NOTRE DAME 66, HARVARD 59 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (1-0) 

Cornett!> 2-5 2-2 6, Francis 2-6 3-5 7, Latimore 2-10 2-2 6, Thomas 7-19 1-2 17, Quinn 6-15 7-7 20, Isreal 1-3 0-0 3, Cornett 2-4 0-3 4. Falls 1-4 0-0 3. Kurz 0-0 0-0 0 
HARVARD (0-1) 

· Stehle 4-9 5-10 12, Norman 1-4 0-0 2, Cusworth 6-9 3-3 15, Rogus 4-9 0-0 10, Beal 1-5 2-4 4, Goffredo 2-3 0-0 5, Klunick 0-1 0-0 0, Giovacchini 2-5 2-2 6, McCrone 2-3 0-0 4. Beatty 0-0 0-0 0 
1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 43 23 66 Harvard 27 32 59 
3-point goals: Notre Dame 5-20 (Thomas 2-7, Quinn 1-6, Falls 1-4, Isreal 1-1, Cornette 0-2), Harvard 3-14 (Rogus 2-7, Goffredo 1-2, Stehle 0-1, Norman 0-1, Cusworth 0-1, Beal 0-1, Kluick 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 35 (Francis 9), Harvard 41 (Cusworth 13). Assists: Notre Dame 9 (Thomas 5), Harvard 11 (Giovacchihi 3). Total fouls: Notre Dame 16, Harvard 19. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


On your birt sure to s it is polaroid picture! Happy Birthday! From the Welsh Family Hall Staff 
TAKE INDY BY STORM 
Please Visit: w\vw.SunlakeApartmentHomes.com 888-414-9225 www .SunblestApts.com 866-390-3823 
Monday, November 22, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
.;·-~ ·... 
• 

yoo have priaitm. let thern g;de yoo as yoo b.Jit:l yo.w career. defne ,,..nat'& rrpatant to yOJ and see what's ir'flX)rtant to other'$, 
pvJC .cankn~ria it ies 
'! 


'I 1 • •', • I' • t • •: , • •, •, 
, , I I'' ' • • I I'' 1'' 
'''I'' 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 22, 2004 
Irish hope to avoid the pain of penalty kicks 
lleartbreak wears a variety of masks. 
Whon Michigan midfielder Miko White beat Irish goal­koepor Chris Sawyer in the doeiding fifth-round of penalty 
kicks in the  
Sweet 1(, of  Matt Puglisi  
the NCAA  
tournament  
last s1mson,  Sports Writer  
tho Irish and  
their faithful  

were grootod with the crushing blow of the tie-breaking shootout loss. 
Almost a year later, in the quarterfinals of the Big East Championships Nov. (>, the Irish found thomselvns swallowing the same bittnr pill. 
Allor a pair of early-season, hotly contested lossns to the No. 2 sned Indiana (14-4-1) and Big East rival West Virginia (12-7-1)-both on the road­nearly dropped the Irish out of the NSCANAdidas rankings, No. 5 Notre Dame (13-2-3) hit its strido, rattling off 11 con­secutive matches without a loss 
(9-0-2). 
Howovnr, the double-edged sword of tournament soccer allows for advancement with­out vietory and elimination without defeat. 
Heading into the Big East Championships as the No. 1 sned courtesy of a regular sea­son eonl'erence title-the pro­gram's first since joining the Big East in 1995 -Notre Damn's bid to win the confer­encn championship for a see­ond 1:onseeutive season earlier this month was short-lived. 

Hosting No. 8 seed Seton Hall at Alumni Field Nov. 6, the Irish battled the Pirates for 110 grueling minutes -90 regula­tion minutes plus a pair of 10­minute golden-goal overtime periods -yet neither squad was able to find the back of the net. 
The necessary evil of penalty kicks was the consequence. 
Hemoving defense-save the goalkeeper -from the equa­tion, penalty kicks function not as an appropriate measure of a team's talent, but instead, of nerve, and often, sheer luck. 
Matching Seton Hall shot-for­shot through the first seven rounds, the heavily-favored Irish continued to stave off nlimination. But when Pirate Matt Salotti slotted the ball past Sawyer in the eighth round and Notre Dame midfielder Nate Norman's attempt sailed over the crossbar, the Irish found themselves with a tally in the tie column -and a "thanks for playing" ticket home. 
In the end, then, if the Irish are to continue to build on the impressive foundation coach Bobby Clark has built over the past four years and move into the Elite Eight for the first time in program history, not only will the vaunted Notre Dame defense -the undisputable backbone of this Irish team ­need to continue to play the asphyxiating shutdown defense that has resulted in the nation's lowest goals-against-average, but it's equally essential the 
young, growing Irish offensive 
unit take advantage of prime 
scoring opportunities and finish 
those chances -a problem 
that has plagued the team for 
much of the season. 

Without a doubt, the seeds of a potent Irish attack to buttress a nationally-acclaimed lock­down defense are present. 
Sophomore forward Justin McGeeney has paced the offense thus far this season, posting 12 points (five goals, two assists), while classmate midfielder Ian Etherington has flashed the unique ability to both set up goals (with a team­high five assists) and find the back of the net, himself (three goals). 
Factor in a pair of talented freshman forwards in Joe Lapira (three goals, two assists) and Alex Yoshinaga (three goals, two assists), Irish .co­leader in goals scored junior forward Tony Megna (five goals), Norman (two goals, three assists) and the veteran leadership of senior midfielder Luke Roughen (two goals, four assists), and it's apparent the Irish have the ability to score -they simply must capitalize on opportunities, albeit a task easier said than done. 
While an Irish defense that yielded a meager seven goals in 18 contests affords Notre Dame slightly larger room for error on the offensive side of the ball than the typical soccer squad, following last year's heart­breaking Sweet 16 exit and Nov. 6's stunning upset loss to a 
No. 1 wal<e· Fores · · -5-1) 

The I )em1;.fs<l<4J.rt,.~ll;}to p-ranked squad of th#!;l(' tl'l~ ur•MFjl"npresenta­tives. ·:~ . "<~ , '··~~-:' -'~:.f 

No.8 UNC Greensborro (12-3-5) 

A eonsensus; No. 1 for ~reo weeks, the Carolina or 
or Cal. St. 

Spartans !"ell to DaVidsrm in the semifinals Charleston 

of the Southora Clo~ tournament. 
No. 9 UC Santa tbara;(~7-2-1) 

Winnots ~-· the''Z004. Big West CharnpiunshiP, 'the Gauctfos have posted tho snmnd-bost record in the nati<1n. 
No.4 Virginia (17-4) 

The Cavaliers edged top-seeded Wake Fornst 2-1 in the ACC semifinal en route to winnirw the conference tournament. 
No. 13 Ne ~6-1-1) 
•• »1~-~ 'if'; 
The l.obos.e rneili:tt'eM"oufi'tain Pacific Sports Fed1r;litj.t51;1'~' n¢,0o{jltie bid, win­nin r tlwir · ament. 
No.5 Notre Dame (13-2-3) 

The Irish enter the NO\;\ tournament as the No. 5 seed for the second consecutive voar. 
No. 12' Old Dominion ( ' .:.5-2) 


clearly inferior Seton Hall squad, no one needs to remind the Irish of the potentially crushing consequences that an offensive drought would have on a post-season NCAA Championship run -or, should Notre Dame fail to put away the opposition during both reg-
THE TOP 16 SEEDS 
TOP SEEDS AND THEIR SECOND ROUND OPPONENTS 
vs. Florida lnt'l vs. Seton HaJJ 
or UCF 
or Hofstra 

vs. North vs. Western Carolina or G. Illinois or Washington Northwestern 
vs. Loyola

vs. south Marymount 
Northridge 

vs. San. Fran. vs. Boston U. 
or Wisconsin­or DartmouthMilwaukee 

vs. American vs. Santa Clara or California
or Long Island 

vs. Portland or vs. Tulsa or Washington Michigan St. 
vs. Ohio State vs. Marist or or Memphis Connecticut 
vs. Duke or vs.Akron or

The Mor\'artlis 'a~'·orM (Jf· t.!fee of Coastal 
Michigan

Coloniaf'~thletk .,A~oaa:ti~l):i(~~presenta-CaroJina tivns in tht t wilt. .• :· :< c:,?•.. 
ulation and overtime, the fickle nature of tournament soccer's shootout. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd. edu. 



Monday, November 22, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
The final goal 

Captain Kevin Goldthwaite gives an pep talk to his team at the Seton Hall game on Nov. 6. The Irish tied that game 0-0 and were eliminated on penalty kicks from the Big East Tournament. 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Wrirer 
Seven. 
If a defflnse is measured by the number of goals it allows, then the Notre Dame defense is sec­ond to none. 
In 163 shots over 18 games, goalkeeper Chris Sawyer has reached into the back of net just seven times with the tangible proof that the rock-solid Irish back line has broken down. 
For anyone without a calcula­tor handy, that works out to a 
0.37 goals-against average ­the lowest in the country and a erucial faetor in the Irish reeord of 13-2-3. So what's the secret to this remarkable sueeess? 
"It's really just the defense plays as a whole," said Sawyer. "It's really the eoneept of team defense that we work on every single day at practice -it starts right up with the forwards and gets all the way to the back." 
The three senior co-eaptains -Sawyer, Jack Stewart and Kevin Goldthwaite -have led the team on and ofT the field, but particularly in their stingy defensive play. Stewart, a een­tral defender, has eontrolled the danger zone as well as notehing two goals in erucial early-season matches. Goldthwaite, the left 
They want a national title­and the nation's toughest defenders are ready to prove they can bring it home 
back, missed the first seven games of the season with a knee injury. Sinee his return, the Irish have given up just one goal. 
Add in Christopher High work­ing the middle with Stewart and Ryan Miller patrolling the right side, and you see a team that allowed an average of just 9.1 shots per game this year. 
The numbers they've put up aren't too shabby for a program that is making history every year under coaeh Bobby Clark. In his fourth season with the Irish, Clark emphasizes the impor­tance of defensive mindsets. 
"[It's been] eoaeh Clark instill­ing that defense wins ehampi­onships," Stewart said, "and all the guys on the teams' dedica­tion to our defensive shape and not getting beat off the transi­tion." 
A loss to defending national champion Indiana, who is seed­ed second in this year's NCAA tournament, marked the only game in whieh the Irish have given up multiple goals. 
The Irish rebounded quickly from the early-season setback, going 8-1-1 in eonference play and winning the Big East regu­lar season title. A strong defense is undoubtedly part of that. 
"Our baek four is absolutely amazing" Sawyer said. "They're absolutely amazing -the best baek four in the country." 
Aside from their primary responsibility of protecting Sawyer in the net, the four baeks have eontributed to a rebuilding offense throughout the season. Stewart and High both put up two goals and Goldthwaite regis­tered two assists. 
"Everyone on our team is at lieense to go forward but every­one must also take the responsi­bility of defending," Clark said. 
The team attitude is also reflected in the player's individ­ual aehievements. 
The Irish brought a gold mine's worth of hardware back to South Bend after the Big East Conferenee named its top awards for the 2004 season ­with particularly glowing recog­nition of the defense. 
I 

Sawyer repeated as Goalkeeper of the Year and Jack Stewart was named Defensive Player of the Year. 
Goldthwaite joined his co-eap­tains on the first-team all-eon­ferenee. 
On the seeond team, eentral midfielder Greg Dalby, outside midfielder Ian Etherington and forward Justin MeGeeney were honored. 
Aeeording to Clark, the awards refleet on the depth of the pro­gram. 
"We're very conscious that individual honors reflect the general success of the program," he said. "We take it really as a team honor ... we put it down to a plus for the team." 
Clark's players reflect similar team-oriented attitudes. 
"It's more of a tribute to the team than it is to me," Stewart said. "The guys like Dalby and the mids and the forwards make our job as a defense a lot easi­er." 
Named an All­

the first round of the Big East tournament, they have some­thing extra to prove, even with a No. 5 seeding in the Big Dance. 
"One of the positives of being eliminated by Seton Hall [was that it] gave everyone a timely reminder of what eould happen in the NCAAs," Clark said. 
It was reminiseent of last year's early trip home after being eliminated by Michigan in the Sweet 16. 
"Perhaps if we get into the same situation again it will be [the] third time lueky for the Irish," Clark said. 
Last year's historically suc­eessful finish did not result in a championship, and that is some­thing the returning players have earried with them all year. 
"The past few years we've taken it one step further every single year," Sawyer said. "We just have to realize as a team that we are perfeetly eapable of winning a national ehampi­onship, and that's what we're in it to 
American last year, "The guys are d0. " Sawyer eredited the In fact, an early
ready to come 
strong defense as exit from the eon­
out and show the 
erueial to bringing ferenee champi­home the country what onship might be just Goalkeeper of the what the doctor
Notre Dame 
Year title. ordered for the Irish 
soccer is all 
"My award, and if they are to Jack's award as about." aehieve this goal. In well, is really a com­the last week of reg­pliment to the entire ular-season play, a
Jack Stewart 
defense," Sawyer nasty stomach virus
Irish captain
said. ''I'm sure I ran through much 
wouldn't be in a position to get an award if we didn't have such a low goals­against average." 
In a group that emphasizes teamwork to such an extent, individual awards seem periph­eral to the overall goal of win­ning an NCAA championship. 
"Whether it's the top player on the team or the practice player on our squad, everyone has con­tributed to getting the team to where it is," Clark said. "It's a team game." 
It's the all-pervasive sense of the teamwork eoneept that makes the Irish believe this eould be their year to bring home the most eoveted trophy in collegiate soecer. 
"Our main goal from the beginning of the season was to win a national ehampionship and be the best team in the country," Stewart said. "For me and the other seniors, this is our last hurrah -we have to make it count." 
After a heartbreaking penalty­kick elimination by Seton Hall in 
. I • 

of the team, leaving them in Health Services instead of the practice field. Fully recov­ered, the Irish were able to spend the extra time off getting into top physical shape. 
"Our team mood is, I think, right here it should be," Sawyer said. "We're just eompletely foeused on taking this one game at a time. I think having almost two and a half weeks off before this game could really be a blessing in disguise." 
The Irish are ready to move ahead, however -and they don't plan to stop anytime soon. 
"[After) the hard work and dedieation we put into it ... the guys are ready to come out and show the eountry what Notre Dame soeeer is all about," Stewart said. 
Sawyer agreed. 
"It's five games from here on out," he said. "If we foeus on each game individually, I think we'll be perfeetly line." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Monday, November 22, 2004 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Offense has stepped up to season's challenges 
Young players and team attitude prove crucial to team's successes in 2004 
trate deep into the opponent's said.
By KATE GALES 

territory -and that has been ;\s the season progressed,
Sports Writrr 

key to Irish success so far. however, different players "If we're going were able to step Filling the cleats of last to go far its going into the roln of year's quick-striking ol'l'nnsn to be very impor­"Everyone has go-to man when wouldn't be easy for any colle­tant for John it came to finding
to be challenged 
giate soccer team. Stephens and the net.
to get forward 
For a young and opportunis­l.ukn Boughen to "Our team is tic Irish oiTensn, however, the get a lot of the and attack but just team-orient­challnngn was a welcome one. goals. we need everyone has ed -we try to 
"I think our team, our young goals to come stick and play all
to take up the 
players have stepp1~d up a lot from that area," together," Ether­this year," said midlielder Ian Clark said. "It's cause ofbeing ington said. "I Etherington, who has regis­very important good defenders. " think the reason tered three goals and five that l they) get we're so success­assists so far in 2004. "The some goals in this ful is that every­
Bobby Clark
leadership on our team helped run in." one's out for the our young playPrs to step up The defense has Irish coach team, for all 26 so quickly, they were able to been crucial to or 27 of us -I guide us." offensive efforts, don't think any­
";\ lot of people have played and not always in immediately one on this team is playing for well all season, visible ways. himself. Everyone's coming out it obviously has Although Chris­and playing his hardest for
"The leadership 

been nice," topher High and every other player on the coach Bobby on our time Jack Stewart com­team." Clark said. helped our bined for four Despite its impressive "Someone had goals this year, the accomplishments so far, the
young players 

to step up due defensive strength team is ready for more. to injurins and to step up so of the team allows "Our plan is to win the one thing or quickly." midl'ielders to national championship and if another." become more we're going to win that -the 
ThP score-involved in scoring loss to Seton flail -it just
lan Etherington

sheet points plays. helps us reassure that every have been Irish midfielder "From our sys­game's important," spread gener­tem. the outside Etherington said. "We played ously among the mids are able to really good that game, we front linn and midfield players, get forward a lot were just kind of with forward .Justin MeGnenny morn, and I'm unlucky and it leading the team with l'ivn eomfortable leav­"J think the reason doesn't really goals and two assists. ing Kevin we're so successful hurt our mind-
In l.lw I:{ ganws lw played I G o I d t h w a i t ~~ I set."
is that everyone's
this season, forward Tony behind me, lie also noted Megna put up five goals. and Hlwrington said. out for the team, the positive Alex Yoshinaga and Jon l.apira "If I lose the ball for all26 or 27 of aspect of having addPd thrnP goals and two ... I'm eoml'ort­the additional
us -I don't think 
assists apien•. abln with our time to prepare In addition to Hherington. baeks and our anyone on this for the most midliPid playPrs Nate Norman. defenso to be able team is playing for important target Lukn Bouglwn. John Mousino to play down the NCAA
himself"
and .John Steplwns added cru­nwn." tournament. cial points to tiH• Irish scon~­Tlw task goos "We just had hoard. both ways, lan Etherington tons of time to 
";\II our midfitdd players aecording to Irish midfielder prepare, just look tn get on tlw scorn slwet." Clark. preparing for the Clark said. "Everyone has tournament," 
With Crt•g Dalby. tlw tnam's to b1~ challenged to get for­Etherington said. central midlinldl'r, playing in a ward and attack but everyone Finishing 8-1-1 in the Big morn dl'f'pnsivP mindset, tlw has to take up the cause of East conference means that outside mids art• ablt• to 1wnn-lwing good defenders," Clark the Irish know tough competi­tion. Six teams from the con­ference received berths in the NCAA tournamPnt. Tlw Irish aren't looking to change their agenda-just step up the li rn­powor. 
For a team that has scored 28 goals in the past 18 games, it should comn naturally by now. 
"I think (if) we start scoring a lot more goals and just cre­ating more opportunities, wn'll have a lot easier opportunity to win the national champi­onship," 1\therington said. 

Bnhind a hungry young offense. this may b1~ tlw just team to do it. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


TIM SULLIVANfThe Obse/Ver 
Left, mldfielder lan Etherington lines up for the second goal in a 4-0 Irish victory over Loyola-Chicago on Oct. 3 while teammate Tony Megna crashes the net. Right, freshman Alex Yoshlnaga battles a Cal State-Fullerton defender at Alumni Field on Sept. 12 in a 0-0 early season-matchup. 
I • 
I • 



