
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 121 TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Number of full professors trails average 

In the shadows 
Brothers of Holy Cross are called to tninister in education, not sacraments 
t'dilor's note: This is the second of a four part series focusing on the religious of Notre !Jame. Saint Mary's and 1/oly Cross. 
By ANDREW THAGARD Senior SraiTWrirer 
Brother Thomas More Becre's story sounds almost unreal. 
For over half a century, Beere, 79, has dedicated his life to edu­
cating chil­regard to the dren and .,.I Religious limited time promoting ~l%§1Wt on Campus he's spent with
,.,..,~,~~
•;-':·.~

the word of his family. God-ini­A Holy Week Senes "I really 
tially in the United States but predominately in Bangladnsh. 
"At that time, Bangladesh was probably the poorest country in the world," he said. remembnring his time there while sitting on a couch in Columba llall's parlor. "I spent I the first I year. every day, all day long, [learning the Ian-
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group discusses dorm exercise equipment 
By ANDREW THAGARD Senior Staff Writer 
A lack of sufficient voting members to hold an official meeting did not dissuade the Campus Life Council from dis­cussing a perceived lack of exercise equipment in the dorms and delivering commit­tee reports on Monday. 
Wyatt Maxwell, a member of guagel. The syntax, the words -everything is completely dif­ferent." 
Beere remained in Bangladesh for 54 years, teaching at high schools, recruiting boys for vocations in religious life and later training young men at a trade school. llis experiences represent a lifetime of service that few could match. It's a life that's brought him tremendous joy but also a degree of sadness, 
particularly in 
enjoyed my 

time there," he said. "I was never home [however] for funerals or wed­dings. This summer I'm going to the wedding of one of my grandnephews. They said, 'You have to come, you've never been to a wedding."' 
While many of his con tempo-
see BROTHERS/page 6 

CLC and the Hall President's Council, read members a letter from HPC Athletic Chairmen Erinn Rigney and Bill Bonner, outlining what they perceive to be a lack of sufficient exercise equipment in the residence halls -particularly within female dorms. The letter also noted that equipment present in the dorms is often in poor condition and that a lack of usable equipment hinders the 

Panel discusses Brown case 
By JANICE FLYNN News Wrirer 
Students and faculty gath­ered Monday night in the first of a two-part series commem­orating the 50th anniversary of the historic Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision for a panel discussion and a documentary screening. 
Educational institutions across the nation are honoring the anniversary of Brown. which declared segregation in public schools unconstitution­al. ·Discussion has turned to focus on the legacy of Brown and the present condition or American public schools. 
The documentary "The Hoad to Brown" depicted racial seg­regation from the birth of the nation up to the present day. It particularly focused on the life of Charles Ilamilton Houston, an oft-forgotten but crucial individual to the long process of toppling racial seg­regation, who has been called "The Man Who Killed Jim Crow." 
Jack Pratt, associate dean of the Law School, gave a brief introduction to Houston, ask­ing the audience to keep in mind the "life-threatening" conditions in which Houston worked. 
Houston, a prestigious black lawyer, traveled throughout the south in the 1930s. Equipped with a movie cam­era, he captured the discrep­ancies between black and white schools. With a tena­cious group of gifted black lawyers that included his stu­dent Thurgood Marshall, Houston chipped away at seg­
see PANEL/page 6 


Percentage of full professors at Notre Dame 
Notre Dame's percentage of faculty who are full professors trails the national average 
University of Notre Dame: 45% Average of Top 20 Academic lns·tittltio,ns: 
The percentage of full professors at Notre Dame who are women also trails the national average 
University of Notre Dame: ff% i::iiiiii'i: ;.::i:\\ . . Average of Top 20 Academic Jnstitutioos: ~~~; 
Source: Office of Institutional Research 
MIKE HAAKINS/Obse!Ver Graphic 

By JOE TROMBELLO Assistant News Editor 
Less than half of Notre Dame's faculty members have achieved the rank of full pro­fessor and the University has the lowest percentage of full professors among top twenty institutions. which may lower the rankings of individual departments. 
According to statistics pro­vided by the Office of Institutional Research, 45 per­cent of Notre Dame's faculty is at the rank of full professor, a statistic equal to or better than a number of Notre Dame's Catholic peer institu­tions but one that falls behind the top twenty peer institu­tions, that have 55 percent of their faculty at the full profes­sor rank. 
University administrators said that a number of factors, including the cyclical nature of hiring, the increasing difliculty of the University's promotion standards, the University's emphasis on teaching as a fac­tor in promotion decisions and the difficulty that some faculty may have in receiving appro­priate mentoring all play a role in why Notre Dame has fewer full professors than other peer institutions. 
Transitional Period 
Carol Mooney, vice president and associate provost, said that changes to Notre Dame's 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Obse!Ver Brother Thaddeus Gottemoller makes a rosary from materials he Inherited from his father decades ago. Gottemoller, 92, has served the Congregation of Holy Cross for the last 72 years. 
well-being and fitness of resi­dents. 
"[The HPC Chairmen] would like to sec more invested in this," Maxwell said. "It might be something for the CLC to look at next year." 
Kathy Brannock, rector of Howard Hall, and Heather Rakoczy, rector of Pangborn Hall. said that residents have asked for additional exercise equipment in the past for their respective dorms but that space constraints made such requests difficult to address. 
"I wouldn't mind buying the equipment but we have no room to put it," Brannock said. "In Howard Hall it's just not feasible." 
The debate expanded into one focusing on gender inequalities in general within 
see CLC/page 6 
standards with respect to tenure and promotion might partially explain the smaller number of faculty who are full professors. Some faculty who were either hired or received tenure before the University increased its emphasis on research may not be meeting the higher expectations. 
"[The] University has been transitioning to a place where research is more important than it has been historically," she said. "We have some peo­ple hired land tenured I before the research expectations were higher and they have never performed at a level necessary to be promoted." 
see FACULTY/page 4 

Tuesday, April6, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The Look 
Do you ever get the Look? You know, the Look that is just scream­ing "I can't believe someone like you got in a school like this." I get it a lot. So I'm writing this column as a sort of service project. If you've 
Kate Gales 
ever been a recipient of the Look, you can Sports read it and think, Production "Wow, this girl is even more spaced out than I am." Or, if you can top my experiences, you can write me an e-mail. Then I can laugh at you. 
Oh man, I really hope I get some stories from people. I'll be sympa­thetic. I promise. So top these. Please. 
I shocked myself with Christmas lights. It hurt. It was not fun. I told Erin, who lives across the hall. She gave me a Look. "You touched open wires without turning the lights off?" I really didn't know you were supposed to do that. I guess you could say that the news was a shock ... zing. 
I fell down the stairs of my dorm. What makes the story better is that the door was open, and I fell out the door, too. Very embarrassing, let me tell you. People were watching me. They gave me the Look. My best friend, who tore both her ACLs, gave me that test to see if I tore anything because my knee was so swollen. She also gave me the Look. 
I made a CD for a guy, code name Ignatius, on Valentine's Day. I wrote "To Ignatius, from Kate" on the front while my brother, code name Xavier, was explaining to me the fine art of CD making. The next day, his room­mate asked me who Xavier was. I was confused. Very confused. Until I realized that I had been on the phone with my brother and inadver­tently written "Xavier" on the CD ­and given it to Ignatius. I was so upset, I screamed. My roommate asked me why I was screaming. She gave me the Look. Then she laughed. I just about died. 
I set my alarm without looking at the hour. I went to and sat through the entire 8:30 calculus class instead of my 9:35 without realizing it. Where were my friends and the pro­fessor? Why did I not understand the material? For some reason, I didn't think to question it. 
I tried to say Reese's Pieces. But I added a "nis" in the middle of "pieces." Say it out loud and you'll realize why it was awkward when I said it to my football coach. He gave me the Look. Then he laughed so hard he rolled around on the ground. 
I challenge you to top those. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In Monday's story "Protests prompt Taco Bell response," University spokesman Matt Storin should have been quoted as saying that he was unaware whether letters from the Progressive Student Alliance had been delivered to University President Father Edward Malloy and he was unaware whether Malloy knew of the letter. 
In Monday's sports' story "Malloy responds to criti­cism" that discussed rhe publication of a column written by Malloy in The New York Times, Storin's quote should have read, "There was a column in rhe Times that didn't make the print edition here, bur we felt that although you can't address a specific col­umn with another, there were some things said about rhe University and irs attraction to players of color rhar needed to be said." 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU WORK? IF SO, WHERE? 



Katl Sedun Nicole Gonsalves Paul Chung VIncent Lynzlskl 
Junior Freshman Sophomore Sophomore Cavanaugh McGlinn Knott Keenan 
"/ work at The "Props out to UNOa,, "The Huddle.'' "At the Math "Nope." 
Carolyn Lethert 
Junior Pasquerilla East 

Eric Doversberger 
Junior Dillon 

Huddle, only  the Kaneb  
the best place  Center and  
ever. "  crew and the  
always present  
animal  
crackers."  




Office." 
IN BRIEF 

Class registration for Fall 2004 will begin for rising sen­iors this morning and continue through Thursday on IrishLink. 
The Keough Institute and the law school will sponsor a lec­ture by Michael Farrell of the Irish Human Rights Commission "Using International Human Rights Law in Practice" at 12:15 p.m. today in the Law School Courtroom. Farrell will also lecture on "Civil Rights, the Law and the Conflict in Northern Ireland" at 5 p.m. in the Law School Courtroom. 
The English Department will sponsor a talk on "Playboys and Riot Grrrls: Drama and the Fighting Irish Audience" by assistant professor Susan Cannon Harris at 7 p.m. tonight in the Reekers hospitality room. Refreshments will be served. 
Stanford University professor Teresa LaFramboise will speak on "Changing and Diverse Roles of American Indian Women in 21st Century United States" at 7 p.m. tonight in DeBartolo Hall room 131. 
The Mini-Medical School Lecture series will continue tonight at 7 p.m. when Dominic Vachon presents a lecture "Transcending Suffering: Spirituality and Maintaining compassion in the Encounter with Human Pain." 
Amnesty International will sponsor a showing of the film "Dead Man Walking" tonight at 7 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall room 119. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 50 HIGH 45 LOW 30 LOW 35 

W.Va. county overrun by stray cats 
FAIRMONT, W.Va. ­Marion County apparently is being overrun by stray cats. Brenda Leonard, manager of the Marion County Humane Society, said she has no idea how many there are, but the problem is so bad, "I have people who rent cat cages, set them by their house and try to catch them for us." 
Leonard said they received 28 cats at the shelter between March 11 and 26. 
Fairmont Council mem­ber De'Andrea Bussey is proposing owners register their cats and get a license, like dog owners do. The 
TODAY 
a:: 
IJ.I 
:c 
~ 
IJ.I 
~ 
..... 
o¢ 
(.) 


0 

registration fee would go to the humane society's spay­ing and neutering program. 
Prom couple sticks together 
HAGERMAN, Idaho When at the prom, it's best to stick to your date. 
No problem for Lynlea Jayo and Josh Traughber, a high school couple who used duct tape, thrift-store jackets and bed sheets to make their own formal wear for just $30. 
Jayo and Traughber's creativity put them in the running for $2,500 scholar­ships. The Duck brand duct-tape company also gave $2,500 to the school as part of a national con­test. 
"It's my last prom, and I wanted to go with a bang," Traughber said. "I think we hit on something way dif­ferent." 
Her dress was made from an old bed sheet. She used three rolls of black and red tape on the hourglass­shaped gown with spaghet­ti straps. 
"I thought about a lot of different ideas, but it's hard to imagine what a duct tape dress will look like until you make it," Jayo said. 
Because of an extra layer of duct tape, Traughber's jacket weighed 14 pounds. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

~ 

..... HIGH 63 HIGH 47 HIGH 58 HIGH 51 
LOW 38 LOW 38 LOW 38 LOW 32 
Atlanta 72 I 50 Boston 50 I 36 Chicago 66 I 40 Denver 64 I 40 Houston 75 I 65 Los Angeles 69 I 54 Minneapolis 64 I 38 New York 54 I 42 Philadelphia 81 I 61 Phoenix 60 I 47 Seattle 60 I 47 St. Louis 72 I 52 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 59 I 47 
Tuesday, April 6, 2004 •The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Group begins term with brief meeting 
By MATT BRAMANTI Senior SrafTWrircr 
The new members of the Council of Hepresentatives con­vened to bogin the 2004-05 stu­dent government term in a brief. informal meeting Monday evoning in LaFortune. 
The 25-minute meeting­the shortest of the year ­lacked the urgency that marked recent COB sessions, when members struggled to complete a massive constitu­tional overhaul by the March 31 deadline. But on Monday night no official business was conducted, no minutes were read and several members were absent. 
But that relaxed atmosphere won't last for long. Next week, COH must approve the fiscal budget for the entire Student Union, totaling roughly $600,000 in money from stu­dent activities fees and sales of "The Shirt." 
Student body president Adam Istvan -in his first COH meet­ing as president -said he expects the budget to pass, but acknowledged there will be contentious issues. 
"It could be a long meeting," Istvan laughed. 
In next week's meeting, the council will also approve the nominations of its new mem­bers, a process that has tradi­tionally been a "rubber stamp." 
Istvan said student leaders' transition to the revamped con­stitution is progressing, but he acknowledged that it would not 

SOFIA BALLON/The Observer 

Student body president Adam Istvan led his first Council of Representatives meeting Monday. The meeting lasted 25 minutes and was Informal. 
happen overnight. 
"It's going to take a while for the new constitution to sift its way out," he said. "Bear with us until we get the hang of what each group is supposed to be doing." 
Istvan also announced COH members will attend a daylong retreat at the Creek House, an off-campus house owned by the Student Activities Office, as well as a longer leadership development weekend in Michigan. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at 
mbramant@nd.edu 

~111r11 re~or11nees in 
OrDSS 111: 11113921 Pfll. Jaatlla lltble Tl3:3la4:1 
Social& Pofitical Protest Busineu BaftqUeti' Karaoke Sports l Leisure Theater llkama Advertising l MJV Film l Television 
Pop &Punk Music 

6139 UIA 39! 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Members open new session 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 
The new members of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance convened for the first time Monday to review procedures and discuss a con­troversial comedian duo that performed on campus last week. 
"We're going to go through things thoroughly to make sure we get the rhythm down," stu­dent body president Sarah Catherine White said. 
The group also discussed recent student reactions to "Alfred and Seymour," a come­dy duo that performed during lunch March 29 in the dining hall. Several students have written about the Student Government Association spon­sored event, raising concern that the pair portrayed stereo­types about blacks. 
"Students around campus have been talking about these issues," White said. "Some took offense, some were concerned that we weren't sensitive enough and brought this act to campus. We are addressing this issue." 
SGA will be sponsoring an open forum tonight at 6 p.m. in Haggar Parlor to discuss the performance. White empha­sized the need for board mem­bers to keep in touch with issues on campus by attending such forums. 
"As leaders here on campus, we need to be informed and have an informed perspective,'' she said. 
In other BOG news: 
• Take Back the Night will be held April 15. The event is a tri-campus walk and rally to raise awareness for violence against women. It begins at Holy Cross at 5 p.m., stopping at Saint Mary's at 5:30 p.m., continuing on to Notre Dame and then returning back to Saint Mary's for a pep rally at 7:30p.m. 
+ Spring day on campus will be held the weekend of April 18. It will include tours led by SGA at 
12:15 p.m., followed by lunch and an open house for new stu­dents at 2:30 p.m. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
Miller receives math award 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
NewsWricer 
The Mathematics Association of America award­ed Saint Mary's math profes­sor Don Miller its Indiana Section Distinguished Service Award Friday. · 
This award is given to one person in the state and is awarded based on extraordi­nary contributions to the Mathematics Association of America and improving educa­tion in the mathematical sci­ences in Amerjca. 
Miller has been a math pro­fessor at Saint Mary's since 
~~inl* 


196 7 and previously served for 10 years as the head of the department. He recently pub­lished work on state lotteries. 
Miller is also known as a versatile teacher, an expert in statistics and operations research and a leader in mathematics curriculum development. He was awarded the College's Spes Unica award in 1992 for outstanding service. 
Miller was anonymously nominated for the Distinguished Service Award by one of his colleagues and selected by the executive com­mittee of the MAA. 
"It is very exciting to be 
selected to win this award," Miller said. 
Miller served at the national level of the MAA as an officer in the Special Interest Group on Environmental Mathematics and is known for his widely recognized work in both the Mathematical Contest in Modeling and the Society of Industrial and Applied Mathematics. 
Miller currently teaches sim­ulation, statistical applications and probability courses at Saint Mary's and also serves as Saint Mary's softball coach. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Lutheran Services ELCA Gloria Del Lutheran Church 225 E. Haney St. South Bend, IN Parking: Broadway at Carroll I 2 blocks off Michigan Maundy Thursday, 7pm Good Friday, 7am-7pm prayer vigil, 7pm Tenebrae Easter Vigil, April IOth, Bpm Easter Sunday Services, IOam 

Ballroom Dance Club 
Lesson This W eck: West Coctst. Swing! Rockne 301-7:30 Beginners 8:45 Advance-d 
~----­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April6, 2004 
answer session raised sever­Marino said that hiring mitment that some associate best young faculty," he said. Roche said the level of com­
al educational debates.

Panel
Faculty 

Students and faculty dis­concern as more women are service may leave them with 
women faculty is of special faculty members spend on continued from page I cussed how the legacy ofcontinued from page I 
Brown manifests itself in Mooney said that a commit­College. research. 
continuing to enroll in the less time to complete 
regation laws set into place controversies such as the No 
tee has been investigating how "We do want to increase the Other feedback opportuni­
by the 1894 Supreme Court Child Left Behind Act, vouch­top ,twenty institutions handle number of female faculty ties, such as pre-screening 
case Plessy v. Ferguson. er programs and the theory long-term faculty who do not because we want to have role committees, lunch conversa­
Houston died in 1950, but of racial perpetuation. produce the necessary models for students -you tions with associate dean of 
many of his prominent con­The second part of the dis­research to meet promotion want more female role mod­faculty Gregory Sterling and 
temporaries are now being cussion will take place today standards. She said the com­els," he said. departmental mentoring also 
highly sought after as the from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the mittee's report, which will be Arts and Letters and provide associate professors 
May anniversary approaches. Coleman-Morse lounge. delivered at the April meeting Mentoring with opportunities to gauge 
"Major universities are A panel of ESS students of the Provosts' Advisory According to departmental their standing with respect to 
devoting a great many will speak about the legacy Committee, is not yet complete strategic plans, some depart­promotion standards. 
resources to bring in major of Brown as it relates to their but has reached some tenta­ments in the College of Arts Roche said that although 
speakers, historians, and own research. The discussion tive conclusions. and Letters believe that fewer some faculty members may 
participants in Brown," said will focus on two areas: the "The reason there was a numbers of full professors retire without having achieved 
Stuart Greene, a professor in broad implications on public committee constructed was to may play a role in damaging the rank of full professor, 
the Education, Schooling and education and the local affect see if we were out of step with their rankings or their pro­these faculty should consider 
Society Minor. on the South Bend area. other institutions -are we gram's potential. themselves a valuable part of 
In the second half of the The event is one of the only demanding too much," she "Our analysis also identifies the Notre Dame community, 
night, Bill Carbonaro, a soci­campus events commemorat­said. "Our tentative conclusion small faculty size and a low especially because Notre 
ology professor, and Richard ing the anniversary. In is no." proportion of senior faculty as Dame's emphasis on teaching 
Pierce. a history professor, February, the Notre Dame Women Faculty depressing our ranking," the as a standard of promotion 
explained the legacy of Law School sponsored a Mooney said that she does 2002 Psychology department means that such faculty are 
Brown in light of their speech by Jack Greenberg, a not perceive the discrepancy plan reads. inherently well-qualified 
respective disciplines. lawyer in the Brown case. between percentages of full The plans for the teachers. 
Carbonaro described "Universities all over the professors as a "significant Departments of Romances "One advantage of Notre 
Brown as an important country are having these problem," but she said she Languages and Classics Dame is that the culture here 
"lever for social change," a kinds of conversations," said does view the lack of female respectively have both made is so supportive of good teach­
lever requiring individual Stuart. "We thought it was full and associate professors in the addition of senior, often ing," he said. "Faculty who 
action for implementation. really important that Notre comparison with other institu­endowed, faculty their top pri­retire as associate professors 
Pierce called the case a Dame students have this con­tions to be of particular con­orities. will be highly esteemed." 
"euphoric moment" in con­versation as well." cern. Mark Roche, dean of the 
text of the greater civil rights "We clearly lag behind in College of Arts and Letters, Contact Joe Trombello at 
movement. Contact Janice Flynn at terms of female full profes­noted that those departments jtrombel@nd.edu 
The ensuing question-and-jflynnl@nd.edu sors," she said. have already made great 
Maura Ryan, associate strides. provost, repeated Mooney's He empha~ized that the concerns. Department ·of Psychology 
"I think that promotion and recently promoted two faculty hiring of women at the full members. to the rank of full professor rank is a serious professor and has hired two problem here," she said. additional full professors who 
Ryan said that statistics pro­will be joining the department vided by the Office of in the next academic year. In Institutional Research indicate addition, he said the depart­that while Notre Dame has a ment has promoted eight fac­higher percentage of female ulty members from assistant assistant professors in com­to associate professor in the parison with top-twenty insti­last six years, the most of any tutions, the University has department in the College. fewer percentages of both Roche said that although the associate and full professors lack of full professors in some who are women. While 39 per­departments may be of some cent of professors at the assis­concern now, he believes that tant rank are women -com­the cyclical process means pared with 36 percent at top­that departments will soon be twenty peer institutions -able to catch up. Notre Dame lags behind these "[I] don't view it as a long­peers at both the associate (26. term problem," he said. percent versus 33 percent) "Although it may affect the and the full (11 percent versus next National Research 16 percent) ranks. Council rankings, ten years 
Mooney said that the statis­from now I anticipate that we tics show that more women may have caught up." faculty members leave before Roche noted that he identi­
receiving tenure than men, fied mentoring to be an area but the percentage of women in which the college could who make full professor is improve, and he said that pro­equal to or higher than male viding associate faculty mem­professors here. bers with more feedback on 
"Once tenured, women are their performance and profilespromoted to full professor at a would be helpful in the promo­higher rate," she said. tion process. 
Mooney said that the "I identified early on that we women's group WATCH has had a significant number of discussed and focused on this associate professors that were 
issue, while both she and Ryan not getting feedback on per­have taken steps, including formance and didn't know interviewing junior women what to do to move on to the faculty, to better assess how next step," he said. women faculty are doing. Roche said that the collegeScience has undertaken a variety of 
Joseph Marino. dean of the tasks to promote better faculty College of Science, said that mentoring. An annual panel eight out of 80 full professors discussion was held Friday to in the department -or 10 discuss the process and expec­percent -are women. Marino tation of promotion from asso­said that his College is making ciate to full professor. In addi­significant attempts to hire tion, he said that the college and promote the best women has implemented a policy of faculty. providing "special leave to "If we were not doing any­associate professors who have thing at the front end [hiring been at the level for ten or women faculty]. then I would more years. Two grants were [be worried]." he said. awarded in the 2003-04 aca­Marino said that about one demic year, with two or three of out every three recent hires additional grants available for in the College at the assistant next year to provide a full year level have been female faculty. of leave to professors whose 
However, Marino said that he research and publicationis careful only to hire the best records may not be quite up to quality faculty of either gender the promotion standards. in order to have fewer prob­"It's a way to give extra time 
lems with denial of tenure or to associates who ... haven't promotion. been able to turn around a 
"The key is trying to hire the research project," he said. 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 6, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TtiE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
25 killed, dozens missing in flood 
PIEDH/\S NEGH/\S, Mexico -Torrential rains swelled a tributary of the Hio Grande by 25 feet early Monday, causing a flash flood that inundated a Mexican border city, killing at least 25 people and forcing hundreds more into shelters. 
Dozens more people were missing; the dnath loll was expected to rise. Mexico declared a state of emergency in the area. 
Floodwaters from the Escondido River began rnceding after the rain stopped by mid­day, but heavy, dark clouds loomed over Piedras Negras, a city of 200,000 people about 150 miles southwest of San Antonio. Supplies of drinking water, electricity and gas were cut. 
Hundreds of people were left homeless, radio stations reported, and announcers read the names of people staying at shelters to help families lind missing relatives. 
Suspect arrested in bombing 
MADBID, Spain -Authorities announced another arrest in the Madrid terror bombings Monday and sent police to patrol subway and bus stations, as a newspaper said a group linked to al-Qaida threatened to turn Spain into "an inferno." 
Court officials said the arrest came Saturday in Ceuta, a Spanish enclave on the Moroccan coast. No details were given on the man's identity or possible role in the March 11 train attacks. which killed 191 people. Another suspect whose weekend arrest was also announced Monday has been released after questioning, officials said. 
The arrest raises to 16 the number of peo­ple in custody, including six charged with mass murder. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Scandal rocks voucher program 
MILWAUKEE -One school that received millions of dollars through the nation's oldest and largest voucher program was founded by a convicted rapist. Another school reportedly entertained kids with Monopoly while cash­ing $330,000 in tuition checks for hundreds of no-show students. 
The recent scandals have shocked politi­cians, angered parents and left even some voucher supporters demanding reforms. 
The troubles have helped lead to passage of a state law requiring voucher schools to report more financial information to the stale. Democratic Gov. Jim Doyle signed it last month. 
But so far, efforts to impose more rigorous academic standards on voucher schools have failed. 
L.A. Times wins five Pulitzers 
NEW YOHK -The Los Angeles Times captured live Pulitzer Prizes on Monday for coverage ranging from devastating wild­fires in its backyard to a civil war on the other side of the globe -the second-most awards ever won by a newspaper. 
Coverage of the war in Iraq led to two prizes: Anthony Shadid of The Washington Post for international reporting, and David Leeson and Cheryl Diaz Meyer of The Dallas Morning News for breaking news photogra­phy. 
STATE NEWS 
Blaze destroys foam plant, 7 hurt 
BHEMEN -An explosion and fire at a facto­ry that makes foam cushioning products destroyed the company's plant on Monday and injun~d seven workers. 
Sections of the Bremen Corp. plant's roof col­lapsed, and the structure was considered a total loss. said Barb Capron, a lire dispatcher in the town about 20 miles south of South Bend. No dollar estimate of the damage was immediately available. 
Six of the seven workers who were hurt suf­fen~d minor injuries, and one plant employee was taken to a hospital in South Bend for treatment of non-life threatening injuries. 
HAITI 

U.S. supports interim government 
Powell visits U.S. troops in Port-au-Prince, predicts U.N. peacekeepers will help 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE Secretary of State Colin Powell gave assurances Monday of full U.S. support for Haiti's interim govern­ment but said democracy cannot flourish until politi­cally motivated private armies lay down their weapons. 
"Without disarmament, Haiti's democracy will be at risk," Powell said at a news conference with Haiti's interim prime minister, Gerard Latortue. Latortue told Powell that all of Haiti's political parties agree that municipal, legislative and presidential elections should be held in 2005. 
Powell said prospects are good for sending a U.N.­sponsored peacekeeping force to replace the U.S.-Ied multinational force that arrived shortly after the Feb. 29 departure of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
Almost 2,000 U.S. troops are serving in Haiti and are expected to leave in June, along with Canadian and Chilean troops. Their com­bined total is about 3,600 troops. 

Most Caribbean leaders have refused to participate in the U.S.-led international force, angry that the Security Council refused their urgent plea to send Bush administration insists heard from Aristide since make known," Powell said. troops in time to save that Aristide left Haiti vol­his arrival there. Latortue announced Aristide, Haiti's first demo­untarily. Caribbean coun­U.S. officials have pressed Mor\flay he would create a cratically elected leader. tries have not recognized Latortue in recent days not commission modeled after Trinidad has said it may the interim government, to give government posi­South Africa's Truth and send troops to Haiti. arguing that Aristide is tions to leaders of armed Reconciliation Commission 
Powell rejected proposals Haiti's legitimate leader groups who have criminal to deal with past crimes and by some of Haiti's based on elections held in backgrounds. grievances. He didn't give Caribbean neighbors for an 2000. Rep. Charles Rangel, About 10 days after his details. inquiry into circumstances D·N.Y., says Aristide was appointment as prime min­Latortue said he pleaded of Aristide's sudden depar­the victim of a U.S.-spon­ister, Latortue appeared in with Powell for more inter­ture five weeks ago. sored coup d'etat. public with some insurgent national aid. 
"I don't think any purpose Powell pledged to help leaders and hailed them as "Haiti is in a state of total would be served by such an Haiti's new government freedom fighters. bankruptcy," Latortue said. inquiry," Powell said. "Haiti earn recognition within the Powell said Latortue "We're asking international was on the verge of a total 15-member Caribbean assured him Haitian gov­donors to assist us with security collapse." Community. ernment posts won't go to some of the urgent tasks at 
"On the last weekend in Aristide initially took up criminals or human rights hand, particularly with cre­February, I think we avert­residence in the Central violators. ating opportunities with ed a bloodbath," he said. African Republic. He went "I'm sure, as we go for­jobs." 
Aristide and many to Jamaica about three ward, any names that are Powell said $9 million will Caribbean leaders allege weeks ago for family rea­known to us who are be released for a special the United States coerced sons, the Jamaican govern­involved in wrongdoing or Organization of American Aristide into leaving. The ment said. Little has been acts of violence we will States mission. 

Spirit rover ends NASA tasks on Mars 
manager of the $820 million mission. work than expected. Opportunity
Associated Press 

The mission's key tasks included a must function for another 20 days 
PASADENA, Calif.-NASA's Spirit requirement that one of the rovers before meeting all its goals, Adler rover wrapped up its primary mission travel at least 1, 980 feet -a mark said. to Mars on Monday as it continued to Spirit surpassed on Saturday. "It's better than we could have pos­roll across the planet's surface on an Between the two of them, the rovers sibly imagined," Adler said. 
extended tour that could last through also had to take stereo and color NASA has extended the mission September. panoramas of their surroundings, through September. If the rovers con­
The unmanned robot, marking its drive to at least eight locations and tinue to function, the Jet Propulsion 90th full day on Mars, had accom­operate simultaneously for a mini­Laboratory will apply for money to plished all of the tasks NASA consid­mum of 30 days. extend the project again, Adler said. ered essential to declare the joint mis­NASA assumed technical and other Beginning Thursday, NASA will sion a success. Its twin rover, problems would ground the rovers begin updating software on the Opportunity, was getting close to fully one-third of the time they operat­rovers. The new software should achieving the same. ed on Mars. allow Spirit to travel farther each day 
"Spirit has completed its part of the Despite computer memory problems while navigating autonomously and bargain, and Opportunity doesn't have that left Spirit sidelined for 2 112 help Opportunity conserve battery much left to do," said Mark Adler, weeks, it has still spent more days at power at night. 

Tuesday, April 6, 2004

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Midwest province, however, was 18 years ago. And while voca­
Brothers 
tions in developing nations are higher, the average age of a Holy
continued from page 1 
Cross brother was 60.5 world­raries have either passed away wide in 1995. This average age or relocated to warmer climates has decreased slightly in recent to enjoy the retired lifestyle, years, but the change is due Beere and his colleagues are still more to the death of older broth­
up at 7 a.m. for morning prayer ers than an influx of new mem­and retum home at 5 p.m. for bers, Fillmore said. evening prayer and Mass after a Today there are 664 Holy Cross day that usually involves min­brothers worldwide but many istry of some kind. are retired. Meeting the needs of 
Beere and the other men of older brothers while continuing Columba Hall are Holy Cross its ministry is one of the primary Brothers. Combined, they've challenges that the order faces. contributed hundreds of years of "We just don't have the people service to an order whose mis­to minister ... it's sad but it's the sion centers on education. way it is," Fillmore said. "It's a 
The Brothers of Holy Cross life and death situation in terms have given the world Blessed of [our future]. The tragedy is it's Brother Andre Bessette, a such a good life." reported miracle worker, and The decline in vocations, say Brother Columba O'Neill, a man many brothers, is not due to a renowned for his devotion to the lack of motivated, spiritual peo­sacred heart of Jesus. The ple but to a channeling of that brothers have established ele­energy into different forms. mentary schools, high schools "Certainly the spirit is working and colleges in North America, in persons of your age. The Europe, Asia and Africa. And, if desire to give is still there," said you ask a member of their order, Brother James Newberry, citing Notre Dame itself was founded orchestrated the merging of the As a result, brothers, Looming challenges the high number of Notre Dame by a group of Holy Cross broth­brothers with groups of priests explains Fillmore, are recog­Motivating young men to join graduates who go on to pursue ers accompanied by their "chap­and nuns to form the nized by the Church as conse­the order, however, is something service work as an example. lain," Father Edward Sorin. Congregation of Holy Cross. Six crated lay people. The Holy that has challenged the brothers "But, I don't think [this genera­
"Part of why we exist is to years later, the congregation Cross Brothers adopt the vows in recent years, despite tion] perceives the religious life serve other people," explains reached the American frontier of poverty, celibacy and obedi­increased opportunities to serve of today as something they're Brother Robert Fillmore. the and during the century that fol­ence. Unlike priests, brothers the needy and attempts at mod­interested in." Provincial Superior for the lowed, it continued its original cannot celebrate Mass or hear ernization. Still, the or:-! w is working hard Midwest and a man who has mission of education as it confessions but as Brother In the decades that followed to ensure its continuation and given 44 years to the order to expanded outward. Joseph McTaggart interjects, Vatican II. interest in religious there is an air of determination date. Vatican II instituted dramatic "that's defining [our mission] life initially increased, but in among its members that statis­
But for all its accomplish­changes throughout the Catholic in terms of a negative." recent times the flow of voca­tics can't capture. It's present in ments, the Brothers of Holy Church, particularly in terms of Indeed, most brothers hold tions has slowed to a trickle. In the resolve of brothers who Cross remain largely in the its relationship with the laity. priests and their ministry in response to changes in the teach disadvantaged children shadows and today -184 years This resulted in increased high regard but ministering Church, the order has expanded around the world. It's evident in after it was founded -a long­opportunities for the non-clerical the sacraments and looking the scope of its ministry. In 1986, the hope that brothers like term decline in vocations makes -opportunities that some after a parish isn't what they it outlined changes to the organi­Fillmore have in the discernment its future somewhat uncertain. would argue had a bigger felt called to do. zation, dividing brothers into house that will be constructed in Looking back impact on nuns and brothers "I thought first about becom­smaller communities, creating a Holy Cross Village to promote 
The order of the Brothers of than priests. ing a priest because two of my less structured day and officially vocations. And it's present in the Holy Cross, originally named the A brother's role friends from high school were exchanging habits for layman's tenacity of the order's oldest Brothers of Saint Joseph, was "Only a priest can do the in the seminary," Beere said. garb. members. Members like Brother born in France during a period work of a priest but you can't "I [decided] I did not want to Despite the changes, recruit­Thaddeus Gottemoller, 92, who of heightened persecution of the hardly name anything [done by minister the sacraments ... I ment of new brothers remains a has served the Congregation of Catholic Church after the a brother] that can't be done did want to be a teacher and I challenge for the order. Holy Cross for 72 years and con­nation's bloody revolution. Its by qualified 'lay people," said did want to become involved "Everybody's saying the num­tinues to tend the grounds sur­founder envisioned the small Brother Richard Gilman, presi­with young people. I wanted to bers will go back [up] and every­rounding Columba Hall and group of men reestablishing dent of Holy Cross College. be able to lead a religious thing will go back to the way it make rosaries from materials he schools throughout France Still, the process of becoming life." was," Gilman said. "I don't think inherited from his father decades which had largely closed down a brother remains a long one Beere said that it's a decision it will ... There's definitely a role ago. during the previous years of tur­that usually takes a minimum he's never regretted. for the life of a brother ... but It seems doubtful that this moil. of four years. It includes a "My father [a craftsman] was from my point of view I think the group of men who tamed the 
"Our founder discovered the one-year period of discern­very upset at the time. He Holy Spirit is saying we don't Indiana wilderness, worked to real need to establish schools ment, a one-year post-college wanted me to become a priest need as many." better the lives of countless gen­again," Fillmore said. candidate program, a two-year so that he could make me a Uncertain future erations of Bangladesh's poor "Education was the major thrust novitiate -what Fillmore chalice," he remembers with a In recent times, the order and who minister to today's [then] and that is what we con­calls "boot camp for brothers" chuckle. "Everyone has differ­recruits about one new member aging will go without a fight. tinue to do [today]." in which candidates receive ent ideals. It's very important annually in the United States, 
By 1835 Father Basil Moreau, their formal training -and to get in somewhere that will Fillmore said. The last time a Contact Andrew Thagard at who was overseeing the order, final vows. [motivate you for a] lifetime." man took his final vows in ti:J.e athagard@nd.edu 

Ridge: Private sector must pay for security 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
the dorms and led Jeremy Lao, chairmen of CLC, to suggest the possibility of introducing a reso­lution at the next meeting requiring next year's council to form a committee on the issue. 
Rectors present along with David Moss, assistant vice pres­ident of Student Affairs, encour­aged students to voice their opinion on these and other issues by completing the annual rector evaluation forms -an opportunity that students often 
Observer 

fail to take advantage of, they Hall President's Council member Wyatt Maxwell, right, presented said. a letter about exercise equipment In dorms to Camps Life Council 
"We take these [the evalua­Monday while Elliot Poindexter looks on. tions] very seriously," Moss said. 
"She gave me ideas on how of the Mendoza College of In other CLC news: we can approach this from dif­Business, to solicit additional 
+ Work continued on CLC's ferent angles," he said, adding advice and support. The com­attempt to implement a manda­that Kolman suggested the pos­·mittee plans to introduce a res­tory social awareness course sibility of identifying existing olution on the issue at the next into all students' schedule in courses that could fulfill such a CLC meeting Lao added. the future. Lao informed mem­requirement. + CLC will hold its final meeting bers that he met with Eileen Lao said that he plans to meet of the year on April 19. Kolman, dean of the First Year with Ava Preacher, assistant of Studies, to discuss the pro-dean of the College of Arts and Contact Andrew Thagard at posed requirement. -Letters, and Carolyn Woo, dean athagard@nd.edu 
Associated Press 

PORTLAND, Ore. -The federal government cannot afford to pay for the increased security needed to protect U.S. ports from ter­rorists, Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said Monday. 
"We need to talk to the pri­vate sector," Ridge said. "We don't have enough public money to do everything that needs to be done." 
Ports and shipping compa­nies are facing a July 1 dead­line to have security pro­grams in place for their docks and vessels or face potential fines. The programs are based on regulations developed by the Homeland Security Department and the Coast Guard under the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002. 
The federal government plans to spend nearly $3 bil­lion on security programs this year but Ridge said "we can't go around using public money for every private sec­tor need." 
He noted the 360 ports pro­tected by the Coast Guard do about $1 trillion in business every year. 
Sam Ruda, who heads the maritime division for the Port of Portland, said user fees likely will be needed to help pay the cost of increased security. 
''I'm not really expecting that the federal government is going to bear the burden," Huda said. 
The Port of Portland is the major railroad freight center for most of the West and is the nation's top export center for wheat shipped from as far as the Midwest. 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Tuesday, April 6, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
-~ 

Dow 10 558.37 +87.78
jones .~ ' 
Up: Same: ~ Composite Volume: 1,538 120 1,400,331,264
v 

AMfX 1,262.87 ·2.30 NASDAQ 2,079.12 +21.95 NYSf 6,715.09 +34.76 S&P 500 1,150.57 +8.76 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,958.32 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,480.70 +15.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -2.37 -0.12 4.94 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +5.63 +0.20 3.75 IPIX (IPIX) +66.67 +4.66 11.65 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.39 +0.101 25.95 I ORACLE (ORCL) + 1.5 I +0.19 12.77 
Treosurles 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.43 +0.71 50.43 
. 

I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.93 +0.80 42.20 5-YEAR NOTE +2.62 +0.82 32.14 3-MONTH BILL -1.62 -0.15 9.12 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.0 I 34.38 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) -6.20 416.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.075 107.10 
Excho Rates 

YEN I 05.1 EURO 0.8333 POUND 0.549 CANADIAN$ 1.315 
IN BRIEF 
CVS buys half of Eckerd stores 
DALLAS -CVS Corp. scrambled the top ranks of the drugstore industry by acquiring about half of J.C. Penney's Eckcrd chain to push past Walgreen Co. in number of stores and challenge its rival in total revenue. ·· 
Penney announced Monday that it had sold Eckerd to CVS and Canada's Jean Coutu Group Inc. in two deals valued at $4.53 billion. 
CVS of Woonsocket, IU., will get about 1,260 Eckerd stores and support facilities in Texas, Florida and several southern states, as well as Eekcrd's pharmacy benefits management and mail order businesses, for $2.15 billion. It plans to rename the stores. 
EU, Philip Morris near $18 deal 
BHUSSELS, Belgium -The European Union and the maker of Marlboro cigarettes said Monday they were ncar a $1 billion deal to end years of legal wrangling by cracking down together on smuggling and counterfeits that are costing both sides enormous sums. 
Under the draft agreement, Philip Morris International would make payments over 12 years totaling about $1 billion -the biggest sum the EU has ever extracted from a single company. 
In mturn, "all disputes" would be resolved betwe1m the company, part of the U.S. tobacco and food giant Altria Group Inc., and the European Commission, which has filed two lawsuits in recent years against Philip Morris and was contemplating a third. 
Report: Lax rules led to blackout 
WASIIINGTON -Disregard for voluntary rules intended to ensure the !low of electricity opened the way for last summer's blackout in eight states and Canada, investigators said Monday in their linal report. They urged gov­ernment standards with teeth to ward off future outages. 
There was a clear understanding long before the blackout last August that the Ohio region where the problems began was highly vulnerable to grid instability, said the report from a joint U.S.-Canada task force. 
llad the situation been properly addressed, the cascading blackout that sped across states from Michigan to New York and into Canada probably would have been averted, the report concluded. 
FINANCIAL SERVICES 

Bank of America to ax 12,500 
Financial behemoth to lay off 7 percent of work force after Fleet Boston merger 
Associated Press 
CIIAHLOTTE, N.C. ­Bank of America Corp., newly merged with FleetBoston Financial Corp., said Monday it will cut 12,500 jobs -or nearly 7 percent of its work force ­over the next two years. 
Approximately 30 percent of the cuts will come through attrition, the Charlotte-based bank said, with the remaining jobs ­about 8,750 -being elimi­nated through layoffs and vacancies that won't be filled. 
The cuts will begin this month, as the company starts to notify affected employees from its com­bined work force of 181,000. 

Several workers leaving Bank of America's head­quarters in downtown Chicago-based Bank One Bank of America chief agreement, the company Charlotte Monday evening and J.P. Morgan Chase. executive Ken Lewis has committed to maintain over­were not aware of the com­Spokeswoman Eloise Hale said he wants to achieve all employment levels in pany's plans. Loan officer said the bank would not about $1.6 billion in cost New England. Veronica Dawkins said she specify where positions savings by the end of 2005. Bank of AmeriCa said it had not received any word would be eliminated, saying The two banks don't have a will attempt to find new from the company. only that they will take large number of overlap­opportunities within the 
"There's been a lot of talk place "corporation-wide." ping branches that can be bank for workers affected around the office, but no "When we discuss job closed, which is a major by the eliminated positions. one has given me any indi­reductions, we source of sav­According to the bank, it cation whatsoever that I are talking ings in many filled more than 37,000 need to worry," Dawkins about posi-bank merg-positions last year through a said. ''I'm hoping it works tions not nec-ers. combination of internal out for everybody." essarily peo-"These are difficult Instead, the transfers and external hires. 
The completion last week pie," said decisions ... " bank has said Bank of America shares of Bank of America's merg­Marc Oken, it expects to rose 74 cents to close at er with Fleet created the transition get about $81.25, Monday on the New
Marc Oken

nation's No. 3 bank with executive for $650 million York Stock Exchange. assets estimated at $966 bil­Bank of transition executive in savings Bank of America has 100­lion. America. "As from trim­year-old roots in California, 
With about 5,700 branch­a large ming over­where it financed Hollywood es, the new bank's footprint employer, we lapping oper-movies and the Golden Gate reaches from California will continue to create jobs ations and processes. For Bridge. through the South and up to over time. These are diffi­example, the bank will be It was bought by New England. In assets, the cult decisions and we are able to consolidate head­NationsBank Corporation, bank trails only Citigroup committed to supporting quarters for combined busi­which adopted the Bank of and another planned our associates during this ness lines, Lewis has said. America name and moved it mcgamerger between time." As part of its merger to North Carolina in 1998. 


GE executive to speak on campus 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
Senior Staff Writer 

As part of an increasing effort to reach out to Notre Dame students, a top executive .from the General Electric Co. will speak today in the Mendoza College of Business. 
Ceorge 0 liver, a 
.-------------, vice president at GE since late 1998, will lead a discus­sion entitled "Insights on Effective Leadership" in the Giovanini Commons in the 
Oliver
basement of the Mendoza College of Business at 
12:30 p.m. 
Oliver runs GE Water Technologies, which produces and markets water-treatment systems for industrial and consumer use. The business employs about 5,000 peo· pie, mostly in primary regional cen­ters in Trevose, Penn. and Minnetonka, Minn., as well as over­seas centers and the company describes it as "a key growth plat­form for GE." 
Oliver joined GE in 1982 in the air­craft engines subsidiary, rising to the vice president for engine services by 2000. In 2002, Oliver was named general manager of GE Betz, after GE acquired water treatment com­pany BetzDearborn in a $1.8 billion deal. Following two more major acquisitions, the water businesses were consolidated into GE Water Technologies in the reorganization of the General Electric Co. earlier this year. 
Following the talk, GE will host an open house in the Commons from 
1:15 to 2 p.m., in which company representatives will be available to speak with students interested in careers at GE. The company, which dates back to 1892, is the world's largest industrial conglomerate, with $134 billion in revenues last year. It employs about 315,000 people in more than 100 countries worldwide 
Andrew Schoppe, a 2003 MBA graduate from Notre Dame, is a con­tract manager for the commercial locomotives business of GE Transportation. Schoppe said the day offers unique opportunities for GE employees and Notre Dame stu­dents to meet each other. 
"[GE Water Technologies) is a busi­ness that most people might not be aware of," Schoppe said. "We want to strengthen that relationship." 
While Oliver was not available for comment, Schoppe said the senior executive is eager to speak at the business school, which has tradition­ally been a significant source for management talent at GE. "He was excited to get to meet Notre Dame students, and to learn what they have to offer the business he runs," Schoppe said. 
While the events are primarily tar­geted at business majors, Schoppe said all students a·re welcome to familiarize themselves with GE. 
"Even if you don't know what GE is, come out to the open house," Schoppe said. "We can provide some guidance. 
The day's events are co-hosted by the MBA Marketing Club and the MBA Finance & Investment Club. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, April6, 2004 
Voicing dissent 
MANAGl!iiG EmTOI\ 
Meghann~ Down<;s AsSr. MANhClNG EtliTOlt Jo~ Hettler 

Last week, during the National Student Week of Action, freshman Tony Rivas went on a seven-day hunger strike to call attention to migrant work­er struggles and university polices incongruent with Kamaria Porter Catholic Social Teaching. 
Breaking the 
Thankfully, his 
Habit 

brave act received the appropriate media coverage. 
Yet, Notre Dame has a bad habit of ignoring the acts of its resident activists, thereby defeating attempts to build a politically engaged campus, on any issue. If people knew more about what real students are doing for justice like Rivas, integrating social concerns in Domer life would not seem so challeng­ing. A movement of any group, especial­ly students, needs all kinds to work suc­cessfully. Five people in particular taught me this. 
Meet the professional, who in the past year has elevated her activism to her highest priority. Whether protesting FTM in Miami, attending the World Social Forum in India or giving keynote speeches at activist conferences, Cecilia Garza integrates her passion for justice into her life impressively. She works with the Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign -a widespread move­ment to end poverty-intensely during breaks and mobilizes here on campus. This past year, I have watched her become increasingly anxious, ready to leave Notre Dame for full time organiz­ing. While I shall be sad to see her go, I rejoice in knowing that soon she will be exactly doing exactly what she wants: fighting for change and teaching others to do the same. 
Meet the renegade, who places no limit on her concern for human dignity and social justice. While Brigitte Gynther's main work focuses on the Taco Bell boycott with the Coalition of 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Immokalee Workers, talking to her gives one information about tons of issues and disputes around the world worth attention. She maximizes her time, spreading it among several campaigns, yet dedicates her all to each. To me she represents an ideal spiritual and moral life for she is ultimately concerned with the quality of human life and works toward concrete solutions to social inequities. 
Meet the angel. who cares so much for people and shows it in her friend­ships and justice work. I admire how Kate Maich incorporates faith with activism, by engaging Catholic Social Teaching through academics and social work. She brings her passion for labor rights -fortified by her work with National Interfaith Committee for Worker Justice -to all Progressive Student Alliance campaigns. With every task, she proceeds with an alert preci­sion, aiming for inclusiveness and suc­cess. She recognizes her weaknesses and works to increase her knowledge of issues by going into unfamiliar disci­plines and bringing her ideas to discus­sion. I see she genuinely longs to dedi­cate herself to service after college to not only help people, but also to further challenge herself and to do more for causes she already cares for deeply. 
Meet the artist, whose silliness and sarcasm brings needed relief to often tense and difficult times. Tad Skotnicki's wit provides fresh perspectives to dis­cussions and enlivens our protests. His guitar playing and lyric improvising at last week's mass protest at Taco Bell made the event extra exciting. Every time I talk to him, I end up learning something new, whether about music, history, philosophy or literature. Most of all, he is honest and unreserved in expressing his thoughts and opinions. Such an attitude delights especially in a time of so much insincerity. 
Meet the pragmatist, who brings a sense of process and order to the color­ful mix in PSA. Christian McNamara can always be counted on to offer a helpful tip or framing concept for an event. He fills in the gaps with careful thinking and valuable experience. It was a pleasure working with him this past year especially in our meetings with University officials concerning the ath­letic department contract with a Taco Bell franchise. His demeanor and style impressed me and I learned from simply watching him. He listens to people and takes time to understand their situation before offering an opinion. I admire his wide range of interests and willingness to venture beyond conventional student life. 
With abundant academic and funding resources, chiefly the Center for Social Concerns and the I liggins Labor Research Center, Notre Dame students have a great opportunity to pursue social change. The University's prestige assures that any real success activists achieve will cause rippling effects throughout the collegiate landscape and the country. 
The five students I mentioned recog­nized this aspect of Notre Dame and worked diligently to be the change they wanted to see on campus and in the world. They taught me everything I know about organizing and I shall always be thankful for their guidance and friendship. I will continue to use them as my model and I hope similar groups of students will continue to rise up and carry on the work and spirit of activism on this campus. 
Kamaria Porter would like to thank everyone who came to Fair Food Friday ofthe Century to spread the news ofthe Taco Bell boycott. Also, she would like to thank the Week ofActions organizers, panelists and patrons. She can be con­tacted at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
What do you think of Notre Dame's admission  "You must be the change you want  
standards for football players?  to see in the world. "  
Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at  Mohandas Gandhi  
www.ndsmcobserver.com  philosopher  



THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 6, 2004 page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Support Catholic politicians 
The New York Times ran an article on April 2, entitled "Kerry, Catholic and Candidate, Creates Uneasiness for the Church." The Times was right in that it is worth noting Kerry is the first Catholic Presidential candidate on a major ticket in more than forty years. However, the New York Times barely scratched the surface of what is essentially a coup for Catholicism with respect to the Democratic party: The Democrat's leader in the United States Senate, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, is also Catholic. So is Representative Nancy Pelosi, the Democrat's leader in the House of Representatives. And it could get better (or worse, depending on your view of things): on almost every pundit's short list for the Demoerat's vice presidential nominees are Governor Bill Richardson of New Mexico and Senator John Breaux of Louisiana-both arc Catholic. 
Interestingly, the faiths' of the Hepublican leaders stand in stark contrast. Both President Bush and Vice President Cheney are Methodist. Senator Majority Leader Bill Frist is Presbyterian, and Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert lists himself simply as Protestant. Because so few people see Hastert as the real leader of the Republicans in the !louse, Tom Delay, for good measure, is Baptist. 
The real purpose of the New York Times piece was to examine the controversy that Kerry's nomination will almost inevitably cause in the coming months for Catholics. Kerry, like the rest of the Catholic Democratic leaders, are not considered by many Catholics to be "true" Catholic politicians, because they all maintain a pro-choice stance on abortion rights. Archbishop Raymond Burke of St. Louis is calling Kerry's Catholicism into question by stating that he would refuse Kerry communion should he be at Mass in St. Louis. Burke's contention actually begins to get at the heart of a much larger ques­tion: why do "non-true" Catholic politicians do so well in the Democratic party? 
I will not attempt to provide an answer, however, I think the issue raises two important points. First. Catholics who question Kerry's Catholicism-or Daschle's or Pelosi's­may want to consider that it is because of his Catholicism, and not in spite of it, that makes him a Democrat. If Catholicism has an enduring effect on its followers, then there has got to be something about Catholicism which makes being Catholic and being Democrat such a good fit. I know many Catholics are not pleased to see John Kerry as a presidential nominee, but concluding he is not a true Catholic is a simplistic dismissal which cannot lead to any enhanced understanding of Catholicism. 
Second, perhaps Catholic Republicans should ask themselves why is it that they defend the Republican party with any degree of intensity in light of the fact that the party as it stands right now does not seem to want to be led by Catholics. This also should be con­sidered in light of the fact that President George W. Bush felt it politically necessary and strategic to visit Bob Jones University in the last election. The founder of Bob Jones University. did not care what a Catholic's political views were. Ironically, Bob Jones did not discriminate when it came to Catholics; his animosity extended to us all. I am not suggesting that the Republican party is anti-Catholic, but it is disconcerting to read Observer Viewpoint columns where people defend the Republican party as the party for Catholics when the party clearly has not shown it is interested in such a title. 
In the end, regretfully I am sure Kerry's nomination will be more a source of contro­versy than a matter of pride for Catllolics. The whole dilemma reminds me of another article back from 1998 in "George Magazine," where a story was written about Daniel Patrick Moynihan as a "living legend" in the United States Senate. In the piece he was asked who his political hero was and he responded AI Smith. The only reason Moynihan gave was that Smith was the first Roman Catholic presidential nominee from either major political party. Such is the way Catholicism was meant to be; that there should be something good in and of itself when a fellow Catholic has potentially risen to the top of the political world. Undoubtedly many Catholics will not share in such a sense of triumph if two Catholic Democrats become the president and vice-president, but will instead call into question that very Catholicism. Sadly, all this will show is the communal sense of our Church is considerably far from where it ought to be. 
Tom Coffey Law School Class of 2006 AprilS 


A Domer's hiking 
•


experiences 
This week's column has it all: death-defying escapes, a suspenseful, engaging plot and even a few romantic intrigues. OK. so I lied about the last two. But hopefully a description of my hiking tour through Cornwall (England's most south-westerly county) might still provide you with a few moments of dL'>traction. 
First, some scene setting. We arc 

Geoff Johnston 
still on vacation here, and instead of vL'>iting the traditional tourist locales I decided to embark on a spontaneous, 

A Domer at
solitary and ill-eonceived walking 
Oxford
adventure. Before I began my three-day trek around the tip of England, l thought I had prepared everything I would need: a guide-book, a highly-detailed map, two sand­wiches, some soeks and my trusty Hceboks. My trip began with a six-hour train ride to the coastal city of 
Penzance. I arrived at 2 p.m. and immediately rocks I returned to the trail, walking for about began walking. ten more miles until at late dusk I reached 
Oulc;ide of the cities, the route was easy­Sennen Cove, a mile-long beach nestled going-stretching trough coastal fields of between the cliffs. I ate at a local pub, bright yellow gorse, which are tall, enjoyed a well-earned Guinness, and thorny plants that grow along the slept at Myrtle Cottage, raring to eoasUine. Oecasionally I would meet a meet the next day. local trudging the path like myself Early next morning I was off and ask tlwm to take my picture: I again, alone amongst the crags, think fully a third of the locals were singing Metallica to myself as I dressed in full captain's regalia, walked the coastline. looking like refugees from the Unfortunately I was soon lost from 1800s. On this first day I did not the trail, and I wandered through reach as far as I had hoped, and so hillsides of dense thorns, falling on as the sun rapidly dimmed beneath the occasional rock and cursing as the horizon I wandered into Lamorna I rubbed my thorn-ridden hands. Cove, a beach community of about ten After having climbed down a rocky buildings. Unfortunately. as I wandered outcropping I noticed the trail high through the ever-darkening streets, I on the cliff side and hiked back to came to the realization that my guide meet it to continue my journey. I book was dangerously out of date: some of enjoyed my sandwich lunch next to an old the B&B's which it recommended no longer 
lighthouse and consulted my map to find a exist(~d and anotl1er was now currently serving way back to Penzance. 
only lesbian women -I thought about a disguise, but it was hopeless. 
I wandered into the Lamorna Hotel and asked the recep­tionL<;l for the names of any local B&B's. A kind guest hap­pened to overhear and offered to drive me around, looking for any free rooms; it turned out that he was a graduate of Oxford. and so we swapped stories about tutes and Oxford's unique jargon. We found the Oriental Cottage, a beautiful two-story overlooking Lamorna's river, and so I wished my friend farewell. However, none of the local establishments served dinner, so it was back to the hotel's receptionist, where I met my friend again, lie offered to treat me to din­ner with his wife: a rich, three-course feast topped off by a Uruguay wine and a late-night discussion over tea. I thanked him IL.'> profusely as possible, returned to my gorgeous river­side rooms and slept like the dead. 
Next morning at the crack of dawn after a hearty English breakfast I set off, eager to conquer more of the trail. Hugging the steep, rocky coast, the path stretched over miles and miles of sandy beaches, rocky outcroppings and steep cliffs, while birds twittered about and the sea raged below. After hours of walking I made it to Logan's Rock, a large promontory connected to the mainland by a ten-foot wide stretch of path. I decided to scramble up one of the nearer earns, hoping to enjoy the glorious views from top. I had for­got what real fear was like until then; I really do not have a chance to experience that emotion in my isolated world of papers, abstruse discussions and mathematical constructs. But crawling up slippery, lichen-covered rocks in worn ten­nis shoes, with a fog rapidly rolling in, miles away from any other humans, I quickly remembered just how fragile 
humans really are. After scrambling through the 
Eventually, like all good stories my trip came to an end, and I hailed a bus returning to Penzance as I wandered down the highway. Later that evening as the train barreled down the track and I examined my thorn-eaten hands I was reminded of the words of the poet and naturalist Robert Frost, "1\vo roads diverged in a wood/And I took the one less traveled by/And that has made all the difference." 
Well, I traveled that lonely road and now only one concern remains: where are the tweezers? 
Geoff Johnston is a junior currently studying at Oxford University. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be contacted at gjohnsto@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neccessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Bush succeeds with tax cuts 
The economic growth in 2003 and 2004 has proven Bush's critics dead wrong. The Bush tax cuts. modeled after the JFK and Heagan tax cuts, were designed to stimulate all facets of the econ­omy, and have proven successful. The U.S. Commerce Department announced that the U.S. economy expanded at a rate of 7.2 percent in the third quarter -the fastest rate of growth since 1984, since the last major tax cuts. Heagan and JFK knew it. Bush knows it. Tax cuts work. 
The Bush plan slashed taxes across the board -not just for the wealthy. Personal income tax brackets were cut by 2 percent each. for taxpay­ers of all income levels. The dividend tax cut, in part, explains why the stock market is reaching pre-recession levels. Most of middle-class America "the bulk and backbone of this country" is invested, in some form, in the stock market (i.e., retirement plans). It only makes sense to allow them to keep more of what they earn and to encourage investment. There is more incen­tive to invest more money, which will continue to spur the market. 
Small business owners are retaining more cap­ital, allowing them to hire more workers and create new jobs. According to the law, sole-pro­prietorships and S corporations must pay per­sonal income tax. Thus, reducing personal income taxes for all taxpayers tends to help small businesses. That may explain why 308,000 new jobs were created in this past month of March. The "jobless recovery" argu­ment is futile now. 
Since August, we've added 750,000 new jobs. Consumers have more in their pocket, which could explain why consumer spending is up. Inflation is low. Manufacturing produetivity is up. Since 2000, after-tax disposable income is up 10 percent. We currently have a 68 percent home ownership rate the highest rate ever. Also, 1.5 million minority families have moved into homes of their own. Family incomes are up, which is, in part, due to the child tax credit of $1,000 per child. Numbers do not lie. Considering Sept. 11, the dotcom collapse and the corporate scandals, I think what Bush has managed to do with his tax cuts is quite impressive. 
Mike Koprowski 
sophomore 
Knoll Hall 
AprilS 

THE 0BSER\'ER 



CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, April6, 2004 
Some Tasty Treats for Easter 
COLUMN B y MAUREEN MALLOY 
After forty long days of depriving yourself from everything from sweets to soda, Easter Sunday provides the perfect opportunity to try your hand at some easy traditional recipes for your family celebration. Your mom will probably insist on preparing the ham, but maybe you can add some tasty sides and desserts to the feast. Here are some ideas for you to start cooking. 
Hot Cross Buns 
3/4 cup warm water (110 
degrees F/45 degrees C) 

3 tablespoons butter 
1 tablespoon instant powdered milk 
1/4 cup white sugar 
3/8 teaspoon salt 
1 egg 
1 egg white 
3 cups all-purpose flour 
1 tablespoon active dry yeast 
3/4 cup currants 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1 egg yolk 
2 tablespoons water 
112 cup confectioners' sugar 
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract 
2 teaspoons milk 
Put warm water, butter, skim milk powder, 1/4 cup sugar, salt, egg, egg white, flour and yeast in bread maker and start on dough program. When 5 · minutes of kneading are left, add currants and cinnamon. Leave in machine until double in size. Punch down on floured surface, cover and let rest 10 min­utes. Shape into 12 balls and place in a greased 9 x 12 inch pan. Cover and let rise in a warm place until double in size, about 35 to 40 minutes. Mix egg yolk and 2 tablespoons water. Brush on balls. Bake at 375 degrees F for 20 minutes. Remove from pan immediately and cool on wire rack. To make crosses: mix together confectioners' sugar, vanilla and milk. Brush an X on each· cooled bun. Recipe makes 12 buns. 
Courtesy of Sue Lister. Copyright© 2004; www.allrecipes.com. All Rights Reserved 
Carrot Cup Cakes 
2 cups sugar 

1 1/3 cups vegetable oil 
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
3 extra-large eggs 
2 cups all-purpose flour 
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
2 teaspoons baking soda 
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt 
3 cups grated carrots (less than 1 pound) 
1 cup raisins 
1 cup chopped walnuts 
For the frosting: 
3/4 pound cream cheese, at room temperature 
1/2 pound unsalted butter, at room temperature 
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
1 pound confectioners' sugar 
Pre}leat the oven to 350 degrees F. Beat the sugar, oil and vanilla together in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Add the eggs, 1 at a time. In another bowl, sift together the flour, cinnamon, baking soda and salt. With the mixer on low speed, add 1/2 of the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients. Add the grated carrots, raisins and walnuts to the remaining flour, mix well and add to the batter. Mix until just combined. Line muffin pans with paper liners. Scoop the batter into 22 muffin cups until each is 3/4 full. Bake at 400 degrees F for 10 minutes then reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F and cook for a further 35 minutes until a toothpick comes out clean. Cool on a rack. For the frosting, cream the cream cheese, butter and vanilla in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Add the sugar and beat until smooth. When the cupcakes are cool, frost them generously and serve. Makes 22 cupcakes. 
Courtesy of Barefoot Contessa Parties Copyright © 2003 Television Food Network, G.P. All Rights Reserved. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessari­ly those of The Observer. Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloyl@nd.edu. 


Film promotes alt1 
The Nanovic Institute presents thefilrrz 


·By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
When the Nanovic Institute introduced its international film series this year, the organizers wanted to make sure students who came to the festival had a chance to understand the important issues behind the films. 
The films in this year's festival were chosen to fit the theme of "Women in European Film -Loss, Identity, Belonging." This has included several dark films such as the French film "Chaos" in January about an Algerian prostitute and the controversial Irish film" The Magdalene Sisters" in 
Bob Dylan and Adriana Lima star In VIctoria's Secret's most recent "Time Out of Mi commercial. This odd pairing is amusing considering Dylan's repu­musical backd tation as an anti-establishment figure from the 1960s. which airs in 15 
February about Catholic laundries. Algerian playwright Alek Baylee Toumi and Irish Studies professor Luke Gibbons were asked to introduce the two films to provide historical context for the issues involved. 
This Wednesday for the last film of the series the Institute will present "Lilja 4­Ever," a Swedish film released in 2003 depicting the struggles of Lilja (Okshana Akinshina), al6-year-old girl living in an unidentified ex-Soviet republic. Her mother abandons her in the slums of the city to move to the United States, and she is forced to move into in a squalid apartment with only her abused 11-year-oJd friend, Volodya (Artiom Bogucharskij). for care or company. As 
B 

ThL 
Associated Press ~ 
NEW YORK Victoria's Secre Bob Dylan appe of commercial Secret, his griz:~ with shots of me cavorting thougt panties and sp worry. The· 62 keeps his clothes 
Dylan's song " his Grammy-win 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, April 6, 2004 
page II 
areness about human trafficking 
Lilja 4-ever"and is holding a workshop about the issue of human trafficking 

Photos courtesy ot www.lmdb.com 

lw two begin to starve, Lilja turns to dealt with the issue of terrorism in his In preparation for the showing the has been the counselor of the EC dele­litution as a way to support herself. latest film known in English as Nanovic Institutes, the Department of gation to the Unites States dealing with hen Swedish businessman Andrei "Terrorists: The Kids They Sentenced." Gender Studies and the Center for terrorism. border control, immigration.Panel Ponomaryov) appears and prom­In a discussion with Amnesty Human Rights organized a workshop on and trafficking issues since 200 3. es to save Lilja from the slums, her International member Becky Hess human trafficking to help students Pisklakova has been recognized in her 
ituation appears to be improving, but it Moodysson described some of the understand how the issue affects the native Russia and around the world for only the beginning of the problems effects he hoped his film would have on world today. her work as a women's rights activist, he will face. an international level. "We reached out and pulled together and was honored by the Human Bights "Lilja 4-Ever" deals with trafficking of " ... I hope that the film will spread in different groups to work on this project­Watch as one of the eight most signifi­omen for prostitution, an issue which Eastern Europe and that that will lead because it's obviously a global prob­cant human rights activists working 
1as become relevant not only in Europe, to some young women not traveling to lem," Daniel Mattern, series organizer, today. 
>Ul in other parts of the world as well. the west," Moodysson said. "I hope that said. The two-hour workshop will be held n Europe women are most often trans­people in the West will open their eyes The workshop will include talks by at 4 p.m. on Wednesday in room 125 of orted from poorer Eastern countries to and realize that this is the flipside of European Commission official Telmo the Center for Social Concerns. The film he more prosperous West, often under our rich societies, these are the people Baltazar and Human Rights Watch will be shown at 7 p.m. in the Careyalse pretences as shown in this film. we're stepping on, these are the people member Marina Pisklakova. Baltazar Auditorium of Hesburgh Library. 
The movie is the sixth release for we're exploiting to sustain and expand spent eight years working for the Task irector Lukas Moodysson, who has our welfare." Force for Justice and Home Affairs, and Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
b Dylan sick of love? Obviously not 
unpredictable singer/songwriter is up to his old tricks yet again by appearing in a Victoria's Secret ad campaign 
ond versions. Dylan was not a hard sell when It's the first time in his 40-plus plenty of comment. from a New It promotes a new line of l~n­approached about the campaign, years as an international star that York sports writer's Sunday col­
gcrie, the "Angels" collection -Hazek said. The company had Dylan has appeared in an ad cam­umn to various Internet chat -New. from which explains the wings on Lima's already decided to use the song paign, although his "The Times rooms. :the MiracleBob'? back as she prances across a when its corporate boss. Les They Are a Changin"' was used in "On first glance, this is wrong on 
rs in a nnw series palazzo near a Venetian canal. Wexner, suggested inviting Dylan a Bank of Montreal commercial in so many levels, but after viewing it · for Victoria's "It's weird," said New York disc himself. 1996. I really admire Bob Dylan," wrote led face intercut jockey Dennis Elsas, who's played The Rock and Holl Ilall of Farner Back then, Dylan was ripped for one Dylan fan in a chat room. "I el Adriana Lima Dylan music for three decades. "I quickly agreed, although no one's selling out. His association with only hope that when I reach Venice in a bra. would be hesitant to say it's awful quite sure why. ladies in lingeri~. as opposed to Dylan's age someone approacheske heels. Don't or wonderful. It's just strange." "I can't speculate to h1s reasons, some corporate entity, failed to me to ask if I would like to be paidyear-old Dylan The commercials began airing a I never talked to him about why he produce much antipathy -partic­to fly to Venice and do a commer­
on. we1~k ago, and will run for the next decided to come to the party. but ularly in an era where Led cial with several supermodcls."Love Sick," from two weeks, said Ed Hazek, chief he did," Hazek said. "lie's iconic, a Zeppelin. Peter Gabriel and Sting Once you reach that level of ning I 'J97 album creative ofl'icer for Victoria's living legend." recently licensed songs for com­acceptance, as Elsas observed. the ~1d," provides the Secret. The company experienced Dylan's spokesman did not mercials. Dylan spots don't seem so bad. op for the spot, an immediate uptick in sales once return messages for comment But the strange mingling of "What would you rather have 
, 30-and 60-sec-the spots ran. he said. about th.e campaign. Dylan and decolletage prompted Bob Dylan selling, ladies' under-
I 
l 
I 
------------------------------------------------------------~ 
...-----------~------------------;-:---------------------­
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April6, 2004 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

25 years ago, Bird-Magic made NCAA history 
Associated Press 

I 
I' 
I 
I SAN ANTONIO -The 1979 nation­al final was the day Magic Johnson and Larry Bird gave college basket­ball a permanent spot among America's top sports events. It was also the day Bob Heaton got "poster­ized." Heaton was a forward for Indiana State -one of those "other guys" ­when the Sycamores played in the famous championship game against Michigan State. He stood under the basket, seemingly in good position, waiting to take a charge from Johnson. Instead, Johnson dunked over Heaton, knocked him to the ground and pointed at him for emphasis. It was a signature moment in a signa­ture game that foundits way onto the cover of Sports Illustrated -and the walls of kids' bedrooms nationwide. "I didn't realize exactly what had happened until I saw all the replays," Heaton said. Twenty-five years later, as Georgia Tech and Connecticut prepared for their title game Monday night, many of the players involved in the Magic­Bird matchup concede they didn't realize they were part of history at the time. In 1979, Bird and Johnson were already stars, and the game was 
hyped as a showdown between them, but cable TV hadn't yet saturated the country with college hoops. In fact, several Indiana State players said they never saw Johnson play until the Final Four that season. 
"The idea that Larry and Ervin went on to have such great pro careers, and that the rivalry didn't stop there, is what made it seem big­ger in retrospect," said Greg Keiser, a forward on Michigan State who played in the NBA for six seasons. "That's what magnifies the game." 
As is true in so many cases, it did­n't live up to the hype. 
Stifled by Michigan State's zone defense and a number of long-armed players, Bird shot 7-for-21 and Heaton went 4-for-14. The Spartans won 75-64 in a game -that didn't seem that close, and while Johnson and Bird went on to change the NBA, most of the rest of those players soon ended up like Heaton, their playing days ending with graduation. 
''I'm so grateful and humble that I just had a chance to be there," said Indiana State guard Steve Reed, who got his masters in hospital adminis­tration and has worked in that field since he graduated. 
"These days, it blows my mind to think I was there," he said. The memories that week weren't only on the basketball court. The 
Final Four was played in Salt Lake City, and as a special treat for the participants, the teams were given a special invitation to the Mormon Tabernacle. 
Michigan State's Terry Donnelly recalls walking in with the other teams and hearing the Mormon Tabernacle Choir play the Indiana State fight song. After a brief break, the choir followed up with the Michigan fight song instead of Michigan State's. 
"We might have been the only team to actually boo inside the taberna­cle," Donnelly said. 
While Johnson played a great game for Michigan State, going 8-for-15 and getting to the line 10 times for 24 points, it was Donnelly who was practically perfect. 
He went 5-for-5 from the floor and 5-for-6 from the free-throw line. 
The only miss? It came on the sec­ond of two free throws. when he looked to the bench and saw team­mate Rick Kaye jokingly flashing him an obscene gesture. 
"I started laughing. I missed the free throw because of that," Donnelly said. It didn't matter. Michigan State had this game firmly in hand. 
It always bothered Bird that he did­n't play better, and he never really embraced his role in one of the most important college games ever. 

GOLF 

Daly wants his golf to be the focus at The Masters 
Daly's wife and her parents were in a federal court in Mississippi for the start of their trail on money laundering charges. They wound up pleading guilty in an agreement with prosecutors. Sherrie Miller Daly, indicted last July just five days after giving birth to Daly's first son, was offered five years' probation with six months of house arrest. 
Prosecutors have said that Daly didn't know about the trouble that led to the indictment, which alleged that his wife and in-laws conspired to buy and sell drugs using cash from previous transactions. 
He said he would stand behind his wife of nearly three years, and strong recommended she take the plea bargain. 
"You don't beat a federal court, a federal judge and the FBI. There's no way," Daly said in the parking lot. "I told Sherrie, 'You've got to look after what's ahead of you. If there's probation, house arrest, you've got to take that. I know you're not a convict. I know you're not guilty of anything. But you're not going to 
win.'" 

This is might not be the best way to prepare for the first major cham­pionship of the year, especially on a daunting course like Augusta National that is expected to be firm, fast and troublesome. 
But then, distractions seems to be a constant companion. 
Daly was the ninth alternate when he drove through the night to the 1991 PGA Championship, then stunned the golfing community by overpowering Crooked Stick to win his first major. 
.He went through alcohol rehab, a nasty divorce and a suspension from the PGA Tour for rash behavior, then showed up at St. Andrews for the '95 British Open and added a silver claret jug to his trophy collection. 
A victory this week at Augusta National -certainly not out of the question considering his skills ­would make him only the 15th play­er in history to capture three of the four majors. 
Daly generates a buzz unlike any other player. 
He walked only 100 yards from the clubhouse to the putting green, and a wall of people caved in around him. 


Associated Press 

AUGUSTA, Ga. -A cola in his hand and a cigarette never too far from his lips, John Daly never looked more at ease as he stepped out of the Augusta National club­house Monday, far removed from a world of trouble. 
"''m just so happy to be here," Daly said quietly. "To me, this is like heaven." 
The Masters also is his haven. 
He wants desperately for this week to be all about his golf, which has been so good the last two months 
that he came out of nowhere  - a  
place Daly knows all to well  - to  
return to Augusta National.  

Daly has such control of his game that no one would be surprised to see him in a green jacket on Sunday. 
"If this is his week, there's no rea­son he can't win," Adam Scott said. "His length is awesome and his short game is pure. It's a matter of it click­ing this week." 
But even as Daly played a practice round with good friend Fuzzy Zoeller, his mind was two states away. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED FOR SALE 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359 
Catholic family offering fu!ltime summer childcare opportunity to care for 4 school age children, ages 5 to 11 , Scottsdale Mall area, 
7:30AM to 5:00PM, wages negotiable, non-smoker pre­ferred, own transportation a plus, contact Maureen@ (574) 231-8126. 
I I ·. 1 J : l 1 I I , . J ' ! I o 1·lo! J 

1042 Lawndale, South Bend, IN Pymts can be LOWER than RENT. 3 BR, 2Story wlbsmt. Re-habed new root, carpet, bath, kit. $50K. 574-674-9548 
Country Estate in Buchanan, Ml10 acres w/woods $21 0,000 2198 E Warren Woods Rd. 3 BDRM, 2 BA, Re-habed 20 min. to Lake Michigan, near by lakes tor fishing, room for horses. Quiet. Ready to move into. 57 4-67 4-9548 
' 1 

FoR RENT 

2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX... AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON­DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR ... .WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR. .. CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer or tall. 235-3655. 
2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments 
near campus. Only a few left tor next school year. Call Justine, 
234-9923. 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky­lights. $1640/mo. 
Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 
Attention 2004-05 Juniors & Seniors, Grad Students. Rental Home 
PERSONALS 

Available tor 2 students. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do May-Aug and Aug-May lease. not go ~ alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support Fully furnished. or assistance, please call Sr. Mary 
Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. All appliances, utilities, cable & high speed internet included. For more information, see our bi­
weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. Off street parking. 4 miles from ND. Go Team "Something Sexy!" Bring 
on Team Thiz. $450/monthlstudent. Mind the stepchildren. 57 4-656-8695. "I'm Brian Fellows!" 
~·.;.(.J'."I ~I"G l!;'!lll\"ill ~ ' ) I 1 ; ~ ' I I I I · I > 
Tuesday, April 6, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 




Titans clash tonight in Tennessee-UConn bout 
Once-dominant Volunteers could end Huskies' two-year-long championship run 
Asso<iated Press 
NEW OHLEANS·-Everyone, it seems. has a spin on this lat­est national championship game between Connecticut and Tennessee. Jessica Moore's is unique. 
When Connecticut goes for its third straight NCAA title in women's basketball Tuesday night. the last obstacle for the Huskies is the only school that has won three in a row. 
"I was comparing it to Miss America," said Moore, UConn's 6-foot-3 center. "After she is done reigning, she passes the erown down to someone else. It's like if we win it !Tuesday] night, then they will be passing the crown down to us." 
Actually. that crown or torch· or whatevnr you want to call it already has been passed. With its two straight championships and three in the past four years, Connecticut clearly has sup­planted Tennessee as the nation's pre-eminent program in Ltw wonwn's game. 
Tennessee has won six titles. but none since 1998. Even Tennessee's Shanna Zolman said this is "Gcno's era," a ref­erence to UConn's brash, suc­cessful coach, Geno Auriemma. 
That's what gives this rivalry a buzz. no matter how many times they meet in the finals. This will be the second straight year the schools have played in the women's championship game and the fourth such meet­ing since 1995. Connecticut won the three previous games and beat the Lady Vols in the semifi­nals en route to the 2002 cham­pionship. 
Yes. there's a pattern here. And after all the talk this sea-

Indiana native Shawna Zolman, left, and Connecticut's Diana Taurasi lead their teams Into tonight's women's college basketball championship game. 
son about parity and balance in got to beat. And if they want to three in a row. We're going to women's basketball, the two win, they've got to beat us." be working hard for that, I giants again are the last ones The Lady Vols are looking to guarantee it." standing. do just that. They've got some Connecticut (30-4) kept its 
"That's just the way it seems turf to protect, after all. They title hopes alive with a 67-58 to work ·out, doesn't it?" like being the only program victory over Minnesota on Auriemma said. "I feel real with three straight titles, which Sunday night, giving the school good that three out of the four Tennessee accomplished from two teams in championship [championship games]. we have 1996 to 1998. games. The UConn men played beat the team that everybody "We don't want UConn at all Georgia Tech in San Antonio on associates with the best team, up there in the ranks with us," Monday night: the best program over the last Zolman said. "We would love Tennessee {31-3) beat LSU 20-some years. nothing more than to be able to 52-50, its third straight two­
"So it's only fitting that if you not only get a ring ourselves, point victory decided in the final want to win, that's who you've but also not allow them to get two seconds.· 
But whatever the circum­stances when these two teams get together, the subject of Auriemma's relationship with Tennessee coach Pat Summitt is bound to surface. That's about all that was discussed before last year's game, played -after 
Auriemma's  craek  that  
Tennessee was  the  "Evil  
Empire."  

"We really don't have a rela­tionship," Summitt said. "I don't have his cell number. We don't talk. We speak before and after the games. That's it. 
"But that's the relationship that Geno worked very hard to create. At one time, I thought we had a pretty good relation­ship. So I don't know why it went south. but that's the way it is." 
Summitt finds it all the more puzzling because Connecticut has dominated her team recent­ly. The Iluskics have won 11ve straight against the Lady Vol's and seven of the last eight. including an 81-67 victory in Knoxville this season. 
"You would think as many times as he has beaten us, he would feel sorry for me and talk to me," Summitt said. 
Auriemma seemed tired of the whole thing. 
"That's irrelevant," he snapped. "Only thing that exists is UConn plays Tennessee, five on five in basketball." 
As for those who were looking for something a little different on this final night. well, they'll have to wait a year. 
"Everybody wants to see two different teams, but there's that saying the cream always rises to the top. And these two pro­grams are that," Connecticut's Maria Conlon said. 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Drexler among group named to college Hall of Fame 
University of Houston star one of six elected to college basketball's shrine 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO -Nicknames have fol­lowed Clyde Drexler throughout his bas­ketball earecr. 
In college, he played for the electrifying "Phi Slama .lama" teams at the University of Ilouston. As a pro, he was Clyde 'The Glide" for his speed. ball handling and swooping moves to the basket. 
As an Olympian, he played on the first "Dream Team." Now, he can add something a little more formal: flail of Famer. 
Drexler was one of six former players. coaches and team executives announced Monday as the newest members of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. 
Joining him arc Lynette Woodard, an Olympic gold medalist and first female llarlcm Globetrotter; coach Bill Sharman, already in the hall as a player; the late Maurice Stokes, the 1956 NBA rookie of the year; Jerry Colangelo, chairman of the Phoenix Suns; and Drazen Dalipagic, an international star for Yugoslavia. 
Drexler, who in 1997 was selected one of the NBA's 50 greatest players, was humbled to be a new member of the hall. 
"I grew up watching a lot of them and to be in the same class as they are is phc­nomenal," Drexler said. "It kind of vali­dates your career as a basketball player. I think that I'm the luckiest man in the world." 
In college, he played in two Final Fours. In his 15-year NBA career, Drexler led the Portland Trail Blazers to the NBA Finals in 1990 and '92, and won a cham­pionship with Houston in 1995. 
lie is one of three players in league his­tory to accumulate 20,000 points. 6,000 and they run like deer and racehorses and with attitude and passion," Woodard said. 
Sharman, inducted as a player in 1976, won titles as a coach in the ABL, the ABA and the NBA. In the 1972 season, he led the Los Angeles Lakers to a 69-13 record, including an NBA record 33-gamc win­ning streak. 
He joins John Wooden and Lenny 
Wilkens as the only 
members enshrined as 

rebounds and 6,000 "It kind of validates your a player and a coach. assists. career as a basketball "As a player, I felt I "The fun is in the deserved it because of
player. I think that I'm the
journey whether you all my hard work. As a 
win or lose, you've got luckiest man in the world." coach, I want to give my to have fun," he said. players credit," VVoodard averaged Sharman said. "They
Clyde Drexler 
26 points at Kansas are the reason I'm in as

former University of Houston 
and was co-captain of a coach, they're the 

standout
U.S. team that won an ones I want to congratu-
Olympic gold medal in 1984. She also played professionally in Europe and two seasons in the WNBA. 
Woodard served as interim head coach at Kansas this season in place of Marian Washington. who announced in January she was taking a medical leave and retired in February. 
"I started out with a love for the game," she said. "This is magical." 
A pioneer of the women's game, she recently attended a practice for a high school all-star team at the women's Final Four in New Orleans. 
"Their bodies and arms are totally cut 
late." 

Stokes, the league's top rookie in '56, had his career cut short when he was paralyzed in his third sea­son when he fell during a game. lie died at the age of 36 in 1970. 
Colangelo was named general manager of the Suns at the age of 28 and is a four­time NBA executive of the year. He also was instrumental in creating the WNBA. 
Dalipagic was a three time European player of the year, leading his country to 12 medals in European, World and Olympic competition, including the Olympic gold at the Moscow games in 1980. 
Purdue's Keady, UConn's Calhoun among those snubbed 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -Gene Keady is not a llall of Famer -at least not this year. 
The longtime Purdue coach, who last week declined an offer to coach at San Francisco, was among 16 11nalists for induction into the Naismith Memorial Basketballllall of Fame. 
Clyde Drexler and Lynette VVoodard led a group of six inductees. Their election was 
-

announced Monday at a news con­ference in San Antonio, the site of this year's NCM Final Four. 
''I'm not disappointed because I've never assumed anything in life," Keady said in a statement released by Purdue. "I've never assumed I'd have success or acco­lades. You achieve those things by working hard and being surround­ed by the right people." 
In 24 season, Keady has guided the Boilermakers to a 505-249 record, six Big Ten titles and 17 NCAA tournament appearances. 
Keady, 67, hasn't faired as well in recent seasons, going 66-58 with just one NCAA tournament. 
Tuesday, April 6, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
Cubs, Tigers wins highlight Opening Day 

Associated Press CINCINNATI -Sammy Sosa couldn't get a hit. Kerry Wood couldn't get past the fifth inning. Big problems? Not for these newly confident Cubs. Corey Patterson homered and Moises Alou doubled with the bases loaded Monday. leading the defending NL Central champions to a 7-4 victory over the Cincinnati Reds. After winning their first division title in 14 years, the Cubs got a good start on their next quest: back-to-hack win­ning seasons for the first time since 1971-72. "Last year, we were not really sure how good we were," said Patterson, who tore knee ligaments on July 6 and missed the rest of the season. "Since we did well last year, it builds more confidence. We know everyone is gun­ning for us." The Reds had another disappointing debut in Great American Ball Park, where 42,122 fans watched a lineup missing Ken Griffey Jr. stumble out of the gate once again. Griffey reluctantly took a few more days to rest a strained calf injured a week ago in Florida. The injury-prone outfielder paced in the dugout with a 
bat in each hand, but never got to hit. 
"We played some spring training games without him and we did all right, but you always want a stud like that in your lineup," shortstop Barry Larkin said. 
Instead, the day belonged to the Cubs, who got little from their top starter and best run producer, but won anyway. 
"This is a new year, a new opportuni­ty to go all the way," said Alou, who doubled home three runs in the third. "We feel we have the team to do it. We just need a little luck. We feel we're going to win a lot of games." Detroit 7, Toronto 0 
Ivan Rodriguez, Rondell White and Jason Johnson made sure the Detroit Tigers had a different start in 2004. 
Rodriguez !J.nd White homered in their Detroit debuts Monday, backing Johnson 1n a season-opening 7-0 win over the Toronto Blue Jays. 
"This is a completely different team. Everybody is happy, and everybody is hungry to win," Rodriguez said. 
Last year, Detroit began 0-9 and set an American League record with 119 losses. The Tigers, who hadn't won an opener since 2000, spent the offseason trying to rebuild a franchise that hasn't finished with a winning record since 1993. 
"We have a big, fat chip on our shoul­der," Dmitri Young said. "We're not going to be the laughingstock. That's a thing of the past. They ain't going to laugh tomorrow or the day after. We w.ere confident, borderline cocky out there today." Pittsburgh 2, Philadelphia 1 
Kip Wells showed the Pittsburgh Pirates ·what a No. 1 starter is sup­posed to look like on opening day. The finish by Jose Mesa was just as good. 
Wells often was overpowering in working out of two big jams and outdu­eling Kevin Millwood, and the Pirates rode Craig Wilson's homer and Tike Redman's tie-breaking double to a 2-1 victory Monday over the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Wells (1-0) provided the strong start with seven strikeouts in six shutout innings. Mesa, the Phillies' castoff clos­er, pitched a perfect ninth for the save against his former club. 
The Phillies dumped Mesa and his 
6.28 ERA after last season to trade for former Astros closer Billy Wagner, even though Mesa had 111 saves in three seasons with them. 
Mesa was relieved to preserve this lead; he still remembers blowing a 2-1 lead and the save against Florida in his first game with Philadelphia. 
Milwaukee 8, St. Louis 6 
For most teams. a winning record after the season opener is no big deal. The Milwaukee Brewers are different. 
Their victory over the St. Louis Cardinals, with President Bush watch­ing from a box above home plate, is the first time the downtrodden franchise has been above .500 in two years. The Brewers haven't finished with a win­ning record since 1992. 
"Even though it's one game, it seems like all spring you work seven weeks for this day," manager Ned Yost said. "We're kind of glad this day's over, and we're really especially glad we started off with a win." 
Ben Grieve hit a two-run homer and Podsednik had four RBis, including a tiebreaking, three-run shot off Matt Morris in the sixth inning for the Brewers. who began last season with six straight losses and never recovered in a 68-94 season. 
Morris had a two-run double in the fourth for St. Louis. But he gave up seven runs, five earned, in six innings, and three of the five batters he walked ended up scoring. . 




Bush, Cheney throw out ceremonial pitches 

Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -President Bush is get­ting the hang of throwing out first pitches. At Busch Stadium on Monday. the catcher hardly had to move his mitt. 
Bush said, in advance, "My wing isn't what it used to be." 
But when he reared back and threw, the pitch was right in there. He also had said he planned to throw a "hop­ping fastball" to open the Brewers­Cardinals game, but it looked more like an off-speed pitch. The Cardinals' Mike Matheny caught it easily. 
"It just goes to show you a guy can get lucky occasionally," Bush said. 
Three years ago, Bush's opening-day pitch at Milwaukee's Miller Park ended up in the dirt. Ever since, he has joked about being nervous when he approaches the mound. Bush is a for­mer managing partner of the Texas Rangers. 
No umpires called them, but Bush's first pitches at Game 3 of the 2001 World Series and at the 2001 College World Series were both deemed strikes. 
Monday, Bush marched to the mound and with no windup threw the ball home. He wore a red Cardinals jacket. Fans chanted "U-S-A! U-S-A!" 
The president chose the fiercely con­tested electoral state of Missouri to throw out this year's first pitch _ actu­ally on baseball's third opening day, after games last week in Japan and Sunday night in Baltimore. 
In the stands, political opinion was mixed. 
"Kerry is probably a little more attuned to what the less-than-elite of America need," said Jay Sarver, a financial business consultant from St. Louis, referring to Democratic Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts. 
LuAnn Heuerman, 43, of Effingham, Ill., and her brother carried a large "Welcome to St. Louis President Bush" sign into the stadium. She said, "I think he's here because he enjoys baseball." 
Some fans waited more than an hour to get through metal detectors ­some didn't get inside in time to see Bush's toss. 
The White House sent Vice President Dick Cheney to throw out the first pitch Monday in Cincinnati, where the Reds were facing the Chicago Cubs. 
"It turns out we don't need a radar gun on him either," Bush joked. 







OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April 6, 2004 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVH(S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
ESPN Baseball J'()p ~$ ..>··•·· team reqqrd>· . p~iiit~\/< 
1 Texas (22) 31·4·· >··.•.• 23+4 ..•• 968> 

2 Stanford (15) 3 lSU (2) 24-5 901 
4 Rice (1} 24·6 .•·. 898 5 Miami 24·6 82a 6 Mississippi 24·4 751 7 South Carolina ·23·5 ··.n1 8 Long Beach State 20·8 7J3.. 9 NOTRE DAME 22·3 692 10 Wichita State 16·3 $99 11 Southern Miss 24·4 54~ 12 Nebraska 21·5 484 13 North Carolina 23·6. 455 14 Auburn 21·9 448. 15 Arizona State 22·9 370 16 Tulane 
22·8 ··•·352············· 17 Texas A&M 26·8. ...~51····· 18 Tennessee 25~5 . 280 . 19 Florida 20 UC Irvine 21 Florida State 23·9·.· •···········• 24s····•·•••·•··•· · 
.....~~::.; ····················;~~··························· ·•···. 22 East Caronna 2H·· \ ~41><•••···· •. 23 Central Florida 27~!t. . ..• c89•..•••.......... >•••.·. 24 Florida Atlanuc 26~7···. .•.... 
S·f· }<•··· 
25 Washington 17•8·1· 
NBA 


Eastern Conference, Atlan~lp Divi§Joo
.. .. 

team record pery, .last to. yJl • 
New Jersey 45·31 .592 < 4·6 +> Miami 38-39 ;494 . 8-2 1;5 < New York 36·41 .468 ...6~4 /''' JL5 Boston 35-42 
..455 ··•········· 6·4 •••••.. 10.5
.416 ····· .. . ... '••· ... t•••·

Philadelphia 32-45 Washington 24·53 .312..••...• 
•·• r~:;#..:........... m: y

Orlando 19-58 
•247 ··· ... o~J.R.,:::··=•·•3~;.~ ..,........... 
·.··· ::: :···:·::-.;.·:·::::::::::::::::·::::::::::-:-:·:: 

Eastern Conference, Central Diyb;lort 
lCillll ff:CQI'd j)!;lt~k< 14$t•JQ Q)l ) Indiana 56·21 ~~27 ·•·· 6·4 < . Ai .••• ;;; 
~~~~~~kee ~~:~~ ::~: '·.····· · ~;~ ·:::),;; i; ji:f{ 
Ei~f:.. n~! :m;:~~~~~!!~, 
Chicago 22·55 .286 ········•••• 4·6 ··· .·. 34 ·. ·• ·· 
.· ··:;.;.;.;: :;.;:·:::::::~~:i:ii~i=~i::::::::::::::::::::::::..:::: ::::::;:::;.·.·,· 

Western Conference,.IVIld~~$t:·c;(~iii~~ 
team record.. por~i l~J.!.P ~·:•:...9~ ·•i•• •• Minnesota .5H4 i .. 692 < •:•:rs;z/. i). {/ San Antonio 52-25 .675 ) 11·2 a:s t< 
Memphis 449 27 62 ·······.···.··.i·>·····.·.as~.2 .
Dallas 8:28 . :6453 -4.··••·••••·• U If 5 i·••i Houston 42·34 .553 .·. H r 1f C Denver 40·37 .519 · 5~5/ )3.& > Utah 40·37 .519 6-4 13~5 
Western Conference, Pacific DJylsl()n\ . 
tMm record pete; ·IruitlO Glf Sacramento 53·23 .697 ·· 4~6. < ·• ·v ··• < LA Lakers 53·24 .688 9•1 <5 }Portland 39·37 .513 · 6·4 · i 14 Seattle 35·42 .455 6~4> <1Ui 
~~~~;Ps~~ste ·~j:~~ :~:~ o~;2o •••••••••··· ~r ..•·· 
Phoenix 26-51 .338 4-6 · 27,5 
around the dial 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Connecticut at Tennessee, 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Toronto at Cleveland, 7:30p.m., TNT Orlando at Detroit, 7:30 p.m., TNT N.Y. Knicks at Indiana, 8 p.m., FOX SPORTS Portland at LA Lakers, 10 p.m., TNT 
Houston at Golden State, 10:30 p.m., FOX SPORTS 
MLB 

San Francisco at Houston, 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Associaled Press 

Connecticut guard Taliek Brown drives to the basket In front of Georgia Tech forward Theodis Tarver. Connecticut won the championship title with a 82-73 victory over Georgia Tech . 


Connecticut claims national title 
Associated Press Jackets look ordinary. ed this team, it's hard to 24th double-double of the 
UConn became the first imagine why. He coached season, which was marked 
SAN ANTONIO -The team since the 1996 UConn to its second cham­by ·persistent injuries. Connecticut Huskies really Kentucky Wildcats to win pionship in six seasons, Prowling the lane on both do have it all: the All­the title after being ranked and joined Mike ends, using his lanky 6­America center, the flashy first in the preseason. The Krzyzewski and Bob foot-10 frame to block two guards, the coach who gets Huskies wound up on top Knight as the only active shots and alter dozens everything right, and now of the college basketball coaches with multiple more, he dominated on a national title won with world, thanks to a tall, titles. offense and negated Tech's case. quick, deep and talented On Tuesday, tiny Storrs, Aussie center, Luke 
Led by 24 points from roster put together by Conn. -the home of the Schenschcr. Emeka Okafor and 21 from Calhoun. Huskies -could become Of course, UConn has Ben Gordon, the Huskies "Going wire-to-wire is the undisputed capital of more -much more ­outclassed Georgia Tech one of the hardest things the basketball universe. than Okafor, and every ele­82-73 on Monday night to you can do, and it wasn't The women's team takes ment was working. win the championship just the beginning of the on Tennessee in the title Gordon, a junior who led many predicted they'd get year for us," Coach Jim game in New Orleans, and the team in scoring. hit all from the very start of the Calhoun said. "This wire­with a win, Connecticut three of his 3-pointers dur­season. to-wire went September to would become the first ing the first 20 minutes to 
They looked like champi· April, and that's as hard as school to sweep both help the lluskies take a 15­ons from beginning to end, it gets." championships. point lead at halftime. llis running when they want­The 32-year coaching Some say the Huskies' backcourt mate, Taliek ed, controlling the middle veteran missed making the success starts with Okafor, Brown, bounced back from at other times, grabbing Basketball llall of Fame by the Final Four's most out­a rough game in UConn 's just about every loose ball one vote this week. After standing player. He also semifinal win over Duke to and making the Yellow the way he built and guid-had 15 rebounds for his finish with nine points. 
All-Am.erican Okafor leads Connecticut 
Associated Press proud of him and so excited that he's Then we came out and grabbed the 
playing at this level." national title," he said. 
SAN ANTONIO -Emcka Okafor Oh. and this from Dad: "He's Behind Okafor, it was never as powered inside, slammed home a played better than this." close as the end result indicated as rebound and got the Connecticut Maybe, but certainly not in a game UConn won its second crown in six cheering section to go crazy. of this magnitude. seasons. The Huskies' 15-point lead 
At the center of everything, Okafor The most dominant player in col­was the biggest in an NCAA title put on an All-American performance lege basketball was picked as the game in 37 years, and Okafor never in the biggest game of his life, punc­tournament's Most Outstanding let Tech get near until the outcome tuating it with that rim-shaking dunk Player after scoring 24 points and was decided. late in Monday night's 82-73 win getting 15 rebounds. The Yellow Jackets simply had no over Georgia Tech for the NCAA Okafor raised his arms high after answer for him, despite trying to give championship. corralling the final carom. He con­7 -foot 1 Luke Schenscher as much 
And somehow, up in the stands, trolled the glass at both ends by set­double-team help as they could. Pius Okafor managed to stay relaxed. ting up shots on offense and altering Okafor will get his finance degree With fans around him standing and attempts on defense. next month with a 3.8 grade-point shouting, he politely applauded his "It was a great season," the 6-foot-average. He's expected to be among son's stuff while 10 other family 10 center said. "We had our ups and the top picks in the NBA draft in members looked on. down. This moment makes it all June. 
"''m very calm," Okafor's father worthwhile." Still a junior, Okafor was met by said in the closing minutes. 'Tm so "We came out and snuck by Duke. chants of "One more year!" 
Tuesday, April6, 2004

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Undefeated Irish will look to itnprove against Ohio, OSU 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
Armed with long staffs, the Irish have begun an uprising and the state of Ohio is the next target on the map. 
Or at least that's what it looks like to the rest of the collegiate women's lacrosse world. 
With their next two games against Ohio (5-3) and Ohio State (4-5). the No. 3 Notre Dame women's lacrosse team (8-0) continues its undefeated season today at home against the Bobcats and then trav­els to Columbus for a Saturday game against the Buckeyes. 
Notre Dame cruises into the game rid­ing a school record twelve-game winning streak extending back to last season. For midfield/attack Kassen Delano, the early season success solidifies in the players' minds that they are now in the upper echelon of collegiate lacrosse teams. 
"We-'re not intimidated by the other team anymore," Delano said. "[We used] to be more intimidated of other teams but now we're just confident that we can get it done." 
For the Irish to get it done against Ohio, they will need to contain the Bobcat freshman sensation Dana Dobbie, who has scored 11 goals in her last two games and will challenge a proud Irish defense. 
"Our defense has been great, but one of our keys to success is going to be shut­ting her down," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "We feel pretty good defensively how we can match up against her." 
The Irish defense has indeed been stingy this year. Behind a formidable defense led by the goaltending of Carol Dixon, the Irish have allowed their oppo­nents to reach double-digit goal totals only twice all year. 
While the defense has helped the Irish to their fast start, the team hopes to avoid becoming a victim of its own suc­cess. Coyne knows that while a perfect record is a great achievement, Notre Dame will not be sneaking up on anyone. 
"The eat's out of the .bag," Coyne said. "People know what we're about and they've had an opportunity to see what we can do." 
However, she openly welcomes any and all challengers feeling that adversity only makes her team stronger. 
"We know that people are going to 


MEGAN DAVISSONffhe Observer 
Freshman midfielder Meghan Murphy goes for the ball against a Team Canada opponent in February. 
bring their best game, and that's fine," she said. "I feel that any time we're put in that competitive situation and we're tested it's just gonna make us that much better." 
Notre Dame will have many opportuni­ties for such "c.ompetitive situations" as the season draws to a close. After the two non-conference games against the Ohio schools, the Irish will resume Big East competition when they travel to the nation's capital for a showdown with No. 2 Georgetown. The Hoyas will be the first in a string of brutal season-ending oppo­nents for the Irish. Notre Dame con­cludes its regular season with games against five of the top 15 teams, includ­ing Big East foe and 10th-ranked Syracuse. 
But Coyne feels that part of reason the Irish have been so successful is that the team never looks beyond the present. 
"I haven't gotten a sense from the play­ers that they're looking ahead," Coyne said. "We haven't [even] talked about Ohio State at all." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No. 27 Irish record big wins against Marquette, Miaini 
By ANN LOUGHERY 
Sports Writer 

Jay Louderback isn't one to underesti­mate Notre Dame's opponents. 
Heading into last weekend's meets against Marquette and No. 18 Miami, the Irish coach predicted challenging matches. Sure enough, both teams turned on the pressure. 
But the Irish (10-6) didn't wilt under the spotlight. Against Marquette (3-14), No. 27 Notre Dame relinquished just 14 games in singles, sweeping both singles and doubles for a quick 7-0 win. Sunday's meet against Miami (13-3) spurred Notre Dame to the top of the Big East standings after a 5-2 win against the Hurricanes. For the eighth time in nine years, the Irish are nearly guaranteed the first seed in the Big East Championship, which begin April 29. 
The Golden Eagles were first to chal­lenge the hard-nosed Irish on Saturday afternoon. Notre Dame claimed an early lead 1-0 after sweeping doubles for the fifth time this season. At No. 2, senior co-captain Alicia Salas and sophomore Lauren Connelly bounced back from a 3-2 deficit to walk off the courts with an 8-4 win. Their victory against Annabelle Espinosa and Genevieve Charron upped the duo's record to 10-5 in dual match­es. 
Senior Emily Neighbours and sopho­more Kiki Stastny, paired together for the first time Sunday, recorded their frrst win at No. 3. Their clinching win came against Andrea Bukacek and Dominika · Dabrowski 8-3. For the majority of the season, Stastny has competed with jun­ior Sarah Jane Connelly at No. 3. Louderback said he has experimented with different combinations of players at No. 3, piecing together a solid lineup in preparation for the Big East tourna­ment. 
"Emily has played well in practice lately and has worked hard this year. We thought she was very deserving of a chance to compete," Louderback said. 
In singles, Sarah Jane Connelly broke her four-match losing streak, topping Bukacek 6-1, 6-0 at No.6. No. 92 Catrina Thompson followed up, quickly massacring Smith 6-0, 6-0. Clinching the win for the Irish was Christian Thompson, who trounced Charron at No. 2 6-0, 6-0. At No. 4, Lauren Connelly added to Notre Dame's success, defeat­ing Espinosa 6-0, 6-3. 
Stastny and No. 10 Salas rounded out the win for the Irish, each contributing individual victories. Stastny bested Dabrowski 6-1, 6-4 at No. 5 and Salas beat Garcia Briseno 6-4, 6-1 at No. 1. 
Notre Dame faced rival Miami next on Sunday afternoon. Although the Hurricanes extended two singles match­es to tiebreakers, the Irish came out on top 5-2. No. 3 Neighbours and Stastny were first off the courts, dropping their match 8-1 to Banada and Mari Toro. Catrina and Christian Thompson con­tributed the first win at No. 1 doubles, upsetting No. 22 Melissa Applebaum and Megan Bradley 8-6. Salas and Lauren Connelly matched their win with a 8-6 defeat of Staci Stevens and Sara Robbins 8-6 at No. 2. The pair rebound­ed from a 6-5 deficit in the match. 
The Irish demonstrated their staying power with an early 3-0 lead in singles. Sarah Jane Connelly was first to com­plete her match, winning at No. 6 versus Bennacer 6-3, 6-0. Sister Lauren Connelly registered the next Irish victo­ry, beating Stevens at No. 4. 
Miami's only points came from wins at Nos. 1 and 3. No. 4 Salas was edged 6-3, 1-6, 6-2 and Taro outlasted Catrina Thompson 6-0, 7-6 (7-5). 
At No. 5, Stastny garnered the clinch­ing win, putting the Irish ahead 4-3 with two singles matches still on the courts. Stastny's 1-6, 6-4, 6-4 snapped Banada's 21-match winning streak. Louderback cited Stastny as an individual that stepped up her game during the meet. 
Louderback said that he noticed an extra spark in the team's play as their matches winded down. Case in point: Christian Thompson knocked off Melissa Applebaum at No. 2 1-6, 7-5, 6-3 to complete the win for the Irish. 
"All of our kids really played well at the end of their matches, which is some­thing we've been working on in prac­tice," Louderback said. "We're not doing as many drills, but we're playing more sets. The more we play in practice, the better we play in our meets." 
The Irish will be on the road next weekend at No. 37 William and Mary. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougherq!lnd.edu 

Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
ensured the victory for the team. 
We Are Money, 21, Bubba's Sparks, 7 
An orange prison jumpsuit. A Speedo and Mardi Gras beads. A printed shirt. A construction vest. And a captain attired in a full suit and tie.. Bubba's Sparks might not have come out with the victo­ry, but they attracted the atten­tion of spectators everywhere. 
"We started with the shortest guy we could fmd," said captain Tommy "Two-Times" Bemiller. "Then we found the drunkest guy, then we picked someone off the floor of Finnegan's. 
"Then we found the guys with the biggest. .. ego, and then we found our Sparks." 
We Are Money was called "O'Neill plus one" by one mem­ber. 
"This is the All-Star team," said captain John Burke. 
Although We Are Money domi­nated play, a brief interlude play­ing with a Frisbee instead of a basketball proved entertaining to Bubba's Sparks -also members of the Ultimate Frisbee team. 

"I only found out there were balls that weren't flat, like, yes­terday," said Sean "Flirty" O'Neill, the man in the Speedo, who signed a spectator's body in celebration following a field goal. 
"Are we in the NIT?" asked Matt "M to the C to the A" Amenta, a member of Bubba's Sparks. Cacique Jones 21, Who Wears Short Shorts 13 
"After game one, it's clear that Bookstore Basketball is 70 per­cent height, 15 percent hustle and 20 percent being sober," said Mike Murphy of Cacique Jones. 
The team's slight height advan­tage contributed to a victory over Who Wears Short Shorts. Their quest for victory began while working on the John Kerry cam­paign. 
"It's shooting baskets to beat Bush," team member Greg Garcia said. 
Short Shorts, made up of fresh­men, looks forward to the future. 
"We definitely want to do [the Tournament] again," said captain Kevin Braun. "We'll go at it again and win a few next year." 
Braun plans to give his support to his RA David Yeagar, who has seen success in past tourna­ments. However, the loss does not undermine his team's effort and their opponents agreed. 
"Their zone surprised us, but once we started shooting over it, we pounded inside to our big guys," said Tom Koffey of Cacique Jones. 'They really hung in there." We Hit It From Deep and Are Good in the Box 21, Top Gun 15 
Two athletic teams faced off in this first-round match-up, both showcasing skill, but We Hit It From Deep prevailed in the end. 
"We got guys who can his it from outside, and we got guys down low who just can't be stopped," said the captain of We Hit It From Deep, James Bracken. 
The team consisted of dorm­mates and their co-workers from the Food Service and Supply offices, who often play basketball together at Rolfs on the week­ends. 
Top Gun exploded with a furi­ous rally to tie the score at 13, but could not go any further. The teams trademark "danger zone" defense was no match for the inside-outside combos of We Hit It From Deep. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Tuesday, April 6, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Softball 
continued from page 20 
pitcher Steffany Stenglein. Stenglein earned her second straight Big East Pitcher of the Week award Monday after winning three games last week, including two in Big East play. The junior gave up just one earned run in 19 innings last week, good for a 0.37 EHA. In Big East play, she struck out 13 in 12 innings, while walking just one batter. 
Also pitching well for Notre Dame has been Heather Booth. Booth is second in the Big East with a 1.13 EHA. 
"[Stenglein and Booth[ are very key because April is huge and having two pitch­ers that strong and having two relievers that's very key for our team," Hartmann said. "Going into the post­season having both throwing very well is key for our team." 
Offensively, Hartmann has been joined by Meagan Huthrauff. who leads the Big East in on-base percentage (.468). Huthrauff also has led the Irish in IH!Is over the last ten games, with 16. She bat­t!~ d . 3 7 9 in that period as well. 
For the Irish. their suceess has been due to consistency. 
"[The key) is the eomplete game we've played -the hitting, the pitching, the dcfnnse," Hartmann said. "One of the things we stress the most is consisteney." 
But when Purdue comes to town, they will be without Andrea Hillsey (.280, 18 RBI. 

Special to The Observer 

Behind the stellar goaltend­ing of Brigette Alge, Notre Dame's women's water polo club had a very strong showing at the Miami Invitational this weekend. Notre Dame splashed Northwestern 16-3 in the opener as Kristy Bohling exploded for five goals and Bridget O'Neill and Allison Gienko rifled in three goals each. 
In the first of two marquee matchups, the tenth-ranked Irish gave No. 1 and defending national champion Cal-Poly all it could handle in a tense 5-3 loss. O'Neill scored twice and Gienko once in the defensive struggle. 
The Irish rebounded to upend No. 7 Florida in their next game 9-7. Katie Lancos, Kimmy Moore and Bohling made the big contributions that secured the victory.
::;QFIA BALLUN/I ne UOserver 
With Janna Stewart continu­
A Notre Dame softball player heads for home plate during 
ing to spell Alge in goal with
Saturday's game. The Irish play Purdue today at 4 p.m. 
r--------''------------------------. Smith Barney invites you to their 
Notre Dame Financial Symposium 
Planning for the years ahead. 

Revised tax laws, market uncertainty, a changing economy. Where does your financial plan stand? Join us at our Notre Dame Financial seminar to hear from 15 professionals on financial topics that could be important to you and your family. You can attend up to 4 breakout sessions before the keynote speaker begins at 11:30 a.m. 
Keynote Speaker 
Dr. Kevin Elko 

Corporate and NFL• Performance Consultant & Author of "Nerves ofSteel" 
DATE:  Saturday, April 17, 2004  
TIME:  8:00a.m. to 12:30 p.m.  
LOCATION:  University of Notre Dame  
McKenna Hall (across from the Morris Inn)  
Parking at Hesburgh Center visitors lot  
on NO Avenue across from cemetery  
RSVP:  (574) 631-6691  

Reserve your space. Cost: $20 per person. Refreshments and light lunch included. We welcome your friends and colleagues. Seating is limited. 
Your Breakout Session Speakers (each speaks twice): 

8:30 a.m.-9:05a.m. & 10:00 a.m.-10:35 a.m. Ralph Allen, Regional Vice President, Pioneer Investments: Stock Market Investing/Current Market Overview 
Robert Malvenda, Director Smith Barney Municipal Retail Sales: 
Bond Investing Strategies/Current Market Overview 
Joseph Russo, Director of Financial Aid 
University of Notre Dame: Funding College Education/Strategies and Tools for You 
Tracey A. Anderson, JD, LLM, CPA South Bend IN: Tax Planning/IRS Code Changes You Should Xnow 
Jeff Ochs, Insurance Consultant, 
Insurance Designers: Understanding Life Insurance for Estate/Tax Purposes 
9:15 a.m.-9:50a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 a.m. Bob Hartig, Regional Vice President Amerkan Funds Distributors: Why Is International Investing Important to You 
Bill Taratsas, Regional Vice President lNG Golden Select Annuities: Protecting Your Investments with Variable Annuities Mark Howard, Regional Loan Specialist, 
GtiMortgage: Strategies for Debt 
Management/Borrowing Money 
lyndon Keyes, Director Interactive 
Marketing, Smith Barney NY: Financial Record Keeping Via Computer 
Bill Ventura, Regional Advisor, Lincoln 
Financial: Strategies for Paying Long Term Health Care Costs 
8:30 a.m.-9:05a.m. & 9:15 a.m.-9:50a.m. Bob Walsh, Public Affairs Specialist Social Security Administration: Everything You Wanted to Know about Social Security 
10:00 a.m.-10:35 a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 a.m. Jim Casey, Regional Trust Specialist, Citigroup Private Trust: Wills, Estates and Trust Planning Strategies 
8;30 a.m.9:05 am. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 a.m. Jason Heine, Regional Vice President, Nationwide Financial: 401(k) Issues for Plan 
Sponsors-How ERISA Affects You 
9:15 a.m.-10:35 a.m. (one presentation only) Larry Sherman, Regional Director, The Geneva Company: Selling Your Business: 
Why ... When ... and How 
THIS IS WHO WE ARE. THIS IS HOW WE EARN IT.· 

SMITHBARNEY 
c1t1grouPt 

Mutua! fund~ and vomable annutty investments are subject to market risk, mduding possible loss of principle Variable annu1t1es are long·term ~nvestment5 tntended for rettrement planning. Taxes may be due upon withdrawals from the contract Withdrawals may b<! sub,ect to a 10•~ federal penaky tax if made before age 59~ and ar.esubje<t to quali· fted rattrement plan provtstons Coptes of ~he prospectus. whtch contains more complete mform.atton mcluding fees and expenses, Will bt available at the semmar. Please read the prospectus carefully before invest1ng There are addi· tlonal mks asscxtated Wtth tntern.attonaltnvesttng. lnternationaltnvesting may not be fOf' everyone. Smith Barney doM not provide legal or tax advtce Please consult your attorney and/or tax adviSOf' #Of such gutdance 
02004 C~1group Global Markets Inc Member SIPC. Sm1th Barney is a diVISion and service mark of Otigroup Global Markotslnc and Its aff1hates and • used and U!CJIItered throughout the wO<Id. CITIGROUP and the Umbrella Device arelfademarksand serviCe marks of Citicorp or itsaff1liates and are used and registered throughout the world. THIS IS WHO Wf. ARE THIS IS HOW Wf. EARN rr is a service mark of Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Geneva, Citigroup Global Markelslnc and C~>group Pflvate Trust are all aff1hated compames under the common control of Cit1group Inc. 
CLUB SPORTS 

Water polo defeats top-ranked teams 
11 stolen bases), who sur­fered a knee injury and is out for the year. Meanwhile, Tricia Lilley leads the Boilermakers with a .389 average and 24 HBI. On the mound, Brooke Baker leads the way with a 1.67 ERA and a 13-3 record. 
quality minutes, the Irish Purdue has a winning 
defeated Illinois in their final record at Ivy Field, where 
game by a 9-5 count. O'Neill they are 3-2. Two years ago, 
and Bohling again led the club they came to Notre Dame 
in scoring. and lost 4-2, but the Irish 
Cycling 

The cycling club traveled to different. 
hope that this year will be 
Purdue for a road race and a "We learned from a lot of 
circuit race this weekend. our mistakes in the presea-
The pack of 60 stayed togeth­son," Hartmann said. 
er for 35 miles until it was cut Today's doubleheader is 
into four gr<mps by the strong crosswinds. The Irish' Mike
set to start at 4 p.m. 
Lavery found himself in the Contact Matt Puglisi at 
seeond group and went on to mpuglisi@nd.edu 
take 21st place in the sprint 
finish. Grant Kleiber and John Kurtz ended up in the third group, placing 35th and 36th, respectively. In the 30-mile novice race, first timer Geoff Gisler placed a strong 17th out of 42 racers. 
Sunday's race was 35 laps on a 0. 7-mile course with six sharp turns. The fast, crash­marred race was split into two groups midway through, with all of the Irish racers trapped in the second group. Kurtz was lapped by the leaders and removed from the race, while Lavery narrowly held off being lapped until the end, when he took 34th out of 58 riders. In the 25-lap novice race, Gisler took 20th out of 35 racers. 
Ultimate Frisbee 
An injury-depleted Notre Dame squad was missing three key senior starters at the Illinois Invitational this week­end as the club dropped five ol' six contests. 
After defeating Wheaton College 15-12 in their opener, the Irish lost to Indiana, 14-7; Illinois, 15-3; St. Cloud State, 13-8; and Purdue, 14-12. Team player of the tournament hon­ors went to sophomore Hyan Butler for his steady offense, solid throws and downfield defense while playing the mon­ster position. 
Matthew Sullivan and Jake Ament kept the offense alive with their lay-out grabs. The club was able to work on its zone defense in preparation for the upcoming sectional t!mrna­ment. 





Tuesdav, April& 

Baseball vs. Chicago State @ 5:05PM 
• 
First 200 fans will receive a Notre Dame Athletics T-shirt sponsored by Drive and Shine 

• 
First 100 fans will receive a Jimmy John's sandwich 




4:00 and 6:00 
• First 250 fans receive a Notre Dame Athletics T-Shirt, sponsored by Drive and Shine ~ 
~ 


Wednesdav, APril7 ~ 
Baseball vs. Valparaiso @ 6:05 PM 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April6, 2004 
pick up the extra yards to main­tain drives. Grant worked hard
Football 

in the off-season doing drills to increase his agility, and ran
continued from page 20 track to increase his speed. 

"I think we both learned a lot But not only are the coaches from each other bouncing things looking to Grant to improve his off each other. He did a great job production, but also to become a last year and was a great back," leader for the 2004 team. The 
Grant said. "I was dedication Grant has 
glad to be able to shown since the end learn from him "I was glad to be of the 2003 season is and be around an indication he's
able to play with 

him.... I was glad ready to accept that
[Jones} and I think 

to be able to play role as one of the few with him, and I he was glad to seniors on the think he was glad play with me., offense. to play with me." I think with Ryan 
Grant learned being a senior, with from watching Ryan Grant two years of experi­J o n·e s wh at h e Irish running back ence, you are going to needed to do to ask and demand [a become the back lot] out of a young fans, the coaching staff and man like that," Notre Dame Grant know he can become. He offensive coordinator Bill has to be patient to let the offen­Diedrick said. "You really ask sive line open holes, but once him to be a ·leader by example those holes open, the running both on and off the field, which I back has to hit the hole at top think Ryan has done a really speed. good job in the off-season. He is 
That's something he didn't do trying extremely hard to be a last season. Grant leader on the field." would either Grant can show that 
plunge straight "In spring ball leadership on the into the offensive field by bouncing
everyone is going 

line before the back from a disap­
to make mistakes.

hole developed or pointing 2003 season not be aggressive What we are just and taking his game enough to burst to a level beyond
looking after is for 

through the hole what he showed in 
guys to get after 

once it opened. 2002.
it.,,

Improving that With an entire decision-making offense that has was a major goal gained invaluable
Ryan Grant

in the winter and experience last year,
Irish running back

is a focus ·this the opportunity is spring. there for Grant not to 
"The main thing was his accel­watch from the sidelines and eration after the cut," Notre have a year like Jones. Dame running backs coach Buzz "In spring ball everyone is Preston said. "We had to get in going to make mistakes, but we [during the off-season] and look are going to grow and get better at the film. You can look at the as spring ball goes on," Grant things they did well and didn't do said. "What we are just looking well. It gives them a chance to after is for guys to get after it." get a little more mentally sharp." 
In the hole. Grant knows he Contact Matt Lozar at has to break that first tackle and mlozar@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles host Knights today 
Saint Mary's hopes to sweep MIAA rival Calvin in conference play, looks forward to postseason 
the MIAA and 8-6 overall. bring the bats like we have By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
"If we play up to our in the last four games and Sports Writer 
potential, [we can] sweep make a solid defensive 
Calvin," said captain stance," said Tebbe. 
After winning their previ­Katrina Tebbe. "Getting On Saturday, the Belles ous five of six games, the two wins from them could swept Adrian, winning 9-5 Belles will look to continue · come down to whether we and 4-0. In the first game, their solid play Tuesday, go to the conference tour­Tebbe went 3-for-4 with an when they host Calvin. ney or not." RBI. In the second game, 
Saint Mary's (10-13 over­The Belles have worked Libby Wilhe1my tossed a all, 3-3 in the MIAA), has hard to reach this point complete game shutout, responded well after .a dis­and hope to play well into giving up two hits and mal seven-game losing the postseason. striking out two. streak coming off their After failing to provide Today's game with Calvin spring break in Florida. run support early in the will take place at Saint 
The Belles are viewing season, the Belles have Mary's. The first pitch is tomorrow as an important lately come on strong with scheduled for 3:30 p.m. match-up for the outcome the bats, and hope to con­of their regular season. tinue that tomorrow. Contact Bobby Griffin at Calvin is currently 4-0 in "We definitely need to rgriffe3@nd.edu 
click on all cylinders after at the hot corner. their second straight three­First baseman Matt
Baseball 
game sweep in Big East Edwards and designated play. hitter Matt Bransfield are
continued from page 20 
The Irish are batting .319 tied for the team lead in closest teammate is John as a team and are led at the home runs with five a piece. Torres, who is batting .243 plate by shortstop Greg The Irish are currently on the year. The Cougars Lopez with a .372 batting third in the Big East in team have been shutout in eight average. Third baseman batting -three points games this season, while Matt Macri, who was named behind the leader the Irish have gone 109 Big East Player of the Week Pittsburgh at .322 and one consecutive games without for his 6-for-12 perform­behind St. John's at .320. suffering a shutout by com­ance against Villanova over Notre Dame leads the Big parison. the weekend, is batting .356 East in pitching with a staff 
On the mound, the and leads the team in runs ERA of 3.62 and possesses Cougars have experienced scored (28) and RBI (26). an opponent batting aver­more of the same futility. Macri was also likely age of .245. The Chicago State pitchers acknowledged for his stellar The first pitch is sched­have put up a team ERA of defensive play in the series, uled for 5 p.m. at Frank Eck 
14.59. while its opponents' getting 16 chances in the Stadium today. ERA is 2.16. field without making an 
Meanwhile, the Irish (22-error, while adding several Contact Matt Puglisi at 3, 6-0) are beginning to Major League-caliber stops mpuglisi@nd.edu 

r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND 
Open Dail~ 9otm-8pm Sun.f'ioon-8pm 
ECONOMICS
1813 South Bend Ave. 
Located iu chc .'WJIC pJ<~ce ns Bchn::cu 11Je Buns! 
574.993.0310 574.234.8730 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, politica!Jheory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you.
Siz~le'ne (Sizzlelini®)­
Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy,
On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! 
philosophy, political science, and economics. Asizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with 
If you are looking for 
a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
(1) an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and
B;>-lefie (Bellini) ­A frosty, peach Italian work 
(2) an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests,
of art for $2! 

Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­
then PPE wants you! Visrt us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dirJ.ner to celebrate 
FOR MORE INFORMATION,.contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, doconnor@nd.edu, or Professor John Roos, Political Science Department, Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send arequest to Professor Roos or Professor O'Connor. The application deadline is 3:00PM on Wednesday, April7. Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE APRIL 7, 3:00PM. 
L·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 

Tuesday, April 6, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 36 Jefferson's note 69 Old New Yorker cartoonist Sharing this birthday: Marilu Henner, Dianne Brill, Candace Cameron,
1 Up to, in ads 42 Yours, old-style 
William Merle Haggard. Michelle Phillips 
~...

4 Ozzy 43 Suffix with 
70 On the

Osbourne's Happy Birthday: Don't let your emotions get the better of you this year or you
expert

music, for short may not achieve all that you set out to do. You will need to work hard, but the 44 Spoiled rewards will make it well worth your while. You may have to make some 9 Has a yen DOWN changes at a personal level in order to remove the obstacles that arc standing47 Austere 1 Island where in your way. You will have to put yourself first if you want to accomplish your
14 Prefix with 
puncture Gauguin paint­goals. Your numbers: 5, 8, 10, 19, 27,32
53 With 36-Down, 
ed

"Next ... " refrigerators 2 Harborbound, in your mouth. You will have to be careful not to fall into traps set by jealous 
15 Big name in ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't let someone you work with put words in 
54 Weevil's hatch-

winter peers. You need to get out and do something energetic. ••• ••
ing place

16 Good, in TAURUS {April 20-May 20): Programs for self-improvement through
3 Light flux units

Guadalajara exercise or other physical exertion will show remarkable results. Your open,
56 Pennsylvania's 

4 Fountain treat honest approach with others will be well-received. •••
17 Sound of hesita-Mountains 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Property purchases or renovations will be
,lion 5 Swift bird on
59 Usher's locale valuable in the long run. You can make a big difference to loved ones if you 18 Desilu head make your home a place of comfort and upgrade your entertainment center.
foot 60 Michael Jordan, 6 Center X or 0 ... 20 That is for years CANCER (June 21-July 22): New relationships will develop if you get out 7 Japanese car­and do things with others. You will be able to help someone with his or her
22 Posted 
64 Rest and relax-toon art problems if you tell about· some of your past experiences. ••• 23 Pan pal? ation site LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your generosity will get the better of you. Put a little
8 "Deck the Halls" 

cash away for a rainy day. You can expect to have problems with children if
26 Ham, to Noah 65 Egyptian syllables 
you don't take the time to understand where they're coming from. •• • • • 
Christians 

9 Genesis brother VIRGO {Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel will be in your best interest. You will make contact with new friends who will provide you with a multitude of new 
29 One who knows 
all the secrets 66 Pi, e.g. 10 Rubik creation 
and exciting ideas and options. •• 30 Deep down LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Changes in your home will be favorable if you cut
67 Often-hectic 11 Foremast 

your costs by doing some of the work yourself. Your creative leaning will help
33 Educators' org. hosp. areas attachment 
you achieve a comfonable but elegant setting. •••• 
35 Dickens's Heep 68 Minute 12 Big· picture?: SCORPIO {Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Pleasure trips will be worth your while. You Abbr. will be in a position to win points with your lover if you take him or her on 46 Bloodmobile 57 Eight: Prefix your adventure. Passion will lead to a secure relationship. *** 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Our sun 38 Que. neighbor 
visitors SAGITTARIUS {Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Larger quarters are in order. There is -:-:T..,.....,,-r,,.., 19 Cheery song 58 Wine holder greater activity in your home, and positive changes are taking place. You will
39 Cotillion girl 48 Not digital -­
have to bend if you wish to get help from those you live with. •••
21 Move among 60 Syringe amts.
40_prof. 49 Sacrifice fly stat. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be emotional and quick to judge
-=;:+--+:..-t-:rl the moguls 

others if you became involved in a bad financial deal. You need an outlet for
61 All the rage
24 Former Attorney 41 Bank take-back 50 Ejected your anxiety. A creative project will help to take your mind off your worries. General 51 Elite N.F.L.er 62 Colorado native ••• 
42 Former flying AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Property investments or making valuable 25 Composer inits. 52 N.Y. Mets' div. 63 XXVI doubled additions to your home will be profitable. Work behind the scenes to develop Jacques an idea that's been on your mind for some time now. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your emotional partner may be playing games
.r:-:-+-:-:-1-::-if-=i 27 Test type 

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a with you. Don't be too concerned. Everything will work out just fine if you do ~+:-+-::::-lr.:-1 28 Utmost credit card, 1-800-814-5554. your own thing. ** Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
31 Airline's home 

Birthday Baby: You are bright-eyed and eager to find out all you can about
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
base 

life. You will be a handful with your curious attitude leading you in all sons of
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
directions. Listening may not be your best attribute, but your built-in charm
32 "_ tu" (Verdi 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
-:-:+~:-+.:-! aria) will win you favors from others. Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young -'-'-l.;.;..;..L.::.J...;..;.J 34 Frazier foe solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. Need advice? Trv Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com. 

DILBERT 
PLAN TO START MY OWN NO-FRILLS AIRLINE. 
FIVES 
FOR ONLY $23, I'LL LET PEOPLE HOLD OUT THEIR ARM.S AND RUN TO THEIR DESTINATIONS. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
SCOTT ADAMS 
AND THEY WON'T BE ALLOWED TO EAT OR SWALLOW THEIR OWN SALIVA. 
JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KLUSK 
j
rJ r 
02004 Tribuno Media Services. Inc 


r~fofb
tWENJTH

) () lu
www jumble com 
DYLOOB 
1 

rJ 
J\nsl.o.er here : 

riiJ(IIIIIJ
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: ERASE LURID GUZZLE INVERT 
Answer: When he tried to hang wallpaper, she 
became -UNRAVELED :;;..­
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 


-

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
r 
' 
' 

THE OBSERVER_ 




PORTS
Tuesday, April6, 2004 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Ifthese courts could talk.•. 

-
and H WU1~,un he Observer 
At left, players from Tinkle's Mollet and Skeet Skeet Skeet Skeet watch a shot sail over the backboard at the Bookstore Courts, while a player from Mulka's Girlfriend is trapped by a Cocoa Butter opponent. 
Tourney locations see heartbreak and hope in preliminarites 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 
Curb Your Enthusiasm wasn't taking any chances on an early frrst-round exit. "Third round or bust, baby!" said forward James Gower after the game. 
His celebrrated their decisive 21-3 victory over No Chance in Hell. wearing No. 40 jer­seys with "Kemp" written on the backs. 
Coach Erik "Krzyzewski" Christensen dia­

grammed a variety of plays in preparation for the tournament and was a sideline force to be reckoned with, ensuring Curb Your Enthusiasm's domination. 
"We had a whole scheme worked out -a plethora, you could call it," he said, after a Bob Knight-esque tantrum which resulted in a broken clipboard. 
"Some of the guys have been tossing the name 'Mastermind' around the office," he added modestly. 
Mike "Hollywood" Healy attributed the 
ND SOFTBALL 

Hartmann leads the Irish against Purdue 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Ever since returning home after a spring break road trip, the Irish have hit their stride, winning 11 of their last 12 ing four doubles,

"In order for us to

games. two home runs 
Now, Purdue win we have to go and five RBis. (22-12, 0-2 Big out there and play "[The key is] 
Ten) comes to getting into the
the way we are. " 

town today to rhythm. feeling face red-hot the flow of the Notre Dame (28-Liz Hartmann g a m e , " 10, 4-0 in the Big Hartmann said.
Irish third baseman 

East) in a non­"I'm feeding conference match off other girls, up. and we are always trying to 
"In order for us to win we spark each other." have to go out there and play Another hot Irish player is 
the way we are," third base­man Liz Hartmann said. "We 
en .....
1m-
(.) a: :3 z 

--=:
D.!;:
en 
SMC SOFTBAll 
Calvin at Saint Mary's 
Today, 3:30 p.m. 
Saint Mary's hopes to continue its recent sue­. cess. 
page 18 

have to dominate and show them that this is our home field and not let them hang around with us." 
Hartmann has been one of the keys to the Irish recent success. In the last 10 games, she has a .429 average (12­
for-28), includ­
see SOFTBALL/page 17 
NO TENNIS 
Notre Dame 7 Marquette 0 
The Irish hold steady at No. 27 with a pair of weekend wins. 
page 16 
team's success to a variety of factors. 

"We came out, had faith in God from the beginning, and gave 115 percent," he said. "We also rallied behind captain Andy Astuno -he put up 19 and scored even more." 
The women of No Chance in Hell com­plained about Astuno's play, after he collided with one of his opponents in the final posses­sion, leaving her in tears. 
However, Gower's game-winning basket 
see BOOKSTORE/page 16 
BASEBALL 
Po-werful Irish face struggling Cougars 
After sweeping Villanova, Notre Dame faces 1-26 Chicago State 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
The Irish reserves ought to be excited. 
No. 5 Notre Dame-com­ing off a three-game sweep of Big East rival Villanova and riding a nine-game winning streak -returns to action today to host hap­less Chicago State (1-26). 
Notre Dame position play­ers who usually sit the bench and Irish pitchers who rarely make it out to the mound will likely have a chance to play against the heavily out-manned Cougars. 
To say the Cougars have struggled this season would be an understatement. As a team, Chicago State has hit a paltry .203 this season, while opponents have bat­ted .421. In 27 games, the Cougars have scored just 69 
_ runs, or 2.55 a game. In comparison, their oppo­nents have put 406 runs on the board for a staggering average of 15 runs per game. Jonathan Sakurai leads the Cougars in hitting with 
a .293 average, but his next 
see BASEBALL/page 18 
WOMEWSlAX 
Ohio at Notre Dame 
Today, 3 p.m. 
The undefeated Irish take on the 5-3 Bobcats. 
page 16 
NCAA BASKETBAll 
Connecticut 82 

Tennessee versus 
Georgia Tech 73 

Connecticut 
Huskies get Jim 

The Volunteers are the 
Calhoun's second 

only thing that stand 
national title in a domi­

between the Huskies 
nant effort against Tech. 

and a third-straight title . 
page 15 

page 15 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 
PAMELA LOCKfThe Observer 
Irish running back Ryan Grant, a 1.,000-yard back two years ago, jogs in the team's first practice of the season. 
Grant not living in the past 
Irish running back enters spring out of Julius Jones' shadow 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Ryan Grant went from being the seventh back in Notre Dame history to rush for 1,000 yards in a season on a 10-3 Notre Dame team to standing in the shadows of Julius Jones and see the Irish fall to 5-7. 
It's not something he wants to remember anytime soon. 
"I didn't play as well as I'd like to, but that's in the past," Grant said. "We have to look forward and get things together so we can be the best team we can be." 
Grant started 2003 as the starter, and the Irish looked to have a two-back system of Grant and Jones to punish opposing defenses for 60 min­utes. 
But Grant wasn't able to build off that success from 2002, and Jones became the feature back for the Irish. Despite that role reversal, Grant and Jones didn't have any tension between them. 
In fact, the duo became closer in 2003 than they did in 2001 when Grant was a heralded freshman from Nyack, N.Y. and Jones strug­gled as a junior with the Irish. 
see FOOTBALL/page 19 
MlB 
The major-league base­ball season kicked off today, with many high­ly-touted teams. 
page 12 







