
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Student falls from balcony 
Police arrest 6 at College Park St. Patrick's Day party 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Senior St.1ff Writer 
1\ student attending a St. Patrick's Day party at the College Park apartment com­plex was seriously injured after he fell from a second story bal­cony at approximately 4:30 
p.m. Wednesday, prompting police to bust the party and make six arrests. 
St. Joseph County Police Spokesperson Jaimee Theiriln said the studnnt. senior Michael Seiler who lives in College Park, was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph Hegional Medical Center. The hospital declined to releasn St~ilcr's condition and multiple calls to his apartment were not answernd. 
Sgt. John Pavlekovich, shift supervisor for the St. Joseph County Police, said he was 

already at College Park responding to a noise com­plaint when the student fell. He 
Above, Michael Seiler
said students approached him to report that a person had fall­
en. is wheeled to an ambu­"So I ran over there, and the 
lance afterfalling from
kid was lying on the ground. He had numerous abrasions to the 
a balcony. At right, a
mouth. missing teeth; he was hurting," Pavlekovich said. 
fire truck arrives at
Pavlckovich said that the stu­dent was playing catch with College Park. fruit on the upper balcony and fell off while trying to catch a piece of fruit. 
• 

Pavlekovich said that when 
PHOTOS BY see BUST/page 6 TIMKACMAR 

Baron selected as chief of staff 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Fresh from a semester in Angers, sophomore and for­mer freshman class presi­dent David Baron wasted no time in immersing himself back into the waters of Notre Dame student govern­ment. After being the cam­paign manager for the Charlie Ebersol-.lames Leito ticket. he will take on the new role of chief of stan· for student body president-elect /\dam Istvan and vice presi­dent-elect Karla Bell. 
Picking Baron was an easy decision Istvan said -so much so that he was the only candidate seriously considered for the job. 
"I kind of had Dave in mind," Istvan said. "He lived across the hall from me last year, so I've known him for awhile. He knows student government better than any­one I know, and I trust him to help us. He's my first choice for the position, and the best choice." 
Though Baron's previous alliliation with Ebersol-Leito might be seen a conf1ict of interest elsewhere, Baron insisted that it was not. 
see CHIEF/page II 


Groups continue to support homosexual students 
Students show solidarity with 'Gay? Fine by me.' shirts 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
News Writer 
On Saturdays in the fall, the campus is bombarded by a "Sea of Green" in which Notre Dame fans don identi­cal T-shirts to demonstrate their unity and support for the Irish. Today. a "Sea of Orange" will flood campus to show solidarity and support for gay and lesbian members of the Notre Dame communi­ty. The shirts bear the inscription, "Gay? Fine by me," and are being worn in reaction to Notre Dame's recent distinction in the Princeton Heview as the most homophobic campus in the United States. 
see GSA/ page 9 


Kaltlyn Redfield, left, delivers an orange shirt to Lynsay Bensman. Students are wearing the shirts today In support of homosexual students and organizations. 
A dialogue deferred: the path ofgay organizations at ND 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
"Gay'? Fine by me." reads the slogan of solidarity proclaimed on the more than 1 ,600 orange T-shirts saturating campus today. 
But for the past 15 years, the relationship between gay and lesbian organizations and the University administration has been anything but smooth. 
Ten years after the first gath­ering of students who formed Gay and Lesbian Students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) in 1985, a nation­ally publicized recognition dis­pute surfaced that led to the formation of the /\d Hoc and 
see HISTORY/page 4 


Thursday, March 18, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Orange, not clockwork 
Look around you. You are in the dining hall getting ready to dig into your food, when something catches your attention. You see a few people around you -or maybe more than a few. "They're orange," you say Matthew to yourself. 
Smedberg
Bright orange. And whoever said 
Production
that orange was 
Editor
the new pink was seriously dis­turbed. 
Look around you. Maybe you're in class, surrounded by fifteen, or fifty, or five hundred fellow students, and again you can't miss the orange glare emanating from a brave few ­or perhaps, not-so-few. You look closer, and find a message you did not see before: "Gay? Fine By Me." It shocks you for a moment. It shocks you, in fact, for more than a moment. 
You've heard about these shirts: heard a whisper that something like this was coming. More than a thou­sand sold, someone said. You didn't think they sounded too happy about it, but they were just walking by on the quad, so you weren't sure. No one you know is wearing one, so you haven't had to think about where you stand. 
There were indeed more than a thousand sold. 
But you do not see that many. In fact, right now. you only see one: the one on the girl who you usually sit next to. She's smart, pretty, a good conversationalist; you even ate lunch with her at the dining hall once and were impressed by how many things she's interested in. "But she's gay?" you ask silently. Then you catch yourself. She's just show­ing solidarity. She thinks she's speaking out against injustice. But the thought keeps nagging at you as you steal glances all through class from across the room. 
And now your classes are done for the day, and it's home to your dorm. You know you have work to do, but there's a good movie on cable and you have all night to get down to business. 
And so you're sitting there­relaxing, minding your own business -when your roommate walks in. A second later, it registers to you that his (or her) shirt is vividly orange. 
With feigned ignorance you remark that she (or he) is looking bright today. Then the look on his (or her) face stops you. 
"Is something wrong?" 

''I'm gay," your roommate says. ''I've been meaning to tell you for a while." 
And flash through your mind dis­jointed thoughts. which pass before you can even attach words to them. 
There's no way ... what about her boyf ... that's impossible ... so that guy who ... 
But all you can stammer out is 'That's ... that's ... fine by me." 
Is it? 
Really? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matthew Smedberg at smed­berg.J@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a production error in the Wednesday's edition ofThe Observer, the last rwo words ofa quote from Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams were 
truncated. The article should read, "I think ... what happened here was to actually turn that caricature 
back," Adams said, adding that the Universiry is "now universally known as a top-level academic institution._" 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 0/0 THE COLD WEATHER DAMPEN YOUR Sr. PATRICK'S DAY? 



Mike Merrlt  Scott Howard  Aaron Lavlana  
Freshman Siegfried  Sophomore St. Edward's  Senior OffCampus  
"It pisses me off that it's snowing.  "You can't be dampened when you're lit. ,  "No, but losing my lucky charms did. "  

Rooster limited to one 
S.C. baseball game 

COLUMBIA, S.C. -At least one Gamecock is no longer welcome at all South Carolina baseball games. 
Cocky-Doodle-Lou, a 6­year-old gamecock that has become a regular at Sarge Frye Field, can only attend one game a week after a flap between school offi­cials and the bird 's owner, Mary Snelling. 
After receiving some complaints about the bird sitting atop the dugout, athletics officials asked Snelling to bring "Lou" to only one game a week for 
TODAY a:: 

Patrick's Day." 


Photo courtesy of Pat Quill 
Several students formed an Impromptu St. Patrick's Day parade Wednesday, which Included band members who played the Notre Dame Fight Song. The group eventu­ally paraded through DeBartolo. 
OFFBEAT 

"It's a pleasant surprise," Ren Xiuhua, a 102-year-old woman from Lanzhou, the provincial capital, was quoted as saying by the official Xinhua News Agency. "My family and I are all grateful to govern­ment's love and care." 
Except for partial loss of hearing, Ren is in good health -and more than happy with her $120 annu­al subsidy from the provin­cial government. The amount, doled out to each of Gansu's 243 centenari­ans, is about the same as the monthly pension paid by central government to the average retiree. 
the rest of the season. 
"We received some com­plaints regarding the roos­ter at the games. from not only a health but a safety concern -smell, feces, animal in a public facility," said senior associate ath­letics director Sean Eichorst. 
China's Gansu pays elderly to stay alive 
BEIJING -Need extra cash? Keep living. The thinly populated north­western Chinese province of Gansu has started pay­ing elderly people who have the courtesy to stay alive. 

TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
u.l
:::c 
!;;: 
u.l 
3: 
.... 
c( 
(.) 


0 

HIGH 40
..... 

LOW 28 

HIGH LOW 


HIGH LOW 


HIGH LOW 




Julia Jenkins Steve Howenstein Joe Nohner 
Freshman Sophomore Sophomore Pasquerilla East Stanford Stanford 
"No, nothing "It dampened it "Look at this could ruin St. in a GOOD smile. What do 
way. you think?" 
IN BRIEF 

The Kroc Institute for Peace Studies, the Department of History and the McAnaney Chair are sponsoring a lecture entitled "Religious War and the Cultural Politics of Peace," which takes place today at 12:30 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy. 
Valeria Tohver Milam of the University of Pennsylvania will hold a seminar entitled "Colloidal Constructs in the Absence and Presence of DNA" at 3:30 p.m. today in 138 DeBartolo. The seminar is spon­sored _by the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. 
The women's tennis team takes on Iowa today at 4 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Hear the Glee Club perform in a concert tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
The Saint Mary's Women's Choir will give a Homecoming Concert tonight in the Little Theatre of the Moreau Center at 8p.m. 
Ruiping Fan of the Department of Public and social Administration at the University of Hong Korig will host a lecture at 4 p.m. today in the auditorium of McKenna Hall entitled "Beyond Liberty and Equality: Some Confucian Reflections on the Place of the Family in Health Care." The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture and the Alumni Association Continuing Education Program's Clarke Family Lecture in Medical Ethics. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

Thursday, March 18, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Notre Dam_e students to design for Electrolux 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
News Writer 

The University's Department of Art, Art I lis tory and Design has been selected by appliance giant Elcctrolux to represent the United States in the company's Global Design Laboratory 2004. 
Electrolux is the world's largest producer of household appliances. They chose eight schools from around the world to create appli­ance designs that will save con­sumers time and reflect their 
lili~stylcs. 

As announced in Wednesday's ceremony at the Snite Museum, industrial design students are col­laborating with MBA students from Mendoza College of Business to design and market household products to be showcased at an international conference in New York this October. The products will bn part of a worldwide media campaign. 
Xuan Yu, a graduate student in industrial design, is one of the team leaders for the project. She admitted that while the project is a lot of work. she believes that it will all be worthwhile. 
"We learn from class, but we need practical experience," Yu said. "By cooperating with the MBA students, we experience the whole process of actual design." 
The project takes the students through marketing, focus groups, survey work, sketching and devel­opment and a fmal presentation. 
"It is very complete," Yu said. 
They will be asked to design for a consumer faction that Electrolux will announce next week. The three possible focus groups are urban youth, the environmentally conscientious and elite con­sumers. 
Doug Ritterling, senior industri­al designer for Electrolux, attend­ed the reception and said that Notre Dame was chosen as the first representative from the United States because "there is something unusual, something special about this place." He also cited Notre Dame's well-respected name, tradition and quality of stu­dents. 
Ritterling said Electrolux will benefit from student design because "having fresh minds is a great way to innovate. It injects energy." 
Ritterling also told student designers to "win one for the Gipper in the world of design." 
Paul Down, Notre Dame's indus­trial design group director, spoke at the ceremony on the opportuni­ty and honor that the selection will bring to the University. 
"This is an opportunity I hope we can begin to grasp, because it will offer us international recogni­tion," Down said. "It is not just about a class, a department or University. It is about in interna­tional competition. 
"It is an opportunity to under­stand what it is like to be on a genuine design team." 
Contact Anna Gelhaus at agelhaus@nd.edu 
Legends to host registration drive 
By STEPHANIE YAHN 
News Writer 
Free food, a live band, give­aways and the opportunity to register to vote will kick off Notre Dame's very own Hock the Vote Thursday at Legends from 9 p.m. to midnight. Co­organizers Jazmin Garcia, senior class president, and Peter Quaranta helped create the Notre Dame program affiliated with the non-profit organization Hock the Vote. 
The campaign came about when the Center for Social Concerns, the Senior Class Council and the College Democrats and College Republicans joined together in hopes of "increasing politi­cal participation in civic engagement" said Quaranta. Garcia, along with Colin Taylor of the College Democrats and Brandi Gill of the College Republicans, helped put together the cam­paign. Its goals are to 

increase votes through the submission of absentee bal­lots and make students more politically aware. 
Typically, 18-to 24-year olds are under-represented at the polls, and there is a general lack of political par­ti,cipation, said Quaranto. lie added that the individuals, especially college-aged stu­dents are voting less and less. 
"Notre Dame has typically been a very politically unaware, unengaged campus overall," Quaranto said. "Notre Dame's Rock the Vote is trying to counter that by bringing people of different backgrounds together to cre­ate a more politically and socially aware culture." 
With the current situation in Iraq, the war on terror and other issues, including the economy, Quaranto said this is a pivotal time to get youth interested in voting. 
The goal of tonight's ~vent is to have over 1,000 people attend and to register 250 of them. In addition to the opportunity to register or complete an absentee ballot registration, representatives from both the College Democratic and Republican will give students the oppor­tunity to learn about the issues of the upcoming elec­tion. 
While Notre Dame's Hock the Vote involves a collabora­tion of groups, the esc will host two talks as a part of the "fringe" of the campaign. On March 25, at 5 p.m. in 101 Debartolo, Rabbi Michael Lerner will speak on "Spiritual Politics and Social Healing," and Jim Wallace, founding editor of "Sojourners," will give a talk entitled "Politics and Values in 2004" at 12:30 p.m. March 31 in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. A debate is also scheduled for April. 
Contact Stephanie Yahn at syahn@nd.edu 

MBA students win venture capital contest 
Special to The Observer 
A team of five MBA students from the won the Central Region championship of the Venture Capital Investment Competition 
(VCIC) last weekend at the University of Michigan. 
Competing under the auspices of the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies in the Mendoza College of Business, the Notre Dame team earned a $5,000 prize and qualified for the national finals April 15 to 17 at the University of North Carolina. 

Other business schools partici­pating in the regional event, from second through eighth place, represented the University of Chicago, Northwestern University, Indiana University, the University of Wisconsin, Washington University in St. Louis, Carnegie Mellon University and Georgia Tech. 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March 18, 2004 



History 
continued from page 1 
then the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs in 1995 and 1996. The University's Spirit of Inclusion statement, published in 1997, and the 1999 advertising ban that did now allow The Observer to publish ads from the Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GALA} also caused clashes between the officials who defend Notre Dame's Catholic identity and the homosexual students and alumni who have often felt pushed to the com­munity's sidelines because of this Catholic identity. 
As the nation's leading Catholic institution, Notre Dame's stance on homosexual students and alumni faces a level of scrutiny that is unique­ly acute. To examine the nuanced development of this stance over the last 20 years is not merely to understand the orange seen today -it is to realize the role the University plays in the Church of tomor­row. Voices Emerge 
In 1985, then-Notre Dame theology professor Bill Storey was invited to attend a meeting at an off-campus apartment ­but unlike most first gather­ings, the 20 graduate students and two professors who joined him there didn't jump at the chance to make introductions. Instead, each shared only his or her first name -a clue, Storey said, that spoke plenty about both the national con­sciousness and Notre Dame perception of homosexuality at the time. 
"I thought it was very reveal­ing that people were just scared enough not to use their family name, that they were uneasy at Notre Dame, afraid of the repercussions," he said. 
While Storey was living open­ly with his partner at the time, he said that he was "not on a soapbox" for gay rights -"I was kind of out and in," he explained. 
Storey and the other atten­dees soon decided that the anx­iety they felt could be turned into a positive, and GLND/SMC was formed. 
"The tone of that first meet­ing was indicative of two things," Storey said. "At first it was fear and trepidation, we didn't know if we could do any­thing at [Notre Dame] ... but then it became 'well, let's try."' 
GLND/SMC did not try, how­ever, to immediately achieve officially recognized club sta­tus. 
"We didn't know what recog­nition we wanted," Storey recalled. "We just wanted polite acceptance." 
A meeting was arranged with officials from the Office of Student Affairs to discuss the organization's future, which Storey said was full of spirited and open conversation. However, GLND/SMC received a letter a week later that declined to grant them official status, but offered the group Campus Ministry resources. 
Despite the decision th'at the club would remain unofficial, Storey said that it began to hold weekly meetings in the Counseling Center and was fairly successful over the next decade in its attempts to bring outside speakers to campus. 
"We did the normal things that student societies do," he said. "We wanted to see what we could get without causing too big of a ruckus. And we got a very good response from campus. We were not squashed.... The squash came when the administration real­ized we were well-organized on campus." Bolling Over 
Through the fall of 1994, GLND/SMC continued to meet in the Counseling Center, and regularly placed advertise­ments in The Observer. However, the publicity had a caveat -neither the name of the organization nor the meet­ing place could be listed. John Blandford, co-chair of GLND/SMC, said he remembers publishing the letters in Greek script to evade punishment. He described the process as "a big game to pretend the group did­n't exist." 
When an ad ran with the meeting place clearly announced, the game was over. Blandford sa.id he and co-chair Kelley Smith were called to a meeting in January 1995 with Father Peter Rocca, who spoke on behalf of the Office of Student Affairs. They were informed that GLND/SMC had been banned from meeting on campus. 
The outcry was immediate. In first week of February alone, the rising conflict at Notre Dame appeared on the front page of the Chicago Tribune. The student protests of the decision coincided with Andrew Sullivan, ga:r and Catholic edi­tor of The 1\ew Republic, com­ing to speak at the University. 
"We mustered all of our forces," Blandford said, adding that the decision upset many students' "basic sense of jus­tice." 
"They just felt that the 
University wasn't playing fair," Although the University decid­he said. ed against the inclusion of sex­
The University responded to ual orientation in the legal the turmoil on March 6, 1995 clause, officials published "The in the form of an open letter by Spirit of Inclusion of Notre Patricia O'Hara, then the vice Dame." president of Student Affairs. In "Institutional non-discrimina­the letter, O'Hara addressed a tion clauses are highly stylized resolution put forth by the statements which are legally Campus Life Council on Feb. binding," Malloy wrote. "We 
20, 1995  that  choose  not  to  
called  for  change our legal  
GLND/SMC's offi­cial recognition. Citing the University's poli­cy that "a group's purpose must be  "They just felt that the University wasn •t playing fair.,,  non-discrimina­tion clause, but we call" ourselves to act in accordance with what we regard as a higher  
consistent with  standard  
the mission of the  John Blandford  Christ's  call  to  
University  and  former co-chair of  inclusiveness, cou­ 
the moral teach­ings of the Catholic Church,"  GLND/SMC and former chair of GALA  pled with the gospels' call to live chaste lives."  
O'Hara did  not  While the step  
approve the reso­ was hailed as defi­ 

lution. Instead, she established nite progress, Blandford and the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay others questioned the decision. and Lesbian Student Needs to "[The Spirit of Inclusion advise the administration. She statement] was pretty words to wrote that she hoped the com­mask an ugly policy," Blandford mittee would help "move said. "In short, it was smoke beyond the painful polemics and mirrors -to run from the that have characterized the responsibility of a true compas­discussion in recent weeks." sion." 
For both sides, all that was Father David Garrick agreed. left to do was wait. The Holy Cross priest and com­Answers and Compromise munication and theatre profes­
On Feb. 29, 1996, the Ad Hoc sor came out as a celibate Committee published its final homosexual to the University report, and by April 2, O'Hara community in 1996 through a had delivered another answer. letter to the editor published in Set within the framework of The Observer. Garrick resigned the "dual goals" of meeting gay from the faculty on March 19, and lesbian student needs and 1998, writing that "it is my remaining faithful to the intention that this resignation Church, O'Hara's letter accept­shall serve as a heart-felt ed all 12 of the committee's protest against the refusal of recommendations, including the officers of the University to granting it permanent standing make a legal provision for the committee status. equal rights for gay persons at 
Two of these acceptances, Notre Dame." however, stood out -the cre­"It is my hope," the letter ation of a new University-spon­continued, "that this protest sored group for gay and lesbian will stimulate informed and students facilitated by faculty productive public exchanges and administrator advisors here at Notre Dame on homo­with a special relatiohship to sexual issues in general, and the Office of Student Affairs on social justice for gay per­and O'Hara's promise to raise sons in particular." to University officers the issue Garrick got his wish. Over the of modifying the legal non-dis­next few years, the exchange crimination clause to include would continue -this time sexual orientation. with alumni on the front lines. 
The former, a group named The Alumni Role Notre Dame Gay and Lesbian Like GLND/SMC years before, Students -which Blandford Gay and Lesbian Alumni of described as a "paper tiger" to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's pacify, not replace GLND/SMC (GALA-ND/SMC} were banned -was short-lived, folding after in August of 1999 from adver­only a year of existence. The tising in The Observer. Chandra latter, the non-discrimination Johnson, assistant to the clause, became the next sus­President, wrote a letter saying tained source of friction. that GALA ads implied opposi­
In August of 1997, University tion to Catholic moral teach­President Father Edward ings and issued "a blanket Malloy wrote an open letter to statement against GALA." the campus community that Blandford, who had by then explained a new document and become the chairman of GALA, an intricate distinction. loudly contested the claim that the alumni organization con­tradicted the teachings of the Church. Looking back, he said that the fact that many GALA members held powerful media positions was critical in revers­ing the decision. 
"The one thing they would not put up with was censor­ship," he said. 
Another more emotional bar­rier for alumni to cross was the group's first local reunion since its inception in the summer of 1993. Held in September of 2000 to coincide with the pres­entation of GALA's annual Fr. Tom Dooley award to talk show host Phil Donahue -a 1957 alumnus and longtime GALA supporter -the reunion elicit­ed mixed emotions. 
"There were some people certainly at the 2000 reunion ... who had not been back to campus since they graduated in the 1970s," said Kevin Heffernan, a former GALA chairman and current GALA secretary. "There was some indifference, some resentment and anger." 
Blandford, who also attended the reunion, remembered simi­lar reactions. 
"[Some alumni] had such hard feelings they were on the verge of tears," he said. "They loved it, but there was lots of pain associated with whether they could step back on cam­pus again." 
Since then, GALA has contin­ued to make its presence felt at Notre Dame. Gus Hinojosa, cur­rent chairman, said that the tailgate the group hosted last fall was particularly significant. 
"It helped normalize the whole concept of being a gay alum," he said. "You're no less of an alumnus if you're a gay or a lesbian. 
"It's our obligation to be more visible on campus, so stu­dents know there's life beyond campus." 
GALA also provides funding for current unofficial student groups such as OUTReachND and the Gay/Straight Alliance, and helped sponsor the Queer Film Festival this February. 
Hinojosa said that while on campus for the festival, several alumni met with University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, and felt heartened by his words. 
"He was very soulful, he gave us a blessing," Hinojosa said. "He said we're all God's chil­dren, we all operate within the parameters we were born with. 
"He was very encouraging that we proceed on the path we're going." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


. 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 18. 2004 CoMPILED FROM T11E OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Militants call truce with Spain 
CAIHO. Egypt-The Islamic militant group that claimed responsibility for last week's Madrid train bombings has called a truce with Spain to give the new government time to withdraw troops from Iraq, a London­based Arabic-language newspaper said Wednesday. 
The AI llayat daily newspaper said it received a statement from the Brigade of Abu llafs al-Masri, which earlier said ii orchestrated the bombings to punish Spain for supporting the U.S.-Ied war in Iraq. The blasts killed 201 people. 
But the United States believes the group, which takes its name in memory of al­Qaida's fallen No. 3, lacks credibility and its ties to al-Qaida arc tenuous. In the past, the group has made claims about various events to which it was not connected -such as blackouts last year in the United States. Canada and London. 
Khatami admits defeat in reforms 
TEIIHAN. Iran-Iran's beleaguered presi­dent conceded defeat Wednesday in his long struggle to reform a svr•em stacked in favor of hard-line Islamic clerics. saying he was abandoning efforts to salvage two key bills that sought to expand presidential powers and limit the authority of an unelected con­servative body. 
Mohammad Khutami, once hailed as the leader of a hugely popular reform move­ment. warned Iranians not to expect too much from the presidency, accusing his rivals of relegating the office to a position of little in11uence. 
Acknowledging the failure of the pillars of his prosidency, Khatami conceded that two key reform proposals designed to check the powers of hard-liners were dead. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Kerry blasts Bush on Iraq war 
WASIIINGTON -Democrat John Kerry assailed President Bush on Wednesday for clinging to a failed policy that leaves Americans mired in Iraq "with the target squarely on their backs" while Vice President Dick Cheney argued that his boss' rival lacks the judgment to be commander in chief. 
Marking the first anniversary of the inva­sion of the Persian Gulf nation. Kerry deliv­ered a broadside to the incumbent's strategy toward Iraq, focusing on the unending hostil­ities. alienated allies and the loss of lives. 
U.S. to withhold Halliburton cash 
WASIIINGTON -The Pentagon plans to withhold about $300 million in payments to llalliburton Co. because of possible over­charging for meals served to troops in Iraq and Kuwait, defense officials said Wednesday. 
Starting next month, the Defense Department will begin withholding 15 per­cent of the money paid to Vice President Dick Cheney's former company on a multibillion­dollar contract to provide services such as food, housing, laundry and mail to American forces in Iraq. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Kids shaken in school bus wreck 
DUNLAP -A school bus carrying 38 stu­dents to a junior high school collided with a car and ended up on a guardrail Wednesday. 
Ten students were taken to a nearby hospi­tal for observation as a precaution after complaining of soreness, Concord Community Schools Superintendent George Dyer said. 
All of the students were treated and released by Wednesday afternoon, he said. 
"Some of them were banged around pretty good, but we don't believe anyone was seri­ously hurt," Dyer said. 
The bus was nearing Concord Junior High School, about 20 miles east of South Bend, when a Ford Mustang convertible pulled into its path, Dyer said. 
IRAQ 

Blast destroys Baghdad hotel 
Massive car bomb rips through five-story downtown building, killing 27 civilians 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -A thunder­ous car bomb tore apart a five-story hotel catering to foreigners in the heart of Baghdad on Wednesday night, killing 27 people and showing the continued vul­nerability of civilians to ter­ror attacks just days before the anniversary of the start of the Iraq war. 
Flames and heavy smoke burst skyward from the Mount Lebanon Hotel, torching nearby homes, offices and shops. Rescuers pulled bodies from the rub­ble and searched for other victims of the attack, which wounded 41 people. 

There was no official word on who carried out the attack but a U.S. coun­terterrorism official, speak­ing on the condition of anonymity, said Jordanian Islamic militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi is among those suspected of playing a key explosives and artillery debris hundreds of yards Saddam on April 9 with the role. shells. That was the same from the hotel. · help of U.S. Marines who 
Dazed and wounded peo­mixture of explosives used The Mount Lebanon was had just entered the center ple stumbled from the in the Aug. 19 suicide a so-called soft target of the capital. wreckage, marked by a attack on the U.N. head­because it did not have con­After the blast, American jagged, 20-foot-wide crater. quarters in Baghdad, which crete blast barriers and forces and Iraqi ambu­A father cradled his young killed 22 people. other security measures lances hurried to the scene. daughter, who was limp in Americans, Britons, that protect offices of the Dozens of U.S. soldiers in his arms. Coated in dust, Egyptians as well as other U.S.-led coalition and build­Humvees and Bradley fight­some rescuers dug through foreigners were staying at ings where Westerners live ing vehicles cleared crowds. the debris with bare hands the Mount Lebanon Hotel, and work. Earlier, two U.S. soldiers as uniformed firefighters said Baghdad resident The Bush administration tried to help pull bodies fought the blaze and ambu­Faleh Kathan. But some offered prayers for the vic­from the wreckage of the lance workers stood by with residents in the area said. tims but said such attacks hotel, but angry Iraqis orange stretchers. they believed guests left the would not change U.S. poli­pushed them back. 
"It was a huge boom fol­hotel a week ago after its cy. The explosion left a crater lowed by complete darkness management received "Democracy is taking root 20 feet wide and 10 feet and then the red glow of a threats. If true, many casu­in Iraq and there is no turn­deep, and American foren­fire," said 16-year-old Walid alties were likely in adja­ing back," said Scott sic experts studied the Mohammed Abdel-Maguid, cent buildings. The British McClellan, White House scene. The area of the blast, who lives near the hotel. A Broadcasting Corp. report­spokesman. "This is a time Karrada, is a mix of resi­
U.S. soldier a mile away ed that two Britons were of testing, but the terrorists dential and commercial said the blast -which took among the wounded. will not prevail." buildings. place about 8 p.m. -felt as The blast ignited at least The attack came just The blast shook the near­though it were next door. eight cars, one of which was three days before the first by Palestine Hotel. where 
Army Col. Ralph Baker of hurled into a store. Some anniversary of the start of many foreign contractors the 1st Armored Division vehicles were little more the U.S.-led war to topple and journalists are based. It estimated that the bomb than mangled piles of Saddam Hussein. It took also damaged the nearby contained 1,000 pounds of metal. The explosion blew place behind Firdaus Swan Lake Hotel, home to explosives. He said the bricks, air conditioners, fur­Square, where Iraqis top­many foreigners, including bomb was a mix of plastic niture. wires and other pled a bronze statue of several journalists. 

Census: Minorities to surge by 2050 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -For as long as there has been an America, whites have made up a clear majority. But that will change by 2050 when minority groups will be 49.9 percent of the population, the Census Bureau says. 
Asians and Hispanics will see the most dramatic increases between now and midcentury, when the U.S. population will have grown by almost 50 percent to reach 420 mil­lion, according to bureau projections being released Thursday. 
America will get older, too. Nearly 21 percent of its residents will be age 65 or older, compared with 12 percent now. 
The data highlight trends long pre­dicted. But racial and ethnic changes are taking shape faster than expect­ed, due in large part to higher-than­forecast immigration rates for Asians and Hispanics, said Greg Spencer, a bureau demographer. 
Whites now represent 69 percent of the population, but their growth is slowirrg because of low rates of birth and immigration. Their total will grow 7 percent to 210 million, or 
50.1 percent of the population, in 2050. 
Those figures do not include Hispanics. The Census Bureau counts "Hispanic" or "Latino" as an ethnicity rather than a race, so they can be of any race, including white. 
Between 2040 and 2050, the Census Bureau expects the non­Hispanic white population actually will decline slightly because of a large number of expected deaths of baby boomers, who by 2040 will be at least 76. 
Meantime, the Hispanic and Asian populations are expected to continue their explosive growth. 
The Asian population is expected to more than triple to 33 million by 2050. Hispanics will increase their ranks by 188 percent to 102.6 mil­lion, or roughly one-quarter of the population. 
"Historically, we've been a black­and-white country. That's not true any longer, and even less true in the future," said Roderick Harrison, a demographer with the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies in Washington, which studies issues of concern to minorities. 
"A good deal of social history in the next several decades will be reflected in how we sort that out, whether we achieve greater degrees of equality in these populations," he said. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March 18, 2004 
Bust 
continued from page 1 
he arrived at College Park to respond to the original noise complaint, the area was disor­derly and there were also between 20 to 30 cars illegally parked on Bulla Road. 
"I came out here and there were probably 5 to 600 people in the parking lot on the bal­cony, screaming, yelling and loud music. You could hear it down to the corner of Ironwood and Bulla," Pavlekovich said. 
After the fall, Pavlekovich said he called additional units, and officers responded from the St. Joseph County, South Bend and Roseland police depart­ments and the Indiana State Excise Police. 
LouAnn Susan, property man­ager from Paramount Management, who owns the complex, also arrived at College Park after being called at approximately 5 p.m. by a stu­dent who reported that there had been an injury. 
Susan said she made a com­bined decision with the police to ask anyone who did not live in the apartments to leave the complex, partially because bal­conies, which are limited to eight people, were being over-· loaded. 
A group of officers moved from apartment to apartment 
from approximately 5:30 to 
8:30 p.m., forcing students to leave the apartments. Police asked students for identification and breathalyzed them if they tried to drive away from the complex. 
During this time, Theiriln said six individuals were arrested by police and transported to the St. Joseph County Jail. Two were arrested for public intoxication and four were arrested for minor in consumption. One per­son who was arrested for minor in consumption was also arrest­ed for providing false identifica­tion. She said that another stu­dent was very uncooperative and police will send a report on him to the prosecutor's office. 
She said it was not unusual that students were taken to jail instead of just being issued cita­tions, given the repeated warn­ings that students were given by police to leave. · "When we got out there, they asked everyone to leave. It's not like they didn't have time," Theiriln said. "It probably would have been wise [for them to leave earlier]." 
A sergeant from the Notre Dame Security/Police, who declined to be named, also arrived at College Park and temporarily helped direct traf­fic. She said that NDSP did not receive a request for assistance from county police, but said that NDSP routinely responds to situations involving students 

Alterra Sterling House SR 23, near intersecti·on at Douglas Rd. 
Transportation leaving from Main Circle at 6:45 PM 
I~..the' k-aJot Olaii/AIIteml fte-flla. 8~ 
L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 

2046 South Bend Ave. 272-1766 Open for lunch, dinner, and late night fun. 
There is always action at Bookmakers. Watch all your favorite sporting events on 14 screens. 
Tuesday: Every Tues. is ND Night. DJ, and specials starting at $1.00 all day long. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17. MAKE BOOKMAKER'S PUB YOUR ST. PATRICK's DAY HEADQUARTERS. 
Friday: Live entertainment with Junior and the Ignitors Saturday: Come hear Funky Blues Institute. 
when they hear about them on larger party at College Park on arrest if we don't have to," he the police scanner. St. Patrick's Day, where a stu­said. "We understand about the 
"County didn't ask for any dent also fell off a balcony. intoxication, but we also have backup or anything ... I haven't Pavlekovich said the goal of the public to worry about talked to any of the students, the police was to restore order, around this neighborhood." I'm not involved with any of the not make arrests. things," she said. "Our main objective out here Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at 
Last year, police busted a is not to place anybody under sbrodfue@nd.edu 
=== 
NoW's tlte time to get ahead~ catch upr orjust take a· class for el1}oytt1ent ,...., do it f<Jr you! 
"") j;j
' ' •' <¥?/'· ·.o
./. (;") ·>' ,,..)( .... , .. 






1h£Career Center 
. .. 114 tht U~WtrJi~1 ofN6trt D#Ndu Lt.r. 
Apply for ajob or internship NOWI lmmediate.laion DeadintS for Top Notch Carn!Bisl 
Apply via Golrish by logging on to http://careercenter.nd.edu Questions? Call the Career Center 631-5200 
Application Deadlines 
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (FIT) 3/18 A&L, BUS-only 4 applicants 
Wells Fargo-MN (FIT) 3/19 BUS-only 17 applicants 
Egon Zehnder (FIT} 3/31 BUS 
Yahoo.Com (FIT) 4/2 A&L, BUS-only 14 applicants 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Thursday, March 18, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
• Stocks 

Dow 10 300.30 +115.63
Jones ' 
$-Same: --Composite Volume:
2,555 132 T I,«J/,338,880 
AMEX 1,238.80 +11.65 NASDAQ 1,976.76 +33.67 NYSf 6,567.72 +78.01 S&PSOO 1,123.78 +13.08 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 11,436.86 +194.57 FTSE.IOO(LDndon) 4,456.80 +27.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIR!) +2.28 +0.07 3.14 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) + 1.28 +0.15 11.85 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.20 -0.05 27.80 INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.36 +0.64 23.50 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) + 1.65 +0.381 4.28 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.04 -0.02 46.45 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.14 -0.05 36.83 5-YEARNOTE -0.1 I -0.03 26.40 3-MONTH BILL -2.13 +0.20 9.18 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.) +0.94 37.62 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.50 407.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.425 98.075 
E.xchan e Rates 

YEN 108.3 EURO 0.8173 POUND 0.5506 CANADIAN$ 1.339 
IN BRIEF 
Bank megamerger gets approval 
CIIAHLO'ITE, N.C.-The $47 billion merger of Bank of America Corp. and FleetBoston Financial Corp. gained approval from the shareholders of both companies Wednesday, a combination that will create the nation's third­largest bank with nearly $1 trillion in assets. 
Bank of America executives refused to com­mont on a report that the merger will result in up to 13,000 job cuts, though chief executive Ken Lewis did acknowledge that eliminating jobs was a key part to any profitable aequisi­tion. 
EU nears end of Microsoft case 
BHUSSELS, Belgium -The European Union insisted it was "on track" Wednesday to con­dude its antitrust case against Microsoft Corp. next week, even as the world's biggest soft­ware company scrambled to reach a deal to avert sanctions for allegedly abusing its Windows monopoly. 
Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer and general counsel Brad Smith were in Brussels negotiating with the EU antitrust office, sources familiar with the case said, after arriv­ing Tuesday for a surprise face-to-face session with EU Compotition Commissioner Mario Monti. 
No progress toward a settlement was announced but both sides indicated talks were intensifying. 
FedEx delivers higher Q3 earnings 
MEMJ>IIIS, Tenn. -FedEx Corp. reported a 41 percent increase in third-quarter profits, due mostly to growth in interna~ional priority shipments and savings from job cuts. The results topped Wall Street's estimates and Fed Ex shams rose more than 5 percent. . 
The shipping giant reported earnings Wednesday of $207 million, or 68 cents per sharo, up from $14 7 million, or 49 cents per share, in tho same period last year. 
Those n~sults included costs from an early retirenwnt and severance program that cut the payroll of Fed Ex Express, the company's cargo airline, by 3,600 employees. 
Without those charges, FedEx earned $216 million, or 71 cents a share, in the three months ending Feb. 29. 
COBA prof mixes finance, fun 
Ackermann's introductory course keeps business students educated, entertained 
Editor's note: This is the second in a Thursday series focusing on interesting classes in the Mendoza College ofBusiness. 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
Senior Staff Writer 
Notre Dame finance pro­fessor Carl Ackermann has a lot of fans·. A teacher evaluation on NDToday.com stated it bluntly: "Carl is the man." 
Ackermann -Carl, to his students -is in his sixth year of teaching business finance, an introductory course required for all business majors. 
The professor, impecca­bly clad in a business suit, teaches three sections or students -about 75 in each section -about the Federal Reserve system, corporate cash flow analy­sis and personal finance. 
Students are required to complete three tests, as well as a case study, which Ackermann said helps stu­dents prepare for upper­level business courses that rely heavily on case stud­ies. 
But the coursework isn't what makes the course unique. Students who have taken the class, like junior Dave Moisan, said Ackermann makes learning an enjoyable experience. 
"He's the best professor I've ever had," Moisan said. "Anyone who can make finance interesting is doing pretty well." 
Senior Jessica Shedlock said she was apprehensive about .taking a finance course, but Ackermann's approach made the course exciting. 
''I'm a science-business major, so the business world was kind of foreign to me," Shedlock said. "[Ackermann] would find a way to help you learn the material by association with something fun." 
For example, during the first exam of the semester, Ackermann donned a goril­la costume and ran through the classroom amid his students' sur­prised laughter. 
"I try to do something fun once or twice a day that will grab [students'] atten­tion," Ackermann said. "Overall, people are more attentive and it makes the class more efficient." 
Ackermann also encour­ages students to submit photos of themselves on vacation, holding their finance textbooks. He said he has pictures of students at a discus ring in Athens, the Great Wall of China and even on a float at Mardi Gras in New Orleans. 
"I have a great set of pic­tures that people have con­tributed over the years," Ackermann laughed. "''ve got some crazy pictures, some of which I can show in class, and some I can't." 

The idea began when Ackermann gave a talk to a Notre Dame alumni club. During the speech, he real­ized his remarks could be jazzed up with a little humor. In later addresses, Ackermann gave a slideshow of the photos. 
"In mock seriousness, I told the alumni how seri­ous my students were," Ackermann said. "They even bring their textbooks on vacation so they could study their finance." 
The photos were an instant hit, and Ackermann has used the gag in speech­es ever since. 
In addition to caring about his students' educa­tion, Ackermann is also concerned with their nutri­tion. During an exam, he brought sodas and juice for his students, and he buys pizza for the class twice a 

Photo courtesy of the Mendoza College of Business 
Through a combination of skillful and entertaining teaching methods, finance professor Carl Ackermann has gained the admiration of his students. 
semester, said senior That chance has consis­Brandi Gill. tently paid off. In 2001, the 
"I liked pizza days, graduating class of the because I didn't have to eat Mendoza College of in the dining hall," Gill Business selected said. . Ackermann to receive the 
Despite the fun, photos college's Undergraduate and food, Ackermann said Teaching Award, a distinc­he has an important tion Ackermann called "a responsibility to his stu~ tremendous honor." dents. "I was thrilled. absolutely 
"It's their first exposure overjoyed," Ackermann to finance, and that's some­said. "It was something I thing I take very seriously," put a great deal of time Ackermann said. "I have a into." chance to really engage them in the subject mat­Contact Matt Bramanti at ter." mbramant@nd.edu 
CORPORATE SCANDAL 
Prosecutors finish Tyco arguments 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Offering a twist on a defense lawyer's quip, prosecutors in the Tyco International trial asked jurors Wednesday to convict two for­mer company executives of looting $600 million because there is "not a thimbleful of doubt" about their guilt. 
In his appeal to the jury, Assistant District Attorney Marc Scholl referred to a rem·· •· last week by the lawyer for Tyco's tormer chief finan­cial officer Mark Swartz that "there is not a thimbleful of evidence" that the defendants committed a crime. 
"Not a thimbleful of evidence?" Scholl said. "Not a thimbleful of doubt." 
Scholl spent hours attacking testi­mony in which Swartz tried to explain money he and co-defendant 
L. Dennis Kozlowski, Tyco's former chief executive officer, received while they ~ere running the company. 
About most things, Scholl said Swartz was simply a liar. The prose­cutor called an arithmetic demon­stration "hocus pocus" when the for­mer CFO tried to show the jury the formula for calculating his bonus. Scholl said Swartz made up some of th~ numbers. 
The prosecutor also said the defen­dants never produced minutes of meetings at which they said the board or directors had approved tens of millions of dollars worth of bonus­es and loan forgivenesses for them. That. Scholl said, was because there were no such minutes or approvals. 
Taking money that was not author­ized in the company director's records was wrong, "plainly and sim­ply," Scholl told the jury. 
Prosecutors say Kozlowski, 57, and Swartz, 43, wrongfully took $600 · million. They say the two stole $170 million by taking unauthorized bonuses and by abusing company Joan programs and nntted another $430 million by pumping up Tyco stock prices and selling their shares at market rates from 1995 through 2002. 
The defendants arc charged with a total of 32 counts of grand larceny, falsifying business records and vio­lating state business laws. The grand larceny charge -a moga-larccny under state law since it allngns theft of more than $1 million -is punish­able by up to 25 years in prison. 
State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus said hn would instruct the jury on Thursday. 
Swartz, on the witness stand nine days as the only defense witness. tes­tified that he and Kozlowski were voted bonuses and loan forgivencsscs at many informal mentings at which no minutes were kept. 

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 18, 2004 

A SPECIAL OPPORTUNITY FOR PRAYER 
for faculty, staff and students 
DURING THE THREE REMAINING FRIDAYS OF LENT 

Refle-ctions o n 




FORGIVENESS 
The Format 
A 2 5 minute. presentation on the Sunday Scripture by distinguished Notre Dame teachers, followed by 20 minutes of private prayer based on points for reflection on the Scripture. Optional attendance at the Stations of the Cross at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 

The Scripture 
March 19 

An invitation to trust in God's love for you as the 


first step 
The Prodigal (Luke 15, 1-3, 11 .. 32) . Professor John Cavadini 
March 26 


An invitation to be freed from the past to live a 
new life 

The Woman Caught in Adultery (John 8, 1.. 11) Father Bill Simmons, C.S.C. 
April 2 

An invitation to understand the depth of God's love 



and the call to discipleship 
The Passion According to luke (luke 22,14-23, 56) Professor Robin Darling Young 
The Time and Place 
The Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
6:15 pm to 7:15 pm 
Cap off your Lenten preparation with this special prayer experience C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Thursday, March 18, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Office. "I think it's obvious that [the
GSA 
administration) is just drag­
continued from page 1 
Joe Dickmann, leader of the Gay-Straight Alliance, the unofficial campus club that organized the event, estimat­ed that about 1,600 students will be wearing the blaze 
ging their feet," Dickmann said. "We have a large num­ber of students that are out and over 1,000 others who support them, and [the University] wants to pretend we're not here." 
In the rejec­
tion letter, 
orange T-shirts Thursday. "We just want to pro­mote a moro tolerant and acceptin~ atmosphere,  "Gay and lesbian clubs are better off being independent because they have the freedom to do what they want to do."  director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin wrote that several University departments, including the  
said Dickmann.  Office  of  
lie also said he dons not think .Notre  Sister Mary Louise Gude committee chairperson  Student Affairs, Campus Ministry and  
Dame actually has the least  the Student Activities  
accepting  Office,  have  

atmosphere of the 351 schools created and sustained "struc­surveyed by the Princeton tures which serve to both sup­Hevinw. Hathnr, Diekmann port gay and lesbian students said he believes support for and educate and sensitize het­alternative lifestyles is pres­erosexual students about ent at Notre Dame and he issues relating to homosexual­hopes today's event will make ity." Coughlin also wrote in that support public. the letter that considerable "I think Notre Dame is progress has been made accepting in terms of the stu­through these el'forts, espe­dent body," said Dickmann, cially through programs spon­who added that he has never sored by the Standing heard of violence against gays Committee on Gay and 
on campus or gays being Lesbian Student Needs and shunned by friends for coming Campus Ministry. 
ou l. "Campus Ministry and the Ilowever, Dickmann said he standing committee had vehi­feels the administration is not cles in place to help students so accepting. that arc dealing with these Exactly two weeks ago, on issues," Coughlin said, March 4, the Gay-Straight explaining why he believes Alliance application for ofl'i­official recognition for a gay cial club status was rejected and lesbian student group is bv thn Student Activities not the best avenue for sup­
\ 
port of homosexual students to do." "Life has gotten a lot better at this time. Gude added that gay and for gay and lesbian students 
"This is such a significantly lesbian students already have on this campus," said Gudc, complex issue. We need more a great deal of freedom to who has been employed by than just students involved in organize events the University for the conversation," said through the 20 years. "I know Cough lin. "Administrators standing commit­
"GSA tells me that it, 1've seen it. 
should be walking with our tee, and that by I've had gay and students as they try to figure acting through it, I am one ofmany. I lesbian students these things out." they also have want to feel part of tell me this." 
Recommendations from the University fund­However,
a community and
standing committee would ing. Dickmann and play a major role in any possi­"Gay and les­address those Ilorvath contest­ble formation of a student-run bian students do issues as part of a ed this progress, club for gay and lesbian stu­not have to be referring again
community."
dents, Coughlin said. alone on this to The Princeton 
The standing committee is a campus, and I Heview's distinc­group of students, faculty and don't think they Lindsey Horvath tion of Notn~ administrators that organizes are," Gude said. GSA member Dame as thn meetings, speakers and other However, many most homophobic programming to address gay and lesbian campus in issues pertaining to gay and students posited that the America. lesbian students. It also seeks University services provided The "Fine by me" campaign to make the campus as a to them are geared more began at Duke University, whole aware of gay and les­towards addressing individual which was designated number bian needs, said Sister Mary needs, and not towards the one on The Princeton Louise Gude, needs of the Heview's "Alternative chair of the gay and les­Lifestyles Not an Alternative" standing com­"Gay and lesbian bian comm u­list in 2003. Leila Nesson, a mittee. nity as a graduate student at Duke,
students do not have to

Gude echoed whole. organized the T-shirt cam­Coughlin's sen­be alone on this "GSA tells paign as a way for gay and timents about campus, and I don't me that I am straight students alike to the complexity one of many," demonstrate that homophobia
think they are. " 

of the issues said Lindsey is not something they believe related to gay Horvath, a in. The campaign has since and lesbian Sister Mary Louise Gude member of the spread to several other col­students at committee chairperson alliance. "I leges and universities. When Notre Dame, want to feel GSA began discussing the pos­especially in part of a com­sibility of bringing the "Fine connection munity and by me" campaign to Notre with the Catholic tradition address those issues as part Dame, the initial goal was to upon which the University is · of a community." sell 300 shirts. Dickmann said founded. · Although Gude agreed that that GSA has been over­
"Catholic institutions have Notre Dame -and the rest of whelmed by the response missions that are founded on the world -has a lot of room from students, and has had to Catholic teaching," said Gude. for progress in regards to gay make several new orders to "[Gay and lesbian clubs] are and lesbian issues, she said fill the demand. better off being independent she ad mired the advance­because they then have the ments that have been made Contact Kevin Allen at freedom to do what they want on campus over the years. kallen@nd.edu 


Summer in Spain 
Wliere.· CJ'o{ec(o, Spain Wlien.· ~ay 21-June 11,2004 
CEarn 3 credits 6y tai<Jng a 300 [eve[ fiistory course entitfec£: "1vt.edieva[Spain: }l Landof71iree CJ?gfigions. "Taugfit in ~ngfisfi 6y Wotre (])ame professor, Cf?gmie Consta6[e. 
r£:\feruiea r.])earffine: Jlpri[1, 2004 
o/isit Internationa[ Study Prqgrams in 152 Jfur[eyfor more infonnation. www. ncf.ecfu/-intfstud 
\ 

page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 18, 2004 
STUDENT SENATE 
Members receive feedback from constituents 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Constituent feedback and announcements tying up loose ends were the foci of Wednesday's brief meeting of the Student Senate. 
Chief of staff Patrick Corker reported that Alcohol Awareness Week was success­ful thus far. The 750 Saint Patrick's Day T-shirts bearing the Sergeant McCarthy saying "You will get the best mileage if you don't drive half tanked" were all given out in under five minutes. Tuesday night's presentation on college drink­ing by David Hellstrom was well-attended. 
"Monday's drunk driving simulator was a huge success -there was even a blurb on it on the Fox 28 News. That was just the beginning of 
what's turning out to  be  a  
really  great  week,"  said  
Corker.  

Student government will dis­tribute free Coca-Cola prod­ucts outside of DeBartolo Thursday, and will give away 1,000 cups at the Fieldhouse Mall Friday. 
Student body vice president Emily Chin requested feed­back from the senators as to which bands and speakers their constituents would like a concert endowment to bring to campus. Suggestions included all genres of music, from Bruce Springsteen, Journey and the Dave Matthews Band, to O.A.R, Better Than Ezra and the Dropkick Murphys. 
Howard senator Brin Anderson said that the girls in her dorms would be interest­ed in bringing a strong female figure in to speak on campus as well as a band, and Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni reported that her constituents were focused on the feasibility of getting a group like U2 or the Counting Crows. 
In other announcements, senators were reminded to submit nominations for the Michael J. Pidumbo Award, the Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award and the Irish Clover Award. Chin also emphasized that senators for the 2004-05 term must be elected by Friday. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Unlimited 
~PREf""'IER
r? tOC.,t..TION$" 
MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND 514 lN.. MdGinl~y TU N<1~1''h M1tit'li Cosn:cr Mdtml'c'r &: i;r<U~J 1 bJk. t>quth (jj Cr.JU <IX 574.252.5820 ~71.238.9-15=0 
4fj15 Ml>i!ITil H1.'J>ild Mi&mt & kaand !:d4..799YH60 
···_t;m·u··~~'f<1M (ll ~~·.-r.c:.i'wr.~*"IT 'O'W»." Q!~'l'w.!'t5.1t>:;~J;~ •.li'.: hJl'<" rr-.m~~1<'~,~~~··:.'x~·:ct·mG,l1f•F Hj:.;::~f"l Jieit'Ps:t:::JgS::~b.-=-:M ~:Jqf':o.:~=' uJRtM J:~im=~ ::=-: f~u=i:~.;.. h :>ci :,}tk ':t·~ l~Ss:1t4hl)~~ ~~·((:~:~ ;,, :~y,; :irW.li!!l <l; ~.;j ~%'11 :~HI!: i:W.1:fU~. i!H: ~-:1:\lfUtJ Ptt:!H r;;t;;:t~; I! U/.fd;~~-l',Sl m\:. ~-~~~f i·f>l •,<.<::',jlf~ Mi!'l':i.•~·~'l:tlf !;f: H[!Z, 'Wl~i.!.W. ~ro .:t:'!I:K.'<1'1:M:tfir><1 :-<~tt~/ ~:~ ~~ ?-~l<;:n1o'f·tll'>~ w· r.t"'l:t«"·l:Wt,·i ~~•.1•:s;« ••<-( ::~ao<> ,g :H~·l ~4:~ .•,~: '!~...! M:.,;,.,._.,,;;J, '' {!"' .,,..~ ''''"'"· «H~i;'l":J••hu :h't""'t""' ~:f.:r:;:<m ~~ ~~;~!(~~e ·n~.~ir:r:t:t~·=-~. ~-~~"f.~·~.::t~~~~·;(-., ~~t~, sntlf.fJC~:~ l=:1:<~ ~:M:'>=:t.;.:c: ;-~~:::••=:.r~:;;;;J~f~ ~·~~~.~~.:::1 r.::·n ~-.{! c-qr,·~a~. ,·~tp't rMr>-~>'rtt ¥.m ~~-• .,. ~ I!!t.-rrb"h::hf~~.~''l'i .'fft'i ,~,·: fb.<:r: t!f,· ,;1'1.1'k<. i!'N!tl'it~..-.#.;·f 
OFFER 9PfRES !it'dKH ~l, :L\JJ1 

COMEDY TROUP .. t March 20th, 7:30p••··m 


·'1: JMplO~~brouGhttovoubvlltslvdenhmfonbocrd. nd.edtkub 
---------------------------------------------------------· 
Thursday, March 18, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS page 11 

Chief 
continued from page I 
"Student government isn't a two-party system," Baron said. "It isn't like there are sides standing in opposition to each other, and I want to help stu­dent government no matter who I'm working with. Adam recognized that I have experi­ence, and that he needs to know the system ... I did talk with Charlie and James about it, and they thought I'd do more for the school not sitting out the year." 
Istvan agreed. adding that Baron was too good of an asset to an administration to pass up. 
Baron's intimate knowledge of student government, his work ethic and agreeable nature were the qualities that made him attractive as a chief of stall' explained Istvan. 
"lie's a pretty cool guy, and someone I know I could work well with," said Bell. • 
Baron also sees his knowl­edge of Ebersoi-Leito's platform as an advantage, and plans on bringing some of the ideas from that campaign into the new presidency. This includes the college readership effort to make three national newspa­pers available to students daily. 
"Ideas that go to help student government are good no matter who proposes them," B·aron said. 
lie also plans on fulfilling goals independent of either campaign, like the creation of a polling committee that would determine student opinion ­an effort he believes will help fight campus apathy. 
The main duties of the chief of staff include coordinating the efforts of all members in the Office of the Student Body President, responding to con­stituency complaints and work­ing with the committee heads of the Senate, who will be 
appointed by the Office of the 
President under the proposed 
constitution. 

Baron will also be heavily involved in choosing the new staff -a task restricted by the fact that the new student gov­ernment constitution will not be passed until March 28 at the earliest. Because of major restructuring, the Office of the President will have a smaller staff with different responsibili­ties, and will tentatively lack positions key under the current constitution. However, without knowing exactly what those positions will be, staff appoint­ments cannot proceed. 
''I'd consider us behind in picking our stuff. and there's a chance many of the positions we need to fill will be created three days before we take office," Istvan said. "But if everything works out, we should have a full staff by April 
1." 

Applications for positions within the Office of the President will be made avail­able in the next two days, and Istvan plans to conduct inter­views with potential staffers at the end of March. 
Though Baron admitted he was shocked by the job offer, he also said he was ready for the chance to make a differ­ence. 
"It's make it or break it time for student government," Baron said. "It's not an easy sit­uation for Adam and Karla to jump into with no experience, but I don't think it's an impossi­ble task at all. We need a way to rally the students. If we want to make any progress with the Board of Trustees or [the Office oO Student Affairs or the Notre Dame administration, we need the total support of the stu­dents, and that's what the job of student government should be." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
KOSOVSKA MITROVICA ­Serbs and ethnic Albanians traded heavy gunfire Wednesday across the !bar River, killing at least six people and wounding almost 300 in the worst outbreak of violence in this ethnically divided city since a bus bombing three years ago. 
The killings, a setback to the international struggle to ease tension in Kosovo, were pro­voked by reports that two eth­nic Albanian boys drowned after they jumped in an icy river to escape angry Serbs. A third was missing. 
Initial reports by U.N. police spokeswoman Angela Joseph that a French peacekeeper had died of gunshot wounds were later denied by NATO and the French military. 
Lt. Col. Jim Moran, a NATO spokesman, said a French and a Danish soldier were "seriously wounded," but reports that a peacekeeper had died were "completely not true." 
NATO spokesman Capt. Athanasios Zormbas said 11 peacekeeping soldiers were wounded by stones and shrap­nel from a hand grenade. 
Wednesday's fighting was the worst of its kind since February 2001, when ethnic Albanian terrorists blew up a bus carry­ing Serbs, killing 11 and injur­ing 40. Clashes between Serbs and ethnic Albanians were also reported in several other towns in the region. 
The violence was concentrat­ed at the main ~ridge over the !bar. which divides Kosovska Mitrovica and has been the site of past violence. 
Hospital personnel on the Serb and ethnic Albanian sides 
SERBIA 

Six killed in ethnic clashes 
NAFTA and the Economics aT Migration 
.Juan R.ivera, Mendoza College ofBusiness Gilberta Cardenas, Institute for Latino Studies 
Professor Rivera will speak about the effects ofNAFTA and related trade matters on agriculture in Mexico. ProfessorCardenas \vill discuss the effects ofeconomics onthe flovv ofmigrants into the United States. 
Thursday, March 18th, 2004-7 pm Hesburgh Center for lnternationa I Studies Auditorium 
This lecture is part three ofthe series Strangers NoLonger:CatholicRe~ sporise.s to Migration The series concludes onSaturday, April 24th with a one day conference focussing on how churches 1night better welcome and assist 1nigrants in their community. The conference is open to all members ofthe Notre Da1ne and South Bend community. 
Registration L'> free. To find out 1nore or to register contactJolm Infranca at jinfranl@nd.edu 
http://www.nd.edu/....,is]a/1 S LA/webpages/thearts/est/ 

of the town said four ethnic 
Albanians had died, apparently 
of gunshot wounds. Initial 
reports had said three Serbs 
were shot to death, but hospital 
officials later lowered that to 
two. 

NATO-led peacekeepers in the 
tense city fired tear gas, rubber 
bullets and stun grenades to 
separate the angry residents. 
Kosovo has been adminis­
tered by the United Nations and 
NATO-led peacekeepers since 
June 1999, after a NATO air 
campaign drove Serb-dominat­
ed troops loyal to former 
Yugoslav President Slobodan 
Milosevic out of the province 
and stopped a crackdown on 
the independence-minded 
Kosovo Albanian majority. An 
estimated 10,000 fjeople died in 
that war, most of them ethnic 
Albanians. 

The United Nations, assisted by NATO-led peacekeepers, has sought to foster ethnic tolerance since then. Still, with predomi­nantly Orthodox Christian Serbs regarding Kosovo as their ancient homeland and ethnic Albanians, who 'are primarily Muslims, seeking independence, hatred between the two sides continues to provoke violence. 
A man in the crowd of ethnic Albanians gathered on the southern side of Kosovska Mitrovica was seen firing with a submachine gun toward the crowd of Serbs on the other side of the bridge. . 
Xhelal Ibrahimi, an ethnic Albanian witness covered by the blood of a victim he helped, said gunfire came from the Serb­dominated part of the town, and he saw several people falling in front of him. Hospital workers on the southern side, dominated by ethnic Albanians, counted 200 hqrt, including several who were shot. 
Doctors at the hospital urged people to give blood, but their voices were drowned out occa­sionally by the cries of relatives looking for loved ones. 
"I just felt pain and went down on the ground," said Ridvan Lahu, 41, who was shot in the stomach. 
On the Serb side, Milan Ivanovic, a hospital physician, said 80 Serbs were wounded, 
including some in critical condi­
tion. One was shot in the head 
and another in the lungs, while 
others were hit by stones, rub­
ber bullets fired by peacekeep­
ers or shrapnel from their stun 
grenades. 
Ambulances carrying wound­ed lined up ncar the hospital in the southern part of town. Those with more serious injuries were taken to the hos­pital in the provincial capital of Pristina. Dozens of armored vehicles streamed toward town, as NATO-led peacekeepers increased security. 
Earlier, the peacekeepers blocked off the bridge after crowds started gathering on both sides. At least one U.N. vehicle was destroyed by a mob with rocks and chunks of con-· crete. 
Police and NATO troops con­tinued firing tear gas at concen­trations of people to keep them from reforming and storming the bridge. The span itself was draped with concertina wire and blocked by armored vehi­cles manned by peacekeepers under French command. Acrid smoke from exploding tear gas canisters rose in the air. 
Clashes similar to Wednesday's violence left nine people dead in 1999 at the same bridge, shortly after the end of all-out warfare between ethnic Albanians and Serbs. 
Less than half of the 40,000 NATO troops originally in Kosovo now remitin, including about 2,000 Americans. Washington and its allies had hoped that troops in Kosovo and elsewhere in the Balkans could soon be drawn down further and redeployed to Iraq, Afghanistan and other new areas of conflict. 
In another hotspot near Pristina, hundreds of ethnic Albanians broke through barri­cades erected by U.N. police and NATO-led peacekeepers to march on the Serb village of Caglavica. U.N. spokeswoman Angela Joseph said there were reports that hand grenades had been thrown and that two Serb houses were on fire. "We assume there's a conflict going on" in Caglavica, Joseph said, but she could offer no details. 
You thinkthis is hot... 

March 20th in washington Hall. 
o'Neil! Hall Pl'e5ants the Ms. NO pageant, Come 
'.?Jatr.h as a 
r-er.wesentati\'e ff'om each wotoon·s dorm on 
camPus COf'111.lete tor the first place Prize of $300 •. And to tOP it off. tl'ie Winflf:'lt '.Nill also nave a StOO dOnated to a womarfs charitY of her chotce • And all this fun will cost you nothing, So come to SUPPOI't YOOI' dO!'m , friends • or to Just chect< out some of 
Nou-e Oame's finest. 
It'll 00 Hot! 


Thismakesthat looklikea George Foreman Grill.· 
March 20th. 1 :oo Washington Hall 

page 12 Thursday, Marchl8, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Apply Online (Deadline: March 19) -www.nd.edu/~teamwork 






eamwor 
omorrow 
Thursday, March 18, 2004 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 13 

CSU official accused of plagiarism. 
Associated Press 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. -The president of Central Connecticut State University plagiarized from three sources in an opinion piece published in The Hartford Courant, according to an investigative report obtained by The Associated Press. 
"This is a clear, unaccept­able case of plagiarism," Connecticut State University Chancellor William Cibes said in his report on Richard Judd's Feb. 26 commentary. "About half of Dr. Judd's commentary is taken substantially from the original sources." 
The report, obtained by the AP through the Freedom of Information Act and dated Monday, went to the chairman of the university's board of trustees. 
The board's executive com­mittee will meet Friday; it could recommend actions from a reprimand to dismissal. The trustees may meet as soon as next Wednesday. 
Judd has already apologized to the Faculty Senate in New Britain; the group voted Monday to recommend he keep his job. 
Cibes' investigation found Judd's op-ed article about the prospects for peace in Cyprus lifted unattributed, verbatim phrases from a New York Times editorial, from a Web site of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and from an article published a London newspaper, The Independent on Sunday. 
Using the material without attribution violates the univer­sity's policy on plagiarism, as well as policies from other universities and professional groups, he said. 

Help us identify undergraduate students who best exemplify the spirit of Notre Dame in social, recreational, residential, service, and religious activities that promote the welfare of the University and extended communities. 
All Notre Dame Community Members are encouraged to submit nominations. A student may nominate another student, but no self-nominations will be accepted. 
Need an apartment f'or the SUlVIIVIER? Tur1:le Creek Apar-tments 
Can help! 
May 2004-August 2004 (SUM".MER ONLY) August 2004-M"ay 2005 (SCHOOL YEAR ONLY) June 2004-May 2005 (FULL YEAR) July 2004-June 2005 (FULL YEAR.) August 2004-July 2005 (FULL YEAR) 
We DO ALLOW SUBLEASING! 
TSA to test 'registered traveler progralll' 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Bush administration wants to begin testing in June a program that would allow certain airline travelers not considered ter­.rorist threats to avoid extra security inspections at airports, a federal official said 
Wednesday. 

Under the "registered travel­
er program" passengers would 
pay a fee and submit to gov­
ernment background checks. If 
they are not found to be poten­
tial threats, they would avoid 
being randomly selected for 
the follow-up screening that 
some travelers face at check­
points where carry-on bags 
pass through metal detectors. 
David Stone, acting chief of 
the Transportation Security 
Administration, said the goal is 
to move law-abiding travelers 
more quickly to their planes 
and permit screeners to focus 
more on people about whom 
the government has less infor­
mation. 

"TSA believes in this," Stone 
told the House Transportation 
and Infrastructure subcommit­
tee on aviation. "It's a high pri­
ority." 

The program is expected to be appealing mostly to fre­quent travelers who would think the cost would be offset by the time saved at airports. 
Stone said testing would last 90 days. Among the airports being considered are Boston's Logan International Airport; Washington's Reagan National Airport; Dallas Love Field; McGhee Tyson Airport in Knoxville, Tenn.; and West Palm Beach Airport in Florida. 
The TSA is speaking to more than a dozen major airlines about the possibility of partici­pating in the program, agency spokesman Mark Hatfield said. 
Kevin Mitchell, chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, said he's not sure people will 
Congratulations 

on your 21st Birthday, We are very proud of you! 
Love, Dad, Theresa and Grandma Mary 
embrace the registered travel­
er program because of privacy 
concerns. 
"We are, as an organization, very much in favor of it," Mitchell said. "But I'm not sure there are a lot of business trav­elers willing to pay to turn over all that information." 
James May, president of the Air Transport Association, said he was "surprised but pleased" by Stone's announcement. 
"We've been pushing and pushing and pushing," said May, whose organization rep­resents major U.S. airlines. 
Stone said biometrics would 
be an essential element of the 
registered traveler program 
but declined to elaborate. 
The General Accounting Office, Congress's investigative arm, has said many unan­swered questions about the program remain, including: Who will be eligible? What level of background check will be needed? llow much will it cost? What technology will be used? 
May testified. that the govern­ment should develop the regis­tered traveler program before implementing computerized passenger screening that would use personal informa­tion to rank all air travelers based on their threat level. 
But Stone said the TSA is forging ahead with the Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System, or CAPPS II, which has been in develop­ment for two years. He said the agency will order airlines to turn over passenger records in the next couple of months so the TSA can conduct tests. 

May said airlines might resist such an order because of con­cerns about the legality and liability of complying. The ATA set out seven privacy principles on Wednesday and said the airlines won't participate in the CAPPS II program unless they're followed. 
We only have three...yes you read that correct, ONLY. T.I:-IREE 2 bedroom apartments re1naining ror any of the lease terms listed above!! 
Call us for details: 574-272-8124 
VVVVW.TURTL.ECREEK.ND.CO:rvt: 
Thursday, March 18, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 



NPR, Christian radio battle for signals 
Associated Press 
FREDERICK, Md. -One morning last month, WJTM­FM began the day with its usual fare of Christian preach­ing and prayer. But that after­noon, the programming changed to something that some longtime listeners find offensive -National Public Radio. 
WJTM, a station reaching 
1.2 million listeners on the northwestern outskirts of Baltimore and Washington, had been taken over by WYPR-FM, a Baltimore-based NPR-affiliate. The change, which has been challenged by two congressmen and dozens of listeners, reflects a battle being waged nationwide for ears at the lower end of the · radio dial. 
NPR and religious broad­casters, some of whom believe the public radio promotes a liberal agenda, are competi­tors for the relatively small number of noncommercial FM frequencies between 88.1 and 
91.9 megahertz. College radio stations, the other sizable group of not-for-profit broad­casters, typically lack funds to fight aggressively for licenses. 
Religious broadcasters have won some battles. In Lake Charles, La., the Christian broadcasting company American Family Radio knocked two NPR affiliates off the local airwaves in 2001 by obtaining a full-power license that overpowered the low­budget NPR translator stations -a tactic permitted by feder­al law. 
"As the media markets have grown, the competition for those frequencies has increased and those licenses represented by space on the broadcast dial are becoming more and more valuable," said the Rev. Frank Wright, presi­dent of the National Religious Broadcasters, a 1,700-mem­ber association in Manassas, Va. 
NPR spokeswoman Jenny Lawhorn said the competition has prompted initiatives by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and its support­ers to help public broadcasters acquire frequencies and expand their offerings. She denied the liberal-bias charge. 
Religious broadcasters have led in station numbers since a 
1990s growth spurt, with more than 1,800 AM and FM outlets compared with 772 mostly FM National Public Radio stations, according to Arbitron and NPR. 
But NPR has become a more aggressive bidder for licenses' since 2001, when the federally funded Corporation for Public Broadcasting helped establish an organization to broker and finance station acquisitions. 
That organization, Denver­based Public Radio Capital. helped negotiate the $5-mil­lion deal that created WYPR two years ago. It also was the intermediary in WYPR's agree­ment to buy WJTM from Joy Public Broadcasting Corp., a Wisconsin-based owner of sta­tions devoted to Christian pro­gramming, for $1.2 million. 
Joy sold WJTM "to solidify some of the financial condition of the rest of the corporation," said Thomas Bush, a Joy board member. The deal is awaiting Federal Communication Commission approval, but the purchase agreement has allowed WYPR to assume operations before the sale js completed. 
The transaction has stirred protests because it replaces Frederick County's only locally based Christian station with programming that duplicates some material already heard in the area on three other NPR stations originating in Washington and West Virginia. Popular programs including "Morning Edition," "All Things Considered" and "Car Talk," can now be heard on four sta­tions in Frederick, a city of 53,000 about 45 miles from 
both  Baltimore  and  the  
nation's capital.  
"I  don't  think  we  need  

another NPR station because people can get it," said Rep.· Roscoe G. Bartlett, R-Md. He and Rep. Frank Wolf. R-Va., whose district is within WJTM's 40-mile range, have asked the FCC to meet with local listeners to discuss the ownership change. 
Anthony Brandon, president and general manager of Your Public Radio Corp., WYPR's owner, noted that several Christian radio stations origi­nating elsewhere also can be heard in Frederick. 
"This is not about us trying to displace Christian broad­casting," he said. 
How the Bible 
Converted Me to Catholicism: 
One Presbyterian Minister's Surprising Journey from Evangelical Protestantism to the Apostolic Faith 
A free, exciting, e~-opening, humor-filled talk by 

Gerry Matatics 
Internationally renowned Catholic apologist & Scripture scholar M.Div, Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary ABD for Ph. D. , Westminster Theological Seminary First ordained minister in the PCA ever to convert to Catholicism 
OptionaL Q & A session foLlows: stay & ask Gerry to "prove from the BibLe" Catholic teaching on the sacmments, Ma.ry, the papacy, purgatory, etc. 
Friday,Mareh19, 2004 •11:40 am-12:40pm 
Uniwrsity ofNotre Dame 
Hammes Student Lounge (Rm 104), CoLeman-Morse Bldg (1st floor) Talk is FREE & open to the public • People of aLL faiths (or none) wel.come For more info, go to www.gerrymatatics.org or calL (5 70) 969-1724 
Parade collision injures eight 
Associated Press 
SAVANNAH -A convertible sped through an intersection during the city's St. Patrick's Day parade Wednesday, slam­ming into three members of a marching band and specta­tors who lined the parade route. Eight people were injured. 
Beyond Liberty and Equality: Some Confucian Reflections on the Place of the Family in Health Care 
II Friday, March 19, 2004 

II 
This presentationdefendsa strong role for family autonomyin medical decision-making.lt draws on a Confucian appreciationof the interplay amongsocial bonds, rituals, virtues, and responsibilities. The goal is to bring you to appreciatea moral vision in which families 
crowd of parade watchers near the center of downtown Savannah, said Bucky Burnsed, police spokesman. 
"We were sitting here ... smiling and having a good time, then all of a sudden, bam, this guy comes tearing through the parade and smashes into the band." said Bobby Johnson of New York. 

Most of the injured were treated for broken bones, cuts and bruises, but none suf­fered life-threatening injuries. Initial police reports said up to 12 people had been hospi­talized, but authorities later revised the number to eight. 
The car apparently failed to brake and sped through the marching band and into a 


havethe authorityto determinethehealthcare of their members. 
This vision is in dramatictensionwith the individualist view of liberty in-force in the20'h century. By making liberty itself a value, not liberty as a meansto achieving thegoodand humanflourishing, this individualist view offered each person the opportunityto define her own 
version of self-satisfaction and self-realization and has 
beencore to American bioethics and its understandings:>£ 
informed consent.The state has beenassignedthe moral authorityto ensureevery individual equal opportunityfor self-realization throughstate-imposedstrategies, including welfare programs. However, a robust understanding:>£ the 
integrityand autonomyof families threatensequality 
healthcare. Families tendto develophierarchies and 
embraceilliberal values; mostof all, families wanttheir own membersto flourish and behaveas the family sees fit, 
not theindividual. Accordingly, this individualist view of 
liberty and equality and its practice downplays the role of thefamily in healthcare. 
This presentationinvites you to reconsiderkey elementsin this standardAmerican individualist accountof bioethics. First, you are encouragedto undertakean evaluation of the individualist commitmentto liberty and free choice. Second, you are invited to critically reconsideryour commitmentsto fair equality of opportunity.This will be doneby rehearsingthe incompatibility of a sincere commitmentto the integrity and autonomyof families and a commitmentto regnantWestern understandings:>£ liberal social-democraticjustice. Finally, thesecritical· considerationsregardingliberty and equality will be tied to an accountof familist informed decision-making, drawing heavily on Confucian moral and social insights. 
Keynote Presenter Ruiping Fan, BM, Ph.D. 
The Notre Dame Alumni 
Association/Alumni 
Continuing Education 
Presents The 19th Annual Philip & Dori s Clarke Family Lecture on Medical Ethics 
M c K e n n a H a II /C e n t e r 
for Continuing Education, Auditorium 
4:00 p.m. 

UNIVERSITY Ol' 
NOTRE DAME 
Al.lJMNl ASSOCIATION 

A dm iss ion FREE Receotion Followina 

Notre Dame Disability Awareness Week 
March 22-26, 2004 

Monday, 3/22 5:15p.m. Mass at the Basilica Tuesday, 3/23 8p.m. at Reekers Panel Discussion by students with disabilities 
Wednesday, 3/24 9:30p.m. at LegendsTheology on Tap Discussion Is there such a thing as wrongful life? 
Thursday, 3/25 ?p.m. at DeBartolo 101 Autism Lecture by Patricia Stacey ,author of the book, The Boy Who Loved Windows, Opening the Heart and Mind of a Child Threatened with Autism.Free Admission. 
www.nd.edu/,..,bbuddies 



Cheerleading &Leprechaun
Tryout Information Meeting 
March 24,2004-Joyce Center Gym 2 @ 5:30 p.m. 
ComeseeWhatNotreDame 


Cheerleadingisallabout. 


Thursday, March 18, 2004 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 15 

Police arrest suspected sniper 
McCoy was taken to the Las
Associated Press 
Vegas FBI office, where detectives lAS VEGAS-The man want­from Ohio were expected to 
ed in a deadly string of sniper shootings that terrorized Ohio drivers was captured at a motel WPdnesday after a tipster spotted him at a Las Vegas casino reading a nt~wspaper story about himself. 
An unshaven and disheveled Charles A. McCoy Jr., 28, was arrested without incident less than 36 hours after Ohio authori­ties released his name as a sus­pect in the attacks. 
The arrest brought relief to Ohio residents who have been liv­ing in fear since the 24 shootings bPgan in the Columbus area last year. The gunfire pierced homes and a school, dented school buses, flattened tires and shat­tered windshields, killing one per­son. 
"Once he started hitting ran­dom other places, we felt like there was nowhere safe to go," said Aimee Wagner, 31, a chem­istry professor who often travels Interstate 270 to teaching jobs in the Columbus area. "I'm just happy he didn't get the chance to take another person's life." 



Antique dealer to assist in gubernatorial probe 
arrive Wednesday to question him. 
Authorities have not offered a motive for the shootings and have not said how they came to sus­pect McCoy. But The Columbus Dispatch, citing unidentified sources, said a relative of McCoy's contacted police to say he could be a suspect, and McCoy's father gave authorities a 9 mm pistol that was matched to some of the bullet fragments recovered in the shootings. 
Authorities said McCoy had been in Las Vegas for about a day, gambling at the Stardust hotel­casino and staying at the nearby Budget Suites motel, just across from a strip club. 
Police credited an unemployed car and timeshare salesman with helping them capture McCoy. Conrad Malsom, 60, of Las Vegas, said he recognized McCoy from news reports linking him to the Ohio attacks, and did his own detective work to locate McCoy's car parked at the motel. 
"In my heart and mind, I knew this was the man the police in Ohio were looking for," Malsom told The Associated Press. 

Malsom said he met McCoy on Tuesday at the Stardust sports book on the Las Vegas Strip. I le said he offered McCoy a slice of pepperoni pizza and recognized him from a newspaper photo­graph. McCoy was reading a copy of USA Today, which featured the fugitive's picture, Malsom said. 
When McCoy left the casino, Malsom found what he character­ized as "written babble" on an 8 1/2-by-14-inch sports betting sheet the man left behind. 
Malsom said he went to a near­by Kinko's store and faxed a copy to Ohio authorities and later gave the original to FBI officials. He also collected a water glass, matchbook and lunch wrappers that McCoy left behind and sup­plied the materials to authorities, Malsom said. 
He said he later drove around the parking lot at the motel on a hunch, and called police when he recognized McCoy's car. Malsom said he matched the Ohio license plate to information on an Ohio State Highway Patrol Web site. 
Associated Press 

HAHTFOHD, Conn. -An antiques dealer who bought a condominium from Gov. John 
G. Rowland at .well above mar­ket rates has struck a plea bargain and is cooperating in the federal corruption investi­gation into Howland's adminis­tration, a source told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
Wayne Pratt, one of the top antiques dealers in the country and a regular contributor to the PBS program "Antiques Roadshow," is expected to plead guilty to a misdemeanor count of tax evasion in federal court in Hartford on Thursday, according to the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Pratt is the first person with a direct financial link to Rowland known to be cooper­ating with investigators. The source said Pratt has been cooperating since early 
WHAT ARE YOU CALLED TO DO? 



ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE 
CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
A pant:! ofalumni and alumnae reflect on tlJe inlt:,qralt~m t{{ailh ano Jociaf COilCel'fltl into life beyond Notre Dame. 
.41: 

Sunday, March 21 4:00 -5:30 pm Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 
SpealcerJ 
John Goebelbecker '83 Consulting Mechanical Engineer Triodyne, Inc., Chicago 
Kevin Hayes '83 _ Architect, President and CEO Hayes Design Group, Pittsburgh 
Mike Schafer '75 '77 '80 Electrical Engineer, Professional Specialist Notre Dame, IN 

ndvi 
NOTRE DAME VOCATION INITIATIVE 
January. 
Pratt bought the Washington, 
D.C., condominium from 
Rowland in 1997 for $68,500, 
about 19 percent more than 
Howland paid for it in 1989, 
when he was in Congress. 
Similar condos in the building 
sold around the same time for 
$20,000 to $30,000. 
The sale was arranged 
through a mutual friend, busi­
nessman and state contractor 
Hobert Matthews. He had been 
renting the Capitol Ilill effi­
ciency from Rowland for his 
niece for $1,750 per month. At 
the time, similar apartments in 
the area were renting for 
between $400 and $600. 
The source suggested that 
Pratt bought the condominium 
as a favor to Matthews. The 
tax-evasion charge is connect­
ed to "the manner in which 
Matthews reimbursed Pratt in 
connection with the condo, 
with the purchase and sale," 
the source said. 
Federal prosecutors have 
been working to determine 
whether there was a quid pro 
quo agreement between 
Howland and state contractors. 
Howland has acknowledged 
receiving gifts from employees 
and contractors, but said he 
did not provide anything in 
return. 
"My client has not engaged 
in any illegal activity and Pratt 
will not be able to offer any 
truthful information to the 
contrary," said William F. Dow 
III, the governor's attorney. 
Matthews has received mil­
lions of dollars in state-backed 
loans for manufacturing com­
panies he owns in Connecticut. 
A building he owns in New 
lfaven is filled with state 
offices. 
Investigators are looking closely at the relationship between Matthews and the governor. A legislative commit­tee has also subpoenaed Matthews and his businesses as it considers whether to rec­ommend that Howland be impeached. 
Thomas Dwyer Jr., an attor­
ney for Pratt, said of the condo 
transaction: "Pratt was hnlping 
his friend and his friend was a 
traitor. lie took advantage of a 
friendship." 
Federal investigators de­
clined to comment. 
Pratt's plea agreement comes a year after the only other conviction in the case. Howland's fornwr deputy chief of staff'. Lawrence Alibozek. pleaded guilty to taking payoffs in return for state contracts. 
Matthews and Pratt also were at the centnr of a contro­vnrsy over a 1789 copy of the Bill of Hights that the two had owned. 
It had been missing from Haleigh, N.C., since the end of the Civil War, when the city was occupied by federal troops. It rnsurfaced in 2000, when Matthews brokered a sale in which Pratt bought it from two Connecticut women for $200,000. 
A federal agent posing as a museum buyer last year prn­tendnd to purchasn tlw docu­ment from Pratt and Matthews for $5 million. Then hn pre­sented a seizure warrant from a North Carolina 1'1~deral judgn. 
Pratt agreed to donate thn document to North Carolina: in return. federal au tho ri til~s agreed not to prosccutp Pratt on any criminal charges. 



THE 0BSER\'ER 



IEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 18, 2004 

page 16 
Loving until it hurts 
Our community is a paradox in In response, first, God does bless lar can become philanthropic greats being a culture of both financial people with riches, especially those like Joan Kroc. The average starting affluence and faith. How can gradu­who've worked for them. But much salary of the Notre Dame graduate is ates from here resolve this seeming is expected from those who've over $42,000. At the age of 22, many self-contradiction? Mother Teresa received much. There is an inherent of us will have a salary greater than offers a quality responsibility linked with being that of almost half the workers in answer: "Love Andrew blessed, especially since our work this country. Even if we are not until it hurts." and its rewards ultimately come called to pursue professions of direct
Deberry

Simply put, if a from God. Blessings require us to service to the poor, our financial 
person doesn't share. leverage can empower good work in 
love until it hurts, ND Changing Second, material possessions and ways no one else can. 
it doesn't count. Times expensive vacations may bring some At the same time, rich donors are 
Her wisdom happiness, but are they necessary? not free to have an easy lifestyle sim­challenges us to What price tag do we put on happi­ply because they give a lot of money. keep our lifestyles from being ness? Maybe I really don't need the All are called to suffer; all are called extravagant. I argue here that exces­CO's I was planning on buying. to give until it hurts. Returning to a sive lifestyle choices are those that Maybe I should give up the idea of nice house after giving time and put one's own wants over another's having a vacation on a Greek island some of our money to the poor is not need. This standard counters the with friends. Can't I can find cost­enough, especially when knowing idea of having a comfortable living free ways to relax and enjoy life that how our wealth can be used for oth­so that we can bear our daily cross. are just as fulfilling? ers' basic welfare. 
There are uncomfortable implica­. Third, charity should be directed I hope my personal focus in the tions of this mentality that affect all with a strategic focus so that it future will be centered on living sim­financial aspects of our lives. By this encourages people to sustain them­ply so that others can simply live. view, shopping at malls, taking a selves. Some charities really need to Ideally, I would live in a poor area cruise or purchasing a new sports work at this. But in other cases, while having a professional career car becomes more difficult. When handouts should be freely given with I'm passionate about. The job would Notre Dame's tuition hits above the no questions asked. During an Urban pay well enough that I could give my $35,000 mark, even coming here is Plunge in Columbus, Ohio, a director time and financial support to those questionable if some of us can get of a homeless shelter argued this in need. the same degree and job after point when he criticized other city Idealism is hard, but we can be attending a much cheaper state shelters that kicked people out, such encouraged by Bono, another philan­school. as the mentally handicapped, who thropic great, who yells, "Dream up 
Smaller actions like frequent couldn't sustain themselves accord­the kind of world you want to live in. restaurant dinners and alcohol pur-­ing to specific rules. In all cases, Dream out loud ... at high volume!" chases may also be too much. Many charitable commitments are vital to Living charitably is about more activities of upper-class and also many types of lifesaving work, even than just heavy moral obligations; middle-class society may be extrava­if that work needs improving. it's also about joy. Paradoxically, in gant. When those same funds can I am not arguing that making loving until it hurts, we will be able ease another's hunger in another money is inherently wrong. In fact, to discover tremendous joy. country or even in our own city, the making a lot of money can be very small luxuries become clear pitfalls. good. The key is one's motive and Andrew DeBerry is a fifth year sen­But is this mentality too harsh? how one makes and spends profits. ior and visited his mother for spring 
There are worthy objections to The world needs people who can break. She deals in the Mirage address. First, don't we deserve lux­write big checks. Notre Dame and Casino and says not to spend money uries if we've worked hard to afford much of its service work is sustained foolishly, but to tip well in case you them and if God has blessed us with by rich donors. Philanthropy.com do. His column normally appears them? Second, won't vacations and recently published a list of 2003's every other Thursday. He can be con­material possessions improve our top 60 donors. At the top was Joan tacted at adeberry@nd.edu. quality of life and our happiness? Kroc, whose funding has made our The views expressed in this column Third, can't charity foster laziness peace studies program possible. are those of the author and not nec­and dependency? Notre Dame graduates in particu-essarily those of The Observer. 

Praising terrorism is detestable 
During the last couple of weeks, and especially Tuesday, I could not help but notice the Notre Dame com­munity's (and South Bend's) laudatory portrayal of lead­ing Sinn Feiner Gerry Adams. I find this representation of such a character reprehensible. 
Sinn Fein is the diplomatic arm of the IRA, a terrorist organization that has plagued the northern six counties of Ireland for decades. We students are too young to remember the deluge of blood that flowed through the streets of Belfast in the '60s, due largely to the activities of the IRA. 
Despite what Adams has often claimed, the people of Northern Ireland do not overwhelmingly support him, Sinn Fein, or even the nationalist cause; on the contrary, Ulster is evenly divided on the issue of nationalism and only gave Sinn Fein some 21 percent of the vote last elec­tion -the Ulster Unionist Party got 23 percent. 
However, most of the Northern Irish, as well the citi­zens of Britain and the Republic of Ireland, do agree that they want the terrorism in Ulster to permanently stop. Bringing Gerry Adams to Notre Dame to talk about the Irish peace process is akin to bringing Yasser Arafat or politicians associated with Hamas to talk about the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. 
Gerry Adams may not have planted the bombs himself. but he supports and represents those who do. He is a ter­rorist, and we at Notre Dame owe it to all the innocents who have died in Ulster because of him and those of his ilk not to support him or his party. 
Derek Webb grad student Class of2005 Mar. 17 

OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Do you think Notre Dame should recognize the Gay-Straight Alliance as an 
"Without a sense ofcaring, there can be no sense ofcommunity.,,
official organization? 
Anthony J. D'Angelo
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
author
www.ndsmcobserver.com 



THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 18, 2004 page 17 
U-WIRE 
Pouring drinks not a simple standard 

a single beer, mixed drink or shot is significantly larger 
Llana Wyler

than a standard -sized alcoholic beverage used in typical alcohol consumption surveys. Hescarchers found that when students were asked to 
The Chronicle 

pour what they thought was a 12-ouncc beer and 1.25­
ounce shot, they over-poured beer by 25 percent and 
shots by 26 percent. Most significantly, students poured 
80 percent too much alcohol into what they believed was a single mixed 
drink. 
"Students don't know what a drink is-or even just the definition of a drink," said Aaron White, primary investigator of the study and assistant research professor in the department of psychiatry. "Duke students, who are some of the brightest kids on the planet, don't know how many ounces are in a glass of wine or a shot [of liquor]." 
White also noted that the serving-size misperceptions of alcoholic bever­ages the study found arc not just a Duke-specific problem; if the study had been done at any other college, he suspected students similarly would be unable to accurately pour a standard-sized beer or shot. Students' heavy­handed alcohol pouring habits scratch at the surface of dangers involved in college drinking. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism reported in 2002 that alcohol-related activities were linked to at least 1,400 college student deaths and 500,000 injuries each year. 
"We're a society obsessed with serving sizes, but yet, alcohol is our. number drug problem," White said. "It kills more young people than all other drugs combined and we haven't had a dialogue about what a serving size [of alco­hol) actually is-that's the problem!" 
The results of the study also suggest that current data on college drinking habits-largely based on self-reported consumption surveys -is fundamen­tally flawed. Literature on student alcohol consumption defines binge drink­ing as four or five drinks in one night -a threshold that may actually be closer to six or seven drinks if students are underestimating how much alco­hol they consume, White said. 
"I think the implications are truly drastic in terms of any research that has been done on college drinking and college trends," said junior Courtney Kraus. who played a large role in the collection of the pour study data. "What it means to be a binge drinker or not-all of these things need to be re-evaluated." 
Additionally, the study found that women were particularly susceptible to inaccurately reporting how much alcohol they consumed because they tend­ed to drink more mixed drinks, which are poured in unmarked containers like Solo cups. 
"Students don't talk about drinks in terms of ounces," said senior Lori Kestenbaum, who was also involved in the research. "Students think of a mixed drink in terms of one mixed drink, not [1.25] ounces of alcohol ... [and) the actual perception of what a student thought a mixed drink was, was really the alarming part." 
Jeff Kulley, staff psychologist at Counseling and Psychological Services and an advisor to PARTY, the alcohol awareness peer education group on cam­pus, said he has also found that students pouring drinks free-handedly tend to overestimate the size of a standard drink. During an educational activity called the "bartender exercise," Kulley said it was not uncommon for stu­dents to pour a quantity that would equal four to six drinks rather than one standard drink. 
"We hope that we're educating people [who] don't really know what a stan­dard drink is, and the hope is that they'll adjust downward," he said. 
A follow-up study by White's research group. however, suggests that educa­tion efforts are not targeting enough students. When asked to define what constitutes a standard alcohol serving, with the exception of beer, students tended to answer incorrectly. 
"This is not a failure of the students, but a failure on the part of educators and prevention specialists and the beverage industry," White said. "This tells us that we have done a poor job as educators and universities as a society on teaching students what a drink is." 
But people are going to drink -no matter what, said senior Julie Flom, who worked on the study. The key, she said, is to try to push for awareness and get more students to realize how much they are actually drinking. 
This article originally appeared on Mar. 16 in The Chronicle, the daily pub­lication at Duke University. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces-· sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


A working democracy 
In response to Dan Ornelals' Mar. 16 letter to the editor -"Socialist victory not a step in the right direction"-I must wholeheartedly disagree with his viewpoint that the motives of those who voted for the PSOE are "warped beyond comprehension." As a Spanish citizen and a Socialist voter, I can tell you that the elections in Spain last week were only the end of the road to over a year of tension between govern­ment and the citizens. 

Prime Minister Aznar sided with President Bush on the ousting of Saddam Hussein, while the vast major­ity of the population in Spain had been adamantly against any intervention in Iraq. Many polls showed over 90 per­cent of the country being against Spanish participation in that endeavor and the consequent occupation of Iraq. Furthermore, AI Qaeda had named Spain several times as allies of what AI Qaeda calls the U.S.' "fight against Islam," not terrorism and had threat­ened repercussion. In spite of all this, Aznar went ahead and sent troops to Iraq. 
The events of March 11 in Madrid were the tipping point. AI Qaeda's threats were materialized, and of course, Aznar's Popular Party was quick to blame ETA for it, as they knew that AI Qaeda involvement in the bombings would produce the results we saw in the elections last Sunday. When evidence pointed away from Basque Separatist involvement, the electorate reacted appropriately. 
That's what democr:acy is about. 

allowing citizens to select or reject leaders who make decisions against the popular will that elected them to government in the first place. Spain decided they had enough of a govern­ment that did not listen to them, and elected another. 
Our new Prime Minister, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, has declared that the troops will be pulled unless they are put under U.N. command. This sentiment is not only shared in Spain, but by other governments as well, for example in the Socialist ... uh, I mean Labour, British Government. 
Lastly, I would like to point to the fact that the word "Socialism" in this country continues to be tainted by the Soviet Communist legacy. Conversely, Socialism in Europe does not mean Communism, or far-left for that matter. Yes, Spain has a far-left party. They're called Izquierda Unida, and they fared poorly in the elections dropping three of their eight delegates in congress. Let's not confuse apples with oranges. 
Unlike what some seem to believe, Spain in not pulling out of the war on terrorism. The citizens have decided to pull out of a situation in which they did not want to be in, in the first place. Shouldn't this be natural in a democ­racy? Unfortunately, it took a mas­sacre in my home town for it to hap­pen. 
M. David Paredes grad student 
Class of 2005 Mar. 17 


Refuting wars, hatred and lies 
As a Spaniard, alumnus of Notre Dame and a journalist since 1998, I am compelled to rebut the idea that' Spain elected Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero because of fear of terror­ism. 
I want to remind the Notre Dame community that millions of Spaniards in unprecedented demon­strations told the government of Jose Maria Aznar to not join the war against Iraq in Feb. 2003, I was there, I was one of them. More than 10 million Spaniards said "No a Ia guerra," and 90 percent of the pop­ulation did not support that war. The government did not listen to the will of the people. 
It was this great nation, the United States of America, who promoted the notion of the government of the people, for the people and by the people, but Aznar chose to not listen to those who elected him to office. He chose to join an alliance to invade a country for reasons that are still unknown to Spaniards and to the citizens of this country. 
The Spaniards, reportedly 11.5 million of them, went out to the street on Mar. 12 to reject terrorism while the government was hiding the truth behind who was behind the terrorist attacks in Madrid. They blamed ETA while they knew per­fectly well AI Qaeda was behind the massacre. 

The people voted Aznar and his party out of office because they lied to the people, they were no longer a government of the people. for the people and by the people -it was a sort of democratic dictatorship. 
Spaniards took back their country. A well educated society said no to a government that lied to them. I just hope the truth prevails everywhere, including the United States, which was fast to jump into a war that only resulted in more hatred. 
Seek the terrorists, capture them and judge them, but don't lie to your countrymen and don't confuse the enemy. There is no proof yet of Iraq having weapons of mass destruc­tion, that it was an imminent threat or that that .country had anything to do with Sept. 11. The question remains unanswered: why did we invade Iraq, and whose interests is this administration looking after? 
God help humanity to find better solutions than wars. hatred and lies. Notre Dame should lead by exam­ple. 
Gregori Doh. Kerrigan alumni Class of 1995 Mar. 17 


~ ~--~~--~-~----~--­
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 18 
Thursday, March 18, 2004 
INTERVIEW 
15 minutes with Cam and Gabe from The Pale 
Cousins Cam Nicklaus and Gabe Archer play guitar and keyboards respectively for The Pale whose debut album Gravity Gets Things Done has just received high marks from Rolling Stone Magazine. 
By BRIAN FOY 
Scene Music Critic 
Have you two been in bands before The Pale? 
This is it. We have been playing music since we were little kids. Do you think your music is shaped because of your relationship or because you have played together for so long? 
Never thought about it. A little bit of both. It's a tough thing to stick to, everybody is in a band. For every band that makes it, there are twenty other bands that probably deserve it and don't. I think having someone else that shares that and has a family tie is cool. How did you come up with the name The Pale? 
We did a demo tape when we first started and at the time we didn't have a name yet, but we had all the song titles figured out. One of the song titles was "Beyond the Pale" so we just shortened it and didn't really think about what it meant or anything like that. Do you ever write something, maybe even subconsciously, and think that sounds like somebody else? 
Yeah. Every once in a while you're like. "I just wrote the coolest song," and you realize you just rewrote someone else's song. Sometimes you're like, "this song is great." That definitely happens every once in a while, although I think that happens almost all the time to the degree that you take an idea and make it your own is what gives you your own voice. Every band has their unique song writing process. What's yours like? 
Gabe will usually have a melody and a good idea for a song and then we'll get together and flesh it out. Every once in a while he will come in with a more complete idea and here's what I heard on this or that and we do that sometimes. I suppose over the last 10 years I have contributed one and a 
half songs or so. But they are the best one and a half songs. 
They are the hits. He'll pop out of my room once every five years and say I just wrote our next hit. On a completely different note, what's the best place you've played? 
Last May, we got a chance to play at a festival at The Gorge in Washington. We played at "The Right Next To Where You Park Your Car Stage" out­side of the gates, but it was cool. The cool thing about it was that we bought tickets for the show. Coldplay headlined, Flaming Lips, My Morning Jacket, Pedro, Deathcab and J5 ­just a bunch of amazing bands. It was the first time our little pass meant anything. Before is just got us in with the pizza. It was like "do I really need this thing?" So we got to meet the singer from the Flaming Lips and see the shows up close. I was totally star struck it was great. Do you recall your first laminated pass, even if it didn't mean anything at all? 
We've played a lot of kid's camps and stuff like that. The ones that we've saved are the ones where our names are spelled wrong. You're like "you spent a lot of money on these didn't you?" We've played a lot of cool places with a lot of cool bands. The thing I like is when the stage is high enough that you are a little bit above so that the people in the back can still see the band, but not so high. Just so that you can hang out with everybody and if you step away from the mic people could still yell at you ... we are hoping to be playing stadiums soon. Do you notice any type of fraternity among up and coming bands such as yourself? 
We've been able to be part of a real­ly cool community in Seattle where it's genuine and we are looking out for each other and we have been able to play some cool shows where our friends in bands have helped us out. Do you think there is something cool 
about being in an "indie band?" 
For me it's like we are so young, we're just kind of babies. We don't really know what we are doing thus far. But as far as it goes now. to a cer­tain degree, we can do what we want, or at least what we want to do the most. is lining up with what everyone that is supporting us wants. Whereas maybe if you are on a major [label] and they have hundreds and thou-sands of dollars invested in you, as opposed to say 20 thousand, there is a lot more pressure to get exposure. Hopefully we can build something up so that as it progresses we can still be in charge of how we get presented. But getting signed and being distrib­uted and having a promotional compa­ny is weird. It is new to us. 

Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, March 18, 2004 
Page 19 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Hancock group explores new directions 
By CHRISTOPHER KEPNER Scene Music Critic 
Herbie llancock. Michael Brecker and Hoy Hargrove set out on a tour in 2001 to celobratn thn 75th anniversaries of two of the greatest jazz musicians that have ever lived -Miles Davis and John Coltrane. With the addition of John Patitucci and Brian Blade to the rhythm section. this group is comprised of five of the top players in jazz today. On Oct. 25, 2001 their performance at Toronto's Massey Hall was recorded for CBC Hadio's Jazz Beat program, and the result, Directions in Music: Live at Massey 1/all, is now available on CD as documentation of this monumental tour. 
llancock acts as the leader, being the oldest and the only one to have collabo­rated directly with Davis or Coltrane. He was a part of Miles' great quintet of the 1960s with Wayne Shorter, Ron Carter and Tony Williams. It is obvious that Brecker and Hargrove share almost as much respect for Hancock as they do for Miles and Coltrane. 
While there are periods in both musi­cians' careers that can be classified as classical or traditional, Davis and Coltrane refused to remain in one musi­cal place for very long. They always strove to lind new forms of expression, new musical outlets and new directions in their music. 
Hancock emphasizes that Directions ... is not about playing through Davis and Coltrane tunes and making the audience reminiscent of the past. 
"We decided 
that the best 
way to trulyDirections in Music: honor their work was to
live at Massev Hall create our 
own new wayHerbie Hancock, of looking at the composi­Michael Brecker & tions, to allow new freedomsRoy Hargrove within the structures and
Universal Records 
provoke spon­taneity within the group," Hancock said on his Web site. "We're not just playing the original 
chords of these pieces, but really moving 
beyond that." 
"The Sorcerer" is a Hancock composi­tion from his days in the Davis quintet. "The Poet" is a tune that Hargrove wrote in tribute to that very quintet, and it fea­tures a nice echo effect in the melody with trumpet leading and Brecker fol­lowing right behind on sax. "So What" and "Impressions" are Davis and Coltrane tunes, respectively, that share the same harmonic structure. The Directions ... group combines them into one track, changing the articulation of the melody to "Impressions" and taking it at an unconventionally slow tempo. 
Hancock, Brecker and Hargrove all contributed to the writing of "Misstery." Brecker performs a seven and a half minute interpretation of Coltrane's "Naima" completely unaccompanied. "Transition," a Coltrane tune, and "My Ship," a Kurt Weill and Ira Gershwin tune that Davis was known to perform, are also visited. The disc concludes with "D Trane," a Brecker composition that is dedicated to Coltrane and reflects on Coltrane's compositions that were influ­enced by African music. 
The playing on Directions ... is brilliant all around. With the exception of Brecker, whose tone can be somewhat annoying at times, the entire disc is a treat to listen to. It seems that an obvious choice for this group would have been Wayne Shorter on sax as opposed to Brecker. Perhaps Hancock felt that with 

Photo courtesy of herbiehancock.com 
Herbie Hancock honors Miles Davis and John Coltrane on his live album. 
the inclusion of both Shorter and himself the group would be too similar to the old Davis quintet. Perhaps he felt that Brecker's style exhibited more of a Coltrane influence than Shorter's. Either way, this discrepancy shouldn't bn signifi­cant enough to deter you from picking up this record. 
Directions ... won the 2003 Gram my Award for Best Jazz Instrumental Album and Herbie Hancock won the 2003 Grammy Award for Best Jazz Instrumental Solo for his solo on "My Ship." 
Contact Christopher Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 
ALBUM Rt:VIEW 
Cee-lo is in a world of his own 
By KENYATTA STORIN Scene Music Critic 
Cee-lo's solo debut, Cee-lo Green and /lis Perfect Imperfections, was unlike anything Cee-lo had ever done as a member of popular Southern rap group, Goodie Mob. A free spirit of sorts, he attempted to branch out and create his own definitive form of nco­soul and hip-hop. But despite his cre­ativity and the success of the single, "Closet Freak," the album was regard­ed as too weird and eccentric, and failed to garner much commercial suc­cess. 
This time around in Cee-lo Green is the Soul Machine, Cee-Io makes sever­al noticeable changes. By garnering the support of big name producers and including catchy pop hooks, he makes his sophomore album much more radio-friendly and accessible. But this is not to say that Cee-lo has sold out. He maintains his free-spirited style of nco-soul and hip-hop, and does not let these changes curb his creative and charismatic sound. After all, trying to stick Cee-lo Green is the Soul Machine in one specific genre is next to impossi­ble. He dabbles in soul, R&B and hip­hop, and even throws some spoken word, funk and jazz into the melting pot. 

One of the biggest strengths of the album is its excellent produc­tion, and despite having a num­ber of different guest produc­ers on board, the songs flow together well. Cee-lo has an all-star cast of producers, most notably The Neptunes, Timbaland, Organized Noise and OJ Premier. But perhaps the most impressive aspect of the production is that Cee-lo himself produced about half the album, and managed to match the caliber of his veter­an guests. 
Virtually every song is worth listening to on the album, as there is thankfully no Iiller or skits (aside from the intro and outro) that disrupt its flow. Cee-Io likes to play the role of the lover man, like on the high­lights "All Day Love Affair" and "My Kind of People." On other tracks. like "The Art of Noise" 
Cee-lo Green is the Soul Machine 
Cee-to 
Arista Records 

and the singles 'Til Be Around," fea­turing Timbaland, and "The One," fea­turing Jazze Pha and T.l., Cee-lo has a general feel-good sound and gives a good taste of his charismatic personali­ty. These tracks are particularly radio­friendly, but without being too mun­dane and pop-sounding. Other high­lights include "Childz Play," a fun rap with Ludacris backed by a circus-esque beat by Organized Noise, and "Evening News," which uses a mellow beat by DJ Premier. 
The only real missteps on the album are Cee-lo's spoken word tracks ("Sometimes" and "I Am Selling Soul") and his diss track "Giockapella." Cee­Io's spoken word cuts are introspective, but simply lack replay value despite the backing of quality beats. They sound more like long interludes than full­fledged songs. "Giockapella" consists of a flurry of insults that are probably directed at Cee-Io's ex-Goodie Mob partners (the break up did not go well), but it simply falls flat with Cee-Jo's carefree, easy-going style and exposes some of the weaknesses of his flow. 

There are better rappers out there than Cee-lo, but his musical vision and soulful singing are what make him unique. Cee-lo Green is the Soul Machine is as original an album as they come. In many ways, Cee-lo is like fellow southern rappers Outkast, in that each of them have taken the Dirty South and twisted and warped it into whatever musical montages their cre­ative minds can think of. The year is still young, but even so. Cee-lo Green is the Soul Machine is the best hip-hop album to come out this year next to Kanye West's. The College Dropout. Get it and hear what the soul machine can do. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.cdu 
Thursday, March 18, 2004 
page 20 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 
Lupongo blocks 50 shots, Panthers rally to win 6-4 

goal deficit in the final 7:37 of Associated Press the third period, beating the Atlanta Thrashers Wednesday 
SUNSHINE, Fla. -Roberto night. Luongo gave the Florida The game was .narred by Panthers a chance to overcome numerous fights, the last com­a terrible first period. ing when Atlanta enforcer 
Luongo stopped 50 shots, Francis Lessard jumped on including 26 in the first period, Buffalo strongman Andrew and the Panthers overcame a Peters with 14:22 left in regula­two-goal deficit to beat the New tion. . York Islanders 6-4 on Lessard was ejected from the Wednesday night. game and the Sabres, trailing 3­
"Nobody was satisfied with 1, wound up with a seven­the first period," said Luongo, minute power play. They capi­who came into the game leading talized with just 15 seconds left the NHL with a 93.4 save per­in the advantage, getting a goal centage. "I was just trying to from Andrew Mair. keep it close." Jochen Hecht tied it for the 
Nathan Horton, Olli Jokinen, Sabres 56 seconds later. Milan Matt Cullen, Stephen Weiss, Bartovic skated behind the net Mikael Samuelsson and Donald and flipped a pass out front to Audette scored for Florida, his teammate, who put it which was outshot 28-7 in the through Pasi Nurminen's legs first period and 54-24 overall. with 6:13 left. 
"They came out hard on us Nurminen had several spec­there," Panthers coach John tacular saves among his 29 Torchetti said. "They smelled stops, but he looked foolish in blood and they went for it. Louie overtime. Roy fired a shot from was unbelievable. It could have the top of the circle that caught been 5-0 after the first period." the goalie in the chest, fell at his 
The victory snapped the skates and slid into the net. Panthers' eight-game winless From Roy's perspective, that streak (0-5-3) against the merely evened things out. Islanders. Florida is seven "The last game against points behind the eighth-place Toronto, we had three fluke Islanders, with both teams hav­goals scored on us -off skates, ing nine games remaining. The off sticks, off the goalie's pads," top eight teams in the Eastern he said. "We just got some good Conference will advance. luck today because we worked 
"This gives us a chance," really hard all game. I think we Cullen said. "If we don't win this deserved it." one, it probably closes the door The Sabres played their on us." fourth straight overtime game, 
Adrian Aucoin, Trent Hunter, finally winning one after losing Michael Peca and Mark Parrish three straight in the extra peri­scored for the Islanders, who od. They moved within four tied a franchise record with points of the New York Islanders their 28 first-period shots. The for the final playoff spot in the mark was set against Pittsburgh Eastern Conference. on Dec. 5, 1978. Andy Sutton tied a career high 
"You get 28 shots, that's a with two goals for the dence back tonight," Kozlov wasn't surprised to see Kozlov scored the game-winner on his pretty good stat, but it doesn't Thrashers, but it wasn't said. "For me, every game is have such an immediate impact. third shot of the period, and the mean much if there's no one enough. important. The faster I get into "Kozlov is a dominant player Hurricanes finished with a sea­there for the rebound," Showing that little has game shape, the easier it will be when he's been healthy," Olczyk son-high 49 shots. Islanders center Jason Blake changed since Todd Bertuzzi's for me and the more I can bring said. "Friesen is a guy who can "Roddy made a great play to said. blindside attack on Steve Moore, to the team." create plays with his speed. cause the turnover and I just 
The 28 shots set a Florida the teams carried over the bad New Jersey acquired Kozlov Those guys are solid players." opened right up," Cole said. "I record for shots allowed in a blood from their previous meet­from Florida on March 1 for Hurricanes 3, Blackhawks 2 probably shot that shot 100,000 period, breaking the mark of 26 ing-Buffalo's 7-2 victory last Christian Berglund and Victor Eric Cole and the Carolina times in practice from Roddy, to set against Anaheim on Jan. 1, month that included 118 min­Uchevator, but he did not make Hurricanes got the lucky bounce it's nice to see one go in. 1994, and tied at Los Angeles utes in penalties. his debut until Monday after they needed to beat the Chicago "You start wondering if you on Jan. 6, 2000. This one was even worse. recovering from a concussion. Blackhawks. picked the wrong stick at the 
Islanders goalie Rick DiPietro Atlanta was penalized 19 times Kozlov quickly found his Cole scored with 4:22 left in start of the game or something, allowed four goals on 12 shots for 72 minutes, Buffalo 15 times stride against the Penguins, the third period to give the because something's not going and was pulled in favor of Garth for 53 minutes -a total of 125 combining with linemates Jeff Hurricanes a victory Wednesday right out there. I got pretty good Snow after the second period. minutes. Friesen and Sergei Brylin for night. wood on a feed Craig Adams 
Luongo kept the Islanders Devils 6, Penguins 1 three goals and 11 points. The Carolina forward beat gave me the shift before. I from building more than a 2-0 Viktor Kozlov is fitting in quite "Viktor, with his size and his goalie Michael Leighton high to thought that one maybe had a lead in the first period while nicely with the Stanley Cup shot, adds a dimension that the stick side with a shot from better chance of going in." Florida was being outshot 28-7. · champion New Jersey Devils. most players can't bring," said the top of the right-circle off a Brind'Amour had a goal and Sabres 4, Thrashers 3 OT The Russian forward, playing Friesen, who had two goals and pass from Rod Brind'Amour. two assists, and Adams also 
The Buffalo Sabres stopped his second game with the two assists. "It's pretty simple "The pass came across, it scored for Carolina. The fighting long enough to pull off a Devils, had a goal and three playing with him. It seems like flipped up on [Cole's] stick and Hurricanes improved to 4-1-0-1 comeback. assists in New Jersey's victory he's a magnet on the puck. he one-timed it," Leighton said. in their last six games, and 
Derek Roy scored a fluky goal over the Pittsburgh Penguins. When he shoots, you get goals "It's tough to read when it flips extended their unbeaten streak 15 seconds into overtime after "My conditioning was a little going to the net for rebounds." up like that." against Chicago to six games (5­the Sabres rallied from a two-bit better and I got my confi-Penguins coach Eddie Olczyk Cole, who also had an assist, 0-1). 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
BABYSITIER Needed ASAP for family in Granger, Summer avaiL a plusl
..... 
Call Laura: 243-4776 

WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame 
(574) 286-9359 Part time supply center admin 
This person will be responsible for inventory, ordering, labeling, at the supply center in Galvin LifeSciences. 
The positionwill be approx. 1 0 hours a week. 
$11.00 an hour. 
Must have access to email and basic excel and word skills. 
Send information to debra. norton@ invitrogen.com 
FoR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE..2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. ... WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ... CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
VERY NICE 3bdrm home in EastBank area w/washer-dryer & alarm system inci.Niceyard for val­leyball etc-full bsmt. Walk to Corbys &StJoe Church. Call Joe Crimmins 
@574-514-0643(cell) or 574-273­0002(home) 
2 bdrm apt. for rent. A/C, WID, dish­washer, spacious, close to campus. Newappliances. $650/mo. Available 4/1 but flexible. Call Paul514-3188. 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2004-2005. Academic year-Available June 1. 2bdrm-2 bath -Fully Furnished ­Security System. (626)441-1275 or 
salvaty@ earthlink.net 
Niles, 5 bed, 2 bath home, 15 min to Notre Dame, tranquil wooded setting, availnow, 
$1150/month 2&9-349-7334 
NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF ND GREAT FOR 3-6 STUDENTS 2773097 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love need­sconfidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1­7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Enroll in a Kaplan Test Prep Class in March and get $1 00 back! 
Caii1-800-KAP-TEST for info. 

r----------,~---~· ~--~-------, 
Thursday, March 18, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 




Dear Notre Dame family, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and pray for peace with justice in the wake of last weel/ s attacl~s in Madrid, Spain. 
Mass of Prayer for Spain 
TODAY Basilica of the Sacred Heart 



5:15p.m. 
Fr. J. Steele,c.s.c., presider 
-
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 18, 2004 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duhon will likely miss first round with rib injury 

Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -Chris Duhon took a jump shot and winced as he came back down to the floor. Such is life for a guard with a rib injury, one that could keep Duke's leader out of the lineup when the Blue Devils open the NCAA tournament. 
While Duhon insisted he would play, Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said the senior's availability would determined at game time. The top-seeded Blue Devils (27-5) play 16th­seeded Alabama State (16-14) on Thursday night in the opening round of the Atlanta Regional. 
"What you saw him do out there today, that's all he's done," Krzyzewski said of Duhon's minimal work during an hourlong shootaround Wednesday. "He needs to do more than that if he's going to play." 
The injury probably could have been avoided. Duhon hurt himself last Sunday div­ing for a ball in the final of the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament, a 95-87 overtime loss to Maryland that snapped Duke's five-year reign as tour­ney champions. 
Duhon rammed into the bot­tom of a stanchion put in place to hold a stationary TV camera. Krzyzewski was livid that the stanchion wasn't padded, but he knows the damage has already been done: The emotional center of his team, a senior who aver­ages 10 points a game and plays great defense, won't be the same again this season, "whether we're here for one game or we go all the way," Krzyzewski said. 
Even though the Blue Devils are favored by 34 points against the Hornets, the coach said Duhon will play if he's healthy, and won't be held out because of· the perceived weakness of the opponent. 
"I have respect for Alabama State," Krzyzewski said. "You don't want to enter the tour­nament half-stepping it." 
If Duke wins, it will play the winner of a game between eighth-seeded Seton Hall (19­
9) and ninth-seeded Arizona (19-9). A Duke-Arizona game would be a rematch of the 2001 final. 
Duhon, meanwhile, said he'll just have to get used to the heavy wrap he wore underneath his uniform dur­ing practice. He plans on playing. 
"I have to learn to play through it," he said. "This is something that's going to be with me for a while and I just have to handle it the right way. I'll be ready to go, as much as possible. It's hope­fully my last six games, and I don't want to spend them on the bench." 
Other games in Raleigh involve the East Rutherford Regional. Fourth-seeded Wake Forest (19-9) plays 13th­seeded Virginia Commonwealth (23-7) and its 29-year-old coach, Jeff Capel. No. 5 seed Florida (20-1 0) goes against No. 12 Manhattan (24-5) in a game many have slated as a prime spot for an upset. 
"The perception right now is if we win, it's almost an upset," Gators forward David Lee said. 
~ 
1\~~ 
~ 
Q ~~es the following Introductory offers of••• 

·----··---··----··----··----· 
$18 II II $26 I I $69 I I $79 I I $79 I I I Color, Cut & I I I I Highlights, I I Mens Cut I ICut & Stylel I Style I I Pc.m, Cu1 & Scyle I I Cut & S le I 
One Process ty 
~----··---·~----~~----~·----~ 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide. and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING S'TYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presenud to Receptionist Before Services Are PerfOrmed 
Offer Good Wirh KJ -Kelly-Elena-Chrissy-Desiree -Srefanie-Jennifer 
Nocv.did fOrspir.d panv. L:ongorrinu:d h.Ur...Jd $10. Nn otho:rdis.. 
ATRIA SALON 
onuncs apply. Open .o~ CYall'9-A"IRIA S...lon n:.c:Jva: IDe riglu m adi.u.c tnVioe ttl .lflY dio:n.r wh1.-: h:..ir cund.icion is unna&e&bk.. 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Corner of Edison 
OFFER EXPIRES 4-15-04 289-5080 
Free Clinic on 6olf Etiquette 
March 24th 
Warren Club House at 5:15PM 

Questions? Call RecSports 1-6100 

Chris Duhon drives to the basket against Maryland during the championship game of the ACC Tournament. Duhon suffered a rib Injury and Is likely to miss the first round of the NCAA tournament. 
While upsets in the 5-12 matchup are common, no 16th seed has ever beaten a No. 1. Duke rarely bows out that early anyway. The Blue Devils -seeded first for the sixth time in the last seven years -have made it out of the first weekend for six straight years. The Blue Devils have won three nation­al titles, all since 1991, and are clearly considered among the favorites for a fourth. 
Still, there is an inkling that this year's tea-m might be missing an ingredient or two, 
especially  after  the  most  
recent events.  
The loss to Maryland  came  

just 11 days after Georgia Tech beat Duke 76-68 to snap its 41-game home winning streak. 
The two losses exposed Duke as a foul-prone team ­center Shelden Williams fouled out of his fifth game against Maryland -that can be pushed around. 
The Blue Devils also showed they may be too dependent on guard J .J. Redick's shooting touch. Redick, the team's leading scorer this season, struggled to a 6-for-17 shoot­ing night against Maryland. and he is 21-for-68 over his last six games. 
"People put their best ath­lete, their best defender on him," Krzyzewski said. "It can wear you down. It's a cumulative effect, and I think some of that has happened to him over the last week-and-a­half or so." 
Then, of course, there were the injuries. 
Also hurt against Maryland were Daniel Ewing (hand) and Luol Deng (ankle). 
Their injuries shouldn't keep them out Thursday, but Krzyzewski is concerned nonetheless. 
"The main thing for me is not that we lost. but that we came out all banged up," he said. 
Alabama State would like to capitalize on a team at less than 100 percent. 
Like so many other prohibi­tive underdogs, the Southwest Athletic Conference champs insist they're not just happy to be here. 
"We're here to win," guard Malcolm Campbell said. "We didn't come here just to play or see Coach K." 


Aprlf 22-24 

Thursr:l.,, 1vlarch 18, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS pagt23 
BOXING 





Convicted murderer Torres claims fight was fixed 
A..ociated Press 
LAS VEGAS -A convicted murderer who forged close ties to baseball stars and other ath­letes while in prison says he had hepatitis and could barely sec when he fought a fixed comeback light at the Anaheim Pond. 
.Joey Torres, out on bail at the time of the 2002 fight, said a matchmaker had someone take his medical tests for him, then brought his opponent to his hotel room the morning of the fight so they could rehearse how he would knock him out. 
Torres said he had highly con­tagious hepatitis C, 20/400 vision and trained on cognac and colas to get ready for the l'ight after being assured he would win. 
Baseball Hall of Farner Paul Molitor posted bond for Torres, and he and former baseball star Eric Davis were in the corner for the fight that ended with Torres knocking out Perry Williams in the second round. 
California authorities were suspicious after the bout, but said they could find no evidence it was fixed. 
The allegations were made in a letter Torres sent to his sister, Marcy Bautista, from a California prison, where he was sent aft.er losing an appeal to remain free on a 1979 murder conviction. 
Bautista confirmed the hand­written letter, obtained by The Associated Press, was sent by her brother, who she said has not had access to a telephone since being sent to a Delano, Calif., facility last month. 
Torres identified the match­maker as Sean Gibbons, who is at the center of an FBI investi­gation into boxing irregulari­ties. 
The claims were mocked by the attorney for Gibbons, who said Torres has a history of lying. 
Gibbons, an assistant match­maker for promoter Bob Arum, 

was fired earlier this year after 
the FBI raided Arum's Top Hank 
offices as part of its probe. 
"If Mr. Torres ever makes an 
accusation like this in a court of 
law. I'll look forward to cross­
examining him," lawyer David 
ChesnofT said. 
In the four-page letter, Torres 
also said he was the one who 
sparked the boxing investiga­
tion by calling the FBI while out 
of prison and offering his serv­
ices to infiltrate Arum's oflices. 
A call to the U.S. Attorney's 
office in Las Vegas was not 
immediately returned. 
An undercover New York City 
police detective called "Big 
Frankie" was sent to pose as a 
cousin of Torres so he could 
gain access to Top Hank, which 
promoted the Torres fight. 
In his letter. Torres said "Big 
Frankie" was in his hotel room 
the morning of the f"ight when 
Gibbons pushed the furniture to 
the side and told the boxers 
how to make the light look real. 
"Unbeknownst to Mr. Gibbons 
my 'cousin' was in fact an 
agent," Torres wrote. 
Torres said he told Gibbons he 
had bad vision and hepatitis C. 
which is easily transmitted by 
blood and can lead to chronic 
liver disease. 
The matchmaker, Torres said, 
told him "not to worry. I'll take 
the tests for you." 
At the time, Torres had been 
out of prison for several months 
after winning a chance to 
appeal, and his feel-good story 
was being shopped as a possible 
movie. 
Torres, an amateur star before he was imprisoned for killing a gas station attendant, was 5-foot-6, 199 pounds for the fight. 
Head Top Hank matchmaker Bruce Trampler told California officials afterward that he picked the worst opponent he could find for the 41-year-old fighter making his pro debut. 
Williams may have been bad. but the flabby, heavily tattooed Torres looked even worse. 
The first right hand Williams threw sent Torres down face first, much to the surprise of both boxers. 
Torres barely beat the count. but instead of going after a hurt lighter, Williams put his gloves in front of his face. 
Williams barely threw anoth­er punch the rest of thn round before going down himself from a suspect left from Torres. 
The enraged crowd chanted "WWF! WWF!" believing the fight was fixed when Torres won by second round knockout. 
Dean Lohuis, chief inspector for the California State Athletic Commission, said records show that blood tests were submitted under Torres' name on April 23. 
There was also a physical and neurological exam submitted under his name on the day of the fight. 
"It's not the first time I've heard of a promoter taking the test," Lohuis said. 
"We paid Joey Torrns, but we didn't pay the other guy. That should tell you something." 
Torres built a following in prison with his story that he had been unjustly convicted and sent to prison far longer than a judge originally intended. 
He worked the phones con­stantly to cultivate n\lationships with ballplayers like Molitor, Davis, Darryl Strawberry and Emmitt Smith. 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------~--~-------------­
Thursday, March 18, 200-'.
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
~ NFL 




Raiders' coach Turner aspires to revive franchise 

~ 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -Norv Turner raised his voice slightly and quieted the room so he could introduce his top assis­tants. 
The new Raiders coach then began listing their impressive credentials and explaining why this experienced bunch is the right fit to fix a franchise that went from the Super Bowl to the bottom in one year. 
Al Davis has hired the man he believes can bring the Raiders back from embarrass­ment -and Turner has brought in quite a cast to help him do it. 
There's Jimmy Raye, a 27­year NFL coaching veteran, as assistant head coach and offen­sive coordinator; Rob Ryan, who has coached in two of the past three Super Bowls, as defensive coordinator; and Joe Avezzano, the emotional three­time winner of NFL special teams coach of the year award. 
"I don't think there's anyone who's going to look at our sys­tem and say it doesn't work," said Turner, hired Jan. 26 to replace Bill Callahan, who was fired after a 4-12 season. 
"I don't think there's any player who's going to come in here and say 'Why are we doing this?' They're going to say, 'If we buy in and we do it right and we're committed to it and we learn how to work and compete in this system, we'll be successful." 
The 51-year-old Turner, the former Redskins coach, was raised in nearby Martinez, Calif., as ari avid Raiders fan. 
He already had plenty of black in his wardrobe, so he's fitting in just fine after six weeks on the job. 
And the pieces are starting to fall into place. 
The coaching-staff is set, Turner has added two key free agents for the offensive and defensive lines as well as shored up some holes at line­backer, and his team will begin a 14-week offseason program Monday. 
There's a lot to fix. 
Oakland ranked last in the league in rushing defense last season, allowing 156.9 yards per game on the ground. 
The Raiders' special teams was, for the most part, awful. And they struggled to score only a year after Rich Gannon led them as the top-rated offense in the NFL. 
Turner quickly made it clear the Raiders will no longer be defined by their old-guy image -even if Gannon, Jerry Rice and Tim Brown are all back and playing in their early 40s or late 30s. Oakland released controversial linebacker Bill Romanowksi and defensive end Trace Armstrong earlier this month when they failed physi­
cals. 
"It's really interesting to me, 
when you look at this team 
from the surface because of the 
names, you say, 'Well gosh. 
that's an old team,'" Turner 
said. "You look at the roster 
and there's like 23 guys who 
are 26 years or younger who 
were on this team last year. 
They're not guys who were role 
guys, they're guys who are 
going to be really good players. 
There's no question there's a 
blend. I think it's a good blend." 
But there's still a long way to 
go. 
"We're only on the first step," 
said player personnel director 
Mike Lombardi. "It's early in 
the process. We're going to 
move along and try to improve 
the team." · Lombardi has had ongoing 
discussions with the agent for 
four-time Pro Bowl cornerback 
Charles Woodson, who last 
month was designated the 
Raiders' exclusive franchise 
player. 
"We've demonstrated we 
want him to be part of the 
organization for a long time," 
Lombardi said. 
Woodson was the most out­
spoken critic of Callahan. 
Oakland posted its worst 
record since also going 4-12 in 
1997 and the Raiders tied with 
three other teams for fewest 
wins in the league in the 

biggest collapse by a team that reached the Super Bowl the previous year. 
The Raiders earned the No. 2 pick in next month's NFL draft. 
With the 38-year-old Gannon's health still a question as he recovers from shoulder surgery, the Raiders may draft Mississippi quarterback Eli Manning-though they haven't 
ruled out trading the pick. Turner still would like to add a running back to the mix. Whatever happens. he knows Davis will be closely involved. 
"I've had some of the best football conversations, football sessions over the last period of time," Turner said. "When I sit and talk with him, I feel like I'm talking with a coach." 

DENT TJ:..&NATIONAL 

NCJL 



15th ANNUAL SPRING FORUM 
Saturda9, March 20th beginningat JO:;Oam Hesburgh Auditorium 
Invited sp~~kmJndud~: . . . 
• Mr. Ttm 5:oddt;;trusteeandMamginz;Directorr-Gddman5achs .... tO:)Oam 
• Mr. Robert Mulhall,F'f'i\:ewaterh6us6C~oopcns -lZ..:OOpm . 
• t\As. C..handraJohnsont Nt-,tre Dume;\dministra.tor ix· /\.-;.srstantto thePresident-u;pm 
... T~shirts, Prfres, and Refreshments will be provided ­



Thursday, March 18, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-78oo 
ministry.l@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu

Campus Ministry C-M 
Freshman  Man's  
Retreat #53  Weekend  


April 2-3 April 2-4 Sign up deadline: Sign up deadline: March 26 March 30 
·Main Office· {CoMo"3i9) &· Retreats··Offlce··;{CoM0"'114f.JMonda\""th'rough' FridciV"9''a'.m;·"t'o''~ j 
. I 
CM Welcome Center {room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. . 1 
-~--· ~ --~-~·---~-~ ___. -·--~-"-····-~------~-~~ '~ . --·-~----~~---------~ 
considerations... 
Countdown to Easter 
Is it still Lent? 
by Lauren Willoughby '03 Intern, Campus Ministry 
We all know that feeling. It's the middle of March and we've just come back from warm climates, exotic trips, or relaxing time at home. Not only has spring break come and gone, but now we're in South Bend for another eight weeks. AI; a California girl, it's hard for me to come back to more winter in Indiana after spending a week on the beach. It seems like there isn't much to look forward to right now. I spent weeks planning my break and anticipating the vacation but now it's back to the routine at NO. We're hit with the papers, projects, tests, and inevitable questions about what we're doing during the summer or next year. 
Part of our routine right now is Lent. We're at that point now where we're used to not seeing meat in the dining halls on Fridays and we've heard all about Lenten sacri­fices during homilies for the past three weeks. Personally, this is about the time where I start to feel a bit complacent about Lent and sometimes forget about my resolutions to give things up or do something extra. We're about halfway through the season and I have a tendency to pop a few peanut M&Ms in 
Part of the reason I ignore lent is that it's 
my mouth before I realize that I gave up just so long! Six weeks. A month and a candy. Every time I do, 
half. I can't always remember things for 40
I get that pang of guilt. 
Why don't I remember minutes, let alone 40 days. But our Church that it's Lent? Why isn't 
has a reason for this and it knows what it's 
Lent something that I think about all day, every day? 
In reality, I know that I'll never be able to spend every waking second contemplating the meaning of the Lenten season. I wouldn't be able to do anything else. But there might be a problem when I ~on't even remember that it is Lent. Part of the reason I ignore Lent is that it's just so long! Six weeks. A month and a half I can't always remember things for 40 min_utes, let alone 40 days. But our Church has a reason for this and it knows what it's doing. Lent leads to Easter. It is our preparation for Jesus' ultimate sacrifice on the Cross and His Resurrection. This isn't a small thing, it is central to our faith. We need 40 days to prepare ourselves for this. For 40 days we have the chance to examine our lives and refocus on Christ. The Church asks us to spend this season in prayer, fasting, and almsgiving. These can be smaller, manageable changes in our lives. It could be as simple as going to the Grotto every day, giving up soda, or donating a few dollars a week to the Center for the Homeless. Maybe we made all these resolutions on Ash Wednesday but with midterms and spring break we might have slipped a bit. 
This is our chance to renew our focus and recommit to Lent. No matter what we have been doing so far, or how successful or unsuccessful we may have been, we still have three more weeks of Lent. We can make that extra effort every day to remember .. what the season means-whether that be through attending Mass more often, going to Reconciliation, or changing some of our daily habits. Lent isn't over yet! We can still remember the season and prepare for Christ's sacrifice on Good Friday and His Resur­rection on Easter morning. 



51• 
toda 
Get mvolved, go on a retreat More info & applications in Room114 Apply online at campusministry.nd.edu 
wh t' h 
today o3.rs 
Mass of Prayer for Spain 5:fl; p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Fr. J Steele, c.s.c, presider 
friday o3. 19 
Mass for Peace 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
s u nda..J-y...!::.o.:::...:.J·-=-21!-..-...--­
RCIA Session 
10:00 a.m. -11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
monday o3. 22 
RCIA Community and Study Hour 6:oo-7:0o p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Church in Africa 
part of the Church in the Modern World Series 
9:oopm 330 Coleman-Morse 
· 
tuesday o3.23 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 p.m. ·8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 
wednesday oJ.24 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 1o:oo p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Theology on Tap 
Medical Ethics: To Clone or not to Clone? w/Kathy Gibney & Michelle Whaley 
10:00 p.m. • 11:30 p.m. Legends 
thursday o3.25 
RCIA Community and Study Hour 6:00-7:00 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
Hindu Prayer 
Prayers From Around the World series 
7:00 p.m. · B:oo p.m. Meditation Room (102 Coleman-Morse) 
Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups, mass schedules and special campus events at campusministry.nd.edu 
mass for peace 

Mass of Prayer for Spain· 
Basilca of the Sacred Heart TODAY 
s:15 p.m. 
Fr. }. Steele, c.s.c., presider 
mass schedule 
Fourth Sunday of Lent 
basilica of the sacred heart around campus (every Sunday) 
-
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 1:30 p.m. s:oo p.m. 7:00 p.m. s:oo p.m. to:oo a.m. Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass Rev. Richard Warner, c.s.c. Rev. Richard Warner, c.s.c. St. Edward's Hall Chapel Law School Commons Mendoza COB 
11:45 p.m. Faculty Lounge 
Rev. Daniel Groody, c.s.c. 
Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: jos!llJa 5:9a, 10-12 2nd: 2 Corinthians 5:17-21 Gospel: Luke 15:1-3, 11-32 
r-----------------------------------------------------­
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 18, 2004 
TENNIS 

Williams set to return to court 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Serena Williams is ready to get back on the tennis court after an eight-month layoff. 
"When I first got off and took a break, it was really like a relief," she said. "I could wake up when I wanted to, and not have to go to the court. But after a while that gets old." 
Williams underwent surgery on her left knee Aug. 1, and said Tuesday that she had been advised by four doctors to delay her return until now for fear of more serious injury. 
She said she expects to play her first match since winning Wimbledon at the Nasdaq-100 Open next week. 
"That's been my battle, fighting with the doctors," she said. 
Williams had a 38-3 record in 2003, winning the Australian Open and Wimbledon, and reaching the French Open semifinals. 
She said she spent her time off focusing on other pursuits, but was back to practicing by November. 
"I enjoy doing a lot of stuff like acting and fashion, but my true love has always been ten­nis;" she said. "So I've just been desperate to get back to the court." 
Williams said she has been having trouble staying patient with her return to the Key Biscayne tournament just 
around the corner. She won the event the past two years. 
"The only thing I can say is I'm so excited," she said. "I wish I could play today. All day long I think about it, so I have to calm myself down to make sure I'm really ready to play." 
Top-ranked Justine Henin­Hardenne, who beat Barbara Strykova 6-3, 6-4 in a fourth­round match at Indian Wells, Calif., on Tuesday, said she was happy Williams is return­ing. 
"I think that's really good news," she said. "That's great for the people that are coming to watch tennis, for the WTA, for the players, for everyone." 
Williams' time off the court, coupled with the family tragedy when her half-sister Yetunde Price was fatally shot Sept. 14 while riding in a sport utility vehicle in Compton, Calif., led her to re-evaluate her priorities. 
"Tennis was just so much of my life, and then you begin to realize there are just so many things in life that are more important than hitting the ball over the net," Williams said. 
Williams appears to be tak­ing on a full schedule, saying she expects to play at Amelia Island and Hilton Head after Key Biscayne. 
She also wants to play for the U.S. Federation Cup team in Slovenia in April, and at the Olympics in August. 
"I would love to have the 
opportunity to win a gold 
medal in singles," she said. 
In the meantime, she will be 
focusing her attention on a 
return to No. 1 in the rank­
ings. During her layoff she 
slipped to No. 6. 
"I'll work harder so I can be · back to No. 1," she said. "I do 
like being there, and I don't 
like seeing a different number 
next to my name. So I think 
that's really going to make me 
work a little harder." 
Despite her lack of playing 
time, Williams said she 
remained confident in her 
abilities on the cpurt. 
"If I didn't feel confident, I'd 
have no business coming back, 
no business trying to com­
pete," she said. ''I'm a com­
petitor. I may not win every 
match, but I'm sure going to 
try to win every match." 
But despite her confidence, 
she said it will be an odd feel­
ing to return to competition. 
"I never said I'm not nerv­
ous," she said. ''I'm not quite 
sure how I feel right now. It's 
kind of like playing your first 
match all over again." . 
Henin-Hardenne isn't play­
ing next week in Miami, but 
does plan to play at Amelia 
Island -on clay -the follow­
ing week. 
"It's going to be a lot of moti­
vation for all the players to see 
her coming back," Henin­
Hardenne said. 'Til look for­
ward to playing her on clay." 


Davenport advances in Pacific Life Open 
Associated Press 
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. ­Lindsay Davenport extended her impressive run in the Pacific Life Open on Wednesday, defeating Argentine qualifier Gisela Dulko in straight sets. 
A two-time champion and four~time finalist at Indian Wells, Davenport advanced to the semi­finals with a 6-3, 6-2 victory. 
Irakli Labadze bounced back from a first-set loss to beat Agustin Calleri H>. 6-3, 6-4 and gain the men's quarterfinals. 
Labadze, a 22-year-old from Tbilisi, Georgia, is playing just his second ATP Masters Series tournament. He has yet to win on the tour. 
Davenport, rejuvenated after surgery in October to corr_ect a painful toe problem, hasn't had a real test so far at Indian Wells. 
She has lost a total of only 12 games in four matches. 
''I'm really happy with where I am. I've played well the whole tournament through," Davenport said. "''ve done. so far what's been expected of me." 
She's also benefiting from a good draw. Ranked No. 4, Davenport had a first-round bye, then played Mara Santangelo, Samantha Stosur and Meghann Shaughnessy before facing Dulko. 
"I feel like today I was pushed a little bit more. This girl (Dulko) played a lot better than the other girls I've played so far this tournament," Davenport said. "If a match gets to 5-all in the third, who is to say I would do any better if I didn't already have a close match. 
"Hopefully I won't get to that point at all in these 10 days." 
Davenport, a former No. 1, was asked how long she thought it might take Serena Williams to regain her form after an eight­month layoff. Williams, who had knee surgery in August, intends to play in Key Biscayne, Fla., next week. 
"It would be hard to say she's going to come back at her best," Davenport said. "It will probably take her three to four tourna­ments to three to four months to really get back in the groove. 
"But she's such a great athlete, phenomenal player. I think she'll find her timing a little bit off the first few matches, but I'm sure she'll get it back rather quickly." 
Lab adze's victory over Calleri, from Argentina, marked the first time the Georgian has won three matches in a tournament. He was 0-4 on the year coming into the event. 
''I've been losing everywhere first round," Labadze said. "I lost maybe six, seven first rounds before this." 


2004 Nanovic Visiting European Lecturer 

Alexandre Kiss 
Monday, March 22, 4:00 pm Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
"European Integration and European Identity" 
Professor Kiss is director of research emeritus at the French National Center for Scientific Research (C.N.R.S.). 
-
Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies. 
Hosted by the Notre Dame Law School. 
www.nd.edu/-nanovic 
Thursday, March 18, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 

LPGA 
Superstition course brings out the best in golfers 
Auociatcd Press  Club, site of the 2001 Tradition  than the site of last week's sea­ 
on the Champions Tour.  son-opening Welch's/Fry's  
SUI'EHSTITION MOUNTAIN,  One big reason for the move  Championship in Tucson,  
Ariz. -The Phoenix stop on  is money.  where Karen Stupples shot 22­ 
the LPGA Tour has a new  There are 36 holes available  under par for a tour-record  
home, and it's a haven for long  for pro-am play, and that dou­ raw score of 258.  
hilters.  bles the amount of earnings  The Prospector Course is  
"It's a bomber's course, and  from amateurs who pay $5,000  about 100 yards longer than  
it's just beautiful," said 14­ apiece to participate.  the Mission Hills layout for next  
year-old Michelle Wie, who had  The four-day, $1.2 million  week's Kraft Nabisco  
seven drives 285 yards or  event begins Thursday on a  Championship, the season's  
longer in her pro-am round  par-72, 6,620-yard course lined  first major.  
Tuesday.  with luxury homes some still  "This golf course is in such  
The Safeway International  under construction in the shad­ good shape that it prepares us  
was known as the Safeway  ow of the Superstition  really well for next week," said  
PING when it was played on the  Mountains, where legend has it  Annika Sorenstam, who makes  
cozier Moon Valley Country  the lost Dutchman gold mine  her season debut this week.  
Club course in north Phoenix a  lies waiting to be rediscovered.  "It's a bit longer than we used  
year ago. It has it moved 50 miles to the east, to the Jack Ni·cklaus­ The course is longer than any of last year's LPGA layouts, including the U.S. Women's  to play at Moon Valley. I think the greens are firmer, the rough a little thicker, so I  Michelle Wle sinks a birdie at the Sony Open earlier this year. Wle has had seven drives longer than 285 yards at the PING lnvttatlonal.  
designcd Prospector Course at  Open.  think it's good preparation."  
the Superstition Mountain Golf  It's nearly 500 yards longer  A long course is fine with  Sorenstam, who won the LPGA ing in the first of.six LPGA  

On CAmpus 
qi'AdUAtioo l1/7eekend --SpeciAl t)!}A!J 1J-17, %004 
Nee~~ pl~c.e foy 11ouy f~~i.ltJ to st~!1, TYr1 H1e SlifC.Ytd He~rt Plify£511 CtV~-teY [B.ul.lo(i:."'--0 3:1. OVI-r1DUY c.tt~pus ~ps.J 
we set ~ ~ro.oo per-petSoll\. oto~Ho&.'\. foY tl1e wuR.t~. 
"CQM6 6AR.LY [TI-luyso(aJ:j]-STAY LATG [Mo~a!-1] ·-...slifl!lltt low pn.ce. 
For Ytservlifti:.o&.'\.s please call: 
"Petul 6"do(tjlift 574-63:1.-7-51.2 OY MlifrtJ roll\.ftdw lift s;T-+-63:1.:J-i-3b 
driving title last year with a events she plans to enter this 
269. 7-yard aver- year.  
age. Besides, she  "It's kind  of  
has some good memories of Phoenix. She won  ''This golf course is in such good shape  hot," she said. That's true, even by Arizona  
at Moon Valley in  that it prepares us  standards  for  
2001, when she shot an LPGA record 59 in the  really well for next week."  mid-March. Temperatures are expected to  
second round. She  top 90 degrees  
tied  for  third  a  Annlka Sorenstam  through  the  
year ago, four shots behind win­ golfer  weekend. The course  
ner Se Ri Pak.  has four par-5s,  

This year, Sorenstam is aim­all longer than 500 yards. Pak ing for a grand slam sweep of won at 23-under 265 a year the four majors. something ago at Moon Valley. never accomplished in women's This year she thinks 13-under golf. might be enough, considering 
"I played in Australia three the combination of long holes weeks ago, played really well," and extremely firm greens. she said, "and enjoyed two "I haven't really planned for weeks off, one week doing this golf course yet," Pak said nothing and another week of after her practice round on just practicing, so I feel like I'm Wednesday. playing as good as I can." "This golf course I don't think 
Not everything is to Wie's lik-is easy at all." 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
The"student's #I choice in OFF-CAMPUS housing! www.turtlecreeknd. com 574-272-8124 

,.... . 
.:=; ~ '.12...1!1 
Friday, March 19th 7:00-9:00 Rockne Memorial 
• Choosing a Major? • : You too can unlock the secrets of the ages in PLS! : 
Ever wonder why PLS students bring Plato, Dante, and Virginia Woolf to lunch instead of leaving them in the class room? The answer is because PLS is demanding, fulfilling, and because we have fun. 
Interested in reading great authors from Homer to Ellison in small groups with professors who have a special commitment to undergraduate education? 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
recently selected as an
• 
110utstanding Example of the Best in American Higher 
•
Education" 
LEARN MORE ABOUT THE PROGRAM 
RECEPTION THURSDAY 18 MARCH COLEMAN-MORSE LOUNGE 6-7:30 PM 
We are accepting applications for the entering sophomore class until April 6. Applications are now available in 215 O'Shaughnessy and on the web at www.nd.edu/-pls. 


--· 
-----------=-~---:~:--~:~:-~::::-~::::~·=:~:-----·-------------·-------------------------------------------------------·-------------1 
-~---··---·---------·-----------------·"·-·······­



around the dial 
NBA 
Detroit vs. New Jersey, 7 p.m., TNT Minnesota vs. San Antonio, 7 p.m., TNT 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Liberty vs. Saint Joseph's, 2:55 p.m., CBS Texas-San Antonio vs. Stanford, 5:10p.m., CBS Vermont vs. Connecticut, 7:10p.m., CBS Arizona vs. Seton Hall, 9:40p.m., CBS 
Geny 
Jayson Williams, left, sits with attorney Billy Martin during opening statements In February. The ex-New Jersey Net and NBA All-Star Is on trial for manslaughter, and If convicted he could face up to 55 years In prison. 
Prosecution rests in lllanslaughter trial 
State calls last witness, defense seeks to dismiss charges 
Christofi worked properly function. debris and "gook." 
Associated Press 
in eight types of tests, Williams is also charged Ryan said he believes 
SOMERVILLE, N.J.-A some of which were done with trying to make the wood chips found as the weapons expert at the up to 10 times. shooting look like a sui­gun was disassembled trial of former NBA star On cross-examination, cide. The charges carry were shaved off as the Jayson Williams said defense attorney Michael up to 55 years in prison stock was being removed. Wednesday that the shot­T. Kelly questioned what all together. and had not been in the gun that killed Williams' scientific protocol Ryan Prosecutors claim weapon's mechanism limousine driver was used during the tests. and Williams was handling the before that. working just fine, con­Ryan said there was none. shotgun recklessly after The judge excused the trary to defense claims Williams, 36, is charged drinking with friends. jury until Wednesday and that it malfunctioned. with firing the shotgun Witnesses said he held it set arguments for Monday 
The prosecution rested blast that killed Christon in one hand and snapped and Tuesday on a defense after state police at Williams' mansion in it shut, after which it request to dismiss the Detective Sgt. James Ryan 2002. His attorneys claim fired. charges. testified that the double­that the shooting was Defense attorneys have Prosecutors presented barreled shotgun that purely accidental and that said the weapon's mecha­36 witnesses over 15 days killed Costas "Gus" the gun was prone to mal-nism was fouled with of testimony. 
IN BRIEF 
Officers search Ford's tainly people staying with him that teams. and the Bucs indicated they home for drugs included family and friends," Glynn would explore a trade once Lynch 
MILWAUKEE -Drug enforcement said. decided where he wanted to contin­officers searched the home of But Glynn said he is concerned ue his career. Milwaukee Bucks point guard T.J. because personal medical records Releasing Lynch freed more than Ford, but the rookie was not the tar­may have been taken. The medical $4 million under the NFL salary cap. 
get of the investigation. records relate to Ford's spinal cord The 32-year-old safety was sched­Ford's lawyer. Stephen Glynn, said bruise, which has sidelined him uled to earn $4.1 million in 2004 Wednesday that officers were since Feb. 24. Glynn said they would and $5 million in 2005. searching for marijuana, but it is not want those records made public. Lynch. 32, visited Denver on not clear what evidence was collect­Ford was injured when he took a Tuesday and is expected to talk with ed. hard fall in a home game against the Patriots. Jets and Colts. The search was conducted Minnesota. Last week. new Bucs general man­
Tuesday by a unit comprised of drug ager Bruce Allen turned down officers from the Milwaukee County Buccaneers release safety Lynch's request to restructure a con­Sheriff's Department. the Milwaukee John Lynch tract that would have paid him $4.1 Police Department and some subur­TAMPA. Fla. -Five-time Pro Bowl million in 2004 and $5 million in ban agencies. safety John Lynch was released by 2005. Lynch said the Bucs never 
No arrests were reported. the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on made him an offer and that Allen The Bucks released a statement that Tuesday night. made it clear "it wasn't an option to said authorities informed them that The veteran of 11 seasons was be back in Tampa." Ford was not the subject of the told last week he did not fit into Allen paid tribute to Lynch at the investigation. Tampa Bay's plans next season. He time, while making it clear the 
"From time to time there were cer-has drawn interest from several strong safety wouldn't be back. 

Thursday, March 18, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
THE RAMBLER SCRAMBLER 
A 19-hole putt-putt golftournament to benefit charity Saturday, March 20th 9-11 PM Stepan Center 

lOth annual 
Mini-Medical School Lecture Series 
Presented by the 
South Bend Center for Medical Education 
Spmaored by tire ~lt!dical Education Fou11dation 
.Join us for 6 informalh·e evenings us leuding doctors, profcssionuls and university/medical school professors discuss the hottest topics in medicine today. Free of charge and open to the general public. 
Medical profnslonuh •ut•ndlng the lectures may receive 2 CME credit> per session. The lndlmna Uninrslty School of ~lediclnc I< 
•ccredlttd by Ihe Accr~dilmlion Council for Contlnuln~: Medical Education lo prO\'Idc contlnulnl! medical ~ducmtlon for physicians. 
Session 1. Tuesday. March 23. 2004 
Mal:u/u Degeneration and Glaucoma 
Philip Gabriele, MD 
Session 3. Tuesday. April 6. 2004 
Transcending Suffering: Spirituality and Maintaiuiug Cmnpa.1·sion in the Encounter with Human l'ain 
Dominic Vachon, MDh:, PhD 
Session 5. Tuesday. April 20. 2004 Surgery -Pu.~t. Presellt, and Future Keith Llllemoe, MD 
Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m. Place: 102 DeBartolo Hall (we.~t ofstatlium) Unh·ersity of Notre Dame To register or for more Information, call Stephanie 111 (574) 631-7908 o1· Jud)' nt (574) 631-5574. 
Session 2. Tuesday. March 30. 2004 
Tire Nisk.1· uml Bem~fits ofllormotw Tflerupy 
Mugueritc Shepard, MD 
Session 4. Tuesday. April 13. 2004 
Obe.~ity ami Bariatric Surgery 
Gernrdo Gomez, MD 
Session 6. Tucsdav. April 27. 2004 
Medicare Reform: Did the President attd Co11gress Write a GoQd Prescrlptjon? 
Gregory Gramelspacher, MI> 
Irish to confront solid Iowa team 
Predominantly freshman team to challenge Irish 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sporrs Writer 
No. 21 Notre Dame (7-4) will face a young but potent Iowa team Thursday. 
Iowa, currently ranked No. 47, brings to the meet a team con­sisting of four freshmen and two veterans. Despite what may seem like an inexperienced line­up, the Hawkeyes have gar­nered a 9-2 record, which includes a key win against Georgia Tech. 
"(The entire school] is very athletic overall and all of their teams do well. They arc really able to rise to the occasion and play well," said coach Jay Louderback. 
Notre Dame's foremost chal­lenge will be confronting these four freshmen. Freshman Meg Racette is 16-4 overall this sea­son, with a 7-3 record at No. 1 singles. Fellow classmate Hillary Mintz is 20-5 overall, collecting a 8-2 at No. 2. Together, they form a solid No. 1 doubles team with a 7-3 record. 
"They're talented freshmen, looking at their record," Louderback said. "Jt will just be hard for the girls at first because they're playing the unknown. 
"They'll have to feel their way through the first match and see what the other girls' playing style is like." 
Last year's matchup resulted· in a 4-3 win for the Irish. Notre Dame has claimed the win in four of the last eight rcguJar­season matches against th<> Haw keyes. 
"Our kids love to compete against a regional team." Louderback said. "We see them a lot in tournaments during the year. there's always a rivalry against regional teams. They'r<> out to get us." 
The Irish return to the courts. hoping to snap their three­match losing streak after facing disappointing losses to No. 17 Illinois S-2, No. 6 Duke 6-1 and No. 36 Tennessee 6-1. Louderback said the team has focused on fundamentals and drills in preparation for Thursday's matches. 
"It was great to get back indoors for practice," Louderback said. "I think we'll be a good outdoor team, but we just need a few more wins indoors to get match-tough." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
Free Food!!! 
TONS OF PRIZES 
Including: X-Box, Mini-iPod, DVD Player, and much more!!! 
All proceeds to benefit ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease) 

2. Lucky students vviJ I vvin Brine Lacrosse Sticks & one dorm vvifl be selected for a o::£i'_/j_:}i~*i~ 
Lacrosse Tailgate on March 31st #10 Notre Dame vs. Ohio State. 
SOFTBALL HOI"'E OPENER 
Saturday, March 20th 1 :00 & 3:00 prn No-tre Dame vs. Eas-tern Michigan @Ivy Field **FREE ADMZSS:EON** 
Thursday, March 18, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 31 
Louis Arena so many times in late Sunday night and we the past. the Irish have not took care of that part. We'd
Hockey 
actually won a game in the love to have done it in two CCHA Super Six since an 8-5 games but it was a really
continued from page 36 
victory over Bowling Green hard-fought series. 
of the hands of the selection committee by not only beat­ing Ohio State, but advancing as far into the Super Six as they can. 
"I've been in a situation before where we were almost in and we got left out of the bracket," Poulin said. "I never want to put it in the committee's hands again. I want it in our hands, to where we -control it, and we don't have to wait for six gentleman to decide for us. 
"It's in our hands right now, and that's how we want it." Despite making it to Joe 
during the 1981-82 season­back during Poulin's playing days. 
During Notre Dame's cur­rent three game Super Six streak, the Irish have fallen in the first round each time -in 2000 the team lost 4-0 to Michigan State, in 2001 the Irish lost 3-1 to Northern Michigan and in 2002 the team lost 3-2 to the Buckeyes. 
"It's definitely about taking the next step," Poulin said. "We have to do that as a pro­gram. Part of it was getting home ice, not having to travel 
"Now we have to go take care of business and that's what it comes down to. Our goal is to go to Joe Louis, and win a game, and then win the next game, and then play in the championship game and win that one too." 
The Irish face an opponent Thursday that they haven't seen since the beginning of the season, when Notre Dame traveled to Columbus to face Ohio State in a two game series Oct. 10-11. 
The two teams split that series, with Notre Dame win­ning 5-2 Oct. 10 and Ohio 
State getting revenge Oct. 11 with a 3-1 victory over the Irish. 
Looking at the statistics, the two teams really couldn't be more even. 
Notre Dame just finished one point behind Ohio State in the final CCHA standings this season, and each team has a remarkably similar style. 
Both squads play solid defense (Notre Dame has a 
2.33 goals against average, while Ohio State holds a 2.49 GAA) and neither gives up too many shots (Notre Dame allows 29.5 per game while the Buckeyes allow 30.8). Special teams are remark­ably similar, which is one reason why Poulin believes that the key against the Buckeyes will be who wins the even-strength battle. 
"I think both teams are really disciplined," Poulin said. "Both teams kill penal­ties really well, and I think that 5-on-5 is probably what it's going to come down to." 
The Buckeyes have a good balance on offense. with five players who have scored 10 or more goals this season. 
Thirteen players have hit double digits in points for the year. 
Paul Caponigri is the team's leading scorer with 34 points (15 goals, 19 assists). while Dave Steckel leads the team with 16 goals. 
Perhaps Ohio State's most solid position is in the net, where senior Mike Betz has been a consistent stopper all season for the Buckeyes, with a 2.40 GAA and a save per­centage of .912 in CCflA play this season. 
No. 6 Northern Michigan and No. 3 Michigan State face off in the other quarterfinal Thursday, just before Notre Dame faces Ohio State. 
The semifinals of the CCHA Super Six will be played Friday, with Michigan facing the lowest remaining seed in a 4:05 p.m. game. 
Miami will face the other seed later that night at 7:35 p.m. 
The third place game will be at 3:35 p.m. Saturday, and the title game is scheduled for 7:05p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's College 
International Study Programs 



<.">pt.ions are st.Ul available f"or 
l\le»~re D&ll'lne s~ll.ldcr~JJn~s 
"\.Vho -vvai"1t. t:o st:u.dy a.l:.roa.d 
.5uTnTn.e r Prog J::S!:l.!.l/if. Puchon <."~it:y. S. Kot·t.~a  
.France::-:: H ..o.tne. Ituly  L>eudlinef~:..r all progran~s  IVI:aynoot:h. Ireland Seville~ Spain is .~4.._pril 1_. 2004  

FoJ.. ,.,..._,,..,~ inf"<·.•n:n..tion contuct ·rracy Robison ,.H t.r.·obi.son (iJ.>saintn.tarys.c:.odu or :284··4-212 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Success continues for Carroll 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
To say that freshman swimmer Katie Carroll has turned in an impressive rookie campaign would be an understatement. 
A month after becoming just the fourth freshman and third Notre Dame swimmer to win three individual races at the Big East Championship, Carroll will head to College Station, Texas Thursday through Saturday to compete in the prestigious NCAA Swimming and Diving Championships as the lone Irish swimmer and one of just two Notre Dame representatives at the competition. 
Carroll began her Big East Championships domination by posting the top time in both the preliminaries and finals of the 200-yard individual medley on Feb. 19. Her finals time of 2 min· utes, 0.65 seconds, set both University and meet records, edging the mark of 2:01.00 set by senior co-captain Lisa Garcia at last year's Big East Championship. 
In addition to engraving her name in the record books, the effort was an NCAA "A" time, thereby automatically qualifying her for the NCAA Championships. 
Following the victory in the 200-yard IM. Carroll won both the 100-yard butterfly (54.29) and the 100-yard freestyle (50.14)-both "B" times-to complete the trifecta and was 
awarded  the  Big  East  
Championship's  Most  
Outstanding Swimmer.  

The freshman phenom will swim in the 100-meter freestyle and both the 200-meter and 400­meter individual medleys. 
In addition to Carn,>ll, senior diver Meghan Perry Eaton will also be competing in the national meet. 
Last Friday, the two-time Big East Championship's Most Outstanding Diver became the frrst Irish diver to win an event at the NCAA Zone C Diving Championship by placing first in the one-meter board. Perry Eaton's fmal score of 564.30 easi· ly eclipsed runner up Tealin Keleman of Michigan (535.35). 
On Saturday, Perry Eaton fin­ished sixth on the three-meter board with a score of 473.00. 
Over the course of the season, the senior has been nearly unbeatable on both the lower and higher boards, going unde­feated on the three-meter board prior to this past weekend and losing only once on the one-meter board to Keleman at the Michigan Invitational in mid­January. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
rE·R·A·s·r~XiJ"s-·s·a-a·K:·s] 
! • Used Books bought and sold : l• 2.5 Categories of Books! • 2.5,000 l1ardback and l Paperback books in stock l• Out-of-Print search service 
OPEN noon td six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


Greb th• V400 •nd ICON fan·fri.ndly fHtu,.a: 
• 
A true lm•a• IS.OOO·aolor acn•n • A built-In ap•akerphone 

• 
An Integrated VGA·quallty camera • Photo call•r to• • Download collea•·th•med MP3 rlngton•• and graphics • 


Act now and aave $150 (after $100 Instant rabat• and $50 maii.Jn rebate. with • two year service agrMment from Clngular Wlreleas~ Price before ,.bate la $219.99. See ,.bate for compl•te details. Hurry, limited time offer. 
Vlalt hettomoto.com/ullv400 for more Information about the Motorola V400, available exclullvely at Clngutar sto,.a. Find a location nnr you at clngutar.com or cali1·111·CINGULAR. 

ltiO"'"'ROLA 
Intelligence everywhere· 
cingular· 


TIM KACMAR!The Observer 
Irish guard Chris Thomas positions himself for a shot during Wednesday night's 71-59 victory over Purdue during the first round of the NIT. 
THE UNIVERSITY CLUB 
PRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME 
CONGRATULATIONS 
EN'S BASKETBALL ON YOUR NCAA BID!!!! 

SEE YOU AT THE JOYCE!!! GO IRISH!!!! 
CLUB OPEN MONDAY-FRIDAY 11 :OOAM-9:00PM (STEIN ROOM 'TIL 10 AFTER B-BALL) 
Winner of NBC's Last Comic Standing Performing THIS Friday Night the 19th at 7pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. 
Contact the Office of
Wllh Student Comics Opening for Dat Phm: 
~t.lft '\1 Studmt Activities for more information:
~ Steph Patka-MC 
2844562 
Matthew Barringer &Peter Wicks-
Hoops 
continued from page 36 
my free throws." 
Cornett's performance Wednesday was his second straight game with a career high in points. He has given the Irish a steady low post presence they have missed after losing Torin Francis to injury in the middle of February. 
"Rick Cornett comes in and we make post feeds ahd we get fouled," Brey said. "Our team has kind of reinvented 
page 33 
enough down the stretch to get the win. 
"We knew they w~re going to bring their Purdue fans to pack the place and we knew that our fans would be behind us supporting us like they did all year," Jones said. "We knew the atmosphere would be electric and I think the game kind of reflected how the atmosphere was." Notes: +In his last college basketball game, Purdue center Ivan Kartelo returned to the Joyce Center where he played for the Irish during his freshman 
and sophomore 
seasons. 
ourselves a "We knew that our fans +Kartelo, who couple of was booed the 
would be behind us
times." entire night,
supporting us like they 
Purdue pre­scored ·"' sented the did all year. " Purdue's first Irish with a four points and tough, physi­finished with
Torrlan Jones 
cal matchup five points.
Irish guard 
that the Irish +The Irish will 
usually see in Big East con­tests. The Boilermakers didn't dominate the glass, but did pull down 12 offensive rebounds compared to only six for the Irish. 
"They are a tough team. That's Big East basketball and Big Ten basketball at its finest right there," Irish forward Jordan Cornette said. "We were really clashing and bat­tling hard. I tip my hat off to them. They are a tough bunch of competitors and we are lucky to pull through today." 
The Irish struggled from the start, except for Chris Quinn, who scored the team's first 11 points of the game and kept Purdue from taking a big early lead. 
Later in the first half. the Irish finally started making their shots. ending the half by connecting on eight of their last 12 shots and held a 39-30 lead at the break. 
In the second half. the Irish lost their offensive rhythm and made only six field goals in the entire 20 minutes. But their free throw shooting kept them in the game, making 16­of-18. 
"It's a weapon for us," Notre Dame guard Torrian Jones said. "You don't get the truth of the game by just looking at how many baskets you score. 
"If you put the defense in a compromising position. they are going to foul you and you can get the two points. How good we shoot the ball from the free throw line, that's a plus for us." 
And the weirdest thing in the game may have happened in the closing seconds. Walk­on Greg Bosl swished a half­court shot for his first career made field goal. 
But on a night many Notre Dame and Purdue fans have been waiting for since 1966, the Irish were able to do play Saint 
Louis in the second round of the NIT. The game will be in Saint Louis, but the date and time of the game were not known Wednesday night and should be announced Thursday Brey said. 
NOTRE DAME 71, PURDUE 59 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (18-12) 
Cornette 3-6 1-2 9. Timmennans 1-4 2-2 5, Thomas 3-13 3-511, Quinn 6-14 8·9 
21. Jones 0-3 0-0 0, Cornett 4·7 8-8 16, Falls 2-2 0·0 6, Bosl J.J 0·0 3, Carlson 0-0 0-0 0, Carter 0-0 0-0 0 
PURDUE (17-14) 
Nwankwo 2-4 0-0 4. Kartelo 2-4 1-4 5, Teague 4-11 0-0 10, McKnight 2-11 0·0 6, Lowe 2-8 0-0 5, Buscher 5·8 2·3 12, Ford 0-0 0-0 0. Parkinson 2-4 4-4 8, Buckley 1-3 0-0 3, Carroll 0-0 0-0 0. 
Kiefer 3·6 0-1 6.  
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  39  32  71  
Purdue  30  29  59  
3-point  goals:  Notre  Dame  9-21  

(Cornette 2-5, Thomas 2-5, Falls 2-2, Quinn J-5, Tlmmermans 1-2, Bosl 1·1, Jones 0-1), Purdue 6-111 (Teague 2-6, McKnight2-4, Buckley 1-3, Buscher 0-1, Parkinson 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds:Notre Dame 34 (Cornette 9), Purdue 39 (Teague 9). Assists: Notre Dame 15 (Thomas 4), Purdue 14 (Parkinson 5). Total fouls: Notre Dame 14. Purdue 20. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Tb~ Notre Dame Dep11rtmmt ofMwic Presents 11 Facuhy Artr Series Concttrl 
Karen Buranskas, cello 
AssociAte Professor ofMwic, Univttrrity ofNom D11m1 
Lori Sims, 
·­
Thu ronrm spon.so,.~J m part by a [!ant by th' Hn,hnrn FunJfor Hxn•llnta m th, Am. lmwuufor St:holltrshtp m thr Arts, C'ofksr nj'Arts and l.tttl'n, UnuH'nlly nfNot" Dtmtt' 
.............••..•........••.........••••....•...•..•••..••..•....•••..•.........•..•..................•..•••.••....••....•.••.•••..••••••.• 
Thursday, March 18, 
page 34 The Observer+ SPORTS 

-
Save 20% on your frame, glass, matting, mounting and installation when you have your CUSIDm and/or ready-made framing order completed by our creaUve associates. 
Offer good on orders placed now tD 4/25/04. Not valld with other discounts. Pluse ptnent this .J when i'Mclfll your onleT. 
Frailles Unfunited 
Wllshlrv Plaza-5634 N Grvpe Rd, next tD Burllnilon Coat Factory-(574) 2n-6617 Jamblkm diploma framlq • compla rutoration servtcn Leaders In tine fnlmln1 since 1971 • www.fn~mesunllmltecl.com 

combos and his right hand was and amazing head movements. lbusam@nd.edu 
The Career Center is hiring!!! 
Summer 2004-Academic Year 2004-2005 
Career Assistant (multiple openings) 
See how the Career Center really works I Career assistants are trained to use Go Irish (our online recruiting system) Each Career Assistant is paired with amentor/Career Counselor and duties will vary. Possible job duties include: job, internship, and career research, employer research &development, running errands, answering phones, creating flyers, newspaper ads and brochures, data entry, and creating spreadsheets. Will also assist with the major Career Center events such as job fairs. Hours 8-10 hours per week anytime M-F between 8:ooam &s:oo pm Please pick up an application at 248 Flanner Hall and submit with resume by March 31, 
2004 
Technical Assistant (1 opening) 
The Career Center is looking for aself-motivated student worker to assist the Technical Support AnalysUConsultant. The 
student needs to have good problem/troubleshooting skills. The student should have extensive knowledge of Windows 
2000/XP, MS Office and have some knowledge of HTML. Primary responsibilities will be upgrading computers, 
troubleshooting issues with MS Office, email and printer, laptops and projectors The student will also provide technical 
assistance to visiting employers and at Career Center Job Fairs and events. Other projects may be assigned by the 
Technical Support Analyst. At times the student will work independently with other full-time career center staff members 
and student assistants to assist on technology related projects. Computer Science, MIS, and CAPP majors preferred. 
Please pick up an applkation at 248 Flanner Hall and submit with resume by April 7th 2004 
The Career Center 248 Flanner Hall 631-5200 
ond round. D'Agostino kept it coming after the break and his punches continually found their target. Pribaz struggled to come off the ropes and another stop was called at 1:01. 
153-pound division Corey Harkins def. Ryan Duffey 
Senior Corey Harkins won an overall clean match with practi­cally no brawling over fifth-year architecture student Ryan Duffey. Round one was dominat­ed by quick exchanges as Ryan Phillip's straight jabs. As the round wound down, Kerrigan began to initiate more and Phillip was forced to fight back­ing up. In round two Kerrigan came on very strong, but Phillip was not to be dismayed and continued to throw numerous punches. Kerrigan, however scored clean virtually every time by going high and low. 
165-pound division Pat Dillon def. Ross Bartels 
Senior captain Pat Dillon had a career fight as he overcame 

Thursday, March 18, 2004 
The Observer• TODAY page 35 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE ACROSS 34 Gillette product so house 1 Six-time Best 35 Norma (down-home Actress nominee Webster's mid· music site) 5 Score die name 61 TV exec 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY:Queen Latifah, Charley Pride, Vanessa Arledge Williams, Alex Caffi, Irene Cara, Wilson Pickett, Edgar Cayce
10 Move slowly 36 Shrink 62 Tennis score
14 Onetime news­
40 Ike's command Happy Birthday: You'll be off and running this year. Your high energy and 
man Abel 63 Silent parts of
inW.W.II willful spirit will help you initiate change and pul your plans in motion. You will
20-, 36-and
15 Flip over try to do more than is humanly possible, but that's never stopped you in the past.
41 "Armageddon" 
49-Across Perhaps this year you will consider delegating some of the less
16 Air-cooled author 
64 Schlepper demanding jobs to others and leave yourself open to take care of important
machine gun 
42 Film producer matters. Your numbers: I0, 16, 22, 28, 30, 32
65 A-rated, maybe
17 Cave explorer's credited with 
need discovering ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can raise the value of your home 18 Where explorer Sophia Loren DOWN if you do some renovations. Get the whole family to pitch in and help, but don't John Cabot was 1 Sustenance for take on jobs that require an expert. ••
43 Woody Allen­
born a sea urchin TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Positive action to alleviate concerns about
like 
aging can be dealt with through cosmetic surgery or fitness programs. You'll feel
19 Take to mean 2 Joie de vivre
46 Snags better about yourself if you make changes. ••••
3 White coat
20 Road repair GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emotional upset will result if you overspend on
47 Two-time U.S.
tools 4 Plato's ideal your panner. Take time to organize your financial situation and look over your
Open winner
23 Barbecue items 5 Where Jonny personal papers. Real estate deals will turn out to be lucrative. ••••• 48 "No problem!" CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't be surprised if your mate has a change of
24 Test for some Moseley won a 
heart. Anger is not becoming. Try to be patient, for you can't control the way
srs. 49 Classic geocen­skiing gold 
someone feels about you. Give him or her the space required. ••
tric theory medal
25 Program begun LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be the center of attention. You can gain under Kennedy 57 Certain sitar 6 "Golden Boy" popularity if you attend functions that are related to your chosen field. Don't let 28 "Thou pleasing, piece playwright a physical attraction to a colleague lead you into an affair. •• • dreadful 58 Cant 7 N.B.A.'s Kukoc VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Clear up those small but important details. You will feel much more comfortable in social settings if you know your work is up
thought," to 59" Road" 8 Bigmouthed crit· ter ~::t-:~:--::L.---:' 
to date. Romantic connections can be made if you mingle. •• •••Addison (1999 Oprah's LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be prepared .to deal with overindulgent individuals. 33 Western hoop­Book Club 9 Helmets and 32 Himalayan 45 Adjective some-53 Jerome Kern's Don't let them get away with a "poor me" attitude. Speak up clearly and give star, for short selection) such sightings times used with " Love" them an ultimatum if they wish you to remain in their lives. ••••• 10 Rockne player 60-Across SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your interest in starting your own business 34 Longfellow's bell will mount. Talk to individuals who are already in that position. You can gain an
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Former Dodger 46 1970's 
54 Cry before inside look at the pitfalls of being your own boss. • • •• 
~=-r.,.-r.:,., Hershiser town Plymouth 
applause SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Joint financial ventures will turn -:+=+:-+-:::-! 12 Enthusiasm 37 Fool 48 Bakery treat sour. Try to salvage what you can. You will be taken advantage of if you aren't .:+;,;+~:-I 13 Periods choosy about the company you keep. •••
49 Brace
38 Silly trick 55 Pop singer CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your emotional attitude will confuse others.
.:-+-::+.::+.::-1 21 Nursery buy 
50 Mending stuff Carmen Be honest with yourself and your family.· Don't take on too much or make
-:+:=+.::+.::-1 22 Elementary let­
39 Guiding light promises to family members that you know you can't keep. •••
51 Blackguard
ters? 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):.You can make financial gains if you are 
25 Town near 44 Circuit breakers 52 Buck chaser? 56 Countless 
realistic about your assets. Real estate investments can be bought or sold. Snowmass Transfer money to the investment offering the best returns. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't take on more than you can handle. You'd
-=+:-:+.:-! 26 Mail, in Marseille 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
be best to spend a quiet day catching up on the little things you never find time
-=+-:-+:-:+:~ 27 "Shame_!" credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
to do. Don't feel obligated to take care of everyone else. ""•• -=+-=+=+=+:;:..t 28 Reason to be Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaygood crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Birthday Baby: You are creative, outgoing and intuitive. Your sense of others is acute, and you aren't likely to warm up to anyone who isn't worthy of your
..,;,.t-:-+-:7:-fll!l -:C:+.::+.::+=fi!IP.I!II 29 chic Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
generous nature. You have a colorful way of expressing yourself.
-:+:-:+:::+.::-1 30 Figure skater past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Slutskaya Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com
..:...J...;;..&.:~~ 31 Toothsome nytimes.cornllearning/xwords . 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~ j
ARE YOU THE TROLL 
FOR. TECH SUPPOR.T, THAT HANDLES OUR. 
2 PROBLEMS ARE ~ 
PRESS THE EXACT PAYROLL SYSTEM? 
0 HANDLED BY OUR. 'E 
VALUE OF 22 DIVIDED HAVE A PROBLEM. 
J ~
AUTOMATED SADISTIC 
BY 7.
I i
PHONE SYSTEM. 
E ~ ~ 
8 l 
~ ~ ~~----~~~~~~~~ f 

~----~~~~~----~~~~~~~~~..--~ 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
Did I say two 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
No, no! If you take Four1h Street to
to form four ordinary words. 
Grand you'l save 10 minutes 
RUJOR 
j
I rI 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc All Rights Reserved 
J rr 

mE BA~ WAS 
www JUfl'tlle com 
GOOD AT THIS. 
I"ROTHEX j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I ( I I I
'----'--.....,.......<J"'-..a...-..L...---1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: rIIIIJCIIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 
I 
Jumbles: YOUTH PLUSH NOGGIN NEWEST Yesterday's Answer: He was a good doorman because he knew the-INS AND OUTS 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester ­
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ________________________________ City ________ State _______ Zip__________ 
THE OBSER\'ER 
PORTS
Thursday, March 18, 2004 
page 36 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame defeats Purdue 71-59 in first round of the NIT 
By MATT LOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Rivalry games are known for weird occur­rences -and 38 years in between games featur­ing Notre Dame and Purdue didn't stop that trend. 
In front of a split Joyce Center crowd Wednesday night, the Irish overcame making only six second half field goals to defeat the Boilermakers 71-59 and advance to the second round of the NIT. 
"I don't know if we had a better atmosphere in there all year and we've had some great games," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. 
As the Irish struggled from the field in the sec­ond half -not scoring their first field goal until a Chris Thomas jumper with 10:35 left in the game -they unexpectedly rode the perfect free throw shooting of Rick Cornett. 
Cornett, a 64 percent free throw shooter, made all eight of his attempts against the Boilermakers en route to scoring a career-high 16 points. 
"Free throws are a big part of our game and they are something we really need to depend on because we get fouled a lot," Cornett said. "Obviously I was happy to go out there and make 
see HOOPS/page 33 
Boiler down 

HOCKEY 
Irish face Ohio State in quarters of CCHA 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The teams are the same once again, but the Irish are hoping for a better result this time around. 
Notre Dame advanced to the CCHA Super Six at Joe Louis Arena for the third year in a row, and the fourth time in five years. The No. 5 seed Irish (20-13-4) will open play Thursday at 7:35 
p.m. against No. 4 seed Ohio State (23-15-0). 
The Irish moved on to the Super Six this year by defeating Western Michigan two games to one in a series held last weekend at the Joyce Center. Notre Dame came away with a 5-4 over­time victory in the pivotal game three, with freshman Jason Paige picking up the game-winning goal. 
"I think [Sunday night's game] gave us a great char­acter experience," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. 
"When you've won a game in overtime, you get a chance to live through something 
that  can't  be  taught  or  
coached.  
"Yes,  it was  painful  at  

times to watch, but the expe­rience will help us." 
For the second straight year, the Irish face Ohio State in the Super Six. Last year, the Buckeyes ended Notre Dame's season with a 3-2 victory. 
"Quote about playing Ohio State yet again," Poulin said. 
This year, the Super Six holds extra significance for both teams, as each is fight­ing for a chance at an NCAA Tournament at-large bid. In the PairWise Rankings ­one of the key components for determining the NCAA berths -Ohio State sits tied for lOth, and Notre Dame is in 13th place. 
With only 16 teams eligible for the tournament, the Irish hope to take the decision out 
see HOCKEY/page 31 
Despite missing an NCAA bid, Irish still seek NIT championship 
Nobody cares about the NIT. 
Right? 
No, certainly not Irish coach Mike Brey. He only had his staff tape sheets of paper above · each player's locker with Notre Dame's previ­ous trips to the NIT, all of which didn't include a championship trophy. 
His message is clear ­the Irish want to hang a banner that marks a cham­pionship, something Notre Dame hasn't done since Brey's rookie campaign. 
"I like the NIT," Brey grinned while throwing out one-liners in the interview room after the Irish beat Purdue 71-59 in the tourna­ment's first round. 
So the Irish coach likes the tournament to deter­mine who is No. 66 in the country -but there's no way the players can, right? 
They're the ones who got snubbed, who don't even have the dream of being a Cinderella because they're not even dancing. 
But you couldn't tell that from the way 

Andrew Soukup 
Senior Staff Writer 
see NIT/page 30 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Schlllitt w-ins title in rookie year 

At left, Tommy Demko takes a swing at Brian Nicholson. Demko claimed his first Bouts title Wednesday night. Jim Chrlstoforettl defeats Eric Callahan to take the 180-pound championship. 
By LUKE BUSAM Senior Staff Writer 
Students who attended the finals of the Bengal Bouts Wednesday night were treated to several exciting matches. 135-pound division Michael Schmitt def. Jon Valenzuela 
Sophomore Michael Schmitt continued his rookie year tear through the tournament by overcoming the more experi­enced Jon Valenzuela to earn the 135-pound division title in a unanimous decision. The first round began with a clean dis­play of boxing as Valenzuela and Schmitt tested each other and traded jabs. 
Valenzuela dominated a bit in the first, but overall the round was even, clean and consistent. Round two saw an increase in tempo from both boxers and early on Schmitt began to score a few high-caliber shots upstairs. 
Valenzuela replied well, forc­ing Schmitt to the ropes, but . 
Schmitt found success shortly after with his one-two combos. 
Clinches continued as the round wore down. Though both continued to throw with accura­cy, they were visibly tired after an exhausting match. 
145-pound division Paul Robinson def. Luke Dillon 
Paul Robinson overcame fel­low senior Luke Dillon, winning his first Bengal Bouts title in a split decision victory. 
Dillon held the ring well in 
see BOUTS/page 34 
SMC SOfTBALL 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
NCAA
TENNIS 
NHI.
-en 
t: LLI 
u Belles open at home 
Women face Iowa in 
Prosecution rests in 
Serena Williams 
Chris Duhon will like-
Florida comes back 
z against Goshen. 
key regional match. 
trial of Jayson Williams. 
returns to court after an 
ly miss Duke's NCAA 
from a two point defecit 
eight month layoff. 
Tournament opener. 
to defeat the NY 
a:::5 
Islanders 6-4. 
page 30 
page 29 
page 28 
page 26 
page 22 
page 20
D-ti 
en 










