
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 59 TUESDAY. NOVEMBER23. 2004 

SMC to close underground catnpus tunnels 
Officials cite changed utility regulations 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
After nearly a century of use. the Saint Mary's underground tunrwl systPm. which eonnects many buildings on campus. will close to pedestrians Dec. 1S. 
Judith Johns, CEO of the Holy Cross Services Corporation, made the announcement Monday in a writtnn press release. Due to changing codes and regulations on the under­ground utilities housed in the tunnels, Saint Mary's must now abide by the changes and close the tunnels to the campus. 
While Saint Mary's owns College classroom and admin­istrative buildings, the tunnels are owned by and are the responsibility of the HCSC. 
"The tunnels were originally designed to provide utilities between buildings on campus and. as such, they contain steam lines, electric power, water lines, eommunications 
see TUNNELS/page 6 



Students welcome Thanksgiving 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
Planes, trains and automo­biles will unite many Domers with their families Thursday. but for some Notre Dame stu­dents, going home for Thanksgiving is not just gravy. 
Nicky Harrison, a freshman from Rochester, N.Y., will not be making the trip back home for Thanksgiving dinner. For Harrison, the time it would take to drive or ily back to New York did not seem logi­cal given that the University only allots a two-day break for Thanksgiving. She added that plane tickets were also simply too expensive. 
Instead, she will spend the holiday with her friend who 
see HOLIDAY/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Can1pus recruiting 
•

Increases 
Improved job market leads to hiring push 
By JANICE FLYNN News Writer 
After several years of a stag­nant job market, many Notre Dame seniors now find them­selves amidst the most active fall recruiting season in recent years. 
In fact, competitive tactics by employers have forced the Notre Dame Career Center to intervene on the behalf of stu­dents being asked to decide on job offers in very short periods of time. 
This year's 25 percent increase in recruiting at Notre Dame is particularly welcome after two years of difficult job markets, when students some­times could not land a job until three months after graduation. The hiring surge ean be attrib­uted to the recovering economy and pending retirement of baby boomers. according to The Associated Press. 
In contrast to previous years, this fall se.veral employers gave job offer deadlines for several days after the initial offer, prompting the Career Center to implement a policy requiring employers to give students at least two weeks to decide. 
"What was happening was that students were getting job offers on Nov. 3, and were hearing 'Tell me by the lOth,"' 
see RECRUITING/page 6 

Fire safety standards are up-to-date at ND 
Georgetown fire prompts national discussion 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Writer 
In the wake of an Oct. 17 fire in a Washington D.C. row house that killed a Georgetown University student. the issue of fire safety has sparked debate on college campuses -includ­ing at several of Notre Dame's student housing options. 
The Notre Dame Fire Department responds to rough­ly 1,200 campus calls per year, of which about 300 are emer­gency medical calls and about 90 are actual fires, said University fire chief John Antonucci. 
Notre Dame is confident in its fire safety prograw, he added. Many necessary technology upgrades were made in the wake of the Jan. 19. 2000 fire at Seton Hall University, which killed three students and injured 58, Antonucci said. 
"Before the Seton Hall disas­ter, every residence hall was either partially or completely protected by sprinkler sys­tems," Antonucci said. "After Seton Hall, we chose to leap into the forefront and have all of our residence halls fully pro­tected by automatic sprinklers. We embarked on a very aggres­sive retro-fit program." 
Prior to the Seton Hall fire, 12 
see SAFETYIpage 6 


Students protest Pride Week shirt 
Group finds College T-shirt offensive 
By MEGAN O'NEILL News Writer 
A handful of Saint Mary's students protested the College's Pride Week T-shirt Monday in the LeMans Hall Lobby and in front of Madeleva Hall. 
The student group, named Women Objectively Moving to Eradicate Negligence of Knowledge, handed out flyers criticizing the shirt for failing to represent the student body accurately and asked students to sign a petition requesting an apology from the Student Activities Board, which over­sees the shirt design and sales. 
see PROTEST/page 6 



r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Who says theNBAis dull? 
Coming ofT a post-season that saw my Detroit Pistons, tho paragon of baskPtball boredom, win a champi­onship by inducing a coma. that same toam lwlped bring national attention ba1~k to their sport. Saturday's Matt Mooney prizdight with tbn bost street thugs 
Sports
tho NBA could lind 

Production
signaled a new 

Editor
trend in sports 
markoting. 

Why use those annoying Thunder­Sticks to get the fans involved when activn participation works just as well? Tlw word on the street is that David Stern has contacted Sylvnster Stallone about bringing back the Hoeky charal~­ter for promotional events. 
llowever, basketball is new to the wholo lighting scone. Gnorge Mikan, onn of the lirst pro-basketball stars, wasn't exactly tho brawling type. Plus, as a sport that prizes height, the physksjust aren't conducive to light­ing. Tall people. with thoir high een­tnrs of gravity, can bo knockPd over much too easily. It took a long time for tlw NBA to cultivate a talont/thug like Hon Artnst to carry the torch. 
Basnbrawl has pnrhaps the longest tradition of mid-game rumbles. Ty Cobb. ono of tho groatost players of all-time. startPd tho tradition early in tho 20th century when hn went Indiana Pacer, charging into the stands aft1)r a heckling fan. Nolan llyan didn't let a batting helmet intimi­date him when lw turned Hobin Vm1tura's lwad into a bongo drum. 
Tlwn tlwn) 's hockey. Fighting is as old a tmdition in this sport as tho word "oh." The draw of hockey is not tlw ability to execute a perfect uno­timor or tlw artistic skating. If that worn tlw caso, SportsCenter would show a lot more Brian Boitano high­lights. No, the beauty of hockey is the ability to fly down tho ice on a sliver of metal, eontrol a little rubber disk and still avoid the goliath that thinks he heard something said about his moth­er. 
The one sport in whieh fighting absolutdy confuses me is football. Every player on that fiold is heavily armorod in pads and, morn important­ly, a hnlmet. Obviously, once a fight gets startnd, as seen in Saturday's South Carolina-Clemson game, the goal bncomes something like capture­the-flag with hnlmets. Not only is a lwlnwt an nfl'ective protnction, it also servns as a nice weapon once someone nlsn 's is stolnn. 
But I don't understand how those fights get starlnd. About the most that can bn done at the start of a football light is drag a guy to the ground and go for the lwlrnnt. And that just looks silly. 
Dnspitn all tho restrietions that will certainly bn put in place, there will still hn fights in sports, almost certain­ly senn in just about any Hed Sox/Yankees game. 
.I ust don't look for Artnst in any Unitnd Way cornmnrcials anytime soon. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd. edu. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser11er. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itsdf as a professional publica­tion and strives li>r the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we willmakt· mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 'i41 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 23, 2004 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR THANKSGIVING? 









Frankie Bott Sarah Twedell Ted Lawless GeofGrubb Mary Ann Meunninghoff Zhiguo Ge 
senior senior sophomore senior rector graduate student Welsh Family Off-campus Knott Keenan Pasquerilla East Off-campus 
"I'm going home ''I'm going home ''I'm planning ''I'm going to "Being grateful "Because I have 
to Minnesota." to St. Louis. " to fall into a watch Notre tryptophan-Dame blow out induced coma the Trojans. " Thursday." 

Camden, N.J., named most dangerous city 
TRENTON, New .Jersey -­Camden has been named the nation's most-dangerous city, snatching the top spot from Detroit, according to a com­pany's annual ranking based on crime statistics. 
Otlieials in Camden, which was ranked third last year, downplayed the dubious des­ignation Sunday, saying many steps have already been taken to reduce crime in the city. 
"We must give our people jobs, training and opportuni­ty," said City Councilman Ali Sloan-EI, who pointed out that Camden's poverty is an important contributing factor to its high crime rate. 
Atlanta, Georgia, St. Louis, Missouri, and Gary, Indiana, rounded out the top five in the most dangerous city rankings, which was to be released Monday by Morgan Quitno Corp. The company publishes "City Crime Hankings," an annual refer­ence book that will bn pub­lished next month. Detroit fell to second in this year's list. 
Bidding ends at $28K for cheese sandwich 

HOLLYWOOD, Fla. --A woman who said her tO­year-old brrilled cheese sand­wich bore the image of the Virgin Mary will be getting a lot more bread after the item sold for $28,000 on eBay. 
GoldenPalace.com, an online casino, confirmed that it placed the winning bid, and company executives said they were willing to spend "as much as it took" to own the 10-year-old half-sand­wich with a bite out of it. 
"It's a part of pop culturn that's immediatnly and wide­ly recognizable," spokesman Monty Kerr told The Miami Herald. "We knew right away we wanted to have it." 
Information compiled .from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY a: 
Ul :I: 
~ 
Ul 
3: 
..... 
c( (.) 0 




HIGH 51 HIGH HIGH HIGH 36
..J LOW 36 LOW LOW LOW 21 



for life." some projects to do most ofthe lime I will stay in my lab." 
IN BRIEF 
NDTV will air Episode 0.3, their fall season's last, today at 7 
p.m. on cable channel15. 
International Studnnt Programs and Services will sponsor a free showing of the Hussian film "House of Fools," with English subtitles, today from 7 to 9 p.m. in 117 DnBartolo llall. 
The Notrn Damn Ballroom Dancing Club will sponsor waltz­ing lessons today from 8 to 
10:30 p.m. in 301 Hoeknn Momorial. There is a small charge for the lessons. 
The Notm Dam"e men's soccer tnam will play Ohio Statn in the seeond round of tho NCM com­petition today from 7 to 9 p.m. at Alumni Finld. 
Notre Dame political science professor Michael Coppedge will give a lecture on "The Conditional Impact of the Economy on Democracy in Latin America," today from 
12:30 to 1:30 p.m. in C-103 llesburgh Center. 
North Dining llall will serve a special Thanksgiving buffet Thursday from noon to 3:30 p.m. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will take on IPFW tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. in the .Joyee Center Arena. 
Visiting scholar David Wharton will speak on "An icc-active protein rom an Antarctic nema­tode" today at 4 p.m. in 23S Galvin Life Seinnces Building. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obser11er. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 
42 

LOW 
30 


Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 168 Washington 75 149 
Tuesday, November 23, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Constitution·changes approved 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
The Council of Hepresentatives voted to approve new members and passed proposed resolutions to the student union constitution at its meeting Monday night. 
First on the agenda was the approval or the new president f(Jr The Shirt project fi>r the 2005-06 school year. Katie Crossin, former pmsident of'The Shirt project, pre­sented Katie Fox to the Council for approval as the new leader of the fundraising project. 
"I am confident in her ability," Crossin said. "She is aware of the magnitude and importance of the project to Notre Dame. She has great ideas already." · Fox. a transfer student from Prineeton University, was involved with Business Today magazine while att1mding Princeton and is a new appointee to the Academic Affairs Committee. Fox displayed a sense of humor when asked what the new shirt would look like. 
"Bright pink. Absolutely," Fox said. · 
Additionally, the council voted to approve Patrick Vassel as the director of programming for the Student Union Board. Student Union Board manager Jimmy Flaherty presented the eandidate to the Couneil. 
"Patrick is dearly the obvious choice," Flaherty said. "He has represented the Student Union Board very well and has been suc­cessful in launching Fireside Chats and bringing Gideon Yago to Notre Dame this past fall." 

Flaherty clarified to representa­tives that Vassel will be aeting as an interim director until a perma­nent one has been hired. Vassel, who will be studying in Washington D.C. for second semester, will only be able to serve until the end of the calendar year. Interviews have already been held for the position, Flaherty said, telling representatives he is confi­dent that he will present a candi­date to fill the role permanently by theend of the semester. 
Members also wekomed newly­elected freshman elass president Erin Mulholland to the Council. 
Representatives then exercised their voting power by approving proposed changes to the constitu­tion that will be sent to the Student Senate oversight commit­tee. Based on complainl'i brought forth regarding the new constitu­tion, student body president Adam Istvan compiled a resolution that advises constitutional changes. 
The resolution called for the meetings of the Executive Programming Board to take place 
on a bi-weekly basis, rather than 
the weekly requirement the con­
stitution currently contains. It also 
called for a formal process to 
bring allegations of misconduct 
before the ethics committee. 
Finally, Istvan's proposal asked the 
constitution require the student 
body president to attend Executive 
Policy Board meetings. 
"In the meetings I've missed, I've felt that I missed out a lot. Therefore, I think we need to require that the president always be there," Istvan said. "It only ·makes sense for a policy meeting 
to be attended by the president." 
Representatives agreed, and the 
resolution was passed. The resolu­
tion will now be sent to the Senate 
oversight committee to· clarify the 
language in the resolution. From 
there, the oversight committee 
will present the resolution to the 
Senate, which is the only govern­
ment group with the power to 
amend the constitution. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Pusch discusses gender at SMC 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 
Transgender individuals are often surrounded by common misconceptions about their atti­tudes and feelings, said Rob Pusch, an adjunct professor and instructional designer from Syracuse University at Saint Mary's Monday. 
Pusch traveled to Saint Mary's to share the results of his recent research project involving trans­gender college students. 
"Anybody who goes to college, that's sort of an interesting time in your life," he said. "The assumption is that you aren't struggling with this, so that makes it more interesting." 
Pusch said the idea that col­lege-age people are too old to question their gender is a com­mon misconception. lie dis­cussed othnr false impressions, including beliefs that there are more male-to-femaln transgen­der people than femaln-to-male, that people only become trans­gendered after they discover they are gay or lesbian and that all people want to transition fully from one gender to another. 
Pusch said many of these stereotypes exist because much of the public misunderstands transgcnder individuals and uses many important terms inter­changeably. lie explained that while sex is a biological category, gender is a social category. pro­viding identity based on a "sonsfl of oneself as a particular gen­der." he said. 
"1 like to think of male as the sex category, and man as the gender category," Pusch said. "We think of transgender as being a much broader category than transsexual. It's anyone who transcends the traditional bounds of being a male or female." 
Pusch enlisted eight college­age transgender participants of various status, year and gender for his research. lie allowed the participants to "self-identify" their gender and encouraged them to engage in discussion on any topics they liked. Much of the discussion centered around body image, he said. 
"In our culture, we make the body and gender so important that they had to talk about it," Pusch said. "In the beginning, a lot of people focused on the body. They were heavily interested in 'passing."' 
lie explained that three levels of transgender with various degrees of association exist ­full-time, part-time and pre­transgender individuals. At each level, there is an increasing con­cern with "passing" as a person of the desired gender in public. 
"There's still anxiety about passing," Pusch said. "Even though the body is not a barrier for passing, they still see it as a problem on a personal level." 
Puseh said in order to pass, many change their names, dress, actions and even mental state. Physieal changes are also likely to be made, including small adjustments like electrolysis and hormone intake as well as major physical modifications. all of which contribute to the stages of transgender, he said. 
"There is a question of when transition begins," Pusch said. "It doesn't just happen when you come out." 
Pusch's group also focused on public perception of the trans­gender community, especially those members who may not identify as either female-to-male or male-to-female but as a "third gender or gender-queer." 
"Our culture isn't set up to handle anybody who isn't either a boy or a girl," he said. "People get confused, and they don't like it when you confuse them about gender." 
Pusch urged the audience to be sensitive to the transgender com­munity, saying his study partici­pants each dealt with a lack of recognition. 
"A lot of people say, Tm.trans­gendered, I'm not a man or I'm not a woman, I'm something else,"' he said. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Task forces report on fall semester progress 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
The Campus Life Council discussed progress made by three task forces, approved new bylaws and proposed a new plan regarding a can­celled service trip to Ethiopia at Monday's meet­ing. 
Knott rector Brother Jerome Meyer said that the social concerns task force had furthered its plan of action regarding the cre­ation of a diversity-aware­ness program at Notre Dame. 
"We've taken a look at the scope of what we're trying to do," Meyer said. 
According to Meyer, the task force has chosen schools to compare to Notre Dame and will soon call peo­ple at each school to find out how they approach diversity issues. 
Siegfried senator James Leito presented the findings of the vending task force, which he said compared Notre Dame with .other top 20 universities. 
"Most schools charge about 75 cents to one -dol­lar," Lei to said in regard to laundry prices. 
Leito also said the task force was obtaining infor­mation on vending revenues to formulate a rough esti­mate on how much money 
the school makes  on  laun­ 
dry.  
O'Neill  senator  Alex  

French said the security task force had contacted several people since the last meeting about their goals. 
According to French, Matt Lozar, editor-in-chief of The Observer, was not opposed to the idea of reinstating a security seetion in the news­paper, but was unsure as to 

what could be included 
besides the Notre Dame 
Security/Police crime blotter. 
French said that Phil 
Johnson, assistant director 
of the security/police depart­
ment, suggested creating a 
Listserv available to people 
interested in receiving secu­
rity news. 
He also reported that the · idea of setting up a program 
of dorm fire safety presenta­
tions during the second 
semester had been raised 
and that lighting maps were 
still in the process of being 
made. 
Since the old CLC bylaws 
dated from 1998, a new set 
revised by Welsh Family rec­
tor Candace Carson, was 
approved and contains only 
minor changes. 
Adam Istvan, student body 
president, said he would 
present the new bylaws with 
an explanation of the 
changes to the Board of 
Trustees. · 
Istvan also told CLC he 
received a response from 
Bill Hoye, assoeiate vice 
president and deputy 
General Counsel, about this 
past summer's abruptly can­
celled service trip to 
Ethiopia planned by the 
Student International 
Business Council. 
However, Istvan said 
though his question asking 
why the SIBC trip was can­
celled was specific, Hoye's 
answer was general and 
would require further inves­
tigation. 
Istvan said he and vice 
president Karla Bell would 
meet with SIBC student 
members to further discuss 
the issue before approach­
ing the General Counsel's 
office. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
NEYER ITOP EXPLORING• 
A thick fleece coat is perfect for tvinter. ~4sk. titl}J yak. 
300 We igl1t Po la1teG0 fl.ee ce provicle s eXGe ptio nal ,,.G 11nt 11. ·IJU:: ar it o 11 its mv 11 or .z.i 1) it i 11to a slle [ fur '-re t-weat lle r protect io 11. 

25!}-1CDO 

Harl5 Ma.rt.-.F.lf, ~ Ja.-oo .:;m -~oopm Si!;!~ ~ Ja.-oo mJ -B:oopm S:lrlt.~ J.2~oo pm-6:-oopm 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 23, 2004 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group discusses Pride Week shirt 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 

Thn rash of campus protest against Saint Mary's "Pride Wonk" shirt's alleged sexism, racism and classism was the main topic or discussion at Monday's Board of Governance IIIOPting. 
Somn studonts fnlt the imago or a blond1~ Cauc~asian woman on the T-shirt did not represent all Saint Mary's women, mem­bers said. adding these students have dndded to protnst through the creation of a petition and their own T-shirts. Tho pntition's goal is to obtain 400 signatures, or approximately one-fourth of thn campus's population. 
Thn main discussion at the meeting was the protesting stu­dents' desire for a formal apolo­gy speeifieally noting the sup­posed inappropriateness of the shirt. 
"We desire a specific apology," technology commissioner Patricia Mobolade said. "These arc serious issues that [many students) have had to deal with." 
A primary concern for many board mernbnrs was the spin-oft' of this protnst. It was questioned if anyone would feel comfortable designing a shirt in the future for fear of oll'ending someone. 
The board strove to discuss ways to bt~ pro-aetive in the situ­ation to educate thl) student body and avoid bullying and making people feel more closed oil' from the situation. 
"People who are ignoring the issues an~ the ones who need to he nducated on it," junior elass president Danielle Lernnr said. "Wn nood to reach out to those who are not attending the forums to teach them about the issues to further our progress." 
Student Activities Board presi­dent Lauren Fabina reported on Thursday's feedback session, in which the Student Activities Board invited the entire student body to come out and discuss their likes and dislikes of past, current and future SAB aetivi­ties. The primary topic of discus­sion at the feedback session was also that of the controversial "Pride Week" T-shirt, and ineluded the shirt's colors ­blue and gold -as well as the image printed on it. Many stu­dents feU that these colors were ehosen to further unite Saint Mary's identity to that of Notre Dame. 
However, it was reported this was not the intention, Fabina said, and the gold color on the shirt was intended to be more of an orange hue. Fabina added SAB in no way meant to ofl'end anyone with the images or col­ors on the shirt. 
"We ·are empathetic to those who do not feel represented by the shirt," she said. "We listen to everyone and take all ideas wholeheartedly." 
It was not determined at this time if student government will issue a formal apology. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
The first lists for the "Big Sister -Little Sister" program were issued, displaying which sophomore each first-year stu­dent was paired with. 

+ 
The board also approved reg­ulations on election policies, now allowing Instant Messenger as a form of campaigning. It was also included in the policy that stu­dents cannot just pass out fliers without actually placing them in the hands of a student to cut down on litter around campus. 

+ 
There will be a BOG-spon­sored bus trip to Chicago on Dec. 4. 


Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO l @saintmarys.edu 




Internships in Ireland 



Open to all Juniors with a demonstrated interest in Ireland and Irish Studies 
Scholarship includes: 
• 
Seven-week internship (10 June-1 August) 

• 
Airfare to and from Ireland 

• 
Room and Board 

• 
Stipend 



Dept. of Foreign Affairs Teachtai Diila National Gallery of Ireland Irish Museum of 2\.fcd.em Art Archaeological Field Wa·k Many More 

Application deadline is 1 December www .nd.eduf......,irishstu/ Keough Institute for Irish Studies-421 Planner Hall 

College professor vvins CPA teaching award 
award and crodited Renshaw's
By EILEEN DUFFY 
deep concern for students. 
News Writer 
"lie's probably the best pro­
fessor J've evnr had," said sen­

The American Women's ior Valarie Johnston, a former Society of CPAs recently hon­student of Henshaw's. "You ored Saint Mary's accounting never got tired in his classes. professor Claude Renshaw as lie would keep your attention Educator of the Year at its really well. lie just made Nov. 12 conference in Chicago. things more relatable to life." 
The AWSCPA recently estab­.Johnston also commented lished its first student affiliate on Henshaw's role as modera­group at Saint tor for the LAT. Mary's, which "I don't think has the largest "He's probably the it'd be where it is accounting pro­best professor I've today without gram of any U.S. him," she said.
ever had."
women's col­"lie provides us lege. with so many ''I'm very flat­Valarie Johnston opportunities." tered and hon­senior Veronica Fritz, 

ored," said 
Renshaw, who 

has been teaching at Saint 
Mary's since 1977. 

He is the moderator of Lady 
Accountants of Tomorrow at 
the College and co-authors a 
South Bend Tribune column 
called "Tax Talk" with Notre 
Dame professor Ken Milani 
each spring. He and Milani 
also coordinate a program 
where Saint Mary's and Notre 
Dame students volunteer to 
help South Bend residents . with their tax returns. 
After 27 years, Renshaw has 
developed a unique teaching 
style. 

"I like to make accounting 
and tax as interesting as I 
can," he said. "A lot of people 
have preconceived notions 
about these subjects, but I try 
to stimulate responses by 
injecting humor and other 
activities into my classes." 
Renshaw's students said 
they were excited about the 

Holiday 
continued from page 1 

lives in a Chicago suburb. After sharing Thanksgiving dinner with his family, the two plan to visit Chicago for shop­ping and sightseeing. 
Harrison is planning on tak­ing the South Shore bus line back to Notre Dame on Saturday morning. 
"I want to be here in time for the big football game," Harrison said. 
Other Domers will not have to worry about catching the · game on television -they will be in attendance as Notre Dame takes on Southern California. Junior Steve Sweeney left South Bend Sunday morning to spend the week at his home in Los Gatos, Calif. He will be cheering on the Irish in person Saturday. 
"Since I've been born I've been to [almost] every Notre Dame-USC game played in California," Sweeney said. 
Sweeney said because he has taken many exams during the past three weeks, this upcom­ing week is not very academi­cally taxing, and thus he is able 
another member of the LAT, recalled a trip to Washington, 
D.C. that Henshaw had organ­ized for the group, and his unusual way of preparing the students. 
"He loves board games," she said. "He had us all over to his house one night to play a Washington, D.C. trivia game." 
When looking back on his career, Renshaw quickly chose his favorite aspect. 
"The highlight of my career is an ongoing one -seeing students graduate from [Saint Mary's) and beeome talented, capable individuals in their professional lives," he said. "I keep in touch with many of my students, some of whom are even partners at major accounting firms. It's really, really rewarding." 
Contact Eileen DuffY at 
edufiYl~nd.edu 
to take advantage of the oppor­
tunity to spend some time with 
his family on Thanksgiving. 
Few natives of the California 
are lucky enough to make the 
2,000 mile-long journey horne, 
however. Jennifer Rising, a 
sophomore from Orange, Calif., 
will be spending Thanksgiving 
on carnl?us and attending the 
Thanksgiving buffet at North 
Dining Hall. The dining hall will 
be op(m from noon until 3:30 
p.m. on Thanksgiving Day, but both campus dining halls will .be closed for dinner on Thursday night. 
"Hopefully I can take some 
food from the dining hall for 
Thanksgiving dinner," Rising 
said. 
Freshman Hobert DeBroeck 
is also unable to be with his 
family on Thanksgiving. His 
family resides in the United 
Kingdom and going horne for 
two days is just not possible. 
"I will give [my family] a phone call on Thanksgiving and send them my love, but it's a long way from Engl<,tnd to South Bend, and I will be feel­ing their absence a lot," DeBroeck said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry@nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 23, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's wmE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel blamed for Arafat's death 
PARIS-Freshly armed with Yasser Arafat's weighty medical dossier, his nephew pinned blame on Israel for the late Palestinian leader's death and refused Monday to squelch rumors of poisoning -even though he acknowledged that doctors found no known poisons. 
Nasser al-Kidwa, who is also the Palestinian ambassador to the United Nations, said the files are inconclusive on the cause of Arafat's death, but "I believe the Israeli authorities are largely responsible for what happened." 
llis accusation, at a Paris news conference two hours after French authorities gave him the files despite objections from Arafat's widow, could inflame suspicions among Palestinians that Israel was somehow to blame -if only by confining Arafat to his West Bank headquarters for the last three years of his life, as Al-Kidwa asserted. 
Powell pushes for peace in Mideast 
JERUSALEM -Secretary of State Colin Powell made a new push for Mideast peace yesterday, promising Palestinians full American support for elections to replace Yasser Arafat and receiving Israeli assurances of a smooth path to the ballot box, including eased travel restrictions and letting Palestinians in east Jerusalem vote by absen­tee ballot. 
In one of his last overseas trips as the top 

U.S. diplomat, Powell sat down with both Israeli and Palestinian leaders, seeking to cap­italize on new realities created by Arafat's death. 
"I have come to bring a message of peace and commitment from President Bush that he wants to move forward on the path of peace, to take advantage of the new opportunities that are before us," Powell said in a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Guantanamo on the Hudson 
NEW YORK -,-Saying the city had created its "own little Guantanamo on the Hudson" during the Republican National Convention, a lawyer Monday filed a lawsuit on behalf of nearly 2,000 people arrested at demonstra­tions. 
The federal lawsuit claims protesters and bystanders alike were rounded up in mass arrests without cause; were kept without access to their lawyers or families at an old bus depot used as a temporary detention center; and were exposed for days to cruel and inhuman conditions. 
The lawsuit asks for unspecified damages. 

"All that was missing were the orange jumpsuits," lawyer Jonathan C. Moore said. 

Jaczko to advise on nuclear issues 
WASHINGTON -In a deal to let 175 of President Bush's nominees take office, an adviser to new Democratic leader Harry Reid, the Senate's staunchest opponent of a nuclear waste dump in Nevada, will be named to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
For months Senate Republicans had refused to take up, or even hold a hearing, on the nomination of Gregory Jaczko, Reid's adviser on nuclear issues. 
In turn, Reid, who has pledged to try to kill the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste project 90 miles northwest of Las Vegas, had blocked the Bush nominations. 
LOCAL NEWS 
O'Connor named IMA director 
INDIANAPOLIS-Lawrence A. O'Connor Jr., retired CEO of Bank One Indiana, became the interim director of the Indianapolis Museum of Art yesterday. 
He succeeds Anthony Hirschel who resigned as director on Friday. O'Connor's appointment came at a muse­um's board of governor meeting today. 
In addition, Diane De Grazia, the museum's deputy director, was appointed interim chief art officer. 


Deer hunter kills 5 and wounds 3 
After being asked to leave private property, man opened fire on fellow hunters 
Associated Press 
BIRCHWOOD, Wis. -A deer hunter shot and killed five people and wounded three others after he was spotted on private land and was asked to leave, author­ities said. 
A 36-year-old man was arrested Sunday afternoon when he came out of the woods after the shootings during the hunt's opening weekend, sheriff's officials said. Two of the wounded were in critical condition Monday. 
Deputy Jake Hodgkinson identified the suspect as Chai Yang but would give no details. Yang is from St. Paul, Minn., said Paul Schnell, a spokesman for the St. Paul police depart­ment. 
The victims were part of a larger group hunting near a rural cabin on pri­vate land in Sawyer County in northwestern Wisconsin. 
One hunter spotted some­one in their tree stand, a raised platform in a tree used by hunters, and he and several others approached the man and asked him to leave, Sawyer County Sheriff James Meier said Monday. 
The man got down from the stand and was walking away, then "for some apparent reason he turned and opened fire on them," season started Saturday The suspect, who did not third in stable condition at Meier said. and lasts for nine days. have a compass, got lost in Lakeview Medical Center in 
One hunter radioed to About 20 shots were fired the woods and two other Rice Lake. others in the party for help, but it was unclear if any of hunters who didn't know Hunter Bill Wagner, 72, and more people were shot the hunters had fired at the about the shootings helped of Oshkosh was about two as they arrived on all-ter­man or who might have him fmd his way out, Zeigle miles away near Deer Lake rain vehicles to rescue the shot first, Zeigle said. said. with a party of about 20 first group, authorities said. There was just one gun The man was arrested other hunters when they Someone in the group among the eight people when he emerged from the heard sirens, planes and wrote the suspect's hunting killed or wounded, he said. woods and a Department of helicopters and discovered license number, which The dead included a Natural Resources officer roads in the area had been hunters wear on their woman, and a father and recognized the deer license barricaded. clothing, by tracing it on a his 20-year-old son, author­on his back from a descrip­"When you're hunting, dirty vehicle, Meier said. ities Zeigle said. Some of tion given by one of the you don't expect somebody 
"It's absolutely nuts. the victims were shot more shooting victims, Zeigle to try to shoot you and Why? Over sitting in a tree than once. All five were said. murder you," Wagner said. stand?" Chief Deputy Tim from the Rice Lake area, The man was out of "You have no idea who is Zeigle said earlier. about 15 miles southwest ammunition, he said. coming up to you." 
Zeigle said the suspect of Birchwood in northwest­One of the injured "We're all old, dyed-in­was "chasing after them ern Wisconsin, he said. hunters was in critical con­wool hunters," he said. "We and killing them," with a Authorities found two dition Monday at St. wouldn't go home because SKS 7.62 mm semiautomat­bodies near each other and Joseph's Hospital in of this, but we will keep it ic rifle. Wisconsin's the others were scattered Marshfield. Another was in in our minds. We're not statewide deer gun hunting over 100 yards. critical condition and a forgetting it." 


Jet to pick up Bush Sr. crashes 
sending heartfelt condolences to each as a transportation accident. We have
Associated Press 
and every member of their families." no reason to believe it is anything 
HOUSTON -A private jet that was The names of the three crew mem­other than that," Rosenker said. en route to Houston to pick up former bers were not immediately released. Bush, who lives in Houston, was President Bush clipped a light pole The National Transportation Safety going to give a lecture for the and crashed Monday as it approached Board said the "black box" flight data Guayaquil, Ecuador, Chamber of Hobby Airport in thick fog, killing all recorder and the cockpit voice Commerce, Frechette said, adding, three people aboard. recorder had been recovered, and "It's very sad." He said he was to have 
The Gulfstream G-1159Ajet, coming appeared to be in good enough shape accompanied Bush, as was a Secret into Houston, went down about 6:15 to read the data. Service agent. 
a.m. in an undeveloped area 1 1/2 Mark Rosenker, the NTSB's vice Earlier, Jack Williams, a district miles south of the airport, officials chairman, said the agency would chief with the Houston Fire said. The former president had been examine a number of factors, includ­Department, confirmed three people scheduled to travel to Ecuador for a ing the aircraft's condition, what the had died. conference. pilots were doing and the weather. The jet, en route from Love Field in 
"I was deeply saddened to learn of He said standard toxicology tests Dallas, was approaching the runway the plane crash this morning," Bush would be performed on the bodies and when it clipped the light pole, losing said through spokesman Tom FBI agents joined the investigation at part of a wing, authorities said. Frechette. ''I'd flown with this group the NTSB's request, as is routine. Wreckage extended about 100 yards before and know them well. I join in "We are treating this at this moment from there, Williams said. 
Tuesday, November 23, 2004 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Safety 
continued from page I 
of tlw 27 dorms wnrn fully protncted. In Llw 1S months fol­lowing t.lw fin~. eomplete sprin­kll~r systems and fire alarms wnn• instaiiPd in thn rmnaining 15, ae1~ording to Antonueci. 
Four firefightPrs arn on duty at. the on-campus fire station, lonttnd across from tho power­housn, at all limns as wnll. 
l.nading technology detnetion systnms. which show the nxact d1~tndor that is alarming, pro­ted. all undergraduate dorms and graduate housing resi­dnnens. 
"Our next task i~ a corn pre­hensivn fin~ safety program that indudns firn safety education," Antonucci said. "If you cannot remove the human element from the incident thnn you can­not prnvent the incident. Though sprinklers do save lives, thny do not prevnnt the inci­dent." 
Antonucci said he believes Notrn Dame's safety programs have bonn successful because of the relatively low number of serious lims p1~r year. 
"Three years ago linl Welsh Family, there was a fire in a room started by a curling iron," he said. 
llowevnr, damage from the fin~ was fairly minimal. "That particular room hap­

pened to have two automatic sprinklers that irnmndiately extinguished tho f'ire," said Antonucci. "Unfortunately the room was on tho third lloor, so the watnr went down to the sec­ond floor. But luckily, the only damage was from the water." 
After f'ires at Castln Point Apartments in October, thnH~ smoke detectors were placed in each hallway and in all of the laundry rooms, whore two trashcan fires erupted, apart­ment manager Omar Zidan said. 
College Park Apartments include two smoke detectors in mu~h unit, as well as in the hall­way. Additionally, all tmwts are asked to abide by Llw non-llarn­mable rule, meaning nothing flammable can bn brought into the apartments. 
"We went in about a month ago and installed new exit light­ing in ease of fires, something that will stay and remain lit," said Patty Russwurm, property manager at College Park. 
At Georgetown, the D.C fire department found numerous violations in the basement apartment of 21-year old Daniel Rigby, including missing required smoke detectors and bloekPd exit doors. Their inves­tigation led to inspection of other ofT-campus housing at the university. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

Protest 
continued from page I 
SAB sells the T-shirt on campus each fall semester during Pride Week, which ineludes various activities to celebrate Saint Mary's. 
This year's shirt, which con­tinues to be sold in the stu­dent bookstore, takes inspira­tion from a vintage Vermouth print ad. The original image depicts an elegant woman dressed in a white gown hold­ing a tiny glass of wine in a graeefully extended hand. The version on the Saint Mary's shirt shows the woman hold­ing a small silver bell in place of the wine glass and the phrase "Saint Mary's College, Women with Knowledge" bor­ders the image. 
Sinee Spirit Week, which began Sept. 27, the shirt has generated mixed reactions. Several students created their own version of the shirt using markers and puffy paint. 
Protester Sinnamon Wolfe said she disliked the shirt's image, which prompted her to wear an alternative version during Pride Week. 
"I don't find it personally represents me because I come from a blue-collared family, a working-class family," she said. "It is very insulting to me because I want to participate in the pride week activity, and I couldn't because I didn't feel included in that activity." 
Junior Lisa Kuzmicz said she has purchased a Pridn Week shirt the last three years but chose not to this 
year. 
"The whole pride shirt is to unite the stu­dent body and to havn some­thing everyone would be proud to wear," Kuzmicz said. 
Both students said that although some may find the shirt cute, they feel such a description lacks under­standing. 
point of the 
"It may be a cute image but when it is a shirt that is trying to represent our eollege the fact that it is cute is irregard­less because it's still not inclu­sive," said Wolfe. 
Jennifer Hernandez, who organized the protest, said students were not trying to devalue the work of student government. 
"We are not attacking the artist, we are not attacking one specific person," Hernandez said. "Our objec­tive is to raise awareness at Saint Mary's." 
Student government has made efforts to address stu­
dent concern about the T­shirt. Board of Governanee women's issues commissioner Katie Knlly hosted a Nov. 4 identity forum where alton­dens discussed the imagn of thn collegn. 
At a Student Activitins board 
mnnting 
Thursday sevnral 
"The whole point of of' the shirt pro­testers were
the pride shirt is to 
given the oppor­
unite the student 
tunity to discuss body and to have opinions, but ac1~ording to
something 
llnrnandnz oiTi­everyone would be ce rs stoppeel the 
proud to wear. " mneting as the discussion became heated.
Lisa Kuzmicz 
In a student­

junior 
wide e-mail sent 
Friday, SAB apol­
ogized "for any program, event, or material produced this past semester that may have offended you, the student community." 
The e-mail did not specifi­cally address the shirt. 
Student body president Sarah Catherine White said she and other student leaders are in the midst of evaluating the request for an apology. 
"They deserve sincerity, and we are going through all the steps to make sure the sincer­ity is there, and we want them to know this," said White. 
Contact Megan O'Neill at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 



Tunnels 
continued from page I 
and other systems that are now subject to newer, more restrictive code requirements," .Johns said. 
IICSC director of communi­cations Barbara Wade said after reviewing new building safety eodns as they pertain Saint Mary's, it was not possi­ble to keep the utility tunnels open to pedestrian use. 
"Some of the tunnels have been in use for 75 years and have been used by pedestrians since the beginning," she said. 
For decades, students, facul­ty, stall' and Iloly Cross sisters have usnd the tunnels to get from building to building, nspedally during the winter months. 
In thn area leading to llaggar College Center, each graduating dass has paintnd a mural on thn cemnnl walls, which will now go unseen after l>ec. IS. 
But somn students said the planned elosurn caused more worry about safety rather than tradition. 
"I think it will lead to securi­ty risks when we have to walk around an r~ntin~ building to get to tho library late at night," snnior .Iodin Emerick said. "It's not that it's an ineonvenienee, it's just a safety issue." 
According to Wadn, the IICSC is working with Saint Mary's to dis1~uss changes to the If) card swip1~ system usnd to access t.lw tunrwls. In certain an~as. harriPrs will lw put up to keep Jll'destrians out of the tunnels. 
As l'or a chance of reopening thn tunrwls reopening, Wade said it would hP unlikPiy. 
"Wp don 'l l'orPsee that hap­JWning." Wadi' said. "Although this was a disappointnwnt. wn found t hPrn wPrl' no othPr options availabll'." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0.l03@saintmarys.cdu 


Recruiting 
continued from page I 
said Lee Svete, director of the Career Center. "If you want to recruit at Notre Dame you will play by our rules." 
The Career Center requires students sign a contract stating they will not cancel an inter­view or renege on job offers, and therefore expect employ­ers to abide by a similar ethical given 48 hours to respond 
"I called the Career Center and asked them if that was too short amount of time," Brady said. 
The Career Center confirmed his thinking and contacted the company on his behalf. 
"I waited until I had another offer then declined [GE's offer],' Brady said. "They didn't give me a reason for giving me 48 hours ... I've had a couple more offers and none of those 
have been close 
to that." 

policy. "Instead ofjust Brady said he "We feel if has not heard
hiring five students, 
we're holding back from the
now [employers] are individual
our students to a high standard we hiring 20." recruiter who also have to hold made the offer, the employer to but that GE
Kevin Monahan
high standard," Consumer said Kevin Finance said such 
Career Center Monahan, assoei­Associate director immediate dead­
ate director at the Career CentPr. "The idea of giving a minimal amount of time to make such an important deci­sion ... is too much for (stu­dents) to do in 48 hours or three days. It's unfair to the students." 
After interviewing with GE Consumer Finance both at Notre Dame and in Connecticut, senior Ryan Brady received an oiTer and was 
lines were not 
company policy. 

While the problem has not been unmanageable, the Career Center received at least a dozen calls from students in this situation. In general, employers have cooperated with the Notre Dame policy. 
Svete also emphasized stu­dents are expeeted to be hon­est with employers and should not "shop around" for offers, although it has not yet been an issue, he said. 
While such undue pressure on students is regrettable, it indicates a healthy job market. 
The fall recruiting season has traditionally been favor­able for business majors because accounting, consulting and investment banking firms tend to hire early. 
However, with more positions to fill, employers now have increased flexibility to look at students in many majors as well. Consulting firms and investment banks have been interviewing Notre Dame stu­dents with science, engineering and liberal arts backgrounds. 
"Instead of hiring just five students, now [employers] are hiring 20," Monahan said. "There's a little bit more room to say [for example!, 'We'd like to see 10 business majors, live engineers and five liberal arts majors."' 
While accountants are gener­ally in demand, even account­ing firms increased hiring this fall, some by as much as 30 percent, according to The Associated Press. 
But Notre Dame accounting students have typically few dif­ficulties securing jobs, some­times more than a year in advance. 
"Virtually all of our students get jobs, and really good jobs, upon graduation. It's very pre­dictable in terms of hiring," said Thomas Stober, assistant chair of the department of accounting. "We've been fortu­nate at Notre Dame in being able to place our graduates, whether it's a big class or small one." 
Other business majors are still waiting for the promise of the hiring boom. Senior Ruben Pefia, a marketing major, said although he has been invited to several rounds of interviews, he has yet to receive an offer. 
"Quite a few of my finance and accounting buddies have gotten offers already, but a bunch of my marketing bud­dies are in the same boat as me," he said. 
The Career Center stressed that while students should stay abreast of the fall opportuni­ties, the spring semester is also a major recruiting season. 
Pefia also said that a quick decision about a job offer would be diiiicult for him. 
"If I got an oll'er from a com­pany right now, it would be the only oml I've gotten," he said. "I low could I say yes or no and commit without comparing it to other offers'? It's tough." 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynn@nd.edu 



CEO steps do-wn to focus on cancer therapy 
Associated Press 
CIIICA(;() -McDonald's Corp. CEO Charlie Bnll, who ww> diag­nosed with eoloredal caneer in May, resi!,'llnd Monday to focus on his battle with the disease, lim~­ing tlw company to make a sud­den ll'adership switch f(Jr the sec­ond tirnP in SI'VI'Il months. 
Thn fast lilOd giant nanwd vice chairman .Jim Skinnnr as il<i nnw CEO. and tlw board elected Mike Hobnrls. CEO of McDonald's USA. to the position of president and chinf operating ollieer. 
"Charlie is a remarkable leader and well loved by the McDonald's family, and we fully understand and respect his decision," McDonald's chairman Andrew .J. McKenna said in a statement. 
Bell. 44, was diagnosed with raneer soon alter succeeding .Jim Cantalupo in April, when Cantalupo died of an apparent heart attack. Bell has missed sig­nilkanl limn at work because of tlw caneer and earlier this month skipped a gatlwring of worldwide McDonald's managers in his native Sydney, Australia. 
Bell had returned to the hospi­tal in September f(Jr further can­cer therapy, and the Oak Brook. 111.-hased company has largely declined to comment on the severity of his condition or treat­ments. 
BPII rose through the ranks at McDonald's, starting at a Sydney restaurant wlwn hn was 15 in 1975, becoming the youngest ston~ manager in Australia by tlw age of 19. 
Under Cantalupo and Bell, McDonald's has staged a rnbound in sales the past two ynars as the company slowed the paen of new store openings, added popular new salads and bn~akl'ast items to its menus and shed noneore parl-; of il-; business. 
One analyst said tlw dmnge in IPadpr·ship likely would haw no major impac.l on tlw company's stock bncause eurrPnl McDonald's executives an~ n~pladng Bell and tlw company has bnPn doing wnll. 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, November 23, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,89.42 +32.51
}ones 
Same: Composite Volume: 
949 139 1,390,672,896 
AMEX 1,367.40 +2,59 NASDAQ 2,085.19 +14.56 NYSf 6,979.79 +32.60 S&PSOO I, 177.24 +6.90 NIKKfi(Tokyo) 10,849.39. ¢233.45 
fTSf IOO(London) 4,733.10 -27.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
+I 5.47 +0.80 5.97 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) 
-0.78 -0.21 26.65 INTEL CORP (INTC) 
-0.35 . -0.06 24.10 APPLE COMP INC (AAPL) + 11.20 +6.18 61.35 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.74 +0.14 19.15 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.0 I -0.49 48.26 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.74 -0.31 41.65 5-YEARNOTE -0.34 -0.12 35.52 3-MONTH BILL + 1.24 +0.26 21 .22 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.25 48.64 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.00 449.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.20 99.00 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 03.200 EURO 0.7670 POUND 0.5376 CANADIAN$ 1.1854 
IN BRIEF 
Pulitzer shares surge on possible sale 
ST. LOUIS -Shares of Pulitzer Inc. surged 15 percent Monday, the day after the newspa­per publisher said it was considering a possible sale or other options to increase shareholder value. 
The company, which publishes the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, the Arizona Daily Star and about a dozen other dailies, said in a statement Sunday that no decisions have been made and no agreements have been reached. Pulitzer said it is exploring "a range of strategic alter­natives" and has retained Goldman, Sachs & Co. as financial adviser to assist in its review. 
Shares rose $8.27 to $63.08 in midday trad­ing on the New York Stock Exchange, well above its 52-week closing high of $56.64. 
The Pulitzer Inc. board of directors planned to meet Monday in St. Louis for what Michael Pulitzer described to the Post-Dispatch as a long-planned meeting to discuss end-of-the­year business. Pulitzer officials did not return phone calls Monday. 

Workers strike at bankrupt Ormet 
HANNIBAL, Ohio -About 1,300 workers at bankrupt aluminum maker Ormet Corp. went on strike Monday, after the company refused to postpone a court hearing that could result in ending labor agreements and imposing new ones. 
Salaried employees will do production work to keep the two plants open, chief executive Michael Williams said Monday. 
The strike began at 7 a.m. as night workers came off their shifts, said Denny Longwell, a staff representative for United Steelworkers of America District 1. 
Wheeling, W.Va.-based Ormet has about 2,000 employees and facilities in Ohio, West Virginia, Indiana and Louisiana. The strike has beerT limited to the plants in this city 115 miles southeast of Columbus, where workers make about $15 an hour, Longwell said. 
One truck seeking to enter was turned away by crowds of picketing strikers at company gates, Longwell said. 
The driver of another truck was arrested after hitting a striker as he drove through the gates around noon, the Monroe County Sheriff"s Department said. 
Trump's casinos file for bankruptcy 
After months of negotiating, casino empire forced to file under Chapter 11 
.Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J.-Donald 
J. Trump's casino empire has filed for bankruptcy protection after months of negotiations with bond­holders over restructuring a crushing debt. 
Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts Inc. and numerous related operations filed for protection from its credi­tors under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code on Sunday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Camden, N.J. The Trump casino business consists mainly of three Atlantic City properties and a riverboat casino in Indiana and are only a· small part of Trump's over­all real estate empire. 
The filings come even as Trump, the celebrity devel­oper and best-selling author, has returned to the spotlight with the television show "The Apprentice," which turned "You're fired" into a national catch phrase. 
In a telephone interview Monday, Trump said he will remain chairman and CEO of Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts, but his share would be reduced to 27 percent from 4 7 percent under a proposed restruc­turing plan reached with bondholders last month. 
He would still be the largest single shareholder, this case, it was just some­prices. The company would also and he said he would still thing that worked bet'ter The Trump casino opera­be able to draw on a $500 be running the company, than other alternatives. It's tions have been fighting to million credit line at 4 per­which in Indiana operates really just a technical survive amid debt that has cent interest, he said. a riverboat at Gary and thing, but it came togeth-hampered Trump's efforts He declined to predict this summer won the er." to maintain and expand his how long it will take for the license to open a casino in "We have one of the most Trump Marina, Trump Taj company to emerg~ from French Lfck. powerful gaming compa­Mahal and Trump Plaza bankruptcy. 
Trump said he would nies the day it comes out casino~ in Atlantic City. The "I thought about taking it personally invest a total of [of bankruptcy]. There's no properties have been hurt private, but it wouldn't $72 million in the restruc­way we could have done badly by new competition have given us the same turing: $55 million in cash, that without the 'B' word," from the Borgata Hotel power we have now," and $17 million in notes he he said. Casino & ·Spa and other Trump said. already holds. He said "the future looks casinos. He said the restructured 
Trump denied the bank­very good." The filings list debt of company would expand ruptcy was a setback. The Aside from Trump, exist­about $1,8 billion, which Trump Taj Mahal, his casinos will continue to ing shareholders would see Trump said would be cut largest Atlantic City casino, operate, and the company their overall stake reduced by $500 million. He said with a new hotel tower and has court permission to to 0.05 percent from 44 the interest rate on the renovate the others. keep paying its nearly percent, according to the debt would be reduced to 8 Trump also noted the 12,000 workers and con­filings. Shareholders will percent, from 15 percent, casinos are just part of his tributing toward their ben­be issued warrants allow­under the bankruptcy reor­overall real estate empire. efits. ing them to buy more than ganization plans, saving "This represents less than 
"I don't think it's a fail­8 percent of the company, the company $100 million 1 percent of my net worth, ure, it's a success," Trump at 1.5 cents a share, well a year in interest pay­but it is still an important said in the interview. "In below recent trading ments. company to me," he said. 

Scandal plagued directors seen1 to keep jobs 
So much for all the promises out of profits would be weak. Soon after
Associated Press 
corporate America in recent years to that, the telecommunications compa­
NEW YORK -It doesn't seem to improve boardroom integrity. ny disclosed that it had prematurely matter when corporate directors get Of course, there is the theory that booked $6 79 million in revenues. tangled in business scandals or are those who fell asleep at the wheel Even with all that, he is still on the accused of sketchy oversight -many before won't dare to shirk their board of American Express Co.,
still get to hold on to their jobs no responsibilities again. For some, that where he has served as a director matter what. may very well be true, but there is no since 1998. Just consider that three members guaranteeing such reform. But the financial services company
of the Enron Corp. board before the That leaves it up to companies to may have reason to reconsider that energy giant's 2001 collapse still are decide whether they are willing to decision. Earlier this month, federal directors at U.S. based companies. take such a risk by letting these peo­regulators said they were consideringSame goes for two WorldCom direc­ple join or stay on their boards -and ci-vil charges against McGinn and two 
tors who sat on the telecommunica­it appears that many seem unfazed other former Lucent employees for tions company's board when it by past mistakes. their role in an alleged bribery and became one of the largest corporate Look at former Lucent Technologies corruption scheme involving its Saudi failures in US. history. Inc. chairman and CEO Richard Arabian business in the 1990s. 
And that's just the start. Many of McGinn, who was forced out in the American Express declined to com­the nation's biggest companies have fall 2000 after the company warned ment; McGinn did not return a call board members with spotted pasts. for the fourth time in a year that its for comment. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday November 23, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
George W. Bush's 'to do' list 
1~0. Box Q, Notr< Dnmt, IN 465'\6 014 South Dining H,,IJ, Notre Dame. IN 46556 

President George W. Bush has won transfer power to the Iraqis. This task, way to lower the costs of health care, 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

the presidential election. Upon hearing however, will not be easy. If he insti­and encourage doctors to perform life­
Matt Lozar 

this news, some of you may have felt tutes a draft during this process, he will saving proceduws, which are some­MANAGING EI>ITOR BUSINESS MANAGER like running through Stonehenge, undoubtedly draw the wrath of thH gen­times considered to be a higher risk. Mq;hannc Downes Mike Flanagan screaming, "Victory is ours!" Others eral citizenry. It will also be exceedingly Since 2000, 5,200,000 Americans have 
deliberatnd the diflicult to eradicate religious fanati­lost health insurance. If' Bush intends
Ass·1: MANAGING EDITOil possibility of a Katie Boyle cism and anti-W1~stern sentiment, his sec1md term to be a success,
foe Herder 

four-year hiberna­primary reasons the war con­he must rnrnedy this situa­
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger 

tion, prnferably For What Its tinues. tion. 
YII·WI'!)INT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

located far away Worth On this note, our prior In addition, Bush SPORTS EDITOR: Hear her Van Hoegarden 
from the United unilateral foreign pol­must l'ully fund the ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith States or any country she may invade. icy has contributed "No Child Len 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela .Saoud Bush has, however. been granted four to an increase in Behind Act." While PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley more years -by the American people. anti-American the need for a GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins And while dissent may seem like the sentiment national stan­
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin best (or at least the most satisfying) throughout the dard may be All DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson option for those of us who don't support world. Bush debatable, pun­SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen his agenda, it is important for the well must revamp ishing under­being of the nation that we recognize our interna­funded schools
CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia his victory. tional image by for being Despite this acceptance, however, I do relying first on unable to meet
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

(574) 
631-7471 not advocate the wanton promotion of diplomacy it is not. fAX curnmt administrative policy. I'll leave before resort­Ensuring ade­

(574) 
631-6927 that rather sinister task to international ing to force, quate support ADVERTISING 


man of mystery Vice President Dick and, while pri­would allow 
(574) 631-6900 ohsead@nd.edu 

Cheney, whom I hear is currently in an oritizing schools to suc­
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

undisclosed location (Bush's mind). I America's inter­cessfully imple­
(574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR believe criticism should and will play a ests, he must at ment this new 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@)nd.edu vital role during Bush's second term. the very least program. 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Regardless of how you may view his appear to seek Whiln I am more (574) 631-4324 
first four years in office, this second international opin­skeptical of Bush's 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

term is by no means a predestined fail­ion. Hopefully, he will projected succnss in
(574) 631-5313 

NEWS DESK ure. Bush has, however, a daunting actually take into these areas, I believe he 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu task ahead of him if he is to unite account and learn the posi­also must adopt a stricter 
VIEWPOINT DESK rather than divide America. Following tions of other countries (both environmental policy. (574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
his first term, there is a substantial geographically and politically). Additionally, with the rnsignation of 
SPORTS DESK 

schism between Republicans and The strain on our armed forces from Attorney General John Ashcroft, Bush
(574) 631-4543 spons.I@nd.edu 

Democrats in this country, and compas­the war with Iraq is great, and leaves has the opportunity to increase protec­
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.cdu sionate conservatism, as interpreted by the United States with few reserves. We tion ofcivil rights, although Ashcroft's 
SAINT MARY'S DESK his administration, appears to be at are unable to intervene in Sudan or dubious successor, Alberto Gonzales, smc.l @nd.edu best a failure or at worst an oxymoron. Uganda, both of which are in dire need may be a detriment to this cause. 
PHOTO DESK 

So, what does the President need to of aid. While America has recognized So, President Bush, you have four 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 

accomplish in order to make his last the crises in these countries, if Bush is years. May you use them wisely and
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 

(574) 631-8839 four years in office a success? unable to either court armed interna­well. And don't forget to pick up a gal­
Hooked on Phonics might be a good tional support for an intervention or lon of 2% milk. start. divert troops from Iraq to the~e areas,
THE He also needs to rescue American the multitude of deaths that have and Katie Boyle is a senior English, politi­
OBSERVER ONLINE 

troops from the quagmire that is Iraq, will occur in Africa will be a black cal science and Spanish major. She sup­
www. ndsmcobserver. com 

yet not leave the country in the midst of mark on the legacy of his administra­ports the Democratic Party. She can be 
POLICIES 

armed chaos. No matter what you think tion. reached at kboyle2@nd.edu.
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper 
of the war, it would be wholly irrespon­Bush also needs to effect change in The views expressed in this column 
published in print and online by the students ofthe 
sible to abandon Iraq after having terms of domestic policy. His promised are those of the author and not neces­
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
invaded it. Bush hopes to eventually tert reform may indeed be an effective sarily those of The Observer.
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not gowrned hy policies ofthe administration ofeither instinnion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse • adwrtisements based on conwtt. 
Tlw news is reported as ;,~ccuratdy and objectively as 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
1'"·'-'ihle. Unsigned editoriab repre.•ent the opinion of the n1.1jority of the F.diror in Chief: Managing Editor, A..,;istant Managing Editor and department editors. Cornmt•maries, letters and columns present"!he views of dw authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
The freedom of choice 
( )bserwr. 
Vitwpoint space i' available to all readers. The free t:xprcssion of all opinions through lerrers is encouraged. ln the Nov. 15 issue of the Observer, Blake Swenson of are not a choice and cannot change. Certainly what a per­Lt·rrers to the Fditor must be signed and must include the University of Kansas questioned how voters could say son believes may change, but that does not change the 
mmact infimnarion. 
"marriage, family, reproductive choice and bio-ethics ... reality of truth. Truth does not change. It is neither sub­were the only moral issues in the election." Well, they jective nor can it contradict itself. Either abortion is killing
Qtmtirms "?,flrding Obsavrr policies should be 
weren't-but they were the most important moral issues. a human being or it is not. No matter how much society
direc'ft'd UJ Editor in Chitj'Mtltt IoZilr. 

War and health care were not and should never be wants abortion, stem-cell research and euthanasia to b1~ ignored but when weighed against abortion, stem-cell right, they cannot become so. They are intrinsically evil. POST OFFICE INFORMATION research. and euthanasia they were secondary. In the 16 Our culture has tried to teach us that morality is based 
Tht' t)bKtvcr (USP~ "i':N l..itt)tMI) h ••uhli1hcd Mundo~y dnoujl.h Prid..ly except durtnK 
t'k.lm .u.d V.l(.llltlll pt'rllw.il. A ~Mo.npunn m 11u:: t llllle'rver j, $1(1() lOr nnr ilc.ulemll' months before the election, 16,561 people died from the upon our opinions and our wants. Our freedom to do )'t'.U: ~~~[Ill UIIC'K!Im'<itt't, 
war in Iraq while 1,750,656 died from abortion. That's whatever we want is placed higher than truth. Making
The ( )hi!trver '' o1 mt'mhc-r of rhc ~t.att.>d Pra.\, Allrepmductiom nghu oue rucrvtd, 
105 times more deaths by abortion alone. these actions legal, however, does not make them morally The OhM·I'Wr It puhlt~htd .ar ]10. RoxQ Swenson also implies that these have only become moral right. This would only reject truth and ombraee relativism. 
1ll4 Somh I lttiii\R I 1~11 ll.24 Stuuh Dining ffJJI Su!rc~ llo~mc, IN ·lll''i')(,-07711 Notrt ll;lmt', IN 4t,;<;c,.o779 issues because "a Christian leader says it is a question of' True freedom is. choosing to do what is right. l"'r•n•h~.1l Jlllll.tKC p.ud ~t None l },unc 
morality." In addition, he suggests that "a national discus­
.anti odtluttllloll mail in.-: offko. 
sion on our population's morality" is required. While I Joseph Kirkconnell 
l~lHMAYIEK Sc:nd l&ddh·~ ,·urr«rion~ ro; JUiliOT
agree there needs to be more discussion on these issues, 
rh!!(lhr.crvtr 
they have neither become moral issues because someone Dillon Hall 
'T11c: Ohacrvt'r b •mc:mhcr ot rhc A.umi.ut\1 Prt'&\, Allleprn~.luclinn r.Kbl\ .tu· 
said they were nor br>~ause of a group consensus. Morals Nov. 21
I'C:lK'rvt:ll. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Teresa Fralish Dan Tapetillo Kato Antonacci Mike Gilloon Tricia DeGroot Ken Fowler 
The Observer resumes publication
Viewpoint Scene Katherine Howley Ram a on Tuesday, Nov. 30. Graphics Gottumkkala Graham Ebetsch Illustrator Katie Knorr 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Success usually comes to those who are too busy to be looking for it. " 
Henry David Thoreau author 

THE 0HSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 23, 2004 
Now that the election is behind us and the political climate has cooled down, I will take this opportunity to take a welcome departure from the realm or politics. Instead I'd like to shift to another battle­ground where you Tom Rippinger can see grown men behave like chil­Confessions ofa dren. This of Campus course is the realm Conservative or basketball and the now infamous "Motown Melee" of Auburn llills. 
or course, this incident began with a scul"lle between Detroit Pistons' Ben Wallace and Indiana Pacers' Ron Artest during Friday night's game. Instead of walking away, Wallace delivered a hard two-handed shove to Artest's chin. Arter that, there was more yelling and Wallaen threw a wristband at Artest. Heading the chronology of the events, I would not be surprised to see either onn or them shout, "lie started it!" 
Tlwn, an unidentilied fan decided it would bn cute to throw a cup of ice and some other random beverage at Artest. So. what's practical in this situation? Perhaps the off-color four letter word or finger would seem appropriate? No, instead you should probably charge through seven rows of fans swinging as 
The Motown Melee 
you go and start slamming some ran­dom guy's head into the stands that you think did it. After that, you've already given away one free lawsuit to the NBA, so why not create 20 really good ones? 
The reactions of the players, com­mentators and fans in this are all quite disappointing. A situation such as this demonstrates broader problems with the league, and offers insight into why the NBA fan base has been on the decline. As a disinterested observer of professional sports and political junkie, none of the actions surprised me when looked at from the angle of self-inter­ested human behavior. 
NBA players are becoming ever-more humiliating examples of moral charac­ter. Besides the public arrests, adultery and increasingly childish actions of the players, a distinct individualism per­vades over them. Instead of respecting the fact that they make more money than the President of the United States for dribbling a basketball, it becomes an entitlement. 
Just that fact, that someone is paid that much money to do something so insignificant in the course of history is disgusting in itself. Instead of Condoleezza Rice earning millions for being the first African-American woman to take the charge of U.S. world policy, our culture rewards grown men that behave like children millions of dollars for isolated athletic skill with no prerequisites for character qualities. This is to the point that they actually need to be told that you don't punch people in the face. 
Another aspect of this incident that amused me was the well-rehearsed shock of sports commentators on ESPN and other news networks. Underneath it all, the money is still flowing and their ratings were probably through the roof after this happened. At the same time, this incident may actually serve to boost the sorry ratings of the NBA. Underneath all the shock and awe, nobody associated with the NBA could honestly say with a straight face they were trying to prevent players with serious moral character flaws from playing. 
Regarding the fans, their actions were inexcusable. However, respect is a two-way street. Respect must be given before it is gained from another party. When players act like children on and off the court, that level of respect plum­mets to new lows. Therefore, acting like an unsportsmanlike childish jerk at a live nationally-televised event might get a beer tossed your way from the fans. 
page 9 

Obviously, my opinion may be biased as I am not the biggest fan of the NBA. At the same time, I love college sports and limit my opinion to the actual play­ers guilty of these character flaws. That being considered, I have still noticed a trend in the limited capacity I have fol­lowed the NBA over the last few years. I've seen it in the ridiculous amounts of money players are played and their genuinely selfish behavior. Combining the recent Kobe Bryant incident and the recent Olympic performance with this one can give some insight into why I don't like the NBA. 
In contrast with almost all other pro­fessional sports, one can see the glaring individualism and immaturity of NBA players. To use the words professional and athlete to describe some NBA play­ers is an oxymoron. Hopefully, the American people will stop taking their families to see these sad excuses for role models ruin a great sport. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. lie supports President Bush and is the co-President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at trippinl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Turn off cell phone, go to jail, don't collect 

There you are, in class, contemplating your hangover, listening to the professor explain the intricacies of the thermodynamics of the pseudo­Freudian imagery of whatever, and a tinny version of Kelis' "Milkshake" song starts piping out of someone's cell phone. 
The student scrambles, 
Staff Editorial 
embarrassed, to turn her cell phone off, and the class 
The University of
watches her rifle through her 
Pittsburgh Pitt 
faux-Gucci to retrieve the 
News
beeping monstrosity. And the notieeably peeved professor just continues the lecture. 
But a New York judge last week set a better precedent for dealing with such incidents. District Court Judge Salvatore Alamia sentenced a 17-year­old girl to 21 days in prison for contempt of court, after her cell phone rang, when the judge had expressly ordered cell phones to be turned off. The sentPnce will be served concurrently with her other sp,ntPnce for criminal possession of a controlled substance. 
"If you don't know how to shut it ofT, go outside and introduce it to the heel of your shoe," Alamia said. Props to the judge for taking a hard line on cell phones. 
We all have social lives, work and family obliga­tions, and mothers who call us at odd times to remind us to eat, but turning cell phones off isn't too mueh to ask of people. Classes are for learning or napping or doing the crossword -for being quiet while a person whose salary you're paying teaches something you're interested enough to show up for. 
Professors should take a hard line against cell phones, too -holding people in contempt of class, ifyou will. Cell phones are especially irritating dur­ing exams, and professors should consider docking points if a cell phone goes off during one. 
All cell phones have a silent mode, and most have a vibrate mode -though the vibration setting is not synonymous with the phone being off. Having a phone rattle against the contents of someone's bag, sounding like some crazed metallic cow, is just as distracting as hearing a midi file of "In da Club." 
The same rules should apply for people whose cell phones ring in theaters, especially during live theatre. No one comes to the cell-phone users' workplaces and jumps up and down to distract them, so extend the same courtesy to the actors. 
Clearly, the live-and-let-ring approach to cell phones isn't working. Professors should set firm policies about phone usage and enforce them. Already, churches in Europe and, increasingly, in the United States are installing cell phone jammers, which block signals. These would not be necessary if people practiced a little common courtesy and, as Alamia so eloquently put it, introduced their buzzing, beeping, singing, vibrating phones to the heels of their shoes. 
This article originally appeared in the Nov. 22 issue ofthe The Pitt News, the daily publication at the University ofPittsburgh. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Cell phone culture shackles students 
At Boston College, we attempt to address the major problems on campus. Groups such as the Quality of Student Life Committee and UGBC do everything in their power to ensure that students feel happy and fulfilled while at Boston College. 
Academic departments and special interest groups bring speak­ers to help reduce any tension between races, ethnicities and students of different Diana Rodgerssexual orientations. However, our campus remains plagued by a horrible disease, not racism or homophobia, but rudeness. Boston College 
To me, the pinnacle of rudeness is the The Heights iPod/cell phone culture that seems to wan­der through Middle Campus. Recently a stu­dent wrote an editorial that stated wearing an iPod means that you give a sign of emotional unavailability to those around you. 
While I agree with this evaluation of iPods, and I think that they are detrimental to the Boston College community, I feel that cell phones are by far the larger evil. I have yet to sit through a day of classes this semester without hearing someone's cell phone ring. This is incredibly rude to both the professor and to the other stu­dents. A ringing cell phone says that devoting your full attention to the class is beyond you. You cannot possibly sit through biology without being connected to the outside world. 
The solution to the cell phone pestilence is a simple one. Do not bring your cell phone to class. You do not need it during the aca­demic day. Even ifyou remember to turn off your ringer during lectures, sitting talking on your cell during lunch at the Rat is rude. Those around you do not want to hear about your best friend from high school's boyfriend problems. There is nothing ruder than a loud, long cell phone conversation in a public place. Having such a conversation implies that you feel that everyone around wants to know your business, your problems, and your successes. It is not eavesdropping when the conversationalist on both ends of the phone can be heard. By being a loud cell phone talker, you force others to get to know you through your conversa­tions with the distant, not by actually talking to you. Thus, cell phone talking limits your opportunities to meet (really meet) oth­ers at Boston College. 
Cell phones are the beginning of my campaign against rudeness at Boston College. Recently I was on the T when a Boston College student did not give up his seat for a woman with a cane, which I believe to be a worse offense than the cell phone influenza. I chal­lenge everyone to leave their cell phone in their dorm tomorrow. Go the whole day talking with others on our campus, not on Notre Dame's. You will not have to worry about your phone ringing in class or your mother calling to check in. 
Though they may be wireless, we have become chained to our cellular devices. Take the first step in eliminating Boston College's wireless shackles. 
This article originally appeared in the Nov. 22 issue ofthe The Heights, the daily publication at Boston College. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 10 
Tuesday, November 23, 2004 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Animated film captures the soul of Christmas 
By ANNIE ROHRS 
Scene ( :riric 
;\nyonP who has read the book on which "Tiw Polar 1\xprnss" is based should havn high oxpedations for a l"ilm trying to rP-rrnatP tlw magical illustrations that have mad!' Chris Van Allsburg's book into a !"lassie Christmas slory. l>in~ctor Bohert Znnwckis suc­ePnds in thP task. and viewers who know the storv. as well as those who don't, will he ~Pry impressnd with tho quality of visual imagPry, whieh cap­turPs all of tlw actual illustrations from lho book. It. also adds breath-taking visual sPquPnces that. mimic roality whiiP still imparting a fooling of fanta­sy. 
Tlw movie bt~gins with the opnning lirw of tlw book. as the main character, a young hoy hnginning to doubt the nxistnnen of Santa Claus, lies in bed on Christmas 1\vn, 
already on th~ train, who has a quiet confidence in Santa and the wonders of Christmas. The two then befriend a lonely young boy from the wrong side of the tracks who's never had a n~al Christmas. These three, along with a know-it-all who's a little too self­absorbed to appn'leiate the rna! mean­ing of the season, all embark on a jour­ney where they'll eaeh learn a lesson about Christmas and life. 
The characters in the film are clearly not real. but their movements, even down to their facial expressions, so closely mimic real human physicality, while still maintaining the fantastical feel of illustration, that the imagery in the movie seems to blur the line between whimsy and reality. The tech­nique that Zemeckis and Warner Brothers use is called Performance Capture, which involves using comput­erized cameras to digitally capture the actors' live performances down t.o 
every facial 
waiting to lwar twitch, which can
The Polar Express
thn jingln of slPigh be transformed bPils on thn roof. 
into virtual char­lin dril'ts off to acters. slnPp and is· While the story woknn up by the of the Polar 
Director: Robert Zemeckis
sounds of a train Express is magi­
Writer: William Broyles Jr. 
fast-approaching cal in itself, its 
Starring: Tom Hanks, Leslie Zemeckis, 
his front yard. meaning goes
Eddie Deezen and Peter Scolari
Confused but deeper, touching intrigund, the boy on the virtues of jumps onboard the train after the con­friendship and belief. It doesn't simply duetor. one of the many characters fall back on the typical cheery mes­bas11d on Torn llanks' fnatures and sages of Christmas in which all is right sporting his voiee, quickly explains the with the world by the end. The movie, dnstination of the train. as well as the book, clearly depicts the Thn young boy finds a friend in a girl beauty of Christmas while still holding 

Characters, plot lift thriller past mediocre acting 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Critic 
A woman awakens in the middle of a room. She is disoriented, but quickly linds out that shn has a giant mechani­~~al device on lwr head. A television l'lickers on to show a grotesque rnan­rwquin staring bark at hnr. It calmly informs lwr that the deviee will kill lwr in a painful manrwr unlnss she can find a kny, which happnns to be hidden in a 1wrson's body. 
This is orw of' tlw scnnns in the rncent­ly rdnasPd thriller, "Saw." If that scene donsn't sound 
win they will be allowed to live. 
A ripple is tossed in when Dr. Lawrence Gordon (Cary Elwes), one of the two victims, is told that his family is in the killer's possession, and will be killed if he does not kill his cellmate by 6 p.m. Here the two cellmates are left to their own devices and the movie begins to unfold. 
Written by Australian-born James Wan and Leigh Whannell, this movie is not the typical fare from the Land Down Under. It's not exactly a horror movie, and certainly not a slasher. This film could at best be described as a dark thriller. There are the obligatory jump 
scares within the 
interesting, tlwn movie, but most
Saw
llwrP is rPlativPly of the tension is Iit. tie reason to 
created through rontinun reading. the use of sus­This indnpPtHlent pense within the hit. is fillnd with movie. Director: James Wan
similar SCPHPS. Sadly, at times 
Writer: James Wan and Leigh Whannell
and is not for pno· that suspense is 
Starring: Leigh Whannell, Cary Elwes,
piP looking for a not well devol­
Danny Glover and Dina Meyer
light, Pntertaining oped by the actors 
movie. Not sincP llavid l;inchPr's "S11ven" has a l'ilm taken such a bleak view on human exis­tnnce. 
Tlw moviP is cnntnred upon a serial "killer" that doesn't quite lit the dPiini­tion. Technically. he isn't a killer as he nnvPr directly killnd anyonn. lie finds ways f'or his victims to kill thnrnselves or each otlwr. The movie begins with two suc~h potential victims finding them­snlvns loekt)d and chained within a dncrnpit bathroom in some forgotten f'aetory. They are told that they have lwnn chosen to participate in the killer's game, and if' they ean figure out how to 
themselves, but rather the characters that are devel­oped from the film's suspenseful plot. The screenplay writer, Whannell, plays the central figure of Adam and may not have taken a single acting class in his life. lie graduated from a film school in Australia, but from his acting in this film, it would appear that he spent the majority of his time behind the camera rather than in front of it. He did appear in "The Matrix Reloaded," but didn't have the central role he does in "Saw." 
Elwes, a figure better remembered from "The Princess Bride," is the other main lead, Dr. Gordon, and does an only 
onto the realities of the world outside the holiday. The strength of the story lies in its willingness to explore the possibility of a world outside of what we know to be true from within the boundaries of actual human experience and emotion. 
"The Polar Express" succeeds in re­creating the world of Van Allsburg's book, and expands on the power of its unique and incredible illustrations by adding in visually thrilling action sequenens. 

This eannot help but captivate view­ers as the train progresses through the urH.:ertain wilderness towards the North Pole and the wisdom of Santa himself. 
Contact Annie Rohrs at arohrs@nd.edu 

slightly better job. His voice and demeanor is lltting in more light-heart­ed movies, although his acting does improve towards the end. 
The poor acting could be explained through the fact that none or the actors received any compensation for the film. However, this could also be the reason why the writer was also one of the main stars. 

But the majority of the movie's draw comes from the characters, and the sit­uations they arc put into. Even with thn poor acting, the movie draws the viewnr in as it progresses so that by the very end, the viewer is completely immersed within the film. 
Contact Mack Bemenderfer at 
mbemende@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, November 23, 2004 
page 11 
DVD REVIEW 
Murray heads star-studded cast in classy indie film -, 
By CHRIS KEPNER Scene Critic 
"Coffee and Cigan~ttes" began back in 1987 as a six-minute short vignette written and directed by Jim Jarmusch and starring Steven Wright and Huberto Benigni. It's simply a couple of guys enjoying a conversation over the ever-popular and aforementioned vehi­el!~s for caffeine and nicotine. Pleased with tlw result of his effort, Jarmusch filmed 10 more such vignettes over the next 17 years, compiling them into the feature-length gem that is now avail­able on DVD from MGM Home Entertainment. 
"CoiTee and Cigarettes" is a lot like a musical work in eleven movements. While nach vignette can exist quite happily on its own, the opus in its entirety is truly special. Jarmusch con­ducts, setting eleven different scenes for his eleven different groups of musi­cians, but allowing them to improvise cleverly and tastefully over his form. Motifs introduced in the earlier vignettes find their way into later ones in such a way that it becomes obvious that the actors in the more recently filmed vignettes have watched the 

early ones. 
These actors are a part of the audi­ence until their turn to take the stage, at which point they enrich the motifs by reintroducing them in different con­texts. This draws you into the film so effectively that you'II ·lose sight of the fact that you're an outsider, an aspect beautifully enhanced by the overhead shots of the tabletops that are woven into each scene. There are even several shots where the characters glance down at the table from time to time to maintain the casualness or a conversa­tion. 
If this sounds all too techie-go-film­nerdy to you, maybe you'll be interest­ed in the five-star quality ensemble cast. with names like Bill Murray, Steve Buscemi, Iggy Pop. Tom Waits, Cate Blanchett, Alfred Molina and GZA and RZA of Wu-Tang Clan. In fact, the men­tal image alone of Murray improvising a scene with GZA and RZA should be incentive enough to see this film. 
Jarmusch does a spectacular job of mixing moments of poignant reflection into a film built on a foundation of humor. Before you realize it, you'll find yourself contemplating things like wealth, success, status, and the ideas of Nikola Tesla. Nay, some of these 
themes are so subtle at times that you might not even be conscious of their presence, but they'll have their affect on you all the same. 
On the DVD, you'll find hilarious outtakes of Murray's improvisation from his scene with GZA and RZA, as well as a feature on the tabletop shots and an interview with Taylor Mead, but it's not exactly the two-disc, feature-loaded release that you see so often these days. It lacks even a commentary track or an interview from Jarmusch, but maybe his motivations are better left unsaid. Maybe viewers should take what they will from the film without having "the point" spoon-fed to them in such a way 

that completely undermines the per­sonal introspection that should take place whenever a film is watched. 
Since it's an independent film. many will have no trouble passing over "Coffee and Cigarettes." They would be making a terrible mistake. 
Contact Chris Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 
Cage, 'National Treasure' grab box-office gold 
Associated Press 
Nicolas Cage's treasure hunt soaked up more box-office cash than a cartoon sponge. 
Cage's "National Treasuw" debuted as the No. 1 weekend movie with $35.3 million, coming in just ahead of "The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie," which opened in second with $33.5 million, according to studio estimates Sunday. 
After two weekends in the No. 1 spot, the animated superhero tale "The lnrredibles" slipped to third with $26.8 million. The film has made $177.8 mil­lion in three weeks. 
Tom Hanks' Christmas adventure "The Polar l~xpress" came in fourth with $15.2 million in its second week­Pnd. Costing $170 million to make, the moviP has had a cool reception from audiences. taking in $51 million in 10 days. 
After a healthy $8.7 million debut in narrower release of 530 theaters a wonk earlier. H1~nee Zellweger's "Bridget Jones: Thfl Edge of Reason" had a so-so expansion, taking in $10.1 million in 2,450 cinemas. A sequel to thP 2001 romantic comedy hit, the movie came in at No. 5. 
llollywood had a second straight weekend of rising revenues after a slump that lasted most of the fall. The top 12 movies grossed $144.8 million, up 15 percent from the same weekend last year. 
Industry officials hope the strong rev­enues provide a good springboard into Thanksgiving, one of Hollywood's busiest weekends. A crowd of family films -including Tim Allen's "Christmas With the Kranks," opening Wednesday -should prove a powerful draw over the long holiday weekend, said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box-office tracker Exhibitor Relations. 
"With this many family films, it's going to be a bloodbath," Dergarabedian said. '"The Incredibles' is going to be a huge factor, 'Spongy' is going to be a huge factor. Even 'Polar Express,' which people were trashing on, will be a factor because it's a holi­day movie." 
"National Treasure," Cage's fourth collaboration with producer Jerry Bruckheimer. centers on a plot to steal the Declaration of Independence to obtain the hidden clues to a colossal fortune stashed by the Founding Fathers. 
Unlike Bruckheimer action flicks aimed at the adult-male crowd. "National Treasure" has a softer PG rating to appeal to family audiences. The movie drew solidly among all age groups and scored well among women, too, said Chuck Viane, head of distribu­tion for Disney, which released the film. 
"Jerry's core audience goes in look­ing for a great piece of action, and it delivered on that," Viane said. But the PG rating "expands the size of your audience so you get a much bigger spread of folks coming in." 
"The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie" is the first big-screen adventure for the Nickelodeon TV cartoon bottom­dweller. a cheery sponge who lives among his aquatic pals. The movie was generally well-received by critics, unlike "National Treasure." 
A big part of SpongeBob's appeal is that he is eternally optimistic, present­ing a good role model for children, said Wayne Lewellen, head of distribution 


for Paramount. which released the movie. 
In limited release, Pedro Almodovar's "Bad Education" had a stellar opening, grossing $147.366 in three theaters. The movie's convoluted plot centers on the relationship of two boys whose budding romance is destroyed by a jealous priest. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 23, 2004 
NBA 
Chicago retnains -winless -with 100-82 loss to Phoenix 
Associated Press 4:25 lef't in the l'irst half. But points in the final period and a .Joe Johnson hit consecutive 3-26-for-68 night from the floor . 
.­
I'IIOENIX-The Chicago pointers to key a 12-2 spurt to "This team averages over Bulls hPid Phoenix's Amare end the half and give the Suns 100 points a game. But we Stoudemire under 30 points a 65-50 lead at the break. shut them down," Brown said. l'or tlw f'irst time in four "We feel like we lost that "Offensively we were good. but games. It didn't matter. game, or at least the biggest def~;nsively, we was even bet­
Stoudemire and Shawn factor in it, was right before ter. Marion sron~d 21 points apiece the half," Bulls coach Scott Lee Nailon scored 16 points to lead tlw Suns to a 100-82 Skiles said. "We were playing in his first start for the victory Monday night. leaving tough but we had several min­Hornets, who also spoiled the tlw Bulls as tlw NBA's last win­utes where instead of not play­evening for a sellout crowd of less team. ing as well as we have we just 19,911 on the night John 
Bnn Gordon scon~d 20 points fall right off the cliff and come Stockton's No. 12 was retired. f'or tlw Bulls. who matched a unhinged." Memphis 93, San Antonio 90 l'ranrhisn nw.ord for consecu­The Bulls switched to a zone The Memphis Grizzlies tive losses to start a season. dnl'ense early in the third refused to let injuries stop Tlw Bulls opPrwd thn 1 1)(,7-68 quarter and started whittling them. SIHLSOn 0-IJ. away at the lead. Luol Dong Bonzi Wells scored 26 points, 
"I thought the last two had a pair of baskets. Gordon including the go-ahead 3­garnns we showed some added three points and pointer with less than a minute strides," (;ordon said. "But Chicago held th(~ Suns to one left, and Lorenzen Wright had with a tParn like this you have basket over an 8-minute span 10 points and 1 0 rebounds to to maintain it f'or 48 minutes. to pull to 71-61 with three help Memphis beat the San You ran't do it l'or thren quar­minutes left in the period. Antonio Spurs. ters." But .Johnson started a 12-0 "We deserved to win that 
Marion addPd a season-high run with a long jump shot and game," Grizzlies coach llubie I(, rebounds, and Steve Nash Phoenix steadily pulled away Brown said. "This is not a soap had I!i points and six assists after that. opera thing, but we did every­l'or the Suns. who havn won "Wn just knep looking on the thing we had to do to win. f'ivP straight. l'honnix's 9-2 bright side that we are making Everyone did something good rncord -tiPd with Seattle l'or improvmnents out. there but it to contribute." f'irst in tlw Western Conl'erenn~ doesn't take away from the Memphis also got 13 points -is the team's lwst start sin(:n faet we can't get a game right and seven rebounds from IIJIJ7-<JX. now," said Eddy Curry. who Brian Cardinal. 
"Wn an~ prPtty happy about scored 17 points. "It's mentally Tim Duncan led the Spurs where we are and how we and physically draining on with 26 points, and Tony have come together,'' Suns everybody on this team." Parker had 18. Brent Barry eoach Mikn [)'Antoni said. "It's The Suns led by as many as added 12. just how we arn playing. It 26 points in the closing min­"We should have won, but !'nels good and the guys have utes. they outplayed us," Parker good chemistry. There will be New Orleans 76, Utah 75 said. "They had more energy tough times ahead but so far. Darrell Armstrong grabbed and were getting every so good." the game ball from the scoring rebound and every loose ball." Wells said. "We knew we had quarter and lasted just 20 sec­
Stoudemire had become the table and Lee Nailon grabbed Playing without two starters to step up a level." onds. The Wolves didn't lead first Suns frontcourt player coach Byron Scott in a big hug. and a key reserve, the The Spurs had a chance to again until the last few ticks, with four straight 30-point The New Orleans Hornets Grizzlies used a 12-3 spurt to tie on their final possession, when Garnett made a pair games since Charles Barkley in hadn't had anything to cele­end the third quarter with a but Duncan missed a 3-pointer from the line. He'd gotten the 1995-96. The Bulls limited brate for so long, they wanted 71-68 lead. Less than two min­with 2 seconds left. ball off an inbounds pass with Stoudemire's opportunities to make sure they didn't forget utes into the fourth, Memphis "They were much stronger 11 seconds left. Dallas didn't with multiple double-teams anything after holding off the held its largest lead at 75-68. defensively and had a much foul him despite having one to but couldn't cool his shooting Utah Jazz. It was the first win But the Spurs kept the pres­stronger desire to win, espe­give, then Alan Henderson touch. Stoudemire hit his first of the season for the Hornets, sure on and tied the game 87-cially with a couple of their pounded him as he made a l'ive shots before finishing 7-who had opened with eight all on two free throws by Manu best players not there,'' San move to the basket. for-8 from the field and 7 -of-straight losses. Ginobili with just more than a Antonio coach Gregg Popovich After the second shot, Dallas 1 0 from the free-throw line. "We persevered. We won," minute left. Seconds later, said. went to Stackhouse off the 
"Teams are going to try to said P.J. Brown, who had nine Wells hit a 3-pointer to put the Minnesota 83, Dallas 82 right wing, but his 17-footer sag in on me and try to stop rebounds. Grizzlies up 90-87. Kevin Garnett made two free was cleanly stuffed by Hassell. me from scoring, but the good Jamaal Magloire led the "I said if I got a chance, I throws with 5. 9 seconds left The arena went silent and thing about that is I can get Hornets with 20 points and 11 was going to keep my elbow then Trenton Hassell blocked Garnett walked across mid­everybody else involved," said rebounds. tucked and let it fly," Wells Jerry Stackhouse's long court pumping his fist, while Stoudemire, who had five New Orleans gave Utah sev­said. jumper at the buzzer, giving coach Flip Saunders practical­assists to go with six rebounds. eral opportunities to win, but Memphis was without lead­the Minnesota Timberwolves a ly skipped onto the court with 
Phoenix never trailed after the Jazz couldn't convert. ing scorer and rebounder Pau victory over Dallas in the a huge smile. Marion's driving layup put the Andrei Kirilenko missed two Gasol, who missed his second Mavericks' first of several Garnett finished with 21 Suns ahead 12-10 in the first free throws with 4.4 seconds straight game with a sprained games without Dirk Nowitzki. points, 17 rebounds and nine quarter. Marion finished the left and Gordan Giricek's ankle, and starting small for­The Mavericks seemed to be assists, just missing his first period with 10 points as jumper at the buzzer bounced ward James Posey (left foot), doing fine without their top triple-double of the season. Phoenix extended its lead to off the rim, starting the who is on the injured list. scorer and rebounder, going Sam Cassell scored 16, includ­32-24. Hornets' celebration. Stromile Swift, replacing up by 15 early and holding a ing a layup with 4:14 left that 
"We've been out-running "It's like I kept saying. It's Gasol in the starting lineup, 79-67 lead in the final five was Minnesota's first points in people, out-rebounding them," gonna come," said Scott, who left with 5:52 remaining in the minutes. But the more than five minutes, ending Marion said. "We've got so got his first win as Hornets third period after he was acci­Timberwolves, who looked a 17-2 run by the Mavericks many wnapons out there on coach. "We've just got to keep dentally hit in the left eye by lethargic for most of their that seemed to have put them the floor nobody can match up working to get better on the Wright. third straight road trip, never ahead for good. with us." defensive end." "It's good for our confidence. gave up. That's where not having 
Chicago dosed to 50-46 on New Orleans was just fine on We came in short-handed and Minnesota's first lead came Nowitzki hurt. Ahead 79-67, Chris Duhon's 3-pointer with defense, holding the Jazz to 12 without our best players," in the last minute of the third they couldn't finish it off. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
WANTED Female to share great Oakhill condo, start Jan. Grad pre!. 625/m incl. utilities. 238-2368. 
FoR RENT 
MISHAWAKA 2-3 bedroom. 
2.5 bath. 1,200 sq.ft +full basement + 2-car garage. $875/mo. 574-273-9000. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW 
LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­
ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED 
HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT 
NEIGHBORHOODS.SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER. DRY· ERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 OR (574)315-5032. 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from NO MMMRentals.com 532-1408 
6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO NO. WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. AVAIL.NOW. CALL JOE CRIMMINS: 574-229-3659 OR 679-2010. 
NEW 3-4 BEDROOM, 3 BATH. SAFE, CLOSE TO CAM­PUS,2-CAR GARAGE. FIREPLACE, FAMILY ROOM, LARGE DECK. $1,660/MO. CALL 1-57 4:232-4527, OR 1-269-683­5038 
2 bdrm, 1 bth house for rent. 425 Napoleon. Walk to campus $575 p/mo. 273-4682. 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year ­
Available June 1, 2005. 2 Bedrooms -2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System. Fully Furnished. (626)441-1275 or Salvaty@ earthlink.net 
PERSONAL 

LAST DAY! Get one months rent FREE if you sign your lease today. Lafayette Square Townhomes 234­9923. 
SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi Tours I Over 18 years of Spring Break experience! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan· Cameron & Cabo. Organize a group-GO FREEl 800-875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco. Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1­800-678-6386 
Spring Break 2005 with STS. Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Please pray for Mia and her family! 
Fightin Irish 54 Boys of Troy 10 

---~~---~--------~~-~ 
---------------------------------------------------------. 
Tuesday, November 23, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 13 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Hill resigns post at San Jose State 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE. Calif. ~ San Jose State coach Fitz llill resigned Monday with one game left in his fourth straight losing sea­son with the Spartans. 
Hill. one of five black head coaches in Division 1-A, will coach San Jose State's season finale against Fresno State on Saturday. The Spartans are 2­8 this season and 14-32 under Jlill. 
Frustrated with a lack of support from fans, students and the school, he is leaving to become an instructor at Central Florida. Hill, a former Army lieutenant who has a doctoral degree in higher edu­cation, also plans to write a book. 
''I've been through eight months in Desert Storm and four years at San Jose State," Hill said. ''I'm equipped for the next (~hallenge in the world. Nothing can be compa­rable to what I've been through. I've made it out in one piece. I have no regrets. I just wish I could have pro­duced more wins." 
The Spartans have fallen short in several big games during the tenure of Hill, who had never been a head coach before San Jose State hired the former Arkansas assistant in December 2000. 
"It hurts to know he's gone," linebacker Ezekiel Staples said. "He's a father figure. It's like a divorce. It's hard to deal with the fact that he's not going to be around." 
Earlier this month, San Jose State took unbeaten Boise State to double overtime before the Broncos escaped with a 56-49 victory. The Spartans went 6-7 in Hill's second season, beating defending Big Ten champion Illinois but losing two games in the final seconds to ruin their chances at bowl eligibili­ty. San Jose State slipped to 3­8last year. 
This season's highlight was a 70-63 victory over Rice. 
"All I want on Saturday is a victory and a dunk of cold water after the game," Hill said. 
San Jose State's football program has been under scrutiny from the NCAA for weak home attendance. The school's Academic Senate wants the Spartans to leave the Western Athletic Conference, claiming the team's relatively meager budget still uses too much of the school's resources. 
The school has had four presidents in the past two years and athletic director Chuck Bell resigned earlier in the month. 
NBA 

AP Indiana's Ron Artest, left, is escorted off the court by teammates Austin Croshere, middle, and Reggie Miller Friday night. Artest was suspended for the season for his role in the brawl. 
No charges filed yet in NBA fight 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -No charges were filed Monday in the brawl at the end of the Pistons-Pacers game, but if they are, they most likely would be for misdemeanor assault and battery, the county prosecutor said. 
David Gorcyca said the only possible felony charge currently under consideration would be against the person who hurled a chair into the crowd. Authorities did not know the identity of the chair-thrower and were asking the public to help identify that person. 
Gorcyca said investigators 
would continue to review video­tapes and interview witnesses from Friday night's melee before issuing charges. 
The prosecutor did say that John Green, 39, of Oakland County's West Bloomfield Township was the fan who threw a cup that hit Indiana forward Ron Artt:ist and started the brawl at The Palace. The prosecutor himself identified Green ~ who he said was a for­mer next-door neighbor when both lived in the Detroit suburb of Royal Oak -by repeatedly watching footage of the brawl. 
Green told reporters Monday that it may have looked like he threw the cup, but he didn't. 

"I wish the whole thing didn't happen," he told reporters later. ''I'm sure the NBA players that got involved in it wish it never happened, the fans never had wished that it had happened, I know I don't. It was awful, it was ugly." 
Green's attorney, Shawn Smith, said Monday evening that his client only became involved in the brawl when he saw a smaller man getting hit by Artest. 
"We have no comment on who threw the cup, it's irrelevant," Smith said. He said fans should­n't throw things, "but is it a criminal offense? I don't think so." 
NFL 
Vikings' Moss expected back against Jaguars 
Associated Press next month to let the injury him to begin soft tossing calm. He's expected to play Wednesday. A second MRI exam 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. -against the Jaguars, though. was not required. Randy Moss is expected back on Nat Dorsey, who took over at He will miss his third straight the field this week for the right tackle when Mike game Sunday when the Jets Minnesota Vikings, provided his Rosenthal was lost for the sea­play at Arizona. Coach Herman strained right hamstring doesn't son with a foot injury, strained Edwards initially said swell. his right shoulder and might Pennington would be out two to 
Coach Mike Tice said Monday have to miss this week. four weeks, but would not spec­a reasonable plan for Moss in Browns' Tucker out for year ulate Monday when his starter Sunday's game against Right tackle Ryan Tucker is would be back. Jacksonville is 25 plays, mostly done for the season after tear­However, Edwards expects in three-receiver formations. ing a left knee ligament during Pennington back this season. 
Since sustaining the injury Sunday's loss to the Jets, anoth­despite reports he might need Oct. 17 at New Orleans, Moss er devastating loss for the reel­season-ending surgery. twice made token appearances ing Browns. Tucker will have "It's a progression," Edwards without catching a pass and did surgery next week. said. "Everyone's different. He's not dress for the last three The loss of their best offensive a quick healer, he's strong men­games. lineman is another blow to the tally." 
He's still tied for third in the Browns (3-7), who have lost Pennington conceded he NFC with eight touchdown several starters, including rook­might need surgery when th«;J receptions for the Vikings (6-4), ie tight end Kellen Winslow Jr., season ends. who stopped a three-game los­right guard Kelvin Garmon and Mora not ready to rest ing streak by beating Detroit defensive end Courtney Brown Michael Vick and the Atlanta 22-19 on Sunday. to season-ending injuries. Falcons already have posted 
Moss, who has been running Tucker tore his medial collat­some impressive numbers. Just routes on the side for the past eral ligament and sustained wait, says Falcons coach Jim week, looked good in an intense other damage to his knee. He Mora. workout Monday morning to had surgery to repair a torn "We've just scratched the sur­test his strength and anterior cruciate ligament in face of what we can become," endurance. Tice and team the same knee eight years ago. Mora said Monday. trainers want to make sure the Davis said quarterback Jeff At 8-2 the Falcons have a leg doesn't swell on Tuesday Garcia is day to day after injur­four-game lead over Tampa Bay before allowing him to practice. ing his right, throwing shoulder and New Orleans in the NFC He'll be listed as doubtful, for on Sunday. South. They host the Saints next now. Pennington won't play Sunday Sunday and visit the 
"liopefully as the week pro­Jets quarterback Chad Buccaneers on Dec. 5. gresses we'll be able to fix that Pennington will start throwing The only other season the and turn it into questionable, this week for the first time since Falcons won eight of their first probable," Tice said. "We'll straining his right rotator cuff, 10 games was 1998, when they see." but his exact return to the line­advanced to the Super Bowl. 
Pro Bowl center Matt Birk, up is uncertain. Mora says the Falcons have who has been playing with Pennington, injured against no reason to celebrate. intense abdominal pain, might Buffalo on Nov. 7, met Monday "We haven't done anything have to sit out a game or two with his doctors, who cleared yet," Mora said. 

.---------------------------------------------~ 
--------~ 

OUND THE NATION 
page 14 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, November 23, 2004 


AP Women's Basketball Poll 
learn  record  points  
1  Tennessee (32)  2·0  1.111  
2  lSU (13)  4·0  1.088  
3  Georgia  2-0  1,007  
4  Texas  1-1  913  
5  North Carolina  2·0  910  
6  NOTRE DAME  5-0  863  
7  Stanford  2-0  842  
8  Connecticut  1·1  821  
9  Baylor  1-1  711  
10  Duke  3·1  742  
11  Ohio State  3-1  670  
12  Texas Tech  0-0  633  
13  Michigan State  2·0  549  
14  Vanderbilt  1-0  535  
15  Purdue  1·0  467  
16  Kansas State  2·0  393  
17  Rutgers  1-0  389  
18  Minnesota  3-1  378  
'19  DePaul  2·0  337  
20  Boston College  1-1  297  
21  Oklahoma  2·0  245  
22  Maryland  2·0  190  
23  louisiana Tech  0·0  123  
24  Villanova  1-0  100  
25  Arizona  2·1  67  

NFL 

AFC East tnam n~eonl P('\'1~. PF PA New England 9·1 .900 264 171 
NY Jets 7-3 .700 212 165 Buffalo 4-6 .400 180 183 Miami 1·9 .10Q_ 140 210 
AFC North 

team rneord perc. PF PA 
Pittsburgh 9-1 .900 240 161 Baltimore 7-3 .700 204 140 Cincinnati 4-6 .400 183 198 Cleveland 3·7 .300 177 208 
AFC South 

team record perc. PF PA 
Indianapolis 7-3 .700 298 220 Jacksonville 6-4 .600 151 163 Houston 4·6 .400 185 223 Tennessee 4-6 .400 168 197 
AFC West 

team record perc. PF PA 
Denver 7-3 .700 233 167 San Diego 7-3 .700 285 190 Kansas City 3-7 .300 276 265 Oakland 3·7 .300 182 270 
NFC East 

tmtm record perc. PF PA 
Philadelphia 9·1 .900 266 158 NY Giants 5-5 .500 196 172 Dallas 3-7 .300 172 282 Washington 3·7 .300 131 178 
NFC North 

tPam record perc. PF PA 
Green Bay 6·4 .600 256 230 Minnesota 6-4 .600 264 246 Chicago H .400 165 200 Detroit 4·6 .400 183 216 
NFC South 

team record perc. PF PA 
Atlanta 8-2 .800 208 194 New Orleans 4-6 .400 211 288 Tampa Bay 4·6 .400 192 182 Carolina 3-7 .300 196 222 
NFC West 

tHam record perc. PF PA 
Seattle 6-4 .600 230 185 St. louis 5·5 .500 220 254 Arizona 4-6 .400 177 214 San Fran. 1-9 .100 175 296 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL St. Joseph's vs. Kansas 10 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA FooTBALL Bowling Green vs. Toledo 7 p.m. ESPN2 
NFL 

Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY -A half dozen New England Patriots made big plays. None made as many as Tom Brady. 
Brady threw for 315 yards, ineluding a touch­down pass to Deion Branch, and the Patriots beat the Kansas City Chiefs 27-19 on Monday night for their 24th win in 25 games. ~ 
The victory was New England's third straight after its NFL-record 21­game winning streak was snapped in Pittsburgh last month. 
The Patriots (9-1) took 
advantage of the absence of Priest Holmes, out with a knee injury, by shutting down the Kansas City run­ning game for most of the night. 
But Trent Green also took advantage of injuries in the New England sec­ondary, throwing for 381 yards, including TD passes of 65 and 26 yards to Eddie Kennison. The Patriots played without starting cornerbacks Ty Law and Tyrone Poole. 
The second score to Kennison came after Corey Dillon, who had two short touchdown runs, fumbled at the Kansas City 3 as the Patriots seemed 

IN BRIEF 
Clemson and South Carolina 
refuse bowls after fight 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Clemson and South Carolina will not accept bowl bids, punishment for players who brawled toward the end of Saturday's game. . 
South Carolina athletic director Mike McGee said Monday that the Gamecocks' actions on the field were not consistent with the values and ethics of the school. 
"This decision will have a significant financial impact on USC athletics. We will also lose a month of pre-bowl practice," McGee said. "It was a deci­sion that had to be made." 
The brawl, which broke out with about six minutes left in the game, started when Tigers dofensive line­man Bobby Williamson took down South Carolina quartnrbaek Syvelle Newton and appeared to linger too long on top of him. 
South Carolina coach Lou Holtz, in his last game aftnr a 33-ycar career, and Clemson eoach 't'ommy Bowden set to take a 31-13 lead. Instead, Green drove the Chiefs the length of the field to cut their deficit to 24-19 with 6:13 left-a 2-point conversion attempt failed. 
The Chiefs, however, couldn't stop the Patriots, who killed nearly 4 1/2 minutes on a drive that ended with Adam Vinatieri's 28-yard field goal. That almost guaran­teed that the Chiefs (3-7) will miss the playoffs after going 13-3 last season. 
Dillon, who carried 26 times for 98 yards, had two runs for one first down, then Brady, who completed 17-of-26 pass­es, hit Christian Fauria for 14 yards and Branch for 9 yards more. Branch fin­ished with six catches for 105 yards. 
He was one of just many Patriots to make big plays. 
Hodney Harrison stopped a Kansas City threat with an end zone interception in the last minute of the first half; Tedy Bruschi forced a field goal by stuffing Derrick Blaylock on a third-and-1 after a long Chiefs drive in the third quarter; tight end Daniel Graham had two big catches; and David Patten's only reception was a 46-yardcr that set up a touchdown. 
tried to break up the brawl. Eventually, security and police officers were needed to restore order. Fox gets Bowl ChaiJ!pionship 
Series television rigfits NEW YORK -Fox will be the new 
television  home  of  the  Bowl  
Championship Series.  
The  network  and  the  BCS  

announced a four-year, $320 million deal Monday that gives Fox the broad­east rights to the Fiesta, Orange and Sugar bowls from 2007-10 and the national title game from 2007-09. 
ABC has held the broadcast rights to the BCS since college football's major conferences implemented the system to crown a national champion in 1998. 
ABC withdrew from the bidding last week, with network officials saying they were unhappy with the new BCS structure, which added a fifth game. Starting with the 2006 season, the national title game will be played at the site of either the Fiesta, Orange, Sugar and Hose bowls the week after those gamns are played. 

The new structure would allow greater access to the BCS and increase the number of teams involved from eight to 10. 
The national title game will rotate on a four-year basis between the four bowl games. ABC still holds the right<; to the Hose Bowl, and the national title game when it is played at the site, through 2014. Sheffield to have shoulder 
surgery Tuesday 
NEW YOHK -Yankees outfielder Gary Sheflield will have arthroscopic surgery Tuesday on his left shoulder, which didn't improve after two weeks of rehabilitation. 
Shnffield, second to Anaheim's Vladimir Gw~rrero in AL MVP voting, didn't think the rehab went well. Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said Monday. 
"It was still expnriendng problmns," Cashman said. 
Sheflield, 36, eould not raise his h~ft arm for much of the season and was forced to eatch balls at his side. 
Tuesday, November 23, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NFL 


Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Edgerrin James is baek to his old ways. 
Eluding tacklers with knee­buckling cuts and spins, drop­ping his shoulder to finish runs, he's giving the Indianapolis Colts the runner they need to keep defenses honest. 
"He sets the tone for us," coach Tony Dungy said Monday. 
Yet the two-time NFL rushing ehamp has nearly become a forgotten figure this year amid the fanfare of the Colts' record-breaking chases. Peyton Manning is closing in on Dan Marino's record for touchdown passes in a season, receivers are putting up career numbers and the Colts' offense is on pace to score the second­most points in league history. 
James seemed out of the mix until Sunday, when he shred­ded a solid Chicago defense for 204 yards on 23 carries, an astounding average of 8.9. It was the second-best perform­ance of his career and included his first touchdown in five weeks. 
Now, at age 26 and possibly facing free agency after this year, James is re-emerging as one of the league's most dan­gerous runners. He leads the AFC in rushing with 1,081 yards. Only Shaun Alexander of the NFC's Seattle Seahawks has more (1,151 yards). 
James also is averaging a career-high 4.9 yards per carry and tops the conference in yards from scrimmage (1,399). 
"Everyone on this team knows the importance of Edgerrin and knows exactly what No. 32 is capable of doing," Manning said after Sunday's win. "The people in the AFC know for sure." 
If opponents think they've witnessed this act before, they have. 
James won rushing titles in 1999 and 2000, when he also strung together back-to-back seasons with more than 2,000 total yards. 
Everything changed midway through the 2001 season, when James tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee. 
Now James, like Manning and the Colts' offense, is on the brink of history. Should he win the conference rushing title, the four-year gap between title runs would be the longest in AFC history. Seattle's Curt Warner holds the record after winning rushing titles in 1983 and 1986, long before the Seahawks switched confer­ences. 
James' approach is different this time. 
He now acknowledges the sideline is his friend. Although he still despises taking plays off, he says it has made him a stronger runner late in the season. 
Sunday's game was an exam­ple of that new philosophy. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Trojans top BCS, Sooners close 2nd 
Associated Press 
USC and Oklahoma are one and two, and in control. 
Southern California vs. Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl appears to be three victories away -two by USC and one by the Sooners. 
USC and Oklahoma held the top two spots in the Bowl Championship Series standings on Monday, leaving little doubt that they are in control of the national title race. 
Unbeaten Auburn is stuck in third place behind the first­place Trojans and second-place Sooners. The Tigers look as if they'll be the team left out of the Orange Bowl no matter how they do in the Southeastern Conference championship game on Dec. 4 against Tennessee. 
USC finishes the season against Notre Dame on Saturday and UCLA on Dec. 4. The Sooners still have to play the Big 12 title game against either Iowa State or Colorado. 
Only an unexpected loss or a dramatic shift in the polls, where USC is a solid No. 1 and Oklahoma holds a slight advan­tage over Auburn for second, could derail a Trojans-Sooners match up. 
"I think it will all work itself out," Auburn coach Tommy Tuberville said. "Hopefully, everyone is fair about it. All the teams will make their final statement next week." 
Not only did Oklahoma, with a BCS grade of .9642, slightly increase its lead over Auburn (.9356) from last week to .0286, but the Sooners also made a big gain on USC. 
The Trojans' .9789 grade is their lowest of the season. Their lead on Oklahoma is down to .0147. 

"It's good. You feel like you fought hard to be in that posi­tion," Oklahoma eoaeh Bob Stoops said. "Like I said before, in the end I don't know how you separate [the contenders]. When you look at strength of schedule and those things, those are making a difference. But,we'II see how it all plays out. 
USC was idle last week while Oklahoma was shutting out Baylor 35-0 on Saturday. Auburn trailed at the half before beating Alabama 21-13. 
California (.8504) is in fourth place, Texas (.8301) fifth and Utah (.8172) sixth. 
The Utes (11-0) finished their season on Saturday with a 52­21 win over Mountain West Conference rival BYU, all but ensuring themselves of being the first team from a non-BCS conference to play in a BCS game. 
Teams from outside the BCS conferences need to finish in the top six of the final BCS standings to guarantee a spot in one of the four big-money bowl games. 
Boise State is seventh, keep­ing alive the possibility that the BCS could have two mid-major teams in it this season. The unbeaten Broncos (10-0) of the Western Athletic Conference have a grade of .639 and one game left against Nevada. 
Boise State would need to make a big jump and get some help in the form of losses by Texas or California. The Longhorns play Texas A&M on Friday and Cal plays at Southern Mississippi on Dec. 4, making up a game postponed by a hurricane in September. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hawkeyes soar past Louisville in Maui Invite 
Associated Press 
LAHAINA, Hawaii -Iowa stayed close in the first half against Louisville on Monday in the opening round of the Maui Invitational. The Hawkeyes dominated the next 20 minutes. 
Jeff Horner scored 11 points in a 4 1/2-minute span of the second half, part of a nine­minute stretch when Iowa held 
·~··.u~ ; •• '* s dl R.r.t...-a. r . .,"'.""" Sdl•• f;x u, ''" lQ
L... r ;.:,...,. r!4 .. 1"\,..-....,lu 
Mlrl G!>ll ::.Oo·•• Gi"o. So~"
1, ... ., H...... f' .. ..d l. a,.,. I( tt-8cr•. "Jo-ii-1 
Mk,......,••••u.<l ;.,,_..,.lf-····;1 ~~ J(..:.. .. t. 
.r-:4 !"till JL (''lt!,.,.__..( 1rr.I~J... 
Ph.,,;.:~. f.!-:"T~-t"' 
•.:~.;_;~}~'>,.:. ~:J'.t,oJ :··~. 'l--·-~· :...'f.r..,: 
-w., :I Sc!trJo:!u &tU1 Gt'-u"'•·.-11 C-orhd'~<l Cokk. TV 
§h~ ·.>.~":/ :: :-.:...~. =:., 
o'\u.J l!,{{,..j .. ~yf:Y~_., 
l'l!lrz:.·.,u·...-=>.J L 'X! r-. ·Ccnte-..s 

No. 12 Louisville without a field goal, and the Hawkeyes went on to a 76-71 victory. 
"I thought in the second half we performed extremely well," Iowa coach Steve Alford said. "I thought our defense went to another level and we executed offensively." 
That happened after a chal­lenge from the coach to his players. 
"At halftime I told them we were down four points to a team that shot 61 percent. I told them they weren't going to shoot 61 percent again so we had to step up, concentrate and play defense," Alford said. "I really challenged Jeff, Adam [Haluska] and Pierre [Pierce]. I wouldn't trade those three guys for anybody and I thought in the first half they weren't them­selves. They did what we knew they would, they responded to the challenge." 
Now Iowa (2-0) will play No. 15 Texas in the semifinals on Tuesday. The Longhorns (2-0) beat Chaminade 84-62 on Monday. 
Juan Palacios scornd inside with 11:39 to play to give Louisville (1-11 a 4R-42 lead. 
That was the Cardinals' last field goal for nine minutes as Iowa went up 6 7-56. Louisville missed 10 shots in that span and managed just eight points, all on free throws. 
"Give them all the credit, they played a much better second half," Louisville coach Rick Pitino said. "We played a good first half and then did not run our offense efficiently, did not get as much enjoyment out of our passing and they did a much better job on defense in the second half." 
Meanwhile, Horner, who fin­ished with 18 points and six assists, went on his own scoring binge. The 6-foot-3 junior hit a 3-pointer with 11:18 left and added two more in his 11-point run. Both of those gave Iowa the lead, the second for good at 55-52 with 7:39 to play. 
"We knew we needed some­thing and as one of our leaders I felt I had to step up," Horner said. "Once I hit those shots I rould feel everybody step up, especially on defense." 
The llawkeyes got the lead up to 11 points before Larry o·Bannon finally hit a shot for Louisville, a jumper that made it 67-58 with 2:39 to play. 

Louisville led 34-30 at half­time and neither team was up by more than six points until Iowa's defense forced Louisville's drought. The Hawkeyes did a good job on the perimeter and inside. By deny­ing baskets, they never allowed Louisville to set up its press. 
"If you don't rotate early enough on Horner he'll kill you and we could not defend their dribble penetration," Pitino said. "He killed us with some big shots." 
Pierce added 16 points for Iowa and Greg Brunner had 13 points and 10 rebounds. Haluska had 14 points for Iowa and was 7 -for-9 from the free­throw line while the rest of the team went 17-for-29. Erek Hansen had six rebounds and five blocked shots for Iowa. 
"Our bigs stepped up," said Brunner, one of Iowa's front­court players. "We took it to heart. We're not as big or as tall as tlwy are but I thought we played a big game." 
Francisco Garcia had 17 points for the Cardinals, who rinislwd 7 -for-23 from 3-point rang<'. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 23, 2004 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Holtz steps dow-n, Spurrier expected to lead Ga111ecocks 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA. S.C. -As South Carolina coach Lou Holtz lef't the game he's cherished for :n seasons, he couldn't resist poor­mouthing himsPlf one last time. 
"What am I qualified to do? I don't know. maybe carry the cord" of tlw coach's lwadset, lw joked Monday. 
lloltz, who could make play­ing Navy sound tougher than playing the Dallas Cowboys, stnppnd into retirement and elearnd the way for the (1anweorks to introducn Stnve Spurrinr as his replacement Tuesday. 
The 6 7-year-old lloltz goes out with 249 victories, eighth most in Division 1-A, and a rep­utation for turning stumbling programs into winners. At each of his six schools -William & Mary, North Carolina State, Arkansas, Minnesota, Notre Dame and the Gamecocks -Holtz wont to bowl games by his second season. 

His greatest accomplishment came in 1988, when he led Notre Dame to the national title only three seasons after the dis­astrous Gerry Faust era ended. 
"Lou Holtz has been one of thn gn~at coaches in college football history." said Florida State coach Bobby Bowden, the winningest coach in Division I. "lie has brought a lot to the game and has coached some great teams. It will seem strange without him." 
I lis latest reconstruction proj­ect at South Carolina was near­ly as remarkable. lie eame out of retirement in 1998 at 61 to rebuild the Gamecocks. After going 0-11 his first season in Columbia, Holtz brought South Carolina to its best two-year mark in history (17 -7) and won consecutive Outback Bowl victo­ries. 
"I don't know where I'm going to go. I don't know what I'm going to do. I have faith in the Lord to let him lead me. As long as my family's with me, every­thing else will be OK," Holtz said. "But I do feel confident leaving here that the football program is on a firm founda­tion." 
Spurrier will be introduced at a news conference Tuesday, a university official eonfirmed to The Associated Press on condi­tion of anonymity Monday night. 
Holtz didn't mention Spurrier by name, but said his replace­ment "was a very well known, proven winner -that I play golf with." 
lloltz worried that his reputa­tion would be damaged by his last game, a 29-7 loss to Clemson that included an ugly brawl. 



NFL 

Blaylock grows up in Kansas City backfield 
Associated Press NFL linebackers were not as undaunted. lie just kept plug­imposing as one-time Pro ging, spending his spam time 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The Bowler Marveus Patton. working on his own music labPI first thing Derriek Blayloek saw "I was glad to see that none of called DMBG 1%5. was the last thing he needed to them were that big. I was prntty Sonw athletes just stroll out of see. small and I was like, 'Oh, I hopo college onto eenter stage. Some 
There in the doorway stood not all of them look like that,'" stand in the shadows and seize about 240 pounds of thiekly lay­lw said. their moment when it finally ered musde, a chiseled granite But they were all bigger than arrives. statue wearing shoulder pads the 5-foot-9 Blaylock. And so, Blaylock turned heads by and a tight-fitting jersey. quietly and with great patience, scoring four touchdowns 
What's a scared rookie run­the fifth-round draft pick out of against Atlanta last month after ning back on his first day of Steven F. Austin began learning llolnws went out with a sore minieamp to think? everything he could about tho ankle. Then last week at New 
"I was thinking, 'Are all line­art and seience of the NFL run­Orleans, given his first chance backers like this in the NFL?'" ning back. to start, Blayloek erupted for Blayloek recalls four years later. "Once I got going on the prac­186 yards in the fifth-best day "I was in great awe." tice field and saw the speed of for a r·unner in Chiefs history. 
A few minutes later, feeling the game, I was like, 'OK, I Could he have eome just 14 decidedly undersized, Blaylock really can play this game at a yards short of 200 as a rookie? was introduced to his Kansas higher level,'" Blaylock said. "1 don't think so," Blaylock City teammate with the When the Chiefs used their said. "It takes time to mature, weightlifter's physique. A short first-round pick in 2003 on to be able to read those blocks time after that and to his great Penn State running back Larry the offensive line and everybody relief, he learned that, no, most Johnson, Blaylock was is setting up. It takes time." 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hoosiers w-ant to get back to winning form 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indiana Hoosiers have waited more than eight months to prove last year was an aberra­tion. 
They'll finally get a chance to show it Tuesday night against Indiana State. 
"Everybody is anxious to go out and show that our record will be better, that our play will be better," guard Marshall Strickland said. 
Coach Mike Davis has already made changes this year. lie has new coaches, a highly ranked recruiting class and the players are deter­mined to make amends for their first losing season in 34 years. 
Game 1 will be the first indi­cation of whether anything changes on the court. 

Indiana State (1-0) has upset Indiana the last two times the schools met, including a 63-60 victory in the ehampionship of the 1999 Indiana Classic. That ended the Hoosiers' tourna­ment winning streak at 51 games. 
Davis, then an assistant coach, hasn't forgotten those final minutes when the Hoosiers were frantically try­ing to rally. 
"It was miserable," Davis said. "Whenever you lose to a mid-major team at home, it's miserable. Every loss is mis­ery. I'm trying to think, I can't ever remember having a happy loss." 
The next year -Davis' first season as head coach ­Indiana State again beat the Hoosiers, this time when Michael Menser hit two 3­pointers in the final seeonds. 
GOLF 

Sorenstam legacy growing 
Associated Press 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. ­The biggest challenge for Annika Sorenstam is setting goals. 
She already is in the World Golf Hall of Fame, inducted a year ago at the ripe old age of 
33. She completed the career Grand Slam last year by win­ning the Women's British Open. She won for the 50th time on the LPGA in April. She would like to win three more majors to give her 10, but only because that sounds like a nice number. 
"Because I have come so far in my career, [there'sJ nothing that is still out there," Sorenstam said. 
Maybe she's not looking far enough. 
Two years ago, when she won 11 times on the LPGA Tour, Sorenstam said she wasn't interested in chasing Kathy Whitworth's career record of 88 victories. At the time, she was­n't even halfway there. 

But when Sorenstam ended another amazing season Sunday -eight wins despite playing only 18 times on the LPGA Tour -she had 56 career victories and was No. 5 on the list. 
"I never thought 88 was pos­sible, and I'm still so far away from it," she said. "I just won­der if I can continue on this pace. If I don't continue on this pace, there's no way. If it does happen, obviously that would be just be incredible." 
The Swede repeated that 88 wins is not among her goals ­yet. 
"Maybe if I reach 75," she said. "But then you've still got another 13, and that could take five years. I don't know. It really sounds so impossible. I guess you should never say 'never.'" 
The record still seems out of reach, but much more reason­able considering her dominance of women's golf. 
When she captured the ADT Championship in a playoff at Trump International, it gave Sorenstam 33 victories over the last four years _ more than Hall of Famers Beth Daniel and Juli Inkster have won in their careers. 
"I don't think people realize how hard it is to do what Annika has done," Cristie Kerr said. 
Two more years like that, and Sorenstam might find herself closer to Whitworth than she ever dreamed. 
No one works harder than Sorenstam. No one produces better under pressure. 
She was third in driving dis­tance, and led the LPGA Tour by hitting 79 percent of her greens in regulation. Her aver­age score was 68. 70, 1.29 strokes ahead of Grace Park. The only reason Sorenstam did­n't win the Yare Trophy was because she didn't play the minimum 70 rounds. 
"I try not to think about when will my streak end," Sorenstam said. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, November 23, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
events that year. 
NFL
"While at Notre Dame, I
Distance 
learned how hard one must continued from page 20 work to reach an elite level of running," Shay said. "I've title at the U.S.A. marathon in learned the sacrifices that must 2003 followed by wins at the be made to become a national 
U.S.A. llalf Marathon and the champion." 
U.S.A 20k championships. As a runner for noth the 
With his victory at the U.S.A. cross-country and track and marathon, Shay became the field teams from 1998-2002, youngest U.S. men's marathon Shay received All American winner in 30 years. Moving honors in each season he com­from a 10.000 meter distance peted. In addition, Shay holds 
(6.2 mil£~s) to the 26.2-mile the school record in the 5.000 marathon required some and 10,000 meters. adjustment for Shay. Besides his personal success, 
"The thing with the marathon Shay comes from a very athletic is it's so unpredictable," Shay family. His sister holds the said. "Guys can come out of 25,000-meter record for 14­nowhere, you never know." year olds and his brother 
At Notre Dame, Shay aecumu-recently ran to victory at the 
r lated a host of honors and indi­Michigan state championship. vidual records. In 2001 Shay was thn national 1 0,000-meter champion and also captured All Contact Steve Coyer at American honors in three scoyer@nd.edu 
and comes off the ball hard," Quinn said of the USC defense.
Offense· 
'They get in the passing lanes a continued from page 20 lot and the defensive backs stick on the receivers and have great 
We have beat some top ranked speed. teams (Michigan and Tennessee) "You try to get long drives. and showed that we can hang Move the ball and have the ball with anybody."· for a. long time, keep the ball out 
The Trojans are by far the top of their hands by not turning it offensive team on Notre Dame's over and just keeping time of 
Associated Press Neale was 66-44-5 and 3-1 . Sunday, but it's clear the schedule in 2004. Led by offen­possession in our favor." 
in the playoffs from 1941-50, absence of Randy Moss has sive coordinator Norm Chow, While USC is ranked No. 1 in 
Philadelphia is all alone in including three straight severely handicapped them. USC has the nation's seventh­the BCS as well as both human 
the NFC Eastern Division crowns and With Moss back ... maybe~ best scoring offense at 3 7.1 polls, the Trojans are certainly 
The only thing that can keep NFL championships in 1948 But also maybe the Packers, points a game. not invincible. Stanford led USC 
the Philadelphia Eagles from and 1949. Reid doesn't pay simply because of Brett Favre, With a I leisman contender in by 11 points at the half, and 
the Super Bowl this season is attention to his spot in the who brought them back in Matt Leinart at quarterback and California managed a first-and­
their own psyche. record book. Houston on Sunday night, in a pair of punishing running goal late in the fourth quarter 
Not necessarily because they "I haven't thought about it part due to the Texans' prevent backs in Reggie Bush and but could not get into the end 
are the best team in the NfL -­much," Reid said. "Maybe offense. Green Bay has won LenDale White, the Trojans have zone for a winning touchdown as 
they are one of the three or when I'm older I can look back five straight and might scare proven to be one of the most it fell to USC 23-17 on Oct. 9. 
four best. on it. Right now, you've got Philly --last season, the dominating all-around offensive "You have to give Leinart as 
But they are so clearly the that washing machine going Eagles had to convert a fourth­teams in the country -the many looks as possible, move 
best team in the NFC that the around and around. We're just and-26 to beat them in the Trojans throw for 255.3 yards a around and keep the oll'ense off­
only way they won't get to trying to get ready for the next playoffs. game and rush for 179.5 yards balance," Goolsby said of how 
Jacksonville is if they get shaky game. All that other stuff is But these Eagles have what per game. the Irish needed to play to have 
during the playoffs at the kind of hog.wash right now." those Eagles didn't in Owens. "They have many great success against the Trojans in 
thought of what might happen Everything is hogwash if they He's not only a physical weapons, and the quarterback the same way that California and 
if they lose a fourth straight don't get to the Super Bowl. force, but a mental one. His !Matt Leinart] has great speed," Stanford did. "Both [California 
conference title game. The 10-game mark is usually antics hide a fiercely competi­Irish linebacker Mike Goolsby and Stanford] came in fired up 
Andy Reid is trying to get his the start of the run for playoff tive -athlete and his personality said. "[Heggie] Bush is a hard and never gave up. Those teams 
veterans to understand that berths and playoff positioning. may be a good thing for the guy to cover especially for a line­took a similar attitude a<; we did 
and stay away from cruise con­That's certainly true in the team, defusing tension from backer, but the thing we have to to Tennessee. 
lrol. AFC, where New England and the enormous expectations. keep in mind is where he is The Irish have even more rea­
"They've had home-field Pittsburgh are on course for On Sunday, he had only two going, he will beat us in a foot son to be pumped for Saturday's 
advantage, they've had the bye postseason byes, and receptions against Washington, race. game, as both recent contests 
week, they understand how Indianapolis, San Diego, but one was a 10-yard TD that "The best thing to do is to get a between the two tnams have 
important that is," the coach Baltimore and Denver all har­broke open a 7-6 game. handle on what they are trying been decisive USC victories. The 
said Monday. "I would bank on bor hopes of getting hot AFC to do." Trojans defeated Notre Dame 
those guys, the veteran guys enough to make it to In the AFC, right now, the Yet for all of the Trojans' offen­44-13 in 2002, and the Irish 
that have been through that, Jacksonville. Steelers (9-1) are top-seeded sive success this season, USC's were routed 45-14 last 
kind of keeping the message But the NFC is in such bad team by virtue of their win real weapon might be an under­season. But the· Irish aren't living 
alive in the locker room. It's shape the Giants (5-5), who over New England. But that's rated and under-advertised in the past. 
very important to push your­have lost four of five and are no lock. defense. USC's defense is the sec­"LWeJ never dwell on it, those 
self through the whole year." playing for the future with Eli Pittsburgh looked shakier ond-best in the nation in scoring games are in the past, and we 
If the Eagles win at the Manning at quarterback, are Sunday in winning its eighth average, allowing 11.6 points per must just move forward and 
Giants on Sunday, they take only a tiebreaker out of the straight than at any time dur­game and giving up more than attack this game," Irish defensive 
their fourth straight NFC East final wild -card spot. ing the streak. And Ben 20 points in one game this sea­end Kyle Budinscak said. 
crown. Even if they lose at the Yes, Atlanta (8-2) is only a Roethlisberger looked as much son, against Stanford in a 31-28 
Meadowlands, it won't be game behind the Eagles for a rookie in his eighth start as Trojans victory on Sept. 25. Contact Justin Schuver at 
much longer before they clinch home-field advantage in the Manning did in his first, get­"The front four is very athletic jschuver@nd.edu 

the division, with plenty of playoffs, but the Falcons are a ting sacked seven times by the time to get ready and healthy work in progress, a team rely­Bengals. for the playoffs. ing almost solely on Michael "I wasn't flustered, just dis­
They are 9-1 for the first Vick's legs. They easily could appointed in my play," he said.
No cover 
time since 1980, when they have lost Sunday to Manning "But it's a sign of a good team opened 11-1 and went to the and the Giants if not for a very when you can win when you
ever 

Super Bowl. They have the questionable late penalty flag. don't play well." 
with 

offensive playmaker they've NFC. Granted. And granted that lacked in Terrell Owens. Philadelphia is clearly the both Roethlisberger and the
studentiU 
Reid has 66 career victories, most talented team in the con­Steelers were bound for a let­tying him with Greasy Neale ference, even when compared dClwn after knocking off the for most in team history. Since to Atlanta, an ordinary team if unbeaten Patriots and Eagles,
~1 Sports ~ar itt South ~ettd 
he was hired in 1999, he has an opponent can figure out a then winning a grudge match gone 5-11, 11-5, 11-5, 12-4 way to shut down Vick. The over Cleveland. The Patriots and 12-4. Giants did that in the second rebounded nicely from their 
2046 South ~ettd Ave ~ Across frott1 Martitts Plaza 
272~1766 

half Sunday, when the Falcons bad game in Pittsburgh and had just 65 yards in offense there is no reason to believe and Vick, who had 53 yards the Steelers can't do the same. 
NU Football Headquarters 
Ottlitte sports ittfo 
rushing on the first TD drive The difference in confer­
"G-reat Food, G-reat Furi' 
alone, was sacked twice and ences is the four three-loss Mon: Monday Night Football 
ran for just 13 yards. teams trailing the top two in Perhaps that means the AFC.
TUES: COLLE&E Nttflf ~ UJ ~ SPECIALS (SfAlfiNt Af $1,0OJ 
Minnesota or Green Bay, tied Indianapolis has the most Wed: ff(IVIA Night ~ 'rittg your teattts ~ Prizes · 
for the lead in the North at 6-potential because the defense 4, is the principal challenger to is improving. It allowed just
THUU: UJ ~ FllSf THUU11A.Y EVElY MONffl: JASSV &RAZZ 
Philly. 224 yards Sunday, making its
Fri: Live [tttertaitttttettt 
The. Vikings broke a three­total 818 (273 a game) in the Sat: NU gatttes 
game losing streak by barely three games since it allowed beating Detroit at home 590 yards and 45 points in
Sutt: Sports ~ 1.f screetts 
CD/125'9-:1000 for more detD/ls 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 23, 2004 
Rains 
continued from page 20 
20-4 run that would oxtond into thn sn<:ond half. 
"Basknlhall is a ganw of runs, nspPdally towards the !md of the lirst half," Dull'y said. "It looked likn tlwy wPrP gPtting tin~d so we wantnd to knPp playing our up­tl'rn po ganw." 

Tlw Irish wPnt into tlw half with a :ll-2:l load and would rwvnr look ba("k, as <:Pntnr Tnrnsa Borton pul up livn straight points at thn hnginning of tho sneond half to lwlp llw Irish pull away with a :{6-2:i margin. 
"An nxpPriPrH"Pd tnam like they havo, expnrinnct•d point guard. grnat playPr in Batloasl -they do a nien job," Hams eoach Chris Dnnkor said. "They've already startnd to gnl this early in the Sl11tSOn." 
Tlw Irish rngistnrnd 20 steals for the ganw and totaled 38 points off of 29 Colorado State turnov•ws. 
But for Notre Dame, the real 
spark came from Erwin. Iter 12 
points worn one point away from 
a career high. 
"Overall I think Crystal Erwin just gave us a great lift," McGraw said. "I thought she played a grnat game oiT the bench. She ·.i ust gives us that em~rgy when shn eomes in the game. It's really, really important for our team attitude -I think she gives us a toughrwss that we nend and an 
enthusiasm. too." 
With Baltl~ast often l"aeing a 
double team, Erwin was loft open 
on a number of occasions, going 
4-lilr-5 from the linld in the lirst 
hall", and (>-lilr-9 on the gamn. 
"I think I'm always looking to 
be a spark oil' the bench." Erwin 
said. 
Thn next game will be a horne­
coming of sorl<> for Erwin. as she 
returns to her native Calili>rnia 
with the rnst of the Irish squad to 
challenge Southern Calililrnia on 
Friday night. for Notrn Dame's 
lirst road game of the season. 
"Time to hit the road -we're 
rnady," McGraw said. 
Notes 
+ 
This is the fourth time this season that the Irish have regis­ten~d three or more players scor­ing in double dif,rits. 

+ 
The Irish start 5-0 for the first time since their 2000-01 national championship run, which is also thn last time the tnam played 5 games in 11 days. 

+ 
Jacquoline Battnast tied her career-high in assists with seven. lil tho 2004 season she has totaled 24 assists and only 7 turnovnrs. 

+ 
Batteast was namnd the Big East Confnrence Playnr ol" tho Wonk. After averaging 21.5 po.ints. 5 rebounds and 4.3 assists per game while shooting 


50.7 perfect from the linld. 
NOTRE DAME 69, COLOHADO STATE 47 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTHE DAME (5-0, 0-0) Batteast 4-12 6-914, LaVere :{-8 1-2 7, Borton 3-6 3-3 9, Duffy 4-9 6-6 15, Gray 1-4 0-0 3, Allen 2-7 2-2 

6. Powers 0-1 0-0 0, Tsipis 0-0 0­0 0, D'Amico 1-2 1-2 3, Erwin 6-9 0-2 12. 
COLOHADO STATE (1-1, 0-0) Dennett 0-3 1-2 1, Thomas 6-11 0-0 12, llunter 3-10 0-0 7, Espinzoa 3-9 2-2 8, Walseth 1-5 0-0 3, Squam 0-0 0-0 0, Kramer 0-3 0-0 ~). Nohr 0-0 0-0 0, O'Dwyer 1-2 0-0 2, Tor-Agbidyn 4-4 0-0 8, Moulton 0-2 (>-8 6. 
1st  2nd Total  
NOTHE DAME  31  :{S  69  
Colorado State  23  24  47  

3-point goals: NotrP Dame 2-8 (Duffy 1-4. (;ray 1-1, l'owors 0-1, LaVere 0-1. AIIPD 0-11, Colorado State 2-13 (Walseth 1-5, Hunter 1-4, Espinoza 0-2. Kramer 0-1. O'Dwyer 0-1). Fouled out: Nono. Hebounds: Notre Dame 3(> (Batteast 91. Colorado State 36 (Thomas 10). Assists: Notre Dame 18 (Batteast 71, Colorado State 12 (Walseth 4). Total fouls: Notre Dame 13, Colorado State 19. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles looking for first win of the year 
sonior Erka Sewell lnad the two 
By KEN FOWLER 

oiTnnses in scoring. Boyce post­Sports Writer 
ed an impressive pnrl"ormance in tho loss Saturday, seoring 22 The BPIIes are hoping history points ofT the bendi on 8-of-12 will repeal itsPII" tonight. from tho linld. The Bnlles will 
Last year, al"ter losing to hav!~ to expect an equally llanovnr and Franklin in tlw impressivo performance two ganws of th n Tip-01'1" tonight. as Sewnll eomes in Classic, Saint Mary's took on a averaging 26 points and 14.5 tough out-of-conference rebounds in her first two Manchestnr learn and came gamns. away with its first win of the Belles forward Bridget Lipske, season. who had 1 0 assists on Saturday, 
This year. wming oll"consecu­will haVf~ tho defensive task of tive <Ideals in the Tip-Off limiting Sowell's production. Classie to tlw same two oppo­One of Lipske's main goals will rwnts. Saint Mary's hopes for a be to curtail Sewell's effective­win against the Spartans. ness off the offensive glass. In 
llowever. after two games of the first two games, Sewell shooting woes, tho Bnllns must scored 23 of her points on sec­be on' largd from the finld if ond-chance opportunities. The tlwy except to challenge tlw BP!Ies cannot alford to give the Spartans. Spartans any extra chances. 
Mandwstnr's defense held IU­Last yoar, they achieved that Norlhwest to just 23-pnrcent goal, keeping Sewell to just two field goal percentage in its S!~a­oll"ensive boards and preventing son-opPning win on Friday. The her from oponing other oppor­Spartans then tore through tunities for her teammates ­Illinois Tm~h. 77-49, on Saturday she had no assists. Saint Mary's to dinch tlw Tip-011" Classie lith held the remaining opening In hoth games. Manchestor starters to the 27 points. lookml impn~ssive on tlw court. Topping an excellent defensive 
The Spartan defense has only performance last year, the allowed !llle opposing player to Belles held the Spartan bench to roach double-digits in scoring in just 8 points. the first two games. The Belles Saint Mary's looks to garner will try to counter tho Spartans' its 11rst win of the year at the defensive prowess with good Angela Athletic: Center at 7 p.m. passing and a balanced attack. 
As far as th!~ oll'onsive match­ups, B!dles sophomorn guard Contact Ken Fowler at Bridget Boyce and Manchester kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

GEOFF MATTESONrThe Observer 

Chris Quinn shoots a free throw during the game against Harvard on Sunday. The Irish will face Indiana-Purdue at Fort Wayne. 
tonight's way out of reach. preaches to his team -a high Though the Irish did not lind a basketball IQ.
IPFW 

third major scoring threat, "I do like some of the things continued from page 20 shooting guard Chris Quinn and we had to do at the ond of the Thomas led the way in points game," Brey said. "You ean Mastadons won their next two (Quinn 20, Thomas 17) and min­always learn from game pres­against Savannah State, 71-60, utes (Quinn 38, Thomas 39). sure and having to deal with and Grand Valley State, 61-54, to Quinn led all scorers and com­game situations, stull" you work move their record to 2-1. mitted zero turnovers while on in practice but with the lighl<> Center David Simon averaged making six steals. on, it's dill'ernnt. That can help 
18.0 poinls and 9.8 rebounds to Notre Dame did glean positive us." lead IPFW last season, but lessons from the doser-than­Simon has not seen the court this expednd victory, dosing out the season. In the 6-foot-1 0 center's game with poise and displaying Contact Pat Leonard at absence, Butler leads the team what head coaeh Mike Brey pleonard@nd.edu 
in points (15.0) and rebounds 
....-,..,.,...,=::-=~-=-"""'-,....,..--_----------------, (12.7) p11r game. 
Clear Coat
The Mastadons have three 
FF · 
games under their belt, while 

•Premium Soft Cloth
Notre Dame has just one. The 

OUR 
Wash
Irish learned Friday not to undernstimate an underdog. 

~~~~~~ • Polish-n-Sea/er
"You give a team a chance to 

BESTWax Applied
get back in the game and they're going to do it," Irish point guard • 2-Step Underbody Chris Thomas said. 
II!W~~A~-~~~~~~~~~~~~ Protectant 52694 state Road 933
But Notre Dame showed 

•Spot-Free South Bend, Indiana 46637 1
glimpses against llarvard of 

. 2 mi North of NO
81 1

potential to put games like I Rtnse Offer good at the South Bend 1ocat1on only I 
~-~ fJII:II WM--.,.,. ... +IIU<--... ---..------,.... "¥W--------~ 
#20 IRISH MEN'S BASKETBALL #5 Men's Soccer vs. Winner
IM vs. IPFW at 7:30 pm 
ofMemphis vs. Ohio State 
~ Joyce Center Arena 
at7pm A
• One lucky Notre Dame student will have a chan·ce to hit a . . . . ... ·"half-court shot to win tuition for a year 
Alumni Field ~, 
'f.LEGION sponsored by Hacienda 
• First 100 Notre Dame students receive • Notre Dame Porn Squad will be performing at half! 
free admission to the game
• Find a Notre Dame student not going to the game and use their student ticket! Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promotional information 
Tuesday, November 23, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD
SCOTT ADAMS 
JUMBLEDILBERT 

MIKE ARGIRION 

~----------------~0~----------------~
.5 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME

f1 
"' by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
MY PR.OGR.ESS HAS YOU CAN TAKE MY
I.E. EVER.YTHING I 
~
BEEN THWAR.TED BY SOUL BUT NOT MY
NEED TO DO IS 
<i
A HUGE OBSTACLE. LACK OF ENTHUSI­
INCONVENIENT. 
~ 
u ASM. 
.5 
00004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HOBAR 
j

I I r (] 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI tAMRUTEj
PEANUTS 

11/23/04
ALL RI6~T. YOU STVPI D BEAGLE, LET 60 OF 11415 BLANKET RIG~T NOW ! 
-9 
I NEVER KNOW IF'' RI61-1T NOW'' MEANS ''RIGI-IT NOW" OR ''RI61-1T NOW~:. 
qs---­
~ 

THE ~?Y C.OOK 
?TOPPEI/ U?ING
I J r 
www.jumble.com 
THE HERB REC.IPE BEC.AU?E HE--­
I YONNEA I

'l l ) 
Now arrange the circled letters to _A form the surprise answer, as
[ I

L-~~~~~~;:::~~~~:suggested by the above cartoon. 
A:( I I J( I I JoF( I I X I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: ABIDE HURRY EQUATE JETSAMYesterday's I 
Answer: What the cop turned physician did for his patient's pain -"ARRESTED" IT 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITffiS BORN ON THIS DAY: Billie Jean King, Marie! Hemingway. Brian Robbins, Jamie Lee Curtis 
Happy Birthday: This will be a year of excitement and change. There will be no time to think. only time to respond. so you will have to be on your toes. Not much will be left to the imagination when all is said and done. but the experience will be most important to future decisions. Your numbers are 3, 16,20,29,34,39 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You'll have a surge of energy that must be channeled into something useful. Don't let anyone make you anxious about what you should or shouldn't be doing. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Talks will open your eyes to new ideas and possibilities. Partnerships will be successful. and the chance to do something extraordinary is apparent. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Opportunities to get together with people in power positions will lead to your own advancement. Contributions made to an organization you feel can benefit, will indeed do just that. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone will disagree with the way you do things. Saying little and doing a lot will be the answer. Do your best to drum up support from someone who counts. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel, and you will discover information that can help you get ahead. Somewhere along the way you will engage in a life-altering incident that you won't want to miss. Don't hold back.***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Money can be made and deals signed. Real estate moves or changes to your residence look positive. Deal with agencies and institutions, and you will tie up loose ends. *** LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Talk to people you trust and you will get the answers you are looking for. Relationships will take a positive turn if you are honest about your feelings. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put your energy into getting things accomplished. Actions will lead to advancement. Your dedication and determination will be what will get you ahead. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Focus on children or the younger people in your life. Get involved in what everyone else is doing. Physical activities will be good for your morale. ***** . CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): There may be more going on than you realize. Stay on top of what everyone else is doing and thinking. Without all the facts, you will not make a good decision. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): An opportunity to talk, travel and learn is apparent. Visit a client or someone who can offer you knowledge about a different way of life. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Work is the first thing you must deal with. A change ofjob or career may be needed. Take a look at your financial situation and do whatever you must to make it better. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are curious, adventuresome and up to mischief. You have a sparkle that is hard to resist and a will that is difficult to beat. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Asian nannies 6 Ending with 
land or sea 11 Legal org. 14 Josh_, who 
directed and co-produced "South Pacific" 
15 Inventor Howe 16 Right this 
minute 17 Skylit areas 18 Pipsqueaks 19 Genetic material 20 Items on some 
necklaces 22 Actor Estrada 23 Colorful tropical 
fish 24 Lacking vigor 26 Swing on an 
axis 29 Minor railroad stop 
32 The first or fifth letter of George 34 DeMille films 35 Overly 
36 Simulate, as an old battle 39 "Where ?" 42 Goethe classic 43 Early evening hour 45 1998 Sandra Bullock film 
50 Bronx Bomber 51 Comfortable with 52 Life of Riley 54 Parts of bridles 
55 Words that can precede the starts of 20-, 29-and 45-Across 
61 Grand (wine words) 62 Mob scenes 
63 Column style 64 Feel sick 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
p s
A S

(D(I(S(C Is M A s H 
s p

(U(T(A(H E S T E E 
AM COM EON DOWN 
S I 
N E AMOON.PLUNGE


BU.CAIRO­


AT H(E N S BART E R ED DOER NORTH rss"E 
\;'fp A G oo.PS
'G ~~ 0 B 0 E S A L TA. 'G'A"s'MASKS MARVEL -W I P E S F 0 R R E S T 
CREMESIEATME H E R 0 S U R V E Y S(A(Y(S( I B I s E A s E L I T(RIAIYI N A S A D R E S S SIKIYISI 
65 Gas in a layer 66 Flash of light 67 Free TV spot: 
Abbr. 68 Obsolete VCR's 69 Brief brawl 
DOWN 1 [sigh] 2 Closet invader 3 Taj Mahal site 4 Cafeteria 
headwear 5 Adder, e.g. 6 Williams of 
tennis 7 Hint a "_ it the truth!" 9 Pitiful 
10 Tricky curve 11 Dissident 
Sakharov 12 Mackerellike fish 13 Rise and shine 21 Wrecker's job 22 Young newts 25 What Sgt. 
Friday sought 26 It's not breaking the sound 
barrier anymore 27 London facility 28 ET's ride 30 Busybody 31 Place for 
sweaters? 33 Transplant, of a sort 37 Praise posthumously 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


38" Be so" 45 Lug nuts' cover 56 Radish or carrot (1962 hit) 
46 Husband of Isis 57 European 39 Gardner of erupter
47 "Downtown"Hollywood 
singer Clark 58 "What's for 40 Stag attendees me?"
48 Acts the 41 Sign, as a deal coquette 59 Salon job 
42 A.T.F. agents, 49 Used a bench 60 Prefix with 
e.g. plasm
53 Drinks from a 44 Mask opening flask 62 Stick up 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS

1uesday, November 23, 2004 page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ranuning home another win 
Irish improve to 5-0 on the season with a 69-47 victory over Colorado State 

By KAI'E GALES ~pons Wrircr 

llitt.ing l.hP hardwood for thn fifth t.imn in I I days wasn't easy for Notn• l>anw. who struggiPd 
·to find monwntum in the l'irst half Monday against Colorado StatP. · 
But scwl'fal big runs and a con­sistPnlly Iough dPii~llSP SpUlTPd the No. h Irish to a 61J-47 victory ovnr t.lw Hams ( 1-1) at t.lw .loycn CPntc~r Tw•sday night to improvn to 5-0 on tlw snason. 
MPgail Dully IPd the Irish with 15 points and a can~nr-high SIWPn stPals, .Jacqunlinn Batteast put up 14 poinl"i and nino boards and Crystal Erwin added 12 points and two rnbounds oil' the be>nch to lnad the Irish. 
"Wn nmlly had to work for it the wlwln ganw," Irish coach Mulli•t Mr<;raw said. "Oflimsively wn knpt waiting to gnt into our rhythm-it was hard." 
-
Tlw ganw was off to a roeky start. for NotrP Damn as thn Hams' Annika Wals1~th hit a :~­point liPid goal to start thn S!~or­ing nnarly two minut11s into the first half. Duffy would swish a pair of fnw throws to gPL thn Irish on t.lw board. but the teams slay('(( rlosP until Erwin's layup with 4:40 !I'll in tlw first half put thn Irish alwad 2:~-21, starting a 
s~e RAMS/page 18 

Forward Courtney LaVere defends Colorado State's Melissa Dennett in Notre Dame's 69-47 victory over the Rams on Monday night. 
CRoss CouNTRY 
Shay takes 9th at NYC Marathon 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 
Hya.n Shay IPI't Notrn DamP in 2002 as o1w of thn top distanr<' runnnrs in Irish history. At the nnd of this ynar's New York City Marathon, he left as onP of thn best in thn world. 
With a n~markable time of two hours. 14 minutes ovnr tlw 2(,­mile course, Shay finished ninth in a raen of 37,257 marathoners and also plaeod seeond among all American competitors. 
Whiln Shay set a personal reeord with his tirnp of 2: 14:0R, he had even highnr expeetations heading into the raee. 
"I t~XpPctnd to do bettnr, around 2:12," Shay said. "Overall, 1:.m happy with my per­formanee. 
Shay was the sel'ond Ameril'an to cross the finish line lwhind Meb Keflezighi of California who t{)ok seeond overall. This marked the first time sinee 1993 that two Amt~rieans have plae1~d in thr, top 10 at the New York Marathon. 
"My goals Wt>rn to finish among the top I 0 and be among tlw top thrnn Amnrieans", Shay said. 
Sinee his graduation in 2002. Shay has dominated distance eompetitions at the national hwl'l. lie won his Jirst individual 
see DISTANCE/page 17 

-----~---=====-=-:=========::....::..:_-========================================================================================--=====::-::: 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Mastadons looking to surprise Notre Da111e 
By PAT LEONARD A\MJCiarc Sport' EJiwr 
lndiana-Purdw~ at Fort Wayne had thrnP wins last soason. 
Thl' Mastadons beat Bowling CrePn State. MorPheae! State and Tri-State, going 3-25 under lwad road1 Doug Noll. 
Notrl' Darn<' hosts IPFW tonight at 7::m p.m. in the Joyen 
·-
CPnter in thn lirsl-ewr nwding hntWPPn thP two schools and thn snmnd of thri'P homo games to open tlw Irish SI'<L<>on. 
But NotrP Damn knows last snason's rc•cords do not mattnr. Tlw Irish only bt>at llarvard by snven points Friday night, and tlw Crimson linislwd lil<>t se<L<>on with all of four wins. 
"Wn'vn got to go out tlwr~> and prartin~ filr two hours of intnnsi­ty," eaptain Jordan Cornette said after Uw Harvard game. "And when the next game comes on Tuesday, we have to go for 40 minutPs of intensity and not take any brnaks." 
Noll is :n-106 in fivn ynars a..':i roach of lPFW, an indnpt>ndent school with an enrollnwnt of II ,757. Last Sl>ason. IPFW lost all of' il<> games against notable Division-! opponents, induding But.lnr, Iowa State, Miami (FL), Purdue and Valparaiso. 
But Mastadons forward Quintin Butler. 6-foot-7, 210­pound junior, has rnturned to h1•lp his tnam achieve two-thirds of' last year's win total. 
Indiana-Purdue at Fort Wayne lost il<> sPason opener to Gnorgf' Mason, 69-51, but the 
see IPFW/page 18 
FOOTBALL 
Irish anxious to take on Trojans 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER A'sociate Sports EJiror 

I.ike a kid waiting for Christmas, the Irish have been waiting for Saturday's game against No. 1 Southern California for a long time. 
With the bye week over, the team ean now loeus on trying to end the season on a positive note !wading into il':i bowl game, espe­cially af'tnr having lost its final homegame of tho season 41-38 to Pitl<>burgh on Nov. 13. 
"It's a grnat rivalry, and they're number one on top right now, and it kind of pumps us up a litt.le more." Irish quarterhaek Brady ()uinn said. "It's a challenge Ito be tlw underdog against USCI. it's more motivation and I think that WP will need to play our best game. 
see OFFENSE/page 17 



SMC BASKETBALL NCAA FOOTBALl NCAA BASKETBALL NFL 
NBA 
NFL 

The Belles are looking South Carolina coach After their first losing Despite being over-
No charges have been 
Minnesota's Randy 

for their first win of the Lou Holtz retires after season in 34 years, shadowed by Payton 
filed yet in the Pistons­
Moss is expected to 

season against Man-33 seasons in college Indiana wants to return Manning, Edgerrin 
Pacers brawl that 
return for the Vikings 

occurred Friday night. 
this Sunday. 

chester. football. to its winning ways. James still remains a 
force for the Colts. 

page 18 page 16 page 16 page 15 
page 13 
page 13 





