

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 46 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER4, 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Bush wins election 
Senator Kerry concedes defeat in Ohio, stating hopes the nation 'can begin the healing' 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush daimed a re-election man­date Wednesday after a record 59 million Americans chose· him over Democrat John Kerry and voted to expand Hepublican con­trol of Congress as well. He pledgPd to pursue his agenda on taxes and Iraq while seeking "the broad support of all Amerieans." 
Kerry conceded defeat in make-or-break Ohio rather than launch a legal fight reminiscent of the contentious Florida reeount of four years ago. "I hope that we can begin the healing," the Massachusetts senator said. 
Claiming a second term denied his father, George H.W. Bush, the president struck a conciliatory tone, too. "A new term is a new opportunity to reach out to the whole nation," he said, speaking directly to Kerry's supporters. 
"To make this nation stronger and better, I will need your sup­port and I will work to earn it," he said. "I will do all I can do to deserve your trust." 
It was a warm-and-fuzzy dose to one of the longest, most nega­tive presidential races in a gener­ation. 
Bush didn't use the word man­date, but Vice President Dick Cheney did, and the president's intention was clear as he ticked off a familiar list of second-term goals: overhaul the tax code and Social Security at home while waging war in Iraq and else­where to stem terror. 
Bush stands to reshape the fed­eral judiciary, starting with an aging Supreme Court that voted 5-4 to award him Florida four years ago. In all branches of gov­ernment, the GOP now holds a solid, if not permanent, ruling 

ND celebrates Dia de los Muertos 

"I used turquoise and blue to represent the universe in the background, the customary skull, as well as a purple and blaek outline which traditional­ly represent death," Robles said. 
Robles dedicated his sand 
see MUERTOS/page 4 

SENATE 
Group debates ticket sales 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
In a continuation of dis­cussion from Monday's Council of Representatives meeting, the topic of men's basketball ticket distribu­tion was brought up Wednesday at Student Senate. 
Senior Karl Wahoske took the podium to make sena­tors aware of the problems he perceived with the cur­rent ticketing process and to suggest possible solutions. 
"For the second year in a row, I don't have basketball tickets. Last year I was the second person in line not to get them; this year I was the fifth," Wahoske said. "There has got to be some kind of change made to the system." 
Echoing arguments made by Siegfried senator James 
Leito at the COR meeting, Wahoske said that he saw the reservation of 200 tick­ets for Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students as unfair for those Notre Dame students left empty-handed. 
"When there are a limited number of tickets-not like football, where everyone can get tickets -all of the student section tickets should be offered to Notre Dame students first," Wahoske said. "I just want to the chance to watch my school's basketball team play." 
Morrissey senator Josh Pasquesi said later he did not believe that eliminating fans from Saint Mary's and Holy Cross was the answer. 
"A policy of exelusion is not going to be approved by the University, and it's not a 
see SENATE/page 4 
-

By SARAH BARRETT 
News Writer 
Over the past three days, many Latin Americans joined together in honoring their friends and family members that have passed away, but have not yet been forgotten. 
L_ 
The fourth annual Dia de los Muertos remembrance took place Tuesday at the Snite Museum. 
Calixto Robles, an artist from Oaxaca, Mexico spoke at the memorial celebration, explain­ing the intricacy with which he designed a traditional sand painting. 
majority. 
Bush's vote totals were the biggest ever and his slice of the vote, 51 percent, made him the first president to claim a majority since 1988 when his father won 53 percent against Democrat Michael Dukak.is. 
Like Dukakis, Kerry is a Massachusetts politician who was labeled a liberal by a Bush. This president also called Kerry a flip-flopping opportunist who would fight feebly against terror. 
None of that rancor was evi­dent Wednesday, when Kerry called Bush to concede the race. 
He told Bush the country needed to be united, and Bush agreed. But the numbers suggest the country is deeply split. 
Bush's victory ensures Republican dominance of virtual­ly every quarter of the U.S. politi-. cal system for years to come ­the White House, Congress and the federal judiciary. Democrats pored over election results and sadly determined that the GOP base was bigger, more rural. sub­urban and Hispanic than they had ever imagined. 
see ELECTION/page 6 
Thursday, November 4, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Congrats, America 
Congratulations America for re­electing (;norge W. Bush. 

Congratulations for n~turning a man to llw White llousn who repeat­ndly promised to unite our nation but has only driven a 
Megan O'Neil 
staki~ through it's rniddln. Plnasn, pat 

News Production 
yourself on thn 
Editor

back for basing your vote on denp moral values such as family and respect for human life. Never mind the fact that your eandidate hopns to constitutionally deny a por­tion of our population the joy of cre­ating a family of their own. Nor should you have worried that as gov­ernor of Texas he oversaw the lenni­nation of more life than in any other state. 
Congratulations America on elect­ing a man who does not bnlieve that health earn is a universal right. Your vote has all but assured that increas­ing numbers of people, already at a frightening level, will be forced to live without doctors' visits and nec­essary medications. 
Give me a high five for another term of fiscal n~sponsibility in feder­al govnrnment. Now we count on a few nxtra bueks in our pocket accompanied by a hugo budget delieit. 

Thank you especially to my f1~llow young votl~rs for their stellar turnout at the polls. Your engaged attitude is truly heartening. In 20 years we will have the privilege of bearing the bil­lion dollar burden of social security. 
Way to go on electing someone who believes the United States should lead by oxampln. lin truly showed that leadership wlwn he opposed the Kyoto Protocol and later pealed back layer after layer of environmental protection laws in order to protect American m:onomie interests. 
Congratulations Am1wiea on send­ing the right message to the world community. You have just placed your stamp of approval on the United States' direction over the last four years. Clearly. we have been on the right path all along, even if it has bonn an isolationist and arrogant one. What an al'lirmation of the xenophobic American. 
Congratulations voters, on re-elect­ing a man for whom diplomacy equals militarism. The country has been granted another four years under someone who largely ignored the already existing violent conflicts in thn world, and added to the mix two of his own. 
II urray indeed for choosing a man who promised the liberation of the Iraqi people and the securing of pro­lific amounts of dangerous weaponry. Our returning president did indeed lasso a dictator, but in his place rose heated violence and alarming American and Iraqi casualties. 
Congratulations for supporting the candidate who has had four years to capture the head of Al-Queda but has failed to do so. Your vote has truly made this great nation a safer place, both horne and abroad. 
Congratulations America. you have made yourself proud. 

The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Megan O'Neil at onei090 l@sain tmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism ar all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE HARRY POTTER BOOK, AND WHY? 

Saira Khan Mike Gigante James King Beckett Gremmels Bridget Meacham Alex French 
senior junior junior senior junior sophomore McGlinn Stanford Sorin Alumni McGlinn O'Neill 
"Prisoner of "/ like the one "The Deuce. JK "The one where "Ron Weasley is "The fourth one. Azkaban where he plays invented the Harry wins my boyfriend." because there's 





another Frenchy. .. 
IN BRIEF 

Pasquerilla West will hold its first annual Wild Wild West Event tonight from 6 to 8 p.m. in Stepan Center. Festivities indude a pie-eating contest and a mechanical bull. 
Learn to line dance and get free cookies and hot chocolate at the Howard Hall Bonfire, tonight from 9 to 11 p.m. 
SUB presents "Anchorman," starring Will Ferrell, tonight at 10 p.m. in DeBartolo 101. Tiekel<; are $3. 
The Notre Dame men's basket­ball team will play an exhibition game tonight at 7:30 p.m. against St. Joseph's at the Joyce Center. 
The silent film "Amlcto" will be shown at S Jl.m. tonight in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The movie will be aecompanied by live pianist Philip Carli. 
Cracker Barrel and the Mykola Jazz Project -a jam band with jazz roots -will play in concert tonight from 10 p.m. to midnight at Legends. 
There will be sign-ups for Saturday's Mara Fox Hun today in the North and South Dining Halls from 5 to 7 p.m. 
"Constmeting a Curriculum on Inter-religious Dialogue and Conflict Resolution," featuring Kroc Institute visiting fellow Patrice Brodeur, takes place today from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center room C-103. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

37 
28 

38 27 

because football for remix. Ohio's electoral 
..

traveling Notre Dame. .. votes. through time is really cool.,, 

The Irish women's basketball team takes some warm-up shots ·before Wednesday night's game against the Premier All-Stars of Ohio at the Joyce Center. It was the team's first exhibition game of the season, and Notre Dame won 84-52. 
OFFBEAT 
Doctor gives birth, votes 
IIAHRISBUHG, Pa. -Dr. Andrea Shaer wanted to vote before she went to the delivery room to give birth to her third child, so she and her husband went first to their polling station at Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center's fitness fadlity. 
But more than 1 00 people were already in line, so Shaer went to the delivery room, gave birth, and returned to vote Tuesday night 30 minutes before the polls closed, intravenous drip in tow. 
"Knowing how close the race is in Pennsylvania and being a mom, with all the issues there, I just had to try" to vote, Shaer said. 
Shaer, a nephrologist, or kidney doctor, at the medical center, awoke at 5 a.m. Tuesday when her water broke. She gave birth to a son. Jack. 
Monkeys attack children 
GAUHATI, India Monkeys lurking at an ancient Hindu temple in India's northeast have attacked up to 300 children over three weeks, temple officials said. 
"They hide in trees and swoop on unsuspecting chil­dren loitering about in the temple premises or walking by, clawing them and even sucking a bit of blood," Bani Kumar Sharma, a priest at the Kamakhya temple in Assam state, said Tuesday. 
At least 2,000 rhesus mon­keys roam in and around the temple, but none had shown aggressive behavior in the past, he said. 
"I was returning home from school when a monkey suddenly pounced on me, scratched my head and hand and pushed me to the ground," said Jolly Sharma, a 6-year-old girl. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
llJ 
::E: 
~ 
llJ 
3: 
....I 
<
(.) 0 

HIGH 50
..J LOW 32 

40 32 


46 
34 

HIGH LOW 


Thursday, November 4, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Chicago professor lectures on 'confrontation of evil' 
Elspeth enlightens Harry Potter fans and religious scholars on St. Augustine and children's series 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writer 
Professor Jean Elspeth of the University of Chicago enlightened "!larry Potter" fans and religious scholars alike Wednesday after­noon in her lecture entitled "St. Auf.,rustinP, Harry Pottm. and the Confrontation with Evil." 
Elspeth began the talk, which was sponsored by tho Schmidt Foundation and the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture, with an assessment of evil today. 
"Evil is in the air these days in our political life." she said, recall­ing President Reagan's reference to the Soviet Union as the "empire of evil;" Pmsident Clinton calling the perpetrators of the Oklahoma City bombing "doers of evil;" and Pn1sident Georgia W. Bush terming the Iraq, Iran and North Korea regimes the "axis of evil." 
Evil has been a notion recog­nized throughout history, Elspeth noted. She related a story from her childhood: a Russian family was forced to immigrate to her tiny hometown in Colorado, nar­rowly escaping Stalin's destruction of small farms throughout Russia. 
"When talking about her experi­ences, !The mother] would weep softly and rock back and forth," Elspeth explained. "Evil was what she had faend." 
Elspeth then turned to St. Augustine, who, she said, has made "the most monumental of all efforts in Western thought to grapple with the question of evil." As a child, Augustine was caught up in a world of physical hedo­nism, said Elspeth; in error, he recognized evil as an external force which he could blame for his wrongdoing. This erroneous thought was known as dualism. 
Eventually, Augustine realized that it was his own impiety that had led to sin, Elspeth said, com­ing to reject the notion of evil as a force and beginning to under­stand it as a falling away from the good. 
'"Evil' is the name we give to an assent to temptation that might become servitude over time," said Elspeth. She noted that doers of evil do not understand what it is like to live in the world of the good, and often search for some­thing to attach themselves to. 
"Evil lies in limited, hollowed­out, empty men and women who do horrific things," Elspeth said. "Good relies on unrehearsed deed-doing of men and women who occasionally achieve extraor­dinary things." 
Elspeth then began her discus-· sion of the ·"Harry Potter" series, attributing much of her explana­tion to her grandson, Bobby, with whom she had read the five books this summer. She noted that despite the overwhelming pres­ence of evil throughout the stories, there is good that is always able to light back. 
From volume one of the series, "l larry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone," Elspeth noted three main points. First, she pointed out that Voldemort is a powerful wizard who has gone to the dark side, much like the fallen angel Satan. Second, she noted Voldemort's important idea that there is no good and evil, there is only power." Third and finally, she highlighted the point that Harry escaped Voldemort's death curse because of the love and sacrifice of his mother -evil could do nothing in the presence of such good. 
In volume two, "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets," Elspeth pointed out the ability of evil, represented by Voldemort, to feed off of an evil subject (the younger version of himself, Tom Riddle) as well as a good one (Ginny Weasley, younger sister of Harry's friend Ron). Harry is saved by Dumbledore's phoenix Fawkes, whose tears of compas­sion heal Harry's wounds and blind an evil snake. 
Volume three, "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban," introduces readers to "Dementors," evil guards of the Azkaban prison whose "kiss" sucks out a person's soul. 
"Like evil," Elspeth said, "the Dementors take away, but cannot give anything." 
Elspeth compared the feeling that the characters experience around the Dementors is like one who has succumbed to evil ­such as Ron Weasley experiences in volume three when he says '"I felt weird, like I would never be cheerful again,"' Elspeth said. 

Finally, Elspeth noted the ability of humor and wit to drive the demons away. She explained that Christians have often spoken of good humor as one of God's gifts to humanity. 
Elspeth mainly chronicled Voldemort's desire to gain materi­al form in volume four, "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire." Voldemort uses a servant called Wormtail to help him remain alive. feeding mainly on snake venom. 
"Does this not suggest," Elspeth asked, "that if no one fed evil, it would not continue? IVoldemort] is kept alive through the willing actions of others." 
Vlsiting Professor Umbridge was Elspeth's foeal point in her .discus­sion of volume five, "Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix." Umbridge often belittled and embarrassed her students. "This notion of a kind of mockery at the suffering of others is recognized as a characteristic of evil," said Elspeth. 

In conclusion, Elspeth admitted that the books could be troubling for some children. "Harry Potter offers children a serious picture of a moral universe, in which very bad things sometimes happen," she said. "But none of us is with­out a way of fighting back against it." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, November 4, 2004 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
good policy to follow in general," Pasquesi said. 
Wahoske also took on the poliey of allowing students to line up with six IDs whon purchasing tickets. Calling six IDs "excessive," Wahoske suggested that limiting the numlHlr to two or thrnn would help elimi­nate casual fans with wnaker att11ndanee num­bnrs and reduen incidences or linn cutting on distribu­tion day. 
Wahoskn said that one of the main detriments to an inereasnd ticket allotment l'or the student section was the poor avnrage attel)­danen of tieknt holders, and that it was impnrativn for senators to nneouragn students to go to games. 

"You guys are leaders, so push for the necessity of students with tickets to come to games, so we can get more tiekcts in the future," he said. 
After Wahoske spoke, senators briefly discussed ways to improve the sys­tem. 
Welsh Family senator Stephanie Pelligra said that her dorm had already insti­tuted an informal system of exchange within the dorm. Other senators were eneouraged to talk with their hall governments about doing the same until a campus-wide system could be devised. 
The issue was sent to tlw University Affairs commit­tee for further investiga­tion and discussion. 
In other Senate news: 
+ The resolution on teacher course evaluations directed to the Campus Life Council planned for a vote Wednesday was removed from the agenda. 
Academic Affairs commit­tee chair and head of the TCE project Vijay Hamanan said that the resolution had been intended to force the administration and faculty to act on the TCE concerns. However, after faculty members were reportedly "warm and open" to the proposal Monday's Faculty Senate meeting, the resolu­tion was deemed unneces­sary in its current form. 
Student body president Adam Istvan said that a more idea-specific resolu­tion would come to a Senate vote by Nov. 17. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Muertos 
continued from page 1 
painting to Alvarez Bravo, the foremost photographer in the history of Latin America who died two years ago, and placed it" below the ofnmda (alter of oll'eringl laden with fruit. loaves of bread, chocolate, skeletons and ornaments. 
Many gathered in the base­ment of the Snite to witness Hobles' speech, a slideshow of Bravo's famous photographs and two traditional Mexican dances. 
"We arc performing two dances which originated in the Mexican states of .Jalisco and Veracruz. They are called 'les annas, les annas' 
buffet of Mexican treats was served, and the crowd exited past a cross of marigo-lds and white candles. Curator of' educa­tion and public programs .Jackie Welsh said thn cross is highly significant. 
"Marigolds, or cempazucha flowers, are thought to repre­sent thn sun and because of thnir strong seent, these are also dropped in a path from the cemetery to the doorstep to help lead the way home." Wdsh said. "Tlw candles are also then~ so that the spirit of the person being remembered can lind its way home." 
On Sunday afternoon there was a procession and a mass at St. Edward's Hall Chapel honor­ing this special holiday. 
"There was also 

and 'golas,"' Notre a woodcarvnr who
"The candles are
Dame junior and came to South 
dancer April also there so that Bend with some of 
Garcia said. the spirit ofthe his wooden skele­Dia de los ton carvings two
person being
Muertos is cele­weeks ago and a
remembered can
brated all over folk art workshop Mexico and · in find its way home. " which took place some of Latin !at the Snite America, Robles Museum! last
Jackie Welsh 
said. week. We made 
curator 
skeleton puppets,
'There is praise, singing and food all night long until six in the morning when the sand painting is destroyed into four parts and everyone at tiH1 ceremony is given a basket of the sand;" Hobles said. "Everyone goes to mass, where the basket of sand is blessed by the priest, and then go to the eemetery where the sand is thrown onto the grave of the person who has just died. This is the last tribute to that person." 
Whnn the daneers finished, a 
skull masks, and necklaces," Welsh recalled. 

This celebration, despite coin­ciding with the election, was a success, according to organiz­ers. 
Campus ministry also plans to hold a popular Christmas cele­bration, called Las Posadas, on Friday, I>nc. 3 !'rom 7:30 to 9:30 
p.m. to commnmoratn tlw jour­ney to Bnthlnhem. 
Contact Sarah Barrett at sbarret2@nd.edu 

THE INAUGURAL CONFERENCE FOR THE MCMEEL FAMILY CHAIR IN SHAKESPEARE STUDIES 
NOVEMBER 5 AND 6, 2004 • MCKENNA HALL • UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 5 
9:30a.m. Welcome 

Mark Roche. I.A.O'Shaughnessy Dean, College of Arts and Letters, University of Notre Dame 
Session I: Introduction 

Peter Holland, University of Notre Dame 
On the Gravy Train 

Session 2: Shakespeare's Performances of Memory 
Chair: Graham Hamill 

Bruce Smith. University of Southern California 
Speaking What We Feel about King Lear · 
John Joughin (University of Central Lancashire) 
Shakespeare's Memorial Aesthetics: Richard II and the Performance ofGrief 
I p.m. Morning Session Ends 

2:15p.m. Session 2: Shakespeare's Performances of Memory (cont1nued) 
Anthony B. Dawson. University of British Columbia 
Priamus Is Dead: Memorial Repetition in Shakespeare and Marlowe 
Session 3: Editing Shakespeare and the Performance of Memory 
Chair: Paul Rathburn 
Michael Cordner, University ofYork 

"Wrought with Things Forgotten": Memory and Performance in Editing Macbeth 
Margaret Jane Kidnie, University ofWestern Ontario 
Shakespeare's Work(s) in Progress 
5:30 p.m. End of Sessions 





REMEMBERING PERFORMANCE 
There is no fee for the conference. For further details and conference registration forms, contact: cce@nd.edu 
Phone: (574) 631-6691 • Fax: (574) 631-8083 On-line registration and further details are also available through links at the conference Web site: www.nd.edu/-ftt/shakespeare.shtml 
Supported by the Office of the Provost, the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, 
and the Dee and j1m Smith Endowment for Excellence in Shakespeare and Performance. 
~UNIVERSITYOF . 
~NOTRE DAME 
SATURDAY NOVEMBER 6 
9:30a.m. . Session 4: Performance Memory: Costumes and Bodies 
Chair: Donald Crafton 
Barbara Hodgdon, University of Michigan 
Shopping in the Archives: Material Memories 
Carol Chillington Rutter, University ofWarwick 
"Her First Remembrance from the Moor": Actors and the Materials ofMemory 
Session 5: Reconstructing Shakespearean Performance 
Chair: Jesse Lander 

Russell Jackson, University of Birmingham "As I remember, Adam": Paul Czinner's As You Uke It, Max Reinhardt's Dream, and German emigre Shakespeare in the 1930s 
12:45 p.m. Morning Session Ends 
2p.m. Session 5: Reconstructing Shakespearean Performance (continued) Michael Dobson, Roehampton University Shakespeare Exposed 
Session 6: Performance Memory: Technologies and the Museum 
Chair: Peter Holland 
W.B.Worthen, University of California Berkeley 
Fond Records: Posthuman Shakespeare and the Drama ofMemory 
Robert Shaughnessy, University of Kent 
The Shakespeare Revolution Will Not Be Televised 
Dennis Kennedy., Trinity College, Dublin 
Tourism, Performance, and the Idea ofthe Museum 
6 p.m. Conference Ends 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 4, 2004 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVHtS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bin Laden releases new videotape 
CAIRO, Egypt-Terror mastermind Osama bin Laden claimed in new video footage broadcast Wednesday that President Bush ignored warnings against invading Iraq because he was dazzled by the country's "black gold" and ended up leading the United States into a quagmire. 
The full video, portions of which were broadcast Friday, was posted on a Web site used by Islamic groups Wednesday. The tape show the author of the Sept. 11 attacks accusing Bush of actfng out of what he calls "private" interests -and allusion to his oil business past. 
Bush ignored the warnings because "the darkness of the black gold blurred his vision and insight, and he gave priority to private interests over the public interests of America," bin Laden says in the portions of the tape that the Arab network Al-Jazeera did not broadcast Friday. 
Muslim violence closes schools 
BANGKOK, Thailand -Violence in Thailand's Muslim-dominated south forced hundreds of schools to close Wednesday, while two lawmakers scuffled in parliament over the government's handling of a riot in the region last week that left 85 people dead. 
Warnings that Muslim insurgents may try to abduct Buddhist teachers and students prompted most schools in the country's three southernmost provinces of Narathiwat, Yala and Pattani to shut until at least Monday, education officials said. 
The closed schools were in the countryside where they cannot easily be protected. Schools in urban areas mostly remained open. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Kerry decides to concede election 
BOSTON-Notwithstanding his athleticism and fighting spirit, Sen. John Kerry waged an occasionally awkward, run-walk-run cam­paign, a maTathon bedeviled by his slow start and a lumbering response to attacks by the Swift Boat veterans. 
''I'm sorry that we got here a little bit late and little bit short," Kerry told a crowd of family, friends· and staff Wednesday at Faneuil Hall as he formally ended the race. 
In what seems like ages ago, the Massachusetts senator began the campaign with a certain appeal for Democrats deter­mined to oust President Bush -a decorated Vietnam War record to counter the com­mander in chief, a wealthy spouse even if she could only contribute a limited amount and an experienced campaign team. 

Bush claims re-election mandate 
WASHINGTON -President Bush claimed a re-election mandate Wednesday after a record 59 million Americans chose him over Democrat John Kerry and voted to expand Republican control of Congress as well. He pledged to pursue his agenda on taxes and Iraq while seeking "the broad support of all Americans." 
Kerry conceded defeat in make-or-break Ohio rather than launch a legal fight reminis­cent of the contentious Florida recount of four years ago. "I hope that we can begin the healing," the Massachusetts senator said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Daniels captures governorship 
INDIANAPOLIS-Gov.-elect Mitch Daniels huddled with advisers Wednesday to start building the first Republican state adminis­tration in 16 years and map out a legislative agenda aimed at economic revival and gov­ernment reform.• 
Meanwhile, House Republicans beamed after winning control of the chamber in Tuesday's election, eager to work with a GOP governor and pursue some of their own ini-· tiatives. They are likely to include economic development proposals and a state constitu­tional ban on gay marriage. . 
fRANCE 
.Europe seeks new start with Bush 
Leaders offer to let bygones be bygones as they hope for changes in foreign policy 
Associated Press 
PARIS -European allies alienated by President Bush's first four years in power offered Wednesday to let bygones be bygones, saying they want to work with the new administra­tion and seeking, right from Day 1, to get the new White House to listen more to overseas opinion. 
French President Jacques Chirac, in a con­gratulatory letter, said he hoped Bush's second term "will be the occasion for strengthening the French­American friendship." 
"We will be unable to find satisfying responses to the numerous chal­lenges that confront us today without a close trans-Atlantic partner­ship," wrote Chirac. He addressed the letter to "Dear George." 
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, who also clashed with Bush over Iraq, wrote the presi­dent a congratulatory let­ter expressing "great expectations" for renewed cooperation. · 
"The world stands before great challenges at the beginning of your sec­ing Spanish troops from wanted change." very good relationship ond term: international Iraq, stayed up most of the Others worried that with them for the last four terrorism, the danger of night to watch as Bush, strengthened by a years and I'm sure we'll weapons of mass destruc­Republican red crept bigger win than in 2000 be able to keep building tion, regional crises -but across the U.S. electoral and backed by a on that over the next also poverty, climate map.. Republican Congress, four." change and epidemics Election interest in would turn a deaf ear to Russian President threaten our security and Europe' was intense, as world concerns. Vladimir Putin said a Bush stability," Schroeder was the disappointment "Europe will continue to victory would mean the wrote. "These challenges many felt over Bush's vic­criticize Bush the same American people had not can only be mastered tory. Some saw it as proof way as earlier," said given in to terrorist together." that Europe and the Swedish Prime Minister threats. 
Another critic of the Iraq United States are further Goeran Persson. "But I do "I would feel happy that war, Spanish Prime apart than ever. not believe that he will be the American people have Minister Jose Luis "There is a major and more willing to listen." not allowed themselves to Rodriguez Zapatero said lasting lack of understand­Bush allies in the war on be scared and made the his government wants "a ing between the American terror took comfort in decision they considered relationship of efficient, people and the rest of the continuity. reasonable," Putin said at constructive cooperation' world, in both directions," "From our point of view, a Kremlin news confer­with the U.S. government said Hubert Vedrine, a the Bush administration is ence after talks with and with President Bush, former French foreign a known quantity," said Italian Prime Minister respecting the ideas of minister. "Almost all Australian Foreign Silvio Berlusconi. each side." nations, with perhaps Minister Alexander "Bush will keep up that 
Zapatero, who angered three or four exceptions, Downer. "We've had a policy that gives the Washington by withdraw-



Tallying continues despite concession 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -The count­ing of more than 150,000 provi­sional ballots cast in Ohio will go forward, despite John Kerry's concession that President Bush had won the state's 20 electoral votes, election officials said Wednesday. 
Elections workers planned to spend the next 10 days verifying that each provisional voter lives in the precinct where he or she cast a ballot and RJ.eets age and citizenship requirements. 
"The pressure is off in the eyes of the media," said Jeff La Rue, spokesman for the Franklin County Board-ofl!lections. "The pressure to count every vote and validate every vote that is a valid vote -that pressure is never off." 
Provisional ballots -required in all states for the first time this year -are used when voters believe they are properly regis­tered but their names do not appear in registration records. 
The ballots are counted later if election officials determine the voters' registrations are valid. 
Kerry acknowledged Wednesday in his concession speech that the provisional votes would not be enough for him to win the state, where President Bush had a lead of 136,000 votes. 

Mark Weaver, a lawyer for Ohio Republicans, predicted that elec­tion officials would throw out most of the ballots after deter­mining the people who cast them were not eligible to vote. 
Provisional ballots were the focus of an intense legal battle even before Election Day. An appeals court rejected Democrats' request that provi­sional ballots be ·counted if they are filed in the right county but the wrong precinct. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 4, 2004 

Election 
continued from page 1 
They looked within their own party, and found plenty of Democrats to blame -Kerry, his running mall\ John Edwards, their layers of consultants and legions of former Bill Clinton aides. The jor.keying began in mtrnest for the 200X raee, with J<:dwards signaling his ambitions by prossing Kerry to wagn a legal light liJr Ohio. Dmnoerats lovn to light thn COP, particularly thosn Dnrnocrats who vote in primaries and r.aueuses. 
"You can lw disappointml, but you cannot walk away," Edwards told supporters at Knrry's eon­l:ession. "This fight has just begun." 
Supporters of Sen. llillary Hod ham Clinton, hnrself a poten­ti;tl candidate in 2008, accused J<:dwards of' posturing. 
Kerry himself shownd no si~-,rns of exiting tho political arona. 'Til never stop lighting for you," hn told backers. 
Still, it was a grim day for Dnrnoerats. 
Party stratngists had longnd hopnd to supplant thnir political lossns in the Midwest and South 


Arby's 

etnployee kills 2 
Associated Press MilWAUKEE-A fired Arby's employee was charged Wednnsday with killing two co­workers while robbing the restaurant, and another worker was chargnd with providing help in return for part of the $2,500 take. James Walker, 23. was charged with bning a party to first-degree intentional homicide and armed robbery. The same charges were l'iled Tunsday against Michael Duane Heit. 20. Criminal complaints allege Walker olli\rod money to Hnit I(Jr helping him sneak inside the restaurant thn night of' Oct. 24. The men were arrested two days after the shootings of' Nicole Joslyn, 24, an assistant managnr, and eo-worker Alan I.owrie, 17. Both wern shot multiple timns and wnrn found in thn restaurant 1:oolnr. Walker's attorney Jonathan Smith said the stato is accusing his diont of the l~ttal shooting. 


Tonight! OJ & Specials ALL DAY 272-1766 2046 South Bend Ave. 

with growth in the Hispanic-rich Wnstern states, but those plans were put in doubt Tuesday night. Exit polls suggested that Bush had increased his minority share of the I lis panic vote since 2000. 
One-third of' Hispanics said they were born-again Christians and nearly 20 percent listed moral values as their top issue, suggesting they have more. in common with Hepublicans than Democrats. 
The election also vindicated Bush's unorthodox strategy of governing from thn right and then targeting his voters with a volunteer-driven organization run through his campaign head­quarters. Kerry played to the center and relied on a loosely knit conglomerate of liberal groups who paid gnt-out-the-votn workers. 
Americans Coming Together, tlw Media Fund and other liberal special interest groups spent more than $200 million to dnfeat Bush. Kerry spent tens of mil­lions morn, and what did he get? .lust one state won by Bush in 2000, New llampshim, switched to the Democratic column this year. 
Young voters didn't increase their turnout as Democrats had hoped. Neither did blacks or union members, two keys to the party's base. 
Bush, meanwhile, saw a surge in rural and evangelical voters, according to strategists on both sides. The rural vote, once reli­ably Democratic, swelled in size and supported Bush over Kerry. 
In Ohio, exit polls suggested the rural vote increased from 15 . pnrcent of the electorate in 2000 to 25 percent on Tuesday. Hural voters backed Bush over Kerry 60 percent to 40. 
In Ohio and Florida, the two most important states Elnction Night, Democrats said they met their turnout targets, only to see Bush's forces trounce them. They said state ballot measures to ban gay marriage may have driven GOP voters to the polls. 
The most stinging defnat was in Ohio, which may no longer be considered a swing state. With 232,000 jobs lost under Bush and state voters uneasy about Iraq, it was as ripe as it will ever be for Democrats, strategists said. 
Ohio's 20 electoral votes gave Bush 279 in the Associated Press count, nine more than the 270 needed for victory. Kerry had 252 electoral votes, with Iowa's seven unsettled. 
Bush beat Kerry by more than 3 million votes. 

Subw-ay train rolls backw-ard, injures 20 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -An empty subway train backnd into an occupied one Wednesday, injuring 20 people, transit offi­cials said. 
The occupied train had pulled into one of the city's busiest stations moments before the empty train backed into it. Most of the 75-foot­long rear car of the empty train came ol'f thn tracks and about one-third of its alu­minum shell was pulled apart. 
Witnesses said the operator of' the occupied train began screaming for people to get ol'f a few seconds before impact. 
The next thing we knew there was a big crash, and a lot of dirt and dust flying everywhere, and panic, and everybody just ran out of the Metro station," said Mike Cucciardl, a tnacher traveling on the train with more than 40 kids from a District of Columbia charter school. 
Thirteen students were among the injured. 
Onn of' the injuries was life­threatnning, said Alan Ettnr. a l'iro department spokesman. lie said it was "astounding," given the force of' the crash, that more people WPrPn't mor11 seriously hurt. The· worst injury appeared to be a broken leg, he said. 
Thn crash happened af'tnr a loaded six-r.ar train pulled into the Woodlny Park­National Zoo Metro station around· 12:49 p.m., spokesman Steven Taubenkibol said. 
Each train has an automatie control system to knnp trains a safe distance from each other, Deputy General Manager for Operations James Gallagher said. Officials were looking into whether the systmn railed. 
"The train rolled backward. Trains don't roll backward," Gallagher said. "There's some­thing unusual about this evnnt." 
I 

,~ I 
•I I 
•J I 
I 
' 
I ,•1

"The Spirit ofDemocracy" I· u 
I ~ .' J 
I 
, ,·I 


Jeffrey Stout 

Professor of Religion at Princeton University and author of the award-winning book, 
I• 


Democracy and Tradition 
I ~l ~ 
l I 
~ 
J 

Thursday, November 4, 2004 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School, Henkels Interdisciplinary Visiting Speaker Program, Department ofTheology, and Department ofPolitical Science 
L 
J 
I I 





AMEX  1,305.26  +0.23  
NASDAQ  2,004.33  +19.54  
NYSE  6,787.40  +85.93  
S&PSOO  1,143.20  +12.62  
NIKKB(rokyo)  10,887.81  0.00  
mE IOO(London) 4,718.50  +25.30  

COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
+0.44 +0.10 22.67 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
INTEL CORP (INTC) 
+0.81 +0.23 28.47 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -1.01 -0.04 3.92 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) ' -0.05 -0.0 I 19.28 APPLIED MATL (AMA1) -0.80 -0.13 16.12 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.25 -0. 12 48.26 10-YEAR NOTE -0.12 -0.05 40.70 5-YEARNOTE -0.21 -0.07 33.25 3-MONTH BILL +1.29 +0.25 19.18 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.26 50.88 GOLD ($!Troy OL) +4.80 425.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.65 98.00 
Excha Rates 

YEN 106.1000 EURO 0.7798 POUND 0.5412 CANADIAN$ 1.2068 
IN BRIEF 
Businesses pleased with agenda 
NEW YORK-President Bush's re-election and the Republican Party's larger membership in the next Congress have made small business advocacy groups optimistic about some of the issues on their national agendas. 
The National Federation of Independent Business welcomed Bush's re-election in a statement Wednesday, and Dan Danner, the NFIB's senior vice president for public policy, said in an interview, "We believe very strongly that this president -probably more than any other in my recollection -has gone out of his way to be a supporter of small business." 
"We are optimistic that will continue," Danner said. 
With health care costs a major concern for business owners, the election has raised hopes that national association health plans will become a reality in the second Bush term. Under AHPs, small businesses can buy into group health insurance plans anywhere in the country, giving them greater leeway in shopping for a cheaper plan. 
Time Warner reports decline 
NEW YORK -Time Warner Inc., the world's largest media company, reported an 8 percent decline in third-quarter earnings Wednesday and set aside a $500 million reserve in anticipa­tion of settling government investigations into its bookkeeping. 
The company said it would restate earnings for 2000 and 2001 to correct its accounting for AOL Europe. 
The moves put the company a step closer to resolving the investigations, which have caused anxiety among investors after dragging on for more than two years. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice are still investigating accounting prac­tices at America Online, including its advertising arrangements and the way it reports subscriber numbers.m Inc., including the departure of Jonathan Dolgen, who had shared power with Lansing at Paramount. 
Dick Parsons, Time Warner's CEO, told investors and analysts on a conference call that while the investigations were ongoing, the com­pany had "some visibility" into the costs that would likely be required to resolve the inquiries. 
--------~---­
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Four executives convicted of fraud 
Merrill Lynch employees charged with conspiracy in first criminal trial of Enron 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -A jury con­victed four one-time Merrill Lynch executives and a former midlevel Enron Corp. finance exec­utive uf conspiracy and fraud Wednesday in the first criminal trial of Enron and Wall Street exec-utives for their role in the energy company's 2001 collapse. 
The deal at the center of the charges involved a bogus sale of interest in power plants mounted on barges to the brokerage at the end of 1999 so the company could appear t~ have met earnings targets. 
The barge case marked the first time Wall Street bankers were charged with active participation in a criminal Enron scheme. While Enron's former auditor, Arthur Andersen LLP, was convicted more than two years ago of obstruction of justice for destroying Enron docu­ments before the collapse, the barge case was the first to involve former Enron employees as defen­dants. 
Among those convicted of conspiracy and two counts of wire fraud was Merrill's former head of investment banking, Daniel Bayly. The others were James A. Brown, for­that Enron would resell or Bayly, Furst and Fuhs comment, though some mer head of Merrill's asset buy back Merrill's interest face a few months to 15 said they would appeal the lease and finance group; within six months. years in prison. verdicts. William Fuhs, a vice presi­The verdict came after Brown, who also was The barge deal isn't dent who reported to 21 hours of deliberations convicted of perjury and among the numerous Brown; Robert S. Furst, a that began at the close of obstructing a special alleged financial machina­former manager of six weeks of testimony. grand jury in Houston for tions that pushed one-time Merrill's relationship with The jury was instructed to testifying that he didn't Wall Street darling Enron Enron; and Dan 0. Boyle, a return Thursday to begin know of a verbal buyback into bankruptcy in former Enron finance the sentencing phase of promise, faces up to 30 December 2001, as a web executive. the trial, which is compli­years in prison. Boyle, who of accounting maneuvers 
A sixth defendant, a for­cated by a challenge to also was convicted of lying to prop up its books unrav­mer in-house Enron federal sentencing guide­to investigators for a eled. But the government accountant, was acquitted. lines that is before the Senate subcommittee for contends the barge deal Sheila Kahanek testified Supreme Court. saying the same thing, was an example of many she consistently opposed a The defendants are not faces up to 20 years. illegal accounting schemes verbal promise that the set to be sentenced until All five men declined to Enron used to pump up its government contended early next year. All remain comment. Most of their appearance of financial made the deal a loan -free on bond. lawyers also declined to success. 

Students compete in economics event 
"We did a lot of reading and keeping up team tied for third place with theBy JEANNINE PRIVAT to date with current economic develop­University ofChicago, while Northwestern 
News Writer­
ments," Leary said. won and will continue on to the national During a twenty-minute presentation, competition in Washington, D.C. 
Notre Dame students traveled to teams were required to make an analysis Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago's Chicago on Monday to compete against of the current state of the United States' Economic Education Specialist Tim five other Midwestern colleges in an event economy, make a short-term economic Schilling offered praise for teams' per­sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of forecast and offer a monetary policy rec­formances. Chicago. ommendation. "I was pleased with the quality of the 
The Notre Dame team, lead by Frank For their presentations, each team was presentations [and] impressed with the Bonello, associate professor of Economics judged on five criteria: the team's knowl­knowledge during Q and A," he said. and Policy Studies, consisted of three sen­edge of the Federal Reserve, the economy Leary said the competition was a iors, Kim Anderson, Chris Hammer (alter­and monetary policy; the team's perform­rewarding experience. nate} and Keith Harwood; and three jun-ance during Q& A with the judges; the "It was a lot of work, but a lot of fun, as 
. iors, Leah Cogswell, Matthew Garibaldi quality of the team's presentation; the well," she said. "All the time and effort and Jenna Leary. quality of the team's research; and analy­was definitely worth it." 
For the month prior to the competition, sis and the team's cooperation with one This is the first year that the Federal team members followed current econom­another. Reserve Bank of Chicago offered the com­ic trends, changes in the oil market, and In the competition against Michigan petition and hopes to do so again in com­other factors concerning the Federal State University, Northwestern University, ing years. Reserve in an effort to better understand the University of Chicago, the University of the current economy, their presentation Illinois at Chicago and the University of Contact Jeannine Privat at topic during the competition. Michigan at Dearborn, the Notre Dame jprivat@nd.edu 
page 8 The Observer + ELECTION NEWS Thursday, November 4, 2004 

Defeated Kernan 
• 
eases pam 
Fornzer governor turns to baseball 
Associated Press 
I NDIANAI'OLIS -The old 
ballplayer f'inally foreed to 
retire lookPd forward 
W1~drwsday to visiting spring 
training and rl'alizing his dream 
of owning a tmun. 
Jon Kernan, graeious in ddeat and basking in the love and dod ieation of a staff that had rallied around him when fate suddenly thrust him into the governorship, spoke not of missed opportunitiHs Wednesday but of the good for­tune bestowed upon him and turning his attention to the next chapter in his life. 
'Tm a vp,ry, very lucky guy," 
Kernan said during a news con­
ference in his Statehouse oflice 
that he must vacate in two 
months. 
Thn Indiana eonstitunncy that had embraced its n11w lnader during that fateful sncond wnnk of Sept. 2003 -whnn a stroke felled and. five days later, killnd his good friend and predeeessor, Frank ()'Bannon -turned him out of off'ice Tuesday. Hnpublican Mitch DaniHis heat Kernan 53 pereent to 45 per­rent in unotlkial results. 
"We ran a good race. I don't have any wgn~ts," said Kerrum, the !irst sitting governor rnjnet­ed by voters sinee Indiana am nrHI P d its constituti on in I972 to allow its chief executive to serve eonsenrtive terms. 
lin undernstimated the enor­mity of the task. lh~IHJbliean vot­nrs historieally havn outnum­lwred Democrats by about seven percentage points, but nxit polling Tw~sday suggest<~d a gap twin~ as large, 4(, percent to 32 perennt. 
"That's an awful big mountain to elimb," Knrmtn said. 
Kernan took himsnlf out of the race once, saying in December 2002 that lw and his wife, Maggin, derided his second term as lieutenanl governor would lw his last in elective oiTice. Aftnr ()'Bannon dind. Kernan rnconsidnred and announ1~nd his candidacy one year ago to tlw lyrie "Put mn in. roach" from tlw .John Fogerty song "Cnntl'rlield." 
The fornwr catchnr for No.trn Dame now can turn his atllm­tion to his f'irst passion. base­ball. llis only solid plans after lw leaves otlien in .January are to attend major league spring training in Florida with his father and brother. 
lle'll also likely take anotlwr look at putting together invnstors to buy a team. possi­bly tho South Bond Silvnr llawks, a minor loague alliliatn of the Arizona Diamondbacks. lin purstwd that idea until ()'Bannon's stroke on Sept. 8, 201U, and "that all fell off the tabln." 

"It's bonn an nxtraordinary 14 months beginning last Sept. 8. and I rnally havn not had a chaneo to f01~us on mur.h other than the task at hand." he said, standing at the podium in shirt 
sll~oves. 

Knrnan said he did not antici­pate running for office again, thon quickly caught himself and quipped, "Now, you know, I said that onco before." 
Four tnore years -for both political parties 
Announcement of 2004 election results signals beginning ofthe 2008 Presidential campaigns 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The day that dropped the curtain on the 2004 presidential race raised one for the 2008 con­test, with Sens. Hillary Hodham Clinton and John Edwards jockeying for advan­tage among Democrats and Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist the first on the stage for Hepublicans. · 
It's only four more years to go -min us a day. Who's counting'? Lots of folks. 
"You ean be disappointed, but you cannot walk away. This fight has just begun," Edwards told Democratic loy­alists in Boston in a conces­sion speech that also could qualify as the leadoff stump speech of the next presiden­tial campaign. 
The Democratic decks are cleared with John Kerry's defeat, and Edwards and Clinton start off as early favorites within their party 
for 2008. Not that they -or Sens. Frist of Tennessee, John Kerry -a1·e talking about McCain of Arizona, George any plans so soon. Allen of Virginia, Hick 
Since Bush cannot run Santorum of Pennsylvania again, the race is wide open and Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, on the Republiean side as former New York Mayor well, even more so than it Hudolph Giuliani, New York would normally be. Usually Gov. George Pataki and the outgoing incumbent's vice Massachusetts Gov. Mitt president is tho Romney -with automatic no early favorite for the "You can be favorite. nomination. For Frist wasted
disappointed, but 

instance, no time in put­
you cannot walk

Democratic Vice ting himself into Presidents away. This fight play, beginning 
a

Walter Mondale has just begun. " "victory tour" 
in 1984 and AI of the South on Gore in 2000, Wednesday that 
John Edwards

Hepublican Vice included stops President George Senator in Florida, 
I-I.W. Bush in 1988. 
But Vice President Dick Cheney, who is 63 and has a history of heart disease, has ruled out a run on his own for president. 
That leaves a potentially crowded field -including 
2004-05 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
i\ttors Frorn rrhe London Slng;e AMidsummer Night's Drealll 
by William Shakespeare 
Wednesday, November 3 and Saturday, November 6 Both performances at 7:30p.m. 
Leighton Concert Hall, 
arie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General Public $18.00 •Seniors/NO Faculty/Staff $16 • Students $12 
Tickets available at the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 631 ·2800. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
r;:F,~UN IVERS! TV OF 
...,NOTRE DAME 
Friday Nov. 5@ 7:00PM NO Volleyball vs Connecticut 
1st 200 fans will receive a Na I gene water bottle spon­sored by Marathon 
JfsiJ 
Sunday Nov. 7 @ 2:00PM NO Volleyball 
-" vs Boston College 
Ltd. Edition Lauren
• 

Brewster Posters courtesy-" of the WB, while supplies last!
• 

Georgia, North 
Carolina and South Carolina with victorious GOP Senate candidates. 
"Last night was a monu­mental victory" for the GOP­led Senate, Frist said. Wins included a five-state sweep of the South and the defeat of SP.nate Democratic LHader Tom Daschle in South Dakota. Frist's nxpanded GOP majori­ty givns him a high-profile platform at least for the next two years. Frist said he will stick with a pledge to resign from the chamber when his seeond term is up in 2006. 
Clinton, who would have been sidelined in 2008 with a Kerry-Edwards victory, is now front and eenter among would-be Democratic eon­tenders. And her supporters wen~ busy getting her name in cireulation. 
The former first lady has plenty of narnn recognition and a wide following. But some analysts suggest she could meet the same fate as Kerry as a liberal senator from a Northeastern state, despite the years she spent in Arkansas. 
"She's alrnady known. The publie is already polarized around her," said political analyst Stuart Hothenberg. 

Friday Nov. 5@ 7:35PM NO Hockey vs Bowling Green 
Chevy Trading Card Night Post-game autograph session with the Irish freshmen players 
Saturday Nov. 6 @ 7PM #5 M. Soccer vs. TBO 
Come cheer on the Irish in the Big East Quarterfinals! 
Thursday, November 4, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
NBC's Brokavv gets top television ratings 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -NBC's Tom Brokaw was watched by 15.2 mil­lion viewers during prime-time Tuesday, according to Nielsen Media Research. Brokaw and analyst Tim Russert worked through the night on election cov­
erage. ABC's coverage was seen by 
13.2 million viewers, CBS' cover­age by 9.5 million and Fox's by 4.7 million, Nielsen said. 
8.1 million people watched Fox News Channel, 6.2 million saw CNN and 2.8 million viewers tuned in to MSNBC. 
LUNKER'S 

HOME OF THE 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM AND ANGLER's INN RESTAURANT. HUGE SELECTION OF 
NORTH FACE 
JACKETS,COATS,HATS,CLOTHING BRING THIS AD INTO LUNKER'S AND RECEIVE 10% OFF NORTH fACE ITEMS. LUNKER's APPROX. 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. TAKE ST. RD. 23 N TO EDWARDSBURG, MICHIGAN 269-663-3745 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM 

Bloggers blamed for inaccuracies 
News organizations say online sources spread incorrect poll data 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -News organi­zations promised Wednesday to look into why their Election Day exit polls showed an ini­tial surge for John Kerry, but also blamed bloggers for spreading news that gave a misleading view of the presi­dential race. 
The exit poll data was deliv­ered at several points Tuesday to ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, Fox News Channel and The Associated Press by the National Election Pool, a com­pany formed in the wake of the networks' blown calls on election night 2000. 
The first wave showed Kerry with a lead of three percent­age points in Florida and four points in Ohio -both battle­ground states won were happy with it. But that was not good last night." 
Other network representa­tives said their confidence in NEP remained unshaken. 
The Florida and Ohio exit poll results, along with those in other states were Kerry was strong, was quickly dissemi­nated on Web sites such as Slate, the Drudge Report, 
But the people who read these numbers -among them, thousands of ordinary Americans with an intense interest in the election -put too much faith into them and leaped to conclusions, said Bill Schneider, CNN's polling expert. 
"I think people believed 
them, and it's 
particularly 

Wonkette.com, "Doing an early the case with 
Atrios.blogspot.com Internet blog­
poll is like 
and Command Post. gers," said Some of these reporting the K a t h y sites cautioned results ofthe game Frankovic, readers not to make CBS News'
at halftime. ,,
too much of the polling direc­information. The tor. "That's Command Post Joseph lenski unfortunate delivered the news National Election Pool because it 
under the headline 

"Grain of Salt." Drudge removed the numbers almost as 
by President "Our approach is: quickly as they were Bush when posted. And Slate
We post, you

the votes warned: "these early
decide.,,

were actual­exit poll numbers do ly counted, not divine the name giving the Alan Nelson of the winner." president his "I didn't have any
The Command Post

margin of victory. 
"Once one part of it is in question and is wrong, it kind of puts the whole thing in question," said Marty Ryan, Fox News Channel's executive producer for political cover­age. "It was disappointing.... During the primary season, it worked very well for us, we 
real compunction 
about putting it up there," said Alan Nelson, co­manager of The Command Post. "I didn't struggle with the decision, because I knew it was going to become a global news item within about 30 seconds. 
"Our approach is: We post, you decide," Nelson said. 
sets up 
expectations that may or may not be met. I think it's a good exercise because it reminded people that early exit polls can be unreliable." 
Bloggers picked out different numbers to use for their pur­poses, said Joseph Lenski, who ran the poll with partner Warren Mitofsky for the NEP. As the day wore on, later waves of exit polling showed the race tightening. 
"Doing an early poll is like reporting the results of the game at halftime," Lenski said. "You only have about a third of the information. No other survey research is held to that level of accuracy." 

S U B PRESENTS • • 

LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 



4TH 
· BE ·­
THERE 
OR BE • 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, November 4, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

War and sacrifice 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Henler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Hearher Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PtiOTo EmTOR: Claire Kdley GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin All DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROLU,R: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 63 I -6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK 
(574) 
631-5323 ohsnews.l @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 
631-5303 viewpoint.! @lnd.edu SPORTS DESK 


(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.cdu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu . SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 photo@)nd.cdu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONUN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online hy rhc smdenrs ofrhe Universiry of Norre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisemcms, is not governed by 'policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advcrriscmenrs based on contenr. 
The news is repom·d as accurarcly and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials rcprcsenr the opinion.of the majoriry of the Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor, Ao;sistant Managing Editor and dcpartmenr editors. Commemarics, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lcrtcrs is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Questio11s l'l!garding Observer policies shott!tl be directed to Editor in C'hief/'v!att Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'111c Ol~rvrr (USPS~')') 2400()) ~~ puhh~h~·d Mnnd.ty rhruu~h f:ri•lny exu:p1 duling cum ;md ~ro~catinnl'criods. A •uhw:npr11111 ru·nk' {)h<~erllt'rll $!1lll!iJronC' ;audc1nic )'C<'r; s-;; furum:ac:nu:slcr. • 'lltt· (11"""'"'"' •• a nu:miK'f nf the M.wx.!.ll~ll 1 rt'U. All rcprm!UltJtm riglujo 1n: 
lt'\t"lvrcl 

Tlu: OhM"rvn •~ puhH,hctl ;n: 1'.0, HmQ lll4 :-illtllil fJimu~ H;al/ 024 Suuth !lining Ho~ll Nucn: flame, IN 4f1"iV..-U779 Nnrrt' [J,unr, IN 4(•556-0n9 l'criur.ltr.IIJIH\1:11-\C' Jl.ml•u Noll't" Pounr ;tlltl.lll!llliunalmatltn!lilllrk.a. 
1'0STMAS1'Hit 

Send Yd1lu~~ t.urrcUIIII~ to: '11u: l)J>M'r"r• 
'11~t Uh'tl:'rvcr 111 a mrmhc:r of the: Awx:a.ucJ Preu. AU reproduction risflts Jr< rcmwJ. 
Marathon was a city long before it was a sporting event. It was at Marathon in 490 B.C.E. that 10,000 Athenians, aided by 1,000 Plataeans, faced the forces of the Persim1 emperor Darius. Despite being severely outnum­Peter Wicks bered, the Greeks won a decisive victory Englishman and sustained Abroad remarkably few casu­alties. 
Legend has it that after the battle the messenger Philippides ran the 25 miles from Marathon to Athens bearing the news. Upon arrival he exclaimed "Rejoice, we conquer," before collaps­ing dead from exhaustion. Since the first modern Olympic Games in 1896 athletes have run a similar distance to commemorate Philippides' achieve­ment, which has always seemed to me to rather miss the point of the story. 
Along with the battle of Salamis, the victory at Marathon saved Greece, the cradle ofWestem Civilization, from Persian conquest. Those who fought in the battle took great pride in their achievement. Aeschylus was the great­est of tragedians and yet his epitaph, which he wrote himself, does not men­tion his plays but instead identifies him as a veteran of Marathon. 
To understand the Greek view of war one must bPgin at the beginning, with llmner. Thomas Paine called Homer a warmonger, but actually he was some­thing more complex. lie celebrated heroism and martial prowess, but he was also acutely aware of the extent of the suffering that war produces. 
Salvador Dali once offered the dis­tinctly sub-Wildean aphorism, "Wars have never hurt anybody except the people who die." Homer knew better. The Iliad is sufl'used not only with death but with bereavement. Homer has Diomedes say, "lll-fated are those whose sons oppose my strength." A lesser poet would have written "Ill­fated are those who oppose my strength." The poem ends, not with the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
sacking of Troy, but with the funeral 
rites of Hector, the Trojan hero. The 
scene in which Hector's wife, 
Andromache, laments that without his 
father her son will not reach manhood 
is as moving as any in Western litera­
ture. 

It would be a misunderstanding to describe Homer's attitude to war as balanced. War was inevitable ­although some particular conflicts might be avoidable-and hence not the kind of thing that one could be for or against. And yet, alive to both the glory and the devastation of war, the blind bard of Ionia seems to have achieved a more stereoscopic view of war than most of the artists of the last century who took it as their theme. With some exceptions, the consensus of the creative class seems to have formed around what we might call the Apocalypse Now position: War is hell, next question. 
The controversy surrounding the invasion and occupation of Iraq has been a catalyst for questions about mil­itary recruitment. In the run-up to the election the national Rock the Vote campaign, along with other groups and campaigners, warned of the impending reintroduction of the draft. That many of those who made this warning felt no compunction about berating the Bush Administration for creating a "climate of fear" was of course hypocritical, but hardly surprising. 
There will not be a military draft in the United States in our lifetime. The bill to reintroduce the draft (which was defeated in the House of Representatives by 402 votes to 2) was sponsored by Hep. Charles Hangel, a Democrat concerned about the fact that the military disproportionately recruits from the poor and underprivileged, the attractiveness of a military career will naturally vary according to the other options that are available to you. 
A further problem arises when, as has bnen the case since the Vietnam era, the most privileged demographic in the United States, the graduates of the 
country's elite collBgcs, am the most 
likely to oppose the projection of' 
American military power abroad. 
Members of that elite may be reluctant 
to enlist knowing that there is a high 
chance that they will be asked to risk 
their lives in military actions which a 
substantial amount of their peers will 
regard as unjust. 
I cannot see any good solution to this problem. For that matter I cannot see any reason to believe that for every problem there must exist a good solu­tion. 
Next Thursday is Hemembrance Day in England, Veterans Day in the United States. Nov. 11 is the anniversary of the Armistice that ended the First World War, which was often called "the war to end all wars" -a phrase llomer would have dismissed as na'ive, and rightly so. 
At the center of the village in which I grew up there is a memorial to the sol­diers who lost their lives in the two world wars. As a member of the local Scout troop, each year I was required to attend the mflmorial service, which mostly involved standing outside in the rain. The solemnity of the occasion was not entirely lost on me, but I would bP lying if I said that I was lilled with pious sentiments towards those who fought and fell defending their country. But now I am grateful that I was made to attend those services. "Allez aIa messe," said Pascal, "et Ia foi vous vien­dra." Go to mass and faith will come. 
There is much to be said for going through the motions. The gratitude I now feel for those who gave what Lincoln call11d the "last full measure of devotion" is, I suspect, made possible by those November days in which wn stood in silence outside in the rain. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. lie can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are ·those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Ohserver. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Claire Heininger Matt Mooney Amanda Michaels Bobby Griffin Nieole Zook Pat Leonard 
What did you think of the 
Katie Perry Scene 

networks' Election Night coverage as
Kelly Mo1~han Kenyatta Storin Viewpoint Illustrator compared to 2000? l.aunm Galgano Katie Knorr 
(~raphks 

Vote by today at 5 p.m. at
Kdly MacDonald 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Mothers all want their sons to grow up to be president, but they don't want them to become politicians in the process." 
John Fitzgerald Kennedy former president 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 4, 2004 page 11 

Revolt of the orange slice eaters 
When I was in 7th grade, I did what every red-blooded, Communist hating Indiana pre-teen does once in his life: I joined th~ junior high school basketball team. Now, I may have stood all of five feet flat and weighed 90 pounds dripping wet, but at the time I owned a pair of Reebok Pumps, so I had no doubt that I could be reasonably assured of a Larry Bird-esque ascension to Hoosier Hardwood glory. 
Bob Masters
These humble hoop dreams were quickly deflated when the reality of my-athletic ability hit me in the face. I mean that 
Fall on the
quite literally. In my first game against the hated St. Anthony 
Floor and I'm
Panthers, I was struck in the head by a rope of a pass so vio­
Laughing
lent that I can still make out the word SPALDING across my forehead. We had spent weeks practicing and mastering the bounce-pass, baseball-pass and no-look-pass, but no one had prepared me for the basketball-to-the-cranium pass. This illustrious beginning kicked-off an ath­letic career of bench-warming, day-dreaming, orange slice-eating and at least two broken bones. Oh, how I loved those half-time orange slices. 
As I enter the autumn of my sporting endeavors, however, I find myself in the bizarre position of high sovereign lord ruling over some of the National Football League's finest athletes. Each and every Sunday without fail seven All-Star cal­iber professionals line up at my very behest and answer to my beck and call. Two-time Super Bowl champion quarterback-and on-again, off-again beau of Tara Reid -Tom Brady takes his walking orders from a man who once ate 50 donut holes on a dare. Sticky-handed Steelers' receiver and all-around super freak athletic specimen Plaxico Burress has a dude who can't be troubled walk­ing all the way to the Hock deciding if he starts over the equally mind-blowing Isaac Bruce. 
In short, I have become a Fantasy Football franchise owner. 
My friend Joe, a recent Notre Dame alum, invited me into the league as a way of keeping in touch with mutual friends who have since graduated. We picked our athletes and gave our teams ridiculous names and decided exactly what color we wanted the lighting bolt on our helmets to be. We left jovial instant mes­sages and exchanged polite emails, wishing each other well on the {make­bP.lieve) field of {pretend) competition. 
This good-natured spirit of sportsmanship worked just fine until the first week of the season when we discovered the intoxicating blood-lust that accompanies destroying your good friend with a fictitious team of professional head-hunters. Our instant messages and emails these days would make Patton blush and I myself have sunk into such a state of unbridled coaching rage that even Bob Knight's professional sensibilities would be offended. As our young season moves along, I find myself at two major infuriating disadvantages which fuel this hyste­ria: my players stink and I don't scare anybody. However, my boys are pros and I trust they'll turn it around. We've been in worse spots. 
Ultimately, what I've learned as a pretend footballer is that the appeal of a Fantasy League is sp,lf-evident. It is, pure and simple, fantasy. Our generation grew up in the age of ESPN, maturing in a sport-centric universe that extolled the virtue of being "Like Mike." We are the young people of one sports-nation of the Adidas logo, for the Adidas logo, by the Adidas logo where you didn't get on the school bus until you saw the Top Ten plays of last night on the 7 a.m. Sportscenter. In Sports-Nation the Fantasy League becomes the great tool of ath­letic democracy. We, the average-athlete masses, rise to equal footing with the NFL's All-Pro aristocracy. We are the common bench-warming, orange slice­eaters ... but in a Fantasy League we get to be the hero on our childhood bed­room wall. 
But still I feel this isn't enough. In a truly democratic Sports-Nation, we orange-slice eaters wouldn't be relegated to the realms of internet fantasy. That's why today, inspired by my illuminating Fantasy experience, I advocate a full­scale bench-warmer revolution, a Bastille Day for the short and fat where we, as one body, take over our nation's athletic institutions and redistribute them to each according to his never-lettered-in-high-school needs. 
We must strike first with our local basketball team. Now. Mike Brey is one fan­tastic coach and one fantastic man. But he's just one man. One tie-hating man_. Thus, he should not be that difficult to lay siege upon him in the first battle of our Not-So-Hard-Worker's Revolution. Much like the first guns at Lexington and Concord, the Battle of the JACC Basketball Office will signal a new and glorious age of freedom from oppression. 
Ask yourself, wouldn't our team receive a greater benefit from having the col­lective will of 10,000 non-varsity students all at once deciding if Jordan Cornette should shoot the 3 or pass the ball? Isn't such a democratic coaching theory more akin to the ideals of our Founding Fathers? Wouldn't coaching the Irish make me feel better about the time when I scored two points for the opposing team? The answers are "yes!" and "shoot!" 
Bob Masters is a senior English major. He can be contacted at . amasters@nd. edu. The views expres~ed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
U-WIRE 

Post-election syndrome 
You did everything you could. You gave up your weekends. You walked a hole in your favorite pair of shoes and knocked on doors until you had raw knuckles. 
Then the polls closed. You went to an Election Day party, but no one celebrated. Your Kevin Graham candidate lost. Or did 
University of
he? 
South Florida 
Politicians promise to 
The Oracle 
bring change to our lives. The signs dearly show all around us that they did exactly that during this election cycle. Hundreds of thousands of people registered to vote for this election. Dozens waited in lines for hours to mark their ballots early. And as Rev. Jessie Jackson said this week on 95.7 The Beat's morning gospel show, young black men in America have gone from planning funerals to planning futures. His comments referred to celebrities such as hip-hop mogul Sean "P. Diddy" Combs and Def Jam Records founder Russell Simmons encouraging voter participation. 
Former President Bill Clinton said during a Wild 98.7 interview Tuesday morning that this country will live with the results of this year's election for the next 20 years. But beyond the policies that our newly and re-elected officials will create, we are a nation that has been awakened. 
The elections four years ago came at the eve of our politically conl')cious resurrection. The Sept. 11 attacks hadn't happened yet. And most Americans couldn't spell Condoleezza Rice, let alone even knew that she's the U.S. national security advisor. Since Sept. 11, our nation has paid more attention to who runs our country. We know their names, and Tuesday we showed up at the polls in droves to give thumbs up or thumbs down to our elected officials. 
Politics and religion remain two subjects you learn to avoid at any social gathering. You still may not sit at a bar and discuss the war in Iraq, but there's a chance that while walking to class you had a conversation about the differences between the RepHblicans and the Democrats. From the Mel Martinez and Betty Castor U.S. Senate campaign attack ads to celebrity endorse­ments, discussing politics has gained popu­larity. 

Don't let the disappointing outcome of a race in this year's election cause you to turn your back on our democracy. Use the les­sons you've learned and the contacts you've made to fuel your interest and participation year round. · 
Don't wait another four years for a major election to get involved. Stay involved. 
This year's election marked the beginning of a revolution in the United States. Keep in mind that the uprising should be a peaceful one. No doubt there will be days of contest­ed results ahead of us in some races. The campaign sign stealing that has been a problem around Tampa Bay this year was like a side show to the main event. One would almost have expected to hear an announcer say at the dose of the polls Tuesday, "Let's get ready to rumble!" A radio personality on 970 WFLA joked that we'll need some kind of spray to get rid of the attorney stench once this is over and every race has a clear winner. 
To other countries, we may seem like a nation divided. I say we are a nation ignit­ed. 
We've survived pregnant and hanging chads and butterfly ballots. The person who is in office doesn't change the fact that you still have a voice. 
Thank you to all those who worked tire­lessly this year to advocate for change. Thank you to all those who voted. And a special thank you to those who woke up Tuesday morning and pledged to finish the work they started by remaining politically aware and socially active. 
This column originally appeared on Nov. 3, 2004 in The Oracle, the daily publication at the University ofSouth Florida. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Bush should open oil reserves for winter 
After the 1973-7 4 oil embargo, a Strategic Petroleum Reserve was estab­lished to protect against future crises. The reserve was placed on the Gulf of Mexico and consisted of a number of gigantic salt caves. The science 
Staff Editorial 
behind drilling a hole 2,000 feet into the 
University of 
earth filled with water 
Connecticut 
to dissolve the salt, cre­
The Daily 
ating a cavern the Eiffel 
Campus
tower could be dumped into with room to spare, was originally perfected by oil companies along the Gulf. The United States government bought a few caves from them and then drilled many more, creating a space that now has a capacity of 727 million barrels. 
The circumstances in which petroleum can be withdrawn from the reserves are outlined in the Energy Policy and Conservation Act {EPCA). For a full draw­down of the reserves, the president must deem there is an energy shortage that would adverse}y affect either national security or the national economy. However, a limited drawdown of resources may occur if this action would aid in a circum­stance in which there is a supply shortage, and thus lessen the effects of the crisis. 
President George W. Bush ordered the reserves filled in 2001, and as of this September the reserves were nearing capacity at 669 million barrels. It is on track to be filled by July 2005. 

OPEC asked the United States on Oct. 27 to dip further into its reserves. OPEC President Purnomo Yusgiantoro was quot­ed as saying, "We have qsked them [the United States I to use their oil reserves to help cool down the prices." 
With gas well above $2 and winter com­ing, requiring still more oil for heating, one must ask why the Bush administration has only loaned out oil from the reserves in small, insignificant amounts. The govern­ment should open the reserves more to help families in need, since heating bills will have doubled since several years ago. If the government won't help the prices of fuel for cars, it should help keep us warm. 
If the government is truly confident that everything will be fme, then there should be no hesitation in releasing the reserves to aid citizens. Unless, that is, the govern­ment is not confident that it will not need the Strategic Petroleum Reserves later. If the Bush administration wants us to believe everything will return to normal , once Mexico and Nigeria get their produc­tion on track, and we're not in the early stages of peak oil, it should convey that confidence by aiding its own people. 
This editorial originally appeared on Oct. 29 in The Daily Campus, the daily publica­tion ofthe University ofConnecticut. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, November 4, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Kweli's latest not up to par 

The Explosion shreds through 'Black Tape' 

By KENYATTA STORIN A'sistaut Scone Editor 
On his last album, .lay-Z rappnd, "If' skills sold, truth lw told, I'd probably bn lyrkally, Talib Kwnli." 
II' anyorw is worthy of' such a eompliment it would surnly bn Talib Kwnli. Sinen l!JlJH, whnn hn and Mos Dd' blow crities away with t.hnir dw.;sit~ album. "BI<u~k Star~" Kwnli hw.; mnsistnntly wowed rritics with a flow that is both skilll'ul and intnllnetual. Contrary to most of tlw rap you hPar on tlw radio, which is of'tnn about as thought provoking as a Schwarzmwggnr flit~k. Kwnli raps about sod­ntal issuns, with an nmphasi'i on tlw harsh rnalit.ies or lif'n. But despitn his eritical an~lairn and skillful llow, hn has always flut­tered ju~t undemnatl1 mainstmarn populari­ty. 
In "Tim Beautiful Struggle," Kweli dearly trins to ridn on .Jay-Z's shout out and bridgP the gap f'rom underground to mainstrnam. a.•:; it is by l'ar his most commen:ial album to date. Kweli arms himsnlf witll a slew of' hit­making weapons, bringing in popular pro­dueers The Noptunes, Kanyn West and Just Blaze, as wnll as radio-li-inndly singers Mary .1. Blign, Anthony Hamilton and Faith Evans. lie nven brings back old partner, DJ lli-Tek, who lwlped jumpstart Kweli's <:arnnr. On paper, "The Bnautif'ul Struggle" h<L'> thn mak­ings or a pop-juggernaut likP Kanyn West's "Collngn Dropout." llowever, a.'i it turns out, whiln Kweli's rhymes are strong lor the most part, his supporting east lets him down and the result is an awkward album that is not eatehy nnough li>r li>llowers of' mainstream hip-hop, and may alienate some of' hi.., long­time underground fans. 
Kwnli is afton called a political rapper, and he dearly takes offense to this, for on the title trark of tile album, Kweli raps "They call me the political rapper I Even af'tnr I toll 'em I don't lexpletivel with polities." Even though he is political in tl1e sense tllat he addresses important political issues in his rhymes, there is certainly some truth to his words beeausn he does not tell listeners to eondemn a particular political party or take political action. Instead his rhymes are more about the trials and tribulations of' lifo, which he calls a "beautiful struggle" in rnlcrenee to the album's title. 
Under this general theme, Kweli rellects on a number of diffnrcmt topies and the results are generally quite satisfying, and often rather provocative. On "We Got the Beat" he urges people to bn wary of igno­rance: "It don't matter if you're Muslim, llnbrew, or you a Christian I Information is the newest relihrion." And on "Around My Way" he criticizes Americans who suddnnly became patriotic after 9111: "The way be saluting flags I Wrapping tllem around our heads I When [people] ain't beeome Amnrican till 9111." 
Kweli's only real lyrieal misstep is "We Know," a love song with mundann lines like, "Hey baby I Look like you need a break tonight I Let me make it right, baby, won't you stay tile night." 
Despite Kwoli's generally strong lyricism, none of' tile songs really draw you in as much a.'i they should primarily beeause of a lack of' strong beats and occw,;ionally weak chorus­es. The production showcases a wide range of' diJlcrent styles, but after a lew listens, it loses much of its charm. Even The Neptunes' "Broken Glass," Kanyc West's "I Try" and DJ lli-Tnk's iliree traeks, do not match tile quali­ty of tll(~ir past work. This is not to say that the heaL'> are bad, but rather that they simply do not quito rnaeh tile high bar set by previ­ous Kweli efforts. 
While most of tile choruses work, a hand-

Photo courtesy of mtv.com 

Talib Kweli's latest album does not match the quality of his previous works. 
lui of them are weak and fiJrced. In particu­lar, tho album's load single, "I Try" sufli1rs !'rom this, whern Mary .1. Blige repeaL<; the words "I Try" over and over, which sounds a bit too much liko Kwoli's la'it singln, "Get By;· 
Kwnli is an imprnssivo MC, but he might bn better oil' going back to his rooL'i in futurP albums. "The Beautiful Struggle" has its moments, especially lyrimlly, but overall it lacks the unique sound and fi.1el of hi'> previ­ous albums. Altl10ugh tim so-so production is not entirely Kwnli's fault, his dncision to usn pop produeers in thn first placn is question­able. Simply put, Kweli tries too hard to join the ranks of mainstream rappers, and it dearly shows. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 
By RYAN ROGERS Scene Mu;ic Criric 
.I ust whnn you havn fidlen oil' your skate­board and you cannot seem to find any glass to smash The Explosion comes out with "Biark Tape." 
llailing from Boston, The Explosion touts a blue-eollar harder-than-thou attitude. "Biat~k Tap<1" features straightforward punk rock very similar to The Explosion's prnvious rnleasns. "Street Punk" or 70's styln punk are the easiest terms to use when classifying this album. Simple guitar rifTs and repnating chanting vocals ·will rmnind listnnnrs of a more produced ver­sion of old school punk bands.. Power chord aftor power chord. The Explosion knops tim short. fa'it, loud 1~ulturn moving. 
The lyrical contnnt of "Black Tape" stays trun to punk rockers everywhere. There is not one song about girls or love, yet the album is extrnmely romantic. The album romanticizes being dedicated to your beliefs and loyalty to your friends the only way distortf~d guitars and scratchy vocals can. With lines like "We both know that pnople eome and go I But it's alright cuz good friends never din" and "Facing truth is in our blood," "Black Tape" is perfect background music when you an1 slapping high lives with buddies. 
The band's front man, Million Dollar Matt lloek, has a gorgeous voice. lie rasps and chants with punchy energy, but beneath the gravely voeals his voice finds a melody that works remarkably well. His voiee porfeetly compliments "Black Tape's" lyrical content. Hoek sings about being battle-hardened and the modern revolu­tion in an optimistie way. Listening to him sing feels authentie, like he's been there, or at least his voeal chords have. 
However, this macho style is both "Blaek Tape's" strength and weakness. On the one 
courtesy mtv.com 

"Black Tape" is a fun, high-energy album, but it offers very little In terms of 
originality. 

hand, it is a whole lot of fun, and perfect for singing along or playing air guitar. But on the other hand, it offers very little in terms of' originality. There is next to noth­ing that sets this album apart from other list-pumping punk outlits. 
The first spin of this album is a rush. It opens with "Deliver Us" which begins with some funky feedback that leads intJ ring­ing guitar ehords until a pick slido cues havoc in the mosh pit. The very first lyrics of the album lets the listener know what they aro in for: "Give us this day our daily dead." 
From here "Black Tape" has several hard and true punk traeks like "Filthy Insane" and "Go Blank," both of' whieh quickly repeat their respective titles over and over again. These songs will please harder punk fans but 
The Explosion also has some more bal­lad style roek songs. "lleavyweight" gently roeks at a slower pace but still maintains a thrashing naturo. 
"Blaek Tape's" first Iiston is high-energy and diverse enough for tho listener to want to put the thirty-seven minute disc right back into the player. But after a fnw listnns the album does not really endure. Some of the traeks are vory catchy and memorabh1, keeping the listener coming back for morn, but on the whole tho album gets a little boring. Hepcat listening is the downfall of' this album. 
For artistic, intolligent, soft music ignoro The Explosion, but if' you want l'urious, gutsy punk roek, piek up "Biaek Tape." 
Contact Ryan Rogers at rrogers2@nd.edu 
WSND-FM TOP 5 SPINS OF THE WEEK: 1) The Libertines -The Libertines 2) Luna-Rendezvous 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, November 4, 2004 
page 13 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
More like going out of business 
By BRODERICK HENRY Scene Music Critic 
There is no love lost between Jay-Z and H. Kdly. 
A string of eaneelled shows at the onset of a tour in support of their new release, "Unfinished Business," already had fans and musie insiders speculat­ing about the relationship between the two hip-hop stars. Such speculation has only been fueled by a recent con­cert appearance at New York's Madison Square Garden in which Kelly was aetually pepper sprayed by a member of Jay-Z's entourage. In response to the aforementioned event, on a New York radio station Jay-Z described Kelly as a jealous egomaniac. and Kelly portrayed .Jay-Z as an unsympathetic friend who was willing to permit woeful stage pro­duction. Clearly, this exchange has done little to alleviate the tense situa­tion. 
These recent events beg the question: why did these two giants of urban music join together to create a second collaborative album? 
The artists' first collaboration, "Best of Both Worlds," can easily be catego­rized as disappointing. Commercially, the album did not move a million units and fan support for the album was minimal at best. Also, at this point in their careers neither needs a spark if you consider that Jay-Z has retired as a solo artist, and Kelly's latest release from a little over two months ago has been a solid hit. 
Whatever the reason, the two should have stayed far away from each other, for "Unfinished Business" is unques­tionably the most abysmal effort from either of the stars. Overall, the album is characterized by the reluctance of either performer to explore his artistic abilities as he would usually on his own album. As a result, each relies heavily on the other to pick up the slack, but neither does. Fans of Jay-Z's last release will not find the artist who answered the questions surrounding the lack of a father in his life and the impact of life in the ghetto. Those same fans hoping Kelly would bring some of his "Chicago-step" flavor and R&B standards will be surprised to discover there is not a hint of either on this album. 


Instead, what listeners will find is that "Unfinished Business" sounds a lot like music they have heard before. In fact a number of the album's tracks are tweaked up versions of songs that were on "Best of Both Worlds." 
Regrettably, the producers of the album, Trackmasters, have not had a real hit in close to five years. Their staccato beats, equipped with a fair share of tired guitar and piano melodies sound like something straight out of 1998. Jay-Z's lackluster rhymes focus on his new Maybach, girls and homes, and Kelly's constant sex talk­ing, fail to provide a reprieve from the albums lackluster production. Undoubtedly, at this point in their careers neither should be rhyming or singing on a track that sounds like something his cousin produced in his basement studio. 

Occasionally, Kelly and Jay-Z find a way to remind listeners why they love their music. "Feelin You in Stereo" serves as a fine example. On the track, Jay-Z states that everything cannot be hardcore and allows Kelly to sing in the rap/singing style for which he has become famous. Jay-Z also adds a verse with an atypical rhyme pattern that is clean and suits the song perfect­ly. "Mo' Money" also a reused track is the only other standout. 
Overall. "Unfinished Business" is aptly titled. It definitely sounds like it is unfinished. Much is left to the imagina­tion, and it is clear this merger is fated to go out of business. 
Contact Broderick Henry at bhenry1 @nd.edu 
Action Action has impressive debut 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Scene Music Critic 
Action Action's -debut album on Victory Records includes some of the best emo songwriting to come out in a long time. 
It takes the synth of emo godfathers, The Get Up Kids, a step further, and also just plain rocks out. "Don't Cut your Fabric to This Year's Fashion" is an amazing blend of the "I just broke up with my girlfriend and it reeeeaaly hurt" mentality combined with a matu­rity that is rarely seen in an emo release. This album also makes some departures from the traditional emo­fuzzy guitars with a dash of heart­break recipe. Synths, loops, and sequencers play along side the guitars and drums. 
The opening track, "This Year's Fashion," meanders through a weave of synth pop and crunchy guitars. This song displays some of the emotional tendencies of the band when frontman Mark Thomas Kluepfel croons, "Sweeten my tea you lied, you lied, you lied I you've got your hands around my throat I you're got your eyes inside my back." However, these typical lyrics are countered by the opening lines, "Head trip on the scene again, pump­ing in the veins of the rabid mouths to feed. I head back, obsolete I trapped with the secrets that I cannot keep today." These lyrics will not be heard from the slew of punk "boy-bands" out there. Action Action is emotional but they write with a maturity that puts them a cut above the rest. 

"Photograph" is the first real upbeat song on the album and mixes a sugar­coated Andrew WK melody, which is actually quite disarming. Dan Leo's drums drive this song forward and Adam Manning's guitar adds the emo­tional punch to Kluepful's lyrics: "And I never should have kissed those lips before I I never should've let you out my door." 
"Instructions on Building a Model Airplane" is the hardest song on the album, giving more attention to tradi­tional rock and less on the synths, even though they still play a part. This song is the sonic pinnacle of the album as it tears through its 2:28 track time, making it the shortest track on the album. 
However, after putting the pedal to the floor with that track, Action Action slows it down on the next song, "A Simple Question." A wandering synth loop guides the first half of this song as Kluepfel laments on a relationship turned sour. About halfway through this song, however, the pace picks up and Kluepfel's keyboards and Manning's guitar walk hand-in-hand with a sound that ends the song on a happy note even though its lyrics are of a more morose nature. 

Perhaps the most visceral song on this album is the closing track. "The Short Weekend Begins with a Longing." Keyboards open this track, as Clarke Foley's thumping bass kicks in. The title gives away the theme of this song: contradiction. The chorus is a pleading "And when I get to dig too deep I when I get too high (I'll never ask of you I I'll ask oO and when I talk too much I don't talk enough (I'll never ask of you I I'll ask oO." These lyrics run from the microphone like a teenager running into his room after his first heartbreak. The emotion is palpable and when Kluepfel yells, "And when I fall apart over the week­end I and the pills begin to stop work­ing,"· the seriousness of this song is made apparent. 
Action Action will make you laugh, and they will make you cry. They take emo and indie roek and meld the two with keyboards and mature song writ­ing. This mixture of rock and synths is the next step in the world of popular rock music and Action Action have proven that they will be one of the har­bingers of this trend with "Don't Cut your Fabric to This Year's Fashion." 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
3) Rilo Kiley -More Adventurous 4) Interpol -Antics 5) Kaki King -Legs to Make Us Longer 
r-------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 4, 2004 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Missouri basketball penalized for violations 
Missouri chancellor Brady resigned.
Tigers on probation, 
Deaton said the school would The committee did not men­not appeal. tion Clemons or Harvey by
avoid postseason ban 
Coach Quin Snyder said he name in its report but acknowl­
hoped the Tigers would still be edged that an assistant coach Associated Press 
competitive in recruiting violated NCAA rules by buying 
INDIANAPOI.IS-Missouri's because of the school's new $75 meals, providing transportation basketball team was plaeed on million arena. and illegally contacting recruits thrnn ynars probation "I still think we're going to be and their families. Wednesday for NCAA recruiting able to be successful in recruit­"The charge of being paid violations but avoidml a ban on ing," he said. "We just need to $250 on one oceasion, we postseason play. get people to come to Columbia bandied that about a great 
Tho infractions committee and sen it." deal," committee chairman took away orw scholarship next The committee found the Thomas Yeager said in a con­year and two in 2006-07 and Tigers violated NCAA recruiting ference call. "But we felt the limited all bask11tball t:oadws to rules from 1999-003 and reject­information didn't rise to the recruiting on cnmpus until ed tho school's explanation that level we could make a finding Novemlwr 2005. most of the violations were on it." 
"Wn f'nlt thn ofT-campus ban inadverttmt. University officials already would bn a significant statn­"Tlw men's basketball staff said they were putting the pro­nw n t on tlw vi o Iations and had the benefit of extensive gram on probation for two removes thn criticism of punish­rules mlucation and compliance years, but the NCAA decided to ing current student-athletes," proendures," the committee extend the punishment through eomrnittnn chairman Thomas said. "Nevertheless, the men's 2007. Coaches also will be pro­Yeager said in a conf't)rnnce call. basketball staff took risks and hibited from off-campus recruit­
The penalty prevents eoaehes pushed the limits with respect ing through November 2005. from visiting high schools, mak­to recruiting legislation, partic­"We felt the ofT-campus ban ing honw visits, attnnding sum­ularly while recruiting top would be a significant state­mer camps and oven giving prospeds." ment on the violations and paid visits from 12 to nine this censure. The committee also speeches at high-school awards The case camn to light when removes the criticism of punish­year and next year although accepted the school's self­hanq unts. Yeager said thn ban former point guard Hicky ing current student-athletes," Missouri could delay that penal­imposed sanctions that include had not bonn imposnd since Clemons accused ex-assistant Yeager said. ty by one year. not renegotiating coach Quin IIJ1)0 when Illinois' basketball coach Tony Harvey of paying In addition, the Tigers must Additional punishments Snyder's contraet until .July team was punished. him $250. Harvey later reduce the number of official include a public reprimand and 2006. 
NFL 
O-wens can't understand anin1osity fron1 fello-w players 
<Ul MVP contender in his first season 10 vietory over Baltimore. makes tackles and he gets up and dais," Owens said. "They pick the
Associated Press 
with the Philadelphia Eagles, can't "It's discouraging at times that I does his thing. He probably gets guys that they feel best suil'i whatev­
1'1111 ADELPI IIA -Terrell Owens understand why he's become such a get labeled and put in that same credited for tackles and he don't er position they're trying to eome has never had <my problems ofl'thn villain. mold and that I'm the worst guy even make them. aero&<; with. So who knows? I just go finld. I lis anties on the field eausn IIn said Wednesday he received that ever put on a uniform," Owens "For whatever reason, they just out them and I still do my thing." him nnough troub!P. several "hate" e-mails through his said. "It's funny. I listen to all the don't like me. I think just the faet Owens bneame infamous fbr his 
Owens' brash-t<tlking, showboat­Web site from players a'iking how commnnts and it ballles me. that I have a lot of confidence for TD celebrations in San Francisco, ing imago hasn't madP him a popu­he can embarrass Hay Lewis by imi­"You have a guy like Ray Lewis, what I can do on the field, and I sl:ill including pulling a Sharpie from his lar guy around the NFL. But the tating Lnwis' dance after Owens who I thought hn was pretty much go out thnre and I do it and I still sock and autographing a fi>otball, pnnmni<tl Pro Bowl wide rneniver, scored a touchdown in Sunday's 15-my friend. This is a guy, double have fun with it, so I don't know posing on the Cowboys' star at mid­
murder ease, and he could have why they have a problem with me." field in Texa'i Stadium, and waving been in jail, but it seems like the Lewis was arn~sted following a a eheerleader's pompoms. league embraces a hruy like that. But double murder outside an after­This sea<;on, he perll>rmnd sit-ups I'm going out scoring_ touchdowns hours nightclub in Atlanta in in the end zone, thrnw a filotball at a and having fun, but I'm the bad January 2000. The murder charges derogatory sign and tore down guy." later were dropped in exchange for another negative one. 
Owens has feuded with Lewis, a guilty plea to a charge of obstruc­Though hn has many crities, Baltimore's All-Pro linebacker, since tion ofju.<;tiee a mL'idnmeanor. Owens al'io has a fi1w supportllt'S. he spumnd the Rawns and !breed a A two-time NFL IJI)f(msive Player "It's linn li>r this hruy to cnlnbrate, trade to the Eagles in March. After of the Year and Super Bowl MVP in but it's not linn for this ~-,ruy," Portl~r Owens mocked Lewis by imitating 2001, Lewis' image was tarnished told the Pitl'iburgh Tribune-Hevinw. his dancn, Lewis, several Havens by his arrest and he fnitially was "Why isn't it funny when TPrrnll and other players around Uw l!mgue snubbed by advertisers. lie since dons thn pompoms? The media h<L'> heavily criticized the innovative has become an overwhelming com­total eontrol over that. Becausn you Owens lilr hL'i latest snlf-exprossion. mercial success, marketing video hruys like Hay Lewis so much, you 
"i\111 C<Ul really lllUTOW it down to gan1es, NFI. garb and high-perlbrm­love it when he dances. But Terrl'il is that thny don't like me," Owens anen apparel. dances or does somnthing, just said. "Like (Pittsburgh linebacker) ''I'm obviously not one of those bneau.'ill you guys don't like him, you Joey Porter said, Lnwis eomes back guys who are a face of the NFL that say, 'N1. I don't think he should do and the lnague embraces him. He thny're going to have on eommer-that."' 
----------~~========================================================~ 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oflicc, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline t(u nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 


DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 
WANTED SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­
ES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED Tutor for high school student. HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 Granger family sees tutor for 9th BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT grade girl in algebra. physical sci-NEIGHBORHOODS.SECURITY ence, and Spanish. Must be patient, SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF organized, positive, focused and ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS. able to speak Englsh clearly. One to VISIT OUR WEBSITE two hours Monday, Tuesday and WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR Thursday at 3:30. Email reply to: CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234­WrightHarmon@ aol .com 2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
Apartment for rent 2 br, partially fur­nished. desirable North Shore Triangle neighborhood, 1.25 mi from campus, ~econd semester special $400/mo plus electric, 233-1604 
FoR SALE 
Plan your next trip! VW EUROVAN pop-top camper 1999 Sleeps 4 273­9959 Leave a phone number. 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: ND football tix. Top $$$ 251-1570. 
ND ftball tix bought &sold a.m. 232­2378 p.m. 288-2726 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes 
Meals. Parties! Cancun, Acapulco. 
Nassau, Jamaica From $459! 
Panama City &Daytona $159! 

Spring break 2005 Challenge ... find www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800­
a better price! Lowest price spe-678-6386 
PERSONAL 
cials! Free Meals! November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips ADOPTION-Happily married couple and cash! ww~.sunsplashtours.com long to provide your newborn with a 1800-426-7710 happy home, warmth, security and 
unconditional love. Expenses paid. 
Carolyn and Kevin 1-866-206-3323 

PIN#7774 6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. Buying and selling NO football tix, SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. especially Boston College 57 4-289-Tours! Over 1 B years of Spring 
FOR RENT AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. TICKETS 8048 Break experience! The BEST Spring Happy Bday Emily Fannon 
HOME,W/D,NEAR Break Under the Sun! Acapulco­2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cacun &Cabo. Walking distance from ND AVAIL. NOW. CALL JOE GRIM-PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-NEED TICKETS Nov. 13 Pitt. Call Organize a group-Go Free! BOO-I need a Volunteer MMMRentals.com 532-1408 MINS:574-229-3659 OR 679-2010. 3911 Amy 219-872-5932 875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com v 

Thursday, November 4, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
mass schedule 
Thirty-Second Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Around Campus (every Sunday) 
Saturday, November 6 Sunday, November 7 
1:30pm 5:00pm 7:00pm
5:00pm Vigil Mass 10:00 am Sunday Mass 
Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass
Rev. Kenneth M. Molinaro, esc Rev. Kenneth M. Molinaro, esc 
St. Edward's Law School Chapel Mendoza COB 
Coleman-Morse Center 574-631-7800 ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 
considerations... 
What are YOU doing here? 
by Courtney Schuster Intern, Campus Ministry 
We all know when it hits. You're running to La Fun because the COMO cluster is closed for a class. They have classes in there? It's a cluster not a classroom. Quick, no time to worry about that. You've got a co-ree game tonight and hall council is at 10. Shoot! There is no paper in the printer. Class starts in ... it started 5 minutes ago. Great, your cell phone is ringing, now your roommate wants to borrow your car. You just want to get that paper off your hands. Your group needs to meet tonight to go over tomorrow's presentation. Ugh! You shouldn't have gone to bed last night. .. 
You're ready to throw in the towel when the BIG question hits~-WHAT are you doing here anyway? 
Have you asked yourself that lately? You know, between that job interview and your Meijer run? 
I don't mean, 'What are you physically doing here at NO?" I mean the BIG, 'What are you DOING here, as in with your life?" Whether you're a freshman and you're just getting started or you've only got a semester and a half to go ... between all the running around have you thought about what you're really here to do? 
Have you taken time to slow down? Taken time to reflect? When's the last time you really cleared your mind? Went for a walk? Intentionally found silence? 
! graduated last May. I was your typical Hail President, super-fan run around in circles, I have three meetings at the same time, but I do-this-because-it's-fun kind of girl. Until somewhere along the way, between an interview with General Mills and the ACE information session, it hit me. I spent four years making great friends and doing a lot, but I was not really sure where I was going or why. 
And then after 21 years, I decided to learn how to listen. It wasn't easy. First I had to see the clutter rn my life, put it to the side and be silent. Who am I? What am I going to do? I made time. What is important to me? How am I to love? Finally, I could listen. What is God telling me to do? 
Suddenly, running around the lakes wasn't just exercise; it was reflection time. Eating alone wasn't just a quick embarrassing trip to the DH; it was my time to be quiet No plans on Friday night became my time to read. 
People find peace in many ways, through the liturgy, journaling, meditation, artwork or a walk around the lakes. How do you find time to listen? We are all called to do God's work, but first we need to listen to what God is telling us to do. 
In addition to everything else, allow your time Notre Dame to be time for contemplation and growth. Take an hour for daily Mass. Spend some time in your dorm chapel journaling. Take a walk to the Grotto after class. Just be. 
So, keep running around. Make sure you soak in every last speaker, late night pizza party, sporting event, and service project Notre Dame has to offer. BUT, take time to ask yourself the big questions ... and more importantly, LISTEN to what God has to say. 
A: 
Images of Jesus, Mary, and the saints have been used by Christians for devotional & decorative purposes since the very beginning of Christianity. Their purpose in our midst serves to remind us of those who are the focus ofour Christian worship (the Holy Trinity) or those we love, honor, and respect for having lived the model Christian fife (ie, Mary &the saints). In our everyday lives, this resembles our use of family photos to remind us ofthose we love. Just as we would never value the photos more than the people themselves, the images in our churches are never the object of our worship. Rather, the use of statues & icons should only seek to draw us closer to our loving God. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 4, 2004 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Croom downplays revenge against Alabama 

rience than Shula and he coached The search turned up two
Coach says he is not 
and played under Bear Bryant. prominent names Croom and bitter towards Shula But as gameday neared, Croom Shula. 
refused to say whether he has any Both were assistants with the 
sour feelings about Alabama's Tampa Bay Buceaneers in the late 
Associated Press 
choice. 1990s, and Shula was a quarter­
STAHKVILLE -Sylvester "It's in the past," said Croom, baek at Alabama during Croom's Croom was ready to rescue who wa<> an NFL a<>sistant for 16 last season there in 1986. Alabama. years. "That's history. Alabama went with Shula amid 
His beloved alma mater was "The great thing about being in complaints from some that the serambling after an abrupt, the NFL is, I am learning how to Crimson Tide hired the wrong embarrassing coaehing change stay on an even keel. I'm going to man. Some, like Rev. Jesse last year, and Croom wanted the do that same thing this week." Jackson, said race may have job. But the Crimson Tide But one thing is clear: The first played a part in Alabama's deci­spurned him for one of his pro­black head football coach in sion. Debuting with a 4-9 record tl~ges Mike Shula and broke his Southeastern Conference history didn't help Shula quiet the critics. !wart. could have been walking the Mississippi State gleefully 
Now at Mississippi State, Croom home sideline scooped up is chm:king his emotions before a at Bryant­Croom months return to his hometown of Denny Stadium. "Mike [Shula]'s their later and made Tuscaloosa on Saturday night, Croom's headlines for
head coach, and I'm here. 
and defusing talk about turning name is syn­the move.
From my standpoint,
the game into a referendum on onymous with He led the which eoach Alabama should accomplish­that's not changing." Bulldogs (3-5, have chosen. ment at 2-3) past then­"That's beside the point. Mike's Alabama the No. 20 Florida
Sylvester Croom 
their head eoach, and I'm here," team issues an in one of the 
Mississippi State coach
Croom said. "From my stand­award bearing season's point, that's not ehanging not any his name every biggest upsets time soon." spring and he two weeks ago, 
Shula also is trying to keep the was one of the Crimson Tide's then followed up that victory by f!1eus on the lield, not the sideline first black players. beating Kentucky. even though after last year's los­His tireless work ethic was "Alabama hired who they want­ing season in Tuscaloosa, some revered there, and it made him a ed to hire," said Bulldogs punt Alabama fans say the Tide picked standout offensive lineman on returner Jonathan Lowe, whose the wrong guy. Alabama's national championship father and uncle played for the 
"It's not mach Croom vs. Mike team in 1973. Croom eoached Tide. "I guess they felt like Shula Shula," ho said. "It's about our under Bryant and Ray Perkins was better than Croom. players. It's about our universi­before moving to the pros. Mississippi State got Croom, and ties, our pro~-,rrams." And he seemed a natural fit last we're going to show them that 
Croom has never hidden his dis­year when Alabama fired Mike we've got to do what we've got to appointment about not getting the Price for his activities at a strip d0." Alabama job. He had more expe-dub. The Bulldogs still have plenty of room for improvement. Winning at Tusealoosa would be about as surprising as beating Florida. 
Croom said he doesn't have time to think about revenge. He's more coneerned with breaking Mississippi State's 15-game road losing streak. Everything else is a sideshow. 
"Winning a road game is all that matters this week," Croom said. "The fact that it's at Alabama makes it more special beeause it is Alabama, and it is one of the top programs in all of football." 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS Is All about Choices!! 
Apph· toda)' and pick your choice of -Location -Neighbors -Remodeled or non remodeled units -Upstairs or dov.-nstairs 
If you have any questions please tontactthe office or stop by to pick up your apphtation packets today~ 
Tut1le Creek Apartments 
Th~ student{ first rhoice in off-campu5 hou~ing ~ filO Tun!~ Creek Drive tfly the mn!es~l SoUih lknd.l:-.1 -l-f!().H 57-l·172·811-l 
uffkellttunkaeeknd.com 
www.turtlecreelnd.rom 

t)/#a -6 /1~ & 'Z?..., &"'-­
S/1 .Lt~.'Jtnt-c~""'"''[)­
~ l$7rll 651-7970 
-·.c.~-..""'*' 


UNIVERSITY OFPEERS NOTRE DAMEJ.;:=~~ 
P"LAR§LEARN!Na
lli ~~PONSIBLE 
SOCIALIZING 

Ingredients: Most energy drinks usually contain high sugar content, water, vitamins, minerals, caffeine, and/or some other type of stimulant. 
*17u:' vitamins and minerals contained in energy drinks are alreadv supplemented in our bodies through good diet. There is not need for supplemental doses of these vitamins and minerals unless prescribed by a doctor. 
*Depending on the energy drink they can contain up to three or four means of caffeine and or sedatives. 
• Ca!Teine (typically the amount in 2.5 Cokes) Cfuarana (calleine-Iife stimulant from Brazil) Taurine (stimulant) Ephedrine (stimulant banned by NCAA) Bitter Orange Extract or Citrus Aurantium (stimulant banned by the NCAA, same properties as Ephedrine) Crreen Tea (stimulant) Kola Nut (stimulant) Ma llaung (stimulant) Crinscng (herbal stimulant) Crinkgo Biloha (herbal stimulant) Mate (caffeine-like) Kava Ka\·a (traditional Polynesian sedative) 
What does this mean when mixed with alcohol? 
Caffeine and alcohol arc a dangerous combination. Both arc diuretics (cause dehydration) and as a result the drink causes: 
• 
A greater likelihood of hangovers. 

• 
J\ masking of the intoxication level. 

• 
J\ tem.Icncy to drink for longer periods of time due to the stimulant keeping one awake. 

• 
A risk of complications by ingestion of a heavy depressant and heavy stimulant to the body. 

• 
Deaths have been linked to the severe dehydration. 


What does this mean as an athlete'! 
• 
Ephedrine and caffeine together has been proven to cause deadly hem1 problems . 

• 
Bitter Orange extract is banned by the NCAA . 


Issues of Concern 

*The FDA cannot authorize or test dietary supplements such as Energy Drinks (which means no quality standards.) 
*Supplement manufacturers do not have to provide information to the FDA before they market a product. (I low do you know what you arc getting?) 
*Companies do not have to prove safqty or efficacy before selling supplements. ('l11cy do not have to put a warning label about the dangers or the deaths that have occurred.) 
• 
Drinking energy drinks before performance can severely dehydrate you and maybe linked to several athlete deaths . 

• 
Energy drinks can cause over-stimulation of the heart, high blood pressure and cardiac arrhythmia . 


Thursday, November 4, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Shaq burns New Jersey in debut with Heat 

majority of its starting lineup, Orlando took a 15-point lead
Francis, Hill provide 
had six players in double figures. midway through the third quar­
spark in Magic win Dwyane Wade scored 21 with ter behind Hill and Howard. Hill six assists and five rebounds, began the period with three Udonis Haslem had 18, Rasual jumpers in four minutes, and Butler 16, Damon Jones 15 and Howard's soaring windmill dunk
Associated Press 
Eddie Jones 10. put the Magic ahead 68-53. 
EAST RUTHERFORD O'Neal only touched the ball Francis dunked a possession Shaquille O'Neal caught the ball once on Miami's first three pos­later. deep in the low post, used his sessions, all of which ended with Hill made 10 of 21 shots and oversized posteTior to bump scores for a 7-0 lead. The Heat Howard went 6-for-11. But he Alonzo Mourning out of the way, got their edge up to 16 early in missed all six of his foul shots. then dropped in a layup with no the second quarter before New Pacers 109, Cavaliers 104 one else around. Jersey forcing O'Neal as far from They're limping. They're 
Miami's nnw center had his the basket as possible on defense aching. They're bandaged. And way against a familiar face from and shooting 12-for-19 on somehow, the Indiana Pacers are the Heat's recent past, shooting offense pulled to 46-41 at half­1-0. 7 -for-9 from the field and scor­time. Ron Artest scored 31 points ing 16 points in a 100-77 victory O'Neal had only six points and and Jamal Tinsley added 15 Wednesday night over the New three rebounds in the first half, points and 14 assists as the Jersey Nets. missing his first shot, making his banged-up Pacers opened the 
It was anything but a domi­next three and missing his last. season with a double-overtime nant debut in black for O'Neal, Magic 93, Bucks 92 win against the Cleveland who was acquired over the sum­·steve Francis hit the game­Cavaliers on Wednesday night. mer from the Los Angeles Lakers winning basket with two-tenths Artest didn't decide to play on for three starters and a first­of a second remaining and fin­sore right knee until shortly round draft pick. ished with 26 points iri his before tipofl', and then gave the 
But he certainly had his Orlando debut to lead the new­Pacers everything he had, moments despite playing on a look Magic to a victory adding nine rebounds in 50 min­sore left hamstring, the best of Wednesday night over the utes. them coming in the first four Milwaukee Bucks. The Pacers needed every sec­agent. the success of the Boston Hed minutes of the fourth quarter Grant Hill, in his first regular­ond since they were without James sent the game to over­Sox or even the Boston team against the player drafted one season action since Jan. 16, starters Jermaine O'Neal, Reggie time by draining a 3-pointer O'Brien coached to the confer­spot behind him in 1992. 2003, scored 20 points. Top draft Miller and Jeff Foster as well as with 1. 7 seconds remaining to ence finals in 2002. 
The next time downcourt after pick Dwight Howard had 12 guard Anthony Johnson. tie it 85-all. Coming off a screen, Paul Pierce had 35 points and shaking Mourning with his butt points, 10 rebounds and four Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 35 James made a small jab step to 13 rebounds, but missed a 3­bump, O'Neal freed himself with blocks. points and 18 rebounds for the his left, came right and nailed pointer at the buzzer that could a shove to the back that the ref­The Bucks took a 92-91 lead Cavaliers, who were unable to his 3 over Artest, who tried his have tied it. Gary Payton, mak­erees didn't see before knocking on Michael Redd's banked-in take advantage of Indiana's best but couldn't rattle ing his Boston debut, had six down a short jump hook. jumper with 3.5 seconds to play injuries. Cleveland's forward. points and eight assists and 
Moments later, O'Neal got the in their opener. Hedd finished LeBron James added 28 Artest had a chance to win it, missed a pair of 3-pointers in the ball in the low left block and hit with 19 points. points, eight assists and five but missed a 3-pointer at the final minute with the Celtics a 1 0-foot baseline turnaround On the final possession, Hill rebounds for Cleveland. final horn. trailing by 3. over Mourning for an 83-60 inbounded from the left to Austin Croshere added 20 James could have put Boston made one basket over lead. Francis at the top the arc. points for Indiana and sank a Cleveland up late in OT, but the final 7:45 of the game. 
Both players left for good Francis beat Mo Williams on the crucial 3-pointer with 54.6 sec­missed the first of two free Having come back from a 14­moments later. O'Neal's night a turn to the basket and got the onds left in the second overtime throws with 2.9 seconds to play. point, second-quarter deficit, success because of the victory; shot oil despite bfling fouled. to put the Pacers ahead 105-Again, Artest had the ball with Boston led 93-87 with 5:08 left Mourning's an accomplishment The buzzer sounded as the 102. the game on the line but missed when Kyle Korver made a 3­simply because the former shot fell, and the Magic celebrat­The Cavaliers made two an eight-footer from the left side. pointer and Iverson made a Miami center was able to play ed before racing off the court turnovers before pulling within a 76ers 98, Celtics 95 scoop shot coming across the less than a year after undergoing when they saw the officials con­points on Hobert Traylor's two Allen Iverson scored 30 points, lane. a kidney transplant. sulting. After a brief review, the free throws with 13.9 seconds five of them during an 11-0 Willie Green made a 3-pointer 
Mourning finished with seven officials let the shot stand but remaining. Fred Jones then hit fourth-quarter run when the to give the Sixers a 95-93 lead points, live rebounds and four reset the clock and brought the ·two free throws to put Indiana Philadelphia 76ers took the lead with 3:34 left. Mark Blount fouls in 14 minutes for a gutted Magic back out for Francis' free up 107-104 with 12.1 seconds to and held off the Boston Celtics missed two free throws, then Nets team that's a shadow of the throw. go. on Wednesday night. Iverson made a 3-pointer to squad that reached the NBA Francis intentionally missed James, who forced overtime Former Celtics coach Jim make it a five-point game. Finals two of the past three the foul shot, and time expired. with a 3-pointer late in regula­O'Brien returned to Boston with Ricky Davis hit a jumper to years. Francis, one of the Magic's tion, was short on another 3 and the Sixers, and the World Series pull Boston within 3. But neither 
Former starters Kenyon many offseason acquisitions, Tinsley put it away by making trophy made its first appearance Payton nor Pierce could convert Martin and Kerry Kittles were also had nine rebounds and two free throws with 4.8 seconds at the FleetCenter or the Boston their final attempts. traded for draft picks over the seven assists remaining. Garden, for that matter. Kenny Thomas had 12 points summer. and Jason Kidd is The Magic, trying to shake off Scot Pollard added 10 points But the Celtics, in Doc Hivers' and 10 rebounds for beginning the season on the a disastrous 61-loss season, and 10 rebounds and Jonathan debut, were unable to re-create Philadelphia. injured list after undergoing underwent a massive overhaul Bender, another of the ailing knee surgery. during the summer, highlighted Pacers, added 11 points. 
Hichard Jefferson had 19 by the blockbuster seven-player Cleveland got only four points points to lead New Jersey, but he trade that sent Tracy McGrady to and six rebounds from Drew was the NPts' only starter to Houston. Orlando now has just Gooden, whom they are hoping reach double ligures. four players remaining from can fill the void left by Carlos 
Miami, which also changed a April's roster. Boozer's departure as a free 



. 

-----~------­
OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WlRE SERVJCES Thursday, November 4, 2004 


College Football Polls 
AP Coaches 
tPam 
l!~am 

usc (52) 1 2 Oklahoma (8) 
1 usc (56) 

Oklahoma (B) 2 3 Auburn (1) 
Auburn (1) 3 4 California 

Wisconsin 4 5 Wisconsin 
Georgia 5 6 Texas 
California 6 7 Utah 
Texas 7 8 Georgia 
tah 8 9 Tennessee 
Michigan 9 10 Michigan 
Miami 10 11 Miami 
Tennessee 11 12 Virginia 
West Virginia 12 13 Florida State 
Virginia 13 14 Louisville 
· Florida State 14 15 West Virginia 
Boise State 15 16 Boise State 
Louisville 16 17 LSU 
LSU 17 18 Virginia Tech 
Virginia Tech 18 19 Oklahoma State 
Oklahoma Stale 19 20 Iowa 
Iowa 20 21 Southern Miss 
Southern Miss 21 22 Texas A&M 
Texas A&M 22 23 Arizona State 
Arizona State 23 24 Boston College 
Northern Illinois 24 25 UTEP 
Boston College 25 
Preseason Men's College Basketball Top 25 
Coaches Poll 
points 
1 Kansas (8) 741 2 Wake Forest (12) 724 3 North Carolina (6) 697 4 Georgia Tech (1) 604 5 Illinois (1) 598 6 Syracuse 557 7 Connecticut 541 8 Oklahoma State (1) 511 9 Kentucky 480 10 Michigan State 476 11 Arizona (1) 475 12 Duke 403 13 Louisville (1) 374 14 Mississippi St41te 365 15 Texas 334 16 Maryland 316 17 Pittsburgh 247 18 Alabama 224 19 N.C. State 218 20 Wisconsin 216 21 NOTRE DAME 214 22 Florida 160 23 Memphis 131 24 Washington 108 25 Stanford 64 
Men's College Soccer Big East Conference 

team  Big East  0Perall  
NOTRE DAME  8-1-1  13·2·2  
St. John's  6·1·3  10·4·4  
Boston College  6·3·1  11-3·2  
Villanova  5-3·2  7-5-4  
Georgetown  5-4-1  11-7-1  
Connecticut  5-4-1  9·7-2  
West Virginia  5-4·1  11·6·1  
Seton Hall  5·5·0  11-6·1  
Pittsburgh  3-6-1  5·8-3  
Syracuse  3-7·0  5·12·0  
Rutgers  2-5-3  6·8-4  
Providence  0·10·0  0·16·0  

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Louisville at Memphis 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA Cleveland at Miami 8 p.m., TNT 

MLB 

Associated Press 
PIIILADELPIIIA Charlie Manuel will be the next manager of the Philadelphia Phillies, replacing the fired Larry Bowa, baseball officials told The Associated Press on Wednesday night. 
Manuel will be intro­duced at a news confer­ence Thursday or Friday, one official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Two other sources also said Manuel was the team's choice. 
Manuel's hiring was first reported by The Philadelphia Inquirer. 
The 60-year-old Manuel managed the Cleveland Indians from 2000-02. He takes over a talented but underachieving club that hasn't reached the play­offs since 1993. 
Phillies general manag­er Ed Wade didn't imme­diately return a phone message Wednesday night. 
Manuel spent the last two seasons working as a special assistant to Wade. He was the second of eight candidates inter­viewed by the Phillies after Bowa was fired with two games remaining in a disappointing season in which the Phillies finished 10 games behind first-place Atlanta in the NL East. 

Manuel, Jim Leyland and Jim Fregosi were the three finalists for the job, according to one of the sources. Fregosi managed the Phillies to the NL pen­nant 11 years ago. Leyland led Florida to its first World Series champi­onship and guided Pittsburgh to three divi­sion titles in the '90s. 
Manuel had a 220-190 record with the Indians and led them to the AL Central championship in 2001, but was fired after a 39-47 start in 2002. 
Known as a player's manager, Manuel is close with Phillies first baseman Jim Thome, who thrived in Cleveland when Manuel was the Indians' hitting coach. 
Manuel's affable person­ality and folksy nature make him the anti-Bowa. Though he was popular among fans in Philadelphia, Bowa wasn't well-liked by some of his players because of his fiery demeanor. 
Manuel also beat out former major league man­agers Grady Little, Don Baylor, Buddy Bell, and Braves hitting coach Terry Pendleton and Pirates third-base coach John Hussell. 

IN BF.UEF 
Brown has hip surgery, out 
seven to 10 days 
.AUBUHN HILLS, Mich. -Pistons coach Larry Brown had surgery on his left hip Wednesday and is expect­ed to be away from the team for seven to 10 days. 
Assistant coach Gar Heard will run the NBA champions during Brown's absence. Heard coached the Dallas Mavericks in 1993 and the Washington Wizards in 2000. The 64-year-old Brown could return in time for Detroit's home against Minnesota on Nov. 17. 
"I talked to the doctors in the oper­ating room, and they told me that seven to 10 days is a conservative estimate," Pistons president Joe Dumars said. "It all depends on how Larry is feeling, but that's what we are looking at." 
Brown had his hip replaced 15 years ago, and this latest operation was the result of wear on the artifi­cial joint. It had recently caused him severe pain, the team said. 
Brown is expected to spend two to thme days in the hospital. Dumars wasn't sure what kind of rehabilita­tion his coach faces. Seau to miss rest of season 
with torn pectoral muscle 

DAVIE, Fla. -Junior Seau avoided a major injury for 15 NFL seasons ­until now. 
A torn pectoral muscle has ended Seau's season, and perhaps his career. The Miami Dolphins line­backer will undergo an operation Thursday in his hometown of San Diego, and he'll decide later whether to return in 2005. 
"Of course, I will play again," Seau said with a grin Wednesday. 'Til say that now. But that could change tomorrow.... Assessing my situation after surgery is definitely going to be something that I need to do." 
Seau, 35, has missed only nine games during his career. In an emo­tional farewell speech to his team­mates, the former Pro Bowl line­backer said he regretted leaving when the Dolphins (1-7) have the NFI:s worst record. 
"That's the toughest thing," he said. "I wanted to fight through it with the men in that locker room.... I shared with them how hard it is going to be, and how to persevere during these times. The only way through this is by loving the game."Predators center Zholtok 
dies in Latvia 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Former Nashville Predators center Sergei Zholtok died Wednesday in his native Latvia of an apparent heart ailment. lie was 31. 
The Predators' Web site said Zholtok died in Latvia on Wednesday. Zholtok was playing for Higa 2000 this year during the NIIL lockout. 
"We are all saddened and shocked to hear of Sergei's sudden passing," Predators general manager David Poile said in a statement. "lie was a hardworking player who was well­liked by his tflammates and coaches. We extend our deepest sympathies." 
Thursday, November 4, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NHL 
All-Star weekend cancelled due to lockout 

Players, owners face loss of entire season 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-In another sign the NIIL season is slipping away, the league canceled its All-Star game Wednesday because of the lockout. 
No regular-season games have been played since the season was scheduled to begin Oct. 13, and NHL arenas have been given the go-ahead to release dates on a 45-day rolling basis. With the All-Star game now off the sched­ule, the next announcement could be the cancellation of the entire season. 
"To call off something that's a lot of fun for the fans to enjoy is a shame," nine-time All-Star Jeremy Roenick of the Philadelphia Flyers told The Associated Press. "It has no bearing on anything. They still haven't canceled games in January. Why haven't they can­celed games in January but they're canceling the All-Star game?'' 
Bill Daly, the league's chief legal officer, said this decision "is hot tactical at all," saying it was more of a practical decision to free up blocks of hotel rooms and other facilities that would've been needed. 
"We had to make a decision on whether making those advance commitments made sense," Daly said in Dallas prior to an open forum with fans. "Given where 
Dept. of Irish Language & Literature · Roinn Theanga agus Litriocht na Gaeilge 

Eire 
"Irish-Not just forT-Shirts" 
Irish is the oldest vernacular literature in Europe and the living language of An Ghaeltac/u in Ireland. Widely spoken by Iri.sh emigrants to the United States in the 18th, 19th and 20th century, it is spoken in U.S. cities such as Boston, New '{ork, Chicago and San Francisco. The Depattment of Irish Language & LiteraturetRoinn Thcanga agus 
Litriocht  na  Gaeilge offers courses  for absolute beginners, intermediate and advanced  
students next term.  
*Discover your heritage  *Learn about !rdand  
"'Satisfy the Irish Studies Minor  *Satisfy the Foreign Language Requirement  

"Irish has been taught at Notre Dame since 1868. Isn't it time you took a course?" 
IRLL 101 A fun and entertaining introduction to the mode.m Idsh language. This course introduces the basic pfinciples of grammar and sentence structure, as well as core vocabulary. Emphasis is placed on the application of these principles in every-day situations. 
IRLL 102 # A continuation of IRLL 10 L Emphasis is placed on reading simple texts in Irish and expanding the student's linguistic, ~o;rammatical and cultural knowledge. The students grow::; in confidence and linguistic ability. 
I.RLL 103 A continuation of IRLL 102. Develops the student's existing language skills. Emphasis is on expanding fluency, competency and reading literature in translation. 
IRLL 101:01 IRLL 101:02 IRLL 101:03 .IRLL 102:01 IRLL 102:02 IRLL 103:01 

Spring 2005 T H .11:00-12:15 Prof. Sarah l\,icKibben MWF 10:40-11:30 Prof. Peter J\>icQuillan 
T H 12:30-1:45 T H 2:00-3:15 MWF 9:30-10:25 
T H 11:00-12:15 
Prof. Brian 6 Concbubbair Prof. Sarah Mc.Kibben Prof. Peter J\>1cQuillan .Prof. Brian 6 Conchubbair 
we are with the status of our negotiations, it didn't warrant making those commitments.... It's not tactical at all." 
The lockout, now in its 49th day, was imposed by commis­sioner Gary Bettman after the collective bargaining agreement expired on Sept. 15. Bettman declined comment on the cancel­lation of the game, which was scheduled to be held in Atlanta in February. 
The NHL and the play~rs asso­ciation haven't met since Sept. 9 and have no plans to return to the bargaining table. 
Atlanta Thrashers general manager Don Waddell said the have one. If not, we'll see you next season or whenever." 
Over 70 players got together in Toronto on Tuesday to get an update from union leadership. The meeting came after a hand­ful of the more than 700 mem­bers said they would be willing to play under a salary-cap system or would return to the ice next season if the NHL decided to use replacement players if a deal wasn't reached. 
The NHLPA made the last pro­posal in September, a plan cen­tered around a luxury tax instead of a salary cap. The NHL rejected it because the league says that won't achieve "cost 

league began certainty."
'Tm hopeful that 
discussing the The players
there will be a season,
cancellation last association says week and final­but I have to tell you, that term is tan­ized the decision tamount to a
there's a good chance 
Wednesday. salary cap, which 
there won ~t be. " 
"Even if you're it won't accept. going to start NHLPA execu­playing in Bob Goodenow tive director Bob January, to try to 
NHLPA executive director Goodenow said 
take five days off to play the All-Star game, it's just not going to work," he said. 
The lockout during the 1994­95 season also forced the All­Star game to be canceled. 
"I don't know if it's so much a ploy as to get anybody all riled up or nervous that they're can­celing stuff like that," Roenick said. "I don't think it changed the mind-frame of what the PA is getting behind." 
The previous lockout ended when an agreement was reached in January 1995. Each team then played a 48-game schedule. 
A new deal would have to be reached by the same time in this season for any part of the cam­paign to be salvaged. 
"The season is likely to slip away," Bettman said in an inter­view this week with TSN in Canada. "Whether or not we miss half a season or three-quar­ters of a season, or don't have a season at all that is not the issue from our standpoint. We need a deal that is the right deal to address the problems and let us go forward. 
"Then if there is time for the semblance of a season, we'll 

As Seen On Comedy Central and Letterman 
"procrasti 
And for all the 
go-getters who say, 

'\iv~ ~ver~ da1 \il(e iffl ~our \ast' I say, 

t atl 
Free Show @Legends Friday, November 5th ND Students Only lO:OOpm 
opening for Ted will be Daric Snyder, winner of Legends 'last comic standing' 
brought to you by sub -sub.nd.edu 
there was no 
"crack or divi­
siveness" in the union and he's waiting for a new offer from the league. 
''I'm hopeful that there will be a season, but I have to tell you, there's a good chance there won't be," Goodenow said. 
Atlanta would've held its third All-Star game in five years, after hosting the Major League Baseball and NBA events. The weekend scheduled for Feb. 12­13 would've been the first time the Thrashers, who began play in 1999, served as the host. 
"This is another unfortunate casualty of the owners' decision to lock out the players and shut down the game," said Ted Saskin, the NHLPA senior direc­tor. "Players would obviously have enjoyed participating in an All-Star Game that could have helped build interest for hockey in Atlanta." 
In the NHL's statement, the league said the earliest Atlanta can hold All-Star weekend is 2008 since the 2006 game has already been awarded to the Phoenix Coyotes and plans for the 2007 game are near comple­tion. 
"We apologize to the fans, to the city of Atlanta, to the Thrashers and to all those who already have devoted so much effort to planning this important hockey celebration," said Frank Supovitz the group vice president of NHL events and entertain­ment. 
Waddell said league officials made it clear that Atlanta would be one of the first cities in line for the next available All-Star game. 
"We're more disappointed about where we are with the season, but with the All-Star game we would have had an opportunity to showcase our city and our great venue," Waddell said. 

nnhats
lloves 
largest SE!ledion 
only at -=--~ 
Sminutes~
from DUTPDS'T 
Campus 

Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
Thursday, November 4, 2004 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL SEMIFINALS 



contest playing well. 
Cavanaugh counters 
Pangborn will continue to usc its three-back oll'ense, and it has
with passing attack 
enjoyed substantial success with the ground game this year. Its fakes and multiple choices help
By KEN FOWLER string out the defense and cre­Sports Writer 
ate holes for the backs. Pangborn's defense enters the 
Only one year removed from game with confidence after scoring its first touchdown in shutting out Lyons and star five years, Pangborn is just one quarterback Traei Kazmerski. win away from the champi­llowcver, Pangborn will have to onship game. mateh -if not improve upon ­
But captain Katie Murray's its performance tonight if the eyes are set on a prize much team has hopes of quelling the larger than a semil'inal win high-powered Cavanaugh against tho Cavanaugh Chaos. oiTense. 
"We don't want t.o stop it hero," Murray said. "We've come a long way, and we want to win the championship, not just make it there." 
To do so. how­ever, they will have to beat an 
In this regard, a definite advantage in
"We've come a long 

the game for the way, and we want to Phoxes could 
win the championship, come from 
Mother Nature. 
not just make it there." 

With rain in the forecast for Katie Murray much of the day and gusty
Pangborn captain 

winds, condi­tions may be 
undefeated Cavanaugh team ripe for running and nearly tonight. impossible for passing. 
i\fter completing the regular For Pangborn, its reliance on season 5-0-1, Cavanaugh the ground game should be less defeated eighth-seeded Badin vulnerable to the inclement 2C1-6 in the first round Sunday, weather. extending both the team's Murray is not worried about unbeaten streak and champi­Pangborn's effectiveness, onship run. despite the possible sloppy con­
Chaos w-eaptain Sara Gilloon ditions. was pleased with the result. "We're going to stay with 
"Our defense really helped us what's been succeeding all sea­out with two interceptions, and son," she said. "We don't think our ollimso was on target," she the weather should be a big fac­said. "We're really hoping to tor for us." continue that." llowever, Cavanaugh's Gilloon 
Cavanaugh's defensive play said that the majority of the will be pivotal, as Pangborn Chaos' big plays come through runs an option-style ofl'ense dif­the air, and slippery conditions ferent from the rest or the eould prevent receivers from league. making some adjustments to 
However, with Cavanaugh balls mid-flight. safety Laurnn Manning snagging two interceptions Sunday, the Contact Ken Fowler at Chaos defense comes into the kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Walsh, Welsh renew rivalry 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
After a dramatic, come­from-behind victory in the quarterfinals, the No. 2 Welsh Family Whirlwinds ride their momentum into a semifinal showdown with the No. 3 Walsh Wild Women. 
"We're ready to play," Welsh wide receiver Kelly Bushelle said. 
Tonight at 8 p.m. at McGlinn fields, Welsh and Walsh collide for a spot in the championship. With their seasons and goals on the line, the two teams head into the contest fired up. 
"It's going to be a tough game. We both have good teams," Welsh offensive line­man Whitney Endsley said. "It's a huge game, and no one wants their season to end." 
The Whirlwinds came from 13 down against Brecn-Phillips for the 22-19 win. This time around, they know they must play a complete game. 
"We didn't play up to our potential,;, Welsh center Katie Heynolds said. "We turned it around after halftime and picked up the intensity." 
The Wild Women pulled out a nail-biter of their own in their 12-7 semifinal win against P.W. Walsh captain Carrie Campbell expects an even tighter game tonight. 
"We saw them [Welsh I play 
B.P. the other day," she said. "They're a really good team. Welsh Fam has been kind of a rivalry; it's a longtime rivalry." 
The rivalry stems from Walsh's 2001 semifinal loss to Welsh during Campbell's fresh­man season. 
"They beat us a couple of years back when l was a fresh­man. We're out for some revenge," Campbell said. 
Welsh and Walsh each use their own unique methods for rational movies," Campbell said. "We watched 'Hemember the Titans."' 
The Whirlwinds know they'll be facing an inspired Walsh defense. Walsh lost cornerback Katie Ilesmond during the final regular season game due to a sprainnd ankle. 
"We'rn facing one of the toughest defenses in the league," Welsh quarterback Melissa Sands said. 
They might not have watched "Hemember the Titans," but tho Whirlwinds certainly have motivation. 
"This is the game that wP lost last year [the semil'inal game]. so obviou~ly we're motivated," Sands said. 
"It's been a great season; everyone's really excited," Campbell said. "This is a game we've been looking forward to a lot. What better place to play a rival than in the semifinal?" 

pumping up their teams before 
the big game. Contact Tom Dorwart at "We've_heen watching inspi-tdorwart@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's C~ollege, Notre Dan1e, Indiana presents 
()pening r~:vcnt f()r the /HYh Anniversary Celebration of the Second \1atican C~ouncil 
Interf~tith Prayer Service 1\1onday, N overnber 8, 2004, 7:00 p.rn. Church of L.oretto ori the Saint M<-uy's C~ollege carnpus 
Reflection presented by: 

Martin E. Marty Fairf;tx M. Cone l)istinguished Service Professor Er11eritus, lJniversity of Chicago 
()Jlicial observer at the Council 
1\•1 artin E . M atiy 
l·~?.lican II: 71Je 13est C)ouncil tile Protestants J:.;ver Fiad 
Free and open to the public H.eception to follo~v 
Sponsored by: 
g The Center for Spirituality 
Notre Dam.e VS. St. joseph's 
Find a 

Tlzursday:~ November 4th 
Notre Dame student not going to the game & at7:30PM 
usethier student ticket! Joyce Center 
*Notre Dame Bagpipe team will preform at halftime! *2004-2005 Men's Basketball Poster will be available! 
I Visit www.notredamcpromotions.com for the latest promotional information I 
Thursday, November 4, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
FOOTBALL 
Irish offer problems for tired Volunteers 

By PAT LEONARD A,sociare Sports Editor 
Tennessee opened its season against UNLV and had an early bye week. But the Volunteers' game against Notre Dame Saturday will be their eighth straight, and the coaches are letting people know it. 
"I would have liked to have [the schedule format] changed," Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer said. "But, I think it came out of the Memphis game where they had to change that game with them canceling and finding a time 
when Louisiana Tech could play." 
Notre Dame is coming off a much-needed bye week. The Irish are 23-2 all-time coming out of bye weeks. 
"The other thirtg is that ... we are about to go to 12 games sooner or later," Fulmer said. "They need to look at that, · because if they do go to 12 games then they need to start the season earHer so that everybody ·can still have two open dates." 
The leading headline of a Nov. 2 article on UTSports.com, Tennessee's athletic Web site, read "Vols face rested Irish opponent Saturday." 
Respect Brady · 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn received ample compli­ments from Fulmer during the week as Tennessee prepared to face a Notre Dame passing attack improved from last sea­son. 
"Coach [Willingham] was talking about his quarterback Brady Quinn, who is one of those guys that is going to be a star in the future," Fulmer said. "He is big, athletic and has a great arm, and he sees the field well. He is one of the better quarterbacks we will have played against this year." 
Quinn has completed 132 out of 246 passes .for 1,890 yards, · ten touchdowns and seven 
interceptions. 

The only other Notre Dame players to attempt a pass this season are backup quarterback Pat Dillingham (3-for-3, 28 yards) and running back Marcus Wilson (0-for-1). 
The Irish are No. 34 in the country in passing offense, averaging 241 yards per game. 
Vols' defense suspect? 

No, at least Bill Diedrick says so. 
Even though South Carolina went for 567 yards (226 rush­ing, 341 passing) in a loss to Tennessee last week, Diedrick said the numbers do not fool him. 
"I think a lot of it was in the latter portions of the game," Diedrick said. "[Tennessee] was kind of in a semi-prevent, and [South Carolina] got .a lot of what you would term as maybe wasted yardage." 
The Notre Dame offensive coordinator knows Tennessee holds opponents to just 21.1 points per game and is No. 26 in rushing defense, giving up just 109.7 yards per game. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Chris Thomas drives to the hoop in a game last season against Pittsburgh. The Irish open their preseason tonight. 
Preseason 
continued from page 24 
beating up on each other ever since we stepped on· campus," Irish co-captain Jordan Cornette said. "It's going to be great take some of it and kind of unleash it on another team and I think it'll be a lot of fun for us." 
As for tonight's game, Brey has some things he'd like to work on, specifically starting to find the right combinations of players where different line­ups will work in different situ­ations. 
Having an extremely deep bench will allow Brey to try some different things in prepa­ration for the non-conferenee and Big East schedules. 
"I would hope you want to see different groups play 
together, see when we substi­tute and use depth, keep our momentum up and not lose any intensity," Brey said. ''I'd like to see us be better defen­sively, but it may not be a real­istic evaluation of us defen­sively because they are not real big, and our big guys may have to chase smaller guys for awhile." 
The disappointing end to a disappointing 2003-04 season was a quarterfinal loss in the National Invitational Tourn­ament to Oregon on the Joyce Center floor. That memory has stuck in the minds of the veter­ans returning to this year's team, and it's something they want to correct starting tonight. 
I think the guys that experi­enced that last year left a taste in their mouth," Cornette said. "We're going to unleash that on St. Joe's and carry it out through the season. 
"It starts [today] against St. Joe's i'n the exhibition, and nobody is taking them lightly." Note 
+ 
Brey said forward Rick Cornett will be held out of tonight's game due to a lower back strain and it's only a pre­cautionary measure. 

+ 
The Irish will dress nine scholarship players. 


Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


You cad~ go straight from college ~ retirement. 
MonsterTRAK® will help you fill in those pesky middle years with a great career. It's the #I online career site for students and alumni looking for jobs and internships. Search a wide range of job postings, get job hunting tips, check out employer information and more. So you can find the perfect job, and make some friends your own age. Register now. It's free and easy. 
monsteYTRAK® 
today's the day~ 

www.ndsmcobserver.com/career 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 4, 2004 

Vols 
continued from page 24 
Boston College with a game total of I 04 yards rushing. Frnshman back Darius Walker has dropped to :-L65 yards pnr carry after a hot start against Michigan. 
And Tnnnessnl' brings a No. 26-ranknd run dnli'llsn that gives up just 109.7 yards pPr game. 
"Overall dnf(~nsiVI'ly, ilwy have excellent tnam spPnd," Dindriek said. "And that lhmt is probably las good al a group that wn'vn farnd. That would probably indudn the sizn of Michigan Stain and tlw quickrwss of some of the other-uniL'i." 
Notre Danw also laeks eonsis­tnney on tlw del(msivn sidn of tlw ball. But that consistency could also bn dnserib1~d as a lopsided or unbalanced thrnai. 
While opposing offenses gain 2:~2.:~ yards passing per game against Notre Dame !No. 52 in thn nation!. tlw Irish run dnfense ranks No. 21 nationally in stop­ping tlw run. holding teams to I 05.3 yards pnr game. 
Willingham thought a rnportnr pinpointed Uw word to deseribn thn overall del(msive elliJrt. 

"'Struggle' is probably a cor­rect word to some degree, because we have been inconsis­tent," Willingham said. 
Dnspite Notre Dame's woes, Tennessee head coach Phillip Fulmer says he fears this Irish tmun no less as he welcomes them into Neyland Stadium Saturday. 
"We have great respect for Notre Dame and thn job thPy have done," Fulnwr said. "You don't beat Michigan unless you larl'! ~~ pretty darn good f(lOtball team. 
Notrn Dame may have given its best emJrt of the season against Michigan Sept. 11, beating a tnarn now eonsidered onn of thP top teams in the Big Ton behind undnJ(mted Wisconsin. 
But even in that game, the Irish li)ll behind 9-0 at halftime. Tho delimse played well through­out the game, holding wide roceivnr Brayton Edwards with­out a touchdown. But the oll'ensP nnndnd the defense to hold for throe first half field goals before rattling oil' 28 second-half points to win thP contest. 
"II' we eould be a little bit more consistent, then I think we could improve on our record and be a much sounder ... football lPam," Willingham said. 
The Irish know the improve­ments need to start immedia!ely, and there have been whispers of possible new faces on the ollen­sive side of the ball. 
"Those decisions haven't been finalized yet," Willingham said. "We start the week oll' with what we think, as we start the week who will be the starting group, and as we progress through, we see how they track what they do and then we'll look at it and see. In thn vast majority of eases. those will probably come just before the game, once we have seen exactly how things worked out thls week." _ 
But the improvements will gear in particular to improving thn running game and making it more consistent. 
"We do believe that the run­ning game is so important, that you have to be a solid running team and be able to execute in that area," Willingham said. "And when we do ... when we have Hyan Grant and Darius Walker contributing to our run­ning game, then we are a much stronger and much better team." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
our starting team, we have four upperclassmen, and I would expect all four of them to carry the load." 
Three of Notre Dame's fresh­men, guards Charel Allen and Tuylah Gaines and center Melissa D'Amico, saw significant minutes and made the most of their playing time. Allen and Gaines showed off their quick­ness, while D'Amico displayed soft touch on her jump shots. Allen led the team in rebounding with nine and added 1 0 points, while Gaines and D'Amico scored four and 10 points, respectively. , "I think that our freshmen are going to add a tremendous amount of good things," McGraw said. "I think [they! makes us a little more versatile. We'll be able to up-tempo a little bit more." 
During the last ollicials' time­out. McGraw put in all four of her freshmen and sophomore Crystal Erwin to get the younger players some work together. 
Notre Dame, who opens its regular season against Illinois State Nov. 12, played its first of two exhibition contest this sea­son. The team also faces the Hoosier Lady Stars Saturday at noon inside the Joyce Center. 
Notes 
+ 
The Irish shot 44.6 percent from the lield for the game and made 6-or-7 3-point attempts in the second half'. 

+ 
ThP team will take today off after six straight days of prac­tice. 


Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Falcons 
continued from page 24 
Bryan Dobek, MikP Falk, Don Morrison and Brett Pilkington. 
None of the seven will be available for tonight or Friday's games. But Irish coach Dave Poulin isn't letting his team get caught up in the controversy. 
"We just have to go out and win games," hP said. "We want to be rewarded l'inally for all the good effort we've put in so far this season." 
The Irish head into Bowling Green tonight after the worst offensive start in the program's 37-year history. Notre Dame has scored just 10 goals in its first seven games of the sea­son, including only two last weekend at home in a two­game series against No. 15 Northern Michigan. 
"I think we really havP to simplify some on offense," Poulin said. "We continue to pass on our shots too often, so we really have to go out then'l and shoot the puck a lot more. There's always the chance for a rebound, or a fluky bounce ­good things happen when you shoot the puck. 
"We have a lot of unselfish players on this team, and that can actually be too much of a bad thing because goal-scoring takes a little bit of selfishness and the willingness to take a shot when you have it." 
Perhaps one reason for Notre Dame's slow start has been a schedule that can only be described· as brutal. The Irish. have yet to play a team who is not ranked in the top 15 in the country. 

That will change tonight, with both teams currently unranked. Even after being depleted by the suspensions, Bowling Green has still proven to be a competitive team ­primarily because of tho play of starting goalin Jordan Sigalet. 
Sigalet is considered one of the best goalies in the country, and his statistics so far do a lot to defend that status. The sen­ior has started all four games for the Faleons so far. and has amassed a 1. 7 5 goals-against average and a .946 save per­centage. 
Last season, Sigalet was named a first-team all-CCIIA team member al'ter leading the nation in saves with 1,140 and in minutes played with 2,210 minutes, two seconds. 
"II' you look at all the teams in this league I don't really see any who have fallen off," Poulin said. "That's what makes this a great league, all the teams are good and so you're really battlo-testPd any­limP you play a eonfernncn ganw." 
Poulin's own hot goalie, Morgan Cey (1.92 GAA, .942 save pPrcentage) will start tonight's game. The coach said he would make tlw decision on who would start Friday night based on the results of tonight's game. 
·Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Batteast 
continued from page 24 
garnns. 

"I was roally pleased with a lot of things that wnnt on," McGraw said. "I thought we started out with somn lirst-gamn jitters. I thought .hu~kio played likn a very poised vetnran. We still hav·n a lot of things to work on, but overall I'm wwy pl(~ased." 
M1~Graw's one concern for her team this season is l'inding anotlwr scon~r to cornplirnnnt Batteast. 

"We know what I Batteast] can do," McGraw said. "So I pur­posnly took Iwr out to see who was going to take on the bulk of the scoring. I thought in the first half, she really carried us." 
With Batteast on the bench, Notre Dame turned to junior guard Megan Dully, the reigning Big East Most Improved Player. Dully finished the game with 16 points, six rebounds and five assists. She scornd 12 of her 16 points in the second half, inelud­ing 3-l'or-3 from bnhind the 3­point arc. 
"We need to have more people in double ligures lin scoring] on a consistent basis. If look at 
RICHARD FRIEDMANfThe Observer 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect for winter. Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 
DUTPDST Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:oopm
~ 
Sat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm Cold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oopm 



. ttJ----
Samt Mazy's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME · INDIANA 
Semester Around the World Program 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 6:00p.m. Tues, Novem.ber 09 in Carroll Auditorium, Made/eva Hall, Saint Mary's OR 6:00p.m. Wed. November 10, in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India , 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements ltinerarv: Tokyo, Kyoto, Beijing, Xinn, Cltengdo, Tihe I, Ban~-:kok, Saigon, Vietnam, Deli, A~-:ra(Taj Mahal), Fatehpur Sikri, Jaipur, Khajuraho, Varanasi (Banares), Calcutta, Darjeelinf.:, Madras, Mahabalipuram, Bangalore, Mysore, Kodaikanal, Periyar (Wild Life Sanctuary), Munnar, Cochi11, Bombay; optional travel through Easter and Western Europe on the !;ame air ticket 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473 • F4X (574) 284-4866 
Jacqueline Batteast crosses over in Wednesday's preseason game against the Premier All-Stars of Ohio. 

e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarvs.edu/.\'aw 

Thursday, November 4, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 


EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 28 Not in 54 1983 sci-fi 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dolph Lundgren. Kate Capshaw. 1 "Ignorance _ rerun? Dennis Miller. Adam Ant 
29 Bach's "Air excuse'' G String" 59 Storybook 
Happy Birthday: Let your intuition lead the way. You will be right in your
meanie5 Large quantity 

30 Dug in assumptions, so don't let anyone try to fool you this year. Think and do for of writing 60 Carnivores yourself. Anger will be your demise, so let bygones be bygones. Your numbers 
31 Seek help 
are 9, 14, 22. 27, 35, 40

1oLive folk album 61 Egg container
32 1990 sci-fi of 1968 

rerun? 62 It's placed at ARIES (March 21-April 19): The more you battle with others, the worse 14 Annual prize the counter things will get. Refuse to let anyone or anything get to you. Take care of your named after a health.**
37 Decide 63 the kill

Canadian 38 Pot addition TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Look to an old comrade and you will discover governor the truth. This person will put you in touch with someone who will influence general your future. Good.changes are about to take place.**** 
39 "Six Feet Under'' network DOWN GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Consider a career move. Don't limit yourself by 
16 Visited 
1 Suffix with thinking you aren't capable of doing something different. Believe it and you
42 _ art (text

17 1985 sci-fi expert can.become it.*** 
graphics)

rerun? CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotions will be close to the surface today. Try 
2 Sailors' 

45 Collared one to deal with personal matters diplomatically. Not everyone will understand
19 They might be passage: Abbr. 
your reason for your actions.*** 
chained 46 Singer 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have plenty to think about today. Someone
3 Like some knotsMclachlan
20 Constellation will try to hold you back from doing what you believe is right. Do your near Scorpius 48 Like an owl's 4 Punctual research and make your own mind up. *** eyes 5 Make allusions VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a moment and restructure your day. Work
21 -Ia 
alongside others to complete something that is important or that will benefit
(to)

22 Undercoat 50 Budweiser people in need. **** offerings 6 Scrutinizes LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may be the victim of gossip. Keep your
24 New spouse's 
personal business to yourself. Situations will get blown out of proportion.
acquisitions, 51 See 22-Down 7 "Alas" in 
Protect yourself. ** 
Augsburg-maybe 

52 Not originals of SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can do plenty to ensure that you get ahead 26 Hippodrome letters, for short 8 Change today. Focus on dealing with the people that you know will be in your corner. events 
dramatically Once you get you'r allies in place, success will follow.*****
53 Apres-ski 27 -Anne-de-41 Exclamations of 49 Ordinary Joe 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Added responsibilities will surface. Take 
27 That girl beverage 9 Puffball Beaupre, surprise 
care of pressing issues that deal with health, finance or legal dealings.
50 Extrovert'semanation 

Quebec Someone may be a burden. ***
42 Shout on the set opposite
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 "Don't !" 30 Do one's part? CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't get into a heated discussion with a 43 Heavy hitter 53 Homing partner. Protect your interests but, if you are the least bit close-minded, you can
11 Odd pages 31 Cave denizen 
pigeon's home expect to be challenged. ** 
44 Rising stars -=+,..,..+-:=+:::-! 12 Picks up 
33 Hi's partner AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The better you get along with the people you 
55 Black

45 Drive up the wall have to do business with, the more success you will have. Diplomacy and
34 Each
~-=+=++.:-! 13 Part way to 

56 Furbys, once integrity should lead the way. Creative ideas will develop. *** 
scoring 35 Court call 46 Pelvic bones 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Social events will turn out better than 
57 Distinctive time 

15 Angler's 36 Loom 47 Rabbitlike anticipated. Love and romance will be yours if you are affectionate and collection 40 Keep out rodent 58 Q-U link 
straightforward. ***** 

-=+-::+::-:+::,-t 18 Click and Clack, 
Birthday Baby: You are forever trying to make everything right for everyone. the Brothers For answers; call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a You are cautious, caring and most adamant about your beliefs. .-:::+.:-:t-::::-1 22 With 51-Across, credit card, 1-800-814-5554 . 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com.
for the nonce Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
23 Published Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

-,+,..,.+-:=+-:,-t 24 Dessert eaten 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).with a spoon 
Share tips: nvtimes.com/ouzzleforum. Crosswords for vouno 
-------------------------------------------------------------~-----------­
DILBERT 
I NEED YOUR HELP 
FORCING BOTTLENECK BILL TO DO HI5 JOB 
50 I CAN DO MY JOB. 
PEANUTS 
'(OU Kt-JOW, '{OU DON 1T ~AVE FL't' SOUTH FOR T~E WINTER 
I'LL BE ALL OVER THAT ...A5 500N A5 I FINISH OTHER THINGS. 
JUST BECAUSE EVER't'ONE ELSE 15 DOIN6 IT, DOESN'T 
SCOTT ADAMS 
WELL, FOR 
EXAMPLE, MISCEL­
LANEOUS. 
CHARLES SCHULZ 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

Jll?JOO®IbrE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
.....
DEFAM 

rJ rJ
1 

©2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rjghts Reserved. 
KELLN 

[ll j 
II-+

tMARFFI ± WHE=N HE: VISITE:D 
HIS PAL-, THE:

J r J
1 BAKE:R, INDE:E:D 
www.jumble.com 

HE: FOUND A--­tNALTED 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

IIJ I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

rI I I I I JIN 'l I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: IRATE ADMIT FARINA PERSON Answer: What the rider suffered after the cross coun­try rail trip-TRAIN STRAIN 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, November 4, 2004 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish to open highly-anticipated season 


By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
No, it isn't that St. Joseph's. 

Dtw to a ehangc passed by the NCAA Board of Dircetors, teams can't play exhibition gamns against non-collegiate opporwnts. So tonight, the Irish open tlwir prnsPason schedule and I OOth season against Division II school St. Joseph's from tlw Crnat Lakes Valley ConfnrencP. 
"I had t.wo phono calls or o­mails. 'Is that the samn St. .Joe's from Philadelphia?' II said I no." lifth-ynar Irish coai~h Miko Bn~y said. "lit's I obviously at] 10 o'clock but I think we arc going to like this better because we are going to be playing against a system and a group of kids that have been practicing as long as us, and they are chasing team goals and they run plays. 
a  nnw  ruin. Again  we  haven't  
doni' it yPL.  so ask  me ]tonight  
FooTBALL  

"So your preparations are more game-likP than rolling it out and pickup game-like." 
tt:s diiTieult to project what the competition level between these two teams will be tonight sinen the Irish have played pre­season games against "all-star" teams in previous years. But Brny fools Saint Joseph's will come out on an emotional high as it gets to travel to South Bond and play a nationally rec­ognized opponent. 
"I think they are going to come out and really battle us," Brey said. "For them it's their biggest game on the schedule. I look at this like the Harvard game. We better feel like this one counts. They are going to come out unlike the MU teams of the past." 
With only one new scholar­ship player on the roster for 2004-05, Brey has a veteran bunch on his bmu:h this season. Combine that experience with the fact this team has been playing in the summer, working out or pmetieing together for months, and they're finally ready to sec new faces. 
"These guys have been 
see PRESEASON/page 21 

Willingham hopes for consistency 
game has been a bonus for us By PAT LEONARD some weeks, then sometimes we Associate Sports Editor are not where we need to be. It is 
probably that inconsistency right now that has us at 5-3."
!leading into an opportunity to 

The inconsistency
heat a top BCS team 
running the ball has
Saturday, Notre Dame See Also frustrated Notre Dameeoaches are working to 
"Irish offer all season. While coach­
eorrect the team's main consistency­problems for es speak of a balanced attack in the pro-style
inmnsistency. 
tired system, Irish offensive
But that problem presenl'l another prob­Volunteers" coordinator Bill Diedrick ideally would like to call
lem -coaches and 
page 22 more running plays to
piaynrs (~annot solvn it open more productive
until ganw day. 
passing opportunities. 
"To be quite honest, our play Notrn Dame finished its loss tohas bmm good at times and then 

not so good." coach Tyrone 
Willingham said. "Our running see VOLS/page 22 

... NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Wrirer 
Notre Dame's first exhibition game of the season played out as expmted Wednesday night. 
Their all-American forward .Jacqueline Batteast, who fin­ished the game with 23 points and live rebounds in 25 min­utes, led thr. Irish. 

Head coaeh Muffet McGraw played everyone on her bench, including all !bur freshmen, in a variety of lineups. 
And the Irish did what they always do in preseason eontests -win -this time by an 84-52 margin against the Premier All­Stars from Ohio. Notre Dame is 21-1 all-time in exhibition 
see BATTEAST/page 22 
Irish look to reverse troubles 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame can't get caught up in Bowling Green's prob­lems. The Irish have enough troubles of their own to worry about. 
Notre Dame (1-4-2, 0-3-1 in the CCIIA) travels to Bowling Green (3-1-0, 1-1-0) tonight to take on the Falcons in the first game of a home-and-home conference series. The Falcons return to the .Joyce Center to face the Irish Friday night at 
7:35 p.m. to close out the series. 
Bowling Green is still reeling from a disciplinary incident that has gutted the team of several of its best players for an undetermined amount of time . 
Falcon coach Scott Paluch suspended seven players indef­initely Oct. 19 after the coach was shown a pieture of a nude Bowling Green player with profanity and racial slurs writ­ten on his body, aecording to uscho.com. 
The sevon players suspnndod by Paluch inel uded the team's senior captain Alex Rogosheske. Also susponded were senior Stnve Brudzewski and juniors Hyan Bar-nntt, 
see FALCONS/page 22 

en 
INTERHALL 
NHL 
NBA 
NCAA FOOTBAll 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
NFL 
w 

Player lockouts cancel 
Missouri's men's bas-
Mississippi State 
Eagles' receiver
~ Walsh vs Welsh 

Heat 100 
the hockey All-Star 
coach Slyvester Croom 

ketball program was 
Terrell Owens doesn't

1-z Family 
Nets 77 
weekend and threatens 
returns to Alabama for 

placed on three-year 
see why so many people 
The Walsh Women 

Shaquille O'Neal
a: :3 
the rest of the season. 
the first time since being 

probation. 
view him as an
= 
and Welsh Family 

scored 16 points in his 
snubbed for the 
antagonoist.
Whirlwinds will play 

Miami debut. 
~ 
Crimson Tide job.
for a trip to the 
Stadium. 

= ca. ti 
en 
page 20 
page 19 
page 17 
page 16 
page 14 
page 14 







