
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
White, Brown advance to SMC election run-off 
SlVIC St:u.den.t: President: 
ELECTIC>~ 
Lao: Use full student potential 
Senators act to pass resolution to 
renovate LaFortune 

Lounge 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associate News Editor 
The Student Senate passed a resolution calling for reno­vation to the first floor stu­dent lounge in LaFortune at their meeting Wednesday night. 
The resolution, which sena­tors approved unanimously, calls for "appropriate funds [tol be made available by the University for this renovation ... in a similar fashion as the recent renovations in the basement of [LaFortune]." 
Carroll senator Karsten Steinhaeuser, who introduced the resolution to the Senate, said the reason for the 

improvement request was speech, Lao focused on how to their potential academically,first because "the paint on By MAUREEN REYNOLDS realize the full potential of the socially and culturally." the walls has been there for a Associate News Editor 
student body. Lao said students can further long time, and so has the car­"I firmly believe that our stu­challenge themselves and attain pet and the furniture." Student body president dents have the potential to be their "full potential" through 
However, Steinhaeuser also Jeremy Lao gave his State of the the best student body in the means such as diversity events mentioned that this area of Student Union address directly country ... We are not challeng­and academic lectures. before the Student Senate meet­ing ourselves enough," Lao said. see SENATE/page 6 ing Wednesday. During his short "I call for students to realize see ADDRESS/page 6 




FormerND professor dies at 91 
By MERYL GUYER 
News Writer 
Thomas J. Stritch, professor emeritus of American Studies, died Jan. 22 at Belcourt Terrace Nursing Home in his native city of Nashville, Tenn. He was 91 years old. 
Stritch was responsible for carrying the Department of Journalism through il'i trans­formation to the Department of Communication Arts and finally to the Department of American Studies in I'J70. 
Walt Collins. professor of American Studies, remem­bered one of Stritch's signa­ture sequences, a four-course sequence called "Modern Culture." The popular courses included "The Arts in America" and were developed on the idea that anyone can learn how to be a journalist by working in a newsroom, but it is more important to be educated on topics on which articles will be written. Collins said philosophy has permeat­ed the program, and that is 
see STRITCH/page 6 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Wrirer 
The results of Tuesday's online voting pro­pelled the Brown-Fitzgerald 
and White-Moran tickets into the final race for the next president of the Saint Mary's student body. 
Fifty-two percent of the stu­dent body voted in Tuesday's primary election. Sarah Catherine White and Mary Pauline Moran led the pack 


with 46 percent of the vote. White Sarah Brown and Michelle Fitzgerald received 35 percent of the vote after the deduction of their campaign penalty. Shay Jolly and Veronica Saavedra trailed with 17 per­cent of the vote. Two percent of those who voted abstained. 
"We were honored by the primary results and to be thought of as leaders by our peers," White said. "It would be an honor to win, as well, but it is not over until it is over." 
To win the primary, one 

ticket needed to receive 50 percent of the turnout plus one vote. Since this did not happen, a runoff will take place until midnight Thursday in which either the White or Brown ticket must tally the highest total of raw votes. The new student body 
Brown president and vice president for the next academic year will be announced Friday. Both tickets have been utilizing their final 
see ELECTION/page 6 


University contributes $833 million to community in 2002 
By LIAM FARRELL 
News Writer 
According to an economic impact report set for a Feb. 2 release, Notre Dame con­tributed $833 million to the South Bend community in 2002. 
The biggest areas of impact were purchasing of goods and services which accounted for $536 million, with $305.9 mil­lion of that spent in St. Joseph's County, and $290 million spent on payroll for employees. 
The study is the result of the efforts between divisions of Business Operations and Public Affairs and Communication along with city and county gov­ernment officials. 
J. Roberto Gutierrez, vice president for Public Affairs and Communications, said he sees the economic resources that Notre Dame brings to the com­munity as an opportunity to realize potential for a relation­ship with South Bend. 
"[Notre Dame] brings a lot to the table," he said. "[The future of both communities] is about that kind of cooperation." 
Gutierrez also saw the report as further evidence of Notre Dame's overall mission as a Catholic institution in pursuit of truth and knowledge that is not confined to the classroom. 
"[Learning) doesn't happen in a vacuum. It takes a support structure to make it work," he said. "It doesn't operate in a bubble. It is in the living, breathing city of South Bend." 
Matthew Sturin, associate vice president of news and informa­tion, said that while Notre Dame enjoys a good national and international reputation, it has not necessarily been linked to the surrounding community. 
"It is in our interest to have residents think well of us," Storin said. 
In light of the economic impact and future goals of the University, Storin said that he envisions the relationship of Notre Dame and South Bend as more of a partnership than it has been in previous years. 
see REPORT/page 6 

Thursday, January 29, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bring back bad, rad 

With all this snow continually falling down upon us, I considered writing something about the misery among the student body about the denial of a snow day. But then I decided that, well, at this point, 
my efforts to con­vince anyone of authority that snow days in col­lege would be beneficial for our existence would be futile. 
I must admit, 


however, that it Sarah Vabulas was ridiculous that all the 
schools in the Viewpoint South Bend com­Editor munity had the day off. I am bound and determined to have a snow day before I graduate in 2006. 
So now that the whole snow day issue is out in the open, I can breathe easy and move to the important part of this, dare I say, unimportant col­umn. 
Over semester break, I decided to bring back the words "bad" and "rad." Okay, so that's really a blast from the past. So why would I attempt to bring something back that dwin­dled away for a reason? 
I think "cool," "hot," "neato" and other such adjectives do not fully express my emotions -whether they be about clothes or anything else. Besides, if you've stepped into a mall anytime in the past three months -if you haven't, then I'm sorry -it is obvious that 80's style is making a comeback. I still haven't decided whether I like the fashion trends reemerging, but they are, nonethe­less. 
Lately, I've been reflecting a lot on my elementary school years and the "pop culture" of the time. It really all started when I purchased Michael Jackson's newest CD, "One," which is made up of his songs which hit num­ber one on the charts. It really took me back -back to the days of bright colors, pogs and the words "bad" and "rad." 
As I was cruising the streets of the ATL over break, I felt compelled to dance to the rhythms of my child­hood. I even found myself in the car one night with my mom, and we remi­nisced about the "old days" when I was a little kid, dancing around the house to Michael Jackson's song of the moment. 
But it wasn't until I found myself in Kentucky, on my drive back to South Bend, that it hit me like a brick wall. I turned to my friend Kat and said, "That's it. I'm bringing it back." 
Kat was confused and asked me what it was I wanted to bring back. I looked at her all serious-like and said sternly, "The word 'bad.' I'm bringing it back. Wanna help?" 
After further reflection, I felt that "rad" needed to make a comeback, as well. 
So here I am, writing this column, asking you, faithful Inside Column readers, to help me out by using the words "bad" and "rad." I will forever be in your debt. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR.FAVORITE COLD WEATHER DRINK? 






Cream." one. 
IN BRIEF 
The class of 2005 will sponsor a dinner for juniors at BW3s of South Bend. Enjoy all the wings and soft drinks you want for only $1. The dinner runs tonight from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
The College Bowl finals will take place tonight starting at 6 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Come watch teams from across campus compete in a question­and-answer game that tests knowledge in a variety of sub­jects. 
Find out more about the Peace Corps at an information session tonight at 6 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns lounge. 
Barry Lopez will lecture on the Rick Bartow "My Eye" exhi­bition tonight at 7 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. A recep­tion and book signing will follow. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies presents a showing of the French film "Chaos." The film begins at 7 
p.m. tonight in the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Auditorium. 
Oval Opus will perform at Legends today. Come see this high-energy Cincinnati band perform. The time has yet to be determined. 
Seniors, enjoy a night for you at Legends for yout class tonight and every Thursday. The fun starts at midnight with drink specials and continues until 4 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 26 HIGH 
20 

LOW 10 LOW 
8 

Mike Elwell  Brigid Kroener  Katie Culhame  Javi Hernandez  Jen Giaisser-Sadler  Jack Monahan  
Junior  Senior  Senior  Junior  Senior  Senior  
St. Edwards  Off-campus  Farley  Siegfried  Farley  Off-campus  
"Earl Gray tea."  "Glowen. "  "Hot chocolate  "Coke."  "Bailey's Irish  "I don't have  

with peppermint." 


MEGAN DAVJSSON/The Observer Nyame Brown, an assistant professor of art, lectures during one of his classes on Wednesday In the Riley Hall of Design. 
OFFBEAT 
Jury rejects claim soup drove man nuts 

WEST PALM BEACH -A jury rejected a man's claims he should be compensated for a sleep disorder suffered since he was served the wrong soup at a restaurant. 
Donald Johnson, 64, sought $55,356 from the Shoney's restaurant chain. The jury instead awarded him $407 for medical bills. 
Johnson, of Lake Worth, said he had to have emer­gency medical treatment in 1995 after eating clam chowder when he had ordered potato soup. He said an allergic reaction left him with psychological and sleep 
disorders. He rejected a $1,000 set­tlement in 1999. 
"I thought it was a silly case," Shoney's attorney, Charles Rice. said Tuesday. 
Rice argued during the trial that Johnson's anxiety might stem from other expe­riences, including a prison term for sexual activity with a child under 12 and his public listing as a sexual predator. 
Danes investigate reported jail stand-ins 
COPENHAGEN -The Danish government Wednesday asked for an investigation following a news report thaf an organ­ized crime network is offer­ing to do time in prison in the place of well-off convicts sentenced for minor offens­es. 

"It is totally unacceptable if one can avoid doing time," Justice Minister Lene Espersen said. "It is a prob­lem that I consider as a seri­ous matter." 
"The cases that have been reported in the media unfor­tunately indicate that there is a need to tighten (the proce­dures) even further," she said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY a:: 
LLI 
:::r: !ci: 
LLI 

3: 
...I 
c( (.) 0 


HIGH 12 HIGH 14 HIGH 24 HIGH 26
..... 
LOW 9 LOW 11 LOW 5 LOW 20 
Atlanta 52 I 40 Bos~on 31 I ~ 5 Chicago 20 I? Denver 54 I 26 Houston 60 I 50 Los Angeles 70 I 50 Minneapolis 0 1-11 New York 33 118 Ph1ladelph1a 36 I 22 Phoemx 65 I 45 Seattle 50 I 44 St. Louis 32 115 Tampa 63 I 52 Washington 38 1 25 

Thursday, January 29, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Looking To Intern Or Teach This Summer? 
Spend your summer in London, Poland, Ireland, ·chile, and more! 
Flyers warn SMC of rape incident 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
N~wsWriter 
Saint Mary's security of'!icers havn posted flyers around campus displaying the picture of and additional information about Jerry Hillegas, a convict­ed rapist who approached two women on another all-female campus Jan. 13. 
Hillegas, on two separate occasions and under the pre­tense of asking for directions, approached two women at Grace College in Warsaw. Ind., and asked them to get into his car. Neither woman was injured. 

"We want to make sure evnryone is given the informa­tion but understands that we have no indication that he is coming this way," said Dave Chapman, director of Saint Mary's security. "We're in a mobile society, and what we want to do at this point is make everyone aware of what has happened." 
Saint Mary's junior Meredith Gramann said she was sur­prised last week when she saw llillegas' face and information posted in her dorm. 
"I was alarmed at the fact that this man could be on our campus," Gramann said. "It sort of got posted without much explanation, and it didn't appear on the Internet site until a few days later." 
Chapman insisted all three campuses are safe and the posters arc just a precaution. lie said Saint Mary's has rarely had problems with intruders on campus, and no incidents have occurred during his three · months of employment at the College. 
A Jan. 16 report in the Warsaw Times-Union newspa­per, however, said Christian colleges and college sporting events are supposedly a favorite place in which Ilillegas targets victims. 
Hillegas' prior convictions include rape, sexual battery, indecent exposure, criminal confinement, battery and attempted battery. 
l-Ie was last seen driving a 2002 silver Buick Hegal four door with the Indiana Plate 35A9347. He was also previ­ously seen driving a 1996 blue Chevy Lumina four door with the Indiana Plate 3587621. 
Chapman offered suggestions for anyone who sees Hillegas or anything suspicious on cam­pus. 
"If you see him, or anything that doesn't seem right, call security and give us as much information as you can," Chapman said. "In these situa­tions, we'd rather be safe than sorry." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
Program aims to 'sustain dialogue' 
By JULIA MILLER-LEMON 
News Writer 
Students gathered Wednesday night in the Coleman Morse Lounge to attend the first of two information sessions on Sustained Dialogue. a movement sweeping across college campuses through­out the nation. 
During the session. the more than 30 students in attendance were briefed on the mission of Sustained Dialogue, and the open sharing of personal stories touched on many sensitive issues present within the Notre Dame community. 
A main purpose of Sustained Dialogue is to encourage discus­sion surrounding such controver­sial issues on campus as diversity, religion and gender. but co­founders Tessa Garcia, Eve Thomas and Jelani McEwen­Torrence, (the fourth co-founder, Christine Amill, is currently abroad), said the main goal of the program is to provide an open forum where students are free to talk about any and all issues, not just race or diversity. 
Sustained Dialogue is set up to bridge the University's already­existing retreats and seminars. McEwan-Torrence expressed frustration about the retreats, saying they are beneficial but usually never result in any motion or change. 
"With Sustained Dialogue, the issues won't just be talked about once," she said. "You will get to talk about them over and over ... and work to eradicate stereo­types." 
Garcia initially had the idea to bring Sustained Dialogue to Notre Dame after attending the "Learning To Talk About Race" retreat last year. 
"After the retreat. I was moved by the experience and felt that everyone on campus needed to go through something similar," Garcia said. 
After being given a grant through Notre Dame's 

Undergraduate "This is our Feb. 7. Attendees of Research the retreat will be
opportunity to 
Opportunity placed in groups, Program, prove that we are where they will begin Garcia spent ready for change discussion on some of last summer Notre Dame's most
at Notre Dame. " 
doing research controversial topics. at Princeton as well as shan~ their University, the Eve Thomas own personal stories University of Program co-founder and experiences. 
Virginia. and the University of California at Berkley. Garcia found the program she was look­ing for at both Princeton and UVA, where Sustained Dialogue had already achieved club status. 
Her research then led her to Washington, D.C., where she spoke with the founder of the Sustained Dialogue methodology, Harold Saunders, a Princeton alumnus and former U.S. diplo­mat. 
Work on Notre Dame's own Sustained Dialogue program began at the beginning of the fall f!emester, and now Garcia, Thomas, and McEwen-Torrence are working to spread the impor­tance of campus-wide participa­tion. 

After the retreat. the 
groups will meet twice a month to continue the ongoing dialogue process. 
"This is our opportunity to prove that we are ready for a change at Notre Dame," Thomas said. 
Sustained Dialogue began in 1999 at Princeton University and has since become a world-wide movement. not only sprouting up on university campuses but also in countries such as TajikL'itan. 
For more information on the program or to sign up for the retreat, contact Tessa Garcia at tgarcia1@nd.edu or Eve Thomas at ethomasl@nd.edu. 
Contact Julia Miller-Lemon at jmillerl@nd.edu. 

"In order for these dialogues to work. we need everyone's per­spectives and stories, no matter what their race, religion, gender or political background," Garcia said. "This is all about openness. There is no fear here, and there will be no judgment. 
Following the final information session tonight in the Coleman Morse Lounge from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m., there will be an opportunity to sign up for the Kick-Off Retreat on 
Sponsored by the Student International Business Council 
www.nd.edu/~sibc 
·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------4 
-----------------------------------------------, 
page 4 Thursday, January 29, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 




Aerobics continue without Kay 

By EMILIE DesJARDINS 
News Writer 
Aerobics classes, up until this semester, were taught by Kay Chubirka. Known to the Saint Mary's community as simply "Kay." This semester, however, the highly-praised instructor has left Saint Mary's. 
"I took Total Body Workout from her once and that is def­initely what it was, a total body workout," said Eva Polizzi, "but I really liked it." 
When word came that Chubirka was leaving Saint Mary's, many students were concerned that meant the end of the great classes they had attended faithfully but time has shown differently, they 
now say. 
At the end of last semester Lynn Kachmarik opened these positions to students. Amy Deja, a junior at Saint Mary's, responded immedi­ately. 
She had recently become certified in pilates and thought the opportunity to teach at Saint Mary's sounded fun, she said. Deja emailed Kachmarik, who said she was excited by the idea of having a pilates course offered at the college. 
Additional instructors have since been hired to teach other aerobics classes. They are free of charge for stu­dents if they wish to take them for academic credit. Courses taught by students however, are not offered for credit. This has not deterred other students' impressions of the courses though or damp­ened Deja's spirits. 
"At first it seemed people were hesitant because Kay was not teaching, but now they seem to be more open to the changes," said Deja, "My afternoon class has been growing every time and everyone has a lot of enthusi­asm." 
Jen Stark, who is taking Deja's pilates course, seems confident that students are teaching the courses. 
"I think it's fine. It's nice to know that someone as busy as us takes the time to teach us to work out," she said. 
Contact Emilie DesJardins at des4986@saintmarys.edu. 


Junior Class Dinner 


\A/here:B\A13sElestaurant 
\A/hen: Thursday, January 29th, 6:00---8:00 PM 



All.you can eat and drink:* $1 

Open to all members of theJunior Class. 

*Includes wings and soft drinks 



Four teams to square off in College Bowl 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Four teams will square off tonight in semi-final and final rounds of the competition which will decide who will represent Notre Dame in the Association of College Unions International (ACUI) Region 9 College Bowl tournament on Feb. 21 at Indiana University-Purdue University in Indianapolis. 
Touted as "the Varsity Sport of the Mind," the College Bowl originated as a radio show in 1953, and is now the world's longest-running general knowl­edge competition. Similar to Jeopardy, the College Bowl pits two teams of four students against each other, questioning them on a broad range of top­ics. 
Notre Dame joined the tour­nament in 1958, beating Georgetown 230-110. Though play has been sporadic since then, Notre Dame has made a name for itself in the competi­tion over the past five years and consistently ranked in the regional tournament, said Matthew Biergans, operations manager of LaFortune. Last year, the team placed first at regionals and ranked ninth of fifteen in the national competi­tion. 
The competition itself consists of two seven-minute rounds divided by a brief intermission. There are two types of ques­tions provided by the ACUI: "Toss-up" questions, which are addressed to both teams, and bonus questions, which are asked exclusively to the team that gets the "toss-up" right. Answering a "toss-up" question is worth 10 points, while bonus questions can earn the team a varying number of points, gen­erally 20-30, said Biergans. As with most quiz tournaments, the team with the most points at the end of the two rounds wins. 
Nineteen teams were original­ly in contention this year for the chance to go to regionals, but only four remain: "Alex Trebeks Without the Cards", "Cobra Kai", "Team #10", and "Team Fisher". They have progressed through the single-elimination tournament used by Notre Dame to whittle down the com­petitors, though most schools use either a round robin or dou­ble-elimination tournament. 
"We [Team #10] did it just for fun -we didn't even expect to win a game," said Nick Dobbertin, a member of Team #10. ''I'm a very competitive person, so the College Bowl appeals to my competitive nature. I played Mastersminds in high school, which is based on the College Bowl, and the biggest difference is that you have to buzz in so much quick­er." 
The winner of the Region 9 tournament will go on to the national tournament from April 23 to 25 at Auburn University­Montgomery. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Enter by February 27, 2004 
eeBRITISH COUNCIL 
eeUnited State.s EDUCATI@N 
":<("OTI.ANr> 


Visit: www.britcontest.org or call 1 800 488 2235 




ORLD & NATION 
ThursJay, January 29, 2004 CoMPILED FROtvt TilE l)nsERVER'S WIRE SERV!CLS page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Car bomb kills four in Baghdad 
BAGIIDAD, Iraq -A car bomb exploded Wednesday in front of a hotel frequented by Westerners. killing at least four people. wit­nesses and coalition oflicials said. The blast occurred one day after six U.S. soldiers were killed in a pair of roadside bombings. 
A South African man was among the dead at the Shaheen hotel in Baghdad. according to employees of the three-story building in the city's Karadah district. 
The attack occurred as a two-member U.N. Lnam arrived in Baghdad to assess security for un nlectorul teum. U.N. Secretary­Ceneral Kofi Annan said Tuesday he would S(~nd the electoral team if the United States can guarantee its safety. 
Suicide blast kills U.K. soldier 
KABUL, Afghanistan -The second suicide attack in as many days on international peacekeepers in the Afghan capital killed a British soldier Wednesday and wounded four more. the security force and officials said. 
The latest bombing came during a memori­al ceremony for a Canadian soldier killed the day before. An Afghan bystander also died in that attack. The Taliban once more claimed responsibility. 
The British soldier died after a taxi packed with explosives detonated near his patrol vehicle at about 11 a.m. local time near the main British base in the eastern outskirts of Kabul, said Nayamatullah Jalili, intelligence chief at the Afghan Interior Ministry. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Twin Mars rover gets ready to roll 
PASADENA. Calif.-The Opportunity rover is on track to roll onto Mars as early as Sunday, just days before its twin could resume its own work exploring the Red Planet, NASA said Wednesday. 
Opportunity unfolded its front wheels and locked them into position, leaving just a few more tasks before being ready to travel the final 10 feet from its lander and onto the sur­face of Mars. mission members said during a news conference at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. 
NASA engineers still want to adjust the for­ward tilt of Opportunity's lander, pitching it down 5 degrees to smooth the six-wheeled robot's path. 

Gov't: Airbags still put kids at risk 
WASIIINGTON -Pickup drivers are risk­ing children's lives by choosing not to use a switch that would prevent air bags from deploying in an accident. the government said Wednesday. 
A government survey of 3,182 pickup driv­ers found that those with passengers ages 1 to 12 were leaving air bags on 48 percent of the time. The government recommends that air bags be turned off for front seat passen­gers 12 and younger to prevent injuries because the bags deploy with such force. The government also says that, whenever possi­ble. young passengers should be in the back seat. 
STATE NEWS 

Man survives 45-foot fall 
TEHHE HAUTE -A man was in serious condition Wednesday after a 45-foot plunge from a Wabash River bridge after he appar­ently left the scene of a traflic wreck, police said. 
Investigators were not certain whether Mark II. Clark jumped or fell from the bridge. Clark. 43, of Paris. Ill.. suffered a broken back. collapsed lung and broken wrist in the fall Monday night, police said. 
He was being treated at Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis. 
Officers found Clark under the Indiana 63 bridge as they were searching for the driver In a hit-and-run accident that happened some 30 minutes earlier about a mile away. 
Clark was strapped to a gurney and hoist­ed up by ropes to the bridge. 


Dean fires campaign manager 
Losses in Iowa, Vermont prompt shakeup; candidate hires longtime Gore aide 
presidential front-runner

Associated Press 
as the campaign makes the 

BURLINGTON, Vt. -turn into a series of dele­Howard Dean shook up his gate-rich contests over the presidential campaign on next several weeks. Wednesday after absorbing Before leaving the cam­back-to-buck defeats, paign, Trippi thanked the replacing his campaign staff. telling them how manager with a longtime proud he was of their associate of former Vice efl'orts. President AI Gore to try "I may be out of the cam­and stabilize his faltering paign, but I'm not out of candidacy. the fight," Trippi told The 
"Governor Dean asked Associated Press moments Hoy Nee! to join the cam­before leaving the paign CEO and Joe Trippi Burlington, Vt. headquar­resigned as campaign ters. manager," said Dean cam­"This is a great cam­paign spokeswoman Tricia paign to change the coun­Enright. try," he said. "I regret any­
Dean offered Trippi a thing I may have done to spot on the payroll as a let down the hundreds of senior adviser, a source thousands of people who said, but he decided to quit support Howard Dean. I the campaign rather than hope they will stay with accept the demotion. Howard Dean. This cam­
In the call with lawmak­paign can change the ers, Dean expressed his country." determination to remain in In a sign of Dean's money the race, and said he hopes woes, he staff was asked to finish at least second in Wednesday to defer their the upcoming round of pri­salaries for two weeks. maries and caucuses. Neel. Gore's former sena­
At the same time, several torial chief of staff, served lawmakers bluntly told the as chief executive of the former Vermont governor U.S. Telecom Association in that he needed to demon­Washington before work­strate his ability to win ing on Gore's 2000 presi­somewhere -and that dential campaign. Nee! second place wouldn't suf­was named to head Gore's fice. "He saitl he under­transition team in anticipa­to increased scrutiny. thousands of Internet­stood," said one lawmaker tion of the former vice Trippi, who has a quar­savvy supporters across who was involved in the president winning the ter-century of experience the country. It is not call. White House. in Democratic politics, is unusual for crowd mem­
The changes unfolded on Neel pledged to join widely credited with help­bers to look for Trippi's the day after Dean Dean's campaign after ing Dean assemble the autograph before Dean's at absorbed a double-digit Gore endorsed the former campaign that transformed campaign events. defeat in the New Vermont governor on Dec. him from asterisk in the The decision to shake up Hampshire primary at the 9. polls to front-runner over the campaign was made in hands of Massachusetts At the time, it appeared the course of months of a series of discussions in Sen. John Kerry. That that Gore would help stabi­campaigning. Burlington, Vt. -on a day came eight days after Dean lize Dean at a time when Trippi's departure sent that his rivals were already faded to third in the Iowa .he was suffering from the shockwaves through the out campaigning for votes caucuses. Kerry finished perils of being a front-run­campaign, where he is a in the seven states that first there, as well, and ner, his record and cam­popular boss and some­hold primaries and caucus­stands as the Democratic paign performance subject thing of an icon to the es on Feb. 3. 

THAILAND 
WHO: Kill poultry to stop bird flu 
Wednesday that slaughtering infected "It seems that (Indonesia] is yet not
Associated Press 
birds would be left to the discretion of convinced of the effectiveness of 
BANGKOK-The World Health farmers. The Indonesian government culling. Maybe they are thinking Organization insisted Wednesday the is considering a vaccination cam­about the social and economic conse­mass slaughter of infected poultry is paign for poultry. quences of this because Indonesia is key to controlling the outbreak of Three international agencies -The now in the process of election." said bird flu sweeping Asia, but Indonesia World Health Organization, the U.N. Dr. Kumara Hai. director of commu­said it doesn't intend to order its Food and Agriculture Organization nicable diseases for WHO's Southeast farmers to kill their birds. and the World Organization for Asia region. "But hopefully with more 
Two sisters in Vietnam became the Animal Health -have urged killing advocacy from us they will change latest human fatalities, bringing the birds as the best approach. Experts their minds." death toll to 10. said there is no consensus that vacci­Dr. Shigeru Omi, WHO regional 
Health ministers from across Asia nation is enough to avert an epidem­director for the Western Pacific, said held an emergency meeting in ic, though it can be a potentially help­there are three major strategies that Bangkok on Wednesday to consider ful addition to slaughter. must be implemented if Asia is to how to stop the disease. but did not China said it intends to kill all live­stop bird flu: Slaughter and quaran­reach a consensus on destroying their stock birds within a two-mile radius tine, better surveillance, and protec­livestock. of infected sites and quarantine poul­tion for workers destroying the 
Tens of millions of chickens and try within a 1 1/2-mile radius of the infected birds. ducks have died in Asia -from the stricken farms. 'There's no need to panic yet, but disease or in government-ordered "Ail countries will adopt the best there's no room for complacency," he slaughters aimed at containing it. way to end the spread of this virus as said. 
Indonesia has not officially reported soon as possible. Each country will Bird flu has raced through poultry bird flu cases to the World Health have to find its own way to end this farms in at least 10 Asian countries. Organization. but announced Sunday problem," Thai Foreign Minister Two sisters in Vietnam became the it was combatting the virus. The head Surakiart Sathirathai said. latest victims on Wednesday, bringing of the country's agricultural quaran­However, WHO officials said they the confirmed human death toll to tine agency, Budi Tri Akoso, said hope Indonesia will change its view. eight in Vietnam and two in Thailand. 
-.-....... --.. --------........ -.. -...... -........... ----...... -----.... -.......... ---...... --.... --... -----........ ---... ----­
~ 
Thursday, January 29, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Stritch 
continued from page 1 
why the Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor is still housed within American Studies. 
"He was an enormously bright, well-cultured man," said Collins. 
Stritch brought 

his interests in "He was an "Tom Stritch music, art, litera­enormously bright, was one of the ture and architec­finest professors
well-cultured
ture to Notre we've ever had Dame's campus, man." here," said even taking class­Father Theodore es into Chicago to Hesburgh,
Walt Collins 
participate in University presi­
American Studies
architecture walks. 
Stritch was invaluable to the journalism program at Notre Dame, contributing to many publications during his tenure, beginning with student work for Scholastic and The South Bend Tribune and serving as mentor to many Notre Dame graduates pursuing careers in the field, including Collins him­self. 
Stritch joined Notre Dame as a student in 1930 and soon decided to make it his home. He graduated in 1934, received a master's degree and stayed on as a faculty member until 1978. 
For a large part of his time in South Bend, Stritch lived in Lyons Hall, where he gained the reputation of being one of the last of the "bachelor dons," a phenomenon that was com­ing to an end in the 1940s and 50s. Stritch was a lifelong bachelor and so devoted his time to the students. His door was always open to those look­ing for conversation or advice, even after he moved off cam­pus to a residence on North Eddy St. and ended his career as a professor. 
In 1971, Stritch was given the Faculty Award at Notre 
Dame's com­
mencement. 
dent emeritus. 
"He always kept his mind going and always kept writing." 
Stritch wrote a number of books, including My Notre Dame: Memories and Reflections of Sixty Years. 
"He had an enormous sense of history," Collins said. "He wrote his history [in that book], and much of it was intertwined with Notre Dame's history. He was a great writer and a very witty man." 
A funeral service was cele­brated Monday at the Cathedral of the Incarnation of Nashville. A campus memorial Mass will be held at a date to be determined. Stritch is sur­vived by his older sister, Katherine Stritch. 
Contact Meryl Guyer at mguyer@nd.edu 
Other senators disagreed, however, supporting a split

Senate 
ticket, where each candidate for a dorm council position
continued from page 1 would run separately. 

Address 
continued from page 1 
Specifically, he mentioned the Sustained Dialogue sessions, which have been instituted on campus by the student govern-1]1ent. 
"I want to see a whole student body that is more aware of the problems we face today," Lao said. 
In analyzing the student gov­ernment, Lao said it has taken steps to improve student life and has reached what he called a "good dialogue" with adminis­trators on several issues. 

Report 
continued from page 1 
"Notre Dame has lots of tal­ented professionals who can work with economic growth, education and service to the needy," he said. 
Storin also said that since Gutierrez has worked in his present position, community relations have been made a major priority. Currently, the department is· involved with reconstruction initiatives in the 


Election 
continued from page 1 
hours of campaign time to encourage students to vote in their favor. Brown and Fitzgerald have been going table to table through the din­ing hall and door to door through the residence halls 

Currently, Lao said, the student 
government is working with 
various University bodies to 
establish a gender resource cen­
ter, to analyze Resident 
Assistant training policies and 
procedures and to increase the 
number of student football tick­
ets that students can exchange 
for general admission tickets the 
weekend of fall break. 
"We have taken an introspec­
tive look at who we are and how 
the student government can bet­
ter serve the students," Lao ·said. 
Furthermore, Lao told the 
Senate that part of his report to 
the Board of Trustees next week 
will be aimed at establishing a 
Northeast Neighborhood of South Bend, located south of Angela Street, along with retail development on Eddy Street. Efforts also continue to present Notre Dame's plans for expan­sion and receive the opinions and concerns of the University's neighbors, such as with the proposal for the restructuring of Juniper Road and Ivy Road. 
Gutierrez also said that the hiring of Jackie Rucker, a Notre Dame alumna and native of South Bend, .as director of com­munity relations, coupled with 
promoting their platform, hop­ing people return to their com­puters to vote. 
"We are looking forward to serving the student body, should we win," Fitzgerald said. "Our main concern is to get everyone back out voting." 
All candidates are excited about the showing of student support and hope it continues through the final round of vot­programming endowment­money set aside to bring well­known speakers and other cost­ly events to campus. 
Lao said such an endowment will free up funds to generate more quality programs that will more fully enrich student life. 
Lao ended with a message to students on strengthening the Student Union. 
"It is only when Notre Dame has a student body that lives up to its full potential ... that the state of our Student Union will be stronger than ever." 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
establishment of a downtown presence with a satellite gallery of the Snite Museum and the Community relations office, has· helped the University reach out to South Bend. 
As for the future, Gutierrez sees the relationship between South Bend and Notre Dame as very promising. 
"Notre Dame can be a model for how such communities can be built," he said. 
Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrell@nd.edu 
ing. Online voting not only increased on-campus voter turnout; it also allowed for five international students and 62 off-campus students to vote. 
Students will be able to log on Prism and vote through midnight Thursday. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail407@saintmarys.edu 

LaFortune receives a lot of traffic from students who socialize and study in the space, as well as family members, alumni and prospective students. 
For these reasons, sena­tors voted to ask the admin­istration for renovations to the lounge area. However, according to an amendment added to the resolution by a 19-3 vote by senators during the meeting, the resolution also requests that the stu­dent government be allowed to play a part in the design of the renovated space. 
The Senate also received an update regarding the Council of Representatives from Keenan senator Dan Zenker, one of the Senate's representatives on the Council. Zenker reported that COR has been debating how officials on dorm coun­cils should be elected -on a combined ticket or a split ticket. He also said the coun­cil is currently trying to decide which Student Union body should have the power to approve the budget, a power previously given by the Senate to COR at its inception in the fall. 
Zenker asked for the Senate's input and affirmed that the four Senate repre­sentatives would vote in the COR meetings to represent the Senate's views on the issue. 
The issue was debated, with Senators arguing both sides. 
"The reason behind the [combined ticket] is to improve communication and efficiency," Cavanaugh sena­tor Jordan Bongiovanni said. 
"We need to get the best people for the job, and we can do that with a split tick­et," Howard senator Brin Anderson said. 
In the end, an unofficial vote was taken to see where the Senate stood on the issue. Senators voted 15 in favor of a split ticket, 2 in favor of a combined ticket, and 7 in favor of simply let­ting the dorms decide. 
On the issue of the budget, debate was short. Discussion centered around which body would be most unbiased in approving the budget, and whom the budget would most affect. 
"I really think if it's going to be the next year's budget, it should be approved by those it's going to affect," student body president Jeremy Lao said. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Senior Joe Dickmann spoke to senators regarding the possible forming of a University club for homosex­ual students. 
"What I think is missing is a forum for dialogue," said Dickmann. "The gay students .. . don't have a voice." 
Dickmann went on to say that students are interested in forming a club that would present this forum. He asked senators to go back to their dorms and see where resi­dents stood on this issue. 
"See if this is something the Senate could support. See what the feeling is in your dorms," he said. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
Looking "for a Job or Internship? 
ImmediateAwllication Deadlines forTop NotchCrmpmiesl 
·"":4}'.pl'.)' l,,·,, .'1<.\f<?dr It~ ffXJ£/0<) '-'f.! {O r.•.U{.t./!;•:;;('~,·r:~r;J,~·~r.;-J.tt,·ill i}:f-1.,_1/.;>r.'.'>t'' {',-ll' d.~ti: nw•~~r f.~:tP..'' ta!-.'i/0(! 
APPllcatio11 Deadlines 
Hewlett-Packard -lnt.emship Tuclcer A.f:an inc. -lntemstlip 
1/31 BJS :i/1 EU~; ow Y ·'<>iw*-w·.; h:-:w. ilrpli,..d Foct~et-Full lime 2/1 BIJC;, A&L SC! Procte-r & Gamble -Internship 1.'; ir!len.:if!'.O; :;bl :,: >n~! ··m~· l! ;:pp!io:::~H:,: l/:1 Mil. !!!!\ 'iC! 
Cedar fair l.P -Internship PPG -lntemship 
2/1 EtB 2/5 B'~:~ 
l! I inl>'IPJiJ-1<)1.< '*•II s rm· 10 :-:pp!iuil ina.; ON! 'f I :,:11 n:\<;m! r~=;s ;-Hi! ~d 
Cndt Suisse -Internship lehman Brothers -Internship 
J/l M~i. nn·:;, !M~ \C! ,.'/b M;!, Ill!\ 
Bank. One-Internship Peace Corps -Vclunteers 
_)/l .~~~ , iII h-fF.WX!!>.! dmp nb j3.&!. nHs. ·:;u. 1w; OW 'f I sii!:.W.nb h;""'>;; ;'J$:lJ:l~d 
Ford Motor -Internship Hl H.{.:, A.\-1 Accenture -hnernship 
2/6 A~~L. tlC ~)fl ENC Northwest;em Mutual -FIT & I~ ONlY E <'f.<PI>~e:nt~. 2/~ BUS 
[pic Systems: -F11 
2/5 ML, E:US, SC.!, ENG
General Electric. -Internship OW '{ 6 :.... iii>Eil;;. f~wP. ;:pp!io:-:d
2/·1 8!JS, ML. :XI, EN:; 

Honeywell -Internship
Allstate Insurance Company-F/T & 

.:'/li !H\ ! N(\ SCI
Internship 

fi ;.:ppl~";·.ni:< rm· 4.1 ;,kis
.//4 l~.r..:_. A&! , \CI ONLY 9 <:.tJ&~1to:, !~Vfj ~}p!,}d 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Thursday, January 29, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow
jones 
-~ 
943 
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&PSOO 


10 468.37 -141.55
' 

Same: Oowr: Composite Volume: I I 7 • 1,842,058,624 
1,208.05 -10.66'""', 
2,077.37 -38.67 6,555.97 -83.81 1,128.48 -15.57 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,852.47 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,468.10 +21.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIR!) -5.39 JDS UNIPHASE QDSU) +0.20 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.91 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.79 ENVOY COMMS GRP (ECGI) +I 1.67 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +I .66 tO-YEAR NOTE +2.64 5-YEAR NOTE +4.80 3-MONTH BILL +2.23 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($ffroy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
-0.16 2.81 +0.01 5.04 -0.54 27.7 I -0.25 3 I .38 +0.14 1.34 
+0.82 50.31 +1.08 41.95 + 1.47 32.07 +0.20 9.17 
-0.50 33.62 +4.60 415.80 +0.20 84.05 
Exchan Rates 

YEN I 06.3 EURO 0.805 I POUND 0.5516 CANADIAN$ 1.329 
IN BRIEF 
Altria posts $2.098 Q4 earnings 
NEW YOHK-Tobacco and food giant Altria Group Inc.'s fourth-quarter earnings rose 20 percent from a year ago, boosted by improved results in its domestic tobacco business and gains in its international business thanks to the weak dollar. 
Altria, the New York-based parent of the world's largest cigarette company, said Wednesday that it earned $2.09 billion, or $1.02 a share, for the October-December quarter. compared with $1.77 billion, or 85 cents a share, in the same period a year ago. 
Hevenues for the fourth quarter increased 10 percent to $20.7 billion for the maker or top-selling Marlboro cigarettes. 
High energy prices boost Conoco 
HOUSTON --lligher oil and natural gas prices helped ConocoPhillips, the nation's third-largest oil company, swing to a $1.02 bil­lion profit in the fourth quarter. 
Net income of $1.48 per share during the final three months of 2003 compared with a net loss of 63 cents per share, or $428 million, in the same period of 2002, when the compa­ny reported merger-related charges of $1.16 billion. 
Hevenues for the quarter were $26 billion, compared with $23.5 billion a year ago. Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $985 million, or $1.43 per share. 
FCC sued over network costs 
WASHINGTON The Federal Communications Commission was back in court Wednesday with challengers who say its rules for telephone and Internet services unfairly restrict competition and give states too much regulatory power. 
The government requires regional phone companies to lease portions of their local net­works to competitors at wholesale rates. The companies -BellSouth Corp., SBC Communications, Verizon Communications and Qwest Communications -say that allows others to use their networks at artificially low prices. Meanwhile, competitors are challeng­ing rules that allow the regional companies to keep their high-speed fiber optic lines off lim­its to Internet rivals. 

THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 
EQUITY MARKETS 

Stocks tank on Fed rate news 
Committee leaves rates unchangt:d, expects 'considerable period' of low interest 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Stocks fell sharply Wednesday as the Federal Reserve, shifting its stance on interest rates, signaled that an increase is coming. The Dow Jones industrials tumbled more than 140 points. 
After a two-day meeting, the Fed's Open Market Committee left rates unchanged, maintaining a 45-year low. But in a state­ment, the central bank dropped its previous word­ing that rates would be maintained for a "consider­able period." Instead, the Fed said, "with inflation quite low ... the committee believes that it can be patient in removing its poli­cy accommodation." 
"If you look through all the comments, they contin­ue to describe an improving economy," said Jack Caffrey, vice president and equity strategist at J.P. Morgan Private Bank. "In the intermediate and longer term, this is constructive for equity markets, but short term, I think equity investors are likely to use this as another reason to lock in some of their prof­its." 
The Dow Jones industrial average finished down 141.55, or 1.3 percent, at 10,468.37, erasing nearly all its gains since the begin­ning of the year. 
Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was down 15.57, or 1.4 percent, at 1 ,128.48, and the Nasdaq composite index was down 38.67, or 1.8 percent, at 2,077.37. 
"The Fed is slowly preparing investors for an increase in rates, but the important thing to remem­ber is that there continues to be a certain amount of slack in the economy, so this is still several months 


Geny Merrill Lynch trader John Cassidy and a colleague work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday. Stocks fell broadly after the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee left rates unchanged, citing low Inflation. 
away," said Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at Spencer Clarke LLC. 
With a market fresh off of two months of major gains, Wall Street is primed for at least a pause, if not a pull­back, Sheldon said. "It'll be at least a couple of weeks, though, to see if this will mark a selloff or not," he added. 
Stocks were higher earli­er despite a Commerce Department report that said orders for durable goods were flat in December, raising ques­tions about the strength of the recovery in the manu­facturing sector. Analysts had been expecting a 2 per­cent increase in orders. 
Time Warner posted a profit after a loss a year ago from write-downs on its America Online unit, but the company missed ana­lyst estimates by 1 cent per share. Shares fell 85 cents to $17.96. 
Sony's earnings fell 26 percent from a year ago as the entertainment and technology giant restruc­tures its global operations, but the company gave a strong outlook for its music and consumer technology divisions. Investors responded by sending the stock 35 cents lower to $39.95. 
Tenet Healthcare Corp. plummeted $2.97, or 18 percent, to $13.16 as the company announced it would sell one-third of its hospitals. Merrill Lynch downgraded the stock from "neutral" to "sell." 
Procter & Gamble beat estimates by a penny on 22 percent earnings growth, but shares fell 56 cents to $98.62 on a disappointing first-quarter outlook. 
Amazon.com fell $3.78 to $51.96 after the company reported quarterly and year-end profits after Tuesday's close. The online retailer met analyst expec­tations and announced a debt buyback program. 
New York Stock Exchange specialist firm LaBranche & Co., under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE for skimming profits from the shares it manages on the floor of the Big Board, posted a profit of 7 cents per share before one-time charges, beating analyst estimates by a penny. Shares were down 43 cents at $10.26. 
Declining issues outnum­bered advancers by a 3-to­1 margin on the NYSE. Consolidated volume came to 2.41 billion shares, com­pared with 2.18 billion shares on Tuesday. 
, ENERGY 

Judge orders Exxon to pay $6.75B 
Federal court awards p!Jnitive damages in 1989 Valdez spill; company to appeal 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska -A federal judge on Wednesday ordered Exxon Mobil Corp. to pay about $6.75 bil­lion to thousands of Alaskans affect­ed by the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill. 
The ruling is latest of several dam­age awards in the case over the past decade -the result of successful appeals in federal court by Exxon. The company plans to appeal again. 
Wednesday's ruling by U.S. District Judge Russel Holland ordered the Irving, Texas-based company to pay $4.5 billion in punitive damages and about $2.25 billion in interest. 

The money is to go to 32,000 fish­ermen, Alaska Natives, landowners, small businesses and cities affected by the 11 million-gallon spill in Prince William Sound. 
"We have now closed the trial court doors for the last time in this litigation after 15 years," said David Oesting, lead attorney for those who sued. "We're definitely on track to the end of the entire dispute." 
The judge had been ordered by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals court to reconsider the damages awarded in an earlier ruling in light of a U.S. Supreme Court decision last year about punitive damages. 
"This ruling flies in the face of the guidelines set by the appeals court," company spokesman Tom Cirigliano said. 
He said the 9th Circuit has twice vacated Holland's decision in the case. 
Holland reduced the Exxon puni­tive damages award to $4 billion a year ago after a three-judge panel of the 9th Circuit sent the original $5 billion verdict back, saying it was excessive. 
Attorneys from both sides argued that the Supreme Court case sup­ported their damages claims. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 29, 2004 
It's nat the 111 ,r Bowl 


w·itib.O"u·t·.·.·lbcar···ro. 

PICK UP SPICIIlS Call ahead and.pick up at~b~rrostartimg.(ltSpm S.a.per Bowl Sunday · Supet,SiZi'li.~t N¥. Stvtt Gi~ese 56 99 
.. ·supe~~i~~*~:~~J4~.:~~ie~efl,iet6~ s1.49 
···E·:: ·· :_:...•···1•··1··.·:· ···E·······n·..·.::_·:··y·•·•·. ··• •p·······E·::··u:i:_·.·::••1'1·· ··
.. ...... .·····t·s·.
I 

Super Size 18.. NY Style Cheese $8.99 Toppings l.OO each 20 Wings $9.99 
10 wings with PiZza order $4.99 3 Super Size l8n NY Cheese Pizzas $19.99 

Thursday, January 29, 2004 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
Julio Iglesias still passionate 
Associated Press 
SUHFSIIJE. Fl.-At 60, Julio Iglesias is still pining for love. 
Passion, emotion, a smooth voice and sex-symbol status have made Iglesias the best­selling Latin male artist ever. But he says it's his fans' love that drove him to record a new album. 
"When you get to the 35-year mark in your career, you make albums for your fans to love you more, so they don't forget about you," Iglesias told The Associated Press during an interview at his waterfront mansion on an island north of Miami Beach. 
The father of seven ­including singing sons Enrique and Julio Jr. -is on a world tour for his album "Divorcio," his first since "Noche de Cuatro Lunas" in 2001. 
The title may seem strange for a lover, but the album's songs -Iglesias' trademark ballads plus lively cumbia and Caribbean rhythms -refer to divorce from worldly posses­sions, old acquaintances and bad memories. 
"Divorcio" sold 200,000 copies in Spain the day it was released, adding to Iglesias' career total of more than 250 million albums sold. And the master of crossover plans to record songs from the album in French, Italian and English, as he has done previously to expand his international appeal. 
Alexandra Lioutikoff. senior vice-president of Latin American membership for The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, said the worldwide market for Iglesias is "guaran­teed." 
"lie is like the flag for us," Lioutikoff said. "You have an artist whose first language is Spanish, but he's good and he reaches the people, and it doesn't matter in which lan­guage he's singing." 
Iglesias' popularity peaked in the 1980s with the album "Julio" and the hit duet with Willie Nelson, "To All the Girls I've Loved Before." 
Iglesias' ability to sing in English set him apart, opening doors for him among American listeners, Lioutikoff said. 
"In the American market, he's been taken seriously since the beginning," she said. 
Iglesias is supremely confi­dent when talking about his 35-year career. He is so certain of his appeal that he canceled a tour of Asia just to complete his U.S. promotional tour­knowing the late change won't affect his popularity there. 
''I'm the Latin artist who has been the most successful in history at representing the Latin culture. That's a title that I've earned after 35 years. The stylings of my words are immodest, but it's the truth. 
"I have spread 'Latinism' from Finland to China ... and I never want to lose that privi­lege." 
But reaching the heights of Latin music wasn't always on Iglesias' mind. 
As a young man, not only did he get a law degree, but he also pursued a dream of play­ing soccer for Real Madrid as a goalkeeper. However, his short­lived futbol career ended when a serious car accident left him unable to walk for two years. 
During his recovery, Iglesias wrote poems and set them to song, and the erstwhile soccer player who was rejected by the chorus in his Madrid high school fell in love with music. 
He landed his first recording contract and hit No. 1 in Spain for the first time in 1968. Since then, he has played in front of 100,000 people in Santiago, Chile; performed songs with Diana Ross, Paul Anka and Sting; won a Grammy; and received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. 
"He came to my house and we recorded together and I played the guitar," Sting said in an interview. "He's an old style romantic crooner and he does it brilliantly." 
Iglesias finds it rewarding to have stuck around this long. He leans back in his chair, runs his fingers through his curious­ly jet-black hair and gets metaphorical about his career after a long day of interviews, evident by the empty wine bot­tle and barren cheese plate in front of him. 
"When the painting is hang­ing on your wall for a long time, you don't notice it. You get tired of it, even if it's a Picasso. When the next gener­ation inherits the painting, they sell it. I don't want to be sold." 
He's concerned about how he looks, asking, "You don't find me too bald, do you? Old, and bald, and with a belly?" He works out regularly and keeps trim, though his handlers did­n't allow photographers at the interview and the home was dimly lit on an overcast day. 
But Iglesias, ever the symbol of composure, nearly lost his wits in December on a Mexican television program. 
Lip-syncing "El Bacalao," Iglesias suddenly felt a cramp inching his way up his calf and thigh. He couldn't move his leg, and one pause would inform the world he was not really singing. 

ENJOY WORKING WITH ALABGE BUDGOil ENJOY RAISING AlOT OF MONEY;» WANT TO WORK ON AMAJOR CONCERTil 
o\'\1 lODA.V to tor one ofTHE SHOIN's 1\~olt'l positions ~nd oalnvaluabt 
exu r1encerr ·e 



Judge: R. Kelly can't visit Michael Jackson 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-R. Kelly won't be mingling with Michael Jackson during next month's Grammy festivities: A judge has ordered the R&B star, who is awaiting trial on child pornography charges, to stay away from the King of Pop, himself facing child molestation charges. when Kelly attends the awards. 
The Chicago-based Kelly has produced two songs for Jackson: the 1995 hit "You Are Not Alone" and last fall's "One More Chance." Kelly is nominated for two Grammys at the Feb. 8 cere­mony and had to get a judge's permission to attend the Los Angeles event; Jackson is not up for any awards and there are no indications that he even plans to attend the ceremony. 
Prosecutors and Kelly's lawyers said they never raised the issue of a meeting between Jackson and Kelly during a hear­ing this week about Kelly's trav­el. Cook County Circuit Judge Vmcent Gaughan made the edict on his own, they said. The judge was at a funeral Wednesday and could not be reached for com­ment. 
Kelly lawyer Edward Genson said Monday's ruling, first reported by the Chicago Sun­Times on Tuesday, was not a problem. 
"What's the dill'erence if some­one makes an order not to sec someone he didn't want to see in the first place?'' Genson asked. 
Kelly, already a Grammy win­ner, is nominated for best con­temporary R&B album l'or his double-platinum album "Chocolate Factory" and best male H&B performance. 
Kelly was arrested in June 2002 after a videotape surfaced that allegedly showed him hav­ing sex with an underage girl. He has denied the charges alleged in a 21-count indictment. 
Jackson has pleaded innocent to seven counts of performing lewd or lascivious acts on a child under 14 and two counts of administering an intoxicating agent, reportedly wine. He .was arrested in November. 
Kelly, who remains free on bond, has received Gaughan's permission to travel before. lie has to be back in Chicago from his latest trip on Feb. 18. 
Jam.es Brown arrested, accused of pushing wife 
pushed his wife to the floor dur­
Associated Press 
ing an argument, authorities 
AIKEN, SC -Soul singer said. James Brown was arrested Brown, 70, was charged with Wednesday after he allegedly criminal domestic violence and 



was to remain jailed until a bond hearing Thursday morn­
PANAMA CllY BEACH, FL 
ing, Aiken County sheriff's
++sPRING BREAK++ 

spokesman Lt. Michael Frank Book early and save~~! 
said. Suites up to 12. people, 3 
Investigators say Brown shoved his wife during an argu­
pools, huge beachfront hot­
ment in a bedroom at the cou­
tub, lazy river ride, water 
ple's home in Beech Island, 70 
slide, jet skis, parasail. 

miles southwest of Columbia. 
Sandpiper-Beacon Beach 
Tomi Hac Brown. 33, had scratches and bruises to her right arm and hip and was 
Resort 
800-488-8828 

taken to a hospital, Frank said. 
www.sa ndpi perbeacon .com 

Unplanned Pregnancy'? Don't go it alone. 
H)~ou or .ro11u1m~e you love 7wed..~ help or information, plea.se calL 
Confidential Support & Assistance . Available at N(Jtre Da1ne: 
:> ~f~ Jtart t;en1~, :Q~S..F~1 Stud~~ttt 1\ffai,.~~ 1.·7407 
> SL M~f\' h1<i~t'ia.d.1dde, C.SC,, S.to4:~~~t .~\(f~jn, l-7S19 
> Sylvi;~ f.>ill(l~•. C~w.pw; Mua~~lry. l-?H13 
> J~ho. nmuu., C;anlFt~~ Mi.ui:stry, 1-71-63 
> flt, s~~n Slti~-~,i{~;-d~i:.h. (~1JUU~Iing: (~~nl.t'r, l-7J36 
» Arm R Tin:.mtt:StJrl, Ht'-il.ldt &!:t~i~~~., 1-8186 
South Bend Conununity Resources: 
.)-W(m:tOt'~ C1w Center ZJ4-(l36J :> C:.td.R~liio:: C.btl'nl;tr:s: .234-3111 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, January 29, 2004 
Scandal in 'Catholic' colleges 
MANAGING EDITOR 
s~otr. B{odfu~hm 
ASsT. MANActNc Eol'roa Sheila Flynn 
At least 40 "Catholic" colleges, includ­ing Notre Dame for the third time, will sponsor or host public performances of the Vagina Monologues this term. My concern here is solely with the judgment exhibited by our leaders in allow­

Charles E. Rice
ing this play again at Notre Dame. 
Right or
These com­
Wrong?
ments, therefore, raise no issues relating to the students involved in the play. 
One object of the play is to desensitize people to the naming of female sex organs in order to discourage violence against women. The performers deliver monologues focusing on, and personify­ing, their sex organs. These contribu­tions to literature include a description of a group masturbation in a "vagina work­shop" run by "a woman who believes in vaginas." 
It describes how the participants mas­turbated with the aid of hand mirrors. Other monologists recount conversations with their vaginas. Another talks to her vulva. Others describe lesbian sexual acts. And so on, with abundant descrip­tion. Apart from this repudiation of mod­esty and reserve, the personification of a body part destroys the integrity of the person and invites the objectilication of women which can generate the violence the play purports to oppose. 
These and other aspects of the play ought to preclude its performance at Notre Dame. The most compelling rea­son, however, for opposing that perform­ance arises from the sex abuse scandal in the Church. 

The most highly publicized monologue describes the lesbian seduction of a 16­year-old by an adult as a "salvation" for the victim. 
In The Little Coochi Snorcher That Could, "a Southern woman of color" describes, among other childhood sexual memories, her encounters at age 16 with a "gorgeous 24-year-old woman. The child's mother agrees to the woman's request that the girl spend the night with her. (I omit explicit details.) 
'Tm scared, but I really can't wait. Her apartment's fantastic ... the beads, the fluffy pillows, the mood lights ... She makes a vodka for herself and then ... the pretty lady makes me a drink ... The alcohol has gone to my head and I'm loose and ready ... as she gently and slowly lays me out on the bed ... Then she does everything to me ... that I always thought was nasty before, and wow, I'm so hot, so wild ... I get crazy wild ... 
"Afterward the gorgeous lady teaches me ... all the different ways to give myself pleasure. She's very thorough. She tells me to always know how to give myself pleasure so I'll never need to rely on a man. In the morning I am worried ... because I'm so in love with her. She laughs, but I never see her again. I real­ized later she was my surprising, unex­pected, politically incorrect salvation. She transformed my sorry-ass coochi snorcher and raised it up into a kind of heaven." Eve Ensler, The Vagina Monologues (2001), 77-82. 
On Jan. 6, the Catholic bishops released their report on the efforts of the dioceses to correct the sex abuse prob­lem. The vast majority of cases involved the exploitation by priests of teenage boys in homosexual relations with vary­ing degrees of consent. The monologue recounting the seduction of a trusting 16 year-old girl by a 24-year-old woman she admires is the precise counterpart of the exploitation of male teenagers by priests that has ruined lives and rocked the Church. 
Sexual exploitation of a teenager by an adult is despicable, whether the partici­pants are both male, both female or mixed. No one has a moral right to pres­ent such an exploitation as a benefit to the victim. This is a very serious matter. 
In light of the ongoing scandal in the Church, it is totally inexcusable for any "Catholic" institution, and especially the University of Our Lady, to allow itself to be used as a public forum for a portrayal of the sexual exploitation of a teenager by an adult as a "salvation" for the vic­tim. 
Regrettably, the Notre Dame President and Provost have responded to com­
. plaints about this with academic banali­ties reflecting a politically correct paraly­sis of judgment. I hope that our leaders will reconsider this failure of judgment and will cancel this third performance. If not, all the responsible administrators, from the top down, should resign their administrative positions. If they do not resign, they should be removed. Baseball has it right: Three strikes and you're out. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

U-WIRE 


Who should pay the price? 
The Jan. 26 U.S. District Court decision to dismiss a suit for reparations to be paid by companies formerly employing the use of slavery properly upholds the principles of accountabil­ity that are inherent in the American system. 
Under no previous circumstances have Americans been held accountable for crimes· committed by ancestors. We cannot expect today's generation to repair damages inflicted by people six generations past. 
A man sentenced to 20 years in Staff Editorial prison cannot serve 10 and pass the rest to his children. Such a course of action negates personal responsibili­ty. Should a court actually decide to Virginia Tech award plaintiff reparations for ances­tral crimes, the courts will become inundated with similar suits. The precedent could easily allow descendants of individuals who suffered social or commercial injustices to easily win such decisions. 
For example, we conceivably could see suits against German companies such as Volkswagen and Siemens, both involved in German wartime activities, by Jews in search of reparation for crimes committed during World War II. 
Furthermore, it stands to reason that any company over 150 years old is vulnerable to suit, as the nature of econom­ics left such companies to benefit from the institution of slav­ery. 
Such a precedent is simply preposterous. 
More relevantly, this particular suit's attempt to hold a publicly owned company, RJ Reynolds, responsible would have punished a group of stockholders potentially unrelated to company ownership prior to 1863. 
The principles this suit pursued defied commonly accepted norms of personal responsibility, and would wrongly hold men and women with no control of their past responsible. 
Even if the principle agreed with social norms, the result would be impossible to administer. More money would be lost in administration than would be awarded to the plain­tiffs. 
Individuals seeking reparation would do better to pursue the advantages and opportunities afforded by today's increasingly tolerant society. 
The district court did right to dismiss this case, despite not firmly closing the door. As such, ignoring the case was irre­sponsible; the issues demand firm judicial closure in order to protect Americans from a frivolous suit concerning their ancestor's admittedly heinous acts. 
This article originally appeared on Jan. 27 on The Collegiate Times, the daily publication at Virginia Tech. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
News 

OBSERVER POLL

Andrew Thagard 
Mike Chambliss 
Matt Bramantl .. Viewpoint Should Saint Mary's continue to host the Lauren Galgano 
Keenan Revue? 
.. Ulumrator · Katie KD.oa··' 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobscrver.com. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'Today. if you are not confused, you are just not thinking clearly. , 
U. Peter author 



THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 29, 2004 page 11 
State of the Arts 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

McBrien must face his past 
Some blame the Sixties and sistent of all these cliches is a Andy Warhol, but art had lost its Cliffs Notes Freudianism, which way long before the laconic albi­has turned art criticism into a no appeared on the scene, play­parlor game of Spot the Phallus ing the artistic-autistic savant. (a sort of "Where's Waldo?" for 
Even by the 1920s, as  grown-ups with gradu­ 
Orwell wrote in his essay on Salvador  Peter Wicks  ate degrees). The most celebrated  
Dali. things had  contemporary British  
reached the point at which "If you threw dead donkeys at peo­ Englishman Abroad  artist is Damian Hirst, whose oeuvre includes most notoriously "Away  
ple, they threw money  From the Flock", which  
back."  is a lamb preserved in  

(It is worth remembering that formaldehyde. Other works in such transactions it is not include a bisected pig in those who throw the donkeys, formaldehyde and a dead shark but those who throw the money in a tank of formaldehyde. The whose behavior requires an latter is called "The Physical explanation.) Impossibility of Death in 
Leaving aside the prehistory the Mind of Something (this is, after all, a column and Living" (a bit of a leap not a treatise), the problem to be sure, but it began when art started to be beats "Untitled"). If essentially concerned with ideas any of you are having and only accidentally-if at all trouble deciding what -with the mastery of a particu­to buy Damian for lar skill such as painting, sculp­Christmas, I'll give you ture, and so on. As a conse­a clue: It starts with an quence, the appreciation of art "F." gave way to its interpretation, Hirst's artistic input into these and the art critic became a sort works did not involve any techni­of cryptographer, decoding the cal accomplishment whatsoever. artist's message for a helpless I don't know whether he or public. someone else actually put the 
This wouldn't have been nearly sheep in formaldehyde and pre­so bad if the ideas had them­pared the display case, and it selves been more interesting, but doesn't matter. His achievement in reality they were just whatev­was purely conceptual; he was er pseudo-intellectual cliches the one who came up with the happened to be in fashion idea of presenting a pickled amongst those anointed to sheep as a work of art, and he choose which artistic movements was the one who came up with represented the avant-garde. the title. The most conspicuous and per-Not all, not even most. modern art is purely conceptual in this limits of this principle was way. Many artists still paint and Duchamp's "Fountain", a urinal sculpt, and some of them do so which he had neither made nor magnificently, but now these are modified. Duchamp's intent was just options. Long after everyone to attack the whole institution of has forgotten the distinctions art, the whole idea of dividing between Dadaism and the world into art and non-art, Surrealism, Cubism and Abstract but the actual effect of his work Expressionism, that is how the was that such attacks became twentieth century will be institutionalized themselves. remembered in the history of art; Now that creativity can be it was the century when skill purely something that happens became optional. inside the artist's head, art itself 
When an artist's creative work has become secondary to being takes place purely an artist. The fash­ionable
inthe :;;;;;~~;;~~----------­
head image it becomes of the artist is impossible to distinguish an of one who challenges all bour­artistic idea from any other idea geois norms, who transgresses in in any principled way. The result the name of creativity any and is that the world of fine art now all boundaries that society puts operates according to a principle up. The true artist, we are sup­rather like the policy of the posed to believe, is the one who United States government cannot see a line without cross­towards Cuban refugees. If only ing it. you can get your work into the If all that sounds difficult, there gallery, then it's art. are over 30 dedicated art col­
The earliest object to test the leges in the United States where 
you can learn to transgress bour­geois norms under expert super­vision, provided, of course, that you can afford to pay over $30,000 a year for the privilege. 
But making transgression your goal makes no more sense than devoting your life to annoying your parents. Try as I might. I just can't bring myself to be out­raged by Andres Serrano's "Piss Christ", the photograph of a cru­cifiX in a jar of urine which was the subject of so much controver­sy in the 90's. 
I don't think it's shocking; I think-given current assump­tions about the nature and pur­
pose of art-it's inevitable. 
rdon't think it's blas­
phemous, either. As 
W.ll. Auden said, one can only blaspheme if one believes, and I don't think that it's God's anger that 
Serrano is trying to provoke. Putting a cru­cifiX in urine is just a cal­culated way for Serrano to 

get his artistic baptism, by full immersion in public opprobrium. Frankly, I think blasphemy is preferable to that sort of cyni­cism. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate stu­dent in philosophy. /lis column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
In the Jan. 27 Observer article "Campus, seminary react to priest scandal," Fr. Richard McBrien asserts that the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops' audit of its program for preventing sexual abuse by priests "could have been prevented if the Church has responded properly when allegations began coming to light over 25 years ago." According to McBrien, "some ... dioceses were not as forthcoming -and still are not-as they should be." 
McBrien insists that "the officials of the Church need to allow every rele­vant question to be placed on the table and discussed. Nothing can be ruled out of bounds." Nothing except the sexual misconduct committed by McBrien's good friend and theological soulmate James Burtchaell, and the con­cealment of that behavior by his other friend Daniel Jenky. 
Like Martin Luther, McBrien is a virulent anti-papist who loathes everything Homan Catholic from the cloth to virtual­ly all dogma. The incontrovertible evidence shows he also is a hyp­ocrite. 
McBrien indicts the Church and its leaders for not responding properly to the sexual abuse issue 25 years ago. That seems like an apt time to start. 
McBrien was head of Notre Dame's Theology Department in 1989-90 when he was advised that Fr. James Burtchaell sexually abused Notre Dame students during the 1970s and 1980s. Sec Observer, Vol. XXIV No. 64, p. 4 (Dec. 3, 1991). Burtchaell was a member of the Theology Department; McBrien was his boss. 
Given his current sanctimonious condemnation of the Church regarding clergy sexual abuse, one might assume McBrien, to use his words, "responded prop­erly" when Burtchaell's sexual misconduct was brought to his attention. To the contrary, McBrien concealed Burtchaell's conduct; he did not discipline him or remove him froni contact with students. In short, McBrien continued to put Notre Dame stu­
dents at risk of a known sexual predator. Although McBrien had knowledge of Burtchaell's crimes as early as 1989, Burtchaell's sexual abuse of Notre Dame students was not made public until late 1991. When asked about Burtchaell's serial sexual abuse of students after concealing knowl­
edge thereof for more than two years, McBrien refused to "com­ment on the matter." See 
National Catholic Reporter (Dec. 6, 1991). 
Remarkably, McBrien even refused to comment on Burtchaell's resignation. See Observer (Dec. 3, 1991). 
McBrien's silence simply can­not be reconciled with his demand that "every relevant question" be asked and that "(n]othing can be ruled out of bounds." Those questions include what McBrien knew and when he knew it, and why he failed to act when Burtchaell's sexual abuse of students was disclosed to him. 
Similar questions relate to Fr. Daniel Jenky's knowledge of Burtchaell's sexual abuse of Notre Dame students. At the time Burtchaell was preying on young boys, Jenky was the rector of Dillon Hall, where Burtchaell resided and where he committed his sins. There is compelling evidence that Jenky was aware of Burtchaell's conduct. Currently, Jenky is the Bishop of Peoria, Ill. 
In a recent interview with the Denver Post, McBrien asserted that the U. S. Conference of Catholic Bishops' Report failed to provide for the "punishment of bishops who knowingly moved abu­sive priests from parish to parish." Denver Post (June 9, 2002). Indignant, McBrien demanded "[tlhat oversight ... be remedied." 
Revealing his "true" Christian virtues, McBrien shrieked that "[s)everal bishops arc going to have to walk the plank. There will be no peace in the Catholic Church until some bishops pay the price." According to judge, jury and executioner McBrien, the "first down the plank should be ... Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston and Cardinal Edward Egan of New York-but there's room for several others." 
If McBrien had any decency or intellectual honesty, he would be fixing the blindfold for his good friend Bishop Jenky and lighting his last cigarette. McBrien's hypocritical refusal to respond to inquiries about his knowledge of Burtchaell's crimes is as morally bankrupt as his failure to call for the resig­nation of his good friend Jenky. 
Until McBrien applies the standards he demands of the Church to his friends and himself. he lacks moral standing to speak on this issue. His words are the empty rhetoric of an over-zealous apostate. Not coin­cidentally, McBrien is a bully who censors any inquiry into how his own "theological" opinions and thoughts have contributed to the allegedly high inci­dence of sexual abuse by Catholic clergy. 
Unfortunately for McBrien. he has been outed by Michael Rose in "Goodbye, Good Men," which links abuse by Catholic priests to the pabulum pawned off as "theology" by McBrien and his ilk. 
Edward B. Fitzpatrick alumni 
'80 BBA, '83 JD 
Jan. 27 


THE OBSER\'ER 



CENE
page 12 
Thursday, January 29, 2004 
INTERVIEW 
15 minutes with Dan from Hoobastank 
Dan Estrin plays guitar for the band Hoobastank. Their self-titled major label debut has 
sold more than one million copies. 
Hoobastank." We didn't have a 

By BRIAN FOY 
record deal, and he wanted my

Scene Music Critic 
autograph. I thought that was 

weird because we weren't a real Are you guys ever going to explain band, but if kids are coming up the name Hoobastank? to me, that's the greatest feeling 
Yeah, we're never going to. in the world. Do you just like the ambiguity of it? You guys have this stage pres­
No, we get asked that question a mil­ence ... what do you attribute lion times. You would think by know that to? people would know we're not going to I don't know ... I feel that it's give them a straight answer. We're not real. If I'm in a bad mood, you getting sick of dancing around it and will able to tell-that's real. If [we're not going to] say: Ok, here is I'm in a bad mood, then I'm not the right answer. jumping around on stage. I'm What went on between the time you sorry I'm not bringing my A formed in 1994 and the time you game and I'm not giving it a signed with Island/Def Jam in 2000? 100%. But I just feel like every­
We did a lot of self-promotion. Doug thing we do is real. When I'm [the lead singer] and I were constantly jumping around and everyone is at Kinkos making fliers. In '94, we jumping around and having a were at Kinkos making the artwork, great time, we're all loving what and then I would go to the clubs and we are doing. That's all I can try to book the shows. We would just really do on stage. play shows and try to sell merchandise For an up-and-coming band, and tapes and finally stepped it up you have the hardest yet with COs. Every year, dude, that's all catchiest riffs. How do you we were doing. We had a huge mailing come up with your music? Although Hoobastank's major-label debut sold over a million copies, the band's gui­list, and it sucks -any time we would I actually sit down in front of a tarist does not believe that this success can be mirrored due to the economy.
have a show, we would all have to get recording system on my comput­together, stamping all these fliers and er at home. Either that or I'll be putting people's names on it. It was a playing an acoustic guitar and come Fishbone, by Faith No More, Alice in the pressure that we put on ourselves. pain in the ass. up with ideas and record it on my Chains, Pearl Jam and Rage Against We sold over a million records on the Do you remember when you had computer. Then I just program drum the Machine. last one, and everyone is expecting for caught a break? beats over it and play the bass over it. So what are you listening to now? this one to do better. Let's be realistic 
We did the stupid thing of always Basically, I write the entire thing and I really listen to old stuff, like I just -albums don't sell anymore, and if saying: "When we get a record deal record it myself before I show any­mentioned. I don't listen to too much we sell 500,000 records on this album, ... , " "When we tour ... " No band body. new music. Before I go onstage, if I'm we're going to be lucky. Hopefully we should ever do that 'cause you should­Who arc your influences on guitar? going to listen to music, I listen to old will do better, but whatever we can do n't expect for it to happen 'cause I'm not really influenced by many [stuff] that I grew up with. The other is great. chances are it's not. We had it blow up guitar players; I'm more influenced by day, before I went onstage, I listened What can we expect from the new in our face one time because we bands and songs. The only guitar play­to Lionel Richie and some Bee Gees. album The Reason? 
always thought we were going to get a er that I was ever influenced by was You get pumped up to the Bee Gees? It's not too far off from the last record deal. We were turned down by John Frusciante. I don't get pumped up; I just listen to record. It's just a little bit more a ... load of record companies, and Do you hear a song, then write a few the stuff I grew up listening to, and I mature and evolved. I think that the then years later we got picked up. I songs, or is there a band that gets will always remember that. heavy songs on this album are a little remember there was this time when I you going to write? The last album was your "major label heavier, and the slower, mellower was at a gas station. I wasn't working Now, I don't know, but back in the debut." Did you feel any pressure songs are a little slower and more at a gas station, but I was at a gas sta­day, when I was pretty easily influ­trying to avoid the sophomore mellow than the last album. tion and some kid came up to me and enced by things, I was influenced by slump? · 
said, "You're the guitarist from the Red Hot Chili Peppers, by I felt a little bit of pressure, but only. Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 



~-------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Thursday, January 29, 2004 
Page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
-
The autonomous Ani goes it alone 
By JULIE BENDER 
Scene Music Critic 
Sixteen albums since 1990, and Ani DiFranco is still singing out on the fringes of pop culture. Unafraid of risks, this fiercely independent singer/song­writer refuses to follow the mainstream, and instead has made a name for her­self as a folkie feminist narrating with 

On her latest release, Ani DiFranco utilizes melodies and four spoken­acoustic songs and spoken word pieces. word poems. 

The first song on the 

Educated 
a I bum, "Swim," is 


Guess
host to a jaunty gui­tar echoing 

Ani DiFranco
DiFranco's I i g h t , slightly off­

Righteous Babe k i I t e r vocals. 
Records Breaking free from a drowning relation­ship is the 

theme of this song; DiFranco sings, "I let you sur­round me I I let you drown me I out with your din I and then I learned how to swim." Self-assured emotion closes the song with DiFranco's confident discov­ery: "I found I missed no one I just lis­tening to the swishing of distant cars." 
Lyrics have always been DiFranco's forte, and the muted guitar of the title song, "Educated Guess," gives her words the focus they deserve. "I dream in skin scented sentences I of a stronger faster fiercer you I and to each noun, verb and predicate I I dedicate a vivid hue," DiFranco sings, challenging her audience to "take an educated guess" about her. 
In her spoken word piece, "Grand Canyon," DiFranco's distinct enuncia­tion delivers a biting critique of the state of women's rights in America. "People," she says, "we are standing at ground zero I .of the feminist revolution I yeah. it was an inside job I stoic and sly I one we're supposed to forget I and downplay and deny." 
The sparse, acoustic sound of this album may give the impression that it is an easy listen. Educated Guess, howev­er, is far from melodic background.. music. Instead, DiFranco requires her audience to listen actively as she weaves her messages around her strumming and string picking. At times, such music can become a chore. but for fans in the mood for deep introspection and grating social critiques, Educated Guess is a good listening option. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 


J-Live tears up the underground rap scene 
By KENYATTA STORIN 
Scene Music Critic 
J-Uve is one of those emcees that only underground hip-hop heads tend to know about, but he deserves to be heard by all hip-hop fans. He can tell a tale as well as Slick Hick, is as innovative as Outkast and as confident as Jay-Z. lie is a rapper that will make you think, but without being too preachy or serious. Always Will Be may be short at eight tracks, but it is a fine edition to .!-Live's small but excellent music cata­logue. 
The New York underground rap scene first noticed J-Uvn in 1995, when he came brutal honesty about politics, love and self-identity. 
Autonomy has been a key theme for DiFranco, who in 1990 started her own record label, Righteous Babe Hecords, in a formerly dilapidated church in downtown Buffalo, N. Y. Keeping with her theme of independence, DiFranco's latest album, Educated Guess, is a solo work centered on the subjects of rela­tionships ending and self-discovery. In 
contrast to her recent albums, which have included funky beats and multi-instrument layers, Educated Guess is a paired-down, back-to­roots romp with DiFranco and her acoustic guitar. 
Paired-down by no means, however, implies a low quality album. As with all of her albums, DiFranco pours her heart and soul into her words and the intricate guitar on her songs. This album cer­tainly is all "Ani;" she is the sole artist behind all of the music, lyrics, record­ing and mixing. Made from 8-track, reel-to-reel equipment, the album has a vintage, homemade sound complete with back­ground noises, loose 
out with his first single, "Bragging Rights." Soon after, he prepared to come out with his full-length debut, The Best Part, with the backing of well-known producers Prince Paul, DJ Premier and Pete Rock. Unfortunately, due to illegal bootlegging, label shuffiing and some other problems, the album was delayed for several years. 
During this hiatus, J-Live made occasion­al cameo appearances on other albums, but spent most of his time working as an eighth grade teacher-not exactly the day job you would normally expect from an aspiring rap artist. The Best Part finally made its official release in 2001. but despite turning the heads of the New York underground, it did not garner much 
attention outside of the city. It would not be until his follow-up, All of the Above, that J-Live would finally be recognized by critics nationwide and acquire the respect he now holds today. 
Always Will Be is part of a two-part EP set with its counterpart. Always Has Been, a set of older tracks that J-Live created from 1995 to 1997. Unlike his previous work, J-Live not only raps but produces the entire album. Although it is regrettable that the two EPs are sold separately since they are so short, vir­tually every track on Always Will Be is a high­light. The average hip-hop album may be more than twice as long, but Always Will Be still has more quali-

Always Will Be J-Live 
Fatbeats Records 

ty material than the filler-infested garbage that often gets released these days. 
There are so many classic lines on the album that it is impossible to list them all. Sometimes he is clever, like on the upbeat opening track "Always Will Be," where he says: "Cut off my legs, you still have to face the rest of me I Tenacious, like the Terminator in The Matrix." Other times creative, like this tongue-twisting verse on the energetic "Add-A-Cipher:" "50 people in a 5 man elevator I freefalling from the fifth-thousand floor I 500 degrees Fahrenheit to a 5 minute song I Feeling like you can't go wrong." And he will even throw out a deep metaphor here and there, like on the surreal "9000 Miles:" "My mind speaks mathematics I Sometimes I feel English is a poor translation of my heart's palpitations" 
J-Live also keeps things fresh by using a number of different themes for his songs. "Add-A-Cipher" is a purely energetic, upbeat jam. "Deal Widit" is a little more serious by discussing how to deal with overwhelmingly busy days, and "Walkman Music" is a tribute to people who like to lis­ten to walkmans. But the best track that exemplifies J-Live's creativity is the classic conceptual track, "Car Trouble." In it, an aspiring rapper gets into a cab on his way to a record label interview, only to find J­Live as the driver. J-Live then goes on to tell the rapper about his past troubles with the record industry, convincing him to skip the interview. lie cleverly uses the concept of driving a car as a metaphor for being a rapper in the record industry. Can you imagine Ja Rule ever doing that? 

Although fans may have to wait a while until J-Live releases another full-length LP, the shOii Always lias Been should still bP enough to hold them over until then. It is a fine addition to any hip-hop collection, even if you have never listened to J-Uve before. He is a thinking man's emcee, but one that can lay it down with the best of them. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 29, 2004 
BIG EAST MEN'S BASKETBALL 



Pittsburgh beats Boston College 68-58 at home 
-Panthers win its 20th game ofthe season Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Chris Taft led a midgame 14-0 run and Carl Krauser had five key points down the stretch to help No. 7 Pittsburgh hold off Boston College 68-58 Wednesday night. 
The Panthers (20-1, 6-1 in Big East) ran their Division I­leading home-court winning streak to 38 games, but need­ed a game-ending 14-3 run to do so after squandering a 12­point lead. 
Jaron Brown had 18 points, with Taft adding 14, Krauser 12 and Julius Page 10. Uka Agbai led Boston College (13­6, 2-4) with 17. Craig Smith, the Eagles' top scorer with an 
18.4 average, had 16 but was held to six in the second half. Smith had scored 20 or more points in seven of nine games. 
The Panthers, coming off an impressive 21-point victory at No. 20 Syracuse, trailed in the second half for the third straight home game and their fourth in their last five overall, yet still found a way to stay unbeaten at the Petersen Events Center. The Panthers are 32-0 there since it opened last season. 
Boston College led by eight points in the first half. then used second-half runs of 8-0 and 6-0 to regain the lead at 55-54 on Jermaine Watson's tap-in with 3:47 remaining after falling behind 46-34. 
Krauser's runner off the glass restored Pittsburgh lead at 56-55 with 3:10 remaining, and he converted a three-point play with 1:37 left following a series of turnovers and missed shots to make it 59-55. 
Brown, who missed five con­secutive free throws until then, and Taft hit two free throws each on successive possessions, and Brown's steal and dunk finished off a stretch of 11 straight points during the decisive 14-3 run. Pittsburgh made eight of its final nine free throws after being 4-of-9 at the foul line with less than three minutes remaining. 
Taft also had eight points during the midgame run that began with Antonio Graves' basket just before halftime, and ended with Pitt scoring the first 12 points of the sec­ond half to open a 39-27 lead. 
The finish was much like that of the Panthers' 59-49 

CLASSIFIEDS 
victory over Rutgers in their previous home game Jan. 17, when they trailed late before going on a game-ending 10-0 run. 
Pittsburgh, the first Division I team to reach 20 victories this season, won its fourth straight over Boston College dating to a loss in the Big East tournament final in 2001. 
No. 6 Connecticut 96, VIrginia Tech 60 
Rashad Anderson hit six 3­pointers and scored a career­high 26 points and Ben Gordon added 22, leading sixth­ranked Connecticut to a victo­ry over Virginia Tech. Connecticut (16-3, 4-1 Big East). which has been No. 1 for eight weeks this season but came in having lost two of three, led 44-27 at halftime and steadily pulled away from the undermanned Hokies. 
Bryant Matthews scored 25 points for Virginia Tech (8-9, 1-5), which was playing with­out reserves Fabian Davis and Shawn Harris. Both were sus­pended before the game for conduct detrimental to the team. 
Even former Hokies stars Dell Curry and Bimbo Coles might not have been enough against the Huskies, who made 13 of their first 21 3-point attempts. Anderson finished 6­for-9 on 3s and Gordon was 4­for-6. 
The Huskies closed the first half on an Anderson-led 18-7 run. The sophomore scored 13 of his points in the burst, which came immediately after the Hokies had closed to 26­20. 
In the second half, the Huskies shared the scoring load. Charlie Villanueva scored 12 points, including two 3­pointers and Emeka Okafor had 16 points, 11 rebounds and four blocks. 
Markus Sailes added 10 points for Virginia Tech. 
The Hokies hit only one of their first 12 shots and trailed 14-3, then scored eight straight. Bryan Randall, the quarterback on the football team, hit two free throws and Matthews and Jamon Gordon followed with consecutive 3­pointers sandwiched around a Connecticut turnover. 
West VIrginia 73, St. John's 64 
Tyrone Sally scored 24 points to help West Virginia hand St. John's its seventh straight loss with a victory. 
The defeat for the Red Storm (4-13, 0-7 Big East) matched the longest losing streak in school history. The 1918-19 team dropped all seven games it played in that season. 


Sally, who had 14 points in the first half, connected shot 7-for-8 for the Mountaineers (11-6, 3-3). Patrick Beilein added 12 points, Johannes Herber scored 11 and Kevin Pittsnogle had 10. 
Elijah Ingram, who was 5­for-11 on 3-pointers, led the Red Storm with 19 points. Daryll Hill added 15. 
Ingram's 3-pointer gave St. John's its last lead of the game, 13-12, at 13:01 of the first half. West Virginia then took command thanks to a 15­4 run, closed out by Herber's jumper that made it 27-17. 
Lamont Hamilton's 3-pointer got St. John's to within 29-26 with 4:30 left in the half but Sally scored seven points in an 11-2 run that ended the first half. 
A layup by Grady Reynolds 
cut the deficit to 48-45 at 
13:52 of the second half, but West Virginia scored six straight, including a 3-pointer by Beilein, to take a nine-point lead. 
After a jumper by Hill drew the Red Storm to within 58-56 at 8:23, West Virginia ended the game on a 15-8 run, with Sally scoring six of his eight points at the foul line. Rutgers 71, VIllanova 68 
Ricky Shields scored 19 points and Juel Wiggan had 10 points and 10 assists as Rutgers defeated Villanova for a Big East win. 
After a lay_up by Wiggan made it 68-63 with 26.6 sec­onds left, Villanova's Curtis Sumpter turned the ball over on the inbound pass. But the Wildcats (11-7, 3-3 Big East) got a steal on Rutgers' inbound pass and Sumpter converted a layup and free throw to make it 68-66 Rutgers with 19 seconds left. 
After two free throws from Quincy Douby, Sumpter scored to make it 70-68 Rutgers with 
17.3 seconds left. Douby made one of two attempts with 5. 7 remaining for a 71-68 lead. Villanova's Randy Foye then missed a 3-pointer at the buzzer that would have sent the game into overtime. 
Herve Lamizana had 11 points and nine rebounds for Rutgers (11-6, 3-4). 
Sumpter led Villanova with 25 points and seven rebounds and Ray had 16 points. Jason Fraser had 10 points and four blocks. 
Villanova took a 54-51 lead with 7:42 left after a 9-0 run. Rutgers then went on a 15-3 run to take a 66-57 lead with 
2:28 left. 
Villanova cut Rutgers lead to 66-63 and had a chance to tie the game after a turnover by Wiggan with 1:33 left, but Foye missed a 3-pointer and. after a rebound by Sumpter, the Wildcats turned the ball over. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICESI Search 24 bookstores with 1 clickl S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com 
FREE MONEY Between the Buns restaurant is offering clubs and organizations the opportunity to earn free money. 
Large 1 Bedroom Condo 1 o min from Univ. All App. Pool Low taxes less than rent 574-299-4997 
DOMUS PROPERTIES... HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR.... WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO 


WANTED 
Avon/Mark 50/40% Earnings Call Karen 1-866-780-2866 Independent Sales Rep. 
Babysitter wanted. 2 kids. Tue & Thurs 1-4 pm. Call Susan. 271-9634 

FoR RENT 
3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON MO. ,FURN.272-6306 
4 bedroom house. AC, garage, great location, ample space, nego­liable rent. Contact Mike 216-408-0780 or Matt 216-408-4744 if interested 
New luxurious 3-4 bdrm 3 bath, 2­
car garage, 
fireplace, sky lights, 
close to 
campus $1640 monthly, 
call 
574-232-4527 or 
269-683-5038 

B&B lor JPW/grad/footballlor up to 12 people, 1/2 mile to NO, email domercondo @yahoo.com 
PERSONALS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, 
Hold a "Kickback" night at the "Buns" and receive a 15% donation from what is spent that evening. Call Phil lor more details. 247-9293 LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR. .. CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame 
(574) 286-9359 

LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION­ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND IDEAL FOR 3-7 STUDENTS 2773097 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Book Now! 800-234-7007 endlesssummer­tours. com 


Thursday, January 29,2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Cavs win third straight behind James 27 points 


(formerly known as the Sophombte Litemrytilstival) 
.... "..~.,....· ~~ 
~ 
. -~ 




broughtto you by the student union board. nd\fiduf~sub 
Ilguaskas scores 30 as Cavs match last season's win total 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Ira Newble blocked Dwayne Wade's shot in the final second, and Zydrunas llgauskas scored 30 points on 14-for-16 shooting as Cleveland matched its win total from last season by defeating the Miami Ileal 94-93 Wednesday night. 
Wade. returning to the lineup after missing 13 games with a sprained wrist, had his short shot swatted away by Newble as Cl1weland improved to 17-28. The Cavs, who went 4-1 on a homestand, were 17-65 a year ago. 
Hookie LeBron James added 27 points -11 in the fourth quarter -and Dajuan Wagner scon~d a huge basket with 7.9 seconds left for the Cavs, who won despite not having forward Carlos Boowr. 
Boozer, averaging 23 points and 1 h rebounds in his last five games, left the team to attend a family funeral. 
Eddie Jones had 16 points, and Wade and Lamar Odom had 15 apif~ce for Miami, which took a 113-92 h~ad on Malik Allen's run­ning hook shot in the lane with 3!i seconds left. 
Wagner missed a 3-pointer with 1!i seconds remaining, but Kevin Ollie got the long rebound 


Introducing .. ·1'· 
'T'fie 1fotre PJaine 
and gave it back to his team­mate. Wagner had to avoid two players on the floor in the lane as he dropped in a high-arching layup with 7.9 seconds to go. 
Detroit 106, Boston 103 
Chauncey Billups scored eight of his 21 points in the final five minutes and the Detroit Pistons beat Boston 106-103 Wednesday night, spoiling John Carroll's debut as coach of the Celtics. 
In his first full day on the job since Jim O'Brien's resignation, Carroll watched his team rally from a 68-54 deficit midway through the third quarter and take a 93-90 lead with 2:56left. 
The Pistons then went on a 7-0 run to take a 97-93 lead that Boston couldn't overcome. 
The Celtics cut it to 104-103 on a 3-pointer by Mike James with 10 seconds left. Billups followed with two free throws, and anoth­er 3-point attem'pt by James went off the rim at the buzzer. 
Detroit broke a three-game losing streak that followed a 13­game winning streak. Boston lost for the sixth time in eight games. 
Mehmet Okur also scored 21 points for Detroit and Ben Wallace added 14 points and 15 rebounds. Boston was led by Paul Pierce with26 points and Jiri Welsch with 19. 
Indiana 101, Phoenix 79 
AI Harrington had 24 points and six rebounds to help the Indiana Pacers avoid their first three-game losing streak of the season with a 101-79 victory over the Phoenix Suns on Wednesday night. 
The Pacers broke the game open with a 14-2 run in the first four minutes of the second half to take a 66-46 lead. Reggie Miller then hit three straight 3­pointers to give Indiana a 27­point lead, turning the remaining 17 minutes into garbage time. 
Miller scored 15 points in the quarter and was 4-for-4 from 3­point range. He finished with 18 points, including five 3-pointers. 
Joe Johnson had another strong game for the Suns, scor­ing 23 points on 1 0-of-15 shoot­ing. Johnson got off to a slow start with Ron Artest guarding him, but scored 11 in the fourth quarter with Artest on the bench. 
Orlando 104, Washington 100 
Tracy McGrady had 39 points, nine rebounds and five assists Wednesday night to lead the Orlando Magic to a 104-100 vic­tory over the Washington Wizards. 
McGrady started the game with a four-point play and fol­lowed with a three-point play, a 3-pointer and a layup en route to 18 first-quarter points. 
Larry Hughes scored 12 straight points to pull the Wizards to 96-90 with 2:59 left, but McGrady answered with six consecutive points to put the game away. 
Juwan Howard scored 21 points on 10-for-15 shooting, and Rod Strickland finished with 14 points and 10 assists. Drew Gooden added 15 points and a 
.._ 
,~ 




Litertru Pestiva{ 

season-high five blocks for the and led the Wizards with 21 Magic. points -including 12 in the 
Hughes, who missed fourth quarter. Juan Dixon Washington's previous game added 20 points as the Wizards with right knee tendinitis, lost their fourth in a row at returned to the starting lineup home. 

page 16 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 29, 2004 


Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 ministry.l@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 
C-M 

Senior Retreat  Women's Retreat  Freshman Retreat #52  


si 

Get involved, go on a retreat More info & appUcations in Room114 

February 27-28 February 27-28
Apply online at campusministry;nd.edu 

Sign up Deadline: Sign up deadline: February 9 February 20 
considerations ... 
5;15 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Campus Bible Study 
7:oo p.m. -8:oo p.m. ll4 Coleman-Morse 
Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups, mass schedules and special campus events at campusminfstry.nd.edu 
Ordinary Time 


What happened to €0hristmas? 
by Rev. Kevin Russeau, c.s.c 
Director, Freshman Retreat 
7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 

1st: Jeremiah 1:4·5, 17-19 2nd: 1 Corinthians 12:31-13:13 Gospel: Luke 4:21~30 
Thursday, January 29, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Patriots learn from last year's disappointments 
A>sociatod Pross 
IIOUSTON -By failing last season, tlw New England Patriots set themselves up for SUCCPSS thL'i year. 
By improving last season, the Carolina Panthers built the l'ranwwork for their surprising Super Bowl run. 
Perhaps more than anything, those two clements provided the impdus and the drive for the two lPams who will face each other in Sunday's Super Bowl. 
The Patriots followed their 2001 championship season by not tWP!l getting into the playoff..'i -going 9-7. a monument to undt•rachievenwnt. according to quartPrback Tom Brady. 
"Tiwn~ are a lot of things that havn to happen to win a whole hunch of thns•~ games and to get back to the Super Bowl," he said WPdrwsday. "Because last year, I felt we had a better team than we had two years ago." 
Brady shook his head at the nwmory. lie believed last year's Pal"> were as capable of winning a title as the previous team that upsnl the St. Louis Hams fur the championship. 
I.ast year's struggles, however, forced the entire organization to take a closer look at itself, and bring in a strong defensive loader. safety Hodney Harrison. 
"We didn't play well enough, didn't coach well enough, all the way around," coach Bill Belichick said. "A lot of it was the sarnn players, the same division. similar schedules, but we just didn't play well enough offensive­ly. defensively. special teams.... We tried to address some of those things in the offseason and I think some of them have improved this year." 
Among the problems that were fixed were getting more balance into the offense and far more production out of the secondary on defense. They were fixed so well. in fact, that Brady and Harrison became two of the NFL's top playmakers this sea­son. 
That doesn't mean the Patriots are simply trying to recapture the past. 
The squad Brady led here is not much difl'erent than the '01 championship team, though it is probably deeper at receiver. a lit­tle younger on defense, and has the key addition of Harrison. 
"We never thought about, 'This is the way it was before, let's try to make it that way again,' " Belichick said. "This team is dif­ferent from that team. We need to draw on our strengths and weaknesses this year, and that's what we tried to <io. We had other strengths in '01, different strengths, dill'erent weaknesses, different style of play." 
The Panthers definitely didn't want to go back to anything resembling 2001, when they were the league's worst team, winning their opener and then losing 15 in a row. 
They hired John Fox to replace George Seifert as coach, then set about a rebuilding project that figured to take several years. 
Instead, according to his play­ers. it took just a few months. By the end of the '02 schedule, the Panthers were 7-9, winning four of their last five games. In the finale, they won 10-6 at New Orleans, which was playing for a playoff berth. 
Even an outsider -Jake Delhomme. then a backup quar­terback with the Saints ­noticed things coming together in Carolina. 


"The thing that stuck in my head was when Carolina beat us in the last game when we needed to win to make the playoffs and they had absolutely nothing to play for," said Delhomme, who signed with the Panthers as a free agent and became their starter in the opener. 'They won four of their last five. So, one. the coach kept the team together and they believed in his system. 
CheapStudent Airfar 


"The next thing was they must have some pretty good character guys in that locker room because too many guys would have packed it in and had their trucks running for that last game, wait­ing to go home." 
Now, they are waiting for Sunday, when the groundwork they set in place with that late­season flourish in 2002 could taken the Panthers all the way to a Super Bowl championship. 
"We definitely knew this could 
Learn more about Regis Philbin by reading Trustin Howard's new book, "My Life With Regis and Joey" Book traces Regis's early days to present and features classic photos including his wedding day to Joy. Pick up acopy at your bookstore. 
happen when we fmished up that season." safety Deon Grant said. "The chemistry we established, showing we're dedicated to one another, that we got each other's back. 
'We had four games we lost by three points last year, and we knew we could tweak things and win those. We did. We went 7-0 in those this year. 
"We had a great ending last year." he said. "But not as great as it can be this year." 
niversity sources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
C.'t'tii:~U'tP.'~ t'Hii 
<b... &J!$ LIHI..&N :.-ruo:>urt !tt.l!llOI 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Aruma! retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31 @nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.pd.edui~!c~!su/ 
.C:• StudentUniverse.com StudetJt Airfares Everywhm 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 29, 2004 
NFL 



ucrazy Legs" Hirsch dies 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. -After a long touchdown run for Wisconsin in 1942, Elroy Hirsch was described as looking like a "demented duck," whose "crazy legs were gyrating in six different directions all at the same time." 
From that day on, he was known as "Crazy Legs." He went on to become one of the NFL's most exciting play­ers and earn a place in the Pro Football Hall of Fame. 
On Wednesday, Elroy "Crazy Legs" Hirsch died at age 80. 
Hirsch had been living at an assisted living facility in Madison, said Wisconsin assistant athletic director Steve Malchow. 
"There has never been a more loved and admired ambassador for Wisconsin sports than Elroy Hirsch," Wisconsin AD Pat Richter said. "He loved life, loved peo­ple and 
''There has never been a

loved the playing Badgers." more loved and admired career, he 
B e s t ambassador for Wisconsin joined the 

known for R a m s
sports than Elroy Hirsch. 

h i s f r o n t 
unortho­He loved life, loved people office, dox run­and loved the Badgers" serving as 
ning style, general Hirsch manager
Pat Richter 

starred at and assis­Wisconsin tant to the

Wisconsin athletic director 
ing the 170-mile trip to Bloomington, Ind., to pitch the second game of a double­header in the afternoon. Hirsch was third in the broad jump, and his win over Indiana clinched the conference title for the base­ball team. 
"He was an outgoing, fun­loving, popular guy," said Don Lund, who played foot­ball, basketball and baseball with Hirsch at Michigan. "Everything about him as a man and an athlete was out­standing." 
Following his stint in the Marines, he played three seasons for the Chicago Rockets of the All-American Football Conference. 
He switched to receiver when he joined the Rams in 1949 and was a key part of their revolutionary three-end offense. He set records for catches, receiving yards and touchdowns as they won the title in 1951, the first of his three con­secutive Pro Bowls. 
After his 

for one season, played nine years in the NFL and led the Los Angeles Rams to the league title in 1951. He had a brief movie career, then eventually returned to Madison as the Badgers' ath­letic director from 1969-8 7. 
"Elroy Hirsch was a big star in a town of stars," NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue said in a statement. "He was an electrifying player who brought a lot of glamour to the NFL." 
Hirsch's nickname remains one of the most recognizable in football. The Wausau native was inducted into four other halls -college foot­ball's Hall of Fame in 1974, two in his home state and Michigan's Hall of Honor. 
Born June 17, 1923, Hirsch led the Badgers to an 8-1-1 record in 1942, rushing for 786 yards. He was given his nickname by Chicago Daily New sports writer Francis Powers, who watched Hirsch's 62-yard TO run in a game at Soldier Field. 
His number 40 is one of four numbers retired at Wisconsin despite his single season there. 
Hirsch was assigned to Michigan in 1943 while serv­ing in the Marine Corps. He became the school's only athlete to win letters in four major sports in the same year -football, basketball, baseball and track. 
He once competed in the Big Ten outdoor track cham­pionship in Champaign, Ill., in the morning before mak­president. 
When he 
returned to Wisconsin as AD, the Badgers' football team had gone winless in 20 previous games. But he helped raise home attendance from 43,000 in 1968 -the year he went into the Pro Football Hall of Fame -to more than 70,000 per game in just four years. 
Before he retired in 1987, the department doubled the number of sports it offered and the Badgers won nation­al championships in hockey, men's and women's crew, and men and women's cross country. 
His movie career included the 1953 film biography "Crazylegs, All American," in which Hirsch played himself, "Unchained" in 1955 and "Zero Hour" in 1957. 
Wisconsin boosters put on an annual run called the Crazylegs Classic to raise money for athletic scholar­ships. Hirsch was the hon­orary starter every year. Since its inception in 1982, it has raised $4.2 million with more than 116,000 runners and walkers. 
Hirsch's survivors include his high school sweetheart Ruth, whom he married in 1946. He once said he tried out for the Michigan basket­ball team, in part, because the Wolverines had a road trip scheduled that year to Madison, where Ruth was still in school. 
Hirsch also has a son, Winn, and a daughter, Patty Malmquist. 
NHL 


Heatley m.akes debut after accident 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -Dany Heatley's body has healed. His heart is another matter. 
It's only been four months since that awful night ­enough time, amazingly, for his right knee to mend from sur­gery, but hardly long enough to get over the pain of losing the friend everyone called "Snydes." 
That could take a lifetime. 

"I just keep remembering the guy," Heatley said Wednesday, a few hours before his first game of the season with the Atlanta Thrashers. "He was a great guy, a great teammate. I think about him every day." 
Heatley returned to the ice nearly four months to the day that his sports car slammed into a wall with teammate Dan Snyder riding in the passenger seat. Snyder died six days later from massive brain injuries without ever regaining con­sciousness. 
The near-sellout crowd at Philips Arena welcomed Heatley back with a raucous ovation. Among the signs: "We're With You Dany!" 
Heatley was the next-to-last Thrashers player to take the ice before the game against the St. Louis Blues. but he didn't have to wait long to get back in the game. He was in the start­ing lineup, taking his familiar place on a line with Slava Kozlov and Shawn McEachern. 
"I'm thrilled," said Laura Gervais, a Thrashers season ticket holder, sporting a replica of the sweater that Heatley wore while winning the "MVP award in last year's All-Star Game. ''I'm so happy to see him back." 

Less than 30 seconds after the puck dropped, Heatley put a shoulder into Blues defense­man Bryce Salvador along the boards. 
Late in the opening period, Heatley had two great scoring chances on a power play. He fired one shot over the net, then watched in dismay as Reinhard Divis made a great pad save with Heatley parked all alone in front of the net. 
After knee surgery, grueling rehab and a much-quicker­than-expected recovery, Heatley was trying to jump back on his rising star while lugging the burden of Snyder's death. 
"He's got a tough road ahead of him, there's no doubt about that," Thrashers goalie Byron Dafoe said. "He's still got a lot of hurdles to clear, but this is a huge hurdle he's about to leap over." 
Undoubtedly, getting back on the ice was a major step in Heatley's recovery process. For a few hours, at least, he'll be able to escape the memory of his Ferrari spinning out of con­trol on a narrow, winding street. 
Police estimated that Heatley was driving about 80 mph ­far above the speed limit -but prosecutors haven't decided whether to file charges. 
"I think he'll be OK," team­mate Slava Kozlov said. "When you step on that ice, you don't think about anything -just hockey. All your problems go away." 
"Hockey has been a big part of my comeback," he said. "It helped me a heal a lot." 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR CLUBS Announcing the Spring Club Information Meetings Academic: MondayFebruary 2nd ~ 7pm, 117 Hayes-Healy Athletic: MondayFebruary ~nd.; 7:30pm, 129 Hayes-Healy Cultural: WednesdayFebruary 4th -6pm, 117 Hayes~Healy Perfonning Arts: Wednesday February 4th-6:30pm, 129 Hayes-Healy Socialservice: TbursdayFebruary5th ~5:30pm, 129 Hayes~Healy Specbtltnterest: Thu~sday February 5th.. 6pm, 117 Hayes~Healy . . Tlie CCC strongly encourages that the person who will fill outthe budget forms and an acfh:e cluhmetnbet/ftiture officer attend the meetings with an existing officer. ..ElectionsJornewCCCI)ivisionRepresentatives will also occur at these meetings. ClulflnformationMeetings are mandatory. Each club must have two rgpresentatives at. their division meeting. Alack of attendance mayjeopardize aclub's eligibility for Club Coordination Council funding this year. cct@nd.edtt with qt1estion.r..•  

r-------------------------------------------~------------------------------­
.. -. ---~ 


OUNDTHENATION ·i 
Thursday, January 29, 2004 Cot\1PILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRL SERVICES page 19 

NHL 

team record· 
Philadelphia 25·11-10·5 New Jersey 26·12·10·1 NY Islanders 24·20·6·1 NY Rangers 19-20-N Pitlsburgh 11·32-!H 
team record 
Toronto 27·13·8·3 Ottawa 27-12-7-3 Boston 22·14-11-4 Montreal 24-19·6·2 Bullalo 21·25·6·1 
team record Tampa Bay 24-16-6-3 Atlanta 21·23·6·2 Florida 17-21-10-3 Carolina 17-23·9-2 Washington 14-29·5·2 
team record Detroit 28-15-H Sl. Louis 25·16·6·1 Na5hvllle 24·18-H Columbus 14·26·7·3 Chicago 
12-27·H '~''''~'''' ''t:ill)::,~:,:,:::,:::! 

team 
Colorado Vancouver Calgary Minnesota Edmonton 
team 
San Jose 
Dallas'''''_,_. 
los Angeles "''t?'? ~l!GJ~mg;~?'\ttr
Phoenix Anaheim 
team 
Miami 
Michigan Michigan Stale 
Alaska Fairbanks i·ftt1t41~~~if 
Northern
ObloStat~~--~£~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wuslern 
NOTRE DAME ferris State Bowling Green Lake Superior 
Nebraska·Omaha 



around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Maryland at Wake Forest 7 p.m., ESPN2 Florida State at Duke 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 

NY Islanders at Boston 7:30 p.m., ESPN Vancouver at St. Louis 8:30 p.m., Fox Sports 
NBA 

New Jersey at Orlando 7 p.m., TNT Sacramento at San Antonio 9:30 p.m., TNT 
TENNIS Australian Open 2 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA BASKETBALL 


Associated Press Majerus is the second had heart bypass surgery Majerus felt chest pains coach this week to take a in 1989 -just six games late Tuesday in Salt Lake
SALT LAKE CITY -Utah leave because of health into his first season at City. He was flown to

basketball coach Rick 

reasons. Louisville's Rick Utah. Since then, he has southern California forMajerus will resign at the Pitino took an indefinite led the Utes to the NCAA treatment by his cardiolo­end of the season after his 
leave Monday to determine tournament 10 times. gist.
latest health problem put the cause of the urological­"Everybody that knows Rupp and his fellowhim in the hospital with related pain. Rick and cares about Rick assistants heard aboutchest pains. 

"Its been a strange week has mentioned that he Majerus early Wednesday.
Majerus, 55, was being for the coaching fraternity needs to take care of him­Players were kept awaytreated in Santa Barbara, -first Rick Pitino and now self," Utah athletic director from the media until after Calif., on Wednesday. His Rick Majerus," said Chris Hill said. a late afternoon practice.

condition was not released. 

Kentucky coach Tubby "I think coaches' lives in Utah (15-5. 3-2 Mountain Assistant Kerry Rupp will 
Smith, whose Wildcats general are stressful. I West) has lost its last two coach the Utes in the inter­beat Utah in the 1998 title think every year is stress­games, falling at Air Force im, though Majerus could game. "This profession can ful because of the pressure on Monday night 62-49. return and finish out the be physically and emotion­they put on themselves," Majerus had one of his season if his health allows. ally demanding." he said. "I think they're all youngest teams this season Rupp will guide the team The health of the portly very, very intense and with just two seniors, no when it plays Saturday Majerus has always been a maybe Rick is maybe on juniors and a host of against BYU. concern, especially after he the high end of intense." underclassmen. 
IN BRIEF 

James will miss Slam Dunk Cavs forward Carlos Boozer. Despite his suspension, the school contest The All-Star starters will be named permitted Clarett to participate in CLEVELAND -Being named an on Thursday and James is not individual winter conditioning work­
expected to be one of them. He was
NBA All-Star is no slam dunk for outs that started last week. 
fourth in fan voting for the team,
LeBron James. "That's his choice," Geiger said. "If 
trailing Allen Iverson, Tracy McGrady 
Cleveland's rookie said he will not that's what he wants to do, that's
and Jason Kidd. 
compete in the Slam Dunk contest fine."
However, James still has a chance
during the NBA's All-Star weekend 

A message seeking comment on
to be named to the East team as a
next month in Los Angeles because of 

Clarett's decision was left
reserve.
the ankle injury that sidelined him Wednesday at the home of his moth­for three games. 

er, Michelle.
"I thought about it, but with my Clarett will skip offseason Tressel was recruiting and did notankle hurting, put me down [no] on workouts 
return a phone message seeking
that one," he said. COLUMBUS, Ohio -Suspended 
On Tuesday, James was selected to Ohio State tailback Maurice Clarett comment. play in the Rookie Challenge next won't take part in offseason workouts Clarett, who helped Ohio State win month, an event that the league has even though he's been cleared by the the 2002 national title as a fresh­moved from Saturday to Friday night school. man, has been suspended since in prime time. "I think he felt he didn't want to September for accepting improper 
James and his good friend, Denver work out until he got reinstated by benefits from a family friend and rookie Carmela Anthony, will be the NCM," Ohio State athletic direc­then lying about it to investigators. teammates against a squad of the tor Andy Geiger said Wednesday. A decision in the case is expected league's second-year players featur­Geiger learned about the player's in the next two weeks, said Clarett's ing Houston center Yao Ming and decision from coach Jim Tressel. attorney, Alan Milstein. 
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 29, 2004 

Thursday, January 29, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
ond half. LaVere and Crystal free throws in the last 1 :10. Erwin scored eight points, and The win is Notre Dame's fifth

Upset 
Duffy knocked down a 3-pointer against top 25 opponents in eight to cap an 11-2 run that gave tries. It also moves the team into

continued from page 24 
Notre Dame a nine-point advan­a tie with Miami for second-place Hurricanes to only 37 percent tage at the first television time­in the conference, one game field goal shooting for the game. out. behind Connecticut. The Irish including 31 percent in the sec­"We continued to be aggres­defeated the Huskies 66-51 at the ond half. sive. What we did was we ran the Joyce Center Jan. 13. 
Tamara James hit 6-of-12 floor a Jot better. . . . We started NOTRE DAME 59, MIAMI 50 shots and finished setting the tempo at at the JOYCE CENTER the game with 16 a faster pace, and I 
NOTRE DAME (12-7, 5-2) 

points, while "We started setting don't think they 
Batteast 3-7 3-4 9, Borton 0-1 0-0 0,

Shaquana Wilkins were ready for it,"
the tempo at a Severe 0-2 3-4 3, Duffy 3-7 7-8 14,added 10 points McGraw said. Hernandez 0-1 0-0 0, Gray 2-5 0-0 4, for the faster pace, and I McGraw said her Flecky 2-5 2-2 7. Erwin 3-4 1-2 7, LaVere 
6-112-215.

I lurricanes. don't think they bench players Miami jumped made the most sig­
were ready for it. " MIAMI (16-2, 5-2) 

out to an early 20-nificant contribu­Knight 1-5 1-3 4. Broussard 3-8 1-3 7, 12 lead as Notre tions. The Irish Wilkins 4-10 2-2 10, James 6-12 2-2 16, Muffet McGraw McCormick 2-12 0-0 5, Marincic 0-0 0-1
Dame showed bench played sub­
0, Dhahabu 4-4 0-0 8, Wilson 0·2 0-0 0, 

laeklustnr play for Irish coach stantial minutes 
Hayek 0-1 0-0 0. most of the first and outscored 1st 2nd Total 
hall'. But the Irish Miami's bench 33-NOTRE DAME 26 33 59 Miami 28 22 50
closed the gap to 28-26 by scor­8. Erwin and Katy Flecky fin­ing six of the final eight points ished with seven points each, and 
3-point goals: Notre Dame 3-7 (LaVere 1­heading into intermission. Brcona Gray added four points. 1, Duffy 1-3, Flecky 1-3). Miami 4-18 
"At halftime, we thought, All three players Jogged at least (James 2-6, McCormick 1-6, Knight 1-4, Wilson 0·1, Hayek 0-1). Fouled out­
'We're only down two, and we 18 minutes for the game. 
McCormick. Rebounds-Notre Dame 33

probably played our worst half of Notre Dame led by eight points 
(Batteast 10), Miami 30 (Wilkins 11).basketball since the West four separate times in the second Assists-Notre Dame 15 (Duffy 5). Miami 
Virginia game, and we're still in half but saw that lead cut to just 14 (McCormick 7). Total fouls-Notre Dame 15, Miami 21.
the game,"' McGraw said. "That three with 3:28 left. on a layup by wa<> the good part." Wilkins. But the Irish used solid The Irish took over the game in free throw shooting to put the Contact Joe Hettler at the first few minutes of the sec-Hurricanes away, making 8-of-1 0 jhettler@nd.edu 


Loss 
continued from page 24 
freshmen were needed to fill the void. Four rookies immc­d iately stepped into the spot­light on a defending national championship team. As a sen­ior. foilist Matt Castellan finds himself in a mentor position to a very undeveloped team. 
"It's probably one of the most talented teams out there but it's young," he said. "It's going to be a continually learning process for the new guys." 
Accompanying the learning arc growing pains. Coach Janusz Bednarski has tried to 
ease the transi­tion into colle­giate fencing, but he knows that certain elc­men ts will always exist with a young team. 
"A younger team is always unpredictable," he said. 
One of the promising young stars of the men's team, freshman foilist Frankie Bontempo, showed just how mercurial youth can be. Entering Sunday's competi­tion, Bontempo had fenced his way to a near perfect 10-1 mark. On Sunday he finished with an uncharacteristic 6-9 record. 
"I lost focus a Jot," 
Bontempo said. "You really have to have the right mind­set that you can beat any­body." 
But Bontempo was not the only one who faltered. The team's unpredictability turned against them while facing a strong St. John's 
team. Traditionally a top finisher at the NCAA Championships, Bednarski called the Red Storm "the strongest [men's] team in the nation at the moment." On Sunday, the Irish found them­selves in the wrong place at the 
"A younger team is always unpredictable." 
Janusz Bednarski Irish coach 
wrong time. 
The end of the team's winning streak drew a lot of attention, marking the sta­tistical end of a three-year reign of dominance. Notable losses like this one can fester, eroding 
confidence, potentially to reversing the streak in the other direction. 
However, the upperclass­men are committed to pre­venting that from happening. Senior Matt Castellan, one of the few upperclassmen, stressed the need to keep the loss in perspective. 
"This is one loss," Castellan said. "The ultimate goal is to qualify all 12 fencers to the NCAA's. A Joss to St. John's isn't gonna make us say, 'We're not gonna win."' 
The team consensus seems to be that the weekend was a learning experience. Bednarski wants the negative 
experience 
"' lost focus a lot. You really have to have the right mindset that you can beat anybody." 
Frankie Bontempo Irish folllst 
Bednarski 
to push his fencers harder. He knows they cannot relax as there are big matchups in the upcom­ing weeks .. 
"We will have another strong team [Ohio State]. which consists of experienced fencers," 
said. "The 
response is to practice. We need some improvement in technique, in tactic. How long it takes, we don't know, but they are working." 
Castellan feels that the work will continue with a renewed vigor. 
"After the meet this week­end, you're going to see a much more focused team," he said. "And as the defending national champions, the goal remains the same, loss or no Joss. We're going for the repeat. We've done it for so many years, there's no reason to expect any less. Our goal is to be the best." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 



Team eyes upset over Michigan 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
The women's tennis team will open its spring season at No. 34 Michigan tonight. 
Last spring, the Irish finished 16-9, won a Big East title and made it to the second round of the NCAA Tournament. After attaining several individual tri­umphs during the fall, the No. 21 Irish hope to have similar success as a team. 
"Everyone is more focused on doing well as a team, because dual matches mean more in the scheme of things," said captain Alicia Salas. "The fall season is more individual­oriented because of tourna­ments." 
Coach Jay Louderback will look to several members of the talent-laden team to make con­tributions this spring. The Intercollegiate Tennis Association ranked Salas at No. 14 in singles and No. 39 in doubles with sophomore Lauren Connelly. The organi­zation also placed freshman Christian Thompson at No. 88. 
Other Irish gaining recogni­tion at the regional level include singles players Salas and sisters Christian and Catrina Thompson. The dou­bles teams of Salas and Connelly, the Thompson sis­ters, and Sarah Jane Connelly and Kristina Statsny were also ranked regionally. 
Michigan also brings ranked players to the meet. Freshman Elizabeth Exon is nationally ranked in singles at No. 37. and junior Michelle DaCosta is No. 92. DaCosta and teammate Leanne Rutherford also hold the No. 47 position in doubles. 
Already, Michigan stands at 1-0 this season after a 6-1 vic­tory over DePaul Jan. 17. The Irish hope to give the Wolverines their first loss of the year. If history is any indi­cation -the Irish won 5-2 last year -an Irish victory seems likely. 
"We're ready for a win," Louderback said. "The kids are ready to play someone besides themselves and are really get­ting into the competitive spirit at practices." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

r·viSiT.THE-STEiNIOOMiN.THEUNIVERSii"YCUJBONTHE·cAMPUS-·] 
ii3oz. Special . ~ OF NOTRE DAME 
Ii"Executlve" Cocldalli SERVING SNACKS &SANDWICHES All DAYLONG 11:30AM-9PM I iI BAR OPEN MONDAY-FRIDAY UNTil10PM -SATURDAY UNTIL 11 PM ii Come in for aquick bite, or relax and enjoy... AWIDE ARRAY OF 
ii 

Single Malt Scotches 
1

liFINE WINES ' BEERS 
Irish Whiskies ~ iby the glass or bottle_b~:~ I Domestics &Imports Small Batch Bourbons~~ 
il 
1 
;w ,_..,._,.._,._,_.
i.k.... •IOOi .m. rm. m.-.nn ·-. . 
Thursday, January 29, 2004

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
ing their defensive effort had to improve, the Irish (10-6, 4-2 in

Win 
the Big East) clamped down on the Hurricanes (13-7, 3-3 in the 

continued from page 24 
Big East). Rice scored 26 points "Obviously I still care just as but had to take 21 shots. Notre much as I did for the first game Dame guard Torrian Jones held of the year. You just have to go Miami's leading scorer Robert out there and play basketball. Hite to 11 points. It's a basic game." Forcing those players, along 
"When I play with a free with the rest of the Hurricanes mind, I play a lot better. I think take tough shots, led to Miami's that mentality showed tonight." 37.5 percent shooting percent­
Cornette had been struggling age -something that Irish recently getting into the flow of assistant coach Sean Kearney the game. But wrote and under­Wednesday night, lined on the dry Brey inserted erase board in the Cornette into the "When I play with locker room after starting lineup to the game. 
a free mind, I play

shut down Rice That's some­
a lot better. , 

and just play his thing the Irish game. want to carry After the game, Jordan Cornette over to Saturday's Brey had nothing road game at
Irish forward 

but praise for Rutgers. Cornette. "We were able 
"Jordan Cornette to put together a was fabulous tonight guarding pretty good 40-minute stretch [Rice], what he gave us offen­on the defensive end," Notre sively and on the backboard," Dame guard Chris Quinn said. Brey said. "Now the challenge for us is Coming into the game know-doing it in back to back games." 
Francis finished with a team­high 17 points, and the Irish had four players in double fig­ures. 
The Irish continue to have trouble shooting from behind the arc connecting on only 30.8 
NOTRE DAME 72, MIAMI 62 at the JOYCE CENTER 

NOTRE DAME (10-6, 4-2) 
Cornette 3-7 4-4 12, Francis 8-10 1-2 17, Thomas 2-10 3-5 7. Quinn 5-11 3-4 15, Jones 5-10 2-4 12, Falls 0-2 2-3 2, Timmermans 3-4 1-2 7 
MIAMI (13-7, 3-3) 
Djahue 2-5 1-2 5, Rice 9-21 4-5 26, Surratt 3-10 0-0 6. Diaz 4-11 1-1 9. Hite 5-12 0-0 11, Clarke 0-1 0-0 0, Hamilton 0­2 1-2 1, Wilkins 0-0 0-2 0, Frisby 1-2 2-2 4 
1st 2nd Total 
NOTRE DAME 33 39 72 
Miami 32 30 62 

3-point goals: Notre Dame 4-13 (Cornette 2-4, Quinn 2-6). Miami 5-18 (Rice 4-10, Hite 1-4. Clarke 0-1. Surratt 0-1. Diaz 0­2). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 35 (Cornette 11). Miami 37 (Rice 9). Assists: Notre Dame 18 (Quinn 8), Miami 12 (Surratt, Hite 4). Total fouls: Notre Dame 11, Miami 20. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Quinn listens to coach's advice 
Exactly three minutes into Notre Dame's 72-62 win against Miami Wednesday night, Chris Quinn stopped his sprint down the left side of the court, caught a pass, and drilled a 3­pointer that sent the Joyce Center crowd into a frenzy. 
Another minute expired on the game clock, and Quinn again found himself all alone on the left side of the court with the ball in his hands. He launched another 3-point shot toward the basket, and watched as it hit exactly nothing -an ugly airball that caused the sopho­more's shoulders to briefly slump. 
On the Irish sideline, Irish coach Mike Brey grinned. Quinn was finally playing aggressively. 
"We had this thing in the game notes ... that he didn't have a turnover for five games," Brey said of Quinn's turnover-Jess streak earlier in the season. 
"Throw one in the band. Be more aggressive," the coach told his guard. 
So the sophomore did. And he picked a good night 

Andrew Soukup 
Sports Writer 
to do so. On a night where Chris Thomas struggled to score -something that nor­mally spells doom for the Irish -Quinn responded by han­dling the ball more and smoothly running the offense. 
The player, who Brey joking­ly referred to last year as "the 12-year-old," because that was exactly how old he looked, helped the Irish play more maturely. And it was about time, for Quinn had recently looked less like one of the bet­ter starters in the Big East and more like a so-so sixth man afraid to take stats away from the starters. 
If Notre Dame makes the NCAA Tournament, scholars may look back at the 10:17 mark in the second half as the point where the Irish discov­ered their identity. 
Earlier, Brey had already barked at Thomas for not passing the ball down quicker to Francis, who was simply abusing an undersized and undertalented Miami defense. 
But after one sickening play, where Thomas flipped an ugly something (it was hard to tell if it was a pass or a shot) off the backboard, Brey's ire was apparently sufficiently raised. 
Out came Thomas for his first breather in over 60 min­utes. In came a stretch where the Irish showed how good they can be. 
With their star point guard off the floor, Quinn calmly dic­tated the game. The player 

Quinn also put together a solid individual performance. All sea­son, Brey has tried to get Quinn to be more aggressive and not worry about 
turnovers coming from trying to cre­ate on the offensive end. Wednesday night Quinn did just that, driving to the hole, kicking it to  "We were able to put together a pretty good 40· minute stretch on the defensive end.,  out early and established Torin Francis in the post as Francis scored Notre Dame's first six points and had  
the open player and  nine in the first  
finding his own shot. Quinn scored 15  Chris Quinn Irish guard  seven minutes of the game. M i a m i  
points  and  had  responded later  
eight assists on  a  in the half with  

night when that offensive pro­an 11-0 run to turn a 17-11 duction was needed. Notre deficit into a 22-17 lead. Dame guard Chris Thomas But then Miami went on one struggled from the field scoring of their two stretches in the only seven points and not get­game where the Hurricanes ting his first field goal, one of went five minutes or more with­two on the night, until 16 min­out a field goal, allowing the utes remained in the second Irish to get the lead back and half. control the rest of the game. 
On nights when Thomas can't Up 33-32 coming out of the get his offensive game going, he locker room, the Hurricanes is looked to do other things on struggled through their second offense to get the Irish the bal­scoreless drought allowing the anced offensive attack they Irish to build a comfortable lead showed Wednesday. with a 13-3 run. 
who the Hurricanes defense was designed to contain was no longer on the court, and Miami looked lost. In a four­minute stretch with Thomas on the bench, Notre Dame stretched a seven-point margin into a 14-point lead keyed largely by stingy defense and Quinn's calm management of the game. 
By the time Thomas returned with 6:42 left, the game was all but over. 

Much like Notre Dame's win earlier this year against DePaul, when the Irish were reeling from losses against Marquette, Central Michigan and Indiana, Wednesday's win over Miami may have been a remedy the Irish needed to erase performances against Syracuse and Kentucky. 
At the center of Notre Dame's success Wednesday rested Quinn, whose steady combination of efficiency and aggressiveness gave the Irish a win they desperately needed. 
And Brey wants him to keep playing like that. Even if it means his sophomore guard fires more airballs. 
"I don't care," the Irish coach said. "Get on back, steal it, and shoot it again. 
"We need him to be aggres­sive." 
The views expresse in this column are those ofthe author and not neccessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
MEN's·· & WOMEN'S FENCING 
Saturday, January~lst&Sundayt February 1st 
• Notre Dame Duels peginning @ s~oo am each day 
• The team takes on Ohio St. @ 11:00 am 
First 1 00 fans receive Gold Game T-Shirtsfrom. A ..............,...,........... 
. .·. . . . •.Ill.Iii.lilillli 
Gold Games 2084.•.BE THERE 
"I wasn't even looking for my shot today," Thomas said. "I was just getting my teammates the ball and they carried the load." 
The Irish came 

Belles 
continued from page 24 
rebounds and two assists. 
Coming off her biggest game of the sea­son, in which she 

scored 26 points "[Albion's] outside any easier for and grabbed 10 the Belles
shooting was
rebounds, Emily after Olivet. 
Creachbaum pretty good in the Wednesday struggled in the second half." · they host loss against Calvin and Albion. She was Saturday they
Suzanne Bellina 
held to four visit Hope.
Belles coach 
points on 2-of-8 shooting and only hauled in three rebounds. 
Defensively, the Belles had trouble handling the Albion backcourt of Jaime Fornetti, Vanessa Thompson, and Jocelyn Zappala. Fornetti had 16 points and nine rebounds, while Zappala had 13 points, six rebounds, and six assists. Thompson added 11 points on 4 of 10 shooting. 
"Albion's guards played really well," Belles coach Suzanne Bellina said. "Their outside shooting was pretty good in the second half." 
Despite the offensive explo­sion from Fornetti, Thompson, and Zappala, the Belles successfully defended Albion's leading scorer, Sarah Caskey. Caskey was held to 5 points on 2-of-4 shooting. 
The Belles go into this weekend with a chance to regroup. They do not play any games this weekend, and it should give them a chance to put this loss behind them and prepare for next week's opponents. 
The loss Wednesday night moved the Belles to 5-13 overall and 0-7 in the MIAA. Their first league win could come on Monday. 
"We play Olivet Monday, which is a huge game," said Bellina. 
The week 
doesn't get 
Both teams 
have already given the Belles trouble already this season. 
ALBION 62, SAINT MARY'S 44 at KRESGE GYMNASIUM 
SAINT MARY'S (5-13, 0-7) 
Hogan 3-8 3-4 10, B. Boyce 4-9 0-0 9. Lipke 2-3 2-2 6, K. Boyce 2-3 1-2 5, Pernotto 2-5 0-2 4, Creachbaum 2-8 0-0 4, Miller 1-5 0-0 3. Mullen 1-6 0-0 3. 
ALBION (15-4, 16-3) 
Fornetti 6-14 3-4 16, Zappala 6-10 0-0 13, Thompson 4-10 2-2 11. Spain 1-2 4­5 6, Sventickas 2-8 1-2 5. Caskey 2-4 0­0 5, Marcuz 2-4 0-0 4. Enfield 1-5 0-0 2. 
1st 2nd Total ALBION 31 31 62 SAINT MARY'S 25 19 44 
3-point goals: Saint Mary's 6-17 (Lipke 2-2. Miller 1-5. Mullen 1-3. B. Boyce 1­3. Hogan 1-3, Pernotto 0-ll. Albion 4-17 (Thompson 1-5. Fornetti 1-3, Caskey 1­2, Zappala 1-2. Meyer 0-1. Spain 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Saint Mary's 30 (Pernotto 5), Albion 45 (Fornetti 9). Assists: Saint Mary's 13 (Pernotto 4). Albion 18 (Zappala 6). Total fouls: Saint Mary's 15. Albion 14. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgrift3@nd.edu 

MEN'S.. JlOCI\::EY VS. ALASKA-FAIRBANKS 
Friday, Jaf'i\tarv 30th@ 7:35 Whiteout Night at ND Hockey ' 
• First 2(000 fans receive Whiteout T -Shirts, sponsored by: Famous Dave's, Comcast & PJay~it-Again Sports 
Saturday, January 31st@ 7:05 ·First 1,000 fans receive ND Hockey Skate Ice Scrapers, sponsored by South Bend Orthopaedic 
Free Student Admission and Papa John's Pizza to first 250 students each game! 

Thursday, January 29, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HoRoscoPE
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 32 Fireworks time, 59 Like some mod­1 PC bailout with ''the" ern signals 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tom Selleck, Ann Jillian, Oprah 4 Utah's 
34 Still-life vessel 61 Church recital Winfrey, Greg Louganis Canyon-35 With 39-Across, 62 Thickening 
Happy Birthday: You'll be thinking in terms too broad this year. You must stef 
a common agent in food8 Padrone 

back and decide what's important and what's not if you really want to get ahead
greeting 63 Sea of _, arm

12 Gold star, e.g. Your ideas will be plentiful but you can't follow through on all of them. Sel 37 Dayton-to-of the Black Sea your priorities and stick to your plans, and you can achieve the success you'rf
14 Ain't right? 
Toledo dir. 64 "Borstal Boy" looking for. Your numbers: 8, 13, 17, 24, 35, 44 15 Even, to Yvette author38 Summer mo.
16 Procter & ARIES (March 21-April 19): The tension will be minimal at work, with
65 Wails

Gamble brand 39 See 35-Across everyone taking care of their own business. Take time to call friends whom you66 Martin haven't visited for a long time. ***
41 Avoids17 Musical embel· 

(cognac) TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Talk to individuals who can make a notable
lishment 43 Common cricket 
difference in your direction. You can ask for favors or just benefit from thf
67 What the Cubs

19 Went pffft score sound advice given by someone you trust. *** 
play games in:

46 Ethically indif-GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be cautious how you deal with colleagues and
20 Singer with the Abbr. 
employers. Your quick wit may not be appreciated by all. You need to be witl1
ferent1999 #1 hit 

people who are intellectual. *** 
"Believe" 48 Awful 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get busy; there is plenty of work that was lef1 21 Fasten over 50 Gaslight undone. You can make preparations and look over your paperwork. Look al 
DOWN 
1 Like ones start­

worthwhile investments that have been presented.****
22 Italian dancer 51 Pitcher with ing over 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be cautious if you decide to get involved in travel 01
_Cecchetti 5,7141ifetime 
2 Vile winter sports. You can enjoy social activities or getting together with colleagues
strikeouts

24 Dracula proto-You will learn a lot if you're observant.*** 
3 Tally-ho, e.g.

type 53 They're often VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can accomplish double the normal at work
4 Pine {for) 

today. There will be few interruptions and your perception and clarity will helf
26 Big mouth settled 
5 Opposite of you move quickly in your pursuits. **** 
27 Major annoy-54 "Wait Until Dark" 
making LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Spend time with the one you love. Do somethin~ 
ance co-star, 1967 
progress special and try to compromise as much as you can. Drastic changes at work 29 Bill passer 56 Total require-may make you somewhat sentimental. ** 
6 Twist

ment? SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Limitations at home are likely if you have been
31 The Buckeyes, 30 Modern: Ger. 42 Narwhal feature 55 Some bargain
7 School for restricting or just plain difficult to get along with. It is best to do somethin~briefly 58 Punchers future Us. 33 Hawaii, once: 44 Marcos of the bin items, for special for the ones you love. *** 8 "Good!" in Abbr. Philippines short SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Delays are likely. Don't expect mail to ge1 ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE through or projects finished. Clients will probably break appointments. It is besl
Genoa 36 Old Mideast 45 It may be written 

57 Impose to take things as they come rather than get frustrated. *** 
9 Traveling up a inits. on a chalkboard 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make major gains at work. Try tc 
down staircase, 

38 "Hold on !" 47 Classic New 60 "The blood-red· get a chance to run your ideas past your boss. It is quite possible that you will 
e.g. blossom of be given additional responsibility. **** -~ 
39 See 11-Down Yorker cartoon­

10 Fill up ... ":Tennyson AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't expect to get a lot done. You will lx
ist

40 Explorer frustrated by the lack of determination that colleagues have. Don't let others pull
11 Person in 

Vespucci 49 Zoomed 61 Toronto media you into their disagreement with someone else. *** 
39-Down 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may find that a secret infatuation will comf
41 Sneaky 52 Throw inits.

12 Cab Calloway, to the surface today. Don't be shy; make the plunge and find out where you King of_ stand.*** 
13 Sheep 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Birthday Baby: You arc quite happy doing things by yourself--easy to pleas<
18 "Das Lied von 

and easy to entertain. You can spend hours just trying to figure out ho\\
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday

der " something works. You are a master at taking things apart and putting them back
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

20 Designer Chane! together. Your strong interest in finding out how things tick will be your forte
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

throughout life.
23 noir past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
"'*+.:+.:+::-B--:'+.±.;..1 

=+-:::+:::+.=+..;..~ 25 Bat wood Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialal'l. com __._..............._.......... 28 Beefcake poser nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-------------------------------~-----------------------------------------­
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT IF YOU REFUSE TO DO ~ 


HUNDREDS WILL DIE ...
SOMETHING ABOUT OUR l 

THIS E-MAIL 
BLAH I BLAH I BLAH ...

PRODUCTS SAFETY FLAW, 1 
WILL MAKE HIM 
WHATEVER. FORWARDI WILL BE FORCED TO j 

DROP EVER'(­
THE MESSAGE TO THAT CONTACT OUR CEO! § 

THING AND CALL 
POINTY-HAIRED GUY. 
ME.
) E 
8 
~ 
~~~~~1------"''--=---'=~ 
f~====~~ 
~------"-~~------~ 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI

FIVES 

With the Affirmative Action debate raging at ND, Dan and Brett decide to become involved. Can you spot them m this Iively academic conversation? 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
This is suitable 
for framing
RANGL 
' 

rIJI I I 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rlghlo Reoorvod 
HILTE 
± 
I I r J I 
1-21 

~ 1-E: Of;Va­
CLOSIA 
± 

OPa/n-E~ OF TI-E RN.E~., IT WAS A--­
www.jumble.com 
CRADOC 
Now arrange the circlfid letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
( I ) I I 
~r here: 


"[ I I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow)

I Jumbles: FISHY ROBIN SIPHON POETICYesterday's 
Answer: When he developed the portrait of the racehorse, it was-PHOTO "FINISH" 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
-----.......................................................... •••••••• ..................... a•.a•;a•aaaQaa••••••a:~;~:sc;a;•;~I::;;: 
THE OBSER\'ER 
-
'­
PORTS
Thursday, January 29, 2004 
page 24 
~D WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Knocking down another ranked foe 
Defense stifles Miami 59-50 in win on the road 
to 3-7 against true road foes and double with nine points and 10 By JOE HETTLER 12-7 overall, 5-2 in the Big East. rebounds. Sports Ediror "We felt like we needed to But once again, the story for 
boost our resume a little bit, and Notre Dame was its defense. 

After three straight wins over a big win like this on the road "I thought our defense was out­ranked opponents, Wednesday's was what we needed," Irish standing," McGraw said. "We upset at No. 16 Miami wasn't a coach Muffet McGraw said. "I really did a great job talking and turning point in Notre Dame's think we're playing with a lot of pressuring the ball." season. But it was certainly piv­confidence." Miami entered the game aver­otal. Megan Duffy had 14 points, six aging over 75 points a contest, 
The Irish used a second-half rebounds and five assists and but could only muster two-thirds surge and an outstanding defen­Courtney LaVere led the team of that total Wednesday. Notre sive effort to upend conference with 15 bench points on 6-of-11 Dame's zone defense held the 
...___.. 
leader Miami (16-2, 5-2) 59-50 in shooting. Jacqueline Batteast Coral Gables. The Irish improved narrowly missed another double-see UPSET/page 21 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Cooling off the 'Canes 
Francis leads team to 72-62 home win 
By MATT LOZAR Associare Spores Writer 
Irish coach Mike Brey had a simple pre-game message for forward Jordan Cornette. 
"Guard, you got [Darius] Rice, rebound the ball, and when you get an open shot, take it," Brey said. See Also 
Cornette held Rice, a "Quinn listens to first-team all coach's advice" 
Big East pre­season selec-page 22 tion, to 9-of­21 shooting, blocked four shots, led the Irish with 11 rebounds and scored 12 points in Notre Dame's 72-62 win over Miami Wednesday night at the Joyce Center. 
"You get to a point where you say, just go out there and play basketball," Cornette said. 
see WIN/page 22 

Irish guard Chris Quinn dribbles past Miami's Guillermo Dlaz In Notre Dame's 72-62 victory. 

fENCING 

Streak-breaking loss doesn't deter Irish tea1n 
after a loss. streaks fall, the search for tions, the class of 2007 has a By MATI MOONEY 
Fourth-ranked St. John's answers begins. very promising future. 
Spores Writer 

defeated the Irish on Sunday Ironically, the weakness However, they had very little 18-9, handing the team its would be found on one of the time to develop. 
The Notre Dame men's fenc­first defeat in 90 dual match­team's greatest strengths, its The top four fencers on last ing team finds itself in an es. Regrouping will not likely youth. With many of the year's team graduated, and unusual position this week -constitute a "Return to Glory" freshmen excelling in national trying to pick up the pieces campaign, but whenever and international competi-see LOSS/page 21 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles lose 62­44 at Albion 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Spores Wrirer 

Saint Mary's fell short in their attempt to win their second straight game for the first time in over a month, as they lost 62-44 to Albion Wednesday night. 
In a game that was sup­posed to be played on Tuesday but was cancelled due to the inclement weather, Saint Mary's was run out of the gym in a game the Belles desperately needed to win. 
Albion jumped out to a 31­25 lead at the half, but the difference came early in the second half. The Britons came out strong and outscored the Belles 31-19 en route to their 18-point victo­ry. 
While only shooting 38 per­cent from the floor, Albion outrebounded the Belles 45 to 30, and had 12 steals on the defensive end. 
Despite the disappointing loss, the Saint Mary's bench made key contributions. Anne Hogan lead the Belles with 10 points on 3 of 8 shooting and Bridget Boyce added nine points on 4-of-9 shooting. Bridget Lipke con­tribued six points on 2-3 shooting, and had three 
see BELLES/page 21 
~ 
NFL
NCAA BASKETBALl 
NBA 
NFL
NHl 

NCAA BASKETBALl
en 

Majerus will leave 
Patriots rebound 
Cavs win on late 

Heatle}' returns to
1--c.,)LLI 
Pittsbureh beats 
"Crazfi Legs" 
Boston ollege 
Hirsc dies at 80
well 
shot from Dajuan 

ice for first time 
Utah due to 
Wagner · 

this season 
health issues 
a:s 
The Panthers use a 
New England is back 

The former Rams star 
The coach had chest
strong second half to 
in the Super Bowl after 

Fans warmly welcome 
played nine years in the 
Cleveland finishes its
c: 
gain Big East victory. 
struggling last season. 

the star's return. 
pain this week and is in 
NFL.
homestand at 4-1. 
the hospital. 
A.;: 
en 
page 17
page 15 
page 14 
page 18 

page 18
page 19 












