
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
•

COR revtews SafeBus proposal 
Representatives 
discuss route, 

funding for plan 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Discussion regarding the Notre Dame SafeBus continued at the Council of Representatives meet­ing Monday. with repre­sentatives responding to the bus's proposed route, funding options and stu­dent safety concerns. 
Chief of staff Dave Baron presented a map to representatives display­ing a possible route for the SafeBus. Though it has not been approved, the proposed route 
see SAFEBUS/page 4 




Gallivan panel examines bias in the media 

Journalists shed light on ethics and trust for the upcoming presidential election 
press -the lowest percent­
By KATIE PERRY age since the poll's induction 
News Writer in 1972. 
"Trust in a news institution 
is something that is hard-won 
Though media bias is thriv­and something that can be ing in an environment of very easily dissipated," said reader distrust, growing par­Don Wycliff. public editor of tisanship and a contested the Chicago Tribune. presidential race, a panel of Anne Thompson, a national prominent journalists con­correspondent for NBC News. cluded Monday that these said she was "not surprised" biases can be counteracted by the faltering confidence of and prevented. the American people and 
The advisory committee of attributed the public's current the John W. Gallivan Program skepticism of the press to the in Journalism, Ethics and average reader's inability to Democracy -comprised of Bob Schmuhl launched the that 53 percent of Americans differentiate news from opin­Notre Dame alumni who are discussion by sharing statis­distrust news organizations, ion. In broadcast journalism, working in the media -gath­tics indicative of the current Schmuhl said, adding that anchormen like NBC's Tom ered at a public forum to air issues faced by the American another survey conducted by Brokaw and opinion-makers their beliefs on "Media Trust press. Gallup revealed that just 44 like Fox News' Bill O'Reilly and Bias in 50/50 America." A June study by the Pew percent of Americans are con­
Gallivan program director Research Center indicated fident in the accuracy of the see GALLIVAN/page.6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Milestone reached by accountants 
By LAUREN SIEGEL 
News Writer 
Christening Saint Mary's as its first college affiliate, the American Woman's Society of Certified Public Accountants (AWSCPA) welcomed a new era of women accountants on Monday. 
This link between students and professionals will be a step in the right direction for both the Saint Mary's department of business administration and for the society, College and AWSC­PA officials said. The AWSCPA reworked its bylaws to incorpo­rate the new student affiliate and also established a new standard in the organization. Under the new jurisdiction, stu­dents will have their own gov­ernment and be able to inter­pret the mission and objective of the organization in whatever manner they choose. 
"The incentive for Saint Mary's to partner with the AWSCPA is that we have the largest accounting program of any women's college in the country. which makes here an obvious place to start," Claude Renshaw, a professor in the department of business admin­istration and economics, said. 
AWSCPA, a professional non­profit organization comprised of women Certified Public Accountants, provides a sup­portive environment that pro­motes equity and opportunities for the achievement of career goals in a competitive and rap­idly changing profession. 
Jenifer Goforth, AWSCPA president, said she was excited to bring the organization to Saint Mary's. 
"We have many student mem­bers, however, this is the first time the society has set up a student afliliate, and it is excit­ing to be around women with such energy and excitement about this profession," Goforth 
see MILESTONE/page 6 




Hurricanes batter Notre Dame students' hometowns 
all [my family] lost, and then International students were By RACHAEL SCHERMITZLER just tons of debris in our yard." not also effected by the storms. News Writer Pensacola, Fla. resident "My country turnoo the 
Chase Gund, a sophomore, power off before the hurricane 
Four hurricanes and a tropi­reported a more drastic experi­was supposed to hit," said cal storm have battered the ence. Puerto Rico native Pablo Diaz, hometowns of many Notre· "This is the worst hurricane a freshman whose island felt Dame students, leaving some Pensacola has seen since the effects of Tropical Storm relatively unharmed and others Frederic 35 years ago," Gund Jeanne. "After the tropical devastated. said of Hurricane Ivan, a cate­storm hit, my country couldn't 
Junior Van Koppersmith said gory five storm that struck get the power back on [for a 
his hometown of Moblie, Ala. Pensacola two weeks ago. "It week]." 
suffered moderate damage. looks like a bomb has gone off. Despite the havoc the storms 
"We were fairly unscathed," Any building of any significant wreaked, many residents were 
Koppersmith said. "A 20-foot stature has had [its] roof torn 
oak and a crabapple tree were off." see STORMS/page 6 
Tuesday, September 28, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
If the shoe doesn't fit 
"It's a man's world out there!" How 
many times have I heard this truism, and 
wondered why? Why can't it be a world 
for women, too? 
Some say that at the turn of the 21st 
century it is a world 
for everyone. Come Jeannine Prlvat 
on, we have laws 
and statutP.s on 
equal opportunity Wire Editor 
and sex discrimina­
tion. We even have 
the murderer of all male sports programs 
throughout the nation, Title IX. Why are 
feminists still whining? 
I say it isn't a world for every sex; it is 
still a man's world. 
It's a world where female law students 
take their engagement rings off for inter­
views because they're afraid of being 
asked about their personal lives, which 
they're asked about even when they don't 
wear their rings. Personally, I'm not too 
clear on how wearing an engagement 
ring or being married affects one's per­
formance as an attorney. But hey, maybe I 
don't know how the real world works. 
In other fields, it's the same story. While 
women make up more than halfofthe 
work force of America, according to the 
2000 Census, they are not proportionally 
represented in higher levels of profession­
alism. Of the Fortune 500 CEOs, only six 
arc women. which is obviously propor­
tionally rcpm;entative of the female 
workforce. Besides this, there are other 
things that people often don't think about, 
like golf. 
Most women I know don't play golf. My 
mother sold her set of clubs years ago, 
but now I wish she had kept them and 
taught me. Because ifthere's one skill that 
I am lacking going into the real world ­
it's how to play golf. The country club­
the mecea of business deals. Men play a 
round of golf, have a few laughs and close 
the deal. This is one of the challenges that 
women face in networking. Everyone 
knows that you get jobs because of who 
you know. It's pretty hard to get to know 
man in charge when, while tl1e men are 
out on the course, you're a woman, stuck 
in the clubhouse -that's if you're 
allowed in. 
Why is all this relevant? Because 
women have to succeed in a man's world. 
The best advice for succeeding in a man's 
world-become a man. Don't take 
maternity leave -you'll miss promotions 
and won't be viewed as someone who 
takes work seriously. Don't cry -you'II 
give the appearance you can't hack it. 
Don't put your family first-the job 
comes ft.rst. Learn how to get your golf 
score to an 86-impress your superiors 
and clients. 
I'm not saying women today cannot succeed in the real world. They can. What I am saying is differences should not auto­matically subordinate women, which usu­ally happens in the "real" world, a man's world, when a woman acts too much like a woman. I want a world where I can be the woman, mother, attorney and wife . that I want to be, without sacrificing a sig­nificant part of my essence. To address this issue is difficult, but one that must be tackled by today's society. 
And no, I don't have the solution to this 
problem. But, I am working on it. 
Gloria Stein em once questioned, "If the shoe doesn't fit, why must we change the foot?" 
I want to know why I must become a man to be succeed as a woman? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Jeannine Privat at jprivat@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­cion and strives for rhc highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please conran us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BE AN ICE CREAM FLAVOR WHAT WOULD YOU BE? 



John Lyons Justin Cheers Lisa Goepfrich Michael French Sarah Valdes Anna Kim 
sophomore sophomore . sophomore junior freshman sophomore Knott Knott LeMan!i off campus Breen-Phillips Howard 
"Vanilla-"Chocolate -"Mint chocolate "The kind that "Strawberry, "Moose tracks, everyone loves everyone chip -smooth pops its collar. " because I'm a because there's 




vanilla." chocolate. " and refreshing. " 
Errant pollee to face morality lessons 
JAKARTA, Indonesia ­Muslim and Christian police officers caught drunk or being a tad dis­respectful to their boss in an Indonesian province are facing an unusual style of punishment -a 
crash course on  religious  
morality.  
About  150  officers  

accused of a range of minor offenses will spend a week at classes over­seen by either Christian or Muslim preachers depending on their reli­gion, Lt. Col. Syarif Pandiangan said Monday. 
TODAY 





ing a roundup in woods bordering Interstate 40 after four cows escaped from a cattle truck. 
Police spokesman Sgt. Terry Kuykendall said it was unclear how the cat­tle got loose as they were being driven westbound between the Levy and Burns Park exits. 
"The driver said he looked in his rear-view mirror and saw one of his cows sliding across the interstate," Kuykendall said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
"We want the public to know that we are taking even the smallest misde­meanors seriously," he said. "The police will have time to reflect on their mistakes." 
Once officers have com­pleted the course they will return to active duty in Riau province, about 500 miles northwest of Jakarta, Pandiangan said. 
Four cows get loose on 1-40 In Arkansas 
NORTH LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -North Little Rock police and animal control officers spent part of Monday afternoon hold-

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
BP babe." an animal in 
it., 

IN BRIEF 
Karen L. Kettering, associate curator of Russian Art at the Hillwood Museum & Gardens will speak today from 4:30 to 
5:30  p.m.  in  the  Snite  
Museum's  Annenberg  
Auditorium  on  the "Darker  

Shades of Red: The Official Art and Imagery of the Soviet Union, 1946-1990." 
"Bridget Jones' Diary" will be shown tonight at 7 p,m. in room 152 Regina llall at Saint Mary's. The movie kicks off a semester long Jane Austen film festival. 
Avery Cardinal Dulles will speak today at 4 p.m. in McKenna llall Auditorium on "Some Challenges of Contemporary Culture to the Catholic Church." 
The vice president of corpo­rate governance and secretary of Pfizer will speak today on "Corporate Governance at Pfizer," at 7 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. 
United Steelworkers for America's Marco Trbovich will speak on "The Power of Labor in Presidential Politics" Wednesday from 8 to 9:30 
p.m. in C-100 Hesburgh Center as part of the McBride Lecture Series. 
Outfoxed (Rupert Murdoch's War on Journalism) will be shown at 7 and 10 p.m. Thursday in The Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


73 70 47 44 
..... 
<C 
(.) 



0 

HIGH 69 HIGH HIGH 70 HIGH 71
..J 
LOW 39 LOW LOW 40 LOW 45 
42 
39 


Atlanta 82 I 62 Boston 68 I 54 Chicago 64 I 44 Denver 66 I 46 Houston 85 I 63 Los Angeles 76 I 60 Minneapolis 65 I 44 New York 70 I 54 Philadelphia 72 I 56 Phoenix 98 I 72 Seattle 70 I 52 St. Louis 73 I 50 Tampa 88 I 75 Washington 74 I 58 
Tuesday, September 28, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SAINT MARY'S BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Stickelmaier speaks about SMC finances 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Wrirer 
Saint Mary's director of finance Laurie Stickelmaier spoke to Board of Governance members · Monday about campus wide budget cuts occurring at the College. 
Stickelmaier said she predicts that it will take Saint Mary's three years to return to its nor­mal financial standing and pre­dicted that tuition would increase no more than 4 percent each year. 
"Until Saint Mary's is national­ly recognized, which it should be, as an excellent institution, tuition will continue to rise," said Stickelmaier. 
Stickelmaier assured the board that the finances will greatly increase once the new student center opens in March. It will include a new bookstore and convenience store, which is expected to generate much high­er revenues compared to the current bookstore. The student center is projected to open in March 2005. 
SMC Pride Week kicked off Monday with a picnic and con­cert on the library green, and events are scheduled throughout the week. Today's activities inr;lude a scavenger hunt at 8 p.m. at Dalloway's. On Wednesday the College will host a "Spirit Soccer Game" at 4 p.m. as the Belles take on Hope College and Thursday SAB will be show the movie "13 Going on 30" on the library green after sunset. "Spirit Week" events con­clude Friday as Saint Mary's co­sponsors the Notre Dame pep rally along with Keough Hall and O'Neill Hall. . 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
Women's Issues Commiss­ioner Katie Kelly reported that the Women's Issues group is planning a Love Your Body Day to take place before fall break. 

+ 
Kelly reported that voter registration was successful and that Fox News covered the event. 

+ 
Board of Governance also welcomed its newest member, freshmen class president Colleen Kielty, who was elected in last week's freshman class elections. Kielty is originally from Chicago and lives in Holy Cross Hall. 


Student Trustee Sarah Brown said that freshmen board elec­tions would take place Oct. 5. The College will host a "Meet the Candidates" session next Monday at 7 p.m. in Haggar Parlor with the 19 candidates running for board positions. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO1@saintmarys.edu 
Tim Wise to address SMC 
Prominent anti-racist speaker to give lecture on race and society 
By ABIGAIL RICHARDSON News Writer 
A prominent white anti racist speaker will lecture today at 12:30 p.m. in Saint Mary's Stapleton Lounge. Tim Wise will address "Beyond Diversity: Challen­ging Racism in an Age of 
Backlash," and will focus on race and the influ­ence it has on society. 
Assis­t a n t 


D i r e c t o r Wise of the Office of Multicultural Affairs Marie Willis said this lecture will hopefully foster dialogue on campus. 
"We want to provide dif­ferent voices," Willis said. "The more information [stu­dents) have will help [them] understand." 
Wise is one of the most 

well known white anti racist speakers. He has spoken to over 7 5,000 people in 46 states, including 275 college campuses about the issues of racist actions. 
Wise is also well known for training labor, govern­ment, corporate and law enforcement officials on dis­mantling racism within their institutions. 
Wise's discussion will focus on race and how everyone has a responsibili­ty to help further dialogue, since race is an issue all people are faced with. 
Wise will also touch on the controversial topic of affir­mative action and reverse discrimination. His book, "Little White Lies: the Truth About Affirmative Action" and "Reverse Discrimina­tion," which will be a part of his discussion. 
Multicultural Affairs feels it is important for students to see the various issues from a wide variety of speakers. Last week, "Race: The Power of Illusion" was 
shown as a precursor to the speakers that will be com­ing to Saint Mary's. Willis hopes the movie and word of mouth will help encour­
age  people  to  attend  the  
speakers.  
"I  hope students  see  the  

resources we have available to them," Willis said. "[Students become] interest­ed in looking into the future speakers and the resources. Information out side the class can help understand what is going on inside the class." 
Multicultural Affairs will also bring Hugh Vasquez to campus on Oct. 5 to discuss dismantling racism. 
Vasquez created many documentaries dealing with racism and has also co­authored books dealing with moving beyond the face of race. He is currently work­ing to eliminate institutional racism, sexism and clas­sism. 
Contact Abigail Richardson at arichaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
CLASS OF 2004: Am ate House: Diana Mattingly, Laura Metzger, Shaina Morphew, Jeannie Mulcahy, Coleman, Michael Porco. Operation TEACH: Laura Rimkus. Paradete Center: Kerry Perez, Katie Katie Wales. Arnericorps: Jennifer Gushurst, David Harmon. Bend Service Corps: Claudette Perry. Partners in School Innovation: Jeneka Joyce. Peace Corps: Christine Carey, Andrew Coleman, Byrd-Rinck, Katherine Liegl. Bill Emerson National Hunger Fellowship: Dennis Barrett, Dan Clare Donnelly-Taylor, Kimberly Fletcher, Jessica Gibson, Caroline Hardy, Jacqueline Hazen, Allison Murphy. Campus Ministry Internship: Lisa Pendarvis, Gregory Ruehlmann, Courtney Schuster, Kirchner, William McCaughan Jr., Lynne McChrystal, Caroline Nardi, Tiffany Natelborg, Elizabeth Megan Thomas. Casa Juan Diego: Caitlin Polley. Catholic Charities Volunteer Program: Katie Phillips, Gino Signoracci, Nina Whittaker. PLACE Corps: Erin Hughes. Providence Volunteers: Hurley. Catholic Volunteers in Florida: Daniese Allen. Catholic Worker: Liz Fallon. Chapin Street Caitlin Willard. Puerto Rico Center for Social Concerns: Justin Brandon, Alexis Carlin, Kristin Clinic: David Wyncott. Christian Appalachia Project: Tim Peplinski. Chile: Leah Malito, Mike Cordova, Robert Gutierrez, Katie Hughes, Amy Pavela, Daniel Runde, Catherine Shiel. Response­Ryan. Dominican Volunteers: John Griffin. Evangelical Lutheran Church of America Global Ability's Teacher Service Program: Meghan Kelly. Salesian Missions: Sean Hogan, Dustin Segretto. Mission: Margaret Anne Ruddy. Faith Formation Leadership Program: Kara Alworth, Nicole St. Francis ofAssisi School: Elizabeth Martin. St.Ignatius Loyola Academy: Sarah Novak. Student 
Bernal, Andrea Blyth, Monica Brown, Chantal de Alcuaz, Lauren Ellis, Elizabeth Lee, Gerardo Rojas Mayorga, Pat Millea, Kim Otto, Mary Kate Radelet, Michael Sena, Luke Slonkosky. Farm of the Child: Naomi Cordell, Laura Tibbitt. Franciscan Ambassadors for Community Education & Service: Richard Friedman.· FrancisCorps: Matt DiBias Nicole Bonk. The Fund for Public Interest Research: Michael . Zawada. Good Shepherd Volunteers: Meg Dominick. Haitian Project: Ana Isabel Izaguirre, Peter Yoches. Holy Cross Associates: Maureen Carney, Trevor Kusiak, Matt Lashlee, Kathryn Lent, Eileen Mack, Jim Madden, Kathryn O'Brien, Mark Rossi. Holy Cross Missions: Stephen Merjavy. Holy Cross Parish/ Right to Life: Monica Go. Inner-City Teaching Corps: Maura Cenedella, Katie Olson. Interfaith Action/Coalition of Immokalee Workers: Brigette Gynther. Jesuit Volunteer Corps: Luke Dillon, Dawn Kuras, Katherine Maich, Mary Morgan, Crystal Prentice, Kevin Sibbernsen, Tad Skotnicki, Dave Vosburg. Jesuit Volunteer International: Maureen Fitzpatrick, Diane Price. Kensington Welfare Rights 


Think Outside The Box 
Consider joining these 2004 graduates who have committed to a year or two with post graduate service programs. 
Post-Graduate Service Fair Wednesday, September 29 5 8 p.m. @ Stepan Center 

C E N T E R F 0 R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Conservation Corps -Forest Service Internship: Pipa Elias. Teach for America: Kate Belden, Denise Melegrito de Ia Rosa, Tom Doar, Megan Dosmann, Margaret Halloran, David Heineman, Linda Joseph, Elizabeth Lenn, Kristen McCaffrey, Elizabeth Melchor, Lucy Patranella, Jessie Potish, Carrianne Scheib, Meghan Scanlan, Priya Varghese. Unang Hakbang Foundation: Jonathan Lorenzo. U.S. Catholic Conference Internships: George McDonnell, Kelsey Wicks. Yale School of Medicine-International Clinical Health: Keri Oxley. Alliance for Catholic Education: John Bacsik, Bianca Bautista, Frankie Beecroft, Leah Anne Bertke, Toby Biebl, Christopher Broughton, Shannon Byrne, Caela Carter, Greg Celio, Lauren Coglianese, TJ D'Agostino, Paul Daday, Liza Davis, Sarah Finch, Meghann Finerghry, Colleen Gannon, Laura Giannuzzi, Rosemary Gibney, Tony Groseta, Tony Hollowell, Elizabeth Larkin, Soran Leahy, Lauren Leo, Michael Macaluso, Chelsea Madison, Carol McCarthy, Katherine Mitchell, Mandy Mouton, Francisco Ramirez, 

Union: Cecilia Garza. LANCE: Jennifer Gaisser-Sadler. eArche: Erin Dugan. Legal Aid: Christina Hernandez. Loyola Choice Teaching Program: Erin Burns, Sean McCurdy, Molly Walsh. Maggie's Place: Leslie Pechkurow. Maryknoll China Teaching Program: Stephen Morrow, Chris Ptak, Tom Sandak, Stephanie Thibault. Mercy Home for Boys and Girls: Maryelien Goodman, Dan Greene. Mount Carmel High School: Lindsay Zika. New Orleans Volunteer Service Community: Toben Cocklin Tim Ducey, Richard Gonsiorek, Tom Minervino. Notre Dame Haiti Program: Andrew Christina Robinson, Annette Romans, Tai Romero, Kevin Somok, Ryan Suarez, Matt Vereecke, Andrew Villanueva, Aaron Wall, Nick Williams, Laura Wolohan, Lauren Wons, David Yeager. Programs to be determined: Matt Currie, Andrew Cyski, Dave Reinsch, Stacy Kuta, Jennifer Morgan, Mary Murphy, Nadia Stefko, Kristi Yerg. 


Tuesday, September 28, 2004 
page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Information Meeting 


Perth, Australia 
If:or students in the Colleges of Science and EngineerinG, Only r 
Wednesday, September 29z 2004 
Room 138 DeBartolo Hall 5:30-7:00 plil 
Election results vvith win for Kielty, Siefert 
Board elections set to take place next week 
about being elected," Kielty
By ANGELA SAOUD 
said. "We're looking for­
Saint Mary's Editor 
ward to getting started on 
planning events for this 
year." 
Colleen Kielty and Maggie Kielty said the first order Siefert were of business named the Saint is to get Mary's freshman the rest of class president the fresh­
"We're very pleased 
and vice presi­man board
with the turnout and
dent yesterday, elected. after a run-off know that Colleen Elections election took for non­
and Maggie will do
place last week. executive 
an excellent job of
Kielty and members Siefert received leading the class of of the first 57 percent of the year class
2oo8 this coming
class votes while board will
year."
competitors be held Hocky Krivda and n e x t Lauren McAllister Anna Bauer Tuesday. received 41 per­Follow­
election commissioner 
cent. ing the Nearly 60 per-elections. cent of the class Kielty said participated in the vote. she wants to have a kick-off 
"We're very pleased with activity to "unify the class of the turnout and know that 2008." Colleen and Maggie will do "Our big theme right now an excellent job of leading is just bringing the class the class of 2008 this com­together," Kielty said. "Now ing year," elections commis­that we're elected, we can sioner Anna Bauer said. get started finding great 
Kielty and Siefert say they ways to do just that.·· are ready to take on the task ahead of them. Contact Angela Saoud at 
"We're really excited saou0303@saintmarys.edu 


SafeBus 
continued from page 1 
spurred questions from vari­
ous representatives. 
While many off campus bars such as Corby's, The Library and Boat Club were included, some others were left out. Off campus repre­sentative Dave McGowan sug­gested the Linebacker be added to the route, while stu­dent union board manager Jimmy Flaherty questioned whether or not Saint Mary's was a drop off point. 
"We have to try to get Linebacker in if we can. And Saint Mary's will not be part of the SafeBus route," stu­dent body president Adam Istvan said. 
According to the map pre­sented by Baron, the route would begin at Main Circle and make approximately ten stops at various bars and apartment complexes· off campus. Istvan estimated the bus would run in thirty minute intervals from mid­night until 4 a.m. Hall Presidents Council co-chair Claire Fadel expressed con­cern about students misusing the bus as a means to take them to pa.rties. rather than a safe way to bring them home. 
Concerns were also raised about what sort of message would be sent by the University if it endorsed Safe Bus. 
"One hundred percent of 
the people I talked to had ideological concerns. They expressed concerns over how it will affect the image of the student body," Center for Social Concerns representa­tive Andrew Hoyt said. 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni responded by citing the purpose of the Safe Bus. 
"We are drawing the line between the University pro­moting alcoholic extracurric­ular activities and supporting the safety of those who choose to take part in them by emphasizing that the bus is picking up students rather than taking them places off campus," Bongiovanni said. 
.Bongiovanni suggested that the Council examine the dan­gers involved with the taxi services students currently use for off-campus gather­ings. 
"We need to look into how unsafe cab rides are getting. There are so many reports of crazy drivers," Bongiovanni said. 
Istvan agreed. 
"This is a student safety issue which. should take precedence over any other reason for the Safe Bus." he said. "This should be a prior­ity for security." 
Student body vice president Karla Bell pres en ted her research on transportation at other universities across the country. She cited Northwestern, Duke and Boston College as examples of schools which have vary­ing forms of bus or van serv­ices for students going within a certain distance off-cam­pus. Though prices vary at each school, all have buses running late into the night and many are run by campus security. 
"A lot of the schools men­tioned are in safer towns than South Bend, and they still have transportation for students," HPC co-chair Liz Cain said. "South Bend has had a lot of dangerous inci­dents which raise safety con­cerns ai)d the need for a campus bus service." 
Questions regarding fees for the bus were also raised. Istvan suggested a. variety of possible sources for funding. 
"We have a lot of different options," Istvan said. "Notre Dame security could possibly fund it. There is the possibili­ty of selling bus passes to students, costing $10 for the entire year. Or. we may add an additional four dollars to every student's activity fee which would cover the SafeBus for the school year." 
Representatives expressed satisfaction with the progress that has been made, while Baron announced further steps being taken to make the SafeBus a reality. 
"We are contacting the mayor's office, and we're looking to get endorsement by Mayor Stephen Luecke by next Thursday because the bus will be running in the South Bend area," Baron said. "We need the support of the community outside Notre Dame." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

Application deadline: November 15, 2004 for Fall 2005 only Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/--intlstud 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 28, 2004 CoMPiLED FROM T1-··lE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page-5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Accident at Dubai airport kills 8 
DUBAI. United Arab Emirates -A crane smashed into a wall during construction of an unfinished terminal at Dubai's airport Monday, and witnesses reported at least eight workers were killed. 
Workers said they saw up to 40 injured people being taken away, but the toll could not be immediately confirmed. Airport spokeswoman Lavina Dixit Chatterjee issued a lower toll, saying five workers were killed and 12 were injured. 
Two Dubai hospitals said they had received a total of 22 injured workers, including nine in serious condition. 
At least eight people were killed at the scene and some died in the hospital, said an official of the building consortium Al­Naboodah Laing O'Rourke, the main contrac­tor at the site. 

Al-Qaida figure dies of heart attack 
BEIHUT, Lebanon -The alleged top al­Qaida operative in Lebanon who was cap­tured in a security operation that broke up a terrorist network died of a heart attack Monday, hospital and security officials said. 
Ismail Mohammed al-Khatib was hospital­ized in the morning after suffering a cardiac arrest. but died from a second attack in the afternoon, said officials from Bahanes I Iospital, 18 miles outside Beirut. 
Lebanese security officials also confirmed al-Khatib did after undergoing the heart attacks. 
Al-Khatib was one of two top operatives of al-Qaida's organization captured by Lebanese authorities Sept. 17 along with 10 other suspects. The other one was Ahmed Salim Mikati. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Justice Dept audit finds FBI backlog 
WASHINGTON -The FBI has a backlog of hundreds of thousands of hours of untrans­lated audio recordings from terror and espi­onage investigations, despite large increases in money and personnel for translations since the 2001 terror attacks, a Justice Department audit released Monday said. 
In addition. the audit by Glenn A. Fine, the agency's inspector general, found more than one-third of al-Qaida intercepts authorized by a secret federal court were not reviewed within 12 hours of collection as required by FBI Director Robert Mueller. 
"Our audit highlighted the significant chal­lenges facing the FBI to ensure that transla­tion of key information is performed timely and accurately," Fine said. 
Lawsuit over voting reinstated 
TALLAHASSEE. Fla. -Just five weeks before Election Day, a federal appeals court Monday revived a lawsuit demanding that all Florida voters who use touchscreen machines receive a paper receipt, in case a recount becomes necessary. 
The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals told a federal judge in Fort Lauderdale to reopen the case, which could affect 15 Florida coun­ties whose electronic voting terminals do not issue paper records. 
It was not immediately clear if the case could be decided before the Nov. 2 presiden­tial election. 
LOCAL NEWS 


School band instructor pleads guilty 
NOBLESVILLE -Dmitri Alano pleaded guilty to sexual battery Sunday -a day before he was scheduled to face trial in Hamilton Superior Court on sexual mis­conduct charges. 
Alano, 38, of Fortville, has been on paid administrative leave from Hamilton Southeastern Schools, where he Served as 
a high school band instructor.  
In February, prosecutors filed  seven  
counts sexual misconduct with a  minor  
against Alano.  


Charges against fornter bishop dropped 
Prosecutor won't pursue child rape charges against former Springfield bishop 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -A district attorney said Monday that he· would not prosecute Roman Catholic Bishop Thomas Dupre on child rape charges ­despite a newly unsealed indictment in the case ­because the statute of limi­tations has expired. 
In the indictment released Monday morning, Dupre was charged with molesting two boys in the 1970s, becomip.g the first Roman Catholic bishop to face crim­inal charges in the sex abuse scandal that has rocked the American church. 
However, the grand jury returned indictments only related directly to child abuse, and not to other pos­sible charges such· as wit­ness tampering and obstruc­tion of justice. Without those indictments, Hampden District Attorney William Bennett said he was pre­cluded from pursuing the case because the statute of limitations in force at the time of the alleged crimes was limited to six years. 

"Even with probable cause, there was a strong possibility that prosecution of such allegations could be barred by the statute of limi­tations," Bennett said in a news conference hours after the charges became public. When Bennett announced evidence of sexual miscon­who filed lawsuits against 
Dupre, 70, cited health in the spring that he would duct by other church offi­the bishop, have said the reasons when he resigned in present the case to a grand cials. abuse continued for years February after nine years as jury, he initially conceded The bishop's lawyer, and that Dupre asked them head of the Springfield that it could be difficult to Michael Jennings, said he to keep quiet about it when Diocese. But his departure charge Dupre with abuse would ask a judge to dismiss he was made auxiliary bish­came one day after The because of the statute of the charges against his op in 1990. Republican newspaper of limitations. But the prosecu­client, arguing that the Mark Dupont, a Springfield confronted him tor said later that Dupre statute of limitations had spokesman for the diocese, with allegations he abused could be charged because of expired. said Dupre's successor, two boys while he was a more recent attempts to "At the time of the alleged Bishop Timothy McDonnell, parish priest. · conceal the alleged crimes. crimes, there was a six-year would have no immediate 
The indictment was hand­Bennett said the investiga­statute of limitations," comment on the indict­ed up by a grand jury Friday tion uncovered no evidence Jennings said. "It's clear to ments. and unsealed Monday. to suggest there were any me that this doesn't work There have been at least a morning. other victims, nor was there for them." dozen grand jury investiga­
Bennett said the grand evidence that any church According to the indict­tions involving how bishops jury was convened to inves­officials were aware of the ment, Dupre started raping dealt with abuse claims, and tigate all aspects of the alle­allegations until they one of the boys in 1976 in four bishops have resigned gations against Dupre, became public earlier this Chicopee and West after being accused of sexu­including whether he tried year. Springfield; he started abus­al misconduct. But Dupre to cover up the abuse and He also said that there ing the other boy in 1979 in was the first U.S. prelate whether he had abused any was no evidence Dupre West Springfield. indicted on charges of other children. destroyed or concealed any Dupre's alleged victims, molesting children. 

ISRAEL 


Gaza attack kills 7 Palestinians 
Associated Press  Committees, an umbrella of dissi­dents from several militant groups.  Hundreds of people gathered around the white vehicle after the  
JERUSALEM  - Israelis  killed  But Israeli military sources, speak-·  missile blast burned the passenger  
seven  Palestinians  in  attacks  ing on condition of anonymity, said  compartment, twisting the chassis  
Monday, including a Gaza airstrike that killed one militant and wounded  the target was the other occupant of the car _ Mohammed Abu Nasira,  but leaving the front half intact. An Israeli military statement said  
a  militia commander, who vowed  southern Gaza commander of the  only that the raid targeted "a vehicle  
revenge from his hospital bed. The Gaza attack came as each side  group. "The (Israeli) crimes will not pass  carrying a senior operative" respon­sible for many attacks.  
pummels the other in the run-up to  without punishment," Abu Nasira  The .Popular Resistance group was  
Israel's planned pullout from the crowded seaside territory next year.  told The Associated Press by tele­phone from the hospital. where he  behind explosions that destroyed two Israeli tanks and is thought by some  
An Israeli helicopter fired a missile  was being treated for serious burns.  to have been involved in a similar  
at a car east of the city of Khan Younis, killing Ali al-Shaer, a mem­ "I will continue my mission to terror­ize the enemy [Israel]. and we will  blast that destroyed a vehicle in a U.S. Embassy convoy a year ago,  
ber  of  the  Popular  Resistance  win the battle."  killing three security guards.  

Tuesday, September 28, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Milestone 
continued from page I 
said. . The new student affiliate government will have the same ofl1cers as the current Lady Accountants of Tomorrow organization has. Co-presidents Molly Welton and Veronica Fritz. vice presi­·dent Hisa Zander. secretary 
Julie Taylor and treasurer 
Katie llarthen will guide the 
new affiliate government dur­
ing its inaugural year. 
"Today marks a milestone 
for Saint Mary's, not only for 
the accounting department, 
but also for the college," 
Wnlton said. "Not only are we 
the first all women's college 
alliliate with the AWSCPA. but 
we are also the first student 
alliliate altogether." 
Despite the excitement, Saint Mary's now has the responsi­bility of setting the student affiliation standard bar high for future generations. 
"There arc many advantages to this partnership for both groups," Alexandra Miller, for­mer AWSCPA president, said. "For students this is an oppor­tune time to start thinking about your career and we are an organization that is big on networking." 

In addition to the AWSCPA kickoff, current juniors and seniors in the major received awards according to their excellence in accounting. Welton received the McGladrey & Pullen Award for her excel­lence in intermediate account­ing courses. Taylor received the Crowe Chizek award for her outstanding excellence in personal and corporate tax courses. Moira Cronin received the Bridget Anderson KPMG Award for her excellence in principles of accounting cours­es. Jennifer Farbauch received the Ernst and Young award for overall excellence in the field of accounting. 
Professor Jamie O'Brien was also commended for his dedi­cation to the accounting pro­gram. 
Contact Lauren Siegel at sieg4735@saintmarys.edu 

that, ironically, is provoked by 
the news organizations them­

Gallivan 
selves. continued from page I This partisan style needs to 
be mitigated -not motivated are presented in much the -by the. mainstream press, same way, Thompson said. Tuthill said. 
Public wariness extends Monica Yant-Kinney, a beyond the television set, how­columnist at the Philadelphia ever. Bill Mitchell, the online Inquirer, agreed that the editor and marketing director media must share the blame. at The Poynter "We're playing a Institute, argued role in all of this that the current ourselves," she climate is remi­"We're playing a said, holding up a niscent of the USA Today adver­
role in all ofthis
1970s and 1980s tisement that
ourselves ... 
because people played up the con­are inclined to [Journalists] cept of red state immediately vs. blue state
are not 
assume what America.
hapless victims." 
they read in var­"(Journalists] are ious facets of the not hapless vic­press to be false. Monica Yant-Kinney tims." 
Journalists must Philadelphia Inquirer Panelists agreed know that the that public trust
columnist 
trust of the read­er is minimal and that he or she will readily presume bias, Mitchell said. 
Wycliff expanded on Mitchell's argument, pointing to the vast partisanship of the contemporary political climate. 
"It seems as if you write about one candidate, you are automatically bashing his opponent and vice-versa," Wycliff said. 
According to Wycliff, news­paper readers of today are quick to blame writers and editors for bias in their deliv­ery of news, rather than affording journalists the bene­fit of the doubt. 
Kelley Tuthill, an anchor at WCVB Boston, likened this to an "us versus them" mentality can be restored if 
a distinct policy of 
honesty and open­ness is implemented by mem­bers of the press. "The watch-word is trans­parency," Wycliff said. 
In order to eliminate ambi­guity and mystery in the media, Mitchell suggested that journalists use anonymous sources sparingly, adopt clear standards to abide by·and cor­rect errors in reporting more quickly. For journalists like Mitchell, the future credibility of the media hinges on these ideals. 
"Until transparency is demonstrated, we are going to be in trouble," Mitchell said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

Storins 
continued from page I 
not forced to evacuate. 
"My family didn't do any­thing to prepare our house," Koppersmith said. "We've never really worried much about shattering win­dows and there's not much you can do if a 50-foot pine 
is  going  to fall  on your  
house."  
In  Puerto  Rico,  the  

dynamics are different. 
"We live in an area where the houses are made of con­crete," Diaz said. "But not all of Puerto Rico lives in concrete houses, so the most affected were those who lived in houses made of wood." 
Many residents who heard hurricane destruction rates did not evacuate either. 
"The part of Pensacola where I live, Escambia county, is a little higher than the rest of Pensacola, so we usually don't get Qooding or anything like that," Gund said. "But most everyone else I went to school with evacuated." 
Hurricane Ivan was the deadliest hurricane to hit the United States since Floyd in 1999, killing 103 people in the Caribbean and United States. It was pre­ceded by llurricane Frances and Hurricane Charley. 
Contact Rachael Schermitzler at rscherOl @saintmarys.edu 

Student International Business Council 


It's Not Too Late!!! 
Interested in joining the SIBC but were unable to attend the first meeting? It's not too late to join! 
ALL MAJORS ARE WELCOME! 
•

*Hands on real life experience *Establish contacts with alumni *Gain valuable leadership skills *Summer internships and teaching positions around the globe 
Contact A Division Leader For More Information 
• 
Accounting-Jason Kingery • Marketing-Melanie Lauck jkingery@nd.edu mlauck@nd.edu 

• 
Business Consulting-Hunter Craig Finance--Tim Lavelle


• 
hcraig@nd. edu tlavelle@nd.edu 
• 
Global Development-Dan Degen • Human Resources-Erin Cook ddegen@nd.edu ecook@nd.edu 

• 
Internships-Mike Panzica and Ana Bermudez • Information Teclmology-Joe Dubbs tpanzica@nd.edu and aberrnude@nd.edu jdubbs@nd.edu 




THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Tuesday, September 28, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 9 988.54 -58.70
jones ' 
A
/Up: Same: DQw,n: Composite Volume. 1,185 165 • 1,259,120,256 
AMEX 1,263:14 -1.83 NASDAQ 1,859.88 -19.60 NYSE 6,496.37 -35.00 s&PSOO 1' 103.52 +6.59 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 10,859.32 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,541.20 -36.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.96 -0.36 18 04 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.04 -0.21 19.92 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.37 -0.10 27.19 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) + 1.36 +0. 15 II. 19 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -3.19 -0.09 2.73 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.58 -0.28 47.72 10-YEAR NOTE -0.84 -0.34 39.97 5-YEARNOTE -1.23 -0.41 32.82 3-MONTH BILL -0.53 -0.09 16.82 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.76 49.64 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +1.00 410.70 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -3.00 97.50 
Exchan Rates 
YEN I I 1.21 EURO 0.8123 POUND 0.5519 CANADIAN$ 1.2713 
IN BRIEF 
Fannie Mae to fix accounting errors 
WASHINGTON -Under pressure from fed­eral regulators, Fannie Mae's board has agreed to sweeping action to correct what were cited as serious accounting problems. 
Fannie Mae agreed to boost the mortgage giant's capital, recalculate key transactions back to 2001 and tighten internal controls. 
Experts said Monday that the agreement could crimp profits, slow growth or force the sale of assets at the nation's largest financer of home mortgages. 
The government-chartered mortgage financer and its regulator said Monday they had reached an agreement late Sunday after negotiations last week and over the weekend. 
A week ago, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight told Fannie Mae that its eight-month-old investigation had found per­vasive earnings manipulation to meet Wall Street expectations as well as serious account­ing misdeeds. It ordered "immediate remedial action." 
"This agreement is an important step toward resolving these concerns and helping to assure safe and sound operations," OFHEO Director Armando Falcon said in a statement Monday. 
Harrah's, Caesars to sell 4 casinos 
lAS VEGAS -Harrah's Entertainment Inc. ll:nd Caesars Entertainment Inc. on Monday said they agreed to sell four casino hotels to an affili­ate of Colony Capital LLC for about $1.24 billion. 
The sale of Harrah's East Chicago, Harrah's Tunica, Atlantic City Hilton and Bally's Tunica is intended to satisfy regulators ahead of the $9.4 billion Harrah's-Caesars merger announced in July. 
State regulatory agencies and the Federal Trade Commission are reviewing the proposed merger, which is expected to close by mid-2005. 
Selling the East Chicago casino would leave Harrah's with two other Indiana gambling licenses. Indiana regulations permit ownership of only two plus 10 percent of a third, according to Standard & Poor's. 
Colony, a private investment firm licensed in gaming, owns Resorts International in Atlantic City and the Las Vegas Hilton. Colony also is a partner in Accor Casinos in Europe. 

French bank accused of lax tnonitoring 
Congress investigates illicit business deals in U.N. oil-for-food program 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Congressional investiga­tors examining "a semi­trailer truck load" of sub­poenaed documents are trying to determine whether lax monitoring at a French bank that 'held more than $60 billion for the U.N. oil-for-food pro­gram facilitated illicit busi­ness deals by the former Iraqi government, officials told The Associated Press. 
Although BNP Paribas isn't the target of the probe involving companies and individuals in 50 countries, the documents could provide a road map to alleged corruption at the United Nations and by politicians from France, Russia, Britain, Indonesia and Persian Gulf states who have been implicated. 
The three congressional panels that subpoenaed BNP Paribas documents are looking into whether the bank met minimum standards that require 
·financial institutions to identify customers, partly to prevent money launder­ing. The committees are among at least five in Congress investigating allegations of U.N. corrup­tion and reports that Iraqis skimmed billions of dollars in kickbacks through deals administered by the United for-food was designed to tomer' rules and similar after the Sept. 11 terrorist Nations. allow the former Iraqi gov­laws enacted as part of the attacks. 
Investigators also are ernment to sell limited Patriot Act, said a Coleman's panel is inves­pressing for information amounts of oil in exchange spokesman for Rep. Henry tigating similar questions from the Federal Reserve for humanitarian goods as Hyde, R-111., who chairs and allegations the bank Bank of New York, which an exemption from sanc­the House International may have overcharged the is responsible for regulat­tions in place since 1991. Relations Committee. United Nations for its serv­ing foreign banks operat­The BNP bank, which The spokesman, Sam ices. Coleman said BNP is ing in the United States. held the escrow account Stratman, said that BNP, "not our primary target," 
"From our perspective through which all of the which has offices in New however, and the bank is this is a scandal of over­U.N. program's oil money York, was being coopera­cooperating. Coleman and whelming proportions. flowed, maintains investi­tive and that the investiga­others stressed the probes There are so many pieces. gators sought its docu­tion had not yet drawn any are at an early stage. We want to follow the ments as evidence target­conclusions. In a statement, the bank money wherever it leads," ing other companies and U.S. "know your cus­said, "BNP Paribas is fully said Sen. Norm Coleman, individuals. But several tomer" rules require cooperating with all R-Minn., chairman of the congressional panels say banks to collect informa­inquiries. We are not the Senate Government Affairs the bank also is under tion about their clients' target of any investiga­Permanent Subcommittee scrutiny. businesses with an eye tion." on Investigations. "The subpoena for BNP toward detecting illegal Rep. Chris Shays, R­
The United Nations' Paribas stems from con­activities such as money Conn., who chairs the largest humanitarian aid cerns expressed about the laundering. The USA House Government Affairs program from 1996 to bank's compliance with Patriot act strengthened committee, has set new 2003, when it ended, oil-existing 'know your cus-the regulations in 2001 hearings for Oct. 5. 



Merck invests in new obesity drug 
betes, high blood pressure, heart dis­Nastech's stock shot up as much as
Associated Press 
ease, arthritis and cancer. 43 percent and was up 40 percent, or 
TRENTON, N.J. -Could squirting The other possible applications are $3.11, at $10.85 in midafternoon a little medicine up the nose before part of the company's overall pro­trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. mealtime be the Holy Grail for people gram, "but -they're the dessert, not Shares of Whitehouse Station-based trying to people shed pounds? the entree," Dr. Steven C. Quay, Merck rose 68 cents, or 1.5 percent, 
Pharmaceutical giant Merck & Co. Nastech's chairman, president and to $44.78 on the NYSE. appears to be betting on it, with a chief executive officer, told analysts Under the deal between the two multimillion-dollar partnership with during a conference call. companies, Nastech will receive a $5 a company that last year began In an interview with The million upfront cash payment. It will small-scale testing of a nasal spray Associated Press, Quay said that if be eligible to receive up to $131 mil­drug designed to make the stomach further testing of the drug goes well, lion if it achieves milestones Merck feel full faster. he thinks it could reduce patients' set for continued testing and regula­
Nastech Pharmaceutical Company daily calorie intake by 30 percent. tory approval of the compound, and Inc. of Bothell, Wash., said Monday It would translate into an approxi­could receive up to $210 million that its compound, known as PYY for mate 50-pound weight loss over a mote for reaching milestones related short, could help address not only year, based on the 2,800 calories a to eventual sales of the drug. It also the nation's obesity epidemic but day the average American eats, he would receive an undisclosed level of related health problems such as dia-said. royalties on sales of the medicine. 

Tuesday, September 28, 2004

page 8 He Observer + NEWS 
O'Brien to take over NBC's 'Tonight' show 
Associated Press 
NEW YOBK -NBC chose tlw 50th anniversary of the "Tonight" show on Monday to announce that Jay Leno will be succeeded by "Late Night" host Conan O'Brien in five years -or thousands of jokes from now. 
The unusual succession plan solves a delicate problem for NBC, blocking other networks 
from  poaching  O'Brien  to  
move  him to  an  earlier time  
slot.  

Leno planned to make the announcement on Monday's "Tonight." 
"In 2009. I'll be 59 years old and will have had this dream job for 17 years," Leno said. "When I signed my new con­tract, I felt that the timing was right to plan for my successor and there is no one more qual­ified than Conan. 
"Plus, I promised Mavis I would take her out for dinner before I turned 60," the notori­ously workaholic Leno said about his wife. 
When they signed Leno to his latest contract extension, NBC executives said they asked Leno when he'd feel comfortable making a transi­tion. lie knew that they want­ed to keep O'Brien but that wouldn't be likely if Leno kept doing the job indefinitely. 
Leno's agreement to a 2009 exit gives him the chance to make a smoother transition than when he took over from Johnny Carson on May 25, 1992, said Aaron Barnhart, a Kansas City Star columnist who once ran a newsletter on late-night TV news. Leno was criticized then for not even mentioning his predecessor. 
For his first few years at "Tonight," Leno trailed the person he beat for the job ­David Letterman -in ratings and critical respect. But Leno eclipsed Letterman among viewers in the 1995-96 season and hasn't looked back. 
In the season that concluded last week. "Tonight" averaged 
5.8 million viewers, a 2 per­
cent increase over the previ­
ous year. Letterman's "Late 
Show" on CBS averaged 4.2 
million, up 8 percent from the 
year before. 
Some in the industry private­
ly thought it odd that Leno, 
who rarely if ever misses 
work. would willingly place a 
deadline on himself unless he 
was being pushed by NBC. 
NBC executives were not 
commenting on Monday. 
But Barnhart said the expe­
riences of Leno's good friend, 
Jerry Seinfeld, might have 
proved that there is life -and 
lucrative work -after giving 
up the TV gig of a lifetime. 
"Seinfeld has proven how you can move beyond TV and continue to be as big and as popular and as in demand as ever without having to punch the clock every night," he said. 
O'Brien's previous contract was expiring this year. The last time he was up for a renewal, Fox tried to lure him with an earlier show, but O'Brien turned it down at the last minute. ABC, Fox and even CBS -if Letterman has any plans to retire himself in the next few years -might have been interested. 
In interviews, O'Brien, 41, has expressed a mixture of ambition and loyalty to NBC. He debuted in his current time slot in September 1993. 
"There is the curiosity to take the show earlier," O'Brien told The New York Times last spring. "But if going to another network for more money still means being seen by fewer people, what are you doing? Then it's just an ego thing." 
O'Brien show reaches 2.5 million viewers a night, domi­nating its time slot. The former "Saturday Night Live" comedy writer was a disaster "his first few. months on the air, but recovered to become a critical and commercial success. 
Now, a man who once lived on 13-week contract renewals has signed a contract with a promise that he will take over the most famous late-night show in television in five years. 


S100 off MCAT.Prep 
Save S100 when you enroll in a Kaplan MCAT course in September:· 
Enroll today! 

l·BOO·KAP·TEST kaptest.com/ meat 
Test Prep and Admissions . 
•MCAT is a registered trademark of the Association of American Medical Colleges ...Offer applies only to MCAT Classroom Courses, 15, 25 or 35-hour Private Tutoring Programs and the MCAT Online Course. You must enroll between September 1, 2004 through September 
30, 2004. Offer cannot be combined with any other dlscount,rebate, or promotion. 
HAITI 
Victitns treated after tropical stortn 

Associ tted Press 
GONAIVES-Doctors are per­forming amputations without elec :ricity or running water while waste from this city's shattered sewage system con­taminates mud and floodwaters, infecting wounds that threaten to turn gangrenous. 
More than a week after the passage of Tropical Storm Jear ne, the calamity in the northwest city of Gonaives has over,.vhelmed Haitians and for­eign rescue workers. 
Thousands remain hungry. Jean-Claude Kompas, a New York doctor who rushed to his nati11e Haiti to_ volunteer his services last week, says he has treated 30 people for gunshot wounds received in fights over scarce food. Another of his patients was a child whose fin­ger was chopped off with a machete -possibly also over food. 
Jeanne killed more than 1,500 and left 200,000 homeless in the northwest city of Gonaives. With another 1,000 people reported missing, the toll is sure to rise. 
"It's sad but true that the missing will slowly be started to be counted among the dead," said Brazilian Army Gen. Augusto Heleno Ribeiro Pereira, in charge of a U.N. peacekeep­ing force in Haiti. 
On Saturday, Pereira rushed 100 Uruguayan and 50 Argentine troops to Gonaives, where gangsters and ordinary citizens have been looting food aid. They reinforced 600 inter­national troops and police in the city. 

Still, Pereira said he could use more help to ensure security of food convoys and at food distri­bution points, which he said increased from two to four on Monday for the 250,000 resi­dents. 
"If we had help from the National Police of Haiti, we could possibly increase the aid distribution points," he said in a telephone interview. 
But Haiti's police force remains demoralized, under­staffed and poorly equipped since rebels chased them from their stations, killing dozens, in a February uprising that led to the ouster of President Jean­Bertrand Aristide. 
..

~ ® ~-~ 
'VOL'VO 
LINCOLN ~) MERCURY JAG UA-~. 



Ford Motor Co~pany presents: 
James C. Gouin 
Ford ·vice President and Corporate Controller "Careers in Corporate Finance at Ford" 
Friday, October 1, 2004 at 11:45 AM Mendoza College of Business Jordan Auditorium 
Mr. Gouin will discuss career opportunities for the Ford Finance Team, 
his experiences at Ford and an automotive industry outlook. This is a 
one-of-a-kind opportunity to participate in a candid session with a senior 
executive of a leading global company. 
• 
Door prizes will be given to the first 1 00 people to arrive 

• 
The presentation is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students 

• 
Refreshments will be served 



For more information about career opportunities, please visit us at www.mycareer.ford.com. 



The Observer+ ELECTION NEWS page 9 


Ca111paigns focus on Iraq in television ads 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush claims John Kerry "does­n't even know where he stands" on the war. while the Democrat accuses the Republican of having "no plan to get us out of Iraq." Television ads are setting the stage for the candidates' Thursday night debate over foreign policy. 
"I low can John Kerry. protect us when he doesn't even know where he stands." a new Bush ad asks. For his part. Kerry has rolled out at least four com­mercials on Iraq in the past week that. among other things, question the president's con­tention that Iraq is on "the right track." 
The candidates have vastly different arguments in trying to sway an electorate that polls show has grown increasingly concerned about terrorism and homeland security as the situa­tion in Iraq has worsened and the White House race has focused on the issue. Voters in up to 16 states will see com­mercials on the issue this week. 
The president's new ad seeks to undermine Kerry's credibili­ty on the war by portraying the Democrat as a flip-flapper who shouldn't be trusted to serve as commander in chief. 
The ad shows several quick sound bites of Kerry comment­ing on the war. In one, Kerry says, "The winning of the war was brilliant." The next: "It's the wrong war, in the wrong place, at the wrong time." The quotes use just a few words from longer statements. 
Bush ignores conditions in Iraq in his ad. 
"lie has a consistent message -that Kerry is indecisive. The danger of that for Bush is that he looks like he's running for president of eighth grade," said Martin Kaplan, a scholar of politics at the University of Southern California's Annenberg School for Communication. 
Meanwhile, Kerry defends himself in his own commer­cials, saying he can bring "a new direction" and "a fresh start" to the U.S. approach to Iraq. It's an attempt to per­suade voters that he deserves to replace a sitting president during wartime. 
Kerry also tries to paint Bush as out of touch with the reality of the turmoil overseas. "Americans are being kid­napped, held hostage, even beheaded. Over a thousand American soldiers have died," one ad says. 
"Kerry is saying that Bush can't see the truth," Kaplan said, noting that it could be an effective strategy as long as the Democrat sticks to it. 
The Democratic National Committee is pressing on the Iraq issue, too, with ·an ad in The New York Times on Monday featuring comments from five senators, including three Republicans, that the United States is not winning the war. 
Leading up to the debates, Kerry's campaign increased its advertising this week in most of the 14 states where it is on the air. The Democrat and his party are spending a combined $16 million to run ads this week compared with roughly $10 million for Bush and the Republican National Committee over the next two weeks. However, as in the past, the president's campaign prob­ably will add money depending on the results of day-to-day polling. 
On Friday, Bush and the GOP pulled ads out of Arizona, where polls show the president with a sizable lead, after Kerry tabled plans for advertising there. Republicans also have scaled back their ads in one state that AI Gore won in 2000 -Washington. where polls show Kerry with a comfortable lead. 
Meanwhile, the DNC stopped running commercials in Missouri this week, another state where Kerry has delayed advertising and where Bush leads. The shift shows that Democrats are all but conced­ing the state. 

Bush, Kerry continue accusations 

Associated Press 
SPRING GREEN, Wis. ­President Bush and rival Sen. John Kerry paused from private debate practice on Monday to accuse each other of lack of clarity on Iraq as they cam­paigned in "must win" states for each -the Republican incum-. bent in Ohio and his Democratic challenger in Wisconsin. 
Bush portrayed Kerry as inde.. cisive on the war and Kerry accused the president of "still trying to hide" from voters the extent of what remains to be done in Iraq as both sides maneuvered for advantage ahead of Thursday's leadoff debate. 
Meanwhile, the two cam­paigns sparred with dueling tel­evision ads on Iraq emphasizing the same themes. 
In their Monday appearances, the two candidates auditioned themes certain to come up at the 90-minute showdown in Coral Gables, Fla., whose topic is foreign policy and national security. 
Speaking at a town hall style meeting here not far from the hideaway resort where he is 
Cil.!E 
The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business · and
•em• 
The Institutefor Ethical Business Worldwide
o•EB 
Proudly Present 
Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series (Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Corporate Governance at PiiZer" 
Margaret (Peggy) Foran Vice President of Corporate Governance Pfizer, Inc. 
Wednesday., September 29,2004 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
preparing for the debate, Kerry ridiculed Bush for saying in a television interview that he has no regrets over his "Mission Accomplished" speech aboard an aircraft carrier -and would do it again. 
"Since he said that, over 900 have given their lives for the country. The mission was not accomplished when he said it," Kerry said. 
"He didn't know it and didn't understand it. It's not accom­plished today. And he's still try­ing to hide from the American people what needs to be done in order to be successful in Iraq," Kerry added. Bush didn't actu­ally say "mission accom­plished," but spoke beneath a huge banner on the carrier bearing those words. 
Bush was asked in an inter­view with Fox News whether he would still give that May 1, 2003 speech, knowing what he knows now. "Absolutely," he replied. A transcript of the interview, to be aired Monday­Wednesday, was made available by Fox over the weekend. 
Bush sounded a favorite theme at a rally at the Midwest Lifestock and Expo Center in Springfield, Ohio: that Kerry has vacillated repeatedly on Iraq. "You cannot expect to lead this world if you try to take both sides of every position," Bush said. 
Referring to the faceoff sched­uled for Thursday night. Bush said, "He probably could spend 90 minutes debating himself. It's been a little difficult to pre­pare because he keeps chang­ing positions on the war on ter­ror." 
Meanwhile, the Bush cam­paign rolled out a new ad ask­ing: "How can John Kerry pro­tect us when he doesn't even know where he stands?" It shows quick, out-of-context clips of the Democrat_ comment­ing on the war. 
Kerry's campaign hit back with a spot that claims "Bush has no plan what to do in Iraq" and 'inquires: "How can you solve a problem when you can't see it?" 
Both sides are using commer­cials to try to sow and reinforce questions in the public mind about the credibility and fitness of the other candidate to serve as commander in chief. 
Bush also planned to cam­paign in a Cincinnati suburb before returning to Texas. 
Siz~le'ne (Sizzlelini®)­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95!
S~in:: Asizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with 
·a zesty tomato sauce accented
Bellini 
with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti.
Tuesdays B;:,-}efie (Bellini) ­
A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 


---~ -----------­
'"[HE ()BSERVtR 
IE\t\TPOINT
page 10 
Tuesday, September 28, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46:>56 
024 South Dining Hall. Note< Dame, JN 46~56 EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanoe Downes  Mike Flanagan ,  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Clwe Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vahulas Srokrs EDITOR; Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR! Maria Smith IN focus EDITOR• Meghan Marrin SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR! Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR• Mike Harkins 1\DVF.RTISING MANAGER• Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGt:R; Kelly Nelson S\'STF.MS ADMINISTRATOR• Mary Allen 
Co!lfrROUJ!R: Paula Garcia 
0FRC£ MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-69U 
AovtRTISINO 
' (574) 631-6900 obs~ad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574).631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.] @nd.edu Sew DESK (574) 6.31-4540 $~oe.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.J@nd.edu PHOTO DESIC 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu . 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
o8stRVERONL/NE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily nempap¢r published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. &lirorial coment, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either inniturion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advcrti~>emerJts based on content. 
The news is reported as acrurardy md objectively a,~ possible. Unsigned editorials represenuhe opinion of the majority of the &litor in Chief. Managing Editor, A..sisram Mauaging &liror and departmem editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present rhe view5 of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is av:.ilahle co all readers. The free opression of all opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information, 
Qt~Jtions rt:garding Obm'Vfrpolicies should b~ dirr:ctd to Editor in Chi~JMatt Lomr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ot1.e1Yitt (U~I·~ ';99 2-4000) C. puhU:1hcd Mondo~y tbfau,Jh flrid.ly ~tpt dwrlntt ('Unl •nJ ~tlun J'l=ciu~k. A tuhsuip«ion hi Tht Olw:t~r i& ,JtOo-fcJT urw.audnni... y~t; U5 fot Ull(' ""'ontrr. 1'he Ob~ttVetP-~ lfl'l'l11l~ ~;~fthcNwci~k"d ~, AJI gp~4~j~~:l'on Ogrns It(' m.:svcd. 
Tlw f)htCfVtT it publ1~bW •u P.O ~..,Q 
Ul4 SPum f')imng H~l o14 ~·<h tlin;,.g H•U 
N11nt: D11nC'. lN i6-,~6-Ql7iJ Nom v ..... JN ~6ll<i-077'• 
~t~.! )Wtt.llc' polld :tt Nouc 1>.tmc 
.&~~d •lldmou.l lii<Nlllls,oHicCJ. 
~~~~ ~dJ~"~m ll1rft'~«ivn• rot 
l'hcOb•mN 
'l'hc ()b#,oeoc:t i' ,·11'1Cflll:scf p{ ~ NWQ~ I~ .AU I'C'pr~tiQn nJbu• o~~rt 
tt:ttt~c%1. 
TODAY'S STAFF News Sports Angela Saoud Pat Leonard Kate Antonacci Mike Gilloon Tricia de Groot Steve Coyer Viewpoint Scene Sarah Vabulas Ram a Graphics Gottumukkala Graham Ebetscb Illustrator Katie Knorr 

Children and millions of ''ertically challenged Americans aside, small businesses are the most important lit­tle guys in the United States. Both can­didates will aggressively fight the hearts and (more importantly) votes Tom Rlppinger of what should be the most directly 
Confessions ofa
affected group of 
m,mpus
the policy agenda 
con.>ervative
of the victor in 2004. Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry and President George W. Bush both come to the table with backgrounds in small business, of which both we ·e ironically failures. Kerry's 1979 muff n and cookie shop venture didn't io so well, while Bush had better luck in baseball franchising than the oil business. They may have been able to lear1 a few things from the entreprene 1rship club on campus. 
All joking aside about their personal business backgrounds, thei-small business policies will effect many busi­ness grads. as well as the c mntless graduates from other majors that will eventually be small business owners ten or twenty years down the road. Choosing a candidate that'i:; good for small business is especially important at a time when our economy relies on their unique ability to in nO\ ate, thrive, and compete in a highly competitive world market. Laws must b3 crafted to keep the United States the best place to invest in the world, and foster growth of an economy with a small highly efficient manufacturing sector and a large service economJ. The spe· cialized demands of the serrice econo­my and high skill manufacturing both foster the growth of flexible small businesses. 
This vital sector of the ecc nomy favors the key ingredients of the Bush plan. Keeping the tax relief permanent will allow 2 3 million small t usiness owners to receive tax cuts averaging $2,042, which brings wealth back into the economy and out of the pork bar­rel politics of Congress. Although this plan includes the dreaded tax cut for those evil people that make over $200,000 a year that Kerry will seem to use to fund every single pr.Qgram he has yet to come up with, this ignores the fact that many of these people are small business owners as well as investors. Tax cuts do not stay static in rich people's bank accounts; but instead end up back in the market as investments, venture capital and con­sumer spending. Dividend as well as income tax cuts reward people for investing in the economy, and elimi­nate government as an intermediary slowing down the flow of money. 
As boring as health care policy sounds to a college student, these poli­cies may be hitting your entrepreneur­ial pocketbook in 20 years. The nation's health care system is still operating on a bigbusiness model, where large companies have more bargaining power with insurance companies in the market. As the baby 
boom generation ages, ''As boring as Fundamentally, what health insurance premi­health care policy Bush is proposing should ums are at an almost come as no surprise to
sounds to a college
constant rise. The Bush the commonsensical per­
student, these
plan would propose AHPs son. When you reward (Association Health policies may be success, reward invest­Plans) to allow small ment, encourage compe­
hitting your 
businesses to pool their tition and cut down on
entrepreneurial
resources to bargain for trivial lawsuits the small better insurance rates. pocketbook in 20 business community will Health Savings Accounts reward your economy 
years.
also aid in encouraging competition while keep­ing costs low. They are tax-free accounts that can be used to save for medical expenses. According to the NFIB (National Federation of Independent Business). HSAs will help save their owners 10 to 35 percent in out of pocket medical costs. 
Instead of creating an entire new network of bureaucratic nightmares for small businesses to go through for a government sponsored healthcare system, Bush's plans creatively use simple changes to the current system to encourage competition in the insur­ance sector, allowing small businesses to cut health care costs without red tape and regulation. 
Bush's plan also addresses regula­tion itself as an obvious enemy to 
small business. To help tear down reg­
-ulatory barriers to job creation, Bush gave small businesses a larger voice in the complex and confusing federal regulatory process and bolstered fed­eral agency compliance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (HFA) by signing Executive Order 13272. The BFA put the priority on addressing the needs of small business within the var­ious regulatory agencies in Washington. According to the NFIB. advocacy through this act has helped small business save an estimated $27 billion in regulatory costs over the past two years. Combined with pro­posed tort reform initiatives, these measures should come as a well­deserved breath of fresh air for small business owners. Small business America is favoring these pro-growth orient­ed policies of the Republican Party. 
tenfold with new jobs and 
innovations. The only 

prudent long-term strate­gies for keeping businesses inside the states are lowering the tax burden and promoting deregulation. By supporting the little guy, we can continue the dream of the founders of a free society for the pursuit of happiness by rewarding the innovation and hard work of entrepreneurs. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. lie supports President George W Bush and is the Co­President ofthe Notre Dame College Republicans. lie can be contacted at trip pin 1 @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 
How many of the Presidential debates do you plan on watching? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''A lie gets halfway around the world before the truth has a chance to get its pants on." 
Winston Churchill politician 
~--------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 28, 2004 
page II 
U-WIRE 
Technology takes odiferous route 
You are walking down the street and your cell phone starts to ring. You pick it up and a mechanical voice answers. "Warning, warning, you have bad breath." A bit offended by the bluntness of your usu­ally kind-hearted fifth appendage, you get out a stick of gum to fix the problem. 
This may at first seem like a Lindsay neat concept, a cell phone that Mosher can detect bad breath and other 
University of
unpleasant odors. It could really 
J!Visconsin 
come in handy when you are on 
Badger Herald 
you way to your boyfriend or girlfriend's. house and want to know if you are giving off any foul scents. It would be nice to pick up your trusty cell phone and ask, because, let's be honest, sometimes it is a little embarrassing asking your friends to smell your arm pits. Lucky for us, this new technology is just around the corner. 
Last week a German telecommunications company announced they are coming out with a device that will alert users of bad breath and offensive smells. A spokesperson for the company told Reuters the one­millimeter chip would detect anything from bad breath to alcohol to atmospheric gas levels. 
What a breakthrough? At first glance this seems like a pretty neat idea. But on second examination, when has our ever-growing dependence on the world of technology gone too far? 
I am not sure I could let a cell phone be the judge of whether or not I smell good. What if it does not like my new perfume? I could not just throw it out because it did not meet my cell phone's standards. 
Smell can be based on a matter of opinion, I would have to take time to get to know my cell phone better before I could learn to trust it. 
And there is always the chance it will malfunction and tell me my breath is okay when in actuality it smells of garlic and onion. I would walk around all night thinking my breath smelled minty clean when in fact I was scaring people away. 
Moreover, even if I did know that my breath smelled and I had body odor, what am I to do if I do not have a pack of gum and a stick of deodorant? My already extremely-full purse would have to make room for perfume and toothpaste. 
Giving technology a personality is not the answer. _ Once a cell phone can detect bad odors what is next? This tiny chip could be installed in your car, your disc-man or your desk chair. No matter where you went you would have to know ifyou smell okay. You could no longer come home from a hot sweaty work­out without alarms and warnings reminding you that an immediate shower is necessary. 
A whole new kind of technology could be unleashed. The same chip could be inserted in our shoes to alert us ifour feet smell. And then a mirror could be invented that lets us know if the clothes we are wearing are flattering. Next it would be the brush that reminds us to wash our hair and the tele­vision set that tells us we have not gotten in the rec­ommended one hour of exercise that day. 
I think I would rather smell than have a cell phone and other technological devices giving commentary about by life. When we give technology a personality, it has gone too far. 
This column originally appeared on Sept. 27 in the Badger Herald, the daily publication at the University of H!isconsin. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Chant 'underrated' 
I want to write to congratulate all of the students on what is shaping up to be a very interesting football season. I was a student during both the Faust and Holtz years, and I know what a differ­ence a winning football team can make on campus. Enjoy. 
Here are two quick thoughts. One, as you know, the pollsters have not yet given us a top 25 rating. When number 15 Purdue comes to town and we are up big late in the game, I have a sugges­tion. Instead of chanting "overrated" (about Purdue), chant "underrated" about Notre Dame. Let's use our national exposure to send a message to the pollsters, not to denigrate the efforts of the Purdue players. After all, don't we want the world to think Purdue is a great team that just had its hat handed to them by an even bet­ter team? Let's be the first to begin what will be a national trend. 
Now, because most people are used to chanting "overrated," maybe the cheerleaders should make signs which say, "underrat­ed." Speaking of the cheerleaders, almost every year I write and implore the cheerleaders to move to the south end of the stadium when the opposing team is trying to score down there. As an alum who regularly sits down there, I will tell you that when we are encouraged (dare I say "led"?) we will cheer very loudly and dis­rupt the opposing team, but we need to be led, unlike the students. So. those of you in the front rows, don't be shy about encouraging the cheerleaders to run to the south end of the stadium when need­ed. 
Bill Webb 
alumnus 
class of '88 and '91 
Sept. 27 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

I am disappointed, but not surprised, to read about the budget cuts to the Notre Dame Marching .Band. Notre Dame clearly does not support their band like other universities, as Kenneth Dye, director of the band, pointed out. I witnessed this lack of respect first hand as a band member. · 
Worst seats in the stadium. Actually, they're not really seats at all. Stuck on field level in the corner of the end zone, it's impossible to see the game beyond the 15-yard line. With over 80,000 seats in the stadium, is there no room for 400 students? 
No stipend for band members. Most university bands offer a modest stipend or scholarship for their considerable services. Louisiana State, for example, offers a $640 music scholarship for the semester. If Louisiana State University can afford to fund their band, why can't Notre Dame? The measly $25 gift certificate offered by the athletic department is an insult to every band mem­ber. 
Lack of travel opportunities. Most university bands receive more travel opportunities than the Notre Dame band. 
Of course, no one is forced to participate in the band. Notre Dame treats its band the way it does because it can get away with it. Personally, I found the lack of respect distasteful and left the band after one year. At least then, I got to see the games. 
Sam Thomas alumnus class of'95 Sept. 26 

U-WIRE 
God's a social, fiscal conservative 
I woke up at 4 a.m. Saturday arguing with some jerk about whether God wants people to vote for George Bush or John Kerry. 
I wqs in the middle of what I thought was a great point when I came out of my sleepy stupor and realized the guy I was arguing with was actually on Albert Scovel the television. 
Okay, okay, okay. Maybe I'm University of a dork, but now I'm a dork on Mississippi a mission from God. Daily 
For any of you who are not Mississippian Christians or do not otherwise feel that Christian values are an important part of our society, feel free to tune out. I'm not trying to convince you of anything. 
However, I am tired of hearing all of these lukewarm, backsliding Christians who can't decide whether they want to follow their reli­gion, in which they presumably do believe, or a political ideology that is in direct contrast with it. 
The frrst thing they always claim is that there is no overlap between religion and politics. 
This is the John Kerry, two-separate-lives approach in which one draws a line down the middle of one's life and says, 'Til be a devout Christian on one side and live the other side with no regard to my religious beliefs." 
This would be all fine and good if the religion he claimed to be following on the pious side of the line didn't demand a presence in the entire life. If there is a line down the middle, then you are never truly following the Christianity on the religious side. 
God never demands that Christians force Christianity on anyone. We are commanded to teach Christianity, but the Bible is quite clear in saying that Christian behavior doesn't really count if it only comes out of coercion. 
Taking a policy stance that allows people to decide for themselves whether to follow the teachings of Christ is perfectly compatible with Christian values. 
But when the government takes actions which are in direct contrast to the religious convictions of Christians, not only does it violate the First Amendment, but it forces Christians to violate their own religion. This is in contrast with Christianity and is an action taken often by the "divided-Christian" likes of John Kerry. 
The liberal ideology that says we should accept deviant behavior as okay is in contrast with Christian values, but the policy stance that we shouldn't force these values upon people is actu­ally more in line with Bible teachings. 
Unfortunately, however, Democrats have not historically been able to avoid either endorsing the acceptance of deviant behavior or the encroachment on the religious freedoms of Christians seen in their actions that actively force anti-Christian behavior on them. 
A less common approach taken by the more wary liberal Christians is to say that God actually would have us vote for John Kerry because there are more important issues at stake for Christians, sueh as relief of the poor and paci­fism. 
Their idea of "relieving the poor." though, is to force others who may not feel the same religious convictions on the matter to contribute to such relief. This isn't necessarily in contrast with Christianity, but certainly is not required by it. Therefore, this argument fails to overcome the violations of the left in forcing anti-Christian val­ues on others. 
Those who claim pacifism as their Christian reason for opposing President Bush should really take a second look at the Bible. There are numerous wars and battles talked about as well as endorsed in the Bible, and I can see little rea­son for accepting those and rejecting all others. 
There are those who claim that God is neither a Republican nor a Democrat and that to say that He is only trivializes Him. 
You'll get no argument from me on that. I absolutely believe that God is above politics. Abraham Lin.coln said "My concern is not whether God is on our side; my great concern is to be on God's side," and I couldn't agree more. 
God does not ride on the back of an elephant or a jackass. However, Christians must ask themselves which party is trying harder "to be on God's side." It is obvious that the party that more closely follows His path is that of the ele­phant. 
This article originally appeared on Sept. 27 in the Daily Mississippian, the daily publication at the University ofMississippi. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
....------------------~------~-----------~ ~-----------------~ ---------­
TI-lE OBSERVER 
C:ENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 28, 2004 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Unoriginal story downs 'First Daughter' 
By COURTNEY WILSON Scene Critic 
We have undoubtedly heard of or seen this "All-American" fairy tale mul­tiple times before First Daughter even entered development. As if there was a shortage in "daughter of the president" movies, there is yet another one to tack onto the list of ever recurring Hollywood plots. It is the classic story of the U.S. president's daughter search­ing for a little bit of fun, if not freedom, in her restricted life of fame and public scrutiny. 
Katie Holmes, former Dawson's Creek "girl next door." plays the all too famil­iar role of the 
freshman experience. Constant!~ in the presence of her secret service agents, and forever in the eye of the nedia, Sam finds it hard to please her parents during a bumpy reelection yec.r, and befriend her fellow classmates at the same time. Mia Thomson, Sam's relent­less roommate, is out to have 1 good time in college and is determined to include Sam in on the excitemcn,. 
Sam does enjoys some innocent col­lege fun with her roommate, and in due time, a little expected· romance finds its way into her life. Sam oventu­ally begins to fall for her "oh so cute" resident advisor James, pla:1ed by heartthrob actor Marc Blucas. H~ is the stereotypical boy of any girl's dreams, 
who maLes all 
bright eyed. cutesy her guy troubles
First Daughter
first daughter. This just melt away. "she just wants to 
But this all too be a normal girl" good to be true theme is by now tale h :ts a far from tired. In "shockin1( pre­Director: Forest Whitaker
fact, the movie is dictable twist. 
Writer: Jessica Bendinger
discouragingly In this case, the 
Starring: Katie Holmes, Marc Blucas, 
reminiscent of the twist might have 
Michael Keaton and Margaret Colin
recent teen chick come as a big­

flick Chasing Liberty, which starred Mandy Moore, a very compara­ble actress to llolmcs. 
Samantha (Holmes) is the daughter of President Mackenzie, played by actor Michael Keaton. She is starting up her first year of college, and is struggling with all the predictable barriers between her and a normal college 
ger surprise had it not be£ n seen before in Chasing Liberty. 
If you are looking for a hot new movie, with a good story line, this is not it. However, if you are in th~ mood for just another teeny hopper girl flick, you will enjoy the familiarly sweet comedic romance. This movie i:; really just asking for a bad review, from the 
DVD REVIEW 
Stiller charms in typical romantic comedy 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Criric 
Hecycling formulas is a proven trend in llollywood. After all, if it's not bro­ken. don't fix it. That's why we have been bombarded with countless sequels as of late, with originality being few and far between. This recy­cling is seen once again in the movie Along Came Polly, starring Jennifer Aniston and Ben Stiller. 
Ben Stiller, in a less than surprising twist, plays a neurotic risk assessment manager named Hcuben Feffer. The movie begins with him getting mar­rind. On his honeymoon, he discovers his wife in bed with the scuba instruc­tor. Deciding that his life with her has­n't quite met his expectations, he returns home. 
There he runs into an old high school !lame, Polly Prince (Aniston). Aniston plays a somewhat free-spirited woman. a supposedly perfect opposite of Stiller's rigid risk avoidant behavior. Together, they form an awkward but fun relationship involving salsa danc­ing and toilet humor. 

short. She likes to eat Akm<rCame Pollv' 
tk:'i St8b ,knr9J:b· A:-1«\Xi 
with her hands, and salsa dances wit 1 a gay person. That's at,out the extent of her ris1.-taking nature. In fact, once a risk does appe H, she runs from it. 
As for the DVD release of this film, thH video and sound are both up to standard qua ity like 
The exact Hollywood pitch made by the film's writers probably sounded a bit like the above paragraphs w 1en the movie executives were approvirtg their latest money-making scheme for a hit film. Borrowing a bit from many other already successful movies, Along Came Polly takes the safe route and adds nothing new to its the romanti< come­dy genre in Hollywood. Recent novies, such as Meet the Parents, There's Something About Mary, and even a dash of Bruce Almighty make less than subtle contributions to the movie. 
Perhaps that is being a little harsh to the movie. It docs have some genuinely entertaining moments to it. Arter all, Stiller keeps repeating the same char­acter in his movies for a rea~ on. He usually plays a somewhat a\"kward character. He· tries hard enough to fit in to be humorous and endearing him­self without crossing over tc, being annoying. 
Aniston's character is a lit1.1e less convincing. Perhaps because s 1e has­n't had other similar movies t:> prac­tice her role in, she's not quite as con­vincing as Stiller. She is set up to be a perfect contrast to Stiller's character, 
but ends up coming up meager plot to the predictable charac­ters, however, the film will probably be spared by devoted fans of Holmes. Truth be told, Holmes is not really given a chance to show any acting prowess in such a cutesy-trim role. Really this role could be played by any actress, and it would still flop with any other audience outside of the teeqy hoppers. 
First Daughter was not completely unbearable, but shows little potential at becoming a box office hit. It would best be viewed once it hits video 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu@nd.edu 



the movie itself. The video looks decent, with no graininess or distor­tion. It sounds nice and clear, especial­ly during Stiller's bathroom breaks. 
The special features included on the disc are decent. The director, John Hamburg, contributes a pretty decent audio commentary for the film. even if he sounds like a machine throughout it. There's also a making of the docu­mentary, and some deleted scenes. The most unique thing to be found is the feature titled "Hodolfo goes to Hollywood." It stars Polly's little ferret, and matches the humor found in the movie. 
In the end, the movie ends up being pretty enjoyable. Not great, but as far as chick f1icks go, this one has a bit more personality than most. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

' I 

THE 0BSER\'ER 
CENETuesday, September 28, 2004 
page 13 
DVD REVIEW 
'Star Wars' gets lavish DVD treatment 
collapse into embarrassing silliness. 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Video Quality Scene Writer All three films are presented in anamorphic widescreen, which preserves George Lucas' Star Wars Trilogy finally the original aspect ratio of 2.35:1. This comes to DVD in a four-disc box set after ratio preserves some pretty precise fram­seven years of waiting. When the then­ing, which is lost in pan/scan, so avoid the young writer/director set out to make a full screen version at all costs if you want nostalgic Flash Gordon-esque space to see the epic battles in all their glory. opera, nobody realized that he was revo­That being said, the picture quality is lutionizing film forever. Everything from absolutely fantastic. These three films the Wachowski Brothers' The Matrix to have never looked this good in a home Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings owes a format of any kind. Neither VHS nor debt to Lucas' science fiction opus. Fans Laserdisc received the restoration work hav~ been clamoring for the original trilo­that Lowry Digital (the same company gy on DVD and it has at long last arrived that did the restoration on Indiana Jones) in an excellent package that will please performed on these DVDs and it clearly all but the most ardent detractors. shows; they used 600 Mac G5s to clean The Films nearly every speck and scratch from the A New llope, written and directed by original negatives, resulting in a beautiful George Lucas, follows two droids, R2-D2 final transfer. Until true high-definition, (Kenny Baker) and C-3PO (Anthony the films will never look this good. The Daniels). as they meet a young Luke colors are particularly well-reproduced: Skywalker (Mark Hamill). The film traces from the sand-baked yellows of Tatooine Skywalker from his humble origins as a to the pure white ice plains of Hoth, to the farm boy to heroic status as the savior of grimy greens of Dagobah. colors are lush The Rebel Alliance in their struggle and precise. A New Hope, understand­against the Evil Empire. Along the way ably, looks slightly more worn than the 
+ Return of the Jedi: the addition of through THX-1138 and American Graffiti
the audience is introduced to strange new sequels; this seems to result from limita­
Naboo to the celebrations at the end to A New Hope. The last hour is almost
worlds and interesting characters, includ­tions of the source material itself and has 
(which, if you listen carefully, features equally split between The Empire Strikes 
ing the feisty Princess Leia (Carrie less to do with the restoration. 
Jar-Jar Binks), and, perhaps most egre­Back and Return of the Jedi. The docu­
Fisher). the wise old Obi-Wan Kenobi Audio Quality 
giously, the addition of Hayden mentary is bolstered by the many notable 
(Alec Guinness). the world-weary Han The remixed 5.1 EX audio tracks for 
Christensen as the spirit of Anakin participants, including Alan Ladd Jr. (for­
Solo (Harrison Ford), and of course, the these films are, for the most part, excel­
Skywalker. mer Fox executive and Lucas supporter),
evil Darth Vader (David Prowse, voiced by lent. It's hard to believe that these films 
Additionally, many of the special effects Jones, Hamill, and Ford. Additionally, the
James Earl Jones). This is one of the most were not originally mixed in this sound 
have been cleaned up or digitally documentary features many of the techni­
successful motion pictures of all time, and setting, as the surrounds are active and 
enhanced. While some of these changes cal personnel from the film as it explores 
it's easy to see why: the rapid pace, styl­clear across the entire field and the sub­
are welcome, many of the others are baf­the birth of Industrial Light and Magic,
ish action sequences, groundbreaking woofer in particular gets a satisfying 
flingly unnecessary. Though these Skywalker Sound, and THX. "Empire of
special effects. and quasi-deep mythology workout. That being said, the dialogue is 
changes may be in keeping with Lucas' Dreams" is a complete look at all three
became trademarks of the series. still clear and the overall mix of the film 
overall vision, they are not the films that films and contains enough interesting
The Empire Strikes Back was written by is appropriately balanced. Everything 
were originally released in 1977, 1980 information and anecdotes that it justifies 
Lawrence Kasdan and directed by Irvin from the hum of the light sabers to 
and 1983. Lucas has a responsibility to its 150-minute runtime. 
Kershner. The darkest and best film in Vader's breathing to John Williams' 
film history and this revisionism is both Other extras include three featurettes
the trilogy follows Luke as he trains with dynamic score flows across the five chan­
needless and inexcusable; as a film school about the characters, light sabers and
Yoda (controlled and voiced by Frank Oz) nels from the softest passages and effects 
graduate himself, he of all people should legacy of the films. These featurettes are
while Han Solo and Princess Leia attempt to the most bombastic fanfares with 
understand that responsibility. much less substantial than Empire of 
to escape the menacing Darth Vader. aplomb. Despite this, there is one major 
Extra Features Dreams, but still have their share of
Notable new characters include Boba Fett and bizarre caveat with the 5.1 audio 
Each of the films contains an audio interesting information. Perhaps most
and the shifty Lando Calrissian (Billy Dee track on A New Hope. Williams' score in 
commentary track by Lucas, Fisher and notable is the participation of filmmakers 
Williams). The mythology is deeper and the rear channels has been reversed so 
sound designer Ben Burtt. These com­such as Peter Jackson (Lord of the Rings) 
the series becomes more serious and that the music that should be emitting 
mentaries are engaging and interesting, and Ridley Scott (Alien, Black Hawk
epic. As the title implies, the Rebels get from the left rear channel emits from the 
although it's obvious that they were Down), who talk about the impact the
pummeled and the film ends on an omi­right rear and vice-versa. This is only 
recorded separately and spliced together. films had in their lives and careers. 
nous cliffhanger. The Empire Strikes Back noticeable in a few spots -the opening 
The most informative is probably Burtt, The Star Wars Trilogy finally comes to
actually cemented the Star Wars legacy, titles and the final throne room scene ­
who vividly describes the stellar sound DVD with mostly stellar results. While
introducing such notable touches as The but it is distracting nonetheless, especial­
design of the films, but the most notable Lucas' filmmaking has certainly deterio­
Imperial March (Darth Vader's theme). ly since the sound effects are in the cor­
is Empire's Irvin Kershner, whose grasp rated over the years -as the prequels
the asteroid chase and one of the most rect channels. While Lucasfilm has attrib­
of the film's depth and mythology is have glaringly demonstrated -the origi­
famous revelations in film history. uted this to "creative decision" it seems 
impressive. nal films still retain their power after all
Return of the Jedi. scripted by unlikely that the score would be unbal­
At the core of the fourth disc is the doc­these years, despite Lucas' tinkering.
Lawrence Kasdan and directed by anced for A New Hope and not the other 
umentary "Empire of Dreams," which, at Those reservations aside, this set comes
Richard Marquand, is easily the weakest two films. More plausible is that this was 
150 minutes, runs longer than any of the highly recommended. Star Wars will
in the trilogy. In some ways it is the most a serious quality-control error on 
films themselves. This is an engaging and never look or sound this good on DVD
complex of the three films, with Luke's Lucasfilm's part, which is particularly 
interesting documentary that features again and the films are a timeless addi­
choice between the Light Side and the frustrating considering the demand for 
much of the cast, crew and executives tion to any personal collectiqn. 
Dark Side accentuated by his attempts to the set. 
involved in the making of the three films. 
convert Darth Vader and the presence of Changes to a classic 
The first hour and a half traces George Contact Brian Doxtader at 
The Emperor (Ian McDiarmid) adding a For those familiar with the films, be 
Lucas from his days as a USC film student bdoxtade@nd.edu
darkly sinister touch. Meanwhile, the forewarned: these aren't the same ver­Rebels amass a final assault against The sions exhibited in the late seventies/early Empire, led by Lando Calrissian and aug­eighties, nor are they the 1997 Special mented on the ground by Han Solo and Editions. Instead, Lucas has once again Princess Leia. Unfortunately, the film is gone and re-edited his films, adding even 
bogged down by the Ewoks, which points more special effects and fixing what he toward Lucas' childish prequel mentality, probably considers continuity problems. and an overly long preamble which fea­Some of these changes include: tures the gangster slug Jabba the Hutt. + A New Hope: a newly computer gen­Still. Return ofthe Jedi is a satisfying con­erated image of Jabba the Hutt (which is clusion and, unlike Episode I, does not still rather shoddy looking), reprocessed 
vocal effects on Darth 
Vader and re-done light 
sabers 
Star Wars Trilcgy 
+ The Empire Strikes 
Back: the dubbing of 
Temuera Morrison as
Widescreen Box Set 
Boba Fett and the inser­
~Oth Century Fox tion of Ian McDiarmid as 
The Emperor (which, puz­
zlingly enough, features 
new dialogue between courtesy movieweb.com
,,fir; / :: ;: 1Jifr~i .: 
McDiarmid and James Earl Jones) 


Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) takes to the skies in a fighter jet with the Rebel Alliance as he tries to destroy the Imperial Death Star In "A New Hope." 

========~====================== 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cubs beat Reds, set. sights on wild card spot 
choice. Two batters later, runs later in the inning on
Astros remain in 
Patterson hit a two-run homer Lenny Harris' sacrifice fly and to right. Lee followed with a Lui;; Castillo's RBI single.
contention, win 10-3 
solo homer into the bushes in The Expos scored in the bot­center, giving Chicago a 7-1 tom half to draw to 3-1 on Juan Associated Press 
lead. Rivera's RBI grounder. 
"I didn't think the pitch to P:LUl Lo Duca hit an RBI dou­
CIIICAGO -Todd Walker Patterson was that bad a pitch," ble in the fifth to restore the 
loves playing pressure baseball Claussen said. "He must have Ma~lins' three-run lead. 
this time of year. been looking middle-in. But that Patterson allowed nine hits 
Walker went 3-for-4 with a pitch to Lee, anyone could have anc. four runs in six innings. 
walk, a two-run homer and four hit that pitch out." Pirates 6, Phillles 1 
HBis on Monday night, helping After Claussen walked Aramis The Philadelphia Phillies can 
the Chicago Cubs extend their Ramirez, John Riedling relieved start planning their vacations. 
slim lead in the NL wild-card and finally ended the inning, Ty Wigginton hit a two-run 
race with a 12-5 victory over retiring Moises Alou on a honer and Oliver Perez pitched 
the Cincinnati Heds. popup. Claussen gave up seven 6 2-3 strong innings, helping 
"This is a lot of fun for me. runs and seven hits. lasting just the Pittsburgh Pirates stop a For everybody, really," Walker 3 2-3 innings as he lost his seven-game road losing streak said. "The playoff atmosphere fourth straight decision. with a 6-1 victory over brings out the best in you." The Cubs weren't done, Philadelphia on Monday night 
With six games left, Chicago is either. Walker hit a two-run thac eliminated the Phillies from a game ahead of San Francisco homer in the fifth and singled to postseason contention. in the wild-card standings. drive in another run in the "Anytime you get X'ed out, it's Houston, which beat St. Louis sixth. The four RBis were a sea­disappointing," Phillies manag­10-3 Monday, is 1 1/2 back. son high for Walker, one shy of er Larry Bowa said. "Now you 
"We'd feel a lot better if San his career best. try to win as many games as Francisco and Houston were "When you jump out to a lead you can and finish as high in about five games back," Walker like that, it's nice to keep piling the standings as possible." said. "The good thing is we on the runs," Walker said. T !le underachieving Phillies don't have to worry about what While the Cubs were beating can at most win 87 games, one they do. If we win these next six up on Cincinnati's pitchers, fe\\ er than San Francisco or games, we're in." Zambrano was shutting down San Diego must finish with 
Corey Patterson, Derrek Lee the Reds' hitters. He gave up because they face each other and Jose Macias also connect­only one extra-base hit and throe times. The Phillies (81-75) ed, and Nomar Garciaparra was retired seven straight at one need one more victory to ensure ing a couple of runs in the sev­less eighth for Arizona, then 3-for-3 with a walk and a pair point. Cincinnati got its only run con ;;ecutive winning seasons for enth. He gave up nine hits, Greg Aquino did the same in the of HB!s. Carlos Zambrano (16-8) off him in the fourth, when the first. time since 1982-83. striking out six and walking one ninth for his 14th save in 16 won his fourth straight decision, D'Angelo Jimenez scored from ThE.t's little solace for a team as he inched closer to his first tries. allowing one run and five hits first on Austin Kearns' double picked by many last spring to 20-win season. Tracy led off the game with while striking out seven in 6 1-3 to deep left-center. win the NL East. Diamondbacks 3, Brewers 1 his eighth home run, down the innings. Barrett almost got Jimenez at Astros 10, Cardinals 3 Randy Johnson struck out 10 right-field line on a 1-2 pitch. 
The Heds tagged Todd the plate, but Garciaparra's R•)y Oswalt became the NL's in seven innings to earn his The Brewers tied it in the sec­Wellemeyer for four runs in the relay throw bounced at least first 19-game winner, and the 15th win Monday night and the ond when Johnson walked eighth, including Adam Dunn's twice and Jimenez barreled Hotston Astros stayed close in Arizona Diamondbacks snapped Helms, then ex-Diamondback 43rd homer. Dunn also struck over Barrett, knocking the ball the wild-card race with a 10-3 a six-game losing streak with a Chad Moeller ended an 0-for-13 out in the first inning, leaving free. victory over the St. Louis 3-1 victory over Ben Sheets and skid with an RBI double over him four shy of Bobby Bonds' "One down, six to go," Cubs Car 1inals on Monday night. the Milwaukee Brewers. the head of Luis Terrero in cen­single-season mark of 189. manager Dusty Baker said. "A T1e Astros remained 1 1/2 Chad Tracy homered and ter field. 
Walker made the playoffs for very good game." games behind the Chicago Cubs, Doug DeVore had an RBI single The Diamondbacks scored the first time in his nine-year Marlins 4, Expos 1 who beat Cincinnati 12-5 and in his first three-hit game. two unearned runs with two career last season, coming up Josh Beckett pitched seven leac. the wild-card standings by Third baseman Wes Helms' outs in the third. After Alex big for the Boston Hed Sox as strong innings and Miguel a gE.me over idle San Francisco. error led to two unearned runs Cintron singled, Danny Bautista they took the New York Yankees Cabrera hit his 31st homer, Pinch-hitter Jason Lane for Arizona. hit a ground-rule double that to seven games in the AL cham­leading the Florida Marlins to a homered and Craig Biggio hit a Johnson (15-14) walked one put runners at second and pionship series. He hit .349 in win over the Montreal Expos on two -run double to end his in his 13th double-digit strike­third. the playoffs and became the Monday night. lon~;est hitless streak of the sea­out game of the season and Dodgers 8, Rockies 7 first Boston player to hit five Only 3,923 fans were on hand son. Carlos Beltran added a 204th of his career -11 shy of Milton Bradley singled homers in a postseason. for the opener of what is likely two-run triple, Ensberg had a Nolan Ryan's major league through a drawn-in infield to 
Walker enjoyed the playoffs so the Expos' final series in two-run double, and Jeff record. Johnson, who has one drive in the winning run in the much he passed on starting jobs Montreal. The team is expected Bagwell and Raul Chavez sin­more start this season, allowed ninth inning, and Adrian Beltre elsewhere to sign with Chic~go. to be relocated, likely to glee in runs to send the Astros one run and six hits. hit a grand slam to help the Los Now the Cubs are hoping he'll Washington, D.C., for the 2005 to .heir fourth win in five It was the 10th consecutive Angeles Dodgers defeat the help them in their quest for season. garr.es. game that the Diamondbacks Colorado Rockies Monday night. their first back-to-hack postsea­Beckett (8-9). last year's The victory snapped St. Louis' scored three or fewer runs for The Dodgers increased their son appearances since 1908 -World Series MVP, scattered five ·game winning streak. The the 41-year-old left-bander. NL West lead to three games the last time they won a World four hits for his first win in four Car iinals already clinched the The game matched two of the over idle San Francisco with six Series. starts. Florida, which was elimi­NL Central title and the best best pitchers who play for bad games remaining. 
To get there, the Cubs are nated from playoff contention reC(>rd in the league -but their teams. Johnson has a 2.65 ERA, Colorado reliever Steve Reed going to need more nights like one day earlier. Pnrled a season­leadoff hitter went down with Sheets 2.81. Johnson leads the (3-8) gave up one-out singles to this from their offense. After high six-game losing streak. an iajury Monday night. majors in strikeouts with 282. Jayson Werth and Steve Finley, managing just seven runs in Beckett had eight strikeouts, S~·eedy second baseman Tony Sheets is second in the NL with putting runners at the corners. their three-game series with the including six through the first Womack left in the seventh 253. Beltre was intentionally walked Mets, the Cubs jumped on three innings while holding inning after being hit on the left Sheets (11-14) nearly was and the Rockies pulled their Brandon Claussen (2-7) early. Montreal to one hit. He allowed arrr by a pitch from Oswalt. scratched from the game infield in, but Bradley slapped a 
Garciaparra got it started two walks. Wor1ack writhed in pain on the because of an infected finger on hard grounder past second with a two-rurt double off the Guillermo Mota pitched the ground before coming out his pitching hand, but he insist­baseman Aaron Miles to score wall in center in the first, and eighth, and Armando Benitez monents later. He was gingerly ed on starting against Johnson. Werth. the Cubs chased Claussen with got three straight outs for his clut·~hing his arm at his side as Sheets allowed three runs, one Yhency Brazoban (4-1) got the five runs in the fourth. Walker 45th save in 49 opportunities. he was escorted back to the earned, and nine hits in seven win. stroked an HBI single up the Cabrera hit a solo shot off dug•mt. innings. He struck out eight and Colorado's Brian Fuentes middle, and Michael Barrett John Patterson (4-6) in the O!>walt (19-10) pitched six walked one. relieved Shawn Estes to start made it 4-1 on a fielder's fourth. Florida added two more scoreless innings before allow-Randy Choate pitched a score-the eighth. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
PURDUE TICKET PLEASE Help my newlywed husband see his first NO game STUDENT SECTION GA OK Kate 702·249·7974 
WANTED: MALE actors for the SMC production OUR TOWN. For info: call 284·4640. 
Hacienda 1 00 Center wants YOU I Need weekend servers & Line Cooks Apply in person between 2 & 3 p.m. 700 LWW. MISH.IN 46544 
FoR RENT 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 1 0/26/04·5/05 call Mary Anne Benedict607·723·7363 NO Football housing. Walk to game. 574·315·3215. 
TICKETS 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273· 3911 
For Sale: NO footballlix. Good prices. 232·0964. 
For Sale: NO footballlix. Good prices. 232·0964. 
Wanted: NO footballtix. Top $$$ 251-1570. 
NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232· 2378 p.m. 288·2726 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY NO 
FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 674· 6593. 
PERSONAL 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! 
Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $1591 www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1·800· 678-6386 
Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1·800· 648·4849 www.ststravel.com. 
PURDON'T 
Mike loves Audrey 
I never leave this place 
Eat at North. You're killing me smalls 

Tuesday, September 28, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
OLYMPICS 
Hamm fights to keep medal in Olympic court 
Gymnast's medal challenged by Korean 
Associated Press 
Paul Hamm traded his warmup suit for a real suit Monday and shook hands with the man who wants to take away his gold medal. He then settled in for an 11 1/2-hour hearing that will determine, once and for all, the winner of the Olympic gymnastics all­around competition. 
Three panelists on the Court 
At Ernst &Young the climb starts here.. 
You've just completed four years of college and the last thing you want to do Is end up in amindless job. At Ernst &Young we challenge our employees from the start and then encourage them to grow throughout their career. We offer some of the best professional development programs in the country. And we've built an inclusive environment-one that Fortune® magazine has recognized as one of the "100 Best Companies To Work For" six years in arow. So if you're not interested in starting at the bottom, think about starting at one of the Top 100. ey.com/us/careers 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIESg
TO WORK FOR <N 
highest court and final authori­ty on Olympic matters -and ar:gued that had Yang received that extra tenth, he would have won the meet by 0.051. 
Arguing on Hamm's behalf, 
U.S. Olympic Committee attor­ney Jeff Benz said there was no way to assume Yang would have won, because there was one event left after the parallel bars and there was no guaran­tee everything would have turned out the same. 
"To change the outcome of the event based on a math com­putation in a single part of the event, and not at the conclu­sion, would result in pure spec­ulation," Benz said. 
He also argued that "field of play" decisions -i.e., judgment calls by officials during compe­titions -were not subject to review by CAS, and that the South Koreans didn't file their appeal until it was too late to change the result. 
"The issue is whether this affected the result," CAS gener­al secretary Matthieu Reeb said. 
When the case arose at the Olympics, CAS officials agreed they did not get involved in field-of-play rulings. Five weeks later, they heard the case any­way, and Benz said it wasn't necessarily a bad thing. 
"I don't think the filing of this case sets a bad precedent for CAS," Benz said. "I did argue, though, that this case didn't rise to the level of getting outside of the field-of-play doctrine." 
The South Korean delegation declined comment after the hearing. 
About 40 people speaking no fewer than seven languages were in the courtroom. The arguments were heard by three arbitrators -one each from Germany, Kenya and Britain. Reeb said the ruling was expected within two weeks. 
'Til just try and forget about it for the next so many days until a decision is made," Ha.mm said. "Yang is a great athlete. The dispute doesn't involve his or my actions. I empathize with him, and prefer this be resolved in the field of play." 
In fact, Hamm thinks it already has been resolved in the field of play. 
After a bad fall on the vault, he rallied from 12th place to first over the last two events to win the gold and cap one of the most dramatic Olympic come­backs ever. He believes he won the all-around fairly, and that has strengthened his resolve to keep the gold. 
Whether he wins or loses, gymnastics rules are in for a major overhaul as a result of this mess. 
FIG is backing a plan that calls for the immediate suspen­sion for four years of judges who make scoring mistakes. The rule was not in place in Athens, which is what made the quick review and suspension extraordinary. 
Meanwhile, USA Gymnastics will recommend the use of video replay to review the level of difficulty of events, known as start values. That, along with major revisions of the scoring rules, will be considered at a FIG meeting next month in Turkey. 
None of it, however. can make the Hamm debacle go away. The 22-year-old from Wisconsin, the first American man to win the all-around, said he'll return to the States this week to go back on tour with his twin brother, Morgan. 
of Arbitration for Sport listened to the arguments made on behalf"of Hamm and Yang Tae­young of South Korea, who both believe they won the gold in Athens last month. 
Within the next two weeks, the arbitrators will take the tes­timony from the hearing in Lausanne, Switzerland, make their ruling and finalize the result of the first Olympic gym­nastics meet that couldn't get settled in the gym. 
"Everything went very smoothly," Hamm said in a tele­conference after the hearing. "It was a ve fair heari and everyone got the chance to say what they thought. 
"If they determine by the rules of gymnastics I should give back my medal, I will." 
It has been quite an odyssey for Hamm and Yang, who was wrongly docked 0.1 points for the level of difficulty of his par­allel bars routine in the all­around. He ended up with the bronze, 0.049 points behind Hamm. 
The International Gymnastics Federation (FIG) reviewed the meet the next day and suspend­ed the judges, admitting a mis­take and addin fuel to the South Korean protest. 
Despite the suspensions, offi­cials for the federation said repeatedly they wouldn't change the results because the South Koreans didn't file a protest in time. 
FIG president Bruno Grandi confused the issue, however, when he wrote a letter to Hamm asking him to surrender the gold medal voluntarily. In the letter, Grandi wrote, "The true winner of the all-around competition is Yang Tae-young." 
Buoyed by that statement, the South Koreans brought the case to CAS -the sports world's 

Tuesday, September 28, 2004 

=p=ag=e=l=6======================================T.='h~ Observer + SPORTS 

NFL 
Rivers promoted, will backup Brees 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Philip Hivers just got a lot closer to taking his first snap with the woeful San Diego Chargers. 
Rivers was promoted from third-string quarterback to No. 2 on Monday, a day after Drew Brees was ineffective in a 23-13 loss at Denver that dropped the Chargers to 1-2. 
Coach Marty Schottenheimer said Brees remains the starter. But if Brees were to get hurt­or get the hook -Rivers, the $40.5 million tookie, would get the call over 41-year-old Doug Flutie, who's now No. 3. 
''I'm not sitting here all fired up like I've achieved some­thing," Rivers said. ''I'm pleased that I've made some progress, obviously, and shown them such, that they feel·that I'm ready to be in that position." 
Schottenheimer said he made the move to give Ri~ers more snaps during practice. Rivers had been directing the scout team against the No. 1 defense, running the plays that the upcoming opponent is expected to run. Hivers said he's gotten virtually no snaps with the No. l offense during practices so far. · 
It could very well be that Schottenheimer is preparing for a change at No. 1. 
After a strong performance in a season-opening win at Houston, Brees has struggled in consecutive losses. lie threw for just 8 yards in the first half of a 34-28 home loss to the New York Jets, and for just 16 yards in the first half at Denver on Sunday. lie's completed just 
54.2 percent of his passes, and his passer rating has tumbled to 77.1. 
lie's thtown for three touch­downs and two interceptions, and has lost two fumbles. He was pulled from the Jets game after sustaining a concussion, although he ran 12 plays and threw a 33-yard TD before Schottcnheimer replaced him with Flutie. 
Asked if he's looking over his shoulder because of Rivers' 
promotion, Brees said: 
"Absolutely not." 
If a team uses its No. 3 quar­
terback in the first three quar­
ters, the other two QBs can't go 
back in. If the No. 3 goes in 
during the fourth quarter, the 
other two would still be avail­
able. 
Rivers was taken by the New York Giants with the fourth pick overall in April's draft, then sent to the Chargers for Eli Manning -taken No. 1 -and a handful of draft picks, includ­ing the Giants' No. 1 next year. 
Although a contract holdout cost him 29 training camp prac­tices and two exhibition games, Rivers said he's ready to play. 
"I say that confidently. I'm not by any means going to play the perfect game, but I feel like I can go in there and make the plays and get the things done that can win us a game," said Rivers, who started an NCAA­record 51 games at North Carolina State. 
"That's not all on my shoul­ders, but I certainly feel like I can get in there and manage it and handle the situation." 
Schottenheimer said Flutie "has been a fireman, if you will, the guy who would come in during the fourth quarter, and by putting him at No. 3, we don't compromise his ability to do that." 
"I didn't know we were into specialties. I'll be the closer, I guess. I'll do what's asked of me, whatever that might be," Flutie said. . 
Schottenheimer said Brees has made considerable progress. 
"The Houston game comes to mind, but yesterday he missed some throws. every quarter­back in the league misses throws, but there's a major spotlight given our circum­stance, and so of course it reflects in that regard." 
Quarterback is hardly the Chargers' only problem. 
Wade Phillip's new 3-4 defense has only three sacks in as many games and opponents are completing 73.3 percent of their passes. 
INFOR.MATlON M66T1N4S 
5:00PM 
~ ~Ayes-H-eALY 
1i1urs~&f ~~ september:23 
or 
we~~s~~~~ septe*'ber ~ 
NBA 
J\1ashburn w-illm_iss next season 
} ssociated Press 
NEW ORLEANS-Barely a y3ar removed from his best s'~ason, Jamal Mashburn's NBA career could be over. 
Mashburn and. the New Orleans Hornets announced Monday, a week before the opening of training camp, that the former All-Star's right knee injury had shown no improve­ment and would force him to miss the entire 2004-2005 sea­s,m. 
After an 11-year career in which he averaged 19.1 points, the 31-year-old Mashburn said it's possible he'll never play again. But with two years and more than $18 million left on his contract, he wasn't ready to announce his retirement. 
"I have to remain optimistic," he said. "Hopefully, I can get better with rest. This is my livelihood. I have to stay posi­tive." 
By not retiring, Mashburn stands to collect his salary through the 2005-2006 season. 1 he Hornets have an insurance policy that covers about 80 percent of the cost if Mashburn remains too hurt to play, but the full amount still counts against the Hornets' salary cap. 
Mashburn missed all but 19 games last season after he underwent surgery to remove liJose particles from his right knee. He said strenuous activi­
t.r still causes the knee to swell as badly as it did last March when his season ended. 
With Mashburn out, "You're t:J.king away one of the premier small forwards in basketball," Hornets coach Byron Scott said. "We're going to have to nake some adjustments. We're still going to move forward, lmt 
AP Hornets forward Jamal Mashburn, left, embraces Hornets coach Byron Scott after Mashburn said he would not play this year. 
having a guy like Jamal out is always going to hurt you." 
Newly acquired Hodney Rogers will compete with George Lynch for the starting spot at small forward, Scott said. 
Mashburn's career began in 1993 as a first-round draft choice of the Dallas Mavericks, who selected him fourth over­all out of Kentucky. He also had a stint with the Miami Heat that ended unceremoni­ously when he passed up an open shot late in the Heat's one-point, Game 7 loss to the New York Knicks in the 2000 Eastern Conference semifinals. 
He was traded that summer to the Hornets and made the All-Star team during the 2002­03 season, but that was his last healthy year as Mashburn played in every regular season game, averaging 21.6 points and carrying the Hornets to numerous victories while guard Baron Davis was side­lined with knee and back prob­lems. 
Several MRI exams this sum­mer indicated Mashburn has worn out cartilage in his right knee, causing bones to grind together and leaving internal bruising and inflammation, according to Hornets trainer Terry Kofler. 
Kofler said it could heal with rest, but the lack of cartilage in Mashburn's knee would leave him susceptible to the same injury if he tries to play again. 
In 2001, Mashburn missed 42 regular season games with a lower abdominal strain. then missed all but one playoff game after contracting a virus that caused him to experience positional vertigo. 
''I'm hoping with rest and a lack of pounding, things will heal themselves and maybe there's a possibility in a year or so," Mashburn said. 




Tuesday, September 28, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Red Sox roll overDevil Rays to make playoffs 
ters this season, most in the good, but it would be nice to
Ramirez homers as 
major leagues. The right-han­finish on a good note going into der settled down after giving up the offseason." 
Red Sox win 7-3, 
Julio Lugo's RBI double in the Melvin Mora went 3-for-4 
clinch wild card spot second and a sacrifice fly to with a homer for the Orioles, Rocco Baldelli in the third to whose four-game winning win his fifth straight decision streak ended. The defeat means
Associated Press 
and improved to 8-2 since end­Baltimore (74-81) will complete ing a six-game losing streak on a seventh straight season with­
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -The 
July 9. out a winning record. 
Boston Red Sox clinched their 
The umpires huddled after Tigers 4, White Sox 2 
second straight trip to the play­Arroyo hit Martinez with an Dmitri Young hit a tiebreak­{)ffs, rallying past the Tampa 
open base, but did not issue a ing, two-run homer in the sixth Bay Devil Rays Monday night warning. Kazmir, who held the inning, and the Detroit Tigersbehind Manny Ramirez's ALo Red Sox hitless through 3 1-3 beat the Chicago White Sox leading 43rd home run. 
innings, hit Ramirez with the Monday night to stop a five­Johnny Damon hit his career­first pitch, and both benches game losing streak. 
high 19th homer for the Red 
were warned. Gary Knotts (6-6) allowed two 
Sox, who are assured of no 
Millar was hit on a 1-1 pitch, runs and five hits in 6 2-3 worse than the AL wild-card 
though that one just appeared innings but threw three wild 
berth. Boston closed within 
to get away from the 20-year­pitches. Esteban Yan,_ Detroit's 
three games of the AL East­
old Kazmir. The benches emp­fourth pitcher, got two outs for leading New York Yankees with tied, but no punches were his sixth save, completing a six­
six games remaining. 
thrown. The umpires huddled hitter. 
Boston players shook hands again and ejected Piniella and Jason Grilli (2-2) lost despiteand exchanged hugs and high­Kazmir, who was acquired from pitching a three-hitter for his fives after the final out. the New York Mets in July. The first complete game in 13 "No one's going bananas. We rookie struck out of six of 11 career major league starts. Joe 
still have a job to do," Damon 
batters before hitting Ramirez. Crede homered, giving Chicago 
said. "There's a lot more busi­Blue Jays 4, Orioles 1 six players with 20 homers for 
ness to take care of. Right now, During a season that long ago the first time in franchise histo­we're going to go celebrate a went sour, the Toronto Blue ry.little bit." Jays have found happiness in Indians 6, Royals 1 
The Red Sox, held hitless for one place: Camden Yards. Casey Blake figured luck four innings, went ahead on Gregg Zaun homered and came to the Cleveland Indians Damon's three-run homer and Orlando Hudson had three hits twice Monday night. 
Ramirez's 458-foot, two-run and an RBI, leading Toronto Their first break was getting in the American League behind lenge is still before us." drive after Tampa Bay starter past the Baltimore Orioles Zack Greinke out of the game Minnesota's Johan Santana Athletics 6, Mariners 5 Scott Kazmir was ejected for Monday night. after the rookie had shut them (2.62) and Boston's Curt Bobby Crosby's sacrifice flyhitting Ramirez and Kevin The Blue Jays are 38-40 at out for seven innings. The sec­Schilling (3.26). with one out in the ninth scored Millar with pitches in the fourth home and 27-50 on the road, ond was Blake's two-run single "That's very good company," Erubiel Durazo with the win­inning. The Devil Rays led 2-0 but in Baltimore they're 6-1. off D.J. Carrasco in the eighth said Westbrook, who matched ning run in the Oakland at the time. Toronto swept the Orioles in a that triggered a come-from­Greinke until David DeJesus Athletics' victory over the 
Tampa Bay manager Lou three-game set last month and behind victory over the Kansas homered leading off the sixth. Seattle Mariners on Monday Piniella also was tossed after started this four-game series City Royals. "It's nice to be mentioned in the night. Kazmir plunked Ramirez and looking nothing like a last-place "Greinke was tough. He same breath with those guys. The A's maintained their one­Millar in a span of four pitches. club. changes speeds real well," It's an honor to be right there." game lead in the AL West over The first one appeared to be "If you go through the Blake said. "We were glad to Angels 5, Rangers 3 second-place Anaheim, which retaliation for Boston's Bronson motions, people can tell and see him get out of the game." Chane Figgins and Troy won 5-3 at Texas. Arroyo hitting Aubrey Huff and they label you as losers," inter­Jake Westbrook (14-9) gave Percival saved the Anaheim Oakland held Ichiro Suzuki to Tino Martinez the previous im manager John Gibbons said. up one run and five hits in Angels, and gave them a little one hit, leaving him five shy of inning. "I haven't seen any of that. The seven innings for the Indians, boost in the AL West race. George Sisler's 84-year-old 
Arroyo (1 0-9) has hit 20 bat-guys are responding pretty lowering his ERA to 3.28, third Figgins had RBI hits in the record of 257. The Mariners last two innings and scored the have six games remaining. go-ahead run on an infield Octavia Dote! (5-2) pitched a grounder. Percival then escaped perfect ninth, getting two a bases-loaded jam in the ninth, strikeouts and Mark Kotsay's and the Angels beat the Texas clutch catch against the center­Rangers Monday night in the field wall on a hard-hit ball by opener of a key four-game Jose Lopez. series. Durazo hit a bloop double off 
"It's still a three-team race," Ron Villone (7-6) leading off the Angels manager Mike Sciascia bottom half, a ball between left said. "We never had the per­fielder Raul Ibanez and Lopez, spective that all we had to do is the shortstop. The ball went off beat Oakland. Texas is a legiti­Lopez's glove and fell to the mate contender.... The chal-ground in shallow left. 

Tlii! 'University o.fWotre rllame 
Gary Gildner 
reading from his latest collection of short stories 
Somewhere Geese are flying 
Do you want to create breakthrough strategies? 
Are you ready to tackle the toughest operating problems? 
If the answer is yes-come learn more . 
Company Presentation Wednesday, September zgth 6:30p.m. Morris Inn, Notre Dame room All majors welcome ! 


WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 29, 2004 
7:30P.M. 
HOSPITALITY ROOM RECKERS SOUTH DINING HALL 
Sponsored by the Creative Wri1ing Program, Department of English 

---~~-­
OUND THE NATION 
Page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, September 28, 2004 

Women's Soccer Top 20 
AP Washington quarteriJack Mark Brunell gets sacked by Dallas safety Tony Dixon in the third quarter of Monday night's game. Dallas recorded a 21-18 victory over Washington. 
Washington falls to Dallas in 21-18 loss 
' . 
NFL 

Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. --Bill Parcells celebrated the touchdown with a big smile and his fist thrust high in the air. The Dal1as Cowboys coach had turned the trick that put his old nemf sis on the ropes. 
Richie Anderson's half­back option pass floated into the hands of Terry Glenn in the back ,>f the end zone early in the fourth quarter, and the Cowboys sacked Mark Brunell five timos in Monday night's 21-18 victo­ry over Joe Gibbs and the Washington Redskins 
In the first meeting in 14 
IN BRIEF 
Players' union hopes to 
reverse Guillen suspension 
ARLINGTON, Texas · The players' association filed a grievance Monday seeking to overturn the Anaheim Angels' suspension o' left fielder Jose Guillen. 
Guillen was suspended without pay for the rest of the S€ as on on Sunday because of his outb Jrst after being lifted for a pinch run 1er a day earlier in Oakland. The su >pension would continue into the postseason if the Angels advance that 'ar. 
The case will be heard by arbitra­tor Shyam Das in Oakland on Friday, the day the Angels start a regular season-ending serie~ against the AL West-leading Athletics. _ 
General manager Bill Stoneman said the team would defend its move, but wouldn't go into tletails. 
"It's something th 1t's going to all be brought out in front of anarbitra­tor, and that's the E.ppropriate set­ting," Stoneman said before the start of a four-game series in Texas. 
years between two of the NFL's top coaches, Parcells showed he still has Gibbs' number. Parcells has won 12 of 18 meetings and seven in a row, the last six coming when Parcells' New York Giants and Gibbs' Redskins were NFC East rivals from 1983-90. 
The victory, Dallas' 13th in its last 14 meetings with Washington, also made Parcells the 10th coach in NFL history to win 150 reg­ular season games. 
The trick play from Anderson to Glenn gave the Cowboys (2-1) a 21-10 lead with 13 minutes remaining, enough cushion to survive a comeback by the 
Guillen was hit by a pitch opening the eighth inning of Saturday's 5-3 victory over Oakland. Manager Mike Scioscia sent Alfredo Amezaga in to [!_inch run. Sip.gh decides not to play at 
Insfi event 
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. ­World number one Vijay Singh has decided not to play in this week's World Golf Championships American Express Championship in Ireland after damage here at his home from Hurricane Jeanne. 

The 41-year-old from Fiji won his eighth title of the year on Sunday at the 84 Lumber Classic and broke Tiger Woods' single-season PGA prize money record. Singh has won 
9.45 million dollars in 2004 to sur­pass Woods' 9.18 million in 2000. 
Singh took the top ranking from Woods in a man-to-man duel down the final holes of the Deutche Bank Championship in Boston earlier this month, ending Woods' five-year reign atop the golf world. 
Redskins (1-2). 
Brunell, playing one week after straining his hamstring in a loss to the New York Giants, hit Rod Gardner for a touchdown pass and Taylor Jacobs for a 2-point conversion with 
4:30 to play. 
The Cowboys were able to use all but 21 seconds of the clock on their final drive because Washington was out of timeouts, but the Redskins almost got a chance at a tying field goal. 
The Redskins managed two plays in their final drive. The last was a 46­yard pass to Gardner at the Dallas 21, but Gardner could not get out of bounds 
Ritchie out for season with 
torn ACL 
PHILADELPHIA -Philadelphia Eagles fullback Jon Ritchie will miss the rest of the season after tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in Sunday's 30-13 victory over the Detroit Lions. 
"We'll miss Jon," Eagles coach Andy Reid said Monday. "He's a good footbal1 player and he's great in the locker room. I encouraged him to stick around the team as much as he can because he's a positive influ­ence." 
Ritchie is the fourth significant player the Eagles have lost for the season, joining running back Correl1 Buckhalter (knee), right guard Shawn Andrews (leg) and defensive end N.D. Kalu (knee). 
Rookie Thomas Tapeh, who was on the inactive list the last two games, is the only other fullback on Philadelphia's roster since the start of the season. 
as time expired. 
Vinny Testaverde was 14­of-29 for 214 yards for the Cowboys, while Anderson completed the first pass of his NFL career. Brunell was 25-of-43 for 325 yards -167 to Gardner -and two touchdowns. 
Parcells and Gibbs each used a replay challenge in the first 7.5 minutes of the game, and Gibbs tried to use another one on a play that was declared non­reviewable. Both first-half scoring drives benefited from questionable cans. 
The Redskins rebounded to score late in the first half thanks to a beneficial call on a third-down play. 

1 
2 
3 
4 
6 
6 
1 
a 
9 
10 
11 
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 
tenm New England 
NY Jets 
BuHalo 
Miami 

team 
Ja~:ksonvllle 
lndlanapolli 
Tennessee 
Houston 
;::-team 
Atlanta 
New Orleans Carolina Tampa Bay 
team 
S&atue St.Louis Arl1.ona San Fran. 
team 
NOTRE DAME North carolina Washington Virginia Pllnn Stalll Portland Florida 
Kansn 
UCLA 
llllnoli 
west Virginia 
Florida Stalll California TllxasA&M Santa Clara Michigan Princeton 
SMU Wake Forest 
Stanford 
record 
2·0 2·0 0·2 0·3 
record 2·1 2·1 1·2 1-2 
record 
3.0 
2·1 
f.2 
H 
NFL 
around the dial 
WNBA Detroit at New York 7 p.m., ESPN2 Sacramento at Los Angeles 9 p.m., ESPN2 
POKER World Series of Poker 10 p.m. ESPN2 

----------·----~-------------,
! 
Tuesday, September 28, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S BLUE INTERHALL 
Wild Women outshine Finest by a touchdown 
Rivalry is renewed as PW defeats PE 
By CHRIS KHOREY and PETE 
CRACCHIOLO 
Sporrs Writers 
The defensive stalemate ended, and Walsh [1-0-2] made the season's first mark in the win column. 
Quarterback Mary Sullivan raced her way into the endzone for the only touchdown of the game with 35 seconds remain­ing. Walsh converted the extra point attempt and went on to win 7-0 over the Farley Finest [1-2-0]. 
Despite being the hero, Sullivan was humble. "It was a team effort," she said. "As a team we want to do well." 
Sullivan stepped in for injured quarterback and captain Carrie Campbell. Campbell sprained her ankle last week during an extra point attempt. 
"Carrie was a huge loss," Sullivan said. "She is our leader." 
Farley quarterback Katie Popik went 8-for-20 passing 
and Sullivan completed seven passes out of 19 for Walsh. And despite three interceptions from each quarterback, neither team could ·convert those intercep­tions into points. 
"[The] offense didn't get going," Farley captain Angelina Zahrbach said. "We still have high hopes though." 
Both teams need to improve their offenses. 
Walsh managed three first downs and Farley only two. No team had a stand out running back, putting more pressure on the quarterbacks to force throws. 
Regardless of the outcome, this was a huge game for both teams. Walsh needed to prove they could do better than a tie, and Farley was out to prove they are a true contender this season. 
At the end of the day Walsh was victorious, but that hasn't broken the spirit of the Finest. "We're going to come back at Cavanaugh next week," Zehrbach said. "But today [we] just didn't click." 
With a new surge of momen­tum, Walsh faces Breen Phillips in its next game. Campbell is questionable for that game, but Sullivan isn't worried. The goal in her mind is to simply win, because it is always a team effort. 
PW 19, PE 13 
It was a tale of two halves in this past Sunday's Pasquerilla Cup football game. The Weasels of Pasquerilla West used a sec­ond half comeback to erase a 13-point deficit and defeat the Pyros of Pasquerilla East, 19­
13. . "We came out a lot more fired up in the second half and played much better defense," Weasels defensive tackle Sara Cermak said. A major question com~ng into the contest was which West quarterback -Anne-Marie Hart Brenna Mannion or Laura Joyce -would see the most playing time. The answer turned out to be none of the above. Junior Heather Van Hoegarden played the whole game under center for the Purple Weasels, completing 13­of-33 passes for 142 yards and two touchdowns and rushing 
for 42 yards and a score. Van Hoegarden's appearance was even more surprising given half," she said, "But [in the sec­that she had no previous quar­ond halfl their linebackers and terback experience and did not defensive backs had to come up appear at all in last week's because they thought I was game against going to run." Walsh. The Weasels 
"I missed the last "They ran lots of began their game. I didn't play comeback on the
options and 
on Tuesday first possession of because I had a reverses. We got the second half, test," Van duped andfellfor driving down the Hoegarden said. "I field for a two­
the reverse. '' 
didn't think I'd play yard Van quarterback, since Hoegarden I played receiver Sara Cermak touchdown pass. last year." PW defensive tackle After holding 
Despite Van the Pyros to One Hoegarden's play, yard in thre.e the Pyros dominated the first plays, West forced a punt. The half, using misdirection and Weasels then used completions trick plays to befuddle the West of 25 and twelve yards for a defense. quick six pofnts. 
"They ran lots of options and West got the ball back with reverses," Cermak said. "We got two minutes remaining in the duped and fell for the reverse." game. Aided by two fourth­
After going into the locker down pass interference penal­room trailing 13-0, the Weasels ties, Van Hoegarden punched regrouped and came out firing the ball in on a two-yard run. on all cylinders in the second A last ditch East effort to tie half. the score was ended by an 
The mobile Van Hoegarden interception. left the pocket more often, drawing East's defensive backs Contact Chris Khorey and Pete 
away from Weasel receivers. Cracchiolo at ckhorey@nd.edu"I didn't run at all in the first and pcracchi@nd.edu 
Freshman quarterback hopes to lead Walsh past McGlinn 
By NATHAN DYER, TOM 
STILES and TOM DORWART 
Sports Writers 
Opening the season with a loss -especially a one-point loss -can become a difficult mental obstacle. 
McGlinn opened its season last Tuesday with a heart­breaking, one-point loss to the Breen Philips Babes. But the Shamrocks are unwilling to let that loss destroy their season, and they are prepared for their upcoming game against the Walsh Wild Women tonight at 9 
p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
."It [was very bad for the team] that we lost such a close game," captain Liz Maher said, "but we have learned from our mistakes and are ready for Walsh." 
If McGlinn has its way, Walsh will have to stop the strong rushing attack ofjunior running back Raquel Ferrer. Ferrer was the star of McGlinn's first game, and she looks to carry the load even more in this second game. · 
After working through the mistakes made during the last game, the McGlinn offense appears to be clicking. Alongside junior co-captain and quarterback Bridget Meacham, Ferrer and McGlinn will look for a better result than their last game. 
While it will be Meacham and Ferrer who lead the team offen­sively, Maher expects her other players to follow the captain's lead. 
This will be difficult to do, however, if the Wild Women of Walsh have anything to say about it. 
Having given up only six total points the entire season -and led by cornerbacks Katie Hesmond and Patty Rose ­Walsh feeds off its defense's intensity. Hesmond has had two interceptions in each game she has played, giving her six for the season and providing con­stant sparks for the offense. 
Campbell says that, while she went down with an injury, freshman Mary Sullivan has stepped up at the ever-impor­tant quarterback position. 
"Mary has done a great job, and we are definitely looking to score a lot against McGlinn," Campbell said. Cavanaugh vs. Farley· 
Cavanaugh is looking to erase all doubt caused by its scoreless tie with Walsh from over a week ago. The Chaos want to prove they are worthy of a preseason No. 1 ranking when Cavanaugh [0-0-1] takes on Farley's Finest [1-2] tonight at 8 p.m. on Riehle West Fields. 
"In practice this week, we 
increased our repertoire on 
offense and tried to get more 
people involved," Cavanaugh 
captain Sara Gilloon said. 
As with most teams this sea­
son, the Cavanaugh offense has 
yet to catch up with the 
defense. The Chaos are well aware that the defense ­·although talented -cannot 
shutout teams week in and 
week out. 
Farley looks to move further 
up in the rankings, all the while 
proving that the Finest cannot 
be taken lightly. 
"We were all pretty disap­
pointed with the close lost on 
Sunday, but we are confident 
we can bounce back," Farley 
captain Angelina Zehrbach 
said. "Our defense is fine, but 
the offense has been struggling, 
so hopefully we can get that 
Information Sessionfor Notre Dame's International 
·• r,,
Study Programs in 
Dublin, Ireland 
September 28, 2004 5pm 102 DeBartolo with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director, and program returnees 
University College Dublin: Fall 2005, Spring 2006 Trinity College Dublin: Academic Year 200.5-06 Trinity Irish Studies Summer.Scttoqi:· Summer 2QO? 
· ..·•·,f~.;. ·'r::-::"·· .•-,:•r·• 
•U; 
Application Deadline is November 15. 2604 for Fall, Spring, and Academic Year; or ":·•·· March 1 . 2005 for Summer 2005 www.nd.edu/-intlstud 

going." 
A young and talented receiv­ing corps will try and revive a Farley offense that has stalled in 
Farley's improvement has in no way gone unnoticed by the rest of the league, but Cavanaugh is no exception. The Chaos are preparing for a hard­fought battle against an offense that put up some touchdowns earlier in the season. Pasquerilla East vs. Breen Phillips 
Two teams with completely opposite records face off as the women's football season heads into full swing in its third round of games. 
The 2-0 Breen Phillips Babes take their high-powered pass-_ ing attack into Tuesd<;ty's 7 p.m. meeting against the 0-2 Pasquerilla East Pyros at Riehle West fields. BP heads into the evening showdown with confi­dence after a quick, unblem­ished start, while PE looks for its first win. 
"We're getting more comfort­able as a team," Babes captain and center Jaimie Feltault said. "We're starting to read each other well. We're not so much learning now, but perfecting smaller things. 
"Offensively, we've been improving steadily. We've been able to connect on some long passes," Felthault said. 
Contact Nathan Dyer, Tom Stiles and Tom Dorwart at ndyer@nd.edu, tstiles@nd.edu and tdorwart@nd.edu. 

uzr 
61flllrlwrifl61!JJJ/J!J9 
fl .
''03 
·toL $ ..:,: .....t 



Tuesday, September 28, 2004

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
================================== 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD 
Dillon ties Stanfor·d as defenses dominate 
into a 68-yard, momentum-shift­
ing punt return. Keough attempt­
ed to fake an offensive play and 
punt the ball on what turned out 
to be a not-so-normal fourth 
down. But Turner's touchdown 
with 3:15 remaining lifted a 
scoreless O'Neill team over 
Keough for the victory. 
Keough dominated the first half 
but put only six points on the 
board when quarterback and 
captain Brian Kusper threw a 
six-yard touchdown pass early in 
the second quarter. 
Kusper finished the game 15­
of-25 for 120 yards with a touch­
down and an interception, but 
the Kangaroos did not score the 
rest o(the game. 
O'Neill, on the other hand, 
scored no points in the lirst half 
without throwing the ball. In the 
second half, the Angry Mob 
changed the game plan. throwing 
six passes in its first ten plays. 
Both offenses then stalled on 
three straight drives, but on its 
fourth drive, Keough started 
moving downfield. On fourth 
down at the O'Neill 38-yard line, 
the Kangaroos came to the line of 
scrimmage in formation to run 
an offensive play and punted. 
But when Kusper rolled right 
and kicked a short punt down­
field, Turner was ready, and he 
made the Kangaroos realize their 
worst nightmares by running the 
punt back the distance. 
After O'Neill converted on the 
extra-point, the Kangaroos 
quickly moved the ball downlield. 
Kusper converted a 26-yard pass 
with 58 seconds left to the O'Neill 
four-yard line after a ball deflect­
ed off intended receiver Chaz 
Arnold and into the hands of 
wide receiver Lawrence Dawson. 
But O'Neill blocked a low 21­
yard field attempt. 
Turner's heroics turned out to 
be the difference, but he had 
ample compliments for his team­
mates on the defensive line. 
"If they don't get in there arid block that kick, my return means nothing," he said. "They won the game just as much as the return did." 
Keenan 18, Morrissey 7 
It was not pretty, but the Keenan Knights are not com­plaining after defeating Morrissey. 
Despite fumbling the ball four times -including three on its first four possessions -the Knight's offense managed to put up three scores, which was more than enough for the victory. 
"We played the way we had to lin order] to beat them," captain Pat Downey said. "We were /ir­ing on all cylinders." 
Quarterback Eric Laumann led the Knights offense, completing 5-of-7 passes for 174 yards and two touchdowns. Ile also ran the ball in for another score in the fourth quarter. 
Morrissey drew first blood, capitalizing on a Keenan fumble that left the Morrissey offense with first and goal just inside the Keenan 1 0-yard line. 
"We came out strong in the first half and forced some turnovers. but Keenan was able to recover," Morrissey captain Aaron Ronsheim said. 
But Keenan fired right back and took the lead for good on the first drive of the second half with a 30-yard touchdown pass from Laumann to Reed Langton . 

Contact Kevin Brennan, Ken Fowler and Mike Tennant at kbrenna4@nd.edu, kfowler 1 @nd.edu and mtennant@nd.edu 
By KEVIN BRENNAN, KEN 
FOWLER and MIKE 
TENNANT 
Sporrs Writers 
It is often said that great defense wins football games. On Sunday, fiowever, two dominant defenses battled to a tie. 
Neither the Dillon offense nor the Stanford offense moved the ball with any consistency, and the game ended knotted up at 0-0. 
Stanford had the game's only serious scoring opportunity late in the first half. With one minute left in the second quarter and Dillon prepared to punt, the Griffins capitalized on a poor long snap and recovered the ball at the Dillon 14 yard line. A defensive pass interference in the end zone then gave Stanford· first and goal from the seven. Dillon's defense held strong, however. pushing the Griffins back five yards on the next three plays. On fourth down, Thomas Bradley 

. ·' 
Upcoming Lecture 
f,~ ' ,~ 4r ·~:'~ 
-'·' Dr:·sus~m Haack 
·,::.:.:;:~~;,_,~··; ~·• o~tober 2a:·7:;:r\~..... . 
,.. 
broke through the line and blocked Stanford's 29-yard field goal attempt to end the frrst half. 
"We were hoping to get a score before the half and go up 3-0 because we felt our defense would shut them out," Stanford captain Vin Monaco said. "We thought that field goal would have been the difference and it turns out it would have been, but it just didn't happen." 
The stand was the highlight of a stellar defensive game for the Big Red. Dillon held the Griffins to a mere 69 yards of offense. 
"Our defense played really well, especially against the run," Dillon captain Mike Roaldi said. "They gave up trying to run the ball." . 
Stanford struggled to get any­thing going offensively. Dillon stuffed the run, and Griffins quarterback Matt McQueary had trouble hitting his open receivers. McQueary completed only 5 of his 24 passes for 54 yards and threw two interceptions. 
Monaco was upset with the passing game, but he thought the 

Griffins' biggest problem was 
their inability to run the football. 
"Our offensive line did a good job of pass blocking but a poor job of run blocking," Monaco said. 'I think the reason we did­n't score any touchdowns was because we couldn't run the ball." 
Stanford's defense, on the other hand, turned in a dominant per­formance. The Griffins held • pillon's traditionally potent rush­ing atcack to 68 yards on 28 car­ries. ~.tanford also defended well again:;t the Big Red's rare pass­ing g.tme, as linebacker Chris Becht·~! ·and free safety Brandon Eric~on both recorded intercep­tions. 
Roa di was disappointed in his team'; offensive output, but he feels a lack of game experience may t ave had a lot to do with it. Unlike Stanford. Dillon did not play a game in the first week of the SelSOn. 
"Not seeing that whole game speed makes a huge difference," Roaldi said. "I think we were a much better team on offense in the second half." 
The Big Red had -2 rushing yards in the first half, but the team gained a much more respectable 70 yards on the ground in the second half. 
Roaldi believes the offense will continue to improve. 
"Any team that has as good a defense as we do can be in and win any game with any team," Roaldi said. "We just need to make a few offensive adjust­ments. We defmitely feel like we can still win the championship." 
O'Neill 7, Keough 6 
Braden Turner kept his eyes on Keough's quarterback all game, even on a normal fourth-and-five towards the end of the fourth quarter. 
"I saw [the quarterback] roll straight right for the first time," he said, "and I knew he wasn't going to pass it. He had taken three-step drops on all his pass­es." 
Turner turned that observation 
The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
The Notrt! Dame Law School Natural Law Institute Presents 
....... 
"Law and Ob~ligation" 
St•;!phen Perry 
Fiorello La(iuardia Profes.sor of Law and Professor of Philosophy 
New York University. Law School 

Tuesday, September 28, 2004 .m. 
Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 

Tuesday, September 28, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
VeriDin 
continued from page 24 
several times to push the Ramblers into Vermin territory. 
But with a little under two min­utes remaining in the game, Johnson got his second pick of the game and guaranteed a Vermin victory. 
"I can't put into words how great this feels," Wilmot said. "We've put in a lot of practice over these past few weeks and all our hard work is paying off. A win over the best team in the league will set the tone for the rest of our season. We beat a tough Siegfried defense that fly to the ball and always hit hard." 
The Vermin had a good num­ber of its players playing with injuries, including quarterback Wilmot. The night before the game he could not even hold a ball, let alone throw one for a 20­yard touchdown. 
Siegfried played a sloppy game offensively, fumbling several times and throwing two key interceptions that were the defin­ing moments of the game. 
"We had a lot of problems out there, but they will be fixed," defensive end Eric Cherney said. 
Vithe expressed the same senti­ment. 
"We'll use this bye week to fine tune some things and get ready to take it to [St. Edward's]." Vithe said. "Carroll's defensive schemes gave us problems all game. We rely upon several players to make up for the loss of Gettler early in the match. Daniel Mannes scored two field goals to put Fisher up 6-0 at the half. Receiver Tom Gorman also helped Fisher, as he scored a touchdown off a completion by Tom Gotebeski. Andy Pfister scored the two-point conversion to make the fmal score 14-0. 

In the second half, Zahm had difficulties finding the end zone again. Fisher outside linebacker Tom Bufalino sacked Zahm quar­terback Sean Wieland four times throughout tlie game. 
"As a team we didn't come out ready to play," Wieland said. "But we'll be back for next week." 
Knott 28, St. Edward's 0 
John Lyons introduced himself to the world of interhall football Sunday. and the pleasure was all his. 
Lyons, a sophomore Knott run­ning back, carried the ball 21 times for 116 yards and a touch­down in the Juggs dominant win over St. Edward's. He also caught a 25-yard pass from quarterback Justin Gillett, who compiled 33 rush yards of his ow.n in addition to 70 yards passing, showing the versatility of the Knott offense. 
The Juggs scored a touchdown on each of their first three pos­sessions, pounding their way through the defense. At the 5­yard line on the opening drive, Gillett rolled out and found Joe McCarthy in the corner ofthe end zone for the game's first score. 
A bad snap negated the extra point attempt, but after a short three-and-out drive by St. Ed's, the Juggs used Lyons to get them down to the 1-yard line. Gillett carried the ball in himself. After the two-point conversion, Knott led 14-0. 
Lyons fmally got his own, well­deserved touchdown on Knott's third drive of the game, taking it in from the 11. 
Knott's defense also did not budge. Rushing attempts were stuffed for no gain or, in many cases, a significant loss. St. Ed's quarterback Joh·n Bruis was pressured on nearly every pass attempt, and he never once looked comfortable in the pocket. 
Justin Cheers was the Juggs' defensive stalwart on the day with four tackles for a loss, two sacks and a forced fumble. Cheers was a force to be reck­oned with and nearly always managed to disrupt the St. Ed's offense. As a group, the Knott defense accumulated four sacks, two interceptions and Cheers' forced fumble, recovered by Mike Talerico. 
With their backup quarterback and running back in the game, Knott added a fourth touchdown early in the fourth quarter, with Trey Patrick taking it in from the 15. 
Contact Kyle Cassity, Dan Tapetillo and John Everett at kc.assily@nd.edu, jtapetil@nd.edu and jpeverett86@hotmail.com 
showing, as the Duck offense was limited to just three first
Chicks 
downs for the entire game. The Lewis defense also forced two
continued from page 24 
interceptions, one of which led to pass to wide receiver Tiffany the second Chicks touchdown. Roberts behind the line of scrim­With the win, the Lewis squad mage who, after stepping back, improves to 1-1 on the season fired a twenty-yard dart to a and renews the confidence they wide-open receiver in the back had last year that led them to the of the end zone. When asked stadium. about the trick play, both Bustin "Oh, we're headed there," and Roberts noted trickery had Roberts said. been a staple of their 2003 Pangborn 26, Badin 0 squad that came within an extra To say it was a turning point point of the championship. for Pangborn would be an 
Lewis' impressive offensive understatement. performance was matched by an The Phoxes defeated defending e·qually remarkable defensive interhall champions Badin, 26-0. 
2004 Nleuwl.nd Lectures in· Applied 
Mathematics· 
Thursday, September 30, 2004 
3:30 P.M. 126 DeBartolo Hall 
"Perturbation Methods for General Dynamic Stochastic Models" 
Paul H. Bouer Senior Fellow Hoover Institution 
Friday, October 1, 2004 3:00P.M. 119 O'Shaughnessy 
~ 
"Existence, Uniqueness, and Computational Theory for Time Consistent Equilibria: AHyperbolic Discounting ~mple" .d
_......:;..,~ .~ 
.... ·~~J' .-.·.,.·.·· 
.··.~ ...~ -~ltt't..... 
':~~,~~· 
The Badin Bullfrogs came off winning games against Lewis and Howard. · 
The Pangborn team hadn't been as successful, losing its first game against Welsh Family and tying its second game against Lyons Hall. 
Coming in apprehensive but 
prepared,  Pangborn  came  
through with a win.  
"The team  played  a  great  

game," Pangborn's defensive coach Doug Cionni said. "They executed the game play to a 'T.' We still have some thing to work on and there's always room for improvement." 
The first touchdown was a trick play. Quarterback Katie Mooney passed off to Chris Dube. D.ube then threw the ball 25 yards to receiver Katie Reimersma. 
After half time, the Phoxes scored three more touchdowns. 
-Accepting Reservations for Post-Game Dining -Light menu featuring gourmet soups, salads, & sandwiches -Featuring gourmet pizzas -Music is live on Fridays &Saturdays, starting at 9pm, Michigan time -Wine, microbrews, spe­cialty drinks & martinis, along with traditional cof­fee house drink menu items -Art Gallery 
Bring in this coupon and receive a free latte! 
Mary Davis, Trish Connelly and 
Brynn Johnson all scored. · Pangborn's defense stepped up 
and responded to Badin, as well. 
"We knew Badin was a passing 
team and we came ready to 
defend that kind of offense," cap­
tain Katie Murray said. 
Badin played a well-fought 
game, but Pangborn came out on 
top. 
"[The] win over the defending 
champions was just sweet, noth­
ing bitter about it," Murray said. 
"I think we've really proved 
we're· a team heading to the 
playoffs and have good reason to 
dream of the stadium." 
This coming Wednesday, Badin 
will face the Off-Campus team, 
while Pangborn will play Lewis. 
Lyons 13, Off-Campus 6 
Off-Campus coach Tim 
Breitbach called Sunday's game 
a moral victory. 
But moral victories do not 

show up in the standings as Off­Campus lost a hard fought con­test to Lyons by a score of 13-6 Sunday afternoon. 
The Off-Campus squad [0-2] fell behind 13-0 early and it appeared that it would be a long afternoon. The team's defense stepped up later in the game, but Off-Campus simply could not muster enough offense to over­come the early deficit. 
Quarterback Traci Kazmerski keyed the victory for Lyons [2-0­1]. Her versatility proved to be a weapon too difficult for the Off­Campus team to stop. She accounted for 164 yards of total offense with 83 yards rushing and 81 yards passing. 
Kazmerski set the tone early as she ran for a 55-yard touch­down on the third play of the game. After a stop by the Lyons defense, she led a five-play, 41­yard drive culminating in a 21­yard touchdown pass to receiver Meghan Regan. 
"She's a great player," Lyons coach Mike DeMartini said of Kazmerski. "She can run and throw the ball, and we like to use her ability to key our offense." 
Adjustments by the Off­Campus coaching staff limited Lyons to just 27 second half yards. The team's offense also showed tremendous progress from the first game when it failed to register a first down. 
Off-campus quarterback Lauren Blum engineered the team's first scoring drive of the year -a 65-yard march late in the first half. The drive ended with Blum's 15-yard touchdown pass, which ended the scoring as neither team found the end zone in the second half. 
Breitbach was confident his team could build upon this game. 
"The system in place is good," he said. "Now it's just a matter of the girls executing. Hopefully our execution will improve." 
Contact Brian Cardile, Abby Richardson and Ryan Kiefer at bcardile@nd.edu, Abby Richardson at arichaO 1 @saintmarys.edu and rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
really didn't get anything going until the very last drive." 
Carroll will face off next week against St. Edwards. Following a bye week, the Ramblers next game is also against St. Edward's. Fisher 14, Zahm 0 
Fisher came out with the victo­ry over Zahm last Sunday, but it came at the expense of one of its captains. 
Green Wave captain Lee Gettler suffered a severe concussion on the team's first offensive drive and was unable to return to the game. Gettler was running the ball off a sweep and cut up the field before the Zahm defense tackled him. 
"As he cut up the field he had no momentum," Fisher captain Jerremy Moreno said. "A Zahm defensive player then went full speed and knocked him to the ground. But it got us to go out there and win it." 
The Green Wave was able to 

----~---­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 28, 2004 

Michigan 
continued from page 24 
"We've made some great strides in practice," coach Debbie Brown said. "I think the girls are pretty confident." 
Heturning outside hitter Meg Henican to the front row should add to the team's confi­dence. More recently, Benican made her contributions to the team from the back row as libero due to a rib injury. 
Both Brown and Burrell said her presence at the net should make for an effective offense. 
''Meg brings a lot of offensive power to the court," Burrell said. "She's one of the team's best passers, and we're excited 
J>urdue 
continued from page 24 
will face thus far for the sea­sen, and Orton will be the best quarterback, as well. 
1\.s linebacker Brandon Boyte has said for the past few w ~eks, it's not what the oppo­n!,nt's offense does, but what the Notre Dame defense goes ot.t and does to influence the OL tcome of the game. With the pc tent Boilermaker offense vis­iting South Bend, Hoyte still feds that way. 
''I think we have a tremen­dous opportunity and playing a top offense like Purdue has, that's a showcase to really show what your defense is real­ly about," Hoyte said. "That w!,ekend presents that oppor­tu 1ity. I think it still stands ­it\ not about them, it's about how we play." 
Contrary to the national attention garnered by the 2002 defense, which was headlined by All-American Shane Walton, 
to have her back in the front team finished the season at No. row." 33 in the AVCA poll. 
The Wolverines are expected Erown acknowledged that to offer plenty of Michigan will challenges to the bring a solid Irish, despite the and balanced
"We just need to
team's renewed team to the confidence. work on being courts, but 
Western consistent." Brown empha­Michigan and No. sized that Notre 1 Minnesota were Dame lo.oks
Debbie Brown
the only teams to ready to com­topple Michigan Irish head coach pete. this season. The "We just need Wolverines regis-to work on this year's defense has talked "I think right now our about each person making a defense is gelling. I think every­contribution for the team's suc­one is playing a role and there's cess. Coaches put no main person together a chain at making play after the .beginning of play," Boyte said.
"I think right now 
the year to repre­·~It's the fact that 
our defense is 
sent what th·e the Notre Dame defense stands for gelling." defense as a -being only as whole is making good as it's weak­plays. I think
Brandon Hoyte
est link. we're in the posi­
Irish linebacker
Boyte knows tion right now 
that facing an where we can offense as good as definitely show Purdue's will give this defense everyone what we are about. the opportunity to show the "This weekend we get that country -which anointed opportunity." Orton a Beisman Trophy candi­date and Purdue's offense a top 
Contact Matt Lozar at 

group -that a "team-first" atti­
mlozar@nd.edu

tude gets the job done. 

~t Sports Sar it1 South Set1d 2046 South Set1d Ave-
r<~•L"IT",J!-h-rrur~t-........,.......,rBt........------11 
27 
NU Football Headquarters Ot11it1e sports it1fo 
"G-reat Food, G-reat Futf Mot1: Mot1day Night Football~ Specials startit1g at $1.0 Tues: College Night -UJ ~ Specials Wed: TitIVIA Night -Srit1g your teatMs -Prizes Thurs: UJ-First Thursday every tMOt1th: Jazzy G-rass Fri: Live Et1tertait1tttet1t Sat: NU gatttes 
tered wins over a number of teams, most notably No. 22 Tennessee, Florida State, Iowa, Virginia Tech and Valparaiso. 
Last year, Michigan regis­tered a 20-12 record and fin­ished fifth in the Big Ten. The 
being consis­tent," Brown said. "This will be a good opportunity for us to conpete and play against a strong Big Ten team." 
Contact Ann Loughery at aloughery@nd.edu 

invites you to an informal luncheon to discuss potential career opportunities 
Wednesday, September 29,. 2004 I1:30am -1:30pm at Reekers Hospitality RtJom 
**Accepting resumes until October 1, 2004 Oll Go/R/SH** 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES ;g 
E3aird/
TO WORK FOR~ 
Tuesday, September 28, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
HOW DID THE LIPOSUCTION GO? 
) 

~ 
~------------------~ 
CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 

SCOTT ADAMS 
E 
0 
() 

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RABON 
[J 
I ±
@2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
JEDDA 

THE: MUSICIANS

ABAANN 
DIDN'T USE THE RIC.KETY PLATFORM BECAUSE IT WAS--­

rxJ
www.jumble.com
tRASTUX ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
J I r j I 
Ans: 
A 
.. rI I I I I J' rI r I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: KHAKI BANJO BUSILY SEXTON
Yesterday's Answer: What the golfer exclaimed when he kept hitting the 
ball in the water-IT'S A LINKS JINX 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 36 "How Sweet 58 Desertlike the Red 59 Gladden 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Avril Lavigne, Meat Loaf, Shaun Cassidy, Greg Morris 
37 Mocks som 38 Something that refugee 
5 Fragrant bios-60 Dust Bowl 
Happy Birthday: You are about to embark on a year of opportunities, so don't 10 "Right on!" procrastinate. Set your goals, focus on what you want to obtain and refuse to
shouldn't be left 61 Pianist Dame hanging Myra let anyone or anything hold you back. Your numbers are 1, 2, 7, 10, 26, 39
14 Woodworking 
groove 39 Twilight time to 62 Dravidian lan­
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Work should be your prime concern today. You
a poet guage
15 Excitedly may be in an amorous mood, but clear up unfinished business before you40 More immense 63 contendere engage in pleasure. ***
16 Stack 
41 Rear TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your ideas will be better than you realize.
17 He wrote 
Share your thoughts and someone will recognize your potential. 4 stars
42 TV prog. with a DOWN
"Utopia" in an GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may have some interesting concepts, but
different host
ancient ian-1 Summer hrs. in someone you work with is likely to put them down or try to take ownership. guage N.J. Protect yourself in whatever way possible. **
each week 43 Cupid's counter-CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will find some interesting information
19 Yard sale tag 2 Cheer 
about someone you know. Let the fun and games begin. You will be able to
part
20 Partner of "ifs" 3 Life-changing bask in the spotlight today. ***** 
44 Author Lee
and "ands" statement LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may feel as if you are up against an 45 Inner circle insurmountable force finarfcially or legally, but if you take a unique approach, 
21 Arterial trunks 4 Farm vehicles 
member you will come out on top.***
23 Do a favor 5 Endured 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Lots can happen if you are willing to take a bit of 
47 Keats and oth­
26 Be charitable 6 Many P.C.'s a risk. Partnerships are apparent an.d can benefit you professionally and ers personally. * * * 
28 Tilted 7 London lav
48 Hogan dweller LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take a different approach when dealing with 
29 Oxidize a Vacuum's lack 
colleagues or friends. Work-related events will lead to an interesting
50 Seed cover 
9 Purifies opportunity. *** 51 Oscar winner SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be hard to resist, so turn on your 
30 A.A.A. sugges­
lion: Abbr. 10 Not close
Guinness charm and prepare to drum up the backing required to help you reach your33 Office stamp 11 He taught an goals. Take ad vantage of an opportunity fo~ romance. * * * * * 
52 Blind poet who 
34 Better halves ancient lan­SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Not everyone will see things your way 
often wrote in 
guage in film today. Focus on your investments, real estate or helping an older family
35 Disney Store an ancient ian-32 Church V.I.P.'s 46 Adds punch to, 55 Ref's decision 
member and you will bypass some of the turmoil.** 
12 Old London
item guage 34 Myopic cartoon as punch CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Visit people who can offer you the
Magazine 
character 48 Bygone auto knowledge needed to proceed down the path you have chosen. You can make a ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE essayist lasting impression on someone who counts. **** 
37 Certain Boeing 49 Toward shelter 56 3-in-One prod­
13 Celebrated AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be stuck in the past, wondering Prohibition-era 38 Church music 50 Not pro about the choices you made. It's never too late to reinvent yourself or your life. 
uct 
***
lawman maker 
53 Commercial suf-
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may take things personally today even if
18 Tool with a 40 Muslim pilgrim-
fix with it's not about you. Concentrate on what you can do for others and show your 
cross handle age 
Motor creative potential. *** 22 Feedbag feed 41 Arm bones 
57 "The Matrix"
54 Biblical ark pas-
Birthday Baby: Your dynamic, intellectual way of dealing with life and
23 "Golden" things 44 Spam producer senger role 
people will always win you a spot in the limelight. You are empathetic and 24 Vanquished caring and win favors for your kindness. 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com.
52-Across and credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
11-Down all Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
were crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 26 Curtain Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 27 North Carolina's past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Banks 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 31 Some china solvers: nytimes.com/learninglxwords . 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ___________________________________ 
City _____________ State ____ Zip______ 

Irish know importance of stoppitzg Purdue's running game 
By MATT LOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Kyle Budinscak was answer­ing a question Monday after­noon about how important pressuring Purdue quarter­back Kyle Orton will be Saturday. 
But then all of a sudden, Budinscak stopped talking about Orton and switched gears. 
"It'll start with stopping the run actually. to make it into passing situations where we can tee off a little bit," Budinscak said. "It's always !important to take away run!. but especially in this game." 
Orton's passing statistics 
[69.8 completion percentage. IJ82 yards, 13 touchdowns and zero interceptions] deter opponents from making Purdue one-dimensional, but the Boilermakers also average 205 yards per game on the ground, good enough for No. 24 nationally. ' 
"Any team that has a great quarterback and great receivers and knows the sys­tem real well ... if you can be the ball and you have to do mab them one-dimensional. The Notre Dame run defense 90 p~rcent sure they're going things to honor the run, and believe we can do that." ranks No. 17 nationally. But to throw the ball that helps you've already given yourself The Irish have been success­the Boilermakers offense will you so much more," a huge disadvantage in the ful shutting down the run -be the best unit Notre Dame Budinscak said. "If they're passing game. yielding an average of just having a little success running "So it's just huge if we can undt'r 89 yards per contest. see PURDUE/page 22 

page 24 
challenge on road 
Team shows flashes ofgreatness at Invitational 
By ANN LOUGHERY 
Sports Wri tcr 
Notre Dame saw glimpses of a perfect match. 
The Irish fell just short of the tournament title at the Gamecock Invitational this weekend. Despite a disap­pointing loss to host South Carolina. Notre Dame collected its first win against Michigan State since 191J4. 
"We played well against Michigan State, so we saw what we're capable of doing," setter Kelly Burrell said. "We just need everyone to play well at the same time and execute plays at a high level." 
Tonight's match against Michigan 110-21 offers the Irish [5-4] an opportunity to show­case just how capable they are and how much potential they possess. After more than a week's respite, the Irish are eager to take the courts again. 
see MICHIGAN/page 22 

WOMEN'S GOLD INTERHALL 
Le-wis blanks Ho-ward in rebound from loss 
By BRIAN CARDILE, ABBY 
RICHARDSON and RYAN 
KIEFER 
Sports Writers 
The Lewis Chicks recovered from a tough opening loss by blanking the Howard Ducks 12­0, legitimizing their chances of playing in the stadium for the second straight year. 
A strong showing by both the offensive and defensive units proved too much for a Howard squad that fell to 0-2 on the sea­son. 
In last week's match against the defending champion Badin Bullfrogs, the Chicks struggled on offense. failing to find the end zone and falling 7-0. These offensive woes vanished almost immediately Sunday. 
On the first Lewis possession, Chicks quarterback Meg Bustin hit a streaking receiver for a thirty-yard completion deep into Howard territory. A few plays later -after a key fourth down conversion -Bustin gave Lewis a 6-0 lead with a five-yard touch­down run. 
Bustin said the difference between Lewis' last game and this game were simple. · 
"The first game jitters were gone," Bustin said. 
Lewis' offense even afforded the crowd some fun with a little trickery late in the second half. After intercepting an errant Howard pass, the Chicks offense lined up deep in Duck territory. 
On first down, Bustin swung a 
see CHICKS/page 21 
MEN'S BLUE INTERHALL 
Carroll shocks Siegfried 
By KYLE CASSILY, DAN 
TAPETILLO and JOHN 
EVERETT 
News Writer 
Oh, how the mighty have fall­en. 
In a stunning upset, Carroll Hall knocked off Siegfried 7-0 Sunday. The two-time defend­ing champion and league pow­erhouse Ramblers were out­played by the previously last­seeded Vermin of Carroll. 
The game began and ended with two key interceptions. Vermin strong safety Michael Johnson picked off a deep pass from Siegfried quarterback Brian Vithe on the first play of the game and then ended a late fourth quarter Siegfried drive with another pick. 
"I knew from the moment that the ball was thrown that I had it," Johnson said. 
Johnson's first interception led to the only scoring posses­sion of the game. 
Following a drive up the field, Carroll quarterback Kory Wilmot threw a 20-yard touch­down reception to Paul Tassinari on a play action to put the Verm,in up 7-0. 
The score would remain such, as Siegfried could never establish itself offensively until the final drive of the game, which began with under seven minutes remaining· deep in its own territory. The drive fol­lowed a blocked field goal by the Ramblers. 
Siegfried running back Matt Woperer got the momentum going with 30 yards on four carries to push the ball near midfield. Vithe then connected with wide receiver John Kaup 
see VERMIN/page 21 


en 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
OLYMPICS 
MLB

NBA 
w
1-
(.) Gold League Wrap 
Blue League Wrap 
Mashburn out for 
Hamm fights 
Cubs 12

Blu•~ League
Pre11iew 
upcoming season 
court for medal 
Reds 5 

Dillon 0, Stanford 0 
Walsh 7, Farley 0 
New Orleans Hornets 
Gold medalist Paul 
Chicago stays a game 

The Griffins held the 
The Wild Women beat 
Hamm attended a hear-
ahead of San Francisco

forward Jamal Mash-
Pas ~uerilla East 
Big Red to 68 yards 
Farley's Finest on a late 
vs. I reen Phillips 
in the wild card race.

burn tore cartilege in his 
ing to determine the sta­
c: =s z 
rushing. 
Mary Sullivan touch-
The undefeated Babes 
right knee. 
tus of his challenged 
down. 
look o stay perfect. 
gold medal. 
a.. ti
en page 20 
page 19 
page 19 
page 15 
page 14

page 16 






