--~~--~~~--~~~--------------------------~----------~------------~--~------~~~~--------------------­

THE 


_The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 55 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17,2004 _ 
Iraq veteran· discusses war effects 
Marine sergeant Rob Sarra explains asoldier's mentality on behalfofIraq Veterans Against War 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Cutting through the political rhetoric surrounding the Iraq war and acknowledging the bru­tal human reality facing soldiers in the Middle East is the only way to bring them home, former Marinn sergeant and veteran Rob Sarra said Tuesday. 
Sarra. 32. who served with the 1st Marine Regiment in Iraq from January to June 2003 and addressed his Notre Dame audi­ence on behalf of Iraq Veterans Against the War, advised those still smarting from election parti­sanship to tone down their argu­ments. 
"It's not about your views, it's about the guys," he said. "Hepublicans have kids over there, Democrats have kids over there ... We've got to work together to end this thing." 
Though he made it clear that he is "by no means" a pacifist, Sarra rigorously questioned the United States' exercise of military 
force in Iraq and said IVAW's first 
priority is to bring home troops 
who should not have been sent in 
the first place. 

Iraqi soldiers who receive 
training away from suicide bomb­
ings and sabotage can legitimate­
ly replace these American units 
in the near future, he said. 
.·Blunt but dynamic, Sarra never 
strayed in his characterization of 
a soldier's mentality -duty-driv­
en and loyal while in battle, disil­
lusioned and resentful back ·home. 
"In combat, you see 'with us or 
against us,"' Sarra said. "These 
guys can't aflord not tonelieve in 
the mission, even though it might 
be twisted ... when you're there, 
it's about the guy next to you. But 
when you come home it's a raw 
deal." 

Because of this focus, soldiers 
in combat have little time to 
worry about anti-war sentiment said. "They care about the guy 
in the United States, Sarra said, next to them, where the next 
dismissing war advocates' claims round [of fire] is coming from, 
that peace protesters sink troops' and how to get home, that's it." 
morale. Opposing the war also does not 
"The troops don't care," he necessarily contradict supporting the troops, Sarra added. 
"I preach you can support the warrior [and] not the war," he said. "You can send them cookies, 
see VETERANIpage 6 

College hosts annual Showcase of Careers 
opportunities," said Jeff Roberts, 
By DANIELLE LERNER 
associate director for career 
News Writer 
opportunities at Saint Mary's. "This represents a tremendous 
Students are printing resumes networking opportunity for all and ironing business suits today students." as Saint Mary's College hosts the Organizations ranging from the annual Showcase of Careers Federal Bureau of Investigation from 3 until 6 p.m. in the LeMans to Chicago Public Schools and the Hall Lobby. The event, sponsored South Bend Silverhawks will be by the Counseling and Career present to meet with students at Development Center (CCDC), will the event, which will be open to bring more than 40 organiza-Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and tions to campus • Notre Dame students of all levels, 
"IIistorieally, this is the pre-majors and interests. mier opportunity to introduce In the past, between 300 and internships, full-time volunteer 400 students have attended and positions, graduate school and expectations for this year remain post-baccalaureate career high. 
"We were very sensitive to stu­dents' schedules this year," Roberts said. "We want to give as many students access to this event as possible." 
Saint Mary's junior Jackie Huelbig is thankful for that. 
"It's rare that this many organ­izations come together on our campus," Huelbig said. "I felt this didn't really apply to me in the past, but now that I'm a junior I'll be focusing on getting an internship for this summer." 
Whether students are interest­ed in finding employment oppor­tunities or information on a par­ticular graduate school, Roberts said the job fair can accommo­date both. Participating organi­zations can offer both insight into their own group, as Well as career information regarding their industry as a whole. 

"The organizations are here to address as many student con­cerns about the future as possi­ble," Roberts said. "It is an ample opportunity to ·explore the world of work, and to introduce the stu­dents to the breadth of opportu­nities out there." 
In conjunction with Showcase of Careers, Avon Community School Corporation will host informational. sessions for educa­
see CAREER/page 6 


By JANICE FLYNN News Writer 
University President-Emeritus Father Theodore Ilesburgh awed the audience the moment he entered the Keough Hall Lounge, bringing commotion to a complete hush, and continued to captivate as over 100 students sat in rapt attention for nearly an hour. soaking in the anec­dotes and advice of Notre Dame's greatest living legacy. 
llesburgh stood for the entire quPstion-and-answer lecture, gesticulating with his cane and drawing on his life's experiences with characteristic humility. 
"Excuse me for talking so much about myself," he said. The Keough Hall government 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Campus groups place closet on quad 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Ediror 
The Notre Dame department of sociology, the Graduate Student Union and other student groups have coordinated a series of events to address heterosexual, gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgen­dered and queer (GLBTQ) issues today with the aim to unify the campus community. 
A larger-than-life closet will be placed on South Quad from 5 to 7 
p.m. tonight so students can come out of the closet not only as gay or lesbian but also as such things as a sports fanatic or a chemistry major. 
Organizers had tried to hold the same demonstration on Oct. 11, but the event was cancelled after Student Affairs declined to provide permission. 
Anna Gomberg, one of the organizers oftoday's events and a member of the unrecognized stu­dent group AllianceND, credited a number of groups with easing the organization of the 'Coming­Out Celebration.' 
"This time around, the GSU and Sociology coordinated the communications with Student Affairs, without any connection to AllianceND," Gomberg said. "AllianceND is not an established student group, and therefore does not incur the same rights and privileges as official student groups." 
Vice President of Student Affairs Bill Kirk said the display is being allowed because the groups sponsoring it this time are officially recognized campus enti­
see CLOSET/page 6 


Hesburgh draws crowd to Keough 
invited Hesburgh to be the first of three presidential lectures themed "Past, Present, and Future." The hall hopes to host Fathers Malloy and Jenkins to speak later in the year. 
Although students posed only four broad questions, Hesburgh's stories spanned much of his life as he described his roles as University teacher, football chaplain and executive. He also explained his role on the Civil Rights Commission and his vision for the University. 
"What he's done for the University, for America, for the world, it's just unbelievable," said Bryan Byliea. Keough vice­president. 
True to form, Heshurgh seemed to enjoy himself and showed his endearing quality of connecting with students. He related to students' dorm life, speaking about living on the third floor of Badin Hall early in his career. 
"It was a wonderful time," he said. "I never got to bed before 2:30, and of course we always had 7:00 Mass -I used to just about fall asleep." 
As recipients of his legacy but never witnesses of his leader­ship, students asked about change over his years at the University, and were told that the enrollment of women and the increased endowment of the university rank among the most important during his tenure. 
llesburgh even taekled the issues of same-sex dorms and 
see HESBURGH/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 17, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Send the 

I 

spirit

t 
I 
In tlm~n years of writing nnws f(>r Tim Ohsnrvt~r. l'vn covPrPd just about nvmy suhjed Notn• Damn and Saint Mary's could possibly ofli1r to an journalist. 
J'vn lwld thn Board of 
Nicole Zook
Govnrnance weekly 
bnat, dnbatod 
Production
Catholic issues and 
Editor
written foaturns about studnnts who have become ongagnd, run the Chicago Marathon, or startt~d dubs. I've attnnd­tld lnetures on topics ranging from pho­to~-,rraphy to the Patriot Ad to the "state of the school'' addrllss to thn procnss of coming out of the pn>vflrbial closet. 
In this semllstpr alone. I've had the opportunity to investigatll how our com­munity works with thll elderly, the vot­ing procnss, the nllw bookstore manag­nr, studnnt rnadion to Labor Day and tlw rncllnt dining hall survnys. 
J'vn intervinwed nveryone from pro­filssors and studnnL<> to apartmllnt com­plllx manag11rs and local rnstaurant worknrs. I nvnn spent onll wild and crazy night attnnding partins around town to gPt Plm:tion watch covnragn. That's not nven thn half of it-therp's a list a milo long, and it grows longer by tlw wonk. 
But narlinr this week, f(>r tho first time in my long Obsnrvnr News carellr, I was assigned to write about a subject that mowd nw to tPars. 
Snvnral groups on campus arn eur­n•ntly holding drivns to mllnd itnms fill" can~ par.kagns to snnd to soldinrs, sailors. airnwn and MarinPs snrving ovnrsnas. 
Tlw Notn• l>anw Accounting Association will bn ac1:npting donations from I0 a.m. to 2 p.m. all wPnk in thP Mtmdoza ColiPgn of Businnss atrium and Army HOTC CadnL<> and ND/SMC ColiPge I!Ppublieans and DmnocraL<> nwmbors will be mllm:ting contribu­tions right up until thP last day of dass­ns. 
All itmns n~t:PiVPd will bo sent to frinnds and family mmnbnrs of thll Notn1 l>anw and Saint Mary's eommu­nities. 
Thes11 drivPs <u·e asking you to donatn litth1 amenities like soap, sunsereen, dmpstick, gum and magazines. These small things we take f(>r granted will bn luxuries to the nwn and women who rm:nivn thnm. Even if you don't havn thn morwy to purchasn itmns to snnd, I urgn you to writn a short note or Christmas card, or donate that Bnanie Baby you'vn got sitting in tlw corner so a soldier can give it to an Iraqi child. 
Whiln doing n~snarch to write this artidn, I came a1:ross lettnrs from Notrn I>anw grads who lmnnlited from thn drivns last ynar. Evnry singln pnrson who rncniwd a packagn sharnd it with otlwr nwmbnrs of tlwir platoon and said that it truly brightnrwd tlwir holi­days. Thnsll packages boost troop morale at a time wlwn spirits among ev1m civilians can drop low. 
You will bn going home next week li>r Thanksgiving, to sham meals and laughs with your family. Can you imag­ine the kid-your age-who willlm slm~ping in the desert that night. thou­sands of rn ilns fhnn his family and home? I can. And I'm going to send him a little piece orthe Notrn Damn and Saint Mary's spirit. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Nicole Xook at. zookWJ2H@sain Irnarys. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The ( )hs..rver regards irself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for rhe highesr srandards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make misrakes. If we have made a misrake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can corren our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE CARTOON? WHY? 









Brandon Peterson  John Attaway  Dennis Bonilla  Silvana Zepeda  Isaac Gatwood  Joey King  
sophomore O'Neill  waiter Legends  senior Off-campus  senior Cavanaugh  freshman Stanford  freshman .~'iegfried  
"Rescue Rangers is the best cartoon because the theme song can't be beat. ,,  "DuckTales, because I can appreciate wealthy animals who appreciate the importance of the extended  "/ am Charlie Brown!"  "Goofy -(fs so goofy."  "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, because it reminds me of my friend Alex."  "Beavis and Butthead; on most levels, it's intellectual."  
family."  


TIM SULLIVAN/ ObseNer The Alumni Association's Sean O'Brien and Chuck Lennon presented Food Bank of Northern Indiana representative Bill Carnegie with a check for $5,000 yesterday at a ceremony in the Eck Center. The event was the culmination of the University's Alumni Association-led One Can Make A Difference fund raising campaign. 
OFFBEAT 
Study shows dieting with a dog helps weight Joss 
LAS Vl~GAS -People looking for a way to losfl weight may want to trade in pills for a pooch. 
A first-of-its-kind exper­iment to put people and their pets on a diet and exercise program found that both lost weight and kBpt it of'f, though dogs did bettflr than their own­ers and didn't drivfl them crazy begging for food. 
With two-thirds of Americans and onB-fourth of pots overweight or obesfl, there's huge poten­tial for this novel buddy system, experts say. 
"If you're looking for 
motivation and social sup­port to lose weight, you probably don't have to look any further than the pet in your own home," said Dr. Hobflrt Kushner of Northwestern Medical School in Chicago, who led the study. 
Woman sells decade-old grilled cheese on eBay 
MIAMI -The people at eBay were no believers in this ehecsy miracle: half or a 10-year-old grilled cheese sandwich whose owner elaimed it bore the image of the Virgin Mary. 
Diana Duyser put the sandwich up for salfl last week, drawing bids as high as $22,000 before eBay pulled the item Sunday night. The page was viewed nearly 1 00,{100 times before bfling taken down. 
An e-mail Duyser received from eBay said the sandwich broke its policy, which "does not allow listings that are inte.nded as jokes." 
But, Duyser, a jewelry designer who has bought and sold items on eBay for two years, insisted this was not a laughing mat­ter. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
· 
IN BRIEF 

The Institute for Latino Studios will present "New Voices in Latino Literature: An Afternoon of Poetry and Fiction" from 4 until 6 p.m. in 202 McKenna Hall today. Steven Cordova and Lisa Gonzales will rnad from thnir work during thn event. 
Multicultural Student Programs and Serviens will present Dr. Samuel Billison, who will discuss his experi­ences as a World War II Navajo code talker. The ovnnt will bn held in thn Lai<ortune ballroom from 7 until 9 p.m. 
The Notre Dam·e Concert Band and Concert Winds will perform tonight at S p.m. in the Leighton Coneert llall. 
l'olitieal seinncn professor Daniel Lindley will present "Is War Hational?" at 12::~0 p.m. in the llesburgh Contnr, room C-1 03 Thursday. The 1went is sponsored by the Kroc Institute. 
The Nanovie lnstitu.te will present a screening of the Italian lilm"l Cento Passi (The Hundred Steps)" at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Thursday in the Browning Cinema. 
The Student Union Board will sponsor a screening of "The Bourne Supremacy" at 10 p.m. Thursday in DeBartolo Ilall. 
The Notre Dame Per<~ussion Ensemble will perform at 3 ·p.m. Sunday in the Band 
Building. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an eoent to obsnews@nd. edu. 


TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY a: 
LU 
:I: 
~ 
LU 
== ..... 
c:( (.) 0 

HIGH 55 HIGH 45 HIGH 53 HIGH 58 HIGH 53 HIGH
.... 46 
LOW 38 LOW 38 LOW 41 LOW 39 LOW 42 LOW 
28 

Atlanta 62 I 46 Boston 44 I 36 Chicago 54 I 42 Denver 53 I 30 Houston 68 I 62 Los Angeles 72 I 52 Minneapolis 55 137 New York 52 I 42 Philadelphia 54 I 40 Phoenix 75 I 54 Seattle 52 I 42 St. Louis 63 I 44 Tampa 80 I 59 Washington 58 1 42 
-----~ -~~~--~~~--~------~~------------~--------------~~~----~~~~~~~----------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, November 17, 2004 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 3 
Security Council heads to Nairobi for tneeting 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -The U.N. Sec·urity Council headed to Africa on Tuesday for a ram meeting in the field to promotfl a quick end to the 21-ynar civil war in Sudan whkh the United States says is crucial to ending a separate con­flict in Sudan's western Darfur mgion. 
U.S. Ambassador John Danforth. the current council president who promoted the trip, said members expect the meet­ings on Thursday and Friday in the Kenyan capital. Nairobi, to lead the Sudanese government and southern rebels who have been fighting since 1983 to resolve their remaining differ­ences quickly. 
"The Security Council is speak­ing with one voice," he said. "We are expecting in short order a peace agreement ... to be con­clud!1d." 
If an agreement is signed to end the civil war, hopefully by the end of the year, that "would put in place the possibility of resolving thf1 various problems of Sudan, including Darfur," he said. 
Thf1 15-member Security Council, the most powerful U.N. body. has sent missions to many countries, and is dispatching one to central Africa immediately aftor the Nairobi meoting. But the two-day session iri Kenya will be only the fourth official council meeting outside New York since 1952. 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who is traveling elsewhere in Africa, will fly to Nairobi to attend Thursday's council meeting. 
Council ambassadors held closed-door consultations until shortly before they left for the air-. port Tuesday on a draft resolution which they will adopt in Nairobi. Danforth said it was nearly com­pleted and the opposing sides were "so close it's just word­smithing now." 
The draft expresses the coun­cil's "determination to help the people of Sudan to promote national reconciliation, lasting peace and stability, and to build a prosperous and united Sudan in which human rights are respect­ed and the protection of all citi­zens is assured." 
The council is focusing on the war in southern Sudan that began when rebels from the mainly ani­mist and Christian south took up arms against the predominantly Arab and Muslim north. 
As Spain's U.N. Ambassador Juan Antonio Yanez-Barnuevo explained, an agreement to end the north-south war "would change the overall picture in Sudan" because there would be a new constitution and a new gov­ernment which could deal more effectively with the conflict in Darfur, where the United Nations says 70,000 people have been killed and 1.6 million forced to flee their homes. 

Aid vvorker believed to be dead 
Margaret Hassan said to be first female murdered in Iraq kidnappings 

Associated Press 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -Margaret Hassan. an aid worker kid­napped after decades of help­ing Iraqis, was believed mur­dered, her family and aid offi­cials said Tuesday after Al­Jazeera television said it received a video showing a hooded militant shooting a blindfolded woman in the head. 
Hassan was believed to be the first foreign female hostage killed in Iraq's wave of kidnap­pings. More than 170 foreign­ers have been abducted this year, and at least 34 killed. One woman -a Polish-Iraqi citizen -remains captive. 
Hassan's family in London said the longtime director of CARE in Iraq was likely the victim, and British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said analysis of the video showed Hassan has "probably been murdered, although we cannot conclude this with complete certainty." 
CARE said it was in mourn­ing for the 59-year-old Briton, a veteran humanitarian work­er known around the Mideast for her concern for Iraqis ­particularly during the years of 
U.N. sanctions, whose effects on children she vocally denounced. 
"To kidnap and kill anyone is inexcusable," Straw said. "But it is repugnant to commit such a crime against a woman who has spent most of her life working for the good of the people of Iraq. 

In an emotional appeal on Al-Jazeera, Hassan's Iraqi hus­bimd, Tahseen Ali Hassan, said he had heard of the video but did not know whether it was authentic. 
"I appeal to those who took my wife [to tell mel what they did with her.... I want my wife, dead or alive. If she is dead, please let me know of her whereabouts so I can bury her in peace," he said, his voice choked with tears. 
The video shows a hooded militant firing a pistol into the head of a blindfolded woman wearing an orange jumpsuit, said Al-Jazeera spokesman Jihad Bailout. The station received the tape a few days ago but had not been sure of 
· its authenticity until recently, he said. "We invited British diplomat­ic officials to come and view it," he told The Associated Press. "It's now likely that the image.depicts Mrs. Hassan." Bailout said the station would not air-the video and would not broadcast any acts of killing, outside war. Al­Jazeera has been under pres­sure not to show videos of kid­napped foreigners. Hassan was abducted in Baghdad on Oct. 19 on her way to work, the most promi­
nent of more than 170 foreign­ers kidnapped in Iraq this year. Her captors issued a series or videos showing her weeping and pleading for Britons to act to save her. In one video, she fainted and a bucket of water was thrown on her to revive her. 
In one video, she begged British Prime Minister Tony Blair to withdraw troops from Iraq and calling for the release of female Iraqi prisoners. 
On Sunday, U.S. Marines found the mutilated body of what they believe was a Western woman on a street in a Fallujah during the U.S. assault on the insurgent stronghold. The U.S.. command said the body had not been identified as of Tuesday night. 
Besides Hassan, the only Western woman known to be held was Teresa Borcz Khalifa, 54, a Polish-born longtime res­ident of Iraq seized last month. 
A Blair spokesman said the prime minister "sends his sym­pathy to the family of Margaret Hassan and shares their abhorrence at the cruel treat­ment of someone who devoted so many years of their life to helping the people of Iraq." 
CARE said it was "with pro­found sadness" that it learned of the video. "The whole of CARE is in mourning," said the group, which closed its Iraq operations after the kidnap­ping. 





We"'re here to suppol'tyou! 
,..,pfllANS  "'DADE  
-worklife  -American CancerSociety  
"'The Noomie  "'Katie 5 Mike  

-------------------------------------------,--...,....,.-------;-----,----....,-,--,---,-~,-.-.-.--.--~-­
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 17, 2004 

THE ARTS IN A POST-CHRISTIAN CULTURE 
NOVEMBER 18-20, 2004 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SPONSORED BY THE NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS & CULTURE 
"Even beyond its typically religious expressions, true art has a close affinity with the world of faith, so that, even in situations where culture and the Church are far apart, art remains a kind of bridge to religious experience." -Pope John Paul II, Letter to Artists 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture's fifth annual fall conference will examine the variety of ways in which the fine arts can help build a more genuinely Christian civilization in an era that is ever more deeply·post­Christian in its character. Our first triennial series culminated in proposals on how to build a genuine culture of life, and last year's conference reflected on the renewal and formation at the heart of such a culture. This conference 
will focus our reflection on the fine arts and their place in a culture of life. 
Thursday, November 18 McKenna Hall Auditorium 7:30-9:00 p.m. Keynote Address "Shouts or Whispers? Faith and Doubt in Contemporary American Literature" -Gregory Wolfe, Image 
Friday, November 19 8:00-9:10 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1: Examining the Works of Flannery O'Connor Session 2: Art and Nature Session 3: Architecture and Urban Planning Session 4: The Visual Arts and the Imagination 
Session 5: Theology and the Arts Session 6: Philosophy and Literature Session 7: Case Studies in Film 

9:40-10:50 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1 : Medicine and the Arts Session 2: Case Studies in Literature Session 3: Sacred Architecture Session 4: Philosophical Perspectives on the Arts Session 5: The Arts in Modern Soci~ty Session 6: Case Studies in Painting Session 7: Depicting the Human Face 
11 :20 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Invited Papers Session 1: "What Makes a Painting a Religious Painting?"-Alasdair Macintyre, University of Notre Dame Session 2: "Isolation. Community and the Artistic Life" -Barbara Nicolosi, Act One: Writing for Hollywood Session 3: "J.R.R. Tolkien: Our Post-Modern Contemporary"-Ralph Wood, Baylor University 
2:00-3:10 p.m. Invited Papers Session 1: "The Passion and Reaction"-Jorge Garcia, Boston College "Chance or Providence? Kieslowski, God, and Contemporary Film"-Thomas Hibbs, Baylor University · Session 2: "Poetry and Evangelizing"-Kevin Hart, University of Notre Dame "The Epiphany of Fiction"~ Ralph Mcinerny, University of Notre Dame Session 3: "First, Kill All the Lawyers: Intellectual Property and the Re-Feudalization of Culture"· -Leo Linbeck Ill, Rice University/Linbeck Corporation 
3:40-4:50 p.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1 : Musical Performances Session 2: Art and Politics Session 3: Relating Art and Religion Session 4: The Soul of the Artist Session 5: Working Artists Discuss Their Methods. Session 6: The Place of Art in Philosophy Session 7: Tour of the Snite Museum: Christian Images in History (Snite Museum of Art) 
7:30-9:00 p.m. Lecture-Concert: Olivier Messiaen's Visions de I' Amen (Annenberg Auditorium) Pianists: Hyesook Kim, Calvin College Stephane Lemelin, University of Ottawa Lecturer: Stephen Schloesser, Boston College 
9:30 p.m.-1 :00 a.m. Musical Performance: Mark Lang and Nadina Bembic (LaFortune Ballroom) 
Saturday, November 20 8:00-9:10 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Session l: Music and Culture Session 2: Conversion Narratives Session 3: Expressing Catholicity through Culture Session 4: Relating Beauty to Truth and Goodness Session 5: Educating Young People through the Arts Session 6: Appreciating Religious Themes in the Arts Session 7: Art as Cultural Expression, Part I Session 8: Philosophy, Faith and Fiction (Hesburgh Center Auditorium) 
9:40-10:50 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1 : Educating the Imagination Session 2: The Arts and Language Session 3: Christian Aesthetics and Literature Session 4: Image and Word Session 5: Goodness and Beauty in Secular Films Session 6: Panel: The 20th Century Catholic Novel and Christian Morality in a Post-Christian Culture: Three Studies (Hesburgh Center Auditorium) Session 7: Art as Cultural Expression, Part II Session 8: Panel: The Moral and the Aesthetic 
11 :20 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Invited Papers Session 1: "Worship as High Art: The Liturgy as the Epiphany of Beauty and Truth"-H. Tristram Engelhardt. Jr.. Rice University Session 2: "Creating Epiphanies of Beauty"­William Schickel, Schickel Studios "William Schickel: Metaphysical Realist" ­Gregory Wolfe, Seattle Pacific University/ Image Session 3: "The Strength, Function. and Beauty of Catholic Architecture"-Thomas Gordon Smith, University of Notre Dame "Pilgrimage and Transcendence: Towards an Epiphanic Architecture"-Duncan Stroik, University of Notre Dame 
2:00-3: 1 0 p.m. Invited Papers Session 1: "The City is Also an Aesthetic Object"-Philip Bess, University of Notre Dame Session 2: "Love's Labor: The Poetry of John Paul II" -Laura Garcia, Boston College Session 3: "Epiphanies, Beauty, and a Father's Love"-David Lyle Jeffrey, Baylor University 
3:40-4:50 p.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1 : Developing Artistic Sensibilities Se~ssion 2: Renewal through Literature Session 3; Images, Ideas and Imagination Session 4: Placing Works of Art in Historical Context Session 5: The Arts and the Absurd Session 6: The Arts and Spiritual Formation Session 7: The Arts in the Protestant Tradition Session 8: Tour of the Snite Museum: Christian Images in History (Snite Museum of Art) 
All sessions are open to the public. Conference events will be held in McKenna Hall unless otherwise noted. A full program and registration information may be found at our websi.te: http://ethicscenter.nd.edu. 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, November 17, 2004 Colv1P! LED FROlv1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Namibia elects new leader 
WINDIIOEK, Namibia-Officials declared Namibia's presidential and parliamentary election a triumph for their young democra­cy Tuesday as polling stations closed· follow­ing two days of balloting. 
President Sam Nujuma's hand-picked suc­cessor, Hifikepunye Phohamba, is widely expected to win among Namibia's 1.8 million voters. Namibians are also voting for repre­sentatives to their 72-seai parliament, where analysts expect a shake-up among opposition parties. 
"Our process was efficient and effective.... The efficiency shows that Namibia's democ­racy has come of age," Election Commission of Namibia spokesman Theo Mujoro said after polls closed at 9 p.m. Results were expected Thursday. 
Nujuma, considered the father of this country on Africa's remote and desolate southwestern coast, is stepping down after three terms. 
Moroccan charged in Spain 
MADRID, Spain-A judge charged a jailed Moroccan on Tuesday with being a leading member of Islamic extremist groups in three countries, including an organization suspect­ed in the killing of a Dutch filmmaker. 
Judge Baltasar Garzon filed the provisional charges after interrogating Abdeladim Akoudad, who has been jailed in Spain since October 2003 on an extradition request from Morocco over bombings in Casablanca in May of that year. 
In his order, the judge said Akoudad, 36, W(lS a "a leading member" of an Islamic extremist cell known in the Netherlands as the Hofstad Network believed responsible for the Nov. 2 killing of Dutch film director Theo van Gogh, who made a film criticizing treat­ment of women under Islam. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Anti-pira<;y lawsuits filed 
LOS ANGELES -A trade group represent­ing seven major movie studios filed a first wave of lawsuits against individuals they say are offering pirated copies of films using Internet-based peer-to-peer file-sharing pro­grams. 
As part of a larger effort to combat piracy, The Motion Picture AssoCiation of America also said it would soon make available a com­puter program that sniffs out movie and music files on a user's computer as well as any installed file-sharing programs. 
The MPM announced the federal court suits Tuesday, but did not say how many defendants were sued or where the lawsuits were filed. The group also did not immediately make available a copy of the complaint. 
FDA chie.f counsel resigns 
WASI IINGTON -Daniel E. Troy, chief coun­sel for the Food and Drug Administration, resigned Tuesday with plans to return to the private sector. 
Troy, 44, took over as the FDA's senior legal adviser in August 2001. 
"More than three years passed. And we won the election. And that's about the amount of time that I intended to serve," Troy said. His resignation takes effect Nov. 28. 
Lester Crawford, FDA acting commissioner, accepted the resignation with "mixed emo­tions," according to a statement. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Speaker of the House chosen 
INDIANAPOLIS -Republicans used the first official day of the Legislative session to renew their pledge to streamline government and to change some General Assembly rules and committees. 
Republicans in the House took control for the first time since 1996 on Tuesday, electing Rep. Brian Bosma of Indianapolis as the new House speaker. In the Senate, President Pro Tern Robert Garton, R-Columbus, was con­firmed in the position he has held since 1980. 
New Secretary of State chosen 
President picks Notre Dame alumna Condoleezza Rice to replace Colin Powell 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush on Tuesday picked National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice, who once tutored him on global affairs, to be his top diplomat, saying her for­eign-policy experience and struggle against racism uniquely qualified her to be America's "face to the world" as secretary of state. 
"In Dr. Rice, the world will see the strength, the grace and the decency of our country," Bush said. 
Rice will face major chal­lenges across the foreign policy spectrum, trying to advance peace between Israel and the Palestinians, foster democracy in Iraq and persuade North Korea and Iran to step back from suspected nuclear-wea­pons programs. She is con­sidered more of a hard­liner than Secretary of State Colin Powell, who was out of step with more hawkish members of Bush's national security team. 

In a Roosevelt Room announcement, Bush made plain that terrorism and the Middle East conflict topped his list of foreign­policy priorities. Rice's eyes welled with tears as the president cited her "deep, abiding belief in the guided her into ballet, oppression." ings, likely to come the value and power of liberty, piano and French studies; Rice was careful to say second week of December. because she has seen free­her mother bought all her nothing about how she "I think she'll get hard dom denied and freedom Girl Scout cookies so she would oversee the State questioning. That's reborn." wouldn't have to go door­Department, its nearly inevitable," said Sen. Mitch 
Bush also chose longtime to-door. But when she was 30,000 employees and its McConnell of Kentucky, the domestic policy adviser 9, a bomb exploded at a 265 posts around the majority whip. But Margaret Spellings to Baptist church a few miles world. McConnell and newly replace Rod Paige as edu­away, killing four black In a statement read from elected Senate Democratic cation secretary, adminis­girls, one of them a school­a prepared text, she con­leader Harry Reid of tration officials said. mate. fined her remarks to heap­Nevada predicted Rice Spellings helped shape · "As _a girl in the segre­ing praise on Bush and would win approval. Bush's school agenda when gated South, Dr. Rice saw Powell. . Rice should "be con­he was Texas governor and the promise of America "It is humbling to imag­firmed fairly easily unless again when he assumed violated by racial discrimi­ine succeeding my dear there's something I don't the presidency. nation and by the violence friend and mentor, Colin know," Reid said. 
Rice, who would be the that comes from hate," Powell. He is one of the Sitting silently in the first first black woman to serve Bush said. "But she was finest public servants our row -at Bush's announce­as secretary of state, was taught by her mother, nation has ever produced," ment was the president's somewhat sheltered as a Angelina, .and her father, Rice said. pick to succeed Rice as youngster in Alabama from the Rev. John Rice, that Her cautious remarks national security adviser, the racial conflicts and human dignity is the gift of reflected the potential Stephen Hadley, who segregation of the South. God and that the ideals of minefield she faces in served with Rice for four Her school teacher parents America would overcome Senate confirmation hear-years. 

Extradition of Thatcher sought 
reporters. closed arguments Tuesday by renew­
Associated Press 

However, no new charges were ing his request for the death penalty 
MALABO, Equatorial Guinea-The announced in court Tuesday, when against his own top witness, South prime witness in an alleged coup plot the coup trial resumed after a two­African arms dealer Nick du Toit. in oil-rich Equatorial Guinea repudiat­month break. Thatcher's lawyer Du Toit is accused of leading an ed his confession Tuesday, saying it maintains his innocence. advance team for the alleged plot, was coerced by interrogators who Equatorial Guinea already has foiled in March when South African threatened him with death. charged 19 Africans and Armenians intelligence exposed the alleged con­
Equatorial Guinea now intends to as alleged mercenaries in the purport­spiracy, lead-ing to the arrests of seek the extradition of the most ed conspiracy to overthrow the scores of suspected mercenaries here prominent figure in the case Mark regime of President Teodoro Obiang. and at a stopover point in Zimbabwe. Thatcher, the 51-year-old son of for­The government claims Thatcher and Former British special forces mem­mer British Prime Minister Margaret other, mostly British fmanciers intend­ber Simon Mann accused by Thatcher, a legal· official close to the ed to install an exiled opposition fig­Equatorial Guinea of being a go­prosecution told The Associated Press. ure, Severo Moto, as the figurehead between connecting bankrollers to 
Thatcher is charged as an alleged leader of Africa's No. 3 oil-producing mercenaries was convicted by bankroller in the plot, defense attor­nation. Zimbabwe in September with 67 oth­ney Fabian Nsue Nguema told Attorney General Jose Olo Obono ers on weapons and other charges. 
page 6 The Observer+ NEWS Wednesday, November 17, 2004 
Teach for America will also hold 'ing the phrase "Gay? Fine by Me" the rainbow as a way to increase 
a special information session for 
will again dot the.campus. communication in the community. all student<; on Thursday from 5 
Career 

Closet 
Nearly 2,000 T-shirts were dis­Gomberg said she hopes that continued from page 1 until 6 p.m. in room 303 of 
continued from page 1 tributed in the spring of 2004. nven students who might not be llaggar llall. 
About 500 more T-shirts have supportive of tho events will at lion m;~jors from 7 until 8 p.m. 
ties. been distributed and Gomberg least b~1 willing to talk to one in the Mother Paulino Hoom on Contact Danielle Lerner at 
"An academic department­said she hopes studenl'i will wear another about it. Uw third lloor of the library. lern6311 @saintmarys.edu 
sociology -and thn Graduate the shirts they have from last year ''I'm sure not evoryone is sup­Student Union were jointly grant­both today and throughout the portive of these evenl'i, but I hope ed permission to conduct a year. they inspire dialogue within the demonstration and use campus "We intend to do many morn T­Notre Dame community. We want 
''I've had 15 prnsid1mtial 
grounds for an event !today!." shirt days and will try always to these events to contribute to cam­assignments," he said, "some of 
Kirk said. "The University proce­order morn shirts ahead of time pus life in good ways," Gomberg

Hesburgh 

dures necessary to conduct these to meet the demand," she said. "I said. "I want"Notrn Dame to bo a was oll'nred to head up NASA. 
them pretty big. In fad, once I events were followed." hope that this event will show the safe span~ ((Jr all of its students,
continued from page 1 

As part of today's events, community that the Notrn Damn because we arn all a part of Notn1 Sophomore Matt Plaska, 
which is a pretty big agnncy." 
AllianceND will host activist Andy eommunity itself is a gay-friendly, Dame." paridals. Knough liturgical commissioner 
Thayer, founder of the Chicago non-homophobic environment Gomberg said while she hopes "Mnn tPnd to dominate at and organizer of the lecture, 
Anti-Bashing Network, who will and that individuals in this cmn­that tlw University will grant limPs, and I wanted thn women said he was impressed by 
speak about soeial movements in munity are willing to support gay AllianceND club status this year, to havP tlw time to be indn­Ilesbu rgh 's consistent values 
America ·as well as his personal and lesbian students on campus." she just wants these events to pnndnnt, to bn fme to do what among such prominenee. 
experiences with the gay rights In addition to the larger events, cause peoplo to discuss issues thny mayhn can't do with nwn "Very few people know so 
movement. the day will also oiler students a with onn another. Ilwrn," lw said, ddnnding his many important ligurns, but the 
In conjunction with tonight's variety or informational handouts "Gay rights are human right<;,'' rnasons for tlw gendnr rnstrie­l'aet that he's remained so hum­
campus opening of "Angels in and a chance to share their opin­Gomberg said. "This is such an tions. ble and willing to listnn to peo­
America Part I: Millennium ions on the "Truth Hibbon," a important point that so many "Wdl. I'm sun• nobody in this ple sets a wally good example," 
.Approaches," a Tony award-win­large rainbow ribbon that will bo people miss." room will agme with that," he Plaska said. "For me he's a very 
ning play about the AIDS crisis displayed near the closet. dnadpanrwd. "But it has servnd good role model in that 
and its impact on the GLBTQ Students will be abln to writn Contact Angela Saoud at us well." rngard." 
community, orange T-shirts stat-their thoughts and experiences on saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
When talking about his timo Plaska's fellow attendees as a dmrt1•r nwmber of the U.S. wern nqually in awn. Commission on Civil Hights, ''I've never seen him before, 
said. "I threw my weapon on the marehnd at the Hepublican llnshurgh broadwd an ama of that was awesome," said soph­
!military] vehicle and said 'what National Convention in August.

Veteran 
his lifn snvnral students were omore Aileen Wu. 
the f-did I just do? I just killed The organization now sports morn unfamiliar with, but one that hn "Seriously how much can one 
continued from page 1 someone who's innocent."' than 1 00 members with varying rnmnrnbnrs as among tho person do'?'' 
Such civilian casualties are.often degrens of involvoment. and Sarra gmatnst oxpnrinnens of his life. A lot, according to Father 
cry when they die and cheer invisible to those watching travols tlw country sharing his !\ studPnt asknd how llnsburgh. 
when they come home -but you Ameriean news coverage, Sarra nxpnrinnens. ll1~shurgh hncanw involved in "My message to you tonight is 
still have the perfect right to say said, describing bloody ear and Tim D<~Bartolo llall crowd gavn the Civil Bights movnment. to have vision and don't say ... 
this war is bulls-t." street bombings that left bodies Sarra a standing ovation at thn ""WPII it. was wry simple," he 'I can't do that,"' IIesburgh 
Sarra supported the war until torn apart. These images and nnd of his loeturn. said. "I got a call orw day from advised. "Usn the brains God 
his personal turning point in April sounds lingered in his mind all11r "You have to be a eonseious tlw Whi1.!1 Ilouse." gave you, do nverything out ol' 
2003, after he shot and killnd an he returned home to Chicago, objnetor, make it hoard," he said. This nxtnnsivn list of nnthusiasm. Don't put any limi­
Iraqi woman who seemed like a leading to nightmares, listlights "It's very easy to say something's llesburgh's associates and tations on you life. God only 
suicide bombing threat -only to and bouts of alcoholism. After right when you haven't snen the rnsponsibilitins amazed thn knows what you ean do." 
pull a white flag out of her bag as attending group counseling and bad part of it."· crowd. Thny chuckl!Hl at thn 
she fell. finding others who shared his nnormity of OIH' of his digres­Contact Janice Flynn 
"Hight there and then I was resentmnnt, Sarra joined IVAW Contact Claire Heininger sions. at jflynnl@nd.edu 
done. Mentally I was done," Sarra when it formed this summer and at cheining@nd.edu 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
~ UN IVERS I TY 0 F 

~NOTRE DAME ~­


-
--------------------------~======================================:::::; 
Volunteer Opportunities 
Tutoring at Salvation Army 
Salvation Army is looking for tutors to help out with their after-school program for 3rd through 8th graders on Mon­days-Fridays from 4:00-5:00pm. Contact Trudy Rodriquez at 386-9648. 
Castle Point Tutoring 
An 8th grader who lives at Castle Poi m needs a tutor to help with homework in all her subjects. Anyone who lives at Castle Poim or who is able to go to Castle Point to tutor, please call Jeff Wallis at 534­3673 or at 208-1 038.Dickinson Intermediate Center 
Dickinson Intermediate Center 
Dickinson Intermediate Center desperately needs of volunteers. They have a large special education population and almost all of their students live below the poverty line. They need volunteers to help with programming that they offer 3:00-4:30pm Monday-Thursday. 
If interested in tutoring, mentoring or just listening, call Diane Richardson at 283-7625. 

"Crossing Over" Mrica Panel Discussion 
Come hear Notre Dame students from the US and Africa share their reflections on their cross-cultural experiences in Africa. Panel­ists include: Michael Poffenberger, Erica Ruddy, Joseph Isanga and Sammy Mbuthia. Dinner will be provided. 
When: Wednesday, November 17 at 6:00 pm 
Where: Coleman-Morse Lounge 
"The Costs and Benefits of Environmental Protection'' Panel 
This panel discussion will examine the relationship between environmental protection and economic analysis. Topics to be dis­cussed include the current state of the environment, climate change, deforestation, clean air legislation and endangered species protection. The diverse panel of speakers will include Barbara Connolly, Assistant Professor of Political Science, Jessica Hellman, Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences, and Richard Jensen, Chair of the Department of Economics and Econometrics. For more information, contact John Infranca at jinfran 1 @nd.edu. 
When: Thursday, November 18 at 7:00 pm 
Where: 141 DeBartolo Hall 
A Call for Leadership in Action: LEAD­NO & The Youth Action Project 2005 
Join NO leaders who working to provide equitable after-school op­portunities for all youth to learn the value ofcommunity service and active citizenship. Empower traditionally underestimated, under-re­sourced young people through an engaging, service-based leadership development program. The Youth Project is an initiative of LEAD­NO and is sponsored by the Institute for Educational Initiatives and the CSC. Visit the LEAD-NO website for more details: www. nd.edu/ -leadnd. Applications due November 24. . 
When: Information sessions on Wednesday, November I 7 at 7:00 p.m. 
Where: Center for Social Concerns. 
'Vocation & Leadership in the Catholic Social Tradition' Course Offering 
'THEO 273: Vocation and Leadership in the Catholic So­cial Tradition" will be offered this spring semester. The Center for Social Concerns invites students to consider taking it. The course meets Tuesday and Thursday 2-3:15 p.m. 
Specifically, the Center is looking for students who will con­tinue to be involved in the greater South Bend community next semester. The service/social action experience will be built in as one of the dimensions of the course. The course description follows: 
This course will invite students to consider the meaning of vocation in relation to the social mission of the church. Begin­ning with a theological understanding of the significance of vo­cation and charisms, this course will provide a narrative-based exploration of the vocational journey of prominent figures in the Catholic social tradition. 
For more information, contact Andrea Smith Shappell at ashappel@nd.edu. 
Hispanic Leadership Internship Program Summer 2005 
Applications due to Center for Social Concerns by Friday November 19th. 
HLIP provides students with exposure and experience in Latino communities in Chicago where they serve as a leader and a student of the community for 8 weeks during the sum­mer. Students earn three credits, receive a tuition scholarship, accommodation for the 8 weeks, and a food stipend. Cospon­sored by the Institute for Latino Studies and the Center for Social Concerns. 
Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns or at the Institute for Latino Studies. 
Contact cmachara@nd.edu or McDowell.9@nd.edu for more 


Wednesday, November 17,2004 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 


10,488.40 -61.84

}ones 
Same: Composite Volume: 1,229 166 521,015,7 I l 

AMEX  1,351.25  -o~o1  
NASDAQ  2,078.18  +15.91  
NYSE  6,969,57  .-.33;49  
S&PSOO  1,176.99  -6.82  
NIKKE.I(Tokyo)  11, 16 1.7 5  ..,65.82  
FTSE IOO(London) 4,770.40  -32.70  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  +6.07  +0.27  4.72  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.95  -0.26  27.13  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -2.19  •  -0.1 I 16  4.9784  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -1.01  -0.24  23.53  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -1.28  -0.25  19.30  
Treasuries  -..t.  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.22  +0.11  49.06  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.55  +0.23  42.13  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.76  +0.27  35.58  
3-MONTH BILL  + 1.5 I  +0.31  20.88  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.05  47.41  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +3.20  437.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.75  101.40  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I 05.3500  
EURO  0.7707  
POUND  0.5393  
CANADIAN$  1.1935  

IN BRIEF 






AirTran , ATA deal for Midway gates 
INDIANAPOLIS -AirTran Airways said Tuesday it will pay nearly $90 million to take over operations at all 14 of bankrupt ATA's gates at Chicago's Midway airport. 
The deal, which AirTran described in a statement as a "definitive agreement," is sub­ject to approval by the judge overseeing ATA parent ATA Holdings Corp.'s Chapter 11 reor­ganization. It also needs approval from the Chicago Department of Aviation, which regu­lates Midway's gates. 
Annette Martinez, a department spokes­woman, said city officials had been negotiating with ATA and AirTran about the gate leases but had not reached a decision. Other airlines also had inquired about the Midway gates, she said, but declined to identify them. 
Kevin Carney, lead analyst on U.S. airports for Moody's Investors Service, said the agency recently upgraded Midway's rating outlook from stable to positive, in part because Chicago officials were looking for an airline or airlines to build business at the ATA gates. 

Newsday circulation inflated 
NEW YORK -Newsday overstated its daily circulation by nearly 17 percent and its Sunday circulation by 14.5 percent, a report by a newspaper auditing group said Tuesday. 
The Audit Bureau of Circulations reported weekday circulation of 481,816 copies at the Long Island tabloid for the year ending in September 2003, down from the 579,599 copies originally reported by Newsday. 
Auditors also reported Sunday circulation of 574,081, down from Newsday's original esti­mate of 671,820. 
Newsday parent Tribune Co. said earlier this year that an internal probe of Newsday and the Spanish-language daily Hoy had found poor record keeping and programs that delib­erately violated the audit bureau's regulations. 
Among the penalties imposed on-Newsday by the bureau are twice-yearly audits and exclusion from its recent report on the top-cir­culation papers in the country. 
TI..-IE OBSERVER 



USINESS 

page 7 

NASA launches "scramjet" 
Newest aircraft breaks records almost 10 times faster than the speed of sound 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -A tiny unmanned NASA "scram­jet"'soared above the Pacific Ocean Tuesday at nearly 10 times the speed of sound, or almost 7,000 mph, in a record-breaking demonstration of a radi­cal new engine technolo­gy. 
The 12-foot-long X-43A supersonic combustion ramjet flew at about Mach 
9.6 or slightly higher, said research engineer Randy Voland, leader of the scramjP~ propulsion team at NASA's Dryden Flight Research Center at Edwards Air Force> Base. 
The exotic aircraft flew under its own power for about 10 seconds after separating from a booster rocket at 111,000 feet, then glided to a splash landing about 800 miles offshore. Analysis of data to determine the exact performance will take several months, but mis­sion officials were jubi­lant. 
"Once again we made aviation history. We did that in March when we went seven times the speed of sound and now we've done it right around 10 times the speed of sound," said Vince Rausch, Hyper-X 
recovered from the ocean. compress air for mixing breathing, manned air­
program manager from 
The flight was the last with hydrogen fuel. craft.
NASA's Langley Research 
in a $230 million-plus The X-43A launched The old X-15 was the
Center in Virginia. 

effort to test technology Tuesday was the last of fastest rocket-powered
The X-43A, mounted on most likely to be initially three built for NASA's manned airplane, hittinga Pegasus rocket used to used in military aircraft, Hyper-X program. Mach 6. 7. Rockets don't
boost it to flight speed, such as a bomber that The first X-43A flight "breathe" air, but instead
was carried under the 
could reach any target on failed in 2001 when the carry oxidizers that are
wing of a B-52 aircraft 
Earth within two hours of booster rocket veered off combined with fuel to
and released at an alti­
takeoff from the United course and was allow combustion. 
tude of 40,000 feet over a 
States, or to power mis­destroyed. Not having to carry oxy­
test range off the 
siles. The second X-43A suc­gen is one of the advan­Southern California coast. 
Scramjets may also pro­cessfully flew in March, tages scramjets hold over
The rocket motor then 
vide an alternative to reaching Mach 6.83 -rockets. Rockets can also
fired for a 90-second 
rockets for space launch­nearly 5,000 mph -and reach high speeds but theascent. 
es. setting a world speed weight of oxygen tanks or"It's 90 seconds of ter­
Unlike conventional jet record for a plane pow­other oxidizers reduces
ror, but once it's over with 
engines which use rotat­ered by an air-breathing the amount of payload
you realize that you've 
ing fan blades to com­engine. they can carry.
really accomplished some press air for combustion, That was more than Tuesday's launch was 
great things," said Joel the X-43A has no such double the top. speed of expected to be the last 
Sitz, the X-43A project 
rotating engine parts. the jet-powered SR-71 research flight for NASA's manager at Dryden. Instead it uses the under­Blackbird spyplane, which B-52, which is being Like its predecessors, side of the aircraft's fore­at slightly more than retired after some 40 
the X-43A will not be body to "scoop" up and Mach 3 is the fastest air-years of service. 

Studios file anti-piracy lawsuits 
Associated Press group also did not immediately make traced to high-speed Internet con­available a copy of the complaint. nections made available by Charter
LOS ANGELES -A trade group One lawsuit, obtained by The Communications, a cable televisionrepresenting seven major movie stu­
Associated Press, targets 18 individu­company based in St. Louis. 
dios filed a first wave of lawsuits 
als and was filed in the U.S. District Like similar lawsuits filed by the
against individuals they say are 
Court for the Eastern District of record industry against downloadersoffering pirated copies of films using Missouri in St. Louis. of music files, the studios say they
Internet-based peer-to-peer file­
Other laws~its are believed to have will be able to identify the individualsharing programs. 
been filed in New York; Philadelphia defendants at a later date.
As part of a larger effort to combat and other areas with large concen­Some of the pirated copies of films
piracy, The Motion Picture 
trations of high-speed Internet cus­allegedly offered over Internet peer­Association of America also said it 
tomers. Such connections are to-peer networks include "Troy,"
would soon make available a com­
required to download the massive from Warner Bros., "Spider-Man 2,"puter program that sniffs out movie movie files. from Columbia Pictures and
and music files on a user's computer as well as any installed file-sharing The St. Louis lawsuit is brought "Confessions of a Teenage Drama 
against "John Doe" defendants, Queen," from The Walt Disney Co.
programs. 
Unlike the recording industry, the

The MPAA announced the federal including four people who are court suits Tuesday, but did not say allegedly in possession of one pirated Hollywood studios did not offer an how many defendants were sued or film each. Some of the Internet amnesty program for people to admit 
where the lawsuits were filed. The addresses for the defendants can be they have illegal downloaded files. 

Wednesday, November 17, 2004 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 
Air Force secretary resigns, Harvey natned Army secretary 
Associated Press 
WASIIINCTON -Air Foree Seerntary James Hoehn resigned Tunsday and the Senate con­firmml ddense industry execu­tive Francis J. llarvey as secre­tary of tlw Army, the service's top civilian post. 
The roll call vote on Harvey was H5 to 12. 
Hodw. who was eaught up in a serios of controversies and conflicts with some members of Congross ovor Air Fpree con­tracting decisions, was widely expected to leave before President Bush began a second term. 
In a brief statement, the Pentagon said Hoehn had informed Defense Secretary Donald II. Humsfeld in early October "of his intention to com­pinto his servico at the end of the first Bush administration." 
The statemont gave no more speeif'ic reason for Hoehn's departure. 
"Jim Hoehn has led the Air Force during an important peri­od in history," Hurnsfeld said in a written statenwnt issued at 


DeLay supporters propose rules change 
Associated Press 
WASIIINCTON-Supportors of llous1~ Majority Leader Tom DeLay proposed a Hnpublican rules change Tuesday that would protect the Texan's leadership position if he were to bn indietnd by a Tnxas grand jury that already chargnd three of his associates. 
I louse Hnpublicans aro likely to approve Wednesday the change in the rule that would force him to st1~p aside if indicted. The show of' support would be an endorsomnnt of' DnLay's position that tho Travis County investiga­tion is a partisan attack. 
Currently, rules of the House Hnpubliean Conference, which comprisns all I louse COP mem­lwrs, rnquirns leaders to resign tho party post il' they arn indktnd f(H' a f(~lony punishable by two or morn years in jail. The proposed chang11 would nliminatn tim stPp­asidP rnquirnnwnt f(>r nonf(~deral indidnwnb. 

Tfw ·n~xas grand jury is invPsti­!{atin!{ allnged campaign finance irn~gularitins in 2002 statn IPg­
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
the Pentagon. "Combined with 
his distinguished career with 
the United States Navy, 
Secretary Roehe has served our 
country capably and with 
honor." 
There was no immediate word 
on likely successors. The 
Pentagon said Roche plans to 
leave Jan. 20, 2005 or sooner in 
the unlikely event that the 
Senate confirms a successor 
before then. 
Separately, the White House 
.withdrew the nomination of Lawrence Di Rita to be assistant secretary of defense for public affairs, to rep lace Victoria Clarke, who resigned for per­sonal reasons in June 2003. 
Di Hita's nomination was sub­mitted to the Senate on Nov. 21. 2003, but was not acted on because of a dispute between Son. John McCain, H-Ariz., and the Pentagon over an Air Force leasing deal with Boeing Co. 
Pending Senate action on his nomination, Di Rita for the past year has performed the duties of chief spokesman for the Pentagon. lie is one of Humsfeld's closest advisers, and 
changnd, he won this month with 
61) percent of the vote. 
Jessica Boulanger, spokes­woman for third-ranking House Hepublican Hoy Blunt of Missouri, confirmed the proposal and said Blunt supported it. 
The majority whip "believes the allegations are baseless, and they were political in nature. So he supports the proposed rules change by congressman Bonilla." 
Bonilla spokeswoman Taryn Fritz Walpole said the proposed change is intended to "prevent political manipulation of the leg­islative process" and reduce the possibility of "political exploita­tion and intimidation of House leadership and chairmanship positions." 
The Texas investigation is led by a Democrat, retiring Travis County District Attorney Ronnie Earle. 
In September, the grand jury indkted three political operatives associated with DeLay and eight companies, alleging campaign finance violations related to cor­poratn mon11y spent in the 2002 legislative races. 

it was unclear Tuesday whether Di Hita, traveling with he intended to remain at the Humsfeld in Ecuador on Pentagon during a second Bush Tuesday, told reporters he was­administration. n't leaving immediately and had 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
4-BED= $267.50/STUDENT 5-BED= $254/STUDENT 
SIGN YOUR LEASE BEFORE NOV. 24TH AND RECEIVE ONE MONTH FREE! 
OPEN HOUSE THURSDAY, NOV. 18. 4-6 Pl\1. UNIT 1. 
CALL NICOLE AT 234-9923 FOR A PRIVATE SHOWING. 

Experience an evening ofMuslim prayer and meditation as the third in a series exploring the beliefs andpractices ofthe worlds greatfaith traditions: 
"An Evening ofPrayer from Around the World" 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry International Student Services andActivities Muslim Student Association 
Graduate Student Union CM 
I ~"'lo<>O~Y" '> • 

no specific plans. lie suggested he withdrew his nomination because did not intend to hold the position over the long term. 
Wednesday, November 17, 2004 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Europe's first m.ission to m.oon called success 
Associated Press 
HERLIN -Afuel-efficient, com­pact spacecraft has made it into lunar orbit, sjgnaling Europe's first successful mission to the moon and putting the inexpensive probe on course to study the lunar surface, officials said Tuesday. 
Almost more impressive than reaching its destination was the slow and steady way the SMART-1 craft puttered its way there -fly­ing 13 months in ever expanding circles around the earth using a cutting-edge ion propulsion sys­tem. 
The spacecraft used only 130 pounds of the 181 pounds of xenon fuel it had aboard, accord­ing to European Space Agency spokesman Franco Bonacina in Paris. That translates to more than 5 million miles per gallon. 
The fuel consumption was less than expected, and the success of the mission' has raised hopes that the technology can be used to send other craft far deeper into space, where the chemical propul­sion systems that power conven­tional rocket'> would be too expen­sive or unworkable. 
"Europe has proved that it is able to fly a spaceship with ion 
propulsion  alone,"  Giorgio  
Saccoccia,  one  of the  ESA's  
propulsion  specialists,  told  

reporters at the ESA's control cen­ter in Darmstadt, in southern Germany. 
Launched into Earth orbit from French Guiana on Sept. 27, 2003, atop a conventional booster rock­et, the SMART-1 probe made it to within 3,100 miles of the moon Monday, and will now .begin spin­ning its way closer to the surface as it orbits, Bonacina said. 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect 

for winter. Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for 


Denali Jacket
wet-weather protection. 
~ 

DUTPDST 
IIIIT!Eif.JIII 
Cold Weather Experts 

3602 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, Indiana 
259-1000 

Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:00pmSat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pmSun.: 12:oo pm -6:oo pm 
Columbia Llnin-nity ~HARVARD SCHOOL MAILMAN SCHOOL 
~ OF I'UBUC HEALTH 
OF PUBLIC HEAL'rH 


•Yale 
SC»OOt Of PUBliC KEAlf>< 

JOINT INFORMATION SESSION ON PUBLIC HEALTH 
Join representatives from Columbia, 
Harvard, Hopkins and Yale to learn more 
about public health. Find out how their 
graduate programs may fit into your 
academic and personal goals! 
Date: Wednesday, Nov. 17,2004 
Time: 4:30pm 
Location: 129 DeBartolo Hall 

Sponsored by PreProfessional Studies and College of Science, Office of the Dean. 




Ru111sfeld discusses drug trafficking 

Ecuadoran Minister of Defense Nelson Herrera, left, and U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld talk on their way to a meeting 'with Ecuadoran President Lucio Gutierrez on Tuesday. 
Associated Press 
QUITO, Ecuador -Latin American countries must work together to defeat drug traf­ficking and international ter­rorism as they have done in working to keep the peace in Haiti, Defense Secretary Donald H._ Rumsfeld said Tuesday. 
Rumsfeld, in South America for a conference of Western Hemisphere defense ministers, told reporters he hopes to strengthen regional security agreements aimed at stopping narcotics and terror organiza­tions. 
He and other U.S. officials held up the peacekeeping force in Haiti, which draws heavily from Latin countries, as an example of such cooper­ation. 
Despite Rumsfeld's calls for cooperation across Latin America, significant gaps between the poli.cies of the United States and many of the largest countries in Latin America remain. 
Many opposed the U.S.-led war in Iraq and push a U.N.­based multilateral foreign pol­icy. Only a few sent troops to Iraq, and just one Western Hemisphere country, El Salvador, still has troops with the United States in the coali­tion fighting the insurgency. 
Rumsfeld had a lesson Tuesday in the difficult job he faces in winning over Latin leaders as h.e met with Ecuador's embattled presi­dent, Lucio Gutierrez, and Defense Minister Nelson Herrera. 
In a press conference with Rumsfeld, Herrera signaled that the American's pitch for increased cooperation might not have found willing ears. 
He repeatedly emphasized Ecuador's sovereignty in deal­ing with international terror, drug trafficking and other problems that trouble the region. 
Asked about the civil war in neighboring Colombia, Herrera responded, "The problem of Colombia is the problem of Colombia. The problem of Ecuador is the problem of Ecuador." 
President Gutierrez has faced demands for his resigna­tion in recent months amid allegations of corruption, but efforts to impeach him fizzled last week in Ecuador's legisla­tive body. 
Rumsfeld said the American delegation "expressed our strong support for constitu­tional democracy" in Ecuador. 



Wednesdav, November 11 

I 


presents 
Reconciliation with Fr. Pete Jarret Hector, Keough Hall 



w.hat aoes on behindthe screen 
t•aBtetD 
...······· 
"'"'"'~..,... Wednesdal.a ·gends Doors ouen at 9:ao:P:IJ,::Woq ~}· er tlarts at 10:00 PM FR~E Soh-DrlftlC$ and FDIJd, CASH Bar 


THE OBSERVER 
page I 0 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, November 17, 2004 
------==========================~============================================================= 
THE OBSERVER 
America: come out of the closet 
PO. Box Q. Notre 1 lam<·, IN 46~% 024 Sumh Dining Ho~ll, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MaH Lozar 

MANAGIN~; EDITOR BIJSINE.~S MANAGER Mcghannc l )ownes Mike Flanagan 
As~T. MANAGING EDITOR Joe llcnlcr 

NEWs EmTOR: Claire !Ieininger VIEWPOINT EI>I I'OR: Sarah Vabulas SroRTS EDITOR: I leather Van Hocgardcn SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PIIOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAI'IIIC.~ EDITOR: Mike Harkins AUVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEM~ AllMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

(574) 631-7471 In the wake of Eleetion 2004, I have Hepublieans won the ground game live out its creed to give life, liberty FAX witnessed two reactions among earn­thanks to the passion, manpower and and pursuit of happiness to all its citi­
(-574) 631-6927 

pus politieos: Monday-morning quar­moral appeals of conservative zens. The struggle for gay rights is
ADVERTISING 

terbacking or total rejection of all Christians. Now, Falwell and his fel­the avant-garde civil rights issue of
(574) 631-6900 ohsead@'nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF things politieal. Among those of us low fundamentalist-televangelist our times. Will we be a generation to 
(574) 631-4542 young, rising gurus are launching organizations, fight for equal rights for all pooples 
MANAGING EDITOR George Peter Quaranto such as the Faith and Values under tho law or will W!l usn the law (574) 631-4541 obsme@'nd.cdu 
Stephanopoulos-Coalition, to ensure that Bush and the to institutionaliz11 our own bigotry'?
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

wannabcs that A Call to Action Hepubliean Party deliver on their Will we assent to a polities of hope
(574) 631-4.U4 

lean towards the demands. It appears that Bush will that calls us to certain idnals or will
BUSINESS OFFICE 

(574) 6:31-5313 former, there has not disappoint. we succumb to our fears'? Will we NEWS DESK been a rising wave of thought placing Building on the opposition to same­work for equality for the marginalized 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.I@nd.edu abortion as the pinnaele "moral val­sex marriage that galvanized voters of our soeiPty or will we simply
.VIEWPOINT DESK 

ues" issue to understand President on Nov. 2, Karl Rove announced preaeh toleranee while remaining
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.cdu 
George W. Bush's re-eleetion. While Sunday on the reputable Fox News eomplieit in existing struetures of
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 
631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu abortion eertainly was a mobilizing that Bush will continue his push to injustice'? This electoral cycle has SCENE DESK factor, I tend to side with Tony ban gay marriage with a constitution­highlighted the urgeney and rnlevanee 

(574) 
631-4540 sccnc.I@nd.edu Perkins, president of the Family al amendment. So much for healing a of these questions. 


SAINT MARY'S DESK 

Research Council. Perkins said, divided nation. The American political llore on our own campus, where the 
smc.l @nd.cdu 

"Same-sex marriage was the hood narrative has been scorched with leg­adminL<>tration refuses to. reengnize
PHOTO DESK 

ornament of the family values wagon islation that institutionalizes discrimi­AllianeeND, the unofficial gay-straight
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.cdu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS that carried the president to a second nation, and of course, Bush needs to alliance, we see a mieroeosm of this 
(574) 631-8839 term." Call it a "hood·ornament", call leave his mark. This larger eivil rights strug­it pandering to Americans' worst prej­mark will only further gle. Princeton Heview udices, same-sex marriage played a divide a nation, while has placed Notre Dame
"America continues 

OBSERVER ONLINE deeisive role on Nov. 2 and will con­alienating and dehuman­on the top of the
to be a place where 

www.ndsmcDbserver. com tinue to play a critical role in the state izing a large group of "Alternative Lifestyles of our nation in the years ahead. Americans. discrimination Not An Alternative" eate­
POLICIES 

The "moral values" surprise of the I can only imagine gory for two consecutive
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper abounds. Bush has 
exit polls has left analysts wrestling what it must feel like to years. Polls conducted by
published in print and online by the srudenrs ofthe 
brought that 

University ofNotre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's with a new American political phe­be a gay American in NDToday and others Colk-gc. Editorial conrem, induding advertisements, is nomenon: the rise of the evangelical. these times. One gay discrimination show a Notre Dame stu­not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither Aceording to many sources, Karl Rove Christian singte mother, dent body that is divided 
into the 

institution. Th• Ob,.,rver reserves rhe right to refuse declared that Bush had to get 4 mil­interviewed by The on the very issue of adwnisemt·nts based on conrem. lion more evangelical Protestants and Washington Post, said, political sphere, aecepting homosexual 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as 
conservative Homan Catholics to the "It's a sinking feeling to guaranteeing individuals. 
pos.,iblc. Unsigned editorials reprcst•nt rhe opinion of 
polls in order to win. And this Hove think that you live in a It is in this elimate that
himselfa second

the majority of the Editor in Chief: Managing Editor, 
and his armies of Christian crusaders plaee where some people hundreds of students
Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. term. at the
aehieved, especially in states like Ohio have just voted to say and faculty will don
( :ommt•ntarics. letters and columns presem the views ofthe authors and nnt necessarily those ofThe and Arkansas, where voters were also that you are not a real expense of the gay orange shirts today, ( )bscrvn. faced with proposed state eonstitu­person." The recent elec­and lesbian bearing the words "Gay? Vit-wpoinr space is available to all readers. The lree tional marriage amendments. These toral results have Fine by Me" in an act of
community. " 

t"Xprcssion ofall opinions through letters is t•ncouraged. ballot measures, hyped by evangeli­exposed biases and prej­solidarity among hetPro­IA·tt<·r.. to the Editor must be signed and must include cals and grassroots social conserva­udices that many felt sexual, gay, lesbian, 
nmtact ittf{,nnation. 

tive moments, may have tipped the were beginning to fade away. America bisnxual, transgender and queer stu­balance. In Ohio, wlwrn a constitu­eontinues to be a place where dis­dents on campus. The T-shirt cam­
Qttr·.•tions rrgarding Obsm'rr polici.s should b~ 
tional ban of same-sex marriage crimination abounds. Bush has paign, coupled with other events, snek
dimted to F.ditor in Chitji'vlntt l.ou1r: 
passed by a margin of 62-3S percent, brought that discrimination into the to spark a dialogue that has been over 900,000 more voters than 2000 political sphere, guaranteeing himself avoided far too long at Notrn Dame, 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

went to the polls. Bush won by a seeond torm at the expense of tlw and in America. It is time that we, as 
Thr { lh~~trver (l/SI•s ~·)'} 2 -iOilH! i~ puhlhh~l Mund,1y 1hruu~b 1:nday except durin!( <'lU!Il ~nd v.1~.uiun pc-tu,.t, A w~••tnion '''The Oh\Crvcr i~ SIOO liu um: a..:.ulemk 136,000 votes. gay and lesbian community. When a university and a nation, eornn out of )'C.lf; $~~ lclr UIIC' 'irlnt'\ICI, 
Certain (~onservative elements, evangelist Jimmy Swaggert recently the eloset of silence and prejudiee.
Thr Ol'lerv~:r',~ ~ mcnthcr nl t~ A.ui.ICLJ!O:d PI'C4$. All reptodmthHI n¢n, JUt' r~·wrvnl. 
seared at tho thought of the remarked that gays who want to 
Thr { )h't"l Vt.'¥ •~ puhlt•lu..... l . .n: l~ll. Umc Q 

Hepubliean Party tied too closely to marry should be killed for God, he Peter Quaranto is a junior political 
0.!..1 Suuth Dmtn!( ll.tlt O.ll\ Smuh Ilimn~ JIJJI 

Nutrr (J,uuc, IN 4f,"S"i6-0n9 Notr~ D.mu:, IN '1<,,6-0779 Jerry Falwnll, fundamentalism and concluded, "Thank God that President science and international peace stud­
l'cru ..l•oal JUililoiKC JH&td "'Not~ l>olrfK 

.md .Hidiliono~lm.~ilmf{otlico. his Moral Majority, have rojeeted this Bush supports the Federal Marriage ies major. Contact Peter at pquar­"moral values" phenomenon, claiming Amendment." ant@nd.edu.
I'OITMII.,TEll 
~nJo~.Wrt'I-CUit"tttiOI"fO 

the exit polls to be broad and skewed. During the course of American his­The uiews expressed in this column 
fhc(lh..crvcr 

While their criticisms may hold some tory, eaeh generation has been asked are those r~( the author and not neces­
ll1r t)htervt"r '' .&lll~nhrr ufd1e AJ.cx:i.ul"\1 Pt"-'· All rct•rcMILit.:tiiJIIIIWm .1.1r 
weight, it is indisputable that to fight a struggle that America might sarily those of The Observer. 
lbCM"Ii. 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports 
Megan Martin Justin Schuver Kate Antonacci Kate Gales Jeannine Privat Ken 1-iowler 
Do you think TCE results should be 
Viewpoint Scene 
accessible?
Maureen Molly Griffin Heynolds Illustrator Eileen Duffy Graham Ebetsch 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Graphics 

www.ndsmcobserver.com
Desiree Zamora 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We are a nation ofmany nationalities, many races, many religions bound together by a single unity, the unity offreedom and equality." 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt 
U.S. president 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Tl·IE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT 
page 11

Wednesday, November 17, 2004 
Wearing orange for acceptance 
I collect coming out stories like other people collect stamps. Some of them come from my readers, while others I gather from various, generally online, sources. This gives me perspective, like a piecemeal Gay State of the Union address, and it gives me hope as well. The stories that I hear are not all sweet and happy, butthey speak well of their tellers, that they are strong, Lance Gallop bold, stubborn, clever and resourceful. All the gay and lesbian people I have had 
The Third Way

the honor of meeting at Notre Dame 
have these kinds of stories. 
l collect the other kind of stories as well, the stories of 
people who could not make it to where we stand today. 
One of the most common statistics that I find on the sub­
ject. and the result of a number of studies, states that per­
haps 25 percent of all teenage suicides are gays and les­
bians, many motivated to death precisely because they could 
not cope with that reality. 
A June 27 article in The New York Times noted that as 
many a half of all homeless youth were kicked out of their 
homes because their parents discovered, accidentally or 
through admission, that they were gay. In New York City 
alone there· are thousands. Some of them were very young 
when they were thrown away. 
The most common question I receive, and one of the most 
common queries about NO's "orange movement," is what it 
is that we actually seek, which we do not have now, and 
what we actually mean to accomplish? Ironically, I don't 
have the right to answer this question, since motivations are 
unique to individuals, and we the gay and lesbian students. 
of Notre Dame are indeed a minority's minority, a random 
cross-section. 
So I will speak for myself. I write about gay and lesbian 
issues for the sake of those other stories, that people do not 
wish to tell. I write for the sake of the young people, early 
adolescents, who are just now discovering a part of them­
selves that the world does not accept, and who are uncertain 
of ho.w to deal with this. I write for the sake of those who are 
suffering in silence, or wandering the streets, or flirting with 
death. 
Nothing is born in a vacuum. Gay and lesbian youth are 
not intrinsically more prone to self-loathing than anyone 
else. They are very much the product of their culture, of the 
mindset that surrounds them. We, all of us, are that culture. 
We are that mindset. It does not matter if we are not openly 
discriminatory, or if we do not practice hate-speech, there is 
still an implicit and powerful negative judgment, which lives 
within us. Humans, especially teenagers, are very fragile 
creations. It does not take much to crush them. 
Acceptance means the end of that negative judgment. 
Acceptance means that parents do not have a preference 
over their child's sexual orientation, and that there is noth­
ing lost in their eyes when a son or daughter tell them he or 
she is gay. For some of you, someday, it will be your child 
who has to come out to you. She will already have decided 
how you will-feel based on all of your actions and attitudes 
over the years. She may well love or hate herself according­
ly. 
Acceptance means that schools are safe places for children 
to come to understand their sexuality, whatever it may be. 
Right now several states have laws prohibiti~g openly gay 
persons from teaching in schools. This denies gay and les­
bian youth positive role models, and counselors. For most 
young people, bein_g gay begins as a very lonely experience, 
and the attitudes of our school systems only reinforce this. 
Acceptance means that, on a broad level, the social nega­
tivity surrounding being gay, and the hopelessness it spawns, 
which drives so many young people to suicide, is removed. 
Acceptance means changing hearts, and it is for the sake 
of this slow, painful, but incalculably necessary change that 
many of use wear orange, and it is for the sake of this 
change that I wrote this series. 
You will see many people dressed in the color of accept­
ance as you walk around today, some gay, many more simply 
expressing solidarity. None of them are, I pray to God, facing 
the types of crises that I have outlined here. But there a.re 
still many who are, all over this country. Ultimately there is 
only one way to help them, and that it what we are doing 
today. If you open your heart now, in this little Catholic bub­
ble, you will take what you experience with you to influence 
the wider world. You will be the change that many gay youth 
so desperately need. 
I will say one last time, you, and no one else, possess the power to shape today and create tomorrow. Please do not · forget. 
This is the final in a series of three articles dealing with 
GLBT issues. Lance Gallop is a fifth-year with too many 
majors for his own good. He welcomes comments and can be 
reached at lgallop@nd.edu. All correspondences are kept 
confidential. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author 
and not necessarily those -of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
We must love in truth 
Those who struggle with same­sex attraction bear a cross I have not struggled with personally. I have only a secondary under­standing of how difficult it can be to remain chaste in mind and body when one's sexuality is diverted toward the same sex. However, I certainly understand struggles with chastity. Most of us strain at some point to discipJ4le the .desires, passions and heartfelt longings for union with another. Some of us (dare I say most of us guys) must address the realities of these desires every day. 
Sex and sexuality are a large part of the constant chatter at this school, much like the murmur of the crowd at a ball game. This is not bad. While only one aspect of who we are, it is important to have a healthy sexuality, and we're all at an integral time of formation into adulthood. Ultimately, though, the demands of certain homosexual activists who call on Notre Dame to offi­cially endorse groups or activities with precepts patently contrary to Catholic teaching are doing a dis­
Don't wear orange dress up 
Please read this to the end. Those of you who are not fresh­men recall a couple of days last year on which the entire campus saw hundreds of people wearing the orange shirts that say, "Gay? Fine by me." on the front. Freshmen, you've probably seen people wearing them around. Well, today is the next "official" day for that. Chances are, it's made the front page of The Observer and is causing a big deal of some sort. I proposed an idea last year that some people seemed to like, and so I am again proposing it this year. In response to the orange, many people like to wear the blue shirts from last year or the Zahm shirts or what­ever, but for charity's sake, I wanted to ask first, don't wear those shirts. 
Rather, let's take a different look at the whole issue. Instead of looking like or even being the stereotypical anti-orange shirt guy who is homophobic, etc., why don't we take on the Christian spirit and show what we really think? To achieve that, I wanted to propose that we oppose silently in a certain sense, but dress up (coat and tie for guys, and the equivalent for girls). Here is my reasoning. 
First, it does not insult. The Christian spirit is not one of insult or degradation. It is, instead, one of charity and Christian love. Our silent proclamation of our views, while not loud and "forceful" per se, takes on the form of the entire Christian message -belief and action. We believe in the dignity of all mankind. We believe that liv­ing a homosexual lifestyle hurts and degrades that dignity, because we are not defined by our sexuality. We are all defined in the same way, in the image and likeness of God. Hence, we strive so that all our beliefs and all our actions might reflect that part of us. In the end, this means that we disagree with certain choices that active homosexuals make and with certain beliefs that those service to this University commu­nity. Why should Notre Dame endorse a message that will lead to confusion, lifeless and disor­dered unions and emptiness? This school cannot-must not, for the sake of her Mission -bow to the demands of those who wish to hollow out or undermine the hopeful, challenging, life-giving Catholic spirit that animates her. 
This University needs to be a bold witness to the truths of humanity. Often we already do such a good job of rallying for the poor, oppressed, unborn and needy. It would be a serious mis­take -a great sin toward our brothers and sisters, I believe ­to abandon those with homosexu­al tendencies to the barren waste of the secular homosexual world. 
Of course we need to be loving, respectful and welcoming. And "mere tolerance" is not themes­sage of Christ, who loved every­one to measures beyond compre­hension. However, his message is not one of mindlessly accepting brokenness. While loving sinners (which includes ALL of us), and 
who advocate homosexual rights agrees with. Not wearing an hold. We also understand tliat it's . orange shirt can easily cause one not an easy thing to hear such an to be labeled as homophobic or absolute no, especially in the area bigoted, and we who dress up of sexuality. This leads me to my strive to the best of our abilities second reason for proposing not to be homophobic and what I have proposed. not to be bigoted, though 
We dress up not as a at times we may fail sign of disagree-since we are ment, but rather human. as a show of And so I ask, if respect and you haven't even honor for already, go those who change and· struggle with join us! Men, and against wear a coat homosexual 
and tie. tendencies. 
Women, Homosexual 
dress nicely individuals 
thewayyou deserve 
do. And, if more than 
you like, as to be left in 
St. Paul and even 
says, "offer pushed into a your bodies life that in the as a living end will not sacrifice holy make them as and acceptable happy as they to God" want to believe (Romans 12:1), 
or do believe it will. So then, why be complacent as men 
and women are influ­
Fasting has always been enced so greatly? Why not a means of prayer in the strive to live the life of charity and Church, and it is no less powerful offer these people the gift that now than in the past. But, what­God so greatly wants for them ever you do, stand up with us in and for all? As odd as it sounds, support of men and women who we love every single person, struggle against homosexual ten­homosexual or heterosexual, on dencies, and show the world that this campus, and that love leads we are not afraid of the issue of us to do what we do. Again, we homosexuality. We are not unwill­respect and honor homosexuals ing to face touchy subjects. At the in their struggle to deal with their same time, I'd like to make it tendencies, we stand with them clear to those who disagree with and for them (because their iden­· us that we aren't mean individu­tities are unknown) and will sup­als who want to deprive people of port them as best we can as they freedom. Rather, we are people live life with their silent secret. who really and truly care about 
Some might comment that the the other and who only want the orange shirts don't necessarily best for them. Thanks much for condone the homosexual lifestyle. reading, and God bless. OK, but at the same time, the message is not clear enough. Chris Christensen Dressing up stands for something junior specific, and to disagree with it at Knott Hall least makes it clear what one dis-Nov. 16 always providing the greatest hope for conversion of heart and actions, He condemned sin, abhorred sin and then died and rose again that it might not tri­umph over us. 
Homosexuality should not be celebrated, and this week's events aimed at that purpose are seri­ously misguided. Neither should those struggling with homosexu­ality be abandoned to indulgent or patronizing groups that encourage devotion to a sexuality­based creed. We as a University family must be committed to liv­ing virtuous and disciplined lives of loving each other and seeing the good in our brothers and sis­ters. Let's win this culture war with love. 
I do hope, however, that we have an ally in Our Lady's University, which has a choice in either promoting or rejecting the Church's beautiful truths of hlllhan sexuality. 
Dan Hess Notre Dame Law School Nov. 16 
by joining us also in a bread and water fast tomorrow. 

TFJE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Wednesday; November 17, 2004 
Above, Joe (Adam Bonosky) and Harper (Lena Caligiuri) are a young Mormon couple with serious problems. At left, Joe and his deceptive boss, Roy Cohen (Scott Wagner). Below, Valium-addicted, fantasy-prone housewife Harper Pitt speaks in one of the play's many monologues.
•
PHOTOS BY 
CLAIRE KELLEY 
!'if;'iJi]!: ·' 
tf~trtJ· 
ByKCKENNEY 
Scene Wri rer 
It was well-received by the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism when it won the Pulitzer Prize in 1993. It was well-received by Broadway when it was awarded two Tony Awards. It was well-received in 2003 when it was produced as a mini-series on HBO, won hoth an Emmy and a Golden Globe and was charted as the most watched made-for-TV movie of 2003. One question remains: will "Angels In America" be well received by the University of Notre Dame? 
In the first of this two-part, six­hour play, Tony Kushner brings to the stage the lives of several homo­sexual men in New York City in 1985 as they come to grips with their relationships, the threat of AIDS, the challenges of acceptance and the political elimate of the country. The play opens tonight at Washington Hall in association with St. Edward's Hall Players, and it is directed by senjor St~vc Hoeplinger. 
The Princeton Heview cites Notre Dame as tops in the "Alternative Lifestyles Not An Alternative" cate­gory, claiming it to be the least accepting campus in the country when it comes to homosexuals. A recent poll on NDToday of nearly 4,000 students still had 53 percent commenting that to be gay was "not 'fine by me."' Why, then, is this the time for a show such as "Angels In America" to be shown at Notre Dame? 
lloeplinger sees a means of res­olution to be sourced in theater. "I looked at how intolerant and unac­cepting this campus is of gay peo­ple," he said. "I believe that the­ater can be used as a means of conflict resolution." For Adam Bonosky, who plays Joe Pitt, a married Mormon who comes to recognize that he is gay, the show "opened [his] eyes into that inter­nal -struggle ... the everyday things." A common view of many members of the cast is that this show, with its multi-dimensional portrayal of the lives and struggles of these characters, will help open some eyes and minds on tiHl earn­pus. 
"Angels" opens at the funeral of Louis Ironson's mother. lronson, played by junior Joe Garlock. is a neurotic, openly-homosexual Jewish court elerk. llis lover, Prior Walter, fears and later learns that he is sick with a new syndrome that affects his immune system, a syndrome that c~omes to be com­monly called AIDS. At the same time, Joe Pitt, a low-paid Mormon prosecutor for the pt.:blic court is offered a new and lucrative posi­tion by his boss in Washington. Pitt doubts the move, however, due to the fragile emotional state of his wife, a hallucinating Valium addict whose life does not extend beyond their apartment except in her mind. 
Pitt's boss, real-life McCarthyist Roy Cohen, has ulterior motives in mind, hoping to use Pitt's appoint­ment in Washington to his own corrupt advantagn. Pitt, por­trayed by second-year architecturn student Adam Bonosky, is torn in many directions as he attempts to help his wil'n, please his mentor and struggle with intensifying feel­ings towards other rnon that do not fit into his strict Mormon lifestyln. Lena Caligiuri, a senior film, the­atre and television major, plays his disturbed, pill-popping wife and Seott Wagner plays his boss and mentor, a man that tries to hide his own homosexual tendnneies with an excessive, maseuline image and drowning himself in work. 

As Prior's illness worsens, he finds himself visited by ghosts and hearing the voice of an ever­approaching angel. Andre Valdivia plays the desperate and tragie eharacter of Prior, whose situation only worsens when his lover, Ironson, leaves him. Cohen is also diagnosed with the "syndrome" and told that it is giving him can­
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, November 17, 2004 page 13 


cer, as well as other symp­toms. As Pitt tries to share with his wife the revelation of his sexual orientation as he slowly arrives at it himself, she continues to slip into her drug-enduced madness, at times sitting alone in the dark unable to function. Pitt meets lronson and his relationships with both lronson and Cohen begin to flourish a somewhat perverted romantic sense as his denial and rejection of who he is prevents him from sharing himself fully with either of them. The action builds toward the arrival of the Angel, an ethereal figure prophesied to arrive at the beginning of the show. 
At the heart of these torrid affairs and conflicting relationships is a sense of humanity and tragedy that evoke feelings of sympathy that go beyond sexual orientation into the more universal community of mankind. Kushner's "characters are written so realistically that you can't help but identify and feel for them," said I-Ioeplinger. It is in this sympathy that an accord begins to be drawn between the characters on stage and the members of the audience. Bonosky sees the show as "not simply about homosexuali­ty ... but creating an identity for oneself, coming to terms with one­self ... I want to sympathize with [Pitt] ... I can sympathize with the torment." 
One of Caligiuri's great struggles with the role of Harper Pitt was the creation of a character so consis­tently in a state of manic brooding, marked by erratic mood swings. The role has been "taking an emo­tional toll on my life outside of this play, and I don't think there was anyway around that ... I had to make the sacrifice and go to that place of her demons torturing her constantly, and its very hard to turn demons on and off. ·It's hard to not take it home with you." Despite the internalized sympa­thizing with Harper, Caligiuri is able to create a substantial and compelling character. 
Likely to be one of the "firecrack­ers" of the show and a potential source of controversy is the por­trayal of Garlock's character engaging in homosexual inter­course with a stranger in Central Park. "When I first read the play, [Ironsonl was the one character that I didn't want to be because I didn't know if I could do it," Garlock said. Upon being cast as Ironson, he quickly had to grow accustomed to the power this scene has on the overall play, cre­ating a psychological experience for. both character and audience alike that leaves both scarred and shaken. 
·The show is difficult to put on in any venue. Technically, it is meant to be incredibly complex and intri­cate, a feat that is difficult to accommodate at Washington Hall. In addition, while the writing of Kushner is brilliant, with commen­tary ranging from political themes to homosexuality to personal struggles with deep inner demons, the play·brings with it many mono­logues that have a tendency to get away from the actors. They have created an emotionally trying and moving show. While the actors are at times inconsistent, they are able to convincingly portray characters meant to create sympathy and unify them with the audience. 
Hoeplinger hopes that people will leave the theater and take the show with them. ''I'd like to see people affected by it, challenged by it, rethink opinions they've had their entire lives," he said. "If someone is struggling with these issues in their own life, I'd like them to take comfort from this, that they aren't alone. I'd like to see people talk about it. I would rather people have conversations with each other than simply ranti­ng against each other through The Observer with printed name-call­ing." 
Contact KC Kenney at kkenney@nd.edu 

Above, Louis !ranson (Joe Garlock) watches his lover, Prior Walter (Andre Valdivia) die from AIDS. At right, foe (Adam Bonosky) must cope with being Mormon, being gay and being married to the mentally unstable Harper (Lena Caligilj-ri). Below, Louis and Prior have a discussion in bed.•
PHOTOS BY CLAIRE KELLEY 



page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 17, 2004 
NBA 

Jazz rally from 22 points down to beat Bobcats 
Hawks upset Rockets; Sanies win seventh straight; Wolves beat the Heat 
lwttnr."
Associated Press 
Hawks 88, Rockets 84 

CIIAI!I.O'ITI~. N.C.-Thn Utah Af'tnr an embarrassing per­
Jazz havn no idPa if tlwy are any formance three nights before, 
good, dnspit.P tlwir (>-I start. t.lw Atlanta llawks wanted to 
Tho .Jazz ovPr=ramn a 22-point show some backhorw at home. 
dnlirit Ttwsday night for a 107-"I don't want tPams to think 
1tl!'i victory ovPr tlrl' expansion thny can eomn in hen~ and domi­
Charlottl' Bobcats. It was tlw nate us," Antoine Walker said. 
kind of win that has Utah roach "We'rn still a long way from 
Jprry Sloan worHIPring what wlwre we want to be." 
kind of team lw has. Walker had 20 points and 10 
"We try to play for rnspnet," robounds. and tlw Ilawks rallied 
said Carlos BoozPr, who scored from an 11-point dnfieit in the 
]4 points. "A lot of teams don't final 6: II to beat Uw llouston 
respl'd us, JPrTy has warrwd us Horkots. 
about that." Yao Ming, who had 27 points 
That's bPcausP Utah's impres­and 11 rebounds, ended 
sive start has inrludnd wins Houston's 0-for-10 skid from the 
against bottom-fPeders Golden fiold with a 5-footnr with 18 sec­
State and Denver (twice). onds remaining, cutting 
"Wiwn WI' do tlw right things, Atlanta's lead to ~6-~4. But Jon we can lw a good tPam," said Barry made two free throws to Baja Bell, who srorPd 21, indud­seal the win for the llawks. ing five rritiral points in the "Wn just melted down," waning moments to Jill the Jazz. Ilouston coach JefT Van Gundy 
"But if we don't do the right said. "You've got to give them things, wt~ can lose to a team <:redit, Llwy did a good job of likn Charlot.tn." prnssuring us." 
Bnll made a :{-pointer with l ~ Hnserve point guard Hoyal seconds Inn and hit two dutch lvey gave the Hawks a boost in frne throws to rally tlw Jazz. tho f'ourth quarter with a pair of 
II is :{-pointnr rut Charlotte's foul shots before stealing a lnad to I 05-l 04, then he gave backwurt pass and driving for a Utah its first lead on two free layup for Atlanta's first lead of played their part," Allen said. Shaquille O'Neal added 20 didn't hold a grudge. "Thanks throws with 15.5 st~ctmds to go. the game at ~3-82. lvny, a rook­"We had it working on all cylin­points and 15 rebounds. Steve" and "Welcome Back That put t.hn Jazz up l 06-105, in, had 10 points. ders." Garnett stole the show, though Nash" were among the signs and Lhn Bobcats snt up for a "We got some good defensive Allen Iverson scored 26 and -surpassing 14,000 carePr waived by f'ans. linal shot. stops," lvey said after playing 26 Kyle Korver had 14 for the points and guiding Minnesota's Nash was rolling from the 
But the dock failed to start minutt~s to startnr Kenny Sixers, who had won three in a best all-around efl'ort of the sea­start, scoring or assisting on 12 twkn, stopping play both Limes, Andfwson's 22. "We were down row. son. Wally Szezerbiak scored 21 of Phoenix's first 17 baskets. lin and (~tmdd Wallaen missed his 14 and we never gave up. We Seattle, which came in with an points, and Sam Cassell added opened the second half with a 3­jumper for Charlotte. Utah got stuck to our principles. We NBA-best 58 3-pointers, shot 18-19. pointer and another jumper and tlw rebound, Boozer was limlml, fought back and pulled it out. of-39 from beyond the are, tying "Fourteen thousand, all with soon after the Suns were up by and he made a free throw to My turn came early tonight." a team record for 3s. Allen fin­the T-Wolves -that says some­15. wrap it up. Yao hit 13 of 15 shots, and ished 12-of-24 from the field, thing in this day and age," But the Mavericks rallied to tie 
"They made some big shots Tracy McGrady scored 21 points, including 7 -of-12 on 3-pointers. Szczerbiak said. and even led by five early in the and we didn't gPt any stops," but the Hockets lost for the third Radmanovie went 6-of-11 on 3s. The Timberwolves were ahead fourth quarter. It was last tied at Wallat:e said. "This is a tough time in four games. McGrady, Antonio Daniels had 19 points for the final 40-plus minutes, 93 with 4:28 left, then one bneausn mentally we let who was despondent over ofl' the bench for Seattle, whieh building a lead as big as 22 Stoudamirn put Phoenix up for down ;tml they just outworked llouston's late fade, was just 3-got 41 points from its reserves. when Eddie Griffm hit a 3-point­good with a driving layup. Nash us in the second half." for-11 from the field in the sec­"This team is playing the game er to make it 102-80 with 6 1/2 fed Shawn Marion liJr a jumper 
Keith Hogans led Charlotte ond half. the right way," Sanies eoach minutes left. Miami used an 11-that stretched the lead and the with a t:anwr-high 2~ points. "I think we let our guard Nate McMillan said. "We are 0 run to pull to 102-91, but Suns were off on a 10-2 run that Eddie House had 17, Wallaee down." MeGrady said. "They getting play from our first and Garnett ended the spurt by sink­sealed the victory. seornd H>, l•:nwka Okafor had 13 turned it up another notch and seeond units. We're getting solid ing a 21-footnr with 1:24 left. Nash's excitement -which and l'rimoz Brt~zne I I. we were just chillin' out there. play from 1 0 guys." Suns 107, Mavericks 101 contributed to his 10 turnovers 
Hogans, acquired in a trade We tried to bring our intensity Timberwolves 108, Heat 97 Steve Nash felt many difl'crent -probably wasn't as devastat­with Orlando bnl'om the season. back up and it was too late." Dwyane Wade returned from emotions about his return to ing to Dallas as losing eenter began the year on tlw injured SuperSonics 103, 76ers 95 his injury and played an amaz­Dallas. That included feeling Erick Dampier in the first quar­I ist for the expansion Bobcats. Wide open or contested, the ing first half. The NBA MVP just very comfortable on the ter and backup point guard But with guards Bnwin Knight Seattle SuperSonics hit 3-point­did his usual thing, from start to Mavericks' home court. Jason Terry seconds into the and .Jason llart out with injuries, ers from all over the court. finish. Nash scored 17 points and had second quarter. Dampier Charlotte had to put Bogans in Hay Allen scored a season­Kevin Garnett came dose to a season-best 18 assists, many strained his left hip and Terry the rotation, activating him on high 37 points, Hashard u~wis another triple-double, finishing , setting up Amare Stoudamire's sprained his right ankle. Then Monday. had 21 and Vladimir with 25 points, 21 rebounds and 34 points, to lead the Phoenix Dirk Nowitzki picked up his fifth 
A snll'-prorlainwd defensive Hadmanovic added 20, leading eight assists for the Minnesota, Suns past the Dallas Mavericks. foul with 3:39 left in the third spedalist, he came oil' the bench Seattle to its seventh straight 'Ilmbmwolves in a vietory over Nash spent six memorable quarter, keeping him on the to give the Bobcats an ofl'ensive victory, beating the 76ers. the Miami Heat. seasons in Dallas, beeoming one bench for about 10 crucial min­lif't by scoring 15 points in the The Sonies are off to their best "That was an incredible per­of the most popular players in utes. first half' as Charlotte opened its start since opening 10-0 in 1993. formanee," teammate Fred town as the Mavs became one of The Mavericks wound up los­22-point lead. They haven't lost since dropping Hoiberg said. the NBA's top teams with him ing at home for the first Lime 
"It was good for me individual­their opener to the Los Angeles Wade, after missing the last pushing the ofl'ense. this season on their fourth try. ly, but it donsn't mattPr," Bogans Clippers by 30 points after going two games with a sprained left He signed a six-year deal They won their first 12 at honw said. "Without tho 'W' it's good, 2-6 in exhibition games. ankle, seored 20 of his 25 points worth at least $60 million with last season and finished with a hut getting the 'W' makes it even "Everybody stepped up and in the first half for the Heat. Phoenix in July, but the locals league-best 36 horne wins. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW 6-7 bdrm house on S.B. Ave across Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Only a few days and a few LEASING FOR 2005-2006 from radio tower available for 06-07. Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Townhomes left! FoR RENT SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 Completely renovated,large rooms,3 PERSONAL Meals, Parties! Cancun. Acapulco, HOUSES LEFT. full baths. ND Ave house w/5bdrms Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Get your one month of free rent if available for 05-06. Panama City & Daytona $159! you sign before Nov. 241 Lafayette 
WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES Will lease to as few as 3 Spring break 2005 Challenge ...find www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-Square Townhomes 234-9923. 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BED-students,good location & competitive a better price! Lowest price spe-800-678-6386 Walking distance from ND ROOM HOUSES, STUDENT rent. Email ndhouses@yahoo.com cialsl Free Meals! November 6th Colons suck! MMMRenlals.com NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY deadline! Hiring reps-eam free trips SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi 
SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE 6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com Tours! Over 18 years of Spring Just another tequila sunrise. 532-1408 STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY-WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. 1800-426-771 0 Break experience! 
ERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 I'm so ronery. MISHAWAKA 2-3 bedroom,2.5 WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR COR-Spri11g Break 2005 with STS, The BEST Spring Break Under,the bath. 1,200 sq.ft +full basement+ BYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Well, there's always next year, 2-car garage, AVAIL.NOW. CALL JOE Hiring campus reps. Call for group Cameron & Cabo. Organize a Hawks. 
CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-CRIMMINS:574-229-3659 OR 679-discounts.lnfo/Reservations 1-800-group-GO FREE! 800-875-4525 or $875/mo. 574-273-9000. 2436 OR (574)315-5032. 2010. 648-4849 www.ststravel.com www.bianchi-rossi.com Bring it back, NHL. 
Wednesday, November 17, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
TENNIS 
Hewitt loses first set, comes back to win 


Aussie star knocks off Carlos Maya in first round of the ATP Masters Cup 

Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Lleyton Hewitt let the first set slip away after an overnight rain delay. He wasn't about to allow the trend to continue. 
Hewitt came back from a first set lag to beat Carlos Moya 6-7 (5). 6-2, 6-4 in a first-round match a:t the ATP Masters Cup Championships on Tuesday. 
In a later match, Marat Safin of Russia needed just one hour to beat Guillermo Coria of Argentina, 6-1, 6-4. Coria played his first match in over three months after surgery on his right shoulder. Second-seeded 
Andy Roddick was to meet Tim Henman in the night's featured match. 
"Obviously I had a set point in that first set and things just didn't go my way," Hewitt 



'Malachy McCourt 
Author, Actor, Story Teller 

Introducing a lively, engaging chronicle delivering a unique perspective of Irish History 
Friday November 19 4:oopm in the bookstore. 

Book Talk &Signing 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
,~_,;; ..: »<....x -::.,..,.,. w , 
··...~ 
' 
said. "I tried at the start of the second set to get myself back in the match and in the third set I was having a lot of chances out there again but I was always playing behind." 
llewitt took a 5-4 lead and was ahead 30-0 on Moya's serve in -the 1Oth game when play was suspended late Monday night, after it had started following a delay of over 3 1/2 hours. 
When play resumed, Hewitt couldn't break in the ·lOth game even though he had a set point, allowing Moya to escape and win the tiebreak­er with an overhead on the first set point. 
Hewitt took charge of the second set with breaks in the first and third games. 
The players were on serve in the third set until Hewitt broke in the seventh game. He ran down a shot by Moya and then smashed a forehand down the line to bring the game to break point and then Moya hit a forehand error to give the lead to Hewitt. 
"I came up with a couple of huge passes when I needed to in that game to break," Hewitt said. "To win a point like that to set up the break point, that was a huge mental swing in the match. 
"He thought he had the 

point won at one stage and I ­came back and turned it around. It was definitely a turning point in the third set." 
Moya escaped one match point in the final game for deuce but an overhead win­ner by Hewitt and forehand error by Moya ended the match. 
"He served very well, I had no chance for a break," Moya said. "That's the only part of my game I'm not happy about. The rest I was pleased. There were just a few key points and I didn't win them. It was a close match. 
"If you play a guy like Lleyton you have to take advantage of your chances." 
The victory allowed Hewitt to take a 6-5 series lead against Moya, although the Aussie has won the last four meetings, including in the finals at Sydney in January. 
Hewitt played in his fourth Masters Cup in five years with back-to-hack titles in 2001-2002. 
Moya and Gaston Gaudio are tied for the ATP lead with 31 victories on clay. Moya also has a 22-8 record on hard court. He's the only player this year with at least 20 victories on both clay and hard courts. 
WORLD FAMOUS DUELING 
PIAIO SHOW EVERY IIIGHI 
BUY ONE SANDWICH OR WRAP GET SECOND ONE AT 1/l PRICE 
WITH CURRENT STUDENT ID! 
100 N. CENTER ST. (In the "100 CENTER" Behind Hacienda & Funny Bone) 259·1522 www.rumrunnersusa.com OPEN: Wed· Sun Nights 


···<:··::.we0·l>o Mondays 
Like No 1Piace Else! 


page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 17, 2004 


Wednesday, November 17, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Sharapova ranked No. 4 after beating Serena Williatns 
beat countrywomen Svetlana myself," she said. "After winning Kuznetsova and Vera Zvonareva Wimbledon at 17, it's a bit of a in straight sets, and outlasted struggle. I'm just one girl in fellow Russian Anastasia front of millions of people and a Myskina in three sets in the lot of people are watching me, semifinals after looking at me losing to her every second to
'There were

three other see what I'm times this year. definitely a lot of doing, wanting "It just shows me to win and
difficult periods. 

that I came a this and that." 
That's how I learned 

long way in a Sharapova's short period of to be at the top. That's recognition time," she said. among non-ten­
how I learned a lot

"It's just really nis fans has gone 
about myself"

unbelievable. I up, especially 
played five days when she hands 
in a row and Maria Sharapova over her credit with my body at card in stores. 
tennis player

17, it's not very "Unfortunately, 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -So what's a girl who loves to shop do with $1 million? 
"That's a lot of shoes," says Maria Sharapova, winner of Wimbledon and the year-end WTA Championships. 
The 17-year-old Russian is headed off to a "super-fantastic" vacation knowing she beat the world's top players during five eonsecutive days to earn one of the richest paychecks in women's tennis. 
"I certainly deserve a spot on that list," she said. 
Sharapova rose to a career­high fourth in the year-end WTA rankings released Tuesday after starting the year at No. 32. She finished with a 55-15 match record and her fifth title after defeating an injured Serena Williams 4-6, 6-2, 6-4 Monday night. 
''I've had an amazing year and accomplished so much," she said. "To achieve so much, I don't think a lot of people realize that I'm still 17." 
Lindsay Davenport claimed the year-end No. 1 ranking for the third time in her career, although she failed to advance to the semifinals after winning a Tour-best seven titles. 
"To be able to do it at 28 is quite an accomplishment," she said. 
Sharapova's run through the season-ending tournament proved a breakthrough, with three victories over players she had losing records against. She easy to do that." I have to give 

Sharapova's only loss in five them my credit card lots of times matches came against former because I am a big shopper," she No. 1-ranked Amelie Mauresmo. said. The two had never played before At times, Sharapova finds the and Mauresmo won 7-6, 5-4. attention to be intrusive, espe­
"When I was playing Amelie I cially if she's approached while was absolutely dead, I felt that I eating in public. couldn't go on," she said, "but I "Then yeah, it is a little bit found an inner strength in like, 'You are bothering me.' It is myself." very difficult when some fans 
The long year clearly took a are a little crazy," she said. "But toll on Sharapova, who didn't other times, I don't mind if peo­smile much as the tournament ple come up to me and ask for wore on and had my autograph." a muted reaction The blond when she beat "After winning beauty's looks Williams. have generated
Wimbledon at I 7, it's 

"It was a as much interest 
a bit ofa struggle.

relief," she said. as her game, "I froze." I'm just one girl in helping give 
Sharapova's front ofmillions of women's tennis a 
life turned into a marketing boost
people and a lot of

whirlwind of during a year in promotional people are watching which Serena 
appearances, me, looking at me and Venus 
photo shoots and Williams didn't
every second to see -­
constant scrutiny win a Grand 
after her stun­what I'm doing, Slam tourna­ning 6-1, 6-4 vic-wanting me to win ment. tory over Organizers of
and this and that. " 

Williams at the WTA Wimbledon. Championships Expectations Maria Sharapova focused their piled up on her tennis player advertising on thin shoulders, Sharapova, fea­too. turing her in a 
She played 10 more tourna­short skirt and without her rack­ments the rest of the year, win­et in tournament posters and ning titles in South Korea and billboards with the tag line, "The Japan before beating Williams closer you sit the hotter she again. gets." 
"There were definitely a lot of Williams, who loves fashion as difficult periods. That's how I much as Sharapova does, saw learned to be at the top. That's nothing wrong with a 17 -year­how I learned a lot about old being portrayed in an allur­
ing way. 
"I love her legs in this picture. Her legs are so sexy," Williams said. "She is not being sold in this picture. This is a hot pic­ture." 
WTA Tour CEO Larry Scott defended the ads, saying, "They were respectful and tasteful. I was surprised for any questions to be raised." 
Sharapova didn't have a prob­lem with the ads, and enjoys get­ting dolled up for photo shoots. 
"I find it to be very glamorous because definitely the work on the court is not very glamorous," she said. "So it feels good to get the makeup on. I am a Renaissance woman. I love to try different things." 
Sharapova showed a gracious side after beating Williams. She said she planned to give the SUV worth $56,300 that she won or proceeds from its sale to the sur­vivors of the September hostage­

-
taking in Hussia that left more than 300 people dead, half of them children. 
And she later acknowledged slipping up during the post­match awards ceremony. "I for­got to thank Serena," she said. 
''I'm sorry I didn't mention her name." 

Atriasalon.com 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra Alexander Blachly, Director 



2004 Fall Concert 
Bach's "German Magnificat," BWV 10 Excerpts from Haydn's Harmoniemesse Renaissance Motets 
8:00 Friday, November 19, 2004 Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
Free and Open to the Public 
1357 Ironwood Drive, South Bend . IN 574-289-5080 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 17, 2004 
NFL 

Cowboys hoping to salvage season 
Dallas had big expectations coming into this year, but a 3-6 record has the team reeling 
Associated Press 
IBVJNC, Texas-Knyshawn .Johnson sat alonn at his lock­er for a long time with a blank starn on his faen. Then hn found it hard to put his frustration into words. 
I low could things havn gone so wrong for the Dallas Cowboys? What next after losing for the fifth limn in six gamns. Pach of tlw last three losses by more than 20 points? 
"I haven't felt this way in a vnry. very long Limo in torms of not knowing what tlw next Vinny Testaverde was stripped of the ball after dropping back to pass. The Steelers recovered and drove for the winning touchdown in the final minute, and haven't lost sinCf~. They remain with Philadelphia and New England as the league's only one-loss teams. 
After that, Parentis chal­lenged his team to get to 4-4 by the midpoint of the snason. But the downward spiral only continued. 
The Cowboys lost 41-20 at Green Bay before a 31-21 win 
over Detroit 
that kopt their 

step is," .Johnson  "Maybe my  midseason goal  
said lat11 Monday  expectation is too  in reach. Then  
night after the Cowboys' 49-21  high for us.,,  came loss  a  26-3 at  
loss  to  Cine in nati.  
l'hiladPiphia.  Keyshawn Johnson  "It's  tough.  
"Maybn  my  Cowboys wide receiver  We  had higher  

11 x p 11 e t a t i o n i s 
too high for us. I 
don't know, I just don't know. 
... It's mind-boggling." 
Bill Parenlls' teams havn 
always bnPn better in his sec­
ond snason -until now. The 
Nnw York Giants, New 
England Patriots and Nnw 
York .lots irnprovod hetwnen 
Years I and 2 undnr Parcnlls 
and wont to the playoffs. 
Thn Cowboys (3-6) would havn to win their last seven games just to match last year's surprising rncord that got them hack into the play­of'fs. Only three NFI. teams have worse rncords, and Dallas is tied at the bottom of the N FC East with Washington. 
Still, Parcells refused to conendn after the Philadelphia dnfeat that this season is a lost cause. 
"No, it's not lost," said Parcells, offering only short pointnd responses. 
''I'm not going to go into a litany of this stuff," he said. "We've got to get back to work, try to get ready to play Baltimore, and I'm not going to get into the state of the union right now.... I'm not giving you any sound bites." 
Tlw Cowboys took their reg­ular day off Tuesday, and Parcells didn't have a media availability. 

Philadelphia (8-1) rebound­ed from its only loss by scor­ing its most points since November 1981 in the high­est-scoring game by an oppo­nent at Texas Stadium. The Eagles scored touchdowns on five straight possessions, becoming the first team with four in one quarter against Dallas. 
Still, Dallas was within 35­21 when Eddie George scored on a 15-yard run to eap the opening drive or the second half. 
The Eagles then went 83 yards on a drive eapped by Terrell Owens' third touch­down eateh, a 16-yarder over defenders Terence Newman and Tony Dixon. 
A. month ago, the Cowboys led Pittsburgh 20-17 and had the ball near midfield with less than 3 min!Jtes left. 
expeetations 
than we shownd," Testavnrde said. "It's just disappointing. I don't know any other words to describe it. It's just back to tho drawing board." 
Parcells has ,given no indi­cation he plans to replace Tnstavnrde, who turned 41 Saturday. 
Hookie Drew llenson is con­sidered the team's future starter, hut hasn't played a snap, even in the three 20­point losses. 
A. quarterback switch wouldn't be a reflection on bad play by Testaverde, who was 21-of-30 for 254 yards with two touchdowns and an intereeption against Philadelphia. 
It would be preparation for the long-range future, which Pareells isn't ready to dis­cuss. 
"We've just got to get back to work and try a little hard next week," Parcells said. 

TENNIS 
Davenport finishes year as No. 1 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Lindsay Davenport finished No. 1 in the world for the third time in the year-end WTA rankings released Tuesday. 
Davenport won a WTA Tour­loading seven titles and had a 22-match winning streak during the summer hardeourt season. She also was No. 1 in 1998 and 2001. 
"To be able to do it at 28 years old is quite an aeeomplish­ment," she said. 
She led second-ranked Amelie Mauresmo by 214 points. Mauresmo could have sur­passed Davenport if the Frenchwoman had won the sea­son-ending WTA Champion­ships, but she lost in the semifi­nals. 
French Open champion Anastasia Myskina was third ­one of six Hussians in the top 12. 
Maria Sharapova, the 17­year-old Wimbledon champion, improved to a eareer-high fourth after defeating Serena Williams in thrne sets to win the WTA Championships on Monday. 

U.S. Open winner Svetlana Kuznetsova was fifth. Elena I lnmentieva was sixth, followed by Serena Williams, Olympic gold mndalist Justine llenin­1!ardenne, Vnnus Williams and .Jennifer Capriati. 
Vera Zvonareva (11th) .and Nadia Petrova (12th) were the other Hussians in the top 12. 

I N S T I T U T E j·o r 




Latino studies 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
presents a Public Policy Lecture Series to Examine Labor, Education, and Immigration Issues, cosponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Opening Lecture on November 17, 2004 4:30P.M Lecture preceded by a 4:00 P.M. reception. 
"Working the Streets: Preliminary Findings from the National Day Labor Survey" 
Professor Abel Valenzuela Jr. 
Department of Urban Planning and the Cesar E. Chavez Center for Interdisciplinary Instruction in Chicana/o Studies and director of the 
N 
Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at the University of California, Los Angeles 



DAJ 
1111111111111111111 
Educational Technologies & Services is looking for qualified students to work on our 
Classroom Support Staff. 
Students must have some AN and computer trouble shooting experience. 
Job duties include set-up of AN equipment, assisting professors with equipment malfunctions and troubleshooting. 
Time slots most needed: M-F am, M-Th evenings, Sundays 
Interested students should contact: Jason A. Railton, Supervisor of Classroom Support, jrailton@nd.edu 
.....· 




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, November 17, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVERs wtRE SERV[CES page 19 



Bowl Championship Series 
team record points · 
1 usc 10•0 .9808 2 Oklahoma 10-0 .9621 3 Auburn '10-0 .9350 4 Cali1ornia 8·1 ~8522 5 Texas 9·1 .8140 6 Utah 10~0 .8062 7 Michigan 9c1 ··7494 8 Florida State 8·2 .5876 9 Boise State 9·0 .5843 10 Louisville 7·1 .5602 11 Georgia 8·2 ,5478 12 Miami 7·2 .5469 13 Wisconsin 9·1 .5415 14 Arizona State 8°2 .4338 15 VIrginia Tech ].2 .4307 16 LSU 1·2 ;4264 17 Tennessee 1·2 .4238 18 Iowa 8·2 .4119 19 VIrginia 7~2 ;3071 .. 20 Texas A&M ].3 .2823' 21 Boston College 1~2 
...•2152 22 Oklahoma Slate 7·3 .1891 23 West Virginia . 8·2 .1659 24 UTEP 7·2 .1135 25 Bowling Green 8·2 .0342 
NBA 

Eastern· Conference 
team 
Boston Toronto Philadelphia New York New Jersey 
team 
ln\liana Milwaukee Cleveland Detroit Chicago 
team 
Atlantic Division· 

record pen:. division streak 
3-2 .600 H W3 4·3 .571 0·0 L2 4-4 .500 2~1 L1 2-4 .333 H L2 2-5 .286 0·1 L3 

Central 

record perc; division streak 
s~2 .714 2•0 3·2 .600 1•0 4·3 ;571 0·2 3·3 .500 O•D 0-4 .ODD 0·1 

Southeast 

record perc; division· ·streak 

team 
Seattle 
Utah 
Minnesota 
Portland 
Denver 
team 
Phoenix LA. Clippers LA. Lakers Sacramento Golden State 
team 
San Antonio Dallas Houston Memphis New Orleans 

record ···perc, divit:~io:n .• str~ak;rr 
74 . ;875 
6~1 .857 
4·2 .667 
3·3 .suo 
2.'5 .286 
Pacific 
record perc. 
5·2 .714 4-3 .571 4-4 ,500 3-4 .429 1-7 .125 
Southwest 


record perc; diVision streak 
6·1 .857 2•0 W4 7·2 .778 0·0 L1 4·5 .455 2·0 Lf 2·5 .286 0•3 L1 0·6 .000 0·1 L6 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Colorado vs. Michigan 7 p.m,, ESPN 
NBA 

Miami vs. Milwaukee 9 p.m. ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Vladimir Guerrero had such a huge impact during the final week of the season that voting for the American League Most Valuable Player award wasn't even close. 
Guerrero easily defeated his competitors on the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees on Tuesday, becoming just the fifth player to switch leagues and earn the honor in his first season with his new team. 
The Anaheim Angels right fielder received 21 of 28 first-place votes and 
354 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Yankees right fielder Gary Sheffield finished sec­ond with five first-place votes and 254 points. Boston players split the remaining two first-place votes, with left fielder Manny Ramirez finishing third with 238 points and designated hitter David Ortiz winding up fourth with 174 points. 
Guerrero was prepared for a close vote. 
"I was in no way expect­ing it to be the way it came out," he said through a translator during a confer­ence call from the presi­dential palace in the Dominican Republic. 
Guerrero, 28, signed a $70 million, five-year con­tract with the Angels last January after eight sea­sons with the Montreal Expos. He hit .337 with 39 homers and 126 RBis as Anaheim won the AL West, and led the league with 124 runs and 366 total bases. 
He batted .371 in September with 10 homers and 23 RBis, and went 14­for-30 (.467) with six homers and 11 RBis in the last six games of the sea­son, helping the Angels finish one game ahead of Oakland. 
Anaheim manager Mike Scioscia said Guerrero was "at times carrying our team single-handedly." 
"When he came to our team, our expectations were obviously very, very high, and he met every one of them," Scioscia said. "Not many players can do what he did the last week." 
The only other non-rook­ies who became MVPs in their first AL seasons were Baltimore's Frank Robinson (1966), Chicago's Dick Allen (197 2) and Detroit's Willie Hernandez (1984). In the NL, Kirk Gibson accomplished the feat with Los Angeles in 1988. 
IN BRIEF 

ABC a_poloJ!izes for Monday
Night Footoall tease 
NEW YORK-ABC's "desperate" bid at cross-promotion backfired on "Monday Night Football." 
The network's steamy intro to the Philadelphia-Dallas game, featuring a naked Nicollette Sheridan jumping into the arms of Eagles receiver Terrell Owens, drew complaints from viewers and the NFL 
ABC Sports apologized Tuesday for the segment, used a day earlier to promote the hit show "Desperate Housewives" and broadcast just nine months after another football flap ­the Janet Jackson Super Bowl fiasco. 
"We have heard from many of our viewers about last night's 'MNF' opening segment and we agree that the placement was inappropriate," ABC Sports said in a statement. 
The NFL called the intro "inappro­priate and unsuitable for our 'Monday Night Football' audience." 
"While ABC may have gained attention for one of its other shows, the NFL and its fans lost," NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said. 
The spot showed Owens and Sheridan in an empty locker room, with Sheridan wearing only a· towel and provocatively asking Owens to skip the game for her. 
After she dropped her towel, he smiled, agreed to be late for the con­test and she jumped into his arms. Sheridan was shown only from behind and above the waist. Three finalists named for best NCAA receiver award 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Two Big Ten receivers, Michigan's Braylon Edwards and Purdue's Taylor Stubblefield, and Ball State's Dante Ridgeway are finalists for the Biletnikoff Award, given to college football's best receiver. 
Edwards, a senior, has caught 76 catches for 1,049 yards and 11 touchdowns going into the seventh­ranked Wolverines game Saturday at Ohio State. 
Stubblefield, also a senior, has 
caught 68 passes for 876 yards and 12 touchdowns for the Boilermakers, who play host to Indiana in their sea­son finale Saturday. 
A junior, Ridgeway's 95 catches for 1,184 yards and seven touchdowns are the best numbers among the finalists. Ball State (2-8) closes its season SaturdaY. at Central Michigan. High school basketball coach called for active duty 
HAMMOND, Ind. -Jesette Perkins will be part of a different team for the next year or so. 
The junior varsity girls basketball coach at Hammond High School, called to active duty with the Indiana National Guard, is heading to central Indiana's Camp Atterbury for train­

-
ing and deployment to Iraq. 
The only thing she regrets is the timing, just at the start of the new basketball season. 
"It's difficult because I got to see them develop at practice, getting to know this year's team and their style of play," Perkins said. 


Wednesday, November 17,2004

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


Two signed to class of 2009 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN

--
Sports Editor 
Notrn Damn announced this. week l.hat two players have signed during tlw early signing period t.o play for the Irish. 
For the ninth consecutive year. Notre Dame has a top-20 recruiting class, leaving it as just orw of thrPP schools with that distinction. Notre Dame shares tlwsn honors with Tonrwssnn and Conneeticut. who have won Pight of tlw last 
I 0 national championships. 
The 2009 Irish dass of 6-liJOt guard Lindsay Schrader and 6­foot-2 forward Chandriea Smith is ranked I !ith in the nation by Blue Star Index. 
Schrader. a ilative of Barlett, Ill., is ranked among the nation's top 30 seniors by thrnn di!Ternnt. publications-Blue Star Index (No. 14), All-Game Sports (No. 21) and All-Star (;iris Hnport (No. 26). Schrader has avnraged 20.1 points, 9.~ rdwunds and 3.1 steals in her prep earner at Barlett lligh School. 
"Lindsay Schrader is someone who is morn of a scornr. I think slw's morn of a 3-point shooter, who is a very strong player inside," Irish coach Mul'l'~t McCraw said. "She can rebound, she's got grnat hands: 

Schrad11r has been atop the baskntball world in thn Chieagoland an•a, as a three­time All-State snlndion, a two­time Illinois Miss Basketball finalist and a two-time All­Anwrican snledion by Strnnt & Smith's. 
S1:hrader also participatnd in 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 

point it was a very exeiting rnonwnt." 
Despite lwr joyful antics, Krivacnk, who stands at 5-foot­1 I, usually dons not blend in on the field anyway. Ortentinws, slw stands a full head taller than many opposing players which allows lwr lo control many of tlw header opportuni­ties that come lwr way. 
"I don't know if I'm out-leap­ing ldPfnndPrsl. but when you start at !i-foot-11. it's pretty easy to get ovPr people," she said. 
"Iter !wight allows lwr to con­trol a lot of balls in tho middle of the liPid and take pressure oil' our defense so they don't have to eonw up," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "It's frustrating for our opporwnts when they try to dear the ball out and Jill's right tlwre to dump it back in." 
ller skills in the air have improvnd markedly over last season wlwn tho coaches wore trying to gf1t hnr to takn advan­tagn of lwr height. 
"Last ynar, as·big as she was, we really wanted her to improve hnr !wading ability," Waldrum said. "Slw's really made big strides in that part of her game. 
-l>el'ensivnly, slw wins a ton of balls when goalknepers punt t.lwrn out." Though not a prolilic scorer lwrself. Krivaeek focuses on the little things that need to be done in order to set up the playrnak­ors. Slw serves as the kny tran­
the 2004 USA Basketball Youth Wilson, Va., where she trans­Development Festival in ferred prior to her senior year. Colorado Springs, Co. She Smith averaged 12.5 points, played for the North Team, 8.1 rebounds, 3.5 steals and 2.4 which won the silver medal, and blocks per game as a junior at averaged 14.8 points per game, Stephenson High School in third at the li:lstival. As a result, Stone Mountain, where she shot Schrader was invited to the 62 percent from the field. She 2004 USA Women's Junior has been named a two-time World Championship Qualifying honorable mention All­Team Trials. She was one of 17 American by Street & Smith's, finalists for the 12-player team and was a Student Sports All­that won a gold medal in Puerto American as well. Smith is Rico in August. ranked No. 29 in the nation 
"!Schrader! is somebody who among high school seniors by you want to take All-Stars Girls the last shot of Heport.
"!think she's
the game ''I'm really excit­because she's going to be a ed about Chan­really a big game great addition to drica Smith be­performer," cause she brings is
our team."
McGraw said. the same traits "She's really that Tulyah Gaines scored a lot of Muffet McGraw and Charel Allen points with her have brought to
Irish coach 

team and cer­tainly the pnrimeter threat is a weakness of ours right now." 
Schrader expressed her excitnment about playing for the Irish as she watched the Irish take on Nebraska with her father. 
"I visited the school at the beginning of my junior year, and I just ff1ll in love with it -I fell in love with the campus, the coaches the girls, everything," said Schrader, who chose Notre Damn over the University of Virginia, the University of Illinois and Penn State. "Every other school I went to I com­pared it to Notre Dame. And nothing could top it." 
Schrader will be joined by Smith. who hails from Stone Mountain, Ga., but plays at Oak llill Academy in Mouth of 
sition player when the Notre Dame defense moves the ball out of its own end. This fre­quently involves navigating the middle of the field dogged with opposing players. 
"In the middle you have to play quickly," Krivacck said. "If I get the ball from one of my backs, I usually have somebody on my back just because there's so many numbers always in the middle of the field." 
Waldrum said the task is 
underappreciated and much 
easier said than done. 
"Sho plays really deep on the li~ld and what she does is con­trol the ball and get the attack startnd," he said. "It takes a special ·player to be able to con­trol tho ball in a crowd of a lot of people. Not a lot of players have that ability. She has great vision and thn ability to turn the play across the field." 

But lwr style of play and con­tributions orten get hidden behind those players with the gaudier numbers. In 19 starts this year, Krivaeek has only totaled four points during this season. Saturday's game-win­ning score was her lone goal of thfl season, and she has taken only eight shots all year. 
"When you look at our team and you've got Katie Thorlaksons and Candace Chapmans and Melissa Taneredis and Buczkowskis and those kind of players, she kind of gets lost in the mix," Waldrum said, "But she's clearly a key for us." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 

this team," 
McGraw said. "So I think the fans are going to love her. She's someone who can run the floor, play up tempo, press, score. She really is a great defender and is going to fit in really well with the new up­tempo style that Charel and Tulyah play." 
Smith also played at the 2004 USA Basketball Youth Development Festival, averag­ing 5.4 points and 2.6 rebounds per game en route to a bronze medal. 
"I think that she's going to be a great addition to our team, particularly in light of losing Jackie [Batteast]," McGraw said. "We're very excited about what she can add to our team." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Hoops 
continued from page 24 
team." 
Another threat is guard Jessica Foley, who hit the game-winning 3-pointer against Conn-ecticut last season. 
But Currie has the most expe­rience for Duke. She will be a challenge for the Irish defense and recently was named one of the top-five wing players in the country by ESPN.com, an honor received by Irish forward Jacqueline Batteast as well. 
"I thi~,k [C~rrie] i~ a .~.re~t shooter, McGraw sa1d. Shes 
that's going to be great to watch, but I think the game will really be won inside." 
For the Irish, this game will be a gauge of whnre this team is early in the season. It will help them see their weaknesses and hopefully help them once Big East play starts. 
"It's great to play top teams early on because you get to see where you are against a rnally good opponent," McGraw said. "It's like a measuring stick to sep if you're where you need to be and how far you are from where you want to get. I think only good things can happen from this game." 
Tip-off is set li>r 7 p.m. at the 



Wedne:sday, November 17, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

FOOTBALL 
Officiating still lingers in Irish tnemories 
"And I'll do that." passes, you go through the He opens up things for otherControversial calls When asked what he receiving corps, I think there's guys, just having him on the thought of the replay in the some guys that we expected field at certain times and
leave team looking 
Big Ten, Willing-to catch balls handing the ball to .the other for clarification ham said he for us and be guy, makes them a very 
would have to productive," potent team. We don't like
"I have a very
check the rules. Willingham looking at him, but were By HEATHER VAN ''I'd have to clear idea of what said. "The fact going to have to find a way to HOEGARDEN make sure I'm that we hopeful­defend him and slow him
took place, and I 
Sports E.di tor familiar with the ly are able to down and slow his team
told you I wouldn't 
Big Ten Confer­add more of our down. 
Irish coach Tyrone ence rule and comment on it." running backs USC: better than last year? Willingham said Tuesday he what would be into the mix is a The Irish were drubbed by had a chance to look at film reviewable," he plus, and also USC last year at home, 45-14.
Tyrone Willingham 
from Saturday's loss to said. ''I'd imagine with our tight The scary part is that
Irish coach 
Pittsburgh. So what did he that some of ends. I person-Willingham thinks the No. 1 think or the officiating'? [what took place ally like that Trojans might be better than 
"I have a very clear idea of Saturday] might diversity, the that team. what took place, and I told not have been reviewable, so ability to move it around." "In many regards, they're you I wouldn't comment on therefore you're in the same The Bush factor better [than last year], and it," Willingham said with a situation." Willingham recruited there are probably some smile. Sharing the ball Southern California's Heggie areas they're learning and 
However, he did say that he Irish quarterback Brady Bush to Notre Dame, but the growing, and there are proba­would be looking for "clarifi­Quinn has completed passes speedy running back chose bly some replacements and a cation" on what took place this season to 20 different the Trojans. Bush is now a little younger at some spots," Saturday. · receivers, including himself. Heisman Candidate. he said. "But overall I would 
"When things of this nature Willingham is not surprised "There is no question this is say they're a better team." arise, then what you try to do by this. a very talented young man," is get clarification on what "When you start naming the Willingham said. "He makes a Contact Heather Van Hoegarden took place," Willingham said. list of guys that have caught huge difference in their team. at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS SPRING 05 COURSES 
Classical Antiquity 

CLAS 150 INTRO TO GRECO-ROMAN MYTHOLOGY Schlegel, C. (T II 11:00-12:15) This first-year course introduces the mythologies of Greece and Rome-some of the foundational narratives of the Western literary and artistic tradition-and traces their transmission and influence over two and half thousand years from ancient to modern times. 
CLAS 313 THE GREEK AND LATIN ORIGINS OF MEDICA\, TERMINOLOGY Ladouceur. D. (l\1\H" 9:35-10:25) This course offers an introduction to the ancient Greek and Latin languages that enables students to decipher the arcane and often perplexing vocabulary of modern medicine. 
CLAS 333 THE ROMAN REVOLUTION Bradley, K. (T II 2:00-3: 15) This course examines the climactic events in Roman history of the late first century BC and early first century AD that changed Rome from an open republic to a repressive military monarchy. 
CLAS 345 DEMOCRACY AND THE GREEKS Ma7.Urek. T. (T 1111:00-12:15) This course examines the_ theory, practice, and development of ancient Greek, especially Athenian, democracy. 
CLAS 353 WAR AND SOCIETY IN THE ANCIENT WORLD Krostenko. B. (T II 9:30-10:45) The political strucntres, societal practices, and artistic productions of Greece and Rome were profoundly shaped by military activity. This course surveys the practice of war and its effects on art and society from Homeric Greece to the end of Roman hegemony iu \\'este1 ,, Europe. 
CLAS 371 THE GREEKS AND THEIR GODS Wood, H. (M\VF 12:50-l :40) An introduction to the varied and unique religious beliefs and practices of the ancient Greeks. 
CLAS 400 ROME, CHRISTIANS AND EARLY EUROPE MacConnack, S. (M\V 1:30-2:45) A survey of the political and cultural history of the ancient McditetTancan world from the age of the philosopher-king Marcus Aurelius, the late second century AD. to the rise of Islam in the seventh century. 
Greek and Latin Language and Literature 
CLLA 101-102 BEGINNING LATIN I AND BEGINNING LATIN II Staff(several options offered, please check Irish Link) A two-semester sequence designed to introduce Latin, the language of the ancient Romans, for the first time. Emphasizes the fundamentals of Latin grammar and vocabulary, and prepares stude":its to read original Latin texts, An appreciation for ancient Roman culture is fostered through class discussion. Lalin 101 offered in thefal/,102 in the spring. 
CLLA 118 INTENSIVE LATIN Mazurek, E. (M\VF 3:00-3:50; also meets T H 3:30-4:20) Latin is invaluable for anyone who wishes seriously to pursue study in philosophy, theology, law, literature, and the liberal arts generally. This accelerated course is designed to cover the material of a one-year course in Latin in a single semester. 
CLLA 202 READING AND WRITING LATIN PROSE Staff (several options offered, please check Irish Link) This second-year language course continues the review of grammar begun in Intermediate Latin and introduces students to stylistic analysis through close readings ofLatin prose authors such as Cicero and the Y onnger Pliny. 
CLLA 370CICERO AND THE IDEAL AND REALITY OF FRIENDSHIP MacCormack, S. (M\V 11:45-1:00) Cicero wrote the dialogue De amicitia, which we will be reading, in 44 BCE, just before and after the assassination of Caesar. 
CLLA 452 ROMAN COMEDY Schlegel, C. (T H 3:30-4:45) 'Ibis advanced course introduces students to Latin comic drama. Cornie plays were a popular attraction at Roman religious festivals, and Rome produced two outstanding comic writers of completely opposite temperament, the boisterous and. broad Plantus, and the wry and elegant Terence. Both continue to influence Western dramatic forms. 
CLLA 476 MEDIEVAL LATIN SURVEY Sheerin, D. (M\VF 8:30-9:20) 1be aim of this course is to experience a broad spectrum of Medieval Latin texts. Readings representative of a variety of genres (literary and subliterary), eras, and regions will be selected. Students planning to enroll in this course should be completing Introduction to Christian Latin Texts or secure permission of the instructor. 
CLGR 101-102 BEGINNING GREEK I AND BEGINNING GREEK II Wood, H. (MWF 1:55-2:45 and T2:00-2:50) A two-semester sequence designed to introduce the language of the ancient Greeks for the first time. Emphasizes the fundamentals of ancient Greek grammar and vocabulary, and prepares students to read original Greek texts. An appreciation for ancient Greek culntre is fostered through class discussion. 
CLGR 202 READING AND WRITING GREEK PROSE McLaren, C. (T H 2:00-3: 15) This second-year language course continues the review of grammar begun in Intermediate Greek and introduces students to stylistic analysis through close readings of classical Greek prose authors such as Herodotus and Xenophon. · 
CLGR 371 ATHENIAN ORATORY :\-!azurek.E: (M\VF 1:55-2:45) This third-year course builds on the work of Intermediate Greek and Reading and Writing Greek Prose and offers close reading of passages from the speeches of Lysias and !socrates: Athenian oratory provides valuable inforn1ation on fifth-and fourth-cenntry Greek politics and society. and on the Greek system of rhetorical education which it reflects. 
CLGR 458 GREEK WISDOM LITERATURE Bloomer, M. (Til 5:00-6:15 In this course we will read samples of one of the oldest and most enduring fonns of litcrantre. wisdom or sapiential literature. "Ilte wise man instmcts his audience through fables .• proverbs. traditional tales. and accounts of the universe in the right way to live. 
CONTACT THE DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS AT 1-7195 http: //classics .nd .edu 


Football 
continued from page 24 
excellent job, that's not withstanding the two inter­ceptions in there," Willingham said. "He really had command of his football team. He put the ball, in most cases, where it needed to be. And our guys responded." 
Quinn threw for three touchdowns to three different receivers -Maurice Stovall, Matt Shelton and Rashon Powers-Neal. Diedrick was pleased with the play of his young quarterback as well. 
"I think after midpoint of the first quarter, I was very pleased with his perform­ance," Diedrick said. "I thought he really handled things well. He had to regroup after the midway point of the first quarter, and after he did that I thought he played very solid, made good decisions, took care of the football and I thought he threw the ball very well after that." 
On the ground, the Irish were also effective against the Panthers. Darius Walker broke the 100-yard rushing mark for the second time in his career, finishing with 112 yards on the ground and two touchdowns. Ryan Grant added 48 yards. 
In the air, Quinn found Shelton three times for 128 yards, a career-high for Shelton. Tight end Anthony Fasano also caught three passes for 27 yards. 
As a whole, the Irish offense finally executed the way they thought they could the entire season. However, it was little consolation in a devastating loss. 
"I think [the success of the offense] is something to build on and use on something to get through this week," Quinn said. "[But] I'm disappointed wit~. the way the game turned out. 
Diedrick said he thinks the Irish can use this game as a stepping-stone for the final regular season game against Southern California, and then a possible bowl game. 
"I think that before you can get to that next step, you've got to do it one time, and I think that Saturday was that one time where, from start to finish, we felt like we execut­ed with the success that we needed to have," Diedrick said. "I think regardless of who you're going in against, it's something that you can most definitely build on because that's what you're striving for all along. Until you ever get a game like that, you don't know what it feels like. 
"It's been so frustrating to have a good first half, slow second half; a slow first half, good second half. Being able to do both for a full 60-minute game was quite beneficial, because now you can chal­lenge the kids, that we've done it. We've done it before, we know what it feels like, let's go duplicate it." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 17, 2004 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Iowa 31-29. Northern Iowa controlled the



Volleyball 
tempo of the fourth match and 
continued from page 24 
ages rnspn<~tivoly. Brewstnr also contribuwd five blocks, one of' which was a solo block. 
The Irish sustained bripf' runs throughout the ganw, but had troubln in nxtPnding their

-advantagP. Nortlwrn Iowa cap­italiz<HI on tlwir shorh~orning. pulling alwad to 25-21 towards t.hn ond of' tlw ganw. Notre Dame rallind to put the tnarn within one point of its oppo­rwnt in the final plays of tho gamo, but Northnrn Iowa's Hachanl Tink had a kill for a • :~0-2X victory. Although thn second game was equally close, tho Irish snnmod to bn running on all cylinders, winning thn ganw 30-2H. Notre Dame's defense bested its efforts in the first gamo, holding Northorn Iowa to .157 on hitting and forcing nine Panther errors. Junior eaptain Mng llnniean scooped for six digs and sophomore Daniello llerndon recorded five to lead the Irish floor defense. Brewster had nine kills on .429 hitting, while freshman Ashley Tarutis and Stasiuk added to the Irish offensive effort with an ace each. Notro Damn extended its lead in the third game for a 2-1 advantage over Northern Iowa. The third game featured 11 tins-the most of' the match up -and four lead changes in· one of the most eontestnd games Tuesday night. The Panthers didn't establish a siznable lead until midway through the mateh 16-13, bel'on~ Notre Dame ended the set vietorious over Northern 
the team's defense limited the Irish to .OX2 on hitting and just II kills. Stasiuk led the Irish in kills with four and .300 on hit­ting, w hi In de l'e nsive ly, llnnican chipped in seven digs and Cooper loggod two blocks. Northern Iowa led by as many as nirw points in tho fourth game, finishing with an eight­point win 30-22 to force a lifth game. 
A rovived Irish toam took the courts for the l'ifth game, but tho team wasn't ablo to sustain a sizeable run. Northorn Iowa claimed the win in the fifth garno 15-13. 
Dospite Tuesday night's heartbreaking loss, the Irish are taking the disappointment in stride and look forward to this wenknnd's Big East Championship. 
"This ]match] was the best praetiee we could ever have for the Big East this weekend," Brown said. "We couldn't have orchestrated a better practice than that. Northern Iowa pushed us·in all areas." 
NOTHE DAME 2, NOHTHEHN IOWA3 at the JOYCE CENTEH 
NOTHE DAME 2!1 :w :H 21 1:~ 
Norlhl'rn Iowa :w 2!1 2'1 311 15 
NOTHE DAME -Kills 71l (llrnwsler 271, AssisL~ 7 4 ('l'arutis 63 I. Digs 83 (lll'niean 
221. lllo<~ks 11l.5 (Brewster. Cooper 71. !lilting p1•rcontago .17'1 (llurrnll .3331. Aces :J !Tarutis, Slasiuk. llrnwstl'r 1) NOHTIIEHN IOWA·-ll6 (l{owen 211. AssisL'i'lll fllirseh 741. Digs Ill !May Ill), Blocks 15 (Humpal <J), Hitting percentage .211l (Gnrmann .4110), Aces 2 (l.nmek, llirsd1 I) 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 


2005-2006 RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
will be·available in the 
Office ofStudent Affairs 
3 16 Main Building beginning Monday, Novemeber 15, 2004 
through 

Wednesday, January 19, 2005 Applications will also be available for downloading and printing at http: I I osa.nd.edul 




Law& • • • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
November 17, 2004 
-

4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 

Fighting for "Caucasian Rights": Mexica.ns, Mexican-Americans and
-

Civil Rights Legislation in World War II Texas 
Presenter Thomas Guglielmo 
Department ofAmerican Studies 
Commentator Jimmy Gurule 
The LawSchool 
--·--------------­

... . .... ....
' . . . . .. . . •' ,·
~· 

Wednesday, November 17, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
THE VENDOR WHO COULDN'T SAY NO 
NEED FIFTEEN UNITS BY TUESDAY. 


PEANUTS 
E 
0 
I WANT THEM CUSTOM­
0
.. ~ 
IZED FOR OUR NEEDS,
@
., 
ASSEMBLED, AND
E
.. 
INSTALLED BY WEDNES­
"".. 

= DAY.
0 
u 
"' 

E 
0 
0 
t 

:eQ) 
;:; 
~ 
~ 
c.i 
.E 
LL 
::>
"' 
>
.c 
1ii 
e 
c.i 
.E .,; 
~ 
""
..: 
= 
0 
u 
Ill 
;g 
0 
@ 
"' 
r 
~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 

I'M LOATHING YOU IN ADVANCE FOR MAKING PROMISES YOU WONT KEEP. 
PRELOATHING: I GET THAT A LOT. 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
I CAME INTO ITS ?OS?E55lJN 11 SHOW AND LIE 11 15 M~ 
BEST SUBJECT
THROV6H THE EXCHANGE OF MONEY AND CERTAIN BIT~ OF VALUABLE INFORMATION 

JUMBLE 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, · 


i"'"~~~~~~·or~ J 
©2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 


~~~~rt] 
I YNOFLE ± 

rJ r J 
www.jumble.com
tZOLENZ t

IJ I J I 
HENRI ARNOLD .MIKE ARGIRION 

HOW SHE:: FINISH£:!/ 
THE:: LAUN!/RY WH£::N THE:: !/RY!::R BROKE. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


A: 

sv[ I I I I JITJ[ I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles:  AWASH  TYPED  WHOLLY  WAITER  
Answer:  When the surfers saw the big waves, they  
said it was-WORTH THE "WADE"  


CROSSWORD WTLLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 36 Press for 63 Sit around payment
1 Rockette 64 Utah senator launchers? 37 What well­
67 The Pointer 
thrown

5 Combo's cue Sisters'"_
44-Across do Excited"10 Stereo knob 38 This is one 68 Pointed arch 14 Like crazy 39 Parasite 69 Cut back 

15 Cordial flavoring supporter 70 "Cold one" 
16 With the bow, in 41 Cambridge univ. 
71 Having bumps music 
42 Seek foo~, 

72 Leave slack­17 "Kiss Me Kate" perhaps jawedco-star, 1953 
43 Sequel novel to 19 Time for a "Typee" revolution DOWN 
44 Hail Marys, e.g. 20 One of the Fab 1 Lionized actor? 
47 Part of D.J.I.A.
Four 2 H. G. Wells 
48 1945 Peace race21 State Nobelist

nicknamed 3 Cap's partner "Small Wonder'' 50 Med. specialty 
4 College 23 Mideast flash 51 Certain football's Grand point investment, for Old Man short
26 'The Daba 5 Taken Honeymoon" 52 "La Vie en 
6 Press, slangily Rose" singer 27 The Red Baron, 7 50-50, say

e.g. 54 Chinese potable 
a What a nod 

30 "Diner'' actor 59 Driving hazard 
might mean 
9 Spill one's guts 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 o Show set in Hawaii 11 Atlas stat 12 Mark for life 13 Like some losers 18 Arteries 22 Six-pack _ 24 Sound on "Batman" 25 Brutish sort 27 Not permanent 28 Former New York governor 


29 David of CNN 45 Quarterback 57 "Sum" preceder Manning
31 Dander 58 Far from arable 46 More than trim
32 Really enjoys 60 Louis XIV, self­49 East ender? referentially
33 Shake off 34 Yak, yak, yak ... 53 Tries to fly 61 Linen hue 
35 Packaging abbr. 54 Like a slickster 62 Not now 
40 Super-delicious 55 Spanish Steps 65 Stick-to-it­-
city
44 1986 Best 66 Sparks on the Picture 56 Facility screen 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 · 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a ye~r). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Trevor Penick. Oksana Baiul, Dwight Gooden, Tammy Lauren 
Happy Birthday: You may be tempted to take on the world, but this year you will have to be a little bit more selective. Too much of anything will lead to all sorts of problems. Take care of your health and concentrate on what's really important to you. Your numbers are 9, 12, 17, 28, 33, 45 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Talk matters over and try to resolve your differences. Added responsibilities will leave you on edge. A positive attitude will help you accomplish what needs to be done.** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Make this a day to remember. Spend time-with loved ones and focus on the youngsters in the family. A hobby will turn into a lucrative venture. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let entertainment. friends or children cost you today. Good advice will go much further than your hard-earned cash. Attend a seminar on money management. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): A partnership will have to be nurtured today. Situations will get blown out of proportion if you don't face issues as they arise. Compromise. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your thoughts will lead to prosperity. Don't hesitate to turn your ideas into something concrete. Success is at the end of the tunnel. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a creative approach to gift-buying and the festive season. Focus on how much you can get for how little. You will probably be able to save for that much-needed vacation. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): This is not the time to put yourself on the line. Criticism will cause anxiety if you can't ignore whoever is trying to make you look bad. Keep your head high. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Rid yourself of things you no longer need. A donation made to a worthy group will impress someone who can benefit you in the future. Generosity will pay off. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A business venture will catch your eye. Do your research to make sure that the people involved are worth doing business with. Don't spend more than you can afford. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let anyone goad you into revealing your deepest secrets. You need more time to think matters through. Spend time with the people who count. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel or visiting someone who has valuable information will benefit you. Don't reveal your position. Listen, observe and make your move. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may want to help someone out. but do so by being there --not by lending cash or taking on more responsibilities. Love and respect will be yours if you are strong. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are determined to follow your own path. You are excessive in your pursuits. You always want to try everything. You are outgoing and dashing and attract plenty of attention. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 

-------------------------------.------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who ~ave found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
. ' ..... 

THE OBSERVER 









PORTS
Wednesday, November 17, 2004 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
The first big challenge 
No. 6 Duke will be tough opponent for the Irish in preseason WNIT semifinals 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 

No. II NotrP Damn will fae1~ its first ehallnnge of this young Simson tonight. and it will bn a big onn. 
No. 6 I>ukn is in town, fresh ofT of two blowout pnlseason Wonwn 's National Invitation 
Tournamnnt  
wins.  Thny  See Also  
del"natnd Davidson H9-6'J  "Two sign  
and South Florida  for class of  
82-50. "Wn'rn expnct­ 2009"  
ing a  vnry good  page 20  
team who has a  
lot morn sizn than  

anybody w1~'vn faced or any­body we will faee," Irish eoaeh Muffnt MeCraw said. 
Tlw Blu/1 DPvils (2-0) arn still a very good basketball team, despite losing All-American Alana Beard to graduation. They are led by junior Monique Currie, who is averaging 18.5 
points, eight rebounds and 4.5 assists per game this season. Currie is joined by freshman point guard Wanisha Smith, who earned her first collegiate start against South Florida. In that start. she seored 20 points on H-for-12 shooting in 30 min­utns. 
Smith. who will squarn off against Irish junior point guard Megan Dully, is starting in place of Lindsey Harding. llarding, a third-team ali-ACC seleetion last snason, was suspended indnfinitnly by coaeh Gail Coestenkors for brnaking unspneilied team ruhls, accord­ing to the Associated Press. 

"I think they have real difl'er­ent ~.ook ~han t~ey ..d~d '.D:~t year. Me(,raw s<ud. Its (hili­cult to scout them because it's so early and we haven't seen game tape this year and every­thing last year went through Alana Beard so it's really going to be a challenge for us because it's like playing a whole new 
see HOOPS/page 20 



NO WOMEN'S SoccER Krivacek steps up in NCAA's 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
Jill Krivacck generally doesn't like to draw a lot of attention to hersdf on the lield. 
"I wouldn't say I'm extremely voeal but mainly bo(:ausc I'm a sophomore and I don't feel like it's my territory yet," sho said. 
But when the sophomore hf'aded a corner kick into the net· with 53 seconds left to break a 0-0 tie in Sunday's sec­lmd-round NCAA tournament victory over Wisconsin, she could barely contain herself. Krivacek screamed with jubila­tion, was mobbed by her team­mate!) and then ran along the Notre Dame bench in celebra­tion. 
"It's one of the best Lmoments of my careerl," Krivacek said. "Usually when I score I get pretty excited but it doesn't happen very often. But at that 
see SOCCER/page 20 


FOOTBALL 

Role reversal for both sides of Irish 
Usually consistent defense gave up 41 points to Panthers 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 

Holps reversed Saturday against Pittsburgh. T h e u s u a II y -1: o n s i s t e n t 
"Officiating still 

defense bneamn  a  liability,  
and the  usu­ 
ally-i ru:onsis­ See Also  
tPnt offpnsn  

bneame an assnt. lingers in Irish ThP Irish 
memories" 

offnnse put 
up :{H points page21 against Pittsburgh, tying thP sPason-high prnvi­ously posted against Washington. Notrn Damn rPg­i s t ~~red 4 3 H yards o I" tota I oll'nnsn, and sron•d live toueh­downs against the Panthers. 
"I would hope that we would be able to take what we accomplished on Saturday and continue to build on that and feel very confident in what we're capable of doing, and then go out on a week-to­week basis and do that," Irish ofl'ensivo coordinator Bill Diedrick said. 
The Irish (6-4) registered 179 yards on the ground. and 259 yards in the air, a bal­anced performance in a sys­tem that preaehes balanee. The offense turned the ball over two times on two inter­eeptions; however, one of the interceptions was caused by what appeared to be defensive pass intorfon~ncc. 
Irish lwad coae h Tyrone Willingham was ploased with quarterback Brady Quinn, who finished with 259 yards on 15-for-2(, passing. 
"I thought Brady did an 
see FOOTBALL/page 2 I 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish fall to Northern Iowa 3-2 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Northern Iowa proved the best offense is a solid defense as it defeated Notre Dame 3-2 Tuesday night. 
The Irish anticipated a tough match heading into the competition, and the Panthers didn't disappoint. Northern Iowa's defense held the team to a .180 average on hitting and forced an average of nearly eight errors per game. 
"We played with a lot of heart and fought hard, but it wasn't the best match in terms of execution," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. 
Junior Lauren Brewster was among the players leading the Irish effort, tallying 27 kills and hitting .273. Brewster, who received her sixth career Big East Player of the Week award last week, also totaled eight blocks. 
Senior Emily Loomis and freshman Adrianna Stasiuk followed up with 15 kills apiece and .204 and .146 on hitting respectively. Junior 

Carolyn Cooper also regis­tered seven blocks to add to the Irish effort. 
Northern Iowa's win in the first gamP did not come easily, as Notre Dame trailed the Panthers by ,no more than four points at any given point in the game. Brewster and Loomis led the team in kills with four each and reeorded .500 and .375 hitting percent-
see VOLLEYBALL/page 22 

WOMEN'S TENNIS
U) MLB 
NFL 
MEN'S TENNIS 
NBA

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
w 

Davenport is 
1-
c.,:) Guerrero wins AL 
Cowboys 
Utah 107

Shara~ova 
disappointed 

No.1 
reflec s on year
z MVP award 
Lleyton Hewitt loses 
Charlotte 105 
in the first set and

cc ::5 
Lindsay Davenport 
The 17-year old phe-
Angels outfielder 
After a loss to the 
comes back to defeat 
The Jazz rallied to 

topped the year's final 
nom speaks about her 
= 
takes the award for the 
Eagles, Dallas is upset 
Carlos Moya in three 
beat the expansion 

a.. !;: cc 
WTA rankings.
American League's top 
about their bad start. 

year in the spotlight. 
sets. 
Bobcats. 

= 
player. 

page 19 
page 18 
page 18 
page 17 
page 15 
page 14

U) 






