
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Group approves $357,000 budget 
2004-2005 Budget Allocation 

*Prc:5idt>nr.ial Committee is included in Student Union Board 
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 

Organization requests exceed $668,000, SUB allocation drops 16% to $179,000 
By MATT BRAMANTI Senior Staff Writer 
Members of the newly consti­tuted Council of Representatives met Monday evening in LaFortune to approve the Student Union's annual budget and to ratify the nomination of several newly appointed officials. 
Student union treasurer Claire Fadel presented the budget, which was compiled at a meeting of the Financial Management Board earlier this month. 
This year's discretionary allo­cations totaled nearly $357,000, down about seven percent from last year. The current budget reflects lower revenue from sales of "The Shirt." Fadel said the kelly green "Here Come the Irish" shirts were not as success­ful as the "Return to Glory" shirts from the 2002 football sea­son. In addition, anticipated rev­enue from student activities fees dipped slightly. 
A copy of the budget alloca­tions obtained by The Observer reveals that funding requests far exceeded the amount of money available. Student union organi­zations requested about $668,000, exceeding the final budget by over 87 percent. 
One of the most notable changes in the budget was the drop in funding for the Student Union Board, student govern­ment's major programming body. The allocation for SUB fell to about $179,000-nearly 16 percent shy of last year's $212,000 level. Student leaders slashed SUB's concert budget by more than half, an area that accounts for most of SUB's fund­ing cuts. 
The cuts come a year after SUB sponsored a show by come­dian David Spade that failed to draw enough students to cover its costs. 
In the budget documents, 
see COUN CILI page 6 

Schulze lectures on Holocaust reparations 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Senior Staff Writer 
Marianne Schulze, an Austrian Fulbright scholar at the Center for Civil and Human Rights at the Notre Dame Law School. lectured Monday on legal reparations for Holocaust victims. The lecture, titled "Hestitution after the IIolocaust: The Limits of Legal Heparations," coincided with I!olocaust Remembrance Day and was sponsored by the Jewish Law Students Society. 
"The concept of restitution is limited by its very nature," Schulze said. "There are only so many things that can be given back ... There are so many school years [and] years of childhood that cannot be given back. We're not just talking about property rights, we're talking about emo­tional [issues]." 
When addressing reparations and the horror of events like the Holocaust, Schulze explained, three principles should be consid­ered -responsibility, recognition and remembrance. Responsibility should be accepted by the perpe­trators and the society that they live in, and recognition must be applied to their victims, including acknowledging the pain they have suffered. 
"Those who fell victim must be recognized as such," Schulze said. 
Finally, remembrance, she said, goes beyond Holocaust Remembrance Day and refers to on-going behavior brought about by a fundamental change in atti­tude. 
The issue of reparations is thus a complicated one, said Schulze, a former legal adviser to the Republic of Austria's General Settlement Fund for Victims of the Nazi-Era. 
The Nazis marched into Austria on Saturday, March 13, 1938 and by that Monday things changed dramatically. Jewish students were separated from their school­mates and ordered to attend sep­
see HOLOCAUST/page 9 



Panel discusses role of catholicism in voting 
Debated issues include abortion, same-sex marriage and fighting in the Iraq War 
By KATIE LAIRD 
News Writer 
Abortion, fighting in Iraq, same-sex marriage and the death penalty were identified as issues that will raise the passions of Catholic voters in the 2004 presidential election during a panel discussion between distinguished mem­bers of the Notre Dame faculty Monday afternoon. 
The dialogue, titled "Faithful Citizenship: Catholics and the 2004 Election," was moderat­ed by Daniel Philpott, an assistant professor in political science. Panelists including Rev. Michael Baxter. a theolo­gy professor, Charles Rice, professor emeritus of law, and David Campbell, an assistant professor in political science. expressed varying opinions on the role Catholicism will play when voters make their deci­sions in November. 
Campbell, who is neither an American citizen nor a Catholic, first stressed the importance of voting in this year's elections. 
"You're going to hear people tell you how to vote," he said. 
see ELECTION/page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Operation Rice Bowl 
•


raises over $4,000 
By LAURA VILIM News Writer 

The results from the first Operation Rice Bowl to be held on the Notre Dame campus in recent years show the program was hugely successful in raising money for Catholic chari­
ties  around  the  world,  
organizers said.  
The  program,  which  

ended with the Lenten sea­son, raised slightly over $4,000. Seventy-five per­cent of the money will be donated to the work of the Catholic Helief Services to help fund development projects in 40 countries around the world. These projects include agricultur­al enrichment, water and sanitation, maternal/child health, microfinance and job training. The remaining 25 percent of the proceeds remain in the local diocese to fund programs dedicated to alleviating poverty and hunger. 
Because this is the first year the program was held on campus, co-chairs Brin Anderson and Julia Miller­Lemon were unsure of what outcome to expect. 
"As a first-year project, the success of the cam­paign was really, really encouraging," Miller­Lemon said. "All of the support that we got from 
. individual donors, IIPC and 
the individual class coun­
cils was amazing." 
As an incentive to raise money, Operation Hice Bowl earmarked a $300 dorm improvement prize for the dorm with the best participation. This year that dorm was Howard Hall, which has chosen to donate its prize back to the project. Other dorms also made significant contribu­tions to the project not only by raising money but also by holding special events to raise awareness about the Rice Bowl, Anderson said. 
In addition to participa­tion through the dorms, individuals involved with other aspects of the University also helped with the fundraiser. 
"The overwhelming sup­port from the entire Notre Dame community was so inspiring -faculty, staff, law students, MBA students and of course, undergradu­ate students all supported the campaign," Anderson said. "It's this kind of sup­port that really helped to 
see BOWL/page 6 
Tuesday, April20, 2004

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Wash, rinse, 
•


sp1n 

I have a confession to make: I don't do my laundry. 
That's not to say that I'm walking around in filthy rags. My laundry gets done, just not by me. I pay to get it done. But I don't get it done at St. Michael's. No, I give the University enough money as it is. I like to help out my own kin. 
My brother, Tommy, is my laundry boy. 
That's right. For the last three years, I've paid him a decent weekly salary to wash, dry, fold and put away my clothes. And it's pretty sweet. 
A little scenario to illustrate: When I left my room yesterday, I had to dodge an enormous pile of dirty laundry in the corner. When I got back from class today, I was greeted by a closet full of nice, warm, neatly folded, fabric-soft­ened clothing. It doesn't get much better than that. 
Now, it's not that I've never had to do any work. I wasn't coddled as a kid. I had to do my fair share of chores. I've scrubbed toilets and scoured bathtubs. I've cut lawns and mulched flowerbeds. I've taken out the trash more times than I care to remember -and a family of nine puts out a lot of trash. 
I just don't like doing laundry, and I never have. 
And apparently, neither does Tommy. His complaints, which can usually be soothed by paying him in cash, have gotten louder and more frequent. I hear things a civilized person in the 21st century shouldn't have to, things like, "Can't you wear that some more before I have to wash it?" 
He. claims I never pay him, and the allegedly past-due amount keeps increasing at a rate that would make a New Jersey loan shark blush. And when I do pay him, he complains about how broke he is. Then he stuffs the cash into a wallet that's literally bulging with currency. 
I even gave him a 33 percent raise this year out of the kindness of my heart. And by "the kindness of my heart," I mean he put my clothes away wet and threatened to keep doing so until he got more money. He'll make a fine Teamster one day. 
Why do I put up with this? Why don't I just bite the bullet, grab some quarters and wash my own clothes? 
A lot of you probably think I'm being a bit lazy. Some people might say that I'm a slacker, that wash­ing, drying and folding clothes real­ly isn't that much of a hassle. 
To those people, I would say: can I hire you? Tommy whines too much. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

Matt Bramantl 
Senior Staff Writer 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT BAR DO YOU THINK WILL BE THE NEXT TO GET BUSTED? 



Phil McCreese Eric Shunh 
Junior Senior 
Fisher Fisher 
"Hands offthe "Bust her? I strip bars. , don't even know her., 
Couple to move Into 19­foot-wlde home 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. ­After living on a boat for 15 years, Neil and Suzanne Ablitt don't find anything unusual about their plans to squeeze into a home that measures only 19 feet wide and 19 feet deep. 

"It's an incredibly beautiful structure," Ablitt said of plans for his skinny dream house. "It's a house of whim­sy." 
The couple might have made it bigger, but then their downtown lot only measures 20 feet wide by 20 feet deep. And they figured they needed that extra foot all around for 




Sean Milligan  Drew Baumgartner  
5th Year  Junior  
Off-Campus  Fisher  
"I don't know.  "That  
Ty hasn't told  speakeasy  

us yet!" 

haul it off. But if one dies on private property, the home­owner has to dispose of the carcass. 
"Our policy is once a moose is dead, it's not ours any­more. People are stuck m{)v­ing them themselves," state biologist Rick Sinnott. "People get very upset with us, obviously. They figure it's still our moose." 
In winter, it's easy to find trappers who want the hide or meat. But as the trapping season ends in spring, they're not so inter­ested, Sinnott said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
what their architect calls "earthquake sway." 
Homeowners told to remove moose carcasses 
ANCHORAGE -Ea~e River resident Glenn Gibeault discovered a dead moose on his quarter-acre near Eagle River Road last month. As the snow started melting, an ear emerged. • 
He called the state Department of Fish and Game. 
"It's your moose," Gibeault said he was told. 
If a moose dies alongside a road or in a ditch, Fish and Game will call on a trapper or city or state road crews to 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0::: 
1.&.1 
:c 
~ 

1.&.1 
3: 
.... 
c( 
(,) 





0 
HIGH 63 60 HIGH HIGH
..... 
LOW 56 50 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
68 42 
63 42 
Monk runs in Corby Hall., 
IN BRIEF 

John Coatsworth, Monroe Gutman Professor of Latin American Affairs and director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, at Harvard University will give a lecture entitled "Changing Regimes and Overthrowing Governments: What We Can Learn about lraqfrom Studying Latin America" today from 12:30 to 1:45 p.m. in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, will address the ques­tion "The War in Iraq: Justified as Humanitarian Intervention?" in a lecture today from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Human Rights Watch is the largest U.S.-based international human rights organization. 
The students of History 401 have organized a Haunted Campus Procession. to take place today with invited hon­ored members of the Potawatomi and Miami tribes and members of the Notre Dame community in order to create a continuing dialogue among these three groups. The procession will begin at 7 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Great Hall, and a reception and bon­fire will follow. 
Featured comedian on "The Daily Show," political commen­tator Mo Rocca will visit ND tonight. Sponsored by SUB, his lecture will take place from 
7:30 to 9 p.m. in DeBartolo 101. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an euent to obsnews@nd.edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 79 I 58 Boston 68 I 42 Chicago 60 I 50 Denver 65 I 36 Houston 81 I 64 Los Angeles 70 I 54 Minneapolis 60 I 42 New York 70 I 46 Philadelphia 74 I 52 Phoenix 86 I 65 Seattle 54 I 42 St. Louis 69 I 59 Tampa 82 I 63 Washington 72 I 58 
Tuesday, April 20, 2004 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Members concentrate on improving The Show 
said he believes the $10 ticket price will 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
not hinder students from attending the 
News Writer 
concert. 
"We had 4,000 people -a record atten­
Improving "The Show"-an annual con­dance -for Black Eyed Peas and Guster cert open only to students of Notre Dame, last year," he said. Saint Mary's, and lloly Cross -was the Flaherty also said an electronic survey main topic of discussion at Monday's Board will be sent out soon to students on all of Governance meeting. three campuses to help choose bands for 
Next year will mark the fourth annual the event. Past performers have been SH-tri-campus event, which director of 71, They Might Be Giants, George Clinton fundraising Patrick Vassel said the commit­and the Parliament Funk and Better Than tee wanl'i to bolster as a tradition. Ezra. The committee is open to suggestion 
"This is really something that we are from all genres of music, especially top 40 focusing on this year," Vassel said. "All stu­bands and up-and-coming acts. dents from all three campuses should feel In other BOG news: that this is really something that they can + Executive secretary Lindsay Cook must be a part of and they can enjoy." step down from the Board of Governance 
The committee also plans to focus on before the next school year. BOG is cur­more collaboration between the three rently looking for a new secretary. schools. Elizabeth Ganslcr from Holy Cross + The tri-campus shuttle is being debated and Kat Kindt from Saint Mary's sit on the by a refinancing board. Service has been 2004 "The Show" board as representa­provided by several companies on a yearly tives, and volunteers. Funding will also basis, and now Notre Dame ar.d Saint come from all three campuses. Mary's are searching for a contract for up 
Advertisement for the concert will also to 10 years by bidding companies. The be distributed on all campuses. Kindt said committee will continue to meet through" the board intends to promote the show out the summer and has already decided heavily during freshman orientation, while the Holy Cross, University Village and panml'i arc still on campus. Hammes Bookstore stops will be eliminat­
"The concert is the next weekend, and ed from the new contract. parents will feel more at ease knowing + The preliminary budget for student gov­what their child will be doing," she said. ernment for the 2004-05 academic year 
Ben Zerant, vice chairman of finance, has been released. The budget has risen centered on the monetary aspect of the almost $4,000 since last year, increasing to first few days students are on campus. $219,750. Each student contributes $150 
"If we advertise during the parents to student government at the beginning of phase. the parents are much more likely to the school year. shell out the $10 than the students arc," Zerant said. Contact Nicole Zook at 
"The Show" chairman Jimmy Flaherty zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
Holy Cross elections end in resignations 
control played a role in the resignation. 
By AMANDA MICHAELS "Luke Bruner and his running mate 
News Writer 
Adrian Honquillo both resigned. I 
endorsed the students' letter. and I 
After Holy Cross students turned out accepted their resignation," vice presi­in record numbers for the election of dent of student affairs Tina llolland president and vice president of the said. "I can't speak to anything besides Student Government Association (SGAJ. what they themselves said in the let­the newly-elected Luke Bruner and ter." Adrian Ronquillo resigned and were Holland added that she was not replaced Monday morning by runners­aware of any dissatisfaction among up Joseph Lafferty and Michael st11dents in regards to the administra­Flaherty. tion's role in the student government, 
In an e-mail forwarded to the I-ICC and would address any concerns student body, Bruner and Ronquillo should they arise. cited the extensive time commitment as Director of student activities and reason for their resignation. advisor to the SGA Tory Mitchell con­
"After careful reflection it has curred, saying he is not of aware of any become apparent that we will be investigation into the circumstances unable to execute all the duties surrounding the election, and that required of the offices of SGA president approval of the Lafferty and Flaherty and vice-president. This school and its was successful. students deserve the complete and Current SGA president Chris t:ndivided attention from those serving Delborrello also confirmed there was -nothing less is acceptable in our no fraud on the part of the SGA or the eyes," stated in the e-mail obtained by student leaders who ran the election. The Observer. Turnout for the SGA elections were 
Bruner said later that he and the highest on record. with 50 percent Honquillo had not fully understood the of students voting in both the first and level of commitment required of them second rounds, said Bruner. when they ran for election, and that "Historically, there is approximately their resignation was in the best inter­a 50 percent drop in participation est of the student body. between the first and second rounds of 
"We both have heavy course loads voting, with about 30 percent to 40 and are interested in transferring" to percent showing up for the first round, Notre Dame Ronquillo said. "The guys and maybe 15 percent to 20 percent in that are replacing us are here on the the second," Bruner said. "We man­four-year program. We just want the aged to maintain 50 percent for both, person in office to be able to be there which, to my knowledge, is unprece­for the school." . dented." 
Despite minor rumors to the con­trary, neither election fraud nor stu­Contact Amanda Michaels at dent dissatisfaction with administration amichael@nd.edu 
. THE FISHER REGATTA Saturday, April 24th 1:00 PM St. Mary's Lake Captains Meeting: Wednesday, April 21th, 7:00pm, Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune  


Tuesday, April20, 2004 
page4 The Observer + NEWS 

'Haunted cam.pus' class honors historical figures 
Procession to highlight, memorialize role ofAmerican Indians in Notre Dame's past 
Daughtery, of the Pokagon
By KATE GALES  Band of the Potowatomi  
News Writer  Nation.  
"We wanted something to  
Father Edward Sorin. Knute  leave behind, something  
Rockne. Leopold Pokagon.  semi-permanent, as a mark  
Although anyone on the  of what we have done," said  
Notre Dame campus can easi­ Lance Johnson, a film and  
ly name the significance of  finance major who prepared  
the first two figures, Pokagon  the proposal for the installa­ 
remains a Native American  tion. "It's a good way to  
historical figure shrouded in  remember what we've done,  
mystery for most. Professor  and [the tree] has special sig­ 
Kathleen Biddet's "Haunted  nificance with the American  
Campus" history class, how­ Indians."  
ever,· is attempting to change  The procession will be lit by  
that, with a procession and  luminaries, candles and  
media installation honoring  torches and will culminate  
Pokagon and the rest of the  with a bonfire.  
American Indians who some  According to Biddick, a  
historians claim set the stage  number of organizations on  
for Father Sorin and his uni­ campus were involved in  
versity.  planning the procession and  
The procession, set for 7  installation. Bill Kirk, the  
p.m. today, will honor the  associate vice president of  
American Indians who played  residence life, was instru­ 
an integral role in bringing  mental in the process,  
Holy Cross priests to the  Biddick said. Professor Ken  
Northern Indiana area. It will  Dye, David Linquist of the  
also be the premiere of a  OIT, Notre Dame  
media installation set to run  Security/Police, risk manage­ 
in the Great Hall of  ment, student activities and  
O'Shaughnessy until the end  campus ministry were also  
of classes.  involved.  
Biddet, who cited her "long  Landscape services donated  
history of pedagogy" as an  the tree -a red oak -that  
interest in starting the class,  will be planted outside the  
is a professor of history and  Log Cabin Chapel.  
director of the Center for  After working as a  
Creative Computing.  Fulbright Scholar in Media  
However, she said that her  Lab Dublin and creating a  
students were self-motivated  media installation in a  
for the semester-long, self­ Victorian prison, Biddick was  
graded project.  ready to bring a new look at  
"Give Notre Dame students  history to her Notre Dame  
an intellectual inch, and  students.  
they'll take a yard," she said.  "In my larger interest as a  
The students have spent the  historian, what is memory?  
past semester researching  What is forgiveness? These  
the early history of the  are critical issues in the  
University, discovering some  humanities," she said.  
sources that suggest  Biddick and students met  
Pokagon, chief of the  Monday with University  
Potawotomi Indian tribe,  President Father Edward  
requested the Bishop of  Malloy to present him with a  
Detroit to send a missionary  DVD of the media installa­ 
priest to the area.  tion.  
By perusing a variety of his­ 
torical documents, University  
archives, artwork at the Snite  Contact Kate Gales at  
Museum and oral history of  kgales@nd.edu  
the tribe, they hope to re­ 
introduce a dialogue between  

the administration and the Potawotomi tribe members remaining in the Northern Indiana area. 
"The history before what we think of as Notre Dame ... [it's] still very much a part of school history," said Beth Bollwerk, an anthropology and computer applications major taking Biddet's course. 
She pointed out there was a close interaction between the American Indians, missionar­ies, and European settlers. In a class discussion, the stu­dents mentioned the Native Americans are not mentioned on campus tours, and that the impression tends to be Father Sorin arriving in an empty land, Biddet said. 
Tonight's tour will feature readings by Father Kevin Russeau, C.S.C. and Greg Ballew of the Pokagon Band of the Potowatomi Nation. The students have also arranged the planting of a tree with a commemorative plaque, to be blessed by Father William Lies, C.S.C., Chief Brian Buchanan of the Miami Nation and Kevin 

JUNIORS!!!! 
LIVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR?? 
COLLEGE PARK GARAGE SALE 
Sunday, April 25th Starting at Noon, Going till 2:30!! 
We can and will store for you this summer for free! Walk around the complx to all the apartments partici­pating and find all the items you need for next year: 
BARS ELECTRONICS BEDS (many sizes) LAMPS BIKES KITCHEN TBLS. DESKS COUCHES FUTONS GRILLS DESK CHAIRS KITCHEN ITEMS LAZY BOYS POSTERS/BAR SIGNS 
Contact Matt Lutz at (419) 957-2154 with any questions 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 





Members tie up loose ends 
Resolution proposed to make allowances for RAs taking MCATS 
By ANDREW THAGARD Senior Staff Writer 
Members of the Campus Life Council tied up loose ends dur­ing their final meeting of the semester on Monday, passing resolutions on the social aware­ness committee and RA training. 
CLC devoted the bulk of its time to continuing a debate started in August about ways to address schedule conflicts with RA training, particularly the MCAT. The RA training commit­tee, led by Brian Agganis, pro­posed a resolution that would make the Saturday of the train­ing period an in-hall session rather than an all-hall one and grant permission, at the discre­tion of the student's rector, to skip the day in order to take the MCAT. 
Members, however, disagreed with various parts of the pro­posed resolution, and it was ulti­mately voted down. Charlie Ebersol, for example, said that he did not think the decision ­

8··8Att DOVBtlS Tout~HAMEHr 
Friday, Ap_rH 23 9:00pm 

ND Express 
!tC¥fR tEVD.. Df UFoo.rlmfJ 


S~ 11ps ~n Apt'il 19 irt Nb Express. (Lilfl•t 16 re.aons . 2 w11 tos=.) 
~~ l"l~~ Jitr."li!Gai 

NO [><press Billiard,; Hall also provides :;a~ne day proto dmlo;ment and UPS slliWing >er'lites. 
an academic one -should lie with the rector. He also expressed concern that it could create inequalities between the dorms with some rectors allow­ing RAs to skip the day for the standardized test and others refusing. 
"I don't think this is a rector decision, it's an academic one," Ebersol said. 
Father Paul Doyle, rector of Dillon Hall, said he doubted any rector would prohibit his or her students from taking the MCAT if the resolution was passed. 
"MCATs are a gimmie," he said. "I don't think there are rectors who wouldn't allow that.'' 
Other CLC members favored changing"the wording of the res­olution to account for other aca­demic conflicts. Still others, however, expressed concern that such language could encourage students to purpose­fully schedule exams that day. 
"For the GRE you can take that [throughout the year]." said Heather Rakoczy, rector of Pangborn Hall. 
Some CLC members, including Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni, said they were hesitant to rush passing a last minute resolution when the committee had a year to formu­late one. 
"It didn't seem like a priority this year," Bongiovanni said. 
The resolution was ultimately defeated. Members, however, passed another resolution man­dating the drafting of a letter by Jeremy Lao, CLC chairman, to Father Mark Poorman. The let­ter will update the vice presi­dent of Student Affairs on the work CLC has done, the views expressed during debates and ask him to consider keeping future MCAT days in mind when planning RA training. 
CLC members also unani­mously passed, without debate, a resolution to continue the life of the social awareness commit­tee. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 20, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Leaders seek insurgents' weapons 
FALLUJAII, Iraq -Direct talks between the United States and leaders of the besieged city of Fallujah produced their first concrete results: an appeal for insurgents to turn in their mortars, surface-to-air missiles, rocket­propelled grenades and other heavy weapons, 
U.S. ollicials announced Monday. 
In return, the U.S. military said it does not intend to resume its ofTensive in the Sunni Muslim stronghold so long as militants are disarming. 
But with Marines encircling Fa!Jujah and holding their positions inside the city, com­manders warned that if the deal falls through, they could launch an all-out assault, which would likely mean a resumption of bloody urban combat. 
The agreement also mentioned the "need" to investigate the killing and mutilation of four American civilians in Fallujah on March 
31. U.S. oflicials have said they want Iraqis behind the attack handed over. 
Jong discusses nuclear standoff 
BEIJING -North Korean leader Kim Jong II reportedly met China's president Monday and discussed his country's nuclear program, just days after Vice President Dick Cheney warned of the growing threat from Pyongyang and urged Beijing to do more to defuse it. 
Kim's visit was reported by South Korean media but not confirmed by China's Foreign Ministry, which in the past has only released information on the secretive leader's visits al'ter he returns home. 
Early Monday, a convoy of armored cars with tinted windows could be seen carrying a · delegation from the main Beijing train station to a government guesthouse where Chinese leaders usually receive visiting leaders. ' 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Airports could lighten security PITTSBUHGII -Pittsburgh International could become the nation's first major airport to get the OK to abandori the post-Sept. 11 rule that says only ticketed passengers are allowed past security checkpoints. 
Federal security officials are considering allowing people once more to say their hellos and goodbyes to friends and loved ones at the gate. 
Airport officials and western Pennsylvania's congressional delegation have pushed for two years for the change for reasons of' money and passenger conven­ience. 
Video could help in bombing case WASIIINGTON -A Secret Service document written shortly after the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing described security video footage of the attack and witness testimony that suggest­ed Timothy McVeigh may have had accomplices at the scene. 
"Security video tapes from the area show the truck detonation 3 minutes and 6 seconds after the suspects exited the truck," the Secret Service reported six days after the attack on a log of agents' activities and evidence in the Oklahoma investigation. 
The government has insisted McVeigh drove the truck himself and that it never had any video of the bombing or the scene of the Alfred 
P. Murrah building in the minutes before the April19, 1995, explosion. 
STATE NEWS 
IU student survives six-story fall 
BLOOMINGTON -An Indiana University student threw a chair through an eighth-floor window and leaped through it Monday, plunging six floors before an awning broke his fall, campus police said. 
The student survived the fall and was taken to Bloomington Hospital, Lt. Jerry Minger. 
The hospital refused to release any infor­mation on the student or his condition. Minger would say only that he was a 22­year-old Indiana student from the Merrillville area. 
SPAIN 

Zapatero announces -withdrawal plan 
New prime minister keeps campaign promise to pull out troops within six weeks 
Associated Press 

MADRID .:.._ Spain started the process of pulling its forces out of Iraq on Monday, and Defense Minister Jose Bono said the withdrawal of all 1,300 troops would be completed in less than six weeks. 
"They'll be coming back very soon and safely," Bono told a press conference. 
"It would be imprudent to talk of six to eight weeks because it's going to be less," he said of the time frame, and later specified the with­drawal would be complete within six weeks. 
Bono spoke a day after newly elected Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero announced he would fulfill his campaign promise to bring home troops unless the United Nations takes control of the occupation of Iraq by June 30. 
Zapatero said he had determined that condition would not be met by the deadline, which is when the Spanish troops mandate expires. 
A detachment of 194 Spanish troops left on Monday for Iraq, designated mostly to help with the planned withdrawal. The troops were initially sup­Spain's decision. Iraq. announced withdrawal. posed to go for a regular Moratinos planned to fly Zapatero's Socialists beat Al-Sadr's office urged rotation; and 50 fewer sol­Tuesday to Washington to Aznar's conservative Iraqis to "maintain the safe­diers than planned were meet with U.S. Secretary of Popular Party in an upset, ty of the Spanish forces until sent. State Colin Powell and other amid allegations that the their return home" and 
President Bush lamented officials after stopping first government had concealed urged "the governments of Spain's decision and cau­in Dublin, Ireland, to talk information pointing to al­the other armies taking part tioned Zapatero to avoid with European Union col­Qaida's carrying out the in Iraq's occupation to follow actions that might give "false leagues. bombings, Spain's worst ter­the Spanish government's comfort to terrorists or ene­Outgoing President Jose ror attack. example." mies of freedom in Iraq," Maria Aznar had been one Critics have suggested that Poland commands the 23­White House press secretary of President Bush's staunch­Zapatero's decision to with­nation international peace­Scott McClellan said. es allies in Iraq, and has draw troops was influenced keeping force of 9,500 
Bono and Foreign Minister party was widely expected to by the attack, and therefore troops that includes Spain's Miguel Angel Moratinos win re-election despite pub­would give incentive to ter­1,300. It will not be able to declined to comment on lic opposition of the invasion rorists. make up the difference Bush's remarks, which that ousted Saddam Bono insisted Monday that itself, officials said Monday. Spanish media played up as Hussein. the withdrawal was "the San Salvador's 380 troops confrontational, although That changed with March fruit of a commitment the in Iraq will remain, and Moratinos insisted that the 11 terrorist train bombings prime minister had with serve under Polish com­United States, a ftrm ally of in Madrid that killed 191 Spaniards and with peace .... mand after the removal of former conservative Prime people and injured more We weren't thinking about Spanish forces, San Minister Jose Maria Aznar, than 2,000 three days before any event in particular." Salvador's military said was still "a friend and an the election -an attack al­In Iraq, radical cleric Monday. The Salvadorans Atlantic partner." Qaida leader Osama bin Muqtada al-Sadr called for a have been part of the 
Australian and British Laden later said was retri­halt in attacks on Spanish Spanish-led Plus Ultra leaders also regretted bution for Spain's role in troops in Iraq after the brigade. 


Democrat questions war fund transfers 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A Democratic congressman on Monday demanded to know whether the Bush adminis­tration transferred $700 million to Iraq war planning efforts out of counterterrorism funds without informing Capitol Hill. The Pentagon said it didn't happen. 
A senior Defense Department budget official, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said the Pentagon used a smaller amount of post-Sept. 11 counterterrorism money on proj­ects that would aid the war on Iraq, but the spending had a wider pur­
, I'·' J 

pose -it also improved the mili­tary's capability to fight terrorists everywhere. 
At issue is whether counterterror­ism money was spent inappropriate­ly on any preparations for a possible conflict in Iraq, and whether Congress was informed of the Bush administration's changes in spend­ing plans. 
Questions were raised because a new book by Washington Post editor Bob Woodward says President Bush "approved 30 projects that would eventually cost $700 million" by the end of July 2002 in preparation for the war, and that some of that 
-I 
money came from appropriations for the war on terrorism. The book says Congress "had no real knowledge or involvement." 
The passages led Rep. David Obey, D-Wis., to say "the administration owes Congress a full, detailed and immediate accounting." 
Congress gave the president "unprecedented flexibility with the assurance that they would keep Congress plugged into what they were doing," said Obey, the ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee. 
The Pentagon provided its account Monday. 
1 1
i ; 1 ; r J.

I . .. ... -··.
~ _,,. ··~ 

.... , .......................... ,. ................ ­
page 6 Tuesday, April20, 2004
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Council 
continued from page 1 
assistant treasurers Jennifer Keber and Michael Marshall suggested SUB should prove its worth with a smaller budget before being allocated more funding. 
"By sticking with a smaller name and maybe having only 
one concert, SUB could pull off a successful con­cert year and possibly get more money next year," they wrote. 
The Hall Presidents Council received a 10 percent boost in funding to $55,000, reflecting a 
recent rise in expenses for hall dances, Fadel said. 
"Halls always need more money," she said. "Dances keep costing more since we can't have them in our dorms." 
Total funding for student clubs and organizations declined slightly to about $276,000 from last year's 
$286,000 mark.  
The  budget passed  with  
unanimous consent.  
Council  members  also  

approved the nomination of new student government offi­cials. 
Members unanimously approved Keber and Marshall's nominations as assistant stu­dent union treasurers. Sophomore Adam DuVall was 


Bowl 
continued from page 1 
make the campaign success­ful." 
The Notre Dame faculty and students that participate in the program make up one of the over 14,000 schools, parishes and community faith groups across the nation that are also part of the project. 
Operat.ion Rice Bowl began in 197 5 when a Catholic priest, a Jewish rabbi and a Protestant minister in Pennsylvania brought their communities together to com­bat hunger. 
In 1977, Operation Rice Bowl became the official pro.­gram of the Catholic Relief Services during the Lenten season. 
Due to the success of the program here, Anderson and Miller-Lemon hope to contin­ue to support the programs of Operation Rice Bowl in the years to come. 
· "Because it was such a suc­cess, I definitely hope that Operation Rice Bowl can become an annual tradition here at Notre Dame," Anderson said. "I feel that because Operation Rice Bowl has developed a name for itself this year at Notre Dame that the tradition can contin­ue and will improve each year." 
"Seeing all of the people who were so willing to help out and give to such a worthy cause was just great," Miller­Lemon said. "It's really a trib­ute to the heart of the ND community that it can unite in the support of such a worthy cause." 

approved as policy branch con­troller and freshman Brendan Barrett was approved as par­liamentarian. In addition, stu­dent leaders unanimously approved sophomore Meg Smith for her second year as student body treasurer. 
Student body president Adam Istvan praised Smith's work, saying it will bring continuity to the student union as it transi­tions to a new constitution. 
"We're going to overhaul the atrocity that is he student government website." 
Adam Istvan 
student body president 
"She's been amazing for the past year," he said. "And she will continue to be amazing for us next year. 
Leaders also approved the nomination of 
Mike King as the student union's first website admin­

istrator. Istvan vowed to improve the site, which was last updated in October. 
"We're going to overhaul the atrocity that is the student gov­ernment website and make it into ... something students will actually use," Istvan said. 

Executive in Residence visits SMC 
By APRIL THOMAS News Writer 

Saint Mary's alumna Nadine Priestley concludes her two-day stint as executive in residence at the College today, leaving busi­ness students reassured in their career paths. Members of the business department chose Priestley -a 1982 graduate of the College -as this year's exec­utive, a position that has been a departmental tradition for seven years. 
Business professor Michael Sanders said the purpose of the visit is to invite alumnae to share thoughts and ideas with current business students and set a good example for Saint Mary's gradu­ates to have successful careers. 
Each year the business faculty reviews submitted names of interested alumnae. The depart­ment chose Priestly for the out­standing example she set after leaving Saint Mary's, Sanders said. 
At a dinner tonight to conclude her visit, themed "Saint Mary's Graduate Finds Her to San Jose ... Lessons Learned Along the Way," Priestley will outline her path following graduation ­beginning with a senior manag­ing position at the Price Waterhouse Cooper company in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
In 1990, Priestley relocated to San Jose, Calif. continuing certi­fied public accounting work, but the experience was toiling. Had she stayed, partnership would have been her next promotion, requiring more time than she could give, she said. 
"While I loved a lot of aspects of my job, it began to feel like work," she said. "After an audit­ing fraud within the company, it reaffirmed my suspicion that my heart was no longer in public service." 
After 12 years with the compa­ny, Priestley left to pursue a posi­tion with MAXSTRATT, a small, privately owned company pro­ducing high tech data storage devices. She assisted clientele including Walt Disney Feature Animation, Ford, NASA and the United States government. 
Priestley became the chief fmancial officer for MAXSTRATT, and helped sell the company to Sun Microsystems, Inc. From this new combination, Priestley aban­doned fmance to focus on special projects and storage business planning with clients. 
Priestley emphasized the vitali­ty of daring to take risks. 
"Moving to San Jose was not economically positive but it was experience," she said. "At MAXSTRATT. I dared to ask to be the CFO. I said, 'You need some­one to do this for you.'" 
But, she is sure to make time for her family, which has grown to five children. As a successful, family-oriented businesswoman, Priestley proves that although this lifestyle is challenging, it is rewarding and undoubtedly pos­sible. 
Priestley also aims to quiet the qualms of business majors con­cerned with the current market. 
"It is okay not to have a sure bet," Priestley said. "Most things in life aren't. Every position is a step on your journey, not the last job you'll ever have." 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Tuesday, April 20, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
ENERGY 


Shell do-wngrades 4.85 billion barrels 
Dow 10 437.85 -14.12 
Company admits to lying about reserves; many resign leaving shareholders angry
}ones ' 
-~ Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
Associated Press 

1,626 162 • 1,194,052,480 
LONDON -A top execu­AMEX 1,258.77 +19.09 
tive of Hoyal Dutch/Shell NASDAQ 2,020.43 +24.69 
Group of Cos. wrote in an e­mail that he was "sick and
NYSE 6,620.05 +3.12 
tired about lying" about the 
S&PSOO 1,135.82 +1.21 
company's inflated oil and NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,764.21 0.00 
gas reserves estimates, an investigation commissioned
FTSE IOO(London) 4,546.20 +8.90 
by. Shell reported Monday. The inquiry found some
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
Shell bosses knew for 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +5,85 +0,22 3.98 
almost two years the com­pany had publicly overstat­
INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.87 +0.23 26-68 
ed the size of its reserves. 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1,47 +0.37 25.53 
The shaken oil giant also 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +L69 +0.38 22.86 
announced its chief finan­cial officer had stepped
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +2.75 +0.33 12,32 
down, the latest in a string
Treasuries 

of high-level casualties 
30-YEAR BOND +0.52 +0.27 52.03 
since Shell's announcement in January that its con­
10-YEAR NOTE +0.46 +0.20 43.72 
firmed oil and gas holdings 
5-YEARNOTE +L07 +0,36 34_15 
were much smaller than 
claimed. The company said 
3-MONTH BILL +0.55 +0,05 9,22 
Commodities 

Monday it has now down­
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.24 36.75 
graded a total of 4.85 billion 
GOLD ($fTruy oz.) -0.40 40 L20 
barrels, or about 25 percent of its reserves, from
PORK BELLIES (centsllb) +2.175 104,625 
"proven" to less certain cat­
Excha Rates 

egories. That is 700 million 
YEN 108.4 
barrels more than its previ­
ous estimate. Shell said in January that 
EURO 0,8331 
POUND 0.5536 
it was downgrading 3.9 bil­
CANADIAN$ L346 
lion barrels, or about 20 percent of its total holdings. A March announcement brought the total down­
IN BRIEF 
graded to 4.15 billion bar­rels. The disclosures caused a shareholders' uproar and
Microsoft settles antitrust lawsuit 
led to a string of resigna­MINNEAPOLIS -Microsoft Corp. cleared tions. Reserves are an oil 
another lawsuit from its legal docket Monday, 
company's most valuable settling a class-action case filed by Minnesota 
asset, and any reclassifica­customers who claimed the software giant 
tion into less certain cate­overcharged them in violation of antitrust 
gories is a major concern laws. 
for investors. The settlement interrupted a jury trial that 
Shares in Shell Transport & Trading Co. fell 0.76 per­
was expected to last several more weeks. 
cent Monday to $7.06 onAttorneys for the plaintiffs had said they were the London Stock Ex­seeking as much as $505 million. 
change.

The suit alleged that Microsoft violated "Shell has unquestionablyMinnesota antitrust law by .overcharging for 
stumbled and has learned a its Windows operating system and its Excel 
tough lesson." said Lord and Word programs. 
Oxburgh, chairman of Shell The company denied the overcharges, say­
Transport and Trading Co. ing prices for its products had dropped. 
PLC, the British component The settlement's dollar amount was not 
of the Anglo-Dutch group. "The story that hasreleased. Some provisions will be resolved in unfolded is not one of which arbitration, with the final settlement present­
anyone can be proud,"
ed to the judge by July 1, said plaintiff's attor­Oxburgh said. "Our proce­ney Hichard Hagstrom. 
dures for booking reserves were seriously flawed. There are explanations, but there can be no excuses." 
A summary of an outside investigation into man­agers' conduct, made public by Shell, said executives in its exploration and produc­tion division had exaggerat­ed the size of reserves and failed to act when it became clear the estimates were unrealistic. 
Walter van de Vijver com­plained about the estimates after he took over as chief of the division in June 2001, replacing Sir Philip Watts, who had been promoted to Shell chairman, the sum­mary said. 
The report said van de Vijver notified Shell's man­aging directors in February 2002 that the company's reserve classification rules did not match those of the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and that Shell might have over­estimated its reserves by 
2.3 billion barrels. 

"I am becoming sick and tired about lying about the extent of our reserves issues and the downward revisions that need to be done because of far too aggressive/optimistic book­ings," van de Vijver wrote in a November 2003 e-mail to Watts, released in the summary. 
When legal advisers sent van de Vijver a memo a month later saying Shell should disclose the prob­lems, the report said he responded by e-mail: "This is absolute dynamite, not at all what I expected and needs to be destroyed." 
The memo was pre­served, the lawyers' report said. 
Other correspondence showed executives knew estimates were wrong but did nothing, the investiga­tors found. Instead, execu­tives attempted to "man­age" the problem and "play for time" in hopes that future growth would even­tually obviate the need to come clean, the inquiry said. But "this strategy 

Judith Boynton, the Royal Dutch/ Shell Group finance chief, poses left her position Monday as the company downgraded estimates of its gas and oil reserves. 
failed -as business condi-company's reputation could tions either deteriorated or linger, particularly since the failed to improve sufficient-SEC, the U.S. Justice ly to justify historic book-Department and European ings." regulators are all investi-
Watts and van de Vijver gating, Washer said. resigned last month after Shell said Judith Boynton lawyers at the New York-quit her post as group chief based Davis, Polk and financial officer but will Wardwell firm gave Shell a stay at the company as an preliminary version of their adviser at least until June. report, prepared with for-Oxburgh said Boynton had mer and current Shell not been guilty of any finan­employees. cial impropriety. 
"It's incredible, really, to The lawyers' report said think that this kind of thing she was responsible for was going on at the top of a Shell's financial statements company with a reputation and had failed to check the for such conservatism," said accuracy of the reserve esti­Jim Washer, editor of mates. But it added that her International Petroleum responsibility may have Finance, an industry exceeded her authority. newsletter. "You don't really Group controller Tim expect blatant d_eceit." Morrison will take over as 
Washer said that by acting chief Jinancial oflicer, releasing nearly final revi-Shell said. sions of its reserve esti-Shell said its auditors had mates, Shell may have now reviewed 90 percent of come close to ending con-oil and gas reserves and cerns about those numbers. any further revisions to the 
But the damage to the estimates would be small. 
Microsoft spokeswoman Stacy Drake said the settlement would be made public when 


FAsT Fooo

presented to the judge. 
GM, Ford team up in $720M deal OETHOIT -In a first-of-its kind partner­

Hamburger king dies of heart attack 
ship, General Motors and Ford Motor are 
investing $720 million in plants to build a new six-speed automatic transmission. 
The front-wheel-drive transmission is expected to offer an estimated 4 percent improved fuel economy over traditional four­speed transmissions in front-wheel-drive cars. 
The world's two largest automakers said more than 1.100 jobs will be retained because of the partnership, including 250 in Ohio. The remainder will be in Michigan. 
"Six-speeds are the future," said Dave Szczupak, Ford vice president for powertrain operations. "They help to optimize power, smooth operation and fuel economy." 
In 2002, the companies agreed to cooperate on designing, engineering and testing the new transmission. 
GM is investing $350 million in the effort, while Ford is putting $370 million into it. 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -McDonald's Corp. chairman and CEO Jim Cantalupo, who orchestrated a turnaround at the hamburger giant and oversaw the introduction of healthier foods such as salads, died unexpectedly of a heart attack Monday at age 60. 
The fast-food chain quickly named president and chief operating officer Charlie Bell, 43, to succeed Cantalupo as CEO and Andrew McKenna, 74, the board's presiding director, as chairman. 
Cantalupo, who took the top job just 16 months ago, .was stricken in Orlando, Fla., where McDonald's was holding its international fran­chisees' convention. The company said he died at a hospital after suf­fering the heart attack at his hotel in the middle of the night. 
"Jim was a brilliant man who brought tremendous leadership, energy and passion to his job," McKenna said. "He made an indeli­ble mark on McDonald's system." 
A three-decade veteran of the Oak Brook-based fast-food giant, Cantalupo returned from a brief retirement to become chairman in January 2003. The move came after McDonald's struggled through two­plus years of sagging U.S. sales and reported its first-ever quarterly loss at the end of 2002. 
Under his leadership, the company worked to revitalize itself through new products, a focus on health and a return to the basics -better food and faster service -instead of the breakneck expansion he had once championed. 
The company slowed its expansion pace, closed hundreds of restau­rants and added new items, includ­ing the McGriddle, which combines pancakes, sausage and syrup in a breakfast sandwich. 
In 'the face of lawsuits claiming fast-food makes people fat, McDonald's added salads and white­meat chicken nuggets last year. 
page 8 Tuesday, April 20, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 

don't influence decisions." Rice claimed the U.S.
Election 

Constitution does not exist 
anymore in terms of separa­
tion of power. Congress hasn't "However, my role today is not declared war since 1917. to tell you how to vote ... Rather, it has been declared rather. I'm very concerned an emergency by the presi­with whether you vote." dent, Rice said. 
Campbell compared the "That's a real problem," he upcoming election to the elec­said. "Congressmen lose that tion of 1960, when John F. electoral responsibility for the Kennedy -a Democratic, people." Catholic, war-hero figure who Rice showed his support for served as senator in President Bush and said that Massachusetts -ran against he believes Bush "really Republican Richard Nixon, believes what he is doing." He with another Republican, urged young people to take Dwight Eisenhower in the interest in the future of our White House. Campbell said country and commended the John Kerry, this efforts of the cur­y e a r ' s rent administra­Democratic can­"The best thing to tion to rebuild didate, holds family -and not 
continued from page 1 

do about this 
many of the just by going to
election is to pray
same distinctions the polls. as Kennedy -for it.,, . "The best thing but not all. to do about this 
While Kennedy election is to pray
Charles Rice 
was criticized as for it. Vote -but
theology professor 

F 0 R 
SOCIAL 
ONCERNS 
REMINDER 
Summer Service Project Internships ORIENTATION 
April 20 or April 21 
being "too Catholic" during his campaign for president, Kerry is being crit­icized as being "not Catholic enough," Campbell explained. 
And while the U.S. is "locked in another global struggle," he said the situation in our coun­try has changed. 
"ReJigion has reentered the political arena," Campbell said. "Catholics today resem­ble the rest of America." 
Campbell explained that the division among Catholic voters is visible in their dedication to their faith and can be detect­ed by how often they go to church. 
"The divide is along the devotional line," he said. 
Campbell urged students to continue debating these issues and vanguard political trends in order to "continue [this] discussion and the vibrant democratic culture." 
Rice, however. said there is not only a strong division in our country but also a struc­tural problem. 
"There really is a moral law," Rice said. "This is a divided country, there is no Catholic vote or in a sense Catholic principle ... you do have a red and a blue," he said. 
To Rice, the issues that most divide the red and blue include abortion and same sex marriage. 
"These issues relate to the most fundamental things," Rice explained. 
Rice said Kennedy held a harmful principle when he said that he would not allow his own religious beliefs to influence his decisions in the White House. 
"It's all about religion ... religion relates to ultimate interim," Rice said. "You can't live life, any aspect ... espe­cially religion, so that they 
pray about this 
vote and pray for 

this country because we need it," Rice said. 
Baxter did not advocate sup­port for Bush or Kerry. Rather, he emphasized the idea that voters should prac­tice conscientious objection in voting, stating his beliefs that abortion and euthanasia are intrinsically evil. 
"For many Catholics, opposi­tion for abortion turns into support for a Republican can­didate," Baxter said. 
Baxter disagreed with the war in Iraq and the death penalties Bush presided over In Texas. 
''I'm troubled by the idea that Bush claims to pronounce Jesus Christ as his favorite philosopher," he said. "[Bush] presided over 146 death penalties." 
However, Baxter also dis­agreed with Kerry, who holds a strong support for abortion. 
''I'm opposed to it," Baxter said. 
The Church is deeply divid­ed in the U.S. he explained. For every conservative Catholic organization, there is a liberal Catholic organiza­tion. 
Naming "cafeteria Catholics" and people who claim to be "orthodox" Catholic, Baxter said these categories shouldn't exist. 
"You're Catholic," Baxter said. "That's it." 
Baxter quoted a passage from the Acts of the Apostles saying that we cannot stop supporting Jesus Christ. 
"Our passions should be calmed [in this election]." he said. "[We need to] look at issues that will inflict us in the future." 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 
Houses for Rent 
It's not too late to find quality 
houses close to campus for the 2004-2005 school year Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 574-532-1895 
6:00 -9:00 PM at the Center for Social Concerns 
Tuesday, April 20, 2004 The Observer +NEWS page 9 
JORDAN 
Holocaust 
continued from page 1 
King postpones Bush meeting arate institutions. Many dropped out of school completely shortly thereafter. Businesses owned by
Abdullah II questions U.S. commitment to peace 
Jewish families were seized and 
Associated Press 
AMMAN -In a surprise move, King Abdullah II post­poned a White !louse meeting with President Bush this week, citing questions Monday about the U.S. commitment to the Middle East peace process. 
The snub from one of Washington's closest allies comes amid Arab anger at Bush for endorsing an Israeli proposal to withdraw unilater­ally from the Gaza Strip and parts of the West Bank but keep Jewish settlements on other West Bank land claimed by the Palestinians. 
Bush's statement after a White House meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon last week constituted a historic shift in U.S. policy, and Palestinian leaders accused the administration of undercutting the possibility of a negotiated settlement. 
The White House played down any hint of friction with .Jordan, saying the Wednesday meeting with Abdullah was rescheduled to the first week of May "because of developments in the region." 
"The king decided this week it was better for him to be in .Jordan and we understand that," said National Security Council spokesman Sean McCormack. 
But Abdullah has been in the United States since last week and it was not clear whether he had left. A palace statement said Abdullah instructed his foreign minister to remain in Washington to continue meet­ings and discussions with offi­
"Aryanized" and Jewish employ­
cials in the Bush administra­demographic balance. Roughly 
ees were dismissed. 
tion and to prepare for the half of .Jordan's 5.1 million 
"There was wild looting right 
after Hitler marched into
king's return to the United population is of Palestinian 
Austria," Schulze said, followed
States in May. families who fled or were 
The palace statement said forced out of their homes in 
by systematic looting at the hands 
of the authorities. 
the Abdullah-Bush meeting 1948 and 196 7 Mideast wars. 
would not be held "until dis­The rift between the Bush 
Many of the records for the vic­
tims' properties and businesses
cussions and deliberations are administration and its moder­
concluded with officials in the ate Arab allies over Bush's 
were destroyed in the process, 
American administration to statement on Israeli settle­
she said. Shops owned by Jewish 
families, for example, that were
tlarify the American position ments is one of the worst to 
on the peace process and the emerge in years -and has 
initially "Aryanized" eventually 
final situation exacerbated the 
were liquidated of their assets. In 
addition, between 40,000 and
in the already tense rela­
70,000 apartments occupied by
Palestinian "The king decided tions between the 
territories, this week it was United States and 
Jewish families were 
"Aryanized."
especially in Arab countries over
better for him to be
light of the lat­the war in Iraq. 
After the war, Austria was slow
in Jordan and we

est statements Arab leaders have 
to address these issues, Schulze 
said.
by officials in understand that." accused the admin­
"[Austria] did not do the utmost
the American istration of essen­
administra­tially taking away 
in helping those who had been
Sean McCormack 

[victimized] by the Nazis," she
tion." from the 
NSC spokesman

Jordan is Palestinians their 
said. 
considered a key moderate ally of the United States and is one of only two of Israel's Arab neighbors to have a peace treaty with the Jewish state. 
But some Jordanian citizens question their government's relationship with the United States, which they accuse of siding with Israel against the Palestinians. 
Abdullah is under pressure at home to demonstrate his 
U.S. ties can further Arab posi­tions on the Israeli-Palestinian question as well as on the U.S. occupation of Iraq. 
Jordan is especially con­cerned that a final peace set­tlement would be at its expense if refugees were dumped into the kingdom, exhausting its meager resources and disturbing its primary negotiating 
Although the republic passed levers in any final 
seven laws relating to restitution, peace deal -the disputes over 
they were too restrictive to benefit whether Israel must remove all settlements from the West many of the victims, Schulze said. The laws provided insufficient time to file claims, imposed restrictions on heirs applying for compensation and created a lengthy, complicated process. 
In recent times, more has been done to address the injustices committed against I Iolocaust vic­tims, Schulze said. In 1995 Austria created a national fund that has so far paid 27,000 people $7,000 each. 
"Most people responded by say­ing, 'I didn't need the money per se but what I really craved was the recognition that I was a vic­tim,"' she said. "The national fund has really proven that ... it is the recognition that is the most important in this." 
Still in 2001, Austria agreed to set up a General Settlement Fund with $210 million dollars. While 18,000 people are awaiting claims, outstanding lawsuits are preventing the fund from being activated. 
While laws and funds such as these are beneficial, they have their limits, Schulze said. 
"I completely acknowledge as a lawyer that there are ... limits to the law," she said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

Bank, and whether Israel must allow back some Palestin-ian refugees. 
Bush embraced Israeli rejec­
Notre Da111e scientist tion of any. "right of return" for Palestinian refugees after his meeting with Sharon. Tensions 
researches TB drug
also were inflamed in the Arab 
world by an Israeli helicopter strike that killed the Hamas leader Abdel Aziz Rantisi. 
On Saturday, the Palestinian foreign minister, Nabil Shaath, also canceled a trip to Washington for meetings in the wake of the Bush announce­ment on settlements. Secretary of State Colin Powell had been expecting to meet with Shaath on Wednesday. 
Associated Press 
Scientists at the University of Notre Dame say they may have found a new way to kill the bacteria that causes tuberculosis by shutting off its supply of the vital nutrient iron. 
Normally, a molecule in the bacteria's outer membrane 
allows it to absorb and process the iron that is essen­tial to germs and people alike. The Notre Dame researchers 

NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
offee and Conversation 
created synthetic, altered ver­sions of that molecule, called
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning 
siderophores. When the TB 
Students at Notre Dame bacteria is immersed in a solution containing some of those molecules it dies, appar­ently because it cannot absorb iron, they said. 
"TB has a very specialized 
Tuesday, April 20th 
(and every third Tuesday of the month) 
7:30 -·9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of 
A comedy by George Bernard Shaw
the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an 
Directed by Ann Marie Stewart Playing at Washington Hall
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Wednesday, April 21 7:30 p.m. 
Thursday, April 22 7:30 p.m. 
Friday, April 23 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, April 24 7:30 p.m. 
Sunday, April 25 2:30 p.m. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
Reserved Seats $10 • Senior Citizens $9 All Students $7 

TJ>totO 

'l'ickets are available at the door or in advance 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
COfriiM1TT.E ON 
GAY A..O Lu81Ait 
at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. 
STUDBNT N•lo• 
MasterCard/Visa orders. call :574-631-8128. 
iron-transport process and we think we're interfering with that. Without iron, it can't survive," said Marvin .J. Miller, a bio-organic chemist at Notre Dame. 
More than 1,000 variations of the molecule have been tested by a national lab for their effectiveness against TB, with at least two showing great promise, he said. 
Miller cautioned that the work by his team and researchers at the University of Illinois in Chicago is prelim­inary and any new drug would be years away. 
TB kills about two million people worldwide each year and is becoming increasingly drug-resistant, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 

THE 0BSER\'ER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April20, 2004 


Staying on the path 
The last decade showcased the largest outburst of student activism since apartheid. Because of the deplorable working conditions involved in the production of universi­ty licensed apparel, students from 
Kamarla Porter 
across the nation, along with labor and human rights 
Breaking the 
activists, sounded 
Habit

an indignant cry at poverty wages and sweatshop condi­tions in factories that stitched and sewed their alma mater's sweatshirts and assorted apparel. 
With the pressure and press spear­headed by students -mainly net­working through United Students Against Sweatshops -administrators got the hint and took action. Officials from Notre Dame, Harvard, Ohio State, University of California and University of Michigan began initia­tives to conduct investigations of uni­versity apparel factories in China, El Salvador, Korea, Mexico and several other developing nations. The Fair Labor Association (FLA) emerged in 1998 to monitor sweatshops. The FLA works with universities and accredits companies that adopt and enforce a Code of Conduct promoting basic labor standards, legal wages and collective bargaining. 
While this was a step in the right direction, activists were still dis­pleased. The powers of contractors and owners of sweatshop factories to evade FLA investigations presented a serious problem in the integrity and mission of the organization and asso­ciated universities-including Notre Dame. 
In 1999, union and student leaders launched the Workers Rights Consortium (WRC), which goes beyond the FLA in continued oversight of apparel factories, sustained communi­cation with universities about working conditions, and by including a push for a "living wage" for laborers. Notre Dame joined the WRC with prodding from the Progressive Student Alliance while remaining a part of the FLA. 
Notre Dame set the bar for other universities in the anti-sweatshop movement. We were the first to formu­late a Code of Conduct for licensed products, to refuse officially to con­tract with manufacturers in China and several other countries due to their anti-union behavior and other labor abuses, and to investigate the factories where our apparel was manufactured. 
Notre Dame's Code of Conduct states the University "is committed to con­ducting its business affairs in a social­ly responsible manner consistent with its religious and educational mission." The specific stipulations for manufac­tures -which resemble more the ide­ology of the FLA-include labor stan­dards and required union neutrality. Only companies that allow their work­ers to organize freely into independent unions can produce Notre Dame goods. 
While we can question the University's commitment to labor stan­dards and collective bargaining in their own employment practices, our school's history in the anti-sweatshop movement is admirable. 
The fight is far from over -labor abuses in the United States and abroad continue. In the pages of National Geographic, The New Yorker, and even our own Observer, the strug­gle of the Coalition of Immokalee Workers {CIW) to bring justice to the Florida tomato fields highlights the hidden suffering of farm workers in the United States. A shameful legacy in American labor law, farmworkers are not protected under the already weak­ened regulations in place. The only rights agricultural workers have won came through difficult grassroots organizing. 
Following the example of Cesar Chavez, the CIW uses organizing and boycotts to raise their starvation wages, get basic labor benefits, improve working conditions and receive the dignity all workers deserve. Taco Bell profits from low farmworker wages and has a fortified position in the tomato market. If the company agreed to negotiate the labor conditions under which their tomatoes are produced, farmworkers would be able to thrive -not merely survive. 
While work continues to reform apparel factories, it is clear the next avenue for anti-sweatshop momentum is to end labor abuses in the agricul­tural sector. It is as important to know under what conditions the food we eat was produced as the clothes we wear. The same disconnected supply and blatant labor exploitation exists in fruit and vegetable fields as does in clothing factories abroad. Yet these agricultural labor abuses occur within our borders, in our communities. 
With campaigns against Taco Bell and Gallo of Sonoma wines, the strongest legs of these movements once again reside on college campus­es. 
Notre Dame students have chal­lenged the University again to evalu­ate its business associations and take action against the injustice within those parties. Taco Bell sponsors our football post-game show and assorted athletic events with funds accumulat­ed by keeping farmworker wages low. Notre Dame has joined a financial chain that exploits workers and fails to take responsibility for its actions. 
I say: Notre Dame, remember your history and conscience. It is time for this University to step up once again on the side of economic and social jus­tice. Agreeing to the Progressive Student Alliance's requests is only a first step. Notre Dame must once again take the initiative in this off­shoot of the anti-sweatshop movement by both addressing the Taco Bell issue and being a continued presence in future drives to improve the lives of all workers. 
Kamaria Porter delights in being a single major of the History Department and Graffs classes. This column is named for the 9th song on the album "Meteora. "She would like to finally thank the person who posted her first column to a certain e-mail list. Contact her at kporter@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 

How many games do you think the Notre Dame football team will win during the 2004 season? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Without a struggle, there can be no progress." 
Frederick Douglass author 
THE 0BSERVIR 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 20, 2004 page II 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fatima Retreat Center will be missed 
Seeing the headline in The Observer last week on the closing of Our Lady of Fatima Retreat Center was not news to me, but it did make the fact that it was actually going to happen hit home for the first time. My time at Fatima has been some of my most important spent at Notre Dame. I could point to family and couple retreats, Notre Dame Encounters. the legendary informal post­game Mass and barbecue and their amazing staff as just a few of the many examples of what made Fatima special -not just for me, but for literally thousands and thousands of others. 
But what made Fatima unique is harder to put into words. Access to many Notre Dame experiences is becoming increasingly based on how much money and/or connections one has -a sad state of affairs for a University which claims to be guided by the example of Christ. (The reality is that it is the example of the Ivy League, sadly, which seems to be the primary guide to many of the choices of this University). Fatima, perhaps because it was largely free from formal University interference, was one of the few campus institutions whieh bucked this trend. People of modest means, and who were otherwise unconnected to the University, could attend a football weekend retreat, actually get tickets to the game. and have the full Notre Dame expe­rience that many of us simply take for granted. 
Busloads of school children would have retreats at Fatima every year-an experience that (and I know this first-hand having talked with many of them) they take with them for the rest of their lives. Father Steve Gibson, long-time director of the center, has touched the lives of countleEs persons -from all different kinds of backgrounds-who have come through Fatima's doors. He is a hero to many of us whose spirit11al for­mation has been shaped in large part by his leadership, guidance, example and love. 
Simply put, Fatima is the Church at its best. 
Its passing is not only sad, but disturbing as well. The esc provincial who made the choice to destroy this vibrant community (in order to give retired priests a lakefront retirement resort on the Notre Dame campus) was bombarded with letters of protest in support of the retreat center staying just as it is. They fell on deaf ears. 
Everyone understar1c5 that retired priests need a place to stay, but wh::!t t!lose who have had the Fatima experience canno-t understand is why this vital commu­nity needed to be destroyed in the process. In a time where the Church desperately needs institutions to help feed the faith lives of lay people disillusioned and dis­turbed by the way the hierarchical Church has organ­ized its priorities in the past, the closing of Our Lady of Fatima Retreat Center-in order to house retired priests-should give us all pause. 
Charlie Camosy Class of 1997 Aprill9 
Don't delay .social justice 
"I have never engaged in a direct action movement that was 'well timed,' according to the timetable of those that have not suffered." These words were echoed by Martin Luther King, Jr. in his "Letter from Birmingham Jail." 
But. as my seventh grade history teacher told me, "We learn from history that we learn nothing from history." We saw this in Friday's Observer editorial when the edi­tors told PSA that its "choice of a confrontational approach may have soured a productive, ifslow-moving dialogue with the administration." This is easy for the editors to say since they will not be going to the fields this summer. This is easy for the editors to say because they arc not the children that help their parents in the fields because they cannot afford to go to school. This is easy for the editors to say because they are not the farmers that toil in Immokalee, a place the New Yorker called "ground zero for modern day slavery." 
When I recall the stories that my dad, grandparents, uncles and cousins told me of being exploited in the fields, then you will understand why it is difficult for me to wait. In his "Letter from Birmingham Jail,'' Martin Luther King. Jr. also said, "I have almost reached the regrettable conclusion that the Negro's great stumbling block in the stride toward freedom is not the White Citizen's Councilor or the Klu Klux Klan, but the white moderate who is more devoted to 'order' than to justice; ... who constantly says, 'I agree with you in the goal you seek. but I cannot agree with your methods of direct action;' who paterni­cally feels that he can set the timetable for another man's freedom." 
likewise, I have almost reached the regrettable conclu­sion that the greatest obstacle in obtaining of justice for farmworkers worldwide is not the kids in Alumni hanging an "I Love Taco Bell" sheet from their window or the occasional driver that cussed and yelled at us while we protested at Taco Bell on Friday, but the moderate stu­dent and consumer that says "I agree with you that exploitation is wrong but I do not agree with your meth­ods of action." Try telling that to the young boy that picked the coffee beans in the coffee you were drinking while you read this. 
Tony Rivas freshman Knott Hall Aprill9 
Allow dissenting opinions 
I saw the sign that appeared outside of Alumni's window that proudly proclaimed they loved Taco.Bcll. Who can blame them? Taco Bell is a tasty restaurant with chalupas, burritos and soft tacos. that serves to clean out the system every now and then. I saw the sign and I had a pretty good chuckle. 
The debate about our University's contracts with the "Bell" has been heating up over the past few weeks, and has impacted many people who have thought about "run­ning for the border" recently. I respect those people who have brought this issue to the foreground, but I also recog­nize the right of people to express their ideas, even ifthey may be offensive or (heaven forbid) humorous. 
As for being proud of those students going on the hunger strike, does this mean that I, too, should be com­mended if I go on a hunger strike and am willing to work to have my demands heard? This is ridiculous. If I went on a hunger strike for the release of those prisoners our nation is holding in Cuba on the basis that they were being treated unfairly (which they most likely arc), I doubt I would find much support, let alone respect from fellow students. 
Why should I look for commendation from people who oppose my views? Why would people want to support me in my cause if they do not agree with me? I do not care how much activism we do or do not support on this cam­pus, Ms. Shreiner. I am not obligated to be proud of a cause I do not support. I do not commend those people who are pro-choice just because of their devotion. I am not proud of those people who are adamantly in support of the death penalty. I do not support a war in Iraq just because the majority of our adT.l!jstrarion is seriously devoted to it. It does not matter that I.cupport the cause of these stu­dents on campus, but it does matter when someone tries to quiet a dissentipg opinion. 
These students have worked hard for their cause, and have taken measures to make their voices heard. Congratulations, you have made the Notre Dame commu­nity aware of unjust practices by a major company, but I doubt you are doing this to gain respect from fellow stu­dents. 
Even I, a lover of all things Taco, have decreased my consumption of Taco Bell, and have not eaten a tomato from their company. I do not do this to gain respect or to even commend those on a hunger strike. I do this because I have looked at their argument and found it compelling. Not everyone on this campus is going to fmd their argu­ment as compelling as I did. Maybe those men in Alumni disagreed with the hunger strikers and were sending a political message in opposition-this should be allowed. However, maybe those men in Alumni were using satire to make a point about the University's commitment to Taco Bell. I, for one, think they were just trying to have a laugh. 
We cannot restrict freedom of speech based on content because iftoday we restrict dissenting opinion, tomorrow we restrict those people who arc campaigning against Taco Bell. 
Eric Buell sophomore Keenan Hall Aprill9 
.. 

Lessons learned abroad 
Spring has finally arrived: the flowers in the College garden are blooming, the days are growing unbelievably long (16 hours of sunlight) and the tables in front of the King's Arms are filled with stu­dents sipping ales under striped umbrellas. I have started to enjoy the weather (when it is not raining) by jog­
Geoff Johnston 
ging through the University 
Parks, where the Oxford cricket 
team has recently begun hosting 
A Domer at 
a series of matches. Cricket 
Oxford
matches are a lazy, ali-day affair: a few dozen spectators lie on the grass, picnicking and chatting while the players dressed in white sweater vests and khakis stand for hours at a time. waiting for the occasional hit. 
We still have one entire term left here, but as this is my last column, I thought that I might take this opportunity to reflect on what the previous year has taught me about British culture and Oxford stu­dents. It has been a rough ride at times. Adjusting to the tutorials was sometimes painful, and when a tutor and I did not see eye-to-eye, well, the sessions felt like they lasted for weeks, not hours. Also, the Oxford students (as I have said before) are, on the whole, more reserved than Americans. Trying to strike up a random conversation with a Brit is like speaking to a wall, except that walls cannot express the combination of silent horror and fear that blos­soms on the face of a student who has just been approached unaware. 
But, excepting the occasional cultural difference and lynch mob out to kill me for missing a soccer game, I have had a great time and learned more than I had thought possible. I learned what Oxford students think of America: they love our TV (espe­cially the Simpsons, Friends, the OC, CSI and pretty much anything else they can catch on their dishes). they do not appreciate the Bush administration (that is a huge understatement). and they have no idea how much we pay for university (on a recent train ride, a young woman tried to argue that a right to free university education was a basic human entitlement). 
I have also learned a lot about Oxford students themselves: on average they are very similar to Notre Dame students and there is a similar range of partiers and workaholics here that you would find at Notre Dame. They are not the weird, anti-social brainiacs that they are made out to be (although, to finally settle the score, on average they probably party and drink slightly less than Darners). 
The fact that our program is a year long (as opposed to the many other programs that are only a term) has forced us to immerse ourselves in every­thing British: orange marmalade instead of peanut butter, British pop instead of American metal and 'zed' instead of 'z.' (I don't know why they call it that, but they do). During breaks we have been forced to cook for ourselves, which has been an experience in and of itself: eggs and couscou.s, any­one? Anyone? Only one student I know here has a car, so buses, light rail, Ryan Air and the Tube arc the only means of transportation. And I have heard enough about Blair, Becks, Posh, the Queen and the Prince to last me 10 lifetimes. 
Studying abroad for the year has also allowed time to travel: I recently returned from eight days in Italy, including a tour of the Vatican and a cele­bration of Easter Mass at St. Peter's Square. I have been fortunate enough to enjoy many of Europe's great museums, cities and cuisines -how do peo­ple survive without crepes or gelato? 
But for all of these unique cultural and intellectu­al experiences, having been here for a year, I can safely say that Notre Dame still holds a special place in my heart, and that I am looking forward to my senior year under the Dome. Only after being away from the place for a year can I now really appreciate how special Notre Dame is: the football games, the faith-filled atmosphere, the dorm com­munities, the Grotto and the Lakes. After a year in England, I am ready to return, ready to enjoy the dining hall (trust me, our dining halls get a bad rap). the Jig and tailgates. So to all of the seniors. farewell and good luck, and to everybody else, see you next year. 
Geoff Johnston is aju11ior currently studying at Oxford University. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be contacted at gjohnsto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, April20, 2004 
BOOK PREVIEW 
. . 

A chat with author and ND alum Ni 

By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Writer 
Nicholas Sparks is one of 
the most widely read authors 
in this day and age. With 
multiple best-selling novels, 
two movies based off his 
books and more to come, it is 
clear this man's life hits a 
mark far above average. 
This rank is not only 
because of the success he has 
experienced in his profes­
sional life, but after reading 
his new novel, "Three Weeks 
with My Brother," co-written 
with his brother Micah 
Sparks, the exceptional per­
sonal life of Nicholas and his 
family is revealed. Through a 
tale of tragedy, poverty and 
unconditional love, the 
Sparks brothers reveal a 
family that refuses to give up 
and continually supports and 
loves one another against all 
odds. 

"Three Weeks with My 
Brother" is a project the 
brothers began after a trip 
they took together around the 
world. Between tales of their 
adventures on the trip and 
their even greater adventures 
from their childhood and 
adult lives, the biography is a 
hard book to put down. 
"I had always wanted to write a book with my brother, but we just didn't know what it would be about," Nicholas said. 
The trip they took together around the world ended up being the perfect subject. The trip described in the novel is a tour advertised as a "Journey to the Lands of Sky Worshipers" and was offered by "the alumni office at the University of Notre Dame." The tour "was called 'Heaven and Earth,' and would travel around the world over a three­week period in January· and February 2003." 
The Sparks brothers decided this would be a great opportu­nity to spend time together and soon they were off on the adventure, which would become the subject of their new book. 
Nicholas, a Notre Dame graduate who majored in busi­ness, claims in a confident tone that during college he decided that he didn't need to take classes to know how to write -obviously he is cor­rect. Nicholas is now a very generous contributor to the Notre Dame master's in fine arts in the creative writing program. 
Nicholas explained the unforeseen difficulties of becoming a published author citing the necessity of writing quickly, knowing the market, the importance of a cover and how to tend books and neces­sary knowledge in the publish­ing market, 
"Writing well is not all you have to do, it is only half," he said 
Nicholas figured out the trick on his own and his talent shines through once again in the endearing "Three Weeks with My Brother." 
With two authors, "Three Weeks with My Brother" was written in a different manner than previous Nicholas novels. Nicholas described the process of writing with Micah as first having to choose which stories to include, going back to "who we were and what our life was like as children." 
The writing was divided between the brothers, although the majority of the writing (and editing) was done by Nicholas. When asked about the significance of this autobiographical novel com­pared to his other fiction tales, Nicholas admitted, "I don't know that I've thought about it. It was very meaningful to write and I am glad that we [he and Micah] worked on it together. We wanted it to be an interesting story with many emotions explored." 
Although there may not be intentional personal signifi­cance for Nicholas, his mes­sage for the reader is clear ­the importance of siblings and, "the fact that if you put effort into those relationships, you can make through every­thing." Nicholas chose to start the novel with the Biblical proverb, "A friend is always loyal, and a brother is born to help in, the time of n (Proverbs 17:17). That tr the message of "Three W with My Brother," and message rings clear in tales of old and new thro out the lives of the Sp brothers. 
Especially after reading biographical "Three Wf with My Brother," far Nicholas cannot help but der how much of his life e riences are revealed in other novels. Nicholas cr the story of his first no "The Notebook," to the st his wife's grandparents the main character "Message in a Bottle" to own father and how he d with the early death Nicho and Micah's mother. 
As far as which bo Nicholas considers l favorite, it depends on t criteria. The novel he m< enjoyed writing was "A W< to Remember" mos because he found it the ea est to write. The main ch< acters of his other novels · often older men or women life situations Nicholas hi self has never experienc but he has been a 17 -ye" old boy before, making very easy to identify wi Landon, the main charact of "A Walk to Remembe Which book would he wa "thrown in the coffin" wi him -The Rescue. 
Nicholas is a self-rna 
INTERVIEW 

The Daily Show's Mo Rocca shares his 
work help you on The Daily Show? that Jon has given the show a great one says something, the correspon­I though it was a 
By MOLLY ~RIFFIN 

One of my hobbies is visiting the name. It's a challenge when the show dent has something 'vV:titing because myself apart from all· 
Scene Writer 

graves of past presidents and pretty has a high profile. it is just in his bones. I had acquaint­skinny, white guys wi 
much any kind of marginalized histo­ed myself so much with the topic that glasses. I also knew ! 
Mo Rocca is a kind of pop-culture ry. I particularly like the ones with Is there anything about the it worked out. You go into it thinking, was always tied, neve chameleon. He has worked on every­lots of facial hair from Ohio, the lost upcoming presidential race that "What's the fmal piece going to look thing from kid shows like "Wishbone" presidents: My interest in those peo­particularly interests you? like?" Real journalists do this too, Was there ever au to his more well-know work as a ple was the source of my first pieces !'m bracing myself for an ugly, neg­maybe to the detriment of objectivity. Music" -type scandal' reporter on Comedy Central's "The for "The Daily Show." It always helps ative campaign. It is always interest­If I'm going across the country to see It was pretty calm, Daily Show" and as a commentator in any kind of job to come with par­ing in how candidates play the com­a woman with 300 cats who lives in a mate was Vance De on VH1 's "I Love the 70s/80s/90s." He tiCular interests and expertise, how­mon man. In this race you have two cave, I've got to get her to say certain two and a half yea 
also has a book in the works, "All the ever oddball it may be. If there is people who are very wealthy, both things to make it work. Go with cer­would get into it som President's Pets," an expose on pets something that sets you apart, then went to Yale and were in the same tain moments you know you need to our own fight club, a in the White House. He will be speak­use those things. It's like having pre­secret society. It will be interesting to have. did. We'd beat the c ing today at 7:30 p.m. in DeBartolo produced ideas. see. In the last big election, the ''I'm other. It was a ki 
101. His appearance is part of just like you" tactic was going on Did you have any rituals for the release. AnTostal and is sponsored by SUB. What was working on "Indecision comedy shows. There's always the show (i.e. not wearing pants behind Despite his busy schedule, he recent­2000" ("The Daily Show's" coverage ''I'm a sporty guy,'' whether it's Bush the desk, not changing your socks Speaking of "Behi1 ly took the time to chat with Scene of the 2000 presidential campaign) clearing brush from his ranch or for a week, etc)? you often appear 01 
writer Molly Griffin about his career, like? Kerry snowboarding. I'm always I had lucky underwear. I'm kind of series, "I Love the 7 his interests and his excitement It was totally exciting. I had been interested in the photo-ops. cheap, so I have one pair that I'm not a commentator. What about South Bend. on the show for a few years, and I going to wear because they're kind of made you a candidat1 was used to covering freak-show sto­What did you do to prepare for unlucky, but I'm not going to throw ing on the trends of tl 
How did college influence your 
ries in a really straight way, which is your segments on "The Daily them out. I won't wear them on shoot I pretend that I knO\ career path? 
the shtick for the show, but suddenly Show"? days. I still have them and can visual­ing about and say it wWell, in college most of my time we were covering something that I love details and trivia and info ize them now. The sixth shoot was viction. I did it as a was dedicated to the Hasty Pudding wasn't fringe -it was the story. It that most people think is useless. I the first time I had a piece that just service. I felt like I'dshow which is a big student run the­was as if the whole point of the show would just immerse myself in what­didn't work. It was a long time before ever since I came t1 atre show that plays in Cambridge flipped. We had to cover it in an ever my piece was about, like a man I wore the tie and jacket I wore that that I'd reaped theand tours the world. That probably unusual way. We were flying under angry at Garfield for ridiculing polka day again. Finally, I wore it for a wanted to pay it f1 was the most formative experience I the radar, but since we looked like music, which is one of my favorite piece and it felt very good to over­America's youth knewhad in college. It was the most pro­reporters, we could usually get in. If pieces. I learned everything about come that curse. "Laverne and Shirl(fessional thing I could do in college we were around people who were polka music. It is almost a fetish of know anything aband still be a student. It made me closer to our age, they usually knew mine, but served a real purpose. The You appeared on "The Daily Island."
want to write and perform and even 
to stay quiet so that we could blind­funniest moments are unexpected, Show" in a bow tie. Why did you
do both at the same time. 

side the politicians. It was equal parts but they work when the correspon­choose this over the more common What do you love < How did school and your earlier satire and jackass. It's different now dent is so well prepared that if some-new anchor accessory, the long tie? The 80s? The 90s? 
.. 

ed" y is .eks the the gh­rks 
the 
eks 
of 
on­
pe­
his 
dil'i 
cl. 
r of 
md 
,r is It IS 
tk is 
1!1 
st lk ly i­
n 
1­
~~ 
~h 
I 
~~r 
.. 
t h 
e 
Tuesday, April20, 2004 
holas Sparks 
success story and "Three Weeks with My Brother" emphasizes this point even further. A final question to Nicholas was for some advice he would give to the average Notre Dame student. Hardly stopping to think, Nicholas advised students, "Not to worry if you aren't sure what you're going to do after you graduate." It took him three years to lind his niche and at that point in life, he advises that students still need to fig­ure out if they want to work in an office or independently, plus many other difl'erent fac­tors. 
Nicholas has an amazing story and his brother present it in an original and witty 
manner in "Three Weeks with My Brother." Already a fan? Then "Three Weeks with My Brother" is a must read. If not, read this book and see what everyone is talking about. 
Nicholas will be on campus TODAY, Tuesday, April 20 at the Hammes Bookstore at 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Be<:ca Saunders at saunders.S@nd.edu 
Nicholas Sparks' Notre Darne Years attended: 1984-1988 Dorm: Flanner Sport Scholarship Track Athlete Favorite Building: Loftus Favorite Spot on Campus: Track Dining Hall: North-dinner, South-lunch 
Favorite Place to Study: 2nd floorlinrnll"\.l Best ND Memory: BreakingaSchool Record (which he still holds today) 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
page 13 
30 years of Penn & Teller 
This magician duo is getting better with age 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -It's been 30 years, but Penn & Teller have no intention of pulling a disappearing act. The duo is performing their boisterous, occasionally macabre magic act six days a week at the Rio All-Suite Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas, and are planning a video version of the show. Penn has a novel coming out this spring. Teller, the small, silent partner, recently wrote a memoir about his parents. 
Also, the second season of their trickster-exposing TV program is on Showtime, with a title that's an expletive for "nonsense!" 
"I think you're supposed to mel­low out as you get older. Elvis Costello is doing jazz. and you don't see Axl Rose running around all crazy like he used to," said Penn Jilette, the taller, louder part of the group, who is 49. "But I think we've gotten a little bit hard­er and more skeptical as we've. gotten more successful." 
"We've never planned and strategized, and it's just worked so far," said Teller, 56, who is as articulate in interviews as he is mute onstage. "We just thought we'd do things that were interest­ing to us, and see if the public was interested in it. It is inexplicable to me, but there are enough people that do have the same interests so that we have an audience." 
The two began working together after a mutual friend introduced them. Teller was teaching Latin and Penn had just graduated from clown college. _ 
"He was a bum," Teller quipped. "He was living in a shoe box and doing street performances." 
Penn, Teller and the mutual friend started their first act, called the "Asparagus Valley Cultural Society." Part variety show and part magic act, it didn't last long. 
"In order to remain in show businesses you have to want obsessively to be in show busi­ness," Teller said. The friend "was a much more civilized person than Penn or l, and didn't want to con­tinue." 
Meanwhile, Teller was honing his silent skills, an idea which came to him after he watched magic shows. "Magicians say inane things all the time, like, 'Here I am holding a red ball,"' Teller said with disdain. "I thought, 'What if I just took the speaking away.' You'd have to watch what I was doing, and I couldn't distract with my speaking and it would be a bigger chat­lenge." 
Penn, on the other hand, real­ized that his strength was in talk­ing, and the combination of their approaches worked. Plus, the two shared a common skepticism, which helped create their schtick of revealing the way they perform some tricks. The idea for their snazzy, three-piece snits is bor­rowed from a magician in the 1940s who took to wearing street clothes instead of the pointy hats and capes of most magicians. 
"We were doing this kind of magic that said, 'Look, we know it's all a scam, it's a swindle, and we're skeptics ourselves,"' Penn said. "That was really different from what magic usually aligns itself with -the hippy dippy stuff." 
In 1987 they began the first of two Broadway runs, and they had several national tours during the 1990s. Then came appearances on late night talk shows, several TV specials, a movie and their show in Vegas. 
Poo11 There goes three decades. 
Penn said the plan was to have at least 250 people watch the show. Instead, about 2,500 started showing up per night. "We are much more successful than we intended to be," Penn said. "So we thought TV was a good logical step." 
Their aptly named show, now in its second season, tries to expose the lies behind real-life "hoaxes" such as TV psychics. It's total skep­ticism, part journalism and part social rant. But, it's definitely not magic, though both argue that it makes sense they are doing it. 
"Magicians arc obsessed with the dill'erence between truth and lies, fact and fiction," Penn said. "We may lie to you on stage. but we don't do it in real life, and it sort of makes sense for us to expose and uncover lies in real life." 
It seems like Teller's silent act wouldn't translate to television, but for some reason it works, and he's glad to have the chance to try silent ways of getting the point across. "It's been an interesting process," Teller said. "The show is very verbal in its context, finding out how to work on the nonverbal end forces us to think of images that convey the concept." 
ords,wit and political humor with ND 
I love 70s disaster movies. I still get esting stories, in your opinion:
crafty way set 
f the other tall, choked up when Shelly Winters has a celebrities or regular people? 
dark hair and heart attack saving Gene !Iackman in Celebrity is defined so broadly that ow to tie it. It "The Poseidon Adventure." I love everyone that is everything is turned u clip-on. "The Dukes of Hazard." I'm not nuts on its head. Politicians were really about the Confederate flag, but I the first reality celebrities, but now y "Behind the could overlook it. I loved "Happy there are so many. I'm kind of n the show? Days" because there weren't any celebritied out. Soon there will be but my of!icc­unhappy days. I didn't love "Saved by more people that have been on TV eneres about the Bell," but I've found that that is than haven't. I don't know if there s ago and we sacrilegious on college campuses. are any unpublicized characters out ~times. We had When I'm strong enough, I'll there. I want to lind them, but then I 
II the rnportf1rs announce to world that I didn't Jove might ruin them. ·ap out of each "Saved by the Bell." nd of tension Is it easier or more difficult to do Let's talk about one of your newer investigative journalism now that projects, the book, "All the you are more well-known and rec­1d the Music," President's Pets." ognized? another Vlll What made you want to write an Being a fake investigative reporter 
ls/HOs/90s," as expose on presidential pets? means that you don't need a creden­would you say This White House stonewalls the tial because yot.i just make stuff up. . for comment­press, and I wondered, "What are That's my safety net. My real hat esc decades? they hiding?" I know all about the trick will be if I could become a real 
whut I'm talk-animals in the White House. For reporter. Then the world would have th enough con­example, Martin van Buren had two really turned on its head. kind of social tiger cubs, Calvin Coolidge had a wal­been so lucky laby. I figured that the animals in the 
Any last words? 

America and White I louse actually are making the ...
I'm pretty sure that Knute Rockne 
benefits, so I decisions. I thought I'd make use of invented the forward pass or was the rward. I felt useless information, and I also got to first to throw one. I've been dying to too little about make myself a main character. I'd 
come to South Bend because I've 
y" and didn't like to play myself in the movie. It's a heard that it's a beautiful campus. 
•ut "Fantasy thriller, kind of like a combination of "All the President's Men" and I "Charlotte's Web." Mo Rocca, the celebrated comedian from The Dally Show with Jon Stewart, 
lbout the 70s? Contact Molly Griffin at will give the Notre Dame community a taste of his political satire tonight at Who usually has the more inter-griffin.59@nd.edu 7:30 In DeBartolo 101. 

Tuesday, April20, 2004 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
BOSTON MARATHON 

Ndereba completes a hat trick in Beantown 
Cherigat wins men's marathon in 2:10.37 
Associated Press 

BOSTON Catherine Ndereba of Kenya won the Boston Marathon for the third time Monday, her 16-second margin of victory tying for the smallest in women's race histo­ry. 
Timothy Cherigat won the men's race in 2:10:37 to com­plete a Kenyan sweep. 
Ndereba, the world champion, finished her hot and historic vic­tory in 2 hours, 24 minutes, 27 seconds. 

The women got a head start for the first time, leaving Hopkinton 29 minutes ahead of the men and the recreational field of 20,404. Ndereba and Elfenesh Alemu of Ethiopia ran side-by-side for 10 miles before they reached Kenmore Square with a mile to go. 
That's when Ndereba sprinted into the lead, and Alemu, wilting in the 85-degree heat, did not have the energy to respond. 
Ndereba's time -the 11th­best for a woman at Boston ­was fast for a tough course and one of the hottest races in the event's 108-year history, though still cooler than the 96 degrees reached in the 1971) "Run for the Hoses." 
Ndereba also won at Boston in 2000-01. Alemu, who is married to 2000 Olympic champion Gezahegne Abera, has won three marathons in her career and run under 2:25 seven times since 2000. 
Defending champion Robert Kipkoech Cheruiyot was among the lead pack of six men run­ning side-by-side at the halfway mark. 
Soon after, he stopped for a time but later rejoined the race. 
By midmorning, runners gath­ered by the hundreds at the starting line at the Hopkinton Common, some reading newspa­pers and magazines to kill time, others talking with family and friends. A few decided to take a quick nap on the town green. 
It was 83 degrees in Hopkinton when the female con­tenders began at 11:31 a.m., leaving the traditional noon start for the men and the recre­ational field. 
At the finish line, the tempera­ture was far above the average high of 57 for April 19 in Boston. 
Race officials prepared for the heat with extra water at every mile marker, and additional medical personnel throughout the course. Spectators also helped by handirig out water and spraying their garden hoses onto the streets as the runners went by. 
The Red Cross had double the usual amount of ice -80 pounds at each of 26 spots along the route, said Bruce Kahn, sta­tion supervisor at the starting line. 
"We've got lots of ambulances standing by," he said. "If they don't cool off, it can be lif.e threatening." 
Ernst Van Dyk of South Africa set a course record in the men's wheelchair division, finishing in 
1:18:27 to break Heinz Frei's 1994 mark of 1:21:23 and win for the fourth straight year. Van Dyk is tied with Franz Nietlispach (1997 -00) for the most consecutive victories in the men's wheelchair and needs one more win to match Nietlispach for most wins overall. 
Cheri Blauwet of Menlo Park, Calif., won the women's wheel­chair race in 1:39:53. Defending champion Christina Ripp dropped out at the 12-mile mark. 

CYCLING 

Restless Armstrong will lead team at Tour de Georgia 
Associated Press  first time since 1998. He'll lead  "No  disrespect  to  the  once, nearly crashing another  in Texas with his three young  
the U.S. Postal Service team at  Olympics, but I'm focused on  time and dealing with dehydra­ kids. That's how he wound up  
MACON,  Ga.  Lance  the Tour de Georgia, a six-day,  winning the Tour de France,"  tion.  at the Tour de Georgia,  a  2­ 
Armstrong isn't ready to call  seven-stage event that begins  said Armstrong, who has only  He doesn't want it to happen  year-old event that hopes to be  
this a farewell tour.  Tuesday in the central Georgia  one bronze medal to show for  again.  a catalyst for bringing big-time  
Sure, he could make history  city of Macon.  three trips to the Games. ''I'm  'Tm ready to fix my perform­ cycling back  to  the  United  
this summer by winning his  But make  no  mistake this  committed to the Olympics, I  ance," Armstrong said. "That  States.  
sixth straight Tour de France.  Tour is simply another step  guess. But to  was  a  very  There  have  been  a  few  
Sure, he could cap his career in appropriate fashion by finally  along the way to the real Tour, the one that ends with a tri­ be honest, all the work I do  'The Tour is the  stressful situa­tion."  attempts in the past the Coors Classic, the Tour de Trump, the  
winning an Olympic gold medal in Athens. Sure, he hates being away from his kids for months at a time.  umphant ride down the Champs-Elysees. Armstrong already has won the Tour de France five years in  on a daily basis is geared toward the  granddaddy. That's what I wake up thinking about every day."  To prevent another close finish, Armstrong has  Tour du Pont but all faded away with a collective yawn from the American sporting public. "We've had a couple of false  
But retirement? It's hard to  a row. No one has ever done it  Tour  de  spent time in a  starts," Armstrong said. "We  
imagine this guy curled up in a recliner, the TV remote in one hand, a soda in the other.  six times. "The Tour is the granddaddy," he said. "That's what I wake up  France." Looking fit and relaxed,  Lance Armstrong cyclist  wind tunnel, looking for an edge in his  would get something going for four or five years, then it would stop. Hopefully this is a new  
"I sit around some nights,  thinking about every day."  Armstrong  equipment.  start, a fresh start, something  
wondering what it would be like  Not even the Olympics, which  strolled into  Most noticeable  we can build on."  
to be retired," Armstrong said  has always been a bit of a dis­ a hotel ballroom to discuss the  is a new position for his handle­ Armstrong gave a major boost  
Monday.  "Can I  see  myself  appointment in Armstrong's  quest that drives his life. He's  bars, but he's also breaking out  to this fledgling race when he  
retired in five  or six months?  career,  can draw his attention  still upset about the way he won  an improved helmet and shoes  decided it fit perfectly into his  
That's hard for me to see."  away from winning a sixth Tour  his fifth straight Tour a tumul­ that are less wind-resistent.  new training routine. His last  
The world's greatest cyclist is  de France. When he speaks of  tuous three weeks in which he  Armstrong changed his train­ race  was  the  Criterium  
back home, taking part in a major American race for the  ·the Athens Games, the tone of indifference is unmistakable.  triumphed through shear willpower despite wrecking  ing schedule this year so he could spend more time at home  International in France March 28.  on  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spates. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content withour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286· 9359 
Catholic family offering fulltime sum­mer childcare opportunity to care for 4 school age children, ages 5 to 11, Scottsdale Mall area, 7:30AM to 5:00PM, wages negotiable, non­smoker preferred, own transporta· lion a plus, contact Maureen @ (574) 231-8126. 
M or F roommate in D.C. (specifical­ly Arlington, VA) starting June or July for 1 yr lease. Pis contact Nicole at 574.621.8515 or nwykoff@nd.edu. Preferably fun & willing to go out! 

FoR SALE 
Why pay a landlords mortgage? 
Duplex 4 sale. Live in one, let the "Other pay your mortgage. Close to 
ND and downtown. Call Kim at 574· 
245-5040. 
House and land for sale. Few feet shy of 1 acre, 512&524 Superior Niles. Call Miss Owens (612) 870­4737 
FOR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX ... AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON· DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005·2006 SCHOOL YEAR. CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
Student houses and apts. 2·3 or 4 bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer or fall. 235-3655. 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky· lights. $1640/mo. Call574·232·4527 or 269-683·5038 
Room in luxury apartment building on the UWS for rent! Elevators in each tower. Two large laundry rooms on the Lobby level. Two bicy­cle rooms in which to store your 
· bike all year round. Full size health club on the Lobby level with a large swimming pooi. steam room, and sauna. 24-hour garage beneath building. Dry-cleaners, two grocery stores,bank and restaurant within seconds of the front door. Continuous shuttle bus transport to subway system and buses. 24-hour doorman and security desk. Fabulous location (63rd St. and 11th Ave.) Great view! $1100 + 1/2 utilities. If interested contact Nycpolo15@yahoo.com 
Nice 4 bdr. 3 car garage avail. now or fall $1200/mo 288·9673 LJI.RGE 3 BEDROOM house for rent. Very close to ND, 2 baths, 2 car garage, WID, just redone two years ago. $1,050/mo available 5/1. Call 312­375-8220 
VERY NICE 3bdrm home near Corbys(East Bank area). Washer&Dryer-Aiarm·Basement· H20 softner-large yard-off street parking. Call Joe Crimmins: cell#514·0643 home#273-0002 .. 
Stay at Homestead Bed and Breakfast for football games. 57 4·277 ·9834 
PERSONALS 
You've got to trust your instincts and let go of regret. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
ATTENTION MARKETING MAJORS Combine your interest in Marketing/Sales and your Catholic Faith. Earn money during the sum· mer and continue to receive checks throughout the next school year. Not an MLM. Visit us and apply at www.connectingcatholics.com 
It's all good. Go Flyers. 

Darknesses, darknesses. 
Oh, you're tough now? What'd you say? Exactly. 
Tuesday, April20, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Clarett ineligible for NFL draft 
Dillon traded to 
2nd U.S. Circuit Court puts previous decision on hold 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Maurice Clarett's bid to jump to tqe NFL was blocked Monday by a feder­al appeals court that left open the possibility he could enter a supplemental draft. 
The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals put on hold a lower­court decision to allow the for­mer Ohio State star and other athletes, like Southern California's Mike Williams, to enter this weekend's draft. 
Players are barred from the NFL until throe years after high school graduation under current league rules. 
The appeals court said it stayed the earlier ruling to safe­guard the NFL from harm and to ensure a more thorough review. Its final opinion will probably be issued after the draft, perhaps weeks from now. 
Any potential harm to Clarett ­would be lessened by the NFL's agreement to hold a supplemen­tal draft if the appeals court later ruled in his favor, the court added. 
The ruling came on the same day Williams filed his own law­suit in federal court in Manhattan, saying the NFL had issued conflicting statements about eligibility for the draft, thus causing him to sacrifice his college career. Williams hired an agent, which usually means a player cannot return to play in college. 
But Williams' college coach, Pete Carroll, said it was possible the wide receiver could return to school. 

"We'll continue to help our guy out, just like we did when he was making his decision," Carroll said. "Nothing definitive has been declared by the NCAA. Some steps would have to be taken for the players to get back into college football." 
Although Clarett never announced he hired an agent, there have been reports that he did. He was never cleared by Ohio State or the NCAA to play after being suspended last year for accepting money from a family friend and for lying about it to NCAA and university inves­tigators. 
NCAA spokesman Jeff Howard would not comment specifically 
Patriots for pick 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Running back Corey Dillon got his wish Monday when the Bengals traded him to the New England Patriots for a second-round draft pick. 
The deal ended a stellar and stormy seven-year stay with the Bengals, who built their offense around him in the 1990s but tired of his com­plaining and his lobbying to go somewhere else. 
Dillon, 29, wound up going to the defending Super Bowl champions, who are trying to improve a running game that was one of their few weakness­es. 
"He's absolutely, positively thrilled with the move to the Patriots," agent Steve Feldman said. "He just wanted to go to a winner. It gives him the oppor­tunity to restart, and gives them another piece to add to the puzzle." 
Dillon puzzled his Bengals teammates and coaches last season. While the Bengals were enjoying a renaissance under coach 
decrease significantly. 
Marvin "You don't get a mark eclipsed "Not because of the small 
L e w i s , last season
second-round pick without 
number that may be eligible to Dillon com­w h e n
giving something up, and
go to the NFL," he said, "but 
plained Baltimore's rather because of the literally 
about his we believe this clearly is Jamal Lewis thousands of wannabes who will 
lack of car­had 295 yards
the move that's in our 
give up concentrating on their 
ries. against
team's best interests." 
studies, both in high school and 
A groin Cleveland. college, for that one in a million 
injury side­Heading into chance to get in the NFL." 
lined Dillon Marvin Lewis last season, and allowed Bengals coach Dillon was the 

R u d i 
Johnson to show he could be the Bengals' featured back. When the season ended, Dillon cleaned out his locker and lobbied for a trade. 
Lewis tried to get Dillon to take more of a leadership role last season, but was rebuffed. Dillon's public complaints in the middle of a turnaround season essentially sealed his fate. 
"Corey has been a very pro­ductive back for the Bengals for a number of years," Lewis said in a statement. "But you don't get a second-round pick with­out giving something up, and we believe this clearly is the move that's in our team's best interests." 
Lewis declined to comment beyond the statement. The trade brought Cincinnati the 24th pick in the second round, 56th overall, and gave the Bengals seven picks in the first four rounds overall. New England had obtained the pick from Miami. 
New England gets the type of back that it coveted for an unbalanced offense. The Patriots had the league's 27th­ranked rushing attack behind Antowain Smith and Kevin Faulk last season, forcing them to rely on Tom Brady's short, high-percentage completions to get points. 
Brady led the Patriots to 15 straights wins last season, cul­minating in a 32-29 victory over Carolina in the Super Bowl. A week later, the Patriots decided not to exercise their contract option on Smith, who was their leading rusher for the past three seasqns. 
"Corey joins Kevin Faulk and our other very good backs to deepen an already competitive running back position," Patriots coach Bill Belichick said. 
Dillon was a second-round pick In 1997 -the 43rd overall -and broke Jim Brown's rook­ie record by running for 246 yards against Tennessee. He set the single-game record with 278 yards against Denver in 2000, a 
on the Clarett case, but he said players who hire agents could be reinstated if the school peti­tions the organization. 
"The individual facts of each case ultimately will determine whether or not an athlete is reinstated," he said. 
NCAA president Myles Brand said if the NFL ultimately loses the case that graduation rates for football players could 
Bengals' 
career rushing 
leader and one of only four players in NFL his­tory to run for 1,000 yards in each of his first six seasons. A groin injury the first significant injury of his career limited him to 11 starts and 541 yards last season. 
A traffic accident also prompt­ed the Bengals to declare him inactive for one game. 
While the Bengals won with­out him, Dillon bristled at his lack of carries and told reporters he wanted out. After a loss to Cleveland left the Bengals 8-8 a,nd ended their season, Dillon threw his helmet, shoulder pads and cleats into the stands at Paul Brown Stadium, convinced he would be traded with two years left on his contract. 
''They don't need me," Dillon said afterward. "They've been winning, quote unquote, without me." 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 20, 2004 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Spurs, Lakers cruise to 2-0 series leads with wins 
Blowout losses put Houston, Memphis in playoff hole 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO -Robert Horry didn't wait until the final buzzer to make his trademark shot. Instead his dagger of a 3­pointer -two of them, actually ­came earlier than usual. 
After the Memphis Grizzlies slashed San Antonio's lead to one point late in the third quar­ter, Horry made two 3-pointers and a putback to swing the game's momentum back to the Spurs in an 87-70 victory Monday night for a 2-0 lead in their first-round series. 
Horry finished with 14 points on 6-for-9 shooting and 10 rebounds, prompting teammate Tim Duncan to accuse him of sandbagging during the regular season -just the sort of thing the Lakers used to tease him about when Horry was cement­ing his late-game reputation while playing in Los Angeles. 
"He just kind of hung out and did what he could," said Duncan, who had 23 points and 12 rebounds. "Now it's playoff time and he wants to play." 
Game 3 is Thursday night in Memphis. 
Horry, who collected five championship rings during his time in Houston and Los Angeles, said the first 3-pointer picked him up. He made only 41 of them during the regular season, just two in April. 
"I thought, 'I hadn't made a 3-pointer in sp long,"' he said. "I just took what was given to me." 
San Antonio's defense clinched the game by holding the Grizzlies without a field goal for nearly 11 minutes spanning the third and fourth periods. 
The Spurs, up by nine after three, went on a 14-0 run early in the final period to build their largest lead 82-60. 
Tony Parker led San Antonio with 27 points, 17 of them com­ing in the first half. He was 4­for-6 on 3-pointers. 

Parker took 20 shots, double the number he attempted Saturday in the Spurs' 98-74 win in the opening game. 
"Sometimes he tends to forget that he's open and to let it fly," said San Antonio-coach Gregg Popovich. "He was better at that tonight." 
Pau Gasol led the Grizzlies with 20 points and 11 rebounds, but he had only one field goal in the second half. 
"We were playing with inten­

sity, running and executing and 
stopping them," said Gasol. 
"But they had that run in the 
fourth quarter that really killed 
us. We weren't playing like we 
did in the first three quarters." 
Memphis, which trailed by 11 
at halftime, made its push to 
open the third quarter. Mike 
Miller, scoreless in Game 1, 
scored nine quick points, and a 
pair of free throws by Stromile 
Swift cut the difference to 55­
54. 
"If you watched any Memphis 
Grizzlies basketball this year, 
that's how we play," Miller said. 
"Bottom line, it wasn't enough. 
I didn't get it to go in enough." 
Horry made two 3-pointers and a putback, and Parker hit his fourth 3-pointer to put the Spurs ahead 68-59 after three quarters. San Antonio held the Grizzlies without a field goal for the final 3:49 of the period. 
Memphis didn't get its next 
basket until Bonzi Wells had a 
putback with 5:02 remaining in 
the game to make it 82-62, end­
ing the 14-0 run. 
Wells scored 13 for Memphis 
and James Posey 10. 
Gasol missed his first shot, 
but by the end of the first quar­
ter, he had four baskets and 
three rebounds more than he 
had in either category in the 
Grizzlies' 98-74 loss in Game 1. 
The Grizzlies went up 17-14 on a corner jumper by Wells, but the Spurs then went on an .18-4 run in which seven differ­ent players scored. One of the baskets was Parker's third 3­
pointer of the opening period. 
Parker finished the half with 
17, while Gasol had 13 on 6-for­
7 shooting. 
A layup by Posey cut San Antonio's lead to 37-31 with three minutes left in the half. After a jumper by Bruce Bowen, Horry picked off a pass to start the game's most crowd­pleasing play. 
Horry got the ball to Parker, who dribbled through a narrow gap between Gasol and Jason Williams and finished with a layup around Lorenzen Wright to make the score 41-31. 
Los Angeles 98, Houston 84 
Kobe Bryant and Karl Malone seldom have two bad games in a row, and their efforts helped the Los Angeles Lakers over­come Shaquille O'Neal's lowest­scoring playoff game ever. 
Bryant scored 17 of his 36 points in the third quarter, and Malone had 17 points and eight rebounds to lead the Los Angeles Lakers past the Houston Rockets for a 2-0 lead in their first-round playoff series. 
In town for the game? Why 
Jlllllll---11111111.. 
not stay with family? Gramma's House B&B .. Now taking reservations 
or the 2004 football season nd 2005 Graduation. 

2 miles north of the Notre Dame Toll Road exit (77). Group rates for partiesof6.Phone574-272-3999 

O'Neal, in foul trouble most of the game, had a career playoff-• low seven points and seven rebounds. His previous low was 11 points against Utah in 1997. 
The best-of-seven series moves to Houston for Games 3 · and 4 Friday night and Sunday afternoon. 
In Game 1, Bryant shot 4-of­19 for 16 points and Malone was 3-of-14 for seven points in the Lakers' 72-71 victory. It was a much different story this time, with Bryant shooting 9-of-20 from the field and 16-of-17 from the foul line. Malone shot 7 -of-12. 
After being held to a season-low 32.9 percent shooting in the opener, the Lakers shot 45.3 percent in· Game 2. 

Steve Francis, appearing _in just his second playoff game, became the fourth Houston player to record a triple-double in the playoffs with 18 points, 10 rebounds and 12 assists. He has six in the regular season during his five-year career. 
Yao Ming scored 21 points and Jim Jackson added 19 for the Rockets. 
Derek Fisher scored 11 points and Kareem Rush had 10 for the Lakers. 
Rush made two 3-pointers in the first four minutes of the fourth quarter for his first points as part of a 19-7 run that gave the Lakers an 85-69 lead. 
Rush also made two 3-point­ers in the fourth quarter of Game 1. 
O'Neal picked up his fourth foul less than three minutes into the third quarter with the game tied. With backup Slava Medvedenko sidelined by a strained right Achilles' tendon, Lakers coach Phil Jackson had no choice but to leave O'Neal in. 
Bryant made two free throws and O'Neal converted a three­point play to give the Lakers a 61-56 lead. The field goal was O'Neal's second of the game. 



Tuesday, April 20, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
Montreal, Calgary advance with Game 7 wins 
Habs rally from 3-1 series deficit to move on to second round 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Alex Kovalev and the Montreal Canadiens sal­vaged their season and brought a shocking end to Boston's. 
Kovalev set up Richard Zednik's tiebreaking goal mid­way through the third period and the Canadiens capped a comeback unprecedented in their rich history, beating the Bruins 2-0 Monday night to win tho first-round series in seven games. 
"Whnn we lost the first game and were down 3-1 in the series, we never gave up," Kovalev said. 
For the second time in three years, the Bruins were upset by the Canadiens in the first round. 
"We had our chances," Boston defenseman Nick Boynton said. "We blew it." 
The Canadiens won for the first time after trailing 3-1, cap­turing two of the final three games in Boston. Seventh-seed­ed Montreal will take on the Eastern Conference's top team, the Tampa Bay Lightning, in the second round. 
Jose Theodore, who helped eighth-seeded Montreal elimi­nate top-seeded Boston in the first round in 2002, got the first playoff shutout of his career, stopping 32 shots with the help of a swarming defense. 
"Teams arc successful because of goaltending in this league," Canadiens coach Claude Julien said. "lie was at his best when it really counted." 
Zednik clinched the victory with an empty-net goal with 7.8 seconds remaining. Kovalev and Saku Koivu assisted on both goals. 
Boston, which had never lost a series it led 3-1, had its six­game winning streak in Game 7s snapped. Montreal has won four of the six Game 7s between the Original Six teams. 
The Canadiens were 0-12 in seven-game series they trailed 3-1. They got as close as 3-3 just one other time, in 1954. The Bruins were 17-0 when ahead 3-1. 
The Bruins fell short despite the midseason acquisitions of veterans Michael Nylander, Sergei Gonchar and Jiri Slegr and the emergence of rookie Raycraft. 
Haycraft was sharp for most of Game 7, especially in the second period when the more aggres­sive Canadiens held a 15-9 shots advantage. 
But the Bruins showed renewed spark in the third peri­od, constantly attacking and then getting back to stop Montreal's rare threats. 
Finally, Zednik scored on the Canadiens' first shot of the peri­od. 
Calgary 3, Vancouver 2 
Martin Gelinas scored a power. play goal 1:25 into over­time and the Calgary Flames won a playoff series for the first time since 1989 by beating the Vancouver Canucks in Game 7. 
Matt Cooke's second goal tied it for Vancouver with 5.7 sec­onds left in regulation, but the Canucks started the overtime down a man because of Ed Jovanovski's high-sticking penal­ty with 27 seconds remaining. 

The tying goal came with Vancouver holding a five-on-four skating advantage after the Canucks pulled goalie Alex Auld. 
Auld almost stopped the win­ning shot after turning away two in-close shots during the over­time power play. Gelinas got to the second rebound and knocked it in over the fallen goaltender from the right side of the net. 
"It was a big goal for our hockey club and we're happy to be moving on," Gelinas said. 
Jarome Iginla scored twice and Miikka Kiprusoff stopped 26 shots as the Flames captured a series for the first time since winning the Stanley Cup 15 years ago. Craig Conroy had two assists for Calgary, which won three of four games on the road. 
The sixth-seeded Flames will face No. 1 Detroit in the Western Conference semifinals. 
Calgary had been 0-7 since 1991 when they had a chance to win a series. 
Playing without No. 1 goal­tender Dan Cloutier, who sprained his ankle in Game 3, and forward Todd Bertuzzi, who was suspended for punching Colorado's Steve Moore, the third-seeded Canucks failed to reach the second round for the third time in four years. 
Auld, a 23-year-old rookie making his third straight start ahead of regular backup Juhan Hedberg, finished with 25 saves. But it wasn't enough. 
Iginla opened the scoring on a breakaway 12:50 into the sec­ond, just 11 seconds after Kiprusoff stymied a Canucks power play. 
Kiprusoff made point-blank saves off Jovanovski and Daniel Sedin just before Conroy came out of the penalty box and skat­ed to Matthew Lombardi's long pass at center ice. Conroy fed Iginla streaking down the right wing and the Calgary captain snapped a hard shot between Auld's legs. 

~~~~~~Notre Dame Baseball Action 
Saint Ma~s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
Tho Nstson's PffJfflierCathollc Women's Co/loge 
Semester Around the World Program 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 6:00p.m. Mon., April19 in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's OR 6:00p.m., Wed., April 21 in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements Itinerary: Japan, China, Tibet, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, all oflndia and Nepal; optional travel through Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR4473 • FAX (574) 284-4866 
e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarys.edu/saw 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 20, 2004 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Lee's grand slam propels Cubs to lopsided win 
since 2000. 
Slugger finally breaks 
Yates (1-1) was staked to a 4­out of slump to lead 0 lead before giving up his only run in the fifth inning, whenCubs in rout ofReds first baseman Todd Zeile threw a potential double-play
Associated Press 
grounder into left-center, allow-
CHICAGO -Derrek Lee ing Juan Rivera to come home pumped his fists and let out a from second_ on the error. wide smile when his fly to right After the game, the 26-year­cleared the wall for a grand old right-hander had the lineup slam. card and two balls: the one that 
He's had few hits to celebrate ended the game and the one this season. from his first career hit, in the 
Lee connected off reliever fourth inning. Ryan Wagner in the seventh "It's a pretty good feeling," he inning, highlighting the Chicago said. "It's probably the most fun Cubs' 8-1 victory over the I've had playing baseball thus Cincinnati Reds on Monday. far." 
The homer was the first in 11 He got a no-decision agairist games for Lee, a notoriously the Expos in his first start on slow starter. He entered the April 9 in Puerto Rico and lost game hitting .244 with one to Atlanta in last week. He has homer and four RBis. been working on his mechanics, 
"It seemed like I hadn't had a trying to keep his head steady hit in forever," Lee said. "I don't rather than jerking it toward know that I've ever had a quick · first base, which causes his start. Maybe I can pick it up the . pitches to stay up. next couple of weeks." "It was great having a young-
Lee, acquired in the offseason ster out on the mound stop a in a trade with Florida, is a losing streak," Mets manager career .228 hitter in March and Art Howe said. April and has hit .223 in May. Relievers John Franco, Mike 
Matt Clement (2-1) settled Stanton and Braden Looper fin-down after a rocky first inning ished up. Yates, sitting in the to allow one run on four hits in dugout, kept concentrating on 6 1-3 innings to pick up his sec-each pitch Looper threw, as if ond win in as many starts. he still were in the game. 
The right-hander retired 11 Looper loaded the bases with batters in a row and 15 out of two outs in the ninth on three 16 at one point, striking out six straight singles before retiring and walking four. Tony Batista on a grounder for 
The Cubs led 3-1 when Lee his third save. came to the plate with the Montreal got 10 hits, all sin-bases loaded and no outs. The gles, and stranded 12 runners. big first baseman said he was The Expos have just 20 runs just trying to hit a sacrifice fly this season, getting shut out to drive in a run. four times and scoring one run 
Instead, the ball kept sailing. in three other games. They "That was huge. That was a -haven't scored more than four real big blow," Cubs manager 
in any game. 
San Francisco 4, San Diego 3 
Barry Bonds hit his 666th homer through a swirling mist and over the center-field wall, and the San Francisco Giants held on to beat the San Diego Padres to snap a season-worst four-game losing streak. 
Bonds has homered in six consecutive games with an at­bat he was intentionally walked as pinch-hitter Wednesday and connected for the first time this season against the Padres after failing to hit a longball in three games at Petco Park in. the sea­son's first week. 
He got his major league-lead­ing eighth homer this season one batter after Marquis Grissom hit a two-run shot to left, the first time this season the Giants have hit back-to­hack homers. 
Jerome Williams (2-1) carried a no-hit bid into the fifth before Khalil Greene's one-out double to left-center broke it up. Williams still got out of the inning unscathed and pitched 6 2-3 strong innings, allowing one run and four hits, striking out f'·-:r and walking two. 
Matt Herges got the first two outs of the ninth before running into trouble. He gave up three straight hits, including Sean Burroughs' bloop single that glanced off the glove of charg­ing center fielder Grissom, allowing Terrence Long to score from second. Mark Loretta fol­lowed Burroughs with a single chasing Herges. 
Jason Christiansen entered and allowed an RBI single to Brian Giles and the Giants went to Jim Brower. Brower got Phil Nevin to ground out to first, converting his first save oppor­tunity. 


It was the best outing yet for Williams, whose shaky spring certainly had some fans a little nervous. But the 22-year-old right-hander received a stand­ing ovation as he walked off the mound after giving way to Wayne Franklin in the seventh. 
Manager Felipe Alou said before the game the cool condi­tions Monday were ideal for a sinkerball pitcher such as Williams, who last season as a rookie went 7-5 with a 3.30 ERA, third-lowest among NL rookies. 
Dusty Baker said. ''I'm just glad he hit it when he hit it." 
It was Lee's fourth career grand slam and first with the Cubs. 
Aramis Ramirez hit his fifth homer of the season. Corey Patterson added a two-run sin­gle for the Cubs and Alex Gonzalez had three hits and scored twice. 
New York 4, Montreal 1 
One win into his major league career, Tyler Yates already is a TV star at least at the Poipu Beach Broiler on the Hawaiian island 6f Kauai. 
That's because his father owns the place and installed a satellite dish 1 1/2 years ago. 
"We got it when we opened, hoping it would happen," Gary Yates said after his son shut down the punchless Montreal Expos on five hits over 5 2-3 innings, leading the New York Mets to victory. 
Karim Garcia and Ty Wigginton backed their pitcher with homers off Torno Ohka (0­3). and the Mets rebounded from three losses against Pittsburgh to send the Expos (2-11) to their eighth straight defeat, Montreal's worst skid 
OPENING 
KING$ DOLLAR PLU$ 


...... 
lJ 
Open Daily 9am-8pm Sun.Ncxm-8pm 
1813 South Bend Ave. 
Located in (he-Silme place as Betwer.n rht Buns! 
574.993.0310 574.234.8730 

fl
-
1.1JI 
page 19
Tuesday, April 20, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


-
April23. 5:00pm. Bookstore. · 
-.. 


OUND THE NATION 
page 20 CoMPILED FROM TnE OBSERVER'S wuu SERvtcEs Tuesday, April 20, 2004 


around the dial 
MLB 

Yankees at White Sox 7:05p.m., WCUI Braves at Reds 6:10p.m., TBS Cubs at Pirates 6:05 p.m., FSN 
NHL PLAYOFFS -GAME SEVEN 
Senators at Maple Leafs 6:00 p.m., ESPN 
NBA PLAYOFFS Knicks at Nets 7:00 p.m., TNT Celtics at Pacers 7:30p.m., NBATV 
MLB 


Associated Press 

BOSTON -In the end, Gabe Kapler and the Boston Red Sox got them­selves going in the right direction. 
Boston polished off a big weekend with another win over the New York Yankees when Kapler's RBI single in the eighth inning provided a 5-4 vic­tory Monday. 
"Taking three of four from the Yankees is a tough thing to do in any venue," Kapler said. 
Things didn't go well early at Fenway Park for Kapler or the Red Sox. He looked foolish on the bases in the second inning, twice forgetting how many outs there were, and Boston fell behind 4-1. 
But on a huge sports day in the Hub the Boston Marathon in the morning, Game 7 of the Bruins­Canadiens NHL playoff series at night, a major trade for Corey Dillon by the Super Bowl champion Patriots the Red Sox again stopped Alex Rodriguez and their fiercest rivals. 
Rodriguez, hitless in his first 16 at-bats in the series, finally singled with two outs in the ninth but was stranded when Jason Giambi struck out against Keith Foulke. 
"It was an awful series for me personally," Rodriguez said. "I feel good. I'm confident I'm going to come out if it. It's one bad series." 
Kapler's problems on Patriots Day began shortly after the 11:07 a.m. start. 
Kapler had been strug­gling with five hits in 29 at-bats before singling in Boston's first run in the second. 
Then, losing track that there were two outs, he held up to make sure Pokey Reese's single fell into the right-field corner and had to stop on sec­ond. 
Kapler held up again when the next batter, Johnny Damon, flied out to end the inning. 
Those mistakes didn't cost Boston a run, but Kapler didn't think his winning hit made up for them. 
"There's no making up for that," he said. "There's absolutely no excuse for that in a spring training game, in a Little League game." 
Starter Bronson Arroyo trailed 4-1 after three innings, then shut out the Yankees until leaving after striking out Rodriguez leading off the seventh. 
IN BRIEF 

Artest wins Defensive 
Player of the Year 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers forward Ron Artest was chosen the NBA's Defensive Player of the Year on Monday. 
Artest received 476 points out of a possible 605, including 80 of 121 possible first-place votes from a panel of sports writers and broad­casters. 
Two-time defensive player of the year winner Ben Wallace of Detroit finished second, and Portland's Theo Ratliff was third. 
Always drawing the opposing team's best perimeter scorer, Artest finished third in the league with 2.08 steals a game, including a career­high eight steals against Dallas on March 24. 
The team's second-leading scorer averaged 18.3 points during the reg­ular season. 
"Not only do you have to score on him on one end, you have to try to stop him at the other end," Pacers coach Rick Carlisle said. "That weighs on a guy who's a scorer try­ing to deal with both ends of the court." 
Artest, however, will miss the Pacers' next game after he was sus­pended for one game by the NBA on Monday for leaving the bench during a confrontation in the team's win Saturday over Boston in the opening game of the first-round playoff series. The Pacers won the game 104-88. 
Artest will miss Game 2 Tuesday night. 
NCAA Council votes to 
repeal scholarship limits 
INDIANAPOLIS -The NCAA Division I Management Council voted unanimously Monday to repeal a rule on scholarship limits in basketball and replace it with one that rewards teams for overall academic perform­ance. 
The current rule allows schools to offer five scholarships in one year or eight in two years, but it penalizes schools no matter how well they've done historically by not allowing them to replace scholarship players who become academically ineligible, NCAA president Myles Brand said. 
One of the proposals the Management Council will present to the NCAA Board of Directors later this month would set a team thresh­old for triggering a penalty, such as the loss of a scholarship. 
The exact numbers would be determined later. 
"If you have a very high perform­ing academic team that graduated almost everyone, that team's not going to be affected," Brand said after the first of two days of meet­ings. 
"But if it turns out they haven't had a good graduation rate and we haven't set that number yet then that school will be affected. 
"So there is some reward some incentive, if you like. It gives you a little leeway." 
Tuesday, April 20, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN's lACROSSE 
Irish visit No. 11 Wildcats 

Team travels to face 
Northwestern after first loss ofseason 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
They say that the true test of a good team is its ability to respond to adversity. 
For the first time all season, the No. 2 Irish head into a game on the heels of a loss when Notre Dame (1 0-1, 3-1 in Big East) travels to Evanston, Ill., to challenge No. 11 Northwestern this afternoon, three days after dropping its first game of the year to No. 5 Georgetown, 9-7. 
Northwestern enters the con­test with an identical 10-1 record and a school record nine-game winning streak. 
The Irish have beaten the Wildcats in their only two meetings, including a 13-9 decision at Moose Krause Stadium last season. 
"[Northwestern's] fast, athlet­ic and they have some people that can score," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "We're play­ing very well defensively, a lot of good things are happening, and it should be a good game. I just think with the way that the game ended on Saturday, we're just going to come out com­pletely fired up." . 
Saturday, the Irish failed to protect a 7-5 second half advantage as Georgetown net­ted four of the contest's last five· goals to snap Notre Dame's school record 14-game winning streak and stain its previously perfect 10-0 mark. 
As has been the case all sea­
son, midfielder Meredith Simon 
captained the Irish attack, reg­
istering a pair of goals and an 
assist. 
"Every game, she's just on," 
Coyne said. "She's a total team 
player, and she recognizes that 
she's going to draw one of the 
opponent's top defenders, and 
you have to give the ball up in 
those situations. But when 
you're willing to do that, they 
can't just mark her because ·they know she's going to pass. 
"It just shows how well she's 
accepting her role on this team 
and elevating her own play 
plus those around her." 
Attack Mary McGrath picked 
up a couple of goals and attack 
Jackie Bowers, midfield 
Meghan Murphy and 
midfield/attack Crysti Foote 
each tallied a goal. 
After falling behind 3-0 in the 
game's first 12 
But it just wasn't meant to be for Notre Dame, as Georgetown poured in four of the next five goals, including the clincher with nine seconds remaining. 
Adding insult to injury, dur­ing the course of the game a pair of would-be goals by 
· Meredith Simon were called back due to crease violations, and a controversial intentional out-of-bounds call on the Irish with a minute left erased an opportunity to tie up the con­test. 
"All we wanted to do was get an opportunity to get a shot off and see [what hapfilens]." Coyne said. "It's disappointing when at the end of the game the official makes a call like that, because the official deter­mines the outcome instead of giving us the chance to run a play and see what we can do." 
In any event, the Irish are looking for­
minutes. Coyne called a timeout, and it didn't take  "We're using [the loss] as motivation. "  ward to getting back on the­field after the  
long for the Irish  heartbreaking  
to respond, recording the next four goals to take  Tracy Coyne Irish coach  loss. ''I'm glad that we're playing  
a 4-3lead.  right  away,"  
"After the way  Coyne said. "If  

the team responded to the we had to sit around and dwell timeout, I felt confident about on the loss, I don't think it our chances to win," Coyne would be good for us. It's one of said. "Whenever you're in a those losses where there are game like that, and you're play­little things that bug you. We're ing a really competitive team, happy that we have to get right that's the kind of game you're back into it and play. We're going to have -very intense using it as motivation." and back and forth." After taking on 
While the Hoyas managed to Northwestern, the Irish come tie the score before the half back home to face off against and grab a quick 5-4 advan­No. 9 Johns Hopkins Friday. tage, the Irish scored the next three goals to jump back on Contact Matt Puglisi at top, 7-5, with 20:16left. mpuglisi@nd.edu 
~-=~~­
AfHIEriCDEPART~IENT;;!I:'ERSITY OF NOTRE DAI.\IIE 
Proudly Presents 

TheRecSpys 
Vote online April 19th-23rd @www.recsports.nd.edu/recspys 
.-rarac~uate Female Of flae 
~'C'I--~, 
Anne Marie Fayen-McGlinn Kasey Farrell -PW Kathryn Wolohan -Welsh Fum 
Grad/Fac/Staff Female of the Year 
Christina Risatti Susan Scube Cute Hanneyer 


Grad/Fac/Staff Male of the Year­
scott Gaglio 
Ben O'Donnell 
Scot~ Stolpa• 
Game of the Year 
Maggie's Mullet vs. We Don't Go Behind the Back-CoRee Basketball Finals DYDA and the Rufies vs. Droopy Goughes -CoRee Flag Football Finals Morrissey vs. Zahm -Ice Hockey Finals 
~··"'of the l"e~ 
Stanford Soccer Siegfried Football Lambasted 

fans of the Yea,. 
Alunmi Hockey PW Basketball Lewis Football 
Boilers 
continued from page 24 
Ohio State and Northwestern. 
The Boilermakers are led at the plate by utility man Mitch Helligloss with a .405 batting average, which ranks in the top 50 in the NCAA, even though he has started only 20 of Purdue's 32 games. 
Second baseman Eric Osborn, who is batting .336 on the year, leads the Boilermakers in RBis with 29, and centerfielder Mike Coles paces the Boilermakers with 28 runs scored and is bat­ting .333. 
As a team, the Boilermakers are batting .296 on the year and average 5.66 runs scored a game. 
The Irish meanwhile, have posted a .319 team batting aver­age, which is good enough for second in the Big East, behind Pittsburgh. They are led at the plate by shortstop Greg Lopez, with a .373 batting average on the year. Eight other Irish play­ers own batting averages sur­passing .300 on the season. 
Third baseman Matt Macri, who is third on the team in hit­ting at .357, leads the Irish in runs scored (42) and total bases (73) and is second on the team in RBI (33). First baseman Matt Edwards leads the team in RB!s with 36. 
Against the Boilermakers, the Irish will likely use a battery of arms, beginning with freshman Dan Kapala. Purdue will likely send right-hander Andrew Groves to the hill. The freshman has started only one game this year and owns an 0-1 record and 7.50 EHA in 18 innings pitched. 
The first pitch against the Boilermakers is scheduled for 5 
p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Notes: 

+ For his play in Notre Dame's doubleheader split with St. John's and three-game sweep of Georgetown last week, short­stop Greg Lopez was named Big East Player of the Week. The sophomore went 10-for-18 in the five games with four RB!s and four runs scored. He also recorded four error-free games at shortstop in that span. 
Lopez's selection marks the third time this season that a Notre Dame player has won the award, with the other two being catcher Sean Gaston and Macri. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


TWO MEN ANDA TRUCK® 
"Movers Who Care®" 
• Residential • Local & Long Distance 
•· Commercial • Boxes & Packing Supplies 
• 
Packing Service • Loading &Unloading of 

•tnsured 
&Bonded Rental Trucks Available 


(57~)675-9700
www.hvolnenonrJotruck.com 
:Visit Out Box Slote! 

~1590 McKinley, Suite D • Osceola, IN 46561 
> 

page 22 The Obse-rver + SPORTS Tuesday, April20, 2004 

DO yo·u HAVE WHAT I:T TA:KES? 


To club a..•..• IInea11, to .,vrtt.e tlte con1ic for the Obser·\'er next year? Ifso, send in Sstri)JS to Editor in ChiefM,att Lozar's mailbox in the Obser'\'er office ·by '\\'edn.esda)~, Ap,ril21st, at 4JJ.ln. 
Receivers 
continued from page 24 

downfield and make plays there. Hopefully, we can continue improving." 
Last season, Samardzija (6­foot-5, 208 pounds) caught seven passes for 53 yards for. 7.6 yards per catch. He and classmate Chinedum Ndukwe, who now plays safety, were the only two freshmen receivers to see playing time. 
Anastasio red-shirted his fresh­man year in 2003 but has seen significant action in the spring and practiced today as the pre­mier threat on the second-team offense. 
Quarterbacks Brady Quinn and Pat Dillingham threw the ball often during offensive series Monday afternoon. 

Receivers and tight ends got touches, and running backs mostly saw the ball on screen passes coming out of the back­field. Still, players insist the offense is not leaning towards a stronger focus on the passing attack as spring practice winds down. 
"We're trying to become a more balanced team," McKnight said. "Some games we had to run more and other games like against Purdue you saw us lean more towards the pass. But we want to be balanced on offense so then we can try to,..catch teams off-balance on defense." 
While there could be questions about the running game with the departure of workhorse Julius Jones, the wide receiving corps will be key to the success of the pro-style offense in Quinn's sec­ond year as a starting quarter­back. 
The numbers from last season tell a story of an almost balanced Irish offense: 2,149 yards passing and1,887 yards rushing. But the numbers only seem balanced because the offense only did one or the other -pass or run -in many games. Against Pittsburgh, Notre Dame rushed for 352 yards and threw for 33 yards. Just two weeks before, however, the Irish had thrown the ball over 60 times for 297 yards and rushed for 49 yards against Purdue. 
Stovall caught nine passes for 171 yards versus the Boilermakers, including a career­high 85 yards touchdown grab. He and McKnight will be the fea­tured receivers next season. 
McKnight, 6-foot-1, 208 pounds, caught 47 passes to lead the Irish receivers last season. He amounted 600 yards and three touchdowns for an ave.cage of 
12.8 yards per catch. 

Stovall, a 6-foot-5, 224-pound wideout, caught 22 passes for 421 yards and thTee touchdowns, averaging 19.1 yards per catch. 
McKnight and Stovall will be just juniors next season, but they are veterans among a young receiving corps. 
"So far, the offense has matured a lot [this spring]." Stovall said. "[We have] a lot more confidence, and we're get­ting a good 'feel for each other." 
The Irish had last season to get a feel for each other on offense, as well. Critics questioned the hands of the receivers after games like the home loss against Michigan State, but Stovall and routes," Stovall said. "We are McKnight look to lead by exam­improving as a whole." ple starting in the spring. 

"I think the receivers are more Contact Pat Leonard at physical and running better pleonard@nd.edu 
Chap 
continued from page 24 
fight through the trap find a wide-open teammate just inside the 3-point line for an easy two. 
Chap cooled down some in the second half, but Backloaded's Andrew Schneider answered the call, chipping in with some big baskets to keep the game neck-and-neck. 
Ultimately, it was Chap who came through for Backloaded. 

After Forr missed a free throw that would have made the score 27-26 in Fencing's favor, Backloaded forced Fencing into a turnover and Chap was able to drive down the court for an easy lay-in to make the score 27-26 in favor of Backloaded. 
After Fencing missed a shot, Chap sealed the win for Backloaded with a shot from the outside -appropriate con­sidering that's where he scored the bulk of his points in the game. 
"My teammates helped me out by setting a lot of picks," Chap said. 
"[Fencing] played really good defense and we were lucky to win that gaine," he said. Choc Full 0' Nut 21, Statutes at Large 16 
Bill Bingle would have made his jersey's namesake proud. 
Clad in a vintage Charles Barkley Phoenix Suns jersey, Bingle pulled down rebound after rebound and played with a physical edge to help Full sur­vive a challenge against Statutes. 
"I like to bring an attitude to the court like Barkley did," Bingle said. "The ref wasn't calling much either way, and it was pretty even the amount of no-calls that were out there." 
Bingle and teammate Josh O'Farrell did the bulk of the scoring for Full, who trailed once in the game when Statutes scored the first shot of the con­test. Full led the match 11-7 at the half. Although Statutes was able to cut the lead to two after halftime Bingle's team never panicked. 
Not even controversial refer­eeing could affect the flow of the game. · 
"It was the first officiated game we've played this year, yet it was also one of the roughest," Statutes' Greg Parker said. 
With a hard wind blowing at the courts, both teams missed shots badly. The obvious strate­gy during the game changed from outside shooting to interi­or scoring. 
"With the wind it really becomes a game won or lost in the paint," Statutes captain Andy Demko said. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd,edu 



Tuesday, April 20, 2004 
DILBERT 
DOGBERT THE REAL ESTATE AGENT WHEN IT RAINS, THE SEWER BACKS UP AND COVERS THE DRIVEWAY. 

FIVES 

The Observer + TODAY SCOTT ADAMS 
EVERY SPRING, RABID 
THE DRY BRUSH BEHIND

SQUIRRELS RIP OFF 
THE HOUSE IS A FIRE

HUGE CHUNKS OF THE 
HAZARD.

ROOF TO LOOK FOR FOOD. POTENTIAL ...
) SEASONAL 
FIRE ... PLACE.
SKYLIGHT. 
\ 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
We only offer a position to ona of twenty candidates 

YURMM 
(] 
C2004 Tribune Media Servlcea, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
() ( 
www jumble com
tFACEEF j
· J I r I I 
Answer: HE rI I I JTHE "[ I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: VIPER LOUSE WHALER DECEIT Answer: What she considered her first takeoff -A "DEPARTURE" '>• 

WHY THE YOUNG 5URG~ON WAS HIR~D. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

. 
ACROSS 34 Ladies of Spain 70 1940's-50's slugger Ralph
1 Certain iron set-36 Word repeated ling after "Que," in 71 More despica­6 Govt. bill song ble 11 Mars or Milky 37 Draft letters 72 Thesaurus Way 38 Head honcho 
entry: Abbr. 
14 Really, really 42 Blood-typing let-73 Big name in want ters printers 
15 Toiled in the 45 When repeated, 74 Goes up and galley a fish down and ... 
16 "I love," to Livy 
46 Hose woes 17 Old "Tonight 50 Loofah, e.g. DOWN Show" intra 54 Neighbor of 1 Connived 19 Transcript fig. 
Yemen 2 Vibrating effect 20 CPR giver 

55 "_girl!" 

3 Made of clay21 Have a late 56 Hymn start 
4"_Maria" 57 Fodder's place 
meal 
22 Unlit? 5 Many a teen's 58 Follower of room
24 Scale of mineral Zeno
hardness 6 Saint-_ 60 U-Haul rental (French resort)
26 Lions' lairs 62 Make public 7 Japanese 
29 Tee cry 63 Haw's partner drama
30 Zeno of 64 Women's tennis 8 Hold title to
31 Atmospheric region with a immortal 9 Half a score 39 Letterman den-47 In a friendly 59 Word that can "hole" 69 Historic period 1oBrayers com­tal feature manner follow the ends petitor of17-,31-,
40 Half a train? 48 1600's stargaz-
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 38-, 50-and
11 Supermarket er 
64-Across

helpers 41 Son of Seth 
49 "Z" makers, in 61 Blue shade
12 Current units comics
42 Makes ashamed 65 Place to put
..;,..t--:t-:::-t-:::+-:::-1 13 Lions, at times 
51 "Bali43 9-volt, e.g. 
gloss18 Self-defense 52 Wield authority

sport 44 Cushioned b6 Elected footrest 53 Dutch seaport officials
23 Son-gun link .:.::+,=+:+.::-.--:+:::+.=+::-! 25 Swedish auto 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
~~~~··· 27 Having a snack 
• 28 Snick-a-_ Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
32 Poet's preposi­-;-;-r--,.....,.., -=*--t-:-:-Br.:-1 tion Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.cornlcrosswords ($34.95 a year).
33 Laddie's love 
-':-+:+.::+.:::-! Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
.;.;.L.:::....&..;:...J..:;.J 35 Jazzman Zoot 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City _________ State ____ Zip________ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jessica Lange, Ryan O'Neal, Daniel Day-Lewis, Luther Yandross 
Happy Birthday: Your unique approach to everything will draw a lot of attention this year. Be deliberate in your actions and make the contributions that will have the greatest impact. Your lust for life and your ability to find suitable solutions will put you in a position to make advancements. Your numbers: 2, 6, 17, 26, 35,47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Your unique and original ideas may be blocked. Influential individuals may feel that you're ahead of your time. Don't get into debates that will damage your reputation. **** • TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is not the time to stir up trouble Take a break and try to get along with those you live with. You need to be more objective when dealing with the ones you love.** . GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Listen to those with experience to find out vital information. Don't push your opinions on friends. Make changes in your residence or get out and take part in physical activities. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Discussions with your emotional partner will end in undesirable changes. Do not force issues today. Financial concerns may be the root of your problems. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let others know where you stand. Keep your private affairs to yourself. You're more likely to be taken advantage of than helped. Your partner may be a little distant. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You need to be careful what you consume. Poor dietary habits will result in minor health problems. Get back to basics and stop any of those overindulgent habits you've picked up.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get out with your friends and get your mind off your troubles. Take part in activities that will make you feel better about yourself. Your ability to help others will be welcomed. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should be pushing your creative talents. Take the initiative to get yourself back into the swing of things. You need to do things you enjoy if you want to feel satisfied and happy. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Travel should be on your mind. Even short trips to visit friends or relatives will prove interesting and informative. You need to interact with others. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't put all your eggs in one basket. You'll find yourself out of luck if you have chosen a risky financial direction. You must not let others cost you money or borrow from you.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's time to stop taking all that tlak from others. Stand up for your rights and you'll feel better about yourself and your future. Changes are needed in order to turn things around. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be in an awkward position if you're in the middle of a dispute. Meddling will not prove beneficial. You are likely to lose the friend you thought you were helping. *** 
Birthday Baby: You'll be determined to do your own thing. Your stubborn nature will only meet with opposition if you don't manage to learn self-control and adaptability along the way. You will have the stamina and discipline to stick to anything you start and won't be swayed easily by others. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
.. 
PORTS
Tuesday, April20, 2004 
page 24 
ND SOFTBALL 

Non-conference foe Northwestern awaits 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
After two big wins in the Big East weekend, Notre Dame jumps outside the conference to face Big Ten foe Northwestern today in Evanston. 

The Irish (34-13, 8-0 Big East) are fresh off a sweep of Providence Sunday. Notre Dame won game one behind the arm of Heather Booth, as she pitched a shutout, good for a 1-0 Irish vic­tory. Sara Schoonaert was responsible for the lone Irish run, as she singled with the bases loaded. 
In the second game, Steffany Stenglein took the Irish on her back, as she gave up just one run, while striking out nine in six innings. llut the Irish managed seven runs, giving them the 7-1 victory at home. Schoonaert was explosive in the second game as well, going 3-for-3 with one RBI, and a home run short of hitting for the cycle. 
Besides Schoonaert, the Irish offense was led by Megan Ciolli. Ciolli finished 5-for-7 on the day with one RBI and one run scored. 
On the season, the Irish are led by Ciolli, who is hitting .404 with 14 RBI. Meagan Ruthrauff is next, as she is hitting .331 with nine home runs and 43 RBis. 
On the mound, Booth has 17-5 record with a 1.27 ERA and 162 strikeouts in 165 213 innings this season. Stenglein has an ERA of 1.72, and a record of 14-7, while striking out 129 batters in 126 1/3 innings. 
Meanwhile in the other dugout, the Wildcats (24-13, 7-5 Big Ten) sport a star pitcher of their own. 
Courtnay Foster was named Big Ten Pitcher of the Week last week, as she posted three wins and a save for Northwestern. Foster gave up just one run in 21 1/3 innings, while striking out 29 batters. She also shut out Penn State and struck out 14 in just seven innings of work. 
But Foster isn't the only Wildcat who has been hot of late. The entire Northwestern team went on a tear last week, win­ning all five of their games, including wins over Penn State, Ohio State and Loyola. 
The last time these two teams met, the Irish were swept away on their home field. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIII 
Chap scores 22 points in win 
points on us, but Brian Chap should be on the varsity team," Fencing's Tommy Forr said. "We've never seen a perform­ance like that in Bookstore before." 
The game started out close and ended close, with neither team able to mount anything larger than a three-point lead early. Chap's sharpshooting from the perimeter helped his team stay close, with Fencing leading 11-8 at the half. 
It was obvious what Fencing's halftime adjustment was -stop Chap from scoring at all costs. 
After Backloaded scored the first three points of the second half to tie the game at 11, Fencing applied a three-player trap to try and trap Chap in the corner. Chap was able to 
see CHAP/page 22 
Irish host in-state rival Boilermakers 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
The Irish return home to Frank Eck Stadium today fol­lowing a three-game sweep of conference rival Georgetown. The perfect weekend left the Irish tied for first atop the Big East conference standings with Rutgers, who also possesses a conference record of 11-2. · 

No. 4 Notre Dame (30-5, 11­
2) will play host to in-state rival Purdue (15-17, 6-6 in the Big Ten). The Boilermakers and Irish have a long history of competition, as Notre Dame leads the series 7 4-37-3, with the first matchup dating all the way back to 1894 -a 3-2 Boilermaker victory. 
The Irish have a stranglehold on the series in recent history, however, as Notre Dame is 11­2 in the last 13 meetings, including a 5-1 record against Purdue at Frank Eck Stadium. Last season, the Irish took an 8-5 victory from Purdue at the Eck. 
For the Boilermakers. this will be only their second non­conference game since April 2. Over that span, they split all 
-three of their four-game, Big Ten series with Penn State, 
see BOILERS/page 21 
FOOTBALL 

Receivers 
•

I:tnpress In spring 
McKnight, Stovall lead the way as young
. . 

recezvers zmprove 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 

Jeff Samardzija leaped between two defenders in the front corner of the end zone to snag a lofted touchdown pass Monday afternoon. Each defen­sive player and coach seemed to hold his breath as Samardzija took a hit and fell to the ground. They anticipated an incomple­tion due to the close coverage and ensuing collison. 
But the ball didn't move. 
Jeff Samardzija has been prac­ticing on the first-team offense alongside juniors Rhema McKnight and Maurice Stovall. Samardzija also plays baseball for the Irish, but he and other young receivers are a big reason the wide receiving corps could turn the sputtering pro-style offense of last season into a pro­ductive unit. 
"All of the younger guys have impressed me with their individ­ual skills," McKnight said. "Chase [Anastasio] is speedy, [Jeff] Samardzija can get more 
see RECEIVERS/page 22 

Senior mesmerizes opponents in OT victory Monday 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

In perhaps one ef the most exciting Bookstore Basketball games so far this year, Brian Chap had one of the most impressive individual perform­ances. 
Chap, an off-campus senior, scored 22 points and pitched in with numerous blocks and rebounds to help Kelly Basney's Inventory Is Backloaded to a hard-fought vi~tory over Craig's Fencing by the final score of 28-26. 
''I'm not just saying this because he scored so many 
... WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
NHl PlAYOFFS 
NBA PLAYOFFS 

NFL 
Nfl 
BOSTON MARATHON
en 
w

1-
(.) Notre Dame at 
Canadians 2 
Lakers 98 

Clarett Williams 
Patriots acquire 
Kenyan woman
z 

Northwestern 
Bruins 0 
Rockets 84 

ineligib~e for draft 
Corey Dillon 
wins third straight 
A U.S. federal court 
Catherine Ndereba
~ ::5 

Today, 4 p.m. 
Flames 3 
Spurs 87

== 
put a lower court's 
Dillon got his way as 
raced to a 16-second 
The No. 2 Irish try to 
Canucks 2 
Grizzlies 70 

ruling on hold, possibly 
the Bengals traded the 
margin victory. 

rebound from their first 
keeping the stars out of 
running back for a 
loss of the season. 
D.t;c 

the upcoming draft. 
second-round pick. 
en 
page 21 
page 17 
page 16 

page 15 
page 15 

page 14 






