
'I 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Solidarity debate sw-eeps catnpus 

Forum debates recognition, Catholic teaching 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Following a day-long, bright orange public pledge of gay/straight solidarity, mem­bers of the Notre Dame com­munity examined the policies of peer Catholic institution Boston College Thursday night as an example of progress made towards the acceptance of homosexuals on campus. · 
Michael Yaksich, Boston College's director of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender (GLBT) Issues, addressed approximately 130 students and faculty in DeBartolo Hall, explaining his college's stance towards gay/straight student organiza­tions and urging Notre Dame to follow suit. 

"It is the Catholic obligation to provide love and suppm·t for all ·-especially the least among us," Yaksich said as he described the mission of Allies, Boston College's gay/straight alliance that was granted full recognition in April. "At Boston College, we've found • MATIHEW SMEDBERG!The Observer 
Gay Straight Alliance leader Joe Dickmann speaks to Michael Yaksich, Boston College's director see PANEL/ page 9 of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Issues, during dinner at South Dining Hall Thursday. 

Students react to shirt campaign 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
On Thursday, talk about "the shirt" likely referred not to the popular kelly green number worn by students and fans during Notre Dame _foot­ball games, but to a project sponsored by the unofficial Gay/Straight Alliance (GSA), also known as "United in Diversity," to promote increased tolerance of homo­sexual students on campus. 
Hundreds of students sport­ed the bright orange shirts bearing the slogan "Gay? Fine by me," and GSA esti­mates that it sold 1,600 of them in the past few days. 
"This is a milestone event because it lets the supporters show who they are and lets everyone else -gay and straight, in or out -see who they are and how many they are," GSA leader Joe Dickmann said. 
Dickmann started the cam­paign in response to a survey conducted by the Princeton Review that ranked Notre Dame first in a list of 3 51 col-
see SHIRT/page 4 

Student remains in hospital after fall 

By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Senior Staff Writer 
The Notre Dame student who fell from a second-floor balcony during a St. Patrick's Day party at the College Park apartment com­plex remains hospitalized, and six students who were arrested during the party have been released from jail on bonds ranging from $150 to $250. 
A spokesperson at St. Joseph Hegional Medical Center said Mike Seiler, a Notre Dame senior and College Park resident, remains in stable condition at the hospital, where he was transported by ambu­lance Wednesday after the fall. 

St. Joseph County Police Spokesperson Jaimee Thirion said six students were arrested during the party and police detained two more students who did not cooperate with officers. Police released both students without arresting them, but sent a report on one student to the prosecutor's office, who will determine whether or not to file charges. 
Keough freshman Michael 
see BUST/page 8 

Wave of thefts at SDH continues 
By KATE GALES 
News Writer 
The recent thefts in South Dining Hall have continued, as NDSP reported that two back­packs were stolen from the lobby Wednesday night. 
In a Feb. 23 article in The Observer, officials from Notre . Dame Security/Police described a wave of thefts occurring at the Hesburgh Library and South Dining Hall. 
"There had been kind of a dropoff, but that isn't to say that Ithe perpetratorsI have completely stopped," NDSP Assistant Director Phil Johnson said. He said that the investiga­tion into the crime,s would con­tinue. 
"Between Feb. 23 and now, students were on break for a week, and that period was rela­tively quiet," Johnson said. "[Wednesday], we had two 
cases where bookbags were taken at the South Dining Hall." NDSP has taken steps to pro­tect students and their property. 
. "At the library, for example, we've encouraged people not to leave their materials unattend­ed," Johnson said. He said that NDSP, as well as students, would "work with library staff to be on the alert for suspicious activity." 
see THEFTS/page 6 


Revelers ejected from DeBartolo 
By SHEILA FLYNN Senior Staff Writer 
Approximately 40 to 50 stu­dents carrying a banner, play­ing instruments and singing in a makeshift St. Patrick's Day parade Wednesday were eject­ed from DeBartolo Hall and North Dining Hall, some receiving citations from Notre Dame Security/Police, said students and University offi­cials. 
"I don't know how we came up with the parade," said sen­ior Paul Daday, who organized the unofficial event with his 
see PARADE/ page 8 


Friday, March 19, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Faithful citizenship 
Although it is a Friday and like me you are probably wishing it were still spring break or already summer break, I just want to share a few thoughts that have been on my mind 
Sofia Bailon
for the past week. 
I attended the CSC Seminar on Photographer Faithful Citizen­ship and the Upcoming Election in Washington 
D.C. for spring break. Although I did not return to campus with a tan, I certainly had a great experi­ence and learned lots from the places I visited in your nation's capital. I'm not from the U.S., I'm from the wonderful country of Peru -where there are llamas, but we don't ride them by the way. 
On Wednesday of last week, we observed a Senate session. The issue being debated was an amendment for yet another increase of the military budget. While the amendment was being presented and refuted, there were barely any senators in the room. 
When it was finally time to vote they started entering the room. I was amazed seeing how easy it was for the great majority of sena­tors to give a thumbs-up to the secretary recording the votes. Some of which were seemingly just becoming aware of the issue being voted on by talking to members of their party. 
I acknowledge it is only my for­eign-national-bird's-eye-view of the situation, but after visiting several organizations that explained how many Americans live in poverty and how much a small fraction of the military budget could help not only these poor but those all over the world, I certainly did not feel at ease wit­nessing how the politicians were amending the billions as if these were peanuts. 
Yet, I did become aware of many positive things during the Seminar. I learned about the opportunities organizations and individuals have to participate in the U.S. govern­ment. Of how one can lobby or campaign for what one believes in. Of how several people in many nations, especially college-aged students have attained important socio-political changes by peaceful means. 
I guess I just want to remind you of the possibilities you all have to affect a change. 
Be it by voting, contacting your representatives, participating at a rally or a protest, joining an organization that fights for what you believe in or becoming more aware of the issues at stake at home and around the world. The possibilities are many; don't let the decisions be made by others. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Sofia Bailon at sballon@nd.edu. 
CORRECTION 
Due to an editing error in Thursday's issue, a quote was left out ofthe hockey story in the sports section. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS CURRENTLY YOUR FAVORITE MUSICAL ARTIST(S)? 





Caitlin Efta Valerie Efta Liz McCorry Mary Ann Lukeman Sarah Schneider Teresa Blackwell 
Sophomore Sophomore Junior Freshman Senior Senior PW PW Off-Campus Walsh Off-Campus Welsh Family 
nMedeski, nRooney. ,, "'Rufus ..Fountains of ··rhe ""Ludacris. ,, 
,,

Martin and Wainwright.,, Wayne. ., Stereophonics. 
Wood'' 


Jamey Stillings, a professional photographer from Santa Fe, N.M., shown here with photography professor Richard Gray, visited Notre Dame this week for a lec­ture with art students and a photography workshop with the studio photography class. 
OFFBEAT 

Couple arrested in fight after watching "The Passion" 
STATESBORO, Ga. -A couple who got into a dis­pute over a theological point after watching "The Passion of the Christ" were arrested after the argument turned violent. 
The two left the movie the­ater debating whether God the Father in the Holy Trinity was human or sym­bolic, and the argument heated up when they got home, Melissa Davidson said. 
"It was the dumbest thing we've ever done," she said. Davidson, 34, and her hus­band, Sean Davidson, 33, 
were charged with simple battery on March 11 after the two called police on each other. They were released on $1,000 bail. 
According to a police report, Melissa Davidson suffered injuries on her arm and face, while her husband had a scissors stab wound on his hand and his shirt was ripped off. He also allegedly punched a hole in a wall. 
Baby discovers battery worth $100,000 
BREWSTER, N.Y. -The D'Onofrios keep their tele­phones out of the reach of 21-month-old Billy, since he likes to push the buttons and make random calls. There's tape over the television con­trols to keep him from changing the channel. 
But the boy's inquisitive nature is no longer consid­ered a problem since he opened the battery compart­ment on the television remote and uncovered a purple battery worth $100,000. 
The AAA Duracell was one of 12 labeled "winners" that the manufacturer had slipped into packages as part of a promotional cam­paign. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::z:: 
~ 
LLI 

~ 
...I 
c:r: 
(.) 


47 41 

41 
37 


49 27 

0 
HIGH 33

...I 
LOW 19 
IN BRIEF 

Looking for something free to do? Comedian Dat Phan is per­forming at 7 p.m. tonight in O'Laughlip Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Dat Phan was the win­ner of NBC's Last Comic Standing this past fall. The event is free and open to the public. Student comedians will open. 
Student Union Board will show the movie TimeJine tonight and Saturday at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. in DeBartolo 
101. Admission costs $3. 

Professional comedian Ty Barnett will perform a set tonight at 10 p.m. in Legends. The event is free. 
O'Neill Hall will hold its Miss ND pageant Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Participants from Notre Dame's women's dorms will vie for the title. 
The Bhangra Blast. spon­sored by the Indian Association will be held Saturday from 9 
p.m. to 2 a.m. at the Center for ­Social Concerns. The event will feature Indian food, Bhangra music and dancing and free prizes. Admission is $5 and all proceeds will be denoted to charity to provide education and healthcare for poor Indian children. 
McGlinn Hall will hold its annual Casino Night from 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m. Saturday in the South Dining Hall. A raffie will occur at 1:30 a.m. The event costs $5. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

46 38 
Friday, March 19, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Counseling Center assists students 
Employees help students to overcome "perfectionist" mentality 
are the main factors associated 
By JENNIFER ROWLING 
with the increase of stress­
News Writer 
related disorders, according to Bowden. The University 
Notre Dame, a small, private, Counseling Center can assist highly competitive University, is students with better managing comprised of students apt to stress before further problems suffer from disorders related to arise by teaching relaxation stress and a demanding sched­training, box breathing, medita­ule, Pre-Doctoral Counseling tion and adequate scheduling. Psychology intern Helen Other disorders commonly Bowden said. Consequently, seen as a result of the highly 
The  University  competitive atmos­ 
Counseling Cen­ter is working efficiently to assist students with the stress­related mental  "People are like cars, ifyou don 't have oil changes [they are} going to  phere students face include eating dis­orders, obsessive compulsive disor­der, alcohol and substance abuse  
illnesses surfac­ break down. "  and  depression.  
ing on campus.  The results from  
Bowden said Notre Dame stu­dents presented  Helen Bowden Psychology Intern  students complet­ing the intake test at the University  

a wider range of problems related to stress and competition than students she saw at a large lib­eral University where she worked previously. 
Bowden recognizes the "per­fectionist" mentality of the Notre Dame student and under­stands their vulnerability as she reflected on the makeup of the student body -80 percent of students were captains of ath­letic teams, they have an aver­age SAT score of 1380 and 25 percent of students are lega­cies. If the pressures aren't coming from parents or peers, students themselves are feeling guilty when they are not pro­ductive every minute, she said. 
"People are like cars. if you don't have oil changes, [they are] going to break down," she said. 
Stresti and time management Counseling Center 
indicated that 15 percent scored above the threshold for eating disorders and 20 percent for alcohol and substance abuse. 
Fortunately, The University Counseling Center provides assistance for all of these disor­ders. Students begin by meeting individually with a counselor or psychologist for a confidential session. Then a specifically­focused group is recommended: Obsessive Compulsive Disorders, Not the Perfect Family, Eating Disorder, Interpersonal Effectiveness or Alcohol Abuse. These group­counseling sessions aid individ­uals in realizing that they are not alone; members assist and learn from one another. · 
''Feel Better Fast" focuses on students suffering from depres­sion. Sleeping and eating are the two issues this program stresses because they can be directly associated with decreased serotonin levels and depression. In order to produce adequate serotonin levels, food should be eaten every 4 hours and adequate sleep is neces­sary. Statistics indicate that most students eat only two meals a day, and Bowden said that she believes students often stay up too late. 
Bowden says. "I haven't heard as many students staying up late as [I have] here. Most students stay up until 2 a.m. every evening." 
Another unique program the Counseling Center offers is "Performance Enhancement" which focuses on stages of enhancing performance includ­ing attention focus. goal setting, peak performance and arousal management. 
The Counseling Center sees students with a variety of disor­ders throughout the year; how­ever, during the winter, depres­sion is at its high point. Times of increased student stress lev­els are seen when students are going home for break and towards the end of a semester, Bowden said. 
Due to the nature of the Notre Dame student, there is high probability for concern. Bowden said that if students are or know others who are suffering from any kind of dis­order, they should seek help at the Counseling Center. She noted that a few moments of time mav avert a more serious issue later. 
Contact Jennifer Rowling at rowling.2@nd.edu 


Comedian Dat Phan to visit SMC 
for Women's Intercultural

By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Leadership.
Senior StaffWriter 
"Comedians are always a 
great draw here at Saint 

Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Mary's, and we as a board Auditorium will adapt to a thought it would be a great makeshift comedy club tonight opportunity to bring a big as the College hosts stand-up name to campus," said Lauren comedian Dat Phan, recently Fabina, SAB spirit chairper­named NBC's Last Comic son. Standing. Board president Becca Doll 
Since earning the recognition added the event will provide in August, Phan has equal publicity appeared on the for both Saint Tonight Show with Mary's and
"He seems really

Jay Leno, taped his Phan's career. own special airing interested in our "He seems on Comedy Central college really interested and launched a in our college
community . . . " 

national tour. community, Combined, these which is always endeavors have Becca Doll encouraging," made Phan a rec­SAB Chairman she said. 
ognized name in his industry and illus­trate a primary reason behind the request for him to perform on campus. 
"I met Oat in New York this fall ... he is very excited about coming to Saint Mary's," said Richard Baxter, director of special events. "He enjoys per­forming at colleges and has been quite generous with his time, wherever he goes." 
Baxter first conceived of the idea to bring Phan to campus after receiving contact from an agent with whom he formerly worked. He then approached the College's Student Activities Board for co-sponsorship and assistance in funding the event. Board members sought additional sponsorship from the Pacific-Asian Club, Multi­Cultural Events, Student Diversity Board and the Center 
In addition to 
his main stage performance at 7 p.m., Phan will meet with a playwriting class and eat dinner with members of CWIL and PAC to discuss his Vietnamese­American upbringing. He also plans to join students at Midnight Madness in the Angela Athletic Facility follow­ing his routine. 
"We feel lucky to be able to set the pace for his career." Doll said. "When you show people a good time, they are likely to give back in the future. He will talk to others and continue to give Saint Mary's a good reputation, encouraging other budding names to venture to South Bend." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 

Houses for Rent 
It's not too late to find quality houses close to campus for the 2004-2005 school year Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 574-532-1895 
Quality 


Diamonds 
--~ ·····•·•••••••••n••••••­


'"----··························· 

Jol1n NI~ 1v1arshall's 
In<:o~rated L65 

lewelers /Gemologists Gofdstniths I Platinumsmiths 
Key Bank Buildin_g, Strite # 101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 


Tuesday, March 23rd 


offee and Conversation 
ForGay, lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
(and every third Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
287--1427 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
THE !iiiTANDING 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
COMMITT~I[ ON GAY AND L.Es!IIAN SITIIDI:NT I'IIEEDS 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 19, 2004 
Shirt 
continued from page 1 
leges and universities where alternative lifestyles are not an alternative. It also served to bring attention to the Office of Student Affairs March 4 decision to deny the GSA officially recognized club status. 
On Tuesday, Father Mark Poorman, Vice President for Student Affairs, ·wrote a fol­low-up letter of response, a copy of which was obtained by The Observer. 
''I'm sure that the students are disappointed with the decision 
the Student

by 
"There·s a pretty
Activities Office to deny recognition common stereotype of the group as a 
that Notre Dame is 
student club," 
a closed minded ...
Poorman wrote, 
adding that while school. Obviously. there is no formal by all the people appeal process in 
you see today that
place for the club 
to pursue, he and isn't true at all. •• Dr. David Moss, direct supervisor 
Margaret Bernardin 
in the Office of 
sophomore

Student Affairs for the Student Activities Office, 
positive exchange. 
"There's a pretty common stereotype that Notre Dame is a closed minded ... school," said Margaret Bernardin, a sophomore who wore the shirt Thursday. "Obviously, by all the people you see today that isn't true at·all." 
Jessica Freeman, a junior, said that she chose to wear the shirt to support some friends who participated in the campaign and to increase the profile of the issue on campus. 
"I had friends who were passing out the t-shirts and I wanted to support them and their efforts to help get sup­port from the University," she 
said. "It brings awareness to the general stu­dent." 
A majority of students, how­ever, did not participate in the project. Some supported the effort but were not aware of it before today, while others .said that they believed efforts to pro­mote the estab­lishment of a 

Catholics] believe." Other students supported 

SMC prepares for
the project but said they were not aware that anything of the sort was being planned and were confused about why 

Midnight Madness 
Thursday was chosen. 
"I think it's a good thing," said freshman Kyle Rokita. "I haven't heard that much about why today." 
Dickmann said that many students were unaware of the project in advance. 
"I discovered that in a lot of cases, people had no idea until they woke up and saw the orange," he said, adding that he received positive feed­back throughout the day ask­ing where more shirts could be ordered. The group has tentatively planned another demonstration for mid-April. 
University spokesman Matt Storin declined to discuss what impact the campaign might have on Notre Dame's policies or if the number of students involved in the cam­paign surprised administra­tors. 
Students, however, had their own opinions. 
"So far the University hasn't been too responsive to what we say so I don't think this will have any effect at all but I hope it will," Bernardin said. 
Freeman shared her opin­ion. 
"Besides [generating] Viewpoint letters I doubt it [will affect change]," she said. 
Claire Heininger con­tributed to this report. 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's students have expressed excitement at the annual Midnight Madness fes­tivities that will take place tonight from 9:45 p.m. until 
1:30 a.m. 
Students are also invited to watch the Winter Intramural Championships, an annual prelude to the Midnight Madness that pits classes against each other in various activities and sporting events. The intramural competitions will occur in Angela Athletic Facility from 8 until 10 p.m., and the Athletic department will announce the champions at the conclusion of the games. 
At 9:45 p.m. the doors to Angela Athletic Facility close and Midnight Madness offi­cially begins. 
This year's Midnight Madness theme is "Behind the Madness", a concept that has inspired many new decora­tions and opening festivities. 
"Students should expect to see new versions of some of their favorite relay races like the Obstacle Course and Sports Relay," co-head of the Midnight Madness committee Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl said. 
Other events planned 
The Saint Mary's dance team and cheerleading squad will perform, along with a presen­tation by the senior class board. 
Some of the more notable aspects of Midnight Madness include prizes awarded to stu­dents throughout the evening. This year's grand prize, which is provided by the Student Activities Office, is a trip to Chicago with a night in a hotel and money for shopping. Other prizes to will include electronics, number one room picks for each class, various Saint Mary's items from the bookstore and cash prizes. 
A highlight of this year's event will be the unveiling of the Saint Mary's fight song. which will be presented by a chorus of Saint Mary's women. The song will be revealed at the beginning of the evening. 
The Midnight Madness Committee is made up of about 20 women and is head­ed by Jablonski-Diehl and Shay Jolly. Both have been working to organize the event since August and said they promise an evening full of fun, food and prizes. 
The event is also open to Holy Cross and Notre Dame students, who will be eligible to win prizes and participate in all of the activities. 

would welcome a continued dialogue. 
However, he cautioned stu­dents against "unrealistic expectations about the likeli­hood of a change in the deci­sion about recognition." 
Students who chose to wear the "Gay? Fine by me" shirts expressed hope that their efforts would bring about 
University sponsored homo­sexual club ran counter to Notre Dame's Catholic tradi­tion. 
"I have nothing against someone who is gay," sopho­more Chris Brophy said. "I recognize that being gay is not a choice, but I think these t-shirts glorify a lifestyle con­tradictory to what we [as 
include sumo wrestling, free 
Contact Andrew Thagard at 
throw shots, tug-of-war, mad Contact Kelly Meehan at 
athagard@nd.edu 
dashes and balloon bursts. kmeehaO I @saintmarys.edu 

S,tt~sll't4 Ill' fhe Curtlrfir SHial Ct"""'s ~U lf741U1-J2U ftr llllt'l ilfll'lllatit" Ct-tpllllltR4 llv: AbrMis Chair tf Jewish Thtlfht J c.lttrt.ThulttY .llwiih Fderatiltl tf St. J'"ph Vallcv Jtu '-Krtc INtifm ftr "'1V"Itiltlal FtaN Sttlles Office tf C1111pt1 Mbdstry Allltrica" ltHits Pqt. Cuttr fir £thltiJCllhrt 
Chd•n" 1 Pd'""ft"4 Cathtlic l'uct FtiiiWihl, l¥t111h1J 

Join Tlkkun JMagazlne editor Mlchaell.erner as he explores a new holistic politics that ahtts to transforttt the political vision beyond left-rightdivisions and the cynical realisttt that guides Attterlcat1 political discourse. 
S:OO p.ttt ® 101 PeJartolo Hall, Notre PatMe
fhursdav~ 1:30 p.ttt ® Cottttttut~ity Cet~ter Jewish Federatiot1 of St. Joseph Valley 3202 ShalotM Way, South Jet1d
March 25 




Friday, March 19, 2004 CoMPilED FROM TI-·-IE OBsERVER'S \.YIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Five more arrested in Spain attack 
MADRID, Spain -Police arrested five more people in the Madrid train bombings as the death toll rose Thursday to 202, making the blasts -along with the 2002 Bali nightclub blasts -the worst terrorist strike since the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States. 
The arrests brought to 11 the total sus­pects in Spanish custody and came as the country marked a week since the bomb­ings that shocked Europe, led to a stunning election defeat for the government and roiled Madrid's relations with the United States. 
The latest arrests added to suspicions Moroccan extremists linked to Islamic ter­rorism were behind the Madrid bombings. At least three of the five suspects arrested Wednesday and Thursday are Moroccan nationals, according to a Moroccan official. 
South Korea cancels troop dispatch 
SEOUL, South Korea -South Korea on Friday scrubbed plans to send troops to the northern Iraqi city of Kirkuk, citing U.S. pressure to participate in "offensive opera­tions," but it said the promised 3,600 forces will be sent to a different location to help rebuild the country. 
The dispatch, making South Korea the biggest coalition partner after the United States and Britain, had been scheduled to come as early as next month. But Friday's decision means the mission might be delayed. 
The move comes as other allies in the Iraq coalition reconsider their contributions. Spain's new government threatened to pull out its forces shortly after winning elections Sunday, following terrorist bombings in Madrid. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Fresno slayer's arraignment delayed 
FRESNO, Calif. -Marcus Wesson's arraignment on charges he murdered nine of his children was delayed Thursday for a second time to give him more time to hire an attorney. 
Wesson, 57, appeared in court with lawyer David Mugridge, who said he was still trying to determine if he'll represent Wesson, pending verification of his ability to pay. 
The arraignment was rescheduled for next Thursday. 
Wesson has been charged with nine counts of murder. The victims he allegedly shot to death included children ages 1 to 17, as well as his 25-year-old daughter, who was also the mother of one of the slain infants. 
Lesbian minister defends status 
BOTHELL, Wash. -A Methodist minister on trial for declaring herself a lesbian said Thursday that God called her into the min­istry, "and I just can't believe that God makes a mistake." 
The Rev. Karen Dammann, 4 7, has been charged with violating church law by living in a homosexual relationship, which United Methodist Church law says is incompatible with Christian teachings. She has pleaded not guilty and is being tried before a jury of 13 pastors. 
Nine votes are needed for conviction, which could mean a loss of ministry. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Ball State killing suspect arrested 
INDIANAPOLIS -U.S. marshals on Thursday arrested a man wanted on a mur­der charge in a Ball State University stu­dent's March 7 shooting death in Muncie. 
Damien Sanders, 22, of Muncie, had been sought since shortly after the killing of 20­year-old Karl Harford of Carmel. Two others already had been arrested. 
Muncie officials got a tip that Sanders was at an Indianapolis hotel, said Terry Winters, Muncie's deputy chief of police, and called the U.S. Marshals Service in Indianapolis. 
PAKISTAN 

Top terrorist target surrounded 
Al-Qaida second-in-command al-Zawahri believed to be cornered in Pakistan 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD -Pakis­
tani forces believe they 
have cornered and per­
haps wounded Osama bin 
Laden's deputy, Ayman al­
Zawahri, in a major battle 
near the Afghan border, 
an. area where many 
believe the world's most 
wanted terrorist has been 
hiding, three senior 
Pakistani officials said 
Thursday. 

Pakistan President Gen. 
Pervez Musharraf said a 
"high value" target was 
believed trapped in South 
Waziristan, a semi­
autonomous tribal belt 
that has resisted outside 
intervention for centuries. 
Hundreds of troops and paramilitary rangers pounded several fortress­like mud-brick compounds with artillery and fired on them from helicopter gun­ships, as entrenched sus­pects fought back hard. An intelligence official said "dozens" were killed Thursday. 
At least 41 people-15 soldiers and 26 suspected militants -were killed earlier this week in fight­ing in the area. . 
The officials told The Associated Press that intelligence indicated the forces had surrounded the offered a $2 5 million account. All spoke on con­fighters entrenched il). Egyptian-born al-Zawahri reward for information dition of anonymity. fortress-like buildings, and in an operation that began leading to al-Zawahri's The intelligence official that there were indications Tuesday, the first major capture. On Thursday, the said information was also a senior figure was sur­break in the world's most U.S. House of coming from some of the rounded. intense manhunt in more Representatives ,doubled 18 suspects captured dur­"He's reasonably sure than a year. the reward for bin Laden's ing Thursday's operation. there's a high-value target 
The region has long capture to $50 million. Some said during interro­there," Musharraf said. been considered the most ..We have been receiving gation that al-Zawahri "They are not coming out likely hiding place for the intelligence and informa­was wounded in the raid, in spite of the fact that we top two al-Qaida leaders tion from our agents who the official said. Officials pounded them with -but there was no indi­are working in the tribal said helicopter gunships artillery." cation bin Laden was with areas that al-Zawahri and artUlery would contin­The news came the same al-Zawahri. However, the could be among the people ue attacking at dawn day as Secretary of State two have traveled together hiding there," a Pakistani Friday. Colin Powell announced in in the past, and bin Laden military official said. "All Musharraf told CNN that the capital, Islamabad, and al-Zawahri appeared of our efforts are to cap­he'd spoken with the com­that Washington was jointly in video tapes ture him." mander of Pakistani bestowing the status of released shortly after the An intelligence official troops in the region. He ..major non-NATO ally" on Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on and a senior politician in said the commander Pakistan, and praised the the United States. Musharraf's government reported "fierce resist­country for its help in the 
The United States has both confirmed the ance" from a group of war on terror. 

SERBIA-MONTENEGRO 
Violence, rioting erupt in Kosovo 
keepers promised to respond to provo­Wednesday when ethnic Albanians 
Associated Press 

cations with a level of force not used blamed Serbs for the drownings of two 
PRISTINA, Serbia-Montenegro -here in the past. children, have killed at least 31 people Ethnic Albanians torched Serb homes Some peacekeepers were already and injured hundreds, officials said. and churches Thursday as Kosovo con­carrying out the orders, shooting and The bloodshed underscored the bitter vulsed in a second day of rioting. The wounding protesters who used violence divisions that have polarized Kosovo's worst violence since the province's war in clashes Thursday, said Col. Horst mostly Muslim ethnic Albanians, who ended in 1999 has killed at least 31 Pieper, the chief NATO spokesman in want independence from Serbia, and people and injured hundreds. Kosovo. The number of injured peace­Orthodox Christian Serbs, a minority in 
Serbian nationalists set mosques keepers rose to 51 since clashes began Kosovo who consider the province their elsewhere on fire and threatened to Wednesday. ancient homeland. retaliate with "slaughter and death." "The soldiers ... will not tolerate The violence, which spilled beyond NATO sent reinforcements to quell ten­those who seek to cause harm," said Kosovo's borders into the Serbian sion~ in the U.N.-run province and ease U.S. Brig. Gen. Rick Erlandson said in a heartland, also dealt the Bush adminis­the threat of renewed conflict in the statement. "My soldiers will immediate­tration a potential setback in efforts to volatile Balkans. ly and forcefully stop anyone who vio­reduce the number of peacekeepers in 
Stung by the lawlessness that have lates the rule of law." the Balkans and redeploy them to Iraq, left Serb enclaves here in ruins, peace-The clashes, which began Afghanistan and other hotspots. 


page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, March 19, 200 
Thefts 
continued from page I 
The SafeWalk organization, a group that escorts students back to their dormitory rooms late at night, is also on the alert for irregular behavior. 
"If you look at the kind of crime that occurs on campus," said Johnson, ''the most com­mon is larceny, or theft, and it's almost always of unattended property." 
For security reasons, Johnson declined to give specifics of the ongoing investigation. He said that some items have been recovered and returned to their owners, but encouraged stu­dents to report all thefts to the NDSP. . 
''We'd really still like to know about these crimes so we have an accurate picture of what's going on [around] campus and know how to assign resources," he said. · 
among community members is to keep track of their property," he said. 
He also encouraged students to report strange behavior. 
"If you're going around cam­pus and see suspicious activity, think things aren't right, give us a call." 
At South Dining Hall, students leave their belongings unat­tended outside, providing crimi­nals with easy targets. Few choose to take advantage of the free lockers available down­stairs. 
"Obviously people feel very safe, which is a great thing, but why leave temptation for peo­ple?" Johnson said. 
He also noted that many stu­dents do not lock the doors of their dorm rooms -another place valuables are stored. 
''People who lose their 10, wallet or credit cards have to be aware of having the infor­mation used for identity theft or financial fraud crimes," Johnson said. "It doesn't mean 
AFGHANISTAN 
Two American soldiers killed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Two Amer­ican soldiers were killed and two others were wounded in fighting Thursday in central Afghanistan, the U.S. military said. 
At least five attackers were killed in the battle, officials said. 
In a brief statement, U.S. Central Command said the American soldiers were accompanied by troops of the Afghan National Army when they were attacked by "anti­coalition militia" in a village near Tarin Kowt. 
The Americans were not identified by name or military unit. 
Because of the location, the fighting did not appear to be directly related to reports that a senior member of the al-Qaida terrorist network, possibly Ayman al-Zawahri, 
had  been  cornered  by  
Pakistani forces  near  the  
Afghan border.  

The battle in which the two Americans were killed hap­pened in Oruzgan province on Thursday afternoon, the Central Command statement said. After being fired upon, the American soldiers fired back, killing at least five and wounding an undetermined number of others, the state­ment said. 
The wounded Americans were evacuated to Kandahar airfield for treatment. The extent of their injuries was not disclosed. Their names were being withheld until rel­atives could be notified. 
Central Command called the attackers "terrorists" but did not elaborate. Pentagon offi­cials said there was no indi­cation that they were part of al-Qaida. 
The two soldiers' deaths raised to 114 the number of American troops who have died in Operation Enduring Freedom, as the war in Afghanistan is called by the military, which started in October 2001. 


Johnson emphasized the importance of students moni­toring their personal belong­ings. 
"The first line of defense 


that it will be used, but the pos­sibility exists." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
The studetrt's #I choice in OFF-CAMPUS housing! 
wJt.'J·v.turtle£~reektul.com 
574-272-8124 


2046 South Bend Ave. 272-1766 Open for lunch, dinner, and late night fun. 
There is always action at Bookmakers. Watch all your favorite sporting events on 14 screens. 
Tuesday: Every Tues. is ND Night. DJ, and specials starting at $1.00 all day long. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17. MAKE BOOKMAKER'S PUB YOUR ST. PATRICK'S DAY HEADQUARTERS. 
Friday: Live entertainment with Junior and the Ignitors Saturday: Come hear Funky Blues Institute . .. 
l7Je~~oadtzed 
Notre Dame Graduation Announcements 
Unli111ited Nlin 
~PREMIER
f< US.Cellular. 
* LOCATIONS'

AUTHORIZED AGENT Motorola C343 
University of lVotreDame 


Phone, maU orfax orders: Jostens Attn: PGS Order Processing 148 E. Broadway Owatonna, MN 55060 1-800-854-7464 Fax: 1-800-655-5725 
Place orders in person on: Tuesday and Wednesday, March 23 and 24 LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room 9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
Li~nited Ti~ne! 
MISHAWAKA 514 W. McKinley Corner McKinley & Grape 574.252.5820 
SOUTH BEND 117 North Main 1 blk. south of Colfax 574.288.9450 
4615 Miami Road Miami & Ireland 574.299.2860 

*Airtime offer valid m two year cmSIIllfJ service agreements of $39.~ and hi!J'lrJ. Promotimal P,one subjeCt to change. ~1me pricing includes a $30 mail-in rebate. CustanrJ is rBSpoosible for all sales taxes Re!ilced access fee valid tor frst 3months of 24 month Swice Agreement ffee Incoming Minutes available 1n local callng area mly Night and weelwnd minutes are valid M F 9 pn to 5·59 lll1 and all day Saturday and Sunday Ni!,llt and weekE!Id minutBS are availablf~ in local calling area only Ortion ri 300l Nights and Weekend Minutes. with a7 pn start time. is ONLY good on the prunoiM:mal rate pia~ ol $39.95 f!l llXXJ minutes. Roaming chargBS. fees. surcharges and taxBS may apply Actlvatim tee $30 All sm ICe agreements Stbltcl to oo ~rly tem1inall0fl tee Other restnctims may apply See store for details Linuted lime olf£J 
OFFER EXPIRES MARCH 31. 2004 
-~ 

Friday, March 19, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
}ones4'.10,295.78 -4.52 
Same: ~: 
1,462 177 

AMEX 
NASDAQ 
NYSE 
S&PSOO 
Composite Volume • 1,334,412,928 
1,248.56  +9. 76  
1,962.44  -14.32  
6,561.17  -6.55  
1,122.32  -1.43  

NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,457.56 -26.72 fTSf IOO(London) 4,397.90 · -58.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.96 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.12 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.03 CISCO SYs:r:EMS (CSCO) -1.04 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -2.80 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.08 I 0-YEAR NOTE + 1.79 5-YEAR NOTE +2.77 3-MONTH BILL -0.11 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($fTroy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
-0.24  24.89  
-0.59  27.20  
-0.24  I 1.61  
-0.33  23.17  
-0.12  4.16  
+0.50  46.95  
+0.66  37.49  
+0.73  27.13  
-0.01  9.17  
-0.23  37.39  
+4.20  411.30  
+3.00  101.075  

Excha e Rates 

YEN I06.9 EURO 0.8076 POUND 0.5455 
IN BRIEF 
Stocks react to terrorist capture 
NEW YORK -Wall Street stumbled lower Thursday as investors wrestled with mixed economic data and news that Pakistani troops had cornered a key al-Qaida leader. Tech shares were dragged down by Microsoft's antitrust problems in Europe. 
Stocks tottered in and out of positive territo­ry after Pakistani officials said forces had sur­rounded Osama bin Laden's top lieutenant, Ayman al-Zawahri, and possibly wounded him in a battle near the Afghan border. 
But while the news temporarily checked selling momentum after two sessions of gains, it could not fully stanch the market's down­ward trend. 
Investor confidence continues to sag on con­cerns about the sluggish job market, listless bond yields, inflationary pressures and politi­cal uncertainty at home and abroad. 
"There are some who believe we've had a classic 10 percent correction and that this is a good buying opportunity, but I tend to think we'll see the market correct a bit more" said Michael Palazzi, managing director of equity trading at SG Cowen Securities. 
U.S. charges China before WTO 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration announced Thursday that it was filing the first trade case against China before the World Trade Organization, charging that the Asian country is using its tax code to unfairly dis­criminate against American semiconductor manufacturers. 
The action, the first case brought against China by any country since it joined the WTO in late 2001, is another step in the administra­tion's effort to show it is taking action to deal with America's surging trade deficit with China, which last year hit $124 billion, the largest trade gap the United States has ever recorded with any nation. 
The U.S. trade complaint, announced by Trade Representative Robert Zoellick, con­tends that China is violating WTO rules against discriminatory treatment by providing a preferential tax rate for integrated computer circuits produced in China that is much lower than the tax paid by U.S. and other foreign companies. 
EU, Microsoft settlement fails 
E U leaders announced plans to sanction Microsoft Corp. over antitrust charges 
Associated Press 

BRUSSELS, Belgium ­
The European Union 
announced its intention 
Thursday to sanction 
Microsoft Corp. after the 
software giant balked at 
demands that could have 
prevented it from adding 
new features to future ver­
sions of Windows -a 
restriction it avoided in the 
landmark U.S. antitrust 
case. 

Frenzied settlement talks 
that accelerated this week 
with the arrival of Microsoft 
chief executive Steve 
Ballmer in Brussels col­
lapsed over the EU's insis­
tence on a broad deal in 
exchange for allowing 
Microsoft to avoid being 
found guilty of monopolistic 
behavior. 

EU Competition Comm­issioner Mario Monti said he would now proceed with a precedent-setting ruling against the world's largest software company on Wednesday. The EU also plans to hit Microsoft with a fine expected to reach hun­dreds of millions of dollars. 
"We made substantial progress toward resolving the problems that had aris­en in the past, but we were unable to agree on commit­ments for future conduct," Monti said. "It was impossi­ble to achieve a satisfactory result in terms of setting a precedent." 
Hours later, Ballmer said he believed the issues in the current case -involving digital media players and the server software market -had been resolved. 
"But we were unable to agree on principles for new issues that could arise in the future," he said in a state­ment. 
Microsoft lawyers said the company would appeal any negative decision to European courts. 
An EU order could force Microsoft to make costly changes in its software ­potentially on a global scale -in a matter of months unless it wins a suspension from the court pending appeal, which can take years. 

European Competition Commissioner Mario Monti announces that the EU and Microsoft have failed to reach an agreement settling antitrust charges Thursday. 
In afternoon trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market, Microsoft shares were down 44 cents, 1.75 percent, at $24.69. 
Monti will present the pro­posed fine Monday to an advisory committee of national regulators before going to the full European Commission, the EU's execu­tive branch, on Wednesday for a final decision. 
After winning unanimous backing from the 15 EU gov­ernments last week, the rul­ing is expected to pass easi­ly. 
Microsoft is accused of unfairly grabbing market share from rival companies by bundling its own Media Player with Windows -the operating system in nearly every personal computer worldwide. 
Microsoft contends that benefits consumers, but rivals claim it is unfair com­petition that stifles innova­tion and aims to drive them out of business. 
The charge was similar to the 1990s Internet browser war in the United States, where Microsoft was found guilty of using illegal means to protect its Windows monopoly. But a 2001 settle­ment with the Bush admin­istration allowed it to contin­ue integrating its Internet Explorer with Windows. 
Sources familiar with the case say the EU's draft rul­ing finds Microsoft guilty of monopolistic behavior ­setting a precedent in Europe -and goes beyond the U.S. remedies. · 
The EU is demanding that Microsoft offer computer makers in Europe a dis­counted version of Windows without Media Player so that rivals like RealNetworks Inc. and Apple Computer Inc. have a better shot at reach­ing consumers. 
In addition, the draft is expected to require the company to release more underlying Windows code so rival server software com­panies including Sun Microsystems Inc. can oper­ate better with computers running Windows. 
In exchange for a settle­ment, Monti was seeking commitments that could have affected Microsoft's business not just in Europe but globally -and helped to resolve other EU antitrust cases pending against the company. the sources said on condition of anonymity. 

FTC shu~s down 'Idol' phone scam 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Federal regula­tors settled a case Thursday with companies that took advantage of thousands of "American Idol" fans trying to vote for their favorite contestants on the TV show. 
According to the Federal Trade Commission, three Utah-based companies bought dozens of phone numbers very similar to the toll­free numbers that "Idol" fans call to place their votes. 
Viewers who misdialed and got one of the numbers were directed to dial a 900..-number to place their 
vote. A message on the 900-num­ber then gave the correct toll-free number to call. 
The FTC said about 25,000 con­sumers were charged up to $3 per call during the 2002 and 2003 sea­sons. 
The three companies have agreed to pay a civil penalty of $40,000 for engaging in deceptive conduct and violating federal law, the commission said. 
"These defendants tried to mis­lead fans of 'American Idol.' but found they got harsh reviews from the FTC," Howard Beales. director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer 
· Protection said in a statement. "If you find suspicious pay-per-call charges on your phone bill, report it to the FTC. We are not fans of deceptive behavior." The complaint names: Telemarketing Inc., which also does business as Univoxx; Apex Investments LLC, also known as Operator Directory Service and Northwestern Atlantic; and Universal Innovations LLC. Apex and Universal have no phone listings, and could not be reached for comment. Phone lines for Telemarketing Inc. were busy for several hours. 

·--------------­
page 8 ·The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 19, 2004 
Parade 

continued from page 1 
housemates at 609 St. Pete Street. "We just came up with the idea and it sounded like a lot of fun, and we wanted to get our friends involved." 
Participant students said 

they  began  their  parade  
around  11:15  a.m.  on  St.  
Peter's Street  
and made their  

way to campus 
"'/ know there were
via Route 23 where their revel­and Notre people with open ing resulted in ejec­Dame Avenue. tion once again.
containers ... We 
Led bY, a ban­The students said
got names and

ner that read that, after entering 
"parade" and we'llforward them the dining hall accompanied to ResLife ... somewhat rowdily, by four trum­they were warned pets and a sax­to calm down. 
Rex Rakow

ophone, the ''When we got to marchers were NDSP director our table, one of the 

"singing, danc­ing [and] singing the fight song," said senior Chele Carney, one of the five musicians. When the rev­elers extended their march into DeBartolo, however, they were thrown out from the building-twice. 
"I probably expected to be shooed out," Carney said, 
march began, she said very 
· few were drinking during the actual procession. "I'd say not the majority [were drinking during the parade]", Carney said. "Maybe five or six." Despite the clash with NDSP, however, a splinter group of paraders continued on to North Dining Hall. ''About half the group got left behind," said senior Will Fayen, who contin­ued with the parade to the dining hall ­
citing the fact ..There were some tion ensued, and that classes students that come they were told to 
were under­leave the building.
into the dining hall 
way. "There were some The group that were very students that came first entered disruptive and into the dining hall DeBartolo that were very dis­
intoxicated. ••

through · the ruptive and intoxi­doorway clos.­cated," said Dave est to the Dave Prentkowskl Prentkowski, direc­Mendoza Food Services director tor of food services. 
managers said we 
were fine and would not get in trouble as long as we kept quiet," Daday said. 
Although students said they believed they altered their behavior, another staff mem­ber approached them and asked to see ID cards. Students said they refused, an alterca­
College of Business, and they reached the middle of the building before being asked to leave, Carney said. The parade then proceeded outside and circled around to the most fre­quented student entrance, Daday said, where they stopped and played for an enthusiastic audience. 
"Everyone was singing along and cheering," Carney said. "It was really cool." 
When the rowdy paraders decided to re-enter DeBartolo, however, they were ejected for a second time, and NDSP offi­cers arrived on the scene. 
"We did answer reports over there," said NDSP director Rex Rakow. "I know there were people with open alcohol con­tainers." 
"We got names and we'll for­ward them on to ResLife," Rakow said, adding that NDSP did not file a report about the incident. 
Senior David Harmon was one student given a ticket for drinking out of an open con­tainer. 
"The cop came up behind me and grabbed my arm and took my beer and brought me over to his car," Harmon said. "He was pretty nice about it." 
Harmon said he knew of another student who also received a citation for the same offense. 
While Carney said many parade participants had con­sumed alcohol before the 
:ERASM_u_s_8_oo_K_s1 
I I 
:• Used Books bought and sold •• 25 Categories of Books :• 25,000 Hardback and 
1 
Paperback books in stock :. Out-of-Print search service 
1 •  Appraisals large and small  
OPEN noon to six  
Tuesday through Sunday  
1027 E. Wayne  
South Bend, IN 46617  
(219) 232-8444  

"They were asked to leave by the man­agement staff." 
He said students are rarely removed from the for intoxica­tion, especially during lunch. 
"In 13 years, I've never seen it at noontime before," Prentkowski said. 
The parade then dispersed, but students said they still considered the event a success despite the difficulties they encountered with security. 
''I've always loved parades, since I was like four, and this was my first chance to be involved in one up close." Fayen said. 
"I think it should become an annual tradition." 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 
Bust 
continued from page 1 
Burke, Keough sophomore David George, Knott junior Peter Mahoney and Breen­Phillips junior Tiffany Mul1er were al1 charged with minor in consumption and released from St. Joseph County Jail on a $250 bond. Off-campus seniors Betsy Laydon and Katherine Murphy were charged with public intoxica­tion and were released from jail on a $150 bond. 
St. Joseph County Chief Deputy Prosecutor Ken Cotter said that minor in consump­tion and public intoxication are Class B misdemeanors, carrying a range of punish­ments if convicted, including a fine of up to $1,000 and zero to 180 days in jail. Cotter said that probation is also an option, depending on the circumstances. 
"[It] can be anything the court believes is appropriate -community service or counseling, especially for alcohol violations," Cotter said. 
Cotter said the fact that the students were placed in jail as opposed to being issued a citation should not affect sen­tencing, because it is up to the discretion of the police officer when a misdemeanor crime occurs whether he will issue the citation or place the person under arrest. 
The bond, minus a 15 per­cent processing fee, would be returned if students were found not guilty. Otherwise, it will be applied to court costs, which Cotter said are usually more than the amount of the bond. 
LouAnn Susan, property manager for Paramount Management, the company that owns College Park, said Paramount likely would not take action against tenants as a result of the party. 
"We are just hoping every­thing is okay with the gentle­man that got hurt," Susan said. "Hopefully everyone learned a Jesson." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 

hiday, Mar.ch 19, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
she said. "There really is a lot anthropology, OUTReachND Preacher said this policy made istration won't change, it's the of goodwill, but strictures arise and the psychology club. her response discouragingly statement that counts."
Panel 
with the University vis-a-vis  Ava Preacher, an assistant  easy.  
continued from page 1 that justice comes from recog­nition."  the Catholic Church and that's not about to change -but I firmly believe that creativity is the vehicle to success."  dean in the College of Arts & Letters, agreed that students would not, and should not, set­tle for less.  "I told her that the second we have a sexual orientation phrase in our non-discrimina­tion clause, then we'll have our  
Notre Dame's March 4 refusal to grant similar recog­ While several audience mem­bers echoed Gude's ideas and  "Students want recognition, and there's no  forum," Preacher said. "You need to feel safe  
nition to ..United in Diversity," a proposed gay/straight alliance, sparked passionate arguments and reactions throughout the forum, titled "The Catholic Church and Changing Times: Perspectives on Homosexuality at Notre Dame." Sister Mary Louise Gude, chair of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, said Catholic universities find themselves on the "horns of a dilemma" when making decisions about their policies on homosexuality. "There is a real tension between educating young peo­ple to live and work in our society and treating them with­in the teaching of the Church,"  suggested creative approaches to achieving the goals of a gay/straight alliance without receiving official approval -such as continued publicity efforts by unrecognized homo­sexual student group OUTReachND and making the. most of current Campus Ministry activities such as a monthly coffee hour -the overwhelming consensus among both the audience and the panel members was that recognition was irreplaceable. "There's an emotional, impressive, symbolic meaning to approval," said Dan Myers, chair of the department of soci­ology, which helped sponsor the forum along with the departments of psychology and  taking that away," in your communi­..There's anshe said. "We ty. " need to continue emotional, Maureen to raise aware­Lafferty, an open­impressive,ness until aware­ly homosexualsymbolic meaning ness is so high staff psychologist that it cannot be to approval.·· at the University denied." Counseling Preacher also Center, jumped in,Dan Myersrelated a personal immediatelysociology department story as she adding the com­extended the chair munity had been debate to another ..not only safe -point of con-but validating and tention -the University's celebrating of my experience." exclusion of sexual orie.ntation ..But we need that to happen from its legal non-discrimina­for everyone," she said. tion clause. Current student body presi­When a fellow faculty mem­dent-elect Adam Istvan and ber approached her with the vice president-elect Karla Bell idea of a forum to discuss proposed a way to make the GLBT issues a few years ago, University community feel  
more welcoming from the bot­ 
tom up, suggesting that all stu­ 
dent clubs and organizations  
amend their own mission state­ 
ments to include a  promise  
that ••students will not discrim­ 
inate against students."  

Istvan said the move would at least make student feelings of acceptance heard, if not rec­ognized, by the administration.
CLOSING SALE 
··we've been given the strong indication that there will not be a student-run homosexual organization at Notre Dame as long as the current administra­tion is there," he said. -"Basically we've been told that 
Snite Museum Shop 
it would be a meaningless effort ...·but even if the admin-
All merchandise 75% off ! 
March 17-19 
Museum Shop hours: Wednesday I 0 am -4 pm Thursday and Friday I 0 am -5 pm 
/ 
SNITE 
Museum ~tART 
Dave Wyncott, a former co­chair OUTReachND, strongly asserted his support for adjust­ing non-discrimination clauses on all levels and reiterated the need for a sense of safety on campus. 
"It comes down to being able to say to your roommate, 'I might be gay,'" he said. Wyncott remembered attend­ing high school in South Bend in the mid 1990's and then coming to Notre Dame in 1997, a time when campus tensions ran high about both official club status and the non-dis­crimination clause. He told the audience about a hunger strike, sit-in protests and spray paint and flier demonstrations to protest these policies. 
"It was an awful place to be and it had been for an incredi­bly long time," he said. "There was a lot of anger on campus." 
Most forum attendees agreed the University community's attitude toward homosexuality has changed significantly since those years of turmoil but said the administration has refused to change along with the com­munity, and students had to take the lead in pushing for recognition. 
Calling herself an "eternal optimist," Preacher expressed hope that official status would eventually be achieved, and closed the forum by setting a high standard for the entire campus to aspire. 
··we need a widespread effort to teach respect," she said. 
"Period." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

0., CAmpus (,j~rAduAtioo Weekeo.t ~peeiRl tlt}A!J fJ-17, 2004 Ntec( tt pLttce for-rJOW.Y f-tt""'-i1tj to sttt!::j, TY!1 tne Sttcred Heart -paytsltl CtY\.teY ['Bui.ldt~ 31.. 0"" ~OUY CQ~.:pws ~ps.] we set tt ~ro-oo pey peYso"" ofo~Ho"" foy the wee~Vl-d­•coMe cA&Ly [Tnurs~tttfl -STAY LAT6" [Mo~tttj]• -_sC{~ towpYi.ce. For reservttHo~.s pl.tase calL: P&t&.d c~dtj ttt 5/·4-b31_-7"5'1...2. OY M&trtj FoV\..ferlw at 574-~31..-:'-+.36  



Friday, March 19, 2004


A SPECIAL OPPORTUNITY FOR PRAYER for faculty, staff and students 
DURING THE THREE REMAINING FRIDAYS OF LENT 
Reflections o n 
FORGIVENESS 
The Format 

A 25 minute.presentation on the Sunday Scripture by distinguished Notre 
Dame teachers, followed by 20 minutes of private prayer based on points 
for reflection on the Scripture. Optional attendance at the Stations of the Cross at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Scripture 
March 19 

An invitation to trust in God's love for you as the 
first step 

The Prodigal (luke 15, 1-3, 11-32) Professor John Cavadini 
March 26 

An invitation to be freed from the past to live a new life The Woman Caught in Adultery (John 8, 1-11) Father Bill Sitnmons, C.. S.C. 
April 2 

An invitation to understand the depth of God's love 
and the call to discipJeship 
The Passion According to luke (luke 22,14-23, 56) 
Professor Robin D~rfing Young 
The Time and Place 
The Coleman-Morse Student lounge 
6: 1 5 pm to 7: 1 5 pm 
Cap off your Lenten preparation with this special prayer experience C-M 
Campus Ministry 

--------------·=~:-=------·-=---... ..:----.--~ -_-~~-.-.-.~.-.. ~~\-.-.~ ., •"=-••• ••• .· -:-•._;·,.•;-·••:>••••••-.-•s••·•·•-..·•·~--<r"··,::·'!-.. ~.--:;~,.-...,_ ..~..,~-~--<-'·E\; 

Friday, March 19, 2004 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Second-graders plotted 
Teen charged with attempted murder 
Associated Press 
MALCOLM, Neb. A teenager was charged with attempted murder after police found him outside school with 20 homemade bombs, a rifle and a note saying he wanted to injure everyone at his high school except for three friends. 
Authorities believe they averted what could have been the worst school shooting since the 1999 massacre at Columbine High School. 
Josh Magee, 17, was arrest­ed Tuesday in the parking lot of Malcolm High School after a staff member saw him swig­ging liquor from a flask and putting on a black overcoat. 
Police who searched Magee's car found a bolt-action rifle, several rounds of ammunition, small bottles of propane and rigged containers of a petrole­um-based propellent. 
"It had the potential of going badly," said Superintendent Gene Neddenriep. "With this student, at this school, on this particular day, we were suc­cessful. We got lucky." 
Parents and school officials in this tiny town north of Lincoln said Magee often spoke about Columbine, where Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold killed 12 students and a 
teacher before killing them­father is serving in 
to shoot, stab classmate 
selves. Afghanistan in the military. 
"He asked them in class last Magee, who has attended week if they knew who Eric Malcolm schools since kinder­
Three minors arrested
Harris and Dylan Klebold garten, was always been on 
were," said Julia Lostrah, the district's radar, 
in attack plot at recess 
whose daughter is Magee's Neddenriep said. 
classmate. "Then he said, 'I "All the way through, he was 
Associated Press 
know them."' just a little different," he said. The arrest came in the same "He liked to be alone, he didn't week that authori-take part in 
FORSYTH, Mont.-Two sec­ties in another many things. 
ond-grade boys and an 11­
..All the way

rural town in the His enjoyment 
year-old schoolmate were heartland avoided through. he was was weapons." 
arrested after they buried a a potentially vio­The superin­
loaded handgun in a play­
just a little 

ground sandbox and plotted to
lent school tendent said he
different.,

encounter. wasn't aware of 
shoot and stab a third-grade Two second-reports that 
girl during recess, authorities grade boys and an Gene Neddenrlep Magee was a 
said Thursday. 11-year-old school­school superintendent target of bullies. 
Sheriff Tim Fulton said the mate were arrest­"There were 
boys intended to harm the ed Wednesday in never any inci­
young girl because she had Forsyth, Mont., on charges dents reported," he said. 
teased two of them. that they buried a loaded When students began report­
The plot included a .22-cal­handgun in a playground ing to faculty that Magee 
iber revolver and a box of bul­sandbox and plotted to shoot bragged of making and testing 
lets that were hidden on the and stab a third-grade girl explosives at home, 
playground of the small school during recess. Authorities said Neddenriep said, the school 
in rural eastern Montana, the boys intended to harm the paid close attention to the 
authorities said. One of the young girl because she had teen. 
boys was carrying a knife. teased two of them. Magee then began showing 
The boys apparently brought No one answered the door some interest in school activi­
the weapons from home to Thursday at Magee's red-brick ties, he said. 
school on Wednesday morn­home just down the road from Lostrah, who is also the 
ing, prosecutor Michael the school in Malcom, a town school district's administrative 
Hayworth said. The intePt was so small that its downtown assistant, said Magee joined 
to assault the girl ove1 the streets are unpaved. the cross-country team and 
recess hour that day, he said. School and law enforcement was an impressive musician.. 
"You think about what could officials said his mother works "He was very talented," she 
have happened. It could have as a chef in Lincoln, and his said. 
been ugly," said Brenda 
·Cheerleadinu & Leprechaun 
T:ryout Infonration IXEet.irq 
March 24, 2004-Jo~ce Center G~m 2@ 5:)0 p.m. 
Come see what Noire Dame 
Cheerleading is all about 
Stabelfeldt, who has a daugh­
ter in the fifth grade and went 
to the school over the lunch 
hour Thursday to give the girl 
a hug. 
Fulton said a classmate of 
the two younger boys, both 8, 
was the one who alerted the 
school of the plot. 
"I need to commend that young man for such a brave act," the sheriff said. "lie saved the lives of who knows how many people." 
The boys were identified in court records as Klint Cook and Levi Strait, both second­graders, and Blake Belgarde, a fifth-grader. They were charged Thursday in juvenile court with conspiracy to com­mit assault with a weapon. 
In Montana, the names of juvenile suspects are public if the crimes they are accused of committing are felonies in adult court. 
Forsyth is about 100 miles east of Billings. The school has about 200 students in kinder­garten through the sixth grade. 
"Needless to say, it is a frightening experience for a community and our schools," Superintendent Dave Shreeve said. 

You think this ishot... 


Its ldnda like that. Except female. And better looking. Much bener loolllnu. 
March 20th in Wasoogton Hall 
o'Neill Wall presents L'1e 
Ms. NO ~:allt_ ~ 
·watch as a a-eprasantative ftanl 
each women·s oorrn on 
campu~ compete for the flt!t place pr~e of $.300 • And tO tOP it off. the <Mnnet wtll :also 
ha"'e a $100 dOnated to a woman's cnaMt¥ Of her ChOiCe. And all thlS fun ~<ill CO!>t ~ou nothr~. sc~ o:Jcl"'1:e to sUPPort ~our dorm. 
friends, or to just cnet'k out some Of ~:>ue Oan·1~r's finest • 11 'ij oe Hot! 


March 20th. 1 :oo Washington Hall 

Free Clinic on 6olf Etiquette 
March 24th 
Warren Club House at 5:15 PM 

Clinic is open to Juniors, Senlqrs and Graduate Students 





Homosexual community deserves equality 
They made their point. Now, will the University take action? Notre Dame aims to be the national leader among both 
Approximately 1,700 Notre Dame students and scattered fac­Catholic and academic peer institutions. However, Boston ulty members joined together and wore blaze orange T-shirts College approved its first gay/straight alliance, Allies, on April Thursday that boldly stated "Gay? Fine by me." 15. Duke University, the Princeton Review's last campus before 
Regardless of the individual decisions behind wearing the Notre Dame to hold the "alternative lifestyles are not an alter­shirts, the collective message of support for homosexuals was native" distinction, initiated the T-shirt campaign. In a dialogue unmistakable. The members of the Gay/Straight Alliance -critical to the Catholic Church and the intellectual climate of also known as United in Diversity, an organiza­the future, Notre Dame is falling behind. tion that was denied official University club sta­OJhe The first step towards true progress lies in 
oserver
tus on March 4 -should be commended for changing the non-discrimination clause. The their efforts to bring approximately 20 percent of Spirit of Inclusion statement that currently the University together in a show of solidarity for stands in its place walks a fine line -on the
Editorial
a group whose place in the community has not always been clear. 
No administrative stance in recent Notre Dame history has elicited such overwhelming numbers to contest it. The alcohol policy changes couldn't do it. Parietals couldn't do it. But injus­tice towards Notre Dame's homosexual community has. 
The avenues currently provided by Notre Dame emphasize individual counseling, which serves to only further classify homosexual students as outcasts in the community. 
Yes, the University appointed a Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. Yes, the University provides homo­sexuals with Campus Ministry resources. But concerning both the official recognition of a student organization and the inclu­sion of homosexuality in the University's legal non-discrimina­tion clause, the answer has been a firm no. 
Now is the time for the administration to take notice of both of these issues. and deliver a long overdue yes. 
The Princeton Review's recent distinction of Notre Dame as the most homophobic campus in the United States, therefore, seems to apply more to the administration that perpetuates this mentality on campus than to the actual students who try to curtail it and speak out against it. 
The show of support Thursday began to dispel this sense of homophobia, but both recognizing a gay student organization and expanding the nondiscrimination clause are necessary to extending acceptance on that essential group level. After turn­ing down United in Diversity, Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman wrote that while he welcomes the opportunity to talk to students who proposed the club, he does "not want to create unrealistic expectations about the likeli­hood of a change in the decision about recognition." 
Talk and good intentions will only take the University so far. 
surface, it values gay and lesbian members of 
the community, but still reserves the legal right to discriminate based on sexual orientation. The Board of Trustees voted down the expansion of the clause in 1997 and again in 1999 at a time when members of the community sup­ported the expansion. Since then, Notre Dame's homosexual and support community have advanced even further, with Thursday being evidence that this marginalized group is gain­ing followers -and that students do not accept blatant exclu­sion, perceived excuses or silent ignorance. 
Notre Dame's Catholic identity has been cited as the crux of University policy towards homosexuals. While Notre Dame's Catholic identity is central to its purpose, the University must also realize that it would not exist if it was not an academic institution first. And academic institutions at their foundation are open to free expression, intellectual. growth and equality. 
The arguably successful Notre Dame Queer Film Festival occurred in part because several departments courageously supported it in the name of intellectual expression and aca­demic freedom. As the Festival proved, discussion of homosex­uality is not limited to Church teaching. Notre Dame's adminis­trative policies concerning it shouldn't either. 
To further its Catholic purpose, Notre Dame aspires to pro­mote peace, justice and reconciliation. But as long as it fails to promote acceptance, equality and recognition, the real ideals of Catholicism and intellectualism cannot be achieved. Gestures such as the Spirit of Inclusion statement reveal respectful intentions, but stop just short of a true justice and a true embrace. 
Thursday, a sea of orange reached out with open arms. 
The University should follow suit by accepting this diverse student group and giving them club status. 

· LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Classifying Adams as a terrorist is foolish 

I. 
Before I begin addressing the points made by Derek Webb, I want to emphasize that I detest terrorism or violence in any circumstance. That said, Webb's letter concerning the visit of Gerry Adams is symptomatic of the foolish, moralistic approach to foreign policy promulgated by the Bush adminis­tration. Webb calls the IRA "a terrorist organization that has plagued the northern six counties for decades." This is an overly simplistic analysis of the group and is indicative of ignorance about the history of British occupation in Ireland. 
For many years, Irish Catholics in the North of Ireland lived as second-class citizens in a Protestant-dominated soci­ety. Northern Ireland was designed to be a Protestant state for Protestant people. With the RUC and the British Army actively assisting Protestant thugs in their repression of Catholics, the Catholic community had no recourse but to turn to the IRA. The British Army had initially been sent to Northern Ireland to protect Catholics from loyalist violence. Instead, these soldiers massacred unarmed demonstrators in Derry on Jan. 30, 1972. The IRA began its campaign against the forces of the oppressive government because Catholic cit­izens had no one to protect their basic human rights. 
News Graphics· 
OBSERVER POLL

Joe Trombello ·Graham Ebetsch ·Scott Brodfuehrer Sports Amanda Michaels Chris Federico Viewpoint• ·· ·. KateGales 
Do you think Notre Dame 
. Nicole Qery St~veCoyer 

should recognize the
illustrator· Scene 

Gay-Straight Alliance as 
Katie Knorr Ken Dineen 

an official organization?? 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 34 responses. 
I do not condone terrorism, but I certainly understand the plight of the Catholics of the North. My own father was born and raised in West Belfast and has had firsthand experience with the discrimination and hatred from the government there. I implore people like Derek Webb to stop seeing the world in black and white. Of course the Ulster Unionists do not support Gerry Adams; his very goal is to end their repressive hegemony and policy of discrimination in the six counties. 
To exclude men like Gerl#y Adams from the peace process is absolutely foolhardy. Sinn Fein has become the largest nationalist party in Northern Ireland, and Gerry Adams, him­self, has been instrumental in engineering the peace process, from the cease-fire of 1994 to the signing of the Good Friday Agreement. In order to achieve lasting peace in Ireland, the voices of all sides must be heard. 
Brendan Magee sentor Dillon Hall March 18 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is not fair to ask ofothers what you are not willing to do yourself" 
Eleanor Roosevelt American diplomat 



Adventures in Welfare Radio 

On March 31, the new liberal talk radio network, "Air America Radio" will debut across the nation, and I eagerly await the opportunity to lis­ten. 
The network is the brainchild of 
Bill Rlnner 

wealthy finan­ciers. including Democratic 
A Voice of

National 
Reason

Committee advi­sor Mark Walsh and a number of anonymous donors willing to fund the venture even if it proves unprofitable. Essentially, they aim to put liberal views on "radio welfare," as some· conservative critics have suggested. Liberals who dare not tune the radio to AM -unless the preset station is National Public Radio -can finally find a forum sympathetic to their ide­ology that was marginalized from talk radio years ago. 
The explanation for why talk radio is dominated by conservative view­points is more complicated than some Clear Channel-led plot to only pres­ent conservative Republican view­points on the airwaves. 
To be sure, during the mid-to late­1980s, talk radio had a small market of less than 200 stations nationwide that was diminishing as television news grew in popularity. A swarm of political correctness and unabashed liberalism was the tone of major newsrooms that were biased toward the Left not as a conspir­acy, but because Democrats held such a vast majority in the newsrooms as they still do today. 
On one occasion, Dan Rather reported, "The new Republican majority in Congress took a big step today on its legislative agen­da to demolish or dam­age government aid programs, many of them designed to help children and the poor." His blatant partisan spin echoed the tone of so many networks' cov­erage of conservatives whose views are completely alien to their under­standing of the world. 
Such repeated incidents echoed a wider bias that only fueled the con­servative talk radio revolution, large­ly led by Rush Limbaugh, whose incipient show provoked calls to the police from citizens appalled by his complete disregard for political cor­rectness. Limbaugh is a talented comedian and commentator, but he never would have succeeded in talk radio, a communications medium that seemed completely antiquated, ir' the television and print media took a more balanced approach to news reporting. His appeal resonated with that portion of the American popu­lace that was disgusted by the conde­scending liberal attitudes that seemed all too transparent to conser­vative viewers. 
As conservatives made inroads into talk radio, and the number of sta­tions expanded toward the current number of about 1,200, liberal listen­ers flocked from the market. Instead of an organized conspiracy against opposing views, radio stations and their executives gave liberal talk show hosts plenty of opportunities in .test markets where they could work 
A new train of thOught 
their way up to prime slots during 
the day, but the pool of primarily con­
servative listeners largely rejected 
their message, and few succeeded 
since liberal listeners had tuned out 
long ago. 
The success of Air America Radio 
depends on two factors: first, it must 
be able to conjure actual entertain­
ment while still projecting an air of 
intellectual capability; second, it can­
not be too radically Leftist. 
The first requirement will possibly be fulfilled by AI Franken, who once set himself at odds against Limbaugh and Bill O'Reilly, with his new three­hour show, "The O'Franken Factor." While he once was nothing more than a comedian with an axe to grind about the self-proclaimed voices of conservatism, Franken has devolved into just the type of pundit which he frequently lambastes. Few question his comedic talent, and his books are quite entertaining, but he must demonstrate the political acumen required to give a reasoned analysis instead of name-calling. 
The second requirement is a task facing the entire Democratic Party today, which knows that the word "liberal" has developed a negative connotation in recent years. Many use the alternative label "progres­sive," which sounds more compas­sionate and hospitable though its 
agenda is essentially the same. 
Even Democratic contender· 
Howard Dean loved claim­ing to be a "fiscal conser­
vative," and when the 
non-partisan National Journal rated John 

Kerry the most liberal 
senator in America, he 
responded that we 

"shouldn't use labels." 
Actress J aneane 
Garofalo, also set to 
host her own three­

hour show, will face a 
challenge attempting to 
portray herself as a centrist Democrat when 
she comes from the Hollywood mold of rabid 

conservative haters. If she aspires to be a voice for 
mainstream Democrats, her 
rhetoric, such as her straight-faced comparisons of Bush's regime to Hitler's~ may require some toning down. 
Predicting the network's success is a difficult task. If they can focus more on entertaining the listener through comedy and intellectual stimulation, they will succeed, and liberalism will regain a niche in talk radio. If the network takes a tone of condescen­sion, strict political correctness and thinly veiled hatred, then its potential listeners will laud the effort but stick to FM radio. After all, radio listeners sitting in their office cubicles rarely wish to be treated to constant discus­sion of every social injustice from poverty to workplace discrimination. 
Should the well-funded experiment fail to gain listeners and instead rely on donations from concerned liberal citizens, then Air America will live up to the name "Welfare Radio." 
Bill Wrinner is a junior economics majors studying at the London School ofEconomics, Hfs column appears every other Friday. He can be con­tacted at wrinner@nd. edu. 
The views expresssed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
I suppose I should blame my parents for the fact that I was born with legs. Faulty genes are also responsible for my poor eyesight and probably my lack of coordination. But at this moment what I most bemoan is 
John lnfranca 

my bipedal exis­tence. I am crammed in aisle Dissident 14 of a United PoetryAirlines 757. Thirteen aisles of "economy plus" are in front of me. Their ample leg room gave me a tinge of excitement that abruptly vanished when I arrived at my own seat in the first row of "economy minus." It is not actually called that, but it became apparent that the extra room for the passengers in front of me was provid­ed at my expense, and that of the legions of fellow steerage passengers. as I folded myself into my seat. Perhaps I should stand so that the folks in "economy plus" can fully recline. Instead I sit quietly as the cir­culation in my legs slowly ebbs. 
It was not always like this. There was a day when air travel was civi­lized. People wore ties, real meals were served, there were "lounges" on board and you could even smoke. Perhaps not all of these are substan­tiallosses. Still, I can not help but feel that most flight experiences amount to little more than fragile struggles to maintain one's human dignity. 
After nearly stripping to your boxers to pass through security, you shuffle down the aisle into your tiny seat. Often I am fortunate enough to arrive at my aisle seat with no one sitting next to me. The entire plane appears full, but I have found favor with the gods. As door to the gate begins to close, and I strike up a conversation with the attractive young woman in the window seat, I stare hopefully into a blissful future of delightful banter over complimentary pretzels and Bloody Mary mix. Then, suddenly, at the last possible moment, a rather large, hairy man in a tank top bursts through the plane's door. Slowly, he make his way down the aisle, looking intently at his ticket until, his journey complete, he stops at my row. And so it begins. 
I feel partly responsible for this whole sordid mess: the meals you now have to pay for, the bag of pretzels that slowly grows smaller and smaller, creeping towards the day where it will be referred to simply as "a pretzel in a bag." The only thing airlines do not seem to skimp on these days is nap­kins. Every drink or snack inevitably arrives happily perched upon a nap­kin. During a recent flight I asked for a napkin and was given it on top of another napkin. It all seemed redun­dant. 
I think that I caused all of this. My 
searching the Internet for an incredi­
ble fare across the country for 200­
something dollars might bear some 
connection to the cramped quarters in 
which I now find myself. Americans 
love to travel. We also love our space: 
our cars large. our recliners wide and 
our stomachs increasingly pro­
nounced. But perhaps most central to 
our collective personality is the love of 
a bargain that keeps Target and Wal­
Mart in business and situates us like 
sardines as we ferry across the skies. 
There is an alternative that might 
combine our love of space with our 
desire to save money. Train travel is 
cheap and the seats are spacious. You 
can find more than ample sustenance 
in the snack or dining car and eat like 
a king with the money you save. Train 
travel is also remarkably more envi­
ronmentally friendly than other modes 
of transportation. According to a 
recent article in Sierra Magazine, 
train travel produces on average one­
sixth of the pollution per passenger 
per mile traveled of an airplane and 
one-third that for an automobile. 
Train travel is also slowly becoming faster. While many countries have long boasted high-speed rail service, the United States has only recently begun to establish the infrastructure necessary to operate such trains. Amtrak's high-speed Acela train cur­rently operates between Boston, New York and Washington, DC. and there are plans to develop simHar service in ten other corridors across the country. In California., the state has provided significant funding for a fast train that would link major cities. The technolo­gy available for train travel is also rapidly advancing. Magnetic levitation trains, which average speeds of 240 miles per hour, are being developed and studies are being made regarding the possibility of such. service along the East Coast. 
Adequate support for train travel has, unfortunately, always been an issue. No passenger system in the world is profitable without some sub­sidies. but unfortunately highways and airlines in the United States receive far greater subsidies than train travel. Changing this will rely in part on increased support of passenger trains. both commuter lines like the South Shore to Chicago and longer service home on breaks via Amtrak. Such travel can prove to be more frugal, more civilized and more sustainable than air or automobile travel. It can also leave you free to stretch your legs. 
John lnfranca is a theology gradu­ate student. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at jinfran 1@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


page 14 Friday, March 19, 2004 
Friday, March 19, 2004 
Howard's stories unfamiliar to younger readers 
Comic writes about famous people he's met throughout his life 
By BECCA SAUN:DERS 
Scene Critic 

Television head writer and stand-up comedi­an Trustin Howard knows famous people. That is the general gist of Howard's autobiography called "My Life with Regis and Joey and Practically Everyone Else." 
Throughout the chronically unorganized novel, Howard takes the reader on an interest­ing, yet lengthy journey through his life work­ing first as a comedian and then as head writer for "The Joey Bishop Show" (the late night show that competed with Johnny Carson's "The Tonight Show"). The book is a quick read and has some funny anecdotes, but overall it just seems like Howard takes himself a bit too seri­ously. So seriously, in fact, that he chose to write an entire novel on just that subject: him­self. 
"My Life with Regis and Joey and Practically Everyone Else" is generally one-third interest­ing, one-third boring and one-third just plain irrelevant. Howard has a voice in his writing, but he also jumps around a lot, with numerous chapters beginning "Which reminds me:." He then proceeds to jump into an entirely random story that completely disturbs any illusion of "flow" that the writing may have possessed. 
Approximately 20 of the novel's last pages the a:re de-dicated to Howard's dealings with his comedian friend, Lenny Bruce. If you are famil­iar with Bruce or have seen him perform, these chapters may interest you. As for the rest of the readers, the story of Bruce is by no mea·ns one that is remarkable enough to elicit interest. 
Howard is clearly of an age of older 
Hollywood stars, which he admits in his novel. This reality makes it very hard for any college student who is not well versed in the players of an older generation of Hollywood to relate to and be interested in Howard's tales of meeting the "stars.'' A story pertaining to a show he wrote about Bette Davis is not going to impress any college student. 
While most students recognize Carson's name, not many have a clue who Bishop is. Because of this generation gap, the book is harder to relate to for college students and is generally more appropriate for an older audience. 
Howard's work is not entirely without merit. Besides going into two-page explanations of certain jokes he wrote for "The Joey Bishop Show", his explanation of the time he spent with the show is intriguing. Howard lets the reader into the world of a comedy writer who never knows if they are going to have a job in three weeks. 
The reader sees the backstage reality of "show-biz," and Howard has a lot of great insights into the nature of "show-biz" and the ways it has changed. In one chapter Howard points out the difference between the need for raw talent today and in those old days when if you weren't quick and witty. you would be booed of the stage. He compares the two saying, "Today. you have non-talents painting their faces. putting on freak outfits, switching on some lasers and lights, singing the same one line of a supposed song about 58 times, mixed " in with a couple of spastic steps, breaking a guitar or two and really overwhelming an audi­ence of brain-dead children". 
There are interesting insights of this nature throughout "My Life with Regis and Joey and Practically Everyone Else." 

However, there are also some extremely strange parts. On page 226 Howard offers tapes of some of his sci-fi shows on reincarna­tion, meditation and voodoo for $25. along with his address so you can send the check there. He's unique, but not in a good way. 
As the title promises. Regis Philbin is one of the main characters in the auto­biography. and it does seem that Howard and Philbin were in fact good friends. 
The University of Notre Dame even gets a mention while Howard is describing Philbin's parents. Regis is presented well and worked with Howard for a good part 
of Howard's career. 
"My Life with Regis and Joey and Practically Everyone Else" is vaguely interesting and an overall quick read. Howard makes some good points here and there. but the majority of the novel is fluff about his life in "show-biz" and is generally not entertaining. 
Howard's autobiography is worth reading if you are really interested in being a stand-up comic or working in the television industry. But if you are just looking for a good read or even some insight into the "real" Philbin; your time would be better spent watching him on TV with Kelly. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
iMPROVable makes fi to Notre Dame 


By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 

For the past four years the improv group Mission iMPROVable has brought top-notch comedy to col­leges around the country. 
Although the Chicago-based group focuses mainly on schools in the Midwest, Saturday night will be the first time the artists will perform at Notre Dame. 
Mission iMPROVable is scheduled to perform at 
7:30 p.m. in DeBartolo 141. The show will be free and open to all students. 
The fresh-faced young actors of Mission iMPROVable have been called "the Backstreet Boys of Comedy" and the "N'Sync of Improv." However, this group has also been praised for the intelligent, subtle and insightful humor that probably goes far­ther towards making them popular on the college circuit. 
Since starting their college tours, the group has not performed regularly in Chicago. This is a change of pace for the members of Mission iMPROVable, who began their career in 1998 as regular perform­ers at Improv Olympic. lmprov Olympic. an organi­zation that works with improv comedy much the same way that Second City works with sketch ~o?Ie­dy, has helped start the careers of many prestigiOus performers such as Mike Myers and Tina Faye.. . 
The six founders and six new members of Mission iMPROVable now alternate going on tours, sending five members of the group for every performance. 
Mission iMPROVable is also wvrking on turning their stage show into a television program. Original group member Aaron Krebs is currently living in Los Angeles to work on designing the show. and the group plans to send camera crews to some of their shows to collect live footage. The group is not yet sure when their show will air or which network will air it, but more information will be available on their Web site at www.missionimprovable.com. 
Like many improv groups, Mission iMPROVable uses short games and audience participation to keep their shows lively. For an extra twist the performers take on secret agent names for the performance. 
As with any comedy group, the interaction group dynamic is as important to Mission iMPROVable as the individual performers. 
"It's about all of us setting each other up, so we all come out looking the best," four-year Mission iMPROVable member Sean Monahan said. 
"I think we all just love taking the stage to make people laugh," Monahan said. "Our goal is to have as much fun as possible, because if we are having fun the audience will too." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu page 15 


rst visit 



Goran Kralj comes to Legends 
Energetic Kralj will be playing songs offofhis new solo album Saturday night 

By PATRICK VASSEL 
Scene Wri'ter 
Milwaukee, Wis. is not exactly the alterna­
tive music capitol of the world. For those in 
the alternative scene, however, a band 
emerged from the Brewery City in the early 
90s and quickly established a reputation 
with heartfelt songs and a refreshing energy. 
The band was The Gufs, and the lead 
singer and songwriter was Goran Kralj. 
After landing a deal with Atlantic Record in 
the 90s, the group released two albums, 
both of which received critical and popular 
acclaim across the country. With 1o· years of 
experience, unbelievable live shows and 
solid albums recorded, The Gufs were flying 
high into the new millennium. 
In 2002, however, The Gufs disbanded, much to the dismay of the legions of fans the group had acquired since they first started out. In the year that followed, Kralj realized he couldn't stop writing and still had too much energy to simply stop performing. Though the songs he wrote were all intend­ed to be Gufs songs, Kralj realized the band just wasn't going to get back together. Quickly putting together a group of perform­ers, Kralj decided to strike out on his own and continue with the sound he had devel­oped with The Gufs over .the last decade. 
After a year of work the new band, called Goran, emerged with his first solo effort "Any Day Now." Fans of The Gufs will be pleased to hear many of the band's signature musical elements maintained in Kralj's sound. Most obvious is the distinct and versatile voice of Kralj. He has the ability to go from a quiet, almost raspy whisper, to an intense volume riding over guitar riffs. Many alternative crit­ics complain of songs on an album all sound­ing the same, but Kralj has furthered his song-writing skills even from the best days of The Gufs. 
The album is decidedly more upbeat than the second Gufs album, "Holiday From You." The songs are catchy without being tacky, and Kralj crafts pop melodies that match the ver­satility of his voice. From the mellow "Don't [let the sun go down]" to the punching guitar hook of "To Be Me," Kralj delivers an album that reminds fans of the best times of the Gufs, yet also distinguishes himself as a solo artist and an exciting new force in alternative music. 
As Goran's Web site (www.goranmusic.com) describes, during the recording of "Any Day Now," Goran was so struck by the attacks of Sept., 11th, he released a song shortly after­ward. The single "Where Are You Now?" com­bines Goran's almost haunting voice with the gorgeous accompaniment of a piano and cello to create a sound uniquely appropriate in memory of the victims. It also exposed many people to the artist who normally would have never known who or what The Gufs were. 
In their biography section of the web­site. Goran describes the theme of "taking chances" that is heard throughout the new album. Though he contin­ued to write after the break-up of The Gufs, Go ran didn't think of picking up a guitar to play the songs until a col­lege roommate insisted he try it. 
Photo courtesy of goranmusic com Former member of the Gufs, Goran Kralj recently released his first solo effort "Any Day Now." • 
"Don't be afraid of taking chances," Kralj says of the album and the songs he's written. "Ready to Fall" tells the story of a girl who consistently rushes into love no matter what has happen~d to her in the past. In ''I'll Be Around", Goran sings of someone who gives up everything to be with the one they love. 
The result of Goran's experience, his often surreal but always believable voice, his diverse and sincere songs, and an unmatched energy will be available in concert this Saturday night at Legends, with doors open­ing at 9:45 p.m. Followers of The Gufs were often known to follow The Gufs around the country, often seeing dozens of shows a year. Goran is guaranteed to show all those in attendance what it's like to truly connect with a musician. His energy in concert has been described as mesmerizing, spiritual and excit­ing. Goran is definitely one of the most excit­ing acts to come through Legends' new doors this year. 
Fifteen years ago alternative music defined itself in Seattle, but today one of its most pow­erful voices is that of a kid from Milwaukee. Few can dispute his talent, and Goran hopes his new album and new life as a solo artist will only further the work he achieved with The Gufs. 
Contact Patrick Vassel at pvassel@nd.edu 

r-----­
Friday, March 19, 2004

page 16 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Pattaway lifts Alabama over Southern Illinois 
game replaces the outcome of
Associated Press 
the last game in Buffalo,"
SEATTLE -Alabama coach Knight said after the 43rd tour­

Mark Gottfried predicted it 
nament victory of his career,would take an upset to beat fourth all-time and one moreSouthern Illinois, even though than Lute Olson and Dennyhis team was expected to win Crum. "I feel pleased for our all along. 
kids to have the chance to goIt sure felt like an upset in the on."
end when Antoine Pettway hit a 
So did Emmett, who still
6-foot runner with 5 seconds remembers a first-round loss toleft and the Crimson Tide pulled Southern Illinois two years ago. 
off a 65-64 victory in the first "It feels better than my soph­round of the NCAA tournament. 
omore year," said Emmett,
Southern Illinois had a chance 

whose steal and fast-break to win, but Darren Brooks 
layup in the final minute turned missed a long jumper for the out to be the game-winner. "WeSalukis as time wound down. 
came in with a different attitude The Crimson Tide (18-12) had and were fortunate to come out to scrape just to make it in this with a win." 
year, finishing 8-8 in the SEC Texas Tech (23-10). the eighthand losing to Florida in the con­
seed in the East Rutherford
ference quarterfinals. · Regional, will play top-seeded"When you look at it, the only 
Saint Joseph's in the second 
reason people expected us to 
round. Saint Joseph's beatwin the game is because we 
Liberty 82-63. 
play in the SEC and they play in 
Charlotte (21-9). the ninth
the Missouri Valley," Gottfried seed, never managed to get itssaid. "They're an excellent bas­up-tempo game going, shooting
ketball team. Darren Brooks 
6-of-24 from beyond the arc.
could be a great player in our league. Wake Forest 79, VCU 78 "It's a great win for our pro­Chris Paul was in complete gram." control in his first NCAA tour­
Southern Illinois came into nament game. the game ranked No. 23 in the The Wake Forest freshman final Associated. Press poll. The star had 22 points and made Salukis ran off 17 straight wins several key plays to lead the responsibility to come through." onds. Blue Devils beat the Hornets in the MVC before losing the fourth-seeded Demon Deacons Domonic Jones had 22 points The Orangemen, the fifth seed 96-61 and advance to the sec­regular-season finale to past Virginia Commonwealth. and seven assists for the Rams in the Phoenix Regional, ond round of the Atlanta Northern Iowa. Justin Gray scored 15 points (23-8), who were making their advanced to face Maryland in Regional. 
The Salukis (25-5) lost to to help the Demon Deacons (20-first NCAA appearance in eight the second round Saturday in a Duke (28-5) will play Arizona Southwest Missouri State in the 9) advance to the second round years. matchup of the last two nation-or Seton Hall on Saturday, conference tournament semifi­for the third straight year. Syracuse 80, BYU 75 al champions. where surely a better test nals, but received an at-large J amaal Levy overcame a Gerry McNamara added to his They can thank McNamara, awaits. berth to make the NCAAs for a sprained left knee to add 10 reputation as a clutch shooter who made his first six 3-point­Alabama State (16-15). seed­third straight season. points and 10 rebounds, includ­-especially in the NCAA tour-ers and added three more in six ed 16th and ranked 230th in 
"We.J~>.n.e.w coming in that ing the go-ahead basket. nament. · attempts in the second. the latest RPI rankings, never we'd be playing a great team. Wake Forest will face 12th­McNamara hit nine 3-pointers "Right from the beginning, had a chance in this one despite We knew they had a 25-4 seeded Manhattan, a 7 5-60 and had 43 points, helping the from that first shot I took, it felt Duke's supposed shortcomings. record. We knew they had to be winner over fifth-seeded defending national champions good," said McNamara, who is Malcolm Campbell scored 26 · a good team," Pettway said. Florida, in the second round of hold off pesky Brigham Young 15-for-23 from 3-point range in points to lead the Hornets. ,.., "We just focused on the Salukis the East Rutherford Regional. in the first round. his last two NCAA tournament Typical of many Nos.) /16 and let everything else. take Paul assisted on Levy's go­He made six 3-pointers in last games. "So when you have it, match ups, Duke put i-n one of care of itself." ahead basket with a minute left year's championship game you have to roll with it. You those performances that looked 
Shelton scored 18 points for and hit four free throws in the against Kansas and was even have to keep throwing it up great in a lot of ways, but will eighth-seeded Alabama, which final seconds to help the Demon better in this one, finishing 9-there." also give coach Mike advanced to face top-seeded Deacons survive their second for-13 for the third-highest total BYU (21-9) got off to a strong Krzyzewski just enough to Stanford in the second round of first-round scare in as many in NCAA tournament history. start from the perimeter and worry about before the next the Phoenix Regional. years. Last year, second-seeded "Gerry had as good a per-had plenty of help inside from outing. · Texas Tech 76, Charlotte 73 Wake Forest held off ETSU 76-formance as I've ever seen in Rafael Araujo -24 points and Senior guard Chris Duhon 
For one day, Bob Knight 73 in the East Regional. college basketball," sa:id coach 12 rebounds -but still couldn't started despite bruised ribs he found something to enjoy about Paul -the Atlantic Coast Jim Boeheim, who tied Denny get past the first round for the got last Sunday in the Atlantic Buffalo. Conference's rookie of the year Crum for 18th all-time with his fourth straight time. The Coast Conference tournament 
Senior Andre Emmett and -went 12-for-15 from the line 675th win. Cougars haven't won an NCM final, a 95-87 loss to Maryland freshman Jarrius Jackson each Thursday. and had seven assists "Gerry was just in another tournament game since beating that added some questions scored 11 points to lead a first­against two turnovers in 3 7 world today. I don't think you'll . Southern Methodist in the first about Duke's readiness for this half surge and Texas Tech held minutes. see the likes of that kind of round in 1993. tournament. off Charlotte in the first round "Coach (Skip) Prosser and my game too many times ever." Duke 96, Alabama State 61 But all is not perfect there: of the NCAA tournament. teammates have the. ultimate Syracuse (22-7) shot 53 per-Duke came into the NCAA Duhon, the emotional center of 
The game turned out much confidence in me," Paul said. "A cent and got 20 points from tournament dinged up and the team and possibly its best better for Knight than his last lot of times I say they have Hakim Warrick but couldn't maybe a little bit vulnerable. defender, barely played in the trip here, when he lost to more confidence in me than I breathe easy against 12th-seed-Alabama State was hardly the second half and didn't score at Pepperdine in his final game as have in myself. At the end of the ed BYU until McNamara hit team to take advantage of it. all. coach of Indiana in 2000. game, Coach kept giving me the three free throws in four Shavlik Randolph scored 20 His backcourt partner, J .J. 
t ''I'm glad the outcome of this ball, so I thought it was my attempts in the final 16 sec-points to help the top-seeded Redick, was a mixed bag. 

the Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES  Part time supply center admin This person will be responsible for inventory, ordering, labeling, at the supply center in  DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 BEDROOM HOUSE... 2 BEDROOM DUPLEX... AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON­ 2 bdrm apt. tor rent. AJC, WID, dishwasher, spacious, close to campus.  LARGE 3 BEDROOM HOUSE for rent. Beautifully redone, 2 bath­rooms, 2-car garage, w/d, base­ment, short walk to campus.  WHERE IS THE BEST BLUES BAR? MIDWAY TAVERN  
Galvin Life Sciences.  DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004·  New appliances.  Available 5/1, $1,050. Call 574-876·  810 W4TH ST, MISHAWAKA  
BABYSITIER  The position will be approx.  2005 SCHOOL YEAR.  $650/mo.  1456.  CALL 255-0458.  
10 hours a week. $11.00 an hour  WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO  Available 4/1 but flexible.  
Needed ASAP for family in Granger,  Must have access to email and  LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006  Call Paul 514·3188.  Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4  www.themidwaytavern.com  
Summer avail. a plus!  basic excel and word skills.  SCHOOL YEAR. .. CONTAC­ bdrms close to NO. Spring, summer  
Send information to  TKRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436  COLLEGE PARK CONDO  or fall. 235·3655.  Enroll in a Kaplan Test Prep Class  
Call Laura: 243-4776  debra. norton@ invitrogen.com  OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOW­ FOR LEASE 2004-2005.  in March and get $100 back!  
INGS  Academic year ­ 
WANTED Wanted- FoR RENT  VERY NICE 3bdrm home in EastBank area w/washer-dryer & alarm system incl.  Available June 1 . 2 bdrm-2 bath ­Fully Furnished -Security System. (626)441·1275 or  PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Caii1·800-KAP-TEST for info. Another Thursday goes by. __ without Scholastic.  •  
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES  Nice yard for volleyball etc-full  salvaty@earthlink.net  not go it alone. If you or someone  Does anyone remember the last  
Old paintings,  WALK TO CAMPUS  bsmt. Walk to Corbys&StJoe  you love needs confidential support  time they published?  
especially Indiana and Notre Dame  MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@ aol.com  Church. Call Joe Crimmins@  NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF ND  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819_ For  I just have one question. . why?  
57 4-514-0643(cell)or  GREAT FOR 3-6 STUDENTS  more information, see our bi-weekly  
(574) 286·9359  272-1525  574-273-0002(home)  2773097  ad in THE OBSERVER.  Za deliverers rule.  

.... -------... ----------.•. ~. :---.-. ~ '! .: -· .•. •... : : .....-..... :. .;. ... --·--. ';,; •• ·...... .; --.. .. .. .. 
... ;_, --·-... e". : =-.: -.. ~ :. • --·-~ : .; -....._ !.. ..:. . -..
:=--·---~· 

Friday, March 19, 2004 page 17
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
THE 
________ LER SCRAMBLER 
A 19-hole putt-putt golftournament to benefit charity Saturday, March 201h 9-11 PM Stepan Center 



Free Food!!! 
TONS OF PRIZES 
• 
Including: X-Box, Mini-iPod, DVD Player, and much more!!! 
All proceeds to benefit ALS (Lou Gehrig~ s Disease) 
. . 
' . 


.·· UB Presents the 1s·t Annual laugh YourButtOff Weeke ·· 
·· · · COMEDY TROUP March 20th~ 7:30pm 
0N: IMPRO 
· brouaht to vou bv the ~udent union board. nd.edu/..sub 
I 
• I I I I I I 
I 


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 18 Col\1PI LED FRO/'v\ ·rHE OBSERVER'S \·VIRE SERVtCES Friday, March 19, 2004 

around the dial 
NBA 

Boston vs Dallas, 8 p.m., ESPN Houston vs Golden State, 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Murray State vs Illinois, 12:25 p.m., CBS Northern Iowa vs Georgia Tech, 2:50 p.m., CBS Florida A&M vs Kentucky, 7:10 p.m., CBS Central Florida vs Pittsburgh, 9:40p.m., CBS 
MLB 


Associated Press 

PHOENIX -Eric Chavez had no desire to follow Jason Giambi and Miguel Tejada out the Oakland Athletics' revolving door. 
The A's finally retained one of their stars, signing the third baseman to a six­year contract extension worth $66 million on Thursday. Though it's the biggest deal in franchise history, it's slightly less than the probable market value for a player with Chavez's combination of statistics, youth and poten­tial. 
But Chavez wants to be a leader and a cornerstone for the A's, who have won three AL West titles during four straight playoff sea­sons -and he was willing to make a small financial sacrifice for the chance. 
"It's a real honor stand­ing here, considering the guys that have gone by, and I'm the one standing here," Chavez said. "It's kind of unbelievable, really. ... I'm grateful that they see me as a centerpiece." 
Chavez, a three-time Gold Glove winner and the AL's top power-hitting third baseman last season, would have been eligible for free agency after the season. 
But instead of allowing the 26-year-old infielder to follow MVPs Giambi and Tejada out of Oakland, general manager Billy Beane worked out a deal with Dave Stewart, Chavez's agent and Beane's former teammate with the Xs. 
"With [Chavez], it was 
-never about being the rich­est guy in the world," Beane said. "In my opinion, with all due respect to Mr. Rolen in St. Louis, this is the best third baseman in baseball. You're going to make us all look very bright over the next few years." 
The deal includes a $12.5 million club option for 2011 with a $3 million buy­out. Chavez will make $5.2 million this year under his previous contract. 
Manager Ken Macha, the A's bench coach for four seasons until his promotion before last season, gave Chavez what probably was his first major-league nick­name: Will Hunting, after the math prodigy played by Matt Damon in his Oscar­winning movie. 
"When you lay out all the ways he can impact a game, he's got it all," Macha said. "He's going to be a plus guy in the field." If I give him the green light a little more, he can steal in double digits, no prob­lem. Obviously he can hurt you with the home run. He's got a chance to be a great player." 
IN BRIEF 

Cowboys finalize deals "We're pleased that the technical Ellis pointed to his achievements ­with Henson, Johnson aspects of the league approving the teams that "put us near the top of agreement is behind us," Jones said. the SEC in terms of games won and
IRVING, Texas -The Dallas trips to the NCAA tournament. ThatCowboys finally acquired Keyshawn "We're all set there." 
is why this decision by the Auburn

Johnson Thursday reaching agree­Henson is returning to football 
administration is so disappointing."

ment on a deal that will send Joey after three years of pro baseball. Galloway to Tampa Bay. 
Artest excused form

On the same day the NFL told the Ellis fired as Auburn team it would approve their eight­coach after I 0 seasons Pacers practice 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana PacersAUBURN, Ala. -Auburn coach

year contract with quarterback 
forward Ron Artest missed practiceCliff Ellis was fired Thursday after

Drew Henson, owner Jerry Jones on Thursday, but will not be pun­10 up-and-down seasons with thesaid Dallas has a handshake deal to 
ished because the absence was

Tigers, who were shut out of post­
send receiver Galloway to Tampa excused. 
season play for the second time in
Bay for Johnson. Pacers coach Rick Carlisle said
three years.
Jones said the Cowboys had Artest missed practice to attend to
Ellis is the second-winningest
agreed on a handshake deal with family issues and would be in the
coach in Auburn basketball history.
Tampa that involves Dallas rework­starting lineup for Friday's game
He was with his team longer than 
against the visiting Sacramento

ing Galloway's contract. 
any other current coach in the 
Kings.

Johnson agreed weeks ago to a 
Southeastern Conference. 
"Everything happened today,"

four-year, $20 million contract with 
"I am aware of the many accom­Artest said, without elaborating fur­
a $4 million bonus. 
plishments of coach Ellis in his ther.
As for Henson, the league 
tenure here," said Auburn interim Artest was benched for the start of
approved the contract, but has not president Ed Hichardson, who met a game against New Orleans in officially announced it within the briefly with the coach. "I appreciate February for missing practice while NFL. It did informed the Cowboys, what he has done with the program. returning from All Star Weekend in however, that it had been approved. It is simply time for a change." Los Angeles. 
-• 
Friday, March 19, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NHL 
Leetch's pair of goals lift Maple Leafs to victory 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Brian Leetch scored his first two goals with Toronto, lifting the Maple Leafs to a 3-2 victory Thursday night over the Philadelphia Flyers. 
Ed Belfour made 26 saves and Gary Roberts added a goal for Toronto, which had lost six 
straight  games  against  
Philadelphia.  
John  LeClair and  Kim  

Johnsson scored for the Flyers, who had been unbeaten in their past four games. 
The Flyers outscored the Maple Leafs 15-2 in three wins this season. Belfour surren­dered 14 of those goals and was 

Monday, 3/22 

pulled after only 11 minutes in a 4-1 loss on Jan. 16. 
But Belfour played well this time, carrying a shutout into the third period and stopping several shots in the final minute to preserve the victory. 
Toronto took a 1-0 lead with 
4:07 left in the first period on a short-handed breakaway by Roberts. With the Flyers on a five-on-three power play, a blocked shot by Leetch slid to Mats Sundin just as Roberts emerged from the penalty box. 
Roberts broke free and lifted a backhander over Robert Esche for his first short-handed goal of the season. 
Leetch, acquired March 3 from the New York Rangers, made it 2-0 during a two-man advantage early in the second period with a low slap shot that beat Esche. He was screened on the play by Roberts. 
Belfour preserved the lead with several tough saves in the second period, twice stopping 
Sami Kapanen  and  stoning  
Mattias Timander on  a 7 -foot  
wrist shot.  

Leetch added his second goal 
4:01 into the third with a slap­per from just inside the blue line that Esche badly misplayed. 
With Esche pulled for an extra attacker, LeClair rammed home a rebound on a power play for his 22nd goal. Johnsson took a pass from Mark Recchi and wristed it in to cut the lead 
Notre Dame 

Disability Awareness Week 
March 22-26, 2004 

5:15p.m. Mass at the Basilica Tuesday, 3/23 8p.m. at Reekers Panel Discussion by students with disabilities 
Wednesday, 3/24 9:30p.m. at Legends Theology on Tap Discussion Is there such a thing as wrongful life? 
Thursday, 3/25 7p.m. at DeBartolo 101 Autism Lecture by Patricia Stacey, author of the book, The Boy Who Loved Windows, Opening the Heart and Mind ofa Child Threatened with Autism. Free Admission. 
www.nd.edu/--bbuddies 



to a goal with 2:58 left to play. 
Recchi and Tony Amonte had 
scoring chances in the final 30 
seconds, but Belfour made a 
pair of saves to seal the game. 
Esche lost for the first time in 
his last six starts. 
Senators 2, Avalanche 0 
Peter Schaefer and Wade 
Redden scored first-period 
goals and .Patric.k Lalime made 
23 saves for his first shutout in 
over two months to lead the 
Ottawa Senators to a victory 
over the Colorado Avalanche. 
Schaefer scored on a power 
play 12:31 in, and Redden beat 
goalie David Aebischer 59 sec­
onds later to put Ottawa up by 
two at 13:30. 
Lalime, beaten for five goals 
on 22 shots in a 5-2 loss 
Tuesday at Minnesota, recorded 
his fourth shutout of the season 
-his first since Jan. 13. 
The Senators, who had lost 
two in a row to end a 2-3 trip, 
extended their home point 
streak to 22 games. They are 
tied with Toronto with 92 
points, one behind Northeast 
Division-leading Boston. 
Ottawa, which played its sec­
ond of three home games in 
March, hasn't lost in regulation 
at home (17-3-2) since a defeat 
against Boston on Dec. 13. 
Colorado lost its second straight following a four-game winning streak. The Avalanche, who lost 4-2 in Montreal on Tuesday, dropped just four of 36 road games through regulation before this three-game Canadian trip that concludes Saturday in Toronto. 
The Senators converted their only power-play opportunity of the opening period after defenseman Rob Blake was penalized for playing the puck with a broken stick midway through the first. 
With eight seconds remaining in the ensuing power play, Schaefer scored his 15th goal when Greg de Vries' point shot off a faceoff in the Avalanche zone deflected to him off the leg of Senators forward Chris Neil. 
Redden scored his 16th just under a minute later when he jumped on a rebound of Jason Spezza's shot and caught Aebischer out of position to score into an open left side. 
Rarely tested through the first 
two periods, when Ottawa held 
a 23-15 shots advantage, 
Lalime came up with a pair of 
big saves while the Senators 
were shorthanded in the third. 
Lalime stopped Joe Sakic 
while Colorado enjoyed a five­
on-three advantage for 54 sec­
onds after Senators defenseman 
Wade Redden was sent off at 
7:23 while Radek Bonk was already in the penalty box. 
Bonk had just returned to the ice when Lalime stuck out his right pad to deny Milan Hejduk's shot and rob the Avalanche of their best scoring chance. 
Lightning 3, Sabres 1 
Dave Andreychuk and Tim 
Taylor turned a little trickery 
into a game-winning goal. 
Taylor snapped a tie 52 sec­
onds into the third period, lead­
ing the Tampa Bay Lightning 
past the Buffalo Sabres. 
Andreychuk set up the goal 
with a special faceoff play. 
Instead of pulling the puck back 
toward the point after winning 
the draw against Daniel Briere, 
Andreychuk sent the puck for­
ward, went around the Buffalo 
center and sent a pass to Taylor 
in the slot. 
"I can't give you the secret code," Andreychuk said. "We've tried it before a few times this year. It worked out pretty well for us." 
Andreychuk won 13 of 18 faceoffs. Briere lost six of eight. 
"He was beating me pretty much all night on the faceoffs," Briere said. "I tried to switch it up a little bit and try to be more aggressive. I'll take the blame for it. It was my fault on that goal." 
Sabres goalie Mika Noronen went down to the ice thinking Andreychuk would shoot the puck. 
"He made a great pass," Noronen said. "I couldn't get my feet under me. I was just trying to reach it with my stick and I just couldn't get there." 
Martin St. Louis added an empty-net goal with 10.3 sec­onds left for his 86th point this season, tying Brian Bradley's team record set in 1992-93. 

DEADLINE TODAY! 
FRIDAY, MARCH 19,2004 
for the 2003-2004 Student leadershiP Awards 
Help us identify undergraduate students who best 

exemplify the spirit of Notre Dame in social, recreational, ­residential, service, and religious activities that promote the welfare of the University and extended communities. 
All Notre Dame Community Members are encouraged to submit nominations. A student may nominate another 
.. 
student, but no self-nominations will be accepted. 

Stop by the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center, 
,..,.....,;1 '"'~""~"'M nMot ,..,r ... ~II t:~1_7~ng l ...r ,..,...,.....;,...~ti ...... ri.... t ... ileo 

page 20 Friday, March 19, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
I .' NBA
I \ 
I \' 
Nets score 71, still not enough to top Pistons 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­

I •, • 
The Detroit Pistons' five-game sub-70 streak came to an end, though the New Jersey Nets went a bit overboard in their attempt to halt it. 
The Nets committed an inten­tional foul to stop the clock with 
13.1 seconds left, and Aaron Williams made a tip-in with 1.1 seconds remaining in an 89-71 loss to the Pistons. 


Williams pumped his fist after he scored. 
"Maybe that was bigger to them than winning the game. That's what it seemed like to us," Rasheed Wallace said. "They were down there cheer­ing, so hey, let them worry about that. We got what we came for." 
Detroit gained a split of the season series and moved two games ahead of New Jersey in the conference standings ­important if the teams, all but locked into the Nos. 2 and 3 seeds, meet in the second round of the playoffs. 
Chauncey Billups scored 20 points, Rasheed Wallace had 16 and Richard Hamilton 15 for the Pistons, who held the Nets to 35 percent shooting, forced 17 turnovers and outrebounded them 47-37 .. 
"They're not better than us," New Jersey's Kenyon Martin said. "They had a decent ball­game today, and we had some careless turnovers, but they~re not better than us by any means. Hopefully we'll see them down the line and show them who's the better team." 

On the chalkboard in the lock­er room, Brown had written the message: "Make them a shoot­ing team, not a layup team." He listed five keys to winning, including limiting the Nets' fast­break points and taking away their backdoor cuts and lob passes. 
Detroit did not allow a fast­break bucket in the first half while opening a 19-point lead, nor did the Pistons allow the Nets to attempt much of any­thing from inside 15 feet throughout the game. 
The Pistons' sub-70 streak was unprecedented in league history, as no team had ever done it three times, much less five. 
Detroit's defensive intensity began to get to the Nets in the second quarter as they forced six turnovers in the first 5 1/2 minutes and began to pull away. A fast-break layup by Mike James produced the first 10­point lead, 35-25, and a 3-point­er by Billups completed a 25-6 run that put the Pistons ahead 48-29. 
"There was a period in the second quarter when we defended as well as you could ever defend," Brown said. 
The Nets had trouble closing the gap as the Pistons continued to outwork them in the third quarter. Billups hit a 3-pointer for a 59-46 lead after Detroit grabbed three offensive rebounds on one possession, and the Nets didn't get their first fast-break basket until Martin's dunk with 5:03 left in the period. 
Detroit took a 68-56 lead into the fourth quarter, and the Nets missed their first six shots. 
Richard Hamilton ended a Pistons' scoring drought that lasted more than seven minutes by making a 23-footer for a 70­59 lead before Richard Jefferson hit consecutive jumpers to cut the Nets' deficit to seven. 
Rasheed Wallace answered with a 3-pointer, Ben Wallace stole an entry pass by Kidd and Corliss Williamson converted a fast-break layup. Ben Wallace then drew a charge against Martin, and Williamson scored over two defenders on a post­up. 
The lead was back to 15, and the only question after that was whether the Nets would reach 70. 
SuperSonics 97, Grizzlies 94 
Vladimir Radmanovic and Ray Allen had 19 points each, lead­ing the Seattle SuperSonics to a victory over the Memphis Grizzlies. 
The SuperSonics led until the fourth quarter, when the Grizzlies staged 14-2 run to take a 78-76 advantage on a dunk by Pau Gasol with 6:10 left. 

Seattle regained the lead for good at 90-88 with 1:33 left on a jumper by Radmanovic. 
The SuperSonics ended the scoring with two free throws by Antonio Daniels. 
Gasol tried a desperation 3­pointer with about two seconds left, but the ball bounded off the rim. 
Brent Barry had 13 points for Seattle, ·while Rashard Lewis had 12 and Vitaly Potapenko added 11. 
The Grizzlies were led by Gasol with 21 points and 15 rebounds. James Posey had 13 points for Memphis and Stromile Swift added 12. 
The Grizzlies outrebounded the SuperSonics 43-33, but shot 43 percent from the field to 52 percent for Seattle. 


Winner of NBC's Last Comic Standing Performing THIS Friday Night the 19th at 7pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. 
w-.llh St:udenL Comics OpeningfOr DaL Phan: Contact the Office of · 
·~Nr··'··. Student Activities for
@ Steph Patka-MC mor~~~~~ion: Matthew Barringer & Peter Wicks 

-
Friday, March 19, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles set to start conference play 
By RYAN DUFFEY Sports Writer 
After going undefeated in con­ference play during two of the last three years, Saint Mary's looks to start off its season strong when it hosts Adrian College Saturday. 
The MIAA league champion Belles have already had some non-conference and exhibition experience, but Saturday's match represents the first chance to begin defense of their title. 
"It's our first conference match, and we want to start the season out positively," said soph­omore Kristen Palombo, who won the No. 2 singles champi­onship and earned All-MIAA second-team honors as a fresh­man last -year. "Because it's been almost a week since we played, the important thing for us is to keep the momentum going from spring break." 
Over spring break, the Belles 
ND TRACK & FIELD 
Outdoor season will open for Irish runners
flew to Orlando for seven exhibi­tion matches, including contests against some tougher Division I schools. 
"We really worked hard dur­started," Knish said. "We're looking forward to our first match on our home courts." 
All the Saint Mary's players seem to be happy to be playing 


ing spring break," senior Jeannie Knish said. "I think we came together as a team, and we've gotten to know each other really well. I am pret­ty confident about this team right now." 
"Because it's been almost a week since we played, the important thing for us is to keep the momentum going. " 
Kristen Palombo Belles sophomore 
at home again. The question at this point appears to be whether the weather will allow it to be a successful one. 
"We are hoping for good weather, 

Knish headlines the Belles' powerful squad as a two-time singles champion. She returns to her familiar No. 1 spot from last year and will look to live up to her status as a member of the all-MIAA first-team Saturday, an honor she has held the last two years. 
"We've been practicing hard for our first conference oppo­nent, and we're excited to get because it will make the transi­tion from sunny Orlando to frigid South Bend a lot easier," Palombo said. "It's hard to adjust your game to such a big change in temperature." 
No matter the weather, the Belles are eager to take their first steps toward another con-
Contact Ryan Duffey at rduffey@nd.edu 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track and 
field team will forego the con­
trolled temperature of the 
Loftus Center this weekend 
and head for the dry heat of 
the desert as they compete in 
the Baldy Castillo Open in 
Tempe, Ariz. 
The competition will be the first meet of the outdoor sea­son for the Irish as the team finished the indoor portion of their schedule last weekend at the NCAA Championships in Fayetteville, Ark. 
Molly Huddle and Kerry Meagher were the only Irish to earn All-America honors at last week's meet, as Huddle placed third in the 5000­meter run and seventh in the 3000-meter race. Meagher was a seventh-place finisher in the mile run. 
Megan Johnston, Kristen Dodd, Stacey Cowan and Lauren King also ran last week helping the Irish women to a 21st-place finish. 
Selim Nurudeen was the sole competitor for the men, as the junior placed 15th in the 60­meter hurdles. 
Arizona State will host this weekend's meet and Notre Dame is one of eight Division I schools participating. Among the competition will be Ohio State, Kansas State, George Mason, UC Santa Barbara and Northern Arizona. 
The field should challenge the Irish as there are a few nationally-ranked competi­tors. One of the best races should be the women's mile as Northern Arizona's Johanna Nilsson goes up against Meagher and King. Nilsson took second-place last week and Meagher and King are expected to give her a close race this weekend. 
Huddle will also be facing one of her rivals in Northern Arizona's Ida Nilsson. Nilsson, the sister of Johanna, finished third in the 3000 meters last weekend, four places ahead of Huddle. 
Irish high jumper Stacey Cowan will try to outleap Kansas State's Morgan High. High finished three spots behind Cowan last week in 13th place. 
Nurudeen will have a tough draw in the 60-meter hurdles as he runs against Hichard Phillips of George Mason. Phillips placed sixth last week with a time of 7.72 seconds. Nurudeen ran the distance in 
7.84 seconds. 
This is the first of a pair of western road trips for the Idsh, as they will head to Palo Alto, Calif., next weekend for the Stanford Invitational. The lone home meet for Notre Dame this outdoor season will be the Spring Opener April 3. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

Seafood Celebration 
Featuring the 11ew Seafood Trio 

Accepted s Unmistakably Italian·\, Unbelievably Good 

Cornett 
continued from page 28 
have a low-post presence again." 
So confident is Brey in the sophomore forward -who played scant minutes in most Big East games -that the Irish are back to the point where they run their offense through the post. 
And that's fine with Cornett, who is basking in the extended minutes he received in Notre Dame's Big East tournament loss to Connecticut and its NIT win against Purdue. 
"If I'm on the floor, I want 


< my teammates to depend on me," he said. "They know I'm not going to make too many 
Jl .... stupid decisions with the balL When I get it, if I'm double­teamed, I'm going to kick it back out."
'· ~ 
~ t. ~ That's what he did with dev­
'·, ·. \ 
astating effectiveness in Notre 

:' ,·
\ \\ Dame's 71-59 win ·againstI, Purdue Wednesday. In between
!<l
~~ 
\ 
i 
HOCKEY 

I 
I . 
( ,! 
Komadoski captures n{ t ' ' Humanitarian award 
·, ~~ 
Special to The Observer

')\ 
<<
,, Notre Dame defenseman Neil 
< Komadoski was named the winner of the CCHA's fourth annual Mike and Marian Ilitch Humanitarian Award as the
~' 
league's top citizen. Komadoski received the presti­gious honor Wednesday night at the annual CCHA awards banquet held at the Fox Theatre. 


Komadoski was recognized for his community service work performed in both the Notre Dame and South Bend communities. For the last three years, the senior defenseman has been involved with the Notre Dame Student­Athlete Advisory Committee (SAAC), serving as chairman of SAAC's community service committee this year. 
Last May, Komadoski repre­sented Notre Dame at the 2003 NCAA Student-Athlete Leadership Conference in Orlando, Fla. 
Along with his teammates, the 22-year-old alternate cap­

) 
tain has been involved with the 

> 
) 
I 
) 
p 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE

;h r 
>) !~·,1 
page 22 The Observer + Sl)o•· · .···s' Friday, March 19, 2004 
Super Bowl Sunday wanting more playing time has estab­lished himself with his actions, rendering pleas for more min­utes moot. 
Glances at the post-game box scores reveal Cornett's improvement. In h,is last two games, he has missed just one of 14 free-throw attempts. The sophomore has also been Notre Dame's second-leading scorer. 
""That's one of the reasons I don't want to stop playing him, because he keeps getting bet­ter," Brey said. "I don't want to put the balls away because I want this young man to keep blossoming." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

Need an apartrnent ror the SUJ'\II.l'\--IER~? 
Turt:le Creek Apart:men.t:s Can help! 

May 2004-Au.gust 2004 (SUrvtlVIER ONLY) Augus~ 2004-May 2005 (SCHOOL y·EA.·R ONLY) June 2004-May 2005 (FULL YEAR) July 2004-June 2005 (FULL YEAR) August 2004-July 2005 (.FULL Y'EAR.) 


We DO ALLOW S'UBLEASING-! 
W c only have three...yes you read that correct, ONLY THREE 2 bedroom. apartTnents remaining ror any or the lease tern:ts ·listed above!! 
Call us for details: 574-272-8124 
WVVVV.TURTLECREEKND.COlVI 
IEITYEAI'si:EIJ CIIIPISJIBSDEAIAiliBU IIW­
1111WilT81DllfsTllliTEI 


banging bodies with a physical Boilermaker defense, Cornett grabbed six rebounds in 26 minutes on the court while impressing Brey with his abili­ty to catch difficult passes from driving guards. 
"Some of the catches he made of tough passes, scrap­ing them off the floor, were, quite frankly, amazing." Brey said. 
After wins against DePaul and Connecticut, Brey thought that Cornett -considered by the coaching staff to be the most improved player in the off-season -had finally turned the corner that would allow him to be a major con­tributor. 
Yet the sophomore still lan­guished on the bench, pulled off the court for mistakes attributable to inexperience. Indeed. Cornett drew Brey's ire Wednesday when he launched an ill-advised outlet pass to Chris Thomas that resulted in an Irish turnover. 
But now, the player who approached Irish coaches on 
team's yearly pediatric Christmas Party, Christmas in April, Habitat for Humanity and the annual Downs Syndrome Buddy Walk. 
The Mike and Marian Ilitch Award is presented each year to the league's top citizen based on their contributions off the ice as well as on, to his team, his program, his school and his community. 
Earlier this season, Komadoski was named as one of 14 nominees for college hockey's Humanitarian Award that goes to college hockey's top citizen. 
The league also presented its major awards Wednesday night with four members of the Irish hockey program being named finalists in their cate­gories. 
Senior defenseman Brett Lebda was one of three final­ists for the league's top offen­sive defenseman award. Team captain Aaron Gill was a final­ist for the league's top defen­sive forward and goaltender David Brown was one of three finalists for rookie of the year. 
) ,J 
! ! 
t ' 
Irish off to best start 
if . I ft't 
'I 
in 8-year team history
' (
I ( 
:'~. 
/,''I~" :} Special to The Observer 
I 'f 
I ) The Notre Dame women's 
'II 
I :( lacrosse team, off to the best 
•o 
start in the program's eight-year

:~; 
'/. history, moved up to No. 3 in the 
~ ~) . 
national rankings after knocking

' I
I~ •J) ofT No. 2 Duke and No. 6 James 
' f 
Madison last we~k.

I ~ 
I ) 
I i The Irish are ranked No. 3 in 
I i. I i 
the Intercollegiate Women's 

1 .. 
I, Lacrosse Coaches Association I 
(IWLCA) poll and third by Inside 

... 
Lacrosse magazine. That is the I, highest ranking the Irish have 
I' 
I i I! I ever had since the program I 
I started in 1997. ' . 
I 
'. 
The previous highest ranking that the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team has had was No. 7 at the ·end ofthe 2002 season. 
The Irish have won five straight games to start the sea­son and have won four straight over nationally ranked teams through the first three weeks of the season. To date, Notre Dame has beaten No. 15 Stanford, No. 19 Cornell, No. 2 Duke and No. 6 James Madison. 
Combined with four wins at the end of the 2003 season, the Irish have now won nine consecutive games. 
The Student Activities Offlce is seeking student employees for the 2()()4..2005 academic year. 
Positions include: 
LaFortune Building Manager 24 Hour Lounge Monitor Information Desk &Box Offlce ND Cake SeJVice Attendant Billiards Hall Attendant LaFortune Ballroom Monitor Stepan Center Manager Facilities Assistant Program Assistant 
IMPORTANT DATES 
INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday~ March 24,9:00 PM Notre Dame Room~ LaFortune Come and learn more about the job opportunities w~h the SAO and how you can join the team! 
APPLICATION DEADLINE Wednesday, March 31 Application is available on the SAO web site. 


Friday, March 19, 2004 page 23
The Observer+ SPORTS 
ND WoMEN's GoLF 
Irish positive despite slow start 
By ERIC RETTER Sporrs Writer 
Irish coach Debby King still remains very optimistic about her women's golf team. Even witnessing them turn in their worst performance of the 2003-2004 campaign last weekend, King is still enthusi­astic about her team's chances of competing in their first NCAA tournament. 
"I still feel very confident about the season," King said. "I think we can make a nice recovery in Texas." 
The Irish need to improve their play as they travel to Boerne, Texas, to compete in the prestigious Baylorffapatio Springs Shootout at the Tapatio Spring golf resort. 
King's team will face stiff competition from 19 teams this weekend and 14 from 
· their own central region. The Irish, ranked 50th in the most recent Golf Week/Sagarin index ratings, will face three higher-ranked teams in Missouri (30), Baylor (39) and Indiana (46). Twelve teams in the field, including Notre Dame, can boast top-100 rankings in the Golf Week polls. 
To improve on their eighth place finish last year at this event, the Irish hope for another strong Shootout per­formance from sophomore Katie Brophy, who led the team last year with a 19 over par 235 at this event. 
"It's too early to say any­thing for sure right now" King said: "Katie's been playing really well." 
King also had good things to say about freshman Noriko Nakazaki, who leads the team in stroke average, with just under 75 strokes a round. 
"She's really been great for us," King said about her bud­ding first-year star. 
Rounding out her scoring five, King made some alter­ations from last weekend's lineup, replacing senior co­captain Shannon Byrne and freshman Stacey Brown with sophomores Lauren Gebauer and Sarah Bassett, who both participated last weekend as individuals. If they play as well as they did last weekend, this move should strengthen the Irish team. Gebauer turned in a team-low 237 to tie for 19th, with Bassett right behind her tied for 24th after her 239, second best on the team. Junior Karen Lotta will also join them in competing for Notre Dame's scoring five. 
The tournament begins this morning and will last through Sunday. Play will begin at 8:30a.m. each day, with seed­ings and tee times for Saturday and Sunday deter­mined by each teams stand­ings at the end of the previous day. 
Contact Eric Retter at erener@nd.edu 
r---··--vA'-''•'·'·'-w.w.,·.·­
~ 
VISIT THE STEIN ROOM IN THE U:NIVERSITY CLUB 
PRfVATE DtNiNG, CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME SERVlNG SNACKS &SANDWiCHES ALL DAy LONIG 11:30AM-9PM BAR OPEN MONDAY·FRIDAY UNTIL 10PM -SATURDAY UNTJL 11PM 

ROWING 
Spartans, Vols fall to women's crew team 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG Senior Staff Writer 
Over spring break, the women's 
rowing team kicked ofT its 2004 
season with races against No. 8 
Michigan State, No. 13 Tennessee 
and No. 18 Duke in Tennessee. 
The team fared well against 
tough competition, which will 
continue as the Irish face a Top 
20 team in every race this sea­
son. 
On Saturday, the Irish won six 
races against the Spartans and 
Lady Vols on Lake Lanier in 
Knoxville, Tenn. Notre Dame tri­
umphed in all three second varsi­
ty four races and won in each of 
the three first novice eight heats. 
The Irish second varsity four 
crew of Caitlin Rackish, cox, 
Katie O'Hara, stroke, Danielle 
Stealy, Kristin Henkel and Tricia 
David won their first heat in 5 
minutes, 17.62 seconds, over 
nine seconds ahead of Tennessee. 
In the second race, the crew beat 
the Spartans with a 5:21.38 fin­
ish. Finally, in the third race, 
Notre Dame's boat finished in 
5:21.38, topping Michigan State's 
5:29.29. 
The Irish first varsity eight of Maureen Gibbons, cox, Natalie Ladine, stroke, Alice Bartek, Meghan Boyle, Rachel Polinski, Melissa Felker, Katie Chenoweth, Danielle Protasewich and Jacqueline Hazen gave the nationally-ranked Lady Vols a scare. Tennessee squeaked out a victory finishing in 4:36.53, two seconds ahead of the Irish. 
Overall, Irish coach Martin Stone was pleased with the week­end's performances. 
"I think the base pace of our race was our strength," Stone said. "The start and finish part were our weakest point of the race, especially against Duke. Our number one performance goal is to reach the NCAAs as a team. In order for that to occur, each person must make individ­ual improvements to add to the team's speed." 
Later. the Lady Vols once again snatched a victory away from the Irish, this time the difference came down to Tennessee's time 
of 4:19.59 and Notre Dame's 
•
4:20.67. The first varsity four crew of Kathryn Long, cox, Pamela Jefson, stroke, Meredith Thornburgh, Alyssa Close and Kristen Mizzi secured a second­place finish in all three of their races while the Spartans collect­ed three victories. 
"After spending all winter indoors, it was exciting to see how quickly we came together to face these teams," Irish captain Natalie Ladine said. "We have two weeks until we face Michigan. In that time, the coaches are working on lineups. and the rowers are working hard to improve each day." 
On Sunday, Notre Dame's sec­ond varsity four soared to win the their race by more than nine sec­onds over the Irish's first varsity four boat with finishing times of 
7:46.12 and 7:55.14, respectively. Duke followed in 8:04.87, and the third Irish varsity four boat of Shannan Lettieri, cox, Sarah Keefer, stroke, Julie Lewis, Ann Mulligan and Jana Miller took fourth with an 8:23.88 tinish. 
The Irish first varsity eight crew secured a close second sec­ond-place finish in 6:49.25, falling four seconds short of Duke's time. 
The novice teams also boasted strong performances over the weekend. Saturday, the Irish won all three heats in their regatta against Michigan State and Tennessee, and the first novice eight was also victorious over the Blue Devils Sunday. 
Notre Dame's boat of Eileen Froehlke, cox. Sarah Kate Hafner. stroke, Ariel Klingaman, Daniellc Potts, Beth Hatch, Shannon Cassel, Sarah Shaw, Meghan Chidsey and Colleen McCotter fin­ished in 7:14.19, while Duke's crew finished almost a full minute behind in 8:12.06. 
Bridget Osetinski, cox, Audrey deGuire, stroke, Alicia Cooper, Samantha Glass and Kaitlin Sharkey of Notre Dame's novice four crew had a triumphant fin­ished in 8:32.22, eight seconds ahead of the Blue Devils. 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmstro@nd.edu 
IIIISIF2115 


WITH FR. MALLOY! SUNDAY' MARCH 21ST Class Mass 

10:00 p.m. 
Mary, Seat of Wisdom Chapel (1st Floor Malloy Hall) 

Enjoy milk & cookies with your classmates after Mass 


PIIY,Ell,IIDIIITEIlllliSSI 


.. 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ ', ~. \ . 
'' 

< ' ) 
': ~ I)
' ' 
' 
n· 
·' ·'· 
I. 

J 
/ I ) ; 
I 
I( ~ t
d 
) I ) ' 
: . I ~ '. 
I' 
I 
I ' 
i 
I ,.. 
I ,'; 
.:;..
' 
. ; 
• I 
( 
( 
' ( 
' I 
I 
)iI 

I 
) 


I 
I 
I I 
I I 
'i 
I. 
Friday, March 19, 2004 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles come home for first series 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a solid spring

• break trip, Saint Mary's will look to win its first home game of the season today, when they host Goshen College. The matchup with Goshen will be the Belles' first of four non­league games before they begin conference play against defend­ing MIAA champion Alma March 28. "We are looking forward to playing Goshen tomorrow, because last year we dropped a doubleheader to them, and we played very poorly," Belles coach Anna Welsh said. Following today's game, the Belles visit Rose-Hulman, St. Mary of the Woods and Purdue­North Centra. Saint Mary's played well on its four-day trip to Fort Myers, Fla., going 5-2 before dropping their final two games to Ursinus College (Pa.} and Webster (Mo.). In their five wins, they outscored opponents 31-9 and had two shutouts in the process. 
"Overall, I am pleased with the outcome of our spring trip. Each game we were able to turn into a learning experience, both 
Look out! Someone might be watching 
~~pj,y 21st 
Birthday, Kevan and Brendan! 
Love, Your Ladies 
I I 

I .,!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!L:@:=:_~N o rth Quad/Farley Hall 
I I I I I 

·OJ 
I I I I I I 

Meet the coaching staff and  .2.  Lucky students vviJI Vv'in Brine Lacrosse  Sticks  
players, get autographs.., and  &  one dorm will be selected for a  
run drills vvith the men's  Lacrosse Tailgate on March 31st  
lacrosse team!  #10 Notre Dame vs. Ohio State.  

SOFTBALL HOIVIE OPENER 
Saturday, 1\t\arch 20th 1 :00 & 3:00 pm No-tre Dame vs. EasTern lv\ichigan @Ivy Field **FREE ADMXSS:J:ON** 
positive and negative," Welsh said. "If we can improve on the things that we didn't do as well and keep hitting like we did for the most part we are going to have a successful season." 
The Belles are coming off a 15-17-1 record last year, where they finished sixth in the MIAA, going 4-8. The team is young this year, returning just four seniors. The rest are freshmen and sophomores. 
Returning for the Belles on offense are seniors Marnie Welsh and Katrina Tebbe. Walsh batted .301 with three home runs and 13 RBI's in 21 games last season. Tebbe, who batted .276 and started all 19 games she played in, will look to improve upon her statistics in order to solidify the team's chances in the MIAA. 
Possibly most important to the success of the Belles this season will be the continued develop­ment of sophomore pitcher Bridget Grall. As a freshman, Grall started seven games and finished the season with an impressive 2.76 ERA. Her 42 1/3 innings were second on the team only to Libby Wilhelmly, and her 25 strikeouts to only seven walks was best on the team. 
Sunday • March 21st"' 4:00-5:00pl'1"1 
Grall also batted .284 in 67 at­bats. Her 19 hits were second on the team to Welsh. These impressive statistics led to her selection as all-MIAA second­team in her first collegiate sea­son. 
Wilhelmly led the Belles last year in innings, strikeouts and wins and was 4-5 with a 4.29 ERA in 56 2/3 innings. 
Welsh is optimistic heading into this season, but said the Belles need more offensive to be victorious. 
"It's hard to expect a pitcher to hold teams scoreless when we don't produce offensively. That is something we are really going to focus on for [Goshen] and the rest of the games," Welsh said. "If we can put seven innings together offensively and defen­sively, then we will be hard to beat." 
Today's first pitch between Saint Mary's and Goshen will be at 3 p.m. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@ nd.edu 
II Friday, March 19, 2004 
II 

This presentation defends a strong role for family Keynote Presenterautonomy in medical decision-making. It draws on a Ruiping Fan, BM, Ph.D.
Confucian appreciation of the interplay among social bonds, rituals, virtues, and responsibilities. The goal is to bring you to appreciate a moral vision in '\vhich families 
have the authority to determine the health care of their members. 
The Notre Dame Alumni 
Association/Alumni

This vision is in dramatic tension with the individualist view of liberty in-force in the 201h century. By making 
Continuing Education

liberty itself a value, not liberty as a means to achieving the good and human flourishing, this individualist view offered each person the opportunity to define her own version of self-satisfaction and self-realization and has been core to American bioethics and its understandings of 
Presents

informed consent. The state has been assigned the moral authority to ensure every individual equal opportunity for 
The 19th Annual Philip & Dorb; 

self-realization through state-imposed strategies, including 
Clarke F anzily 

welfare programs. However, a robust understanding of the 
Lecture Oil Medical Ethics 

integrity and autonomy of families threatens equality health care,. Families tend to develop hierarchies and embrace illiberal values; most of all, families want their O\vn members to flourish and behave as the family sees fit, not the individual. Accordingly, this individualist view of 
McKenna Hall/Center 

liberty and equality and its practice downplays the role of 
for

the family in health care. 
Continuing Education, 

This presentation invites you to reconsider key elements in 
Auditorium

this standard American individualist account of bioethics. First, you are encouraged to undertake an evaluation of the 
4:00 p.m. individualist commitment to liberty and free choice. Second, you are invited to critically reconsider your commitments to fair equality of opportunity. This will be 
done by rehearsing the incompatibility of a sincere UNl\1 ER:>l.'I'Y 0!'
commitment to the integrity and autonomy of families and 
NOTRE DAl'v1 E 

a commitment to regnant Western understandings of 
Al.tiMl'il ;\SSOCI!\:HQN

liberal social-democratic justice. Finally, these critical considerations regarding liberty and equality will be tied to an account of familist informed decision-making, drawing 
Admission -FREE

heavily on Confucian moral and social insights. 
Recevtion Follo1vinv 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Tough schedule continues to challenge No. 10 Irish 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
After an impressive win over Penn State to begin the regular season, the Irish suddenly find themselves in a bit of a slump. 
The season-opening win over Penn State shot the Irish to No. 5 in the national rankings. Unfortunately, the team has fallen since then to two top-1 0 teams that have dropped the Irish to No. 10 in the nation. No. 3 Syracuse handed the Irish their first loss of the sea­son with a 19-13 defeat. Four days later, No. 9 North Carolina defeated Notre Dame 14-11. 
This weekend, the Irish are facing their fourth consecutive top-20 ranked opponent. No. 16 Loyola University in Baltimore will challenge the Irish after dropping its latest match to Duke 11-3. 
Loyola's top players include Stephen Brundage, who has scored eight points in three games. Other notable players 
include  Matt  Cassalia  and  
Andrew Spack who have  won  
41-of-61  face-offs  for  the  
team.  

Notre Dame has several notable players including All­American attack Pat Walsh. Walsh contributed three goals and three assists against North Carolina. Other key players that have helped the Irish this season are Matt Howell, Matt Karweck and Matt Ryan. All three players combined for six goals against North Carolina. 
Notre Dame must win in order to position themselves for postseason play. Although it is still early in the season, only 16 teams make the play­offs every season. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
.. •................ : 


~~-------­

Friday, March 19, 2004 page 25
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Ousted 
continued from page 28 
goalie was out of position. 
Despite coming into the game with the CCHA's leading penalty kill, the Irish were unable to stop the Ohio State power play, as the Buckeyes quickly tied the game back up with power play goals by Rod Pelley and Dave Steckel. 
Notre Dame responded with a power play goal of its own with 1:30 left in the first peri­od, as Aaron Gill scored on a slapshot from just outside the left circle. The teams went into the intermission with the score 3-2 in favor of the Irish, in a wacky first period that saw a combined 31 shots on goal (Notre Dame with 15, Ohio State with 16). 
The Buckeyes only needed 16 seconds to score the first goal of the second period and tie the game again. Scott May skated un~mpeded to the mid­dle of the ice and whipped a shot over Irish goalie David Brown's glove. 
Notre Dame managed to retake the lead at 4:43 of the second, as Gill scored his third goal of the game off a Ohio State turnover. A Buckeye defenseman tried to pass the puck from behind the Ohio State net, but instead it went to the middle of the ice and Gill was able to poke it home. 
The Irish took their second two-goal lead of the game a little less than 6 minutes later, as forward Mike Walsh picked up a rebound of a Gill shot and pushed it past Betz. Dave Caruso replaced Betz in goal after Notre Dame's fifth score of the game. 
The change energized the Buckeyes, who cut the lead to one before the end of the sec­ond period as Matt Beaudoin scored on a rebound of a Tyson Strachan shot. 

The Irish tried to hold on in the third period for the victo­ry, but Beaudoin scored his second goal of the game at 
17:34 of the third period and sent the Irish to their second straight overtime game. 
With the loss, Notre Dame's record currently sits at 20-14­
4. The NCAA selection com­mittee will meet Sunday to decide if the Irish continue to play this season or not. 
OHIO STATE 6, NOTREDAME5 at the JOE LOUIS ARENA 
1st 2nd 3rd OT Total OHIOSTATE 2 2 1 1 6 NOTRE DAME 3 2 0 0 5 
SCORING SUMMARY First Period ND-Rob Globke (unassisted), 5:32. ND-Aaron Gill (unassisted), 6:56. OSU-Rod Pelley (Matt Beaudoin), 
13:59 PP. OSU-Dave Steckel (Beaudoin) 
17:30 PP. ND-Gill (Globke, Neil Komadoski), 
18:40 PP. 

Second Period OSU-Scott May (Matt Waddell), 0:16. ND-Gill (Globke), 4:43. ND-Mike Walsh (Gill, Globke). 10:14. OSU-Beaudoin (Tyson Strachan, Thomas Welsh), 16:28 PP. 
Third Period OSU-Beaudoin (Doug Andress), 17:34. 
Overtime OSU-Tyson Strachan (Andress, Andrew Schembri), 9:49. 
Shots on goal: Notre Dame 34, Ohio State 49. Power plays: Notre Dame 1-of-5, Ohio State 3-of-5 Goalies: David Brown 43 saves out of 49 shots (ND), Mike Betz 14 saves out of 19 shots, Dave Caruso 15 saves out of 15 shots (OSU). 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu. 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
The No. 2 doubles tandem of 
sophomore Lauren Connelly 
and senior Alicia Salas were 
first off the courts, defeating 
Chelsea Glynn and Russian 
Anastasia Zhukova 8-2 to dis­
rupt their four-match losing 
streak. 

"[Connelly] really served well today," Louderback said. "When she serves well, they play well and [Salas] returns well." 
Junior Sarah Jane Connelly and sophomore Kristina Stastny clinched the doubles point, besting Bulgarian Deni Alexandrova and Hilary Tyler at No. 3. The duo rallied from behind to even the score at 6­6 and quickly gained control of the match. 
At No. 1 doubles, freshmen Meg Racette and Hillary Mintz outlasted No. 37 Catrina and Christian Thompson 9-8, (7 -5). The Thompsons took an early 5-2 lead in the tiebreaking match before Racette and Mintz earned five consecutive points for the win. 
In singles, No. 13 Salas earned the first point for the Irish with a quick 6-4, 6-1 win against Racette at the No. 1 position. This match was the sixth consecutive win for the senior, who is 10-2 in dual matches. 
"Alicia played really well today," Louderback said. "That girl she played is tough. She doesn't make errors." 
Stastny followed with a 6-3, 6-2 defeat of Alexandrova at No.5. 
"She's really been coming through for us this spring," Louderback said. "She put us up 3-0 and made it tough for Iowa to come back after that." 
Christian Thompson secured victory for the Irish, edging 

The ~orth Central Association ofCollegesand Schools is evaluating the University ofNotre Dame for continuing accreditation. 
There will be an open meeting for students with selected members ofthe NCAaccreditation 
team on: 
Tuesday, March 23, 
from 5:00-5:45 p.m. 
atMcKennaAuditorium. All students -undergraduate and graduate ­ore invited to attend. The NCA accreditation team wantsto hearyour ideas about howNotreDame can continue to 
improve as a university• 
.. 



out Mintz 2-6, 6-2, 6-2 at No. 
2. In her first career dual match, sophomore Liz Donohue defeated Tyler at No. 6, rallying from a loss in the first set 2-6,6-1, 6-3. Tyler was 5-0 this spring heading into Thursday's meet. 
"[Donohue] has played really well in practice, and she's worked hard," Louderback said. "I think she was nervous at first, but she settled down after the first match." 
NOTRE DAME 6, IOWA 1 at the ECK PAVILLION 
SINGLES No. 1: No. 13 Alicia Salas (ND) d Meg 
Racette (I) 6-4. 6-1. No. 2: Christian Thompson (ND) d. Hillary Mintz (I) 2-6, 6-2. 6-2. No. 3: No. 84 Catrina Thompson (NDJ d. Chelsea Glynn (0 6-3, 7-6 (7-5}. No. 4: Anastasia Zhukova (I) d. Lauren Connelly (ND) 7-5, 7-5. No. 5: Kristina Stastny (ND) d. Deni Alexandrova en 6-3, 6-2. No. 6: liz Donohue (ND) d. Hilary Tyler 
en 2-6. 6-1.6-3.  
DOUBLES No. 1: Racette/Mintz (I) d. Thompson!fhompson (ND} 9-8 (No. 2: L. Connelly/Salas Zhukova/Glynn (1) 8-2.  No. 7-5}. (ND)  37 d.  

No. 3: S.J. Connelly/Stastny (NDJ d. Alexandrova!fyler (I) 8-6. 
Contact Anne Loughery at alougher@nd.edu. 

The Notre Dame Department ofMusi& Pre1mt1 a Faculty Art1 Snie~ Con&ert 
Karen Buranskas, cello 
Associate Professor ofMini&, University ofNotre Dame 
Lori Sims, piano 
Associate Professor of 

$1o $6SeniM (574) 631-8128 VISA/MutcrCard accepted 

ThiS conart rporuorrJ"' part by a grant by th~ 8<Khnm FunJ for Exallma 111 the Arts, lrutrn.U fur Schol.mhrp m th~ Am. Cofkt~ ofArtr ~nJ Uttn'S, Umwnrry ofNom: Dam~ 
,.. ..

£.i'£1!!,.; ~y :J~ '.12!!1 
Friday, March 19th 7:00-9:00 Rockne Memorial 



Friday, March 19, 2004 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
.. 
\ ' 

~ . 
( 
n 
\ \ ·.~ 
\ ·. ~· 

l
) 

I 
.,.



ND SOFTBALL 

Hom~ season will begin on Saturday with doubleheader 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 

After playing tournaments on the road in warm climates, the Irish come home this weekend to cold and snow flurries in their home opener. 
"It's going to be cold," Irish outfield­er Megan Ciolli said. Notre Dame {17 -9) opens its home schedule against Eastern Michigan (8­
8) in a Saturday doubleheader. 

'We love playing at home," Ciolli said. "Our parents and friends will be here. You can't beat playing at home." 
The Eagles come to South Bend after a doubleheader split with IUPUI. Nikki Denman leads Eagl'e hitters with a .388 batting average, including 10 RBis. Meanwhile, their pitching staff is led by ace Michelle Lloyd, who boasts a 1.99 ERA and is 3-1 on the year. 
Sunday, the Irish travel to Kalamazoo, Mich., where they face Western Michigan (1 0-11). The Broncos are fresh off a doubleheader split as well at the Indiana University Classic last weekend. Jaymie Voss hits .322 on the year with two doubles. 
"The Midwest trip will fine tune our skills," Ciolli said. "We need to be con­sistent, and that will come." 
Notre Dame is led offensively by Ciolli, who is hitting .395 with 11 steals. Meanwhile, infielder Meagan Ruthrauff has been the Irish RBI leader, with 21, and has four home their third straight Big East title at the beginning of the year, have also been keyed by clutch pitching. Heather Booth leads the way with her 9-3 record. She has given up just 71 hits and 28 runs in 96 1/3 innings, good for a 1.38 ERA. No. 2 starter Steffany Stenglein is 5-6 with a 2.58 ERA. 
As the Irish return home, they look to build on last week's disappoint­ments. 
Notre Dame was at Florida Atlantic for the FAU/Worth Invitational the weekend of Mar. 6. There, the Irish lost their first two games to Florida International, 2-1, and to Massaschusetts, 4-2. 
But, Notre Dame went 5-2 at the Florida State Invitational, losing to No. 11 Michigan 3-0 and Texas A&M 2-1. 
"We fought back and played well at FSU -nobody's making excuses," Ciolli said. "That showed a lot of char­acter. Coming off preseason, we have a lot to build on. It's been a great pre­season. It's not where you start, it's where you finish." 
And for the Irish, who have played one of the toughest preseasons in the country, nothing could be more true. 
"I love [the tough schedule]." Ciolli said. "It's great for our program. People are starting to respect our pro­gram. This team just has so much character." 
Game time is set for 1 p.m. Saturday at Ivy Field. 
runs and a .348 batting average. Contact Heather van Hoegarden at The Irish, who were picked to win hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 
Irish take on Salukis 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
In the first game of its spring break road trip to Texas, No. 8 Notre Dame (12-1) and Southern Illinois (2-12) met in an epic back-and-forth slugfest. In the end, the Irish prevailed 12-11 in 11 innings. 
This weekend, the Salukis will get a shot at revenge as they host the Irish for a pair of games Saturday and Sunday. 
The Irish have been one of the hottest teams in the nation to start the season this year. Last week, they got their first taste of defeat in a 17-9 loss to Texas-San Antonio, but bounced back to rattle off five straight wins in the Alamo City Irish Baseball Classic and the Round Rock Collegiate Classic. 
"The trip [last week] was outstanding for our team," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "I think we found out a lot about ourselves this week. I think we showed some signs that great teams have. That is to be able to win a game either way -a low-run, well­pitched game or a slugfest. We found ways to win both types of games." 
For their tough play during the week, the Irish were ranked as high as eighth by Collegiate Baseball Newspaper and the National Collegiate Baseball Writers Association and as low as 12th by Baseball America. The Sports Weekly/ESPN Top 25 Poll has the Irish slated ninth. 
Much of a reason for Notre Dame's hot start has been the play of left­handed pitcher Tom Thornton. Last week, the sophomore was named Big East Pitcher of the· Week for his eight innings of shutout work in a 6-1 Irish victory over Texas Tech. Thornton allowed the Red Raiders only one hit in his time on the mound. 
"So sooner or later I think people have to admit that [Thornton's play] is not a fluke," Mainieri said. "He's the real deal, and he's pitch­ing great. It's been the biggest shot in the arm for our team." 
Offensively, the Irish bats have been alive through the first 13 games of the season. As a team, Notre Dame is hitting .324 and averag­ing over nine runs a game. 
Third baseman Matt Edwards leads the way at the plate for the Irish with a .435 average. The junior also has set the pace for the squad in RBis (17), home runs (four), slugging percent­age (.783) and walks (10). 
While the Salukis struggled at the begin­ning of the season, they have begun to improve of late. In addition to their strong effort against the Irish, the Salukis have 
· won their last two games --a 12-9 victory over Penn State and 22-6 drubbing of Murray State Thursday. On the season, Southern Illinois has posted only a .234 aver­age as a team with 4.4 runs per game. Things aren't much better for the Salukis on the hill either, as they have post­ed a 6.27 EHA on the year, with opponents batting .325 against them. Saturday's game is scheduled for 2 p.m., and Sunday's will be at noon. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

(. 
t' 
' ' 
' 

, I 
' .­
' 
I. I 
I 
~ 

I: 
~ J 
( 
! 
I! I I I ,i 
I I I ~ '-'!/ > I 
I I 
) ) > I 
) ' 
I ) I ) 
I 
~ ~ 
I. ) 
I 
(. 



liDENT 

TERNATIONi\L 


SPRING FORUM 
Saturda.t:f, March 20th beginningat IO:?Oam 
- Hesbur~ Auditorium  
l,.,.­ 
lnvit~d Speakers lndude;  .  .  

• Mr. T1m 5odd:;rTrusteeand Jv.1.a.nagfngDirccJor~ Goldman Sachs ... tO;]Oam 
• Mr. Ro.bert_. f\1\ulha_-,IL_. FtkcwaterhouseCoooe.rs -l2.:00om 
~ r -~ 
• tv1s. (~~ha ndra Jc)hns<.1nt-Notre Dame J\(iministrator &:\.~sfs.tant to the fi-eside:~nt -h15pm --T-sh~rt.s, Pdzes, and Refreshments wiU be provided .. 



I' 
J 
,I ) 
) 


Friday, March 19, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 



DILBERT 
MOVED THE MEETING TO TUESDAY. 
I CAN'T MAKE 
IT ON TUES­
DAY. 

FIVES 
...Unfortunately, Janice the dining hall linebacker hasn't 
SOMEHOW I THINK THE MARKETING TEAM CAN SURVIVE ONE MEETING WITHOUT ENGINEERING SUPPORT. 
) 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
HERE COMES THE PAIN TRAINUU G/~W!t 
./WHOO-WH*cough*.....wheeze 
SCOTT ADAMS 
WE'LL INCLUDE A PET GERBIL ·IN EVERY BOX. WE JUST NEED TO MAKE SURE IT'S IN A SEALED PLASTIC BAG SO IT WON'T CHEW ON THE 
CABLES. 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VILIC 
1 
rJ 

C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CAUDT 
j
rJ r
tHIRSLE 
IJ I 
www.jumble.com
t
PARMEC ±
J r J
1 
Ans: 
"( I I I I I J" THE rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's j Jumbles: JUROR SUITE COSTLY EXHORT Answer: The barber was good at this -SHORT CUTS 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
WILL SHORTZ 
ACROSS 29 Hall of Fame 58 Unkeyed jockey Earl 
1 Galoot 60 Delta Center 30 Deliberate team
7 Come undone, as a robe 31 Not necessarily 61 Destroyer of the real town Nicolosi in 
15 Israeli author of 1669
"Where the 34 Roof adornment 62 It's off-limits 
Jackals Howl, 36 Men's fashion and Other 
accessory 63 Make fun of Stories" 
40 Galena 16 Possible psy­42 Miss O'Neill DOWN
chotic symptom 43 Nag 1 They're seen
11 Sort of with T-shirts 46 Seabiscuit jock­18 Food on which ey_ Pollard 2 "Sorry, none Charles Lamb left"47 Lets mistakes wrote an essay pass 3 Escaped t9 Architect's add­48 Pick up 4 Hair color 
on 49 Unprosperous 5 "The only poor 
20 Bars time, metaphori-fellows in the 22_ meeting 
calty world whom 23 Throw for anyone will flat­
51 Press confer­ter": Pope

25 Tempting spot ence sights 6 Book that tells 
52 Dot follower 26 Face 

of the reign of 53 Breezy competi­
27 What many a Cyrus the Great 
tionword has 

7 Pumped 55 Evil spirit 
28 Film "Angel" 
8 Dig deeply player 56 Bronzes 
9 Rimes of coun­33 Having colored 44 Regarding this 
patches

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE try music 54 Press down 
point
10 Off 
35 Bench 

45 Disheveled
11 Literary adverb 37 Check out 57 Cable choice 
49 Cover again, as12 1992 u.s. 
a road
Olympic Dream 38 Popular Team member 50 Staring 59" courtiers'39 Bomb, for one
13 Went out 51 "What'sa knees .. .":­41 Lining material you?" Shak.
-=t--:+:::-t 14 Void 

21 Like butterfly -=+-:+:-:+.=+~ wings For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800-814-5554.
24 Brown competi­Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
tor crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS.

26 1909 Physics Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
-=+-:+.=+-::-t Nobelist 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).28 1970 Kinks hit 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 
-:+-:+:+.-:-4 

--.L....;.&,.;.L..~ 29 Inquire (about) nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
two campuses. Please complete the accompa­
nying form and mail it today to receive The ·Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Narne ____~-------------------------------------­
Address ____________________________________ ___ City _______ State _____ Zip_______ .. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bruce Willis, Glenn Close, Ursula Andress, Wyatt Earp 
Happy Birthday: You'll have high energy and be eager to take on the world. Slow down; you are likely to run yourself ragged this year. Pick and choose carefully. If you spread yourself too thin you'll fall short of your goals and miss out on the accomplishments you can make this year. Focus on your best attributes, put them to good use and you'll find yourself moving in a positive direction. Your numbers: 3, 5, 18, 27, 36,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't hesitate to make career changes. They look positive and profitable. Listen to the advice given by those with more life experience. Disruptions in your home are likely. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This will not be the day to go shopping or to spend money on others. Your lack of patience will be frowned upon by older and younger family members alike. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Infatuations may be a little confusing. Try to keep your love life in perspective and don't be too willing to commit to someone who hasn't shown you their true colors.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let your personal life interfere with your productivity at work. You can make gains if you work well in conjunction with colleagues. Your home environment will be unstable today. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Complete those self-improvement projects that you've been diligently working on in order to improve your self-image and raise your esteem. Social activities should be on your agenda. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Delays concerning mail and shipments are probable. Take advantage of any travel opportunities that arise. Don't tr)' to solve personal problems today. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Friends will bring you opportunities. Don't hesitate to ask for advice or favors. New love interests will surface if you get involved in groups. Your charm will entice possible mates. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Friends and relatives will not be sympathetic today. It is best to keep your thoughts to yourself. Try to take care of any legal matters that have been hanging over your head. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be in hot water if you have been evading issues regarding your personal intentions. It is best to sit down and open up to the one in question. You will have to be precise. ..., ... CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone may not have your best interests at heart. Be aware that secret enemies may try to steal your thunder. Be blunt ... when dealing with your boss. Don't get taken for granted. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't hold yourself back by refusing to get involved in activities that could bring you in contact with important individuals. Stabilize your situation by discussing your future plans. • ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will find it difficult to relate to your partner today. Don't try to manipulate the situation. It is best to work on projects that will improve your living quarters. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are wise beyond your years, always observing what everyone around you is doing for future reference. You are a high-energy little tyke and this can certainly wear your parents down. You're full of spunk and quick to react to anything and everything. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 

' 
' .... 
Friday, March 19, 2004 page 28 

HOCKEY 

One and done 
Ohio State's 6-5 overtime win k11ocks Irish from Super Six 

By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

'· 
'· 
DETROIT -Another year, another early exit from the Joe. 
Ohio State forward Tyson Strachan ended Notre Dame's stay at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit as he scored af 9:49 of overtime, sending the Irish home with a 6-5 loss Thursday night.. 


It is the third straight time that the Irish have lost in the first round of the CCHA Super Six. 
"From a spectator's stand­point that was a pretty good college hockey game," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "From a coach's standpoint, though, our strengths all year have been defense and penalty killing, and we give up six goals and three on the power play. It's a little disappointing. 
"We had our chances in over­time, but just couldn't capital­ize." 
The Irish now have to wait to see if they will receive an NCAA at-large bid. With 20 wins on 

the season, Notre Dame has an impressive resume that includes wins over several ranked teams. 
"We talked before the game about not wanting to put our NCAA future in someone else's hands, and keeping it in our own hands," Poulin said. "We're certainly still going to practice on Saturday morning preparing as if we're going to keep playing." 
It didn't take long for the Irish to get going, as they scored the first goal of the game just 5 minutes, 32 seconds into the first period. Forward Rob Globke showed off his skating ability, taking the puck down the left side while avoiding sev­eral defenders, and whipped a low wrist shot past Ohio State's Mike Betz that beat the goalie to the stick side. 
Notre Dame increased its lead to two goals just a little over a minute later, when Betz gave up a long rebound to the slot and Aaron Gill buried the puck in the back of the net while the 
see OUSTED/page 25 


NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish slam Hawkeyes 6-1 at Eck 
By ANNE LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
The No. 47 Hawkeyes proved they were anything but a pushover at Thursday's meet. 
Iowa (8-3) extended three of the six singles matches to tiebreaking sets, posted a point after a victory at No. 4 singles and claimed a win at No. 1 doubles. 
But their window of oppor­tunity was quickly slammed shut. 
No. 21. Notre Dame demon­strated its staying power with a 6-1 win, improving its record to 8-4. The talent­laden Irish secured the vital doubles point after defeating their opponents at Nos. 2 and 3 and nearly sweeping singles. 
"We really competed today," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "We really fought for each point." 
see IRISH/page 25 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Thrust into the spotlight 
With Francis out, Cornett is thriving in his new role as the Irish post presence 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Senior Statl Writer 
When Torin Francis' back injury knocked him out for the season, Irish coach Mike Brey looked at the lack of a true low-post presence and reluc­tantly told his team to become more perimeter-oriented. 

The move worked in wins against Connecticut, Seton · I Hall and Syracuse, but teams
I 
I . 
I soon took advantage of the I absence of a dominant rebounder for the Irish. But now, with the rise of Rick Cornett-who is averag­
I:. ing 15.5 points a game over 
I . 
I"
,·~.·. ~~--his last two games -Brey 
1.'.' 
now has the Irish looking back 

,~· 
I l 
down low. I "It's funny how our team has changed," he said. "We now 
see CORNETT/page 22 

I 
.,.I 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
NCAA meet produces pair of All-Americans 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
While only a pair of Irish ath­letes competed on the first day of the three-day NCAA Division I women's swimming and diving championships Thursday, they certainly didn't disappoint. 
Senior diver Mcghan Perry Eaton and freshman Katie Carroll both turned in All­American caliber performances as the Big East Championship's Most Outstanding Diver finished third on the 1-meter board and the Big East Championships Most Outstanding Swimmer recorded a ninth place finish in the 200-meter individual med­ley. 
After placing fourth in the pre­liminaries with a score of 290.40, 18 points behind Alabama's Lane Bassham {308.40), Perry Eaton boosted her score by over 13 points in the finals, posting a 303.90. 
South Carolina's Allison Brennan won the event with a 
307.20 on the lower board. 
The third-place finish gar­nered Perry Eaton All-American honors a year after she received an All-American honorable 
mention for finishing ninth  on  
the one-meter board.  
Carroll  posted  a  time  of  

2:13.43 in the preliminaries to place 11th and become the first Irish swimmer to qualify for the finals of the 200-meter individ­ual medley. 
Like Perry Eaton, Carroll was even better in the finals, record­ing a time of 2:12.28 to win the consolation finals and finish ninth overall. 
The performance earned Carroll All-American honors. 
Carroll races in the 400-meter individual medley today and the 100-meter freestyle Saturday, while Perry Eaton competes on the 3-meter board today. 
Preliminaries are at 11 a.m. with events finals scheduled for 7p.m. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@od.edu 

'I' 
~~ 
l)t en
'; NO SOFTBALL 
BASEBALL 

SMC SOFTBALL 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
ROWING

MEN'S LACROSSE
1·. u.l 
I 
The Irish kicked off

I . 1-u Eastern Michigan 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame at

Goshen Colle~e 
I .• 
their 2004 season with

I: z at Notre Dame 
Southern Illinois 
at Saint Mary s 
Loyola 
BaylorjTapatio

' . 
strong performances
Spring Shootout 

I' 
a: :3 
against Michigan State/
Saturday, 1 p.m. 

Saturday, 2 p.m. 
Today, 3 p.m. 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Tennessee and Duke.

The Salukis look for
The Irish begin their 
The Belles begin their 
Today-Sunday

The Irish look to get 
home season Saturday 
revenge against No. 8 
home schedule today 
back to winning ways 
The Irish try to 
== 
with a doubleheader. 

Notre Dame. 
against Goshen. 
against Loyola. 
bounce back in Texas. 
"-ti: 
page 23

page 26 
page 26 
page 24 
page 24 
page 23 
en 


Friday, March 19, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Batteast has been key in successful season 
Bv HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
When Jacqueline Batteast steps onto the court Sunday afternoon, the Irish crowd will see a different play­er than the one who scored just 13 points in three games in last year's NCAA Tournament. 
Instead, they will see a more mature Batteast, who has learned to play in a dominating fashion. But it wasn't always like that. Batteast, who struggled to find consistency last season, has found her stride in her third season. 
"I've been able to shoot well," Batteast said. "I've shot the best I have in my entire career." 
Batteast has been dominating, but not just on the offensive end. She is among the Big East leaders in scor­ing, rebounding, double-doubles, field goal percentage· and blocked shots. This season, Batteast has reg­istered seven double-doubles in Big East play and ten overall, good enough to earn her first team All-Big East. She has also been named a finalist for the Naismith Award and the Kodak!WBCA All-America Team. 
"I feel very honored and I'm glad to see that my name is out there With some of the top players in the coun­try," Batteast said. "But I think that I've a really good job and I've helped Notre Dame stay where they were after their championship year, so it's good that everybody in the country is starting to notice that too." 
Batteast, a quiet player, realized her potential Jan. 13 when the Irish knocked off then-No. 4 Connecticut. She scored 23 points and grabbed 11 rebounds, on 10-for-13 shooting. The entire game, if Batteast got the ball, she scored, helping the Irish score when they couldn't seem to put points on the board. She ended the game with a block of Huskies' star Diana Taurasi, despite having four fouls. Batteast was the reason the Irish were able to pull off the home upset, the biggest of the regu­lar season. 
"In the UConn game, I saw that I pretty much could do whatever I wanted to do against one of the top teams in the country, so if Diana Taurasi and company couldn't stop me, I wasn't going to let Pittsburgh or St. John's stop me," Batteast said. 

On the year, Batteast is averaging 
15.4 points, 8.3 rebounds and 1.28 blocks per game, while shooting 44.8 percent. She was named to the WBCA Classic All-Tournament Team Nov. 15 after scoring in double fig­ures in all three games, including 27 points against then-No. 22 Auburn. So what has been the difference this season in her domination? 
"Shot selection and not shooting as much," Batteast said. "The less shots, the more go in, so that's good." 
Most recently, she dominated against Rutgers in the Big East Tournament, dropping 22 points and grabbing eight rebounds. But despite her eighth 20 point game of the year, the Irish were unable to pull ofT the win. 
But a.s Batteast already knows, the postseason is a different story. In last year's first two rounds, she went 2-for-26, scoring just five points in two Irish wins over Arizona and Kansas State. This year, she hopes things will be different, as she is more confident in her game than ever. 
··1 want to play a lot better than I did last year," Batteast said. "Hopefully, shoot better -I rebounded well, but I just want to be as consistent as I have been all sea­son." 
And if Batteast plays the way she is capable, the Irish have nowhere to go but back to Hartford, Conn., the site of the Sweet 16, and where Notre Dame lost to Hutgers in the Big East Tournament two weeks ago. 
··It's all about the defense," Batteast said. "We've been pretty good about that this year. I think anything less than Sweet 16 will be a disappointment. I like where we're at." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

PosT PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 
LLI 
:!: 
<

Q 
LLI 
a:: 
.... 
0 

z 


McGraw has led Notre Dame to nine straight tournament appearances and five Sweet 16 berths. She has tournament expe­rience and won the 2001 national title. She also has 14 20-win sea­sons at Notre Dame.  Notre Dame relies on its defense to shut down other teams, while their offense has struggled at times. Batteast doesn't always get help on the offensive end. The defense has been con­sistent all season.  The Irish have solid inside players, including Big East first-team for­ward Jacqueline Batteast. Notre Dame should have a size advantage and may also have to defend out­side of the key to limit the Bears 3-point attempts.  Joyce is Notre Dame's prominent 3­point threat and she's knocked down over 40 percent of her attempts. Duffy also adds an outside threat. Hernandez, Duffy and Severe have all played tough defense through­out the season.  All but two players average double figures in minutes for the Irish. They have a rotation of post play­ers that are all good. The team has a nice mix of role players on the bench that McGraw can use o offense or defense.  Notre Dame is unde­feated at home this season -13-0. They play drastically better at the Joyce Center than on the road. The crowd should be pumped for this first­round matchup.  
Abraham-Henderson is in her second year at SMS after taking the Bears to the first round of the NCAA Tournament last year. This is her first head coaching position after being an assistant since 1990 at various schools.  SMS loves shooting 3-pointers and they'll chuck up a lot of them. The Bears can stay in any game because of their ability to shoot the 3 so well. They average 78 points a game and shoot over 40 percent from beyond the arc.  The Bears don't do their damage in the paint, but might need to score more inside if the Irish take away the perimeter shooting. Tierney averages 12 points a game and is the main inside threat for the Bears.  Koch averages 17 points and leads a Bears team that has six players shooting over 40 percent from 3. Everyone shoots The Bears attempt the most and make the most 3­pointers of any team in the nation.  SMS only uses a six and sometimes seven person rotation. The Bears bench doesn't make huge contribu­tions, but have the abil­ity to score points off the 3-point shot. But SMS relies on strong performances from its starters to win.  SMS wasn't happy about its seeding after going 28-3 and winning both their conference regular season and tourney titles. They have a chip on their shoulders and some­thing to prove.  
McGraw has much more experience and a better record. She has extensive tournament experienc.e and knows what it takes to win. Abraham-Henderson is still inexperienred in tourney play; and has never advanced past the first round.  Notre Dame plays outstanding defense, but SMS is a great shooting team. This matc.hup could be interesting especially if the Irish defense fails to stop the three­painter. But in the end, it will be a close game.  Notre Dame should handle the SMS post players. The Irish have Batteast and an array of other talented for­wards that will give tht> Bears a lot. of problem'i. The lri!llh must take advantagf> of their size and skill to pound the Bears in the paint.  While Notre Dame held qpponents to the lowest 3~point shooting percentage in the Big East, SMS has too many weapons.' Pretty much every player can niake a trey and they'll all shoot. The Irish must limit the Bears damage from behind the are.  Notre Dame uses more players and McGraw uses them effectively. Gra>', Erwin, Flecky and Joyee all have made impacts at different points throughout "the season and all can be difference-makers for the Irish.  The Irish are just too tough at home this 'sea­son. The crowd will be excited, and the Irish are a confident' team in s·outh Bend. Notre Iiame shoots bettPr, rebounds betu>r and flat out play~ better at the Joyce Center.  

Friday, March 19, 2004 page 3
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

Jeneka Joyce and Moniqtte Hernandez have battled back to play important roles 
-

in the success ofNotre Dame this season 
Overcoming injuries there were no guarantees
By JOE HETTLER 
Two things f(>llowed Joyce to Joyce would be able to play a
Sports Writer Notre Dame -a great 3-point lot in 2003-04. Many times, shot and numerous injuries. Joyce has grimaced in pain
When they're in the game, 
Joyce refined her outside while on the court, but she has
Jeneka Joyce and Monique 
shooting after tearing her ACL always played as much as her
Hernandez make Notre Dame 
as a freshman in high school. body will allow. 
better in very different ways. 
While rehabbing, Joyce prac­"She came here as a fresh­Joyce roams the perimeter, 
ticed shooting 3s at home with man and wanted to finish,"waiting for any opportunity to her dad and at practice with McGraw said. "She didn't want
catch the ball, spot up and 
the team. to quit even when her bodybury a 3-pointer. Hernandez "Coming off of that injury, I has told her it was time to 
gets in a ball-handler's face, played a lot and shot a lot quit. She has really pre­plays lockdown defense and because I couldn't do much servered. She's really battled
hustles every second she's on 
else but shoot," Joyce said. and still is. But when the teamthe court. 
As a freshman, Joyce hit 38 looks at her they know she's
But no matter how they do 
percent of her 3s and was an been through so much."
it, the senior guards have 
integral part of Notre Dame's Joyce said that she always
been two keys in helping 
championship team. But she planned on finishing her
Notre Dame finish the regular 
played in just 25 games career, even with all the 
season 19-10 and earn a No. 5 because of numerous leg and injuries.
seed in the NCAA ankle injuries. The guard "I made a commitment to
Tournament. 
came back from those injuries play here, to graduate from
Now the seniors hope· they 
to score 14 points in a second­here a.nd to contribute as 
can use their considerable 
round NCAA Tournament much as I could," Joyce said. 
tournament experience to lead 
game against Michigan State, ''I'm definitely going to follow
Notre Dame deep into the 
and added five points in the through with that even though
postseason, starting with 
national semifinal matchup I've had a lot physical ail­
Sunday's first-round game 
against Connecticut. ments."
against No. 12 Southwest 
"[Joyce has] the experience That's been good news for
Missouri State at 2:30p.m. 
of playing in a final game and Notre Dame as McGraw
"You can't teach [tourna­
being a contributing player in admits that without Joyce this 
ment experienceJ to some­
the NCAA Tournament and season, the Irish would almost
body," Hernandez said. 
going to a championship," surely have a few more losses.
"Having us on the team, even 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw "She won the St. John's
though we we're younger, we said. game and the Pitt game,"were still there and we still Joyce started eight games as McGraw said. "She hit soknow what it took [to win a a sophomore and continued to many shots in those games to
national title]. So it's really shoot well from behind the win those for us. She's justimportant that we show [the 
arc, making 35.3 percent of been a great threat to have 
younger players), by the way 
her attempts. She. only man­and we're so happy to have
that we work in practice, that aged to play in 24 games that her back."
it's going to take a lot more season because of injuries. Against the Hed Storm Joyee Monlque Hernandez goes up for a shot Nov. 21 against
than our efforts during the 
Then last season, Joyce made 5-of-10 3-pointers and Valparaiso. Hernandez is known for her defense this season.
season." 
severely sprained her ankle in ended the game with 15 points . While they are leaders this 
the summer and had ten­in Notre Dame's 69-56 win, 
season, one year ago, Joyef~ harder than anyone else on team loves her," McGraw said. 
donitis in the tendon around The next game against the
and Ilernandflz may have the team. After practice, "The fans love her and the
the ankle. Instead of playing Panthers, Joyce drilled 5-of-8
been two of the most unlikely McGraw decided to give the coaches love her. You have to
off-and-on all season, Joyce 3s for 16 points as the Irish
candidates to be significant senior a chance at the starting get behind someone who has
decided to sit out the year and escaped with a 72-68 victory.
contributors in pushing Notre lineup and the move has paid persevered like she has."
fully recover for this season. · "It's been awesome to make
Dame toward a serious title huge dividends for Notre Making a run
Even with the season off, [an impact]," Joyce said. run. "Especially if I get some open­Dame. Unlike the 2001 champi­ings when my ankle is OK for Since entering the starting onship run, Joyce and 
a little bit, I'll be able to go for lineup, the Irish are 11-4 and Hernandez will be asked for a 
longer stretches. If you keep Hernandez has provided a sig­lot more from their coaches 
me in the game, I'll be able to nificant spark. and teammates in this year's 
get more shots up. So that's "That is what we love about tournament. The two will rely the most rewarding -when I her -her intensity," McGraw on their extensive tournament get to play my minutes and said. "She's going to be in experience -to captain Notre don't have to worry about my your face. She's not going to Dame during this difficult ankles nagging me." back down. She's not afraid of tournament, starting with the 
team's first round game

Starting over anyone. She plays without fear 
against No. 12 Southwest

Before her junior season, and is relentless and aggres­
Missouri State Sunday.

Hernandez decided to transfer sive and we need that." 
"[Hernandez] and I haveto New York University in While Hernandez has also 

been through it. We've played

hopes of increased playing shown the ability to score ­
in those six games and trav­

time. But for whatever rea­posting double figures in 
eled. What's important now is

sons, NYU and Hernandez points against Dayton and what we do in practice
weren't a good match, and the Miami and making 43 percent 
because that's going to really

New Mexico nativ,e found her­of her field goal attempts this dictate how we will do in theself wanting to return to Notre season -she understands her 
tournament," Joyce said after

Dame. role on this team. Players like 
Tuesday's practice. "We've

After contacting a playe.r on 
All-American candidate been trying to focus and be
last year's squad, then assis­
Jacqueline Batteast score the really intense in practice and
tant coach Carol Owens, 
points, but Hernandez knows 
hopefully that'll carry over

Hernandez finally talked to 
she's in the game to play 
into the game we'll be able to

McGraw about the possibilities 
defense. 
do those things there and

of returning to the Irish. 
"I think it's really important ­
win."

McGraw said she could be on 
to have s~mebody, preferably The road to the Final Four
the practice squad for the 
more than person on any
one won't be an easy trip for Notre

remainder of the season. 
team, that's always going to Dame, but Joyce and
Hernandez agreed and partici­
play hard no matter what -if Hernandez know the territory
pated on the practice squad in 
they're scoring, if they're not," well. They didn't come back to
January. 
Hernandez said. "I think it Notre Dame just to compete.
"We were really happy she 
takes a lot of pressure off oth­in the
wanted to come back," These two have won ­
ers. It's really hard to be a past. and want to win in the
McGraw said. 
great defensive player... present.
When this season arrived, 
That's my job." That chanc~ begins this
Hernandez played limited 
McGraw said Hernandez's weekend and, hopefully for
minutes in Notn~ Dame's first 
teammates gravitate toward Notre Dame, ends in New
12 games before not playing at 
her. At practice Hernandez Orleans on April 6. 
all in a 76-73 loss at ­
jokes around a lot and keeps
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Georgetown. The next day at 
the mood of the team light. Contact Joe Hettler at
Jeneka Joyce celebrates after hitting a 3-pointer against practice llerna~dez didn't 
jhettler@nd.edu

"They love Monique. This
Virginia Tech earlier this season at the Joyce Center. complain, instead she worked 



page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 19, 2004 
Crunch titne 
Notre Dame has a lot to be excited about in this year's NCAA Tournament, and not just because of its somewhat surprising

' No.5 seed. 
For the first time a handful of teams, 
~ 
~
including the Irish, 
---} 
1"
have a 
legitimate 
chance of 
winning Joe Hettler 
the nation­
al champi­

., onship. Sports Writer Women's college basketball has lacked across-conference parity for years _: until this season. In past sea­sons the Connecticut~ and Tennessees of the world would always be in the Final Four and always play for a national
' 
title. 
But with increased national exposure of women's basket­ball and better players coming through the junior high and high school systems, more upsets are happening and more good teams have a chance to make a run at the championship. 
"This tournament is so wide-open," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
There are plenty of examples of the increased parity this season. 
Connecticut didn't receive a No. 1 seed in the tournament for the first time in six years. 

Smaller conferences like Conference-USA received more bids (4) to this year's tourna­ment, than traditional power­house conferences like the Pac-1 0 (3). 
The Irish are a prime exam­ple of this parity. Nl>tre Dame rolled through much of its January schedule, beating five ranked opponents, including then-No. 4 Connecticut by 15 points. But the Irish also lost to lowly Georgetown by one point, a decent West Virginia club and a sub-par Seton Hall team. 
Notre Dame ended the regu: Jar season at 19-9 overall and 12-4 in conference -good enough to finish second, behind·Connecticut. The Irish earned a No. 2 seed in the Big East tournament, but lost in the quarterfinals to Rutgers 51-45. 
Still, the team went an impressive 7-3 against Top 25 opponents, which seemed to help them gain a No.5 seed in the East Region. The only catch is that the East is arguably the most difficult region in the tournament. Joining Notre Dame are Penn State, Houston, North Carolina, Colorado, California at Santa Barbara, Iowa and Auburn. And if the Irish manage to get to the Elite Eight, they could face Connecticut in Hartford which is a daunting task for any team. 
Notre Dame could easily make a run through that tough bracket, or they could easily lose in the first round if they don't play well. Notre Dame has the advantage of playing its first two games at the Joyce Center, where the team is a perfect 13-0 this season. 
Their first-round opponent, Southwest Missouri State, won't be an easy matchup. The Bears attempt and make the most 3-pointers of any team in the country. They shoot over 40 percent from behind the arc as a team and have the ability to beat Notre Dame. 
If the Irish dispose of the Missouri Valley Conference champions and head into the second round, they likely will face No. 4 North Carolina. The Tar Heels will be a tough sec­ond-round foe and it won't get any easier from there with possible matchups against No. 1 Penn State and No. 2 Connecticut. 
For these reasons, McGraw is probably more anxious than usual before the tournament this season. She knows that her team has all the pieces needed to make that run through the field, but she also knows with the increased pari­ty, any team has the capabili­ties to knock the Irish out for good. 
~'Anybody can beat anybody," McGraw said. "In [the 2001 national championship sea­son], we're going 'We know we can beat them' and now you can't say that about anyone." 
All season, the Irish have shown promise by beating good teams, and then slipping up against lesser foes. In the tournament, they won't have 

• 

~' 
-
,•. 
MEGAN DAVISSON!The Observer 

Guard Megan Duffy looks to pass against Syracuse Mar. 3. Duffy and the Irish play Sunday in the first round of the NCAAs. 
the luxury of a slip against The opinions expressed in anyone. this column are those of the 
There are no mulligans on author and not necessarily the road to a national champi­those ofThe Observer. Contact onship. Joe Hettler atjhettler@nd.edu. 
..J 

·-

UdJ, -~1 ' 





