


e 
e 
I ID 

White: 'We've got to find a way to get back to the elite' 

Observer 

Left, Tyrone Willingham addresses the media Saturday at USC. Right, Notre Dame athletic director speaks to the media Tuesday at a press conference in which White announced the firing of Willingham after the third-year head coach compiled a 21-15 record at the University. 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Ediror  participated in a round of discus­sions and coach Willingham was aware of those conversations as we proceeded."  he has input on long-term University decisions, but that Malloy still has the final say. White said Willingham was  position at Notre Dame. Football is very important to this institu­tion. I think everybody in the room realizes that and under­ doesn't make enough progress." Although Willingham struggled on the field, White commended his efforts ofl' the field as a repre­ 
Sources  said  there  was  a  notified of the University's deci­ stands that, and competing at  sentative of Notre Dame.  
For the first time ever, Notre  Board  of  Trustees  meeting  sion Tuesday morning. Later that  the highest level is of the utmost  "All of us had great expecta­ 
Dame fired its football coach  Monday night, during which the  afternoon, the players  were  importance."  tions when we sat here three  
before  his  original  contract  decision to fire Willingham was  called in for a meeting to discuss  Notre Dame has been inconsis­ years ago, and in  a  number of  
expired, as  Notre Dame football  made.  the decision.  tent this season. After losing to  ways Tyrone has been an excel­ 
coach Tyrone Willingham's term  White said University President  The University's decision to fire  unranked Brigham Young in the  lent fit and a great representa­ 
ended Tuesday after three sea­ Father Edward Malloy and select  Willingham  season-opener,  tive of our program," White said.  
sons at the hHlm of the Irish.  leadership oflicers make most of  comes  on  the  the  Irish  de­ "lie personally has displayed  
Willingham,  who  was  not  the  policy  decisions  at  the  heels of another  ..The decision was  feated then-No.  impeccable integrity and tremen­ 
available for comment Tuesday, leaves Notre Dame with a 21-15 record, including this season's 6­ University. "I think it's fair to say, I report to the president and at the end of  blowout loss for the Irish. During Willingham's  made by the University senior leadership, and  8 Michigan. They won two straight games  dous character, and his players have represented themselves oil' the field in a first-class manner."  
5 regular  season  campaign,  the day, I serve at the will of the  three years, the  in concert with the  before getting  Notre Dame, who recently  
which concluded Saturday with a 41-10lossatNo.l USC. Notre Dame athletic director  president at the University of Notre Dame," White said. "Father Malloy and select offi­ Irish have lost by 31 points or more five times.  University senior leadership.,  blown out by then-No. 15 Purdue. After  accepted an invitation to the Dec. 28 Insight Bowl, has not decided if it will still participate, pending  
Kevin White said Tuesday it was  cers tend to make most of the  Prior  to  winning  two  on a team decision.  
Willingham's on-the-field per­ policy decisions relating to all the  Willingham, the  Kevin White  more  games,  White said a search f<>r  a new  
formance that led to the decision. "We simply have not made the progress on the field that we  different entities at the University of Notre Dame. I had an opportunity to fully partici­ Irish had just. four such losses in 38 years.  Notre Dame athletic director  Notre Dame lost at home against Boston  football coach will begin right away. "We will immediately begin a  
need to make," White said in his  pate, as wnll as some participa­ White  said  al- College only to  national search for  a new foot­ 
initial statement. "Nor have we  tion with some partieipation of  though the blow-outs were a fac­ defeat then-No. 9 Tennessee on  ball coaeh," White said. "I don't  
been able to create the positive  select leadership trustees, as  tor in the decision, it wasn't just  the road. Notre Dame dosed its  have any particular parameters  
momentum  necessary in our  well."  one thing that led to the decision.  season  with  a  41-38  loss  to  in mind, other than identifying  
efforts to return the Notre Dame  University spokesman Matt  "I don't know that I can point  Pittsburgh at homt~  and the loss  an individual who can lead Notre  
program to the elite level of the  Storin said Tuesday that the col­ to anything in particular. I think  to USC on the road.  Dame football back to the sus­ 
college football world."  laboration between University  as we put it all together, as I said  "On Saturday, we struggled,"  tained level of excellence that  
White said the decision to fire  President-elect Father John  pretty carefully in this statement  White said. "We'w' been up and  everyone associated with thn  
Willingham  was  made by the  Jenkins and Malloy f(Jllowed the  or this release. we just weren't I  down and sidPways a little bit, a.  University and the  program  
senior leadership at Notre Dame.  decision-making pattPrn the two  don't think. manufacturing thn  little bit inconsistPnt. I think th('  wants and desin:~s."  
"The decision was made by the  have used sino~ Jenkins was  momentum, the progress that we  pmgram is doscr than when he  
University senior leadership, and  named Malloy's successor in  felt WI~ needed to have to move  arrivnd, and I think we were  
in concert with the University  May. Jenkins told The Observer  this program back to the elite,"  making progress, by my view  Contact Heather Van Hoegarden  
senior leadership," \Vhite said. "I  in October that in this process,  he said. "That's not a negotiable  and view of the University, just  at hvanhoeg@nd.edu  







Average Wins in First 3 Seasons vs. Average Career Wins at Notre Dame Jesse Harper: 
Bob Davie: Note: Knute Rockne coached only six games in his ftrst season going Ara Paseghian:Elrner Layden: Terry Brennan: 
Gerry Faust: 

First 3 seasons 7.0 3· 1·2. In seasons two through four he averaged 9.3. His careerFirst 3 seasons 6.7 First 3 seasons 8.3*
First 3 seasons 6A First 3 seasons 6.3 
First 3 seasons 6.0 

Career 7.0 record from seasons two through 13 is 8.5. 
Career 4.3

Career 6.7Career 6.8 
Career 6.0

Career 6.4 Hunk Anderson: 
Tyrone Willingham: *Indicates a national championship was won in the ftrst three Dan Devine: Frank Leahy: Joe Kuharich: 
Lou Holtz: 

First 3 seasons 5.3 
First 3 seasons 8.0* 
First 3 seasons 9.3* 

First 3 seasons 7.0 seasons.
First 3 seasons 8.3*
First 3 sea"ons 4.0 
Career 7.8 

Career 8.8Career 5.3 
Career 7.0
Career 9.0
Career 4.3 


Wednesday, December 1, 2004 
page 2 The Observer + IN FOCUS 
Despite outside belief, Tuesday a sad day for Irish 

My first conversation with Tyrone Willingham was brief. 
I nervously introduced myself, made small talk and quickly walked away. It was the shortest of conversa­

Maybe it was the firm Joe Hettler handshake. Maybe it was 
the way he Sports Writer took time out ofhis busy day to speak with me. Maybe I was just awestruck at meeting 
Notre Dame's football coach. In any case, I've always rooted for Willingham to succeed. 
That's why I believe Tuesday was a sad day for the Notre Dame family. Not because I felt Willingham shouldn't have been fired. He should have. The blowout defeats, the inconsis­tent performances, the poor recruiting, the terrible home record -all justified this firing, even if it was after only three seasons. 


Tuesday was a sad day because too many people rooted for this move. Too many people rejoiced in Willingham's fall. Too many people think ridding the 
University of Willingham and bringing in a head coach from Utah will magically turn every­thing around for the fallen Irish. 
The truth is, it won't. 
There is no quick fix to Notre Dame's problems. 
People blame Willingham for tions, but it was long enough to leave an impression ­I liked this man. I liked him a lot. 
Notre Dame's struggles the past several seasons. There is obvi­ous reality to those criticisms. He didn't produce -bottom line. But it wasn't completely his fault. He was expected to imple­ment a radically different offense and do so against one of the nation's toughest schedules. To make matters worse, he won his first eight games, raising expectations to a level unfair to any coach. Former Irish head coach Lou Holtz once said, "Notre Dame fans expect a minor miracle every Saturday and a major one every now and then." This isn't far from the truth, and by winning early, Willingham indirectly set him­self up to fall hard. 
Aside from football, 

Intensive Begi1,1ning PORTUGUESE 
ROPO 115 
Spring 2005 
Department of Romance Languages &Literatures Program in Portuguese &Brazilian Studies. 

Willingham did much more for the University than many people realize. He pushed his players to succeed in the classroom, and the players responded with some of the highest GPAs this football program has ever seen. 
He indirectly increased minor­ity enrollment at a school com­prised of mostly white, upper­middle-class students. 
And he restored respect and character to a Notre Dame pro­gram that was reeling with embarrassment after the George O'Leary debacle. 
As the losses mounted, Willingham was criticized for the smallest aspects of his char­acter. He didn't show enough emotion, critics said. He didn't supply enough answers to the team's problem, they claimed. He didn't care about Notre Dame, people argued. 
But what outsiders saw as shortcomings, I saw as qualities. Willingham always kept the same even-keel demeanor, never letting his emotions get the best of him. He joked with reporters and made us feel com­fortable. Most importantly, he did care -not just about his players, but about people. 
I remember a story Willingham told a group of stu­dents when he was first hired. He recalled ordering a meal at a nearby fast food restaurant. Before he could finish ordering, the person taking the order asked, "Aren't you Tyrone Willingham?" Willingham intro­duced himself, then spent the next 20 minutes standing out­side and signing autographs for a number of people. 
Situations like this show Willingham understood peoples' passion for this University. That's why he was reportedly distraught when athletic direc­tor Kevin White informed him of the firing. Willingham is a proud man. He wanted to succeed at­Notre Dame, to show his doubters he was the right choice three years ago. 
But sometimes things don't work out. Willingham couldn't stick around for another year or two because too many alumni, too many students and too many Notre Dame administrators and trustees felt he was the wrong man for the job. Another season that produced just seven or eight wins would not have been enough to keep the critics at bay. 
So Willingham was fired 

'Q)~""" -Purses -Sarongs 
--Wallets -Incense 
'-..J \ -Change Purses 
/ I 
of Silver & Beaded J'ewelry, Tapestry Wall Hangings, nd Crafted Gift Items, and Much, Much More!! DIRECT IMPORTS! LOW PRICES! 
UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTSI 
Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Mexico • Thailand • India LaFortune Sorin Room {1st Fl ) Proceeds from sales of Jewelry guarantee the 
-• lov1ng hands of Guatemalan families 3 times 
Nov. 29-Dec 4(Sat.) 10:30-5:50pm their average salary, as well as fut1ds tor the1r 
educat1on. 

Saturday~ December 4 @ 9. 
Limit of a participants 
Sign up at Brother Gorcb Poo 
l;'irst Come, First Serve 
PRIZES! 

Tuesday, near the end of a sec­ond disappointing season in three tries. He didn't expect the news -neither did his assistant coaches, who were on the road recruiting. 
A man that stands for every­thing that is right about this University, a man that made this school better during his three years in South Bend, a man that did everything he could to return Notre Dame football to glory, is now a part of the past, joining the ranks of recently dis­appointing Irish coaches Gerry Faust and Bob Davie. 
While many Notre Dame's fans celebrated Willingham's firing, the coach silently sulked into the background, into a fraternity of failed Irish football coaches that no one wants to join. 
But contrary to popular belief, Tuesday was a sad day in Notre Dame's rich football tradition. 
That's because, Tuesday, Notre Dame abruptly said good­bye to one of its own. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joe 1/ettler atjhet­tler@nd.edu 
Offering 
affordable 
flying lessons 
from South Band Hegloo~l Airport 
. . 


Wednesday, December 1, 2004 page 3 
The Observer + IN FOCUS 



Silent reaction. not unexpected 
Quiet and calm, Willingham remains in control despite ups and downs 
Willingham's assistant coaches currently wait in limbo 

Baer Den brock Diedrick Gonzales Mattison 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Tyrone Willingham stepped to 
the podium on Jan. 1, 2002 and 
took over perhaps the most 
demanding coaching job in col­
lege football. 
The way Willingham got there 
was quiet and not flashy-just 
like his personality. 
Growing up in Jacksonville, N.C., Willingham faced many problems because of his race. The city was integrated when Willingham was 12. On his high school football team, instead of complaining or quitting about the lack of playing time, Willingham kept working hard and eventually got his chance at quarterback when the starter got hurt. 
During th(' coaching search to replace Bob Davie in December 2001, Willingham was one of the mid-range candidates, according to the media and fans. When George O'Leary had to resign, Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White went back to the man who he called first -Willingham. 
But nobody knew about that initial phone call until Willingham was hired. 
After not getting the job the first time, Willingham stayed focused on coaching Stanford in the Seattle Bowl. 
Many people saw Willingham as a candidate White settled on at the end of the coaching search. Willingham wen,t his own way in demanding the respect of his players, fans and students. 
The well-known. PowerPoint presentation with the team at the first players' meeting in January that ended with a slide saying "WIN" set a precedent from Day 1. 
When Willingham went to the dorms in spring 2002, he con­nected instantly with the Notre Dame student body by having the right answer to every ques­tion and saying he had one goal 
Tyrone Willingham Career Profile 
1977: Michigan State; Graduate Assistant

S--.. 
~.···' s 
~ 
~-1978-79: Central Michigan; Secondary 1980-82: Michigan State; Secondary, Special Teams 1983-85: N.C. State; Secondary. Special Teams 1986-88: Rice; Receivers, Special Teams 

-'ttl-· 
1989-91: Stanford; Running Backs 1992-94: Minnesota Vikings; Running Backs 

..,.~
•....,. 
1995-200I: Stanford; Head Coach 

. ~ 
-~ '--
2002-2004: Notre Dame; Head Coach 
MIKE KINS/Observer Graphic Observer File Photo and CLAIRE KnLEY/The Observer 
Left, Irish coach Tyrone Willingham addresses the media Jan. 1, 2002, after being named the head football coach. Right, Willingham looks on in disgust in a game earlier this season. 
-winning. His speeches weren't stole the limelight. He stayed Students, fans and alumni rah-rah, but down to earth and quiet on the sidelines. not letting started to believe he couldn't honest with the students that his emotion overtake him even win consistently under the came to respect him instantly. for a second. Golden Dome. 
In the 8-0 "Return to Glory" He gained everyone's respect. Throughout all of the com­start when Sports Illustrated Then the honeymoon ended. ments about his coaching ability, named him the Savior of South The Irish started losing -Willingham never strayed from Bend and his players called him much more than is acceptable in his true character. The Prophet, Willingham never South Bend. Looking back at the Notre 
Dame record books decades 
from now, people will only see 
the 8-0 start followed by the 
numerous lopsided losses and 13 
wins in 28 games. 
But looking past that. there's a 

man people won't see. 
They won't see a coach who 

had the support of many of his 
players Tuesday, despite the sub­
standard results of the past two 
years. Just like their coach, the 
players stayed silent in another 
period of turmoil in a program 
that has seen more than its fair 
share. 
They won't see a coach who 

had only three seasons to take 
players recruited for an option 
offense and put them in a pro­
style attack. Willingham never 
complained about not having his 
players in the system and nei­
ther did his players. 
They won't see a coach who was as good a representative of the University as anyone in a leadership position at Notre Dame. Willingham was just as concerned with his players' aca­demic and spiritual development as he was with their football development. He led by example on the field and in the interview room. But he didn't do it in high­profile events or in front of the media -it was about quiet pro­fessionalism. 
As surprising as Tuesday's fir­ing was to almost everyone ­players, media and students -Willingham didn't stoop to the level of spouting off about how unfairly he was treated and dis­agreeing with the administra­tion's decision. 
He didn't hold his own hastily arranged press conference and vent against his management. 
He didn't release a statement voicing displeasure. 
Silent, professional and in the background, Willingham left the Notre Dame program Tuesday. 
If you didn't expect that, then you don't know Tyrone Willingham. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
While Notre Dame head coach Tyrone Willingham was removed of his duties as football coach Tuesday, the fate of his assistant staff is still up in the air. 
"Everybody will be retained until we have a new head coach in place," Irish athletic director Kevin White said at a press conference Tuesday. 
According to Ivan Maisel at ESPN.com, seven of Willingham's assistants were not even aware of the firing because they were traveling on business trips. It was not clear 
· who those seven assistant<;; were. Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer and ommsive coordinator Bill Diedrick are among those coaches whose jobs are cur­rently in limbo. Offensive line eoaches 
Mike Denbrock and John McDonnell, defensive line coach Greg Mattison, wide receivers coach Trent Miles, running backs/special teams coach Buzz Preston, linebackers coach Bob Simmons and defensive backs coach Steven Wilks are the other assistant coaches on staff. 
At this point, it is unclear which coaches, if any, will be retained after the hiring of a new head football coach at Notre Dame. Of the current Irish assistant coaches, all but Mattison were either brought over from Stanford with Willingham in 2002, or have been hired during Willingham's tenure. 
Mattison was the defensive coordinator under Willingham's predecessor Bob Davie, and was retained as a member of Willingham's staff. 
There have been speculations that Baer might be a prime candidate for the vacant head coaching position at Utah State, Baer's alma mater. He began his Division-[ coaching career with the Aggies, serving as Utah State's outside linebackers coach from 1977-82, and then as the team's defensive coordinator from 1983-85. 
The members of the assistant coaching staff are not the· only employees of the football program whose jobs are currently in limbo. Among one of the more impor­tant figures that might have to be replaced is Jimmy Gonzales, Notre Dame's· director of player development. 
Gonzales ha..'i worked directly with mem­ber~ of the coaching staff in recruiting, and is seen as one of the most important recruiting gurus under Willingham's pro­gram. 
There have been several rumors sur­rounding the firing of Wilfingham that White might have first asked the coach to make changes to his coaching staff. White all but denied those rumors Tuesday. 
"We never really got to that conversa­tion, and I think I have a history of not being a micromanager," White said. "And I don't think Father Malloy has spent a whole lot of time spending a lot of associ­ates athletic directors to hire and I haven't spent a whole lot of time tolling our coach­es who they need to hire to serve as their assistant..'>. 
"At the end of the day. the end game is we really have to do a good job on Saturday, and we have to get back to the elite. Coach Willingham knows how to hire a staff and put together a staff, and he's a professional. And so no, we didn't spend a whole lot of time having those conversa­tions." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Wednesday, December 1, 2004 \Yednesday, December 1,
page 4 The Observer • IN FOCUS 


Dec. 2,2001 Notre Dame football coach Bob [)avie was fired after 
··~·•··•·•··~"".)';:oo-.PI"nm~rn had its second 
Tyrone Willingham, formerly of Stanford, is named as the 2&"' football coach of Notre Dame, becoming the first black head coach at Notre Dame in any sport. 

Sept. 6, 2QQ! The Irish. commg into the season
Aua. 28. 2002 Nov.2,2002 
at No. 19. d~eated Washington
QB Matt LoVecchio decides Boston CoUege traveled to State 29-26 in overtime on a game­to transfer from Notre Dame. Notre Dame and upset the winning ftekl goal by Nick Setta. 
LoVecchio, who ended up at No. -4 Irish 1-i-7. Wearing green Down 19-6 in the fourth quarter, Indiana. led the Irish to a berth jerseys. Notre Dame played Notre Dame scored 20 fourth in the 2000 Fiesta Bowl. but lost sloppy all day en route to the quarter points to force overtime.
the staning job to Cartyfe Hofiday first loss in the Tyrone three games into the 200 I season. Willingham era. 
Aug. 31,2002 In Tyrone Willingham's first game as Irish head coach, Notre Dame stormed into the Meadowlands and defeated Maryland 22-0 in the Kickoff Classic. 
Nov. 30, 2002 Carson Palmer picked apart the Notre Dame secondary, throwing for 425 yards and four touchdowns, and virtually solidifying his Heisman trophy award in uses victory. After 
. ; t ~. :: .... ~the ~me, Willingham defended 
1 

• · ~· ·" ·• <his team; saYJrig that their performance against USC was not a true indicator of Notre 
··• · .·~* ~;,~;f Oa~'s ~abilities.. -·.... ~-""·~···· 


Nov. I, 2003 No. 5 Florida State blew out J':4otre Dame 37..0 at Notre
Oct. 26. 2002 
.~a)ne Stadium~ and the Irish
Going into the game with a feD 'to 2-6 -··the worst startNo. 6 ranking in the country, since 1963. It was the fourth the Irish traveled to Tallahassee _ time in the fast I 0 gamesand defeated No. I J Florida that the Irish lost by 31 orState 34-24.1t was the team's 
Feb. 2003 more points.
best start since 1993, and it was 
Led by such outstanding 

the fourth frish victory over 
prospects as Brady Quinn, 

a _ranked opponent in 2002. 
Victor Abiamiri.John Sullivan and Tom Zbikowski, Tyrone Willingham's recruiting class is ranked No. 5 in the nation by 
· collegesports.com 




, 2004 
The Observer+ IN FOCUS page 5 
REAT 
OTRE 
AME 
Nov. 6, 2004 The Irish beat Tennessee 17-13, taking advantage of injuries to the top two Volunteer quarterbacks. Notre 
Sept. 4, 2004 Dame linebacker Mike Goolsby BYU upsets Notre Dame 20-17 
returned an interception 26 yards in the first game of the 2004 season. for the game-winning touchdown. Cougar backup QB Matt Berry threw a 42-yard touchdown pass midway through the third quarter to seal the win for BYU. 
Sept. I I, 2004 The Irish pulled off the upset over Michigan 28-20 and the student body rushed the field as Notre Dame revenged the 38-0 loss in 2003. Darius Walker burst onto the scene, rushing for I 15 yards on 31 carries Nov. 13,2004

Syracuse dismantled Notre Dame with two touchdowns. Tyler Palko threw five touchdown
38-12. as running back Walter passes, the first player ever to do
Reyes scored five touchdowns so in the history of Notre Dame
and rushed for 189 yards. With stadium, as Pittsburgh stunned 
the loss. the Irish moved to S-7 Notre Dame 41-38. 
and suffered their third losing season in five years. 
~ 
~ 
j 
~ ~ 
j 
< 
~ 
j I I 

.· <:. 
I 
~ 
I I j 
~
" 

~ ·• ~ 
l ~ 
_,...,_, 
.. 
~ 
{ 
~ 
4 
~ 
··.· :~-:__ :; 
4 

-<:1\.· ~-­
~ 
. '() .· 
4 
~ 
j 
l 
I 
•
' 
•~ ~ 

. ~,oct. 2~ 2004 c./ , •j 
.· ~ ~ j 
· Kyte Ortontorched the Irish ···:;.­
..•. -~ ' ..., . ' -~

v,H Notre Dame andNBCoffic~~ls j 
' 

secondary for four tQuchc:iQwn No¥..27.2004 ..·· ··r .· 
~··· announce they signed a ftve~y~r ~··· . .· . ... ' j j 
•' 

. pass~ iq,g,. ~§5 yards as f\!rdue . ·· ·· USC beat Notr~ Dame 41 .. 10,
ext.ens.ion.gjving NB~ the righ~ j ~ 
.beatNbt~Of)arrie 41-16. The win the third. straight·seajori ·the Jrish;
...-~~~'i:?~::;:::~;:::f~f::::: :-:-' _.· . : ,•, . . ; . •' --~ ..... . . .. . ,,~
tq ~~fevise Irish foOtball throUgh . 
-~~-. 

was ti~ liillermakers first in . havelosd:o th~ Trojans by 31 ... ' ~ 
20H). The deal is reportedly ' j 
. Notre Dame Stadium siru;:e 1914.. pe>ints. After the frish b\IHta t0-3 ~ 
:>-;' ~
worth $9 million annually. i -._ I
lead USC dominated the · · · ­
.. ;.:.. . :; '·;··· ·...·. ... ... '·.·. . ..... .. 
remainder 9fthe contest 'ifl' 
.... ~ . •· . ' ..
. 

Willingham's final game as ·tr;Sh head coach. 
Winter 2004 • A letter from several hundred alumni was sent to the Board of Trustees saying the University needed to change its focus with regards to the football program. 
1;-'ov~ 30. 20()4. Tyrone Willingham js fired 
•as head football coach at Notre 
~'.Dame after three seasons;m South Bend and a record of 21-f5.
Spring 2()0.4 Coach Willingham headed into spring practice hoping to rebound from his disappointing 2003 season and · recapture the magic that he had upon beginning his tenure. 




page 6 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday, December 1, 2004 


Majority of players remain in silent shock after firing 
from outside sources," he said. 
By PAT LEONARD 

"We never put much thought
Associare Sporrs Editor 

into it." 
White would not relay direct No comment. No comment. No comments from players, but he comment. did give his sentiments on play­In three sentences, those were er reaction as he broke the the feelings of the majority of news at the two o'clock meeting. Notre Dame football players "I really don't want to speak Tuesday night. for them," White While athletic said. "I know director Kevin you'll find them,
"As soon as we
White and associ­and they antici­ate athletic direc­found out, heads pate you finding tor John Heisler dropped.,, them as a group. spoke to media But I will say a about firing word or two. I
Tom Zbikowski
Willingham d ur­think they were . ing a 4 p.m. press Irish defensive back stunned, and I 
administrative decision. "I think it's a shock to every­body," Clark said. 
"As a player, you think it's our fault. We didn't get the job done. I think coach Willingham was a great coach, and I enjoyed play­ing under him." 
Players met later Tuesday night to discuss whether or not they wanted to participate in the Insight Bowl. Notre Dame has already accepted a bid to the bowl set for Dec. 28, but the team did not release a· state­ment finalizing the decision. 
"We're still trying to take this in," Zbikowski said. "It's going to be tough. We're a little shocked, a little disappointed. We just have to stay focused. It's not something you want to go through but it's the way college football is going." 
As the players appear to unite during the time of their coach's departure, Zbikowski said he feels most for the seniors of 


Top, defensive end Justin Tuck leaves the JACC prior to athletic director Kevin White's announcement. Bottom, Willingham coaches defensive back Dwight Elllck at the Tennessee game. 
think they have 

great respect and affection for Coach Willingham, and that was apparent to me as I spoke to them." 
Three years ago, when Notre Dame fired head coach Bob Davie after five seasons, players talked the day of the firing and conference, most players refused to comment about losing their head coach. 
Players found about Willingham's firing during a team meeting in the early after­noon. 
"I met with a core group of the seniors at two o'clock, and I know our seniors are meeting early this evening," White said. ''I'll converse with them again. But I did want their input for obvious reasons." 
Only free safety Tom Zbikowski, a sophomore recruit­ed by Willingham from Illinois, commented on his feelings con­cerning Willingham's dismissal. 
"As soon as we found out, heads dropped," Zbikowski said. "It was tough. We're still talking about it." 
Zbikowski said the players did not see WilJingham's firing com­ing. 
"As a tearri we never thought about it, but we heard about it to get back to competing for the known. They want to help out 

looked to  a  more  "As a player, you  the group.  
promising future.  think it's our fault.  "The  seniors  
"We have to con­tinue to improve regardless of who  We didn •t get the job done···  came here, had Davie, O'Leary and now coach  
the  coach  is,  Willingham  
Carlyle Holiday said in the Dec. 3, 2001 issue of The  Jared Clark Irish tight end  lgo]," he said. "They're one of the best bunch  
Observer. "We have  of  guys  I've  

national championship." the younger guys and get this This time, almost all is quiet. program back on top ... We've Fifth-year senior Jared Clark had meetings too to help sup­
graduates at the end of the year port each other." and will not have to stay for the changeover in coaches like Zbikowski. But Clark felt the Contact Pat Leonard at effects of the Notre Dame pleonard@nd.edu 
CENTER FOR SociAL CoNcERNS 


• 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 



a 
enzn 
s 
December 1, 2004 
en terforsocialconcerns. nd.edu 


Volunteer Opportunities 
An elderly couple is looking for someone to help them do basic housework like filing papers and washing dishes. Contact Idera Thompson at 234-0300, if interested. 
Ironwood Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center 
This nursing home needs volunteers to help with their gift shop and full calendar of activities. Contact Rick Colber or Susan Chapman at 291-6722. 
Tutoring at Salvation Army 
Salvation Army is looking for tutors to help out with their after-school program for 3rd through 8th graders on Mondays-Fridays from 4:00­S:OOpm. Transportation can be 
. made available. Contact Trudy Rodriquez at 386-9648. 
On-Campus Tutors Needed 
The number of individual tutor requests has increased recently. If interested in tutoring for about one hou!" per week at an on-campus location, please call Felipe at 1-7847 or send an email to cscvols@nd.edu. 

Sudan Correspondent Talk 
Dr. Arnot, former foreign correspondent for NBC and MSNBC news and current producer of a documentary on Sudan, will speak about his experiences in Sudan. He will reflect upon the realities of rhe Sudan crisis. Sponsored by Amnesty International, Peace Coali­tion, Keenan Hall and Pasquerilla East Hall. 
When: Thursday, December 2 at 8:00 pm 
Where: Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
Global Issues Forum 
Come hear students who have studied and worked in developing countries present their research on pressing international issues of our rime. Poster presentations, intermission refreshments and a post-event reception will be held. 
When: Monday, Demceher 6 at 7:00pm 
Where: Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
2005 COOL National Conference 
The University of Notre Dame and the Center for Social Concerns are seeking to sponsor outstanding student leaders to attend a nation­al conference focused on promoting civic engagement among college students. The COOL (Campus Outreach and Opportunity League) and Acrion without Borders-ldealist.org have reamed together to announce the 2005 COOL Idealist National Conference will be held March 18-20, 2004 and will be hosted by the University of California Berkeley. For more information, visit http:/ /www.idealist.org/ioc. 
Applications available at the CSC front desk. 
Fund Raiser for Maryknoll Cambodia 
A dinner and Concert sponsored by the Asian-American Associa­tion, Big Yellow Taxi, and the Center for Social Concerns 
When: December 8 at 6:30-8:15 pm 
Where: Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Registration Open for Spring Break Seminars· 
Apply online at http:// cemerforsodalconcerns.nd.edu/ acadeJTlic/application.shtml 
Appalachia Seminar (Theo 361). The Appalachia Seminar, 20-plus years after its creation, continues to send approximately 350 students each year to five states in the Appalachia region. Students explore social, political. religious and environmental issues and serve in a variety ofcontexts. 
Children and Poverty Seminar (Psy 310A/CSC 358). This seminar focuses on concerns that affect the youth of our nadon, including poverty and violence, and examines efforts to foster positive youth development. Immersion takes place in New York City, with service opportunities and visits to organizations such as UNICEF, the United Nations, and the Child Advocacy Center. 
L'Arche Seminar (Theo 357/Psy 310B). This seminar cen­ters around travel to a LArche community in Toronto, Canada, to share community life with people with developmental chal­lenges. Students draw from the philosophy ofJean Vanier and various spiritual writings to augmem this participatory learning expenence. 
Washington, D.C. Seminar (Theo 363/POLS333W). The Spring otTering of the Washington Seminar is planned in conjunction with the Science, Values, and Technology Program. 
Migrant Experiences Seminar (Theo 356). This seminar of­fers a unique immersion into the lives of migrant farm workers in Florida during the spring harvest. Students pick tomatoes in the fields (donating their wages), live with migrant families, assist agencies that serve migrants, and meet with community leaders, never again ro take food for granted. 
Holy Cross Mission in Hispanic Ministry Seminar (Theo368E) This seminar gives panicipams the opportunity to experience the Church's option for the poor through an im­mersion into the spirituality, culrure, and economy of the rural, southern California valley community of Coachella. Students work with the members of the Congregation of Holy Cross 
o I 

Wednesday, December 1, 2004 
The Observer + IN FOCUS page 7 
ND unsure if team will 

go to bowl 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame associate athletic 

director John II~isiPr al~rted the 
media Tuesday the Irish have not. 
yet made a decision on whether to 
still attend the Insight Bowl in the 
wake of head coach Tyrone 
Willingham's firing. 
At a press conference Tuesday 

afternoon at the Joyce Center, 
Notre Dame athletic director Kevin 
White stated the players would 
meet to discuss the bowl situation 
in a meeting at 6 p.m. No decision 
was made after the meeting, but 
Heisler suggested a decision might 
be reached sometime today. 
White said in the press confer­

ence Tuesday he still believes the 
players on this year's team should. 
have the ability to attend the 
Insight Bowl in Phoenix if they so 
desire. 
"The young people in our pro­

gram have earned the right to play 
in a bowl," White said. "If they 
want to go to the bowl, then we'll 
support them." 
Notre Dame finished the season 

6-5 after a 41-10 loss to USC 
Saturday in the team's last game of 
the regular season. But with six 
wins, the Irish are still bowl eligi­
ble and the team agreed to partici­
pate in the Insight Bowl on Dec. 
28. 
Notre Dame officially signed the 

contract for the bowl Sunday. 
White said Notre Dame agreed 

to' the decision to attend the bowl, 
even with the possibility of a 
coaching change looming on the 
horizon. 
"There were two separate tracks there," White said. "We had a con­tractual obligation with the sec­ondary bowl package and the Big East conference, and we felt that we needed to participate in the way that the contract suggested." 
Notre Dame, if it elects to partic­ipate in the bowl, will face a Pac­10 opponent in the Insight Bowl at the Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix, the home of Major League Baseball's Arizona Diamondbacks. Potential opponents for the bowl are Arizona State, Oregon, Oregon State and UCLA -with a decision expected Dec. 5. 
The bowl would be Notre Dame's 26th postseason bowl appearance in the team's history, and its first in the Insight Bowl, which has been in existence 16 years under various names. 
"I think we want to do what's right for the players," Heisler said at Tuesday's press conference. "They've spent six months, if not four years, to try to get to this point. And we're not prepared to just take this away f'rom them if they want to go to Tt~mpe and play in the Insight Bowl." 
Shawn Schoeffler, vice president of media relations for the Insight Bowl, said he still expects Notre Dame to attend the bowl and has not even considered a backup plan if the Irish decide not to partici­pate. 
"We haven't even diseussed [the possibility of Notre Dame not attending)," Schoeffler said. "It's never happened in the history of college football so we're not even planning for it to happen. 
"Right now it looks like it's going to be Notre Dame versus UCLA, which is a matchup that should bring a lot of excited fans, and we're excited to put on a good game for them." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
.. 

..
White acknowledges vocal alumni influence 

By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Following the firing of coach Tyrone Willingham, the influence of one of the country's widest and most powerful alumni bases is as evident as it has ever been. 
''I'd like to say that all of the noise around the program has no impact," Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White said. "But I'm not sure I can say that objectively." 
White announced the removal of Willingham as head football coach at a 4 
p.m. press conference Tuesday, just one and a half hours before a scheduled rally to protest Willingham's tenure as coach. 
The rally, publicized and organized by the Irish fan website NDNation.com, called for participants to lay "Return to Glory" shirts on the steps of the administration building. 
White did not cite any specific reason for his timing in relieving Willingham of his coaching duties, but he made it clear that alumni dissent is difficult to ignore. 
"I think what makes Notre Dame Notre Dame is the fact that people care about it and are so passionate about it and so emo­tional about it," White said. "That's what makes Notre Dame football what it is, and something very special." 
Rumblings about the state of the program resumed across alumni message boards during the 2003 season. Then, in the winter of2004, the alumni went public. 
Alumnus Tim Kelley helped author a letter to the Board of Trustees signed by more than 400 alumni criticizing how the football program was managed. 
"I personally feel that the Notre Dame alumni should be the most important ~on­stituency of the University," Kelley said. "The administrators and the Board of Trustees should be in fact seeking out what alumni feel about major issues." 
The letter produced mixed reaction, but Kelley saw hints of alumni influence on White's decision Tuesday. 
"[White] made some comments to the effect that the football program felt was important to the school, to something of the respect of what we thought when we com­posed that letter," Kelley said. "If those words represent what the real decision makers feel, then I am heartened." 
White insisted that, at the end of discus­sion between administrative oflicials includ­ing University President Father Edward Malloy, alumni response was not a defining factor in his decision. 
"Everything matters, and everybody mat­ters," White said. "And l don't want to dis­count that or shy away from that response, but at the end of the day I think we did put ourselves in a position to take somewhat of a private reflective viewpoint and see if what we we're doing matches up with our expectations." 
Notre Dame's expectations, in the end, demanded better than the records Willingham produced. Former Notre Dame player Mike Golic (1981-84) said on ESPN's Pardon the Interruption the recently removed coach may not have fully realized the situation he was entering when he accepted the head coachingjob in 2002. 
"Everybody has to understand !the situa­tion] when they sign their name on that dot­ted line," Golic told ESPN. "And while Ty Willingham said he understood the pres­sure, I don't think he fully knew how pres­surized it was until he got there, and any­body who goes there is now going to have that weight on their shoulders." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
.... 
Only two black head coaches left in Div. 1-A 
Three black coaches out after season 
Keith said he was especially

By HEATHER 
concerned with the Notre 

VAN HOEGARDEN 
Dame situation because of Sports Editor 
what happened with Willingham's predecessor, Bob \Vhen Irish football coach Davie. Davie, who was fired in Tyrone Willingham was hired 2001, compiled a 21-16 record in 2002, he was the first black in his first three seasons, but head coach in any sport at was kept for the duration of Notre Dame. his five-year contract. When he was fired Tuesday. Willingham was fired after he became the third black three seasons with a record of football coach who had either 21-15 after signing a six-year been fired or resigned from deal in 2002. He js the first his job this year. Last week, Notrn Dame football coach to 
San Jose State's Fitz Hill br~ fired before the durath>n of resigned, and on Nov. 24, New his ori6rinal contract. Mexico State's Tony Samuel "This sends an alarming was fired. message to African-
There are Row only two Americans," Keith said. black head coaches in Division Former Irish football player 1-A football. For Floyd Keith, and ESPN Hadio personality 
executive director of the Black Mike Golic said the firing of Coaches Association, this Willingham had nothing to do trend is disturbing. with race. 
"I just hop£~ in some situa­"You know what the color of tions we're not held to a high­Notre Dame is, is winning ... er standard," Keith told ESPN It's not black or white," Golic, Tuesday evening. who played for the Irish from 
Keith also said he was disap­1981-1984, said on ESPN's pointed with Notre Dame's Pardon the Interruption decision to fire Willingham. Tuesday. "Ty could be yellow. 
"In three years, I think he If he was 10-1 or 11-0, he'd has done everything, short of still be there coaching right winning a national champi­now." onship, and I don't think he inherited national champi­Contact Heather Van onship talent." he said. Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.ed.u 
.. 



ND recruits react 
Many of Willingham's a<>sistant 
By PAT LEONARD 
coaches were out on the recruit­
Associate Sports Editor 
ing trail when the announce­
ment of the coach's firing was 

Martin Frierson and Lawrence made. But ·expertc; had already Wilson, two recruits verbally begun dubbing the current Iri<>h committed to attend Notre Dame class as sub-par, similar to the next fall, decommitted from the winter 2004 recruiting class that Irish after learning of Tyrone barely cracked the national top Willingham's removal as head 30. football eoach. "I think there are a lot of kids 
Neither Frierson nor Wilson that really liked coach are eliminating the Irish from Willingham and this coaching contention in their recruiting staff," Frank said. "But I also search, but both players feel think there are a lot of top-tier they cannot hold their commit­players that probably dropped ments at this time due to the Notre Dame because of the change in leadership of the pro­record that the coaching stan· gram. amas~ed this year.... Maybe if' 
"I'm definitely going to rPcon­Notre Dame got a coach in here sider my commitment," Wilson trudy soon, they might be able to told Mike Frank of get back in on some of those IrishEycs.com. "That was tnrri­guys who dropped Notre Dame." ble what happened. I really like Athletic director Kevin White coach Willingham. I liked all the did not give a time frame for hir­coaching staff. I really wanted to ing Notre Dame's replacement play f'or them." for Willingham, but the absence 
Frank said Frierson (6-loot-2, of a head coach in the interim 
185 pounds) was planning to could continue to hurt the Irish. continue to look at other sehools ''I'm definitely going to reopen anyway. my recruiting," Wilson reiterat­
''I'm still looking at Vandy, ed. "Notre Dame doesn't have a Georgia Tech, South Carolina coach, so I have to look at other and Kentucky is coming to my options. I will listen to what the house tomorrow," Frierson new coach has to say. But I'll (lrmo, S.C.) told Irish Eyes. "I look at all my other options." just set up an official visit to Frierson said he was uncer­Georgia Tech." tain of his intentions. 
Notre Dame's list of commit­''I'm not sure what is going ments decreases from 11 play­on," he said. "I guess I'll have to ers to nine. The Irish have tenta­wait and see." tively secured one four-star recruit, seven three-star recruits Contact Pat Leonard at and one two-star so far . pleonard@nd.edu 
Wednesday, December 1, 2004

page 8 The Observer + IN FOCUS 

ND has plenty to choose from in coaching search 

Utah's Meyer looks to be early contender for Notre Dame job 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 

The University administration and athletic director Kevin White will have plenty of top­tier candidates when choosing the next eoach of the Fighting Irish. 
Following Tuesday's firing of possible replacements have turned around two programs surfaced as early contenders as head coach -Bowling for one of the country's most Green and Utah. The Utes are 

third-year  coach  Tyrone  
Willingham,  a group of 10-12  
_  _  .  ·  
.  .  .  

prestigious ­and most scrutinized ­
"We haven •t done a 
head coaching 
thing in terms ofthe
positions. 

The early search at this point.,, frontrunner, according to 
Kevin White 

numerous . 
ranked No. 5 in the nation this season with an 11-0 record and likely will play in a Bowl Championship 
Series game.However, 

news sources,  Notre Dame athletic d.rector  White said at  
is  former  Tuesday's  
Notre  Dame  press confer­ 

wide receivers coach and cur­ence the University has not rent Utah head coach Urban looked into any replacements Meyer. The 40-year old yet. Ashtabula, Ohio native has "We haven't done a thing in 
. 

TOP CHOICE 
. 

terms of the search at this point," White said. "And I think that's what [the reporter is] referring to. No, we haven't begun, haven't lifted the phone up at this point. I've been really focused on our team and our coaches, and obviously conver­sations with Coach Willingham. So that will happen here short­ly." 
White stated several times throughout the press confer­ence that Notre Dame had no contact with any possible can­didates. He said the coaching search would begin this morn­ing. 
"We will immediately begin a 

Urban Meyer 
The second-year Utah coach has already tur.ned the Utes into a national contender. After a 10-2 season in 2003, Meyer has Utah at 11-0 and No. 5 in the AP poll this season. He coached wide receivers at Notre Dame for five years, from 1996­2000, before taking over at Bowling Green where he was 17-6 including a 5-0 mark -against BCS teams and two wins over ranked opponents. Meyer's signed a one-year contract extension in June, giving him a $40,000 raise. His contract is good through 2009 and he can automatically receive one-year deals if Utah finishes with a win­ning record and equals or exceeds their tickets sales from 2002. More importantly for the Irish, 
Utah head coach Meyer has a clause in his contact that allows him 
... . . . ' -. . ..~· .,•.-'_:' SECOND TIER I ' 
-

Charlie Weis 


The offensive coordinator is a Notre Dame graduate and one of the most successful assistant coaches in the league. ESPN reported Weis is interested in the job, and he could help the Irish improve their offense. His pro football experience and sue­cess in three Super Bowls should help bring in top recruits. Weis has 26 years of coaching experi­ence, including 15 in the NFL. 
Patriots He also coached at South offensive Carolina. coordinator 

Jeff Tedford 

Tedford has turned California into a mainstay in the top-25, after leading the Golden Bears to a the most wins (15) of any coach in California history during his first two seasons. He was named the PAC-10 coach of the year in 2002 after helping the Bears record their first winning season in nine years. However, Tedford has expressed displeasure with the universities' inability to improve


Cal head football facilities. Tedford has a coach knack for producing high-power ofTenses. 
Norm Chow 
The mastermind behind almost unstoppable offense during the past four seasons, Chow has his pick of head coaching positions every year. He is considered one of the top offensive coordinators in the nation. It might be tough to pull Chow away from USC's dynasty, but if Chow decides to leave, Notre Dame could be on the top of his list. 
. 


Butch Davis 


Resigning from the Cleveland Browns the same day Willingham was fired, Davis had an outstand­ing record with the Miami Hurricanes from 1995-2000 where he was 51-20, including 4-0 in bowl games. He took over the Browns in 2001 and posted a 24­36 record in four seasons, making the playoffs in 2002. Davis is a defensive-minded coach, who helped continue the Hurricanes 
Unemployed success in the 90s. Florida is also reportedly a top suitor for Davis. 
THIRD TIER 


Kirk Ferentz 


Iowa's sixth-year head coach recently signed a contract exten­sion, but that doesn't necessarily count him out as a candidate for Notre Dame's coaching vacancy. Ferentz and Irish athletic director Kevin White are longtime friends, going back to when White hired Ferentz for a coaching position at Maine in 1990. Ferentz has put together the best two-year stretch in Iowa football history, leading
Iowa head the Hawkeyes to records of 11-2 coach and 10-3 in 2002 and 2003, respectively. 
FOURTH TIER 
national search for a new foot­ball coach," White said. "I don't have any particular parameters in mind, other than identifying an individual who can lead Notre Dame football back to the sustained level of excel­lence that everyone associated with the University and the program wants and desires." 
White set no timetable for finding the 29th coach in Notre Dame's history, saying the school will "come to a conclu­sions, when it comes to a con­clusion." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
~ 
. t-· -.· 
"' 

to opt out if three teams come calling: Michigan, Ohio State and Notre Dame. Meyer is a top choice for the Florida job and some ESPN college football experts said Tuesday night that the Gators may actually have a better chance at landing Meyer than the Irish. In September, Meyer told ESPN.com, "[Notre Darnel truly is one of the great places. It's college football in its truest form. It's true student-athletes. You can't say that about every university. Most universities-can sneak guys into certain majors -and, if some of them suc­ceed there, that can be good. But that doesn't hap­pen at Notre Dame. 
' . 

Jon Groden 
Gruden grew up in South Bend and his dad coached for the Fighting Irish. He's always had Notre Dame as a dream job, but he makes $4 million a year with Tampa Bay. Gruden led the Bucs to the 2002 Super Bowl, winning the crown in his first year as coach. He has a career record of 66-48. Gruden's fiery demeanor on the sidelines may not sit well with Notre Dame's administration, but Buccaneers his coaching accomplishments 


head coach speak for themselves. If he's will­ing to take a pay cut, Gruden could be a top candidate for the Irish. 
Dan Hawkins 

Boise State's head coach has an impressive 44-6 record during his almost four seasons with ·the Broncos. A Catholic, Hawkins said in an interview with ESPN.com in late. October that he could see the Notre Dame coaching position as a dream job. An offensive-minded coach, Hawkins could help Notre Dame's often-times struggling offense. 
Boise State head cocah 

Bobby Petrino  Bob Stoops  Lou Holtz  
USC's  Louisville's head coach is also an offen­ A longshot, Stoops turned around a  As ESPN said, "He's available, ·and  
sive-oriented coach, helping the Cardinals  struggling Oklahoma program when he  he knows how to beat USC." One of  
move up and down the field at will on  took over five years ago. He showed lit­ the greatest coaches in NCAA history,  
most opponents. His nine wins during the  tle interest during Notre Dame's coach­ Holtz won a national title in 1988  
2003 season were the most ever by a  ing search in 2001, but has been  with Notre Dame -in just his third  
first-year Louisville head coach. He led  rumored to be_ listening to Florida  year with the school. He retired from  
the team to a 9-4 record and a GMAC  offers. This could be mean Notre Dame  South Carolina last week, but is as  
Bowl appearance. Petrino has led the  has a chance, albeit a small one, at  dark a dark horse as anyone avail­ 
Cardinal to a 9-1 record with one regular  landing one of the top coaches in all of  able.  
sca.•.;o_n game remaining this year.  college football.  
Compiled by Joe Hettler  


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint lvlary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 61 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Willingha•n firing stirs emotions at ND 

By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Unlike his wins and losses on the football field, Tyrone Willingham's impact on the Notre Dame community can't be spelled out in statistics. 
As the University's first black head coaching hire in any sport, Willingham inspired a sense of pride in many people, said Mel Tardy, assistant prOfessional special­ist in the First Year of Studies program. 
"I sensed a hope when he was hired," said Tardy, whose personal connection with the coach runs deep. 
"It's difficult to be African­American and male at Notre Dame, and you never see any­body who is like you," he said. "To see someone of his stature, one of the biggest symbols of Notre Dame, to be somebody like you, there's no way to put it into words ­that's what I think will be a big loss to the Notre Dame community." 
Many minority faculty mem­bers and students likely felt a similar bond with the coach, said University spokesman Matt Sturin. 
"It was very encouraging to them to see him leading the Notre Dame football team, very reassuring," Storin said. "I think internally he was a champion for diversity at the University." 
The national visibility of the football program elevated Willingham's stature above that of other minoritit~s in prominent University posi­tions, said Iris Outlaw, direc­

tor of multicultural student programs and services. 
Officials such as assistant to the president Chandra Johnson and associate dean of graduate studies Donald Pope-Davis are known inter­nally at Notre Dame, Outlaw said, but lack the external recognition of an Irish foot­ball head coach. 
"I think he did provide a lot of visibility and exposure for the institution," she said. 
Willingham's tenure at Notre Dame coincided with an increase in minority students, 
Protesters demand explanation, others applaud decision 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Students both protesting and supporting the firing of Notre Dame football coach Tyrone Willingham clashed in a heated gathering outside the Main Building Tuesday. 
About 30-40 ethnic minority students gathered on the build­ing's steps to contest the University's decision and carried posters reading "$ cost ND its integrity," "Never before, never again" and "We want Ty bark." 
The demonstration coincided with a cancelled student rally planned to call for Willingham's mmoval. However, some students involved with the original protest still showed up at the Main Building, which led to arguments 
see PROTESTS/page 4 

contributing indirectly to the success of long-term diversity programs already in place at Notre Dame, director of admissions Dan Saracino said. 
In 2003, after Willingham's first season as coach, ethnic minority students composed 21 percent of the incoming freshman class, compared to 17 percent in 2002. The level remained fairly consistent in 2004, at 22 percent. 
"There surely has been an 
see IMPACT/page 6 

Ebersol tragedy continues to touch community 
Crowd fills memorial Mass for family 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
At the close of the Mass held in the Keough Hall chapel Tuesday night in honor of the Ebersol family and the soul of its youngest son Teddy, a let­ter of gratitude and grief from Charlie Ebersol brought the room to tears. 
Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs and Keough's priest-in-resi­dence, read the letter aloud to the crowd of more than 150 students, staff and faculty that filled the chapel of Charlie Ebersol's former dorm. Sobs punctuated the silence as Poorman himself choked back 
see MASS/page 6 


Investigation into crash ongoing 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 

As the Ebersol family grieved Tuesday over the loss of Teddy Ebersol, federal officials investigat­ed possible causes of the charter plane crash that killed the 14-year old and two crewmembers in Montrose, Colo. Sunday. 
The CL-601 Challenger plane's 

, cockpit voice recorder contains a 31-minute tape of the accident sequence, National Transportation Board investigator Arnold Scott told the A'>sociated Press Tuesday. The transcript of the recording could shed light on the circum­stances that caused the private jet to crash at Montrose Hegional Airport at 10 a.m. Sunday, injuring 
see EBERSOL/page 4 


Wednesday, December 1, 2004

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Going ... home? 

Like most students, in just 18 short days I will be finishing my last final, packing up my dorm room and going home. 
The only difference is that I will not be coming back next semester. On Jan. 15, I will board a plane headed for Rome, 
Kelly Meehan 

Italy, which will be my home for the next four months. News 
I have been Production aware of the fact I Editor would be going to Rome since late last year, but it has just recently hit me that I am not going to see so many ofmy friends and family for a good amount of time. To help me make the transition from South Bend to Rome, I recently have been thinking of the things I will not miss when I am abroad. 
I believe that the idea ofthe things I will not miss really came to mind when I was informed last week that Saint Mary's would be closing the beloved under­ground tunnel system. The tunnels were always a beacon ofhope during to help me avoid the sometime harsh South Bend weather. 
I certainly will not miss the dinning hall -a girl can only eat cereal and salad for so long. I am fairly confident the Italian cuisine will far surpass even the best din­ner at Noble Family Dinning Hall. 
Snow is certainly something I will not miss. According to my Italian professor, Rome only gets one inch of snow every 15 years. This is amazing, and I think I will be excited for winter for the first time in 19 years. 
I also will not miss the fact that the campus construction zone has created a mess of the sidewalks, resulting in the world's deepest mud puddle. This extremely vast mud puddle i<> not walka­ble, no matter what one may think. I learned my lf~sson the hard way last night. When I was attempting to walk to the parking lot last night I took one step and the next thing I know my feet are completely engulfed in mud, completely ruining my shoes. 
After making this list, I realized I was only creating it to help lessen the reality ofleaving my home. The time I have spent at Saint Mary's has been the best year and a half of my life. It will be diffi­cult to leave all ofthe friends I have made and adapt to a whole new culture in a foreign land. 
I will defiantly mi<>s the luxury of being able to run into all of my friends as I walk to class, eating chicken sandwiches before working a long night at The Observer and making midnight runs to Meijer with my roommate. 
I know Rome will be an experience ofa lifetime, and I will learn things there that I could not be taught in any South Bend classroom. I look forward to making new friends and traveling throughout Europe. 
I will come back next year, perhaps as a changed person. I will know the culture of another land, but I will also be aware of my where my true home lies-even if the tunnels are closed. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obserl!er. Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, an arricle in the Nov. 30 issue ofThe Observer misidentified the cockpit voice recorder of the chaner plane that crashed carrying members of the Ebersol family as a flight data recorder. The plane did not have a data recorder. Due to a reponing error, an article in the Nov. 23 issue ofThe Observer incorrectly described the illustration on the Saint Mary's Pride Week shirt as having blonde hair. The woman on the shirt has brown hair. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO SHOULD REPLACE TY AS THE FOOTBALL COACH AND WHY? 







Stephanie Thibault Cindy Cieslolka Molly Kelley Doug Snodgrass Andrew Digah Fritz Shadley 
senior Bookstore junior senior freshman freshman Turtle Creek Staff Howard Stanford Zahm Siegfried 
"Kerry. He "Lou Holtz. "Football? We . "Urban Meyer "Urban Meyer "John Gruden needs because he have a football since his name all the way! -because he 
,,

something to needs to come team?·· is so catchy. He'd be a makes sweet d0. , home.,, breath offresh and cool faces.,, air for the 
,, 

program. 

Woman performs C-section to save puppies 
CEDAR CITY, Utah -A quick-thinking EMT per­formed a Caesarean section on her dead Chihuahua to save the lives of three pup­pies. Carolyn Shaw was at work two weeks ago when she received a call from her husband, saying their long­haired Chihuahua, Annie, was in labor and whimper­ing under the bed. 
Shaw asked her ambu­lance partner Kori Baker, who also is her daughter­in-law, and a student intern riding along if they could stop by the house and check on the dog. "After I did a quick check I realized she was dead," Barker said. 
Shaw's instincts as an EMT and nurse kicked in. She pulled out her stetho­scope and listened to Annie's heart to search for some sign of life. There was no heartbeat but there was movement. "I felt the babies moving inside of her," Shaw said. 
Men arrested for dumping dirt in a forest 
COEUR D'ALENE, Idaho -Two men have been arrested for dumping dirt in a national forest. The Kootenai County Sheriff's Department said the men, whQ have not been publicly identified, were arrested at a garage in Coeur d'Alene where the dirt had been removed and the base apparently prepared for paving. 
Deputy Robert Gomez said the U.S. Forest Service confirmed that it was illegal to dump anything, includ­ing dirt, on the federal land. 
Gomez said he asked the two men about dumping dirt in the national forest "and they went off on a tirade about Mother Earth." 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
L&.l 
::r: 
=: 
L&.l 
3: 
.... 
<( 
CJ 



31 
29 


36 
25 

HIGH LOW 
0 
HIGH 40
..I 
LOW 29 
IN BRIEF 
UNICEF will sell Christmas cards and other materials from 
9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Library con­course. Proceeds will benefit needy children throughout the world. 
Theology professor Bob Krieg will lead a seminar on "Catholic Theologians and Nazi Germany," today from 3:30 to 
5:30 p.m. in C-104 Hesburgh Center. 
Sally Winn, vice president of Feminists for Life of America, will speak today on the topic "Refuse to Choose: Reclaiming Feminism" from 7 to 9 p.m. in 126 DeBartolo Hall. 
Pasquerilla East Hall will sponsor its Silent Night Silent Auction today from 7 to 9 p.m. The event will include free food, karaoke and a free IPod give­away. 
Political science professor Luc Reydams will discuss "Universal Jurisdiction over Gross Human Rights Violations: Back to Square Zero?" today from 4:30 to 6 p.m. in the Law School Courtroom. 
AcoustiCafe and the Student Union Board will sponsor "AcoustiChristmas" Thursday from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m. in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. 
The sophomore class will sponsor a dinner and 'The O.C.' watch Thursday from 7 to 9 
p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center ballroom. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 
Wednesday, December 1, 2004 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Seniors reflect on loss of yet another coach 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame was abuzz Tuesday afternoon with the news of Irish football coach Tyrone Willingham's firing, but for some students that excitement was all too famil­iar. 
"I was excited when Ty was hired," Morrissey senior Andy DeVoto said. "That excitement wore away pretty quickly. He wasn't able to perform as well as we'd expected." 
After four football seasons as Notre Dame students, sen­iors must now bid farewell to the third head football coach in four years. Willingham's termination follows the University's decision to fire former head eoach Bob Davie in December 2001. 
Several seniors they said they felt the firing was justi­fied, based on Willingham's performance. 
"I definitely think that with­in the past three years, he's had time to make quality wins," senior Kathryn Kinner said. "He's on his own recruit­ing class and still hf1's been unable to make good deci­sions in key games." 
''I'm glad to see him gone," added senior Terry Brown of Farley Hall. "The man was 

given three years and all he did was take [former head coach Bob[ Davie's team and then make it progressively worse." 
Kinner said that, while Willingham had a good char­acter, he didn't fulfill his responsibilities. 
"I feel badly because he is a respectable guy with very high moral and social integri­ty, which is good for the University," she said. "(But) they had specific goals and expectations, like in any other job, which weren't met." 
But other seniors, including Steve Salwierak and Bill Kern, disagreed completely with these views. 
"I think he was a success," said Salwierak. "He was hired to change our offense from a power-style to a West Coast style, and he accomplished that. He changed our of"fen­sive philosophy." 
Kern credited Willingham with solid improvements to Notre Dame's offense. 
"Watching games a fresh­man, compared to now, our offense has come a long way," Kern said. "When we were so good in 2001, our defense was scoring two touchdowns a game. Now the offense is actually putting some points on the board." 
Salwierak said Willingham 

~_;LAiht: KtLLtY!lne Observer 
Students in the senior section perform the traditional fourth quarter "1812 Overture" salute to head coach Tyrone Willingham at a football game this season. 
did not have enough time to "I think they should play in "It's sad because Notre establish a solid football pro­the bowl game," he said. "lt Dame has so many traditions, gram. strengthens the program and and football has always been 
"I think it was too soon," he rewards the guys. It gives a big one," she said. "The said. "I don't think you can them more practice time, and University's bureaucracy has expect anybody to turn a pro­ultimately, more exposure." taken over our school, and it gram around in three years." Senior Terry Brown said she no longer produces the image 
Kern also supported the s u pp orted Tuesday's that Notre Dame once had." team's playing in a bowl game announcement, but expressed this season, regardless of who frustration about the multiple Contact Eileen Duffy at ended up coaching the team. coaching ehanges. eduffy1@nd.edu 

Law 


An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
December 1, 2004 4:30p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Universal Jurisdiction Over Gross Human Rights Violations: Back to Square Zero? 
Presenter Luc Reydams 

Department ofPolitical Science 
Commentator Teresa Godwin Phelps 
The Law School 

Wednesday, December 1, 2004
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Grand Junction, Colo., where Dick Thanksgiving break Monday night, As the first officer to arrive at the "He kept saying 'My brother's in and Charlie Ebersol were in stable Graham said. Grief counselors and scene of the crash, Montrose the plane,"' Schmalz said. 
Ebersol 
condition at St. Mary's Hospital, psychiatrists met with freshmen County sheriff's deputy Shane Schmalz tried to stick his head according to hospital public rela­that knew Teddy Ebersol and will Schmalz was too late to see Dick inside the back end of the plane to
continued from page 1 
tions director Kim Willian1s. be available at the school if other Ebersol rescued from the plane. look for Teddy Ebersol, but was 
Notre Dame senior Charlie "We will miss Teddy, our sweet students need help. He feared the overwhelmed by the heat and Ebersol, 21, and NBC Sports chair­boy, forever," the family said in a A memorial serv-worst. could not see any survivors. man Dick Ebersol, 57. statement. "Teddy was a warm, ice will take place at "I did not "At that point it was so hot and
..In the wake ofthis 
The transcript will bP released loving, energetic young man. He the school next [anticipate sur­so intense of a fire that it wasn't
tragedy. we are
after an NTSB examination in had developed a wonderfully week, and the vivors] due to the possible," he said. Washington, D.C., Scott said. No quirky sense of humor way beyond Ebersol family is touched by the looks of the Teddy Ebcrsol was thrown from potential causes have been ruled his years that kept the whole family planning another plane," which the plane and crushed by wreck­
overwhelming
out, he said, adding that investiga­laughing. service at The was leaking jet age, Montrose County Coroner
outpouring oflove
tors are looking into possible mal­"His wonderful spirit lives on in Gunnery for Dec. 18, fuel as it disinte­Mark Young told the Associated function ofthe jackscrews that con­our family, and in all who knew Graham said. from people all over grated in the Press. trol the plane's wing flaps. and loved him. Of course, everyone No formal funeral flames, Schmalz Pilot Luis Alberto Polanm, 50, of
the world.·· 
Speculation after the accident who knew Teddy was aware of his arrangements for said. "I've been the Dominican Republic, and flight centered on whether or not the passion for the Boston Red Sox, Teddy Ebersol have working for 12 attendant Warren T. Richardson Ill,
Ebersol family 
plane's wings had been de-iced and a highlight of hi., short life was been announced. years and I've 36, of Coral Gables, Fla., were before it attempted takeoff in a the Red Sox winning their first Amidst their sor­statement seen some crash­killed on impact, the coroner's light snowstorm Monday morning. championship in 86 years. Uke his row, the Ebersols es, but that one office said in a press release. Co­Scott confirmed the plane was not team, Teddy never lost hope." expressed thanks for was amazing to pilot Eric S. Wicksell remained in de-iced, according to the Susan Graham, head of The the community's support and pride see people walk away from." critical condition at a Denver Associated Press. Gunnery boarding school that in their eldest son. Schmalz said he helped Dick Trauma Center Tuesday, according 
The decision to de-ice is the Teddy Ebersol attended in "In the wake of this tragedy, we Ebersol walk to safety, supporting to the Associated Press. piJot's, Montrose airport manager Washington, Conn., remembered are touched by the overwhelming the NBC executive on hL<i shoulders "Our hearts and prayers go out Scott Brownlee said in a news con­him as a "very spirited and enthu­outpouring of love from people all until the two reached medical per­to the fanlilies ofLuis [Polanco] and ference Monday broadcast nation­sia'itic young freshman." over the world," the family state­sonnel. Warren Richardson, who perished ally byCNN. "He was a strong presence on ment said. "While our grief is While Dick Ebersol told Schmalz along with our son, and to the third 
Similar protocol is followed at the campus ... everyone knew Teddy," unfathomable, we are so proud of his back hurt, Charlie Ebersol crewmember, who remains criti­South Bend Regional Airport, said she said, adding that the 14-year our Charlie, who pulled his father insisted he was fine, Schmalz said. cally injured," the Ebersol state­director of operations Marcy old was particularly talkative when from the flames. That anyone was The senior, shoeless and wearing ment said. "Again, we are so grate­Greenberger. it came to politics and sports. able to survive this horrible acci­jeans and a short-sleeved shirt in ful for your prayers and support." 
"It's up to each individual aircraft The Gunnery held an all-school dent is a miracle, and all of us will the bitter cold, was looking for a operator," she said. meeting to discuss the tragedy after forever be inspired by Charlie's cell phone as he pleaded with res­Contact Claire Heininger at The Ebersol family remained in students returned from courage and bravery." cuers, Schmalz said. cheining@nd.edu 
Protests 
continued from page 1 
between the protesters. 
"We are standing in solidarity with Ty because we feel that his termination was unjust," junior Ukachi Okoronkwo said. 
Students said further explana­tions for Willingham's removal would be necessary. 
'There are a lot of issues here that make his termination ques­tionable," Okoronkwo said. 
Sophomore Krystal Hardy said the University didn't give Willingham an adequate chance. 
"It was really, really unfair," llardy said. "Notre Dame has had a series of losing seasons before Ty." 
She also emphasized Willingham's role as a positive fig­ure in the black community. 
"He contributes to the African­American clubs on campus as well as other clubs and is really a great loss to the Notre Dame community as a whole," Hardy said. 


The student protest on the steps of the main building was organ­ized in a last-minute effort to "channel emotion," according to Hardy. 
While only around 40 students were actively protesting after the press conference announcing Willingham's dismissal, Okoronkwo said she believed most black students on campus would support their actions. 
"This is bigger than a race issue -this is about a man with a fam­ily," sophomore Frank Duerson said. 
Despite the vocal animosity towards the administration, many students came out in support of the decision to terminate Willingham. 
Junior Mike Fremeau, involved in ndnation.com's Call for Change movement that helped organize the original protest, said while Willingham's removal was a start, more action was needed to improve Notre Dame's football record. 
"This is a step in the right din~c-
NEVER STOP EXPLORINGTM 
A thick ~eece coat isperfect 
for winter. Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 

Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:oopm Sat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm 


tion. At the same time, we have to make sure that we get a top-flight coach to get back to champi­onship football," Frcmeau said. 
Senior John Hamburger said the "Student Rally for Excellence" planned by the Call for Change a week ago intended to show the administration students still cared about the quality of the football program. 
"The rally was designed to ask the administration to take proper steps to return Notre Dame's pro­gram to historical standards of excellence," Hamburger said. "Notre Dame strives for excel­lence in everything -football should be no different." 
Although he supported Willingham's termination, Hamburger expressed regret about the student backlash Tuesday afternoon. 
"It's very unfortunate, the way this has turned out," Hamburger said. "We're happy to have a very active African-American commu­nity at Notre Dame. But my impression is that they seem to think race came into considera­tion, when this had absolutely nothing to do with it." 

He said the football team's poor performance and decreased level of donations because of it led to Tuesday's announcement. 
Despite being surprised by the press conference, Hamburger said he thought the dismissal was meant to preempt the planned student rally, which was cancelled after the firing announcement. 
"I don't think the timing of the announcement was a coinci­dence," Hamburger said. "I don't think it would have been good public relations to have students protesting the administration." 
According to Hamburger, ESPN radio and local South Bend media were aware of the rally, leading him and Call for Change to believe that there would also be press coverage. 
Graduate student Elizabeth Moriarty stopped by to support the students protesting the administration's actions. 
''I'm very sympathetic to what the black students are doing standing out here today, and I want to show support for them as fellow Notre Dame students. I think their voices should be heard," she said. 
Moriarty said the protest was not predominantly related to race or even football, but derived from broader issues. 
"For most of them, the issue is not football. The issue is losing a good friend and that he didn't get a fair chance," she said. "It's about members of this communi­ty feeling like they don't belong and that it's our job to make them feel like they belong." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
MCNAIR SCHOLARS PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME 
ANNOUNCES THE 2004 -2005 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. DON POPE-DAVIS 
AND MS. MARY NICHOLS (1-7514) 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2004 
7:00 -8:00 PM 
(Hors d'oeuvres will be served) 
IN ROOM 119 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
OR 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans 

Wednesday, December 1, 2004 Co1vtP1 LED FROA,, THE OBSERVER's w1 RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Netherlands euthanizes babies 
AMSTEHDAM, Netherlands -A hospital in the Netherlands -the first nation to permit euthanasia -recently proposed guidelines for metcy killings of terminally ill newborns, and then made a startling revelation: It has already begun carrying out such procedures, which include administering a lethal dose of sedatives. 
The announcement by the Groningen Academic Hospital came amid a growing dis­cussion in Holland on whether to legalize euthanasia on people incapable of deciding for themselves whether they want to end their lives -a prospect viewed with horror by euthanasia opponents and as a natural evolution by advo­cates. 
In August, the main Dutch doctors' associa­tion KNMG urged the Health Ministry to create an independent board to review euthanasia cases for terminally ill people "with no free will," including children, the severely mentally retarded and people left in an irreversible coma after an accident. 
Ukranian compromise talks end 
KIEV, Ukraine -Opposition supporters on Tuesday abruptly broke off compromise talks over Ukraine's disputed presidential election after pro-government lawmakers blocked a no­confidence motion seeking to topple the prime minister, who was declared the victor in last week's vote despite allegations of massive fraud. 
The opposition's rejection of the talks raises pressure on Ukrainian authorities, while Russian President Vladimir Putin said the crisis in the former Soviet republic must be resolved without foreign meddling. 
The Supreme Court was wrapping up a sec­ond day of hearings with no sign of a decision on an opposition appeal to annul the results from the Nov. 21 runoff election, which put Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych ahead by 871,402 votes. 
' 

NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. death toll ties record 
WASHINGTON -fueled by fierce fighting in Fallujah and insurgents' counterattacks elsewhere in Iraq, the U.S. military death toll for November equalled the highest for any month of the war, according to casualty reports available Tuesday. 
At least 135 U.S. troops died in November. That is the same number as last April, when the insurgence flared in Fallujah and else­where in the so-called Sunni Triangle where 
U.S. forces and their Iraqi allies lost a large measure of control. 
On Nov. 8, U.S. forces launched an offen­sive to retake Fallujah, and they have engaged in t(>Ugh fighting in other cities since then. More than 50 U.S. troops have been killed in Fallujah sim~e then, although the Pentagon has not provided a casualty count for Fallujah for more than a week. 
Black Hawk heHcopter crash kills 7 
BHUCEVILLE-EDDY-An Army helicopter carrying seven soldiers crashed and burned in the fog Monday after hitting a web of sup­port wires on a TV transmission tower whose warning lights had been knocked out in a storm last week, officials said. Everyone aboard was killed. 
The UH-60 Black Hawk, bound for the Red River Army Depot in Texarkana, went down in a field about 30 miles northeast of Fort llood. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Small town gets second paper 
CRAWFOHDSVILLE -Six mornings a week, the Journal Heview arrives at homes and busi­nesses in this rural community. Established in 1841, it has long been the primary provider of daily local news. 
That stature is being challenged with the arrival of The Paper of Montgomery County. 
In an era of declining newspaper readership, Publisher Tim Timmons is turning heads by starting· a daily newspaper that hP hopes will defy both industry and economic odds. . 
Cabinet member resigns position 
Horneland Security Secretary Ton1 Ridge stepped down from his duties 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Home­
land Security Secretary Tom 
Ridge, whose name became 
synonymous with color­
coded terror alerts and tuto­
rials about how to prepare 
for possible attack, resigned 
Tuesday. 
Ridge submitted his resig­nation in writing to President Bush on Tuesday morning but indicated he will contin­ue to serve until Feb. 1. "I will always be grateful for his call to service," Hidge said. 
Ridge said that for the future he intends to "raise some family and personal matters to a higher priority," including attending his son's rugby games. 
In an e-mail circulated to Homeland Security officials, Ridge praised the depart­ment as "an extraordinary organization that each day contributes to keeping America safe and free." He also said he was privileged to work with the department's 180,000 employees "who go to work every day dedicated to making our country better and more secure." 

Among those mentioned as possible candidates for Ridge's replacement are Bernard Kerik, interim Minister of the Interior for Iraq and former New York City police commissioner, for­mer Federal Emergency Management Agency Abraham. Bush has chosen first secretary in January ing up to the election from Director Joe Allbaugh and national security adviser 2003. those who said he was using Environmental Protection Condoleezza Rice for the He has presided over six terror warnings to boost sup­Agency Administrator Mike State Department, White national "orange alerts" port for Bush. Hidge repeat­Leavitt and White House House counsel Alberto when the government boost­edly said: "We don't do poli­homeland security adviser Gonzales for the Justice ed security out of concern tics in the Department of fran Townsend. Others are Department and Carlos that an attack may be com­Homeland Security." also believed to be interested Gutierrez for Commerce. ing. An attack in the United Ridge, 59, has privately in the job, including Asa In October 2001, Ridge States never happened on his expressed his interest in Hutchinson, undersecretary became the nation's first wateh. moving out of the time-con­for border and transporta­White House homeland secu­Ridge has said, however, suming, stressful post. tion security in the rity adviser, leading a mas­that he believes an assault by However, those who know Homeland Security sive undertaking to rethink the al-Qaida terrorist net­him said his loyalty to Bush Department. all aspect'! of security within work was averted last sum­was always a factor to con­
Six other Bush Cabinet fig­the U.S. borders in the wake mer during the Fourth of sider. ures are leaving, including of the terror attacks of July holiday period, when Ridge, who ha'i spent most Attorney General John September 2001. intelligencn reports indieated of his adult life in public serv­Ashcroft, Commerce Congress subsequently terrorist'! might bP targeting ice, came home from Secretary Donald Evans, passed legislation establish­international flight'> to attack Vietnam, earned a law Education Secretary Hod ing the llomeland Security the United States. Pa'isenger degree and went into private Paige, Agriculture Secretary Department, merging manifests were scrutinized practice in Pennsylvania. He 
Ann Veneman; Secretary of 180,000 employees from 22 and flights were canceled. later served as an assistant State Colin Powell and government agencies. Ridge Yet Ridge, a politician by district attorney and ran for Energy Secretary Spencer became the department's nature, fought criticism lead-Congress in 1982. 

CANADA 

Bush makes official visit to Canada 
Associated, Press 
OTTAWA -President Bush and are obviously disagreements on ques­Bush welcomed Iran's assertion that Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin tions of foreign policy." as well as dif­it was moving away from uranium sought on Tuesday to mend fences ferences on trade, including such enrichment that could be used in after four years of strained relations issues as softwood lumber and the assembling nuclear weapons, but between the two neighbors aggravat­U.S. ban on Canadian beef. expressed disappointment that Iran ed by the U.S.-led war on Iraq. "I While they disagreed on Iraq, the had only agreed to suspend their pro­made some decisions that some in two leaders voiced common ground gram, not terminate it as the United Canada obviously didn't agree with," on their hope for a peaceful resolu­States wants. He called it "a positive Bush said. tion to the political turmoil in Ukraine step, but it is certainly not the final 
"But I'm the kind of fellow who from last week's disputed national step." Iran said it would suspend pro­does what I think is right, and will election. They called mutually for dia­cessing, at least for several months. continue to do what I think is right," logue between the two sides there. The two leaders said they had Bush said in the Canadian capital, "Hopefully this issue will be solved failed to resolve the impasse over a with Martin by his side at a joint quickly and the will of the people will U.S. ban on imported Canadian beef news confert>ncc. be known," Bush said. because of mad cow diseaS(' that 
For his part, Martin said, "There On another international issue, infected sonw Canadian cattle. 
Wednesday, December 1, 2004

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Mass 
continued from page 1 
emotion at the senior's sim­

ple yet powerful words. 
"Thank you for your 

thoughts, prayers and phone 
calls over the past few days ­
they helped me get through the 
past couple of nights. I wonder 
if you'll ever know how much 
they mean to me and me fami­
ly," Poorman read. "I believe in 
God and God's goodness, and I 
believe my brother Teddy is in 
a better place than all of us 
here. I ask that you pray with 
me that he is [in the peace of 
God's presence until we can 
join him thereJ ... I appreciate 
all the expressions of support, 
and feel your great love. 
Thank you so much, Charlie." 
During the homily, Keough 

rector Father Peter Jarret 
reflected on the mystery of suf­
fering, and the God who allows 
pain to touch our lives. 
"[We have] a God who healed men but didn't take all pain and suffering away. Our God is ·a God who suffers with us," Jarret said. "God is right with us. God is suffering with Charlie and his dad and his 
family, and it is God who has taken Teddy into new life." 
Jarret spoke to the hope the season of Advent offers even in the midst of the community's grief, and emphasized the importance of family. 
"(The Ebersols' tragedy) reminds us how fragile life is, and that what matters most is the bonds we have with each other," Jarret said. 
University President-elect Father John Jenkins joined Poorman and Jarret at the altar, and Charlie Ebersol's friends offered up readings and intentions during the serv­ice. Afterwards, all in atten­dance were invited to sign a card of condolence to be sent to the Ebersols. 
Looking out amongst the sea of somber faces, Jarret stressed the importance of their gathering. 
"The fact that we have come together to pray is so impor­tant," Jarret said. "Our prayers for Charlie and his family are translated by God into grace and strength, and any prayer we say, God prays with us." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Impact 
continued from page 1 

increase across the board ... and having someone in a key position like the head football coach at Notre Dame surely helped," Saracino said. "lie surely made himself available in our efforts." 
Jill Bodensteiner, associ­ate vice president and coun­sel for the University, said Willingham's hire likely also made Notre Dame more attractive in the eyes of potential minority faculty members. 
"I cannot measure [a posi­tive effect on recruitment] objectively, but would spec­ulate that his arrival at Notre Dame certainly had nothing but a positive impact on the minority com­munity at Notre Dame and on prospective minority fac­ulty and administrators," she said. 
Despite the time con­straints his job imposed, the coach seemed to genuinely enjoy interacting with stu­dents and faculty, Sturin 
said. didn't say 'Coach,"' she 
"He certainly didn't hold said. himself aloof from the "Of course everybody just University as some coaches pounced on him and he did­do, and I think the Notre n't like being in the spot­Dame family appreciated light," she said. "But he was 
that," Sturin  very  gra­ 
said.  cious."  
Willingham spoke to  "To see someone of  The "intelli­gence, disci­ 
black stu­dents during welcoming events and  his stature, one of the biggest symbols of Notre Dame, to be  pline and integrity" Willingham brought to the  
end-of-year recognition ceremonies, Outlaw said.  somebody like you, there's no way to put it into words."  coaching posi­tion helped him leave his mark on Notre  
What  was  Dame, Sturin  
most telling, she said, was that  Mel Tardy First Year of Studies  said. But in Tardy's view,  
Willingham  that  poise  - 
seemed to be  and  sense  of  
just as inter- pride  -will be  

ested in the students as they difficult to replace. were in him. "It's disappointing to a lot 
"He saw them as individu­of people," Tardy said. "It's als," she said. "To me that going to be hard to restore was key." that hope." 
These interactions made it clear to Outlaw that the Meghanne Downes con­coach remained humble tributed to this report. despite the headlines. On a visit to her church, he intro­duced himself as just Contact Claire Heininger at 'Tyrone Willingham' -"he cheining@nd.edu 

'Jeopardy!' whiz meets his match 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -"Jeopardy!" whiz Ken Jennings finally met his match after a 74-game run as a pop culture icon who made brainiacs cool, beaten by a woman whose own 8­year-old daughter asked for his autograph when they first met. 
As someone who always has prepared his own tax returns, Jennings was tripped up in Final Jeopardy by this answer: Most of this firm's 70,000 seasonal white-collar employees work only four months a year. 
The correct reply: "What is H&H Block?" But Jennings guessed Federal Express, ending his remarkable run as the biggest winner in TV game show history with a haul of $2,520,700. 
Having an accountant­friend who's nearly impossi­ble to reach at tax time paid ofT big-time for his conqueror, California real estate agent Nancy Zerg, who ousted the baby-fa.eed killer competitor in thP episode airing Tuesday. 
During his streak that began June 2, Jennings usu­ally had opponents so thor­oughly beaten that thf~ Final J.-opardy question was mean­ingless to the outcome. But Zerg was within striking range at that point, with $10,000 to Jennings' $14.400. Her correct reply gave Zerg $14,001 to Jennings' $8,799. 
won:n hats 
.. \,gloves
~ largestselection 
onlyat :::::lllllltll: .I 
Sminutes 
a 
from OUTPOST 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 

CoU 259·1000 for more detolls 
rsity ofNotre Dame ecember 1st 
t to Life 


Wednesday, December 1, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,435.63 -40.27

}ones 
i~·
•• 0/1: Same: ~ Composife Volume: 1,220 180 • 303,059,360 

AMfX 1,407.85 -0.93 NASDAQ 2,101.03 0.00 NYSE 7,001.42 -30.81 S&PSOO 1,174.02 -4.55 NIKK£/(Tokyo) 10,899.25 -78.64 FTSf IOO(London) 4,703.90 -45.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  -1.05  -0.07  6.62  
MICROSOFf CP (MSFf)  +0.19  +0.05  26.82  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -0.82  -0.19  22.87  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.54  -+:0.03  5.54  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +0.48  +0.09  19.03  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.44  +0.22  49.97  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.35  +0. 15  43.45  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.43  -0.1 6  36.98  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.97  +0.21  21.78  

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.62 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -0.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.15 
Excha e Rates 

YEN EURO POUND CANADIAN$ 
49.76 455.80 I 0 1.70 
I 02.7800 0.7523 0.5231 1.1885 

IN BRIEF 
AIG accepted independent monitor 
WASHINGTON -Insurance giant American International Group Inc., which is paying $126 million to settle federal authorities' allegations of aiding accounting fraud by other companies, has accepted an independent monitor but will avoid criminal prosecution. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department announced Tuesday that they had reached formal settlements with AIG, which disclosed last week it had agreed to make the payments. The insurer agreed to pay $46 million in an accord with the SEC to settle alle­gations of civil securities fraud over three 2001 transactions it made with PNC Financial Services Group Inc. that allegedly helped the regional bank artificially inflate its earnings. The money will go to shareholders injured by the alleged fraud. 
AIG also agreed to pay $80 million in an accord with the Justice Department that allows it to avoid prosecution and resolve an investiga­tion into the PNC matter and one involving cell phone distributor Brightpoint Inc. 
One in three vehicles gets repaired 
WASHINGTON -Timothy Michaud died last May after falling from the tailgate of a Chevrolet pickup and suffering severe head injuries. 
The 19-year-old from Maine never knew that General Motors Corp. had recalled the pickup two months earlier because the tailgate cables could corrode and snap. At the time of the acci­dent. Michaud's employer -who owned the used 2000 pickup -hadn't received a recall notice, said StPphen Schwarz, an attorney for the Michaud family. 
The pickup was one of the millions of recalled vehicles that go unrepaired each year. Sometimes, vehicle owners arc at fault for not getting repairs. But some safety experts say· automakers and federal regulators shar•~ the blame because they haven't developed a better system to track whethf'r a vehicle has in fact been repaired. 
"California requires that wheneV<w you go in for registration, they check what emissions recalls have been done," said Clarence Ditlow of the Center for Auto Safety, an advocacy group. "If you can do it f<>r emissions rncalls, you can do it for saf(•ty recalls ... 
Tariffs on shrimp imports upheld 
The Bush adminstration set duties on shrimp arriving from China and Vietnam 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration on Tuesday upheld the imposi­tion of penalty tariffs on shrimp imports from China and Vietnam, handing a victory to beleaguered U.S. shrimp producers. 
The action affirmed with slight modifications a pre­liminary ruling by the Commerce Department's International Trade Administration last sum­mer. The penalty tariffs have been collected by bor­
. 
der agents since July. 

The department is sched­uled to make a final deci­sion on shrimp imports from four other countries _ Brazil, Ecuador, India and Thailand in late December. 
Together, the six coun­tries provide about 75 per­cent of the shrimp that Americans eat. U.S. food distributors contend that the penalty tariffs will drive up shrimp prices at restau­rants and grocery stores. 
In the decision Tuesday, the government set duties on Chinese exports of frozen and canned warm­water shrimp at levels ranging from 27.9 percent to 112.8 percent. Vietnamese shrimp exports will be hit with duties rang­ing from 4.1 percent to 
25.8 percent. 
The tariffs were imposed because a government investigation found the shrimp from those nations was being sold in the U.S. market at unfairly low prices, a practice known as dumping. 
The ruling came in a case brought by the Southern Shrimp Alliance, which has been dealing with rock-bot­tom prices for shrimp since 2001. It alleged that the 
U.S. industry was on the brink of destruction because of the flood of cheap foreign shrimp. 
"Dumping is cheating, and we thank the Department of Commerce for offsetting this illegal practice and leveling the playing field for U.S. shrimp fishermen, farmers, 

processors and all fairly trading countries," said Eddie Gordon, president of the Southern Shrimp Alliance. 
But the Shrimp Task Force, composed of the Consuming Industries Trade Action Coalition and the American Seafood Distributors Association, complained that the penal­ty tariffs will mean higher prices for consumers and will not help the domestic industry. 
"Thousands of family­owned restaurants and businesses will now be forced to pay these duties," said Wally Stevens, chair­man of the Shrimp Task Force and president of the seafood distributor Slade Gorton Co. "The U.S. busi­nesses that rely on access to imported shrimp ... together employ thousands of U.S. workers, 20 times those employed in the domestic shrimp industry." 
Foreign shrimp produc­ers have denied they are selling shrimp at artificially low prices as a way to win a larger share of the U.S. market. 
They contend the United States needs foreign imports because the domestic supply is not large enough to meet demand for shrimp, the country's No. 1 seafood. 
Officials from Brazil have said they are studying whether ·to bring a case against the United States before the World Trade Organization, contending that the penalty duties vio­late international trade rules. 
The eight states repre­sented in the Southern Shrimp Alliance are Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, . Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas. 
The cases against all six countries will go back to the U.S. International Trade Commission for a final ruling early next year on the issue of whether shrimp imports are harm­ing the domestic industry. 
If. as expected, the com­mission upholds its prelimi­nary finding of harm, the anti-dumping tariffs will become final and will remain in effect for five years before they are reviewed again under "sunset" provisions of the 
U.S. dumping law. 

Georiga gives corporate merger approval 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-After landing a $126.5 million pledge to improve rural health care in Georgia, the state gave its approval Tuesday to a corporate merger that will create the nation's largHst health insurance company. 
With Georgia's approval _ the last state to sign off on the deal _ California-based WcllPoint Health Networks, Inc. and Indiana-based Anthem, Inc. are cxpccted to soon close on their merger. 
Georgia Insurance Commissioner John Oxnndine said he seeur<'d the money, which will be spent on a rural health initiative in the state over 20 years, through merger negotiations with both companies. WeiiPoint owns BlueCross BlueShield of Georgia. 
Officials at Anthem did not immedi­ately return telephone calls seeking comment Tuesday. WellPoint oflicials referred inquiries to Anthem. 
To win the statf~·s approval, Anthem agreed to finance telcmedicine cen­ters at 36 rural Georgia hospitals, dinies and the state's four teaching hospitals and tli cover tnlemedicine proc<'dures in its insurance benefits, Oxendine said. Through telcmcdicine, a patient in a rural part of the state can be diagnosed by a specialist in a larger hospital via teleconferencing tPchnology. 
"What we're trying to do is equalize the quality of hPalth care available to 
• 1 • " (J d . . d "I) I
ci.Izens, xen me sal . ('Op c should not be n•quired to have l('sser health care available to them just because they happen to live in a rural 
" .
area. 

The insurer also agreed to help rural Georgia health centers expand, renovate and upgrade equipment by purchasing their bonds and other debt instruments over the next 20 years, Oxendine said. 
Anthem also promised that the merger would not lead to higher insu­urance premiums for Georgia BlueCross policyhold('rs, Oxfmdine said. 
Earlier this year, California's insur­ance regulator droppPd his objections to the planned merger after the com­panies agreed lo pay $600 million to h('lp cover the costs of trf'ating that state's uninsured n~sid('nts. 
p

page 8 Wednesday December 1, 2004 


THE OBSERVER 

World AIDS Day: silence no more 
P.O. Box Q, Nom Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nom: Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mart Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: .Angela Saoud 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(57 4) 631-4540 scene.l @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DesK 
smc.l @nd. edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(57 4) 631-8839 
THE · 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Ediror in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the amhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsm,er policies should be direcud to Editor in Chief Matt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
1k Ohservor (USP~ S<J<J 2-4000) h publiwd Mvn<by thrnugh Fri<by <tt<pt during nram and ~carion pt"riods. A suho.criprion to "fhc Ohw:rv.c:r is $100 for one academic year. $5'5-fnr one ~rnntr:r. ·nle Observt"r Poi a membc:r uf rhc A.swciated Pl~s:... All rqnnduct.ion ri~hto a~ racrva:l. 
lbe Obierwr is publidtcd ~t: 1~0. 8oxQ 024 South Dining Hall 024 Soud, Oining Hall Not~ Dame, IN 4()5';6-.0]79 No1re [hmo. IN 465~779 
Pt-riodial P""'"!!.< p:ud .u Notrr D•n>< .3nd addttiorul m.ailing offict'l>. 
I'OSTMASTER Send add~ rort'I:C(ion." tu: 1k Ob.erV<.'r 
The Ohstrv<:r is a member of chc As5«-i-Ated PrciS. AU r~roduaion righfs arc r~rved 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Sports  
Claire Heininger  Pat Leonard  
Nicole Zook  Mike Giloon  
Jen Rowling  Chris Khorey  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Lauren Galgano  Molly Grifin  
Graphics  Illustrator  
Desiree Zamora  Graham Ebetsch  


As the snow begins to fall and we adorn campus with colorful lights, many hearts and minds turn to the babe in the manger, a source of fresh hope in these frigid, dark days of December. We are inclined to beautify this birth narrative, but imag-Peter Quaranto ine if things were a bit different. A Call to Action 
Imagine a babe born in Bethlehem, lying in a manger, his arms swathed with scabies, his stomach bloated and his legs covered in his uncon­trollable diarrhea. Imagine an under­weight child, crying because he cannot eat, can barely breathe and feels pain throughout his entire body. Yes, imagine a baby Jesus \vith AIDS. It is not too difficult to imagine in our day, where more than 39 million people, including more than 2 million children, live with HIV/AIDS. 
Today the world commemorates World AIDS Day, a fitting day to reflect upon the inadequacy of our action in the face of the deadliest modern pandemic. Just in 2004, AIDS killed 3.1 million people, while 4.9 million people became infected with HIV. Worse yet, there are no signs ofthe pan­demic abating. Prevention eflorts have been meager and under-funded. All throughout the world, especially in sub­Saharan Africa and pockets ofAsia, IIIV/AIDS is growing, tearing apart fami­lies, communities, economies and whole nations. The enormity of suffering has driven many to defeatism, but there is much that can be done to effectively fight the pandemic and save lives. A successful fight against global AIDS requires only political will and effective policy -two things to which the United States, the world's major superpower, must commit. 
During the last decade, AIDS awareness and attention have increased significantly thanks much to the activism of conserva­tive political and n~ligious groups. Pictures of innocent women and childnm dying have sparked the consciences of millions. In this spirit of "compassionate conservatism," the Bush administration has given increasing priority to foreign aid for AIDS treatment. In 2003, the United States government passed the United States Leadership Against I IIVIAIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Act, which set a funding goal of $15 billion over the next five years. President Bush deserves praise for this initiative. 
Yet, just as intensely a.'i he pushed for the initiative, Bush has· sought to undercut it. In his 2004 budget, Bush asked for only $2 billion for global AIDS, $1 billion less than authorized. On a larger scale, United States foreign aid has decreased signifi­cantly over recent years. The United Nations asks that each of the Security Council members gives 0. 7 percent of their GDP in non-military foreign aid. The United States now gives about 0.1 pf'r­cent, and even that is · decrea.'iing. Finally, the United States refuses to cancel massive debts owed 
..The White House 
to it from many poor coordinator. Without the nations throughout the has put the profits political will, the good will world. These nations, most of AIDS activists rings hol­
ofpharmaceutical
of them in Africa, are so low.
companies before 
burdened by these debts As we commemorate that thny cannot put any of the lives ofmillions World AIDS Day today, we their resources towards must commit ourselves to 
suffering from 

combating poverty or global action. First, the 
AIDS."
I-IIV/AIDS. 

While much credit is due to social conservatives for their activism on this issue, the involvement of such groups in shaping AIDS policy has been problematic in developing AIDS-prevention strategies. The largest shift in United States AIDS policy ha..;; been a shift away from preven­tion towards service for those currently living with HIV/AIDS. The 2003 global AIDS law, diverging ma..;;sively from past United States policy, ensures that more than 55 percent of funds be spent on treatment activities, while only about 20 percent be spend on prevention activities. 
Further, conservatives, inspired by the "ABC" (Abstinence, Be Faithful and Use Condoms) program used in Uganda, have called for more emphasis on abstinence and less on condoms. Hecently, the I louse adopted an amendment, ensuring that at least one-third of prevention funds would go only to "abstinence-until-marriage" programs. These policy shifts may be ide­ologically pleasing, but they run against the existing scientific and medieal data that shows condom distribution and edu­cation to be the most effective way to combat the spread of HIV. 
Even in the area of treatment strategies, the current policymakers have fallen short. While some conservatives have fought valiantly to increase availability of anti-retroviral drugs, the same policy­makers have pushed trade policy that exacerbates the pandemic by hindering the ability of poor nations to purcha..;;e cheap generic AIDS medications. The White House has put the profits of phar­maceutical companies before the lives of millions suffering from AIDS. The clearest example of this was when, last year, the 
president nominated 
Randall Tobias, a former 
pharmaceutical company 
CEO, to be the global AIDS 
United States and all major 
powers must pledge to fund 
the newly-established 

Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Second, major powers, along with the wro, must work with pharmaceutical companies to loosen intellectual property rights in order to decrease drug prices and increase the availability of ARV medicine. Third, world leaders must utilize the available scientific data to employ the most effeetive preven­tion strategies, even if those strategies face ideological opposition. Finally, each of us must use our own power, whether that be through activism, letter writing to representatives, education campaigns or donations, to contribute to the fight against IIIV/AIDS. To be silent in these urgent times is to be complicit in the deaths of millions. Let us be silent no more. 
Peter Quaranta is a junior political sci­ence and international peace studies major. C-ontact Peter al pquarant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Let the Pride Week t-shirt go 
Though I am simply a former member of the Saint Mary's community; and some may perhaps write me ofl' in my opin­ion on this matter for that reason, I would just like to say that I find it ridiculous that there is such a negative reaction to the new Pride Week shirts on campus. One of the former shirts depicted the generic "girl" that is posted on bathroom doors nationwide. Does that girl represent me? Were they trying to say that I have to wear a skirt to be considered a woman? If I wanted to, I probably could have sought out an apology from Student Activities as well, since the shirt was so ofl'ensive in its lack of representing me as a person. But I did not do so. Why? Because I know in that common-sense part of my brain that the creators of the shirt were not trying to say that this symbol is how women really should look. It was thought to be a cute idea that would make a nice shirt at a women's college. And that is all they have done this year as well. 
That southern belle on the shirt, which is the actual mascot 
OBSERVER POLL 
Should Notre Dame have accepted the Insight Bowl bid? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
of Saint Mary's College, is not meant to be a pieture of every woman on campus. Is the photograph of a woman on the bill­board for Saint Mary's College along the Indiana toll road also offensive then? I happen to be Irish, and I do not believe the girl on the board shares my ethnicity. In the line of rea­soning put forth by the people leading this campaign against the shirt, I should have been highly oflended as a Saint Mary's student. However, I was not. Thk t.ype of argument taking place on Saint Mary's campus is lt)()king for a problem where there is no problem. The Pride Week shirt is simply depicting a pretty painting that looks nice on a shirt at a women's college. If anyone needs a cause to fight for, there's a war in Iraq you might have heard about. Let this one go. 
Elizabeth Quinn junior Badin Hall Nov. 30 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

..Leadership is a combination ofstrategy and character. Ifyou must be without one, be without the strategy. ·· 
Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf United States military 
THE 0BSERVEI{ 
p

Wednesday, December 1, 2004 


page 9 
The 'coming of the kingdom' in the media 
Christians constantly look to images of Jesus to order our lives, actions and beliefs. In our time, people have a con­siderable amount of sources in a variety of mediums from whieh to contemplate our spiritual founder. From Kamaria Porter paintings, films, songs, literature Breaking the and politieal rheto­Habit ric, Jesus, appar­ently, is everywhere. In our Notre Dame community, we find ourselves even more immersed in the different images of Christ around campus. 
Across the country and on campus, debate and discussion over Mel Gibson's "Passion of the Christ" brought us back to the pivotal moment in our faith lives and in religious history. After viewing the movie, something beyond the horrific violence left me uneasy about the por­trayal of Jesus. While Gibson reaches for authenticity in showing the manner .of Homan torture, the film offers little con­cerning why Jesus was executed. 
The prominent Jesus scholar Marcus Borg faults the film for completely sepa­rating Jesus' death on the cross from what Jesus was passionate about in life. This follows a close and politicallyori­ented reading of both the Hebrew 
Scriptures and Gospels. The God of the 
Hebrew Scriptures is highly concerned 
with issues of justice, primarily economic 
justice. For example, the pivotal event of 
the Torah, the Book of Exodus, if:' lis of 
the Israelites deliverance from slavery in 
Egypt-an economic, political and 
racial oppression. In this and countless 
other stories, we can conclude the God of 
our faith is extremely concerned with 
economic injustice of God's creation. 
In the Christian Scriptures, we find the 
same concern in Jesus. In the Gospels, 
Jesus preaches hope and help to the 
poor, calls people to give up their posses­
sions and establishes an unlikely and 
unpopular c-ommunity of outcasts as 
close friends and followers. Jesus as 
solely teacher, healer and miracle work­
er is hardly worthy of the brutal execu­
tion of the state. Even. as the Passion 
film proffers, Jesus being brought to trial as a blasphemer seems a bit unlikely to ·warrant the attention of Roman authori­
ties. In a serious reading of the Gospel 
story, what Gibson and many miss 
becomes clear. 
Jesus spoke often of the "Kingdom of 
God" and its eminent coming. This refers 
not to heaven. but of what the Earth 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Saying goodbye to Ty 
A wll1ning attitude 
The firing of Tyrone Willingham, unless there was something behind it that we don't know about, was simply ridiculus. Let us remember the sorry situation of this football program when Ty took over. It was in com­plete chaos. lie molded this team, in his very first year, to play with a new and winning attitude. He was also in the process of mold­ing this team's philosophy as well as its heart-and in order to do this he had to reruit his kind of player, have time to mold this player and get that player needed expe­rience. 
Tyrone Willingham was fired just as this molding process, which was mainly taking place on the offensive side of the ball, was coming to fruition. Next year his quarter­back would have been an experiencedjun­ior throwing to very experienced wide­recievers and tight-ends. The offensive line showed dramtic improvement over last year and would have been even better next year. He finally has a west-coast type tail-back and played now has a full-year under his belt. The truth is that the offense was a 
machine the last part of this season -an<:! 
was set to dominate next year. 
Of course, this team's problem all year was the terrible recuiting of Bob Davie sev­eral years ago in the secondary. Despite hav­ing one of the best front sevens in the nation, this team was burnt, in all its losses, by teams that took advantage oftqat lone, yet glaring, weakness. Should Ty have been fired for the results of this weakness ­something for which he was not responsi­ble? Of course not. 
Next year would have been the telling year. Not this one. Next year Ty would have had no excuses. And with an offense ready to dominate, a front seven largely intact and a secondary that had nowhere to go but up -I don't think he would have needed any. Now, of course, we will never know. 
Charlie C....amosy graduate student Nov. 30 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

would look like if God were on Caesar's throne. Through Jesus' parables, that world was a stark contrast to the Homan Empire -one in which all would have what they need<~d. Jesus was a political treat to the aristocracy and power struc­ture of his time. I lis passion for God's desire for economic and social justice on Earth made I lim a threat and caused His death. Further, the early church was a contagion to Homan Empire since its leaders, Paul, Peter and James, were also executed. 
So, Gibson misses the mark in captur­ing the zeal of Jesus, yet Hollywood on the whole does poor job in this regard. Popular films dealing with faith and spir­ituality, like "Saved <• or "Dogma," enter­tainingly critique empty and hypocritical Christian ideologies, yet offer to replace them with an empty and unchallenging spirituality. In these depictions, Jesus is not the advocate for the poor and disen­franchised we find in the Bible, but a tamer person merely concerned with moral squabbles and relationship ticks. These three films differ in theme, mak­ing us laugh or cry in anguish or in hor­ror, but in their effect on American view­er spirituality, they are similar. All divorce Jesus from what He was passion­ate about: a new social order ofjustice. 
In the current Ameriean Christian con­text, such depictions hardly surprise me. Christian voices in the forefront mainly represent morally conservative views and largely neglect the economic impli­cations of following Christ. Additionally, Christians-particularly Catholics ­find themselves in the higher social classes and in positions· of power and influence over many. The culture wars and financial interests have re-shaped the image of Jesus to serve their own self-interest. This warm and fuzzy Jesus of personal salvation lacks the commu­nal justice aspect found in the Gospels and early Church. 
People of faith must re-connect with the Jesus of Gospels and continue the social movement he began two millennia ago. God's passion for economic and social justice calls us to action. We must be pro-active in ending poverty, econom­ic exploitation and injustice. 
Kamira Porter is ajunior history major. She can be contacted at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Apologizing to offended community 

On Friday, Nov. 19, we, the members of the Student Activities Board, issued a campus-wide apology for any SAB programs, events and/or pub­lished materials this past semester that a member of our student com­munity may have found offensive in any way. 
The apology was written in order to address concerns that were brought to our attention during the SAB Feedback Session the previous evening. While there were specific examples of programs, events and/or published materials that were directly addressed during the Feedback Session by those in attendance, we recognize that there might have been other programs, events and/or published materials that students who were not at the Feedback Session might have taken exception to. We also recognize that while some students might have taken issue with these programs, events and/or published materials, there are students on this campus who were not offended and who respectfully disagree with those who were. 
As such, the decision was made to issue a non-specific apology, as we did not wish do disenfranchise our student community. 
We recognize that the Pride Week shirt was a catalyst that has since brought forward larger issues on our campus. It has also created an opportunity where respectful dialogue of divergent views, thoughts and opinions held on campus can be voiced and shared. 
We feel that awareness and understanding of these opposing views regarding these issues are vital in order to advance the educational enrichment of our student body. 
As student leaders, we know that students can best take advantage of this opportunity by participating in the Identify Forums, sponsored by the Board of Governance, where we as a community can share our opin­ions, express our concerns and engage in respectful dialogue. 
In conclusion, SAB would like to assure our student body that we are constantly reviewing our programming methods in an effort to bring the highest. quality programs onto campus. We are also taking steps to better identify programs, events and/or published materials that might be seen as offensive or insensitive to anyone on campus in an attempt not to fur­ther offend. We again encourage students to attend the weekly SAB meetings which are open to the entire student body and to share your thoughts as we continue to provide the best programs possible . 
. 

Saint Mary's College Student Activities Board Nov. 30 
... 
THE OBSERVER 
E

page 10 


Wednesday, December 1, 2004 
RESTAURANT REVIEW 

What's cooler than being cool? Cold Stone Ice Cream 
"Those photos are racist, clas­
By MEGAN McFADDEN and 

sist, sexist, and those skinny so­
JESSICA STOLLER 

and-so's couldn't possibly eat 
Scene Writers 

all that creamy goodness and 
still remain a size two", Cold 
After watching hot man after Stone customer Erica Valdez hot man smashed against the said as she feasted on her Plexiglas at the Notre Dame peanut butter flavored extrava­hockey game, we needed some­ganza. For all these reasons, thing to cool ourselves down. the atmosphere at Cold Stone following a brief incident we'd only receives 2.75 sporks. like to call dodging traffic in The most yummilicious part of the Joyce Center parking lot to Cold Stone is, in fact, the ice find the Red Rocket (Jessica's cream. Jessica ordered the car). we emerged unscathed "Cookie Doughn't. You Want and ready for a moolicious Some" with French vanilla ice dairy treat. Cold Stone cream, caramel, fudge and Creamery_or as Jessica's Dad cookie dough pieces. She pro­likes to call it "STONE COLD" claimed it was an out of body Creamery-is located just off of experience. Megan ordered the Grape Hoad near Movies 14. It "Birthday Cake Remix". could be called the Taj Mahal of The ice cream comes in very ice cream parlors. generous sizes entitled "like it," 
Instead of generic flavors "love it" and "gotta have it". stuffed into cardboard tubs, "Like it" is more than enough Cold Stone, as the name for the average bear, but if implies, plops your ice cream you're having a rough day or onto a cold marble stone, and have an appetite like Megan's wrll mix in a myriad of delec­you might be able to eat a "love table toppings. If you're really it." The " gotta have it" is brave you can choose your own reserved for sumo wrestlers, a toppings, but if you want to family of four, or that guy that 
play it safe you can choose. one ate 100 hot dogs in under an of their pre-designed palate hour. The ice cream is so super pleasers. splendiferous that we give it Unfortunately, because of Cold five sporks, our highest rating. Stone's popularity, the service Even though the average of was slow and our ratingimpersonal categories is making it wor­3.416666 ... , 
thy of merely Cold Stone by including 
2.5 sparks. the imaginary These ice number i for
Ice Creatn
cream-artists ice cream, should learn a Cold Stone lesson from most definite­good ole Henry ly deserves a Ford and total of four develop a sporks, a morn efficient toothpick and
\\\\
assembly line. some pocketWord on the lint. So, if you street was that are dependent Cold Stone employees would o n -d a i r y to m a k e yo u r d a y a sing at the drop of a coin in the delight, skedaddle on down to tip jar, but this legend is false. Cold Stone Creamery and tell We generously gave them fifty them Jessica and Megan sent cents, only to receive bitter dis­you. WB're sure they'll be like appoint and heartache but not "WTF?" to which you can reply
heartburn. "exactly." 

The atmosphere of Cold Stone provides a family-oriented, but commercially influenced, envi­Contact Megan McFadden and Jessica. ronment. Enormous photos of Stoller at ice cream temptresses did not mmcfadO 1 @saintmarys.edu and setth~ well on our stomachs. jstoliO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

,. 

t! 1J,. ·' 

Zambonie brings Midwestern power pop to Notre Dame 
has played at a number of festivals. 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Erik Widman enrolled at Notre Dame Assistant Scene Editor 
this fall as a grad student, and the 
band came with him to the South 
Zambonie was founded in Bend area. Michigan, but with one of the band The band's sound is described by members in graduate school at Notre Erik Widman as "power pop, kind of Dame, the campus has become its like rock and roll and alternative, new adopted home. The band will but it's hard to compare it to stuff perform a" conc·ert Thursday at out there." While the band's use of Legends at 10 p.m. keyboards could bring back memo­
The current line-up of Zambonie ries of the 1980s, it is different from 
includes Erik Widman on guitar and the power ballads of yesteryear. vocals, Kent Widman on bass, Chris "It's guitar driven and it uses syn­Sjoquist on keyboards and John Wert thesizer, but it's not 80's rock," Erik on drums. The band has a web site Widman said. "It's fun stuff." 
where fans can go to download The name "Zambonie" is in itself 
music, find out concert dates, read unusual, since a zamboni (with no band member biographies and find 'e') is the machine that smoothes the the latest news about the band. ice at a skating rink, but the mis­
Brothers Kent and Erik Widman spelling has a story behind it. moved to the United States from "When I first got started I recorded Sweden in 2000, and while enrolled by myself and one of my songs was at Western Michigan University in going to be on a compilation called 
Kalamazoo, they started the band 'Michigan Mania 2000' ," Erik with drummer John Haldane. Widman ·said, "I didn't have a band Zambonie released its first full name and 'zamboni' was one of the length CD in 2002, and the band names I had been thinking of, but it 
played performed shows throughout was just by pure stupidity that I 
Michigan and Indiana. In 2004, spelled it wrong. I was born in Haldane decided to leave the band, Sweden, so I have an excuse." and percussion major John Wert Thursday's concert at Legends will 
filled in for him on drums. With one be Notre Dame's first exposure to change already in the band's lineup, Zambonie, and Erik Widman has the group decided to add a synthe­high hopes.
sizer to the standard mix of bass, "I hope that it wiJI change their life guitar and drums. That decision led and. that they'll never be the same to Chris Sjoquist becoming a member after the show," he said. of Zambonie. 
Zambonie has opened for such Contact Molly Griffin at bands as OK GO, out of Chicago and mgriffin@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of Erik Widman 

Zambonie adds a synthesizer to the typical band formula of guitar, bass and drums in order to create its own unique brand of "power pop." The band was founded at Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo, and it will play its first show on the Notre Dame campus at Legends Thursday night at 10 p.m. 
THE OBSERVER 
E

Wednesday, December 1, 2004 


page 11 
Sparta rocks out at Chicago's Metro theatre 
El Paso, Texas band's recent performance gave Windy City audiences an opportunity to experience its unique sound and interesting new album 
By CHUY BENITEZ Scene Writer 
Sparta's Jim Ward has always talked highly of playing to great crowds in Chicago, so the Nov. 23 show at the Metro came as no surprise to Sparta fans and Chicago music-hipsters alike. The show marked Sparta's third trip to the music­hungry city of Chicago, and it almost seemed like a long awaited reunion for 
· Sparta and it's Chicago listeners. For the past month Sparta has been on its latest tour promoting its sophomore album, Porcelain, which was released July 2004. For Sparta, both the album and the tour symbolize a progression and a sense of stability in their careers and personal lives. Although the tour includes two other up-and-coming bands, Further Seems Forever and Copeland, which also have excellent musical creativity, Sparta is the clear headliner and driving force of the tour. In the past it was Sparta who would either co-headline tours and festi­vals like Coachella with great bands like the Pixies, or open for largely established bands like Incubus and Pearl Jam. With their new stability as Texas rock frontrun­ners, the spotlight on Sparta is something they've been wanting and working for since they started the band. Sparta's formation came from the untimely divorce of at the drive-in, which was F.l Paso, Texas· pride-and-joy rock band of the 1990's. The breakup of at the drive-in split the band down the middle, with guitarist and vocalist Jim Ward, gui­tarist/bassist Paul Hinojos and drummer Tony Hajjar moving on to Sparta and singer Cedric Bixler Zavala and Omar Hodriguez moving on to their band, the Mars Volta. The breakup left at the drive­in fans wanting to hate no one and sup­port both efforts. Ward, Hinojos and Hajjar also asked El Paso bassist Matt Miller to join Sparta and create a com­plete sound by being able to have two gui­tarists. Both bands have been critically acclaimed since they have gone their sep­
arate paths, and El Pasoans have been glad to realize that they now have two great hometown bands to support instead of just one. 
With Sparta's newest album, Porcelain, Ward took a big step in writing the vocals for the album, but the payoff has been wholly positive for Ward and the rest of the band. The other band members agree that Ward's lyrics for the album exemplify the maturity level that both Ward and Sparta as a whole have reached· in the past few years. The concept for Porcelain came largely from the revisiting of their hometown of El Paso, Texas and from Ward's new position in life as a married man. Several of their songs reference both El Paso ("Guns of Memorial Park," "La Cerca") and Ward's growing relationship with his new wife ("Hiss the Villain," "Breaking the Broken," "Lines in the Sand"). All of the lyrics to these songs are 

written  openly and cleanly enough  for  
them  to  be  seen  as  personal expressions  
of Ward  and  as  having relevant content  

fans can relate with. 
Sparta's musical sound has also taken a walk back to their musical past in El Paso, which was largely refined and represented by· the now classic cmo sound of at the drive-in. Sparta's opening song, "Guns of Memorial Park," starts with a techno-stat­ic-guitar intro much like they did in their ATDI days. Many of their songs also rock on at a constant feverish but changing pace that never lets the listener feel set­tled. Jt is a pace and structure that can largely be heard and found in the local El Paso music scene. 

The final thought on t.he Porcelain album as a whole is that it resonates on the fundamentals of holding onto your roots and your relationships because in thP end they will be the things you can always count on, and Sparta must be applauded for pulling off such a solid sophomore album that exemplifies the fundamentals that rock-listeners every­where should think about. 
Contact Chuy Benitez at jbenitez@nd.edu 





Wednesday, December 1, 2004

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Duke darts past Michigan State in matchup of top teams 
a win." Davis said. "We weren't had 19 points, knocking downGeorgia Tech destroys worried about last year. three shots from outside the Everybody played their hearts arc. Jarrett Jack had 16 points
Michigan in Atlanta 
out." and was even more efficient Hedick played the entire 40 setting up his teammates, nn­Associated Press minutes, and the wear and tear ishing with 11 assists. of his effort clearly played a "All this year, we've been 
DUHIIAM, N.C. -J.J. Hedick role in the second half. I lis final waiting to come out and make a and Daniel Ewing seemed to be basket came with 12 1/2 min­statement," Elder said. playing their own version of H-utes left, a 3-pointer that gave "Tonight, we eame out and 0-H-S-E, matching each other Duke a 58-49 lead. established ourselves." shot for shot, point for point. Later, he barely hit the rim Before the game, the school 
Duke needed almost every with a couple of shots. put up a banner at Alexander one ofthem; ''I'm r('ady to go play another Mt~morial Coliseum honoring 
The backcourt duo both 40 minutes right now," Hedick last season's Final Four team. scored 29 points and made five quipped. "Seriously, I'll proba­The Yellow Jackets lost to 3-pointers, helping the 1Oth­bly wake up and need to ice Connecticut in the national ranked Blue Devils hold ofT No. down my entire body, but I felt championship game at San 11 Mi<~higan State 81-74 on fine out there. I wasn't tired." Antonio. Tuesday night in the ACC-Big Ewing was th~~re to bail him Jack said he's not concerned Ten Challenge. out. In a 3-minute span late in with what Georgia Tech did last 
Hediek had 21 points in the the second half, he made a 3, season. first half, and Ewing took up the drove down the lane for a pull­"\Ve're trying to focus on the slack after the break, scoring up jumper and added a layup future, not the past," he said. 
15. Duke (4-0) improved to 6-0 after a nifty screen from Shavlik Still, "going so deep in the tour­in the made-for-TV ehalienge Handolph. nament last year, that gaye us a and beat the Spartans (3-1) for "There were a lot of good cohesiveness you can't coach." the second straight season. players out on that court, but he Kentucky 92, Tenn. Tech 63 
"I was definitely in the zone in was the most mature player out LEXINGTON, Ky. -Kelenna the first half," Hedick said. "I there," Duke coach Mike Azubuike found the way out of was really in the flow of the Krzyze.wski said of Ewing. "He a season--long shooting slump­offense. It felt good, that was had the look of a champion out keep shooting. the first time it's been that way on the court. .J.J. was great, Azubuike scored 21 points ­this year." · don't get me wrong, but Daniel just two off his career high ­
Ewing's last 3 came in the was handling it and he was and No. 8 Kentucky routed final minute, when he swished absolutely great." Tennessee Tech. one with the shot clock winding The effort was enough to keep Chuck Hayes overcame foul Conference, Azubuike went 7-Willie Jenkins, the OVC new­down to give Duke a 78-73 lead. the inspired Spartans at bay. trouble to add 1 7 points and 11 of-12 from the field and made comer of the year last season, That margin proved to be Davis sandwiched two baskets rebounds for Kentucky (4-0) in half of his six 3-point attempts. led Tennessee Tech with 18 enough when Michigan State's in close around an alley-oop its last basketball game before He just missed his career high, points and six rebounds. The Paul Davis missed twQ free dunk by Shannon Brown, and playing at No. 9 North Carolina set last season in a loss to Golden Eagles shot 52.4 percent throws with 15 seconds left, Mi_chigan State was with 71-69. on Saturday. Georgia. in the first half but made just 10 part of a 3-for-8 run from the Another layup by Davis later Azubuike's emergence came "Kelenna struggled a bit, but of 31 shots after halftime, fin­line down the stretch for the cut the margin to one, but Sean at an opportune time for the he didn't tonight," said ishing at 40.4 percent. Spartans. Dockery made an off-balance Wildcats, who will play the Tar Tennessee Tech coach Mike "Defensively, we're getting 
"We know we're a good jumper -his only basket of the Heels, Indiana and Louisville on Sutton, a former Kentucky there," Hayes said. "We're mak­team," Ewing said. "We just did game-to make it 75-72, and successive Saturdays in assistant. "He got some easy ing progress." what we had to do." Duke held on. December. scoring opportunities." About the only thing that kept 
This one was much closer "I have no qualms about the Azubuike averaged 11.1 Kentucky Jed 44-38 early in Hayes from having a better out­than a year ago, when the Blue way we played," Michigan State points per game last season and the second half when Azubuike ing was foul trouble. The senior Devils ran away to a 72-50 vic­coach Tom Izzo said. "We just was expected to fill a larger role started a 19-3 run with a three­forward went 3-of-3 from the tory. And it had all the intensity couldn't get one big shot to fall in Kentucky's offense this sea­point play. He had two of the field, scored 10 points and of an NCAA tournament game. or make one defensive stand or son. But the junior swingman Wildcats' four 3-pointcrs during grabbed six rebounds in the 
Ewing and Michigan State's make a couple of free throws, entered Tuesday's game averag­the run, which ended with first 7 1/2 minutes, but spent Alan Anderson were called for and that was the difference." ing 9.3 points and shooting 39.4 Kentucky ahead 63-41 with long stretches on the bench technical fouls after trading Georgia Tech 99, Michigan 68 percent for the season. He 12:46 left. after picking up his second and elbows during a loose ball ATLANTA -Georgia Tech made one 3-point attempt in 11 "We played the game the right third fouls. serum in the first half. That waited until its. third home tries. way in the second half," Smith "We needed to get him off the came minutes after an inten­game to unveil a banner com­For a player who scored said. "It came at the right time." glass and off the line, and we tional foul was called on memorating last season's trip to 3,530 points during his high Tennessee Tech came no clos­didn't do either," Sutton said of Maurice Ager when he tried to the Final Four. school career in Oklahoma, er than 19 points after that. Hayes. "He's what's great about stop Redick from an easy bas­Good timing. Azubuike's slump was some­Kentucky extended its lead to as college basketball." ket. The fourth-ranked Yellow what of a mystery to some, but many as 34 points. Hayes, who made all five of 
The Cameron Crazies let Ager Jackets finally played like a not to Kentucky coach Tubby Kentucky raised its average his shots and posted his third hear about it, too, chanting team that could win it all, blow­Smith. winning margin this season to double-double of the season, "Hon Artest, Hon Artest." ing out Michigan in the ACC-Big "We've talked about taking it 24.5 points. But the best that wasn't the only player in foul 
"I don't know if it was like Ten Challenge. to the rim," Smith said of can be said of the Wildcats' trouble. The teams combined March, but it was tough out Georgia Tech (4-0) took con­Azubuike. "With his athleticism, opponents thus far -Coppin for 49 fouls and took 56 free there," Redick said. "It definite­trol early with a 20-0 run, led there's no reason he shouldn't State, Ball State and Georgia throws. ly didn't feel like the fourth by 27 points at halftime and take it to the rim. State were the others -is that The Wildcats never trailed, game of the season." was able to finish the game "He looked very relaxed. He they are little-known. but also never led by more than 
Davis led the Spartans with with a couple of walk-ons on played with focus. Twenty-two The same can't be said for 10 points in the half. Jenkins 17 points and 10 rebounds, and the court. minutes and 21 points -that's North Carolina. kept the Golden Eagles close Anderson added 15 points. B.J. Elder scored 27 points, impressive." "That's why you come to with 13 points. 
"We just wanted to try to the bulk of them coming on Against the Golden Eagles (1-Kentucky, to play teams like Patrick Sparks scored 11 come down here and try to get seven 3-pointers. Will Bynum 3) of the Ohio Valley North Carolina," Hayes said. points for Kentucky. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifi~ds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYST~MS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS. 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE 
WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMEI={ (574)234­2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from ND MMMRentals.com 532-1408 

6·7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. AVAIL NOW. CALL JOE GRIM­MINS:574-229-3659 OR 679-2010. 
NEW 3-4 BEDROOM, 3 BATH. SAFE, CLOSE TO CAMPUS,2-CAR GARAGE. FIREPLACE,FAMILY ROOM,LARGE DECK. $1,660/MO. CALL 1-574-232-4527, OR 1-269-683·5038 2 bdrm, 1 bth house for rent. 425 Napoleon. Walk to campus $575 p/mo. 273-4682. 
MISHAWAKA 2·3 bedroom, 2.5 bath, 1,200 sq.ft +lull basement+· 2-car garage, $875/mo. 574-273­9000. 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year ­Available June 1, 2005. 
2 Bedrooms -2 Baths, 
Washer/Dryer, 
Security System. 
Fully Furnished. (626)441-1275 or Salvaty@ earth link. net 
WANTED 

Interested in a lucrative career in Pharmaceutical Sales? www. beapharmarep.com 
PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi Tours! Over 18 years of Spring Break experience! 
The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cameron & Cabo. Organize a group-GO FREE! 800­875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com 
Spring break 2005 Challenge ...find a better price! lowest price spe­cials! Free Meals! November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 1800-426-771 0 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1­800-678·6386 
Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts.lnfo/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Eat what you want EVERY DAY! Stop eating stir-fry or salad every day, come live at lafayette Square and have Twinkies for lunch! 234­9923. 
FREELANCE ONLINE TUTORS Instruct 3-12 grd stdnts; 
Internet connex reqd; tutor/teach exp. prefrd jobs@brainfuse.com 
Happy Birthday Doyle ... you have the same b-day as Billy Idol! 
stay awake clap clap be ready 
Audrey B is a hattie 
I love my Rileyites!!!! -The Wookie 

--~-------­
Wednesday, December 1, 2004 page 13
The Observer + SPORTS 

-, 
l 
4 
4 
l 4 
MLB 
Martinez weighs numerous offers 

I . 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra Alexander Blachly, Director 
George Frideric Handel's 
Messiah 
Yankees, Mets among suitors aiming to take pitcherfrom Boston 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-While Mets 

fans discussed whether their 
team has a chance to land 
Pedro Martinez, former New 
York closer Armando Benitez 
found a new club, agreeing 
Tuesday to a $21.5 million, 
three-year contract with the 
San Francisco Giants. 
Cincinnati, meanwhile, retained a key part of its rota­tion, agreeing to re-sign ex-Met Paul Wilson for $8.2 million over two years. 
Martinez isn't close to making a decision on where to sign, a person close to the free-agent ace said on condition of anonymity, and is likely to wait until the New York Yankees determine their level of inter­est. That could hinge on whether they acquire Randy Johnson from Arizona in a trade that could send Javier Vazquez to the Diamondbacks. 
The Mets, trying to make a splash in the free-agent market, offered a $37.5 million, three­year contract last weekend, an agent with knowledge of the proposal said, also on condition of anonymity. The offer contains an option for a fourth season that could make the deal worth $50 million over four years, the agent said. 
Boston has offered a two-year deal to retain Martinez and must decide by Dec. 7 whether to offer salary arbitration, which would extend the win­dow for the World Series cham­pion Red Sox to re-sign him until Jan. 8. 
Martinez's agent, Fernando Cuza, would not comment on the Mets' proposal, which was first reported Tuesday in sever­al New York and Boston news­papers. New Mets general man­
ager Omar Minaya didn't return 
a telephone message. 
Yankees owner George 
Steinbrenner met with Martinez 
in Tampa, Fla., on Noy. 18, and 
Martinez also met in Florida 
with New York third· baseman 
Alex Rodriguez. 
But the Yankees' primary 
interest in recent days appears 
to be Johnson, the 41-year-old 
left-hander who would prefer to 
leave the rebuilding 
Diamondbacks and play for a 
contender. The Yankees and 
Diamondbacks have been dis­
cussing a trade involving the 
five-time Cy Young Award win­
ner for several weeks, but talks 
haven't gained any momentum, 
several baseball officials said. 
Steinbrenner met in Tampa 
with top aides Mark Newman 
and Billy Connors on Tuesday. 
Benitez bounced back from a subpar 2003 season to save an NL-leading 4 7 games in 51 chances for Florida last season and lead major league relievers with a 1.29 EHA. 
"He's the prototype," general manager Brian Sabean said. "He has been and will be a dominant force at the end of the game.... He's a guy we had our eye on." 
Since Robb Nen was sidelined with a serious shoulder injury following the 2002 World Series, the Giants have pieced together their bullpen. Tim Worrell closed in 2003 before leaving for Philad~Iphia as a free agent and San Francisco struggled at the end of games last season. 
Matt Herges started the year as closer before being replaced by Dustin Hermanson in August. Hermanson saved 17 games but couldn't hold a three-run lead on the final Saturday of the season against Los Angeles, helping cost San Francisco a playoff berth. 
''I'm excited he's on our side," manager Felipe Alou said. "We had to make a change in the middle of the season and it was not easy." 

···············universlty.Reso·ur-·ces·········~ 

8:00 
for Gay, Lesbian, & • 
Thursday, December 2, 2004 
Bisexual Students 
Friday, December 3, 2004 
• 

CC!M>41 Tt E:C ON QAY AIIIO LUauU•I S,..II~NT N!!.I!:DS 
Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
'fhe Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
General admission $6; faculty/ staff $5; seniors $4; students $3 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
phone 574-631-2800 for tickets 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5 550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat f6r gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Tami Schmitz: 1 -31 06: schmitz.8@nd.cdu 
• 

University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
.
.
. 

For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scelsnl 
......................................................•.•.••.....•••... 

• 
;­
. 
' 
I I 
~ 
;-~ 
page 14 Wednesday, December 1, 2004
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Temperatures may be cooling, but The Career 





Upcoming Career Fairs Career and Internship Connection 
New York-January 5'h D.C. -January 6'h 
Chicago -January 7'h Boston -January 1(Jh http://www.rochester.edu/careercenter/students/cic/index.html Open to Seniors, Juniors, Sophomores and First Year students! The Career and Internship Connection blends the best of a 
career fair and a pre-screened interview event. Identify and interact with recruiters from fields including: advertising, 
biotech, engineering, healthcare, investment and commercial banking, consulting, law, public relations, publishing and more! 
I 
I 
Interview for post-baccalaureate and internship opportunities!
\ 
~ 
\ 
Winter Career & Internship Fair and Diversity Reception 
Notre Dame -January 26'h 

Diversity Reception 12:00 Noon· 2:30p.m. Joyce Center Monogram Room All employers and students are invited to the Diversity Reception, an event dedicated to networking for employers, students, faculty, and staff who recognize the importance of a diverse workplace. 
Career Fair 4:00 ·8:00p.m. Joyce Center Field House Notre Dame students from all majors can meet, talk and interview with employers who are recruiting interns and full-time hires across a broad array of positions and industries--advertising, biotechnology, public relations, social services, information technology, marketing, research, public policy, publishing, law, government, journalism, media, financial services, engineering and consulting. 
Non-Profit Career Fair: Seeking Careers wth Social Impact 
Notre Dame, LaFortune Ballroom-March 22nd, 4:00-7:00 p.m. 
The Nonprofit Career Fair brings 45-70 nonprofit organizations to campus to promote full-time and internships oppOrtunities with social impact to ND students. All nonprofit organizations and all students interested in an opportunity to make a positive difference among communities and individuals are invited! 
Hire Big Ten Plus Fair 

Virtual Fair-February 2tr-March 4th Live Event -University ofChicago, April 8h Two career fairs-one online and one live fair in Chicago featuring a diverse array of employers who are seeking candidates graduating in May of 2005, and undergraduate students pursuing internships for the summer. These companies and organizations will be recruiting through the Hire Big Ten Plus consortia. For more information, contact The Career Center. 
Big East Job Fair 
Virtual Fair-March/Apri/2005 
p 

A career fair focused on East Coast employers who are seeking candidates graduating in May of 2005 and other students pursuing internships for the summer. Mark your calendars now and check back with The Career Center in early March for detailed information. 
Visit https:/ /careercenter.nd.edulundergrad.php for information on these and other career fairs, including: 
Chicago Bulls Job Fair; (i)Connect internship & Career Expo; !OBSapalooza Job and Internship Fair; Careers 2005­
New York, Atlanta, and Chicago; Indiana Journalism Job Fair; Indiana Careers Fair· Indiana University; and more... 
Job Club Notre Dame Job Club 
Information Session Feb. ]51 5:00-6:00pm 
Why search for a job by yourself when you could have thirty people helping you? Join other Notre Dame students and combine strategies, best practices, resources, and contacts in a powerful forum as, you learn techniques that will jump start your job or internship search. Attend the information session on February 1st to discover the details of the club. 


Wednesday, December 1, 2004 page 15
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Center is heating up for second semester!!! 







Career Exploration 

Don't know what you want to do when after graduation or where to start? Why not come schedule a meeting with a career counselor (1-5200) or check out one or the following offerings. 
. '
' 
Career Development Seminar 

Mondays from 4:00-5:30 pm, January 17-February 28. Enroll in AL 495V, 1 credit. 
This introductory and experiential seminar is designed to meet the career development needs of first-year, sophomore, and juniorstudents interested in self-assessment, career exploration, career decision-making, and conducting an effective internship search. ­Topics include: 
?  Self-assessment inventories  ?  Internship search  ? Resume & cover letter writing  
?  Career trends  ?  Alumni networking  ?  Informational interviewing  
?  Developing an action plan  ?  Interviewing skills  ?  Career.research  

Professional Development Seminar 
Tuesday & Thursdays from 3:304:45 pm, January 11-March 3. Enroll in AL 495Q, 1 credit. 
Careerdevelopment is a lifelong process involving self-assessment, exploration, and career management techniques. Designed for seniors, the seminar allows students to explore self and develop skills they will use as they transition from the 
undergraduate experience.  
Topics include:  
? Assessing your preferences, values, and skills ?  Career exploration  
? The art of being new  ? Managing expectations in the workplace  
? Managing ambiguity  ?  Ethics in the workplace  
? Professional etiquette  ? Business communication  

Big Ten Plus Diversity on LaSalle 
Chicago-February 4h 

Sophomores and juniors from Big 10 universities including University of Notre Dame, DePaul University, and University of 
Illinois at Chicago have the chance to Jearn more about business related opportunities in Chicago. Students wishing to be 
considered for this opportunity should apply now using the Go IRISH system via keyword search "Big 10 Plus". If you have 
questions, please contact Jonika Moore: jmoore5@nd.edu or 1-9193. 
_;.. 
GET CONNECTED: Notre Dame's Shadowing Program 
Spring Break-Application Deadline is February 4th 
GET CONNECTED is a program offered through The Notre Dame Career Center and Student Alumni Relations Group 
(SARG) that allows students to spend a day on the job with an alumnus. The student will select the city and career field 
he/she would like to explore and The Career Center will attempt to find an alumnus who matches the student1S criteria. This 
... connection will allow undergraduates to explore various career fields, make contacts within companies, and begin their career 
search process. For more information, stop by The Career Center-2nd floor, Flanner Hall. 
Important Event Update Second Half Jump Start · 
December 81 h, 5:00-5:30 in 114 Flanner Hall 
An action-packed half hour that will give attendees the necessary basics in order to be successfu] in their second semester job and internship searches. These thirty minutes wil1 provide the game plan to enter the second half of the school year poised to conduct a thorough search process. The eighteen hundred seconds of this session may prove to be the most valuab1e tif!1e you spend in preparation for your job or internship search. It is a must attend event you won't regret. 
The Career Center* careercenter.nd.edu *631-5200 *Planner Hall 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 1, 2004 
NFL 

Parcells benches Henson, Testaverde given starting nod 
Associated Press 
IHVING, Texas -Bill Parcells isn't worried about the long­term future and the Dallas Cowboys are still in playofT con­tention in the miserable NFC. So the coach's decision was easy and expected. 
Hookie Drew llenson, whose starting debut lasted only a half, is going back into watch­and-learn mode. And 41-year­old Vinny Testaverde is the starting quarterback again for the Cowboys (4-7). 
"He gives us the best chance to win," Parcells said Tuesday. "That's what I'm interested in doing, if we can." 
Henson got his long-awaited first start against Chicago last Thursday after a sore Testaverde was limited in prac­

! 
\ tice. But Testaverde returned ~ after halftime in a tie game, and the Cowboys won 21-7. While Henson is the quarter~ 
,\ back of the future, Parcells remains focused on winning now. 
, I "My mind only works basical­\ ly this week, this season," he ) said. "That is what my respon­\ sibility is, to try to get the most ~ out of this team this year. You don't necessarily set things up in the future by altering that. You might do things that act as a deterrent for the future.' By beating the Bears, the Cowboys snapped a three-garrie losing streak and became one of 
seven 4-7 teams in the NFC. 
Even while trying to avoid playoff talk, Parcells made it cleq.r he's aware of his team's standing, even though the Cowboys have already lost more games than in his 10-6 debut last season. 
Take out the four division leaders, and there are just three other teams with more wins than Dallas in the chase for two wild-card spots. The Cowboys play Monday night at NFC West leader Seattle (6-5). 
''I've been around long enough to have seen teams recover," Parcells said. "I think someone in this NFC, and I could be wrong, could make a run at this that doesn't appear to have had a chance."' 
A .500 record may just be enough to get into the NFC playoffs this season. So Parcells figures why not the Cowboys? 
"We have an opportunity,"he said. "If we play well Monday, a lot of things will have changed probably in our favor." 
Henson hadn't played quar­terback, not even in three blowout losses before then, until the fourth quarter Nov. 21 at Baltimore when Testaverde took a hard hit that left him with a sore shoulder and back. That also limited Testaverde during the shortened week before the Bears. 
With the Bears committed to pressuring Henson (4-of-12 for 31 yards and an interception returned for a touchdown) into 

TH~ TRUTH IS...-­
W~'R~ NOT ON ~V~RY CORN~R. 
BUT NOBODY SAID ~INDING TH~ TRUTH 
MY )Oif +J: 4Mitll! 
,~-'J\'•.s-· 

W~ MIGHT NOT 9~ IN ~V~RY STRIP MALL. ~OOD eOURT AND GAS STATION LIK~ SOM~ 0~ TH~ RIG GUYS. 9UT 1983 RWn~ IT. ASANDWICH WITH HON~ST M~ATS. CH~~S~S AND V~GGI~S IS WORTH WALKING TH~ ~XTRA 9LOCK. 
L~T TH~ TRUTH 9~ KNOWN. 

bad plays and doing things the rookie didn't recognize, Parcells went to Testaverde. 
Owner Jerry Jones expressed disappointment after the game that Henson didn't finish. He insisted, however, that he was­n't second-guessing Parcells and that he left in-game deci­
sions to the coach. 
"I just viewed it as him say­ing what his opinion was. That's fine. No problem," Parcells said. 
The players return to prac­tice Wednesday after having four straight days ofT. The extra time should be beneficial for Testaverde. And Henson, finally with some game experience, will go back to getting limited snaps. 

"Hey, I'm rooting for the guy. I really am," Parcells said. "He just needs more experience. You say, 'How's he going to get that?' I can't forsake everything to do that. I couldn't do it .'' 


Wednesday, December 1, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
CLUB SPORTS 
Ultimate team wins second place 
Women win five of six to claim runner­up at Invitational 
Special to The Observer 
The ultimate club's women's squad enjoyed a very success­ful weekend, winning five of six games to place second at the Chattanooga Invitational. Behind the stellar play of Christina Hegdes and Rachel Meeks, the youthful Irish opened by dominating Tennessee Chattanooga, 13-2, and College of Charleston, 13­
4. The third-round match-up with Michigan State provided many highlights as the Irish edged the Spartans, 11-10. Nancy Powaga controlled the long field and endzone with many catches. Saint Mary's junior Stephanie Snyder, Kristine Dube and Jennifer Pruchnik all were pivotal in securing the win. 
In the semifinals against UNC Greensboro, freshmen Elizabeth Lee, Shields Duss and Shannon Morrison sup­ported Mary Klinkhammer, Loretta Brown and Megan 
Davisson as the Irish rolled 13-5. The Irish were upended in the finals by Emory, 13-5, despite several defensive plays by Davisson. For the tourna­ment, SMC's Stephanie Snyder was runner-up fur the UTC Spirit Award, awarded for friendliness and sportsman­ship. 
Bowling 

Notre Dame fielded a women's team for the first time this weekend, as it joined the men's squad in Ann Arbor as Michigan hosted the American Heartland Intercol­legiate Bowling Conference tournament. In their debut, the women finished sixth among the nine competing women's teams. Allison Klein posted a 153.4 average to lead a closely bunched line-up. Kim LaVigne followed at 152, with Denise Trgovich just behind at 
151.4. Daniele LaFramboise and Rachael Schermitzler posted very solid averages of 
140.8 and 132.4 respectively. 
The men's squad continues to make progress, moving up to 19th among 26 teams. Pavan Sadarangani had the fourth highest average of the tournament at 231, with a 
high game of 259 and a low game of 199. Van Koppersmith also averaged over 200, at 209.4, posting a high score of 
257. Vance McClenton rolled games of 218 and 200 to pick his average up to 187, and JB Bertumen's 231 improved his average to 180.3. 
Tom Talamo and Jim Talamo averaged 166.3 and 174.8 as the Irish continue to improve their scores throughout the lineup. 
Women's Ice Hockey 
The Irish women's hockey team suffered two tough loss­es this weekend at Lindenwood University in St. Louis. 
The rookie-filled Notre Dame team struggled against the veteran Lindenwood play­ers, falling 15-0 on Friday night and 14-0 on Saturday night. 
The Irish women played with great effort until the end of each game, with the third period being the strongest for the Irish each night. Coach Dave Olson was satisfied with the hard work of the young team and expects better results as the season pro­gresses. 



CALLING ALL BRAIN lACS! 
Announcing Notre Dame's 2004-2005 COLLEGE BOWL CAMPUS TOURNAMENT! 
TOURNAMENT INFORMATION: January 18-19, 2004, 6:00p.m.-midnight@ Legends! Semi·Finals and Final Match TBA 
SIGN UP YOUR TEAM AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK & BOX OFFICE BEFORE DECEMBER 17, 20041 
• 
Teams compete with four people, and are allowed one sub. 

• 
Limit of one graduate student per team. 


• 
Team must be available to compete at the Regional Tournament, February 19-ZO, 2005, in Indianapolis, Indiana. 

• 
Winning school at Regional Tournament competes in the National Tournament at the University of Washington in Seattle. 

• 
Limit of 24 teams, so sign up TODAY! 



*** If you would like more information about College Bowl or Notre Dame's Campus Tournament, visit '>:~,_<;Qlt~Q.q_~'!,.fQ!!}, or e·mail Matt Biergans at ~i!trs~fi~,~~.IJ.<k~<J. 
COLLEGE 
BOWL 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Streaking Belles will face Albion 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team, fresh ofT a three-game winning streak over Thanksgiving break, travels to Albion, Mich. tonight to play the Britons. Albion brings a 3­1 record into its home opener at Kresge Gymnasium. 

The Britons have defeated Washington & Jefferson, Rochester and Wooster this season. But Albion fell to 
them. We feel like we're on a roll, and they're coming ofT a loss." 
As expected, the Belles have followed the lead of senior for­ward Emily Creachbaum, who scored just four points against Monmouth. 
Bellina is not worried about the ofT night. 
"Emily's a player that gets a lot of attention from other teams," she said. "There are times when she's not going to have a lot of production and other players are going to have to 
Goshen 49-4 7 in ..We feel like we·re step up." overtime on Those players
on a roll, and
Over the past they·re coming off ized in the form week, the Belles a loss., of forward tallied blowout Bridget Boyce victories over and point guard
Suzanne Belllina 
Knox, Man-Bridget Lipke, chester and Belles head coach who combined 
Monmouth. But the Britons should prove a tough oppo­nent, especially on the road. 
Albion finished last season with a 23-6 record. Despite returning only two starters, 
for  36  points  
against  the  
Hawks.  

"Bridget Boyce has just real­ly found a comfort level, find­ing a lot of different ways to score and working hard on 
the Britons have been disman­defense," Bellina said. tling opponents, averaging "Bridget Lipke has really 
70.5 points per game. Point come on as our point guard, guard Sarah Caskey leads the leading the show out there. team in scoring with double She's working well within our figure points in every contest offense and getting a lot of this season. good looks." 
Belles coach Suzanne Forward Alison Kessler also Bellina remains confident. played well against the 
'"They are very similar to Hawks, scoring 10 points off what they were last year, but the bench. they lost a few players from last year," Bellina said. "We've Contact Chris Khorey at always played well against ckhorey@nd.ed u 
Wednesday, December 1 , 2004
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 

Coaches 
continued from page 20 
year tenure with Notre Dame, after leaving the head coaching position at Cincinnati Moeller High School in Ohio. During his 18 years at Moeller, Faust tal­lied a career 174-17-2 record, including five state titles and four national championships. 
Faust's dream was to coach at Notre Dame, but once in South Bend, the coach had hard­ships on the field. 
Faust said Tuesday he believes Willingham knew the expectations of coaching at Notre Dame when 
taking the job before the 2002 season. 
"I don't think anybody likes to be a part of something like this," said Faust, who resigned in November 1985. "But it's the reality of the sports world and that's how the sports world operates. You've got to under­stand that as a coach. That doesn't mean you're not a good coach, that doesn't mean you're not a great coach, it just means maybe the circumstances that prevailed are schedule they play with the academic requirements they have with their players, I think it's unrealistic to be a nine, 10 or 11-win football team every year," Davie said. "You're going to have some good teams, you're going to have some average teams and you're going to have some below aver­age teams. Bottom lim~. you're going to play a lot of close gamps and when you play close 


"[To win/ every year consistently, playing the kind ofschedule they play with the academic requirements they have with their players, I think it's unrealistic to be a nine, ro or I r-winfootball team 
,, 
every year. 
Bob Davie former Irish coach 
games, you're going to lose some of those 
g. ' ..
cIose ames. 
Faust, whose 1981 schedule included five top 25 teams -and four in the top 15 ­said the schedule, along with Notre Dame's prestige in the college foot­ball world, makes each 


game difficult. 
"Scheduling is tough and it should be like that," Faust said. "Everybody gets up for Notre Dame. Other schools, they only have two big games on their schedule every year; Notre Dame ends up with 11 because everybody's ready for them." 
Faust also said he understood the disappointment Willingham is likely experiencing after being let go. 
"I feel for Ty, for 
c o a c h 
Willingham," 

what you're dealt. ..Scheduling is Faust said. "I feel You have to go for his family. Yet
tough and it should 

along with that." I can understand
be like that.,, 

Davie had an that these things up-and-down do occur and it's career with Notre Gerry Faust tough both ways." Dame, taking the D a v i e
former Irish coach 
empathizes with 
Willingham, say­

ing he believes the former Stanford coach did a good job, despite being fired after posting a 21-15 record during his three years with Notre Dame. 
"He was an excellent football coach," Davie said. "I can't imagine he was that good of a coach his first year and that bad of a coach his third year. The reality is somewhere in between." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhetder@nd.edu 
Davie 
continued from page 20 

"I felt we were in a place that I could no longer say that we could actually stand up and say that we were putting together a program in place that could contend, if not win, a national championship," White said in a Dec. 2, 2001 press conference. "I really believe we need to restart this thing." 
In 2001, it was White who recommended to University President Father Edward Malloy that Davie not be rein­stated in his sixth year, shortly after signing him to a five-year extension. Malloy agreed with him, and Davie was notified that day, as was the public. 
This year, it happened differ­ently. 
A source said the Board of Trustees held a meeting Monday night, during which they decided to fire Willing­cally accomplished. Notre Dame won the AFCA Academic Achievement Award for gradu­ating 100 percent of its play­ers, the first time that number had reached 100 percent since 1988. White praised Davie in 2001 for his off-field actions. 
"Bob Davie has brought good students and good people to Notre Dame," White said in 2001. "He has supported and had taken an active interest in the academ­ic progress 
ham. of the play­
..There's very high 
And at the ers. lie has 
beginning of expectations, competitive encouraged 
the 2001 sea­expectations relative to good citizen­son, Davie was ship. I am
Notre Dame 
told by White proud to be
football. ,,

that his job associated was in jeop­with our ardy. White football
Kevin White 

said this year, team. These
Irish athletic director
that wasn't the are expecta­case with tions that Willingham. we have of 
"I would say that Coach all of our coaches in all of our Willingham and I had not had sports." those specific conversations White echoed the same senti­and really waited till the end of ments about Willingham the season to sit down and Tuesday. Willingham has had have kind of a program evalua­one player earn Academic All­tion conversation," White said. America honors and two play­"We began that conversation ers earn academic all-district on Sunday." honors, all while his teams 
Both Davie and Willingham have maintained a solid grade­had successes off the field but point-average. were unable to translate to "From Sunday through success on the field, as well. Friday, our football program 
Davie's teams were academi-has exceeded all expectations in every way," White said. "As I just indicated in the statement, the academic performance is at a fever pitch; it's never been better. Tyrone has done some wonderful things." 
But, for both coaches, it came down to his on-field per­formance. Although both coaches went to a bowl game, neither came out with desir­able results. Davie took the Irish to the Fiesta Bowl in 2000, where they were blown out by Oregon State, 41-9. Willingham took the Irish to the Gator Bowl in 2002, where they were also blown out by North Carolina State, 28-6. 
In both firings, White empha­sized the need for both on and off-the-field performance. His sentiments were expressed again Tuesday. 
"And I do feel we've made some progress, as I've tried to articulate that in a statement," White said. "Just haven't made enough on game day. Have made great progress every­where else around this pro­gram. In a lot of ways, this pro­gram has not been -has not been as healthy in a long time. We've got to find a way to get back to the elite, and that needs to happen on game day." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Irish to three bowl games, including the BCS Fiesta Bowl at the conclusion of the 2000 season. But Davie also struggled in leading Notre Dame to two losing records, which eventually led to his fir­ing in 2001. 
Davie said Notre Dame coaches must win despite play­ing a rigorous schedule year in and year out. This puts any coach at Notre Dame at a sig­nificant disadvantage, Davie said. 
"[To win] every year consis­tently, playing the kind of 


t 
,~ 
f 
I'·
·'
'" 
} 
)) 
l) 
l 
' r 
~ <. 
~ 
' 

• 
} ~ 
( 
t 
' 
~ -~ 
; 
~ ~ 
't 
'I 
~ 
..­
NOTRE DAME BENGAL BOUTS 2005 
Attention: VETERAN BOXERS 
Ifyou plan on participating in the 2005 Bengal Bouts in the spring, you must report to the Boxing Room to PICK UP YOUR CONSENT FORM. The room will be open between 4pm and 6pm Monday Nov 29 to Friday Dec 4. 
I~IPORTANT: You must return the consent form BY NO LATER THAN DEC 4. 
*We will send the consent form to your parents if you are under 21. 

Wednesday, December 1, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

DILBERT 
SIXTY-PERCENT OF 
OUR DISTRIBUTION 
GOES THROUGH 
WALGETCO. 

PEANUTS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
THEY'D LIKE US TO WEAR ORANGE VESTS AND BOW TOWARD THEIR HEADQUARTERS. 
BUT NO TOUCHING? 
\ 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MEWNO 

(J 
02004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SQUET 
I I 


NESING ± 
?1-E WENT ON A 
DIET B>e:C.At..l'?E ?HE: WA?--­
www.jumble.com 
BOCIXE 
j 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: KETCH CRAFT TYCOON RATHERYesterday's 
Answer: What the landlord did when the furnace failed -TOOK THE "HEAT" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS l Itch site 6 Athos, Porthos 
and Aramis 10 With 69-Across, caped crusader 
player of 1966 14 Spinners' output 15 Like water under 
the bridge 16 Palm starch 17 Koran focus 18 Sight from a 
fjord 19 Hubbard 20 Gaped crusader 
player of 1989 23 Fed. watchdog 24 Fabric rib 25 Excellent 28 Bitter end? 30 Fizz producer 32 Spanish carnival 33 Butler of fiction 
35 Order 66 Razor name 
11 Hole fixers 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Give it ....,-=-r,...-r,:,., 13 Fall football night: Abbr. 
-=+-:-:+.=+-:::-t 21 It's between Long Bch. and Pasadena 
22 Sporting ....,...._.,.......,~~ plumage 
26 "Flying Down to 
..,...,,.,.,.....,-+-,~ " 
27 With 41-Down, this puzzle's theme 
29 A few: Abbr. 
~~:+....-t 31 Feel low 
___.___.___._..... 34 Needle work? 
"' 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
page 19 
37 Elbow-bender 67 School for 38 Gaped crusader Prince William player of 1995 68 Pitches 69 See 1 0-Across 
41 Space station name 70 Sunset shade 44 Kite part 71 "Now you _, now ... " 
45 Nancy of "Access Hollywood" DOWN 
48 Show flexibility 1 Flower part 
50 Part of A.C.L.U.: 2 Item with Abbr. adjustable legs 
3 Not involving 52 Catty call 
check or credit 54 1:51, 2:51 or 
4 Wife of Jacob 
3:51, e.g. 5 "Ridiculous!" 
56 Put-on 6 God who kilied 
58 Bruin who wore the dragon 
a4 
Python at Delphi 59 Gaped crusader 7 27-and player of 1997 41-Down, and others
62 Rude response 8 Molokai, for one
64 Old times 9 Greek porticos 
65 Of service 10 Slanting 


41 See 27-Down 42 Despot Am in 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords tor young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

WILLSHORTZ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ------------------------------------------------------­
Address ________________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip____________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Billy Idol, Bo Jackson, Ben Stiller, Clay Aiken 
Happy Birthday: You haven't made the best choices in the past, but you can turn things around. You have a sense of what you should be doing, so have a little faith and confidence in yourself. You have it in you to make things work this year. Your numbers are 10, 27, 33, 36, 41,46 ' 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You will probably make an impulsive move if you aren't in control of your emotions. Think before you act. Things are not as bad as they seem.** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Plan a lunch date with someone who ha~ infonnatior you need. What you learn will change the course of your life. An opportunity t( visit or travel must be taken. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Something to do with services for the home or a product that you can offer will lead to a financial gain. Consider starting your own business or forming a partnership. *** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Stop yourself before you make a blunder. You are not being rational about personal issues, which can lead ro a mistake that wit haunt you in the future. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Secret love affairs will be tempting. Consider the consequences and you will spare yourself from ending this year on a low note. Get back to basics. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You have everything to be proud of and to look forward to. Self-criticism is the enemy, so accept praise and trust in your efforts **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The only thing that is important today is what you do and if you feel good about it. Let your uniqueness shine through and work for you. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stand up, be counted and praise will be yours. Your love life should be picking up and everything you want to do should be scheduled in. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will feel like a weight has been lifted off your shoulders if you have made some financial adjustments. The stress ha: taken its toll, so be good to yourself for a change. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't trust someone who is trying to sell ym something. Use your own discretion. Put business aside and spend time with your lover. *** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This is not the time to play hooky. You will miss a perfect chance to get ahead if you are sleeping on the job or showing littlt interest. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make a difference to children. lovers an( friends today. Plan something special for each and every person who counts in your life.***** · 
Birthday Baby: You have the look that will get you what you want. You are a creative thinker with a zest for life and storytelling. You can be entertaining bu very sensitive and willing to listen. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
Tertiary period 62 Talking point? 
53 Most bitterly 63 Three months amusing abroad 

ti 
. ~ I ~ 
' \ 
\ 
I \ 
' ~ 
1 I 
' \ 
I ) 
I 
s 
\ ) 
~ 
I 
~ 
l ~ . 
, I 
THE OBSERVER 
p

Wednesday, December 1, 2004 

page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Similar, but different 
Willingham firing compares, contrasts with Davie's; former coaches give opinions 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Heporters waited outside the interview room at the Joyce Center, hoping to get a glimpse of Tyrone Willingham after a press conference announced his firing. 
But he was nowhere to be found. 
It was quite the opposite of the scene in 2001, where Bob Davie calmly addressed reporters for nearly a half-hour in a press conference announc­ing his firing. 
Willingham, who was not 


I 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
~ .::0 Batteast, Duffy combine for 45 points in "Yin 
BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Tyrone Willingham became Notre Dame's head football coach after a rigorous search following the 2001 season. Willingham was fired Tuesday after three seasons with the Irish. 
available for comment, was the first Irish football coach to be fired without finishing his first contract, as he coached just 
three of the six years of his ini­tial contract and finished with a 21-15 record. 
Athletic director Kevin White attributed Willingham's short tenure to the high expectations at Notre Dame. 
"I think the best way I can respond to that is -there's very high expectations, compet­itive expectations relative to Notre Dame football," White said at Tuesday's press confer­ence. "I think everyone in the room realizes that, and we just were not meeting those pro­grammatic or competitive expectations on Saturday." 
It was similar but also differ­ent from 2001, the year Bob Davie was fired after five sea­sons and a 35-25 record. Then, White attributed the change in coaching to a need to start over. 

see DAVIE/page 18 Bob Davie coached Notre Dame for five seasons. Gerry Faust coached Notre Dame from 1981-85. 


By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 

If anybody understands what Tyrone Willingham is going through one day after being fired as Notre Dame's head _ football coach, it's Gerry Faust and Bob Davie. 
Faust coached the Irish from 1981-85, compiling a 30-26-1 record before resigning after his five-year contract expired. Davie took over the program ·after Lou Holtz resigned in 1996, leading the Irish to a 35­
25 record from 1997-2001. 

Both coaches didn't expect Willingham to be fired Tuesday, after three years as Irish coach. 
"I was surprised just like everybody else," Faust said. "When they accepted the bowl, I figured he'd keep his job because there's always talk. You lose a game there's talk, you win a game there's no talk and you're doing a great job. Don't get me wrong, there's nothing wrong with that. It's worth it at Notre Dame to go through that because of what Notre Dame is." 
Davie agreed. 

"To be honest, I'm sur­prised," Davie said in an inter­view with ESPN's Dan Patrick Tuesday evening. ''I'm sur­prised that Tyrone did not get the opportunity to finish his five years at Notre Dame." 
Willingham became the first Notre Dame coach to lose his job before fulfilling the terms of his initial contract. 
Faust endured a rocky five-
see COACHES/page 18 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
Another close road game ended in another victory for the No. 3 Irish, improving the team to 2-0 away from the Joyce Center and 7-0 on the season. 
Notre Dame beat Valparaiso 69-59 Tuesday night as Jacqueline Batteast scored 25 points ·and grabbed 10 rebounds and Megan Duffy added 20 points and four assists for the Irish. 
The team went 18-18 from 

the free throw line to seal the lead as the Crusaders pulled to within a field goal with two minutes remaining. 
"We had to make our free throws down the stretch," coach Muffet McGraw said. "We had our best shooters shooting ... Megan especially down the stretch, and Jackie faced really critical [shots l." 
Charel Allen and Teresa Borton each pulled down nine rebounds and scored six apiece in the team's second road vic­tory. 
The Irish were off to a quick start as Batteast scored 11 of 
en 
NCAA Basketball 

NCAA Basketball 
i 1.1.1 Georgia Tech 99 Duke 81
f 1--u z Mich1gan 68 Michigan State 74
i 
) 
rx: ::3 

J.J. Redick scored 21= Georgia Tech blew out first-half points to lead c:z: Michigan with the help the Blue Devils. 
= a. =of an early 20-0 run. 
page 12I en page 12 

I 
! 


CLUB SPORTS 
CLUB SPORTS
NFL 

the team's first 13 ·points. Notre Dame would never relin­quish the lead, but the Crusaders remained within striking distance, cutting a 1 0­point lead to five with 13 min­utes remaining. 
In her second career road game, Allen came through with a crucial offensive rebound with 11 minutes to play. 
"She had a really big offen­sive rebound late in the game that we really had to have," McGraw said. "Then she got fouled and made the free throws." 
free throws were the bright-
MLB 

est part of the Irish offense. The team shot just 41.7 per­cent from the field and 37.5 percent from beyond the arc. Notre Dame committed 10 turnovers to the Crusaders' seven. 
But the team came up strong when it counted. McGraw 
called  a  timeout  when  
Valparaiso  was  within  two  
points.  

"We ran a play for Jackie to score land] she made a nice shot," McGraw said. "She was able to convert it, that was big, we got [the lead] up to four and they never got any closer." 
DufTy connected on four free throws down the stretch to seal the win. 
Last year, Notre Dame start­ed 0-4 on the road. This year, the team has yet to register a loss. 
"I think its better leader­ship," McGraw said. "Megan and Jackie are playing so well right now, they're carrying the team. They made all the big plays and we're still looking for some other people to step up and help us." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Martinez weighs 

Women's hockey
Henson benched 
Ultimate team 
offers 

in Dallas 
shut out

places second 
Boston's Pedro Mar-

Dallas coach Bill 
The women won five of 
The women lost 15-0 
tinez has received offers 

six games to finish sec-
and 14-0 in games
Parcells has named 
to play for the Mets, 

ond at the Chattanooga 
against Lindenwood
Vinny Testaverde the 
Yankees and Red Sox. 

starting quarterback. 
Invitational. 

University of St. Louis. 
page 16 

page 17
page 13 

page 17 








