
r------------------------­
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 63 FRIDAY, DECEMBER3, 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

University officials return from Utah trip 
Observer Staff Report 
A privatn jet carrying two, possibly three, University offi­cials, including athletic director Knvin White and University President-nlnct Father John Jpnkins, landed just before 2 
a.m. Friday at Corporate Wings, an executive aircraft service company at South Bend Airport. 
The Associated Press reported Thursday that White and Jenkins were in Salt Lake City talking with Utah head football coach Urban Meyer for several hours about the Notre Dame football coaching vacancy. Notre Dame fired Tyrone Willingham Tuesday after three seasons as head football coach. White said Tuesday the search for a new head coach had not begun, but that it would begin immediately. 
The plane, N42ND, landed at 
1:53 a.m. The jet, which had an "ND" logo high on the tail, was en route from Salt Lake City. Once the plane landed, the offi­cials got into two vehicles -a black BMW SUV and a sedan. 
Both were waiting with drivers when the plane landed. The vehicles left through the main entrance escorted by security and University officials did not stop to talk to reporters. 
One official left in the sedan, followed by the other two offi­cials who left in the BMW. 
The first signs of the Notre Dame head coaching search were evident Thursday evening, when, according to the Associated Press, the jet arrived 
see MEYER/ page 8 


Merchants expect strong holiday sales 
Early consumer stats promising 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 

While a new football coach had topped the Christmas wish-lists of many Darners this snason. Tuesday's announce­ment may have caused Notre Dame students to lean toward more materialistic. gift-giving nndeavors and -in concert with the rest of the nation ­incn~ase their holiday spend­ing. 
Contrary to October's con­sumer surveys, which indicated an overall decrease in con­sumer confidence, recent eco­nomic studies demonstrate a more optimistic prediction of tlw 2004 holiday shopping sea­son. 
A poll by the National Retail Federation found that the aver­age U.S. consumer will spend over $700 this season, a 4.5 percent increase from last year. 
The effects of increased con­sumer confidence were felt in Mishawaka this past weekend as local retailers experienced a 

_ flurry of holiday shoppers. "Last weekend was very busy locally and we have every rea­son to believe that a 4 to 5 per­cent increase over last year is achievable," president and CEO of the St. Joseph County· Chamber of Commerce Mark Eagan said. South Bend and its surround­ing areas form a regional shop·­ping destination that garners customers from a 50-mile radius. It is the second largest retail concentration in the state outside of Indianapolis, said Eagan. One of the major shopping destinations in this region that experienced an increase in sales this weekend was the University Park Mall. According to mall manager Sara Zappia, heightened con-
see SHOPPING/page 4 



Cable cut causes Internet outage 
OIT uses secondary connection for service 
By TERESA FRALISH 
A<Sociate News Editor 
Problems with Notre Dame's Internet service provider caused a complete outage of the University's connection to the Internet from 8 to approximately 11 
a.m. Thursday morning. 

Dewitt Latimer, chief tech­nology officer. said the ISP, Global AeeP.ss Points, acci­dentally cut cables in Chicago that included part of Notre Dame's Internet con­rwction. 
"They mistakenly discon­nected our fiber," Latimer said. 
Notre Dame alerted the company to the outage, 
which then began work repairing the cable connec­tion. 
Latimer said the Global Access Points service actual­ly did not resume until about 
12:30 p.m. but the University chose to implement its sec­ondary Internet connection for the first time Monday. 
"We had already been doing work to provide us with a backup ISP." he said. "We decided that this morn­ing was a good time to ar.eel­erate that. ... We can no longP.r suffer complete out­ages." 
During the outage, on­cam pus users could access Webmail, Webfile and other Web pages hosted off main Notre Dame's homepage but could not view outside sites. 
Latimer said Thursday's problem was unrelated to another Global Access Points Internet service outage that begun around 2 a.m. Tuesday and lasted for about an hour. 
"That was routine mainte­nance.... They gave us about an hour notice," he said. 
The University does not anticipate further problems with the Internet connnction and intends to retain Global Access Points as its primary ISP, according to Latimer. The company has provided Notre Dame's connection for about one year. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 


Donors react to Ty firing 

Callers log mixed alumni responses 
By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 

In the immediate wake of head football coach Tyrone Willingham's firing on Tuesday, reaction among alumni regarding donations to the University appeared to be mixed, according to stu­dents making solicitation phone calls Tuesday and Wednesday evening. 
Some alumni said they would incroose·eontributions as a result of the firing, while others criticized the action and said they intended to 
see DONORS/page 8 


Madrigal Dinners ring in holidays at SMC 
By DANIELLE LERNER 
News Writer 

The trumpets are sounding in Renaissance fashion as the Saint Mary's music department presents the annual Madrigal Din·ners tonight at 7 p.m. through Sunday in Hegina Hall. Now in its 32nd year, the P.vent has become one of the College's signature events, offering both food and live entertainment to ring in the holiday season. 
Richard Baxter, director of special events at Saint Mary's, says turnout for the event is always high, especially among members of surrounding com~ munities. lie said ticket sales continue to increase as the event approaches. 
"People really look to it as the beginning of the Advent sea­son," Baxter said. "It is a beau­tiful way to begin Christmas." 
The Madrigal Dinners offer guests a holiday feast, served by costumed waiters accompa­nied by colorfully attired singers from the Saint Mary's Women's Choir. Guests will also enjoy live music, jugglers and a jester, with interludes of comedic skits. . 
Saint Mary's junior Ashley Peltier is looking forward to her . second year of performance at the Madrigal Dinners. 
"Each show is different," Peltier said. "We depend on the audience's reaction to us and it is very unique compared to other theatre." 
see DINNERS/page 4 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, December 3, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Tune in Thursday 
I lov~~ watching TV on Thursdays; 
it has bncomn quito a routine. If 
possibln I start at 7:30p.m., watch­
ing "That 70s Show" on Fox, just 
waiting for "Tlw O.C." to begin. At 
night o'd~wk it 

fnPis as if tfw Sofia Bailon 
ontiro campus is 

si multarwously 
watching t.lw 'it' photographer 
show of tlw 
monwnt. and I 
am onn morn of those O.C. fans. 
Tlw warm California weather, the 
inf'inity pool at tlw Colwn home, 
and thn eol'f'1H~ bar at llarbor high 
an~ just some of tlw things that 
makn Nnwport Beach so attractive. 
or eoursn thorn also arn tho day-to­
day ordnals all tlw eharaetors go 
through. 
So many things havn changed l'rorn last season. it's unbf11invable. .Just to eommnnt on last night's show, why why why did Marissa get hack with 1>.1 tho garden guy? All the fornwr couples snnm to be get­ting mixed up with nnw characters, and I 1:an only approvn of Summer and Zaek. And don't even got nw startiHI on how much I can't stand .Julin Cooper! 
Onn 1:an only take so rn ueh of high sehool drama though, so after "Tho O.C." is over, I quiekly switch to NBC and tune into "Tlw Apprnntien." 
This show really has me sitting at tlw edgP of my seat! I always think, 'What I would do if I were tlwrn, you know, eompnting with all l.lwso otlwr very qualil'ied people'?' Of reality TV, "The Apprnntiee" is tlw only show I can stand. 
I acknowlndgn that tlw partici­pants arn snlnctNI aeeording to thnir pnrsonality in ordnr to cause sornn eonl'lirt between thorn-that will obviously provide for good rat­ings-but tho faet tlwy arn com­poling in tlw business world giv~~s it a sort ol' professional spin. 
Plus, as a eoll1~gn student one can learn !'rom Tlw Apprnntico how to take risks in l'uturn vnnturns and how to avoid !wing f'ired. 
Arter "Tiw Apprnntien" it is a good limn to gnt ready to go out, siru:o wenknnds can always start narly. 
llownvnr. for those who'd rather lay low th!l rest of Thursday night 
~~w T~ s.~H!ws..knnp looking. up. 
llwre s I·.. B. and tlw nx~:rtnmnnt 
of a Chicago hospital, plus tho sub­
plots of Uw rnlationships bnlwnen 
t.lw eharadnrs. 
Leno and Conan always s1wm to have gn~at gunsts on Thursday nights. Ynster<lay there was Hobert J>ownny, .Jr., .Jason Biggs and Alne Baldwin. 
By now after all this TV, you should probably go to bed, I mean if you dneidnd to stay in it means you probably had sonwthing to do t.his Friday morning. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessari~IJ those of 'l'lw Observer. (.'on f. act .'·iofi a //afton at sballonC!!'nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In rhe Dec. 1 t•dition ofThe ( )hserver, tile following statement should have been attributed to 
ESI'N.com: 
"Irish athlt-ric director Kevin White and Ferentz are 
longtime friends going back to when White hired 
Ferentzli1r a coaching position at Maine in 1990." The ( )bservcr regrets the error. 1n the Dec. 2 edition of The Observer, due to a n·porring error, it was publislll'd that a resolution creating a new hall commissioner position was passt·d by the Senate. This is incorrect, as the debate was postponed until the next meeting. The Observer regrets rhe error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD BE YOUR DREAM JOB? 

Bill Lopez  Jenalle Slosar  Katie Chenoweth  Katie McGuckin  Pablo Ortega  Sergio Bohrt  
senior .<>iegj'ried  sophomore Welsh Family  senior ofFcampus  sophomore Lewis  freshman . Siegfried  freshman Keenan  
"/ would like to be consultedfor  "Professor Cao 's translator."  .''A professional rower.  "/ would like to be a nonprofit  "President of The Observer!"  "Bolivar's head coach."  







profit." consultant." 
Tight jeans get man arrested 
BELLE VERNON, Pa. ­A man aceused of point­ing a loaded handgun at a police ofl'icer says he's guilty only or wearing tight jeans. , 
Sean Eldon Duvall, 36, was arrested Tuesday on charges including aggra­vated assault and reckless endangerment for the Jurw I R ineident. 
Southwest Regional Police Detective Sgt. James Hega said in court papers that Duvall left his ear with the .3R-ealiber revolver hidden under papers and aimed it at 
TODAY a:: 


mad cow disnase -have banned the transportation of deer, elk, caribou and reindeer within the state. They have also bloeked the import of the animals ftom other states in an effort prevent tlw spread of the disease to the wild deer population. 
That keeps deer farm­ers from moving the ani­mals to Christmas parties, hayrides and other holi­day events and is eosting some of them thousands of dollars. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

him when he stopped to see if Duvall needed help. 
Duvall told The Associated Press that he didn't need help; he said he was just stepping out of his ear to go to a friend's house to play chess. 
Sorry, Santa: North Carolina bans deer 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. ­Poor Hudolph won't join in any reindeer games in North Carolina this holi­day season. 
State wildlife officials worried about chronic­wasting disease -the denr-family equivalent ol' 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LIJ :I: 
~ 
LIJ 
3: 
...I 
<1: 
(.) 



0 

HIGH 38 HIGH HIGH 41 HIGH
..J LOW 25 LOW LOW 30 LOW IN BRIEF 




Tho Notrn Damn Chorale and Chambm· Ordwstra will p~;rform 1-landnl's "Messiah" tonight at 8 
p.m. in tho Leighton Concert Hall in DnBartolo Contor for tho Performing Arts . 
The :12nd annual Christmas Madrigal Dinner will take plaen tonight, Saturday and Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Hngina North Lounge at Saint Mary's College. 
The Not-So-Hoyal Shakes­peare Company presents "As You like It" tonight at 7:30p.m. in Washington llall. Tiekets are available at the LaFortune Box Oflice. 
"Napoleon Dynamite" will bP shown tonight at 7 and 10 p.m. in thn Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Contnr for thn Performing Arts. 
The Student Union Board presents "Collateral", starring Tom Cruise and .Jamie Foxx, tonight and Saturday at R and 
10:30 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo. Tieknts arn $3. 

Stand-up comedian Maria Borgio, finalist in tho 2004 Laugh Across Amnriea Contest, will pnrform tonight at 10 p.m. at Legends. The show is !'me fiJr ND, SMC and IICC students. 
Notre Dame's Benjamin D. Foulois Squadron of the Arnold Air Society sponsors Children's Field Day 2004 Saturday from 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. The day features games, food and a fes­tive holiday atmosphere for underprivileged children of South Bend. 
To submit inj(Jrmation to he included in this section of The Ohserver. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsn ews@nd. edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

43 HIGH 28 LOW 


Atlanta 56 I 38 Boston 39 I 28 Chicago 38 I 30 Denver 44 I 22 Houston 60 I 42 Los Angeles 67 I 45 Minneapolis 36 I 26 New York 46 I 36 Philadelphia 48 I 34 Phoenix 64 I 42 Seattle 50 I 44 St. Louis 50 I 35 Tampa 72 I 54 Washington 50 I 34 
Friday, December 3, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Peace activists Thanos, Schneider share experiences 
By APRIL THOMAS 
News Wrirer 
In just one hour Thursday aftnr­noon, activists Terri Thanos and Kathy Schneider attempted to explain their profound individual nxpnrinnccs working with pnaee and faith in South America. 
Speaking l"irst, Thanos nxpressed a speeitic interest in peacnful global relations. 
"There arn morn than 40 wars going on as I spnak. It is a tinw of eonflir.t and despair," Thanos said. 
Thanos' daughtnr's involvement inspired her to support the Witnnss for Peace organization, specifically in Colombia. The group works toward untangling thn complieated, dangerous con­llicts around Colombia's cultiva­tion of the coca plant. used in cocaine production. Originally fearing for hnr daughter's safety, the terrified Thanos eventually joinnd the group as well. 
"I knew the only way to get rid of Ithat fear] was to go down there myself," Thanos said. 
llnr firsthand experience shed light on Colombia's challenging situation. 
"In a population of 40 million pnople, 50 to 60 percent live in poverty," Thanos said. Ilealthcare is sparse, and one minister infi>rmnd her that "if we get sick, we die." The country also faces land displacement, bomb­ings and petty crime, narcotic trafficking of coca for a predomi­nantly United States-based clien­tele and governmental corruption, she said. 
"Last year, $2 billion in public funds were 'lost,"' Thanos said. 
This calamity has yielded thn1n specifie opposition factions, all violenee-centered, including para­militaries, who arc gunmen hired to guard land and terroriz11 small towns; guerillas, formed of peas­ants to protect farmland and employing taeties like kidnapping and force to make monny; and police/army forces trained ­often in U.S. institutions -to ter­rorize. 
The United States introduced "Plan Colombia" in 2000 to address the cocaine problem, but unevenly distributed its resources, said Thanos. 
"80 percent of funding support­ed the fumigation of the coca crops; only 20 percent was used to find alternate food crops for these farmers to raise, and devel­op plans for peace," Thanos said. 
Without coca, most Colombian farmers are left with no means of sustenance and self-sufficiency. 
Since its introduction, "Plan Colombia" has not reduced the availability of cocaine. 
"The amount and purity of cocaine import is the same," Thanos said. "As long as there is a demand, lots of money to be made and impoverished families, it will continue to grow." 
I fer experiences taught Thanos that to truly be a catalyst for peaceful change, she must look inward. 
"[ have to find peace within before I bring peace to others," Thanos said. "I have to be peace myself." 
Kathy Schneider, a Notre Dame graduatH and former Holy Cross sister voluntHer in Brazil, applies her past experiences to her direc­tor position at St. Margaret's House in South Bend. 
Sdmeid1w focused on liberation theology in Brazil post-Vatican II. · The Holy Cross sisters' goal was to educate and encourage leader­ship and community-building. 
"We really believed that by forming a Christian community we were empowering them; to be a church leader there was to be a community leader," Schneider said. 
Through her work, Schneider, stationed as a missionary, began losing faith in God as she watched so many children dying of hunger, and tragic accidents taking the lives of the Brazilians around her. 
"I didn't want to believe in a God that would let this happen," Schneider said. 
Redemption came during her Lenten journey, as she discussed the Stations of the Cross with Brazilian community members through a translator. Through dialogue, Schneider was touched by these women's life stories of hardship, heartbreak and death. 

"My outlook shifted from a 'Precious Moments' God, to 'my God died on the cross," Schneider said. 
The community's acceptance awed Schneider. In Brazil, she learhed the significance of shar­ing meals as signs of God's pres­ence. She also recognized the importance of personal relation­ships and vitality of community, values she encourages at St. Margaret's House. 
"AU we do is create a space for the women to help each other. When we eat together, we break down barriers, letting in the spirit of God," Schneider said. 
Her overall experience contra-diets the common belief that peo­ple in poverty will merely exude neediness and despair. 

"When you go where people are suffering, you don't just find bro­kenness, you find goodness," Schneider said. "I went to Brazil to teach religion and they taught me faith." 
Senior Kate Weiss attended the lecture to extend her fall break experience of the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership-organized Catalyst Trip. 
"What Kathy said really rings true," Weiss said. "It's not how much power you have-it's how you use it." 
Contact April Thomas at thom3549@saintmarys.edu 

THE SOUTH BEND SYMPHONY PRESENTS 
l 

H 

1 SUNDAY, DECEMBER 5 • 3:00 pm 
Geroe Taelebt>a,te tf:ye TserMe1J 'W'itb Tsu.vs !Jeb!_,_,7%.;)/j ,. . . 
raditional Christmas Songs and Carols ~Pl£JZ:t:~f Terrific Choirs-Penn High School &South Bend Symphonic Choir ''"""""''"'''""'c'""u"''"'~""""" Two Handbell Choirs from Sunnyside Presbyterian &First Presbyterian "The Snowman"-Astory for kids Top Christmas Tunes from Mannheim Steamroller The Many Moods of Christmas by Robert Shaw Tsanta Claus! 
Tickets Starting at: Adults $16 • StudenVChild $8 
574-235-9190 
endsymphony.com 


CALLING ALL BRAIN lACS! 
Announcing Notre Dame's 2004-2005 COLLEGE BOWL CAMPUS TOURNAMENT! 
TOURNAMENT INFORMATION: January 18·19, 2004, 6:00p.m.· midnight@ Legends! Semi-Finals and Final Match TBA 
SIGN UP YOUR TEAM AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK & BOX OFFICE BEFORE DECEMBER 17, 20041 
• 
Teams compete with four people, and are allowed one sub. 

• 
Limit of one graduate student per team. 

• 
Team must be available to compete at the Regional Tournament. February 19·20, 2005, in Indianapolis, Indiana. 

• 
Winning school at Regional Tournament competes in the National Tournament at the University of Washington in Seattle. 

• 
Limit of 24 teams, so sign up TODAY! 


*** 
If you would like more information about College Bowl or Notre Dame's Campus Tournament, visit ~,mJ.\g&!!.t?.m!\:Ls;Qm. or e-mail Matt Biergans at .B..i'?.f.!l!"lD.h~Sil'f.l<i.,.~y. 
COLLEGE 
BOWL 

Friday, December 3, 2004
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

1357 Ironwood Drive, South Bend . IN 574-289-5080 Atriasalon.com 
College is awarded $1M grant 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 

Lilly J•:ndownwnt lne. has awarded Saint Mary's a $1 million grant l'or a nnw Faculty Scholars Program to bring top !'acuity scholars to campus bPginning in 2005, tlw CoiiPge announeed Monday. 
A prnss rPimtSI' outlirwd the new program as an ell'ort to "attract extraordinary ~~arHiidates l'or tnnure-track positions at the CollngP by ofli~ring incentives sueh as coursn load rmluctions and rnsearch and proli~ssional devel­opment granL<;." 
Tlw incnntivns will provide linandal rnsourn~s and additional time l'or thnsn rww faculty rnern­bnrs to enhanee their teaeliing ability whiln engaging with the Saint Mary's eornrnunity. In addi­tion. Uw grant will also supply linandal support lilr these profes­sors to traVI~l and presnnt papnrs. 
"Thn New Faeulty Scholars Program will help us draw new talnnt to an alrnady vibrant intel­lnctwtl eomrnunity where gifted and ereativn proli1ssors challnnge bright studenL<; to reach new lev­els of w~hievmnerrt," vke president and dnarr of liu~ulty Patrick Whitn said 'This is just going to help with nnw proli~ssors' reduction load." 
Whitn said lw hopes the pro­gram will help bring top faculty to the Collngn, just as other Lilly J.:ndowrnent granl<; are supporting top studnnb at Saint Mary's. 
"Wn have the Brain Drain ~-,rrant which is attnmpting to help stu­dents, but this partieular grant can hdp us attract the next gener­ation of intellnctual leaders in fac­ulty rnembnrs to our state," he said in rnlimmce to the College's $750,000 Lilly Endowment INC program grant, which aims to keep students in Indiana after graduation. 
During an initial three-year start up phase, part of the !-,'Tant will be used for operating cosl<;, and the remainder will help establish an endowment to support the pro­gram in the future. 
College president Carol Mooney, viee prnsident for eollege relations Shari Hodriguez, White and others worked on the grant applieation, whieh was submitted earJjer this IiLII. 
The program will begin in the 2005-06 aeademie year when Saint Mary's will olli~r thnse ineen­tivns to thrnn nnw laeulty mmn­bnrs slated to start teaehing at th1~ Collegn. Allnr the first year, thesn incnntivos will bP olfernd to up to two new hin~s yearly. 
In tlw past, Saint Mary's has receivod other largo grants from tlw Lilly I•:ndowmnnt induding tho INC program ~-,rrant and $12 mil­lion li1r tho Center for Women's lntnrCultural Leadership. 
And although White said he was exdtml about the new prospncl<; this could bring to campus, hn strnssml tlw ~-,rrant wa<; just anoth­er way to holp nnw professors adjust to Saint Mary's. 
'"n1is is just going to lwlp with tho rmlw~tion load," hn said. "Saint Mary's alrnady IHL<; excellent liH:ul­ty, but tho rnarkd for faculty is going to bnconm incrmL<;ingly corn­potitiw as baby boonwrs retire. Schools realiz1~ the importanee of teaching undergraduates and want to have intelligent, well­rounded faculty to do that." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 


Shopping 
continued from page 1 

sumer conlidnnce was evi­dent. 
"Based on just the first sevnral days of the season, traiTic is del'initnly up," Zappia said. 
Although Zappia and othnr local rntailnrs are optimistic about tho recent trends, experience has taught thnm not to jump to a hasty conclusion and label tho Pntin1 season a success. 
"!The 4.5-percent increase] is probably a good estimate for the season," Zappia said. "llowevnr, it is really difficult to gauge aftnr just one weekend." 
James Sullivan, an assis­tant professor of economics and a specialist in labor economies and public finanee at Notre Dame, agn~ns it is hard to make broad estimatns on the suc­eess of the holiday shopping snason when these predic­tions are based solely on preliminary sales and con­sumer spending surveys. 
"Sales figures for Black Friday show a 10.8 percent increase over last year while the country's 
largost retail­er, Wal-Mart.  "Sales figures for Black friday show  said Gallaway. Overall,  
reported that November sales failed to  a 10.8 percent increase over last  however, the Shopping in America  
meet the  com­ year while the  Survey found  
pany's expec­tations," Sullivan said. "Given the  country's largest retailer, Wal-Mart, reported that  clothing to be the most popu­lar holiday gift category -a  
mixed  re- November sales  statistie  that  
views. retail­ers are being very cautious  failed to meet the company's  points to a successful hol­iday season for  
in their opti­mism."  expectations. "  Hammes Notre Dame book­ 
Recent polls indicating an  James Sullivan  store. The  book­ 
increase  in  assistant professor  store,  which  
consumer  economics  boasts one  of  
spending are  the largest col- 
based  on  the  lections of col­ 

current financial atmos­legiate apparel and mer­phere and the way in which chandise in the nation, is Americans perceive the bracing for a lucrative holi­economy. According to the day shopping year. In addi­Shopping in America survey tion to gift favorites -like conducted for The Macerich Irish apparel for family and Company, 82 percent of the friends -the bookstore has over 6,000 shoppers sur­also introduced many holi­veyed felt the economy this day-inspired items to their season is just as strong as if inventory. 
On the bookstore's Web 
Economists have attrib­uted the general public's 
faith in the economy to  a  
strengthened job market,  a  
recovering economy and  a  

heightened sense of national stability after November's uncontroversial presidential election results. 
"The fact that we have elected a president without a prolonged legal battle has bolstered consumer opti­
mism," Sull­ivan said. "Consumer confidence seems to be very sensitive to uneertain­ty." 
Graee Gall­away, the online blogger and holiday shopping expert known as the "Gift Guru," has dubbed thjs 
season as the "Techno Hetro Year." Accor-ding to Galla­way, classic Hems with high­tech twists will be prevalent under trees across the nation this Christ-mas. Toys such as a suped-up Easy Bake Oven and electronic Etch-a-Sketch are destined for popularity, 

"The fact that we have elected a president without a prolonged legal battle has 
bolstered consumer optimism." 
James Sullivan assistant professor economics 
site, online shoppers can peruse through a section of merchandise devoted entirely to holiday-themed items such as Notre Dame Advent calendars, orna­ments, decorations and greeting cards. 
The Web sitn itself is evi­dence of the bookstore's desire to keep up with ano­ther recent trend in con­sumer spending -the 
not surprised by this trend, however. 
"It is reasonable to expect a rise in Internet sales as the Internet beeomes more accessible and consumers become more comfortable shopping online," Sullivan said. "While the projected growth for 2004 is high, it falls well below 2003's 31­percent increase." 
Contact Katie Perry at kn.,rrv'\(a
nd.edu 
No cover ever with studettt111 

204-6 South Jet1d Ave ~ Across frot\1 Martit1s Plaza 272~1766 
NP Football Headquarters Ot11it1e sports it1fo 
"G-reat Food, G-reat Futf Mott: Mottday Night Football fuu: COLLG&E Nto.Hf-PJ i-SPECIALS (SfARfiN& Af tl.OO) Wed: n.tVIA Night -&rittg your tea~tts -Prizes fHUU: PJ ~ ftRSf fHUUtlAY EVGRY MONfH: JASSY 9-RAZZ Fri: Live Etttertaittlttettt Sat: NP ga~ttes Sutt: -l.f screetts 
increase in the popularity of online shop­ping. 
A Novembnr Forrest He­search Heport found U.S. eon­
sumers will 
spend 20 per­cent more buy­ing gifts online this season than they did at the same time last year. 
Sullivan is 


Dinners 
continued from page 1 

New additions to tho hehind-the­seenes technical team are looking forward to updating the event. 
"The new tech team will have the opportunity to bring in new practiens this year," Baxter said. "They can bring in a nnw look and approach it with a fresh facn." 
DilTerent from pnwious shows, this ynar's pnrforrnances fnaturn only Saint Mary's students. Sophomorn Lauren Knisley said anticipation is high among stu­dnnts. 
"This is my sncond year and everyone seems very excited about it." Knisley said. "It is a really fun twent overall and th11 festivities and costumes are really different than other evnnts." 
Overall, t.hn Madrigal Dinners are sure to bring fun, food and festivitins to guests of all ages and tlw College as a whole. 
"It is a good family atmos­phere," Peltier sajd. "We oiTer live entertainment and good, elean comedy that brings families out together." 
Baxter agreed and thinks Saint Mary's is the perfeet plaee for such an event. 
"It is everything Saint Mary's College is about," Baxter said. "It oll'ers great art, great food, and a great setting as a prelude to a great season." 
Contact Danielle Lerner at lem63ll@saintmarys.edu 








ORLD & NATION 
Friday, December 3, 2004 CoMPI LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ambassador appeals to Taliban 
KABUL, Afghanistan -The t0p U.S. offi­cial in Afghanistan called on the Taliban to give up their three-year insurgency, pledg­ing Thursday that most who surrender will be lef't in peace if they acknowledge the authority of President-elect Hamid Karzai. 
An estimated 100-150 Taliban leaders, inducting former head Mullah Omar, com­manders of the insurgency and those associ­ated with al-Qaida are ineligible for the offer. 
U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad said.he was working with Karzai's government on a reconciliation plan that could be expanded to include Afghans exiled by earlif1r conlliets. 
Young Afghans, in particular, should sur­render to village elders or U.S. troops as an "interim step" toward reintegration, he said. 
"There's no need to fight, to stay in the mountains. Afghanistan has entered a new stage," Khalilzad told reporters in the capi­tal. Kabul. "It's time for this to end." 
Iranians willing to suicide bomb 
TEIIHAN. Iran-Some 200 masked young men and women gathered at a Tehran cemetery Thursday to pledge their willing­ness to carry out suicide bomb attacks against Americans in Iraq and Israelis. 
TlHl ceremony was organized by the lleadquarters for Commemorating Martyrs of the Global Islamic Movement. a shadowy group that has since June been seeking vol­untrJers for attacks in Iraq and Israel. 
A spokesman, Ali Mohammadi, described the group meeting Thursday as the "first suicide commando unit," though another official has elaimed members already have carried out attacks in Israel. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Peterson described as friendly 
HEDWOOD CITY, Calif. -In testimony occasionally marked by tears from the defen­dant and his family, Scott Peterson's sister­in-law and friends described him as friendly, thoughtful and sincere Thursday as his attor­neys tried to persuade jurors to spare his life. 
Peterson appeared to weep softly at the defense table as his sister-in-law Janey Peterson testified, including when she told jurors about the first time she met his wife, Laci, whom Scott Peterson was convicted of murdering Nov. 12. 
"She took my breath away. She was just bubbly and fun and energetic and beautiful," she testified, while Scott Peterson's mother and sister also sobbed in the gallery. 
Great Lakes task force to meet 
CII!CAGO -Dozens of government officials plan to meet in Chicago on Friday to pledge to work together to protect, improve and restore the Great Lakes. 
In May, President Bush named a 10-mem­ber Cabinet-level task force, chaired by Environmental Protection Agency chief Mike Leavitt, to coordinate Great Lakes cleanup efforts among states, federal agencies and Canada. 
The General Accounting Office found last year that 33 federal and 17 state programs have spent more than $1.7 billion on the environmental restoration of the Great Lakes. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Woman celebrates lllth birthday 
MUNCIE -A woman celebrating her 111 th birthday said she credited her long life to good genes and growing up on a farm. 
Bertha Fry, whose birthday was Wednesday, said several relatives have lived past 90. Fry did plenty of work on the farm starting at a young age after her birth in 1893. 
"I believe that it started when I was very small," she told the Star Press. "My dad owned just a small farm. and there were no boys. The animals were my playthings and the articles he made for us." 

Bush rejects proposed delay 
Despite turmoil, president insists that Iraqi elections occur in January as planned 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush rejected calls for a delay in next month's Iraqi elections, insisting Thursday that the vote was too important to put off even though violence and chaos still grip much of the coun­try. 
"It's time for the Iraqi citi­zens to go to the polls," Bush said. 
Bush predicted Iraq's elec­tions would leave the world "amazed that a society has been transformed so quick­ly," but he did not explain why he was so adamant that balloting go forward as scheduled Jan. 30. 
A number of Iraqi political parties have urged delay. 
The president also weighed in on Ukraine's election crisis, saying more forcefully than before that other countries must not meddle as Ukraine sorts through its disputed vote and contemplates a new one. A runoff election last month sparked massive protests that have paralyzed the government. 
"I think any election, if there is one, ought to be free from any foreign influence," Bush said, raising the stakes in what has become a proxy battle between Washington and Moscow. Both govern­ments see the outcome as election in any country must 'The elections should not uncovered evidence that vital to their influence in the reflect the will of the people be postponed," he said. "It's Saddam Hussein's govern­region. and not that of any foreign time for the Iraqi citizens to ment raised more than 
Russian President government." go to the polls and that's why $21.3 billion in illegal rev­Vladimir Putin issued a simi­Bush spoke in the Oval we are very firm on the Jan. enue by subverting U.N. lar warning earlier this Office at the start of a meet­30 date." sanctions against Iraq, week. He said Ukraine's cri­ing with Nigerian President Bush's spokesman, Scott including the oil-for-food sis must be solved without Olusegun Obasanjo. McClellan, said elections are program. foreign pressure, though As for the Iraqi election, essential "to bringing about Bush did not answer two Putin continued Thursday to Bush last week said he a stable and peaceful and questions about whether play a high-profile role. In hoped the Jan. 30 balloting democratic Iraq." U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Moscow, Putin hosted would not be postponed, "This will be an important Annan should resign, as Sen. Ukrainian President Leonid even though 17 political par­milestone as they move Norm Coleman, R-Minn., has Kuchma, an ally of the ties in Iraq have urged the away from their past of urged. But he said a thor­declared winner, Prime interim government to put it tyranny and oppression and ough investigation was nec­Minister Vtktor Yanukovych. off for-at least six months. brutality," McClellan said. essary to ensure taxpayers 
Putin sharply criticized the Those groups want security On another subject, Bush can "feel comfortable" as the Ukrainian opposition's pro­at polling places to be steered gingerly around alle­U.S. government pays U.N. posal to hold a repeat elec­ensured. On Thursday, a gations of corruption in the dues. American dues to the tion, telling Kucbma that a Sunni political party official United Nations' oil-for-food United Nations this year are new vote "would yield noth­said his organization would program in Iraq, allegations $362 million, not including ing." push forward with that that first surfaced in payments to separate agen­
"We're watching very demand. January. Those charges have cies such as the IAEA, the carefully what is taking But Bush was firmer than escalated: Two weeks ago, a U.N. nuclear agency based place," Bush said. "But any ever. congressional investigation in Austria. 

Jury convicts, defrocks minister 
It then voted 7-6 to defrock Stroud, Denman. 
Associated Press 
the bare majority necessary in the Last March, a Methodist court in 
penalty phase of the trial, though her Washington state acquitted the Rev. 
PUGHTOWN, Pa.-A lesbian min­supportive congregation in Karen Dammann, who lives with a ister in the United Methodist Church Philadelphia has said Stroud can con­same-sex partner, citing an ambiguity who lives with her partner was found tinue performing most of her duties. in church law that the Methodist guilty Thursday of violating a church "I did not go into this trial expect­supreme court has since eliminated. ban on actively gay clergy and ing to win," Stroud said. "I went into The Methodists are just one of sev­defrocked. it knowing it would be a painful eral mainline Protestant denomina­
A 13-member jury made up of moment in the life of the United tions in the United States -including Methodist elergy convicted the Rev. Methodist Church." the Episcopal and Presbyterian Irene Elizabeth Stroud on the second Stroud has 30 days to decide churches -which are undergoing day of her church trial. Methodist law whether to appeal the verdict. turmoil over the role of gays and les­bars "self-avowed, practicing homo­The last time the 8.3 million-mem­bians in the church, particularly gay sexuals" from ministry. Nine votes ber denomination convicted an open­clergy. The Stroud case could easily were necessary for a conviction and ly gay cleric was in 1987, when a likely make the debate over the issue the jury voted 12-1 to find Stroud New Hampshire church court among Methodists that much more guilty. defrocked the Rev. Rose Mary intense. 
. / 

page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, December 3, 2004 


0~Wfi ~r3 CSfi[II1?09 0fil? tr®QDGl 0®®~0 am dJQD01? ll<V 0GJ®C!i? ®~tr09 

Sometimes your mind can play tricks on you. Uke when you think you're saving money ordering your textbooks online. But add in the shipping charges and an the time you spend waiting for delivery, and those "big savings" could disappear quickly. At efollett.com you can order yo\Jr books today and pid< them up at your campus bookstore tomorrow. And pay nothing for shipping. Now that's a real deal!, 
c No shipping charges ) HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKS'.lORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

,......--------------------------------­
Tt-··1 EOBSERVER 



·usiNESS
Friday, December 3, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
10,585.12 -5.10

Jones ,.,, ­
··up: Same: ~ Composite Volume: 1,259 151 • 1,772,512,000 

AMEX 1,402.85 -10.96 NASDAQ 2,143.57 +5.34 NYSE 7,074.82 -22.50 s&PSOO 1,190.33 -1.04 NIKK.fi(Tokyo) 11,090.03 +116.96 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,735.70 +32.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +4.01 +0.28 7.26 NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) +0.38 +0.15 40.07 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.69 -0.39 22.71 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.59 -0.16 27.09 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.28 -0.07 5.39 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.42 +0.21 50.48 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.50 +0.22 43.97 5-YEAR NOTE +0.75 +0.28 37.40 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 21.72 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.24 45.49 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -3.60 453.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.68 I 00.10 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 03.4000 EURO 0.7531 POUND 0.52 
IN BRIEF 
Judge signs Jiffy Lube settlement 
TULSA, Okla. -An Oklahoma judge approved a settlement Wednesday between Jiffy Lube International Inc. and millions of plaintiffs who sued over small fees the compa­ny charged on its oil changes. 
The agreement signed by District Judge Mike Norman settles at least nine similar law­suits from California to New Jersey over envi­ronmental surcharges Jiffy Lube charged oil change clients. 
A similar agreement has been reached in New York over the fees, which ranged from 80 cents to $1.25 at 400 company-owned stores and were as much as $2 at some stores owned by franchise holders. 
Under the deal, Jiffy Lube will provide more than 7 million customers of its company­owned stores with a coupon good for $5 off an oil change. The company also agreed not to charge the fees anymore. 
Also, Houston-based Jiffy Lube, a division of Royal Dutch/Shell Group, will tell owners of its franchises to notify customers in advance of the surcharge. Customers of franchise-owned stores do not get coupons. Not all the stores owned by franchise holders charged the fees. 
Dollar rallies after hitting record low 
NEW YORK -The dollar rallied after drop­ping to a record low Thursday against the euro amid uncertainty about whether officials would intervene to curb the currency's slide. 
The euro fell back to $1.3270 in high-volume trading late in New York after rising to $1.3383 in European trading: The previous record of $1.3335 was set Tuesday. 
The dollar also hit its lowest point in nearly five years against the Japanese yen, falling briefly in Tokyo to 101.83 yen -the U.S. cur­rency's lowest level since Jan. 8, 2000, when it was at 1 01.46 yen in Tokyo. It rebounded in late Nnw York trading to 103.19 yen. 
Traders attributed the dollar's rally to profit­taking, and to positioning ahead of Friday's release of U.S. employment data. 
"We've seen a lot of the dollar bulls coming into the market today," said Nas Nijjar, a foreign exchange trader with CMC Group in New York, noting that movement ahead of the Christmas h(J!iday tends to be slightly exaggerated. 

Retailers report sluggish sales 
Holiday season begins with disappointment as anticipated surge never arrives 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The nation's retailers had a disappointing start to the holiday season, reporting sluggish November sales as a much-hoped-for surge in Thanksgiving weekend business failed to materialize. 
As merchants released their first solid results for the season on Thursday, retailers issuing downbeat reports included Wal­Mart, Limited Brands and Federated. Even high-end stores like Nordstrom, which have enjoyed a sales surge over the past year, had modest gains .. 
Among the exceptions were J .C. Penney and Sears, Hoebuck, which surpassed Wall Street forecasts. Business was boosted by strong sales over the Thanksgiving weekend. as these stores successfully wooed cus­tomers with big discounts and earlier store openings. 
But overall. the industry struggled through the month. 
"This can't bode well for the holiday season," said Ken Perkins, an analyst at RetailMetrics Inc., a research firm based in Swampscott, Mass. 
Consumers, particularly low-and middle-income The tally is based on Analysts surveyed by percent. Americans, have been what the industry calls Thomson First Call expect­But Sears and Penney forced to cut spending on same-store sales, or sales ed 5.8 percent gain. Total had results that pleased clothing and other non­at stores opened at least a sales rose 7 percent. Wall Street. necessities as gasoline year. They are considered Limited Brands had a 5 Sears, which has been prices and grocery bills the best indicator of a percent decline in same­languishing in a sales rise. They're also nervous retailer's performance. store sales, far worse than slump and is merging with about jobs -on Tuesday, Wal-Mart, the world's the 4.8 percent increase Kmart Holdings Corp., the Conference Board largest retailer, reported a Wall Street expected. Total posted a 2.8 percent gain reported that consumer meager 0. 7 percent sales declined 2.9 percent. in its domestic business, confidence was down in increase in same-store Federated reported that much better than the 0.3 November for a fourth sales. Its total sales same-store sales were percent decline Wall consecutive month. increased 8. 7 percent. down 1.4 percent, well Street expected. Total 
The International Wal-Mart's results met below the 1.2 percent gain sales increased 1. 9 per­Council of Shopping Wall Street's forecasts that analysts had forecast. cent. Centers-UBS sales prelimi­were reduced earlier this Total sales declined 1.6 Penney had a 12 percent nary tally of 66 retailers week, after the discounter percent. increase in same-store increased 1. 7 percent for warned that its business Nordstrom had a 3.1 sales for the month, slight­November, lower than the the day after Thanksgiving percent gain in same-store ly beating Wall Street pro­reduced forecast of 2.5 was disappointing. sales in November, lower jections for a 11 percent percent to 3 percent Costco reported same­than the 5 percent fore­increase. Total sales range. store sales rose 5 percent. cast. Total sales rose 6.2 increased 9.2 percent. 

Dialysis chain settles fraud case 
As part of the settlement, the com­despite the allegations, the quality of
Associated Press 
pany will pay a $310.5 million civil care the company provided its penalty and $15 million to resolve patients "was never in question." 
ST. LOUIS -The nation's third­potential liability in 44 states. Also, a "We cooperated fully with the gov­largest operator of kidney-dialysis Gambro division, Gambro Supply Co., ernment to settle this matter and put clinics agreed Thursday to pay the pleaded guilty Thursday to federal behind us issues that arose during a government $350 million to settle fraud-r.elated charges, agreed to pay period of rapid and complex industry allegations it defrauded Medicare. a $25 million fine and will be perma­consolidation in the 1990s," Gambro 
The settlement with Gambro nently barred from the Medicare pro­president and chief executive Larry Healthcare was one of the biggest in gram. The ban does not apply to Buckelew said. Justice Department history. The Gambro Health care itself. For his part in the case, Bander investigation followed a 2001 lawsuit Martin said he does not know how will receive "a very significant pay­brought by whistleblower Dr. Steven much money overall Gambro alleged­out" of the settlement money being 
Bander, a former Gambro medical ly bilked from Medicare. He declined paid by Gambro, Martin said. officer. to say whether individual doctors Gambro is a unit of Sweden-based 
U.S. Attorney James Martin said could face prosecution. Gambro AB, with American head­that Gambro paid kickbacks to doc­Four years ago, the company and quarters in Denver and Nashville, tors for referrals to the company's two subsidiaries paid more than $53 Tenn. It provides about 6.5 million clinics, submitted inflated bills to million to settle similar fraud allega­dialysis treatments a year to more Medicare and charged for unneces­tions. than 40,000 kidney patients in 550 sary tests and services. In a statement, Gambro said that clinics nationwide. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, December 3, 2004 
Meyer as well. EW, then left Colorado The Palm Beach Post, Springs and landed in Salt

Meyer 

Dnseret Morning News and Lake City at 3:27 a.m. EST continued from page 1 The Salt Lake Tribune report­Friday. ed that Florida sent represen­Meyer is 21-2 in his two in Salt l.akn City at about 7 tatives to meet with Meyer. seasons at Utah. This ynar, 
p.m. EST. The Associated Tho Cators are looking to the Utes arc 11-0 and may Press reported that when rnplaen lwad coach Hon Zook, land a BCS Bowl berth. Meyer White and JPnkins arrived, fin~d in Octobnr. is a former assistant <·.oach at thny did not L<ilk to rPportnrs A corporate jet registered Notre Dame, where lw as tlwy t.ravPind to and l'rom to (;airwsvilln Aircraft Sales, coached wide n~ceivnrs l'r:om tl1e airport in an SUV with Inc. lnf't at lJ p.m. EST l'rom 19% to 2000. tinlnd windows. Gairwsvilln, Fla. to rty to 
Thn Univnrsity ol' Florida Colorado Springs, Co. ·i'bat Mall Bramanli contributed 1:ould havP an interest in plane. tailwiJJg number 9575 to this report. 
SENEGAL 

Bloody past haunts Rw-anda 
Country seeks revenge on nearby Congo 
Associated Press Namibia snnt forcns on b<~half public this week, wrote U.N. 
of Congo's government. and African leaders on Nov. 
DAKAH -Smaller but The war stalemated, with 25 that he hoped to havn any mightinr than its rwighbors, all sides plundering Congo's new operation in Congo end Hwanda's gn~atost clout may minnnil wealth, until interna­within 14 days. como l'rom its nightmare tional pressure foreed out the A key issue: Congo's lawless past: a widespread sons1~ fornign armies in 2002. east contains not <inly numer­around llw world that tlw On Thursday, U.N. ol'licials ous armed groups -but also country was largely aban­eitnd growing suspieions that fortunes in diamonds, gold. dorwd in 11)94 to faen llutu Hwandan forcns may have re­cobalt, copper and timbnr. nxtn~mists who slaughtered entered Congo. U.N. ground If Hwanda doesn't act, its 
morn than a hall'-million pno­and air patrols photographed leaders say. it risks nothing ple. recently oeeupied encamp­less than renewed genocidal Concluding that only action ments and unidentified, well­attacks. can sal'nguard its pnople, nquipped troops. U.N. Congo fears a renewed Hwanda is now thrnatoning observers said Lhny encoun­Hwandan occupation of its to invadn rwighboring Congo tered what they believed to cast, where most of the coUI1­for a third Lime -il' it hasn't bn 100 Hwandan troops at a try's estimated 3.2 million alrnady-in pursuit ol' thn town inside Congo -before war victims died, most civil­last r<~rnaining culprits from the suspected troops retreat­ians claimed by disease and that genocide. ed to Hwanda. famine. As ol' Thursday, the world U.N. Secretary-General Kofi The key question is how rnsponse has been muted. Annan and the Security much of a genuine threat the Somn bnlinvn guilt over the Council urged Rwanda Rwandan llutu rebels hiding inaction in 1994 likewise sti­Thursday to refrain from any in east Congo's forested, vol­lled intnrnalional objections military action in Congo. The canic hills still pose to whnn Hwanda invadnd Congo comments came after the Rwanda and its military ­in 1996 and 1998 -the lat­council held a closed-door widely respected as tough ter sparking a devastating briefing on the situation. and, by African standards, six-nation war. Hwanda on Thursday well-disciplined and well­In 1998, Hwandan and denied any incursions, but equipped. Ugandan forces seized and reserved the right to pursue held much of north and east the estimated 8,000-10,000 
firing. "Most of thn mentions wnren't of


Donors 
concern," she said. "They wore continued from page 1 sort of joking-there weren't really calls expressing concerns." 
limit donations or write letters llowevnr, at least one alumna to tho University, student workers said Willingham's firing would said. eausn lwr to snriously rnnvaluate 
"There have been some people her contributions to the University. who were excited," Phone Center "I think it showed a gross lack of student cmployne Danielle Palkert integrity," said 1979 alumna Jean said. 'There wen~ also people who Matich. weren't happy that it had been If she hadn't alrnady mailed a done because of how well Ty eon­check to the Univnrsily this yPar. duets himself.... I would say of Matich said she wouldn't send the pnoplc I talked to it was prob­one, and lwr and husband, also a ably 50-50." Notre Damn graduate, might con­
Palkert said at least onn alum­sidPr withholding future dona­nus shn talked with intended to tions. write a Iotter of complaint to the "I don't know -it may or it may University. not," she said about wlwther llw 
"I was definitnly surprised that it firing would causn lwr to curtail was so mixed," she said. donations. "I'm really anxious to 
Studnnt ealler Diana Duran said se.e .~lOW the University handles whiln alumni generally seemed tl11s. positive about tlH~ Mike Brach, a firing. othnrs erili­senior din~etor foi·
"for the most part
cized thn devnlopment at the University's judg­people were University, said ment. excited. Other news of the l'iring 
"For the most part did not appear to
callers had

people were excited. generatn signilkant­Other callers had complaints." ly altnred responses complaints," she from alumni to said. phone solicitations.
Diana Duran 

Of the alumni who lie said student
student caller

expressed concern, callers kfiep logs of some said they their eontaets with would takn action as a result, alumni and they did not show a according to Duran. strong shift. 
"I had another guy tell me he "We've not received any more sent a check and then cancelled it. !comments!. If you were to say .. . We also had people say 'we're how many refernnces the football not donating anymon~'." she said. program received in their calls 
The average two-hour shift compared to last week it probably ineludcs about 20 to 25 phone would've bnen about the same," eonversations with alumni, he said. according to Duran. But Brach said he could not 
In contrast, one alumnus told spPculate further on the impact of student caller .Janet Claseman he Willingham's firing for alumni planned to begin donating again donations. after a two-year hiatus Becausn of deadlinns for inclu­
"It was kind of a mixed feeling," sion in the alumni ticket lottery she said. "!But] a lot of people and tax returns, Brach said were happy." December was one of the busiest 
.Junior Gretchen Byars said the times of the year f<>r contributions. alumni she spoke with didn't tend to express strong sentiments Contact Teresa Fralish at either way about the Willingham tfralish@nd.edu 
A Special Tour ...
Congo on the grounds that Rwandan Hutu rebels still rebel groups there threat­sheltering in east Congo. And 
Basilica of Sacred Heart at Notre Dame
ened regional security. Hwandan President Paul Zimbabwe, Angola and Kagame, in a letter made 

Thankyou ~ 
Michelle McCarthy· And the Class of 2006 for the WIN'TER H.OLlDAY 

Parents Night Out! 
Happy Holidays from· your favorite kids on campus 


for the 
and their parents at University Village 
International Students, Scholars and their Families


Now leasing 
Sunday, December 5, 2:30p.m.
quality houses 
Fr. Peter Rocca, CSC, Rector ofthe Basilica, will share with you
close to campus for the 2005/6 
stories and descriptions of this very special place at the heart of the University. Reception follows. Bring your friends and families!
and 2006/7 school years. 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry
Call Sean at 

Fischer, 0 'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences International Student Services & Activities

Anlan Properties 
University Village 
CM
574-532-1895 

r--.--.~ 
L·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 

THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
Friday, December 3, 2004 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Mcghanne Downes Mike flanagan 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR Joe Hettler 
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger Vmwi'OINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROLUR: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO (574) 63I-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574} 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EOITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 6J 1-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK ('i74) 631-4543 sportS. I @nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
,.. , . .s.rpc.l @nd.e,du•. , .

. .
~. 
' PHOTO DESK f' . •>lq;: (574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 


OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du l.ac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

I hr ( l~ {U~P~ S9') 2-401Rl) is puhli~hcd ~ ft•nday through Friday a.:ccpr -during t""nm :llld ~·o~c.Jtion pt·nuck A sub~cripriontn '!lie~ OU!iCrvcr i~ $~00 ti>r om: .~eaclemk year;$)') lor onc !>tmntcr. The-(ll'l'l~·rvl't i~ ,, rru:mht:r uf rhc.: A..._•,ut i.ncd Prc~s.. All rcprudncdnn rights art 
tl~t'tved. 
Ibt· t1h~r;rvo:"t i!> puhlilllwd ;tt: 1~0. BoxQ 024 Sumh Dmin~ H.11l 024 SoUth Dining Hall Num D.un~. IN 46116-0n<J Notrt' D;unc, IN 46556-0779 l'rnndi.::1l pt'~fJgt' p;~i.! .n ~Oth· Damt' ;uu\ addttinu.ll mailing nffic,..,, 
J'( l~T\1.'\~ rER St·n1l ,,,hJr,-..~ \·nrrc.;lion~ w: l"ln·tll.,..t·rvn 
The Olmrvcr i~o a. tnemhc:r orthe Asso(;i.ned Pres.,. All reproduction tighrs an: rl·\crwd. 
Ty made Notre Dame a better place 
Class is a dwindling commodity in the college football universe. At many schools, coaches and administrators turn a blind eye to players and recruiters who scoff at NCAA regulations, bending the rules in pursuit of dollars and fame. 
Not so at Notre Dame. The University spent decades culti­vating the reputation of a football program that exemplified integrity at every level ­from the helmet-sprayers to the walk-ons to O Th 
oserver
the starters to the head coach. hiring also inspired black faculty and admin­This reputation took a hit with the George istrators at the University, as well as Irish O'Leary hiring, then firing fiasco in December fans across the country who turned on NBC

Editorial 
2001, and sank further in March 2002 when four Irish football players were charged with offenses ranging from rape to conspiracy to commit rape. The class that had been Notre Dame's trademark was beginning to fade. 
Enter Tyrone Willingham. 
As the program's new figurehead, the coach knew it fell to him to return the Irish to respectability off the field as well as on it. He knew that image problems are not accept­able at Notre Dame. So he eliminated them -by example. 
His players quickly learned that he expected their con­duct to be as impeccable as his own, their dedication to be as steadfast. Their respect for their coach was evident, and many tried to imitate his professionalism. 
This mission was not just confined to the locker room. Willingham's goal was not just to produce classy football players-it was to produce classy young men. He also suc­ceeded on that front, as the team's overall GPA rose admirably .during his three years at the University, and his recruits seem to !'it the Notre Dame mold of true student-on Saturdays and saw a face like their own. 
But unfortunately, Saturdays were also the problem because at Notre Dame, you need to do both. As athletic director Kevin White put it in his Tuesday press confer­ence, "We just were not meeting those programmatic or competitive expectations on Saturday. But I think I need to say, as I was thinking about it this morning, from Sunday through Friday, our football program has exceeded all expectations in every way." 
At a University known for its integrity and class, the coach brought back up to speed a football program that was lagging in both. At a University with dflmanding aca­demic standards, he motivated his team to embrace and meet them. At a University with a distinctive character, his own never wavered. 
The Notre Dame family knows that it was better off with him as one of its members. 
That's why -even though Willingham the coach stum­bled on Saturdays -Willingham the man will bfl sorf'ly missed at Notre Dame. 
Reserve judge111ent for future 
Notre·Dame nourishes because it is a family that is sup­ported by and demands integrity, loyalty, faith, love, char­.acter and leadership. . Notre Dame football flourishes when its family is equally obliged to develop quality, value-driven young men. 
The football program is an integral component of this 
University, and as such, it should be committed to the 
University's core values. 
llowever, regardless of how strong the bonds are within 
the football family and how committed players are to meet­
ing the expectations of their coaches both on and off the 
f1eld, Notre Dame demands a union of winning and strong 
character. When one of these two components 
suffers, a change needs to occur. 
The Notre Dame leadership was at a cross­OJhe 
athletes. 

It also didn't hurt that the program's visible strides took place under a visible coach. Willingham was Notre Dame's first black head coach in any sport, a heartening move by a University with a vastly white student population. And while white students certainly embraced him -from the "1812 Overture" salute to "I heart TY" T­shirts -many ethnic minority students felt a special bond with the coach. Willingham's 
userver
roads Monday evening and Tuesday morning It is trapped by a web that pulls it in all -likely weighing what Notre Dame is about directions -with pressure coming from the and what its football program stands for -fervent Irish football nation, the "victory is


Editorial
and it appears that the seven de.cision makers did not ponder this situation lightly. 
Notre Dame history shows that coaches who do not meet expectations within three years do not reach those expec­tations later in their Notre Dame careers. It has been 16 years since the last national championship. It has been 11 years since Notre Dame legitimately was a member of the college football elite on the field. And it has been eight years since this program had a coach who proved he could bring the team to the glory its storied tradition demands. 
The factors that drive the college football machine do not necessarily match the pillars that uphold this institution. Notre Dame values both academics and sports, and thus has been unique in the way its program has functioned within the machine. However, Notre Dame football cannot sacrif1ce one of its two supports for the other. It demands excellence in both. 
Tyrone Willingham learned that the hard way. 
Did the former Irish head coach develop the moral char­acter of his players, command the respect of his players, guide this team towards two winning regular seasons, earn the right to play in two bowl games and coach his players to defeat two top-1 0 teams this year? Yes. 
Did Willingham coach a team that lost to rival Southern California three times by 31 points, suffered five losses by at least a 30-point margin, saw the all-time college football winning percentage slip away? Yes. 
Did Willingham fail to consistently attract top talent to Notre Dame and compile a squad that won just 11 of 18 home games during his tenure? Yes. 
Notre Daine athletic director Kevin White acknowledged these factors Tuesday. "From Sunday through Friday; our football program has exceeded all expectations, in every way ... Tyrone has done some wonderful things," White said. "But on Saturday we've struggled." 
Willingham himself said, "I understand that I didn't mee·t the expectations or standards that I set for myself in this program." Notre Dame football is not a program that rests easily with failed expectations. 
necessary" benefactors, the impatient stu­dents and the Holy Cross brass. 
Faced with the dilemma of putting faith in a coach who has a history of inconsistency -for example, at Stanford -on Saturdays or pursuing an appealing coach from a field of prospectives, Notre Dame had to make a quick decision. The opportunities were ripe for Notre Dame to pick at this time and the University took the gamble that Tyrone Willingham could put this program back on the map of the football elite. 
Whether Notre Dame, the football program is diverging from Notre Dame the institution remains to be seen. The unpopularity of this decision should not have been unex­pected, but judgment should be reserved to see how the sit­uation develops and what happens next to Notre Dame football. 
Can Notre Dame football remain Notre Dame football when its strings are manipulated by "just win" pressure instead of its established tradition and loyalty? That ques­tion may be premature. The Willingham decision could be a unique situation, and it is unfair to predict now if Notre Dame will become a coaching carousel or a football factory. One thing is clear now -the coach hired next must embrace and further the values of both Notre Dame, the institution and Notre Dame, the football program. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 


OBSERVER POLL 
Amanda Michaels Matt Puglisi Eileen Duffy Bobby Griffin 
Should Notre Dame have accepted Maddie Hanna Kate Seryak the Insight Bowl bid'~ 
Viewpoint Scene 

a. Yes, since it is a bowl game Alyssa Becca Saunders b. Yes. Notre Dame still gets money 
c. No. Notre Dame is better than this bowl 
Brauweiler Illustrator 

d. No, Notre Dame doesn't deserve a bowl 
Graphics Graham Ebetsch e. Both yes's 
f. Both no's
Graham Ebetsch 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on I ,235 responses. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The man who regards life ... as meaningless is not merely unfortunate but almost disqualified for life." 
Albert Einstein physicist 



THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, December 3, 2004 
Caring for our common home 
Intellectual diversity benefits every student 
Tlw Columhia Hivor winds for 1,200 miles from British Columbia, through Washington and Oregon and into tho Pacifk Ocean. It irrigates dnsnrt regions of Eastern Washington. producing many of tlw apples found in 
John lnfranca

markets nationwide. 
Its water turns tlw 
Dissident

turhirws of mighty 
Poetry

dams, producing tdt>c­
tricity for honws and 
factories throughout tlw n~gion. Tlw 
river providl's amplt• opportunities for 
nwreation, from boating to fishing to 
hoardsailing. 
Yl'l tlwse hPnl'fits 1·onw with a prin~. For decades salmon populations in tlw n•gion have hl'l'n dl'cirnatml. lnading many SJWries onto tlw Pndangnrmllist. Industry and agrirultum have rnlnased ovPr I million tons of 1~arcinogens din~et­ly into tlw riwr tmrh year, making it orw of tlw most rontaminatl'd in tho nation with rngards to t·.anrl'r-rausing aw~nts. Tlw !Ianford Nurlt•ar Sitn, which utilizns river water as a coolant. has lnaknd sub­stant.iallnvnls of radioactivn materials into tlw rivPr. 
As this occurs. litrnwrs. lislwrman, Native Anwrir.ans. loggm·s and others labor to providP for their families in ways that aw oftPn in seemingly unavoidahln nmllict. In 200 I thn Catholic Bishops of thn Pacific Northwest rnllnctPd on this f'ragiiP landscapP with the pastoralletl!~r. "Tho Columbia Hivnr Watnrslwd: Caring for Creation and tho Common Good." Tlw IPttor eonsidors tlw ecological and neonomie eoneerns of the region and seeks to hring tlwse malitins into conversation with Catholic Soeial To;u~hing. It's calls for "a thorough, hum­ble, and introspective nvaluation that sneks to eliminate both neonomie greed that fails to rnspnct the mJVironmont, and neologiral elitism that laeks a proper regard for the legitimate rights and property of others." 
The letter follows in a rather reeent tradition of Catholic teaching on the environment. In 1990 Popn John Paul II wrotn "The Ecological Crisis: A Common Hnsponsihility." in which he spoke of the threat to world pmtee caused by a 
lack of dun respect for nature. 
dwindling resources and exae­lin prnsnntnd the ecological nrbating environmental 
crisis as a moral problnm and stressed the need for a heightened nmphasis on "sirn plieity, moder­ation and discipline, as wnll as the spirit of sacrifkn" all ol' which "must bneomn a part of nvnryday life." Unlike many othnr "moral issues," environmental concern chal­lnngns those who claim it to rejnct the excess of our dominant societal living patterns and make needed sacri­fices. 
In the following year the U.S. Catholic Bishops wrotn their own lottcr on 
the environment. "Henewing 
Confederaey lived by the credo 
the Earth" stressnd thnt mistreat­
rnent of the natural world diminishes our own dignity and sacrodncss and con­
tradicts what it moans to be human. Our past behavior demands we realizn opportunities for forgiveness and recon­ciliation by recognizing our failures and sins. 
To speak of our past treatment of the environment as sinful is a rather strong choice of words, but it points to the unique perspective Catholicism and Christianity more broadly ean oll'er to discussions regarding the environments. As stewards of creation humans have much to senk forgiveness for, having wrecknd tremendous havoc on the natu­ral environment. Our ecological footprint 
grows constantly largnr, causing 
blights. Churches offer an important avenue for challenging religious and other individuals to take seriously the 
limits of our com­mon r·esourcns and the need to share 
our fragile planet with other life forms. We live in a web of life of which we remain but a part. 
Heligions also oll'er a way to move our ethical 

eonsiderations for-. ward into the future, showing concern for the unborn generations who must inhabit the world we will leave bohind. Tho Iroquois 
that "In our every deliberation we must consider the impact of our deci­sions on the next seven generations." Christians and other people of faith must recognize our urgent responsibilities to the ereator who gave us the world and the generations who will inherit it li·om us. Catholic social teaching offers a framework through which to begin this thought process and invite others into it. 
This voice is needed more then ever 
today. This Tuesday the Bush adminis­
tration announeed a proposal to dramat­
ically decrease protoctions for salmon 
and stenlhead trout throughout the West 
Coast, potentially rPducing prot!~cted 
habitat by 80 percent to 90 porennt. 
Earlier this year tho administration 

om~rnd a proposal to count millions of' 
fish raised in hatchPrins and relmtsed 
into thn wild as wild fish. Doing so would 
reduce the nnnd to ktwp truly wild 11sh 
on the ondangnred spncins list. 

lncidnntally, tlw tnrrn "wild" is dnfirwd 
as "grown or producnd without lurrnan 
aid." It is worth noting that all known 
lish hatdwrins arn etriTPnt.ly opnratNI by 
hunians. 

On Tunsday tlw Bush administration 
also ruled out tho possibility of' rnmoving 
fndPral dams on tlw Columbia and SnakP 
Hivnrs. Whiln tlwrn is dnbatn over 

wlwther the curwnt situation demands 
irnrnNiiatn n~moval of' tlwse dams, most 
agrne tlw darns do caust~ major darnagP 
to !ish populations and their removal 
must rnrnain an option. 

Tho U.S. Catholie Bishops and tlw Vatican offer an approach to tho nrwi­ronnwnt that calls for rnspnetful dia­logue among diverse parties and rejects "unilateral answers" that unfairly bone­lit particular parties and stifle dialogue. This approach challnngns individuals to make the sacrifices nncessary to show respect for creation and its Creator. It demands that faithful eitizens and mnrn­bers of the global community consider "moral issuns" that will profoundly eiTeet countless future generations. 
John lnfranca is a theology graduate student. !lis column appears every ot.lwr Friday. lie can be reached at }in fran 1 @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces-
Hocent studies on higher odueation have lent nrnpirical evidence to the familiar notion that university professors tend to be ovnrwlwlrningly libnral. One survny of 1,000 professors in tho human­itios and social sci-

Bill Rinner

tmeos found a soven­
to-orw ratio of 
A Voice of

l>mnoerats to 
Hepublieans, which is 
Reason 

twice the ratio as a similar survey indicated nearly thirty years ago. A more spocifie study of Univnrsity of' California-Berkeley and StanliJrd University found a 9:1 ratio, and junior faculty (assistant and assod­atn prof'nssors) numbers discovered a whopping 183 Democrats and six Hnpublieans, indicating the trend is self­pnrpntuating. (;rantnd, party afliliation serves nwrely as a proxy for ideology, but it is a rnlativdy accurate one nonethelnss. 
The tellward tilt of aeadomia is about as enrtain as death and taxns, but this column can only begin to address tho underlying eauses behind the phenome­non. Expnrieneod academies have offen~d morn detailed explanations underlying the trend, ranging from Allan Bloom's firsthand historkal aeeount to snide daims about tho intellnetual inferi­ority of conservatives. Duke University's philosophy department chair Robert Brandon gained notoriety when he dairned conservatives are scarce in aca­demia bncause stupid people are more likely to be conservative. 
While this daim may seem plausible for those who wish to reaffirm their politieal stance with intellectual snob­bery, it hardly scrapes the surface of the root cause. The most likely faetor is that the choice between aeademia and the private soetor leads to self-selecting dis­tribution along ideological lines. When brilliant young college graduates deeide between entering a market that will like­ly yield high monetary awards and trudging through five more years of graduate school with limited finaneial ineentives on the horizon, conservatives are likely to follow the former route 
and liberals the latter. 
and tenure-traek levels due to Exceptions certainly exist, as my own inexperienee, but many liberals seek to reap most professors seem to the benefits of capitalism aecept the reality that and many conserva-conservative students 
tives pursue careers 
arc not an ignorable as professors, but minority on campus. psyehological trends As my undergrad­certainly explain uate career winds part of the distribu­
down, I realize that tion. 
I have expanded A more ominous 
my own mind by explanation lloated 
seeking challenges by activists 
to my political bemoaning liberal 
views. I ean read gridlock is that the 
Hayek, Friedman, aeademy has devel­and National Review oped an institution­in my spare time, alized bias that sys­but taking nearly two tematically discour­semesters of Hawlsian ages conservatives philosophy forces me to from entering their reconeile my opinions ranks in more than token with robust opposition. numbers. Empirieal studies 
Many conservative students will likely never yield conclusive lament taking classes from pro-
proof that hiring or tenure commit-toes routinely discriminate based on pol­itics, but intolerance of conservative viewpoints or attempts at indoctrination do occur when Ivory Tower insulation creates an unbridgeable gap between students and teaehers. When professors are comfortable enough to inject politi­cal rants into the classroom that hardly pertain to the course material, one can scarcely imagine what oceurs behind closed doors. 
Notre Dame is a small-time offender at worst. in my experience. By and large, professors respect viewpoints that eon­llict with their own and invite healthy disagreement inside and outside the classroom. I can scareely claim that 
internal bias persists at the graduate 
fessors whose politics squarely diverge from their own, but they do not realizo that understanding conflicting ideas gives them an upper hand in intel­lectual debates. 
The strongest argument that profes­sors should balance course materials between conservative and liberal analy­ses is that every student deserves to read and discuss works that directly eonlliet with their world views. If a stu­
dent arrives at No.tre Dame already 

revering Howard Zinn as a brilliant and 
aceurato historian, then he or slw could 
benefit from a dass that teaches 
Edmund Burke and Alexis de 

Tocqueville. Put simply, if liberal aca­
demics hopn for the success of students 
who share their polities, they should not 
merely spoon-feed familiar arguments 
but diversify their syllabus. 

Mark Bauerlein reeently penned an artide for tho Chronicle of lligher Edueation entitled "Liberal <;roupthink is Anti-Intellectual," helping to facilitate a look in the mirror amongst those will­ing to view the roflnetion. lie explains that "some lields' very eonstitutions rnst on progressive polities and make it clear from the start that eonsorvativo outlooks will not do." The institutional atmos­phere of many departments almost pre­cludes the indusion of eonservative or libertarian views, so legislative aetion to balance departments would be entirely countP.rproductive. 
Instead, academies who are serious about increasing the plurality of intellec­tual and political stances should eneour­age their eountcrparts to diversify tho curriculum. Not only will conservative students realize that aeademia welcomes their opinions, but every student will be able to grapple with challenges that allow them to rethink and roaflirm their existing views. 
Bill Rinner is a senior economics major. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached at hottline@aol. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
-------~~----------------------------------­


Tf-lE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Friday, December 3, 2004 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Standing in favor of Willingham 
Identity lost 
I am appalled and ashamed that Notre Dame released Tyrone Willingham Tuesday, with two years remaining on his contract. 
In a Washington Post article Thursday morning, athletic director Kevin White is quoted as lauding the integrity and aca­demics of the program under Willingham. Yet it seems only winning on Saturdays count. Patience is not a virtue Notre Dame practices. We will not even meet our own contractual commitments to a 5-year period to allow Willingham to build a program. 
I was once proud of my alma mater's football program and, win or lose, its emphasis on clean play and academic stan­dards. When talking of sports and Notre Dame, I would often speak to friends and colleagues about that emphasis and how Notre Dame balanced athletics, academics and spirituality­each firmly entrenched in the University culture. Willingham personified that balance and showed great dedkation to the young men who will go on in life without football, but with col­lege degrees. 
I am now appalled and ashamed that we have placed winning as our number-one priority and treated Willingham so badly. We have lost our identity and our hallowed place in athletics to join the ranks of other football factories. 
Nicholas Matich alumnus class of 1981 and 1982 Dec. 2 


Alumni did not cause firing 
Michael Wilbon's col-umn "Notre Dame's True Colors" [in the Dec. 1 The Washington Post] spoke many truths flavored with some significant inaccuracies. No doubt "the powers that be" must have had Tyrone Willingham in their sights, or he would still be employed. But to claim the alumni and students just tolerated Willingham is an outright falsehood. A quick glance at Wednesday's edition of The Observer indicates the outrage of the students. As an alumnae who keeps in touch with many classmates, I can assure you the outrage is widespread among us as well. As luck would have it, I received a call from the University soliciting donations the day after Willingham was fired. When I told them I was so ashamed of their actions that if I hadn't already sent my check I wouldn't be sending one, the student making the call said he had been hearing the same thing all night. Sometimes even great institutions make mistakes. I am sorry to say I agree Notre Dame just made a colossal one, but it was not at the behest of the alums. 
Jean M. Benedett Matich alumnus class of I 979 Dec. 2 


I am writing to express dismay at the summary dismissal of Tyrone Willingham. Actions do speak louder than words, and in one ill-considered action we have erased much of the moral standing the University has worked so diligently to proclain1 and embody. By not giving Willingham the customary five or six years to prove his efleetiveness, we have sacri­fimd the principles of fairness and respect for per­sons to the most pernicious philosophy afloat in our society at this moment-"just win at all costs." Is this really what we want to communicate to students and to the world at large? 
Firing a faculty member who has been celebrated as a superb teacher and a sterling representative of the University undermines the core values for which we stand. What is additionally dismaying about tllis particular unjust action is that in disnlissing Willingham we also have removed from the faculty our most pronlinent black spokesperson. His pres­ence on the faculty has been of immeasurable assis­k'tnce in our ability to recruit diverse students, facul­ty and adnlinistrators to our campus. His removal will surely damage our efforts to realize one of our most oft-stated but elusive goals. 
Stephen Fredman English department chair Dec. 2 

Termination will hurt diversity 
The Black Alumni of Notre Dame (BA ofND) is both shoekcd and disappointed with the University's decision to let Tyrone Willingham go tlrree years prior to the end of his contra(:i. The decision made by the administration is both premature and unpreeedented. It disregards his outstanding first season, off-field success and increased integrity and academic strides among our football players. 
The University's decision is about more than just football. In hiring Willingham, the University dis­played an unspoken commitment to ethnic diversity and an open mind to hire the best regardless of color. In firing him before the end of his contract, the University sends anoilier message entirely. This deci­sion will affect the black community more than ilie University might anticipate in areas of recruiting, student and faculty retention and Alumni participa­tion and contributions in the future. 
In just a few years, Willingham has captured our utmost respect as a coach to the football team and as a man to the entire Notre Dame community. Unfortunately, we have already witnessed some neg­ative effects ofthe University's decision and expect these and more negative ramifications of the University's decision in the future. The BA of ND Board will be available to assist the University in repairing the damage resulting from this decision because of our commitment to Notre Dame. 
Danielle D. Boucree Chairperson, Black Alumni of Notre Dame Dec. 2 

Do not justify mediocrity 
Majority misrepresented 
I rnally hate how Tyrone Willingham's firing is being spun into a blight on the When Tyrone Willingham was dismissed from his coaching responsibilities at University's character. Somehow, by firing a coach, Notre Dame has abandoned 
Notre Dame, many people were shocked and upset, according to the ptess. da'is, abandoned honor, abandoned integrity and in fact abandoned any cares While I have the utmost respect for him, I was not one of these people. about our football program and players other than that they win? Winning_ I, however, am shocked and upset by the way the media is handling and cla'>s are not mutually inconsistent. I'm sure we'll expect our next coach this situation. For the most part, the media, including ESPN and even 
to have class, too. 
But winning is a big part of the job, and that's exactly the way it should be. We shouldn't sacrifice classiness, dignity and honor. But why should we usn those as a crutch, forcing us to accept mediocrity? If you lose a competition, it's good to be able to reflect on that loss and say "at least I lost with dignity." It may even be good to think "better to lose with dig­nity than to win poorly." But have we now reached ilie point where we would railier lose with dignity than win at all? 
That is a defeatist attitude iliat accepts mediocrity and attempts to justify mndiocrity as good. That attitude prevents a realistic assessment of problems and solutions. And I guarantee you, that attitude is not held by the people we revere, the people who accompli<;h their goals, the peo­ple who change ilie world. Instead, it is the attitude of the self-righteous loser who doesn't want to change. 
Lou Holtz once told us not to lower our standard. I remember people who wore that shirt around campus, proudly bearing its message -we The Observer, has been misrepresenting the opinion of the majority. According to these news outlets, most people did not want 

Willingham to be fired and were very happy with Notre Dame's mediocrity in football. While I have not taken a poll of all the peo­ple who have an opinion on this subject, I feel very confident in 
saying the majority does not feel this way. Ask most alumni, read Notre Dame internet sites like NDNation, and you will see the majority actually was happy with this decision. 
I may not be a professional journalist, but I do know a thing or two about journalism. One thing I do know is that the news is supposed to be objective not sided as it has been in this case. It 
seems as if they have been hunting and pecking to find the inter­views that support the point they want to stress, that Willingham 
should not have been let go. I'm not asking The Observer, ESPN or any news outlet to just report on what the true majority feels, but on both sides. Instead of merely interviewing or printing letters from 
should set our goals high and never compronlise iliem. Yet now, it seems that Notre Dame "fans" (and I use that term very loosely) that know little to some people are not only eager to lower the standard, but they don't even want 
nothing about college football or Notre Dame's football history and tradi­the standard anymore. That, more ilian any of the football team's losses this year, is tion, throw in a few that represent the other side, what I and most others a disgrace. feel is the true majority. 
Mike Romano 

Ellen Fitzgerald alumnus 
alumnae class of 2004 
class of2003 Dec. 2 
Dec.2 

Tt····IE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Friday, December 3, 2004 
The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company presents'As You Like It' 
One ofShakespeares lesser-known comedies is performed by a student group 
By MARIA SMITH 
Seem· Fditor 

It would IH' unfair to say a ShakPspearPan play. whirh is pPrformPd IPss freqtH•nt.ly than its compan­ions. dons not dnsnrvn more attPntion. The collection of Sha kPSJH'arpan works contains many faseinating storins and rharactPrs that arP largPiy OVPrlookml in pPrformanrPs and litPratun~ classPs. 
Among the Shakespearean plays, ·"As You Likn It" probably falls around tho middle of the spectrum for how well it is known and how often it is per­fornwd. This is probably exactly where it should be. The play has sonw mem­orable pieces, but as an entire work, it is not as compelling as the morn popu­lar omwdies. 
The plot of tlw play is 
not as wPII known or as 
distinctive as some. Wlwn the usurpnr Duke Ferdinand banislws his niece Hosalind from his court. she f'lnes to woods where her ban­ished father, Duke s.~nior, also livns in hid­ing, disguised as a boy. Slw takes tlw nanw of Canymedt1. ller cousin Celia, the Duke's daughter and Hosalind 's close friend. !lees with lwr and adopts tlw role or (;anynwdn's sis­tnr under thn name of Aliena. The l~ourt jester, Touchtone, accompa­nies them to the woods. 
Ilownver. before flee­ing to the woods, Hosalind had fallen in love with Orlando, thi1 younger son of the recently deceased Sir Howland de Bois, a close friend of Duke Senior. Orlando, whose older brother Oliver refuses to grant him his inheritance or birthright, has also retreated to the woods. lin begins tacking poor­ly composed but utterly sincere love poetry to Hosalind on the forest trees, where his lover and her friend eventually encounter and read his verses. l{osalind, still in disguise, begins to act in the role of matchmaker for her love and the other people she encounters in the woods. 
The scene in which Jaques utters the line, "All the world's a stage, and all 



The two central female friends, Rosalind, left, and her cousin Celia, help each other through the confusion of love and and fighting family in "As You Like It." 
the men and women merely players" may be the onn every audience member will rncognize. The lord who is inclined to melancholy and unable to participate in 
AsYou Like It 


A comedy by William Shakespeare Director: Meghann Tabor Starring: Elizabeth Grams, Justin Smith, Sarah Loveland, Marty Schroeder, Jeff Eyerman, April Flores, Kevin McCarthy, Ian Novick and Tom Sutton Stage Manager: AnaMarie Ortiz 
the frolil~king of the otlwr men and womPn in tlw forest may not have achinvnd fanw as a charartPr, but is distinguishml by thn line which has pPrhaps eome to charaetnrize Shakespnan~ better than any other. 
Hosalind is also remnmbnrnd as one of ShakespParn's wittier and more gracpful lwroinP. In tlw guisn of Ganymedn slw instructs lwr lovPr and thP other men and wonwn around lwr in tlw ways of love. UnlikP Jaques who can obsnrvn lovn but not participatn, shn falls for its folly in lwr own right and pnjves hersnlf rwither a lwpPIPss fool nor a staunch critic. 
"As You Likn It" is not tlw best pnrforrnancn tlw company has nver put on, but dons not lack its nwr­its. The cast sornntinws gds tripped up with tlw meaning of the language, and sinco tlw play is not one with whkh most studnnts are familiar. it is mon• diffieult to follow tlw dnvnloprnnnt of t.lw plot and figure out nxaetly who all thn eharaetnrs arn. Snvnral scenes seomnd as though thn east had rushed 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Friday, December 3, 2004 
page 13 

through them without really exam­ining their deeper import, and the characters were not as distinct as they might have been. Severalof the wittier dialogues of the play also seem rushed. 
Hosalind is the saving grace of the play, which is perhaps as it was intended to be. Elizabeth Grams seems more constrained in the dothes of a woman than the guise of a man, emphasizing the freedom that seems to come with donning the clothes, not just of another person, but of another gender. Hosalind may charm Orlando in skirts, but she charms everyone, including the audinnce, in pants, hat and a jacket. Even Orlando seems to enjoy the process of learning to woo with the aid of the playful youth. Even the dialogue between Celia and Hosalind seems to carry hints of a lovers' sen­timent. Critics have raised the ques­tion of homoeroticism in a play where love and gender bending are so loosely mixed, and Graham's per­formance brings the theme out sub­tly but not imperceptibly. 
If you are particularly fond of Shakespeare you might want to take advantage of this chance to add to the list of plays with which you are familiar. If you want to see Not So Hoyal in its true luster, it would be better to wait for another perform­ance. Or you can disregard the opin­ions of a critic and watch the adven­ture of another set of Shakespearean characters yourself-just as you like it. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith@nd.edu 

Christmas Cookies for the holidays 
Don't wait for Moms Christmas cookies, make some ofyour own 
By MAUREEN MALLOY Scene Writer 
In my opinion, one of the best holiday traditions is baking Christmas cookies. This activity leads to my absolute favorite activity -eating Christmas cookies. If you're anything like me and can't wait to get home to indulge in your Mom's gingerbread or snickerdoodles, organize a simple cookie exchange party. Invite your friends (prefer­
-ably ones who aren't hopeless in the kitchen since you're going to be eating what they baked!) to each bring a batch of their favorite cookies and the recipe for swap­ping at the party. With some Christmas music playing the background, have each baker tell a little about their recipe before digging into the cookies. Also make sure to have plenty of hot cocoa, tea or coffee to wash down all treats. Try to resist from eat­ing all the cookies, and that way each party attendee gets to take home a variety of holiday treats that will be something to hold on to during finals. If you don't have any Christmas cookie recipes, or are looking for a new favorite, try some of these yummy goodies. 
Coconut Oatmeal Cookies 
1 1/4 cups butter, softened 3/4 cup packed brown sugar 1/2 cup white sugar 1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking soda 2 1/2 cups rolled oats 3/4 cup flaked coconut 1 cup white chocolate chips 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (17 5 degrees C). In a medium bowl, cream together butter, brown sugar and white sugar. Mix in the egg and vanilla. Combine flour and baking soda; blend into creamed mixture. Stir in the rolled oats, coconut and white chocolate chips. Drop dough by rounded tablespoons onto un-greased cookie sheets. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes in preheated oven, or until lightly browned. Cool on wire racks. 
Recipe courtesy of Claire Kalpakjian, Copyright© 2004; www.allrecipes.com. 
All Rights Reserved 
Devil's Food Cookies 
1 box (18 1/4 ounces) devil's food cake mix 2 eggs 1/4 cup hot coffee or hot water 1/2 cup vegetable Qil 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 cup semisweet chtJ'tolate pieces 1 cup chopped pecans 3/4 cup bits of chocolate-toffee candy Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. 
Combine cake mix, eggs, coffee, oil and flour in large bowl. Beat on low speed until all ingredients are moistened; then beat on high speed for 2 minutes. 
Dough will be sticky. Fold in chocolate pieces, pecans and candy until evenly dis­tributed. Using about half of the batter, drop by heaping tablespoonfuls onto un­greased baking sheet, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake for 12 to 14 minutes. Let the cookies cool on the baking sheet on a wire rack for 4 to 5 minutes or until firm. With a metal spatula, transfer the cookies to the wire rack to cool. Repeat with the remaining batter. Serve slightly warm or store in an airtight container for up to 2 weeks. 
Recipe courtesy of Family Circle. Copyright© 2004 Television Food Network, 
G.P., All Hights Reserved 
Peppermint Hot Chocolate 
1 1/2 cups heavy cream 1 1/2 cups milk 1/4 cup sugar 1/8 teaspoon salt 6 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped 3 drops peppermint oil Sweetened whipped cream, for garnish Chocolate shavings, for garnish 
In a saucepan, combine the cream, milk, sugar and salt. Heat over medium-low heat. When the cream mixture just begins to -steam, add the chopped chocolate and stir until melted. Stir in the peppermint oil. Divide the hot chocolate among mugs and top with whipped cream and chocolate shavings. 
Recipe courtesy of Jackie Riley. Copyright© 2004 Television Food Network, G.P., 
All Rights Reserved 
Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloyl@nd.edu 
..------------~----------------------------------------­
page 14 Friday, December 3, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Irish look for fourth win against Michigan 
game." Wednesday night to play out, 13,751-seat capacity crowd. Abram (1 0.0).
By PAT LEONARD 

Notre Dame's first road game Indiana. Then the Irish will "They play pretty darn confi­Brey said Michigan also is for­
A"ociate Sporrs Editor 

will appear on ESPN, the first of return to host historical rival dently in Crisler," Brey said. midable on the other side of the 13 nationally televised Notre DePaul the following Saturday, Experienced guards Chris court. 
Notrn Dame's Mike Brey and Dame basketball games this Dec. 11. Quinn and Chris Thomas will be "They really smother you Michigan head eoaeh Tommy season. "It's a key week for us," Brey Notre Dame's main weapons to defensively," he said. "They Amaker are good friends, but The Irish are 3-0 despite aver­said. "This challenge will be fight the crowd noise and the have the athletic ability and they won't bn on Saturday. aging just 64.3 points per game. good for this group." Wolverines. length to do that." 
Both men coaclwd as assis­Notre Dame struggled at points Saturday's game is just as cru­Quinn leads all Notre Dame For all of the respect tants under Dukn coach Mike in its lirst three games but man­cial to Michigan as the next scorers, averaging 17.3 points Michigan's dnfense commands, Krzyzewski. During the national aged wins through its easiest wnek is to Notre Dame. per game. Thomas leads the the Wolverines have turnnd the signing day press conference stretch on the 2004-05 sched­The Wolverines fell to 3-3 team with 22 assists in three ball over 95 times to only 74 Nov. 10, Brey mentioned ule, beating llarvard, Quincy after beginning the season with games as the primary point assists made. I lorton, a 6-foot-:~ Amaker more than once as a and Charleston Southern. three straight wins over guard. Combined, the two guard, has made 29 assists and colleague he confers with often. But the strip of 'gimme' games Binghamton (59-46), Colorado guards score 31.3 points per committed 29 turnovers. And 
But Michigan (3-3) is <:aught in is over. (69-60) and Sacramento State game, with 26 assists and only Michigan has had more assists the middle of' a three-game los­"I don't know if you ever know (70-49). four turnovers overall. than turnovers in every game so ing streak. The Wolverines wel­!your learn! until you play a Big Michigan placed fourth in the "Chris and Chris really have to far this season except its loss to come Notre Damn (3-0) into Ten team on the road," Brey Preseason NIT, losing to No. 18 set the tempo," Brey said. Providence ( 19:9). Crisler Arena at 12 p.m. said. "We know they will be very Arizona in overtime (61-60), Michigan's players have had Michigan leads the all-time Saturday, and Michigan's cornered. It will be an unbeliev­Providence (72-63) and No. 4 up-and-down years so far. series with Notre Dame, 12-7. hungN for a win will be one of able atmosphere. They'll come Georgia Tech (99-68), losing to Dion Harris leads the The Irish won the last game of many factors that force Brey after us." the Yellow Jackets in blowout Wolverines in scoring with an the series, though, with a 75-65 and Amaker to l{)(:us on only the Michigan tests Notre Dame fashion. average of 15.8 points per victory in the first round of the game. Saturday in the first of three Michigan is 3-0 at home so far game. Four players average 2000 NIT tournament. 
"Michigan-Notre Dame is a lot critical games over seven days and has a perfect chance to double-figure points, ineluding bigger than Bmy-Amaker," Brey for the Irish. Notre Dame will rebound with a win at home in Harris, Courtney Sims (11.3), Contact Pat Leonard at said. "So you've got to play the travel to Bloomington, Ind. front of what should be a sold-Daniel Horton (11.2) and Lnster pleonard@nd.edu 
But Irish freshman Cham! Allen missed a turnaround jumper to cr. shot 6-for-25 from the field, For the Irish (7-1), the loss was fouled Lindsay Bowen wlum she win the game lor the Irish. good f{w 16 point-,. She also had a disappointing after tlwy had
Spartans 

was shooting a 3-pointer, and McGraw said she was disap­loam-high nine rebounds. playnd so well in the first snvnn continued from page 20 Bowen made all three free pointed with the way the Irish For Michigan State, Bownn fin­games of the snason. 
throws. to get the Spartans within played down the strlllch. ished with 23 points and five "We fought back in the sncond l·:rwin. Slw had just an out­two. "Unfortunately they exeeuted rebounds. Kristin Haynie was 6-half and playnd pretty decent," standing ganw." "I thought we should have won better than we did," McGraw said. for-1 0 for 1 7 points and 10 Duffy said. "The end of the sncond 
Aftnr a poor first half. Notre thn game in r<Jgulation," McGraw "They showed some poise down rebounds. Kelli Hoehrig addnd 14 half wa.~ eompletnly our fault. We Dame came lo play in the seeond said. "We were up six, and the the strdeh that we didn't. They're points and nine rebounds. madn too many mental mistakes." half, giving up just 29 points and linll call on lhn t]1rne-point shot, I a great team, and thny played a McGraw said she was a big part of 
Notes:

scoring 40. thought turned tho entire game grnal game. the Spartan win. 
+Courtney LaVere did not play"Wn madn sonw adjustrmml<> in around. That was the dill"erence in "It's all mental. I think you've "She's huge," McGraw said. "We Thursday as she sull'ered a torntlw second half," McCraw said. "I the game." got to he mentally tough. I think didn't have anybody who could meniscus in her !ell knee duringwas plmtsed with the oll"ensn in With the Irish up 69-67, Megan we definitely caved in mentally in guard her really. I thought Teresa the Irish win over Duke. She hadthn snwnd half." Dullv hit one of two lrm~ throws to the last couple minutes of the !Borton) did a decent job for the 
successful arthroscopic surgery
Tlw Irish wen1 up 62-56 with pul the lead at three. But with 14 game." most part, but she just takes up so Tuesday and is expnetnd to bn outjust under tlm1e minutes lo play seconds to play, Bowen hit a 3-Dully finished with 1<) points for much space, you can't gel around four-to-six weeks. 
when Michigan Staln came back, poinler from the corner to tie the the Irish to go along with five her. I thought when she was out of culling the score to 69-65 with 22 game at 70. Preseason AII­assists. She played all 45 minutes the game, that was part of when Contact Heather Van Hoegarden sm:onds ldl. Amnrican Jacqueline Batteast fi>r Notre Dame. BattmL-,t, howev-we made our comeback." at hvanheog@nd.edu 
The boo birds came calling form Notrn Dame has laced iL-, share And when you add a critical much needed week off. They play the home crowd as Bowen sank of adversity through this early foul, uncharacteristically poor free several weaker teams in the next

Hurt 

thrno straight free throws, cutting part of the season. They found throw shooting and an amazing 3-few weeks. And the loss was continued from page 20 the Irish lnad to 69-67. ways to beat top-1 0 Duke and pointcr from Michigan State, against a non-confenmce foe, in Irish guard Megan Duffy was Ohio State. They came from you've got Notre Dame on early Decmnbnr, in a game that 
this hmrning PXpnrience should­fouled before an inbounds pass behind against Southern Thursday night. won't a!li1et NCM seeding. n't have happnrwd in the first was made, and headod to the line California to win on the road. And The only thing left for the Irish But don't tell that to the Irish place. to put her team up by four. But the they held off a pesky Valparaiso now is to look forward, not back. players or coaches. They know 
With 22 seconds left, Notre usually reliable Dully -who had team Tuesday. They had a chance to start 8-0. this one slipped away. Dame freshman Charel Allen missed just one free throw in 38 But the Irish simply didn't have That's gone. They could have "Unfortunately, they executed might have nicked Michigan attempts this season heading into enough gas left to pull ofl' a win in maintainnd or improved their No. better than we did," McGraw said. State's Lindsay Bowen as the Thursday night -elanked" the this roller coaster game. 3 ranking. That's history. And they "They showed some poise down Spartan star firod a desperate 3-second of two with 22 seconds With Courtney LaVerc sidelined had the opportunity to put another the stretch that we didn't. ... point attempt. Michigan Slate romaining, leaving the door open with a torn menicus, the Irish game against a top-15 team in the You've got to bn mentally tough. I coach .Joanne MeCallio thought li>r Michigan State. were thin in the paint, especially 'W' column by the first weekend in think we definitely cavnd in men­Alhm committed a foul. Irish The Spartans took advantage. after Crystal Erwin fouled out with December. That chance is now out tally." coach Mullill McGraw seemod to Bowen drilled an incredible 3-38 seconds to go. the window as well. disagrml. But the person who mal­point shot from the corner to tie It also didn't help that All­It's more than disappointing to The opinions expressed in this tors the most -the man in stripes the game at 70-70 and fi>rce over­American Jacqueline Batteast had lose such a hard-fought game, but column are those of the author -blew his whistle, signaling a lime. That's when Michigan State her worst shooting game of the it shouldn't have long-term effect'> and not necessarily those of The li>ul. look over. season. for Notre Dame. They've got a Observer. Contact Joe 1/ettler at 
The Qbserver accepts classifieds every business day tram 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Disc jockey at Legends. Love of 6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. MISHAWAKA 2-3 bedroom, 2.5 House for rent walking distance ADOPTION: Help us complete our music & familiarity with equipment a WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. bath, 1,200 sq.fl +full basement+ from campus. Call 273-9102 family, baby wanted. WANTED must. Call Aaron at631-2973. AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. 2-car garage, $875/mo. 574-273-Jeanie & Dan 
HOME,WID, NEAR 9000. 877-895-9790 Toll Free Interested in a lucrative career in Looking for 2 club staff members at CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. PERSONAL Pharmaceutical Sales? Legends. Do you like the nightclub AVAIL. NOW. CALL JOE GRIM-COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR Spring Break 2005 with STS. www.beapharmarep.com atmosphere? This could be the per-MINS:574-229-3659 OR 679-2010. LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year-SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. 
feet job for you. Call Aaron at631-Available June 1, 2005. 2 Tours! Over 18 years of Spring Hiring campus reps. Work for Be«er World Books. Earn 2973. . DO MUS PROPERTIES -NOW Bedrooms -2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Break experience! The BEST $7-8/hr plus overtime from Dec. 8-LEASING FOR 2005-2006 Security System. Fully Furnished. Spring Break Under the Sun I Call for group discounts. Jan. 31. Email paul@be«erworld-SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS-(626)441-1275 or Salvaty@earth-Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Info/Reservations books.com FoR RENT ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED link. net Cameron & Cabo. Organize a 1-800-648-4849 
HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 group-GO FREE! 800-875-4525 or Need responsible female with own 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT Large 4-bdrm,2.5 bath home. 1.2 www.bianchi-rossi.com www.ststravel.com transportation to stay with my Walking distance from ND NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY miles north of ND. Lvg.room,dining teenage daughter in my home in MMMRentals.com 532-1408 SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE room, large kitchen,fam room Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity FREELANCE ONLINE TUTORS Granger from Dec. 5 through Dec. STAFF ON CALL. WASHER, DRY-w/frplc. 3-season patio w/built-in Party Cruise! lnstruct3-12 grd stdnts;lnternet 
9. Live in but needed in home dur-NEW 3-4 BEDROOM, 3 BATH. ERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE BBQ & much more. Call Wayne 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, connex reqd; tutor/teach exp. prefrd ing evening hours and overnight. SAFE,CLOSE TO CAMPUS,2-CAR WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR 57 4-339-1638 Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, jobs@brainfuse.com Fee negotiable. Call Patrick Parten GARAGE. FIREPLACE,FAMILY CONTACT: KRAMER Jamaica From $459! Panama City 1-800-446-2574, ext. 3075 or at ROOM.LARGE DECK. $1 ,660/MO. (574)234-2436 House for rent across from ND. & Daytona $159! I think Giambi should just start roid­home 1-CALL 1-574-232-4527, OR 1-269-OR Avail now and for 2005-06 school www.SpringBreakTravel.com ing again ... now that the cal's out of 574-247-9220. 683-5038 (574)315-5032. yr. Call 232-0875. 1-800-678-6386 the bag. 
Friday, December 3, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish to take on Valpo in NCANs 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has won 15 of its last 18 matches. But this weekend they have a chance to win respect. 
The Irish will compete in the first round of the NCAA volley­ball tournament tonight at 5 
p.m. in a match against Valparaiso in Madison, Wise. Despite capturing both the Big East regular season and tour­nament titles, the Irish are not ranked in the USA Today/CSTV Top 25. A ~in over the Crusaders combined with a victory Saturday against the winner of the Loyola Chicago­Wisconsin match should pro­pel the Irish into the national spotlight. 
However, with a school record mark of 29-4, Valparaiso is a difficult first­round opponent for the Irish. The Crusaders, champions of the Mid-Continent conference, snapped an 18-match losing streak against Notre Dame on Sept. 7 with a five-game tri­umph in the Joyce Center. The Irish won the first and fourth games but fell 15-12 in the decisive fifth game. 
Valparaiso is making its sec­ond straight NCAA tournament appearance and is led by MCC player of the year Lauren Moulton, who averaged 3.36 kills per game with a hitting percentage of .293. Setter Katie Bova averages nearly 13 assists per game and was named first-team all-confer­ence along with Moulton. 
Notre Dame is on a "roll after winning the Big East tourna­ment title two weeks ago with victories over Boston College and Pittsburgh in the semi­finals and finals, respectively. Just last week, the Irish won the Baden Thanksgiving tour­nament in Long Beach, Calif. over NCAA qualifiers Long Beach St. and UC Irvine. Notre Dame swept UC Irvine and then needed five games to beat Long Beach State. Outside hit­ter Emily Loomis came up big for the Irish as she turned in a career-high 29 kills and hit .414. Long Beach State was up 14--12 in the fifth game and needed only one more point to win the match before Notre Dame rallied for four straight points and the first victory over the 49ers in program his­tory. 
One positive for the Irish this weekend will be the presence of Lauren Kelbley. The junior has been bothered lately with a foot injury but is expected to play against Valparaiso tonight. 
This will be the 13th consec­utive NCAA tournament appearance for Notre Dame, one of only eight programs in the country to have appeared so often. It is the second longest streak of its kind among all Irish varsity sports as only fencing has more. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
fENCING 

Backups get chance in Culver 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's second stringers will have a chance to prove their value this weekend when the Irish travel to Culver, Ind. to compete in the Culver Cup Individuals Saturday at 8 a.m. 
"This coming weekend is for junior-varsity fencers -it's for our walk-ons, for others," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. "We wanted to give them the opportunity to compete in a sectional competition and give them an opportunity to progress. Our first squad will not go there, but all others who have the goal or ambition to be on the team should show the class, the progress." 
With the six-day North American Cup Event slated to begin December 10, the Irish will hold back the cream of the crop and continue training for the prestigious event instead of sending it to Culver this week­end. 
"Generally, we are not send­ing our first team, because they will compete a week later at the North American Cup, which is kind of the trials for the national Olympic team," Bednarski said. "The best will go then. We have two weeks in which we will check all of the fencers." 
Nevertheless, while the first squad might be staying at home this weekend, Bednarski does not believe the talent level at the Culver Cup Individuals will be diluted. 
"It's not a national competi­tion or collegiate, it's open to everybody," Bednarski said. "Sometimes such a competition is strong -non-collegiate very tough tournament." 
In addition to the World Cup Event and the Penn State Max Garret Open in early November, the upcoming Culver Individuals and North American Cup Event provide Irish fencers with a chance to demonstrate their skills and boost their individuals rankings -a key to success come the NCAA championship. 
"We give them individual opportunities to rise in the rankings," Bednarski said.· "That's why we compete in the individual competitions-to give our fencers a higher rank. Later, we bring the ranks to the collegiate NCAA tournaments, arid they are seeded according to how they are ranked. First job is to have a good ranking, and they will fight for a ranking according to their levels." 
fencers are strong, too, some­times better than collegiate Contact Matt Puglisi at fencers. In some weapons it's a mpuglisi@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 




Belles to face Olivet Saturday 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will look to return to its recent winning ways Saturday. 
The Belles travel to Olivet, Michigan to take on the Olivet Comets at 3 p.m. at the Upton Center. 
Saint Mary's will attempt to rebound from Wednesday's disappointing loss to Albion. In that game, 
the Belles led at half, but watched the game slip away as Albion mounted a 23-4 second half run to secure the victory. 
Before the loss, Saint Mary's had been hot, win­ning its three previous games. The Belles defeated Manchester College and won twice last weekend at the Knox College Classic. Saint 
Mary's  was  never  really  
challenged in  any  of the  
three games.  

Olivet, a rival member of the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association, should pose a stiff challenge for the Belles. The Comets, under coach Deanna Richard, have started the year with a 4-1 record. Most recently, the team won the Comet Classic by defeating Division II opponent Northwood 64-49 · on Sunday. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 


The VisaRCredit Card 

'g/ 
-Purses -Sarongs -• ' ., -Wallets -Incense 
'--" \ -Change Purses 
/ I I 


of Silver & Beaded Jewelry, Tapestry Wall Hangings, 
Crafted Gift Items, and Much, Much More!! 
DIRECT IMPORTS! LOW PRICES! 
UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Mexico • Thailand • India 
Lafortune-Sorin Room (1st fl ) Proceeds from sales of Jewelry guarantee the 
• lov1ng hands of Guatemalan fam1hes 3 t1mes 

Nov. 29-Dec 4(Sat.) 10:30-5:50pm :~~;a;~:..':"gesolary.aswellasfundsfortheir 
VJith our Viso'( CrArlit Card, vou can make 
0 

online pavments and 


NOTRE DAME 

view· your b·alance fEDE.RAL CREDIT UNION You con bank on us
at anv time. 

to be better 5741631··6222 • www.ndfcu.otQ 
Effective December 1st, 
college I university 
students can take advantage 
of TRANSPO's 31 Day Student 
Pass. Unlimited rides for 31 
days, only $25. Show 
your valid school ID 
when using the 31 Day 
Student Pass. For Pass 
sales locations, call 233-2131 






OUND THE NATION 
-·-­
Men's Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team record points 
1 Wake Forest (22) 5·0 755 2 Kansas (5) 2·0 732 3 Illinois (1) 4·0 664 4 Georgia Tech (1) 3·0 653 5 Syracuse 5·0 629 6 Connecticut 1·0 594 7 Oklahoma State (1) 3-0 580 8 Kentucky (1) 3·0 566 9 Michigan State 3·0 528 10 Duke 3·0 486 11 North Carolina 4·1 467 12 Maryland 3-0 434 
13 . N.C. State 4-0 339 14 Pittsburgh 3·0 337 15 Texas 3-1 308 16 Washington 4-0 291 17 louisville 3·1 263 18 Florida 3·0 235 19 NOTRE DAME 3-0 195 20 Arizona 3-2 193 21 Mississippi St. 5-1 181 22 Alabama 4·1 160 23 Wisconsin 2-1 90 24 Cincinnati 3·0 83 25 Virginia 4-0 77 
Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
leam record points 
1 Wake Forest (40) 5·0 1,737 2 Kansas (18) 2·0 1,678 3 Syracuse (4) 5·0 1.582 4 Georgia Tech (7) 3·0 1,580 5 Illinois (1) 4·0 1,540 6 Oklahoma State (2) 3·0 1.420 7 Connecticut 1·0 1.329 8 Kentucky 3·0 1.284 9 North Carolina 4·1 1,134 10 Duke 3·0 1,129 11 Michigan State 3·0 1,073 12 Maryland 3·0 1,018 13 PiHsburgh 3·0 782 14 Washington 4·0 770 15 Mississippi St. 5·1 743 16 N.C. Slate 4·0 722 17 louisville 3·1 584 18 Texas 3·1 507 19 Florida 3·0 447 20 NOTRE DAME 3·0 442 21 Arizona 3·2 413 22 Alabama 4·1 381 23 Iowa 3·1 367 24 Virginia 4-0 235 25 Wisconsin 2·1 114 
Men's Central College Hockey Association 
team CCIIA overall 
Ohio State 7-2·1 9-4·1 Michigan 7-1-0 9·3·1 Nebraska-Omaha 5-4·1 7-4-1 Alaska Fairbanks 5-3·0 6-4-0 Bowling Green 4-2·2 7-3-2 Lake Superior 4-5·1 4·7-1 Northern Michigan 4-3·1 6·4·2 Miami 3·6·1 5·8·1 NOTRE DAME 2-5·3 3·6·4 Western Michigan 3-6·1 7·6·1 Michigan Stale 3·5·0 6-7-1 Ferris Stale 1·6·1 4·9·1 

around the dial 
NBA 
Pistons at Spurs 8 p.m., ESPN Pacers at Kings 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA WOMEN'S SOCCER Santa Clara vs. NOTRE DAME 4:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 
MIAMI -This could be it for lUcky Williams. lie just doesn't want to play foot­ball. 
The 2002 NFL rushing champion rejected a deal to serve a four-game drug suspension this season and return to the field next year. He'll stay retired instead, and his lawyer, David Cornwell, doesn't believe Williams will play again. 
"llicky indicated to me that he is no longer inter­ested in resuming his career at this time," Cornwell said in a state­ment e-mailed to The 

Associated Press on Thursday. 
The 1998 lleisman Trophy winner needed to let the league know his decision by Thursday so he could be moved from the retired list to the suspend­ed list by the deadline. He would have served the sus­pension for the Miami Dolphins' final four games, starting Dec. 12 at Denver. 
"Ricky Williams has declined to accept the terms of his reinstate­ment," NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said. 
Those terms included a promise Williams would play next season and re­enter the NFL drug pro­gram immediately. 
"The NFL sought assur­ances that lUcky is indeed committed to playing," said Cornwell, who would not disclose exactly why Williams decided against the deal. 
Dolphins spokesman Harvey Greene wouldn't comment, saying the mat­ter is between Williams and the NFL. 
Williams, 27, stunned his team by retiring shortly before Miami opened train­ing camp in July. The Dolphins filed a law~mit in federal court against the running back, seeking the $8.6 million an arbitrator ruled he owes the team for 
IN BRIEF 

Friday vote _t_Q ilpprove
Expos move to Washnfgton 

WASIIINGTON -With or without an agreement with Peter Angelos, baseball appears ready to officially award the Montreal Expos to Washington. 
Commissioner Bud Selig scheduled a conference call for Friday for a vote by the owners to approve major league baseball's first relocation in 33 years. The vote, originally set for Nov. 18, was delayed in part because Selig had hoped to work out a deal with the Baltimore Orioles owner to ensure aunanimous decision. 
"I like 30-0 votes," Selig said Thursday after a speech to the Greater Washington Board of Trade. "But ~;very so often I don't get 30-0 votes. 
Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operat­ing officer, met with Angelos this week in an attempt to reach an agrocment that would protect the value of the Orioles franchise, whieh Angelos says will be hurt by having a team just 40 miles away. Maryland Gov. Robert Ehrlich said this week the matter could wind up in court. 
Selig declined to discuss the negoti­ations with Angelos, other than to say there was no deal yet. 
"We have had a dose relationship and we still have a very dose rela­tionship," Selig said. NHL union to resume 
negotiations after 3 months 
NEW YORK -The NHL accepted an invitation from the players' asso­ciation on Thursday to return to the negotiating table in an effort to end the lockout that began nearly three months ago. 
In a letter sent to NHL commission­er Gary Bettman on Thursday, play­ers' association executive director Bob Goodenow proposed that the sides meet next week in Toronto and said the union is working on a new proposal. 
No official talks have occurred since Sept. 9, when the union made its last olTer. The lockout reachml its 
breaching his contract. Williams is fighting the dedsion. 
lie gave up the $5 million he would have earned this season, which would have been his sixth in the NFL, amid reports he faced sus­pension for substance abuse. lie is now enrolled in a 17-month course at the California College of Ayurveda in Grass Valley, Calif., studying holistic medieine. 
Williams has social-anxi­ety disorder and was a spokesman for an anti­depressant. lie said mari­juana helped him after he stoppHd using the anti­depressant. 
78th day Thursday. 

"We look forward to meeting with the NHL Players' Association next week," said Bill Daly, the league's chief legal oflicer. "We are hopeful that the NIILPA's offer will be a meaningful effort to address the league's economic problems. When we receive the proposal, we will eval­uate it closely and respond appropri­ately." 
The last offer by the NIILPA was a luxury tax-based deal that was rejected by the league, and the lock­out began one week later. As of Thursday, 334 regular-season games, plus the 2005 All-Star game, have been wiped out. 
The offer to resume talks came just hours before the league's general managers prepared to get an update from Bettman during a dinrwr nwet­ing in New York. 
The players' association said its new proposal should provide the basis li.1r a new colleetive bargaining agrenment. 
Friday, December 3, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
HocKEY 
No. 5 Michigan awaits the Irish arrival 

Team will play at Ann Arbor tonight and home Saturday 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
While Irish students prepare to get ready for final exams, the Notre Dame hockey team is get­ting ready for a major test of its own. 
Notre Dame {3-6-4, 2-5-3 in the CCIIA) faces conference powerhouse No. 5 Michigan (9­4-1, 7 -1-0) in a two-game home­and-home series this weekend. The Irish will travel to Ann Arbor for a game tonight before returning to the Joyce Center for the second game of the series on Saturday. 
The Irish shocked Michigan near the end of last season, sweeping the Wolverines in a two-game series at the Joyce Center by scores of 4-1 and 5-2 in February. Notre Dame also won in its last trip to Michigan's Yost Arena -a 4-3 victory on Nov. 23, 2002. 
Notre Dame comes into the game after a split on the road last weekend against Alaska Fairbanks. The Irish won the first game in that series by a score of 3-2 before falling in the second game by the same score. 
The Wolverines, meanwhile, are in a bit of a slump, having lost their last two games. Both defeats came at the hands of ranked teams, however, as Michigan lost 5-1 to No. 2 Minnesota and 3-1 to No. 3 Wisconsin at the College Hockey Showcase last weekend. 
"I think you can couple [Michigan's thoughts of revenge over last year's sweep] with the fact that they lost two games this weekend," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "But Michigan is always a good team, and it shouldn't take them long to get back where they need to be. I'd still say that last season is prob­ably in the back of their minds, though." 
Both losses came to non-con­ference teams, however, so the Wolverines have maintained their second-place position on the CCHA standings with 14 points, one point bf')hind leader Ohio State. Notre Dame's nine points is currently tied for eighth in the conference with Miami of Ohio and Bowling Green. 
Last season, the Irish were aided in their sweep of the Wolverines when star goalie AI Montoya was injured early in the first game of the weekend and did not play at all in the second game. Montoya, a junior who was picked sixth in this year's NHL entry draft by the New York Rangers, is healthy and is expected to be in net in this weekeni:l's matchup. 
He has had a bit of a slow start to this season, only collect­ing a .893 save percentage and a 2.69 goals against average, ranking him 1Oth in the league in both categories. Irish senior goalie Morgan Cey, by compari­son, has a 2.44 GAA and a .929 save percentage. 

"In the tapes that we saw there were a lot of rush goals [against Michigan] so that might have affected his numbers a bit," Poulin said. "He's still the real deal. Michigan has a unique way of only bringing in one 
vo unp 
to conduct initial interviews with low-income persons seeking legal assistance in select civil cases in Northern Indiana. 
offers one of the most challenging and rewarding service opportunities in the munity. Volunteers and interns usually serve as intake interviewers. Intake 
ers take the initial information from applicants who call or come into our office seeking legal advice and/or representation on a variety of civil issues. Initial information includes details about a person's income, demographics, and the specifics of the legal problem. Interviewers then summarize the details of the case into 
"tten narratives for staff attorneys to review. No legal experience is required; each teer and intern receives thorough, ongoing training. Excellent interpersonal and writing skills are a must, as are attention to detail and empathy for the poor. unteers and interns must also be able to deal with listening to distressing stories of child abuse, spousal abuse, families being evicted in the middle of winter, etc ... 
Upon successful completion of service, ILS may provide letters of recommendation 
volunteers to law or other graduate schools and/or serve as a reference for those "'"''"n.•.ns; employment. Ifyou're interested, please contact Heather Mezosi at l.!..!..!~.!!.£"-:..ll~:!L!i1!·~(il}~~~ or at (574) 234.8121 or toll free in Indiana, at 1.800.288.8121 
goalie every four years and hav­ing him start his whole career, with guys like Steve Shields and Marty Turco and now Montoya. 
"They've maybe been a bit lucky that there haven't been any major injuries, but what they've been doing with their goalies has worked for many years." 
Even without the expected performance from its star goalie, Michigan is still able to win games by virtue of its explo­sive offense. The Wolverines average 3.64 goals per game, third in the CCHA, compared to Notre Dame's last place 1.92 goals per game. 
The Michigan offense is led by talented sophomore T.J. Hensick, the 2003-04 CCHA rookie of the year, and junior forward Jeff Tambellini, who have each scored 16 points so far this season (both have scored six goals and collected 10 assists). 
The Wolverines also sport one of the league's most talented offensive defenseman in senior Eric Wermer. Wermer's 11 points (three goals, eight assists) rank second in the league in scoring among defensemen. 

"They're a very skilled team -I think they've got something like 14 draft picks and 10 are forwards," Poulin said. "But we've been working on our defense as well, daily. We simply have to work harder at getting the puck to the net and scoring some sloppy goals. 
"Sometimes when you don't score you try to make things perfect, and we just need to get some ugly goals. They count just as much as pretty ones." 
The Irish face Michigan at Yost Arena in Ann Arbor tonight with puck drop scheduled for 
7:35 p.m. Notre Dame then returns home to face the Wolverines at the Joyce Center on Saturday with a scheduled 7:05p.m. face-off. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect 
for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 


OUTPOST Hours: 
Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:oopm

~ 
Sat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm 

Cold Weather Experts 
Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm 

-
Friday, December 3, 2004
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
Oregon State or UCLA. He united as an entire group. We'll 94.4 yards per game. care of yourself and your acknowledged that it might be move forward and I think it's Baor fueled reports that he is families and move fi>rward. So,



Baer 
continued from page 20 
sonal issues morn than any­thing Pls1~. I don't think anyone 1:an ..rPally imaginn what it's Ilke. 
BaPr was sPhwtPd by the play­nrs t.o snrvl' as intnrirn coach at tho l11sight Bowl. which will bP PithPr against Arizona StatP, difficult to get the team pre­pared in light of the recent events. 

"I have loyalties to Tyrone Willingham. I've beon with Tyrone for 10 years. lie still cnrtainly has loyalties to this team and this staff and Notre Damn. so that's the reason we're doing it." Baor said. "We want to do it as an entire group, going to work out for the best." 
As defensive coordinator under Willingham, Baer consis­tently put together a tnarn that was capable of stopping the run and typically took advantage of opportimitins to create turnovers and scorn. i\s of today, the Irish are ranked eighth in tho season in rushing dofensc, having only allowed 
a top candidate for the Utah 'State head coaching position 
with his comments Thursday. 
"It's difficult," Baer said of trying to coach a game and fig­uring out what will come noxt in his career. "Them am a Jot of things that arn going on with tho entire staiT. Everybody's out of a job after. basically, the 28th. You certainly haw~ to take you have to kind of balance all this. 
''I've never gone through it quite like this bnl'ore so I'm not quite sure how that balaneing act will work, but wn'vn just got to work through it and, hopeful­ly, this will all work out." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
-----=~-~~~~~~==~~~============~==~====~======================~ 
-

Recruits 
continued from page 20 
shocknd," Wilson said. 
Tlw lnn rPmaining rncruits are still rommittPd to Notre l>anw but ~~xpressPd disappointnwnt along with surprise at the deei­sion. 
"Thrnn ynars is not enough." Marshall. Mich. quarterback Evan SharpiPy said. "The guys that won~ playing for ]Willingham] were not his rncruits. So we didn't get to see what hn could havn done with tlw typ1~ of players that hn want­nd." 
"I was really surprised," llighland Park, Ill. Jinnbacker Scott 

wide rncnivnr Martin Frierson said. Frierson was excitnd about possibly playing in Mny<~r·s pass­oriented attack. "I want sonw­body who's going to throw the ball." 
"]Meyer! used to be the rncPivnrs coach at Notre Damn so I could relate to him as a n~cnivnr," Bruton said. 
Sharplny was a littln lnss exeit­nd. 
"I don't really know too much," Sharpley said. "I know he's donn pretty well at Utah but that's about alii know about him." 
Asaph Schwapp, a fullback from Hartford, Conn., was unsure if he would have a spot in the offnnse if Meyer came. "I know he runs a spread offense," he said. ''I'd havn to find 
Smith said. "It was out from him
"/ was comfortable
just somnthing that what my plaee
with coach

eanw up out of would be and see nowhnrn." Willingham. " if he would still David Bruton want me to was not so come."
David Bruton 

rnscrvnd. A handful of 
Irish recruit

"Bulls--t," the recruits were sup­
det:ensive back from Miamisburg, Ohio said when ashd how he felt about Willingham's. firing. "I was comfortable with coach Willingham." 
Tho 6'3", ISO lb. Bruton chosn Notre Dame oypr Louisville, Ohio State and Wisconsin. llis corn­rnitnwnt still stands but he will have to wait and sen who the nnw coach is going to be. 
On the other hand Smith, who stands h'5" and weighs 225 lbs, is set on corning to Notre Dame no matter who the new coach ends up bning. 
"I chose Notre Damn for the mlucation and the football tradi­tion," Smith said. "There are so many more things than the coaching stall'. That's something that I think you've got to under­stand when you go through this procnss." 
Urban Meyer is the most popu­lar candidate among Irish fans, but the rncruil'i opinions ranged from positive to neutral on lhn possibility of' thn current Utah coach taking over at Notre Damn. 
"I hope if it's anybody it's Urban Mnyer,'' Columbia. S.C. 

posed to visit 

campus this weekend in eonjunction with the football banquet. But with its cancellation, they will have to reschedule their visits, probably after the new coach is hired. 
Student protests, both pro-and anti-Willingham. have either bnen planned or taken place on campus this week. But the recruits did not view the contro­versy as a negative. 
"It just shows how much the students care about the football team," Smith said. 
TAKE INDY BY STORM 
Please Visit: \\WW.SunlakeApartmentHomcs.com 888-414-9225 www.SunblcstApts.com 866-390-3823 


Meyer 
continued from page 20 
Meyer has Utah at ll-0 and poisod to play in a BCS bowl. The second­year Utes' coach former­ly was thn head coach at Bowling Green and a wide receivers coach at Notre Dame and Colorado State. 
The Chicago Sun-Times reported Wednesday that Utah is doing everything it can to keep Meyer from returning to South Bend. 
"We've had ... conver­sations, and we'll contin­ue to do so," Utah athlet­ics director Chris llill told the Sun-Times. "All I can tell you is that Urban has done a great job at Utah." 
"I realize people are going to be interested, and we'll do everything we can to keep him," Hill continued. "Right now, things are just out there as rumors and specula­tion. I don't want to com­ment on other jobs and speculate on that. We've got a great job here at the university." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
i ERASMUS BOOKS : • Used Books bought and sold • • 25 Categories of Books : • 25,000 Hardback and : Paperback books in stock : • Out-of-Print search service '• Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 







~~~~ 
only at --=---.~ 
Sminutes~ 
{iom DUT"i==DST 

Campus :J•I•li l: 

Cold Weather Experts 
Call:zs9·1ooo for more details 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 

University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 


George Frideric Handel's 


Messiah 
8:00 Thursday, December 2, 2004 Friday, December 3, 2004 
Leighton Concert Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General admission $6; faculty I staff $5; seniors $4; students $3 phone 574-631-2800 for tickets 

Friday, December 3, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
DILBERT 
PEANUTS 
TWENT'f-FIVE DOLLARS FOR A PAIR OF GLOVES?! 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~----~~~~~----~ti~------------------­

.5 
I PROBABLY SHOULDN'T

f1
I'LL GAIN THE :::>
,., 
SAY THIS, BUT EVERY­

.a
TRUST OF OUf). 
ONE IN MY COMPANY

.;ti
BIGGEST CUSTOMER. 

g
SO THEY'LL ONLY DEAL WITH ME. .5 uf 
E
.. 
"0 
<( 
g 
~ 
g 
0 
"' 
W:::~U;:::;:,••• 07:>:;;:21 @ 
~~wu~~~wwww~~~--------------­
CHARLES SCHULZ 
11M SORR'T', MA1AM ..Tf.IAT'S COULD I MA'T'BE BU'f' MORE TI.IAN I CAN AI='FORD..• JUST A TI-IUMB? 
HENRI ARNOLD 


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 



JJWli~rnl1IR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
REFIA 
± 
©2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GRABE 
j
I rI [)tLARIAC j 

"HOW THE 1/INING C-RITIC.


IJ r 
1/E:?C.RII?E:!/ THE 
www.jumble.com 
FOOl/ AT THE: C.ARNIVAL.
FELBAF j 
Now arrange 
form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

STOOP APRON MEDLEY UNHOOKYesterday's I Jumbles: 
Answer: What her college·bound son did when Mom taught him to do laundry-"SOAKED" IT UP 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 26 Chigger, for one 48 Religious treatise by St.
1 Douglas who 27 Signs of Thomas Aquinas 
hosted TV's first softness nightly newscast 51 1994 film 
29 Ranting featuring Gary 8 Capital of Spain preacher, in old Oldman asunder Moorish lingo Beethovenrule 

30 Chop_ 
52 Cup holder15 Classic sitcom 31 Stockpot item 

that jumped 53 Gloom from CBS to 32 A Moore ABC after its 
35 Trailing the field 

first season DOWN 39 1981 Literature
17 English 1 Adjustable 
Nobelistpassage? 

Canetti 2 State 18 Large quantities 
40 Organizer 3 Not full-strength 19 Call from 
41 Builder of cells 4 States 

Switzerland 20 Scoring play: 42 One might read 5 Makes calls a few lines from 
Abbr. 6 Downturn 
it 

21 Grew members 7 Quarantine 43 Opposite of 
message22 First picks 

squat 23 The Mekong 8 Harder to follow,44 "How !" 
as a trail 45 Ringside shout 

flows through it 
24 Resentment 9 Awards for Tony 46 Arrived Kushner
25 Polite person, 26 Devonshire's 33 Poe poem 40 Polo field? maybe 47 Fill the tank 1oUnaffected _Island, 
34 Catch-22 43 Many,once a haven11 Gatehouse site informally
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE for pirates 35 Book after 
12 Like some Ezekiel 44 Make fun of28 Turkish practice

swimming strokes 36 Cruel
29 Truckle 46 Actress Teri 
13 Sci-fi author of 31 " and 37 Sweet-talks 47 Filling material "Venus" and Broomsticks" 
38 Cement
"Mars" (musical) 49 Quotable quote 
surfaces for 
~-;:+.;:-t-;::-1 14 Skilled laborer 32 Sediment drives 50 Sheep's place 
-.::t-:7t:::+:::i 16 Treasure hunters' finds For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
22 Murphy's role in Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
··~~m~!..r:-t-::-~~-:-t'!!!"P'!!!"I "Beverly Hills 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

. Cop" Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
23 Categorize past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).

-=+-:+.=+:::-! -:-:+=+:+:-:-! 25 Ma Rainey's Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young music solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: LaTavia Roberson. Aishwarya Rai. Jenny McCarthy, Lyle Lovett 
Happy Birthday: Your ideas are amazing, so don't hesitate --hit while the iron's hot. As long as you believe that you have a good plan. push until you hook up with the right people to make it happen. Your determination and drive will be impressive. Your numbers are 3, \8, 19, 23, 29,35 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Communication will help you get ahead and 
reach your goals. You will impress everyone and attract interest in yourself as 
well as in your future plans. **** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 211): Don't let your personal life interfere with your 
work. Focus on the job and push for advancement or a career move. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 211): Listen to the advice being given. You will he 
able to make a physical alteration that will bring back that youthful look. Love 
relationships will develop. *** > 
CANCER (June 21-.July 22): There will be lots of entertaining events going 
on in your life today. Enjoy what you can, but don't neglect something you 
promised to do. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Focus on others and what you can do to help. The 
less emphasis on you and the more on those in need, the better. People will be 
impressed with your actions. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Watch out for someone who is tryin~to make 
you look bad. A job well done will be your safety net. Communication wi II 
clarify what you must do. ** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make headway today, no matter what you 
do. Professional and personal gains are apparent. Someone you haven't seen 
for a while will surprise you. ***** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your mind will be on money--making more of 
it and taking care of any legal or contractual matters. Stand up for your rights 
if you want to be respected in the future*** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): An opportunity to meet someone special 
can be yours if you take part in a charity event or activity you believe in. A 
partnership will lead to a new adventure. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Put everything you've got into work. The 
more you do to differentiate yourself from others, the better. A unique 
approach will put you ahead of the competition. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 211-Feb. 18): The time to begin something new is now. 
You will pick up new skills or develop a talent if you put your mind to it 
today. ***** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Back down if someone is on a rampage. You 
may he in the right. but that isn't likely to help you today. Steer clear of 
disputes. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are a go-getter. giving your all to everything you do. You are a deep thinker and will always come up with ;m answer, suggestion or solution. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
'. 

Name ___________________________________________ Address ________________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 




PORTS
Friday, December 3, 2004 

=========================================================== 

fOOTBALL 

Going after their guy 
Notre Dame officials fly west Thursday afternoon to begin search 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 

Set a few more places at the Meyer dinner table. Utah's head coach has visitors. 
On Thursday afternoon, local television station WNDU reported that a University plane left South Bend Hegional Airport after 3 p.m. carrying athletic director Kevin White and University President-elect Father John Jenkins as passengers. 
The plane was bound for Salt Lake City. 
Local tP.levision station KUTV said aftor the plane landed, White and Jenkins got into a black sports utility vehiele without making any comment. 
Meyer was targeted most likely as the top choice to fill the vacancy left by fired Notre Dame head football coach Tyrone Willingham. 
The Utah student newspa­per, The Daily Utah Chronicle, said Meyer mnt with White and Jenkins after 
Thursday's Utah practice ended at 4 p.m. 
The Chronicle also said Meyor told his players follow­ing practice wh<~t schools were pursuing him. Meyer would not go into speci!'ics when approached by the media. 
Before the WNDU reports surfaced, Notre Dame assis­tant athletic director John Heisler would not commont earlier Thursday afternoon on rumors of a meeting. 
"As KP.vin said on Tuesday, regardless of what you may see or what is reported, we don't get into the business of' confirming or denying rp,ports until we've hired a head coach," Heisler said. "We don't intend to contribute to tho ongoing discussion because it doflsn 't serve thfl University's purposes." 
The initial reports surfaced Thursday morning in the New York Times of the scheduled meeting between Notre Dame officials and Meyer. 
see MEYER/page 18 
page 20 

Recruits respond to change 
. By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Liko the propp,llers on the 
plane f'lying University offi­
cials in their search for a now 
coach, the hoads of Notn~ 
Dame's eleven vorbalrneruits 
were spinning aftp,r Tyro111~ 
Willingham was fired 
Tunsday. 
"I was shocked," Akron, 
Ohio defensive lineman 
Lawrencn Wilson said. "I 
eouldn't believe it happened 
when I lirst heard about it." 
Wilson. who was in elass 
Tuesday afternoon when his 
father called with the nows, 
has taken baek his verbal 
eommitment to play for tho 
Irish next season. lie is now 
considering Ohio State, 
Michigan and Pittsburgh 
along with the Irish. 
"No (school is in the lead 
right nowl. I'm still pretty 
see RECRUITS/page 18 


../ 
._ ..41 
l-


Baer discusses tean1' s preparation for bow1 
Willingham. The former 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 

defensive coordinator also 
A"ociate Spons Editor 

conlirmed reports that he was 
out looking for a job. 

Irish interim coad1 Kent "I met with some people Banr conducted an informal from Utah State but that's as press conference Thursday far as it's gone," Baer said. "It from Tyrone Willingham's was within this past week." normal snat. a brown metal Baer, who sP.rved as folding chair in tho Football Willingham's defensive coor­Auditorium of tho .loyen dinator, will coach the team at Cnntor. But Banr only sat its upcoming bowl game in there lwr.ausn ·lw had to. Tp,mpo, Ariz. 
"lit's I rnaI strange I to have a After serving 10 seasons as coach meding without a member of Willingham's Willinghaml." Banr said. starfs at Stanford and Notre "Wiwn wn walked into that Damn. Baer was noticeably starr room today and some­shaken when fielding ques­body said. 'Sit up at Uw lwad tions from the media about of tlw table.' I'm not evon Willingham. going to approach that seat. I "I don't know how to hav1~ talked to coach describe it," Baer said. "This Willingham a handful of limns is sometimes a tough business and I'm going to continue to and I don't know of people do that. but it's· very, vory who really understand how strangP. I nwan. eoaeh has many pPople's lives it affects bnPn so good. lie's bonn and that's the thing you deal trenwndous to work for." with thP most: 
Banr answered qunstions "As a coach you'vp been about tlw lParn's preparation through it befor.n," he said. for tlw Insight Bowl on l>nc. "But you still deal with JWr­2X and discussed nvents sur­r o u n d i n g I h n fi r i n g (d' see BAER/page 18 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish fall to Michigan State 
Squad suffers first home loss in last 25 games 

This onp, hurl..'i. 
Up six poinL'i with 32 seconds remain­ing. Notre Dame seemingly had No. 15 Michigan Statp, beaten dnspitn the Irish playing their worst first hall' in who 
knows how long. All  
Notre Dame had to do  
to pull otr the come­ 
from-behind victory  
was  not  foul  the  
Spartans shooters and  
make free throws.  
They  didn't  do  
either.  
The result? A 82-73  
Joe Hettlerloss to Michigan State.  
The team's lirst loss of  
thn season. The lirst  ------­ 
defeat at home in 25  Sports Writer  
games. Needless to  
say, it's a tough pill to  
swallow.  

"We made so many mistakes," Megan Dully said. 
True, thn Irish can Inurn from this bitter expnrienee. It can teach tlwm that no lead is sale, and mistakns down tlw strPteh will, in f~tct, cause you to lose gamns. But 
see HURT/page 14 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Spans Editor 

Home was no longer 
sweet. Thursday night for 
the Irish. 

After opening the second 
half with a 17-2 run, No. 3 
Notre Dame lost its momen­
tum and lost its home win­
ning streak at the end in an 
82-73 loss to No. 15 
Michigan State (5-1) in 
overtime. The loss was the 
first for the Irish at home in 
25 games and their first of 
this season. 

Crystal Erwin, who lin­, ishod with a career-high 20 
points and live rebounds, 
led the Irish. 

Notre Dame made a 
eomebaek in the second half 
after falling behind 41-30 at 
the half. The Irish played 
poor defense in the first half 
and strugglod on olli-msn. 

"! thought that wn got 
CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer Guard Megan Duffy brings the ball up the court. 
down at halftime -we played really, really poorly in the first half," Irish coach M u ('fet McGraw said. "I thought we were able to come back, and I think mostly thanks to Crystal 
see SPARTANS/page 14 

FENCUUJ
HOCKEY 
NFL 

SMC BASKETBALl
\IOU.EYBAU. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL

... 
Running back Ricky
Notre Dame at 
Culver Cup 

Notre Dame vs. 
Belles at Comets 
Notre Dame at 

Williams rejects a four­
Michigan 
Individuals 

Saturday, 3:00 p.m.
Va~araiso 
Michi~an 

game drug suspension ,
Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
Saturday, 8:00 a.m. 
Satur ay, noon

Fri ay, 5:00 p.m.
choosing to remain 
Saint Mary's hopes to 
retired. 
The walk-on Irish 

The Irish meet the 
The No. 19 Irish set to
The Irish travel to 

bounce back from loss 
Ann Arbor to challenge 
fencers ready to compete 

Crusaders in the NCAA 
to Albion Wednesday. 
lock horns with the

... 
this weekend. 

tournament first round. 
Wolverines.
No. 5 Wolverines. 
page 15 
page 15 
page 14
page 17 

page 16 
page 15 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, December 3, 2004 
What could ·have been doesn't matter now· 
By any stn•trh of tlu• imagi­nation. it's difficult to lind any­thing larking from Notn• Danw 's SPVPn th trip to tho Final Four in program history. 
llowovPr, for thoso who fol­low tlw sport 
(~>sporially 
thosP of us WhO I'OVPr it), this is not tlH• way t.lw Final l'our was Sll p)lOSI'd to shapo up. Y1>s, tlw Irish worn sup­posod to rohound lhHII tl!f'ir loss in tlw Big Hast Championship and tlwy wPrP suppos11d to cruise into thn national snmifinals. But it wasn't supposnd to bn against Santa Clara. 
This was supposPd to lw thn marquPn matrhup. North Carolina against Notro Damn, tlw top two wompn's soeenr programs in NCAA histor,Y.. This was supposed to lw a rnmatrh 

Matt Mooney 
:·;ports Writer 

of the 2000 snason in which the Irish would try and avonge tlwir previous loss to the Tar llools in thr> national semifi­nals, This was supposnd to be the game that would decide what the polls couldn't, as the t.wo teams exchanged the top­rankod position ovnr the COUI'SP of the rngular season. 
It just didn't work out the way we Pxpeeted. Santa Clara b1mt the Irish to tlw punch and got to North Carolina lirst. The Irish have shut down every opponent they have facnd to got to the Final Four but the Tar lleels couldn't hold up its end of the bargain. 
But none of this takns any­thing away from what this team is accomplishing. Clearly, North Carolina didn't deserve to play the Irish; a place in the Final Four is a reward for con­sistently nxcellnnt play, for always linding a way to win. 
"You want to play the best going through Ithe tourna­nwntl. but the way I look at it is Santa Clara bnat !North Carolinal." Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "I think we're 

playing the better team." 

This team has bigger fish to 
fry than worrying about a 

rnatehup that makes for a bet­
ter story. All season, the Irish 
have played like they have 
something to provo. They 

believed they wnre No. 1 all ·along and wanted a chance 
pmve that they deserved the 
ranking. Now that chance is 
well within their grasp, only 
two wins away. 

Should they win the national 
championship, they don't want 
anyone to be able to question 
they weren't the best or didn't 
play the best competition. They 
don't want any excuses. Should 
they lose, then so be it. Just 
don't question them if they win. 
And they shouldn't be ques­
tioned. In some respPcts, play­
ing as the highest remaining 
seed makes the going more dif­
ficult than as the underdog. 
Suddenly all eyes are on the 
Irish. Other teams will now be 
looking past their current 
opponents, anticipating a 

matchup against Notre Dame. 
The fire and motivation of 

being the und~rdog and not 
getting any respect must be 
replaced only by s!'lf-motiva­
tion. And don't forget the fear 
of failure that can slap a 

favored team into a state of 
paralysis. 

However, don't suppose this 
will happen to the Irish. They 
have c<ime too far for too long 
for Waldrum to let something 
like not getting to play North 
Carolina get in the way of his 
team's ultimate goal. Notre 
DamP knows that at the end of 
the day, it is not the losers but 
the winners of the national 
championships wbo are 

remembered. And they suppose 
it should be them. 

The views of this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd. edu 


LLI 
:::!: 
ct 
Q 
LLI 
0::
... 
0 
z 



OFFENSE MIDFIELD DEFENSE GOALKEEPING 
In Jen Buczkowski
The ofl'ense is click­
Anchored by Melissa 

This is the only area
and Jill Krivacek, the
ing at all thP right 
Tancredi and Gudrun 

of potential weakness
Irish have two tremen­
times with elutch 
Gunnarsdottir, the Irish 

on the Irish team. The
dously versatile and 
are experienced and
goals. Katie Thorlak­

defense gives up very
talented midfjelders
son can score or set 
playing well to boot. 

few shots-on-goal so
who can have their 
They have only given up 
up a score from just 

Bohn will need to work
about anywhere, any­
way on the field 
one goal in the NCAA 

to stay sharp. 
time. 
against anyone. 
tournament. 

Julie Hyder has been
Santa Clara does not 

a brick wall in the sec­
hav<~ any quick-strike 
Tho defensive mind­
The Broncos defense 

ond half of the season.
ed Broncos will try and 
has been impenetrable
of'f'ensivn threats. 

She can play under
stop the Irish attack 
of late, especially
Megan Kakadelas 

pressure, too, as she
scored the game-win­
beforP it can get start­
against quality oppo­

kept No. 1-seeded 
ner against North 
Pd. Leslie Osborne is 
nents. Santa Clara has 

North Carolina out of
the only real offensive
Carolina. hut. tlw 
only given up two goals 

the net in the Broncos
Broncos havn few con­
thrnat. 
in its last 11 games. 

dramatic 1-0 overtime
sistent scorers. 
win 
ThP Irish have too 
Both midl'ields play 

Bohn j{; a . oal{
much firepower up 
excellent defensfl, but 
The Broncos defense 

keeper'but . elj
front, especially with 
ol'l'nnsively, the Irish 
has benn impenetrable 

suq'fect to fluke goa s''a'fl
the enH'rgenen of 
have the advantagn. 
or late, especially 

year long. Rydd has
freshman Amanda 
Osborne is a goal-scor­
against quality oppo­

managc11. to keep even
Cinalli and a Iwalthy 
ing threat, but 
ilent.s. Santa Clara has 

thosb-.Qn,t oftl)e neJTa:tlf-'
Candace Chapman. If 
Buczkowski has the 
only given up two goals 

ly and *ill be a f6rroij
they can get the ball in 
ability to find people 
in its last 11 games. 

dapJ.s.(~bstade to tJrc
deep, Notre Dame will 
evnn when she doesn't 

lri~ ofli'>,nse:; )-"
dominate. 
have a shot 


COACHING INTANGIBLES 
This is Handy Waldrum's third trip 
Notre Dame is on ato the Final Four with 

hot streak right now,

in six years with Notre 
believing they could

Dame. His one-game­and should win everyat-a-time philosophy 
game. Waldrum will

has worked all season, 
not let the Broncosbut he needs to help 

snPak up on his team.

the Irish win the big one. 
Jerry Smith knows 
Santa Clara proved how to win the big 
they can knock ofT thn games. lie took Santa 
big guns with a 1-0 Clara to the 2001 
overtime third-round national championship 
win against top-se1~dPd and then to overtime of 
North Carolina. The the finals in 2002. The 
Broncos also want to Broncos will be ready 
avenge a 5-2 loss to the to play. 
Irish earlier this year. 

With a trip to the be(~·use he has· ~lta-t 
Smj.JJ:i gets:the. nod 
finals on the line, both Waldrqm diMSI~'t, a 
teams have a lot tu play national chaihplrirlship. 
for. The two schools However, this~ 
have very similar soc~ will he Waldrum's 
ef\r-rieh traditions at1d chance ~, put his mark 
are no strangers to on tliis PJ"~l'g:r~m. 
playofl' prnssum. 

... _____.._1________,
....._______..... .__________. ....._______..... ._________.....___ 
Friday, December 3, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 




Finding her place 
After scoring two goals to send the Irish· to the Final Four, Amanda Cinalli is ready for the nation's best 
more faster and physical

By DAN TAPETILLO defenders." Sporrs Writer. In ·addition to competing against tough opponents, Cinalli Scoring two key goals in the had to make a notable presence quarterfinals of the NCAA tour­with the Irish so she could find nament is not an easy task for playing time in a team deep any player -especially if with talent, including IIermann you're a frAshman. Player of the Year candidate Last wAekend, Irish forward Katie Thorlakson and senior Amanda Cinalli scored two Candace Chapman. goals in the 3-1 win over fif'th­"It shows the heart she has sp,ed P(n·tland to send the Irish on the field and she gives every­into the semifinals. thing in practice and that is Not only did this win keep the what we really liked about her," team's hopes alive Waldrum said. "If for claiming the they don't have national title. but "She has carried that heart and it solidified Cin­our team in some competitiveness, it alli's freshman is hard to get it.
respects. To come 

year of being But she is a war­nothing less than in and do that rior and the credit impressive. says a lot about is all hers." 
"The Axpecta­It is elear that
how she adjusted 

tion was always Cinalli continued there for her to to the college to battle through­come in and con­game because it out the regular tribute right season as she
is so much

away," Irish coach scored against 
Handy Waldrum quicker and going Wisconsin Green 
said. "Hut we against more faster Bay and made the don't look to our game-winning
and physical

freshman to be shots against
defenders."

scoring goals. We Connecticut and look for them to Villanova. be solid and con­"It shows the
Randy Waldrum 

sistent from a quality of player
Irish coach 

week-to-week she is," Waldrum basis. Hut she has said. "She has really exceeded that." only had to worry about com­
Cinalli began her remarkable peting to get playing time and season in the first regular sea­the rest has been icing." son match against Baylor. She Waldrum also attributes her contributed two goals and one success this season to her assist in the 7-2 win. This unique style of play. match was also a clear indica­"She has a blend of what tion that the quicker and more Candace does, finding a way to aggressive style of college soc­· get her body in there and stick cer would take little time for with the loose balls and stick it her to adjust to. in the net," Waldrum said. "But 
"She has carried our team in she also has a little bit of Katie some respects," Waldrum said. on how she can get the ball and "To come in and do that says a turn quickly. She has a little bit lot to how she adjusted to the of both and it gives you a whole college game because it is so new dimension up front. That's much quicker and going against what makes it hard for the opposition. She just gives you a third option that is completely different." 

Playing like a veteran 
But what's really set Cinalli apart this season have been her achievements in the post-sea­son. 
Not only did she score against Eastern Illinois in the opening round of the NCAA tournament, but her maturity on the field has also grown since her first game against Baylor. 
"Fruin Day 1, she has come in like a veteran and hasn't played like a freshman. Where you can has influenced Cinalli this sea­see her growth is how she has son has been Thorlakson, who really started to develop a bet­is not only one of Notre Dame's ter mindset of going at people," best, but the country's best as Waldrum said. "Earlier she was well. trying to hold the ball before "Her skill on the ball and abil: she could make a decision. And ity to hold it is amazing and I'm 

lately, the first thing she is look­ing to do is go to the goaL" 
Cinalli's aggres­sive play was last shown against Portland. Her two goals put her sea­son total at 10, the third highest on the team behind Thorlakson and Chapman. Cinalli credits this feat to her growth since the beginning of the year. 
"Towards the beginning of the season. I was a lit­tle hesitant to go 
"From Day I, she has come in like a veteran and hasn't played like a freshman. Where you can see her growth is how she has really started to develop a better mindset ofgoing at people." 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 

for the goal," Cinalli said. "I learned that you can't have that fear and you just have to chal­lenge yourself and take a chance. Our team is so talented. They are great role models and you learn a lot from them." 
Cinalli also credits the team for her success. 
"Throughout the season, the team has helped me with the confidence and we are like a family," Cinalli said. "[When scoting against Portland! there was so much joy and pride in our team. Everyday they are pushing me to be better and I credit the team a lot. .They are an amazing group of girls and help me grow as a player." 
One in particular player who striving to be more like her in that way," Cinalli said. 
Waldrum is hop­ing that Cinalli will take advan­tage of the oppor­tunity of playing with players such as Thorlakson and Chapman and continue to learn and grow from these experiences. 
"She can be doing the same things for us that Katie is doing this year in the future. She has all the ability to be that 
forward that leads the team for the next three years," Waldrum said. "Amanda has the ability to challenge being one of the best forwards Notre Dame has ever had." 
One last characteristic Waldrum believes Cinalli highly adds to the team is her pres­ence off the field. 
"They lthe team] love her. She has got one of the best, most outgoing personalities on the team. Yoti won't find a better kid," Waldrum said. "She is just so app1'eciative of everything...and she has been such a great fit." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, December 3, 2004 
Early-season matchup previewed Final Four 

By MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writer 

For fourth-seeded Notre Dame 
(23-1-1 ), the theme of this year's 
NCAA tournament run has been 
deja vu all over again. 

The Irish have already played 
against two teams (Eastern 
Illinois and Connecticut) that 
they met previously during the 
season. 

Now, as the team advances to 
the Final Four of the Women's 
College Cup for the seventh time 
in program hfstory, they will also 
face No. 16 seed Santa Clara for 
the second time this season. 
Friday's game in Cary, N.C. will 
be a rematch of the Adidas 
Classic Championship game at 
Alumni Field in which then-No. 2 
Notre Dame ousted then-No. 4 
Santa Clara by a 5-3 score. 

The Broncos stayed dose for 
much of the game until late in 
the second half when the Irish 
exploded for three goals in less 
than four minutes. Katie 
Thorlakson played a big part in 
the offensive outburst with a hat 
trick and two assists. 

However, Irish coach Handy 
Waldrum feels that a lot has 
happened in the 12 weeks since 
that game. · "You could throw that game vut the window," IHl said. "[Santa Clara coach Jerry Smith! has got some players playing dif­ferent positions than he did when we played him. The same goes for us. After !Mary Boland! ·broke her leg we were going 
with Annie Schel"tor up front and 
we've now got ICandace 
Chapman! back to where she's playing. Ashley Joiws, Jill Krivacek, and some of those kids who are playing grnat now were just getting their fm1t wet at the beginning of the year." 
This time. however, the Irish are catching a surging Bronco team riding the wave of an 11­game winning streak. Sa.nta Clara's success has been due in large part to a stilling defense. During their streak, the Broneos have only allowed their oppo­nents a miserly total of two 
goals. 
This meeting may turn into a much more defen­sive battle than the first game as the Notre Dame defense has been almost equally suf­focating. In .their four NCAA tourna­ment games, the Irish have allowed only six shots-on­goal and given up one goal. 
For defender Gudrun Gunnars­
''At the end ofthe day I the seed} doesn't mean anything. Santa Clara, they are the 16th seed and here they are in the Final Four." 
Randy Waldrun Irish coach 
ference to us." 
"We're just gonna eomn out like we do for every game," Cunnarsdottir said. "We're not going to do any­thing dillimmt." 
Thus, following last week's victory over f'irth-sended Portland, Wal­drum was pleas­

dottir, successful defense requires a eompletn team nll"ort. 
"The whole team has IHH1n playing defense very well, 1wen the forwards," she said. "It all starts up there." 
Solid defensive eil'orts have lnl't fourth-seeded Notre Dame as thn highest seed remaining in the tournament. North Carolina. the No. 1 seed, was tlw only other top-four seed to make it into the third round and they lost 1-0 in overtime to the Broncos. 
In recent years, high seeds have not fan~d well. This marks the third time in the last five years that only one of the top four seeds has sueeessfully advaneed to the Final Four. 
Waldrum, however, refuses to let that distinction get in the way of the team's preparation. 
"At the end of the day !the seed] doesn't mean anything," he said. "Santa Clara, they are the 16th send and horn thny arn in the Final Four. We're all smart enough and have been in it too long to let those kinds of num­
bers make a dif­
antly surprisnd to 
see his players· subdued in their celebration. lie feels as though it is a sign that they are still taking nothing for granted. 
"It's not over just bnrausn we got baek Ito the Final Four!, and I was really happy to sen them respond likn that way," Waldrum said. "Tiwy'rn still rnady. to scP if they can finish this thing out." . 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 

Road to the Final Four 
Santa Clara 2, California 1 
Santa Clara 1, Stanford 0 (2 OT) 
Santa Clara 1, No. 1 North Carolina 0 
... -7 

Prbtceton 5, Central Connecticut State 0 
Princeton 1, Villanova 0 (2 OT) 
Princeton 2, Boston College 0 

Princeton 3, No. 15 Santa Clara 2, Illinois· 0 
Washington 1 
No. 16 SANTA CLARA No. 7 PRINCETON 
No. 14 UCLA
No. 4 NoTRE DAME 
·~ 

UCLA 1, No. 6 Ohio State 0 H'. T!.i:
Notre Dame 3, No. 5 Portland 1 
'P 
Notre Dame 2, Connecticut 0 uc~ 2, Duke o 


Notre Dame 1, Wisconsin 0 
Notre Dame 4, Eastern Illinois 0 

UCLA 1, Pepperdine 0 





