
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Majors show some gender imbalance 
College of Science, architecture school are exceptions 
Editor's note: This is the first in a two-part series on gender representation in Notre Dame's colleges. 
By KATE GALES News Writer 
How often does a professor look over his or her 100 students and see 47 women and 53 men? 
Not often. Instead, many imme­diately notice a striking difference in the number of men and women enrolled in a particular class. 
None of the University's five undergraduate divisions -the College of Arts and Letters, the College of Science, the College of Engineering, the Mendoza College of Business and the School of Architecture -can claim a gender breakdown exact­ly proportional to the 4,358 men and 3,813 women making up Notre Dame's undergraduate population, according to the Office of Institutional Research. However, some areas see a more significant sex discrepancy than others. A closer examination of the people behind the statistics generated each semester reveals changing trends in education. 
Deans, professors and advisers at Notre Dame have worked to combat stereotypes of a single sex dominating a college or major. Although some generaliza­tions have held true, two areas where there is a significant gen-
see GENDER/page 4 



By KATE GALES News Writer 
It's a man's world, and that's exactly what Cathy Pieronek is trying to change. 
At Notre Dame, nearly four out of five students enrolled in the College of Engineering are male. Women are a visible and significant minority, comprising only 21.5 percent of the under­graduates enrolled in the col-

l~ge. 
"Our biggest goal is keeping the women who already go here interested and making sure the program meets their needs," Pieronek, director of the Women's Engineering Program, said. 
The WEP was created in 2002 to better serve the needs of females in the College of Engineering. 
see ENGINEER/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
XeroxVP 

to speak at SMC graduation 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Ediror 

Diane Daly McGarry, the vice president and chief mar­keting officer at Xerox Corporation, will be the Saint Mary's commencement speak­er, College 
officials announced Friday. 
" I m thrilled, hon­ored and 
o v e r ­whelmed," McGarry , 


who attend-McGarry ed Saint Mary's in the late 1960s, said. "Some of the best experiences of my life were at Saint Mary's, and I'm so looking for­ward to coming and meeting everyone." 
Susan Dampeer, executive assistant to College President Marilou Eldred, said there are a number of reasons McGarry was chosen. 
"She has a wonderful life story," Dampeer said. "When she was a student here, she was what we called a staff student worker. She worked everyday at the dining hall, in addition to having two part­time jobs, [as a] gas station 
see MCGARRYIpage 6 

Army ROTC cadets conduct field training in Michigan 

By MAIT BRAMANTI Senior StaffWrirer 
FT. CUSTER: Mich. -The Fighting Irish Battalion lived up to its name last weekend, as Notre Dame's Army ROTC unit conducted training exer­cises at Ft. Custer, near Battle Creek, Mich. 
About 85 Notre Dame ROTC students joined more than 200 cadets from Central, Western and Eastern Michigan Universities and the University of Michigan for the weekend­long field training exercise ­dubbed "Operation Snow Warrior." 
The battalion left Pasquerilla Center Frid.ay afternoon and drove to Ft. Custer. Upon their arrival, the cadets -clad in camouflage fatigues and combat boots ­stowed their equipment in barracks that once housed German prisoners of war dur­ing World War II. The cadets then assembled behind the base's headquarters building for a regimental activation ceremony, where personnel from all five universities were put under the command of Lt. Col. Kelly Jordan, Notre Dame professor of military science. After an honor guard unveiled the regimental colors -a gold flag bearing the shield from the Notre Dame seal-Jordan encouraged the cadets to use their time at Ft. Custer effec­tively. Jordan, a former instructor at West Point who has a Ph.D. in history, com­pared the weekend's opportu­nities to the Allied invasion at Normandy in 1944. 
"Just like Eisenhower had a 36-hour window on D-Day, you'll have a short window to make the most of your train­ing time here," he said. "We've got a lot of.great things for you." 
The FTX is intended to pre­pare students for the Leader Development and Assessment Course, taken during the sum­mer after the cadets' junior year. The LDAC, held at Ft. Lewis, near Tacoma, Wash., is a 32-day course that prepares cadets for careers as Army officers. Cadets -who are commissioned as second lieu­tenants before graduation from Notre Dame -receive full scholarships in return for your time to pass on your a four-year commitment to knowle\lge," Jordan said. active duty. "Let's go out there with fire in 

Jordan went on to encour­our eyes and warrior ethos in age the senior cadets to pre­our hearts." pare their younger colleagues Following the ceremony, the for the rigors of LDAC training cadets returned to their bar-and evaluation. 
"For you [seniors], this is see ROTC/page 6 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Of age 

"Score!'' The cadet's face lit up as he held up seven-dollar cup of Bud Light. "They said they'd give out free beer for a man in uniform!'' 
He trotted proudly back up the bleacher steps, 
showing off his alcoholic badge of appreciation to the 60-odd sol­diers who had accompanied him to this Detroit Tigers-Cleveland Indians spring 


training game in Claire Heininger Lakeland, Fla., and urging them 
to go cash in on News Editor the deal for them­selves. "That is," he added with a smirk, "ifyou're of age." 
Sitting three rows down .at Joker Merchant Stadium, savoring peanuts with the shells still on and avoiding the swatting arms of would-be foul ball snatchers, his comment snapped me out of my lazy Sunday haze. 
Of age. 

Here were soldiers dotting the third base line grandstand with their black hats, lace-up combat boots and full­length camouflage, worn proudly if damply in the 83-degree sun. Here were soldiers taking a day off from training, from preparing to fight for their country, so they could watch career minor leaguers take a swing at clearing the advertisements -from "Ballpark Franks: A Hot, Steamy Love Affair" to "CBS Fantasy Baseball: We built it, come"-that covered the out­field fences. Here were soldiers shrugging the weight of the most powerful country in the free world off their shoulders, if only for an ugly three-hour, five-error slugfest. 
And here was that country telling them they couldn't handle a beer. 

These were not indignant 17 year olds begging for booze, nor were they devious 20 year olds wielding shoddy fake ID's to enter an even shoddier bar. These were men and women who wake up before the crack of dawn to train for a war that major politicians are contesting and half of Americans don't believe in. These were dedicat­ed, sacrificing professionals, "of age" to join in heated combat on the battle­field -but underage to take a sip while watching the action on the infield. 
Though it didn't seem to concern them at the moment-taunts of "you know I could play third base better than that!" and "balk! balk!" rever­berated off the metal stands above me -the biting contradiction of the situ­ation hit me hard. 
I was bound for five nights of break in Miami Beach, but the peanuts sud­denly made me feel sick to my stom­ach, and I let the bag crunch under my feet. ·1 doubt the men in uniform knew where they were headed, but for the at least half of them who were clearly under 21-hell, they didn't even need to shave-it sure wasn't to the concession stand. 
"Game time," read the final sign, a cursive "Budweiser" scrawled across six feet of dead center field. 
Who, exactly, is responsible enough to play? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and · not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In Friday's Observer, the editorial "Encourage all prospects to visit" incorrecdy stated that U.S. News & World Report ranks dream schools. Princeton Review ranks schools by this criteria. The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: SHOULD NOTRE DAME DESIGNATE MORE WEEKENDS FOR PROSPECTIVE 
STUDENTS TO VISIT? 

Megan LeeKevin Walsh 
SophomoreSophomore Welsh Famiy Fisher 

"Only ifthey're
"Can we just hot. ..
have more weekends?" 

Pollee Investigate nearly 200 Hooters videos 
WEST COVINA, Calif. ­Nearly 200 women who applied for jobs at a Hooters restaurant were secretly videotaped in a trailer while they undressed to put on a Hooters uniform, police said. 
Authorities raided the trailer last month and seized a computer that held 180 digital videos of the women, ages 17-25, Lt. Mark Dettor said. 
"None of us suspected we would find that many videos, and we are dealing with victims who are shocked and feel betrayed," he said. 
· Hooters is a national chain known for its scantily clad waitresses, who wear low-cut tank tops. and shorts. The restaurant in West Covina, about 18 miles outside of Los Angeles, was scheduled to open in April. 
Officials worry as goat farmer's herd grows 

CORINTH, Vt. -State officials are investigating a man whose goats and his religious convictions against killing them have collided in a possibly inhu­mane and definitely stinky way. 
There were three goats 

Tom Schreck 
Sophomore Fisher 

"Why? Is Notre Dame hurting for students?.. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
w 
:z: !;;( 

3: w 
.... 
ca: 
(J 






0

.... HIGI:i 61 49 HIGH 46 LOW 38 38 LOW 29 
HIGH LOW 
53 40 
HIGH LOW 


MATIHEW SMEDBERG/The Observer 

Sophomore Claudia Jullao and senior Jessea Campbell participate In a three-legged race during the Lewis Hall Chicken Run Sunday afternoon. The chicken run Is Lewis' signature event. 
OFFBEAT 
on the farm Chris Weathersbee's mother bought seven years ago. Now there are 300 ­including 70 living in his house, much of which is covered with a mix of goat droppings and hay. 
Authorities last month raided the farm in Corinth, about 20 miles southeast of Montpelier, and seized 44 deemed unhealthy by a veterinarian. State police and the Central Vermont Humane Society are weigh­ing whether to pursue ani­mal cruelty or neglect charges. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


Emily Sladek 
Freshman 
Pangborn 
''Aren't they invited every weekend?" 
IN BRIEF 

Michael O'Sullivan will speak on "Engineering Careers and the Energy Industry" as a part of the Distinguished Lecture Series from 12:45 to 
1:45 p.m. today in DeBartolo Hall room 101. 
Architect and educator Thomas Norman Rajkovich will present a lecture "Climbing Mount Parnassus: Drawing Parallels" from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. today in Bond Hall room 104. 
To mark Cesar Chavez Day, a variety of events including the showing of a video, a dis­cussion and a candlelight pro­cession to the grotto will take place from 7 to 9 p.m. today in DeBartolo Hall room 102. 
The New Directions in Russian Cinema Film Series will sponsor a showing of the movie "Sideburns" from 7:30 to 9:15 p.m. tonight in DeBartolo hall room 120. 
The Indian Student Association will present the film "Fire," along with a dis­cussion and Indian food from 
7:30 to 9:30 p.m. tonight in Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Student Center. 
The Class of 2005 will host Irish Idol 2! tonight from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. at Legends. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart rector Father Peter Rocca will say Mass in the last homi­ly series tonight from 9 to 10 
p.m. in the Alumni Hall Chapel. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 68 I 50 Boston 46 I 34 Chicago 58 I 37 Denver 63 I 35 Houston 76 I 53 Los Angeles 89 I 57 Minneapolis 40 I 27 New York 52 1 37 Philadelphia 54 I 38 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 70 I 51 St. Louis 65 I 39 Tampa 81 I 58 Washington 55 I 41 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students gather for peace 
By KATIE MOUNTS 
News Writer 
Speakers from the Notre Dame community, across the nation and from abroad gath­ered to speak at the two-day Notre Dame Peace Conference Friday and Saturday, which organizers called a success even though fewer students than desired attended the event. 
One of the most prominent speakers, Juan Mendez, Notre Dame's director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights at the Notre Dame Law School and adopted "Prisoner of Conscience" of Amnesty International. spoke about the importance of combining con­cerns for peace with those for human rights. 
"Peace, along with the absence of violence and killings, means a redress of human rights violations," he said. He questioned the often lesser pri­ority given to consequences of human rights violations as a part of amnesty agreements. 
"The point is to insist on a better peace. 
Some of the most popular presentations were a debate on just war, a moderated discus­sion on America's domestic issues with peace and another discussion on case studies relat­ed to the establishment of peace. 
Notre Dame seniors Kate Belden and Maureen Fitzpatrick were two of the five presenters for the case studies presenta­tion. They spoke passionately about conflicts in Burma, an Asian country plagued by civil warfare. . 
"Kate and I have been con­
sumed with learning more 
about the situation in Burma," 
Fitzpatrick said. 
The two students are also putting their words into action on campus by trying to establish Notre Dame's own chapter of the Free Burma Coalition. Fitzpatrick thought the confer­ence was a "good opportunity to engage in dialogue about these issues." 
"On a campus that's not very politically active," Belden said, "we'll do anything we can to spread the word about the coalition. It's also very encour­aging to see the other case stud­ies and see what other people are doing." 
Student co-chair Monica JacirZablah said that with the diversity of topics, organizers were able to bring in a wider variety of speaker, including more international applicants, from different fields. 
Faculty sponsor Daniel Philpott spoke to the success of the conference. 
"It's fabulous," he said. "The students did an incredible job organizing and put an incredi­ble amount of time into it, and it's paying off." 
The event's success, however, only came after a tremendous amount of work by the student sponsors. 
"It was a lot more work than we expected," JacirZablah said. She said she had to handle "problems that came up with 

MATTHEW SMEDBERG/The Observer 

Juan Mendez, director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights at the Law School, delivers the sendoff speech at the Peace Conference Saturday afternoon. 
every event" such as making sure the schedule was followed carefully to ensure that all later events were not delayed. 
JacirZablah also commented on the lack of political activism and student enthusiasm for peace studies, given the low attendance by Notre Dame stu­dents. 
Thus, while over 100 people attended this year's conference, more than in past years, organ­izers were still disappointed that less than two percent of the Notre Dame community attend­ed the widely publicized event. 
Contact Katie Mounts at kmounts@nd.edu 


Organizers are pleased with Spring Visitation 
By AMANDA SHROPSHIRE 
News Writer 

The excitement of Spring Visitation weekend has come to an end, with the departure of 160 visiting minority stu­dents. 
This annual event introduces minority students to life at Notre Dame, in hopes that they will choose to attend the University. Spring Visitation weekend began over 20 years and is filled with events that try to relate to the students on many different levels. 
Many current Notre Dame students, like juniors Stephanie Marshall and Nicole Rogers, served as hosts. 
"The first night my recruit and I toured campus because she wanted to walk around and take pictures," Marshall said. "My recruit went to the. BCAC Fashion Show and Latin Expressions without me because I had to work. She seemed to enjoy herself and to be having a lot of fun." 
Latin Expressions and the BCAC Fashion Show are the major events that take place during the weekend. To most, these events serve as an intro­duction to what can happen at Notre Dame. 
Rogers said the weekend influenced her decision to choose Notre Dame. 
"Spring [Visitation] definitely confirmed my desire to come to Notre Dame after seeing the people here," said Rogers. "The activities dur-ing the weekend are the most exciting because of the minority pres­ence. It is a good recruiting tool to promote diversity." 
But the sentiment also exists that the weekend is not an accurate representation of life at Notre Dame. 
"I also think it is important for the incoming students to know that Spring [Visitation] weekend does not accurately reflect the complexion of the student body on an everyday basis," Rogers said. 
Marshall did not attend Spring Visitation when she was in high school, but said if she had it would have helped her. 
"I didn't go to Spring [Visitation]," Marshall said. "I see now that if I had it would have made the transition bet­ter in terms of meeting people and making friends." 
Several organizers and stu­dent hosts said the weekend was a success, producing great events and a weekend of excitement on campus. They added that they heard many positive comments from the prospective students. 
"I think she was pretty close to making a decision to come to Notre Dame," Rogers said of her prospect. 
Contact Amanda Shropshire at ashropO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Kaplan rebate offer: 
Enroll today and et $100back! 


Receive $100 back through Kaplan's-Rebatet wheri you enroll in an LSAT, MCAT, GMAT, GRE, DAT or TOEFL: course between March 1st-March 31st. 
Call or visit us online for more information or to enroll. 

1-800-KAP·TESt limited



KAPLAN 

kaptest.comjrebate time 
offer! 

Test Prep and Admissions 
*Test names are registered trademarks of their respective owners. 1This offer applies only to classroom courses and 15, 25 and 35-hour tutoring programs and cannot be combined with any other offer. To be eligible, you must enroll between March 1-March 31, 2004. Certain conditions apply. See redemption forms for complete details. Redemption forms are available at kaptest.comjrebate and at Kaplan centers. 




~~~ 


Best! 
S/lue 1911 

52750 IN 933 Serving Notre Dame &St. Mary's 
574-243-1122 
326 N. Ironwood Corner of Ironwood &McKinley 
574-243-1111 
Engineer 
continued from page 1 
According to Pieronek, less than 20 percent of the degrees in engineering earned nationwide are earned by women, and less than one in 10 professional engi­neers are women. This number can be deceptive, however, as women with degrees in engi­neering are involved with a vari­ety of professions such as patent law and educa­tion. 
academia and the work force are a problem with young women's interest in engineering. 
According to the November Notre Dame Report, there are only five women on the faculty of the college, in the chemical, civil and computer science and engi­neering departments. None of the faculty members in aero­space and mechanical engineer­ing or electrical engineering are women. 
Dealing with a predominantly male major is a challenge for 
many female under­
graduates. 

"The first thing  "We're limited by  "Sometimes  I  
is that we're lim­ited by the pool of students who come to us,"  choices girls make in junior high ... [Many] girls aren't  think guys in pro­grams don't realize that the young women have differ­ 
Pieronek  said.  exposed to careers  ent experiences and  
"We're limited by choices girls make in junior  [in engineering] early enough to  bring different strengths to proj­ects," Pieronek said.  
high....  [Many]  become interested.,,  She  notes  that  
girls  aren't  men tend to have  
exposed to careers [in engi­ Cathy Pleronek  more experience in computer program­ 
neering]  early  Women's Engineering  ming,  whereas  
enough  to  Program Director  women  often  
become interest­ demonstrate sharp­ 
ed."  er communication  

In addition to the WEP, the skills -perhaps due to choices Society of Women Engineers is · made in high school curricula. an active force on campus. First-year advisers also pay 
"Part of what we try to do is special attention to women who bring people to campus," have expressed an interest in Pieronek said. "Our students engineering, realizing that the have a lot of opportunities to environment, though challeng­meet women connected with ing, is not impossible. engineering." "Engineering isn't harder than 
Freshmen women in the engi­pre-professional programs," said neering program are assigned a Holly Martin, an adviser to first­
"big sister" by SWE to help them feel com­fortable with the primarily male college. 
"I think that's a really good idea," said Michelle Hamrah, a fresh­man enrolled in the College of Engineering. "Sometimes you need to talk to year students. "It's hard in its own way, but not harder than
"Sometimes you 
the other sciences. need to talk to ... Half of pre-pro­someone who's fessionals are 
women, why are

more experienced 
they not in engineer­

than you to help ing?" make decisions ... , To make this goal a reality at Notre Dame, the college
Michelle Hamrah 
has set high goals

Freshman engineer with regards to recruiting female students and faculty 
someone who's more experi­members, as announced in the enced than you to help make college's Engineering Insights decisions and know that you can newsletter. · make it through [the program], "Once you get enough people even though it's difficult." together, others see success, and 
The sex discrepancy in engi­you've created an environment neering is also reflected in the to reach more people," Pieronek faculty of the College of said. "Keeping students here is Engineering -another potential the biggest issue." deterrent to female undergradu­ates. Pieronek said the "lack of Contact Kate Gales at professional role models" in both kgales@nd.edu. 
The Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism 


The Department of Art, Art History and Design is pleased to announce its annual competition for the Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism. Current Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students are invited to submit essays on any topic in the history of art or art criticism for consideration in the competition. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have been written in conjunction with a course taken at the University, but need not have been. 
Rules governing the competition are available in the Art Department 
Office, 306 Riley Hall. Two copies of the submission must be delivered to the Art Department Office by 3:00PM, Monday, April 5 to be eligible. 
A student may only submit ONE entry. 

Gender 
continued from page 1 
der balance are the College of Science and the School of Architecture. 
Joseph Marino, dean of the College of Science, is optimistic about the fact women are actu­ally the majority in the college he oversees. In science, women hold a slight majority; 51.2 per­cent of the undergraduates are female. 
"You have to believe that if you're seeing high numbers of women in the college, it's a more balanced 

view of profes­ "You have to  One thing that he  
sions and gen­ believe that if  does hope to change  
ders," he said. Within the college, the sta­ you're seeing high numbers ofwomen  is the number of women on the facul­ty.  
tistical gender  in the college, it's a  "A lot has to do  
breakdown by major reveals that women  more balanced view ofprofessions  with role models, and how many facul­ty members are  
dominate biolo­ and genders.,,  women," he said. "In  
gy,  the  most  the  College  of  
popular major in the college. Marino attrib­ Joseph Marino College of Science  Science we have a fair number of women [on the facul­ 
utes this result  Dean  ty]."  
in part to the  Marino  believes  
pre-profession­ that  Notre  Dame  

al program, which he estimates compares well to the national is evenly split between the sexes. average, and possibly surpasses 
"Biology, chemistry and bio­it. However, he observed the chemistry attract the most numbers "are not nearly women," Marino said, "partly enough." because of their connection to "There are a lot of female medicine and jobs in the phar­TAs," Bridget Gulling, a senior maceutical industry." biology major, said. "There are 
As of fall 2003, biology was by very few female teachers, but far the most popular major in they are awesome. A lot of the College of Science, with 240 times, their teaching style is a lot students declared in that sub­easier to understand." ject. Of these students, 147, or Marino sees the United States 
61.3 percent, ·are women -as simply "catching up" to edu­making men a significant minor­cational counterparts in Latin ity, as is true in the smaller field and South America, where of environmental science. women ht;l.ve dominated the sci­
"We're very even as far as ences for decades. boys and girls," said Rachel Although significantly smaller, Byrne, a sophomore biology the School of Architecture is in a major. "I picked biology as my similar situation. There are major because I think I want to be a doctor, but I'm not really sure ... it keeps my options open." 
However, men hold slight enrollment advantages in bio­chemistry anq environmental geoscience. Also, a significantly higher proportion of physics majors are men -over 80 per­cent. 
Chemistry is split evenly between men and women. 
"A lot of [a major choice] has to do with the job market, and where [students] see themselves going," Marino said. " ... The number of people at Notre Dame 
majoring in science 
is not so far off from 
other universities." 
slightly fewer men than women 
enrolled in the college, but 
women are a minority on the 
faculty. 
"It's not something I really 
worry about," said Father 
Richard Bullene, assistant chair 
of architecture. "We seem to 
have a really good balance, and 
it seems to fluctuate from class 
to class." 
According to Institutional 
Research, 94 men and 99 
women were architecture 
majors during the fall semester. 
Bullene said that while the 
overall number of undergradu­
ate students enrolling in archi­
tecture has recently decreased 
by about 10 percent per semes­
ter, the loss appears evenly dis­
tributed. 
"The gender makeup of the class doesn't seem to shift," he said. 
Gina Martell, a fifth-year architecture student, agreed that equality has been achieved among students, but added that faculty had a long way to go. 
"We're pretty much exactly even," she said. "There are only two female teachers ... but [the faculty is] really aware that needs to be fixed." 
She cited the program's intense focus on classical archi­tecture as a potential jmpedi­ment to hiring a more diverse group of professors. 
While the relative lack of female role models in the school does not seem to be an impedi­ment to female student interest, Bullene confirmed the depart­ment is looking to diversifY. 
"Five years ago we were criti­cized for an under-representa­tion of women and minorities," Bullene said, speaking of the review each school of architec­ture undergoes every five years. 
"We're making progress ... It's just very hard to find available candidates, but it is a conscious goal of ours to address." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu. 

Master of Business Administration 
Accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (www.aacsb.edu) 
• 
International Business 

• 
International Finance 

• 
Marketing Management 


Master of Arts in Government and Politics 
Accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education (www.msache org) 
-. International Relations 
Rome Campus Contact Information: Via di Santa Maria Mediatrice, 24-00165 Rome, Italy Ph. 011 39 06 393 842; Fax 011 39 06 636 901 U.S. Ph. (212) 815-9216 Ext. 2 E-mail: info11 @rome.stjohns.edu Website: www.stjohns.edu/rome 

Monday, March 29, 2004 CO!V\PlLED FR0:\1 -l'l-H: 0HSERVER'.S VV1RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Official: Sharon should be indicted 
JERUSALEM -Israel's state attorney rec­ommended Sunday that Prime Minister Ariel Sharon be indicted for bribe-taking, officials said, in what is seen as a major -but not final -step toward his possible resignation. 
Such an unprecedented indictment of an Israeli prime minister could derail Sharon's proposal to withdraw from much of the Gaza Strip -or entice him to move more quickly on the "disengagement" plan, which has broad support in Israel. 
Sharon is meeting with President Bush in two weeks to try to win U.S. backing for a Gaza withdrawal. 
In Gaza, the new Hamas leader branded Bush "the enemy of God. the enemy of Islam," but stopped short of threatening to attack U.S. targets in retaliation for last week's assassination by Israel of the Islamic militant group's founder. 
Turkey's ruling party sweeps polls 
ISTANBUL, Turkey -Turkey's Islamic-root­ed governing party swept local elections across the country Sunday, according to early results; giving Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan a major victory. 
The results could strengthen Erdogan's hand in pushing for a solution in talks over the divided island of Cyprus. But it could also raise fears of a loosening ofsecular laws. 
Only about 1 percent of the vote had been counted but analysts said the outcome was not likely to change. The results showed Erdogan's Justice and Development Party winning may­oral races in Turkey's largest city, Istanbul, and in the capital, Ankara. It was also doing well in several other cities in the predomi­
. nantly Muslim but staunchly secular country. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
1-95 lanes reopen in Connecticut 
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. -Northbound lanes on a stretch of one of the nation's busiest highways reopened Sunday, well ahead of schedule and three days after a fire partially melted an overpass. 
Construction workers cheered as a parade of cars, escorted by police, traveled on Interstate 95 for the first time since last week's crash of a tanker truck filled with heating oil. 

Minn. official's daughters charged 
ST. PAUL, Minn. -Two daughters of Minnesota Attorney General Mike Hatch were jailed in Chicago, accused of fighting with police after a night of heavy drinking. 
Elizabeth and Anne Hatch were celebrat­ing Anne's 21st birthday with friends at a nightclub Friday night when they got into an argument with a man at the bar. They were told to leave because they were intoxicated, Hatch spokeswoman Leslie Sandberg said. 
Security guards at the club flagged down police as they threw out the two women, who continued yelling outside, Chicago police spokeswoman JoAnn Taylor said. After police twice told the women to leave, Elizabeth Hatch ran toward the squad car and struck an officer in the face, knocking off the officer's glasses, Taylor said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Judge frees identity thief despite plea 
LAFAYETTE -A judge freed a Mexican national who admitted she used another per­son's name and Social Security number to get a job, saying the justice system is not equipped to deal with the large number of such cases. 
In ordering unsupervised probation for Mireya Garcia, Judge Don Johnson rejected a probation officer's recommendation that the woman serve four years in prison. 
"The state court is not in a position to set­tle this national social problem," said Johnson, who let Garcia walk out of his Tippecanoe County courtroom Friday. "I'm concerned that we've got tens of thousands of people here under the same circum­stances. Are we going to just lock them all up? Our society is hiring these people." 



Commissioners press for testimony 
Rice says she wants to testify but is constitutionally barred and Bush won't budge 
Associated Press 

CRAWFORD, Texas ­White House allies and Republicans investigating the Sept. 11 attacks pressed Sunday to hear open testi­mony from national security adviser Condoleezza Rice, with one commissioner call­ing her refusal a "political blunder of the first order." 
Rice said in a TV inter­view that she wants to testi­fy publicly, but is constitu­tionally barred from doing so, a senior administration official said Sunday after­noon, before the program aired. Rice also said in the "60 Minutes" interview that she wants to me·et with family members of the Sept. 11 victims, to hear their concerns, the official said. 
President Bush, spending a long weekend on his Texas ranch, gave no ground, and several aides said he will not change his mind on letting Rice testify. But Bush sent her and other top administration officials out for television interviews to rebut fresh attacks on the way his administration has handled the threat of terrorism. 
Sharpening his criticism, former counterterrorism chief Richard Clarke said President Clinton was more aggressive than Bush in try­ing to confront al-Qaida, Osama bin Laden's organi­gressional committee two cal" about terrorism betbre said the White House and zation. years ago. Some the attacks, Clarke said, intelligence community 
"He did something, and Republicans have said that because "they're basically would never agree to President Bush did nothing testimony about Sept. 11 the same thing. And they release the Sept. 4 national prior to September 11," contradicts Clarke's current wasted months when we security directive, because Clarke told NBC's "Meet the criticism. could have had some it contains sensitive infor­Press." Clarke said he also want­action." mation on sources and 
"I think they deserve a ed Rice's previous interview Asked about Clarke's methods. failing grade for what they before the independent request for the declassifica­Members of the Sept. 11 did before" Sept. 11, Clarke Sept. 11 commission declas­tion, Secretary of State commissioner made clear said of the Bush's adminis­sified, along with e-mails Colin Powell on CBS' "Face they will not relent in their tration. "They never got between him and Rice, and the Nation," said, "My bias pursuit of public testimony around to doing anything." other documents, including will be to provide this infor­from Rice, but said they 
Clarke said a sweeping a memo he sent on Jan. 25, mation in an unclassified were not inclined to sub­declassification of docu­2001 offering a road map to manner not only to the poena her. ments would prove that the the new Bush administra­commission, but to the The White House has Bush administration neg­tion on how to confront al­American people." declined to let her appear lected the threat of terror­Qaida, and the directive White House spokesman at the commission's tele­ism in the nine months that a National Security Jim Morrell said decisions vised hearings, citing the leading up to the attacks. Council adopted on Sept. 4, on declassification "will be constitutional principle of 
He said he sought declas­2001. made in discussion with the separation of powers; the sification of all six hours of The material will prove 9/11 commission." One sen­panel was created by ' his testimony before a con-that Bush was "lackadaisi-ior administration official Congress. 

IRAQ 


Minister escapes attack, two killed 
ous security situation in Iraq's killed were both bodyguards, and 
Associated Press 

third-largest city, once a prime that Berwari was in another car 
BAGHDAD-Gunmen opened fire recruiting ground for the officer that was not hit by gunfire. Sunday on a convoy carrying Iraq's corps of Sad dam Hussein's military. Berwari, who earned a degree at minister of public works, killing a Berwari was returning to Mosul Harvard University's John F. driver and a bodyguard and injur­from a meeting in the city of Dohuk Kennedy School of Government in ing two others, the U.S.-led coali­when her convoy was attacked, said 1999, is one of five Kurdish minis­tion said. The_ minister, Nisreen Kristi Clemens, a coalition spokes­ters in the coalitio-n-appointed Berwari, was unharmed. woman in Baghdad. interim government. There are 20 
In another attack in the same city, Saro Qader, an official with the other ministers. Mosul, gunmen killed a Briton and Kurdistan Democratic Party, Previously, Berwari was develop­a Canadian who were working as described the attack as an "assassi­ment minister in the Kurdistan security guards for foreign electri­nation attempt." Berwari is a mem­regional government, and she also cal engineers at a power station. ber of the Kurdish party. served with United Nations organi­The ambush appeared to be part of Iraqi police said the attack zations in Iraq. a campaign to undermine U.S.-led occurred around 11 a.m. in the al­Another female political leader, reconstruction efforts in Iraq. Karama neighborhood of Mosul. Aqila al-Hashimi, was assassinated 
The attacks highlighted the tenu-They said the two men who were in September. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
racks to unpack and review infantry tactics and proce­dures, then retired to their bunks for some much needed rest. They would need it. 
Outside, Bravo Company, 3rd Platoon assembled in for­mation. 
"B-Three, party with me!" the cadets yelled as they snapped to attention. 
Platoon leader and junior Shawn Kotoske ordered his troops to don their Kevlar helmets for the march to breakfast. 
"This is a combat situation, people," Kotoske joked. "The food will be bad." 
The student­

cadets practicing situational tactical exercises -known as "sticks lanes." These 90­minute drills test cadets' leadership and tactical acu­men in a simulated combat environment. Squads of about 10-12 cadets receive an order, detailing their objec­tive. Objectives vary from lane to lane, but may include attacking an enemy observa­tion post, ambushing hostile forcers or conducting a reconnaissance mission. The opposing force, or OpFor, ~r the weekend was the fictional 
. Caquetan Army's 81st Rifle Regiment. Upon receiving the details of their mission, squad lead­ers briefed their troops, establishing the chain of com­mand, move­ment routes, 
soldiers then "The new cadre are rules of engage­marched to the ment and other
doing a great job.
mess hall by unit, facets of the again sounding especially with the missions. off with pride. freshmen.·· The lanes are 
"Warrior Forge, meant to accu­here we come!'' rately simulate
Leon Gil 
Bravo Company combat condi­
Senior cadet 
shouted into the tions. Cadets 
pre-dawn chill, a 
reference to the Army's nickname for LDAC. 
Cadets then filed into the mess hall by squad, and had about five minutes to wolf down a meal of scrambled eggs and sausage, liberally doused with what one cadet called "the Army's favorite condiment" -hot sauce. 
Sophomore Avery Mortimer said military food isn't exact­ly great. 
"It's edible," Mortimer laughed. "It keeps you going." 
And the cadets certainly kept going. Following break­fast, they traveled to a train­ing area for a land navigation course. Cadets used maps, compasses and protractors to find seven designated points -trees marked by orange signs -scattered throughout the heavily wooded two­square-mile area. 
Some cadets, like junior Richard Moss, found it diffi'­cult to complete the course in the allotted three hours. 
"Yeah. it was tough," an out-of-breath Moss said, arriving at the scorer's table with only seconds remaining on the clock. 
The bulk of the weekend, though. was occupied by 
Need a job? 
Like working with computers? 
Like helping your fellow classmates? 

Are you known as guru" among your 
carried real M­

16 rifles, spe­cially adapted to fire loud. but harmless, blanks. They wore GI rucksacks, packed with enough gear to simulate a real combat load. They applied camouflage face paint to Army specifications ­black on the high areas, green on the low. The fre­quent chop of National Guard helicopters above added to the realism. 
ROTC instructors paid close attention to the squad lead­ers'. instructions, listening for mistakes that inevitably 
came back to "It's a great time, routed the enemy haunt the and everyone is in just a few min­squad. When utes. Two cadets
getting a lot of
one leader trained with sup­failed to plan good experience. ·· pressive fire on the for the evacu­OpFor position, ation of pinning down the
Noreen Walton 
wounded troops under a hail
Sophomore cadet 
troops, an of simulated auto-
instructor threw an "arty sim" -a pyrotechnic device that simu­lates the whistle and explo­sion of incoming artillery fire. He then designated "wound­ed" soldiers who had to be evacuated, testing the cadets' ability to react to unforeseen circumstances. 
As the cadets of Bravo 

UNIVERSITY OF 

NOTRE DAME 
OFFICE OP INPORMATION TECHNOLOGJI!S 
the "computer friends? 

Distibuted Support Services within the Office of Information Technologies has the following positions available: 
ResNet Computing Assistant (B Positions) Staff Assistant (2 Positions) 
(We are in desperate need of an individual with a Macintosh background for one Staff Assistant position) 


We're waiting for your application! 
Apply online at : www.nd.edu/-rccs/rasapp.htm Que•tion•? Call Pamela at 631-8417 
Company, 2nd Platoon, 1st Squad gathered to plan an ambush of approaching OpFor troops, they got some words of wisdom from Eastern Michigan's Master Sgt. Jay Hudson, a self­described "airborne ranger extraordinaire." 
''I want to see aggressive­ness and violence of action," Hudson bellowed. 
The cadets hid behind a small ridge overlooking a dirt road. When the OpFor troops approached, that violence of action became a reality, as 1st Squad opened fire, imme­diately "killing" several of the enemy. However, not every­thing went according to plan. As a squad member tried to drag a "wounded" OpFor sol­dier out of the road, the enemy leaped up, producing a grenade. 
Hudson chided 1st Squad's members for. their failure to properly search their wound­ed prisoners. 
"The way we train is the way we're going to fight," Hudson cautioned. 
In another lane Sunday morning, the instructor, Capt. Mike Gallagher, warned 1st Squad about the enemy troops' combat readiness. 
"Their morale is high," Gallagher warned. "They will fight aggressively if engaged." 
As squad leader Kelly Thompson, a Western Michigan student, began moving her troops forward, Gallagher wished them "happy hunting." 
And they were successful. When 1st Squad attacked Objective Bayonet -an OpFor observation post -the cadets 
matic-rifle fire. 

Moments later. a smoke grenade sent a billowing green plume through the woods, signaling members of 1st Squad to shift their fire, to avoid hitting their own troops. 
"Assault through!" Thompson yelled, ordering her cadets to take the objec­
tive. 1st Squad swarmed over the enemy post, "killing" all three OpFor soldiers in a matter of seconds. 
"Rough day at the office," Gallagher laughed as a van­quished OpFor soldier fell to the ground. 
Senior cadet Devin Miller 
said cadets should be self­
assured if they want to be 
effective commanders. 
"If you don't speak with authority, you've already lost the battle," Miller said. "Confidence in decision-mak­ing is the deciding factor." 
In addition to imparting tactical knowledge and lead­ership know-how, the exer­cises also taught cadets about the laws of war and proper handling of prisoners under the Geneva Conventions. Cadets were instructed how to treat noncombatants, not to fire at unarmed personnel and to evacuate prisoners from combat areas as soon as possible. 
Following Sunday's closing ceremony, cadets trucked back to campus, where they spent several hours in the basement of Pasquerilla Center, cleaning their rifles and equipment. 
Cadets praised the annual training event, saying it was an opportunity to put class­room concepts into practice. 
Junior John Dickson said the weekend's tactical mis­sions strengthened the battal­ion's knowledge of contempo­rary warfare. 
"It was a lot of good train­ing, and it was pretty fun," Dickson said. "Everyone learned a lot through the STX lanes." 
Senior Leon Gil praised the Notre Dame ROTC instructors who planned the event, say­ing it was run more smoothly than in previous years. 
"The new cadre are doing a great job, especially with the freshmen," Gil said. 
Noreen Walton. a sopho­more at Saint Mary's, said she enjoyed the weekend's events. ROTC cadets from Saint Mary's are. combined with Notre Dame students in the battalion. 
"It's a great time, and everyone is getting a lot of good experience," Walton said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu. 
Hoty Cross College could make your wish come true.. 
If ynu have afriend or relative who wouJd Ilks to be closer to you next year., tali them about Holy Cross College ........ we're right next door to Notre Dame and 

McGarry 
continued from page 1 
attendant and a member of a 
rock band. She now has an 
enormous career. She is a 
wonderful person, a fabulous 
speaker and the students are 
going to love her." 
After leaving Saint Mary's, "I went from one great brand to another," McGarry said. 
She began her career at Xerox in 1973 in Fort Wayne, Ind., after she filled in for a friend who decided not to take the interview with the compa­ny. She began at the company as a sales representative. From 1993 to 1998. McGarry served as the first woman president and chief executive officer of Xerox Canada. 
Now as the vice president and chief marketing officer, McGarry is in charge of worldwide marketing activi­ties, advertising campaigns and sponsorship. She also oversees external communica­tion, customers and employ­ees. 
McGarry will receive an honorary degree at com­mencement. 
"It's an overwhelming honor," McGarry said. "I will treasure .it, and the fact that it's being given to me by Eldred makes is very special indeed." 
McGarry is not only a suc­cessful businesswoman, but in the past two years, she has become a breast cancer sur­vivor. 
"There have been a lot of difficulties for me to over­come," McGarry said. "But the fact that I might be able to help someone who is going through the same thing with my words is a good feeling." 
At commencement, McGarry plans to speak about her life experiences and wants to give her best advice to the class of 2004. 
"Don't ever be afraid of your future path," McGarry said. "Many people have plowed the way ahead, and you're going to do the same thing for those that will come behind you. Everyone in the graduating class can make a difference in whatever they choose to do." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

Saint Mary\~ They could complete our AssociateofArts cumctdurn, transfer,, or pursue our Bachelor of Arts In liberal Stud:les degree. 
Gjve liS a call at 239-8400 or e·mail admissions@hoo-nd.edu. Freshmen ,and transfer applicants are oorrerrtly being aooepted lor Summer and Fall 2004 admission. 


Monday, March 29, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow
}ones 10,212.97 -5.85 
A~. Same: 0o:Wn: Composite Volume:
tT/ft 

ISS • 1,318,631,168 
AMSC< >> ·. 1,.2.2'7~60< +5~05 
NASDAQ 1 960.02 -7.15 
HYSE. > < ~~1s~: > ±a;t.a· :: .
· · . · 

S&P 500 1,108.06 -1.13 .NI~cMJ}UlJj~Q~~$ ···•••:••·•••••••••:iO~OQ:•••······-••••••
FTS£ IOO(l..ondon) 4,357.50 -16.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (I NTC) -1.48 -0.41 27.38 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.64 -0.16 25.03 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) + 1.89 +0.06 3.24 CISCO SYSTEM.S (CSCO) -0.76 -0.18 23.40 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.17 -0.02 11.92 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.73 +0.81 47.70 10-YEAR NOTE +2.78 + 1.04 38.43 5-YEARNOTE +4.13 +1.11 27.96 3-MONTH BILL +0.55 +0.05 9.22 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.22 35.73 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.30 423.20 PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) +2.125 I 08.075 
Exchon eRates 

YEN I 05.5 EURO 0.8253 POUND 0.5515 
IN BRIEF 

Strong consumer data continues rally 
NEW YORK-Investors, largely pleased with reports on consumer sentiment and spending, sent stocks higher Friday to continue the previ­ous session's rally, at least temporarily fending off the temptation to gather profits. 
The University of Michigan's consumer senti­ment index rose to 95.8 in March, up from 95.4 in February, according to media reports on the index, which is released to subscribers only. The hike could mean consumers may be willing to spend more, boosting the economy. 
Should better economic reports continue to come out regularly, they could spark the rally Wall Street has been waiting for, according to Brian Belski, market strategist at Piper Jaffray. 
"The market looks like it wants to rally into earnings and throughout the earnings season, and we could be back to focusing on inherent fundamentals like earnings and valuation," Belski said. "We're in a day-to-day. micro-reac­tive market that jumps on each little bit of news. If that news continues to be positive, we're in good shape." 
Crude gains slightly on gasoline 
NEW YORK-Crude oil futures rose modestly Friday in New York as bargain hunting and short-covering stemmed a two-day price drop, sparked by growing fear of a potential glut of world crude oil supplies during the second 
-quarter. Gasoline futures helped lift crude futures, ris­ing as traders who had bet prices would contin­ue lower found themselves having to cover those bets. A lack of evidence that dwindling gasoline stocks are going to be successfully replenished ahead of the peak-demand U.S. summer driving season added to gasoline's gains after Thursday's sharp drop, traders said. May light, sweet crude oil futures settled up 22 cents or 0.6 percent at $35.73 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after touch­ing a high of $35.82. Earlier in the session, the contract hit an intraday low of $34.75, dropping below $35 for the first time since late February. Crude oil futures fell 4 percent Thursday after White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card said on MSNBC that the White House is trying to con­vince the Organization of Petroleum Expor\ing Countries to release more oil to ease high prices. 






Officials investigate Lilly marketing 
Company says probe is expanding to include drugs Zyprexa and Prozac 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Eli Lilly and Co., already under fed­eral investigation for the way it promoted an osteo­porosis drug, said it faces a new federal probe of its marketing practices . 
The Indianapolis-based company said it believes the new probe also likely focus­es on the osteoporosis drug Evista, as well as Lilly's cur­rent top-seller, the antipsy­chotic drug Zyprexa, and its former blockbuster antide­pressant Prozac. 
Lilly, one of several drug makers to come under fed­eral scrutiny over market­ing issues, said the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania has begun a civil investigation. 
Rich Manieri. a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney in Philadelphia, declined to comment. 
Lilly spokeswoman Terra Fox said the investigation is separate from an ongoin.g probe of Evista by the Department of Justice's Office of Consumer Litigation. Lilly had previ­ously disclosed that it received grand jury subpoe­nas in July 2002 and July 2003 over Evista promo­tions to consumers and doc­
Sidney laurel, chairman, president and CEO of pharmaceutical Ell Lilly and
tors. 

Company, receives an award for encouraging diversity In this file photo. Lilly's
Lilly said the outcome of 
marketing practices are under Investigation by federal authorities.
the investigation could hurt the company's financial 

position. Zyprexa had $4.3 other drug makers had false-claims laws. Zyprexa, which now 
billion in sales last year, been subpoenaed for Pennsylvania's state attor­accounts for about a third of while Prozac sales totaled records on drugs including ney general sued 13 major Lilly's overall sales, has $645 million -a sharp neurological medications. drug makers earlier this been prescribed to 12.5 mil­decline since the introduc­Those companies include month -Lilly was not lion people since its intro­tion of cheaper generic ver­Wyeth, Forest Laboratories, among them -and accused duction in 1996 as an alter­sions in 2001. Evista sales GlaxoSmithKiine and them of inflating prices. native to older schizophre­
last year totaled $922 mil­Janssen. The previously disclosed nia treatments that tend to lion. Lilly learned about the investigation of Evista by have more serious side Lilly shares closed down new investigation since that the U.S. Office of Consumer effects. It is undergoing a 99 cents to $65.50 Qn the filing, Fox said. Litigation began after a patent challenge. New York Stock Exchange. Last September, the U.S. competitor complained that Since losing its own 
The company said in a Attorney in Philadelphia Lilly was improperly mar­patent protection, Prozac regulatory filing earlier this sued Medco Health keting the osteoporosis drug has ceded nearly 80 percent month that some of its Solutions Inc., alleging that as a breast cancer preven­of its sales to generic ver­
drugs including Zyprexa the nation's biggest phar­tative -a use for which it sions. The drug dropped to could come under investiga­macy benefit-management did not have Food and Drug about 5 percent of Lilly's tion. Lilly noted that several company violated federal Administration approval. toLal sales last year. 
BANKRUPTCY 




Top Conseco executives rewarded 
Associated Press 

CARMEL, Ind. -Top Conseco Inc. executives who helped the insurer emerge from the third-largest ban~­ruptcy in U.S. history were rewarded with nearly $34 million in compensa­tion lac;t year. 
However, they won't realize much of their gains for years because abou_t two-thirds of the compensation is in the form of restricted stock awards that vest over time. 
Papers filed last week with the Securities and Exchange Commission show that nearly half of last year's compensation-$16.7 million-went to William Shea, who took over as Conseco's chief executive following the company's Chapter 11 filing in December 2002. 
Shea received $13.6 million in restricted stock on top of $1 million in base salary and $2 million in bonuses for in total compensation, the compa­ny's annual report stated. Shea also got $68,739 in other compensation. . Most of the compensation for Shea and other top executives came in the form of stock awards for guiding Conseco through Chapter 11 reorgani­zation. 
Conseco entered bankruptcy protec­tion in December 2002 and emerged last September. This month, the Carmel-based company reported its first profitable quarter in two years. 
"These performance incentives were designed to retain each executive through the difficult emergence period and reward him for completing the reorganization," Conseco spokesman Jim Rosensteele told The Indianapolis Star for a story Friday. "They also reward each executive for continuing to drive long-term performance for shareholders after emergence." 
The compensation paid top officers was more than twice the $14.8 million Conseco 's key executives made in 2002 as the company slid toward bankruptcy. The contracts for Shea and the other two top-paid officers were negotiated last year while the company was in federal bankruptcy court, Rosensteele said. 
Chief Financial Officer Eugene M. Bullis made $8.6 million and 40/86 Advisors Inc. President Eric Johnson made $3.7 million. The bulk of the compensation was in restricted stock and bonuses. 
The restricted stock awards increase in value over time through vesting. For example, an owner might only be able to sell. one-third of stock during the first year of ownership. then two­thirds by the second year and all of it once it fully vests in the third year. 

IRELAND 
Smoking ban enforcement begins 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN -Ireland outlawed 
smoking in workplaces Monday, 
imposing the strictest anti-tobac­
co measure ever adopted by any 
country on earth -and one cer­
tain to change the atmosphere in 
the country's national institution, 
the pub. 
"I guess I'l be staying home a lot more. It'l be the only place I can have a smoke with my drink," said Sean Hogan, a 46­year-old construction worker, who lit a final melancholy ciga­rette as the barman at the Brian Born pub in north Dublin called for last orders Sunday night. 
The ban took effect at mid­
night, shortly after the nation's 
10,000 pubs closed. 
As of Monday morning, smok­ing sections in offices, hospitals, universities and restaurants were all closing down. By gov­ernment order, "no smoking" signs were erected in pubs on their front doors, behind the the morning with your hair and European visitors "may find it bars and outside the restrooms clothes stinking of smoke," said hard to understand that they -along with warnings that vio­homemaker Eileen Kennedy, can't have a cigarette in Dublin, lators could face up to a $4,000 who generally smokes a few cig­but if they go to Amsterdam they fine. arettes a week -when she goes can have a joint." 
The only workplaces exempt out for a drink with her hus­But the government's Office of from the ban are those that dou­band. Tobacco Control cites its own ble as residences: hotel rooms, Martin's anti-smoking cam­polls indicating twice as many prison cells, psychiatric hospitals paign -which involves graphic people think they will go to the and nursing homes. Home­billboards and TV ads showing pub more often after the ban offices, company cars and truck­the damage cigarettes can do to than will stay away because of it. ers' cabs are also supposed to the lungs, heart and brain -has Some pubs plan are develop­become no-smoking zones, inspired thousands to try to ing chic new smoking areas out­although the government has break the habit, seeking advice doors, using canopies and out­conceded that the law won't be on nicotine-replacement therapy door gas fires to keep smoking enforceable in such private through a government-run customers comfortable and areas.. helpline. within the law. Others, particu­
Prime Minister Bertie Ahern, a "I think, at the end of the day, larly in poorly policed rural nonsmoker and regular pubgoer. a person can't argue with the areas, say they will try to let said he envisioned an Ireland logic of it because we all know their smoking regulars keep where "future generations, cigarettes are bad for us," said going and hope that the handful thankfully, will never know what cabbie Shay Kearney, a smoker of Dublin-based inspectors it was like to work in an who's thinking of quitting now. enforcing the ban will pass them enclosed, smoke-filled environ­"And if it actually encourages by. . ment." people to give up, in the long But most pubs say they simply 
Health Minister Micheal term, maybe it's a good thing -will order smokers outside onto Martin, who spearheaded the obviously it's a good thing." the sidewalk if they want to light initiative, said he expected it Owners of pubs and hotels up. would "take six weeks to two warn the ban will alienate many Smokers on Sunday soberly months for the ban to settle European tourists and force pondered a chilly, windy, wet down." His target, he said, was away loyal customers. One pro­future trying to keep their ciga­for more than 90 percent com­smoking pressure group predicts rettes lit long enough to smoke pliance within the year. up to 65,000 job losses as pubs them. 
Several opinion polls in the anrl hotels in rural areas are "The cancer rate might be past year have indicated most forced to close. But the two going down, but bejesus, death Irish adults -about 30 percent major publicans' associations by hypothermia will be going of whom smoke -support the backed off threats to block the up," joked Eamon Clarke, a government crusade against ban in court. retired plumber. 'Til have to tobacco. Oliver Hughes, who owns a wear my long johns and two 
"It will be marvelous to have a pub in Dublin's Temple Bar pairs of socks if I want a pint night out, then not wake up in tourist quarter, said he expected from now on." 

AFA cadet remained after rape allegation 
rorist attacks, the flight
Associated Press 
instructor threatened to fly a 
DENVER -An Air Force glider into the building that Academy cadet who had been houses academy classrooms, accused of rape and threat­according to the Office of ened to crash a glider into a Special Investigations report classroom building was obtained by The Associated allowed to remain at the Press under a Freedom of school for several more Information request. months, during which he was He was charged with arrested for sodomizing a Conduct Unbecoming an woman in a wheelchair and Officer and Gentleman and accused of raping another sent for a mental evaluation, cadet, according to files according to the files. obtained by The Associated Two months later, on Dec. Press. 28, 2001. he was arrested in 
Even after his arrest in Los Los Angeles for the attack on Angeles for sodomy, the Air a woman in a wheelchair, Force got cadet Doncosta whom he allegedly Seawell released from custody approached via Internet and took him back to the instant messaging. 
academy, according to the It was then that Air Force files. He was accused of rape agents reviewed Seawell's by a fellow cadet three months record and found the report of later. the glider threat, according to 
"This is outrageous that this the OSI report. guy fell through the cracks of But Seawell remained at the the military justice system, school for six more months, and went on to do such harm and allegedly approached to other victims," said Cynthia freshman cadet Kira 
Stone of the Colorado Mountjoy-Pepka by way of Coalition Against Sexual Internet chat. Assault. Mountjoy-Pepka accused 
Seawell's alleged victims Seawell of attacking her in have been among the women April 2002. In interviews last who have accused the acade­year on ABC's "20/20" and on my of failing to prosecute sex Oprah Winfrey's show, 
offenders -claims that Mountjoy-Pepka claimed she helped lead to sweeping was scolded by academy offi­changes at the academy and cials for being a "slut." Defense Department investi­No charges were filed in her gations of sexual assault case. cases. , Academy spokesman Johnny 
An investigation determined Whitaker said privacy rules, that there had been 142 as well as the presumption of reports of sexual assault at innocence, may have played a the academy in the past role in Seawell's continued decade, and some of the vic­presence at the school. tims said they were punished "We'd have to review the for reporting the assaults. records to see what caused 
Seawell, a senior cadet flight this," he said. instructor and academy boxer, Seawell, meanwhile, is back was expelled in October 2002 in the brig on the sodomy and a court-martial sentenced charge. He had been released 
him to two years imprison­on probation but was jailed ment for the attack on the again after being arrested for civilian woman. soliciting sex over the Internet 
But he first came to the from an undercover officer attention of academy investi­posing as a 14-year-old. gators two years earlier, when Last week, in an interview 
cadet MacKenzie Isackson with The Gazette of Colorado said he sexually assaulted her. Springs from a military prison He denied assaulting the in California, Seawell denied woman. and no charges were having sexual intercourse with brought. Mountjoy-Pepka, but said they 
The following year, just a had engaged in sexual activity month after the Sept. 11 ter-on several occasions. 




Gas prices hit record high with no end in sight 
Associated Press of year is adding to supply Worldwide demand for crude tightness and therefore price," oil is increasing along with 
LOS ANGELES -Gasoline Lundberg said. "I don't see U.S. demand for gasoline, she prices across the country any recipe for substantial said. climbed another 3 cents in the gasoline price cuts anytime Gasoline prices are up 29 past two weeks to a record-soon." cents per gallon nationwide high average of $1.80 per gal-Friday's average price sur-since late December, Lundberg Ion for all grades, passed the record said. The national weighted according to a of $1.77 set in average price of gasoline, study released the last Lundberg including taxes, at self-serve Sunday. "/don't see any Survey, conduct.. pumps Friday was about $1.77 
There is little recipe for ed March 12. But per gallon for regular, $1.87 
chance of prices substantial when adjusted for midgrade, and $1.96 for 
falling signifi-for inflation, premium. 
cantly in the near gasoline price cuts pump prices Gasoline prices usually rise 
future, because anytime soon.,, remain well between March and May as 
i n c r e a s e d below levels refiners temporarily shut 
demand will like-TrUby Lundberg reached in the down their plants to prepare
ly result from an early 1980s. for the peak summer driving 
improving econo-Lundberg Survey Even if the season, when special clean-
my, Memorial Organization of burning blends of fuel are 
Day travel, and P e t r o 1 e u m required. 
even the extra hour of light Exporting Countries decides at Adjusted for inflation, the 
from daylight savings time, its meeting Wednesday to can-current price fell short of the 
said Trilby Lundberg of the eel plans to reduce oil produc-record set in March 1981, Jalmle Naeole of Waimanalo, Hawaii, watches the price ring up to 
Lundberg Survey of 8,000 sta-tion April 1, growing demand when a gallon of gas cost the $10.00 at a pump at a gas station In Kaneohe, Hawaii, Sunday, as 
tions nationwide. makes it unlikely prices will equivalent of $2.85 in today's he filled up his brother's car. Gas prices have reached record 
""The demand push this time fall much, Lundberg said. dollars, Lundberg said. highs nationwide, Including $1.98 a gallon for Naeole. 
"----------------------------·----------------------------------------------·-----------------------------------------------·-··---··-------­

• 


THE OBSERVER 

p 

Monday, March 29, 2004 
page 10 

Students suffer the effects of Bush's educational policies 
The stately Ionic north portico of the White House is like a broken floodgate. All of President Bush's lies, perhaps, couldn't fit in that one building. And so the deluges of mendacity have cascad­ed down Pennsylvania Roque Strew Avenue. Nothing has been spared. No issue has gone Straight, unsullied by the No Chaser administration's deceit and sophistry -not the environment, labor, Medicare, WMD, nothing. Overlooked and unglamorous, education is without doubt among the most vital of these issues. 
Education, after all, is a basic social good. Bush might even concede this much. What he cannot concede on his next "Meet the Press" is that his poli­cies acknowledge this-education's vital importance. Fealty to the market, or the party line, or God knows what, trumps education for Bush. But where Prime Minister Tony Blair faced a firestorm of resistance to university tuition hikes in England, Bush gets a free pass. Tellingly, one charge leveled against Blair's plan is that it will reshape the British system in the image of the American -as costly and inac­cessible. 
Let's begin with one of the Bush's proudest accomplishments -the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) law. "Ironic" just doesn't quite convey the scale of inaccuracy of the law's name. This year, the administration is giving $9.4 billion less than what is needed to fully fund NCLB. Both Education Week and Harvard's Civil Rights Project testify that poor students aren't getting the tutoring promised by NCLB, due to poor implementation and underfunding. Urban minorities, of course, are hit hardest. The de facto title would be No Wealthy White Child Left Behind. Doesn't quite have the same ring. 
Wait until the kids grow up. This is the third straight year that Bush either 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
froze or cut the maximum Pell Grant ­quite the volte-face from his old cam­
paign promise to increase the maxi­mum, to help make college more affordable. And last year, Bush sought to eliminate Pell Grants entirely for 84,000 students, slashing aid to thou­sands more. An amendment backed by Democrats luckily prevented this. 
Republicans have exerted curiously special effort in slighting and burden­ing college students. Ten days ago, to counter GOP misinformation, Rep. George Miller issued a letter to demol­ish their untruths, point by point. 
First he reminded the House that the GOP has "failed to do anything mean­ingful this Congress" to help students of lesser means afford college. He added to Bush's record, with Pell Grants, that last year's maximum grant, adjusted for inflation, was worth $500 less than the max in 1975. And he wondered why nothing has come of Bush's prom.:. ise to help community colleges. 
In a March 17 Washington Post arti­cle, Miller quoted a line that nicely cap­tures the GOP agenda: "House Republicans are considering legislation aimed at reducing government subsi­dies for a federally supported student loan program, a step that critics say could lead to sharp increases in the long-term cost of going to college." Finally he drew attention to Republican support for a banking industry-backed plan to eliminate students' ability to lock in low interest rates over the life of their loans. This plan would force the average student borrower to pay more than $6,600 in extra interest, doubling 'the cost of loans for millions. There's no room for interpretation here. 
Vigilant compilers of the Harper's Index add two worrying stats: America's total private-loan debt for college tuition has increased by a factor of four since 1995; and a minimum of seven states will raise tuition by 20 per­cent or more at least one public univer­sity. You needn't be one of the eggheads in sweater vests at the Brookings Institute to spy a trend here. It's all kinds of wrong. It's in-your-face wrong. 
Barbara Ehrenreich in "Class Struggle 101" broke down university financing into a two-pronged approach -raising tuition and lowering staff pay. Notre Dame doesn't stray too far from this approach. The latest tuition hike here at Notre Dame was 6.9 per­cent. In Latin America, according to a comparative politics professor, students would take to the streets in protest, railing against a patent injustice. Here we've accepted extortion as the norm. And Notre Dame's record with its staff isn't exactly pretty-sending workers home early, not hiring replacements for retiring workers and vigorously fighting unionization. 
Noted in these pages by Kama ria Porter last week, Harvard's bucking the trend, proffering substantially more aid, for many disposing of tuition alto­gether. This is on top of such admirable efforts as its successful campaign and sit-in demanding a living wage for Harvard employees. Harvard is blazing the trail to a nobler place, showing schools like ours that there's a better way. 
But first this apathetic administration has got to go. For Bush and company, students -especially those from below the upper class :-are the last priority. Regardless of what side you're aligned with, free-education radical or con­cerned moderate, the fact is that Bush has failed students comprehensively. Moreover, he shows no signs of switch­ing directions. Moral epiphanies are as rare as candor in this administration. Along with the rest of the GOP, Bush is dedicated to indifference. We have to dedicate ourselves to ousting him. 
Roque Strew is a junior political sci­ence major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at wstrew@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 


News 
Scott Brodfuehrer Viewpoint· Eileen D1.lify Graphics Mike Harkins' Illustrator Pat Quill 



OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think student government has made significant accomplishments this year, and do you think next year's will do better? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Let us make our enemies incapable ofever making war again. let us re-educate them ... but first we must educate ourselves ... 
Ernest Hemingway American writer 

Leave partisan 
finger-pointing 

out of Sept. 11 
The question "How did the Sept. 11 attacks happen?" is a noble question that deserves an answer if we're ever to stop future attacks. 
Sadly, the process was muddled when partisan finger pointing, on both sides, entered into the equation. However, nobody performed more blame-casting than Richard Clarke, for­mer White House counterterrorism adviser, who completely incidentally and not in any Mike Marchand way involved with his testimony before the 9/11 Commission, has a new book out, in stores now. Undistinguished 
It's far to<.> reductive to dismiss Clarke as Alumnus merely a disgruntled ex-employee who's seek­ing vengeance against the administration that demoted him and shut him out of the decision-making process, or a partisan hack out to sell copies of his books. He is both, of course, but he's not merely both. When it comes to counterterrorism, the man does know what he's talking about-he's served under four administrations in positions that are normally cycled out when a new president takes over. And if I'm someone who sincerely wishes to stop terrorism, I'd certainly rather listen to him than some paper­pushing bureaucrat. 
But instead of blasting the code of bureaucracy, which is as resist­ant to change as the other Dick Clark is to the normal human aging process, he instead lashed out against President George W. Bush and his administration. According to Clarke (the counterterrorism guy, not the "$25,000 Pyramid" guy), the Bush administration "ignored" the threat from al-Qaeda and then, after Sept. 11, focused too much on Iraq at the expense of destroying al-Qaeda. 
It would be a spectacular accusation, were it true in the slightest. Perhaps Clarke's "Hockin' New Year" calendar differs from mine, but I could have sworn we invaded Afghanistan to attack al-Qaeda near­ly two and a half years before entering Iraq to topple Sad dam Hussein. And Clarke feels that the administration "ignored" al-Qaeda during 2001 because they weren't "important enough for him to hold a meeting on the subject, or for him to order his national security advisor to hold a Cabinet-level meeting on the subject." But even though the administration's first Cabinet-level meeting concerning al-Qaeda happened just one week before the Sept. 11 attacks, Bush did in fact order National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice to com­pose a strategy to confront al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden in April of that year, saying he was tired of "swatting flies." Clarke even admits this in his book. 
But that belies the major point -Does Clarke really think that just holding meetings is an effective counterterrorism strategy? According to Clarke's 9/11 Commission testimony (but not his book, in which he blatantly contradicts this statement), there was "no higher priority" than terrorism in the Clinton administration. But during those two terms, the World Trade Center, two American embassies and the U.S.S. Cole were bombed. Clinton's Cabinet must have met a bunch of times. But yet the only counterstrikes were mis­sile attacks at some empty tents and an aspirin factory. The Bush administration might have done nothing to stop al-Qaeda in eight months. But the Clinton administration did practically nothing in eight years, and Clarke was the nation's top counterterrorism official during that time. Perhaps Bush was acting prudently by moving Clarke into a position two steps under Rice. 
I am not, by the way, seeking to blame the Clinton administration for Sept. 11 because they stood pat during al-Qaeda's formative years. As I noted above, the fault lies not with any'individual politi­cian but with the entire bureaucratic process, where inertia is king, and nobody acts to change anything without sufficient impetus. Everybody mismanaged during the period before Sept. 11, and Clarke admitted as much when he apologized to the victims of Sept. 11 for failing them. 
But hindsight is not sufficient enough to start pointing fingers. Partisan hacks want to undo the president's record following Sept. 11 by discrediting his record before it. Fine. So what should Bush have done? Acted preemptively? That seemed to go over real well when we did it last year. What should have been the reason for wip­ing out al-Qaeda in 2001, actionable intelligence? Gathered by the same people who are now being tarred and feathered for stating that Sad dam Hussein had vast caches of weapons of mass destruction? 
Bush's detractors want to have it both ways. And nobody saw that coming better than Richard Clarke. In an e-mail to Rice four days after Sept. 11, he said, "When the era of national unity cracks in the near future, it is possible that some will start asking questions like did the White House do a good job of making sure that intelligence about terrorist threats got to FAA and other domestic law enforce­ment authorities." He then summarized all the ways the administra­tion had tried to secure the nation before Sept. 11. 
Clarke can spin his record all he wants. But Clark still did it better on "American Bandstand." 
Mike Marchand. class of2001. laughed his butt offlast night at the Capitol Steps show at Lake Michigan College. His e-mail address is marchand.3@alumni.nd.edu ...Undistinguished Alumnus .. appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 




Does the Bible really· condemn homosexuality? 
Many Christians unquestioningly accept the claims of their respective churches that homosexual behavior is morally wrong. Many of the major denominations hold such a position, though they proclaim it at differ­ent dogmatic levels. Upon closer inspection, however, this condemnation of homosexual behavior is anything but a clear Scriptural directive. A faithful Christian must examine his or her position on this issue with scrutiny and honesty, rather than reflexive agreement with his or her church's stance. 
Such a careful analysis, I believe, does not lead to the conclusion that the Bible con­demns homosexual behavior. I will not con­demn others who reach a different conclu­sion, as it is ultimately a matter of faith, but I offer this analysis with the sincere hope it be received with an open heart and mind. 
Biblical arguments against homosexual behavior are usually based on passages such as Romans 1:26, which condemns "menfolk [who] have given up natural intercourse to be consumed with passion for each other." Other passages echo the same sentiment: Leviticus 18:22 and 20:13 call "lying with another man" an "abomina­tion." Deuteronomy 23:17-18, Judges 19 and other pas­sages sometimes are translated to condemn sodomites. but this translation has been questioned, with modern translators preferring "male temple prostitute" to "sodorr.ite." 
In all these pas­sages, the biblical reader must con­sider the underly­ing theological rule as well as the cultural context. Put simply, what is the reason same-sex behavior was con­demned? And what was the society's understanding of homosexuality at the time of the writing of these passages? 
A broader examination of the Bible answers the first of these questions. Namely, scripture condemns acts that are inconsis­tent with the natural order of God's creation. Unsurprisingly, the authors applied this prin­ciple to homosexual behavior, for homosexu­al behavior had long been viewed as a choice to act counter to one's natural, God-given design. 
This understanding of homosexuality, as a choice, stood until the 19th and 20th cen­turies. Now, a growing body of scientific evi­dence strongly suggests that sexual orienta­tion, including homosexuality, is an orienta­tion, part of the natural, God-given design of each human. Just recently, in 1973, the American Psychiatric Association changed its classification of homosexuality to catego­rize it as an orientation rather than a disor­der. 
With this evidence, we see the biblical authors were incorrect to classify homosexu­al behavior as unnatural. As such, homosex­ual behavior cannot be said to break a com­mandment from God, as understood by scripture. 
Some argue that because of the fall of humanity in Genesis, humans are naturally inclined to sin, and that many sinful behav­iors, such as adultery and alcoholism, stem from natural human inclinations and dispo­sitions. 
The critical distinction is that the sinful natures of alcoholism, adultery and other behaviors do not stem from an argument on nature, but rather from the argument that these behavio.rs violate the divine values of love and respect for self and others. Argu­ments against homosexual behavior rely 
solely on nature, and thus a refutation of the 
nature argument is a refutation of the entire 
argument against homosexuality. 
Note this analysis does not challenge the 
divinely-inspired nature of the theological 
values being espoused by these authors. 
While many Christians disagree on how liter­
ally the Bible should be interpreted, such a 
question is unnecessary in this framework. 
Most agree the veracity of the theological 
instructions contained in the Bible should be 
paramount. 

The cultural and scientific understandings of the time of each scripture's writing must be determined so as to separate God's eter-· nal and unwavering values from those values particular to the given society. Only then can these values be clearly applied to today's society. 
The most literal readers of the Bible use 
this principle to explain why slavery is not 
condemned in Exodus and other Old 
Testament books, for example (Exodus 21). 
They say the institution of slavery did not 
exist in Old Testament times in the same way 
we think of it today. Additionally, they 
explain that slaves were proba­
bly servants under a family 
in a patriarchal-ordered 
• society. enjoying the benefits of the family structure rather than the inevitable struggle for sur­vival out on one's own. 
Whether or 
not this analysis 
of Exodus is 
convincing, it 
shows that liter· 
al Bible readers 
do indeed con­
sider societal 
norms and under­
standings when 
they attempt to 
uncover God's truth. To 
be consistent, they 
should also apply this tech­

nique to the issue of homosex­
uality. 

Furthermore, any biblical argument sur­rounding homosexuality must consider any possible examples counter to one's current position. David and Jonathan's relationship in Samuel may (although not necessarily) have risen beyond mere friendship. Note 1 Samuel 20:41: "David rose from beside the stone heap and prostrated himself with his face to the ground. He bowed three times, and they [he and Jonathan] kissed each other. and wept the more" and 2 Samuel 1:25-26: "How the mighty have fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan lies slain upon your high places. I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan; greatly beloved were you to me; your love to me was wonderful, pass­ing the love of women." 
The above argument cannot be considered authoritative by itself. But may it act as one voice in a much-needed debate. Throughout the debate, remember this-in the hun­dreds of Jesus's teachings, he never men­tioned homosexuality, not once. Therefore, any position on homosexuality, whether for or against, cannot rightfully be elevated to the level of dogma as many Christian churches currently have so done. 
Rather, we should consider core lessons such as Genesis 1:27, "So God created humankind in His image, in the image of God he created them," and John 3:16, "For God so loved the world that He gave His only Son, so that everyone who believes in Him may not perish but may have eternal life." 
Lucas Sayre senior Dillon Hall March 25 


Monday, March 29, 2004 Monday, March 29, 2004 
page 12 

International Festival Week brings two acclaimed foreign films to campus 
Films in English increase accessibility offoreign cinema for students 
er who rings a bell every time that she tribe. will not 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 

wants anything. Radha's husband Ashok accept his grand­
Scene Writer 

(Kulbushan Kharbanda) has taken a vow daughter Pai of celibacy, found a swami and is fre­(Keisha Castle­The phrase "foreign film" has the abili­quently gone as he seeks spirituality. In Hughes) as the ty to quell the desire to see a movie in the midst of the empty marriages in heir to the tribe's the hearts of many people. Those two lit­which the women find themselves, they leadership tle words can conjure up images of bored fall in love with one another and forge a because she is French existentialists smoking and dis­deeper relationship than that which they female. He is also cussing the meaninglessness of life, or a experienced with their husbands. Deepa convinced that group of weepy peasants suffering in Mehta's film depicting lesbian love creat­the tribe has been some unknown ex-Soviet satellite nation ed a firestorm of controversy in India, experiencing mis­until every one of them dies. Fortunately, with conservative groups like the Shiv fortunes ever these stigmas are beginning to die ofT as Sena protesting its release and vandaliz­since Pai's birth, more foreign films, as well as better ing theaters that showed the film. Indian and so he asks ones, are coming to the United States, censors are known for being tough -the members of and are being made in English -without cutting things that Americans would con­his tribe to bring subtitles or dubbing. "Fire" and "Whale sider innocuous, such as kisses -but their sons to him Rider" are two foreign films made in this movie presented different and more in the hope that English that received international difficult challenges. Many critics believed the future leader acclaim. Such films could help to gradu­that this was an inappropriate and inac­of the tribe is ally ease a foreign-film-phobic into the curate display of Indian culture, and one among them. Pai world of international cinema. Both films critic even responded that the movie must stand up to are being shown at Notre Dame this should have been about Muslims instead her grandfather, week as part of the International Festival of Hindus, because Hindus did not have as well as thou­Week, which runs from March 27 to lesbians in their culture. The fact that sands of years of April 2 and is sponsored by the the two women are named after promi­tribal history, to International Student Services and nent Hindu goddesses only fueled the convince every­Activities Office. controversy. one else that she, 
"Fire" and "Whale Rider" both offer Despite the conflicted reception in the and not another glimpses into cultures that are vastly dif­Mehta's homeland, the film went on to male, should lead ferent than our own, but the fact that win the praise of critics internationally. the tribe in the they are in English makes them a little The movie calls attention to the tension future. She learns bit more palatable to the average movie between the traditional lives of Indians tribal rituals goer. Each of the films is an interesting clashing with a more liberal. westernized without her departure from both your typical view of culture. The controversy sur­grandfather's American movies and the types of movies rounding the release of "Fire" in India is knowledge. She must ultimately prove as the People's Choice Award at the Maori woman, who was reminded of the that you might expect to come out of living proof of the very dichotomy herself to the tribe, and more important­Toronto Film Festival and the World Whale Rider legend when she saw a India or New Zealand. between East and West, old and new and ly her grandfather, to show them that Cinema Audience Award at the Sundance whale spouting in the Hudson River in "Fire" conservative and liberal that the film tradition sometimes needs some tweak­Film Festival. New York. The film was shot in 
The Indian film "Fire" follows a newly­itself deals with. "Fire" plays Monday at ing in order to be updated for the pres­The critical acclaim of "Whale Rider" Whangara, New Zealand, and perhaps married woman Sita (Nandita Das). a 7:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in ent. was important for the acceptance of the greatest testament to the film's naive and child-like woman who is LaFortune, with a discussion and Indian Castle-Hughes received a great deal of movies from countries that don't produce impact and popularity is the fact that forced to live with the family of her new food to follow the showing. acclaim for her performance as Pai, as many movies, like New Zealand -tours are now being offered in the area bridegroom, Jatin (Jaaved JaafTery}. His "Whale Rider" being chosen as the Chicago Film Critics' although "Lord of the Rings" deserves where the movie was shot. "Whale family displays little regard for Sita, and The New Zealand film "Whale Rider" Best Actress and nominated for a Screen some credit for that feat as well. More Rider" plays Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. in she is forced to work long, unacknowl­tells the story of Pai, an 11-year-old girl Actors' Guild award. She was the importantly, it focused on the daily lives room 117 DeBartolo. edged hours at the family's combination born into the Maori tribe that traces its youngest actress to be nominated for an of the Maori, who are an important and kebab shop and movie rental store. The ancestry back to Paikea, the Whale Academy Award for Best Actress at the often neglected part of that region's her­contempt that the family shows for Sita Rider, who according to legend escaped age of 13, losing to Charlize Theron at itage. The movie is based on a book of Contact Molly Griffin is not helped by the fact that her hus­death by riding to shore on a whale. this year's Oscars. This is great acclaim, the same name by Witi lhimaera. a at mgriffin@nd.edu band essentially ignores her, as he is far Leadership is passed down through the considering that Castle­more interested in his mistress, with males in the tribe, in concurrence with Hughes was discovered whom he spends almost every night. the legend. This standard of passing on at her New Zealand Sita's sister-in-law. Radha (Shabana power comes into contention when twins school and had no prior Azmi}, is equally ignored by the family. are born into the leader's family, and the acting experience. The two forge a bond while taking care male child dies while his sister survives. The movie itself won of a demanding and ancient grandmoth-Koro (Rawiri Paratene), the leader of the awards as prominent 



A bit of India's culture Is captured In "Fire," a provocative film about the love formed between two women In an oppressive, patriarchal society that subjects them to servile and disrespected positions. 

Page 13 

Saturday Night Live alumnae crusades against conservative lieS 
AI Franken's new book uses dry humor to point out numerous discrepancies in politics 
By CLAIRE HAGEN Scene Writer 
AI Franken became famous as a Saturday Night Live cast member and Emmy-winning writer, playing characters like Stuart Smalley. Since leaving the show, however, he has turned his attention towards politics. He officially came out as a liberal with "Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot" in 1999, and has again used his satirical wit to criti­cize conservatives and the Republican Party with "Lies, and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them." 
Harvard's Kennedy School of Government offered Franken a fellowship in their Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics, and Public Policy. Using a Harvard research team, Franken wrote this book. This Harvard fellowship and research team lend credit to the book's accuracy, especial­ly as Franken constantly reveals the lies of conserva­tive writers. Franken also points out that only one mis­
take was found in Rush 
Limbaugh. and Franken 
found that mistake himself. 
According to Franken, God told him to write "Lies" in response to individuals who claim the media has a liberal bias. Franken works to prove otherwise, attacking conser­vative media, especially char­acters like Ann Coulter and Bill O'Reilly. though Franken prefers to call them "Nutcase" and "Bill O'Lie-ly." By pointing out their blatant lies and conservative propa­ganda, Franken broadens his criticism to the entire Bush administration. 
For example, in his chapter entitled "Operation Ignore," Franken addresses both the conservative media's claims that President Bill Clinton was partly· to blame for Sept. 11 and that the Bush admin­istration worked to prevent any terrorist attacks. In refuting these claims, Franken first addresses how Clinton's administration had actively fought terrorism, especially from AI Qaeda, and had successfully subvert­ed several attacks. Franken 


then traces the George W. 
Bush administration's action from inauguration through September 11, emphasizing not only how little atten­tion the administra­tion paid to terrorism. but also how little Bush worked. 
Franken also often adds a creative spark to his satire. To point out the flaws of the ''No Child Left Behind Act," Franken writes his own standardized test, which calculates what percentage of children actually have been left behind because of Bush's reluctance to finan­cially support the pro­gram. Franken also attacks general con­servative ideology with a cartoon about "Supply-Side Jesus", showing how the Lord's teachings would have differed had He been a profit­hungry capitalist. 
The book is consis­tently informative and funny, as Franken takes the reader through his own per­sonal search for weapons of mass destruction. tells about his less-than­friendly encounter with former First Lady Barbara Bush. recounts a trip he took to the ultra-con­servative Bob Jones University and freely 

attacks the long career of Karl Rove. a 
Photo courtesy of www.news.haiVard.edu Since leaving SNL, AI Franken has become more Involved In vari­ous liberal political Issues, Including the response to terrorism. 
Bush strategist. Readers 
learn a lot about politics and 
the players who currently 
dominate it, but the book is 
never dull. Franken's sharp 
humor keeps the book light 
and the reader laughing. 
"Lies" has received great reviews by liberals since its publication. However, conser­vatives probably want to avoid this book, as it blatant­ly mocks their ideology and leadership throughout. Franken attacks basically every member of the Bush administration and of Fox News. While he does make a point to be accurate and not resort to "lies," as he claims his opposition does, Franken's liberal agenda is clear and pronounced -ulti­mately limiting his audience. 
Overall, the book ·stands out because Franken blends his researched political state­ments with his dry humor, making "Lies" a great read, especially in the election year. Luckily, those interested in hearing more of Franken's witty political observations can catch his upcoming show "The O'Franken Factor" (a spin-off show of the ultra­conservative "The O'Reilly Factor") on the new Air America Radio, which will begining March 31. Franken's show will run Monday through Friday from 3 to 6 p.m.. and promises to point out and crtiticize more lies in conservative media and political platforms. 
Contact Claire Hagan at chagan@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Rockets collect third overtime victory in 4 games 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -The Houston Rockets scrambled in the fourth quarter to get to overtime -a place where they have been very comfortable recently. 
The Rockets rallied from a nine-point deficit with less than five minutes to go in regulation before beating the Milwaukee Bucks 111-107 for their third overtime win in four games. 
"The game is not 48 minutes for us, it is a 53-minute game now," said Yao Ming, who had 27 points, 13 rebounds and five blocks. 
In overtime, Milwaukee cut a seven-point lead to 108-107 with six seconds left when Houston's Jim Jackson made two free throws after not being called for an apparent traveling violation on the inbounds pass. 
Michael Redd then was called for a line violation while inbounding and Steve Francis made one free throw for the rmal margin. 
Francis finished with 2 3 points, 10 rebounds and eight assists, while Maurice Taylor and Cuttino Mobley each added 19. 
Bucks coach Terry Porter got a technical in overtime while arguing that Yao, who commit­ted five personal fouls, should have been called for fouling Desmond Mason. 
"He got more than six fouls tonight," Porter said. "After the fifth, there were four or five that were very obvious." 
But the Bucks failed to convert when fouls were called, making just 20 of 34 free throw attempts compared to Houston, which went 39-of-45. 
"That might be the tale of the game," Redd said. "They had a decisive free throw advantage over us for most of the game, so that hurt us." 
Redd had 36 points and a career-high 14 rebounds for the Bucks while Joe Smith scored a season-high 25 points. Milwaukee was without Keith Van Horn, who spr.ained his left ankle and bruised his left calf Friday against Chicago. 
The Bucks were hoping to rebound after a tough road trip, when they lost three of five. But they lost their fourth straight at home for the first time since February 2000 and missed a chance to tie New Orleans for fourth place in the Eastern Conference. 
Milwaukee has a one-game lead over Miami for the fifth playoff spot. 
Pacers 87, Heat 80 
Jermaine O'Neal proved his knee was strong enovgh to carry the Indiana Pacers to victory. 
The All-Star forward returned from an injury and had 23 points, 14 rebounds and four blocks to lead the Pacers to an win over the Miami Heat. 
"I give a lot of credit to Jermaine O'Neal for stepping in there and playing today," Pacers coach Rick Carlisle said. "His knee is better but it's still a little sore, and it's tough to come in there after missing a couple of games." 
O'Neal made the start for Indiana after missing the past two games with a bruised left knee, injured in a win over the Chicago Bulls last Monday. O'NeaLplayed 35 minutes, scor­ing 10 points in the third quar­ter. 
"I didn't shoot as well as I wanted," said O'Neal, who fin­ished 8-of-21 from the field. "I think it's rust. Hopefully, it'll come with a day of practice and these two games with Milwaukee." 
Caron Butler, Eddie Jones and Dwyane Wade each scored 14 points for the Heat, which had their seven-game winning streak end. 
Ron Artest added 18 points and 12 rebounds for the NBA­leading Pacers despite having to leave the game briefly with a sprained right ankle. 
Artest was later hit in the face going up for a rebound in a physical game in which the teams combined for 49 fouls, including four technicals and two flagrants. Artest will have his nose examined Monday to see if it's broken. 
"They play hard: we go hard," said Artest, who also finished with six steals and four assists. "We just had to keep going to the basket. 
"I didn't play the best, but we won." 
Miami committed five fouls in the first eight minutes, while the Pacers made their first seven shots from the foul line and fin­ished 34-for-43 for the game. The Heat committed 11 turnovers in the first half, which the Pacers quickly converted into 15 points. 
"The fact that they're the most physical defensive team in the league and never foul, that's a helluva team," Miami coach Stan Van Gundy said. "It wasn't me being upset about the fouls called on us. I just thought we were attacking pretty darned good, too. 
"We'll have to look (at the film). Their technique must be great because they lean on you and never foul." 
Indiana, which shot 43 percent from the field and 67 percent from 3-point range in the first half. led 50-40 at halftime after leading by as many as 16 points. But the Heat opened the third quarter on a 9-4 run to pull within 54-51 with 6:57 left and held the Pacers to 27 percent shooting in the second half. Celtlcs 89, 76ers 65 
Philadelphia coach Chris Ford urged his players to keep shoot­ing, and they kept missing. 
But by the time the 76ers hit the target consistently, they were too far back and lost to the Boston Celtics while setting fran­chise records for offensive futili­ty. 
"Every timeout I just kept encouraging them, 'the next one is going to go,"' Ford said. "You can't be hesitant and not take the open shots." 
They had plenty of shots but missed 65. Boston took only 77. 
"They looked a little tired," Boston coach John Carroll said. "They missed some good shots early and I think it just kind of fed into what was going on." 
Playing for the fifth straight game without injured Allen Iverson, the 76ers set club records for fewest points in a half {23) and in three quarters (41). The 76ers sank nine of 19 shots in the fourth quarter after hitting 15 of 70 before then. They finished at 24-for-89, or 27 percent. 
"When you fall so far behind you have to do things differently to break it up," Aaron McKie said. "We didn't figure things out until it was too late." 
The Celtics, who moved a half game ahead of Cleveland into eighth place in the Eastern Conference, were led by Mark Blount, Ricky Davis and Jiri Welsch with 13 points each. For Philadelphia, Kenny Thomas had 18 and Kyle Korver 15. 
"We ,missed a lot of wide open shots," Korver said. "Unfortunately, it had to happen tonight {with) as big a game as this is." 
The 76ers dropped 2 1/2 games behind Boston in the race for the final playoff spot. · 
For the second straight game, the Celtics faced a team without two of its best players. They beat New Jersey on Friday night when Jason Kidd and Kenyon 

AP Photo 

Houston guard Steve Francis celebrates after making a basket to send the game Into overtime In the Rockets' 111-107 win. 
Martin were sidelined.  and Indiana, then dropped a  
The 76ers were 3-1 in their  heartbreaker in overtime in  
previous four games without  Miami.  
Iverson. And Glenn Robinson is  "It's been a disaster," said  
on the injured list after right  Nowitzki, who led six Mavericks  
elbow surgery. Together, they  in double figures. "We lost a lot  
average 43 points per game as  of games that we would usually  
Philadelphia's top two scorers,  win."  
more points than the entire  Luckily for the Mavs, the trip  
team scored in the first three  ended against a terrible defen­ 
quarters when it trailed 60-41.  "'  sive squad missing the NBA's  
The 76ers' previous record for  leading scorer. It was a setup for  
fewest points through three  a blowout, and Dallas seized the  
quarters was 42 on Dec. 28,  opportunity.  
2002, against Utah.  The Mavericks shot 57 per- 
Mavericks 118, Magic 88  cent, their best since Nov. 11,  
The Dallas Mavericks wanted  and their 34 assists were their  
to end a bad road· trip on a good  most in more than two months.  
note, but they still felt empty  Meanwhiie, Orlando shot 35 per­ 
after a 30-point victory over a  cent and had nine shots blocked.  
starless, struggling team.  "At this point, we're looking  
Dirk Nowitzki's 25 points and  for anything positive, to be bon­ 
nine rebounds led the Dallas  est," Nelson said. "We really  
Mavericks to a victory over the  struggled lately, so to have a  
Orlando Magic, who were with- good defensive and good ofTen­ 
out Tracy McGrady and have  sive effort on the same night  
now lost eight straight.  makes it nice."  
"It's nice to win, but I wouldn't  Antawn Jamison had 21 points  
get too excited about this one,"  and nine rebounds while Steve  
Mavericks coach Don Nelson  Nash added 12 points and 11  
said.  assists.  
Dallas enjoyed a solid opener  "We have a habit of playing  
to its five-game East Coast  down to the level of our competi­ 
swing, beating the Atlantic-lead­ tion," Nash said. "This was by  
ing New Jersey Nets. But the  no means a foregone conclu­ 
Mavericks lost at Philadelphia  sion."  

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HaJJ. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
ND alums looking for summer live-VERY NICE 3bdrm home in 2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments near in help. Will provide competitive EastBank area w/washer-dryer & campus. Only a few left for next salary, separate bedroom, week-alarm system inci.Nice yard for vol-school year. Call Justine, 234-9923. 

WANTED PERSONAL 
ends off & training in applied behav-leyball etc-full bsmt.Walk to 
ior analysis to work with autistic Corbys&StJoe Church. Call Joe 6-8 Person house on Notre Dame Wanted-Old paintings, especially daughter. Responsibilities include 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO Crimmins@574-514-Ave., perfect location across from UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Indiana and Notre Dame childcare but no cleaning. Must be CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM 0643(cell)or57 4-273-0002(home) soccer fields, 2 min. walk to cam-Do not go it alone. If you or some-
energetic, able to drive & swim. mmmrentals@aol.com pus. Completely rennovated with all one you love needs confidential 
(574) 286-9359 Located in Mt. Kisco (40 mi from NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF new appliances, 3 full baths. support or assistance, please call 
NYC). 272-1525 NO GREAT FOR 3-6 STUDENTS Available for 2004-2005 school Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1­Catholic family offering fulltime Call914-241-9238 year. Email ndhouses@yahoo.com 7819. For more information, see our summer childcare opportunity to DOMUS PROPERTIES... HAS A 8 2n3097 bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. care for 4 school age children, ages Need car driver from Naples Fl. To BEDROOM HOUSE... 2 BEDROOM Edwardsburg lake cottage com­5 to 11 , Scottsdale Mall area, South Bend between April-June HOUSE...2 BEDROOM Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 pletely furnished. $750/month plus Enroll in a Kaplan Test Prep 
Call 23959n438 DUPLEX... AND THREE 3 BED-bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer utilities. 850-3347. Class in March and get $100 back! 7:30AM to 5:00PM, wages nego-ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR or fall. 235-3655. Call 1-800-KAP-TEST tor info. tiable, non-smoker preferred, own THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL New 314 bdrm homes close to ND, transportation a plus, FOR SALE YEAR. ...WE ARE ALSO STARTING Oakhill Condo, 2-3 bedroom, 2 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky-Ya contact TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 bath, one block from NO, lights. Maureen@ Home by owner. 18827 Darden Rd. SCHOOL YEAR. .CONTACT $425.00/person times 3 $1640/mo. Call574-232-4527 or Lasers 
3BR 2BA WIBSMNT. 1 00x360 lot. 5 KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR people, utilities included, available 
(574) 231-8126. Mins to ND. 623-826-8819 CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS June, 231-8823 after 4:00. 269-683-5038 The kid who never smiles 

Monday, March 29, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Matsui homers for Yankees in return to Japan 

WATCHING· THE· .END: 
...,~.,_....... '·. , .·. ··v·;~, .. ·.)r,·.l· .. 1·.;,:·' ·t·l.· ......"~·~·/: . I' A>~ ...•
A . Crl-'t>Jl,.ese .· lettJ OJ 1l-C .. .·a ..... <?, ,,. 'le .-Lv;~_t1tg 



Associated Press 
TOKYO -Over and over, Hideki Matsui kept saying this was just another night. But, of course, it wasn't. It was his first game back in Japan since leav­ing after the 2002 season. 
And when he deposited a hanging curveball into the right­center field seats in the second inning Sunday, the enormously popular player they call Godzilla couldn't reign in his emotions. He cracked a wide smile after he crossed the plate and returned to the New York Yankees' dugout. 
Matsui homered in his first at­bat back in Japan, starting an evening when the Yankees showed why they're called the Bronx Bombers back home. 
Jorge Posada added a tiebreaking three-run homer and Derek Jeter hit a solo shot, leading the Yankees over the Yomiuri Giants 6-2 in New York's first game in Japan in 49 years. 
And after it was over, Matsui walked to a microphone at home plate and addressed the admirers who were so sad to see him depart Yomiuri 15 months ago to sign with the Yankees. 
"What I did out there was to show my deepest appreciation for the fans," he explained later through a translator. "Most importantly, however, at the same time I didn't feel melan­choly about it. I didn't have any special attachment toward it, looking back at my Yomiuri Giants days. No, that didn't hap­pen. I just wanted to show them my gratitude." 
He wants to behave like a "Star Trek" Vulcan, be robotlike and emotionless, focusing deeply on the tasks at hand. Yankees manager Joe Torre calls it "ice water." 
"He knows how to rise to the occasion. I really feel that way," Torre said. 





.·..•.•.•.••••••,.,.,.,.,.,.,......,.,,..______R~Wro:..............•.· 
• ; •.•;•:·:·:·:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:···=·:···=·····=·=···'!t'•:··········....­..,.................................·.~···················  
a, :s  ~·. h  "·~  tJ :r ,u: ~*· ,;,; ~·}'  l<l n. d. "''~ l'·.  ""' h  ·i (~ h  h  ·"·~  l): ;;*· •rl  l:~< *~ e  n  
.:·:<;tl:U.t:~·  ~,~ 'I~Zll: S h  ·~ U g  dn~.>ji:':U  :;~.~··"':~·~AU d  

..•;-:-:-:-:-:-:-·..-..···· 
•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•7•:0'"•'o'o'o'o',oA·~·,•.,.:•;o:•,•.,o.O:.•X•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:· 
•:o;o;•:·····:•:o;o;o'o'o'o'o'o0o'o'o'o';';',o,o,-, 


...-.....w ...·:·J.:-.-..x~.::•.:Y:·:·:~~:o:·x~:·:~:·:·x-:·:;:-:-:·:(-:·:o:-:~:·:•:-x-=~-:-:o:-:~:: . .._.;.~;.;o;,.);o);·:~;..,:~:.;..;o;:;o;o;o;o;o;O:~):~•:O:O:•:O:O:•'~o~;~o:~•~:· 
JOJV:A.~L-I.A.l\1-.SPEzvCE 
-~~-~ ~·;>• ~:i:.#_.g-t'~ ~-·.:,~~1-'·>):: ~..y-~ ': '-"':l }•l ¥.~ ::=_"·:··~-:-~·:-;·> :~--~ .~.,...:-~--:~ :» i :~:-:~::~·::e--~ ·i;~­
· · ·· ·-· · · j_. .._._. ........~. . ·-· · ·:-ec · · .. ··· · · · .. ·.. ·.. · · ·~"·:.. :a:::.:;; ··· :-:.:·:-=-=·=·:rrr:· ... r ·il: :: ·.. ··· ·: ·:<· =·=·-· ..........·.•,•.·,•,•...-,•,•,•...•:·..:·:~:·:·:·: 

•:o,o;o;o;o:o;o;o:o:o;o;o;o;o;.;o;o;o"o';ow.-'o'o!;o'o;o•o'o'o'o'o'o',Oo'o"o".._.,,,.,.,., 
-.-..;..........;-..;...:-.-....;.;.;.;.;-:..;-:-:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-·-:-:-:-:-:-:~:-:-·-·:;.;.·.···-·.·-·····---.-.-.·-.. .........................:--:··· . ..;.:-:-:.:.:.-:.:·=·=P~::::..::::::f:::;:::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::~:::~::::::~:~~-:.~:::~~~~:···lo'.·..............:: ...::::::~:::::::::~:::;:=·=·=···=··...........;...... 
..............................;•:w.•:·:•:•:•:•:;:·:·:·:•:-:-.·.·:.;;:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:···:··· 
·'•:•:•:•:··-:·~:--:•:__..;.;~:-:-~··:··~··.-.·.-.-..__.o:-: ..............-.:.---.··-.-...-~•.,..,.,.,._.A.;..:.;..;.;.;.; • 
.·.····:·:···:·:·:-:-:•.•.•:·:-...·.-.·:~-.·-·.-.•.........................:.·-:··=··:•.•
QjJ N<)iR...EsoAv~)£ 
·······=···......:-:······ 

~~~~~;-,;~· .A.:>s:l;J<n L~u~:f.:u<:s:,:::;c~:'!< .~ l ..hx~·n-s.~\n'':~\« ~i'Y''·t..'iJ;~ .I -~:..~7;:~ .. . .. h H ~ ~: ...''../"-<'·">,.o.v;;; nd,:(~>~1u...,··.--~><*!l ,,··~:>~ ,.,<~dy ..... tn<h.•x. ,h~ r~~ 
.•.•.•.•.•,o,•.·.·.•:•.•:•:•:•:-:·:·····:--·················.............-..••• 
o,o;o'o'.Oo'o';o;o;o;o;o)'•'•'•'•';O:o'o'•'•';.;o;o:O'o"~o!;'•"•';';o',O•:· 

..........;.;.;.;...;.,.,·,·,··:-:::;~::::::;:::~;~~:::::::::~:;:::;~;:::::::::::::;.;:··o,·.-.;.·.···=···=·-············ ···-:·:-:-:-.......::;~:::;:::::::::::~:;::~::;:;::::.-:::::::::~:;~;::::::~:::::::;::~:::··-·.-.·.··:•:•:•. 
-.-:-:-:--:·:·:·:·········:···=···:·········:·····:·~-·-·.y.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.........•.•.•
·:·:·.·:·:·:·····=······-:.-.·.;.·.-.-.·.··:····........................J'oA..................................... 
····.···.·.·:···:·.·:·:·.·:·.·:-:..............................""............__.....,.,..,·---·-u-....,;o:a_~..(~o.~tWMIIWMIIIIIIIIIill~----­
··---···. .. =-·_ :.::_...,._.·.-·..-."""·.-:=-:-:-:-.-...w.·.:·:·:·:-.•.•,•,·.·.;.·•.••...
...-. .. ....,.,.~··'::'!:':~.~}.':"!"~.t.... 

._._.,.:::::::::::::::::~:~:~~---:-·-·.•.-.•.•:.....·.··:::::::~::::::::::::::;::::::>.:-:.....·:·:···· 
,. :;;~. 8 .;;. ~..~ d tl: :i ·~:n. 
While Matsui plays left field 
for the Yankees and his spot in 
the batting order changes con­
stantly, with Yomiuri he received 
Japan's positions of honor ­
center field and cleanup in the 
batting order. That's where he 
played on Sunday night, the 
next-to-last exhibition for New 
York before Tuesday's opener 
against Tampa Bay. 
"You're allowed to be bigger than the game tonight," Torre told him. 
Matsui already had a clue, thanks to Kenny Lofton, who gave him the heads-up during batting practice. Ever the per­fectionist, Matsui shagged fly balls in center field. 
"I hadn't played center field in some time now," Matsui said. "I needed to practice, I needed ~ get a feel for the position again." 
With flashbulbs popping and small orange flags with his num­ber "55" waving, Matsui stepped into the batter's box leading off the second inning to cheers of "Go Matsui!" Then, just after he fouled off a 2-2 pitch, the chant changed to, "Home run, home run, Matsui." 
In the dugout, Torre said: "Wouldn't this be something if he hits a home run here?" 
Matsui sure did, on the very next pitch. He took a 63 mph hanging curveball from Hisanori Takahashi, leaned into it and sent it about three-quarterS' of the way up the bleachers in right-center field. 
RED BULL GIVES YOU WIIINGS. OH, AND AGREAT OPPORTUNITY. 
~-d Hu!lss c~ii !h~ kro:!wut fu( ;lStud~m 
l.lnnd M3.M~~t (~:J.l.o\1], .An ~.llM i~· a rt-fiable :LIIJ llHtl~~·>tlt:'d ~l~tfeu! whu-.'i! (~~i}CMibilstic~ ind~M ht::nd ~d~tjm~f:t 
i:TI c~mr!J~, tlU~l!!. .lTlll.l':;i'\' lTI\l h.t~iTIK .:1 r,t~Al tim!!. \)\tr ~~~.tim?> .!rom ~'IY.:· .1rc-ilic J>.>.llc:~1·~ 
• 
Ym/n' ~-C,·ng inio ynur ~~~;:m;,:l ycl::­C•f hi~h<'f ,t! ~h:.~ !<~.r.cd 

• 
~·~\IJ b·,·t ;1 ·'~'>~..'<! b\wkd:::.c ~~1


" .. 

'.\·h~>i'l>hc~·: d::inr,~ .,.,~ h·<~FI~niur.;. 
• l'i•~.!'rc ~~~:'!l:Wit(J ill 1)\:lt'K(:ti n~ ~.1 hr-~·;1 jiild o:mrmHmir.;l.i;m ~~i!k 
• Y11..: knt-"" ts::l;~l'~'i:t·~~u!:::LI ~.piril ;uv..i Mt ~~i~P~.o 
F),w<. thi-.: '•r>JSml likr·ym1? ll ~.•~,. ~n l1:: ~i~".ibdltte<J:11.. 


RedBulr 
~ 
ENERGY DRINK 


OPENING 






around the dial 
NHL 

Wild at Red Wings, 7 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB Cubs(ss) vs. Padres, 1 p.m., FOXCH Angels vs. Cubs(ss), 3 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Bulls at Heat, 7:30p.m., FOXCH 
TENNIS Nasdaq-100 Open, 1 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Duke, Georgia Tech earn Final Four bids 
ASsociated Press 

ATlANTA -Too much history. Too much Duke. 
The Blue Devils ended Xavier's remarkable run in the NCAA tourna­ment and headed to their 14th Final Four, holding off the Musketeers 66­63 Sunday to win the Atlanta Regional. 
Xavier (26-11) had already chopped down the second-and third-seeded teams in the region, but couldn't make it 1-2-3 against Duke (31-5). The Blue Devils will be the only No. 1 seed in San Antonio, advancing to meet Connecticut next Saturday in the national semifinals. 
The seventh-seeded Musketeers had never been this far in the tour­ney, and it showed in the closing min­utes against postseason-hardened Duke. 
With the score tied at 56, Chris Duhon drove to the basket and missed, but Luol Deng grabbed the offensive rebound and passed out to 
J.J. Redick, who swished the 3-point­er that put the Blue Devils ahead for good with 2:5 5 remaining. 
Xavier couldn't overcome the loss of Anthony Myles, its best inside play­er, who fouled out with 12 1/2 min­utes remaining after scoring 16 points and grabbing 10 rebounds. His absence was especially telling at the end. 
After Redick's trey, 6-foot-1 Dedrick Finn drove the lane, only to have his shot swatted away by 6-9 Shelden Williams. Duhon sped the other way and missed again, but Deng tapped in the rebound to give the Blue Devils a five-point lead with 1:55 to go. 
Justin Doellman finally scored for the Musketeers, their first basket in nearly 4 1/2 minutes, but Duke closed it out at the free throw line. Redick hit a pair. So did Duhon, the only prominent holdover from Duke's last national championship team in 2001. 
The Blue Devils lost the last two years in the regional semifinals. They didn't slip up this time. 
Deng had 19 points and was named the MVP of the regional. Williams also came up big, scoring 12 points to go along with 13 rebounds. 
Lionel Chalmers led Xavier with 17 points. 
Georgia Tech 79, Kansas 71 
When the final buzzer sounded, the entire Georgia Tech team rushed 
IN BRIEF 

Adam Scott wins Player's

Chamionship 
PONTE VEDRA BEACH. Fla. ­The guy who swings like Tiger Woods nearly finished like Greg Norman. 
Ultimately, all that mattered to Adam Scott on Sunday was making a 10-foot bogey putt on the final hole to win The Players Championship, making the 23-year­old Australian the youngest cham­pion of golf's richest tournament. 
Scott turned a command perform­ance into a comedy on the treach­erous 18th hole at Sawgrass. From the middle of the fairway, with a two-shot lead, he pulled his approach into the water and looked as if he had thrown it all away. 
Needing to make bogey to avoid a playoff with Padraig Harrington, Scott finished with a putt that was true from the time it left his blade. Scott thrust his fist into the air twice, and threw his cap down in relief. 
together to pile into a group hug on the floor. 
How fitting. 
With top scorer B.J. Elder hobbled by a badly sprained ankle, someone else had to step up. Jarrett Jack and the rest of the Yellow Jackets did bet­ter than that, beating Kansa.S in over­time to advance to their first Final Four since 1990. 
"A lot was on the line," said Jack, who scored eight of his career-high 29 points in overtime. "B.J. being out, we all knew we had to step up. I just really got it going and kept attacking until the game was over." 
No team had more tight games on its road to the Final Four than the third-seeded Yellow Jackets. Their first three games in the St. Louis Regional were decided by a total of 
He closed with a 2-under 70, win­ning $1.44 million from the record $8 million purse. 

Angels' pitcher hospitalized 
Anaheim Angels reliever Brendan Donnelly has been hospitalized because of severe nosebleeds while recovering from being hit in the face by a fly ball. 
' Donnelly returned to a Scottsdale hospital late Saturday nnd under­went a third surgery on his frac­tured nose, which was broken in 20 places on March 9 while he shagged flies during batting prac­tice. "They told me I lost half the blood in my body," Donnelly said Saturday, adding that he'd lost seven pints of blood. "I didn't real­ize how serious it was." Said Angels shortstop David Eckstein: "We're concerned with his safety. It's dangerous to lose that much blood." Donnelly will start the season on 
13 points. 
But Georgia Tech (27-9) has been unflappable all season, beating Connecticut when the Huskies were ranked No. 1 and winning at Duke and Wake Forest. So facing the favored Jayhawks, even without Elder, was no big deal. Even when the game went to overtime. 
After little Will Bynum hit a big 3­pointer to break a 71-all tie, Jack went 4-for-4 from the line in the last 4 7 seconds to seal the win. 
Jack finished 8-of-12 from the floor, and had nine rebounds and six assists. Luke Schenscher added 15 points and Clarence Moore matched his season high with 14 for the Yellow Jackets. As the final seconds ticked off the clock, coach Paul Hewitt threw his hands in the air in triuph. 
the disabled list, the team said Sunday. He will remain in the hos­pital three or four days. 
O'Neil returns to Pacers' 

lineup 
INDIANAPOLIS -Jermaine O'Neal returned to the Indiana Pacers starting lineup Sunday after missing the past two games with a bruised left knee. 
O'Neal is averaging a team-lead­ing 20.3 points, 10.1 rebounds and 
2.65 blocks a game for the Pacers (53-19), who were playing Miami (35-37). 
The All-Star forward injured his knee in win over the Chicago Bulls last Monday. He collided with Bulls guard Ronald Dupree while trying to set a pick on the baseline and immediately crumpled to the floor. 
AI Harrington, who is averaging a career-best 13.1 points and 6.4 rebounds, had started in place of O'Neal. The Pacers are 4-0 this sea­son without O'Neal. 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
TENNIS 
NHL 
Federer knocked off by Spanish teenager 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. ­Under siege from a 17-year­old Spaniard, Roger Federer waited for his opponent to show some nerves and make a few mistakes. 
It never happened. Rafael Nadal coolly closed out the biggest victory of his young life Sunday night by beating the top-ranked Federer 6-3, 6-3 in the third round of the Nasdaq-100 Open. 
Federer, the reigning Wimbledon and Australian Open champion, lost for only the second time in 25 match­es this year. The loss was an upset but no fluke: Nadal has been touted as a future top­10 player and showed shot­making skills worthy of the hype. 
The big-swinging left-ban­der from Mallorca won 36 of 48 points on his serve and never faced a break point. He hit winners from both sides, won 13 points at the net and closed out one game with a crosscourt drop shot that brought a roar from the crowd. 
The youngest player in the 96-man field, Nadal improved to 3-1 against top 10 opponents. He also has beaten Carlos Moya and Albert Costa. 
In women's play, top-seed­ed Serena Williams cleared another hurdle in her come­back from an eight-month layoff by beating Elena Likhovtseva 6-1. 4-6, 6-3. 
Williams was playing for just the second time since undergoing knee surgery last August, and she survived some shaky moments and erratic groundstrokes. She won the first five games but committed 34 unforced errors -plus several foot faults -and needed five match points to secure the victory. 
"I never felt as if I was going to lose," Williams said. "I just felt ... when was I going to win?" 
Her path to the final became easier when fourth­seeded Jennifer Capriati lost to No. 25 Eleni Daniilidou, 6­2, 6-4. 
"From the beginning I missed some easy shots, and I got negative after that," Capriati said. 
She was the runner-up in Key Biscayne each of the past three years, losing in the final to a Williams each time: Serena in 2002 and 2003, and Venus in 2001. 
Williams' next opponent will be 16-year-old Russian Maria Sharapova, who beat No. 13 Anna Smashnova­Pistolesi 7-5, 6-2. 
Three-time champion Venus Williams struggled early but played a flawless tiebreaker and beat No. 27 Danie-la Hantuchova 7-6 (0), 6-2. Williams, seeded second in the tournament, could meet her younger sister in the final Saturday. 
Also reaching the fourth round were lucky loser Gisela Dulko of Argentina and Jill Craybas of the United States, who upset No. 7 Vera Zvonareva 6-2, 3-6, 6-3. 
In other men's play, former No. 1 Lleyton Hewitt lost to Andrei Pavel 6-4, 7-5. Hewitt had 10 double-faults, includ­ing three in the final game. 
Todd Martin advanced, but fellow American Robby Ginepri was eliminated by Nicolas Kiefer 7-6 (3}, 3-6, 6­4. 






Houses for Rent 
It's not too late to find quality houses close to campus for the 2004-2005 school year Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 574-532-1895 
Devils edge out Islanders 3-2 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­
The New Jersey Devils nar­
rowed their focus and took a 
step toward catching the 
Atlantic Division-leading 
Philadelphia Flyers. 
"We just have to win these 
final hockey games," said Scott 
Gomez who assisted on all three 
goals Sunday night in the 
Devils' 3-2 win over the New 
York Islanders. "We're not wor­
rying about Philly. To be honest, 
I think that's what got us in 
trouble in the past. We got three 
games left and then the real 
dance starts, so we want to be 
going at full steam." 
Patrik Elias had a goal anct' 
two assists, and Scott 
Niedermayer and Brian Gionta 
also scored for the Devils who 
moved within two points of the 
Flyers. Martin ~rodeur made 12 
saves to post his 36th win. 
"We've got three games and 
we just have to keep winning," 
Elias said. "We'll know soon 
how it turns out." 
Dave Scatchard and Mark 
Parrish scored for New York, 
which dropped its second 
straight game during the week­
end. The Islanders failed to 
reduce their magic number of 
four points needed to clinch the 
Eastern Conference's final play­
off spot over Buffalo. 
"You don't want to be looking over your shoulder," Parrish said. "You want to be looking ahead to the playoffs. At this point in the season, you can't help but look at the standings and who's behind you and who's in front of you." 
Niedermayer opened the scor­ing at 6:26 as Elias and Islanders forward Mattias Weinhandl bumped into New York goaltender Rick DiPietro. That left Niedermayer with a wide-open net and marked the second straight game DiPietro was victimized that way on the first goal. He was down on the ice when Allan Roarke gave the Hurricanes the early lead Saturday in Carolina's 3-2 victo­ry. 
The Islanders, outplayed most of the first period, pulled even when Scatchard beat Brodeur from the right boards for a short-handed goal with 38.2 seconds remaining. 
Elias and Gionta scored in the second period to give the Devils a 3-1lead. 
Elias scored on a backhander at 5:13. A video replay con­firmed that the puck trickled over the goal line before DiPietro could clamp a pad on it. 
Gionta deflected Gomez's shot in with 2:07 remaining. 
Parrish wasted little time in the third, deflecting Kenny Jonsson's point shot past Brodeur 43 seconds in, cutting the Devils' lead to 3-2. 
New Jersey allowed only three more shots the rest of the way. 
"We had a tough weekend," Islanders coach Steve Stirling said. "We played hard tonight but you can't fall behind with a third goal at the end of the sec­ond period. We had a huge mountain to climb." Blues 3, Blackhawks 1 
The St. Louis Blues' five-on­three power-play unit is work­ing just fine. 
Keith Tkachuk, Petr Cajanek and Brian Savage each had goals while St. Louis had a two­man advantage in the first peri­od, leading the Blues to a victo-threes, the odds are you're going to score," Savage said. "We've got a lot of snipers on this team. We moved the puck around well. We got a lot of shots from the slot." 

ry  over  the  Chicago  
Blackhawks.  
"When  you  have  five-on­ 

St. Louis remained in seventh place in the Western Conference, two points ahead of Nashville and Edmonton, which played Phoenix later Sunday. 
Doug Weight and Scott Mellanby had two assists for St. Louis, which also beat the Blackhawks on Saturday at home. 
Chicago drew six consecutive penalties in the first period, giv­ing the Blues 10:48 of power­play time. St. Louis had a man­advantage for 7:26 straight ­including 3:25 when they skated five-on-three. 
Chicago coach Brian Sutter didn't think his team deserved all the penalties. 
"The referees had a determin­ing factor in the outcome of the game. We play good in physical games," Sutter said. "It's frus­trating to our players when other people are involved in the outcome of the game besides the people who are playing it." 
The Blues took exception to the five stick-related fouls the Blackhawks committed in the period. 
"It happens when you take stick infractions," Tkachuk said. 
Down 3-1 after one period, Chicago came out firing in the second period, with Scott Thornton scoring at 1:52. 
The Blackhawks outshot the Blues 18-5 in the second period and 13-5 in the third. 
"You sit back and that is what is going to happen," Blues defenseman Chris Pronger said. "You give them confidence. We should be trying to finish them." 
Tkachuk capitalized 11 sec­onds into the first two-man advantage, taking a pass in the slot from Doug Weight and lift­ing a shot above the left arm of goalie Adam Munro. 
Cajanek made it 2-0 at 10:05. Brian Savage fanned on a shot from the slot, and Cajanek gained control of the puck at the side of the net and scored. 
"It was another whiff," Savage said. "I got 'the second one, though." 
Wild 2, Mighty Ducks 1 
Though Marian Gaborik's sea­son will still be considered a disappointment, he's trying hard to finish strong. 
Gaborik netted the go-ahead goal in the third period against Minnesota nemesis Jean­Sebastien Giguere, giving the Wild a victory over the Anaheim Mighty Ducks. 
Dwayne Roloson made 18 saves, and rookie Rickard Wallin had a goal for Minnesota, which scored on Giguere for just the fourth time in eight games -including last year's Western Conference finals. 
··obviously we have been hav­ing a lot of trouble to score against him," Gaborik said. "It was good to get a couple goals." 
Good for Gaborik, especially, who shares the team goal lead with Alexandre Daigle with 16. An All-Star last year who was the third-highest scorer in the NHL playoffs. Gaborik missed the first 12 games of this season during a contract dispute. He has been off his game for much of the time since. 
"He's feeling much better," coach Jacques Lemaire said. "He's just starting to feel good about himself and feel confi­dent." 
Niclas Havelid scored for the Mighty Ducks, whose recent dominance of the Wild ended. Anaheim followed its four-game sweep in last year's playoffs by going 2-0-1 in the first three games this season. 
"That's been the story of the season, losing close ones," cap­tain Steve Rucchin said. "That's what happens when you refuse to work .... When you don't come prepared on a nightly basis, it's tough. The guys on the ice haven't gotten the job done. It's no one's fault except ourselves." 
After their improbable meet­ing in last year's playoffs, both the Wild and Mighty Ducks have fallen hard. They enter the final week of the regular season with nothing on the line other than draft position and auditions for future playing time. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
ROWING 

,,·~ 
NO faces tough competition 
and knew that they have a great
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG 

finishing sprint, which is why 
Sports Writer 

our early lead was necessary 
for a victory." 
The Irish had a strong show­The Wolverines fell to third ing in Ann Arbor, Mich. in 7:19.9, while the Tigers fol­Saturday, boasting a varsity lowed in 7:36.1 and Eastern four win and a varsity eight Michigan took last in 8:02.0. second-place finish behind Though the rowers were over­rowing powerhouse Michigan. whelmingly pleased with the 
In addition to racing the No. team's performance, they are 2 Wolverines, Notre Dame training to excel both in prac­rowed against Clemson, No. 8 tice and future competition. Michigan State "We definitely and Eastern have some tech­Michigan. Though "... That early lead nical work to do, 
the Irish were put us in a great but its really 
unranked in pre­promising
position to win the 
season polls, they knowing that demonstrated race. JJ with some that they have the changes to our talent and drive strokes we can
Pam Jefson 
to compete with really make this
Irish rower
the best. 
In Notre Dame's 


first varsity four race, a domi­nant start led coxswain Kathy 
Long, Katie O'Hara, Danielle 
Stealy, Pam Jefson and Kristen 
Mizzi to triumph over their 
highly-ranked competitors. 
The Irish finished in 7 minutes 
14.8 seconds -three seconds ahead of the Spartan boat. · "We knew going into the race that Clemson, Michigan and 
I especially Michigan State would be really fast off the starting line and in order to
1 
. ~ win, we would have to have a ( great start," Jefson said. "We 
! 
simply had an explosive start off the line which· forced the other teams to try and catch up the whole race. 

"We are a strong enough boat, and that early lead put us in a great position to win the race," Jefson said. "We raced Michigan State two weeks ago 

By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 

To say that the Irish are off to a good start would be an understatement. 
Improving its season mark to a perfect 7-0 (2-0 in Big East) and stretching its overall win streak to a school record 11 games, No. 3 Notre Dame knocked off a pair of Big East rivals over the weekend, defeating Virginia Tech (3-3) Friday before thumping Boston College (4-3) Sunday. 
While several individual players have stood out thus far this season -attaclumiddle Meredith Simon, attack Abby Owen arid goalkeeper Carol Dixon were all recognized as Big East Player of the Week at one point -Irish coach Tracy Coyne points to true teamwork with a touch senior leadership as the ingredient of the squad's success. 
"We're really a team," Coyne said. "Different people are stepping up at different points to make things happen. The seniors have a lot of pride and determination, they're focused and they've done a great job leading the team." 
That teamwork was on dis­play once again Friday after­noon. 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
boat go even faster," Stealy said. 
Notre Dame's second varsity four boat of coxswain Caitlin Rackish, Kristen Hinkel, Meredith Thornburgh, Alyssa Close and Colleen Larson fin­ished in third with a 7:36.9 finish, behind Michigan's win­ning time of 7:17.3 and Michigan State's second place time of7:23.7. 
The Irish varsity eight boat also had a stellar perform­ance, as the Wolverines nar­rowly beat them. Though Notre Dame's coxswain Maureen Gibbons, Natalie Ladine, Alice Bartek, Meghan Boyle, Rachel Polinski, Melissa Felker, Katie Chenoweth, Danielle Protasewich and Jacqueline Hazen secured a lead 1,000 meters in to the race, Michigan's boat had a strong finish. 
Notre Dame crossed the fin­ish line in 6:25.0, less than five seconds behind Michigan. Clemson took third in 6:34.3, while Eastern Michigan fin­ished in 6:40.2. 

In the second varsity eight race, Michigan won in 6:35.0, and with a time of 6:48.0, Clemson took second. Coxswain Kacy McCaffrey Jessica Guzik, Kathleen Welsh, Kati Sedun, Jenna Redgate, Elizabeth Specht, Andrea Doud, Ashley St. Pierre and Megan Sanders led Notre Dame to third place in 6:49.7. 
In the third varsity four race, Notre Dame raced two boats. The Irish 'A' crew of coxswain Shannon Lettieri. Sarah Keefer, Ann Mulligan, Courtney Quinn and Tricia David had a second place fin­ish in 7:39.8, behind the Wolverines who won in 7:30.0. The Spartans took third, and the novice 'B' crew of coxswain Maria Romano, Audrey deGuire, Alice Cooper, Samantha Glass and Kaitlin Sharkey finished fourth in 7:52.1. 
Though the races were diffi­cult this weekend, the Irish have confidence that they will continue to be strong oppo­nents. 
"The competition was very tough, but we showed that our team can race well with some of the best in the country," Long said. "Our determination to prove ourselves helped lead us to victory. We will continue to work hard and develop." 
Notre Dame returns to water next weekend at the San Diego Crew Classic. 
Contact ChristineArmstrong at carmstro@nd.edu 
Hot Irish remain undefeated 
Attack Jackie Bowers netted a career-high five goals and four other Irish players recorded at least a pair of scores as Notre Dame finally put away a pesky Virginia Tech squad with a 5-0 second-half run en route to an 18-11 victo­ry. 
Falling behind 25 seconds into the contest, the Irish post­ed the next four goals for a 4-1 lead a little over four minutes into the game. While the Hokies managed to answer back with a pair of their own, pulling within one at 4-3 with 
22:35 remaining in the first half, the Irish netted four of the next five goals to head into the half with an 8-4 advan­tage. 
Virginia Tech once again struck first to open the second half as the Hokies' Kate Threadgold picked up her third goal of the afternoon to bring Virginia Tech within a trio of tallies. 
Three goals would prove to be as close as the Hokies would get, however. The Irish scored each of the game's next five goals to build a 13-5 lead and secure their sixth victory of the season. 
In addition to Bowers' five goals, Simon picked up four tallies and Owen had three goals, while both attack Lauren Fischer and middle/attack Crysti Foote net­ted a pair of their own. 
Sunday, the Irish rode three separate five-goal runs to a 17-7 throttling of the Eagles. 
After jumping out to a 5-0 lead behind a pair of goals from both Owen and Foote and a tally from Fischer with 23:46 left in the first half, the Irish yielded a pair of Eagles scores before rallying for yet another five-goal streak to build a 10-3 halftime lead and effectively seal the contest. 
The barrage continued in the second half as Notre Dame rat­tled off seven of the contest's next eight goals to take a 17-4 advantage with 12:32 left. 
Simon and Owen continued their season-long dominance as Simon found the back of the net on four occasions for the second time in three days and Owen recorded two goals and an assist. 
In addition, Foote scored four goals and Fischer picked up a score and three assists in the victory. • 
Notre Dame returns to action next Saturday when the Irish travel to Storrs, Conn. to take on the Huskies in Big East play. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Keckley helps seal victory at Ball State 
By KATE GALES 

Sports Writer 
Talent. Poise. Youth. 

No, it's not the Miss Teen USA pageant, it's the bottom of the men's tennis lineup. Three fresh­men and a sophomore came through for the Irish Saturday, rallying from a defeat in doubles and the sickness of two top play­ers to win the match 4-3 against Ball State. 
"A lot of credit goes to a lot of young guys today," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
The underclassmen have added depth to an experienced Irish lineup and have con­tributed to the 12-7 record of the team. 
"Ryan Keckley clinched the match and deserves an awful lot of credit," Bayliss said of the freshman, who plays at No'. 5 singles. "He really played well under pressure." 
The Irish dropped the initial point of the match, with only ail­ing Luis Haddock and Matthew Scott able to claim victory at No. 2. 
"We did not play a very good doubles point," Bayliss said. "I wasn't very excited about our level. ... I felt we could win the doubles point and I still think we probably should have." 
Scott was forced to remove himself from the singles lineup after the doubles matches. Haddock, ranked 80th in the nation, played but was visibly under the weather. 
"He really sort of faded after the second set," Bayliss said. "That was disappointing for him, I'm sure, but he gave us a great effort." 
Brent D'Amico moved to the No. 2 spot, but lost in two close sets. 
Luckily, the bottom of the Irish lineup was a solid foundation for the victory. 
Bayliss was full of praise for 
Steven Bass, normally a No. 4 
player who has seen consider­
able time at No. 3. Against the 
Cardinals, he won 6-1. 6-1 at 
that position. 
"Steven Bass played unbeliev­
ably well in singles," Bayliss 
said. 
Bass is on a hot streak, win­
ning 10 of his last 12 matches 
and improving to 14-4 in the 
dual-match season. lie is 20-6 
overall in his first season at 
Notre Dame. 
"He has a hard time normally 
finishing someone off early, and 
he did a great job with Patrick 
Thompson, who usually plays 
No. 2," Bayliss said. 
Barry King and Eric 
Langenkamp won in straight sets 
at No. 4 and No. 6. respectively. 
"What is probably good to sec 
is the ability to rally while we're 
down a point," Bayliss said. 
The Irish go on the road again 
for a Sunday match against 
Virginia Tee~. 
. NOTRE DAME 4, BALL STATE 3 at the MUNCIE YMCA INDOOR TENNIS COURTS 
SINGLES No. 1: Matt Baccarani (BSU) d. No. 80 Luis Haddock (NDJ 3-6. 7-5. 6-3. No. 2: Matt Laramore (BSU) d. Bn~nt 0'Amico (NO) 7·6 (8-6). 6-3. No. 3: Stephen Bass (NO) d. Patrick Thompson (BSU)·6-1. 6-1. No. 4: Barry King (NO) d. Michael Heule (BSU) 6-2, 6-4. No. 5: Ryan Keckley (NO) d. Paul Newman (BSU) 4·6, 6-2. 6-4. No. 6: Eric Langenkamp {NDJ d. Brad Rhodes (BSU) 6-0. 7-6 (7 -5). 
DOUBLES No. 1: Baccaraniffhompson (BSU) d. O'Amico/Keckley (NO) 9-7. No. 2: Haddock/Scott (NDJ d. Laramore/Rhodes (BSU) 8-6. No. 3: Newman/Klint Knable (BSU) d. S. Bass/Eric Langenkamp (ND) 8-3. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Monday, March 29, 2004 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
ND SOFTBALL 




Irish capture Hoosier Classic with 3 wins at IU 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
When Irish coach Deanna Gumpf and Western Kentucky coach Leslie Phelan decided not to play the championship game of the Hoosier Classic, no one was too upset. 
"We were definitely happy to come home," Irish left fielder Nicole deFau said. 
Notre Dame (23-9) came home after winning the Hoosier Classic because they beat Western Kentucky (21-8) earlier Sunday morning. 
The tournament started Saturday morning when the Irish faced off against Saint Louis (9-21). Notre Dame was led by Meagan Ruthrauff who hit her sixth home run of the year, a three-run bomb to put the Irish ahead 3-0 in the fifth. She drove in Stephanie Brown, who singled to leftfield, and deFau, who was hit by a pitch. 
After the Billikens tied it up, Liz l{artmann hit a solo homer in the sixth to put the Irish ahead for good 4-3. 
Pitcher Steffany Stenglein earned the win for Notre Dame, her fourth in a row and eighth of the season. She gave up just three hits, while strik­ing out eight. But it was a team effort for the Irish. 
"We did a good job hitting the ball," deFau said. "Our pitchers really did a good job shutting the teams down." 
Later Saturday, Notre Dame went head-to-head with the tournament host, Indiana (17­17). 
Heather Booth, who pitched the Irish to a win, led the Irish in the contest. She gave up just two hits, and despite only striking out one, allowed no runs. The Irish defense sup­ported her the entire game. 
"Defensively, we've been ing at 9:30 a.m. when they Schoonaert allowed one run to playing very well," deFau said. faced the Western Kentucky score as her throw was wide, 
Meanwhile, the Hoosiers Hilltoppers. but that was all 'western were getting little support from This game proved to be a Kentucky would get. their defense. After a duel between Booth and Booth stepped up and struck Ruthrauff home run in the sec­Western Kentucky'!.' Adrienne out the last batter to end the ond, Notre Dame hit Lathrop. Booth game. safely just two times struck out 10, The win catapulted the Irish over the next four "Our pitchers her fourth time into the championship game. innings. really did a good in double digit However, since they would 
But in the top of strikeout totals have to play Western Kentucky
job shutting the 
the seventh, the this season. again, and because the game Irish broke it open. teams down.·· Notre Dame wouldn't have started until Sara Schoonaert took the lead in around 4:30 p.m., the teams earned a leadoff the fourth decided not to play the game.
Nicole deFau 
walk and Nicole inning on a "We were definitely happy to

Irish left fielder 
Wicks bunted her to Ciolli solo come home," deFau said. second. Brown then home run. The The Irish returned with a struck out, but reached on a Irish added to the lead in the tournament championship, dropped third strike, on which sixth when deFau hit a double after winning some close Schoonaert moved to third. to the right-centerfield gap and games. DeFau drew a walk, and scored on a Ruthrauff double. "They weren't the prettiest Megan Ciolli nailed a single, But Western Kentucky came wins, but the bottom line is we scoring both runners, to put up in the bottom of the seventh scored more runs," deFau said. the Irish up 4-0. with a rally that almost tied "We got the job done." 
After two games Saturday, the game. After a one-out dou­the Irish were back in action ble and a walk, the tying run Contact Heather Van Hoegarden bright and early Sunday morn-was at first. A ground ball to at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


SMC SOFTBALL 
MIAA powerhouse Alma sweeps Belles 
second inning when she singledByJUSTIN STETZ 
to left center and the second 
Sports Writer 
occurring in the seventh inning 
when Katrina Tebbe singled up 
Over the weekend, Saint the middle. Mary's played host to MIAA The second game of the day power Alma College (20-2). Last was a much closer battle, but the year the Scots shutout the Belles outcome resulted in another loss in both games after jumping out for the Belles. In this game, Kate to early leads. Sajewich took the mound for the 
Going into this game, the Belles and held the Scots score­Belles had lost the last seven and less through the first three were seeking a much needed innings. win. Unfortunately for the Belles, In the fourth inning, however, 
it wasn't their day. the Scots reached first on an 
"We knew that Alma was going error and Rochon hurt the Belles to be not only our toughest com­again when she singled to short­petition in the conference, but stop and later stole second. The two of our hardest games this next batter doubled and both season, seeing as how they are runs scored putting Alma up 2-0. ranked 11th in the nation," Saint In the fifth, the Scots scored Mary's outfielder Erin Sullivan their third and final run, which said. "We knew that we needed began with a Lindsay Powers to not make any errors and just single. A double to left center capitalize on their mistakes. then followed, scoring the run. 
"Also, our intensity and focus For Saint Mary's, the only run was key. We knew that we need­they scared all day came in the ed to jump on them early and sixth inning when Marnie Walsh not dig ourselves a hole." doubled and scored on a single In game one of the double­by Laura Heline. The Belles were 
header, the Scots started strong able to collect six hits in the con­by singling to the left side in the test compared to Alma's seven, first inning. Followed by a bunt but were not able to capitalize and another single, the Scots when it mattered the most. scored their first run. Saint Mary's threatened in the 
In the second, Alma College seventh when Sullivan started struck again with a hit to left the inning off with a single to left field. The runner on first then center and Jean Downes dou­advanced to second on a sacri­bled, but the next two batters fice, and the next hitter reached struck out ending the Belles' safely ·on an error, helping Alma chances of making a comeback. score their second run. However, This week's losses make the the Scots were not done yet. Belles 5-11 on the season as they 
The runner on first stole sec­prepare to take on Tri-State ond and finally scored on anoth­University at home today at 3 er error giving Alma a 3-0 lead p.m. The Thunder are 5-8-1 on in the top of the inning. the season. 
In the third, Saint Mary's gave "The only thing we need to do up another run when Laura differently is be more aggressive Rochon of Alma College led off with our bats," Sullivan said. with a home run to left field. "We are focused on scoring first. The last two of the Scots' six We played a great second game runs came in the fifth inning defensively on Saturday, and if when Rochon and Megan we bring the same intensity and Knochel scored on an Eileen drive to win, we will take two 
Butler single. tomorrow." 
The Belles were only able to manage just two hits, the first Contact Justin Stetz at coming from Angie Ellison in the jstetz@nd.edu 

Third 
continued from page 24 
points. 
After catching the Irish 

Friday, Ohio State used the start 
of the men's competition 
Saturday to open the flood­
gates. The combination of a 
struggling Irish men's team ­
too few star performances and 
too -much talent from Ohio 
State doomed the Notre Dame 
efforts from the start. 
"I said that there could be ups and downs, and we were in down," Bednarski said. "With a young team, with emotions, with pressure, it happens, and unfortunately it was really hard to stop it." 
By the end of the day, Ohio State broke away from the pack to hold a comfortable 159-132 lead over Notre Dame. With just three round-.robin rotations left for the men, the only issue that remained in doubt was which team would fmish second. 
The Irish, with one short of the maximum 12 participants, could not compensate for the loss of top foilist Derek Snyder to injury. Snyder broke his hand last week in practice and did not fence in the national cham­pionships. Frankie Bontempo, who replaced Snyder as an alternate, finished the tourna­ment with a disappointing 7-16 record. 
Bednarski knew his team would be fighting an uphill bat­tle from the start. 
"It's very hard with one less fencer and the replacement of Derek Snyder," he said, " but [the result] is not what we real­ly wanted." 
''·,, 
~ '; Bontempo, a freshman, was 
.. 
FENCING 
I 
I 
~I 

Irish are ready for next title run 
: 
~ I 
WALTHAM, Mass. ­

' ( 
' Former Ohio State football
p 
coach Woody Hayes once said
d 
I 
about his great football teams: "We don't rebuild. We reload." I While the 
Matt Mooney

Notre Dame 
fencing team 
is undoubt­Sports 
edly happy Writer 
that coach 
Janusz 
Bednarski does not share 
many of Hayes' more "color­
ful" personality traits­
Bednarski only strikes a play­
er when he takes part in fenc­
ing practices -they should 
also be happy to know that he 
does share Hayes' approach 
regarding "next year." 
The Magnificent Seven that composed this year's fresh­man class (38.9 average wins) are proof positive that Bednarski can recruit with the best of them. His person­able demeanor and Santa Claus-like physique make him likeable for all ages. 
But don't let his jolliness fool you. He has worked hard to keep Notre Dame atop the fencing world, encumbered by the University's well-docu­mented academic hurdles and all the hours of paperwork that accompany bringing in overseas recruits. 
Even though he could only perform so much magic, and his team did not successfully defend its title this year, it is only a matter of time before the Irish fencers are again being fitted for national title 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Michal Sobleraj duals for the bronze In the epee at the NCAA Championships. He was the only Irish male to medal. 
part of a young group that struggled while experiencing the national championship environment for the first time. The freshman sabre duo of Patrick Ghattas and Matthew Stearns, who combined for a sparkling 71-13 record during the regular season, could only muster an even 23-23 record over the weekend. Ghattas failed to post a victory (0-4) against either Ohio State or Penn State. 
"I've never fenced a competi­tion like this where it's just one big round of pools," Ghattas said. "I've never had so many difficult bouts back-to-hack-to­hack. I'm taking it as a learning experience." 
The one youthful exception on the women's side was fresh­man sabre Valerie Providenza who finished with an 18-5 record in the round-robin event and won the individual national title. . 
However, like Ghattas and Stearns, fellow freshman saber Angela Vincent did not fare as well. Vincent, noticeably tired and still feeling the effects of an illness that hospitalized her two 
rings. Ohio State had best bask in its glory this year, because the fencing spotlight will shift back to South Bend starting as early as next year. 
Of the 11 competitors the Iris·h brought to Waltham, Mass., for the national title meet, they will lose only one to graduation-fifth-year senior Forest Walton. His spot will be taken by Derek Snyder -the strongest men's foilist who sat out the champi­onships with a broken hand. 
Headlining the returnees is the unstoppable "A-Team" of rising senior foilists Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament. The only reason Ament did not win national titles this year and in 2002 was because Kryczalo beat her en route to an unheard-of three consecu­tive foil national champi­onships. 
National epee runner-up Kerry Walton will return for a fifth-year of eligibility. The explosive sabre quartet of Patrick Ghattas, Matt Stearns, Angela Vincent and national champion Valerie Providenza, . will only be sophomores. All · this, and letters-of-intent are yet to be signed. 
Granted, this year was diffi­cult. As perhaps the only group on campus that holds itself to a higher standard than the football team, it was painful to watch this year's fencing team struggle through the growing pains of trying to defend a national title with seven new faces. 
The entire year was a hap-weeks ago, finished the tourna­ment with a disappointing 8-15 mark. 

But Providenza was not the only one to claim individual accolades. 
Alicja Kryczalo won the foil national title for the third time in as many years, making her only the second woman ever to win three or more national titles. She defeated teammate Andrea Ament for the champi­onship. Kryczalo said it was a different experience, facing a teammate in competition. 
"We know each other very well because we are fencing each other every day in prac­tice," she said. "There's not so much competitiveness, so prob­ably we don't enjoy it so much." 
Also taking runner-up honors was epeeist Kerry Walton, who won the 2002 national champi­onship. 
Michal Sobieraj, the 2003 runner-up, was the only men's fencer to medal. taking a third place bronze. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
tism by fire. Many of the freshmen did not have the advantage of easing their way in where they could hide their mistakes behind older, more experienced fencers. Ghattas and Stearns were number and two respectively on the sabre depth chart, without the benefit of having a senior advisor like Destanie Milo was to Providenza and Vincent. 
But whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger. And since there hasn'tt been any tragic, untimely casualties during the season, it's a safe bet to say the fencing commu­nity is seeing only the tip of the iceberg of what this team can do. 
The freshmen need to remember what this past weekend felt like. They need to remember the pain of watching another team cele­brate a national title. They need to look up and see the bright No. 1 now missing from the night sky. They are now the seasoned veterans, and no one is going to hold their weapon for them. 
But if they learn from this, the Irish can plan on putting down their weapons, because their hands will be occupied holding a team national championship trophy instead. 
The ideas and opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish perform strong at weekend meets 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Two separate meets yielded two strong performances as the Notre Dame track and field team competed in its first full weekend of outdoor competi­tion. 
Most of the distance runners and sprinters traveled to Palo Alto, Calif., to participate in the Stanford Invitational, while the remainder of the team stayed closer to home and took part in the Purdue Invite. 
Selim Nurudeen and Kristen Dodd set the pace for the Irish at Stanford as they were among eight team members to qualify for the Big East Championships. Nurudeen ran the 110-meter hurdl~s in 14.0 seconds to finish in fifth place. His time also qualified him for the NCAA regional meet later in the season. Dodd ran a 12.14-second 100-meter dash to finish in 1Oth place. Her teammate Ayesha Boyd fin­ished just behind Dodd with a time of 12.35. 
With his time of 22.01 in the 200-meter dash, Ryan Postel finished seventh in his section. Postel's sprinter teammate Trevor McClain-Duer finished in second place in his section of the 400-meter dash in a time of 48.21. 
In the women's 400-meter hurdles, Tiffany Gunn was suc­cessful as she took fifth place overall with a time of 1:52. 
The other Big East qualifiers from the Stanford Invitational were Jean Marinangeli, Sean O'Donnell and Kaleb Van Ort. Marinangeli took 29th place in the women's 10,000 meters in 
36:14.66 while Van Ort placed 
33rd in the men's 10,000 Contact Mike Gilloon at meters with a time of mgilloon@nd.edu. 

RecSports has openings for this summerandth academic 
Anyone who positions should stop bythe RSRC andfill outon application_ First consideration will be given to those who apply before March 31, 2004. 
29:40.85. O'Donnell was a 13th place finisher in the 5,000 meters, as he posted a time of 14:25.66. 
The Irish athletes who par­ticipated in the Purdue Invite had a successful weekend as those at Stanford with 24 top­S finishes in the meet. Nine participants qualified ·for the Big East Championships. 
The Irish were led by first­place finishers in Mark Barber, Derek Goquen and Petra Dankova. Barber won the 400­meter hurdles in 53.38 while his teammate Roberto Garcia finished a close third in 55.58. Dankova triple-jumped a dis­tance of 12.02 meters while Goquen tossed the javelin 
59.01 meters. The men's 400­meter relay team, led by Barber, ran a first place time of 42.59. 

A handful of Irish field ath­letes qualified for the Big East Championships with discus .j ! and weight throwers Chip :~ ii Roberts and Juan Alba leading .. the way. Alba placed second in the discus event as well as sixth in the hammer throw, while Roberts finished third in the discus and seventh in the hammer throw. Jason Davis also qualified for the confer­ence meet in the hammer throw with a toss of 49.00 meters. 
The final Irish athletes to qualify for the Big East Championships were Ryan Johns, Jennifer Kearney and Megan Horn. Johns finished third in the men's 3000-meter steeplechase, while Kearney took second in the women's high jump. Horn qualified in two events, as she placed third and 11th in the discus and hammer throw, respectively. 

-


NCAA's 
continued from page 24 
tending in net. Irish goalie Morgan Cey tied a career high with 40 saves in the loss, while his Minnesota counter­part Kellen Briggs needed to make only 20 saves. 
"They're definitely a little deeper team than we were," Cey said. "We tried to weath­er the storm there for a while, but we still gave them all they could handle, and I think we're going to be a bet­ter team for it, next year." 
Minnesota's stay in the NCAA tournament only lasted one more game, though, as the Gophers lost to Minnesota-Duluth 3-1 Sunday for the chance to go to the Frozen Four in Boston. Minnesota-Duluth defeated Michigan State 5-0 in the game following Notre Dame­Minnesota Saturday. 
The Irish finish their season with a 20-15-4 overall record, for a .571 winning percentage and the best record yet under Poulin, who has coached the team for nine seasons. 
Notre Dame's seniors played an especially key role in the team's success this season, and the loss in the first round was a bittersweet pill for the upperclassmen to swallow. 
"I think this team has really improved tremendously since when the other seniors and I came as freshmen," captain Aaron Gill said. "One goal of this senior class was that we wanted to put the Notre Dame hockey name out there and on the map. 
"This school's not really known for its hockey, and we've had a bit of success the past few years, so hopefully the younger guys will help take this program even fur­ther in the future." 
Notre Dame got on the 


The Spring Run 
A Benefitfor "'Rebuldlng Together wHh Christmas In Aprr 

(
'IS Is 1 Olt llUNI ltLUS 
J MILl· WALIC 
-Saturday, April3, 2004 
11:00 A.M. 


Stepan Center ···-··············-·····-·-··-··-·····-·····-·----··-··r~Shirts to aa Finishers 
Register In Advance at RecSports $6.00 In Advance or $8.00 Day of Race Advance Registration Begins 3/25, Ends @ 5:00 p.m. 4/2 Student and Staff Divisions 

board early Saturday, as less than a minute into the first period the Irish took advan­tage of a 2-on-1 opportunity on Minnesota goalie Kellen Briggs. Gill took the puck up the left side of the ice and made a perfect feed to Cory McLean, who was left alone in the slot to fire a low wrister past Briggs. 
The Irish increased their lead to two just before the end of the first period, scor­ing on the power play with just 41 seconds left in the set. Notre Dame took a hard shot from the right point, and Briggs gave up a rebound to the middle of the ice. Several players went for the puck, but it was Gill who eventually deflected it past Briggs, who was down on the ice. 
Minnesota didn't waste any­time coming back, scoring just 26 seconds into the sec­ond period to cut the Irish lead in half. Matt Koalska skated down the right side of the ice, past several Notre Dame defenders, and made a quick cut back to the middle to flip the puck past Cey. 
The Golden Gophers then used their power play, which has connected at a 26.2 per­cent clip so far this season, to tie the game at 9:13 of the period. Chris Harrington shot the puck from the blue line, and it deflected off Danny Irmen, who was perched at the left side of the net. 
With less than five minutes left in the period and the teams skating four-on-four, Notre Dame almost managed to get the lead back. Matt Amado broke in alone on Briggs, but the Minnesota goalie stopped the breakaway attempt, and Michael Bartlett shot the rebound high over the net. 
Immediately after that good Irish scoring chance, Thomas Vanek took advantage of slop­PY play in the Irish defensive zone. Two Notre Dame defenders collided with each other, and Vanek swooped in and was able to poke the puck between Cey's pads. 
"I thought there were a cou­ple significant turning points in the game," Poulin said. "At 2-2, I felt that we were in pretty good shape. Then, Matt Amado gets a breakaway and then there's a scramble play in our own end and Vanek is able to put it home. 
"That was potentially a two­goal swing." 
The Golden Gophers scored an insurance goal in the third period, as Vanek beat Cey with a wraparound goal just inside the left post at 11:52 of the period. 
Troy Riddle iced the game with an empty net goal with 35 seconds remaining, after Notre Dame had pulled Cey out of the net for an extra attacker. 
MINNESOTA 5, NOTRE DAME 2 at the VAN ANDEL ARENA 
1st  2nd 3rd Total  
MINNESOTA  0  3  2  5  
NOTRE DAME  2  0  0  2  

SCORING SUMMARY First Period ND-Cory McLean (Aaron Gill, Mike Walsh), 0:54. NO-Gill (Walsh, Rob Globke), 19:19 PP. 
Second Period UM-Matt Koalska (Thomas Vanek, Chris Harrington), 0:26. UM -Danny Irmen (Harrington, Gino Guyer), 9:13 UM-Vanek (una'isisted), 12:21. 
Third Period UM-Vanek (Koalska, Keith Ballard), 11:52. UM-Troy Riddle (unassisted), 19:24 EN. 
Shots on goal: Notre Dame 22, Minnesota 45. Power plays: Notre Dame 1-of-5, Minnesota 1-of-5. Goalies: Morgan Cey 40 saves out of 44 shots (ND), Kellen Briggs 20 saves out of 22 shots (UM). 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
MEN'S HOCKEY 
2004 Irish reset bar for future ND programs 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich.­Looking at Notre Dame coach Dave Poulin's face after his team's 5-2 loss against Minnesota Saturday in the first round ofthe NCAA Champion­ships, you didn't see regret or worry on his face. 
Even though the Irish are losing five seniors who played key roles on the team this season, you could almost imagine that Poulin was hum­ming Frank Sinatra's "The Best is Yet to Come" in the back of his mind. 
"Obviously we've got a great senior class this year, and we had three very good defense­men in Neil Komadoski, Brett Lebda and Tom Galvin," he said. "But I think we're also bringing three good ones in [as freshmen] next year. 
"But you don't look at fresh­men to replace seniors. We also need our underclassmen to step up for us next year. Some of our guys in-house are going to have to play a bigger role next year." 
Several members of Notre Dame's incoming freshman class were recruited by other big-name programs such as Boston College and Michigan, 

Justin Schuver 
Associate Sports Editor 

"Some ofour guys 
and Poulin and hockey seem the head in-house are going to underappre­
coaching staff have to play a bigger role ciated, it 
are continuing wouldn't be 
next year..
to fight too surprising recruiting bat­to wonder if a tles over other Dave Poulin lot of big­
big-name name recruits
Irish coach 
prospects in 
hopes of tak­ing Notre Dame's program to an even higher level. 
Last year, the Irish signed the No. 2 recruiting class in the country according to RedLine Report, an independ­ent scouting review out of Lake Placid, N.Y. 
Those freshmen played a pivotal role in Notre Dame's success this year, whether it was Wes O'Neill playing solid defense in his own end, or David Brown making an unbe­lievable kick save, or Jason Paige scoring a key goal at a key time. 
In fact, Poulin has only con­tinued a trend that has occurred all through his nine­year tenure with the team ­the ability to sign talented players who can contribute not only at the college level but in the professional ranks as well. 
Forward Ben Simon {1996­2000) and defenseman Mark Eaton (1997 -98) are currently on NHL rosters with Atlanta and Nashville, respectively. 
Senior forward Rob Globke made Irish history when he was selected in the second round of the 2002 NHL Entry Draft by the Florida Panthers. That record might be matched or bettered by this year's freshmen, particularly O'Neill, who was ranked No. 1 in the Central Scouting Midseason Draft Report among college 
-~· 
defensemen. 
Throw in the fact the Irish have arguably the best return­ing goaltending tandem in the NCAAs with current junior Morgan Cey and Brown, and the pieces are in place for Notre Dame to make another run at the NCAA's next year. 
Poulin was not the only coach who commented on the growth of Notre Dame's pro­gram at the press conference Saturday, however. Also mak­ing a statement was Minnesota coach Don Lucia, who was a teammate with Poulin while at Notre Dame. 
"Dave [Poulin] is a good friend, and he and his staff have done a great job with that program," Lucia said. "Now the one thing is that if they could get a facility, I think you'd really see the pro­gram take another step. I think that's the one improve­ment Notre Dame can make for that program. 
"It's good for college hockey to have a big name school in Notre Dame that makes it to the NCAA tournament, and hopefully they can get that facility and take that next big step." 
The Joyce Center was built almost 40 years ago, with the official dedication taking place during the week of Dec. 1-7. 1968. Hockey seems almost like an afterthought, with the Irish playing in a makeshift rink with temporary bleachers and lousy sightlines. 
With a rink 
that makes 
look at Notre 

Dame and decide that the school also sees hockey as an after­thought. 
Brand-new facilities at schools such as North Dakota and Ohio State have helped to bring those programs to new heights. Ralph Engelstad, who has made a fortune in the casino business, helped finance North Dakota's new arena, which opened in 2001 and includes an eight-screen video scoreboard, adjacent Olympic-sized practice rink and a padded leather seat for every spectator. 
The Irish certainly have the alumni and administration who could help finance a new arena -even if it's not one on such a grandiose scale as North Dakota's. There's little doubt that such a construction project could help Poulin and his staff bring in even more talented recruits that could eventually help Notre Dame match the depth and skill of the big-name programs today such as Minnesota. 
After all, it's hard to dis­count Lucia's opinion. The guy has won two consecutive national championships. 
The ideas and opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu. 

...... hie-double with 22 points and 12 rebounds. 


McGraw


Batteast 
McGraw made key substitu­continued from page 24 tions, playing lesser-used Crystal 
continued from page 24 Erwin and Katy Flecky in criti­All-American Kelly Mazzante cal times, and the two respond­
The game went back and from burying a baseline jumper ed. 
forth, with the lead switching that gave the Nittany lions the And the team played its best 
hands 10 times. And with 57 lead and no matter how hard defense of the season, holding 
seconds remaining and the they tried. Notre Dame just did­the high-scoring Nittany lions to 
game tied at 49, the Irish had n't have enough at the end to just 55 points and 37.5 percent 
their chance. But honorable overtake No. 5 Penn State. shooting. 
mention All-American forward While they may have struck But in the NCAA tournament, 
Jacqueline Batteast missed a out of the tournament. at least those little missed opportunities 
jump shot, and Courtney LaVere the Irish went down swinging. are more critical, the mistakes 
I 
missed a jumper of her own. They turned the ball over just become more magnified and the 
Penn State All-American Kelly 10 times -a far cry from their slip-ups are more costly. Notre 
Mazzante hit a baseline jumper season average of 18. Dame played well, but they also 
with 46 seconds to play, and They contained Mazzante for let some chances go. 
Penn State was on their way to 
the Elite Eight. to just 6-of-16 shooting. both oftheir 3-point attempts 
much of the game, holding her If the Irish had made one or 
Batteast finished with 22 They shut down Tanisha when they led by five just four 
points (8-for-22 from the field) Wright, who got into early foul minutes into the second half, it 
and 12 rebounds for the Irish, trouble and scored just six might have been a different 
who donned green jerseys for points after scoring 28 in Penn game. 
the first, and last, time this sea­State's second-round win over And had Notre Dame sank 
son. Vtrginia Tech. more than just 9-of-15 free 
And the Irish responded to the They hung with one of the throws, they might have put 
change in uniform by playing best teams in the country more pressure on the Nittany 
outstanding basketball the entire despite Megan Duffy, Teresa . Lions at the end of the game. 
way. They turned the ball over 
su

just four times in the first half bining for just seven points, and It doesn't matter now. The 
Borton and Jeneka Joyce com­But ... 
and 10 times in the game-a no player besides Batteast scor­game is over, the outcome 
season-low. But when Notre ing in double figures. etched in the history books. All 
Dame did turn it over, Penn they shoot a lot of threes. We've and-one, but the Irish were So how did the Irish not get Notre Dame can do now is be 
State made them pay -cashing played pretty good defense since unable to corral the rebound.
I' 
in 17 points off turnovers. the Big East season began, so Notre Dame was then down by I For starters, seniors Le'Tania The returning Notre Dame 
blown out of the water? proud of its effort. 
"It seemed like all of our that was a great effort, and it's four with 28 seconds to play and 
I 
I Severe and Joyce played coura­players have an entire off-sea­
turnovers really hurt us," pretty much what we've been did not score the rest of the way.I, geously. The scrappy Severe ran son to wonder what could have 
McGraw said. "We really had doing." "Aside from the ball not going the point for much of the game, been. An entire off-season to 
some bad ones, but when you The Notre Dame defense gave in the basket for us, I think we had six steals and hustled all remember this gut-retching 
look at the number 10, that's the No. 1 seed all they could played about as well as we can 1! over the floor. Joyce logged a defeat. 
really great for us." handle. Mazzante was held to 17 play, and I'm proud of that to season-high 30 minutes despite An entire off-season to use 
After starting off slow, the points on just 6-for-16 shooting. finish on that note," McGraw tender ankles and played this loss to motivate themselves 
Irish settled down to go ahead But senior Jessica Brungo said. impressive defense, moving flu­for next season. 
14-13 on a Katy Flecky 3-pointer stepped up instead. She had a Severe finished with nine idly in Notre Dame's 2-3 zone to The ideas and opinions 
with 8:45 to play in the first half. season-high 20 points on 8-for-points, five rebounds and six cover the many Penn State scor­expressed in this column are 
The game went back and forth 19 shooting. steals. She had more steals than ing threats. those ofthe author and not nec­
until halftime, with Notre Dame "I can only sit here and say the entire Penn State team. Batteast again showed the essarily those ofThe Observer. 
holding as much as a five-point positive things about the way the Meanwhile, LaVere added eight nation that she is as good as Contact Joe Hettler at 
lead, before the Nittany Lions hit University of Notre Dame's team points on 4-for-14 shooting. As a anyone, putting up another dou-jhettler@nd.edu. 
a pair of threes to go up 23-22 at played," Penn State coach Rene team the Irish shot 32.2 percent the half. Portland said. "They came in from the field, compared to Penn 
In the second half, it was here with a great game plan to State's 37.5 percent. But for much of the same, as the Irish stop us. They gave us a hard Notre Dame, it was arguably the played outstanding zone time defensively." best game they played all sea­
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
defense. They forced the guard­The Irish set themselves_ up for son, especially on the road. oriented Nittany Lions out of the win. but with 32 seconds left "We came a long way since we their comfort zone, forcing 14 and down 51-49, senior Le'Tania were 7 -6," McGraw said. "We'll 
turnovers by keeping the guards Severe tried to enter the ball into be back next year." 
Green doesn't bring 
well behind the three-point line. Batteast, but Mazzante leapt up Notes: "(The zone] certainly did what and grabbed the pass. The Irish +With the loss, Notre Dame has we wanted it to do," McGraw then fouled Reicina Russell, who yet to win in the Hartford Civic 
I!.\ 

Irish luck in Sweet 16 
said. team; missed the front end of a one-Center in four appearances. Their last loss came in the Big
II Coming to play East Quarterfinals to Rutgerst 
By HEATHER Jacqueline Batteast ended her Mar. 3, 61-55.
VAN HOEGARDEN junior season on a high note, +Muffet McGraw was familiar 
Sports Editor 
unlike last year. Batteast fin­
with Penn State head coach ished with three straight dou­
Rene Portland and assistant 
HARTFORD-Notre Dame 

ble-doubles in all three NCAA 
Annie Troyan. Portland coached ) decided to wear green jerseys tournament games. Before this 
McGraw at Saint Joseph's during I for its matchup with Penn State year, she had only scored in 

her senior year, when theySaturday afternoon. According double digits in one NCAA tour­
attained a No. 3 national rank­~ to coach Muffet McGraw, the nament game. Batteast finished 
ing. Troyan, meanwhile, played I team made the decision to wear with averages of 22 points and 

for McGraw at Archbishop

I the jerseys Friday night, as they 11.7 rebounds in the three Carroll High School in Radnor,~ brought both their regular navy games. 
Penn., when McGraw took over 

' 
f jerseys and the green ones. ''I'm so proud of [Batteast)," 
after graduating from Saint 
"We hadn't had much success

~ McGraw said. "I think she had a Joseph's.
I I in the blue ones, so we thought great tournament. She has real­
I we'd switch colors and see how ly had a fantastic year." 
PENN STATE 55, 
NOTRE DAME 49'·F that worked," McGraw said. Saturday's double-double was at the HARTFORD CIVIC

Breona Gray added to the the 13th of the season for green with her green headband, Batteast, and the 32nd of her 
CENTER and Katy Flecky and Anne career. 
NOTRE DAME (21-11, 12-4} 

Weese sported high green socks. The two seniors 
Batteast 8-22 6-7 22, LaVere 4-14 0-2 8,The last time the Irish sported Senior Jeneka Joyce logged a 
Severe 3-9 3-4 9, Duffy 0-2 0-0 0, Hernandez 0-1 0-0 0, Powers 0-0 0-0 0. Joyce 1-4, 0-0 3, Borton 2-2 0-2 4, 

' green was last year in the Big season-high 30 minutes 
East quarterfinals in Saturday afternoon. She was 1­
Flecky 1-4 0-0 3. erwin 0-1 0-0 0. 

f 
Piscataway, N. J. In that game, for-4 from the field, good for the Irish lost to Villanova 50-39. three points. She also had two 
PENN STATE (28-5, 15-1) 

~ 
Brungo 8-19 3-3 20. Russell 0-2 0-1 0.

In 2002, Notre Dame wore the rebounds. Going into the game,
r. 
Mazzante 6-16 2-4 17, Strom 2-6 4-4 10. 

green against Tennessee in its she was averaging just 14 min­
Wright 2-4 2-2 6, Brendan 0-0 0-0 0,

NCAA second round game, and utes per game in 26 appear­
Croser 0-0 0-0 0, Brown 0-1 2-2 2,lost big-89-50. ances. Her previous high for 
Schwab 0-0 0-0 0, Harris 0-0 0-0 0. The Irish are 3-0 at home, 0-2 minutes this season was 25, 
1st 2nd Total

on the road and 3-1 in the against Pittsburgh Feb. 21 and 
PENN STATE 23 32 55

NCAA tournament wearing the Southwest Missouri State in the NOTRE DAME 22 27 49 green. Their last win in green NCAA first round, a game that came during their national went to overtime. Joyce netted 3-point goals: 2-12 (Joyce 1-3, Flecky 1­
3, Batteast 0-2, LaVere 0-2. Duffy 0-1,

championship season in 2001, 16 points against the Panthers 
Hernandez 0-1), Penn State 6-21

when they defeated Alcorn State 
and six against the Lady Bears. (Mazzante 3-8, Strom 2-6, Brungo 1-7). 98-49 at home in the first round Meanwhile, senior starter Fouled out: Severe (NO). Rebounds: Notre Dame 36 (Batteast 12). Penn State 
of the NCAA Tournament. Monique Hernandez played just 
38 (Russell 10}. Assists: Notre Dame 9

The first time the women's five minutes, after averaging 
(Erwin 3). Penn State 11 (Strom 6). Total

basketball wore green was in 15.9 coming into the game. 
fouls: Notre Dame 14. Penn State 13. 

1999, when they defeated Notre Carolina Dec. 4. at the Wachovia Invitational in Contact Heather Van Hoegardcn Contact Heather Van Hoegarden Richmond, Va. at hvanhoeg@nd.edu. at hvanhoeg@nd.edu. 
Guard Breona Gray drives towards the basket against Middle Tennessee State In the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 

-
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  33 Hair colorer  68 Check receivers  
1 Chances  34  _  and hearty  69 Neighborhood  
5 Wires on a bicy­ 38 Devoted follower  
cle wheel  40 Demolisher  DOWN  
11 Tavern 141n _of (sub­stituting for)  42 More's opposite 43 Opening for a tab  1 Gymnast Korbut 2 Stopped work­ing, as an  6-.--1-'"""""­ 
15 One of JerrY's pals on "Seinfeld"  45 Zeal 46 Burning up  engine 3 Showroom model  
16 Down Under  48 Disinfects  4 Total  
bird 17 Bejeweled pres­ 49 Comic presi­dent?  5 Trigonometric ratio  
ident?  53 Wheel turners  6 Ancient Greek  
19 Mo. of Presidents' Day 20 "Much About Nothing"  54 Tint 55 Historic period 58 Compete (for)  thinker 7 Paddle 8 Set of tools  
21 Dine 22 Planet 24 Pale, aging president? 28 Most elderly 31 Hang around for  59 Hirsute presi­dent? 64 Mont Blanc, e.g. 65 Money earned 66 Communicate by hand  9 WSW's reverse 10 Composer Rachmaninoff 11 Obscure 12 Tiny creature 13 "American Idol" winner  
32 Place to store  67 Tennis court  Studdard  35 Alan of  48 Slides  56 Fury  
valuables  divider  18 Frothy  "M*A*S*H"  49 From Jakarta,  57"  and the  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  23 One using lots of soap  36 Ponce de 37 Goofs  e.g. 50 Kick out of the  King of Siam" 60 Santa  
t-:-t-=+o:+:=+::~+=-~~-:+:-+-::+:-:+:-+=-~  24 Object of a  39 Nicholas I or II  country  winds  
...,.....~~=+~~~ -=+~,...,......,,......,_-+=~  dowser's search 25 Reclined 26 Lived 27 Like hen's teeth  41 Appraiser 44" the land of the free ... " 47 Send again  51 Snoozed 52 Lemon (herb) 55 Kuwaiti ruler  61 Wintry 62 Shad product 63 Land between Can. and Mex.  
t-=-t-=+=+:+:::+::-r.-:-~~~~+=+=-~  28 The White  
House's  


Monday, March 29, 2004 page 23
The Observer+ TODAY 

DILBERT 
PLAN TO START MY OWN TELEVISION TALK SHOW. 
FIVES 
I'LL CHANGE MY NAME TO "DOCTOR DOGBERT" SO PEOPLE THINK I'M QUALIFIED TO CALL THEM LAZY I IMMORAL I FAT MORONS. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
SCOTT ADAMS 


YOU ALREADY CALL PEOPLE THOSE NAMES. 
YEAH. BUT I VJANT THEM TO THANK ME FOR IT. 
JUMBLE 
~IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LAFIN 
j
I I r [) 
Cl2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 










t¥fll 
IN LOOT 

(XJ 
www.jurrtlle.com
tSIFUNE ±
J I r J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

P~= rn"[ I I I I I xI J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

saturday's I Jumbles: GAUDY MADLY ADVICE WATERY Answer: When the trucker passed the mountain driving test, he-MADE THE "GRADE" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

·­
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 

For answers, call 1-900-289-CLUE (289-2583), $1.20 aOffice minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5550. 
29 Delicate fabric 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 30 Performing two­crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. somes 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
t=t-=+=+=+:=+=:+:+=-~t=-t-=+=+-:-+:~~ 33 "We love to fly, past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). and it shows" Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young airline solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Ob~erver an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in ynur home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name --------------------------------------------­

Address ______________________________________ _ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Pearl Bailey, Jennifer Capriati, Eric Idle, Marina Sirtis Happy Birthday: This will be one hot year for you. All your past efforts will pay offand you11 begin to realize your pwpose in the pictw'e you've created. Others will follow your lead and want to work alongside you. Your high energy and determination will lead you in a direction that can only prove stimulating, progressive and prosperous. Your numbers: 6, 11. 15, 24, 31,42 ARIES (March 21-April19): Out with the old and in with the new. You can make changes today if you so desire. Believe in yourself and you will convince others to believe in you as well. Go after your goals. "'*"'* TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't disagree with loved ones if you want to keep the peace. It is best to focus on your hobbies or children and avoid the trivial differences that you may be experiencing with your mate.**"' GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your involvement in large groups or organizations will result in beneficial changes. You can make residential moves successfully. Money-making opportunities are present. ****"' CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can expand your circle of friends if you are willing to join clubs or groups of interest. Your sensitive ways will charm potential mates. Avoid overindulgences. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect friction from your mate if you have been flirtatious. You may want to put your efforts into making your surroundings more pleasing. Home renovations should cheer up the whole family. "'** VIRGO (Aug. 2..1-Sepl 22): You will have a greater interest in travel and foreign cultures. Take time to look· into the possibility of taking a trip or acquiring knowledge about different cultural backgrounds. **"' LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Money-making ventures will be profitable. Setbacks may occur, but they won't put a damper on the deal. You can make residential changes conducive to a more comfortable lifestyle. **** SCORPIO (Oct-23-Nov. 21): Love connections may develop quite quickly. Don't be afraid to follow your heart. You will be willing to bend in order to make this connection work. Friends and relatives may not approve. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your work ethic will be most honorable. Greater respect and admiration will be yours. Peers will be willing to lend you a helping hand. You can get recognition for a job well done. **"'* CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Look into philosophy courses. You'll want to change your direction in life. You can make alterations to your appearance that will make you feel more at ease. **"'* AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll have problems getting those you live with to pitch in and help. Your ideas may be good, but talking others into helping you pay for the changes will be another story. *"'* PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll impress others with your insight and empathy. You can help friends and relatives with personal problems that they can't face alone. Your selflessness will result in lasting connections.**** Birthday Baby: You're always willing to jump in with two feet. Your hasty actions may cause alarm for your loving family, but you are a sensation-seeker and that's what you do best. You have no fear and you're eager to try anything that appears to be a challenge. Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com  -- 


THE OBSER\'ER 

p
Monday, March 29, 2004 

page 24 



~o close, yet... 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
\. 
\ 
x 
~ 
l 

TIM SULLIVANflhe Observer Guard Megan Duffy looks to pass against Middle Tennessee State In the first round of the NCAA Tournament. The Irish lost to Penn State In the regional semifinals last Saturday. 
Irish fall just short in 55-49 Sweet 16 loss to No. 1 seed Penn State in regional semifinal 

By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN
•
Sports Editor 
HARTFORD, Conn.-They played the defense, got the rebounds and played hard for 39 minutes, but when it came down to the last minute, the tank was empty and the Irish -green jerseys and all ­were going home. 
Despite a valiant effort, fifth­seeded Notre Dame (21-11) was unable to knock off top­see.ded Penn State (28-5) in a 55-49 loss in the NCAA Regional semifinal game. 
"I was really proud of our team," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought we competed, I thought we bat­tled." 
see MCGRAW/page 22 

lt's time for Irish to move on after tough second round loss 
HARTFORD, Conn.-The "ifs, ands and buts" are meaningless now. 
No matter what could have happened in Notre Dame's regional semi­fmalgame against top­seeded Penn State, the Irish still lost 55-49, and their season is still over for good.

But instead Joe Hettler 

of dwelling on the fact the Sports Writer team had 
chances, the Irish must look for­ward, proud of the way they took one of the best all-around teams in the nation to the last minute and nearly pulled off the upset. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw couldn't have asked for a better . scenario -the game tied with less than a minute left and the ball resting in the hands of Notre Dame's best player, forward Jacqueline Batteast. 
The Irish had worked their way through 39-plus grueling minutes of basketball to reach this pivotal point. Penn State's boisterous stu­dent section, which had harassed Notre Dame all afternoon, stood in concerned silence as Batteast took the ball and began her shot. 
But the shot wouldn't fall for Batteast, the Irish couldn't stop 
see BATTEAST/page 22 
HOCKEY 

Notre Dame falls to Minnesota 5-2 in first round of NCAA's 

By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. The Golden Gophers showed the Irish they still have a bit of growing up to do before they can compete with hockey's big boys in the NCAA champi­onships. 
The No. 4 seed Irish took an early 2-0 lead into the inter­mission of the first period, but could not stave off Minnesota's powerful offense in the next 40 minutes, eventually falling to the No. 1 seed Golden Gophers by a score of 5-2. 
''I'm proud of the way our guys played," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "We played hard, but came up a little bit short, obviously. It's a great step for our program. 
"For the seniors, I appreci­ate the path that they have taken to get us here. For the underclassmen, it's a new level now that they have the chance to improve upon." 
The score might have been much worse if Notre Dame had not received great goal-
see NCAA'S/page 21 
; ) 
I, ' ' I FENCING 
I, 
,. 
I I I 

) .1 Fencers fall to 3rd at NCAAs 
I 

,
) 
' ) 
~. Kryczalo wins third consecutive national title in women's foil 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 

WALTHAM, Mass. -The Notre Dame fencing team could hear the footsteps growing clos­er all season long. And at the NCAA Championships at 
I i , Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass., they were finally passed. 
~ l 
(• '.
; I . 
The upstart Ohio State 'i Buckeyes ran away with the 2004 national title, dethroning Allcja Kryczalo duals teammate Andrea Ament In the NCAA cham­the defending national champion pionship final for the foil. Kryczalo won her third national title. Irish Sunday with a total team 
score of 194 points. And in the end, the Irish were passed again, failing to hold off a late­charging Penn State team (160 points) to finish third overall with 153 points. St. John's fin­ished fourth, with a 149 score. 
Foilist Forest Walton, who hails from nearby Londonderry, 
N. H., said the third place result was not something the team expected. 
"We're all kind of surprised," he said. 
The four-day event did not go according to Notre Dame's plan. After the first day of competition Thursday, Irish coach Janusz B·ednarski wanted his fencers to extend their four-point lead to provide a cushion for the attri­tion-plagued men's team. But the women could not hold on to the lead, much less maintain it. The slim 63-59 lead the Irish held over Ohio State slowly evaporated throughout the day, and when the last point was scored Friday, the Irish trailed the Buckeyes by one, 97-96. 
The Irish men would only con­tribute a paltry 57 additional 
see THIRD!page 20 
ND SOFTBALL 
ROWING
SMC SOFTBALL 

MEN'S TENNIS 
MLB



WOMEN1SLACROSSE
~-j 
! 
ND wins Hoosier 
Belles fail to avenge 
The Irish rowers face a 

Yankees outfielderNo. 3 Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 4,
I 
( 
Classic at Indiana Hideki Matsui hit a
2003 sweep by Alma, as 
challenging field that 

remained undefeated on 
Ball State 3 

University with victo­the Scots take a pair of 
includes No. 2 Michigan 

horne run in his return ries over Saint Louis ( 4­
the year with a pair of
,j 
The Irish got key vic­
games from Saint 
and No. 8 Michigan. 

Big East victories over to Japan as the Yankees
tories from Ryan 
I, 
3), Indiana (4-0) and 
beat the Yomiuri Giants
Mary's Saturday. The 
The Irish won one race. 

Virginia Tech (13-5) and 
KE!ckley, Stephen Bass I i Western Kentucky (2-1 ). 
Belles only managed 1 Boston College (17-7). 

in an exhibition game in and Barry King to sal-
I. I'. 
run in the 2 games. 
Tokyo.

vage a win over Ball State. 
I ( 
I' ' page 19 page 19 page 15
I i 
page 18 page 18 page 18

' 
I 
t 
I 
r 
i 
'I­






