
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notr.e Dame and Saint Mary's 
Tragedy, trouble plague the Purdue game 


Ushe~s enforce marshmallow ban with student ejections 
tion 29, and one in section 35, a 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
freshman section. 
News Writer 
Students' ticket booklets were 
confiscated and their names were 
Cooler weather on Saturday given to the Office of Residence meant students packed on layers life and Housing. of clothing, allowing some to con­"This is just a ResLife matter," enal an usher's worst nightmare Gagnon said. "I don't want to see -marshmallows. As halftime students go to ResLife for some­approat:hed. many seniors pre­thing silly like marshmallows. But pared for their traditional sec­we just can't tolerate the occasion tion-wide marshmallow fight, as of throwing things. I don't know a stadium personnel manned the state in the country that permits aisles waiting to cateh throwers. people to throw things. I looked 
Coordinator of stadium person­the other way for two or three nel Cappy Gagnon said seven stu­years because it was smaller and dents were kicked out, and two · pretty harmless. But each year it or three more were spoken to by has gotten worse." ushers. but allowed to stay in the Though marshmallow throwing stadium. did not occur as much at past 
Of the seven students ejected home games this year, from the game, four held ticket The dejected student section looks on as Purdue rolls over the booklets in seCtion 28, two in sec-see EJECTIONS/page 4 Irish football team during Saturday's 16-411oss. 
Police arrest at least 10, cite 23 for alcohol-related offenses 
custodially arrested on or near those apprehended, at least three St. Joseph County Jail deputy
By TERESA FRALISH 
Notre Dame's campus before the were adults charged with public officer E. Kelly said the student 
Associate News Editor 
game began. At least two people intoxication, inducting two visitors was released Sunday afternoon on 
were arrested at the game, he who were native· Canadians. The bail. 
Police arrested at least 10 peo­said. other arrests included two made Kelly would not comment on ple and cited 23 for public intoxi­Rakow could not say how many, for public indecency near Ivy Road booking charges or releases for cation, public indecency and if any, Notre Dame or Saint Mary's and the Notre Dame Blue Lot, he the other individuals arrested minor in consumption both before students were among those cited. said. Saturday. and during Saturday's football NDSP will know further details All individuals arrested were Police involved in Saturday's game against Purdue. of the arrests and citations today, taken into custody and transferred arrests included Indiana Excise 
Rex Rakow, director of Notre Rakow said. to the St. Joseph County Jail in Police, St. Joseph County Police, Dame Security/Police, said at least Deitchley did not know further South Bend, Ind. via South Bend three minors were among those specifics of the arrests but said of Police van, Deitchley said. see ARRESTS/page 4 
Fan collapses on shuttle bus before game 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
A 68-year old man died of what appeared to be a heart attack Saturday after he collapsed in a Transpo shuttle bus before the football game. 
University spokesman Matt Storin said the man fell at approx­imately 11 a.m. while aboard a bus scheduled to travel from the White Field North parking lot, which is located at the north edge of campus, to the Hesburgh Library Circle. The bus had not yet left the lot at the time of the emergency, Storin said. 
Another fan on the bus hap­pened to be a paramedic and immediately came to the man's aid, but was unable to revive him, said Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security/Police. 
A South Bend Fire Department ambulance arrived on the scene to transport the man to South Bend Memorial Hospital, where he was pronounced dead, Rakow said. It was unclear whether the man died instantly, en route to the hospital or after he arrived there. 
"It was a pretty close call," Rakow said. The man's wife was the only relative with him at the time of 
see DEATH/page 4 



Orange armbands revive protest 
Chocola· encourages 
election involvement 
many people think their vote doesn't matter, or the process is above them, but they could­n't be further from truth. You're not allowed to complain ifyou don't vote." 
He urged members to regis­ter as many people as they could before today's voter reg­istration deadline. 
"Tomorrow, go find one of your friends who's not regis­tered and get them signed up," he said. "Wherever you live, you have a chance to choose 
see CHOCOLA/page 6 


Students wear orange arm­bands in support of AllianceND. 
By ELIZABETH CHEFFERS News Writer 
As part of a continued effort to contest Notre Dame's No. 1 Princeton Review ranking for intolerance of "alternate lifestyles," members of the unrecognized student group AllianceND organized a demonstration at the Purdue game to show its solidarity with gay and lesbian students. 
Members of AllianceND dis­
tributed orange armbands to 1,500 people outside the stu­dent gate to the stadium before the game, said Anna Gomberg, co-coordinator of the project. 
"We were very pleased with the overall reaction," Gomberg said. "We were aim­ing to hand out one thousand armbands and we ended up handing out all1,500." 
Alex Renfro, a freshman 
see PROTEST/page 4 

Irish ambassador visits campus 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Irish ambassador to the United States Noel Fahey spoke of the importance of maintaining good relations between Ireland, the European Union and the United States in an address at McKenna Hall Friday. 
Members of the Notre Dame community listened to Fahey optimistically evaluate inter­national relations. 
"We cannot be complacent when the stakes are very high, but as we go forward, I think we can conclude that our relationship is very strong, but we can make it stronger," Fahey said. 
Fahey also stressed the 
importance of protecting the relationship between Ireland and the United States, 
"It is essential that we ensure this partnership be respected, nurtured [andl enhanced," he said. 
Fahey acknowledged the problems that arise when countries differ in opinion, 
see FAHEY/page 6 


By BETHERICKSON News Writer 
U.S. Representative Chris Chocola from Indiana's 2nd Congressional District, gave an informal talk to the Notre Dame College Republicans Sunday night in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium, meeting with club members to discuss the upcoming local and nation­al elections. 
"The main piece of advice I have for you is to always be involved in the political process," Chocola said. "Too page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Love lost 
I've fallen out of love with Notre Dame football. 
It didn't happen all at once, of course. You can't just go from adoration to apa­thy in a heartbeat. But as I strode out of the student section 
Saturday-at 11­something of the third quarter with­out an ounce of guilt-I knew my devotion was offi­cially dead. 
As I tried to wrap my mind around 

what went wrong, Claire Heininger 
the potential turn­
ing points multi-News Editor 
plied. 
Maybe Return to 
Glory spoiled me freshman year, when 
the Irish started 8-0, when TY was brand 
new and so was I. 
So was everything. 
Tailgating was a blur of overenthusias­
tic parents and unfamiliar parking lots, of 
spinach-artichoke dip and frostbite. The 
student section was bodies concentrated 
and bonding accelerated, and we forged 
unity through push-ups and pride. 
Football and I got pretty close that year. 
I bit my nails through the fmal minutes 
of the Michigan game, and continued 
chewing as we rushed the field. I tore off 
the Sports Illustrated cover, won $20 
from my little brother and thought the 
bounces would always go our way. 
My heart climbed the inside of my 
throat when the team charged the field at 
the Boston College game, boasting green 
that matched the sea in the stands. It 
crashed a few hours later, when the jer­
seys proved a jinx. 
But love doesn't fade because of famil­
iarity, or die because of disappointment. 
Maybe it goes deeper than that. Maybe 
the rift grew last year, when I was caught 
between my friends and my team. 
No longer freshmen trying to out-cheer 
one another, we went to the opposite 
extreme -being too good for it all. We 
were sophisticated and there to socialize. 
Shamrock tattoos and green glitter? 
Always. The Shirt? Never. 
It was mostly a facade. 
I still checked the score. I still read the 
wraps. And since I made sure to nourish 
it in secret. my football love didn't vanish 
because of neglect. 
Maybe I just grew up. 

Freshman year, two of my tallest, loud­est !fiends invented the "TYrone Shimmy," and spread its popularity by virtue of their visibility and swagger. Now they're on the Irish Guard. 
Last year, we packed two belligerent, blissful rows with thirty of our closest friends. Now half of them are abroad. 
But love gets better over time. You don't exactly outgrow it. I was back to square one -why did my fanaticism become so fragile? Was it all of the above? 
Then it hit me -I only have room for so many passions. 
I'm passionate about writing, about journalism, about its mentality of "com­fort the affiicted and aftlict the comfort­able." I'm passionate about my family, my friends and my boyfriend. I'm pas­sionate about Notre Dame, about its deci­sions, about its destiny. Somewhere along the line, football got edged out. 
It's not like I don't still get a rush of excitement when the gold helmets glint from the mouth of the tunnel, or feel pangs of disillusionment at a frustrating fumble. But my heart and soul can only stretch so far. 
My loves already compete. The Irish Jig just doesn't compare. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
Monday, October 4, 2004

The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST OR WORST PART OF THE FOOTBALL GAME? 

Steve Bochenek Walter Machnicki Lauren Centioli Jessica Jimenez Corey Collins Eric Petrucci 
sophomore sophomore sophomore freshman freshman freshman Dillon Keenan Dillon Howard McGlinn Keenan 
"I woke up late "The student "The beach "It wasn't hot. " "The fumble on "Seeing afor tailgating. " 


section ball." wouldn't let me 
leave." 

Snake In theater causes 
stir 

HOUSTON -No, it's not a 3-D creature feature: A Houston movie theater ­one that was showing "Anacondas" among other films -has shut down while workers hunt for an 8-foot snake. 
A maintenance worker said he saw a snake about a week ago slithering along a wall, said Terrell Falk, a spokeswoman for Cinemark USA Inc. 
When the owners of the 16-screen theater heard of it, they closed the place and brought in snake experts. 
"We have looked through-
TODAY 
a:: 


CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 

Baseball great Hank Aaron jokes with Tyrone Willingham at Friday's pep rally. The co-hosted Notre Dame and Saint Mary's pep rally included such highlights as the porn squad, the band and a crowd pleasing speech from Aaron. 
OFFBEAT 
Natural Resources said Saturday's event needed to use plastic eggs, not the real thing, in depicting the his­toric egg-throwing battle between crews of two boats docked in the harbor on Lake Michigan's Green Bay. 
Organizer George Bisbee initially said he wanted to use 3,000 real eggs to re­enact the fight, although he later said he had exaggerat­ed the number. 
"It just got so controver­sial, and I know there are some concerned citizens out there," Bisbee said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
out the theater and we haven't found a snake yet," said Ramon Cardenas, owner of Critter Control of Houston, a company that specializes in wildlife con­trol. 
It's unclear if the animal escaped or remains inside. Based on the description, the snake people believe it could be a Burmese python. 
Reenactment revamped 
EGG HARBOR, Wis. ­Plans to re-enact the egg battle that led to the naming of this town in 1825 were simply too true to be good, state officials have decided. 
The Department of 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 


the two." Purdue fan beat a leprechaun on a stick against the wall." 
IN BRIEF 
Democratic candidate for the House of Representatives for Indiana's 2nd District Joe Donnelly will speak tonight about the importance of stu­dent political involvement at 7:30p.m. in Carroll Auditorium in Madaleva Hall at Saint Mary's. 
The Films "The Hidden Face of Globilization" and "Uprooted: Refugees of the Global Economy" will be shown today from 4 to 5:30 
p.m. in room C-100 of Hesbergh Center Auditorium. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team will face off against Tri­State University Tuesday at 4 
p.m. at the Saint Mary's soccer field. 
"The Third Man" will be shown Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall as part of the Catholic Literature Series. 
Timothy Roemer, former U.S. Representative and commis­sioner of the 9/11 commission, will speak Thursday at 7 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business on "The 9/11 Commission: The Transformation of Our Intelligence Community." 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team will play Pittsburgh Thursday at 7 p.m. at Alumni field. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will play Minnesota­Duluth on Thursday at 7:35 
p.m. at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

66 
48 

73 
53 
IJ.I 
:X: 
~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
..... 
c( 0 0 


HIGH 58
...I 

LOW 40 

HIGH LOW 


60 
43 

66 
46 


Monday, October 4, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


n~ C£)1J;t~~ :t.~ 
~ ~ct 'f:.~-io111; ~ 1'ke­
~~ ~eA!/n;f!-~ct ..•.·.·"'••...rl".AAA 
bv~~ W~A-: ~ 'Pued'~ 
lan l(er, Oxford University October 4 at 8:00 pm 136 DeBartolo HaU 

?1 t:~w;~ 1tl«h ~A;-~ .. ·. .. . ... Ralph Mcinerny, University of October 5 at 7:30 pm,~.?-; 136 DeBartolo Hall 
f-itn.,.. ne-w~: 1k 
October 6 at 7:30· 138 DeBartolo Hall · 

Officials to discuss off-catnpus parties 
City, University representatives will address recent increase in neighborhood complaints 
Observer Staff Report 
University officials and South Bend government rep­n•serltatiVPS are scheduled to tnPPt todav to discuss the rncPnt incr.Pase of city resi­dnnts' com­p I a i n t s about off­campus stu­dent parties. 
The Health and Public Safety Committee of the South B c n d 

Puzzello

Common Council, headed by District 4 n~pn~sentative Ann Puzzello, will convenc this afternoon to discuss thn concerns stem­ming from two informal mPPLings held in early SPptember. 
But while previous meetings havn been of a "town forum" format open to residents and area police to air their con­cerns, this meeting will focus on finding more concrete solutions to the problem, said Bill Kirk, associate vice presi­dent for student affairs. 
Kirk will represent the University at the meeting and answer questions. 
According to Puzzello, Kirk and neighborhood residents, off-campus parties that esca­late out of control -includ­ing students binge drinking, defacing property and screaming and playing music late into the night -have become more frequent during the last few years. 
Jackie Rucker, director of community relations for the University, said East Washington Street, Peashway Street, Notre Dame Avenue and Turtle Creek Apartments have been problem areas of late. 
Road closes for pipe adjustment 
FRIEDMAN fThe Observer A sign near the Stepan Center alerts the community to the closing of Holy Cross Drive. The road will be closed to repair a pipe In Notre Dame's chilled water system. 
B.y TERESA FRALISH 
Associate News Edi ror 
Beginning today until Oct. 22, the University will close Holy Cross Drive west of St. Joseph Drive from the Firehouse to lot A15, as part of a major road closure project needed to repair Notre Dame's chilled water system. 
"All the sources pump into a common pipe," said Paul Kempf director of utilities for the University. "That's the piece we're replacing." 
In a second phase of the project, officials will also close the intersection of Holy Cross Drive and St. Joseph Drive beginning Oct. 25. East-west traffic on Holy Cross Drive will reopen Oct. 29 while St. 

Joseph Drive at that intersec­tion will be until Nov. 12. The University has designated mul­tiple alternate entrances for buildings and departments affected by the construction. 
Holy Cross Drive is the main road that circles the edge of Notre Dame's campus. Kempf said when the project is com­pleted, repairs on the system will not likely be needed for several decades. 
Kempf said the road closures are carefully timed to occur around the Oct. 23 Boston College and Nov. 13 Pittsburgh home football games. He said repairs could not be completed during the normal summer construction period because the chilled water system is in use then. 
Officials also could not begin repairs during colder winter months and chose to complete the majority of the project in between the Stanford, Boston College and Pittsburgh home games. 

"We don't make chilled water all year round," Kempf said. "You can only shut it off when you're not using it. We just don't have any other opportunity." 
Kempf said he does not anticipate possible snow being a problem for the project. 
"Like any construction, there could be something that's unforeseen." he said. "We're more worried about tempera~ ture than we're worried about snow." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
Monday, October 4, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Alliance's proposed central said. Gomberg said. location for passing out the In addition to the arm­Freshman Steve Currie
Protest 

bands. bands, the club is also plan­was one student who dis­
continued from page 1 Gomberg said that since ning another orange T-shirt agreed with the message 
AllianceND is an unrecog­demonstration in mid­behind the demonstration. who helped pass out arm­nized club, members are November, and is eager to Although he stated his bands, agreed. unable to adver-get new fresh­respect for homosexuals as 
"The purpose was to tise through man involved made in the image of God, spread our message and posters or other "A major part ofour in the move­he felt wary about the pub­they definitely did that," he public means. group's role is to ment. licity the demonstrations said. Instead, it gains AllianceND create.
increase dialogue 
However, even with the publicity will also be "It is inappropriate at a high participation rate, through a list­about this issue on sponsoring a Catholic university to send a many students who saw the serv e-mail, campus ... " "Come Out of message of support for the armbands did not know their making it more Your Closet" homosexual lifestyle," Currie purpose. di fficu It to event on Oct. said.
Anna Gomberg 
Sophomore Ann Flies said increase student 11, National Despite the negative reac­while she saw the orange awareness, she protest organizer Coming Out tion of some students and armbands, she was unaware said. Day. alumni, members of of their significance. AllianceND As the group AllianceND considered the 
Gomberg said AllianceND had discussed the possibility expected, the armbands event a success. did less advertising before of holding another orange T­were not universally wel­"A major part of our this event because it was shirt "Gay? Fine by Me" comed. group's role is to increase seeking approval from the demonstration at the football "By and large, the only dialogue about this issue on administration with regards game, but decided to use negative reaction we got was campus and I think we to distribution. orange armbands instead so an understandably cold accomplished that," 
"The administration was that the students could still reaction from those whose Gomberg said. very supportive of our show their unity and support moral values do not lead efforts," she said, highlight­for the football team by them to agree with Contact Elizabeth Cheffers at ing its quick approval of wearing green, Gomberg AllianceND's message," echeffer@nd.edu 
Arrests 
continued from page 1 
South Bend Police and NDSP, Deitchley said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
Death 
continued from page 1 
the collapse, Sturin said. 
Notre Dame officials could not release further details about the man's identity Sunday, but Sturin said the man was not a high-profile figure or a native of South Bend. Hakow said the man's name and hometown will be released today after his out-of-town relatives have been notified. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

didn't do that. We caught hardly in the past, ushers have tried to dents want to hurt anyone, but a presentation. They purposely any marshmallows before." interfere, and they ended up marshmallow doesn't go very face the Notre Dame sideline,
Ejections 

The criteria for ejection from being the targets. far," Gagnon said. "So if you put and the people who are right in the game are simple. "Our strategy is to stand back, something in it, then it is heavier. their view are not even looking at
continued from page 1 

"Clearly, if we catch you with a watch the throwing, make sure For a while it was considered a them." 
Gagnon believes ·it will only get bag of marshmallows, you are no one gets hurt," Gagnon said. cute thing to get it down onto the For some band members. how­worse as the season progresses. out of there," Gagnon said. "We "At the end, we have zeroed in field, or into a band instrument, ever, the marshmallow throwing lie believes the colder weather are looking for the people that on the people -my term is the or near an NBC camera." is not an issue. allows for more hiding places for either somehow have secured a ringleaders -and those are the Gagnon said it is not only the "I have actually never heard a sneaking in marshmallows. group of marshmallows or the ones we tried to grab." safety factor that concerns him, band member complain about 
"The first game was hotter, ones that are throwing them The issue of "stuffed marsh­but also the disrespect shown to the marshmallow throwing," said 
· which means you wear less cloth­aggressively. There are some that mallows" was also a concern this the band while they are perform­sophomore Tim Capecchi, a bari­ing which means you have fewer are enjoying it a little bit too year, as it has been in past years. ing. tone player in the band. "It does hiding places," he said. "The sec­much. Those are the people who Students have been known to ''I've spoken to the band lead­not bother me. Personally, I think ond game, one usher was some­we are looking for." add pennies, golf tees or small ership about it," Gagnon said. "I they are just using the band to how able to locate six or seven or But many students question rocks to the marshmallows to think for all of them, and some or shoulder the blame. Hardly any-eight bags of marshmallows why stadium personnel do not try make them go further, Gagnon many of the band members, it's a before halflime began, so he con­to stop the marshmallow throw­said. little bit of an insult because they Contact Kate Antonacci at fiscatl~d them. But this game we ing as it is going on. Gagnon said "I don't believe that our stu-work real hard on their halftime kantonac@nd.edu 

SAINT MARY'S STUDY ABROAD FAIR TUESDAY OCTOBER 5, 2004 4:00-6:00 STAPLETON LOUNGE SMC & ND STUDENTS ARE WELCOME!! 
Fall, Spring & Full Year Programs 
ROME, ITALY MA YNOOTH, IRELAND SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD SEVILLE, SPAIN DIJON, FRANCE INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA FREMANTLE, AUSTRALIA 
www.saintmarys.eduf.-cwil/ 


Semester Break Programs  
HAITI SEMINAR  
JAMAICA FIELD STUDY  
Summer Programs  
EUROPEAN STUDY PROGRAM  
GREECE STUDY TOUR  
KOREAN CULTURE STUDY  
HONDURAS STUDY PROGRAM  
ENVIRONMENTS OF ECUADOR  



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 4, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Success declared in Samarra 
SAMARRA, Iraq -Afraid to stray from home, residents buried the dead in their gardens Saturday as U.S. and Iraqi forces battled pock­ets of resistance in this former insurgent stronghold, where the American military said 125 rebels were killed and 88 captured in two days of fierce fighting. 
The American commander declared the operation a successful first step in a major push to wrest key areas from insurgent control before January elections. 
Elsewhere the rebels struck back, wounding at least five U.S. forces in three separate bomb attacks. In the latest in a string of kidnappings, militants claimed to have abducted and beheaded an Iraqi construction contractor working on a U.S. base. 
Gunmen vow more attacks 
JEBALIYA REFUGEE CAMP, Gaza Strip ­Israeli troops and aircraft hit hard at Palestinian militants Saturday, killing at least 10 on the third bloody day of a massive Israeli incursion into the Gaza Strip's largest refugee camp, as masked Hamas gunmen vowed more rocket attacks on Israeli towns. 
About 2,000 soldiers have taken control of a S-mile-deep chunk of northern Gaza to count­er militants firing homemade rockets into Israel. 
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said late Saturday that the army's mission was to stop the rocket fire "completely." 
He told Israel Radio, "This operation will continue as long as necessary." 
At least 50 Palestinians and five Israelis have been killed during the offensive, launched after a Hamas rocket killed two Israeli preschoolers in a town near Gaza. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Alert level raised on Mount St Helen 
SEATTLE -Government scientists raised the alert level Saturday for Mount St. Helens after its second steam eruption in two days was fol­lowed by a powerful tremor. They said the next blast was imminent or in progress, and could threaten life and property in the remote area near the volcano. 
Hundreds of visitors at the building closest to the volcano -Johnston Ridge Observatory five miles away -were asked to leave. They went quickly to their cars and drove away, with some relocating several miles north to Coldwater Ridge Visitors Center. 
Decade later FISher sits in her office 
GARDEN CITY, N.Y.-Sitting in her edi­tor's office at the Long Island newspaper where she writes a weekly column, Amy Fisher is not the cartoon character por­trayed in tabloid headlines and made-for­TV movies more than a decade ago. 
While her 3-year-old plays in a nearby room. this 30-year-old married woman ­five months pregnant -speaks openly and contritely about her notorious past, which includes a seven-year prison term for shooting the wife of a man with whom she had a sexual relationship as a 16-year-old. 
The one-time "Long Island Lolita," who left prison in 1999 hoping never again to be in the public spotlight, has re-emerged, hoping whatever infamy she attained can be turned positive. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Police use Taser gun on student 
ELKHART -A school official defended a policeman's use of a Taser stun gun to subdue a student during an arrest at Elkhart Memorial High School. 
Cpl. Doug Ryback of the Elkhart Police Department applied the Taser to the back of a leg of an 18-year-old student who was resisting arrest by a second officer. 
After the stun, the student immediately coop­erated with the officers, who at the time were working for the Elkhart Community Schools. 
INDIA 
Militant groups . bomb India 
Blasts killed 7, toll raised to 57 after two days of northeastern India attacks 
Associated Press 
GAUHATI -Militants 
bombed utilities, a tea 
plantation and a crowded 
marketplace in northeast­
ern India, intensifying vio­
lence that has killed 57 
people in two days and 
snarling efforts to bring 
cease-fires in a region 
where dozens of ethnic 
rebel groups are fighting 
for separate homelands. 
At least 17 bombings and 
shootings were carried out 
over the weekend in 
Nagaland and Assam 
states. The attacks -par­
ticularly an explosion 
Saturday that ripped 
through a railway station 
full of commuters ­
angered even some sepa­
ratist leaders. 
been fighting in the moun­
tainous region of multiple 
ethnicities wedged 
between Bangladesh, 
Bhutan and Myanmar. 
Rebels in Nagaland have 
been leading one of Asia's 
longest running separatist 
conflicts, dating to shortly 
before India gained inde­
pendence from Britain in 
1947. 
Assam's top police offi-AP cia! blamed the string of Relatives attend to wounded Majar Ali, who was injured when unidentified attacks on two militant gunmen sprayed gunfire at a crowded marketplace in Makri Jhoda, Saturday. groups -the United 

Liberation Front of Asom and the National Democratic Front of Boroland. 
"The entire string of attacks was a joint opera­tion by the ULFA and the NDFB," Inspector-General Khagen Sarma told The Associated Press. Sunday was the 18th anniversary of the NDFB, which is demanding a homeland for Boroland, a region that straddles both states. 
On Friday, the govern­ment offered a cease-fire to the Boroland rebels, part of their efforts to tame the various groups. 
Insurgent groups in India's northeast are push­ing demands ranging from independent homelands to autonomy within the nation. The rebels say they are seeking to protect their ethnic identities, and allege that the federal gov­ernment has exploited the resources in the mineral­and oil-rich region. 
The Indian government denies the allegation, and has already signed peace agreements with several groups. 
In return, the former militants have been given jobs and limited adminis­trative control within the Indian nation. 
Some 15,000 people have been killed since Naga rebels began fighting near­ly six decades ago. The rebels want special status for Nagaland state, where some 2 million Nagas ­most Christians -live in 
predominantly Hindu India. 
But one Naga separatist group engaged in talks with the government denounced the attacks. 
"We have set up a special investigating team and have got vital clues as to the identity of those behind the attack on innocent civilians," Kraibo Chawang, of the separatist National Socialist Council of Nagaland, told the AP. 
He said the assaults were "aimed at derailing and sabotaging our peace talks with the Indian govern­ment." 
Nagaland's death toll stood at 28 on Sunday, while Assam's rose to 29. No arrests had been made in the two states, police said. No immediate claim of responsibility was made. 
A bomb exploded late Sunday near a market in Bijni, 125 miles west of Assam state's capital of Gauhati, leaving three dead. 
Shortly afterward, anoth­er explosion killed another man and left 25 injured in nearby Gauripur along India's border with Bangladesh. 
Guerrillas set off a bomb at a tea plantation in near­by Borhat, killing a worker and wounding two others. 
Also in Borhat, suspected rebels targeted govern­ment-run Oil India Ltd.'s natural gas pipeline with a land mine blast. The extent of damage was not imme­diately known. 

Rocket close to earning $10 million 
Associated Press 
MOJAVE, Calif. -SpaceShipOne is one flight away from clinching the Ansari X Prize, a $10 million award for the first privately developed manned rocket to reach space twice within 14 days. 
SpaceShipOne was scheduled to be launched Monday in an attempt to reach an altitude of at least 328,000 feet, or just over 62 miles, for the second time since Sept. 29. 
The choice of pilot for the flight remained a secret on the eve of launch, as it did last week. 
That flight and a test flight into space on June 21 were flown by Michael Melvill, who has been awarded the nation's first commer­cial astronaut wings by the Federal Aviation Administration. 
Melvill is one of four pilots who have undergone special training to fly SpaceShipOne. He had difficulty con­trolling the ship during the June flight but still reached 62 miles. Last week, he flew a perfect trajectory to an altitude of 337,600 feet, or nearly 64 miles, but the ship began rolling as it neared space. 
After a safety analysis, SpaceShipOne designer Burt Rutan posted preliminary information about the rolls on his Web site this weekend to address what he called the "incor­rect rumors" that have circulated. 
The first roll occurred at a high speed, about Mach 2.7, but aerody­namic loads on the spacecraft were low and decreasing rapidly "so the ship never saw any significant struc­tural stresses," he said. 
The spacecraft rolled so often because the rolls started as it was nearing the edge of the atmosphere and Melvill could not dampen the motions with the aerodynamic con­trols, according to Rutan. Since aero­dynamic controls don't work in space, SpaceShipOne is equipped with a reaction control system that uses jets of a compressed gas to con­trol movements . 
...... -.. --~, .. ;-~ -· ··-·:. ," .. it,~···"'''.·" 
Monday, October 4, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Fahey 
continued from page 1 
but felt the future relation­
ships between the United 
States and Europe were 
promising. 
"We can discuss issues on which we have differences, but in a way that doesn't undermine the relation­ship," he said. "There will always be divisions, times when countries have to act in their own best interests, but that should not stop part,ners from trying to coordinate." 
Fahey also praised Ireland's six-month term as president of the European Union. a position that rotates among member states. 
"We had, dare I say it, a very good presidency." Fahey said. 
According to Fahey, during Ireland's presidency. several important events occurred, specifically, the addition of 10 countries to the European Union and the completion of a new consti­tution for Europe. 
In addition to these events, Ireland's presidency oversaw close relationships with the United States on a cultural level and a family level, Fahey said. 
While 2003 was a period of unprecedented strain between Europe and the United States. based on Iraq. the Middle East peace process and the European Union summit was very effective, Fahey said. 

"At the end of our presi­dency in June. our prime minister and President Bush stood before the media and declared one of the most successful European Union su.mmits ever held< Fahey said. 
During the presidency, seven declarations were produced. Fahey said. These concerned ways to work towards peace in the Middle East, help people in Iran, counter terrorism, strength­en economic partnership, prevent weapons of mass destruction, aid the humani­tarian crisis in Sudan and combat diseases like AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. 
Fahey also discussed the "sloppy generalizations and dangerous stereotyping" that sometimes arise, saying many Europeans have mis­conceptions of Americans as "inward looking, chronically uninformed and self-inter­ested." 
However, Fahey stressed 
Chocola 
continued from page 1 
who represents you." 
Stressing the importance of the young vote, the Chocola remind­ed students that the issues the candidates are debating would affect their generation most. 
"People in your age group don't vote," he said. "That's why Washington uses your money. That ought to get you and your friends out to vote, and to research the candidates." 
Chocola's hour-long speech received a warm reception from the College Republicans. 
"It was a great opportunity to hear a candidate in a pretty per­sonal setting, and apart from the sound bites you hear in the media," said Tom Rippinger, co­president of the College Republicans. 
Rippinger approved of Chocola's long-term strategies for cutting the deficit, which the Republican Party on the days prior to the election, talking to undecided voters via phone and also at the polls. 
In his speech, Chocola support­ed President Bush's actions and the efforts of the troops in Iraq and spoke out against biased media coverage of the war. 
"l think he's an incredible 
involves improved fiscal respon­sibility and pro-growth tax poli­cies. 
The College Republicans will be working closely with the Chocola campaign headquarters on Wednesday nights for the next 

few weeks to set up phone banks to speak with ."The main piece of 
undecided voters. advice I have for The incumbent is 
you is to always be
running against 

Democratic can­involved in the didate and Notre political process." 
Dame graduate Joseph Donnelly. 

Chris Chocola 
The club will also participate in U.S. Representative a task force for dential election, Chocola said. "The one thing I think President Bush has going for him is that 
_ people think he will do his best to keep us safe." In closing, he urged students to exercise their right to vote, and to earn­fully research the 
politician who shares a lot of the same values as our club and other Notre Dame students," co­president Ian Ronderos said. "I especially agreed with what he had to say about the Iraq war." 
When asked about the presi­
candidates. 
"Don't take my word for this stufl'. or my opponent's word, or President Bush or John Kerry's word." he said. "You are all Internet savvy, the information is out there, look it up." 
Contact Beth Erickson at 
eerickso@nd.edu 


unity, noting the shared set of core values and the eco­nomic interdependence link­ing Europe, Ireland and the 
Professor named APA fellow
United States. 

And Fahey believes both Europe and the U.S. need to put effort into maintaining a close relationship. 
"Trust has been restored, but our relationship must be viewed as a work in process," he said. "There is more to be done. Europe has to speak more clearly about international affairs and act decisively." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna@nd.edu 
Special to The Observer 
David Smith, associate pro­fessor of psychology at the University of Notre Dame, has been elected a fellow of the American Psychological Association (APA). 
According to APA by-laws, election to fellowship status requires evidence of unusual and outstanding contributions or performance in the field. Fellow status also requires that a person's work have had a national impact on the field of psychology beyond a local. state or regional level. 
Smith's research has been in two, non-overlapping areas: marital discord and schizophrenia. 
l-Ie has been conducting lab­oratory studies of the devel­opment, maintenance, treat­ment and prevention of destructive marital attribu­tions using an experimental 
gaming model. He also has been studying the links between marital discord and depression. 
His research in these areas has been funded by the John Templeton Foundation's "Campaign for Forgiveness" and the National Institute of Health. 
Smith's schizophrenia stud­ies have been in the areas of brain event-related electrical potentials and affect. 


THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Monday, October 4, 2004 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Doow 10,080.27 -55.97

} nes . 
• Same: ~ Composite Volume: 1,981 163 ....,... 1,749,438,848 

AMEX 1, 271:83. NASDAQ 1,896.84 +24.07 NYSE. 6,570.25 +9.57 S&PSOO 1,114.58 -0.22 NIKK£l(Tokyo) 10,823.57 0.00 FTSE. IOO(London) 4,570.80 -17.30 


COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +5.96 +0.18 3.20 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0,05 -0.01 20.06 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.25 +0.07 27.65 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.31 -0.15 11.28 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.15 -0.21 18.10 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.62 +0.30 48.91 10-YEAR NOTE +0.71 +0.29 41.19 5-YEARNOTE +0.36 +0.12 33.70 3-MONTH BILL -0.36 -0.06 16.74 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.13 49.64 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.70 420.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.65 97.375 
E.xchan Rates 

YEN 110.0700 EURO 0.8042 POUND 0.5515 CANADIAN$ 1.2615 
IN BRIEF Pilot's union reaches tentative deal 
CHARLOTIE, N.C.-US Airways and its pilots union agreed on a new labor contract Friday, a week after the company asked a bankruptcy judge to impose pay cuts, the airline said. 
The airline said the tentative deal, which would cut pilots' average pay 18 percent, would save the struggling carrier $300 million annually, part of the $950 million it now says it needs from all its unions to stay afloat. 
"This is a major step forward for our company, its employees, customers and all other stakehold­ers," airline President Bruce R. Lakefield said in a statement. 
The nation's seventh-largest airline declihed to disclose additional details, saying it was waiting for the Air Line Pilots Association to send the agreement to its members for ratification. 
"This is a major step forward for our company, its employees, customers and all other stakehold­ers," airline President Bruce R. Lakefield said in a statement. 
The nation's seventh-largest airline declined to disclose additional details, saying it was waiting for the Air Line Pilots Association to send the agreement to its members for ratification. 
Leaders of the pilots' union met for about seven hours Friday, but did not decide whether to for­ward to the proposed contract to members. 
Drug study a disaster for Merck 
TRENTON, N.J.-Vioxx was already a big suc­cess as an arthritis pain reliever, but Merck & Co. thought it could be an even bigger seller. The drug seemed to have some cancer prevention qualities, so the drug maker began a long-term study to test it for that use. 
The strategy backfired for the company, which Thursday pulled Vioxx off the market. The study showed the drug doubled the risk of heart attack and stroke. At the same time, it sounded an alarm for the millions of people who took Vioxx. 
A similar case arose with Wyeth's hormone treatment Prempro two years ago. The huge Women's Health Initiative study -launched to show that the drug could protect older women from heart disease -unexpectedly found it did the opposite and more. Not only did it raise the risk of heart attack, it also brought a greater risk of stroke and breast cancer. Sales of Prempro and another Wyeth hormone drug, Premarin, have plunged by nearly half since then. 
Fastow may testify for Enron 
Former Enron Corp. finance chief may be called to defend company in trial 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Former Enron Corp. finance chief Andrew Fastow isn't a defendant or a prosecution witness in the first crimi­nal trial to emerge from the energy company's crash, but he could be called to testify for the defense -possibly as a hostile witness. 
Attorneys for four for­mer Merrill Lynch & Co. executives and two former midlevel Enron executives could call Fastow -a cooperating government witness -in the conspira­cy and fraud trial regard­ing an alleged sham sale of several barges to the bro­kerage in 1999. 
Prosecutors say Enron desperately needed the barge deal to book a criti­cal $12 million pretax fourth-quarter profit, but Merrill Lynch came through only after Fastow orally promised the bro­kerage that its $7 million investment in three elec­tricity-producing barges would be bought out with­in six months. 
A partnership Fastow created to help Enron hide debt and inflate profits ­LJM2 -came through in June 2000, buying Merrill Lynch's interest at a pre­aggressively than usually neys can grill him with on the side prior to mium for $7.5 million. allowed. "leading" questions, which Enron's December 2001 
The defendants contend "We need to know before suggest or contain a crash. Enron was never obligated we make a decision" to desired answer. Such So far the government to buy back or find anoth­summon him to testify, Ira questioning allows attor­has presented nine wit­er buyer for the barges. Lee Sorkin, who repre­neys more control over a nesses. Of those, six ­
Prosecutors informed sents former Merrill exec­witness they haven't previ­including Michael Kopper, defense attorneys in June utive Robert Furst, told the ously interviewed. Fastow's former right­-days before the trial judge last week. Werlein But Fastow's status as a hand man who also ran was originally scheduled didn't rule, noting he did­cooperating witness may LJM2 -used to work for to begin -that Fastow n't know if Fastow would not mean he's adverse to Enron. told investigators he was­be hostile. the defense, Behre added. Last week ended with n't explicit about a buy­Fastow isn't on the pros­"It would be dramatic, Eric Boyt, a former in­back, having not used the ecution's witness list in the no question," he said of a house Enron accountant, words "promise" or "guar­barge case. But the gov­Fastow appearance. who was among 11 execu­antee." ernment told defense The crimes to which tives to sign off on .the 
Because Fastow is a attorneys he would be Fastow pleaded guilty did­barge deal. He testified he cooperating witness after available to them if they n't relate to the barge thought the deal was pleading guilty in January want during the trial, deal. But they did relate in wrong from the beginning, to two counts of conspira­which enters its third part to LJM2, one of sever­and defendant Sheila cy, defense attorneys want week Monday. al shady partnerships and Kahanek, his former boss. 
U.S. District Judge Ewing Kirby Behre, a former financial schemes he told him that if questioned, Werlein to declare him a federal prosecutor, said if orchestrated to hide debt, they would justify the deal hostile witness -so they Fastow is declared a hos­inflate profits and pocket by saying the verbal prom­can question him more tile witness, defense attor-tens of millions of dollars ise was nonbinding. 

Ex-Air Force official is sentenced 
lion deal to provide 100 refueling­admitted altered journals to cover
Associated Press 

tanker planes. She was hired by up her story. Boeing and then fired 10 months U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -'-A former Air later for what the company called sentenced Druyun to nine months in Force official was sentenced to nine unethical conduct. prison and seven months in a months in prison Friday after admit­"She did this as a parting gift to halfway house. less than the 16 ting that she helped Boeing Co. Boeing and to ingratiate herself into months of prison time sought by obtain a lucrative contract in hopes Boeing," said federal prosecutor prosecutors. of landing an executive job at the Robert Wiechering. Druyun's attorney, John Dowd, company. Even after her guilty plea, Druyun said he was pleased with the sen­
Darleen Druyun offered a tearful had maintained that her crime was tence. apology Friday "to my nation, to my merely a technical violation and that He acknowledged to the judge that Air Force." "I deeply regret any she had upheld the government's Druyun had lied at first about the damage I have done," she said. interests during the contract scope of her wrongdoing. "She had 
Druyun, 56, pleaded guilty in April process. difficulty coming to grips with some 
to conspiring to violate conflict-of­But she later failed a lie-detector matters" Dowd said. "But she did. interest rules by negotiating with test and conceded that her conflict She finally did." Boeing for a job while overseeing produced substantive benefits for The Defense Department is Pentagon consideration of a $23 bil-Boeing, prosecutors said. She also reviewing the refueling-tanker deal. 

~------------­
Monday, October 4, 2004

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

.-~_,...  
~,:  
~· :: ..  ·:' '.:..~  
-~ ..  
- 

,.";;.·. 
.~ .... 
~". :·>t¥~.; 
., 
. 
. '· 

·'•: 

j._, "."'!' 
; ;)t. 
-~ 'j ... -p­
·. .~ ' 
' 

11 .-,_. ~~~; . 
... 
. '. 
-~:·· 



ELECTION 2004 
Monday, October 4, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 9 

CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Campaign could see surprises 
WASHINGTON -In the presidential cam­paign's closing weeks, Democrats are bracing for an "October Surprise," an event so dra­matic it could influence the election's out­come. The capture of Osama bin Laden, for instance. 
It's part of American political lore: the party out of power worries about a last­minute surprise engineered by the party in power. Now that October has arrived and the election is just a month away, speculation is rife among Democrats that President Bush and political mastermind Karl Rove have some tricks up their sleeves. 
"I assume that it will be something," said Ilouse Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of California. "We have to be ready for that." 
With the war in Iraq going badly and peo­ple concerned about terrorism, there also seems to be a better than usual chance for a significant event beyond either party's con­trol. 
Both sides know the possibilities: a major setback in Iraq or Afghanistan, a terrorist strike against the United States, a nuclear test by North Korea, an economic shock. 
Kerry says Bush made it difficult 
for the average American 
WASHINGTON -John Kerry on Saturday looked to frame the next presidential debate in a speech criticizing President Bush's eco­nomic record, but also tried to get in a final word about their last face-off by declaring himself the winner and Bush a liar. 
"George Bush lost the debate," an announcer says in a television ad Kerry's campaign unveiled Saturday. "Now he's lying about it." 
The Democratic presidential candidate's accusation comes two days after his first debate with Bush, when he told moderator Jim Lehrer that he avoids saying that the president is lying to the American people. 
"I've never, ever used the harshest word, as you did just then," Kerry said. "And I try not to, but I'll nevertheless tell you that I think he has not been candid with the American peo­ple." 
Kerry spokesman David Wade said the Massachusetts senator's new ad will run at least in all the places where Bush airs his own new ad called "Global Test." The Bush ad is scheduled to go on the air Monday on national cable networks and in select local media markets, 
Bush derides 'Kerry doctrine' for 
outsourcing America's security 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -President Bush on Saturday ridiculed what he called the "Kerry doctrine" as a dangerous outsourcing of America's security, seeking to poke a hole in Sen. John Kerry's debate performance with what advisers see as his rival's biggest mis­cue. 
"When he laid out the Kerry doctrine, he said that America has to pass a global test before we can use American troops to defend ourselves," Bush said, drawing loud boos from a friendly crowd at a National Association of Home Builders meeting and later from campaign-assembled audiences in Mansfield and the Akron suburb of Cuyahoga Falls. 
"When our country is in danger, it is not the president's job to take an international poll, the president's job is to defend America," Bush said. 

Understudies to face off Tuesday 
Dick Cheney -John Edwards debate pits experience against exuberance 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Sandwiched between high­er-octane presidential debates, this week's matchup between Sen. John Edwards and Vice President Dick Cheney pits the Democrats' chief of cheer against the Republicans' shrewd and serious second­in-command. 
The presidential under­studies meet Tuesday at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland for their only debate of the campaign. Their style and substance couldn't be more different, giving each plenty of material to try to under­mine the other and have an impact, however small, on the national campaign. 
At 51, Edwards is a boy­ish-looking Southerner holding his first elective office who relies on his skills as a former trial lawyer in gauzy campaign speeches and feel-your-pain encoun­ters with voters. At 63, Cheney is a balding Westerner with a long gov­ernment resume who has embraced the vice presiden­tial nominee's traditional attack-dog role with relish. 
Cheney, with a no-non­sense delivery from the side of his mouth, focuses on the continuing danger from ter­rorist attacks as reason to keep President Bush at the nation's helm. Edwards, flashing a high-wattage smile, emphasizes his work­ing-class roots in offering a can-do vision of a John Kerry presidency. 
While vice presidential debates typically have little influence on the race over­all, there could be extra interest in this faceoff given the stark contrast between the rivals, Cheney's status as one of the most powerful vice presidents in history and the intense criticism he has drawn from Democrats. 
"It's more a curiosity than a dealmaker or dealbreak­er," said Timothy Walch, director of the Hoover Presidential Library and an expert on the vice presiden­cy. 
Edwards' challenge is to rattle his opponent and try to feed the Democrats' characterization of the vice president as pulling Bush too far to the right. 
Above, Democratic vice presidential candidate John Edwards and his wife campazgn m Nashville, Tenn. At right, Vice President Dick Cheney laughs with his wife at an event in Joplin, Mo. 
•

PHOTOS BY THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Edwards, with proven skill at lobbing sharp attacks without turning off the charm, can draw on more than two decades of court­room practice at cajoling juries to side with personal injury complainants. 
But he must avoid coming off as a young upstart who is disrespectful of an elder statesman. If the North Carolina senator goes over that line, he will play into the Republican argument that he lacks the gravitas and foreign policy experi­ence for the job. 
Cheney, who served as President Ford's chief of staff at age 34, spent five terms in Congress and served as secretary of defense during the 1991 Gulf War, will be hard to unnerve. 
He could well face ques­tions about allegations of conflict of interest that arose after Halliburton Co., which he once led, won no­bid contracts in Iraq. Other likely topics include his insistence that Saddam Hussein had ties to the al­Qaida terrorist network and that a Kerry victory would make the nation more vul­nerable to a terrorist attack. 
Experts say the caricature of Cheney is so extreme that people will be pleasantly surprised if he cracks a few dry witticisms and appears reasonable, as he did in a good-natured debate with Democratic vice presidential nominee Joe Lieberman in 2000. 
"People have such a nega­tive view of him, I like to joke that all he has to do is show up without horns," said Paul Light, professor of public service at New York University and author of a book on the vice presidency. 
Cheney also must gauge how far to take his attacks: He could try to paint Edwards as a money-chas­ing trial lawyer, or skewer him on his Iraq votes, but he needs to avoid turning off voters by appearing too extreme. 
Edwards, who has never debated one-on~one, rarely gets defensive. But with a reputation honed in the multicandidate primary debates as the nice guy in the race, he could suffer if he doesn't effectively answer when attacked. 


SOUND BITE: MINIMUM WAGE 
What increases, if any, do you favor in the $5.15 an hour federal minimum wage? 
"My first goal is to make sure that every American 
"I believe that no one who works full time should who wants to work can find a job. I would consider have to raise their children in poverty. President Bush any reasonable proposal that phases in an increase is standing in the way offundamental fairness even as in the federal minimum wage over an extended period the purchasing power of the minimum wage is at a JO­of time provided it does not place unreasonable costs year low. That's unacceptable. As president, I will raise on small businesses or other job creators." the minimum wage from $5.15 to $7 by 2007, giving a raise to nearly 15 million workers. Doesn't President Bush see that the minimum wage has fallen further and further behind the cost of living, and the impact of 
Kerry the last increase has been wiped away by inflation?" 

Monday, October 4, 2004

page 10 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
I0FF•CiearCoat I f· uR · ~:;,;um Soft Cloth I i Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured . ' 20 •Polish-n-Sealer •I IWax Applied *Coffee and refreshments will be served* I f• 2-Step UnderbodyBEST t THE STANDINGProtectant I 52694 State Road 933 1 COMMITTEE ON GAY AND LESBIANSouth Bend. Indiana 46637 IWASH ·Spot-Free STUDENT NEEDS2 mi North of NO JRinse Offer good at the South Bend location only I ·----~----~------~---------------J  
Come meet... Danielle Marino from the Chicago-Based organization PROTECTING ANIMALS 7:00PM MoNDAY, OCTOBER 4Marino will speak on the pressing issues regarding hunger, MONTGOMERY THEATRE • LAFORTUNE (ACROSS FROM STARBUCKS)the environment, and vegetarianism in today's world, and www.VE~ANOUTREACH .ORGshare how your life can make a difference. SPONSORED BY N D FOR ANIMALS (ANIMALS@ND.EDU)  



HAITI 
Unrest continues in post-hurricane Haiti 
Associated P~ss 
POHT-AU-PHINCE. Haiti ­Gunfire erupted in a slum teeming with loyalists of ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on Sunday. sending people scattering through trash-strewn streets following days of political clashes that have Jell at least 14 dead. 
Hesidents said men fired into the air, stole food from market vendors and burned tires in the street<; in the slum of La Saline. 
The unrest came a day after police arrested Haiti's Senate president and two other pro­Aristide politicians following a six­hour standoff in a radio station. Justice Minister Bernard Gousse told reporters the three were sus­pected of being "intellectual authors" of the violence that erupted Thursday during demon­strations demanding Aristide 's return. 
The politicians. who insisted they were innocent. were led out in handcuffs from the offices of Hadio Caraibes Saturday night after a judge entered to negotiate their surrender. 
Gousse said police found in one of their cars an Uzi submachine gun and a T65 assault rifle. which are illegal in Haiti. "They're peo­ple who are barbaric and violent," he told reporters. 
Pro-Aristide groups criticized the arrests, saying police didn't have a warrant and had planted the weapons. 
!Ieavy gunfire rang out Saturday night and Sunday in parts of Port-au-Prince. No one was reported killed, but streets remained blocked with over­turned wooden market stalls in some areas. 
Tensions have erupted as the impoverished country struggles to recover from floods unleashed two weeks ago by Tropical Storm Jeanne, which killed more than 1,550 and left some 900 missing, most presumed dead. 
In the hard-hit northwestern city of Gonaives on Sunday, resi­dents brought in two emaciated men found semiconscious on the ground to a clinic run by Argentine troops. Doctors said it appeared the two hadn't eaten in several days and had psychologi­cal trauma -one because he lost relatives in the floods. 

ARE YOU EXPERIENCED? 
NOTRE DAME MEN'S WATER POLO 


TEAM is ranked 16th Nationally and is searching for good, hard-working players for their run at the National Title this November, hosted here, at NO. Experience is a plus! 
AFGHANISTAN 

Killing in Afghani_stan continues 
At least 957 have been killed this year, including 30 American soldiers 
Associated Press 
KANDAHAR, Afghanistan ­The killing in Afghanistan spirals onward, undermining U.S. claims of success in pacifYing the coun­try with less than a week to go before an historic experiment with democracy_-direct presi­dential elections. 
The deaths of three Afghan sol­diers and two militants over the weekend -barely noted in news 
IRAN 

Iranian minister impeached 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN. Iran -In the latest blow to the administration of reformist President Mohammad Khatami. Iran's conservative­dominated parliament impeached the transportation minister on Sunday, accusing him of financial mismanagement and a shady aviation deal. 

Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 5th 
(and every first Tuesday of the month) 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
reports-brought to at least 957 the number of people reported killed in political violence this year, according to an Associated Press review. The toll includes about 30 American soldiers. 
With Afghanistan three years removed from the brutality of Taliban rule, President Bush has acclaimed the Oct. 9 presidential vote a beacon of hope for the Islamic world, and a prelude to even more tricky balloting slated 
After several hours of debate. 188 legislators voted to strip Ahmad Khorram of his Cabinet post. Fifty-eight voted in his favor and nine abstained. Conservative lawmakers raised loud cheers of "Allahu akbar" or "God is great." 
A senior conservative lawmak­er, former deputy foreign minis­ter Alaeddin Boroujerdi. said the for January in violence-plagued Iraq. 
But the tally of dead in Afghanistan -a haven of tran­quility compared with Iraq -is an indicator of the task facing both the U.S. military and whomever becomes Afghanistan's first directly elect­ed president -most likely the American-backed incumbent, Hamid Karzai -to consolidate a shaky peace. 
vote was parliament's "show of strength." 
The conservatives accused Khorram of financial misman­agement and of jeopardizing Iran's security by signing a deal with TAV, a Turkish-Austrian avi­ation consortium. to operate at the new Imam Khomeini International Airport on the out­skirts of Tehran. 


Monday, October 4, 2004 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Langua9
tuguese
anCI por programs 
A broad 
Tuesday, october s. 2004 
/llljg;JCifi!FmR

,. spm 
155 DeBartolo 
11111/E /JJ~!I!!! 

Fall. Spring. Summer. and Academic Year :zoos-:zoo6 UN'IVERSlTYOF NOTRE DAME.
Ura,.,ll 
Two die in tour boat accident 
Associated Press 
CHOWN POINT. La. -A man and a woman from California died aftBr an airboat carrying 16 tourisl'i overturned in a Louisiana swamp, authorities said Sunday. Three other passengers remained hospitalized. 
Daniel Nanna, 31, of Newport Beach, Calif.. died just before midnight Saturday, about seven hours after the Louisiana Swamp Tours boat overturned in three feet of water. An autopsy is planned, Jefferson Parish Slwrifl"s Col. John Fortunato said Sunday. 
Tsai Woo died of her injuries Sunday afternoon; her husband had flown in and was at her bed­side, said Diane Angelico, spokes­woman for Charity Hospital. Woo's hometown in California was not released. 
Eleven other people were 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
View photos and floor plans at www.REMCl.com 
1!.--...-.................!1 => 
~ 
~ 
':::) 
=> => 

=> 
=> 

For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box540 South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Rludwig@cbresb.com 
Notre Dame Apartments 
=> Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus => Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue => Current 1-year & 1 0-month Leases Available => On-Site Laundry Facility => 2 Closets and I Desk in Each Bedroom :::> Private Parking Lots => 24 -hour Emergency Maintenance => Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment ~ Double vanity/sinks in bathroom 



For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box 540 
South Bend. IN 46624 
Telephone: 574-234-9923 
Facsimile: 574-234-9925 
Want to inzprove your Spanish or Portuguese? Co1ne to an Infornzation Meeti UJith program. returnees to hear about... 
injured when the boat -a flat­bottomed aluminum craft pow­ered by a big fan at the rear ­flippBd in a swamp around Lake Salvador, about 20 miles south of New Orleans. Tourists flock to the area to see wildlife, including alli­gators, which often are lured to boats by dangling chicken meat from long poles. 
The captain, Curtis Silver of Lafitte, was among eight people treated and released at emer­gency rooms. 
The Coast Guard was investi­gating the accident. 
Lt. Cmdr. Greg Depinet of the Coast Guard's Marine Safety office wouldn't comment Sunday on whether the captain had been making quick maneuvers to thrill tourists from nearby Kenner and from California. 
"We still haven't totally con­firmed what was taking place," he said. "We have quite a few 
''All the fun of college, without the education" 
Proudly Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community The LARGEST Student Housing Apartments Avail­
able  
4 & 5 Bedroom Units  ND  
WASHER and DRYER in Each Unit  AV E  
Dishwasher  
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance  
ADT Alarm Systems  
Close to Campus  



more passengers to interview before we can comment." 
Depinet said reports so far indi­cated that all passengers had been buckled in, meaning the accident wasn't caused by tourists clustering to one side to look at an alligator or other animal. 
The Swamp King is one of four 16-passenger airboats owned by Louisiana Swamp Tours, which boasts on its Web site that the air­boats, made to run on inches of water, "are half ride and half tour" and "can make a 90-degree turn on a dime." 
Louisiana Swamp Tours owner Milton Walker Jr. was leading a tour Sunday and could not be reached for comment, an employ­ee said. 
"I've always felt as though we've been safe in operation," Walker said Saturday night. "I never thought something like this could happen." 
Economic powers discuss debt relief 
World's richest countries move closer to reliefplan, butfail to make official agreement 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The world's economic powers, which ended three days of meetings Sunday, insisted they are moving closer to a deal on debt relief for Iraq and other poor nations even though an agreement has proved elusive. 
Despite failing to settle differ­ences on that issue, financial officials did join in urging oil producers to boost supplies and help 
"All ofour
moderate prices, A competing which have members have proposal from climbed over $50 Britain would
decided it's a strong 
a barrel. pay for expand­
moment for the
"Policy-makers ed debt reliefby need to monitor world economy in revaluing the carefully -and be IMF's gold
2004. 
prepared to r e s e r v e s address -the according to 
Rodrigo Rato
near-term effects world prices of higher oil prices International Monetary and by getting on their Fund's chief wealthy nations 
economies," said Rodrigo Rato, the International Monetary Fund's chief. "A high oil bill places an especially heavy burden on the poorest countries." 
Still, the outlook for the global economy remains quite good, he said, with growth estimated by the IMF to clock in at 5 percent this year, the best showing in three decades. "All of our mem­bers have decided it's a strong moment for the world economy in 2004," Rato said Sunday. 
Representatives attending the weekend meetings of the IMF and World Bank, as well as Friday's gathering of the Group of Seven countries, 
"We're prepared 
again urged all with a program nations to move to go to debt in 1996 that toward flexible was expanded
forgiveness ofup
currency policies. in 1999. Some 
to roo percent."
That was an officials were appeal for China to hopeful the drop its system, debt relief issue 
John Snow 
could be

which American U.S. Treasury Secretary 
manufacturers contend con­tributes to huge 
U.S. 
trade deficits and the loss of 

U.S. 
factory jobs. 


Democratic presidential can­didate John Kerry has said President Bush has not been tough enough with China and not done enough to protect American manufacturers, which have shed nearly 3 million jobs 

e 

in the past four years. 
The administration says its diplomatic efforts to lobby China to change its currency policy are beginning to show results. 
On debt forgiveness for poor countries, the administration has a plan that essentially would mean the poorest countries would not have to repay existing loans. New loans, though, would be cut by the amount of increased debt forgiveness those 
countries 
received. 
to commit more 
money. 

Treasury Secretary John Snow played down the differ­ences, saying Sunday that "the details aren't important." He expressed hope for a compro­mise, given the growing support on the larger idea of debt for­giveness. 
"I want everybody to know that the United States is fully engaged with our other partners in trying to make sure we find answers to this critical prob­lem," Snow said. "We're pre­pared to go to debt forgiveness of up to 100 percent." 
Debt relief for 
the poorest 
nations began 
resolved by 
year's end. 

'The fact that powerful members of the bank and the fund are behind this (debt) initiative is a good thing for Africa," said Goodall Gondwe, finance minister of Malawi and former head of the IMF's Africa department. "We expect something will come out of it." 


Chile 
l\.1exico
_...;:,_Pro.....:::Puebla and Toledotl 

tNTtil'RNKt•IO'NAL s1.·vov 
PR.OG.RA.MS

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15.2004 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, October 4, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

Hit the road, Cat 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDJTOR• Claire Heininger VJt:wJ>OINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR• Maria Smith IN Focus EDITOR• Meghan Martin SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR• Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR; Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR• Mary Allen CONTROlLER• Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 63!-6900 obscad@Jnd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 phow@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WED ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
oBsERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right £O refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant M;u1aging Ediwr and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lett<·rs to the Editor must be signed and must include 
conracr information. 
(~stiom rtg<Irrling Oburv~r policies should be di,.,,·ttd to Editor in Ch~fMatt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
I h< OlucrW"f (USP!-1 W9 l·.WOOl ~ pubh.hc<i Mnnc:by rhruuch hid•) ~err durmg n:am anJ vM:.tuon pc'nodJ A 1uluc.npuon to The-<lbttrv~:r i• SIOO fOtorw ...:atlc:mic yc.ar. J'S51Uront .en\ntrt The-OI.'ICrvt'tll .1 memb<r of the Auoc1~d fUn, AU rtprocJu~.non nghrs •n= 
rrtcrvt"d. 
lhC'Oim·n-ror 11 puhltJh.r:cJ ar· r.o lluxQ 024 ~urh Daning H~ll 024 ~uch llining Hall Notre IJ.an&c, IN 4ft'5.Sf).II77'J Nultt' U•m,., IN 46~56-lln9 llr>natlk..al r""•F r.Jil..t •r Notre D&mc" 
.utd lw.hlnmn•l n&a&ling oftica 
I'O)'I'MASTtR 
~md .a.idrt'u 1.nrm:uons ro· 
rhc0hll!fvt'f 
Thl' Oh.erver 11 • mnni»C"r of rbe At11Xi6tcd J"'m,J. Allrt'l'rodurnon ri1hB m­n'k"rvc:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

There is a darkness plaguing the safety and purity of the United States of America. This acrimonious evil was borne from the very innards of the dark lord Beelzebub, raised in the deepest 
chasms of Hades ~y Joey Falco 
an army of demomc 
orcs and educated 
within these sulfurous Forty Ounces to
Falco

pits of Hellfire by a 
malicious horde of 
diabolical professors with malevolent 
names like Hitler, Stalin, Cassius and 
Judas. He is the fallen angel Lucifer 
incarnate and is surely right now 
employing his blackest artifices to 
destroy the sanctity and beauty of our 
great country. 
I am writing, of course, about the most notorious and villainous terrorist to ever step foot upon God's green Earth-Cat Stevens. 
For decades, his efforts to spread evil and pestilence throughout the world in the form of music-that melodious vehi­cle for death and destruction so often inspired by the very demonic muses who also motivate theft, murder and rape­have luckily not gone unnoticed by the United States government. Their wise and righteous decision to detain the unholy fiend as he attempted to land at an airport in this chaste and virginal nation may have saved the lives of mil­lions of innocent Americans, and the Department of Homeland Security, or the American wing of the Knights Templar, as I like to call them, can notch up anoth­er victory in the blessed crusade against terrorism. 
A mere look back at the ignominious life of this wretched embodiment of dark­ness plainly shows why he is a clear and present danger to the safety and well­being of the American people, and cer­tainly justifies his being sent immediately back to London after being detained in a Maine airport. 
Yusuf Islam, or the Artist Formerly Known As Cat Stevens. rocked the foun­dations of the musical world in the early 1970s through his plainly blasphemous and warmongering songs like "Wild World," "Peace Train" and "Morning Has Broken." Clearly, the lyrics to these Odes to Terrorism show an explicit desire to bring down the pillars of American liber­ty thro11gh militant Islamic tactics, and 
his wicked, slanderous tongue must be kept out of the United States at all costs. 
"Now I've been cryin' lately, thinkin' about the world as it is. Why must we go on hating? Why can't we live in bliss?" 
Blasphemer! Heretic! Minion of Satan! How dare he utter these incendiary words of anti-American violence under the guise of a folk tune entitled "Peace Train?" Thankfully, for the sake of the many innocent. defenseless women and children in this great nation, the brave men left with the daunting task of maintaining our home­land security managed to see through the paci­fistic favade of Cat Stevens' lyrics. 
"What were you goingto do with that 'Peace Train' of yours, Yusuf Islam? Hijack it and crash it into a sky­scraper?" metaphorically shouted Homeland Secretary Tom Ridge. "I know your tricks, sin­ner!" 
Sure. some Islamic-sympathizers in the United States ­who accordingly should also be added to all terror­ist watch lists -might argue that Islam's life seems to suggest he does not secretly desire to bring down American democracy through devastat­ing violent action. After all, he did re­record a song last year to raise money for children affected by the U.S.-led war in Iraq. However, what these modern-day Communist infiltrators do not realize is that these "children" whom Islam was apparently aiding will one day grow up to be God-hating worshippers of Allah! Are those the kind of people that we should be trying to help? Where is their American patriotism? 
These leftist liars might also argue that Islam's reception of the 2003 World Social Award for his continued world­wide support of the needy proves that he cannot be a terrorist. However, what these insurgents seem to be forgetting is that many other known terrorists have also attained similar prestige for actions that seem to suggest a passion for world peace. Take. for example, Tariq Ramadan, the so-called Islamic scholar who is renowned in Europe and the Middle East for his major publications on Islamic ethics. Praise the good Lord above that this transmitter of anti­American lies was not permitted to spread his Islamic terrorist tendencies 
into the puritan minds of Notre Dame students, thereby defil­ing the sacred Christian teachings instilled in them during their childhoods. Accordingly, let this be a lesson to 
you, Cat Stevens. You may think you're pretty 
clever because you managed to infiltrate American socie­ty in the 1970s with the sublim­
inal messages in 
your songs like "The First Cut is the Deepest," but 
now we're on to you. We know that you secretly want to take your unholy blade of terror and slice that !irst cut deep into the llesh of an unsuspecting American institution. 

So, Cat, you just keep on singing. "Yes, peace train holy roller. Everyone jump on the peace train." Those words mean nothing to the righteous American public. and we will send your peace train baek to the evil Islamic station from whence it came. 
Plus we never have time for music any­more since we started this whole war thing in Iraq. 
Joey Falco is a sophomore American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at ifalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Angela Saoud  Matt Puglisi  
Eileen Duffy Jen Howling  Bobby Griffin Ken Fowler  OBSERVER POLL  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Viewpoint Justin Spack Graphics Desiree Zamora  Scene Christie Boisen Illustrator Meg Dwyer  Should Notre Dame have the SafeBus service for students?  ':4s long as the world shall last there will be wrongs. and ifno man objected and no man rebelled, those wrongs would last forever."  
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at  Clarence 5. Darrow  
www.ndsmcobserver.com  American criminal lawyer  

THE 0HSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Monday, October 4, 2004 page 13 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame outclassed 
Saturday's game was beyond embarrassing. 
I cried -twice -before halftime. 
We were outscored, outplayed, outmatched and -though I never thought I would have to say this-outclassed. 
I remember reading a letter in The Observer a year ago. The letter was written by a Michigan fan apologizing for the conduct of her classmates. At the time, a feeling that unfortunately resembled pride welled up inside me; pride that Notre Dame fans would never act in such a despicable and abhorrent manner. Obviously, we did not lynch a mock­up of their football coach, regardless of skin color. but this was not all that the letter was about. We would never scream profanities at our opponents. We would never go out of our way to push over, knock into and otherwise bruise them. We would never hurl various items directly at them in an attempt to prove ourselves as what? Sore losers? 
Yet at the Purdue game, I was hit in the back of the head with a quarter-full water bottle quite obviously aimed at a Purdue fan right in front of me. Her cousin, who stood next to her. was drenched in a mixture of Coke and half-melted ice cubes. She was ver­bally attacked by many Irish fans surround­ing her. until one student left and came back with an usher in an attempt to kick her out of the stadium. 
I am not saying that the Purdue fan was entirely in the right. There were many Purdue fans in the students' section who were able to stand contently, watching their team push the ball down the field time and time and time again. I agree that the manner in which she cheered was incredibly aggra­vating; in fact. I moved from standing next to her b1)cause she emphatically clapped her hands and shrieked in such a manner that caused the eardrums of surrounding students to ring. I can understand how some would consider it uncalled for when she began to sing her team's cheers over ours, though her enthusiasm was no less than I would expect from any Irish fan at an away game. However, the fact that one girl could sing the Purdue cheers over an entire section of Irish fans is equally regrettable. There are two things Notre Dame fans have become known for throughout the years: spirit and kindness. My parents, both of whom graduated in the class of '74, taught me this well before my third birthday. Unfortunately, we showed nei­ther this Saturday. 
For those it may concern: the Purdue fan did, in fact. have a ticket, as did the many other Purdue fans sitting in the students' sec­tion and throughout the stadium. If you have a problem with this, take it up with the Irish fans who sold their tickets, no doubt often at a considerable profit. to Purdue fans. Additionally, she was not kicked out of the stadium. She was relocated to another sec­tion where she would not be so threatened by the words and actions of those around her. Finally, without a doubt, she is going to go home to Purdue and tell every one of her friends what horrible sports and terrible peo­ple Notre Dame students proved themselves. I speak not only of those who acted in aggres­sion against her, but also the many surround­ing fans who stood in silence and did nothing. 
If we had scored four touchdowns in the last five minutes to make the greatest come­back ever known in college football, it would have made no difference to me. In my eyes, we had already lost well before halftime. 
Kate Dobbertin junior McGlinn Hall Oct. 3 

Debates aren't pep rallies 
To thn Democrats who were at the the benefit of us all as students and Presidential Debate Thursday night: citizens. 
Some people attended the campus My vote in the upcoming election is debate watch for the free pizza. Some undecided. I do not currently feel at went because they want to see the home in either party. I feel even less candidates' debate in an open comfortable in a campus atmos­community space. Some ----~ phere that seems to prefer 
chose to cheer for their preferred candidate. To this last group, I ask: please stay home. No one cares how big your John Kerry sign is, nor do we appreci­ate your knee­jerk clapping after every­thing Kerry says. 
While my gut instinct is to fault just the people who were unable to · control their behavior. I also am offended that the Rock the Vote organizers did nothing to stop this behavior. I know sev­eral of those organizers and some of them make no effort to hide their poli­tics. Yet I believe it is possible for partisan people to create a nonparti­san community event. However. no effort was made to curb the enthusi­asm of the Democrat half of the room. The Republican half of the room behaved itself. If such partisan behav­ior continues, I cannot see how Rock the Vote can presume to support non­partisan dialogue and community for 
grandstanding to the pur­ported goals of the Rock 
the Vote group. There have been several op-ed pieces 
written recently which call into 
question the goals of Rock the Vote and the 
College 
Democrats in 
our community. 
I agree we 
need more non­
partisan effort to increase 
awareness of serious political issues. I do not believe a public event should be allowed to turn into a pep rally for a par­ticular candidate. I 
hope Rock the Vote takes seriously the efforts of non­partisan dialogue and commu­
nity and makes some motion to cre­ate a safe atmosphere for intelligent political participation. Otherwise, I prefer to watch the debates at home. 
Jared Rizzi 
sen10r 

Morrissey Manor Sepr. 30 
Support NDPF 
Last Friday night six mem­bers of Notre Dame Peace Fellowship crouched on their hands and knees Sept. 24 and scrawled nonviolent messages in chalk on the sidewalks of Our Lady's University. Sometimes while being cursed at, sometimes while being commended, these people qui­etly but publicly proclaimed their faith and their commit­ment to it. We were among them. 
As members of Notre Dame Peace Fellowship. or NDPF, we are dedicated to gospel nonviolence, even in a world at war. We meet every week in the Center for Social Concerns to pray for peace, to read the writings of the saints and other great minds on issues of peace and justice, and to plan how best to raise awareness about issues of violence and war in our community. 
We strive to keep the words of Jesus Christ and the human face of war in the hearts of minds of the Notre Dame com­munity. We write quotes from Scripture around campus every football weekend, not because as Bill Rinner sug­gested, "we have a self-right­eous urge to sell out [our] intellectual gifts" or because we wish to "defile" campus with "tacky" slogans, but because we are humbly trying to follow Jesus, to figure out what that means, to figure out what the Sermon on the Mount means. Sometimes it's not until you write the words of Jesus for the hundredth time that you begin to under­stand their gravity or their consequences. 
We write, "Love your ene­mies" and "Blessed are the peacemakers" and "Thou shalt not kill." not because we know how to Jove our ene­mies, or how not to kill, but because we want to Jearn. 
Most often our scriptural messages are erased within days of their conception. Sept. 26 the words of Jesus were erased from the sidewalk in front of the Basilica. presum­ably with water, before Sunday morning Mass. Perhaps, the sacristans agreed with Rinner that the chalk was not aesthetically pleasing, or perhaps they would prefer that communi­cants not be troubled with the controversial words of Christ, "Love your enemies, pray for those who persecute you," (Matt 5:44). 
Cassie Herman and Anna Nussbaum Co-presidents, Norre Dame Peace Fellowship Oct. 3 


Hest did not disappoint 
The title of Lauren Wendel's Scene article, "Ari Hest disappoints small crowd at SMC" was upsettingly inaccurate. Though entitled to her own opinions of the performance, these sentiments should not have been pro­jected upon the entire audience. Everyone I know who had the privilege of hearing Hest play Sept. 27 was pleased with his show and grateful to have had the opportunity to hear him perform live. Being a Hest fan was not a prerequisite for enjoying the concert. A small group of devotees clustered near the stage while the sunny afternoon and talented performers encour­aged picnic-goers and passers-by to stay and listen. 
Students remained on the quad as the sun set, the evening grew cold and the grass dampened. They were drawn in by Hest's melodic Jove songs, catchy upbeat tunes and reflective ballads. His husky baritone and soaring falsetto complemented inventive chord progressions and inspiring guitar riffs. Hest was at ease on stage and conversed comfortably with fans after the performance. His ability to make shows feel intimate and personal allowed fans to resonate completely with the sentiments behind the songs. His honest lyrics -though often not obscure or complex -consistently struck a chord with the audience. 
Hest's musicianship sets him apart from the masses of singer/songwriters striving to catch the coattails of John Mayer and Howie Day. Ari Hest will continue to succeed because of his talent, not because of his musical genre. My only disappointment in the show was that the enthusiastic crowd was not able to supply more energy due to sheer lack of numbers. I can only hope that the poor showing -due to odd timing and limited advertising-won't keep this talented musician from returning to the South Bend area in the future. 
Ellen Luecke sophomore Pasquerilla West Ocr. l 


THE 0BSEilVER 

CEJNE
page 14 
Monday, October 4, 2004 
A symphony from the shire 
Lord ofthe Rings soundtrack performance in Chicago this weekend 
ance with a strong vocal performance of By JONATHAN RETARTHA "In Dreams," to finish the first half of the 
Scene Writer 

performance. 
The second half of the performance 
Fans of Peter Jackson's "Lord of the builds up speed as it moves through "The 
Hings" trilogy have the opportunity this Two Towers" and "The Return of the 
weekend at the Auditorium Theatre in King." While many film series choose to 
Chicago to witness the Academy Award recycle almost all of the music from the · 
winning score performed live by a collec­original into the subsequent films, 
tion of over 200 instrumentalists and Howard Shore has achieved a truly 
vocalists. unique composition in providing new 
The idea to blend the music from all themes and melodies for each film. 
three films into an operatic two-hour Movement three climaxes with "The 
symphonic experience was pioneered by Riders of Roha11," the sweeping Nordic 
the films' composer, three-time Oscar piece that defines "The Two Towers." 
winner Howard Shore. Shore won the The Hartford show featured Carolyn 
Academy Award for best original score in Betty, a renowned opera singer, who 
2002 for "The Fellowship of the Ring," as gave an incredibly deep performance in 
well as in 2004 for "The Return of the the haunting "Evenstar." To see a singer 
King." lie also garnered an Oscar in perform the beautiful elvish lyrics in per­
2004 with recording star Annie Lennox son only serves to illuminate the music 
for their collaboration on "Into the and the language even more. 
West," the companion single to "The In the fourth movement, the drums of 
Return of the King." war begin to sound as the symphony 
The first performance of the symphony moves through the battle of Helm's Deep 
was in late 2003 in Wellington, New with such powerful marches as "The Zealand, the home of the breathtaking Hornburg," and "Forth Eorlingas." These landscapes and vistas seen in the films. themes are improved in the symphonic The symphony has also been performed performance through the addition of in Sydney, London, Pittsburgh and snare drums that are not present in the Hartford, Conn. to name only a few. original score. 
The performance in Hartford two By the time movement five begins and weeks ago was quite a memorable expe­charges forward with the epic theme for rience. The Hartford Symphony provided Minas Tirith, "The White Tree," as the the music, and the Hartford Chorale and different sections of the orchestra begin Connecticut Children's Chorus provided to duel back and forth. Movement five the vocals for the performance. It was also features the best song in the sym­quite an "impressive sight to see so many phony, "The Steward of Gondor." While performers on stage at one time. the soundtrack version of the piece Towering above all was a massive video seems a bit out of place, hearing it screen that provided images of the con­blended in with the other themes and ceptual art for the films. drawn by famed performed with such effort by the Tolkien artists Alan Lee and John Ilowe. orchestra and chorus gives it a much 
The symphony is divided into six move­more profound impact in the live per­ments, two for each film in the trilogy. formance. The majority of selections were derived Movement six, like many of the other from "The Fellowship of the Ring," which movements, begins with an incredible took up the entire first half of the per­intensity and ends with a peaceful finale. formance. The selections follow closely "The End of all Things" simply blows the to their chronological order on the actual audience away, in much the same way it soundtracks, beginning the show with did during the climactic volcano scene of "The Prophecy," the epic blend of strings "The Return of the King." Both the and powerful vocals that wowed audi­orchestra and chorus are operating with ences back in 2001 during the first few all the stops removed, and the effect lit­minutes of "The Fellowship of the !ling." erally makes the audience hold its The incredible energy produced in the breath. The symphony ends in the same first piece is soon quieted by the familiar fashion as the film, returning with full Celtic flute sounds of "Concerning power to the Hobbiton theme of the first Hobbits," and "A Short Cut to film and winding down with "The Grey Mushrooms." Havens." Shore always intended his 
Movement two begins like the first with score to be seen as an opera told on film, a mixture of both orchestra and chorus, and the soundtrack ends with a this time in the form of the flowing, Wagnerian finale that is not done nearly melodic theme for the elvish city of enough justice on the original sound­Hivendell, "Many Meetings." The mood track. Finally, the Hartford show fea­quickly changes as the fellowship moves tured Broadway star Susan Egan per­into the mines of Moria, and the soft forming the Academy Award winning, vocals of the beginning of the movement "Into the West." transform into the rough grunts and And this description is just scratching hoots of "A Journey in the Dark," leading the surface. Even if you have never read into arguably the most famous piece in a page of Tolkien, "The Lord of the Rings the trilogy, "The Bridge of Khazad-Dum." Symphony" will appeal to classical music The climax of the movement eventually fans and film fans alike. The film trilogy winds down into the sorrowful is to this generation what "Star Wars" "Lothlorien" and "Gandalf's Lament," was to the last generation, and having and finally ends with "The Breaking of the ability to see such incredible music the Fellowship," the concluding piece in performed live is an experience that will the first film. Boy soprano Kenneth be envied by generations to come. Brand, while not able to fully reach the ethereal clarity present in the sound­Contact Jonathan Retartha at track, provided the Hartford perform-jretarth@nd.edu 
Death Cab for Cutie's indie melodies and love songs will b:! at the Riviera Theater. 
Chicago's mu: 
to an overflowing scene of hiJBy LAUREN WENDEL Faint's recently released albu 
~ cene Writer 

Birth" (Saddle Creek, 2004) I reviews as well as TV onNeed a study break before fall break? Chicago's "Desperate Youth, Blood Thirsty music scene may offer some much needed down­and Go, 2004). The Faint is mtime as well as the opportunity to hear some up 
their relationship with form!
and coming rock acts as well as some old favorites. 
Conor Oberst of Bright Eyes. Ifl 
Oct.6 and 7: The Faint and TV on the Radio at sounds of Interpol, The Walkm The Metro Bright Eyes, this is sure to be · These two bands are sure to be ones to watch out not to miss. for. With their unique combination of emo, elec­Oct. 8: Flogging Molly at Congr tronic, punk and 80s dance beats blended with This Irish inspired, highly e1 clever lyrics, these bands present a different edge rock band is sure to leave you way home. In the past brought its high-ene drunk punk to the War times and most recent! No. 20 debut on the B" charts for its third a! Mile of Home" (Sid1 Flogging Molly can als the "Rock Against Bush lation with its so Lullabies." 
Oct. 9: The Libertines The Metro 
Despite lead singer P stant legal and dru Libertines managed to its newest self-titled reviews. This British sound perfected by T keeping romantic mel less wit. Guitars an rough, providing a
courtesy 

relentless pop/punk. I poraries such as The 
Gearing u 
Notre Dame st 
pose, now that I'm running for a cl By MOLLY GRIFFIN and CHRISTIE Schaerer said. "It's going to mean tha HOLSEN more." 
.Assistant Scene Edirors 
Junior Katie Hanafin has been train the marathon as well and finds the 
In 490 B.C., the Greek soldier Pheidippides ence rewarding. 
ran 26.2 miles from Marathon to Athens to "A lot of people will say, 'Oh my gas announce the victory of the Greek army over barely run two miles' when I tell th 
tbe Persians and immediately dropped dead. running a marathon," Hanafin said. ' Over the centuries, instead of heeding this 
the beginning of the summer I could e·1ent as a warning, people have instead do two miles and now I can do 20,turned running the distance into a tradition. 
made me realize that I can do someth 
The Chicago Marathon was first run in set my mind to it." 1977 and is one of America's largest While the marathon takes only pa
marathons. It will be run this year on Oct. 10. day, it takes months of preparation for C1icago is the closest major marathon to the 
race. Training for the marathon is a Notre Dame campus, and a number of stu­task, becfl1lse it includes not only pw
dtmts are preparing the make the trek over to physical training but also a lot of 1 tbe windy city after months of training. preparation.The course begins and ends in Grant Park 
"Usually I run about five days a wee)
01 Columbus Drive near Buckingham 
morning and then once a week I do 
F'mntain. Runners have six and a half hours run, over 12 miles," Wagner said. in which to finish the course, and they are than that, I'm just kind of mentally pregiven water, Gatorade and energy bars at I think that's going to be one of the various points throughout the course. parts."
People are motivated to run the marathon 
Even those who haven't put in t for a variety for reasons. months of work can enjoy the marat 
"I used to run in high school competitively Chicago. People line the sidewalks and I wasn't doing any sports here at school, course to cheer for those they know, S(l I thought it would be a good challenge to 
variety of bands will play on stagespush myself and do the marathon," senior along the course. A number of differt>!• 
K1te Wagner said. 
will host activities for spectators to Senior Enrique Schaerer is running for a while waiting for the race to make it 
charity, Opportunity Enterprises. He has 
part of the course. The marathon bril m~ceeded his fundraising goal of $350 by ask­only the city of Chicago together b· ing friends and family help him raise money helps bring together runners from a for a man to get job training to go back to the world. 
work. While Schaerer has run a marathon before, tb is one will be even more worthwhile. Contact Molly Griffin and Christie Bois "I feel like I'm running with more of a pur-mgriffin@nd.edu and cbolsen@nd.edu 

NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, October 4, 2004 BSERVER Purdue 41, Notre Dame 16 
Train wreck 
Orton throws for four touchdowns as Purdue wins 41-16 
Observer Staff Report 
-

Kyle Orton never got caught up in Purdue's losing streak at Notre Dame Stadium. But Saturday. he played a pivotal part in breaking it. 
The lleisman Trophy candidate 
_threw for 385 yards and four touch­downs, Jerome Brooks returned a kick­off a 100 yards for a· score and Purdue's defense bent. but didn't break as the Boilermakers won at Notre Damn for the first time since 197 4 in a 41-16 drubbing of the Irish. "You know, I think people made too much of that," Orton said. referring to Purdue's 13 straight losses at Notre Dame. "We don't go around thinking about that too m ueh but it's nice for the fans and program to get a win here." Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn nearly matched Kyle Orton in evnry offpnsive category, nxcept for the one that mattered -touchdowns. Quinn finished his day with a Notre Dame Stadium record 432 passing yards on 26-of-46 attempts, but only one touchdown -a 40-yard fourth down corn pletion to Rhema McKnight in the third quarter. Notre Dame's passing wasn't the problem; it was the team's inability to run. The Irish managed just 76 yards, led by freshman tailback Darius Walker's 62 yards on 19 carries. "There were things that we needed to do that we didn't get done," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "We wanted to pass, but we also want­ed to run the ball. "We have to sustain the running game and we didn't do that today. They just stopped us." Several key plays turned the momen­tum of the game in the Boilermakers' favor. After both teams exchanged field goals on their opening drives, Brooks caught the Notre Dame kickoff on the goal line raced through an open seam, spun away from Ambrose Wooden and had a clear path to the end zone, put­ting Purdue ahead 10-3 in the first quarter. "!Special team problems have been! something that's kind of been nipping at our heels," Willingham said. "At Michigan State we had one ... and this one, we always know anyone can return a kickoff." Then, with the score 13-3 in the sec­line, Orton stepped back and lofted a they made some big plays," Willingham Justin Tuck said the Irish must move ond quarter, Notre Dame drove the ball perfect pass to receiver said. "We just didn't step up on from Saturday's disappointing inside the Purdue 5-yard line before Taylor Stubblefield, who and make the big plays. We defeat and look toward their next Walker fumbled on a rush to the left had a step on Irish 'We just didn't can't give up the long kickoff opponent, Stanford. side of the line. The Boilermakers defensive back Dwight step up and make and then turn the ball over in "In life you're going to have tough recovered the ball and promptly drove Ellick. the red zone. · defeats and this is a tough defeat," said
the big plays. " 

97 yards down the field for another Stubblefield made the "That was a significant Tuck, who is still one-half sack from touchdown, this time with Orton find­initial catch, broke swing going in the half. the school record after recording one­ing Rob Ninkovich on a 2-yard pass to Ellick's tackle .attempt Tyrone Willingham Those were some of the big half of a sack Saturday. "So we'll cry give Purdue a 20-3 halftime lead. and raced down the side­plays they made. It's not tonight but tomorrow we'll come back
Irish coach 

The Boilermakers put the nail in the line for a 97-yard touch­always experience, some-ready to get tough. Irish coffin on their first possession of down -the longest pass times it's just what day it is. "The leadership's got to step up ... the second half. play ever against a Notre Dame team. Did you step up and make the play?" Our leaders have to step up and it 
On 3rd-and-10 at their own 3-yard "We made some stops early, but then After the game, Irish defensive end starts with me." 

player of the game 

play of the game
stat of the game 
quote of the game 
Kyle Orton 

fumble by Darius Walker on the
4 

'We'll cry tonight but tomorrow we'll 
Purdue 3-yard line 
come back ready to get tough. " 
Purdue's quarterback torched the 
number oftouchdowns thrown by 
Irish secondary for 385 yards. 

Purdue quarterback Kyle Orton. 
Down 13-3, the Irish had a chance to 
Justin Tuck 

score before Walkers fumble. Nmety­
Irish defensive end 
seven yards later, Purdue was up 20-3. 


---------------------------------~ --------~-----­
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 4, 2004 
report card 
A­
D 
A C­
c 
8­
D 
F 
D 
1.87 
overall: Purdue is a good team, but the Irish didn't come to play Saturday. It remains to be seen how Notre Dame will respond to this loss. 
adding up the numbers 
before Saturday, the last year, that 
1974 
Purdue defeated Notre Dame at Notre Dame Stadium 
17 
number of touchdowns Kyle Orton has thrown so far this season in four games 
combined number of passing yards 873 between Purdue and Notre Dame Saturday 
2 
receptions made so far this season by Quinn, who caught his own batted ball in both the 
Purdue and Washington games 
number of interceptions that Orton has thrown so far this season 
0 
97 
length in yards of Taylor Stubblefield's touchdown pass -the longest single pass 
play ever allowed by Notre Dame at home 
number of Heisman candidates listed on ESPN.com, and Orton is one of them. 
11 
2 
number of touchdowns the Irish have allowed on kickoff coverage in the past three games; one 
against Purdue and one against Michigan State. 
quarterbacks: ()uinn matched Orton's 
p<L<;sing statistics and threw for 432 
yards, but his offense's inability to lind 
the end zone and an onL<;sionallark of 
pocket awanmess halted drives. 
running backs: Coaches lwld Grant out 
again. and Walker and Wilson had 
l'ew holes to hit against Purdue's 
delimsP. Walker's fumble was a huge 
turning point in the game. 
receivers: Fasano gave ()uinn an option all day long, and McKnight and . Shelton also had productive days. The rnn~ivers did a good job of gaining extra yards after the catch. 
offensive line: ()uinn had timP to throw 
on many occasions, but the line eould­
n't create holes for the running game. 
defensive line: The line only allowed 98 yards rushing, but wasn't able to get to Orton enough to disrupt Purdue's passing attack. 
linebackers: Tho linebackers shut down 
thP run, but a li~w blunders-like 
Coolsby allowing Orton to elude a p<L<;S 
rush -proved costly. 
defensive backs: The Irish secondary hw;­
n't lacPd a qum1Hrbiu:k like Orton. who 
made successli.d tl1rows despite good 
coverage. Tlmy allowed too many big 
plays in tlw gamn. 
special teams: Terrible missed tackles 
led to a I 00-yard kiekoll' return and 
later squib kicks to avoid poor cover­agt~. Notre Dame also had a field goal 
blocked. 
coaching: Notre Damn's eoaehes did a good job att.<u:king Purdue's delim<;e, but the Irish couldn't get the ball in the end zone. In the end, the players didn't make the 
plays when they needed to make them. 
. -...'···· 
2 

Irish running back Darius Walker is 1ackled by a pair of Purdue defenders during Notre Dame's 41-16 loss to the Boilermakers Saturday. Walker made a fumble on the 3-yard line in the second quarter that eventually led to a 97-yard Purdue touchdown drive. 
Irish don't make the big plays 
It started with the 100-yard kickoff return where Ambrose Wooden whiffed on a spin move by Purdue's Jerome Brooks. 
It continued with Darius Walker fumbling at the Purdue 3-yard line with the Irish only down 13-3. 
A 97-yard drive later and it's 20-3 Purdue at half­time. 
It ended on third-and-10 from that same 3-yard line early in the second half with the Boilermakers backed up against the student section. All-world quarterback Kyle Orton hit his favorite target, Taylor Stubblefield, in stride for a 97­yard touchdown pass that fea­tured Stubblefield giving the "Boiler Up" motion for the last 60 yards of that game-sealing third quarter score. 
What is "it?" "It" is making big plays. Saturday, the Irish didn't do it, 
and Purdue did. 
"We didn't make enough plays anywhere. We had opportunities on offense. We didn't cash in," Tyrone Willingham said. "We did-· n't step up and make some plays defensively and they did. They made some big plays." 
Remember in the Michigan game earlier this season the Irish were the team making the big plays. Think about Matt Shelton 

Matt Lozar 
Sports Writer 

making the acrobatic catch to get. the Irish on the board, the game­changing blocked punt and Darius Walker breaking tackles at the right time to find the end zone twice in his Notre Dame debut. That's how a team wins a big game. 
The Irish had a chance Saturday to get their fans, and most importantly, their students back into believing this team can get on a long-term run. 
Coming in on a three-game win­ning streak had everyone ready for this game all week, but just like in the past, the game was over before the 1812 Overture. 
That's what the "We didn't make enough ultimately Irish have become plays anywhere. We had responsible for 
under Willingham the team's per­
opportunities on offense. 
-if they don't formance on the make the big We didn't cash in. " field. plays against a It's ur:llikely any quality team, it's evidence of
Tyrone Willingham 
a blowout loss. change will show
Irish coach 
Seven losses of at least 20 points in the past 19 games isn't an anomaly, that's a disturbing trend. 
Gerry Faust had four such loss­es in a 4 7 -game stretch-all on the road. 
Bob Davie had three in 38 games-all on the road. Of Willingham's seven, three have come at home. 
But as much as people want to blame the coaching staff, the players are putting it on them­selves. 
As soon as Mike Goolsby heard his first question Saturday after the game, he defended his coach­es before answering. 
"First off, I want to say our coaches put us in a great game plan all week. I don't think we've been more prepared as odd as that may sound," he said. "I think a huge part of our defense is cre­ating turnovers, and we didn't get any today. 
"That was something we usually fall back on, and we didn't have it today." 
It's easy to blame the coaching staff. 
But the players have to go out there and make the plays. The coaches can't do that. 
That's not a defense of 
Willingham and 
his staff, who are 
up until the game 

at Tennessee in four weeks, unless the Irish inex­cusably lose one of their three games prior to the trip to Knoxville. That brings up a whole different issue. 
This one thing is true -the Irish didn't get it done Saturday. And they were embarrassed 
again. 
Something that's becoming an all-too-common theme in the Willingham era. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd. edu. 
Monday, October 4, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Orton more than just a good passer 
Purdue quarterback calls his own audibles, acts as a second coach on the field 
By PAT LEONARD 
Associate Sports Editor 
Purdue had the ball on the Notre Dame 3-yard line and the Irish defense forced two incomplete passes. Purdue coach Joe Tiller surprised no one by lin­ing up five wide receivers on third down. 
But then Boilermaker quarterback Kyle Orton stepped up out of the shot­gun. lie pointed to his right. The far right wide receiver ran in motion towards Orton. The quarterback pointed wide receiver Taylor Stubblefield to the sideline, hiked the ball and launched a perfect 97-yard touchdown pass to the isolated Stubblefield. 
"That (play( came from the sideline. Well. I think that one did. I don't know," Tiller said after the game. "I can ask lOrton(. but I think that was a call from the sidelines." 
Reporters asked Orton, Stubblefield and Purdue's offensive coordinator Jim Chaney. It turned out that Orton had ealled an audible. 
"Jie has complete control command of their system," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "lie made some pretty big plays today." 
The Ileisman Trophy candidate beat Notre Dame with 385 yards passing and four touchdowns, all the while having more control of the offense than even his own coach could recognize. 
"This guy's getting so hard for me to figure out," Tiller said. "What he's start­ing to do now which I really like ... is going up there and doing a lot of dummy audibles, so the defense has to play him safe." 
Orton became a coach on the field Saturday. Tiller made it obvious he had no problem with Orton having complete 194.11 is now first in the country. And quarterback Carson Palmer [425] for control of the offense. when the clock ran out to a 41-16 most passing yards against a Notre 
"Our quarterback continues to do a Purdue win over Notre Dame, Orton had Dame team. But his performance was no great job ... at the line of scrimmage," a season total of 17 touchdowns and less dominant. Tiller said. "He is a heck of talent, and zero interceptions. "There's a reason why they say he's our team is doing a great job of follow­"He was extremely accurate," one of the best quarterbacks in the ing his lead." Willingham said. "He hadn't thrown an country," Zbikowski said. 

Orton's teammates have followed their interception coming in to the ballgame, Orton gave one reason with his point quarterback to a 4-0 start after defeat­and if I'm correct he didn't throw one in to Stubblefield. ing Syracuse, Ball State, Illinois and this ball game. And that's not by acci­And as the receiver sprinted on his Notre Dame. dent. way to giving Purdue a 24-point lead, 
Orton's numbers speak for themselves. Irish safety Tom Zbikowski saw the the entire crowd at Notre Dame Stadium 
He is responsible for an average of 97-yard touchdown play develop. knew Orton -just as he does with 
28.5 points per game, ranking first in "It was good coverage," Zbikowski Purdue's success-had everything to do the NCAA and is second in the nation said. "I don't think he could have placed with it. averaging 355.25 yards of total offense. the ball anywhere else." 
Orton's passing efficiency rating of Orton nearly overtook former USC Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Irish passing game starting to click 
Montana under center. with a 13-yard reception. thrown for four or more
Notre Dame has two 
"We knew we were going to 30 years later, part two touchdowns in each of them. receivers with more do it," Fasano said of his It was 1974 when Purdue "He was unstoppable," said open looks in the middle of last won at Notre Dame, but Justin Tuck. "He is a greatthan 100 yards for the field. "We jtist didn't that was also the last time a quarterback. 
know how long it was going kickoff was returned for 100 "A lot of people say he isfirst time in 27 years to last." yards against the Irish. In the leading candidate for the Random facts 1974, USC's Anthony Davis Heisman Trophy. He's got my 
Quinn completed passes to ran the length of the field for vote." 
By KATE GALES 

10 receivers, including one to the touchdown. Saturday, Orton passed for 385 yardsSports Writer 
himself for no gain. The same Jerome Brooks went end against the Irish, completing thing hap-zone to end 21 of 31 attempts. He has Saturday's game was the pened last zone in the thrown 17 touchdown passes first time since 1977 that week against ''A lot ofpeople say first quarter on the season and has not Notre Dame had two Washington. [Orton] is the leading to put been intercepted once. receivers go over 100 yards Quinn also Purdue up Purdue has yet to commit a
candidate for the
receiving. recovered for good. turnover as a team this sea­
Brady Quinn found tight his own fum­Reisman Trophy. He's Orton on son. end Anthony Fasano eight ble. Chase got my vote.,, fire Gameday captains times for 155 yards and Anastasio Purdue Gameday captains were Hhema McKnight snagged recorded his quarterback linebacker Derek Curry, wide 
Justin Tuck
seven passes for 113 yards. first career Kyle Orton receiver Carlyle Holiday, 
The last time two receivers catch with a Irish defensive end passed for offensive lineman Dan both recorded over 100 yards 15-yard four touch­Stevenson and defensive line­in the same game was in snag and downs on man Justin Tuck. 1977, when receiver Kris tight end Jerome Collins Saturday. Haines and tight end Ken made his first offensive In Purdue's four games so Contact Kate Gales at McAfee did it with Joe appearance on the box scores far this season, he has kgales@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Purdue  10  10  21  0  41  
Notre Dame  3  0  13  0  16  
First quarter  

Purdue 3, Notre Dame 0 Ben Jones 31-yard field goal with 10:49 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 63 yards, 4:11 elapsed Notre Dame 3, Purdue 3 
D.J. Fitzpatrick 26-yard field goal with 6:30 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 69 yards, 4:19 elapsed 
Purdue 10, Notre Dame 3 Jerome Brooks 100-yard kickoff return with 
6:16 remaining (Jones kick) Drive: 1 play, 100 yards, 0:00 elapsed Second quarter 
Purdue 13, Notre Dame 3 
Jones 39-yard field goal with 11:24 remaining 
Drive: 7 plays, 52 yards, 1:52 elapsed Purdue 20, Notre Dame 3 Rob Ninkovich 2-yard pass from Kyle Orton with 1:03 remaining (Jones kick) Drive: 11 plays, 97 yards, 3:36 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Purdue 27. Notre Dame 3 Taylor Stubblefield 97-yard pass from Orton with 
11:51 remaining (Jones kick) Drive: 3plays, 97 yards, 0:19 elapsed Purdue 27. Notre Dame 10 Rhema McKnight 40-yard pass from Brady Quinn with 8:54 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 7plays, 63 yards, 2:57 elapsed Purdue 34, Notre Dame 10 Kyle Ingraham 9-yard pass from Orton with 6:40 remaining (Jones kick) Drive: 5plays, 56 yards, 2:14 elapsed Purdue 34, Notre Dame 16 Rashon Powers-Neal1-yard run with 4:17 remaining (Quinn pass failed) Drive: 7plays, 76 yards, 2:23 elapsed 
Purdue 41, Notre Dame 16 Stubblefield 12-yard pass from Orton with 
0:45 remaining (Jones kick) Drive: 8 plays, 75 yards, 3:32 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards passing yards return yards time of possession 




36-76  rushes-yards  28-99  
29-49-0  comp-att-int  22-32-0  
3-148  punts-yards  3-107  
2-1  fumbles-lost  0-0  
7-40  penalties-yards  8-70  
28  first downs  22  

passing  
Quinn  26-46-0  0rton  21-31-0  
Dillingham  3-3-0  Jones  1-1-0  

rushing  
Walker  19-60  Void  11-53  
Jenkins  2-20  Jones  9-44  
Wilson  1-2  Orton  6-3  

receiving 

Fasano  8-155  Stubblefield  7-181  
McKnight  7-113  Williams  5-59  
Shelton  3-61  Ingraham  4-29  
Samardzija  3-59  Bryant  2-78  
Freeman  2-22  Hare  1-36  

tackling 

Curry  7  Hall  13  
Goolsby  7  Pollard  10  
Burrell  7  Villareal  7  

Monday, October 4, 2004 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 


PUI~DUE PUNISHES PUINCHLESS IRISH 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Jbserver 

The Irish defensn was simply overwhelmed by Purdun's oflimsn Saturday, as Boilermaker quarterback Kyle Orton throw for liJUr 
\ 

touehdowns, tying the rneord for most touchdowns thrown hy an opponent at Notre Dame Stadium. Irish quarterback Brady Quinn threw for 432 yards, but could not get the ball in the nndzorw <L'i much as Orton-only eompleting one touchdown pass, a 40-¥ard strike to Hhema McKnight in the third quarter. Notrn Damn never looked comfortable against the I lnisman candidate Orton and his talented teammates, and the Irish gave up enough big plays through the air to make the final score an embarrassing 41-16 blowout. 

CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 

Clockwise from top right, Rashon Powers-Neal rushes for a touchdown in the third quarter. l~hema McKnight scores a 40-yard touchdown. Anthony Fasano makes a catch as Josh Schmidt tries to block. Chase Anastasio tries to break a tackle of a Purdue defender. Fasano makes a reception but loses his balance In the process. Brady Quinn Is sacked from behind. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, October 4, 2004 
page 15 
ic scene is buzzing with new sounds 

ster pop. The You will not leave disappointed from this love Interpol. "Wet From show. Oct. 21: Har Mar Superstar at Double Door 
eceived good 
Oct.16: Nintendo Fusion Tour with Ready for a good laugh, but not interested in the Radio's Lostprophets, My Chemical Romance, hearing superb music? Check out Har Mar 
Babes" (Touch Superstar's set. This one man act has toured with
Story of the Year and more at Congress
st known for The Strokes in Europe and blends indie. rock with 
r band mate Theater 
hip hop raps. all with disco-style beats. Although you enjoy the This mini-warped tour is sure to entice 
the music and lyrics are not the most pleasant 
. n, Clinic and many fans of new pop/punk to the show. 
sounding, his live show leaves you wondering why Each of these bands has proven their musi­
combination security lets a Ron Jeremy look-alike strip in pub­
cal talent with many accolades from MTV lic. He is outlandish and claims he has charm, but 
ess Theater and various music magazines. Interesting 
in reality Har Mar Superstar is one act to hear 
ergetic punk lyrics and typical guitar riffs found in many about rather than actually hear. 
ancing all the generic pop/punk outfits can be found here, his group has but with more style and power. Each of gy brand of these bands is sure to pick up where Blink Contact Lauren Wendel at 
ped Tour four 182 left off but with their own spin and wend8627@saintmarys.edu 
celebrated a charisma. If one is willing to dodge llboard album throngs of high schoolers off to !urn "Within a their first big show and ignore cor­' One, 2002). porate sponsorship, then this is a b be found on great show to let loose at. 
Ivol. 2" compi­Oct. 17: Interpol with Secret lg "Drunken Machines at Riviera Theater and The Living End or influences of Green Day and With its long awaited second 
ith Radio 4 at 

The Clash. this is sure to be a top pick of bands to album "interpolantics" (Matador, 2004) listen to. finally released, Interpol is ready to .te Doherty's con­Oct. 14: Death Cab for Cutie at Riviera Theater spread its innovative and dark brand of 
problems, The If you have not heard of Death Cab for Cutie yet, 
alternative rock to the nation. Hailed as
ecord and release it is a must have for your musical library. The light­
one of rock's next big things by Spin mag­
album to raving ness of the guitars and vocals leaves one floating in 
azine in 2003, Interpol is a leading trend­
and revives the the air and dizzy with emotions. Its latest album 
setter in today's modern rock scene.
Clash but while "Transatlanticism" (Barsuk Records, 2003) con­
Stylish, polished and overflowing with tal­
cism and relent­tains a healthy serving of indie lullabies about love 
ent, Interpol is a top choice for any music 
ept jagged and lost in an ocean of memories easily relatable to col­ue twist to the lege students. If you enjoy this type of heartstring­lover today. If you like The Strokes, The u enjoy contem­tugging polished melodies, also check out Postal Walkmen, White Stripes, British Sea okes, The Hives Service, a side project of lead singer Ben Gibbard. Power or Television, chances are you will 


for the Chicago Marathon 
dents lace up their running shoes for the 26.2 mile run this weekend 
arity," much 
·ng for >xperi-
I can m I'm But at barely so it's mg if I 
t of a he big ifficult ishing ental 
in the 
long 
Other 
aring; 
arder 
> long 

et up 
clubs 
enjoy 
their gs not t also II over 
n at 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 4, 2004 
================================== 
NFL 
Patriots extend winning streak to 18 games 
Associated Press formance of the season. 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y.-Tom Stealers 28, Bengals 17 Brady's arm and Richard The Pittsburgh Steelers don't Seymour's legs. You can't accuse need quarterback Ben the New England Patriots of run­Roethlisberger to win games, just ning out of winning combina­to keep from losing them. With tions. victories in two promising starts, 
The quarterback and the he's doing just fine. defensive end teamed up to Roethlisberger. showing secure the Patriots' record-tying uncommon poise for a rookie 18th straight victory. 31-17 over who wasn't expected to play this the Buffalo Bills on Sunday. season, twice rallied the Steelers 
Brady's performance was no (3-1) and Duce Staley ran for 123 surprise, putting New England yards in a victory Sunday over ahead for good, with a 2-yard the Cincinnati Bengals (1-3). touchdown pass to Daniel "You can just see him coming Graham four minutes into the into his own," wide receiver fourth quarter that broke a 17-17 Plaxico Burress said. "He doesn't tie. It marked the 16th time that let anything bother him, and Brady has led the Patriots to vic­that's what I like about him." tory in the final 15 minutes or Roethlisberger went 17 -of-25 overtime. for 17 4 yards, a touchdown and 
Seymour's effort was much no interceptions to better Carson more breath-taking -or, per­Palmer in a QB duel that may be haps. breath-exerting. repeated for years in the AFC 
With the Bills threatening to tie North. Palmer drove the Bengals the game, the 310-pound line­to touchdowns on their opening man snapped up a fumble by drive of each half, but ended the Drew Bledsoe forced by Tedy game with consecutive intercep­Bruschi and ran it back 68 yards tions, giving him seven in four to seal the victory with 2:44 starts. remaining. Palmer's former Southern Cal 
"A lot of sucking air," Seymour roommate, Troy Polamalu, fin­said, laughing. "I just kept run­ished it off with a 26-yard inter­ning." ception return for a touchdown. 
And so appear to be the Jerome Bettis had given the Patriots, who have not lost in 53 Steelers a 21-17 lead with just weeks, going back to a 20-17 over nine minutes remaining with defeat at Washington on Sept. 28, his second short-range touch­He wasn't quite as sharp as last Right tackle Maurice Williams scored its most points, created its 2003. down. week, when he threw for 393 was out of the game with cramps. most turnovers and responded 
In between, they've won 15 Already, some Bengals fans are yards and five touchdowns Texans 30, Raiders 17 well to a loud, disruptive crowd of consecutive regular-season questioning the decision to bench against Green Bay. But he did Since beating the Dallas 70,741 that was its second­games and three in the playoffs. Jon Kitna, who threw 26 touch­exactly what he need€ d to Cowboys in their franchise debut biggest, an impressive feat con­including last February's Super down passes last season as the against Jacksonville's defense. three seasons ago, the Houston sidering the Houston Astros were Bowl victory over Carolina. NFL Comeback Player of the which had allowed just 28 points Texans have been trying to win playing their season fmale with a 
The Patriots tied a record held Year, and play Palmer. in the first three games. two in a row. playoff spot on the line at the by four other NFL teams -Colts 24, Jaguars 17 "It's great to have No. 18 back The pursuit became such a big same time. Chicago did it twice -and also Peyton Manning & Co. were too there with all the stuff he c.:m do deal that quarterback David Carr No wonder Carr downplayed by the 194 7-48 AAFC Cleveland much for Jacksonville's vaunted and the different ways hn can vowed last September he would­the storyline of his hair and spoke Browns. They're the first to win defense. help you," said Brandon Stokley, n't cut his hair until it happened. passionately about the signifi­18 straight since Denver in 1997-Manning was perfect on three who caught eight passes ~)r 97 It's fmally time for a trip to the cance of this victory. 
98. scoring drives, Edgerrin James yards. "It's priceless." barber, David. "This was one we had to get," 
New England gets an opportu­ran for 83 yards and a touch­Jacksonville (3-1) played a The Texans ended their curious said Carr, who was 14-of-23 for nity to break the record by host­down and the Indianapolis Colts fourth consecutive close game -drought Sunday with an impres­228 yards with a touchdown and ing Miami next weekend. handed the Jaguars their first it won the first three by a com­sive 30-17 victory over the no turnovers. "The thing is, we're 
As impressive as it seems, the loss of the season Sunday. bined seven points-but co 1ldn't Oakland Raiders. one game back in the division. Patriots continue to downplay the Manning was 14-for-14 for 149 pull this one out. The defense forced Kerry That's our goal. We're trying to streak, calling it meaningless. yards on three touchdown drives, After James' TO run, Collins into five turnovers, includ­win a division and a champi­
"We don't really think about including 5-for-5 on the go-ahead Jacksonville drove into Indy terri­ing each of his last four drives. onship. It shouldn't be shocking that," Seymour said. "I know we score with about three minutes to tory with less than two minutes to and the offense capitalized to for me to say that." need to play better than we play. He completed passes to five play. turn a tie game into a solid win. Oakland (2-2) came in on a played today. It's not going to be different receivers on the final But Fred Taylor came up short "Our team showed what we are two-game winning streak and an good enough coming down the drive, which James capped with on fourth-and-1 -with both capable of doing." defensive end emotional, well-played win over stretch." a 3-yard TO run. starting offensive tackles ori the Gary Walker said. "We set a stan­Tampa Bay. The Raider Nation 
The Patriots' performance was "Peyton's on point right now," sideline -and the Colts (3-1) ran dard for the rest of the season." was excited to see what the good enough to beat a bumbling Jags linebacker Akin Ayodele out the clock from there. At 36 games. or 2 1/4 seasons. strong-armed Collins could do in Bills team that's lost three said. "There's not much he's "I thought it was a bad t.pot," the Texans {2-2) needed longer coach Norv Turner's passing straight to open this season, lacks doing wrong." said Taylor, who ran 21 timns for than any expansion team to win offense in place of Rich Gannon. confidence and continues to find Last season's co-MVP entered 68 yards. "I thought we got that consecutive games. There were some nice, deep ways to lose. the game with nine touchdown yard, but I guess the officiab; did­They were 0-for-9 before fol­passes early, and a strong first­
The Bills -coming off consec­passes and just one interception. n't see it the same way." lowing a last-second victory at half running game behind Amos utive 13-10 losses to Jacksonville He was 20-of-29 for 220 yards Left tackle Mike Pearson dam­Kansas City with this strong Zereoue, who was forced into and Oakland -lost while squan­Sunday with two TO passes and aged ligaments in his left knee showing. action when Tyrone Wheatley dering their best offensive per-an interception. and could be out for the season. And strong it was: Houston was injured. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW  Buying and selling NO football tix,  Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity  
...  WANTED  FoR SALE  LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS.  TICKETS  especially Boston College 574-289-8048  Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals,  
ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT.  Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau.  
Hacienda 1 00 Center wants YOUI  COND0-1434 Marigold Way #114-Large 1 bedroom w/garage,  WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BED­ BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES  PERSONAL  Jamaica From $4591 Panama City &Daytona $1591  
Need weekend servers &  perfect condition,  ROOM HOUSES, STUDENT  273-3911  www.SpringBreakTravel.com  
Line Cooks Apply In person  mostappliances stay,  NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY  SPRING BREAK with  1-800-678-6386  
between 2 &3 p.m.  Open House Sun.  SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE  For Sale: NO f:JOiball tix.  BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURSI  
700 LWW. MISH.IN 46544  10/3,2-4pm.  STAFF ON CALL,  Good prices. <32-0964.  The BEST  Spring break 2005 Challenge ..find  
Near entrance of North Shore  WASHER, DRYERS.  Spring Break  a better price I Lowest price  
PART-TIME WORK  Condos on Right.  VISIT OUR WEBSITE  Wanted: NO fcotball tix. Top$$$  Under the Sun!  specials! FreeMeals! November 6th  
Great pay,  $73,000.  WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR  251-1570.  Acapulco-Vallarta­ deadline!  
flex sched.,sales/  Call Reed 276-4131.  CONTACT: KRAMER  Mazatlan-Cancun &Cabo.  Hiring reps-earn free trips and cashl  
svc.all ages18+,  (574)234-2436 OR  NO ftball tix bcught &sold a.m.  Book by Oct 31 =  www.sunsplashtours.com  
cond. apply,  (574)315-5032.  232-2378 p.m. 288-2726  FREE MEALS  1800-426-7710  
273-4878  FoR RENT  &FREE DRINKS!  
2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  Orgranize a group- Congrats for entertaining the  
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS  NO Football housing.  Walking distance from ND  NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY  GO FREEl  Legends band girls  
WWW. WORK FORST  Walk to game.  MMMRentals.com  NO FOOTBALL GAME.  800-875-4525  You are my heros  
UDENTS.COM  57 4-315-3215.  532-1408  CALL 674-6593.  or www.bianchi-rossi.com  Thanks for Saturday  

Monday, October 4 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish svveep the Orange in 3 sets 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Writer 
Sometimes small changes pro­duce big differences. 
This held true for the Irish this weekend as Carolyn Cooper made her first start of the year and helped the Notre Dame vol­leyball team sweep Syracuse 30­23, 30-24, 30-17 on Saturday in Manley Field House. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown decided to put Cooper in at mid­dle blocker in place of Emily Loomis. who moved to the out­side hitter spot where she had played for the previous two sea­sons. Meg Henican, who had started at outside hitter against Michigan, was placed back in her normallibero position. 
The roster shakeup helped the Irish win their Big East opener for the tenth consecutive season while sparking Notre Dame to its best defensive performance of the season. 
The Irish came up with a sea­son-high 16 blocks, seven of which came from the front row combination of Cooper and Lauren Brewster, despite only playing a three-game match. Adrianna Stasiuk added a sea­son-high five blocks while Loomis had four. Syracuse as a team was only able to tally seven. 
Another bright spot for the Irish was the fact that they did not allow a service ace by Syracuse while notching six for themselves. Henican had a lot to do with that as she led the Irish for the tenth time this year in digs, notching 16, while Stasiuk chipped in 12. 
Notre Dame played steadily against a mistake-prone Orange team. The Irish jumped out to a lead of 5-1 in the first game and held Syracuse to a .017 hitting percentage for the match while hitting .198 themselves. 
An error by Syracuse, one of 33 on the day for the Orange, ended the first game in favor of the Irish. 
After shooting out to a 12-4 lead in game two, the Irish wit­nessed a Syracuse rally that scraped the Irish lead down to 16-15. The Orange offensive surge was headed by Morgan Jones, who hit .400 for the match to go along with seven kills. Erin McQuillin hit .300 with five kills while Joscie Kaup recorded 11 digs to keep the Irish offense in check. But five kills by Brewster in the frame delivered game two to Notre Dame. 
The third game was tight as the teams were knotted at 10-10 early on. But the Irish pulled away with a 9-0 run to seal the victory. 
Notre Dame will return to the court next weekend with Big East road matches with Rutgers and Seton Hall. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at rngilloon@nd.edu 

SAl ~IT MA. RYS CO LLEG E.. ~lOT RE DA~JlE, 1~1 DIA~IA WE LCO foJlES 
r 

oc.t?beY:13? 20CVf •7.30p..VVL. 
o'Ulu.gvtl.UA,Au.d~VlA., 
Irrternat ion-21lly ao:l-21irne::l -21ut hor a The FiftJ Book d A?aai.> and 1/Lb.o:na<.~ 1/Larrior. · Memars ofGi~'/hood AI»Off:/ Ghosts. 
eo~ ~ectr her~R. abot.d 
u ~"P'e&fct." 
Free and OfOElll to1he Public Book Signing at:-;:1 Recat:t' 
Spcnso1ed bythe 
MLB 

Expos say good­bye to baseball 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Todd Zeile's finale was a whole lot more fulfilling than the Montreal Expos' farewell. 
Zeile hit a three-run homer in the last at-bat of his career, leading the New York Mets over the Expos 8-1 on Sunday in Montreal's final game before moving to Washington. 
"I tried to enjoy the day and have something fun and memorable to take with me," Zeile said. 
The game was also the last for Art Howe as the Mets' manager. He was fired Sept. 15, but chose to stay on to finish out a dismal season in which the Mets went 71-91. 
"The special things that happened today, it was excit­ing to be a part of," Howe said. "When Todd hit that home run I just got goose­bumps." 
The Expos played their first and final game as Montreal's "Nos Amours" at Shea Stadium. In front of an uninspired crowd of 33,569 that was fitting for the two worst teams in the NL East, fans started a brief "Let's go Expos!" chant in the ninth i just in case. 
Cubs 10, Braves 8 
Greg Maddux beat the Atlanta Braves and then, almost longingly, wished them good luck in the play­offs. 
For the first time in more than a decade, the ex-Braves star will be sitting out the postseason. And beating his former team in a meaning­less regular-season finale was no consolation. 
"It was embarrassing walk­ing out on the field today. We won, but big deal," Maddux said Sunday after getting the victory for the Chicago Cubs in their victory over the NL East-champion Braves. 
"It's just kind of a big let­down after the last couple of days. It was tough to go out there. It really should have mattered and it didn't," Maddux added. 
The Cubs led the wild-card race with nine games left, then lost seven of eight in a dramatic collapse before being eliminated Saturday. 
Atlanta earlier wrapped up its 13th straight division title and will face Houston in the first round Wednesday with Jaret Wright starting the opener for the Braves, prob­ably against Roger Clemens. 
"You know you wish the Braves well. They're a great organization and I enjoyed every day I played over there," Maddux said. 
Facing the Braves for the first time since July 10, 1992, the last year of his first stint with the Cubs and his first Cy Young Award season, Maddux worked six innings and gave up a pair of homers to Charles Thomas while yielding six runs. Giants 10, Dodgers 0 
Now that the preliminaries are out of the way, Odalis Perez and the Los Angeles Dodgers are ready for the main event. 
Perez came out swinging Sunday after the Dodgers lost a meaningless regular­season finale to the San Francisco Giants. 
"If we beat St. Louis, we're going to win the World Series," Perez said. "If we beat them, this is it: Dodgers champions." 
Perez, 7-6 with a fran­chise-record 18 no-decisions and a 3.25 ERA, will oppose Woody Williams (11-8) on Tuesday in St. Louis to begin the best-of-5 divisional series. 
The NL Central champion Cardinals won a major league-leading 105 games to 93 for the Dodgers, but Perez said that doesn't mean any­thing. 

We eo Mondays Like No Flace Else! 


OUND TH-E NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:S WIRE SERVICES Monday. October 4, 2004 
College Football Polls 
MLB Final Standings 
AL East 
team record perc. GB Streak NY Yankees 101-61 .623 W·1 Boston 98-64 .605 3.0 l·1 Baltimore 78·84 .481 23.0 W-1 Tampa Bay 70·91 .435 30.5 .. W·1 Toronto 67·94 .416 33.5 l·1 
AL central 
team record perc. GB Streak Minnesota 92-70 .568 l·1 Chicago 83·79 .512 ... 9.0 W·1 Cleveland 80·82 .494 12.0 W·1 Detroit 72·90 .444 20.0 ··l·1 Kansas City 58·104 .358 34.0 l·1 
AL West 
team record perc. GB Streak Anaheim 92·70 .568 l·1 Oakland 91-71 .562 1.0 W·1 Texas 89·73 .549 3.0 W·2 Seattle 63·99 .389 29.0 l·2 
NL East 
team record perc. GB Streak Atlanta 96·66 .593 l·1 Philadelphia 86·76 .531 10.0 W·1 Florida 83-79 .512 13.0 l-1 NY Meta 71-91 .438 25.0 W-1 Montreal 67-95 .414 29.0 l·1 
NL Central 
team record perc. -GB Streak St. louis 105·57 .648 W·1 Houston 92·70 .568 13.0 W·7 Chicago 89-73 .549 16.0 W·1 Cincinnati 76·86 .469 29.0 l·2 Pittsburgh 72·89 .447 32.5 W·2 Milwaukee 67-94 .416 37.5 l·1 
NL West 
team record perc. GB Streak Los Angeles 93·69 .574 L·1 San Fran. 91·71 .562 2.0 W·1 San Diego 87·75 .537 6.0 l·2 Colorado 68·94 .420 25.0 l·4 Arizona 51·111 .315 42.0 W·2 

AP South Africa's Ernie Els hits out of tl~e bunker at the 18th hole on his way to winning the World Golf Championship at Mount Juliet Golf course on Sunday. 
Els captures lNGC title by one stroke 
around the dial 
NFL Chiefs at Ravens 8 p.m., ABC 

-
GOLF 


Associated Press 

THOMASTOWN. Ireland­The pressure to win made Ernie Els feel like he was in a major. Given all he has been through this year, his victory in the American Express Championship sure felt like one. 
Emotionally spent from a Grand Slam season of heartache, Els reasserted himself as a major force Sunday by outlasting Thomas Bjorn in a brilliant­ly played duel in the cold rain at Mount Juliet. He closed with a 3-under 69 for a one-shot victory and his first World Golf Championship. 
"Everybody knows what I've been through this sum-
IN BRIEF EilJ"nhardt's }VOrds threaten 
his Nextel pomts lead 
TALLADEGA, Ala. Dale Earnhardt was nearly perfect on the racetrack. His only real slipup Sunday came in Victory Lane during a pos­trace television interview. 
Junior, who charged from 11th place to a victory and the series points lead in the last five laps of the NASCAR Nextel Cup race at Talladega Superspeedway, put that lead in jeop­ardy by cursing during an NBC Sports interview. 
In February at Rockingham, NASCAR president Mike Helton explicitly told drivers to watch their mouths on radio and television. Less than a month later, Johnny Sauter was fined $25,000 and docked 25 points after cursing during a radio interview following the Busch Series race in Las Vegas. 
''I'm worried about losing some points," said Earnhardt, who moved into the series lead by 13 points over Kurt Busch, who finished fifth Sunday. 
mer," Els said. "I had a lot of pressur€ on me, and I think I showed that 1 didn't want to lose." 
The Big Easy had every reason to fed sorry for him­self. 
He lost th1~ Masters when Phil Mickebon birdied the last hole. He played in the final group of the U.S. Open and shot 80. He lost the British Open in a four-hole playoff against unheralded Todd Hamilton. And a bogey on the final hole knocked him out of 'l playoff at the PGA Championship. 
"I wanted to forget about the majors, the near miss­es," Els said. "I needed to get that out of my system and start over. Otherwise. I'm going to get left behind. 
NASCAR spokeswoman Denise Maloof said Nextel Cup director John D.trby and vice president for competi­tion Robin Pemberton were "aware of the situation and would address it on Tuesday or Wednesday. That doesn't n~lcessarily mean that he will be fined or lose points." Vfoods' wedding reportedly
planned for Tuesday 
BRIDGETOWN, Barbados-Tiger Woods says he's planning a Caribbean vacation, but Barbados is abuzz with n:ports that he's set to wed Swedish model Elin Nordegren this week. 
Newspapers in Barbados and Ireland have reported that the two are to marry early this week at the Sandy Lane luxury resort on the Caribbean island's west coast. 
Hotel manager Wilbert Mason said h'~ doesn't know of any plans for a wedding. But two sources who said tt,ey had knowledge of the event told The Associated Press that it was p .anned for Tuesday at the resort. Ttley spoke on condition of anonymity. 
I don't want to do that. I want to win tournaments. and the only way you can do it is to move forward." 
Els took one small leap with his fourth victory of the year. 
He moved past Tiger Woods to No. 2 in the world ranking, and the 34-year­old South African now has yet another chance to reach No. 1 by the end of the year. 
Els and Vijay Singh, who did not play this week because of the latest hurri­cane in Florida, are sched­uled to play the next two tournaments in Europe. 
"The game is on," Els said. 
The game at Mount Juliet was on from the opening hole, and never let up until 
The Barbados Daily Nation newspa­per ran a story Wednesday under the headline "Tiger Woods tying knot at Sandy Lane." 
Woods declined to confirm the reports, and when asked about a Caribbean vacation said only, "''m ready to go diving. I'm ready to hop in that water and shoot some fish." Federer routes Roddick in 
Thailand Open 
BANGKOK, Thailand -Top-ranked Roger Federer routed an injured Andy Roddick 6-4, 6-0 Sunday to capture the Thailand Open, joining John McEnroe and Bjorn Borg as the only players to win 12 straight ATP Tour finals in the last 25 years. 
"It would be nice to break their record, but I'll take one tournament at a time," said Federer, who has won 10 titles this year. "I hope to play well until the end of the season." 
Federer needed just 58 minutes to defeat the second-seeded Roddick, whose elbow was sore from his semi­final victory over Marat Satin. 
Bjorn failed to make a 40­foot birdie putt on the final hole. That allowed Els to two-putt for bogey from 15 feet to finish at 18-under 270. 
Els won $1.2 million and set the single-season earn­ings record on the European tour, topping $4 million. 
The majors over, this was a consolation prize. 
Bjorn might have felt the same way in defeat. Four months ago in Ireland, the 33-year-old Dane walked oil' the course during the open­ing round at the European Open and said he was men­tally unfit to play, his confi­dence so low that even the largest greens looked like the tiniest of targets. 
AP 
team 1 usc (48) 2 Oklahoma (15) 3 Georgia (2) 4 Miami 5 Texas 6 Auburn 7 California 8 Florida Slate 9 Purdue 10 VIrginia 11 Utah 12 Florida 13 Minnesota 14 Michigan 15 Wisconsin 16 West VIrginia 17 Tennessee 18 Ohio Slate 19 Arizona State 20 louisville 21 Bofse State 22 Oklahoma State 23 Maryland 24 lSU 25 South Carolina 
Coaches 
team 
usc (46) 1 Oklahoma (12) 2 Georgia (1) 3 Mlaml(2) 4 Texas 5 Auburn 6 California 7 Florida State 8 VIrginia 9 Purdue 10 Utah 11 Florida 12 Minnesota 13 Mlchlgafl 14 Ohio State 15 Wisconsin 16 Tennessee 17 West VIrginia 18 Boise State 19 louisville 20 Oklahoma State 21 Arizona State 22 Maryland 23 LSU 24 NC State 25 
GOLF Michelin Championship 3 p.m., USA 
POKER World Series of Poker 4:30 p.m., ESPN2 

Monday, October 4, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles defeat Albion College 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
On Saturday the Belles made it three straight as they triumphed over Albion College. 
The win put Saint Mary's in a tie with the Britons for fifth place in the MlAA. 
The Belles improved to 4-5 in the conference and 4-8 overall. 
Earlier in the season. Albion dr.feated Saint Mary's in four games. but this time. the Belles were able to capitalize both on offense and defense and came away with the win. 
"Both our offense and defensive our strong," Michelle Gary said. "When we work together in both areas we give ourselves the chance to win. We just have to put them both together in the same game in order to establish some sort of balance." 
Among the Belles who played well were Amanda David and Michelle Turley. David ended the day with 12 kills on offense, while Turley collected 21 in the match. 
But neither player was done as they excelled on defense as well. Turley continued to shine for the Belles as she put up an impres­sive 31 digs. 
David had 15 of her own, and Ann Cusack's consistent play on defense was once against evident as she was second to only Turley with 27 digs. Cusack currently leads the team with 184 digs in 12 games. Turley has recorded 138 kills on offense this year, and Shelly Bender's 97 kills place her close behind. 
For the second straight year, Saint Mary's lost the first match to the Britons only to come back in the next one and win. 
The Belles won the first game, 30-28, and pulled out a grueling second contest with a 36-34 vic­tory. Things got a little scary as the Belles dropped the next two forcing the match into a fifth and deciding game. However, Saint Mary's accepted the challenge and won by a score of 15-9. 
Since starting the season 0-5, the Belles have compiled a record of 4-3 in their last seven games and appear to be right back in the hunt in the MlAA. They cur­rently trail Adrian College by only one game for fourth place. 
"Kalamazoo is coming up on Wednesday and they have a strong team." Gary said. "We are tied with Albion for fifth in the MlAA, but we are still taking one game at a time. We have the potential to beat the rest of the teams on our schedule and the chance to keep rising in the standings." 
Saint Mary's will need to have another solid game this Wednesday when they take on third place Kalamazoo. The Hornets are 7-2 in the league, but the rejuvenated Belles will be eagerly looking to extend their streak. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

1wfo~"" M~ 
5PM. :12-' tfrAye.s--t-t6ALY 
MONDAY, OCTOBER+ 
No prior stud~ ot Japanese necessar~ torTok~o 
SMC GoLF 
Saint Mary's places second at Invitational 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sporrs Writer 
Second place usually war­rants a shoulder shrug. 
Many coaches would talk about second place finishes like they have a chip on their shoulders. But not Saint Mary's Mark Hamilton. 
Although the Belles fin­ished in second place this weekend at the Oshkosh Invitational, Hamilton was pleased with the team's per­formance. 
''I'm proud of how the ladies played under such tough conditions," Hamilton said. "I wish we could have come out on top, but we played our best." 
The Belles battled 40 mile per hour winds and a chilly 

temperature of 
''I'm proud ofhow the only one to
35 degrees 
applaud the

ladies played under 
Saturday 
team for its

morning. such tough conditions. 
performance

Despite the 
I wish we could have this week­
harsh weather 
come out on top, but end.
conditions and 
"A lot of 

a challenging we played our best." 
the coaches 

course, Saint 
there said

Mary's finished 
Mark Hamilton considering
with a two-day 
the fact that

Belle coach 
score of 683 
strokes. University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire cap­tured first place with 675 strokes, University of Wisconsin-Pia tteville trailed the Belles with 707, University of Wisconsin-River Falls finished in fourth place at 721 shots and host University of Wisconsin­Oshkosh shot a team score of 7 25 for fifth place. 
Junior Megan Mattia led the Belles with a fifth place finish, firing a two-day score of 166. Hamilton cited Mattia as an individual who realized her potential this weekend. 
"She got a little more on track this week. I'm expect­ing her to shoot a couple of rounds in the seventies this year," Hamilton said. "I think she'll be one of the pillars of next year's hopefully suc­cessful team." 
Logging a seventh place finish, senior Stefanie Simmerman registered a 
169. Senior captain Chrissy Dunham, who struggled with a foot injury earlier this week, earned a tenth place finish with 172 strokes. Hamilton praised Dunham for her persistence. 
"[Dunham] played as well as she would even if she did­n't have an injury," Hamilton said. "She hit a lot of good sho~.s and really toughed it out. 
Juniors Julia Adams. Nicole Bellino and Kirsten Fantom rounded out the roster, with 176, 181, and 183, respec­tively. 
Hamilton wasn't the 
we've never 

played that course before. we played really well." Hamilton said. "I was really proud of the girls this weekend I think we proved that we could play well even under bad condi­tions." 
The Belles will have an opportunity to prove them­selves once again at the MIAA championships next weekend. This time, howev­er, pressure will most likely be the variable affecting the team's performance. 
"We want to win the con­ference title." Hamilton said. "And after this meet, I think we're prepared." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's College 32nd Annual 
EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY TOUR 
Travels in Ireland, Scotland, England and France 
INFORMATION SESSION WEDNESDAY OCTOBERS 6:30p.m. Science Hall 286 
May 18 to June 15, 2005 Courses offered in Art, Biology, and Psychology For further information contact: Prof. Tom Parisi 2844529;4534 Madeleva 152 E·mail: tparisi@saintmarys.edu 
~------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------·---------------­
page 20 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish head to Franklin to tee off in Shootout 

By ERIC RETTER Sporrs Writer 
The Irish will look to contin­ue their winning ways as they head to Franklin, Ind. to play in the Shootout at the Legends. ThP team won arguably its biggest tournament in the 16­ynar history of the program last weekPnd. taking the Jeannine Mcllaney Invitational/Central Regional Preview and defeating then­No. 1 ranked Missouri in the process. 
The 54-hole event will run all day today and 
Tuesday, with 36 
"We see a lot oftop

holes being tying for 1Oth played today with teams throughout with a five-over­the final round the year, and that par 149. Brown 
taking place finished 1 stroke
really helps us out."

Tuesday. behind. tying for 
The tournament 14th with a total will be conducted Debby King score of 150. in the six-count­Junior Lauren
Irish coach 
four format, with all six golfers competing for each team and the top four scores each round counting towards the overall team score. 
Though this tournament may not have the top-to-bottom firepower of the McHaney Invitational, the Irish will still face a tough challenge in the field of 12 competitors. Their toughest competition will come from nemesis Michigan, who the Irish already faced at the Lady Northern Invitational in Ann Arbor. 
"We see a lot of top teams throughout the year, and that really helps us out," eoach Debby King said. 
With performances like last weekend's, the Irish are becoming a top team them­selves, and this week they send a lineup capable of achieve­ment and becoming more con­

sistent with each passing week. 
"I've been trying to instill that they are not a break 80 team, but can break 75-each one (of them]." King said. 
Loading the team will be jun­ior co-captain Katie Brophy, who broke 75 twice on her way to an individual title at the Central Regional preview, shooting a 69 and a 72 to win her school-record third indi­vidual title. 
Sophomores Noriko Nakazaki and Stacy Brown will join Brophy at the Shootout. Both did well and cracked the top 15 last weekend. with Nakazaki 
Gebauer and 
freshman Jane Lee, who both competed and did well last weekend. will also travel to Franklin to play over the next two days. Rounding out the Irish lineup will be jun­ior co-captain Suzie Hayes, who will be competing in her second tournament of the sea­son. 
Hayes, along with co-captain Brophy, have been largely responsible for the chemistry of the team, which may go far to explain their growing suc­cess. 
"That's one of the biggest assets to this team," King said about their chemistry. "There is no animosity among team members at all, and they wish the best for each other." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Shovv us your Student ID and receive 
% 

OFF 
i\LL SAL.QN SERVICES 
& 

HAIR CARE 
PRODUC~TS 
\.fc.md~l)' -ThiJr'C'd~l.V tm I~.. Regulru· pl'ict': hair(ut:; 
$1395 

Monday, October 4, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

==================================== 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish tel play in Windon Mem.orial 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 

The Irish will be back in action today, heading to Northwestern University to com­pete in the Windon Memorial Classic. 
The Irish will face stilT compe­tition at the Windon. including defending NCAA champion California. Also inc .uded in the 16-team field are four other teams that earned bids to the NCAA finals and nine teams that qualified for NCAA regionals. including the Irish. 
Additionally, se-ten golfers who earned All-Am~rica honors will compete thi~ weekend, including Peter Richardson of Minnesota, last year's individual champion. 
"In terms of strength of the field, this is probably one of our toughest ones," assistant coach Chris Whitten said. "This event is more important [than most of our other ones) be~ause there are more teams fmm our dis­trict. Some of the really good teams from the district are going to be there." 
The 54-hole event will run all day today and Tuesday at the Conway Hills Golf Course in Lake Forrest, Ill. Thirty-six holes will be played today, with the final round taking place Tuesday. 
The Irish will sen<] a relatively experienced lineup to compete this weekend. The team will be rejoined by junior Scott Gustafson, who was injured in a car accident three weeks ago. Gustafson will fill a void the Irish struggled to replacf: during his absence. 
"It felt like we wen one player short a lot of times," Whitten said of the time Gustafson was out. 
Sophomore Cole Isban, who has performed well for the Irish over the past few weeks, will join Gustafson this week. Isban has led the Irish in scoring in both of the first two events this year. 
Junior Eric Deutsch and fresh­man Greg Rodgers will also take the links to compete for the Irish. Deutsch has two top 15 finishes in two tournaments this season, and Badgers is already becoming a reliable member of the team as a freshman. 
Junior Tommy Balderston will round out the Irish lineup, appearing for the first time as a member of the scoring lineup. Balderston, who was a key member of last year's team, struggled early on this year, but seems to have found his stroke again this year, winning the John Dallio Invitational last week, which he entered as an individual. 
"We feel like the guys in the lineup are starting to gel," Whitten said. "If these guys have their best rounds, we're getting to the point where we can com­pete with anyone." 
In addition to the Windon, the Irish will send Jive members to compete as individuals in the Eric Yestingsmeier Invitational, hosted by Ball State. 
Junior Mark Baldwin, sopho­more Shane Sigsbee. senior K.C. Wiseman and freshmen Eddie Peckels and Mike King will all try to get some competition under their collective belts. 
The Irish will use these tour­naments to measure themselves against some strong competition and see where their place is on the national level, at least at this moment. 
Contact Eric Retter eretter@nd.edu 

trnh·~tniil) ••' No1n Oaau: lntc'nut1iii.IJUIII Mr~d' l'rogrnm fn 
Angers, France Paris, France 
INFORI\JIATION J\.·IEETJN(; 
Top Ten Reasons W'h'r You Should NOT Go To France \\"ith Prof. Paull\tcDowcn and returnees of th(" r>rogram 
~ . . . 
Pletlj:eJ.f!~~t 11~ wlletherlt Lo; yourJ!rs;t or .'tf!t.•oltd 
f!!~trJ!f!Jl d~'~l/t II~\~~ 

\\1edne-sday, October 6. 2004 7:30 Pl\1 It9 l>cBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15. 2004 Acadctnic Year 2005·2006 1:all 20<05 . SJl·ring 2006 ,•\ppHclU ion~ a\ ailahk: W\\ \\. r\i.LI."t1 u/-in.t blud 
Monday, October 4, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
SMC SWIMMING 
Saint Mary's finishes seventh of eight teams 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKK.ALA 
Sports Writer 
Facing tough competition from several Division I teams and a top­ranked Division III school, Saint Mary's took seventh place out of eight teams in the Dennis Stark Relays on Friday. 
Squaring off against Notre Dame, Illinois State, Valparaiso and Wisconsin-Milwaukee -a top 25 Division Ill program ­Saint Mary's had several bright spots during the competition. 
Introducing their youthful team, including only five upperclass­men. to the rigors of collegiate competition, the Belles were able to evaluate the experience and use the Stark Relays as a gauge for the season ahead. 
'The team dynamic was one of the very big positives for us," Belles coach Gregg Petcoff said. "We have a lot of new freshmen and this was their first college meet, yet we had a lot of upper­classmen that were Leading and were showing them the way and a lot of underclassmen that just stepped right in and learned quickly." 
The strongest performance for the Belles on the night was the 400-yard breaststroke relay. Saint Mary's came in third in a field of eight and the team, consisting of junior Sarah Nowak, senior Michelle Stanforth, freshman Kelly Tighe and sophomore Bridget Green, posted a time of 5 minutes, 4.90 seconds in the event. This time represented the fastest breaststroke relay time that Saint Mary's has ever posted as a team in the Dennis Stark Relays. 
Similarly, the Belles also per­formed strongly in the 400 indi­vidual medley relay, posting a time of 9:18.31 in the event. This relay team, composed entirely of freshmen (Tighe, Sara Matesevac, Noreen Sherrad and Lisa Balog), also posted the fastest time ever in that particular event by a Saint Mary's team at the Stark Relays. 
While the team's relay start 
times proved to be definite posi­tives for the Belles, their turns and streamlines were not as advanta­geous and will be focal points in practice for the next few weeks. 
"When you enter that very first meet, especially the first relay meet of the year, you enter it thinking, 'Okay. What do we want to learn that we need to work on when we come out of this?'" Petcoff said. "The relay starts were ahead of the game so that was one of the good things and we need to constantly take the good, bad and ugly at the end of the meet. The turns and our stream­lines were maybe in that ugly cat­egory." 
With almost a month before Saint Mary's travels to Holland, Mich. to take part in a double duel meet with Hope College and Olivet College, the Belles hope to take some learning experiences from the Stark Relays and use them to prepare for the rest of the season. 
"As a coach, it showed us that while we've been getting them in shape, we still don't quite have the speed." Petcoff said. "With only 15 or 16 practices in the water [we found that). aerobically, we're pretty sound but we need more speed in the workouts. That's what we've got to focus on in the next couple of weeks." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
SMC CRoss CouNTRY 
Belles take 23rd of 34 teatns in Sean Earl Lakefront Invite 
schools. staying healthy and injury­on the beach right by Lake aspects of team running, one By ANNA FRICANO Top runners for the Belles free in the weeks ahead. Michigan -everyone focused of which being the benefit of 
Sports Writer 
were Megan Gray and That isn't to say the Belles on not getting injured," staying together. 
Meghan Murphy, who finished haven't been working hard. Feauto said. Feauto noted the positive 
Saint Mary's came one step first and second for the team, The team went into Sophomore Sarah Otto effect that running together closer to accomplishing its respectively. Saturday's invitational com­agreed. can have on individual mem­goal for the season Saturday The top three finishers of ing off a week of increased "We were all a little bit bers of the team. at the Sean Earl Lakefront the division were Ferris State, intensity workouts. sore," Otto said. "I think the "It helps when we're Invitational hosted by Loyola Missouri South State and After taking a break to team did well for having that grouped together," Fe auto University in Chicago. John Carroll University, recuperate for last week's hard week of work." said. "Running with my team­
The Belles. who only have respectively. conference meet, Saint Mary's Otto, who finished fourth mates pushes me throughout one conference meet left this But it was not the race was back in full swing before for Saint Mary's, also empha­the whole race." year, used the race as yet standings that were the pri­its trip to Chicago. Junior sized the importance of tak-On Saturday, the team cer­another workout to prepare mary concern for the runners Becky Feauto, who finished ing the pain in stride. · tainly seemed to have for Oct. 30 -the date of their of Saint Mary's. third for the Belles, was able "I don't let it affect me men­achieved this. The top four final confenmce showdown. After Gray's injury at the to put into perspective what tally," Otto said. "We realize finishers completed the race 
Saint Mary's finished 23rd MIAA Jamboree, as well as the race meant to the team. that it's part of getting ready in a 36-second span. out of 34 teams in the Maroon other small afflictions that "Since this is our first week for the conference meet." Division of the race, which have been bothering the back we looked at the race as Saint Mary's also used the Contact Anna Fricano at included Division II and III team, everyone is focused on another workout, just running race to improve on certain africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Thank you 
Michelle McCarthy And the Class of 2006 

Quostionina·st.udan·rs and Friends 
Please iain usfar an inlormalianal gathering and canversation tarstudents questioning sexual ori:entatian 
Wedn 
1· 
lee 


for the September Parents Night Out! 
Your favorite kids on campus and their parents at University Village 


BrllgllII llllllV1118 SbJII,BIIIIIOirctlraupoftileSlaldlng CDIIIBiltllfor 011aadleslllanS•llentaellls 



l 
l

TICKET 
l I ! I I 

lOTTERY ! 
! 
I I

UP TO 6 IDS ! PER PERSON 
" r 

FIRESIDE CHATS SERIES F'RESENTS CHUCK LENNON 
brought to you by the student union board. sub.nd.edu ~ 

I ' I I 

,---._:: -••••• _:._. 1-":~~-"····llii...L!(!~Q.:C, t..• .·J~ Lr" ;;,~,.II._~~ 

Monday, October 4, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles busy battling inconsistency blues 

By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 

Despite having one of the most talented teams in years, the Belles have faced one problem all season: they're inconsistent. 
After playing strong soccer for the first half on Saturday, Saint Mary's could not hold off Calvin's attack for the rest of the game, losing 3-1. 
"We played well, we just weren't able to put two good halves together," senior Katie Noble said. "We played hard. and we did a good job of switch­ing the field, of transitioning from offense to defense, but we just couldn't get the balls to fall. We had so many opportunities, but we just couldn't get it in the back of the net." 
The Belles played well to open the game, with junior Maura 

Rw•A 1194 • IOSOII 1999· DARFUR, SuDAN 2004 

5!l,OO!:I people< k1fkd n~•s-on<f::: ot wr.~.,t~t'l omJ !)itJs top~(J 14 mn'Aion JcfZ hom-cic.ss; ar,;d isofatccf 
JJwJi'dletJs <tJ rJt<tlJSt:lfids: Jt)(llfe rUt:l)' dJe by Dt:'t:E;~t;,,~f The people(}>/ .S.trd<u1 need your p"14.Ij'Ct!i. 
Jolt!lil 
Candlelight VlgU for Sudan ·Tuesday, October 5th 
7:oopm Washin.gton Hall 
Pn)t;esdon ·to me Graltti'J at 7-.JDpm 
Stand in :solidarity with those in Sud~n~ 
'Stand at Notre Datne for peace and justice the world over. 
Schoen scoring 25 minutes in to give Saint Mary's the lead. Calvin quickly answered back, and the teams entered the half tied 1-1. However. it was Calvin that came out strong in the second half, scoring five minutes into the period to take the lead, and then again with ten minutes to play to seal the game 3-1. 
"We were so excited coming in for such a big game, and scoring first just added to that burst of energy," said midfielder Ashley Hinton. "But our energy seemed to deflate after they tied it up. It's definitely been a huge factor for us to be able to put together two solid halves of soccer." 
Although playing solid defense, the Belles faced trouble in trying to contain the Calvin attack, which includes two of the MIAA's best: Jill Capel, who leads the MIAA in goals scored, and Sarah Weesies, who was the league MVP last year as a fresh­man. Capel scored once on Saturday, while Weesies struck twice against Saint Mary's. 

"Their forwards were really attacking and aggressive, play­ing a direct style that we weren't expecting," Noble said. "They were unbelievably fast, and we tried to adjust to make up for that. We tried to pressure them harder, to drop more. but they just k.~pt finding ways around them. 
The Calvin forwards delivered blow after blow to the Belles on Saturday, with Capel scoring once and Weesies striking twice. 
"They had a very skillful attack," Hinton said. "Their for­wards were very talented, and their offensive attack was very strong." 
Despite the loss, the Belles still feel good about their chances in the MIAA. 
"We're still in strong MIAA position. The top three teams are so evenly matched," Noble said. "That we can beat Hope 2­0, then lose by two goals to Calvin, and then those two teams can tie, just shows how even we are and how teams can just have off' days. When they come back and play us at home, we have just as good a chance to win. I have faith in us for every game." 
Although Calvin now sits tied for first, the loss only dropped the Belles to a tie for second, with plenty of MIAA games still to play. 
"There are still plenty of games to be played; we just need to focus on each one. because every game matters," Hinton said. "We're still in the run for first place; we just need to do the things we know we're good at and just get there. We have to come ready to play for every single game we have left." 
With a second match at home 
later this year and a constantly 
improving team, the Belles look 
forward to playing Calvin again 
and solidifying their MIAA posi­
tion. 
"We can't wait to play them again because we really want to avenge this game," Hinton said. "We wanted to come out this time and show that we were a talented team; we're just going to have to prove it later in the season when we get a chance to play them again." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at 
rduffy!~nd.edu 
Monday, October 4, 2004

page 24 Thl! Observer + SPOJR.TS 
C1~y and David Brown com­bined to stop six of those seven
Blue-Gold WoiDenl
penalty shots. "We're going to be a strong
continued from page 28 
continued from page 28 

defensive team with Morgan handled themselves really and David in goal." Poulin 
they're all hard as nails." well." Poulin said. "The simple said. "I thought they both 
Meanwhile, Thorlakson, who little things like played well this 
began the week as thll second­good board play, afternoon." 
leading scorer in the nation, that's how we The Gold team 
notched two more goals to bring
"/thought [the

have to handle got goals from 
her team-high total to 11. With 
oursnlves on freshmen] all han­Tony Gill, Tim 
a goal in each game this week­Wallace and Josh 
end, she extends her streak to was good to see. Sciba. 
ddense so that dled themselves 

five straight games with a goal
really well. " 

"All in all. I did­The Blue team 
scored. 

n't think anyone was paced by
I 
The Irish also got some offen­I I looked out of Dave Poulin Williams-Kovacs 
sive support from mom unlikely Lizzie Reed and knocked a long chances," Schefter said. "We 
I 
I place on the ice. Irish head coach and Mike Walsh, 
candidates. Sophomores Christie crossing shot past Bannerman just need to focus on creating I including the with two goals 
Shaner and Kim Lorenzen tal­for the go-ahead goal. better ones and making them
I 
I walk-ons. so that each. and Brad 
lied their first goals or the sea­Thorlakson sealed the win when count." 
I 
I was real encour-Wanchulak and 
son against West Virginia while she made a move past her Waldrum was less concerned I aging to sec." Matt Amado with one each. 
freshman Jannica Tjeder scored defender and scored inside the about the scoring than getting I The game was played to ben­The Blue team outshot the 
I 
the first goal of her Iri>h career right post to give Notre Dame a the chance to utilize his bp,nch.
I 
efit the !Iockey Coaches' Gold team by a 30-26 margin. 
against Providence. 3-llead. "The thing we've been
I 
I Foundation for cancer with Cey stopping 20 of 23 
Tjeder. who has been injured "You hate to give up the goal preaching about the whole year I research. and each Notre shots and Robinson stopping 
for mur.h of the sea:wn. was to make it 1-1 late in the game. is trying to develop that depth so 
I 
I Dame player participated in the remaining three to pick up 
relieved to get the l'irst one but then we came back and that when we get into the honor of a family the victory. 
under her belt. responded really well," NCAA's we're much deeper." he
I 
member or friend Notre Dame's "It felt great, of course, [espe­Waldrum said. "I was pleased said. "[Today] we got a lot of
I 
I who had the season kicks off 
cially] to get the win," she said. overall with pretty much every players some rest and a lot of
I 
I debilitating dis­"We're going to be with a bang this 
"It was difficult coming back phase of the game." players some playing time that I ease. a strong defensive year, as the Irish 
[from the injury] in the begin­Despite the long bus ride back needed more minutes for us." 
I 
"(Cancer! has welcome No. 4 
nin~. but I'm starting to feel bet­to South Bend. the Irish had The Irish goalkeepers were
I 
I team with Morgan 
touchnd so many Minnesota­
ter. even less trouble Sunday after­also in and out of games
and David in goal." 

I of our families Duluth to the 
To start the weekend, the Irish noon when Providence (3-9-0. throughout the weeknnd.I I and friends," Joyce Center 
made the most of their long bus 0-5-0) visited Alumni Field. Freshman Lauren Karas started 
I 
I Poulin said. "It's Dave Poulin Thursday and trip with a victory over No. 20 Notre Dame dominated against West Virginia, but 
I 
I a very good cause Friday for an West Virginia (8-3-0, 3-2-0). Providence in all facets of the Waldrum removed her for jun­
Irish head coach

I 
I that we're happy opening series. Notre Dame jumped 1)ut to its game. from shots on goal (38-2) ior Erika Bohn shortly aflPr to play for." The Bulldogs 
quickest start of the season to corner kicks (12-0). Kara.s allowed the Mountaineer The scrimmage advanced to the 
when Shaner he1ded a Providence did not record a shot goal. Bohn subsequently startnd was played with two 20-Frozen Four last yea~ 
Thorlakson corner Uck past on goal until 10 minutes into the Sunday's game, but was minute periods, and features a "I really liked what I saw out 
Mountaineer goalkee:Jer Lana second half. Thorlakson, Annie replaced by both Karas and twist designed to allow more there today." Poulin said. "We 
Bannerman just 2:38 into the Schefter and Tjeder all seored sophomore Nikki W1~stfall. oiTense. don't have much time to get 
game. West Virginia came back goals for the Irish. though the Waldrum played all three of his Hather than awarding power prepared with one of the top 
to tie the game in the second margin could have been much goalkenpers against Providence plays during the game. refer­teams in the country coming in 
half when Mountaineer Rachael greater had it not been for ..ev­bncause he feels no one has ees automatically allowed a here Thursday night." 
Minnich scored on a header ofT eral diving saves by Providence emerged as the clear-cut starter. pnnalty shot for any infraction 
a free kick. goalkeeper Ashley Fedyshyn. ealled in the offensive zone. Contact Justin Schuver at 
But the Irish responded when "It's just a matter of capitaliz­Contact Matt Mooney at Starting goaltenders Morgan jschuver@nd.edu 
Lorenzen took a pLss from ing on our good scoring mmooney@nd.edu 


......... .,,.. ___ ..... ··.r·w--•.•. ,.,.,. __ •• .,. ..................... /f .... 7 .... _ ...... ...--~~ ....a..-. ...-~"'!···-·-·-~·., ..--.,. ... ..:.,..., .....=;n.o:~~·~-~-,. .....-..... 

Monday, October 4, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
lessly watch as McGeeney without talking about Tony," left side of the box, midfielder ly kills a soccer game," Clark punched home the game-win­Clark said. "Tony and Justin Ian Etherington beat two said. "Two goals are danger­
Clark 
ner and sent the Eagles on a work tremendously hard and defenders before skillfully ous because you think you're long, winless flight back to very much as a tandem. It's drawing a third Rambler in good shape. but whenevercontinued from page 28 
Boston. great for Justin to get the defender. He then fed an open they get one, they suddenly get The game-winning tally was award, but I think some of the Megna, who promptly put the excited." 
After Irish forward Justin McGeeney's sec-praise should go ball in the right corner for a 1-Yoshinaga capped the Irish McGeeney -the reigning Co­ond in as many to Tony." 0 Irish advantage. scoring deluge five minutes Big East Offensive Player of contests -the Two days after After assisting on Megna's later when he tapped in the the Week -collided with a forward scored "/ think the third McGeeney tally, Etherington didn't wait rebound of a McGeeney header Golden Eagle defender along Notre Dame's goal usually kills a secured an Irish long to record his own score. that managed to hit both goal the left edge of the box, the lone goal in a 1-0 , victory with his Less than a minute later, the posts.
soccer game.
defender was whistled for shutout of team-leading sophomore posted his first After smothering a pair of holding McGeeney as the for­Villanova on the fourth goal of the goal of the season on a rocket Boston College breaks in ward attempted to stand and road a week ear­Bobby Clark season, it was from the top of the box past Friday evening's shutout, Irish chase after the loose ball. lier. Megna pacing the Rambler goalkeeper Sean goalkeeper Chris Sawyer was
Irish coach 
Employing a little trickery, While the offense Sunday, Bond's outstretched hands and once again in control Sunday lefty Irish defender Kevin sophomore's play recording a pair into the upper right hand cor­afternoon, logging just over 73 Goldthwaite lined up for the warranted the of goals in Notre ner of the net. minutes of scoreless soccer free kick, yet right-footed mid­acknowledgement, Clark Dame's 4-0 route of an over­Eleven minutes into the sec­before turning the reins over fielder John Stephens took the believes McGeeney's fellow matched Loyola-Chicago ond half, the Irish advantage to junior Justin Michaud. kick, lofting a perfect ball into striker and partner in goal­squad. grew to three goals as mid­The Irish return to the pitch the middle of the box. scoring crime Tony Megna has After producing a couple of fielder Nate Norman one Thursday night when they wel­
A scramble ensued, with the had a lot to do with decent scoring opportunities touched a long, arcing cross come Big East opponent ball eventually finding the foot McGeeney's success. early in the game, the Irish from Goldthwaite to a streak­Pittsburgh to Alumni Field. of McGeeney. Out-of-place "Justin has had a great sea­drew first blood 17 minutes, ing Megna, who finished from Boston College goalkeeper son so far, but I think it would 31 seconds into the first half. five yards out. Contact Matt Puglisi at lssey Maholo could only help-be hard to mention Justin Dribbling the ball along the "I think the third goal usual-mpuglisi@nd.edu 
Relays 
continued from page 28 
us]." The most impressive indi-

An idea that's really taken off. 
At GE, we believe in the power of ideas. 
lde<:Js lh<• t not only hr.nre created the GE 
90, the world's most powt::rful _jet engine. 
bul have cont.inued l(l pror)€11 countless aircraft through the skies. 
We invite you to come power your ideas at GE. We offer careers in Engine-ering. Finance, llurm"ln .......,n,...,_ 
IT and S.ales & Marketing. 
gecarcei"s.oom/notrcdame 
An rtlual ~uril.y (mpoioyer 
GE Information Night 
October 4 
DeBartolo Hall Room 138 6:30-8:30 PM 

Come learn more about GE·s leader.. ship programs. GE reps wilt be here to answer your questions. All majors/years welcom~e! 
• imnginntion nt work Adiversified ~.t.lnanctaf 
services. media COifill*'ly. 
vidual accomplishment of the night came from sophomore Katie Carroll, who set the sole meet record of the night for the women with a win in the 400-yard individual medley. 
In the first race of the sea­
son, Carroll, the 2004 Big East Championships Most Outstanding Swimmer, posted a time of 4 minutes, 22.93 seconds, which earns her consideration for a bid to next spring's NCAA Championships. 
"I think Katie's swim was probably one of her best unrested swims ever so I think it was a nice way to start the year off," Weathers said. "I thought we had some good swims from the other girls that swam the 400 IM also, but Katie's was pretty exceptional." 
Also performing well in vic­tories for the women were sophomore Ellen Johnson (200 freestyle, 200 back­stroke). freshman Natalie Burke (100 and 200 breast­stroke) and senior co-captain Kelli Barton (400 individual medley). 
Leading the way for the men's team were victorious sophomores Ted Brown (400 individual medley, 200 butter­fly) and Louis Cavadini (50 and 100 freestyle races), sen­ior captain Matt Bertke (200 freestyle), juniors Doug Bauman (200 backstroke). Patrick Davis (500 freestyle) 
and  Tyler  Grenda  (200  
breaststroke).  
Brown  beat  the  field,  

including last year's Big East champion in teammate Jamie Lutkus. in the event, by more than five seconds in an exhi­bition heat of the 400 individ­ual medley with a time of 
4:04.42 and posted his second win in the 200 butterfly with a time of 1:53.53. 
Cavadini earned two early wins in the 50 and 100-yard freestyle races, posting times of 21.27 and 47.60 seconds, respectively. 
The Notre Dame diving squad was also dominant at Friday's events. 
Solidified by freshman Sam Stoner and sophomore Scott Coyle, the five Irish men's divers all finished ahead of Evansville's competitors. Anchored by fifth-year senior Meghan Perry-Eaton, who fin­ished third at last year's NCAA Championships in the one-meter competition, the Irish women swept the diving events in the dual meet. 
After just the first meet of the season, 14 swimmers on the men's team and 17 swim­mers on the women's team have already posted automat­ic qualifying times for the Big East Championship meet on Feb. 17-19. 
"I think that really helps us focus on what the big task is -which is swimming well at the meets and not so much worrying on qualifying for the [Big East Championships]," Weathers said. "We're defi­nitely proud of what the girls accomplished right away and looking forward to the next meet and getting some more of those things out of the way." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala 
~-------~------------·-----·-~-------------------~-------·------------·-·-·---·-·-·-·-··-·-·-·-~-·-·-·-·-·-··-·-·-·-·-·-L-·-·-·-·-·-··-·-·-·-·-·-··-·-·-·-··-·-··r•·-·-·-·---·-··-·-·~·~·~·-·-·-·~··~·~·-·-·-w~--~J&PlUVVV~A4~9vv .......~ 

Academy of Saint Martin in the Fields with Christopher O'Riley 
http://www.christopheroriley.com Thursday, October 14 at 8 p.m. 
$62, ND/SMC/HC $50, Students $20 
Best known for his nationally broadcast radio program, "From the Top," swashbuckling pianist Christopher O'Riley has emerged as one of the most distinguished, versatile and decorated pianists of his generation. He has won the coveted Van Cliburn competition solidifying his stature among classical musicians, but has also interpreted the music of the rock group Radiohead. Not many other classical pianists have tracks named Subterranean Homesick Alien. O'Riley will be joined by the Academy of Saint Martin in the Fields, a chamber orchestra which has been the benchmark of Baroque music for almost 50 years. They are simply the best, and when they get together with O'Riley sparks will fly. O'Riley says, "I love that dramatic aspect, the hero soloist versus the orchestra. There's such a wonder­ful sense of tension." 
C 0 M N G S 0 0 N 
Fall Artsfest: Shakespeare in Performance 
From November 3-7 the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will host the Fall ArtsFest: Shakespeare in Performance. Eighteen events in five days will pay tribute to the Bard. Choose your favorite films, stage presentations and musical concerts all with a Shakespearean theme. The ArtsFest includes MacHamer starring Homer and Marge Simpson as Macbeth and Lady Macbeth; Actors From the London Stage performing A Midsummer Night's Dream, and the world famous King's Singers in Concert. For information visit the website at http://performingarts.nd.edu or C:aii631-2BOO. 
M U S C 
Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul 
http://www.eileenivers.com/ Friday, October 8 at 9 p.m. $44, $35 ND/SMC/HC, $15 Students 

Eileen Ivers rose to prominence as a nine time all-Irish fiddle champion and as the fiery fiddler of "Riverdance," but her passion for exploration has catapulted her to rarified air where only virtuosos play. Her boldly imaginative style earned her the title "Jimi Hendrix of the violin" from a New York Times reviewer. Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul storm the stage with matchless energy and an eclectic spirit. Respectful of their Irish roots, they infuse their concert with fresh vitality drawing from the rhythms of Latin and African music. Eileen Ivers will change the way you think about the violin. 
THEATRE 
Second City Comedy 
hHp:/ /www.secondcity.com/ Friday, October 22 at 9 p.m. $31, ND/SMC/HC $25, Students $15 

Always brash, original, and daring, Second City Comedy brings its unique brand of sketch comedy and improvisation to Notre Dame. The concept is simple enough: six actors and an accompanist take the stage and make you laugh. Although they have 45 years of archives to draw upon, their work is always fresh, topical, and inventive. They are ready to comment on every social debate, political scandal, or public disgrace, and they're here just two weeks before the presidential election, which just might be on their minds. 
Mariza 
http://www.ritmoartists.com/Mari.m/mariza.htm Wednesday, October 13 at 8 p.m. $37, ND/SMC/HC $30, Students $15 
Fado is the blues of Portugal, and for a generation there was only one name in Fade, but a new, powerful, and beautiful voice has moched the pinnacle. Mariza, recent winner of the BBC award for best European oct, sings with a passion so soulful it is difficult to believe it comes from a 28-year-old woman. It is precisely this duality that makes Mariza the epitome of Fado Fade is known for poetry that fuses opposite emoti·jns-impossible pain with fervent joy, or lifes cruel!) with loves intensity. Mariza is a diva-in the best sense of the word-and when she puts her pers,Jnal, indelible stamp on a song, she leaves audiences spellbound and breathless. 
PERSONAL T y 

Tickets are Preferred Seating $1 00, all others $30 Leighton Concert Hall 
Regis performs selections from his r ew CD accom· ponied by a 22-piece orchestra. N~~t proceeds will benefit the South Bend Center for t~ e Homeless. 
Regis will also be broadcasting LIVE WITH REGIS AND KELLY from the Leighton Concert Hall on Monday, October 25 at 7:30a.m. All tickets to the television show will be free. Dis~ribution of these tickets will be announced later. 
Discounted tickets ore underwritten by the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. 
MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS http:/I performingarts.nd.edu 
Call 574-631-2800 


Monday, October 4, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 


SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 

PEANUTS 
. CHARLES SCHULZ 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NYLAM 
[) ( j 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NAIPO 
I ( J ()
tYARBEN 
IJ I 
www.jumble.com
ISPUGMY
[IJ 

Answer: WITH "r I I J' rI I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: GLAND TWILL CHISEL BUTLER Answer: How the reporter got a scoop at the soup kitchen -WITH ALADLE 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

-' 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
That'll be $50 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 35 Eyelid problem 70 Painting and sculpting, e.g.~

1 Tree that 36 Spanish aunt people carve 71 Yards advanced 
39 Crying

their initials in 42 Evangeline or 
72 Animal in a 6 Pepper's partner 
roundup 10 Author Dinesen e.g. 14 Stevenson of 44 What candles 
Anna Karenina, DOWN

1950's politics sometimes 1 San Francisco/
represent15 Dunkable cookie Oakland 

16 Plot parcel 45 "Very funny!" 
separator 17 "Dee-licious!" 47 Animal nose 
2 School's 19 Alum 48 Show biz parent Web site address ender 
20 Carson's 52 Go left or right predecessor on 3 Shade tree
53 Petri dish filler "The Tonight 
54 Where the 4 Where a tent is

Show" 
Himalayas are pitched 21 Surgeon's outfit 
55 Not in port 5 "Howdy!" 23 Play parts 
56 Main arteries 6 Grow sick of 

26 Goes to sleep, 58 Den 7 Quarterback's with "off" asset
60 High spirits 

29 Skirt lines 61 "Dee-licious!" 
a Moon lander, for30 Bangkok native 

short t=-+--+-+­
67 Fanny31 Like snow after 9 Santa's sackful 

a blizzard, 68 Certain perhaps woodwind 10 "Amen!" 
32 Color, as an 43 Perfectly precise 56 Taj Mahal site 33 Corrosions 69 Pitcher Martinez 11 "Dee-licious!" Easter egg 
46 Mornings, briefly 57 Urban haze 12 Saudis and 
34 African desert 49 Spuds 59 Little devils 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Iraqis 37 Get used (to) 50 Some Texas 62 Entrepreneur's
13 Classic tycoons deg.

sneakers 38 Metlife competitor 63 "Who, me?"
51 "Just the facts,18 American, 
" 

abroad 40 Scandal sheet 64 "_to Joy"
53 One who hears 
j..:,.:..j~.:...:.J.-4.;.;. 11!!~+::-t-:-1 22 Bar "where 41 Where the Mats ·"You've got 65 Mine find everybody can be met mail" 66 "Le Coq _" knows your 
name" For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
~:::;+,::;+::.::+.;.;~ 23 Skylit lobbies 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. ~.;,+.:-:+::-l 24 Newswoman Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday Connie crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. -:-i..:,:..j..;:+.;+~+.:::+-::-1 25 "Dee-licious!" Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
27 Moines 

-=+=+:::+.:::~8-:+i=-1 Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ..:.....&..::..l.::....L.=..L=:..l...:...L:~:.J • 28 Genesis son solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST .
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Greg Rusedski, Jane Curtin, Swoosie Kurtz, JoAnne Worley 
Happy Birthday: Take action and you will get results. Don't be daunted by someone who is pushing change your way. Evaluate what's going on and do what's best for everyone this year. Your numbers are 2, 14, 23, 32, 38, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Get down to business regarding talks you want to have with relatives or friends. You should be able to get your point across. An unexpected love connection may surprise you.**** TAURUS {Apri120-May 20): Think about your future and what you want to­achieve. If you have been going down the wrong path, make a swift change in the right direction. *** GEMINI {May 21-June 20): Try your hand at something new: Your versatility will attract attention and possibly a new partnership. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Not everything will be out in the open, so take a better look before making a decision. A problem may arise at home or with someone you've hired. *** LEO {July 23-Aug. 22): You will be praised for helping others, but be careful; not everyone will be worthy of your efforts. You can fall in love, but don't make a hasty commitment. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be looking for glory, but not everyone will be eager to let you step into the spotlight. The harder you try to make things happen, the more likely you are to be blocked. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will learn from the interaction you have with others as well as find a new path. You should travel whatever distance is required in order to follow your heart. ***** SCORPIO {Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have to be creative in order to beat the odds. Money matters may take a twist that you are not prepared for. *** SAGITTARIUS {Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Watch your back. Although this can be a great day to flirt with the one you love, it can also lead to problems, especially if it slows down your ability to finish your work. ** CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can come up with some very dazzling ideas that will enable you to change your future direction. You will get the acknowledgment you are looking for.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be creative today. Whether it has to do with work, hobbies, children or someone you love, incorporate one of your ingenious ideas. ***** PISCES {Feb. 19-March 20): Stop letting everyone pull you in different directions. Think of your own survival and protect yourself from the smooth talkers.** 
Birthday Baby: You are versatile, interesting and know how to hold a crowd. You are passionate, caring and sensitive to those around you. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
THE OBSERVER 

'.I 
P01tTS
Monday, October 4, 2004 page 28 
ND SoccER 

Clark wins 200th car,eer game 
Notre Danze wins 1-0 over number nine ranked Boston College to stay in the top 25 
By MATT PUGLISI 
Spom Writer 
Make it an even 200. Coach Bobby Clark picked up his 200th ~~arncr victory as the 

... No. 2:~ Irish (7-2-1 overall, 3-1­0 in Big East)-on the verge of being dropped out of the NSCAA/ad i d as po 11-fough t back this weeknnd, knocking off rival and Big East conf'er­e rH~n Inadn r No. 9 Boston Collngn in a 1-0 overtime thriller Friday night bdore thumping l.oyola-Chieago 4-0
-
Sunday afternoon at Alumni Field. 
"This was a very good wenk­fHJd," Clark said. "Tho scary thing was that after such a good Big East n~sult against a VPry good tPam, we would have a letdown on the Sunday game -that can mtsily happen. Tlw boys came ready to play. and they did very well." 
The sporadie rain may have !men cool Friday night. but the bitter Notre Dame-Boston College rivalry hPatnd things up. 
"It was a tight game -it's a Blg East rivalry," Clark said. "This was a big opportunity for them and a very important game f'or us to get b;u~k into the Big East standings, so it was an important game for both teams. That being the ease, it's always going to be Iintense!." 
In a contest eerily similar to the last Irish-Golden Eagles matchup-another 1-0 Irish 
ND SWIMMING 

victory in the opening minutes of overtime at Alumni Field in 2002-Notre Dame waited until after regulation time expired before securing its second con­secutive win over tho current conference leader -the Irish edged No. 21 Villanova 1-0 on the road Sept. 26. 
The 3-1-0 start in Big East play marks the first time the Irish have started conference play with three wins in four games since 1997, when they started 3-0-1. 
Arter controlling tlw game's opening 20 minutes and nearly netting the go-ahead goal on a numbPr of occasions, induding a shot that clanged ol'f the crossbar from the foot of fresh­man forward Alex Yoshinaga, tho Irish allowed Boston Coll1~gn back into the contest before dominating play again in thP sneond half. 
"Our second half pnrform­anen was excelhmt," Clark said. "I thought we were a team wanting to win the game, whore they seemed to be quite happy to settle -to get out of horn with a tie. We chased the whole second half." 
Not surprisingly, in a contest that foaturnd 29 fouls, fivi1 yel­low eards and a couple of scuf­fles, it was a Golden Eagle penalty -one of 20 on the evening for Boston College ­that set up the golden goal and sent the Irish faithful home happy. 
see CLARK/ page 2 5 

ND HOCKEY 
Irish hope to get back into tournament 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate SportS Editor 
Irish coach Dave Poulin took the Irish to the NCAA tourna­ment last year for the first time in the program's history. Getting the tnam ba1;k to the NCAAs might be the biggest challenge of' his career. 
Irish fans got their first look at this year's tnam Sunday afternoon at thn Blue-Gold intrasquad scrimmage at tho Joyce Center. which the Blun tnam won by a score of 6-:l over Gold. 
Matt Williams-Kovacs was awarded tho Georgn Komadoski Trophy as the garnn's most valuabln playPr. aftpr scoring two goals includ­-ing the game-winning tally. Mike Walsh. tho Blue tnam's eaptain. was awarded tho Edward Slaggert Trophy that is given to the winning team of' each year's scrimmage. 
Every member of the Notre Dame tnam saw game action, ineluding the nine-mnmber freshman elass. 
Walk-on def'ensernan Andrew Eggert assisted on a goal and walk-on goalie Terry Hobinson picked up the win for Blue, making three saves and holding tho Gold team scoreless over the last eight minutes, SH seconds of the game. 
"I thought !the freshmen! all 
see BLUE-GOLD/page 24 


ND Svvitnrning opens up stron~~ 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA SportS Writer 
Fadng an opponent not seen in years and taking part in a Notre Damn swimming tradi­tion, the Irish swim program burst out of the blocks quickly this season, winning in impres­sive f'ashion in both the Evansville dual meet and the Dt~rmis Stark Helays. 
The Notre Dame men's and women's teams were nearly perfeet on Friday, blanketing their opponents and placing first a combined 43 times out of the evening's 46 events. 
In all, :H> of the 35 athletes on the men's roster and 2~ of the 36 swimmers on the womtm's roster registered at least one victory at Friday's events. 

All told, the men (1-0) easily earned a 157-55 point vietory in the dual meet against Evansville, a ieam the Irish havo not faced since Notre Dame joined the Big East in 1995, and a 118-point win mar­gin over the rest of the field in the 40th annual Stark Helays. 
Tho men finished with 248 points in the Stark Helays, breaking the record for most points ever in the meet (former­ly 230 in 1997). 
The women (1-0) cruised to a 161-54 victory against Evansville and earned first plaefl in the Stark Helays with 260 points, 56 more than sec­ond-place finisher Illinois State. 
Both Irish teams raced out to an early lead in the Evansville dual meet and never looked bark. 
The men's team registered top four finishes in eight of the first nine events as it built a 143-28 advantage. 
Equally impressive, the women's team registered 1-2-3­4 finishes in its first six events to build up a lead of 96-18. 
"I think it was one of our bet­ter opening meets, really," women's eoach Bailey Weathers said. "I thought our girls did an exceptional job of really being aggressive from the start of the meet and I think there w~~re a lot of good swims early [for us]." 
see RELAYS/p~~ge 25 

Irish girls continue to roll this weekend 
were on full display this weekend. 
By MATT MOONEY The Irish defense continued its 
Sports Writer 

dominating play by allowing only one goal in the two games. Notre Another weekend, two more Dame has now held 10 of its 12 wins. opponents to less than two goals 
In what has been a recurring scored, induding six shutouL-;. On theme this season, No. 1 Notre the season, the team has more Dame (12-0-0, 5-0-0 in the Big goals scored (37) than its oppo­East) extended its perfect reeord nents have shots on goal (31). with a 3-1 victory at West VIrginia "This might be, arguably, one of Friday night and then returned the best baek four that this pro­home to dominate Providence 3-0 gram has ever had, and that Sunday afternoon. The Irish are would be saying a lot," coach now the nation's only Division I Randy Waldrum said. ''This one team of 308 without a loss or a tie. has a great blend of athleticism. 
Notre Dame's three greatest They're all good in the air [andl strengths -defense, depth, and Katie Thorlakson's offense ­
see WOMEN/page 24 


NO WOMEN's GOLF SMC SWIMMING SMC SOCCER
SMC GOLF 
MEN's GOLF
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame will tee The Belles struggled Calvin~3)
The Irish will compete 

Saint Mary's per­
The Belles defeated 

Monday in the Windon 
off in the Shootout at in the Dennis Stark Saint ary's (1)
formed well this week­
Albion over the week­

the Legends today. Relays on Friday, finish-Belles inconsistent
Memorial Classic at
end, taking second at
end to move to 4-8 on 

ing seventh out of eight play leads to defeat. 
Northwestern.
the Oshkosh
the season. They are 4-5 
teams.

Invitational.
in the MIAA. 

page 20 page 21 page 23
page 19 
page 19 
page 20 




