--------~------------------------------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 35 MONDAY, OCTOBER 11,2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Cross display vandalized 
Right to Life demonstration torn down overnight 
the demonstration -one for Shaughnessy said this has not
By PAUL SPADAFORA every three abortions that takes been the first time it has been 
News Writer 
place in the United States each vandalized. 
day -about 900 were knocked "I wasn't surprised, necessarily, 
Community members awoke down, said Caitlin Shaughnessy, a that there was vandalism, Friday morning to find the Respect Life Week co-commis­because someone always vandal­Cemetery of the Innocents -a sioner. izes this. Last year, someone two-day demonstration against 'Three hundred of those were drove their car through the abortion, run by campus club broken, and 100 were completely [crosses]," she said. "But I was Right to Life -had been vandal­destroyed," Shaughnessy said. surprised at the degree of vandal­ized by an unknown party. All of the crosses were re­ism." 
According to Right to Life co­assembled by Right to Life mem­Rex Rakow, director of Notre president Janel Daufenbach, the bers by 3 p.m. Friday, Dame Security/Police, said NDSP cemetery was vandalized Daufenbach said. will be investigating the vandal-between 3 a.m. and 7 a.m. friday. While the damage done to the 
Of the 1 ,200 crosses included in display was extensive, see VANDAL/page 4 


Students rejoice in victory, pay for celebration 
Thirty ejected Fans glad Irish for alcohol, are back on marshmallows winning track 
By TERESA FRALISH By SARAH BARRETT Associate News Edi ror News Writer 
Stadium ushers ejected 30 After .last week's loss to 
students for either marshmal­Purdue and the threat of a 3-1 
low throwing or alcohol-related Stanford team coming to Notre 
offenses from Notre Dame Dame, fans were happy and 
Stadium during Saturday's relieved after Saturday's win 
game, coordinator of stadium against the Cardinals·. 
personnel Cappy Gagnon said. The storm clouds cleared and 
Of the 30 students removed the sun shined brightly 
from the stadium, about seven Saturday as fans gathered to 
to eight ejections resulted from watch the Notre Dame Irish 
marshmallow throwing, Gagnon take on the Stanford Cardinal. 
said. The other students told to After Stanford's fight to the 
leave either were visibly intoxi­end against USC and the Irish 
cated or in possession of alco­loss to Purdue still looming 
hol. About two-thirds of the from the previous weekend, 
alcohol-related cases involved Notre Dame students were pre­
possession, Gagnon said. pared for a win. 
"It's two criteria ... the first is Sophomore Doug Brown said 
that we see alcohol," Gagnon although he was anxious, he 
said. "The other cases are was happy with the final score. 
intoxication. In those we usually "It was a good time -a little 
observe some sort of symptom." closer that I would have liked, 
Gagnon said the number of but we played well and picked 
see EJECTED/page 4 see FANS/page 6 


Saint Mary's hosts panel discussion on sexual diversity 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer  bisexual and queer (GLTBQ) community during their time at Saint Mary's.  are not part of the gender everyone thinks they are," she said. "They are challenging the  was something that I felt I had to establish-this is who I am," she said. "Whereas now, it's  harder at Saint Mary's than elsewhere. "Identifying as straight on this  
Event moderator Catherine  assumptions  kind of on  the  campus is so  different from  
Approximately 45 Saint Mary's students, faculty and stafT kicked ofT National Coming Out Week on a personal note Sunday by attending a panel discussion on coming out as a gay or lesbian person in the  Pittman, a professor in the psy­chology department, said cele­brating the week is important to Saint Mary's, a primarily het­erosexual environment where most students do not have to deal with the issue of con­ generally made about people. Heterosexuals just do not have to do this." Panel member Jenn Warner, a  "Identifying as straight on this campus is so different from identifying as queer."  back burner. It's integrated into my being, so it's not something that I have to think about as much."  identifying as queer. It's a com­plete 180," senior Denae Friedman said. "It's a really conservative place. I haven't felt much oppression, personally or resistance, but it's just that everyone is so homogenous  
Saint Mary's community.  fronting others with their sexu­ 1998 graduate,  The panelists  here.  It's  really  hard.  I've  
Those who ventured to the  ality.  emphasized com­ Denae Friedman  shared both pos­ thought  about  transferring  
West Wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall to listen were  "National Coming Out Day is a day where gay, lesbian, trans­ ing out is partic­ularly prevalent  senior  itive and nega­tive experiences  thousands of times, but there's obviously a reason I'm here. It  
enlightened by a divnrsc panel  sexual, bisexual and queer indi­ during the col- about their own  makes me question myself."  
of three Saint Mary's graduates  viduals are encouraged to tell  lege years, a time when many  coming out, ranging from com­ Kelli Harrison, a  1998 gradu­ 
and two current students who  people that care about them  young men and women attempt  plete familial acceptance to  ate, was one of the first Saint  
oll'ered perspectives on entering  that they are attracted to people  to shape their personalities.  denial to rejection.  
the gay, l!~sbian, transgendered,  of the same gender or that they  "When I was in college, that  All agreed the process was  · see P~NEL/page 4  

....----------------------­
page 2 Monday, October 11, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Here goes nothing 
Oh mid-terms week, mid-terms week ... 
When I think about what the end of this week means for me, I get a little scared. This week marks my 

last mid-terms  
week at Notre  Michelle Otto  
Dame. I am  
halfway through my last semester  .Photographer  
as a college stu­ 
dent.  

No, I'm not graduating in December. l will still be here in South Bend, I will still be paying tuition to Notre Dame (sadly). But I will not have any classes on cam­pus. Instead, I will spend eight hours a day (at least). five days a week at Mishawaka High School (MHS). student teaching in the English department. 
That's right. I'm a Notre Dame student who doesn't spend a lot of time on campus. I am at Saint Mary's College for half of my classes this semester, and I spend a few hours a day, three days a week at MHS. 
The time at MHS is a requirement for my education methods class. For all of the science majors out there, think of it as a lab; I spend the time in a controlled (and sometimes not so controlled) environment, doing hands-on work that relates to what happens in the coordinating class. That's basically what a lab is, right? 
Right now, I have three experi­ments, so to speak. I work with sen­iors in a college-credit course and two remedial sophomore classes. And wow, are they fun. The differ­ence between the classes is astounding. 
My seniors, well, I think some of them are on the same maturity level as myself and my supervising teacher (their real teacher, Mrs. Fisher). My sophomores, on the other hand, well, I wouldn't know where to begin. But getting them to pay attention to early American Literature (e.g. The Declaration of Independence, Anne Bradstreet and Jonathan Edwards) is like pulling teeth. 

I love these kids, though. They may have their quirks and may be a handful sometimes, but I've been getting to know them for the past six weeks, and I look forward to the challenge I face next semester when Ms. Otto takes over the classroom. 
Which brings me back to this week and the scared feeling that it excites. Next semester, I will be in the quasi-real world. I will be the teacher, not the student, full-time. I won't be living the typical second­semester senior life; I'll be getting up at 6 a.m. every day and will actually HAVE to go to class-and be awake for it. 
But even scarier is the fact that those crazy sophomores and over­achieving seniors will be looking to me as the teacher. It's one thing to go in there every other day and play assistant, but it's another to com­pletely take over. I said I look for­ward to the challenge, but I'm still nervous about it. So come January, here goes nothing... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

• Contact Michelle Otto at motto@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­lion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF SATURDAY'S GAME? 




Dan Lavrisha  Jessica Maciejewski  Gracie Madden  Eric Doversberger  Sarah Sibley  Kevin O'Sullivan  
junior Alumni  junior Pangborn  sophomore Cavanaugh  senior Dillon  junior Pangborn  junior Off-campus  
"I liked the  "The band  "That game was  "I got a triple  "Ifell asleep in  "Alas! My  
tailgating  totally  whack. yo!"  word bonus for  the third  hippos are still  
beforehand."  dominated."  'varicose.,,  quarter andJell  hungry; I lost. ,  
offthe bench.  
Did we win?"  


CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer 

Former Notre Dame head football coach Ara Parseghian and his wife gave a flag to a member of the Irish Guard at Saturday's Notre Dame -Stanford game. During his 11 years as Notre Dame's coach, he had a 95-17-4 record and won two National Championships. 
OFFBEAT 
Firefighters, teaching 
safety, set off blaze 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. Arkansas firefighters set off a blaze that scorched a house when a structure they use to teach frre safety to children snapped a power line. 
Firefighters in Magnolia said the fire education structure struck a power line as it was towed to an elementary school. The downed power line sparked a fire at a house. 
The smokehouse is a jumbo-sized doll house used to teach children about evacuating their homes in the event of a fire. 
Firefighters on the scene 
were unable to put out the 
blaze because one end of 
the live wire was resting on 
their truck. A second unit 
had to be summoned to . extinguish the blaze. 
"It was less embarrassing 
that frightening," said 
Herschel Hampton, chief of 
the fire department at 
Magnolia. 
Professors refuse to give 
up chalk 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. ­
For a glimpse of the latest 
split between tradition and 
technology on campus, 
watch professor Tom Walsh 
illustrate his lecture with a jumbo piece of chalk on a blackboard while students take notes on laptops and hand-held computers. 
It's the dust that has offi­cials at the university, and other colleges and universi­ties across the nation, grad­ually replacing blackboards with a cleaner alternative -markers and white­boards. 
Another sign of progress to some professors' dismay. 
"Chalkboards were a. sim­ple, brilliant invention," Walsh said. "Whiteboards are not an advance." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a= 
LLI 
::::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 



c:Jf 

(='
...I 
c( (J 

.9 HIGH 66 HIGH 52 HIGH 67 HIGH 61 LOW 43 LOW 43 LOW 46 LOW 40 IN BRIEF 
Humala Aqrawee will give the lecture "The Progress of Democracy; the strategy for Liberation in Iraq," tonight at 7 p.m. at Jordan Auditorium at The Mendoza College of Business. Aqrawee served as an interpreter for the 101st Airborne Division during Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
Jazz pianist Marc Hossi will perform at Little Theatre or Moreau Center at Saint Mary's College Tuesday at 
7:30 p.m as part of the Leighton Music Festival. 
Former editor of Commonweal Magazine Margaret O'Brien Steinfels at 4 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans lobby on "Faith and Political Responsibility: Voting for the Common Good." 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will face off against Illinois State on Wednesday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team will take on Michigan at Alumni Field at 7 p.in. Wednesday. 
"Art of Amalia" will be shown in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts on Thursday at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0 ) ) ijfJ 
~) .) 
"" 

HIGH 53 HIGH 50 LOW 35 LOW 35 
Atlanta 72 I 62 Boston 60 I 48 Chicago 64 I 46 Denver 56 I 40 Houston 84 I 62 Los Angeles 72 I 58 Minneapolis 70 I 51 New York 62/50 Philadelphia 66 I 46 Phoenix 87 /66 Seattle 64/48 St. Louis 66/47 Tampa 85/75 Washington 62/43 
~---~~-----j 
Monday, October 11, 2004 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Conference exam.ines energy industry ethics 
Leaders in varied disciplines discuss changing moral issues 
Special to The Observer able ethical decisions 
caused some of the prob­
Leading ethicists, engi­lems, and an adherence to neers. economists and ener­high ethical standards will gy industry decision makers be essential in restoring will gather Oct. 28 and 29 confidence in the markets. at the University of Notre Among the conference Dame for a conference titled speakers who _will. address "Ethics and Changing the origins of the problems Energy Markets: Issues for and best practices to avoid Engineers, Managers and their repetition are Patrick Hegulators." Wood. chairman of the 
Organized by Notre Dame Federal Energy Regulatory and Carnegie Mellon Commission; Vernon Smith University, the conference from George Mason will examine the ethical, University, winner of the market and regulatory 2002 Nobel Prize .in eco­issues associated with the nomics; and Beth McLean, a shift from regulated to com­reporter from Fortune mag­petitive markets in the elec­azine and co-author of the tric and gas utility indus­best-selling book "The tries. Smartest Guys in the Room: 
The California energy cri­The Amazing Rise and sis and the Enron scandal Scandalous Fall of Enron." have shaken public confi­A complete schedule, ros­dence in deregulated sys­ter of speakers and more tems. according to confer­information are available on ence organizers. the Web at http://ener­
They note that question-gyethics2004. nd .ed u 



Saint Mary's dedicates Opus Hall 

By ERICA RANGEL 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's dedicated Opus Hall Friday afternoon, as resi­dents and community members formally recognized the first on­campus apartment facility. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney welcomed guests to the ceremony that took place in the second floor lounge. 
"We are meeting the ever changing needs of our current and future students," Mooney said. "This is a milestone in Saint Mary's College." 
Director of Campus Ministry Judy Fean led the attendants in an opening prayer and Rev. Joseph Carey, CSC blessed the building. 
On-Campus apartments are a growing trend at colleges and universities nationwide, vice president for student affairs Linda Timm said. 
"Students learn more about independent living while still having the advantages of being close to campus," Timm said. "Opus is a wonderful recruit­ment piece." 
While the selection process was not easy, Timm said more senior students are living in the residence halls and apartments this year because they want to be close to their friends. 
"The seniors living on campus is an amazing plus for all," Timm said. " There is more involvement in student activities on campus, and they serve as a role model of our underclass­men." 
During the building process, students were involved in most of the decisions. Surveys were taken to get input about every­thing from furniture to rules, and a student committee met weekly to discuss the apartment guidelines. 
"I didn't know what to expect. I am very pleased with how everything turned out," Opus resident Lyz Carmody said. "The parking is nice, and the walk to class is still short. I like the easy access to all the facili­ties. The best part is that you can share with your roommates but still have your own private space to get things done." 
Opus Hall currently houses 72 senior Saint Mary's students in two-or four-bedroom apart­ments. The fully furnished apartments include Internet and cable access, along with a dishwasher, refrigerator, microwave and stove in the kitchen. 
Opus Corporation, an archi­tectural, engineering, construc­tion and property management firm, funded more then half the cost for Opus Hall. 
Senior class president Jackie Cuisinier concluded the dedica­tion ceremony by welcoming the residents to their homes. 
"Opus is a wonderful place to live," Cuisinier said. "It demon­strates the very best Saint Mary's has to offer." 
Contact Erica Rangel at rang4716@saintmarys.edu 
Law& • • • An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series October 13, 2004 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom "Truth, Reality, and Advocacy: Farenheit 9/11 and The Passion of the Christ" Presenter Ted Mandell Department ofFilm, Television, and Theatre Commentator James Seckinger The Law School  


Monday, October 11, 2004

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Ejected 
continued from page 1 
ejections for alcohol and marsh­mallows at this week's game was about normal. At last week's Purdue game, ushers removed seven students for marshmallows. 
There were no injuries in the student section and only one injury during all of Saturday's game, Gagnon said. 
"We had someone fall over a railing and hit his head," he said. 
Though some students report­ed that police, in addition to 


Panel 
continued from page 1 
Mary's students to put up a dis­
play for National Coming Out 
Day. She said most people 
ignored or avoided the issue. 
"Coming out on this campus 
-I lost a lot of friends that way. 
A lot of people weren't even 
willing to have a conversation 
with me about it," she said. 
"They took the long way around 
to the dining hall so they would­
n't have to see the people with 
the ribbons. Faculty [members] 
were our only support system. 
They reminded us that things 
were as bad as they seemed, 
but it could be better." 
All of the panelists agreed fac­
~lty members were an invalu­
able resource while they were 
at Saint Mary's. 
Ang Homano, a 2001 gradu­
ate, said her professors helped 
her to push the envelope to fur­
ther campus discussion on gay 
issues during her classes. 
"I didn't care. I was happy with who I was," she said. "[In class] I would say 'we're talking about love, but we're talking about it in a conventional man­ner. Can we move away from that?"' 
Spurred by Notre Dame's recent No. 1 ranking in the Princeton Heview in the "Alternative Lifestyfes Not An Alternative" category. the pan­elists offered suggestions on how the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community can become less stereotypically homophobic and more accepting of the GLTBQ minority on the campus­es. 
These ideas included elimina­tion of speech that could be viewed as hateful such as "that's so gay," and using the Classroom as an arena for such issues to be discussed. 
Senior Jamie Hathert said sensitivity and awareness train­ing directed at all incoming freshmen would be helpful and would most likely prevent rude behavior such as students tear­ing down signs regarding sexu­ality or peppering them with unkind graffiti. 
"For a long time, I thought I was the only one on campus," she said. ''I'm not upset by it, just sad. Sad that people can't do better." 
Friedheim agreed such train­ing would develop Saint Mary's ushers, were checking IDs and tickets in the student section, Gagnon said this was standard practice. 


"It's really only a problem in the senior section," he said. 
While ushers bear the main r~sponsibility for ensuring that students sit in their assigned section, Gagnon said officers would sometimes assist on an as-needed basis. 
"They're just backing us up ­they're not doing it as police," Gagnon said. "It's generally looking for suspicious behav­ior." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
into a more progressive envi­
ronment. 

"There is a lot to be said for 
tradition and the ideals our 
school is built on," she said. "I 
think the most important thing 
is that we don't take closed­
minded views into a classroom 
environment, where most learn­
ing is formed." 
The woman felt celebrating National Coming Out Day on campus shows support and pro­vides a certain comfort level for those who may be dealing with sexuality and gender issues at this time. 
"Having people be comfort­able with me helps me to be comfortable with myself," Harrison said. "I think that's really important for students who are not gay to think about. That's the most important thing students can do for other stu­dents -just to let them be who they are and be comfortable with it." 
Warner took that idea one step further. 
"I think in order to be a friend to someone who is going through this, you have to do some searching of yourself," she said. 
Harrison admitted that while coming out may be a traumatic experience, especially on the Saint Mary's campus, the posi­tive aspects of taking that step outweigh the negative ones by far. She suggests that students who wish to come out today ensure they have a "solid sup­port system in place." 
"I can guarantee that there will be hard times," she said. "But on a personal level, it was so freeing that it made a huge level of difference, spiritually and psychologically." 
Pittman concluded the discus­sion by urging all students to be tolerant of others, especially those who use today as an opportunity to express their true sexuality for the first time. 
"Coming out is a joyous occa­sion," she said. "And even though there are fears and doubts, women should be free to celebrate it." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
"I have multiple reactions. I feel sort of personally attacked, 

Vandal 
just because of all the work that I put into it, and on behalf of the
continued from page 1 
people I know who worked very hard on it," Galgano said. ''I'm ism. also incredibly disappointed with "[Our procedure] depends on [the responsible party]. Not just the severity of the violence," because it was interrupting the Rakow said. "This is one case right to make a demonstration, that certainly has a lot of sym­but also because someone would bolism associated with it, so desecrate 900 crosses at· Our we'll be investigat­Lady's University. ing any lead we I'm just disgusted
"This is one case 
can come up with." with it." 
that certainly has 
Right to Life co­Daufenbach president Lauren a lot ofsymbolism expressed similar Galgano does not concerns.
associated with 
believe the damage "I thought it was
it, so we'll be
can be attributed to horrible that some­a single person. investigating any one would do such "We don't know an act of destruc­
lead we can come 
if it was one or tion to another
up with.,
more people, but group's work, I'd guess it was regardless of what­multiple people, Rex Rakow ever you believed due to the extent of in," Daufenbach
NDSP director 
the damage," said. "We should Galgano said. all have the right "They weren't just knocked over, to believe whatever we want, the crosses were picked up and which is fine, as long as you the cross beams were broken don't interrupt our right to from the stake." believe as well." 
The damage done to the Right to Life is also in the demonstration led to anger and process of addressing the van­disillusionment from the Right to dalism, through student and fac­Ufe staff. ulty opinion. 

INFORMATION .fE/nON 
TUEfiDAYtOCTOBER12rn 
6:00 -7:00 PM 
AT THE 
CENTER FOR JOCIAL CONCERN/ 
FIND liTIIWYIU CAll SPEND I WEEKS Ill ASOCIAl SERVICE AGENCY AIID Will 
• $200011m111 SCIIGLAISHI' 
• 
3S/Ul'HEGLIIY CIEIITS 

• 
ExPAIII YOUR EIICADOII 

• 
MurPEOPLE DllllGUIIWITH SOCIAl liliES AIID IIUDIDCU 

• 
ME£T W811EIFILILIMII/E liSTS WID PIOVIIE IOU AIIIIGAID 





tiiii 
CEHTER fOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


c~.-~~T'C'DJ
~~)-~, ·~)·OUND ~ W'O'RL,D'
~· :·!• .Jl.JLt..IC,;,, , · '.' 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 
6:00p.m. Mon., Oct. 11 in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND, QJJ. 6:0!) p.m., Wed., Oct. 13 in Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's 
Excellent academic program at Sacred lleart College In Cochln, India, 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements Itinerary: Tokyo, Kyoto, Beijing, Xian, Chengdo, Tibet, Bangkok, Saigon,Vietnam, Delhi, Agra(Taj Mahal), Fatehpur Sikri, Jaipur, Khajuraho, Varanasi (Banares), Calcutta, Darjeeling, Madras, Mahaballpuram, Bangalore, Mysore, Kodalkanal, Periyar (Wild Life Sanctuary), Munnar, Cochln, Bombay; optional travel through Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473 • FAX (574) 284-4861> 
e-mail: pllllapll@salntmarys.edul 
"The fact that this has hap­pened shows how hot the abor­tion issue really is," Shaughnessy said. "We don't think that vandalism is the answer to this, but it did show that some people are very upset about this, so we need to set up a dialogue about it." 
Daufenbach said a panel dis­cussion with group members and faculty advisors was in the works. 
"[We will] discuss what hap­pened and the different reasons why it happened, and maybe ways to prevent it from happen­ing in the future," she said. 
While she was shocked at the damage done to the demonstra­tion, Daufenbach remains confi­dent in the power of the display. 
"Because we were rebuilding all day, so many people would stop by and say a few words and help us rebuild the crosses," Daufenbach said. "[In a way]. it helped people understand what it was we were doing." 
The Cemetery of the Innocents event is held annually, with this year's demonstration represent­ing about 3,600 abortions nationwide each day. 
Contact Paul Spadafora at pspadafo@nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 11, 2004 CoMPILED FROM T11E OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Terrorists strike Egypt after 7 years 
TABA. Egypt -Investigators lifted finger­prints, swabbed dust and collected tissue from the wreckage of three car bombings Saturday and detained dozens of Bedouin tribesmen, including quarry workers who could have provided the explosives that. killed at least 34 people. 
Israel blamed al-Qaida for the Thursday night attacks in two Sinai resorts, and Egyptian investigators were leaning toward an al-Qaida connection as well. 
Egyptian investigators said they suspected eight to 10 terrorists targeting Israeli tourists carried out the attacks. possibly slipping in from Saudi Arabia or Jordan on speed boats. They also said there was a chance a local sleeper cell of Egyptians might have been activated to stage the attacks, Egypt's first terrorist strike in seven years. 
Afghanistan's election turns sour 
KABUL, Afghanistan -Afghanistan's historic presidential election turned sour Saturday when all 15 candidates opposing U.S.-backed interim President Hamid Karzai withdrew in the middle of voting, charging the government and the United Nations with fraud and incompetence. 
In the end, faulty ink -not Taliban bombs and bullets -threatened three years of painstaking progress toward democracy. The opposition candidates claimed the ink used to mark people's thumbs rubbed off too easily, allowing for mass deception. 
Electoral officials rejected opposition demands that voting be stopped at midday, saying it would rob millions of people of their first chance to directly decide their leader, and the joint U.N.­Afghan panel overseeing the election would rule later on the vote's legitimacy. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Corporate tax bill clears hurdle 
WASHINTON -The Senate, in an unusual Sunday session, saw its effort to pass a sweeping corporate tax bill grind to a halt in the face of delaying tactics by a Louisiana senator upset that the measure did not include pay support for members of the reserves and National Guard. 
By a 66-14 vote, lawmakers did agree to limit debate on the tax bill, which provides $136 billion in new tax breaks for businesses $10.1 billion to buy out tobacco farmers' gov­ernment quotas. 
But hoped-for final passage of the measure was delayed until Monday because of objec­tions from Sen. Mary Landrieu, D-La. 

Frampton becomes political activist 
CINCINNATI -The long blond hair and sexy magazine covers that forged British rock star Peter Frampton's image as a teen idol of the 1970s are gone. 
That's just fine with the recently natural­ized U.S. citizen, who is pouring his passion into writing and performing new music and becoming a political activist in America's heartland. 
The 54-year-old guitarist and singer had the best-selling live album ever 1976's "Frampton Comes Alive!" with hits such as "Show Me the Way" and "Do You Feel Like We Do?" He is grateful for his early success, but relieved to be appreciated more today as a musician than a rock idol. 
LOCAL NEWS 

New elementary school dedicated 
HAMMOND -A new $16 million elemen­tary school named after late Indiana Gov. Frank O'Bannon includes full-day kinder­garten, a project he championed during his seven years in office. 
Judy O'Bannon, who snipped the ribbon at the Friday dedication of Frank O'Bannon Elementary School in the northwestern Indiana city, said her late husband would be pleased. 
"The five classes of full-day kindergarten would really make him smile," she said. 
IRAQ 

Car bombers strike in Baghdad 
Explosions occurred in the city, killing at least 11 people, including 1 American 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD Car 
bombers struck twice in 
rapid succession in the 
capital Sunday, killing at 
an American soldier, as 
Defense Secretary Donald 
Rumsfeld warned that 
violence may increase 
before the January elec­
tion. 
Rocket-propelled 
grenade explosions and 
machine gun fire rocked 
the insurgent stronghold 
of Ramadi, west of 
Baghdad, late Sunday. 
Residents reached by tele­
phone said insurgents 
launched attacks in a half 
dozen parts of Ramadi, 
and that four huge explo­
sions shook the center of 
the city Sunday night. 
Iraq's most feared ter­
ror group Tawhid and 
Jihad claimed responsi­
bility for the near-simul­
taneous car bombings, 
one near an east Baghdad 
police academy and the 
other outside an e-ast 
Baghdad market as an 
American military convoy 
was passing by. 
At least 16 people were 
wounded. 

An American soldier was fatally injured in the Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld greets South Korean troops Sunday stationed convoy attack, U.S. and at Camp Zaytun in Urbil, Iraq. Rumsfeld warned of the potential violence increase. 

the speaker said. "So this 
malicious  Britons  has  
nothing  except  the  
sword."  

The speaker then drew a knife and cut off Bigley's head while three others held him down. 
The Synday Times newspaper of London reported that Bigley was killed after briefly escap­ing by car after British intelligence helped bribe two of the captors. Bigley was recaptured and the two captors who helped him were killed, the newspaper said. 
Elsewhere, the U.S. command said a Marine was killed Saturday by hostile fire in Anbar province but gave no fur­ther details. 
Iraqi officials said. One Iraqi was wounded in that attack. The Kindi Hospital said it received 10 bodies from the police academy blast, and police said 15 others were injured there. 
The dead at Kindi hospi­tal included three police academy students and a female officer. 
In a statement posted on the Web, Tawhid and Jihad, led by Jordanian terrorist Abu Musab al­Zarqawi, said the car bombings were carried out by its military wing and were "martyrdom" operations, meaning sui­cide attacks. 
Improvised bombs some left by the side of the road, others rigged in vehicles have become insurgents' weapon of ing for British Prime Minister Tony Blair to save his life moments before assailants severed his head with a knife. His body has not been found. 

"Here I am again, Mr. Blair, very, very close to the end of my life," Bigley said in a calm voice. "You do not appear to have done anything at all to help me." 
One of the hooded men then spoke, saying the British government "pre­tended to care about its people" but "they are lying." He accused the British of lying when Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said the govern­ment did not know how to contact Tawhid and Jihad. 
"Britain is not serious," choice in turbulent Iraq and have accounted for about half the American battle deaths in recent months. U.S. officials are struggling to build up Iraq's own security resources to cope with the threat. 
Al-Zarqawi's group also warned it would continue "to slaughter infidels" until the Americans and their Iraqi allies release all women detained in Iraq. The warning was part of a message con­tained in a videotape posted Sunday on the Web depicting the brutal decapitation of British hostage Kenneth Bigley. 
Bigley, whose death was announced by his family Friday, was shown plead-
Families remember bus crash victims 
Associated Press 
WEST MEMPHIS, Ark. -The bus trip from Chicago to a Mississippi gambling town was a twice-a-year tradition for the group of friends and relatives, as much about visiting, laughing and reminiscing as it was about trying to strike it rich. 
Fourteen of the 30 travelers were killed when the bus crashed early Saturday on Interstate 55 in Arkansas. Many of the others were critically hurt. 
While family members kept vigil at hospitals Sunday in Little Rock and Memphis, Tenn., members of the vic­tims' churches prayed for them in Chicago. 

Billy Lyons and his wife, Maxie, had been making the trips to the gambling hotbed of 1\mica, Miss., for the past decade -more to spend time with their friends than to try to get lucky in the casinos, said their son, John Coney. 
"They enjoy life. They were very family-oriented," Coney said. 
Billy Lyons, a blind, retired steel mill worker, asked for his wife when rescuers found him, said Assistant Fire Chief John Burns of West Memphis, one of the emergency responders. 
"We asked, 'What was your wife wearing?' and he said he was blind and he didn't know. He couldn't tell us." 
Maxie Lyons, 64, was among those killed. Her 63-year-old husband suf­fered broken legs. 
One of those injured, Theophilus Cannon, was unable to speak to his sister, Octavia Eddings. But he wrote on-a notepad: "I feel better." 
His fiancee, Shirley Fox, told Eddings she recalled feeling "a big bump" on the bus and saw Cannon go flying past her. 
"She saw another guy go to the left. She said it was an instant. There was no warning. Nothing," Eddings said. "She said the bus just started automatically tumbling." 

~--------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 Monday, October 11, 2004
The Observer + NEWS 
'Superman' star Christopher Reeve dies at 52 
Actor, spinal cord research advocate lapses into coma, passes away Sunday 
better," Finch said. some time,"
"... I think this 

"They didn't play Hernandez said. like we've seen game gave us the "It was crazy tail­them play. Brady momentum we gates and then still struggles with victory for the
needed to keep on
scrambling when Irish. But I really there's too much rolling for the rest do love tailgat­pressure but he ofthe season. " ing." did make some With the upcom­good heads-up ing game against
Bob McQuiston

plays. Rhema undefeated Navy, [McKnight] and freshman students and fans Maurice [Stovall] alike are gearing ma~.e some really nice grabs up for what they hope will be too. an Irish victory. 
Freshman Bob McQuiston Some, however, are certain. said he thought the win reinvig­"We're going to cream Navy," orated the fans and the team as Hernandez said. students prepare to leave for fall break this upcoming week­Contact Sarah Barrett at end. sbarrett2@nd.edu 

an Academy Award audience to tears with a call for more films about social issues. 
He returned to directing, and even returned to acting in a 1998 production of "Rear Window," a modern update of the Hitchcock thriller about a man in a wheelchair who becomes convinced a neighbor has been murdered. Reeve won a Screen Actors Guild award for best actor in a television movie or miniseries. 
"I was worried that only act­ing with my voice and my face, I might not be able to communi­cate effectively enough to tell the story," Reeve said. "But I was surprised to find that if I really concentrated, and just let the thoughts happen, that they would read on my face. With so many close-ups, I knew that my every thought would count." 
In his public appearances, he was as handsome as ever, his blue eyes bright and his voice clear. 
"Hollywood needs to do more," he said in the Mar:ch 1996 Oscar awards appear­ance. "Let's continue to take risks. Let's tackle the issues. In many ways our film community can do it better than anyone else. There is no challenge, artistic or otherwise. that we can't meet." 
In 2000, Reeve was able to move his index finger, and a specialized workout regimen made his legs and arms stronger. He also regained sen­sation in other parts of his body. 
Reeve's support of stem cell research helped it emerge as a major campaign issue between President Bush and John Kerry. His name was even mentioned by Kerry earlier this month dur­ing the second presidential debate. 
As for the strain of traveling to llollywood, Reeve said: "I refuse to allow a disability to determine how I live my life. I don't mean to be reckless, but setting a goal that seems a bit daunting actually is very helpful toward recovery." 
His athletic, 6-foot-4-inch frame and love of adventure made him a natural, if largely unknown, choice for the title role in the first "Superman" movie in 1978. He insisted on performing his own stunts. 
Although he reprised the role three times, Heeve often wor­ried about being typecast as an action hero. 
"Look, I've 11own, I've become evil, loved, stopped and turned the world backward, I've faced my peers, I've befriended chil­dren and small animals and I've rescued cats from trees," Heeve told the Los Angeles Times in 1983, just before the release of the third "Superman" movie. "What else is there left for Superman to do that hasn't been done?" 
Associated Press 
BEDFOHD, N.Y. Christopher Reeve, the star of the "Superman" movies whose near-fatal riding accident nine years ago turned him into a worldwide advocate for spinal cord research, died Sunday of heart fail­ure. his pub­licist said. lie was 52. 
Heeve fell into a coma Saturday after going into cardiac arrest while at his New York home, his publicist. Wesley Combs t<;ld The Associated Press by phone from Washington, D.C., on Sunday night. 
Heeve was being treated at Northern Westchester Hospital f'or a pressure wound, a com-mon complication for people liv­ing with paralysis. In the past week, the wound had become severely infected, resulting in a serious systemic infection. 


"On behalf of my entire fami­ly, I want to thank Northern Westchester Hospital for the excellent care they provided to my husband," Dana Reeve, Christopher's wife, said in a statement. "I also want to thank his personal staff of nurses and aides, as well as the millions of fans from around the world who have supported and loved my husband over the years." 
Reeve broke his neck in May 1995 when he was thrown from his horse during an equestrian competition in Culpeper, Va. 
Enduring months of therapy to allow him to breathe for longer and longer periods with­out a respirator, Reeve emerged to lobby Congress for better insurance protection against catastrophic injury and to move 


Fans 
continued from page 1 
up a win." 
Junior Chris Finch said he thought while the Irish scored a win, they could have done more on the lield. 
"We did okay, but our defense could have done 

"After a slow paced and low spirited week last week, I think this game gave us the momen­tum we needed to keep on rolling for the rest of the sea­son." 
And according to sophomore Spanish Hernandez, it was not only the game, but also the tail­gating that led to a great foot­ball Saturday. 
"It was an awe­

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA WELCOMES 
octi>ber-a,...~•r.30p.V\A... O'Ufug1ttlivv~lto~ 
lFir•tarn::.t"onally acclaimed ~Jthor of The Fifth Book ofPeace and Woman Warripr: Memoirs of Girlhood Among Ghosts. 
CoVW! Vte&fY:Vier-spec:~~ t:fbou.t 
, , 
. 

11 ~Peace." 
Free and Open tO the Public Book Signing.and Reception to follow Spp(l~red by~~ \ ·. CENTER F0RWOM£N~ 



INTER(ULllJRAL LEADERSHIP
• SAINT MARY\ CotlEG£. NOTRE DAME. INOlANA 
Monday, October I I, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 10,055.20 -70.20
}ones 
-~. 
lip:' Same: ~wn: Composite Volume: 1,612 136 • 1,292,935,168 

AMEX 1, 285.20 +6.70 NASDAQ 1,430.96 -24.81 NYSE 6,636.42 -17.80 S&PSOO 1,122.14 -8.51 
L NIKK£l(Tokyo) 11,349.35 -5.24 
,...., FTSE IOO(London) 4,698.90 +0.20 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  -7.50  -0.30  3.70/  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -3.25  -0.69  20.55  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -0.98  -0.12  12. h7  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -1.83  -0.35  18.78  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.64  -0.18  27.99  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.92  -0.96  49.98  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -2.62  -I. II  42.44  
5-YEARNOTE  -3.69  -I .30  35.24  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.30  -0~05  16.62  


· Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.64 53.31 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.00 424.50 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.225 96.40 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 109.4800 
EURO 0.8050 
POUND 0.5567 
CANADIAN$ 1.2507 
IN BRIEF Airlines worldwide hike up prices 
PARIS -Airlines the world over are raising fares in response to the latest oil price hike, which threatensAo choke ofT a gradual recov­ery in air traver and deepen the woes of carri­ers already struggling with bankruptcy. 
British Airways became the latest airline to increase ticket prices on Friday after American Airlines raised one-way domestic flights by $5 earlier this week, prompting United Airlines and Continental Airlines to fol­low suit. 
BA said it was adding $36 to the price of a long-haul round trip as the price of a barrel of light sweet crude soared over the $53 mark in New York on Friday. 
The latest round of fare hikes could dampen demand for air travel, industry watchers warn, just as passenger traffic figures were beginning to recover from a series of setbacks. 
Air France and the German airline Lufthansa are among carriers that have scaled back their short-term growth forecasts, reflecting expectations of more muted demand. 
Low job figures pressure stocks 
NEW YORK -Deepening investor pessimism over the economy sent stocks lower Friday as investors registered their disappointment over the government's latest jobs report and as oil moved past $53 per barrel. The major indexes ended the week lower. 
Investors saw the latest Labor Department report as a sign that the economy continues to struggle through a period of sluggish growth. Only 
96.000 new jobs were created in September, far less than the 150,000 Wall Street expected. 
Even as jobs remain an issue that has sapped consumer confidence, oil reached $53, adding to concerns that the markets' traditional fourth­quarter rally would be muted this year ifit arrives at all. A barrel of crude oil set another record, set­tling at $53.31, up 64 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
"The jobs figure was clearly disappointing, and energy prices are still hanging in there," said Scott Brown, senior economist at Raymond James. "It's not a disaster, but the jobs number just isn't good enough. The markets are taking it fairly well, considering, but it doesn't help." 
THE OBSERVER 








USINESS 
page 7 

Satellite radio firms lure men 
Cotnpanies will use automobile industry giants and women to execute plans 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Shock jock Howard Stern's move to Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. begins an association between a man who was happy to describe, in detail, Paris Hilton's sex tape and the industrial giants of the auto industry. 
Shocked? Don't be. After all, every car show has its company-sponsored cleav­age. 
The audience for satellite radio is "the car-buying male public," said Scott Greenstein, president of entertainment and sports for Sirius radio. 
Sirius and its larger com­petitor, XM Satellite Radio Inc., know they need men to embrace them if their busi­ness plans are to work, and the auto industry is more than happy to help. 
Even though Sirius has lost more than $1 billion in the last five years and XM has lost $1.5 billion since 1992, they've attracted investments from most of the large auto makers. 
Daimler-Chrysler Corp. has invested $100 million in Sirius. Honda Motor Co. has put about $50 million into XM while General Motors Corp. has invested $120 mil­lion and given XM a $250 million line of credit. 

And that's not all. There tening to all the sports pro­Satellite radio doesn't lease Auto makers are betting are other incentives: GM and gramming, the group likely the public airwaves, as tradi­satellite radio's mix of con­Honda pay for the first three to spend a lot of time in their tional radio does, so it isn't tent and marketing will con­months XM subscriptions in automobiles. That's why the subject to the decency scruti­vince customers to buy dedi­some model cars, said Stern agreement is so impor­ny and hefty fines from the cated satellite radios, which Chance Patterson, an XM tant and a watershed for us. Federal Communications usually cost $100 or more, spokesman. It mirrors our target audi­Commission the shock jocks and pay $9.95 to $12.95 a 
The Acura TL, Cadillac ence." face on traditional radio. month to listen to them. Escalade and Chevrolet Stern, who said XM charges listeners extra There are stereo models for Cobalt advertise XM radio Wednesday that he would to hear The Playboy Channel, the home, wireless kits that availability. "You go to a move to Sirius in 2005 as whose programs include can adapt a traditional radio dealership and XM has a vis­part of a $500 million deal, is "Judge Julie's unique brand to satellite and portable ible pres~nce there," such a natural fit for satellite ofjustice on Sex Court." radios that can move from a Patterson said. "Most dealers radio that XM executives Sirius hasn't been shy, car to a boombox mount. have an XM kiosk with a said they had negotiated with either. Still, the 1 million GM cars radio and a lineup." him too. Apparently, they In an ad the Advertising sold with XM radios since the 
"How important is the car decided his price was too Women of New York voted company started installing industry? Critical," he said. high. "most sexist ad of the year," them three years ago are a "Half of our subscribers XM, the dominant player in Sirius showed buxom fraction of the 17 million come from the new car mar­satellite radio with 2.5 mil­"Baywatch" sex symbol vehicles sold in the United ket." lion subscribers to Sirius' Pamela Anderson washing a States last year. XM predicts 
Men are "the group most 600,000, launched a show car by sliding across it in GM and Honda will make likely to be buying cars," said Monday by equally salacious short-shorts and a wet tank another 1.5 million cars this Sirius spokesman Jim shock jocks Opie and top and buffing the chrome year equipped with XM Collins. "This is the group lis-Anthony. with her bottom. radios. 


Retailers need to adjust for holidays 
It's too late for merchants to make senior industry analyst at NPD Group
Associated Press 

any dramatic changes in their holiday Inc., a market research company based 
NEW YORK -With a weak back-to­merchandise, but they can still tweak in Port Washington, N.Y. And while school season behind them, the nation's their collections and marketing plans. preppy fashions did well, analysts said retailers are focused on the holidays Struggling Sears, Roebuck and Co. there's not a lot of must-have apparel to and what steps they need to take to get decided last month to change its holi­excite consumers this holiday season. consumers excited about shopping day decor, with oversized photographs "They have to have looks that catch again. That could mean some quick of holiday gifts that Sears will begin people's eyes. Some of the colors for fall merchandise changes and more placing in stores in mid-November. were too subtle," Cohen said. aggressive discounting than they origi­September's sluggish sales figures, Clearly, retailers are in a difTerl:mt nally planned. released to the public on Thursday, position from a year ago, when they 
"The back-to-school period is not a offered retailers some ideas about what had just come off a strong back-to­bellwether for the holiday season, but might click with shoppers and what school season, boosted in part by tax there are a lot of lessons that you can probably wouldn't during the holidays. rebates that served as incentives for take out of that period," said Michael P. Among the hot sellers for the early consumers to spend freely. But stores Niemira, chief economist at The fall season were accessories including struggled in October, November and the International Council of Shopping silk wraps, ponchos and brooches and early part of December, only to be Centers. "That is what retailers need to other jewelry. But muted colors fared saved by a shopping spree before and focus on." poorly, according to Marshal Cohen, after Christmas. 
Tuesday, October ll, 2004

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

M U S c 


Mariz:a 

http://www.ritmoartists.com/Mariza/mariza.htm 
Wednesday, October 13 at 8 p.m. 

$37, ND/SMC/HC $30, Students $15 
Fado is the blues of Portugal, and for a generation there was only one name in Fado, but a new, powerful, and beautiful voice has reached the pinnacle. Mariza, recent winner of the BBC award for best European act, sings with a passion so soulful it is difficult to believe it comes from a 28-year-old woman. It is precisely this duality that makes Mariza the epitome of Fodo. Fado is known for poetry that fuses opposite emotions-impossible pain with fervent joy, or lifes cruelty with loves intensity. Mariza is a diva-in the best sense of the word-and when she puts her personal, indelible stomp on a song, she leaves audiences spellbound and breathless. 
THEATRE 



Second City Comedy 
http://www.secondcity.com/ 
Friday, October 22 at 9 p.m. 

$31, ND/SMC/HC $25, Students $15 
Always brash, original, and daring, Second City Comedy brings its unique brand of sketch comedy and improvisation to Notre Dame. The concept is simple enough: six actors and an accompanist take the stage and make you Iough. Although they have 45 years of archives to draw upon, their work is always fresh, topical, and inventive. They are ready to comment on every social debate, political scandal, or public disgrace, and they're here just two weeks before the presidential election, which just might be on their minds. 
Academy of Saint Martin in the Fields with Christopher O'Riley 
http://www.christopheroriley.com Thursday, October 14 at 8 p.m. 
$62, ND/SMC/HC $50, Students $20 
Best known for his nationally broadcast radio 
program, "From the Top," swashbuckling pianist Christopher O'Riley has emerged as one of the most distinguished, versatile and decorated pianists of his generation. He has won the coveted Van Cliburn competition solidifying his stature among classical musicians, but has also interpreted the music of the rock group Radiohead. Not many other classical pianists have tracks named Subterranean Homesick Alien. O'Riley will be joined by the Academy of Saint Martin in the Fields, a chamber orchestra which has been the benchmark of Baroque music for almost 50 years. They are simply the best, and when they get together with O'Riley sparks will Ay. O'Riley says, "I love that dramatic aspect, the hero soloist versus the orchestra. There's such a wonder­ful sense of tension." 
PERSONAL T y 

Tickets are Preferred Seating $100, all others $30 leighton Concert Hall 
Regis performs selections from his new CD accom­panied by a 22-piece orchestra. Net proceeds will benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
Regis will also be broadcasting LIVE WITH REGIS AND KELLY from the leighton Concert Hall on Monday, October 25 at 7:30a.m. All tickets to the television show will be free. Distribution of these tickets will be announced later. 
F L M 

ART OF AMALIA 
(90 minutes) 
http:/ lwww.ovotorfilms.comlreleoseslort_of_omolio.html 
Thursday, October 14 
7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Amalia Rodrigues is best known for her interpreta­tion of "Fado," a unique Portuguese musical style rich in dramatic lament and raw emotional power. This extraordinary film about the life and career of Amalia Rodrigues contains some stunning footage from her concert, television and movie appearances and should enshrine her position os one of the last great divas of the 20th century. 

AMERICA'S HEART AND SOUL 
(84 minutes) 
http:I I disney.go.coml disneypictureslheortondsoul/ 
Friday, October 15 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
America is a vast country-three thousand miles from end to end. But it's not the land that makes America so special-it's the people. Filmmaker louis Schwartz­berg packed-up his camera and hit the road, with a goal of capturing both the unparalleled beauty of the land and the incomparable spirit of the people. He connects with people, capturing their values, dreams, and passion in a journey that reveals the stories-unusual, captivating, inspiring and emotional-that make Americans into something more than a collection of individuals. It's a celebra­tion of a nation told through the voices of its people. 
F A L L A R T S F E S T 


SHAKESPEARE IN PERFORMANCE 
Fortinbras By Lee Blessing November 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 Tickets: $12, $10 ND/SMC/HC, $8 
A Midsummer Night's Dream 
November 4 and 6 Tickets $18, $16 ND/SMC/HC, $12 students Performed by Actors From The London Stage 
MacHomer 
November 5 and 6 Tickets: $37, $30 ND/SMC/HC, $15 students 

King's Singers 
November 7 Tickets: $44, $35 ND/SMC/HC, $15 students 


Discounted tickets are underwritten by the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. 
MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS http:/ /performingarts.nd.edu 

Call 574-631-2800 








ELECTION 2004 
Monday, October 11, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE sERVIcEs page 9 
SOUND BITE: MEDICAL MALPRACTICE 
Do you support a federal cap on medical malpractice awards as a way to restrain health insurance costs? 
"Yes. Our litigation system is terribly broken and "As president, I will require that a qualified specialist Americans are paying the estimated $100 billion cost of certifies a medical malpractice case's merit before it is 
,--~'l!"'lll':ml~• junk lawsuits. I have proposed a common sense reform allowed to move forward. I will also work with states so plan that will lower health care costs and maintain we have nonbinding mediation in all malpractice claims strong doctor-patient relationships by reducing frivolous before cases proceed to trial. Lawyers who file frivolous lawsuits and making the liability system more fair, pre­cases would face tough. mandatory sanctions, including a dictable and timely. My proposal would ensure that 'three strikes and you're out· provision that forbids injured persons are fully compensated for their econom­lawyers who file three frivolous cases from bringing ic losses, while reasonably limiting non-economic dam­another suit for the next 1 o years. I also oppose punitive ages to $25o.ooo. It would also reserve punitive dam­damages -unless intentional misconduct, gross negli­ages for cases in which they are justified, ensure that gence, or reckless indifference to life can be established. old cases cannot be brought years after an event, and Finally, I will work to eliminate the special privileges that provide that defendants should pay judgments in pro­allow insurance companies to fix prices and collude .to portion to their fault." increase medical malpractice premiums." 
Bush 

Kerry 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Bush, Kerry race back to campaign trail 
ELYRIA. Ohio -Prnsident Bush and Sen. John Kerry, their animosity stirmd by a contentious second debate, lit into each other over Iraq. jobs and debate performance on Saturday in critical battleground states. 
Kerry "doesn't pass the credibility test," Bush asserted, while the Massachusetts senator claimed that the nation's choice "could really not have been more clear than it was last night." 
Instant polls did not give either Bush or Kerry a clear ndge in Friday's wide-ranging debate in St. Louis before an audience of uncommittnd voters. depicting either a tie or a slight edge for Kerry. 
But Republicans·were heartened by what they saw as a steadier. more focused and aggressive performance by the president than in the first debate, where he displayed bout<; of impatience and peevishness. 
Bush and Kerry ventured into each other's "must will" states. Bush campaigning in Iowa and Minnesota and Kerry in Ohio and Florida. 
New backup voting ~stem one source of 
glitches and lawsuits on Election Day 
WASHINGTON -Call it the law of unintended conse­quences. A new national backup system meant to ensure that millions of eligible voters are not mistakenly turned away from the polls this year. as happened in 2000, could wind up causing Election Day problems as infamous as Florida's hanging chads. 
Congress rP-quirnd conditional. or provisional. voting as part of election fixns pa<;sed in 2002. For the first time, all statns must offer a backup ballot to any voter whose name docs not appear on the rolls when the voter comes to the polling place on Nov. 2. If the voter is later found eligible. the vote counts. 
But Congress did not specifY exactly how the provision­al votes will be evaluated. 
Add the ordinary problems that come with doing some­thing new. and the result is a recipe for mix-ups at the polls and lawsuits over alleged unequal treatment of some voters, said Doug Chapin, executive director of Electionline.org, a nonpartisan clearinghouse for infor­mation on election reform. 
"If I had to pick the one thing that will be source of controversy on Election Day, it will be provisional voting," Chapin said. 
State officials have adopted their own standards for when a provisional ballot will count; some of those rules are still in flux three weeks from the election. 
Hules for who casts provisional ballots and how they are counted probably will vary even within states, espe­cially if there are long lines, confusion and hot tempers at the polls, election experts said. 
Some of the states where the race is tightest, such as Florida and Ohio, al'>o have the strictest rules for provi­sional ballots. 
Democrats and Republicans are training lawyers and election monitors to look for problems with provisional voting this year. Already, there are suits in five states claiming election officials are adopting too strict a stan­dard for which votes will count and that eligible voters will bn denied the right to vote as a result. 
Questions about provisional ballots could produce a major battle after the election, too, with nightmarish echoes of the Florida fight of 2000. 
Lawyers for President Bush and Democratic challenger .John Kerry are ready for a new overtime contest in states where. if the election is close enough, the winner could be determined by who gets the most valid provi­sional votes. 
Provisional ballots arc pieces of paper that must be evaluated individually and counted by hand. The task is time-consuming, and most states have short deadlines to get the job done, said Doug Lewis. director of the Election Center. a nonpartL<;an research and training organization for state and local election administrators. 
Analysts wary of predicted GOP win 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush will be the first president in 72 years to face the electorate with a net job loss. The Iraq war has deeply torn the nation. National polls show a neck-and-neck race. Yet economy-based projections still show a decisive Bush victory on Nov. 2. 
What gives'? 
Political scientists and many economists say this may be the year to throw the economic models out the window. Forecasters are flummoxed about the impact of Iraq, uncertain about the true state of the economy, and less sure about their projections than in any recent election. 
Domestic policy is the designated topic for final presidential debate on Wednesday at Arizona State University. 
And the topic drew testy exchanges in Friday night's debate in St. Louis, where Democrat .John Kerry accused Bush of running up massive deficits with wartime tax cuts for the wealthy, and the presi­dent portrayed Kerry as an unabashed liberal who would raise taxes on the middle class to pay for big government programs. 
Despite record deficits, surging oil prices and the loss of jobs under Bush's watch, mathematical and statistical models continue to project a Bush victory. Economists, however, are raising questions about their own models. 
"Foreign policy on the average is not that big a deal. But this time could be different. You never know. Iraq is such a big issue," said Yale economist Ray Fair, who has one of the best track records for predict­ing elections. 
His model predicts Bush will get 
57.5 percent of the vote, using such variables as economic growth, inflation, incumbency and duration in office. He has been accurate in five of the past six elections, missing only in 1992 when Bush's father lost. 
The Labor Department on Friday delivered more disappointing news to Bush, reporting that the U.S. economy added just 96,000 jobs in September, about 50,000 fewer than expected. Because it was the last employment report before Election Day, it means a job loss is now baked in the political cake. 
Though 1.8 million jobs have been added to business payrolls in the past year, there are 821,000 fewer jobs in the country than when Bush took office in January 2001. 
Democrats are quick to point out Bush is the first president since Herbert Hoover in the Great Depression to oversee a net job loss. "I have a plan to put people back to work. That's not wishy­washy," Kerry asserted in Friday's debate, responding to a suggestion by a questioner that he was "wishy-washy." 

Republicans, of course, empha­size the recent gains -not the overall losses. Moments after Friday's jobs report, the Bush cam­paign put out a television commer­cial crediting Bush policies for "nearly 2 million new jobs in just over a year." 
In Friday's debate, Bush said: "Small businesses are flourishing. Homeownership rate is at an all­time high in America. We're on the move." 
The question President Reagan famously raised in his 1980 debate with incumbent Jimmy Carter ­are you better off now than you were four years ago? -is being asked again this year by Democrats. 
Why do economic models still show a Bush victory? 
Principally because the unem­ployment rate -5.4 percent in September -is not high by histor­ical standards, interest rates and inflation remain relatively sub­dued, and economic growth is moderate, if not robust. Most eco­nomic statistics have inched up since the end of the 2001 reces­sion. 
"Things are not terrible," said David Wyss, chief economist at 

Standard and Poor's in New York. "But I'd rather be on Kerry's side of the argument." 
An economic model Wyss uses ­based on the unemployment rate, the growth in real income, the change in the core inflation rate and the change in oil prices ­shows a Bush victory by 54 per­cent, even with the run-up in oil prices. But Wyss is not so sure. "Usually elections get decided on domestic issues. But there are a lot of non-economic issues this time," he said. 
Economy.com, an online provider of economic and financial research based in West Chester, Pa., gives Bush 53.7 percent of the vote and suggests he could win as many as 373 electoral votes, far more than the 270 he needs. 
But Mark Zandi, chief economist at the company, is skeptical. "The economy is losing momentum going into the election, there is a lot of angst among voters. The models may not be picking that up," he said. 
Economist Lawrence Chimerine. president of Radnor Consulting, an economics firm in Philadelphia, said economic models can go only so far -and don't take into account a lot of things that influ­ence the vote. 
"I wouldn't give you a nickel for those models. I think the polls showing the race is reasonably tight are probably a lot more accu­rate than those models," Chimerine said. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, October 11, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

Ret-hink the war on terror 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notr< Dame, IN 465S6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mau Lo?Alr 
MANAGING EDITOR  ·  BusiNESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsS'I~ MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger Vu:wroJNT El>ITORt Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR• Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR• Mike Harkins AlJVJ::RTISING MANAGER• Carrie Franklin Au DF.SIGN MANAGER• Kelly Nelson SYSTF.MS ADMINI.HRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROU£R: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
~ (574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe UniversiiJ' ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administrarion of either insriturion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse <tdvertisemems based on coment. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present che views of the aurhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi~point space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Qt~stions rrgJrding Oburv~r policin should b( dirm(d to Editor in Chiif Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ol1'1Crver {USP5 ~99 2·4000) i• puhlidM:d Moud~y through J:riday except during ":cam and v111:arion pcnodt. A •ubtaapuon to The Obterver i• SI 00 for Ont' ...:oldcmic ynr, $~'i for one K"mnll'r rhc Oh~rwr ,, , manh<r ofthe Aw:.c,att"d E'ro•. AU rtproducrion righ~ u~ r~C'tved. 
rhc Ohlt'fvtT II pubtuhct! If" P.O. BnxQ 02" Sourh !Janmg H;all 024 ~uth I>ininH Hall Nuu,· Do~me. IN 46!156.0779 N011T l>;amt', IN 46556-11779 1\-nodiu;al r~"'"gt' paid ar Nurre tl•m" .&ntl aJdirinnalmo~.iling oftlcn 
i'"TMASTF.R ~d .-ddrt>u ..urm:rloru ro: 
The Olnl'ncr i1 • m"ml>e:1 uf rhto As..xiaraJ l1rn1. AU repruJu..:non righ~~o an.· ~ned. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

Listening to this Presidential elec­tion season's speeches and debates, one could not be blamed for believing that America is on the daily verge of annihilation at the hands of terrorists, or that our neigh­bors are secretly Michael planning to set a Poffenberger mushroom cloud over the local high 
Say Why Not

school swimming pool. The threat of terrorism -and discernment of an appropriate American response­has dominated the airwaves. In short. fear abounds. Jokes of duct tape and terror-alert color schemes aside, the prominence in election discourse of the war on terror and the tenuously­connected war in Iraq is misguided. Further, the assumptions guiding America's war on terror are flimsy and must change if there is to be hope for ending terrorism. 
What is it exactly about terrorism that makes it such a political fascina­tion? It certainly has not been its toll on human life. In 2001, terrorist attacks took the lives of approximate­ly 3,000 U.S. citizens. Heart disease, linked to obesity, took the lives of over 700,000. According to these figures, it could be argued that our military would be more effective at protecting us if it were to build outposts in front of every McDonald's in America in order to scare away customers than it is while attempting to take over small Middle Eastern nation-states (who, ironically, pose only minimal threat to our security). 
In an even broader context, the vio­lent death toll of Sept. 11 is happen­ing every two days in the genocide of Western Sudan right now. and the global AIDS pandemic continues to grow rapidly, claiming almost a third of the citizens in some sub-Saharan African nations. In our own country, poverty is on the rise, health care on the fall and communities are breaking down. These issues are being placed on the back burner, to the detriment of people everywhere, while the so­called war on terror is unleashed around the world. 
Clearly, terrorism's prominence has not been due to its death toll. Underlying the fear of this phenome­
non in America is a more horrified realization that our security, or per­haps more accurately the fac;ade of our security for, was shattered on Sept. 11. 
How, then, can we regain this sense of security? Fighting the phenomenon of terrorism should not merely consist of hunting down individuals who espouse violent anti-American sentiment. This approach is ultimately ineffective. Certainly, individuals who resort to acts of violence. especially against innocent life. should be held accountable, and force may be neces­sary to accomplish this. But until we destroy the incen­tives for individ u­als to resort to terrorism, we will never be secure. The consequences of the war in Iraq. namely a resur­gence of global terrorist activity and anti-American sentiment, are enough proof of this. 
The first questions we should have asked on Sept. 12, 2001 are not about who did it and how quickly we can destroy their lives, but are instead about why they did it and how we can combat the conditions -conditions that survive beyond individuals -that beget ter­rorist action. Many Islamic societies have legitimate grievances against the United States that are not being addressed, such as American policy in Israel. U.S. military bases in the Middle East and the war in Iraq. 
More importantly, however, the deeper reality of a grossly unequal global order guarantees a perpetual state of violence against the oppres­sive power of America. This reality shows that our sense of security has always been a facade, based on our ability to take our wars to foreign soil, and to ensure that the reactions to our unjust policies never reach us here at home. Perpetuating injustic1~ by the barrel of a gun can never pro­duce sustainable security for Americans, or for that matter any human being. In the midst of election discourse. Neither candidate dares to challenge the injustice of America's 
hegemonic and often violent 
global dominance. The "war" on terrorism should be undertaken 
by pursuing a world order based on the rule of law and a more equitable dis­tribution of the 
world's goods instead of on great power pol­
itics and the vio­lent enforce­ment of U.S. intl~rests. We should learn the common sense lc~sson of history that until all are 
secure, none 
an~ 
truly s1~cure. Meanwhile. instead of allow­ing a fear of ter­rorism to be thr factor that links America as a nation, let us rally around our ideals and focus election season discourse on what really matters. Our cherished values of 

peace. tolerance, liberty and equality have suffered greatly during the past three years. We must prac­tice a politics of hope, not fear. As cit­izens, it is in our interest to demand change, for continuing on our current p·ath will only take us further from the day when true peace and security are p(,lSSibJe. 
Michael Poffenberger is a senior anthropology and peace studies major. Contact him at mpoffenb@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports Angela Saoud Justin Schuver OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Amanda Michaels Bobby Griffin Jen Howling Kate Seryak 

What are you doing for Fall Break? 
Viewpoint Scene Justin Spack Christie Boisen 

"If you are patient in one moment ofanger, you 
Graphics Illustrator Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
will escape 100 days ofsorrow." 
Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Chinese proverb 

··----------~­
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Monday, October 11, 2004 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Display did not deserve vandalism 
Actions speak louder than words 
On Nov. 2. we all face a huge decision. Who do we want to lead our country? And on what do we base that decision? Sure, Senator John, Kerry probably won the debate -he has been winning these things since his glory days on the Yale debate team. But this election is not about who looks better on television. This election is largely about what type of world our 

kids arc going see. It is about how response, Kerry said, "I actually forcefully we are going to deal voted for the $87 billion, before I with the terrorists. It is about voted against it." how much money your par­Kerry's record on taxes is ents are going to pay in equally pitiful. In all, he has taxes. It is about the voted to raise taxes 379 moral stances our coun­times. For example, he try will take. I propose voted to increase the gas that we look at Decision tax by six cents per gal­2004 from a different lon. He's voted against standpoint. Let's not tax relief for married look at what Kerry says couples. He opposed the he will do -let's look child tax credit 18 times. at what he has done And yet, the most consistently for two embarrassing and decades. ridiculous vote that 
Kerry's long voting Kerry has ever cast: He record in the Senate voted "no" on banning needs to be looked at a partial-birth abortions. little closer. As a future Look at what Kerry has officer in the U.S. Air done, not what he says he Force, I know that I want will do. Actions speak louder my President's number one than words. I admire Kerry's priority to be giving the troops service to his nation. He's an the equipment they need to win. honorable war hero, and I have no 
Kerry has given me no indication he will do that. 
In 1996, Kerry proposed a bill (S. 1580, Introduced 2/29/96) to slash Defense · Department funding by $6.5 billion. In 1997. Kerry voted "yea" to freeze defense spending for seven years (S. Con. Res. 13, CQ Vote #181: Rejected 28-71). Kerry has voted to reduce and/or entirely kill the fol­lowing systems: Bradley Fighting Vehicle, M-1 Abrams Tank. F-15 Strike Eagle. Patriot Anti-Missile System, B-1, B-2 and Missile Defense. He has also voted to cut funding for the CIA by 80 percent, the FBI by 60 percent and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration by 80 percent. 
Since that time, Kerry has not changed. 

Senator Kerry, along with Senator John Edwards, are two of only four U.S. senators who voted for the Use of Force Resolution Against Iraq and against the $87 billion supplemental package (H. J. Res. 114, CQ Vote #237: Passed 77-23). He voted to authorize war, and then he denied our troops the body armor they need. It does 
not get more irresponsible than that. In 
doubt that he is a good man. However, I have real qualms about his positions on the issues and where he will take this country. 
For all the big-time liberals out there, I know Kerry is your man. But for all you semi-moderate folks out there who want your kids to grow up in a safer and stronger country, the choice is clear. Vote for President Bush. He is not a perfect president, but he is clearly the better choice. 
Mike Koprowski 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
Oct. 10 

Who destroys 12-inch-tall. white crosses representing unborn life? Regardless of your opinion on abortion, it's ignorant to vandalize a display. Are pro-choice individuals so selfish they can't respect lives, feelings and opinions of others? I shouldn't ask that. 
I'll admit freshman year I was overwhelmed seeing crosses on South Quad. I hated it. It's in your face and difficult to stomach, but shouldn't we acknowledge this and think? It's less than 48 hours a year, yet at least one coward found a need inside himself or herself to squelch a peaceful display. I'd tolerate pro­choice demonstrations. 
It's obvious I'm anti-abortion. Still. I can't comprehend this act of ripping cross­es out of the earth. shattering them and throwing broken pieces like trash. Can I stress they were small. white crosses; the perpetrator(s) were desecrating the symbol of Jesus Christ's sacrifices and death. What if I smashed the Basilica's cross. scaled the Dome and ripped down Mary or painted over "Touchdown Jesus" during the night? 
Besides religious factors -ignoring the freedom of speech debate -those crosses explicitly symbolize life. Each cross represented lost life in a material way to pay tribute. like "God. Country, Notre Dame" over the Basilica's side door or our fountain "Stonehenge" in memory of the fallen Notre Dame military family. 
Maybe I'm taking this too seriously; they're just little, white crosses stuck in the ground by college kids. But I don't have the right to undermine the efforts of the many students who invested hours constructing and organizing the temporary memorial instead of studying, hanging out or sleeping. Nobody has a right to dis­respect the display's meaning, even if you disagree. This was no way to express distaste. The entire Notre Dame community should condemn this act and anybody with information should feel a responsibility to report it to Notre Dame Security/Police. We may joke that Notre Dame Security/Police is only there to harass drunken students at Reekers, but I'd love to find them someone to lecture on appropriate, adult behavior. 
Dave Daley junior Dillon Hall Oct. 10 

The actions of those who violently vandalized the Cemetery of the Innocents display on South Quad are deplorable, reprehensible and as far from the traditions of this University and this nation as anything I have seen or heard. This heinous attack was twofold; it attacked the right for every person and organization here to express their beliefs in a responsible manner and it attacked the Catholic faith which is a corner­stone of Our Lady's University. 
Regardless of how you feel about abortion, every single man and woman on this campus should condemn this act. This attempt to sup­press the free speech of the pro-lifers here on campus is a threat to any group, liberal, conservative or otherwise that desires to transmit its mes­sage to the University. I myself am pro-life and conservative. passionately so, but I would never and have never stooped to such an ignominious low. 
In committing this act of vandalism, its perpetrators acted in anything but a Christ-like spirit. They sneakily, in the dead of night, wrecked hun­dreds of symbols of both the babies lost to abortion and our Lord's sacri­fice. There is no one and no way that can justify their actions through the teachings of Jesus. Those "Catholics" for choice who stood so brazenly before the cemetery the afternoon following would do well to remember this fact. 
To conclude, I have three messages. To pro-lifers: stay the course and proudly display and defend the truth that God, our Church and our con­sciences reveal to us. To all other advocacy groups at Notre Dame: join me in unequivocally condemning this action, regardless of your feelings on the issue of abortion. To those who committed this crime: think and pray long and hard on what you have done. For no matter what your end, you have violated the first principles of this nation and this University. 
Cole Milliard Secretary, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right-to-Life sophomore O'Neill Hall Oct.10 



Watch the money trail 
Tom Rippinger's Oct. 6 encomi­um to the lobbying industry might have been subtitled: "If I say nice things about you, can I get a job in your moral vacuum next fall?" 
After making the quasi-para­noid suggestion that the undecid­ed voter shouldn't trust any can­didate, their party, their ads or news, "Seeing beyond the 'spin"' argues we should make our choice based on the special inter­ests giving the candidates cash. After all, what is more unbiased than money? Nothing. The anar­cho-capitalist Rippinger says: "Usually money is a more trust­worthy measure of human inten­tions than word alone." Huh? Are the rich and taciturn more trust­worthy than the poor but ver­bose? I submit there are few things less trustworthy than money. For most of us, it takes off in the morning for an early meet­ing with food and rent, promising to call. Sometimes, money runs off with politicians looking for lots and lots of friends and then we all really get rogered. 
I'm not a negative type of guy, . though, so I did Rippinger's homework assignment: I saddled up on the money trail to see how candidates might govern. At first it was pretty frustrating: lobbyists represent everything that could possibly go wrong in United States democracy folded into one nasty diaper (Google: Congress + Speaker + Delay + lobbyist + indictment). Then I found some­thing really interesting: the Kerry campaign had 750,000 "lobby­ists" who-with average grass­roots donations under $100­broke multiple campaign fundraising records in the second quarter of 2004. Instead of taking our cue from big money, as Rippinger's cynical real politique suggests, maybe we could take a look at the hopeful news of unprecedented numbers of every­day people contributing small amounts? 
Given such great news for democracy, why does Atlas' shrug look so bitter and pessimistic? My guess is Rippinger doesn't like the way November looks for the GOP. One could hardly blame him: the Democratic base is unit­ed behind John Kerry and John Edwards like never before; new voters are registering in droves in states like Ohio and Pennsylvania; and "safe" senate seats are moving into play every month. I know the news is grim. but future conservative Viewpoint columnists would do well to remember, in prose as in politics, "desperation is a stinky cologne." 
Sean O'Brien graduate student Oct. 10 


THE 0HSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Monday, October I I, 2004 
Sound of Irish rnusic 
Eileen Ivers impressive on violin at Performing Arts Center, but Immigrant Soulless than effective 

Photos courtesy of adastra-music.co.uk and 1ens-th.com 

Left, Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul combine Irish music with other genres. Right, Ivers and the band In concert. 
She plays with feeling and energy, and are one of the most distinctive elements occasional solos on harmonica were notBy MARIA SMITH captures lively Celtic dance tunes, of Irish music, and it was unfortunate as intrusive as in the old Irish tunes. The
Scene Editor 

mournful ballads and bluegrass tunes not to be able to hear more of them group's final performance of "Let the 
with equal skill. Ivers' solo numbers through the show. Circle Be Unbroken" was one of the best 
Friday night's concert by Eileen Ivers were invariably emotional and enjoy­McDonnell, who is also the lead singer and liveliest numbers in the show. and Immigrant Soul had high points, but able. Her playing pulled numbers by the and plays harmonica for the band, has Ultimately, the former Riverdance fid­was not a concert for musical purists. entire band together and helped engage been thoroughly steeped in blues during dler was rightfully the reason most peo­
The concert was also directed towards the audience in the music. a career that has included performances ple probably came to the show. Unlike in an older crowd than Notre The attempt to blend with many blues greats the opening performance Dame undergraduates and blues, rock, Irish and such as B.B. King, James by Wynton Marsalis and had a relatively low turnout other styles of music was Brown and Eric Clapton. • the Lincoln Center Jazz
[Ivers] plays with

of students. less successful. Celtic The singer did not bridge Orchestra, the headlining Immigrant Soul's perform­feeling and music tends to have a the gap into -Celtic music Ultimately, the artist for the show was ance showed just because energy. and simple rhythmic base pro­especially well. His former Riverdance undoubtedly the most tal­something can be done does vided by the bohdran, the singing obviously ented. The show would
captures lively fiddler was
not mean it should be done, only traditional percus­stemmed from American have been better if the and that trying to modernize Celtic dance tunes. sion instrument used in styles of music and did not rightfully the audience had been able to a traditional form of music mournful ballads Irish music. Drummers blend well with Irish reason most concentrate more fully on will not always improve it. Adriano Santos and music. His rapport with Ivers' excellent playing and
and bluegrass people probably 
Irish music is not complicat­Tommy McDonnell tended the crowd was also not on other traditional ele­ed compared to many styles tunes with equal to overwhelm Ivers' play­especially engaging. came to the show. ments of Celtic music and of music, and adapting it for skill. ing at times, and made it The group's choice of less on the group's different instruments and difficult to hear James music was moderately attempts to modernize an ensembles is not difficult. Riley on guitar. The successful. A rendition of ancient form of music. However, the addition of instruments bodhran is a low-toned instrument, and "Pachelbel's Canon" was not an especial­Although the group was enthusiastic and and styles not traditionally part of Irish cymbals and chimes were particularly ly exciting choice for a widely renowned made a genuine effort to put on a goodmusic often distracts from the perform­intrusive in the sound. Emmanuel group, and the performance improved show, audiences would .do better to sec ance more than it enhances the quality Gatewood's accompaniment on electric dn.stically when the group moved to a any of these musicians solo or with of the music. In the case of Immigrant bass did not lack talent, but was also a fiddle-based dance tune. another ensemble than to see Immigrant
Soul. the combination of several talented jarring addition to the traditional Celtic The band's forays into bluegrass were Soul. musicians did not help to highlight their sound. more successful than their attempts at musical skill. The uilleann pipes, played by Ivan Irish music. Bluegrass is naturally suited 
Ivers' performance on violin justified GofT, were particularly hard to hear. The to adjust well to a wider variety of musi­Contact Maria Smith at her reputation as an excellent fiddler. Irish incarnation of the famous bagpipes cal instruments. The drum sets and msmith4@nd.edu 



Left, Ivers was the highlight of a mediocre show. Right, Immigrant Soul lead singer and harmonica player Tommy McDonnell has toured with blues legends like B.B. King and Eric Clapton. 




NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, October 11, 2004 BSERVER Notre Dame 23, Stanford 15 
Victorious, but not glorious 
Notre Dame uses late spurt to beat Stanford 
times in the first half and gotBy MIKE GILLOON its only points from a 38-yard Sports Writer D.J. Fitzpatrick field goal with 
12:14left in the half. 
The scoreboard doesn't care "Actually, before the game in about style points. Notre Dame the locker room I noticed it was showed Saturday it didn't care a lot more quiet than it usually either. is," Irish tight end Jerome 
The Irish defense stood firm Collins said. "We came out, inside the red zone and Notre and we were just flat. Dame scored three second half "The coaches kind of got after touchdowns -two coming us at halftime. We just had to from Ryan Grant -to grind out come out balling and show a sluggish 23-15 victory over everyone what Notre Dame Stanford. football is really all about." 
The Irish started slowly and Stanford looked poised to trailed 6-3 at halftime after a defeat the Irish in Notre Dame pair of first quarter field goals Stadium for the first time since by Cardinal kicker Michael 1992 when the Cardinal opened Sgroi. But coaching adjust­the second half with a 60-yard ments on both sides of the ball march on seven plays to kick a and a botched punt by Stanford field goal and extend their lead (3-2) in the third quarter boost­to 9-3. ed the Irish (4-2) to their 800th But a 43-yard pass from win in the history of the pro­Notre Dame quarterback Brady gram. Quinn to wide receiver Maurice 
The opening half had the Stovall on the ensuing drive potential to be much worse for jumpstarted the team and led Notre Dame -to Grant's · as Stanford first touch­
quarterback "'just don't like the way down of the 
T r e n t game.
we started. I just don't
Edwards "We really moved the know ifwe had a lot of needed that Cardinal energy. play," Stovall inside the said. "Our Irish 10-offense was in 
Kent Baer

yard line on a hole, we their first Irish defensive coordinator weren't exe­two posses-cuting things, sions. But and we need­the Irish defense stiffened up ed to get some yards and keep on third-and-goal both times to the defense off the field at the keep the Cardinal out of the same time. We finished it off end zone. by scoring, and that's what we 
"What you have to do is find a needed to do." way to make a play and that is The Irish momentum didn't what our defense has done," last long as Stanford's J.R. Irish head coach Tyrone Lemon plunged for a 1-yard Willingham said. "Things went touchdown to put the Cardinal against them but before ahead 15-10 and cap off a nine­[Stanford] went into the end play, 80-yard drive. zone they found a way to make Two series later, the Irish a stop." were ·set to receive a Cardinal 
The 'bend but don't break' punt when Stanford punter Jay play of the Notre Dame defense Ottovegio fumbled the long was good enough to keep snap. Notre Dame defenders Willingham undefeated (3-0) swarmed Ottovegio, and the against his former team, but punter whiffed while trying to the lacklus­kick. ter perform­
"Actually, before the game Notre Dame 
ance on took posses­
offense and in the locker room I noticed sion on the defense in it was a lot more quiet Stanford 27­the first half ·yard line.
than it usually is. ,,
did not sit The play 
well with thrust the 
coaches or Jerome Collins momentum 

players. Irish tight end right back in 
"I just the Irish cor­don't like the ner and ener­way we started," Notre Dame gized the crowd of 80,795. defensive coordinator Kent "It definitely added fire to our Baer said. "I just don't know if stadium," Irish linebacker we had a lot of energy." Derek Curry said. "Our fans got 
Notre Dame punted four a little more into it. That helped us get a little more energy than we had early on." 

Seven plays later, Grant gal­loped three yards into the end zone for his second touchdown of the day. Quinn overthrew a fade to wide receiver Jeff Samardzija on the ensuing two­point conversion attempt, but the Irish would never trail again. 
Notre Dame cushioned its lead with 4:10 remaining in the fourth quarter when Quinn snuck behind center John Sullivan -for a two-yard touch­down on third-and-goal. 

But the outcome of the game was in doubt until the last sec­ond as Stanford attempted a Hail Mary pass that was batted down in the end zone as time expired. 
Grant's two scores highlight­ed an Irish rushing game that had been almost non-existent last week against Purdue. Darius Walker carried 20 times for 89 yards while Grant had 19 carries for 69 yards, as the Irish rushed for 149 yards as a team. 
"We knew we had to run the ball and that ended up being successful for us," offensive tackle Ryan Harris said. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Ryan Grant  10-for-19  Third quarter muffed punt  'We are 4-2. We have a great shot to  
do some great things ... in the second  
The senior running back scored two  Notre Dame's third-down  Stanford punter Jay Ottovegio  halfofthis year. "  
touchdowns and combined with  conversion rate. The Irish  dropped a snap, giving Notre Dame  
Darius Walker to provide an  recorded 36:20 in time of  tremendous starting field position to  Tyrone Willingham  
effective running game.  possession.  score the go-ahead touchdown drive.  Irish coach  

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October II, 2004 

report card 
quarterbacks: Quinn didn't make any8-mistakes. but ho also failed to lind the end zone in the air all day. lie made tht~ necessary plays but also missed sewral wide open receivers. 
8+ 
running backs: Grant rt~turned and ran elli~ctivnly, scoring two touchdowns. Walker added R<J yards as tho run­


8 8­8 8­
C+;my hug~.) plays but it allowed Edwards to tally 267 yards. It lnt five difl(lrent rncoivers make plays of over 20 yards 


A­8­
ning game allowed tho Irish to move 
tlw ball. 

receivers: The unit had wro touch­downs. but Stovall's big 1:atch in tlw third quarter got the crowd back into tlw gamn. Stovall lnd tht) rnenivnrs in yards and eatdws and snt koy blocks. 
offensive line: The lirw allowed three 
sacks but hPipnd tlw running game 
gain 149 yards. It didn't play its best 
gam!' but was dl"netive enough against tho Cardinal. 
defensive line: Tho dnl"ensivn line stulli~d tlw Stanford running attack, liu·dng the Cardinal into a more one­dimensional oll"ense. It sacked Edwards just onen but pressured him on many more occasions. 
linebackers: Curry and Goolsby mm­birwd filr 10 tackh~s and one sack. The ~-,rroup didn't make any game-dmnging plays, but it did help stop the run. Curry mverPd rm:eivers well. 
defensive backs: The unit didn't give up 
wanted-a win. But the Irish waited until the fourth quar­
2.88 
ter to play like it and improve to 4-2. 
adding up the numbers 
Number of wins Notre Dame now has ­
8o o 
second all-time behind Michigan's 838. Notre Dame's all-lime record is now 800­260-41 
1888 
Year of Notre Dame's first victory, a 20-0 win against Harvard Prep 
Time of Notre Dame's third quarter 
6 2 7 
touchdown drive, the longest drive in terms of time this season 
18 
Place Ryan Grant sits on Notre Dame's all­time rushing list. He has 1,847 yards during his career. He passed three players -Ricky Watters, Christie Flanagan and Jim Crowley with 67 yards against Stanford 
Number of losses Tyrone Willingham has against his former team, Stanford. 
0
Willingham is 3-0 against the Cardinal 
29 
Number of points Stanford has scored in its last three meetings against Notre Dame 
Number of points Notre Dame has scored 
111 
in its last three meetings against Stanford 
1:52 
Amount of time offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick talked to reporters after the game. He had live one-sentence answers to reporters' questions. 
and couldn't record an interception. 
special teams: Fitzpatrick is playing well above expoctations, and he aver­aged 43.7 yards pnr punt, pinning the Cardinal inside their own 20 three times. I In also drilled two field goals. 
coaching: The team wasn't up for the grune from the start. Some of that is the players' limit, but the stall" must lind a way to have the team ready from the get-go. 
overall: Notre Dame got what it 
On the scale of "good" wins, Notre Dame's victory against Stanford on Saturday ranks near the bottom. 
The Irish got the ultimate job done by winning. ror that, the team and coaches should be congratulated. 
But the road Notre Dame took en route to the 23-15 victory is a little unsettling. For yet another game, the Irish couldn't do what they must do with their 
upcoming sched­ule-start a game strong and finish it stronger. 
In a home game, with the sea of green stu­dents cheering them onto the field, in front of 

a nationally-tele- Joe Hettler  
vised audience  
on NBC, with so  
much on the  Sports Writer  
line, coming off  
an embarrassing  

home loss, Notre Dame started the game flatter than a pancake. I will never understand how that can happen -ever. 
Docs the team need more motiva­tion than playing against a good Stanford team? How can the Irish not be excited to play at Notre Dame Stadium? 
After this game, a disgruntled oll"ensiVll coordinator Bill Diedrick was searching for answers as to why Notre Dame had little excitement. 
"I think if anybody knew that answer they'd probably be a genius," Diedrick said. "I have no idea. That's probably a very disap­pointing fact that, as a team, we'd come out and not have a great deal of energy to start with." 
l.inebacknr D(~rek Curry wasn't sure, either. 
"I don't know," the senior said. "Tiwre aw a lot of factors that go into it. I can't put my linger on it now. Probably after watching film it will be as clear as day. [After com­ing out flat] we just tried to raise the emotional level." 

Against Stanford, Notre Dame got away with "picking up the energy" as the game progressed. They did a good job in the second half of taking control of the game and playing opportunistic football. They did what they wanted to do -win. Again, one cannot overlook that fact, and the team should be credited with finding a way to victory. 
But in tough upcoming games against Navy, Boston College, Tennessee and Southern California, Notre Dame won't have the luxury of waiting until the second half to play its best football. 
Consistently good teams know how to start and finish a game. The Irish have yet to master that concept this 
season. "That's probably a Notre Dame and end They were flat the very disappointing fact a 40-year losing whole game against streak. The
that, as a team, we'd
Brigham Young. Midshipmen, with two They struggled with weeks to prepare, feel
come out and not have Michigan in the a great deal ofenergy this is their year to first half, trailing 9-upend the Irish.
to start with. " 
0 at the break. Starting with Navy, 
They couldn't put Notre Dame must away a less-talent­Bill Diedrick bring its highest level ed Michigan State Irish offensive coordinator energy for every Bowl Championship Series berth. They point to the five teams that made the BCS with two losses last season. They keep talking about their potential. They keep working towards their lofty goals this season. 
But for any of those accomplish­ments to be possible, Notre Dame must start games strong and finish them stronger. 
Iris~ head coach Tyrone Willingham knows this. 
"We were not playing in the man­ner that I t.hink our football team should play," Willingham said. "!<or whatever reason we couldn't get it going. We were lucky enough in the second half, we were able to make some plays and put ourselves in good position but I'm still uncom­fortable with how it came about." 
The Irish play Navy next week, a 
team that wants noth­
ing more than to beat 

team and,·after scorching Washington's defense for 31 first­half points, managed just one touch­down in the second half. 
Stanford was the same story. 
"I just don't like the way we start­ed," Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "I don't know if it's any­thing, and rjust don't know if we had a lot of energy when we started. It's something we talked about, and it's certainly something we're going to hav.? to address going into next week. 
With a 4-2 record, the Irish play­ers are still focusing on a possible game. left on the 
schedule. Besides a weak Pittsburgh ~nam, nvery remaining ganw will be a challenge, and every team will bring its 'A' game. 
If Notre Dame doesn't play a com­plete game, its goals will ehange in a hurry. 
The BCS may take two loss teams. It doesn't aeeept thosn with three losses. Or four. Or live. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those (~{The Observer. Contact Joe 1/et.tler atjhettler@nd.edu. 
Monday, October 11, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Grant, Stovall belong on the field 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
There's no room for Hyan Grant and Maurice Stovall on the sidelines. 
Due to nagging injuries, Grant and Stovall were restricted to the bench for mu-ch of this season. But after Saturday's game, it goes without saying the two belong on the field. 
Grant chipped away at Stanford's first-half 6-3 lead, rushing for 67 yards and two touchdowns on 19 carries to spur the Irish on to a 23-15 victory. Coach Tyrone Willingham was quick to emphasize Grant's impact both on and off the field in Saturday's game. 
"To have him them. it just multiplies your experience," Willingham said. "The things that young players haven't seen. he's seen. !laving him back was a plus from a leadership standpoint and a performance standpoint." 
After trailing the Cardinal late in the third quarter 15-10, Grant gave the Irish the lead for good. Quinn handed the ball off to Grant six times in seven plays before the senior snuck into the end zone for his second touchdown of the game. 
Some might measure the team's suc­cess based on individual yardage and touchdowns, but not Grant. He said Saturday's game didn't tell the story of an injury-plagued-player-turned hero, but the story of a tenacious team. 
"I like scoring, you know," Grant said. "But really, I'm just glad for the team. I think we dug deep today, and we've got a lot of heart on this team." 
While Grant demonstrated his abili­ties as the linchpin of Saturday's run­ning game, Stovall jumpstarted the Irish passing game. 
The wide receiver revitalized the Notre Dame offense after a lethargic first half, grabbing a 43-yard pass from Quinn to put the Irish in scoring posi­tion at first-and-goal from the Stanford 5-yard line. Grant rushed for one yard into the end zone to put the Irish ahead 10-9. yards to lead the team. Grant said team successes, Grant and Stovall 
Willingham praised Stovall for com­Saturday's game served as a sneak seemed unsettled and unhappy -as pleting a play that gave the offense peak for what Stovall is capable of some reporters described their much-needed momentum. accomplishing this season after his demeanor-following the game. 
"You're looking for that play that gets injury. "It's not that we're not happy," Grant you over the hump, that gets all the "Maurice is getting better every day," said. "But I don't think we're satisfied energy going," Willingham said. "It was Grant said. "I see him working hard as a team because we didn't perform nice to have [Stovall] back because I and that's what it takes. Football is a the way that we wanted to all the way. think he stepped up and helped us -sport where you're going to get hurt; We pulled out a win, and that's great, not just with that reception. I think his that kind of stuff happens. I think he's but we understand what we can do as a attitude makes a difference when he's doing a really good job of putting him­team and we haven't showed that yet." on the field with our football team." self in the best position to get better." 
Stovall caught three passes for 59 Despite Saturday's individual and Contact Ann Loughery alougher@nd.edu 

Collins becomes receiving threat 
By MIKE GILLOON  Fitzpatrick's performance against Stanford and  gling, Fitzpatrick's punting was especially important in  "It was end of  an illness at the the ballgame,"  
Sports Writer  throughout the entire sea­ the  field  position  battle.  Willingham said. A reporter  
son.  Notre Dame's average field  then asked if Quinn got his  
Irish  tight  end  Jerome  "He has been almost spec­ position in the second half  bell rung. ''I'd probably say  
Collins looks like  he has  tacular," Willingham said.  was  the  Irish  43, while  that's close to  what hap­ 
finally found  a  position that  "He has really stepped up  Stanford's was the Cardinal  pened," Willingham said.  
suits his tafent. After being a  and given us honestly proba­ 24.  Coaches said Quinn should  
reserve  linebacker the last  bly more than I thought he  The win column  be ready to start next week  
four years, the fifth-year sen­ would. That has energized  Notre Dame added another  at Navy.  
ior switched to tight end dur­ our PAT [point-after-try], our  figure  to its thick record  Undefeated  
ing spring practice. He flour­ field goal team and our punt­ book  as  the Irish won  the  Willingham improved to 3­ 
ished  on Saturday, catching  ing."  program's  0 against Stanford since he  
three passes for 45 yards  Fitzpatrick  800th  game  left The Farm for South Bend  
while also recording two tackles on special teams. "It felt really good Ito b.e involved in the winl." he  had six punts in the game and three times pinned  "[Quinn's problem] was an illness at the end of the ballgame."  Saturday. The only school with more wins is the  in 2002. Irish head coaches are now 17-1 against schools where they were formally the head coach, the only loss  
said. "I felt like I was con­ the Cardinal  University  of  being the Dan Devine-led  
tributing a lot more than just being a special teams player. Today was a special day for  inside their own 20-yard line. Stanford  Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach  MiChigan with 838. Quinn shaken  Irish against Missouri in 1978. Captains  
me, and I can't be any happi­ deep  man  up  Gameday captains were  
er than I am right now."  D  a  v  i  d  Irish quarter­ defensive  end  Kyle  
Punting improves  Marrero averaged only 5.3  back Brady Quinn was shak­ Budinscak, linebacker Mike  
"Punting" and "spPctacu­ yards  per  return  as  en  up  on a  play late in the  Goolsby, running back Ryan  
lar" are words not ol'ten used  Fitzpatrick's high. arching  fourth quarter, and backup  Grant  and wide  receiver  
in the  same sentence.  But  punts gave the Irish coverage  quarterback Pat Dillingham  Rhema McKnight.  
Irish  coach  Tyrone  team time to sprint downfield  came  in for  the  last few  
Willingham  did  just that  and swarm  Marrero before  snaps. Willingham made only  
when talking about Notre  he could get anything going.  vague comments on  Quinn's  Contact Mike Gilloon at  
Dame  punter  D.J.  With both offenses strug­ condition.  mgilloon@nd.edu  


• 

,...,
scoring SUIDillary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Stanford 6 0 9 0 15 Notre Dame 0 3 7 13 23 
First quarter Stanford 3, Notre Dame 0 Michael Sgroi 27-yard field goal with 9:45 remaining Drive: 9plays, 42 yards, 2:04 elapsed Stanford 6, Notre Dame 0 Michael Sgroi 20,-yard field goal with 5:22 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 75 yards, 2:26 elapsed 
Second quarter Stanford 6, Notre Dame 3 
D.J. Fitzpatrick 38-yard field goal with 12:14 
remaining Drive: 7 plays, 48 yards, 2:29 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Stanford 9, Notre Dame 3 
Sgroi 38-yard field goal with 12:23 remaining 
Drive: 7plays, 60 yards, 2:37 elapsed 
Notre Dame 10, Stanford 9 
Ryan Grant 1-yard run with 5:56 remaining 
(Fitzpatrick kick) 
Drive: 13 plays, 73 yards, 6:27 elapsed 
Stanford 15, Notre Dame 10 
J.R. Lemon 1-yard run with 3:28 remaining 
(Sgroi kick) Drive: 9plays, 80 yards, 2:28 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 16, Stanford 15 Grant 3-yard run with 11:59 remaining (Brady Quinn pass failed) Drive: 7plays, 27 yards, 3:40 elapsed Notre Dame 23, Stanford 15 Quinn 2-yard run with 4:10 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 6plays, 47 yards, 2:17 elapsed 

statistics 
total yards 
rushing yards 
return yards 
time of possession 

I 

51-149 rushes-yards 25-67 11-24-0 comp-att-int 17-38-0 2-2 punt returns-yards 4-22 3-1 fumbles-lost 4-0 7-33 penalties-yards 9-59 19 first downs 16 
passing Quinn 11-24-0 Edwards 17-38-0 
rushing 

Walker  20-82  Lemon  13-41  
Grant  19-67  Edwards  6-8  
Powers-Neal  4-4  Tolon  4-8  
receiving  
Stovall  3-59  Smith  5-73  
McKnight  3-51  Moore  5-72  
Collins  3-45  Camarillo  2-50  
Powers-Neal  1-10  Traverso  1-30  
tackling  
Zbikowski  7  Bergeron  13  
Ellick  6  Alston  10  
Goolsby  6  Schimmelmann 9  
Richardson  5  Jen~ns  7  
Pauly  5  Harrison  7  
Curry  4  Atogwe  6  
Landri  4  Newberry  5  
Burrell  3  Oshinowo  4  

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October II, 2004 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 



A WIN IS 
A WIN 
Notre Dame eame out flat against Stanford in its third straight home game. 
Tho Irish struggled in a low-seoring first half and could not mount much oll"onso at lirst. But tho defense played to il'i "bend but don't brnak" nature and held Stanli~rd to throe field goals on il'> first three scoring drives. Though Brady Quinh did not find many open rneeivers, Hyan Grant and Darius Walker helped move the ball with a solid running game and Quinn made the necessary plays to bn e11i1dive. The Irish oscaped Notre Dame Stadium with a 4-2 record and are poised to travel east and face Navy next Saturday. 




CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 
From top left to bottom left, quarterback Brady Quinn looks to the referee after scoring on a touchdown run. Quinn hits tight end Jerome Collins over the middle of the field -and over the head of an official. Stanford receiver Evan Moore braces himself as Brandon Hoyte approaches to finish a tackle with Dwight Elllck and Tom Zbikowski. Ryan Grant stretches a run to the outside around two Stanford defenders. Defensive lineman Derek Landrl rushes Cardinal quarterback Trent Edwards. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE The Diary of Gideon 
Monday, October 11, 2004 
page 13 
MTV personality and news correspondent Gideon Yago speaks at 
Washington Hall about his travels 
opportunities for the ambitious new V J materialized when the channel's chief demographic began displaying a greater salience of global issues. 
"MTV was changing_ because !America's youth] was changing in response to 9/11 ," Yago said. 
Knowing the campaign season was only temporary, Yago believed he was going to be fired .after one of MTV's major award shows. Then the unexpect­ed happened in New York City. Yago was evacuated from a subway after the Sept. 11 attacks, and he had luckily brought a small, digital camcorder in his backpack with which he captured much of the action. In the wake of the attacks, Yago kept busy with various news shows, seg­ments known as "What's Going On?" which defined various terms such as "jihad" that related to the attacks and captured the reaction of the Muslim community to the events. 
One of the main thrusts of Yago's talk was the difference between the pre-and post-Sept. 11 attitudes of the media and especially among MTV viewers. According to polls taken by the network, younger viewers were especially con­cerned with global issues following the attacks -a marked difference from the domestic issues that normally dominated their concerns. This was a unique change in the attitudes of America's youth, and it offered a unique potential for dialogue and different paradigms of thought. 
Sept. 11 forced Americans to assume a more global perspective, but the narrow­er and more nativistic pre-Sept. 11 atti­tude is slowly creeping back, particularly in the upcoming election. 
Very much aware of his own responsi­bility, Yago set out to address a popula­tion of young people who had been, in his opinion, largely ignored by the main­stream media outlets. 
"I tried to provide context in mass By MOLLY GRIFFIN and KATIE PERRY 

Scene Wri rcrs 
Sporting his signature wire-rimmed glasses and five o'clock shadow, MTV News corn~spondent Gidnon Yago spoke Sunday night at Washington Hall, and IH'VPr once talkPd about Courtney Love in court.. Britney SpPars' marriagns or tlw status of the new U2 album. 
Yago surpassed the expPcted banter of an MTV personality and gave an informed and interesting talk about his experinnces and evolution as a journalist for a youth-oriented network. His expe­riences on the 2000 campaign trail, in New York on 9/11 and in the pre-war and current-day Middle East gave him perspr,ctives on the media and the realm of global events that belies the fact he is only 26 years old. 
/\nswering the question that was on the lips of every unemployed college stu­dent, Yago informed the crowd he got his job at MTV because he mistakenly thought he was applying to be on a game show. lie actually applir,d for an experi­ment that MTV was running for the 2000 campaign in which they would choose six college students to go around the country and make tapes about the expe­riences of various people around· the nation. 
lie submitted a tape documenting a young Ku Klux Klan member going to his first rally in New York, which was actu­ally the first rally that the city had allowed for years, and revealed both how Yago and the city itself reacted to the gathering. MTV chose his submis­sion, and he followed the John McCain and George Bush groups on the cam­paign trail during the republican pri­maries in 2000. 
While MTV's overall credibility on political issues was lowered by anti­intellectual shows such as Jackass, 

media for a youth who were disinterest­
ed or unconcerned with current events," 
Yago said. The trip Yago took to Kuwait City was 
originally supposed to center on three shows, which were varia­tions of MTV's popular pro­grams. One show was sup­posed to center on Kuwaiti youth going to the opening of a Virgin Megastore, the other was supposed to be like the show "Cribs" in a military barracks and the last was supposed to be the reaction of American Gis ·to the new 50 Cent album. The threat of war in the Middle East changed the thrust of the shows, and they devel­oped into more serious jour­nalistic pieces. Following his trip to Kuwait, Yago pressed his producers to allow him to go to Iraq to get perspective on the nation following the onset of the American war. He was eventually allowed to go, and he came back with unique experiences and views. l-Ie initially talked about the difficulties that Westerners face getting through airport security in the Middle East and the eerie feeling of having to drive through vast desert 
RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer 

Gideon Yago spoke about his experiences traveling to places like Kuwait and Iraq while reporting news to the MTV viewers. 
"The Diary of Gideon in Iraq" that chronicled his trip. He shot 55 hours of footage that was eventually edited to a 22-minute segment. 
The show focused on young Iraqis and their opinions about Americans after the invasion. Most of them had been sympa­thetic toward America in the beginning, but after the troops allowed chaos and lawlessness to reign in the land, they began to lose faith. Yago expressed a desire to return to the area for their elections in January. 
Yago answered questions at the end of the talk. l-Ie told the crowd that he had no journalistic experience prior to MTV, save writing for the skater magazine "666" in high school. He also said that another area he wished to visit was Sudan, and that he was a registered Republican in 2000 and an Independent now. Someone also asked if MTV tells him what to wear -and the answer was no. 
A reception followed the talk for any­one who wanted to ask the news anchor any questions in a more intimate setting. 
With the impending election only weeks away, Yago urged students to look beyond the "retail politic-ing" of the can­didates and their domesticated outlook on world affairs. 
"Be willing to assess things from the other side, any side, all sides," Yago said. Seeing others' point of view is the key for positive change in the right direction." 
areas at 120 mph because of the fear of looters. Contact Molly Griffin and Katie Perry at Yago showed clips from mgriffin@nd.edu and kperry5@nd.edu 
~~-------~­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 11, 2004 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Sooners blank Texas, continue dominance 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -The Oklahoma Sooners found a new way to devastatn the Texas Longhorns. 
Slowly. Painfully. And with a fn~shman plucked from East Texas doing most of the dam­age. 
In just his fifth college game, Adrian Pnterson ran for 225 yards and made many big plays when No. 2 Oklahoma needed it most. helping the Sooners grind out a 12-0 victory over No. 5 Texas and stretch their winning streak in the storied rivalry to live straight. 
The Longhorns were in it until the end, but still sufTered some stinging embarrassment -get­ting shut out for the lirst time since November 1980. a run of 281 games that was the longest in the country. 
As the final seconds ticked off, crimson-clad fans chanted "Five in a row! Five in a row!" and flashed their hands open to show off five fingers. Then carne what's become the typical postgamn scene. an Oklahoma player planting an oversized school flag at midfield while the Sooner Schooner takes a victory lap. 
USC 23, California 17 
Southern California seemed helpless as Aaron Rodgers picked away at its defense, hit­ting pass after pass. 
But with California just 9 yards from a potential winning score, the Trojans finally found a way to stop the Golden Bears' ncar-perfect quartnrback. 
The top-ranked Trojans held the seventh-ranked Bears out of the end zone after a first-and­goal with lnss than two minutes left and held on for a 23-17 vic­tory Saturday. 

"I was running on empty, our defense was running on empty, but I knew they weren't going to score," Trojans defensive end Shaun Cody said. 
Southern California (5-0, 2-0 Pac-1 0) extended its winning streak to 14 games and avenged its only loss in the last 26. The Bears' 34-31 triple-overtime victory last season kept the Trojans from claiming an undis­puted national title. 
Michigan 27, Minnesota 24 
After making freshman mis­takes, Chad Henne came through for Michigan like a savvy senior. 
Tyler Ecker caught a short pass from Henne over the mid­dle, eluded two tackles and lumbered down the sideline for a 31-yard touchdown with 1:57 left to give the 14th-ranked Wolverines a 27-24 victory over No. 13 Minnesota on Saturday. 
"Everybody sees you as a freshman, but you need to step up and show them you're really not." Henne said. 
Henne was 33-of-49 for 328 yards -all records for a true freshman at Michigan -with two TDs and two interceptions, both forced passes in the third quarter. 
"To be able to perform at the level he is, I think it's incredi­ble," Michigan coach Lloyd Carr said. 
Minnesota led 24-17 early in the fourth quarter -after scor­ing 17 straight points -before losing another heartbreaker against Michigan. 
Garrett Rivas' 29-yard field goal with 9:36 left pulled Michigan to 24-20 and started the comeback. Tennessee 19, Georgia 14 
Tennessee hardly looked like the same team. Neither did Georgia. 

Bouncing back from a dismal loss at home the week before, No. 17 Tennessee got two touchdown passes from fresh­man Erik Ainge and held on for a 19-14 upset of the third­ranked Bulldogs on Saturday. 
The Volunteers (4-1, 2-1 Southeastern Conference) looked terrible in a 34-10 loss to Auburn -especially Ainge, who threw four interceptions and lost a fumble in his first col­lege start. 
The freshman was much bet­ter in his first college road game, helping end Georgia's 17 -game winning streak between the hedges. 
"Coach told us there is noth­ing like going into someone else's house and being able to come into the locker room and sing after the game," said Ainge, who completed 12 of 21 for 150 yards and -most important -didn't have a turnover. 

Georgia (4-1, 2-1) didn't come close to duplicating its previous game, a near-perfect 45-16 rout of defending SEC champion LSU. David Greene struggled against Tennessee's zone cover­ages and the Bulldogs kept hurting themselves with penal­ties. Wisconsin 24, Ohio State 13 
Down 10-0, the Badgers had the Buckeyes right where they wanted them. 
Wisconsin's defense throttled No. 18 Ohio State, and Anth,ony Davis slashed for 168 yards and a touchdown to lead the No. 15 Badgers to a 24-13 victory Saturday. 
It was Wisconsin's third straight win on Ohio State's home turf. the first time a visi­tor has done that since Illinois won four in a row from 1988­
94: The Badgers had never before won even twice in a row at Ohio State in the series dat­ing to 1913. 
"We've been fortunate and played well," coach Barry Alvarez said. "It's nothing more than that." 
Maybe it is. The last two times the Badgers have come to town, Ohio State broke out to a 17-0 lead and ended up losing 42-17 and 20-17. Then a year ago at Camp Randall Stadium, Matt Schabert hit Lee Evans with a 79-yard pass in the fourth quar­ter for a 17-10 victory. 
MLB 


Caminiti dies at age 41 after heart attack 
Associated Press ''I'm still in shock," S&n Diego tive for cocaine last month, and when he hit a career-high .326 how many times I remember 
Padres general manager Kevin was sentenced to 180 days in with 40 home runs and 130 him .hobbling into the manager's 
NEW YOHK -Ken Caminiti. Towers said. "He was one of my jail. RBis. He estimated half the play­office, barely able to walk. and the 1996 National League MVP favorite all-time players." But state District Judge ers in the big leagues were also saying, 'Put me in the lineup." who later admitted using The three-time All-Star third William Harmon gave Caminiti using them. Licht said Caminiti was in New steroids during his major league baseman often was in trouble credit for the 189 days he Caminiti returned to baseball York this past weekend to help a career, died Sunday. He was 41. the last few years. His 15-year already served in jail and a this year as a spring training friend, but did not go into detail. 
Caminiti died of a heart attack big league career ended in 2001, treatment facility since he was instructor with San Diego. "Man, that's just a tough one. I in the Bronx. said his ageot­five seasons after he led the sentenced to three years proba­"When I saw him in spring played with him for eight years," lawyer Rick Licht. The city med­Padres to a division title and was tion for a cocaine arrest in training, he didn't look good," Dodgers outfielder Steve Finley ical examiner's office said an a unanimous pick for MVP. March 2001. Towers said. ''I'm not surprised." said Sunday night, learning of autopsy would be performed Just last Tuesday, he admitted In May 2002, Caminiti told "The best way to describe him Caminiti's death after St. Louis Monday, spokeswoman Ellen in a Houston court that he violat­Sports Illustrated that he used is that he was a warrior in every eliminated Los Angeles from the Borakove said. ed his probation by testing posi-steroids during his MVP season, sense of the word. I can't tell you playoffs. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PART-TIME WORK Great pay, flex sched .sales/svc all ages18+,cond apply, 273-4878 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS WWW WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO M 
BABYSITTER WANTED 22-month-old twms 5·6 hours, 1 ·2 weekdays Occasional weekend evenings. Call Kara at 574·621-1540. 

FoR SALE 
2003 Delllnspiron Laptop Brand new-price negotiable' Contact Kathleen at ktallmad@nd.edu 
2003 Delllnspiron Laptop Brand new-price negotiable! Contact Kathleen at ktallmad@nd.edu 


FOR RENT 
NO Football housing. Walk to game. 574-315-3215. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES· NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­ES LEFT.WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2·3·5·7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENTNEIGHBORHOODS,SEC URITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY· ERSVISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234· 2436 OR (574)315·5032. 
2·6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from NO MMMRentals.com 532-1408 


TICKETS 

BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273· 3911 
For Sale: NO football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: NO football tix. Top$$$ 251-1570. 
NO ttball tix bought & sold a.m 232· 2378 p.m. 288-2726 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY NO FOOTBALL GAME. CALL674-6593. 
Buying and selling NO football tix, especially Boston College 574·289-8048 
1 BC ticket for sale. Call Kim 512-656-3452 
Personal 

Spring break 2005 Challenge .. find a better price! Lowest price spe­cials! Free Meals! November 6th dead· line! Hiring reps-earn tree trips and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 1800· 426-7710 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTraveLcom 1 ·800-678-6386 
ADOPTION: Help us complete our family, baby wanted. Jeanie & Dan 877-895-9790 Toll Free 
Like Mother Teresi!? Great gift for Mom or Grandma. Simple. Inspiring Conversational Inexpensive Check it out at www.motherteresasdoor.com 
Let's go Yankees I 
-~----­

Monday, October 11, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 



Rams knock off Seahawks in overtime 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE-Marc Bulger was at his best when his teammates needed him most. 
Bulger threw a 52-yard touch­down pass to Shaun McDonald 3 minutes into overtime. leading the St. Louis Rams to a thrilling 33-27 victory over Seattle on Sunday. 
"I wish I had some bubbly," receiver Torry Holt said. "As a tc\am, we should fcel good about this one." 
ThP Hams (3-2) ended Seattle's I 0-game home winning streak, with Bulger leading a 17 -point rally by throwing two TD passes in the final 5:34 of regulation. Jeff Wilkins kicked a 36-yard field goal with 8 seconds left. forcing overtime. 
"This team never quil<;," Bulger said. "We have guys who have been in that situation before, and they know not to quit. They play to the fmd." 
The Seahawks (3-1). trying to open 4-0 for the first time ever, had things in control. leading 24­7 at halftime and 27-10 midway through the third period. They came apart when Bulger took over. 
"It's a tough way to lose," SPattle coach Mike Holmgren said. "As good as we were in the first half. we were average to below average in the second half. Give the Hams credit. They hung in there." 
Bulger, who threw three inter­ceptions before St. Louis rallied, finally got started midway through the fourth. The Rams pulled to 27-17 with 5:34 remaining when he threw an 8­yard TD pass to Brandon Manumaleuna. 
St. Louis forced a punt, and McDonald returned it 39 yards to Seattle's 41. On the next play, Kevin Curtis beat two defenders and Bulger found him in stride for a 41-yard scoring strike that made it 27-24. 
."A perfect pass," Curtis said. "He was throwing a long route and we had good protection up front. lie gave me a great ball." Giants 26, Cowboys 10 
The New York Giants aren't just winning. They're doing the kind of things winning teams do. 
Uke making a stand on fourth­and-1 deep in their own territory, then again at midfield in the fourth quarter. Like using a drive-reviving defensive penalty as a springboard to the go-ahead touchdown. And not giving up on Tiki Barber after a slow start, leading to a 58-yard run on that pivotal drive. 
Barber finished with 122 yards rushing and a touchdown and Steve Christie kicked four field goals. lifting the Giants past the Dallas Cowboys 26-10 Sunday. 
It was New York's fourth win, all in a row since losing its open­er. The significant part is that the Giants won only four games last season, so this sends them into their bye with a lot to celebrate. 
That is, if tough-to-please 
coach Tom Coughlin lets them. . "It's nice to be where we are, but we haven't done anything yet," Barber said. "We just have to continue to improve and make strides." 
At game's end. Coughlin ran to shake hands with Cowboys coach Bill Parcells. his former boss and sometimes nemesis. This was Coughlin's second win against him in five tries. 
Then Parcells blamed himself for the failed fourth-down attempts, although he added he wouldn't have needed to try cre­ating momentum if Dallas (2-2) had played better. 
VIkings 34, Texans 28 
The crowd was rocking, David Carr and Andre Johnson couldn't miss and the Houston Texans had just forced the game into over­time by rallying from a 21-point deficit. 
Then Daunte Culpepper fired a perfect spiral to a streaking Marcus Robinson, and just like that the comeback was over and the Minnesota Vikings had escaped with a 34-28 win. 
Culpepper's fifth touchdown pass, a 50-yarder to Robinson on the Vikings' second possession in overtime, allowed Minnesota to win after Carr and Johnson had led the Texans on an electrifying second-half rally. 
"We had to fight 60 minutes plus," said Culpepper, who passed for 396 yards. "It's a great win." 
It was nearly a disaster for Minnesota (3-1). 
The Vikings led 21-0 in the third quarter and 28-14 in the fourth before the Texans (2-3) recovered and sent it into over­time. Carr's second TD pass to Johnson, a 22-yarder with 1:53 to play, tied it at 28. 
But while the Texans proved they're never out of any game, the Vikings showed them just how to close one out. 
Starting at their own 19, the Vikings moved to midfield in three plays. On first down. Culpepper saw Robinson get a step on a defender and hit him perfectly in stride. 
He dropped it. 
Two plays later, Culpepper went right back to him on third­and-12. Robinson split the deep coverage and Culpepper deliv­ered another perfect strike. 
Robinson hung on this time, racing all by himself the last 15 yards to the end zone. 
"I was still upset about the 
Mass for Life 9 p.m. Tonight Morrissey Chapel 

drop," Robinson said. "When it was still in the air, all I was think­ing was 'catch this ball' and then whatever happens, happens." 
Culpepper said it was an easy choice. The Texans had Randy Moss in double coverage, leaving Robinson wide open. Moss had already caught two touchdowns, including a 50-yarder in the fourth quarter." Lions 17, Falcons 10 
The Detroit Uons have learned to win on the road. 
Michael Vick is still trying to get a handle on the West Coast offense. 
After going three years without a road victory, the Uons made it two in a row Sunday with a 17­10 victory over Vick and the pre­viously unbeaten Atlanta Falcons. 
Detroit (3-1) harassed Vick into three turnovers, including a fum­ble in the fmal minute that sealed the victory. 
"This is a whole different team," cornerback Fernando Bryant said. "We don't care what happened in the past." 
Joey Harrington threw a 39­yard touchdown pass to Az-Zahir Hakim on fourth-and-5, and Artose Pinner scored on a 1-yard dive with 1:5 7 left in the first half, the Lions' first rushing TD of the season. 
Detroit set an NFL record by losing 24 straight road games over'the previous three years, but opened the season with a 20-17 victory in Chicago. 
Now, it's getting to be a habit. "I love the resiliency of this team," coach Steve Mariucci said. 
The Falcons (4-1) were denied the first 5-0 start in franchise his­tory, along with Jim Mora taking the first loss of his head coaching career. The only other time Atlanta began 4-0 was 1986. 
Another bit of Atlanta chi­canery didn't work so well. The Falcons set up for a 30-yard field goal in the final minute of the first half, but kicker Jay Feely took off into the left flat to take a pass from Mohr. Terrence Holt read it all the way, tripping up Feely for a 2-yard loss. 
Jets 16, Bills 14 
Earlier this week. New York Jets coach Herman Edwards went around the locker room try­ing to give his players an index card with the following message: 

Down 14-13 with 5:58 to go, Chad Pennington calmly led his team 60 yards to set up the win­ning field goal. Doug Brien nailed the 38-yarder with 58 seconds remaining to lift the Jets to a 16­14 victory, moving them to 4-0 for the second time in franchise history. 
The last time the Jets were 4-0 was 2000, when they failed to make the playoffs and finished 9­
7. They have a chance to go 5-0 for the first time next weekend at home against San Francisco. 
"I had a bunch of them made and said, 'If you are scared now, you can take these cards and no one will know you called them,~ Edwards said. "They all looked at me like I was crazy. That's the kind of team we have become. We believe in each other, we believe we can get it done." 
Pennington went 31-of-42 for 304 yards with a touchdown and an interception, but his biggest plays came at the end, after Buffalo (0-4) scored two fourth­quarter touchdowns to take the lead. He went 7-of-8 for 51 yards on the winning drive. 
Brien got a little redemption, making up for a 29-yard miss earlier in the game. 
"You have to go out there and kick it like you're kicking a ball in your back yard," Brien said. "I knew I hit it true. It just seemed like it hung up there for 5 sec­onds." 
Buffalo had one final chance from its 48 with 2 seconds left, but Drew Bledsoe was intercept­ed by Terrell Buckley near the goal line. 
The Bills have lost three times by three points or less. They were poised to win this one, and it all started after Jeff Posey intercepted Pennington early in the fourth. 
Buffalo quickly converted. Willis McGahee had a 21-yard run on third-and-9 from the Jets 37, and the Bills scored on the next play when Bledsoe threw a 16-yard pass to Mark Campbell. 
The Bills took the lead when Bledsoe connected with Lee Evans on a 46-yard touchdown pass with 5:58 remaining. Coach Mike Mularkey had gathered his team around late in the third quarter and chewed them out for their inconsistency. 
and held their ground." 
It wasn't enough. Bledsoe fin­ished 16-of-29 for 197. yards. Henry, who usually gives the Jets fits, had 12 carries for 33 yards and was limited in the second half by an ankle injury. McGahee had eight carries for 42 yards. 
Patriots 24, Dolphins 10 
Bill Belichick let a rare smile crease his face before reminding his New England Patriots what their record winning streak meant. 
"He said, 'Congratulations on the streak, great job. Now we've got to think about Seattle,"' safety Rodney Harrison said. 
At least their dour coach, who downplayed the streak all sea­son, gave the Patriots some time to savor their NFL record 19th straight win, 24-10 over the win­less Miami Dolphins on Sunday, before they start preparing for their next game against the Seahawks. 
"It doesn't mean anything right now because we are still in the middle of the season," corner­back Ty Law said in a very quiet locker room. "The fruit will taste a little bit sweeter if we can give ourselves an opportunity to play for another championship." 
The Patriots (4-0) won with two touchdown passes by Tom Brady, who had his worst statistical start as a pro, and two turnovers by offensively inept Miami. 
The Dolphins trailed 24-10 before reaching the New England 1-yard line on their last series. But quarterback Jay Fiedler hurt his ribs and back on a 12-yard sack and, two plays later. A.J. Feeley suffered a concussion as he threw a fourth-down incom­pletion and was hit by Rosevelt Colvin. 
This Miami team is nothing like the one that no longer shares the record with five other teams. That one went 17-0 in 1972 and won its opener in 1973. 
"As a player, you don't think about what (the Patriots) are doing," Miami defensive end Jason Taylor said. "We've got our own things to worry about." 
The Dolphins fell to 0-5, match­ing their worst start as an expan­sion team in 1966, when they won their sixth game. 
New England, which can match its franchise best 5-0 start next 
"If you are scared to go 4-0, Travis Henry said it worked. Sunday, had shared the 18-game call the police." "He got everybody up," Henry record with Chicago in 1933-34 
There were no takers. It was said. "He told us we were still in and again in 1941-42; Miami in easy to see why Sunday against the game. It was effective. He got 1972-73; San Francisco in 1989­the Buffalo Bills. us together and guys stepped up 90; and Denver in 1997-98. 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 16 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Monday, October 11, 2004 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  usc (41)  5·0  1,601  
2  Oklahoma (23)  5·0  1,582  
3  Miami  4·0  1,464  
4  Auburn  6·0  1,450  
5  Purdue  5·0  1,241  
6  VIrginia  5·0  1,219  
7  Florida State  4·1  1,188  
8  California  3·1  1,094  
9  Texas  4·1  1,010  
10  Wisconsin  6·0  993  
11  Utah  5·0  979  
12  Georgia  4·1  963  
13  Tennessee  4·1  947  
14  Michigan  5·1  813  
1-15 16  Arizona State Oklahoma State  5·0 5·0  631 590  
17  West VIrginia  4-1  574  
18  Louisville  4·0  546  
19  Minnesota  5·1  482  
20  LSU  4-2  450  
21  Boise State  5·0  413  
22  Florida  J.2  342  
23  Texas A&M  4·1  106  
24  Southern Miss  4·0  97  
25  Ohio State  3-2  90  

NCAA Football Coaches Poll 
team record points 
1 usc (45) 5·0 1,509 2 Oklahoma (15) 5-0 1,476 3 Miami (1) 4-0 1,398 4 Auburn 6·0 1,341 5 Purdue 5·0 1,160 6 VIrginia 5-0 1,142 7 Florida State 4·1 1,135 8 Georgia 4·1 978 9 California 3·1 942 10 Utah 5·0 931 11 Texas 4·1 911 12 Wisconsin 6-0 881 
Michigan 5·1 862
t-13

14 Tennessee 4·1 732 15 Oklahoma State 5·0 570 16 West VIrginia 4·1 530 17 Louisville 4·0 512 18 Boise State 5·0 498 19 Arizona State 5·0 486 20 Minnesota 5·1 423 21 LSU 4-2 405 22 Florida 3·2 299 23 Ohio State 3·2 157 24 Missouri 4-1 99 25 Southern Miss 4-0 88 
Women's Big East Soccer 
team Big East overall 
NOTRE DAME (111) 7·0·0 14·0·0 
Connecticut 6·2·0 9·5·0 
West VIrginia (20/21) 5·2·0 10·3·0 
Boston Collage (22/·) 4-2·0 9·4·0 
Villanova 4-3·0 10-4·0 
Rutgers 3·3·0 8·7-0 
St. John's 2·4·0 8·4-1 
Georgetown 2·3·0 5·7·0 
Syracuse • 1·4·1 6·5·2 
Pittsburgh 1·3·1 4·6·1 
1-
Salon Hall 1·5·0 6·6·2 Providence 0·5·0 4·10·0 
around the dial 
MLB 

Astros at Braves 7 p.m., FOX 
NFL 

Titans at Packers 8 p.m., ABC 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Arizona at UCLA 12 p.m., FSN 
SWIMMING 2004 World Championships 7 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press 
HOUSTON -John Smoltz, Adam LaRoche and J.D. Drew saved the Atlanta Braves from another quick playoff exit. 
The Braves pounced on Houston's bullpen as soon as Roger Clemens was gone, rallying from a 3 run deficit for a 6-5 victory Sunday that tied the best-of-five NL series at two games apiece. 
LaRoche hit a tying, three-run homer in the sixth inning and Drew singled home the go­ahead run in the ninth, handing the Astros their latest agonizing loss in October and forcing the series back to Atlanta for Game 5 on Monday. 

"We get to go back home and the plane ride's a lot easier," Smoltz said. "We worked very hard to get home­field advantage and we need to take care of it. I feel like we got a break today." 
Working on short rest himself, Clemens left after five innings with a 5·2 lead, but the Braves rallied to snap Houston's 19-game home winning streak. It was another wrenching postseason loss for the Astros, still looking to win a playoff series for the first time in their 43-season histo­ry. 
Cardinals fly past 1st round 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Albert Pujols and the St. Louis Cardinals sure looked like the best team in baseball. 
St. Louis advanced to the NL championship series for the third time in five years, beating the Los Angeles Dodgers 6-2 Sunday night to win their first-round playoff 3-1. 
Jeff Suppan settled down after a shaky start, Pujols hit a tiebreaking, three-run homer off loser Wilson Alvarez in the fourth inning and the Cardinals kept the Dodgers searching for their first postseason series vic­tory since winning the 1988 World Series. 
St. Louis, a major league­best 105-57 during the reg­ular season, starts the NLCS at home Wednesday against the winner of Monday night's fifth game between Atlanta and Houston. The Cardinals are trying to become the first team with the top regular­season record to win the World Series since the 1998 New York Yankees. 
As Pujols' towering fly ball sailed just over left fielder Jayson Werth into the lower left-field stands, the raucous crowd of 56,268 -largest crowd in Dodger Stadium history ­went silent. 
IN BRIEF Davenport wins Porsche 
Grand Prix over No. I 
FILDERSTADT, Germany-Lindsay Davenport won the Porsche Grand Prix on Sunday when top-ranked Amelie Mauresmo quit after losing the first set because of an injured left thigh. 
Davenport captured this No. 1 vs. No. 2 showdown for her tour-high seventh title of the year and 45th of her career. 
"It's just a bad feeling-there's not a whole lot of joy in winning like this," Davenport said. "We played maybe one tough game, the first game, then her leg started bothering her." 
Mauresmo will undergo tests to see if she can play in next week's Kremlin Cup. If the Frenchwoman withdraws, Davenport needs to win just one match to gain the top spot. Davenport trails Mauresmo in the WTA rankings by just 15 points. 
Davenport won the first set 6-2 

before Mauresmo withdrew because her heavily taped thigh hampered her movement. Mauresmo was hurt in the third game. when Davenport broke serve to lead 2-1. After the next game, she left the court to have her thigh taped and was unable to chase down the American's shots the rest of the set. 
"I am a little disappointed because I think we would have played a great match," said Mauresmo, who was going for her fourth title of the sea­son. 
Mauresmo made it clear all week how much she wanted to keep the top ranking while Davenport minimized the importance of becoming No. 1 a fifth time. 
Mauresmo earned $53,000. Colleg_~ hockey benefits from NHL lockout 
DENVER-Long played under the radar, especially in big-time pro sports towns like Denver, college hockey is enjoying a coming-out of sorts this fall, thanks largely to the NHL lockout that has transformed the college game into the only game in town. 
DU got doubly lucky, because it has the city's undivided hockey attention in this, the season after its first national championship since 1969. 
There's been a 36 percent increase in season-ticket sales from last year to this. Marketing director David Madsen said 28 percent of the gains came in the summer, while the glow of the national championship was still bright. Most of the rest coincided with Sept. 15, the week of the NII L lockout. 
That week also brought about something few ever thought they'd see -a handful of players from the Colorado Avalanche working out with the college guys at DU. The Pioneers may not have been the kind of spar­ring partners the Avs are used to, but with the lockout on, their choices were limited. 
Monday, October 11, 2004 

The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
SMC GOLF 
MLB 
Yanks, Red Sox 111eet
Belles earn third straight title 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Wrirer 

Persistence and consistency characterized the Belles' per­formance this weekend, as they secured their third con­secutive MIAA conference win. 
Saint Mary's, nationally ranked at No. 4. finished the conference tournament with 652 strokes. Rival Olivet, who was expected to provide the most threat to the conference title, trailed with 675 strokes. 
The Belles also collected a number of individual acco­lades. Junior Julia Adams and seniors Stefanie Simmerman and Chrissy Dunham earned spots on the all-MIAA first team, while juniors Megan Mattia and Nicole Bellino were named to the all-MIAA second team. Adams led the team as medalist of the tour­nament, firing sub-80 scores all weekend and finishing with 155 strokes. 
"Julia played consistently well in the conference tourna­ment," Simmerman said. "I couldn't be more proud of her." 
Simmerman followed close behind Adams, posting 157 strokes for a second-place fin­ish. Junior Megan Mattia earned a seventh-place finish, shooting a 169, and senior captain Chrissy Dunham rounded out the Belles suc­cess at ninth place with a 172. 
Simmerman put the reason for Saint Mary's success in simple terms. 
"We did what we came to do," Simmerman said. "That was one of our goals going into this season -to be high­ly visible in the top 15. I think it shows how well we domi­nate the conference." 
Although the Belles entered the weekend with a 47-stroke lead, the competition was anything easy. Friday after­noon's round brought strong spenders fixated on each other above all else -that's why
MEN'S GOLF 

Pedro Martinez proclaimed after losing to New York last month: "Call the Yankees my daddy. I can't find a way to beat them at
Irish to travel to E. Illinois Invite 
By ERIC RETTER Sporrs Wrirer 
Five members of the Irish golf team will travel to Tuscola, Ill., to compete in the Eastern Illinois Invitational over the next two days. Because NCAA regulations place a limit on the amount of competition days each team can have, the five players will be competing as individuals, and, as such, Notre Dame will not be represented at the event. 
Events like this, often dubbed "JV tournaments" by the team, help give experience to young or struggling players who may not often represent the Irish in offi­cial events. 
"These guys most likely won't compete in the last two events of the fall season, but they're trying to get themselves ready for a spot in the spring," said assistant coach Chris Whitten, who will coach the team today and Tuesday. 
Leading the delegation on the course are seniors K.C. Wiseman and Steve Colnitis. Wiseman, a team co-captain, will be compet­ing in his second individual event, after playing in the Earl Yestingmeier Classic last week. Both seniors hope to have good rounds to position themselves to compete for the Irish in future events. 
Junior Federico Salazar and sophomore Adam Gifford will also be taking the bus to Tuscola. Both will be competing in their second events, with Salazar coming of a 52nd place fmish at the John Dallio Invitational two weeks ago, and Gifford tying for • 17th in the same event. 
Rounding out the group will be sophomore Adam Hoyer. Hoyer, a transfer from the University of Florida, just received a roster spot last week after trying out and practicing with the Irish over the course of the semester. 
Although he may not play much for the Irish tea,m this sea­son, Whitten hopes he still may be able to provide some kind of spark. 
"We're impressed with the competitiveness he brings to the table. He's very intense on the golf course and gets everything out of his game," Whitten said of Hoyer. 
The players will have to deal with some difficult weather con­ditions at the Invitational. The course is laid over a very open stretch of land, and the wind is going to affect play on both days. 
"The weather is going to be an important factor," Whitten said, "It's going to be really windy, and we have to have control of our shots." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

We J)o Mondays Like No Flace Else! 

Enjoy a double order of chicken. s±eak or combo fajifas (enoush for ±wo) for jus± $11!* 
winds and rain for some por­tions of the tournament. On 

in the ALCS yet again
Saturday, weather conditions hadn't improved much, as the previous night's rain made for a soggy course. 
"It was windy all weekend," Simmerman said, "You had to use a one club no matter which way you played the hole." 
Dunham said the team's doggedness and can-do atti­tude despite the conditions showed just how much poten­tial the team possesses. 
"I think it's a reflection of our dedication and the hard work eath team member has put in over the course of the season," Dunham said. "Winning conference was important for us because it gives us momentum for the spring so we can realize our goals and win the NCAA Championship." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -From the instant Aaron Boone's home run cleared the left-field wall last October, the Yankees and Red Sox have been building to this. 
The tug-of-war over Alex Rodriguez, the sniping between owners, the on-field fight and the off-field posturing. If not inevitable, a rematch seemed fated. 
And come Tuesday night, the players, the fans and the spon­sors get what they want: New York and Boston, fighting for the AL pennant again. 
"Clash of the titans for the pen­nant," Boone said Sunday. "I think a lot of people wanted to see this. I'm looking forward to following it." 
The rivalry brings out the best and worst, on the field and off, leaving baseball's biggest it will mean that much more." 
Last fall's seven-game classic, capped by Boone's 11th-inning homer off Tim Wakefield, has been replayed in New York more often than any sitcom. Boston, which watched Pedro Martinez waste a 4-0 lead in the fourth inning and a 5-2 advantage in the eighth, fired manager Grady Little and replaced him with Terry Francona. 
Red Sox fans could only take solace that the Yankees were so spent they lost 4-2 to Florida in the World Series. 
Even this year, the Yankees got so juiced up during their three­game sweep of Boston at mid­season, they staggered into Shea Stadium and got swept three straight by the lowly Mets. 
Since last fall, Boston added pitchers Curt Schilling and Keith Foulke, then jettisoned Garciaparra at the trade dead­line. New York brought in A-Rod, Gary Sheffield and Kevin Brown, among others. 
Rodriguez has been at the cen­ter. The first spring training meeting of the teams after the AL MVP was traded from Texas to New York was hyped to an absurd level. There were com­memorative pins and "Evil Empire" T-shirts being sold that afternoon at City of Palms Park. 
When A-Rod went 1-for-17 in a four-game series at Fenway Park, New York fans questioned his fortitude. The Red Sox start­ed 6-1 against the Yankees for the first time since 1913. 
But that was April. In Boston and New York, the important number is 1918-the last year the Red Sox won the World Series. Boston sold Babe Ruth to the Yankees a year later, and since then New York has 26 World Series titles to zero for Boston. 
In July, with the Yankees ahead by 9 1/2 games en route to their seventh straight AL East title, Rodriguez was in the mid­dle of the latest New York-Boston brawl, sparked when catcher Jason Varitek shoved him in the face after Bronson Arroyo plunked A-Rod with a pitch. 

this point." 
Unless they were in the same ballpark, games were merely preludes or postscripts this year. New York's 3-1 win over the Twins in the opening round of the playoffs merely a tease, Boston's three-game sweep of the Angels an appetizer before the meat of the main course. 
In the long run, Derek Jeter's flying dive into the stands to grab Trot Nixon's popup on July 1 and Nomar Garciaparra's no-show that night will be remembered far longer than either first-round series. 
"If not now, then when?" Red Sox general manager Theo Epstein said Sunday at Fenway Park. 
"Idiots worldwide are thrilled. They've never had such great p.r.," he said, playing off his players' nickname for them­selves. "Now that it's here, we can admit that if we're able to win a World Series and go through New York along the way, 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 







SUMMER 
ENGINEERING PROGRAM 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLANP 
Information Meeting: 
Monday, October 11, 2004 Room 138 DeBartolo Hall 7:00p.m. 
Appllcation Deadline: November 24 for Summer 2005 
Apply on-Une: www.nd.edul-engineerIsumlon!apply.html 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 

page 18 Monday, October 11, 2004 

...• -.... ,. --,. r-.. • .-, ,.. ,'7-•" ,., Jil It" • #• ~· ~-·---..' 

Monday, October 11, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
SMC SoccER 

Belles defeat Albion 8-0 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Sporrs Editor 
After numerous tries throughout the season. the Belles have finally broken open the flood gates. 
After setting a season high for goals four days earlier in a 8-1 win over Tri-State University, Saint Mary's 
matched that feat and  was  
impressive again  in  a  8-0  
shutout of Adrian College.  

"The past two games we've played in. we've been able to score a lot of goals. and find­ing the net like that is always good to help us build more confidence for our upcoming games," sophomore midfielder Ashley Hinton said. "Throughout the season, we've had a lot of opportunities to score. but we could never cap­italize. Recently, we've been able to put the ball in the back of the net more frequently." 
Hinton certainly did her part to help the offense on Saturday, scoring two· quick goals in the first ten minutes to put the Belles ahead, and then adding a third later in the game off of a diving header. The hat trick against Adrian made five goals in the two games this week for Hinton, and she was rewarded for her efforts afterwards when the MlAA named her Offensive co­player of the week. 
"Ashley played an excellent game," sophomore Carolyn Logan said. "She got inspired, stepped up her work ethic and level of play, and took advan­tage of what she could do on the field." because they were always 
Hinton wasn't the only one away games," Hinton said. who was able to exploit the "There was a lot of fan sup­Adrian defense. Senior captain port; it was really just a fun Jen Concannon followed her day in general." goal against Tri-State with two Thanks to the large number more Saturday, moving her of families in town for the into fifth place in goals scored weekend, the crowd was even in the conference. The Belles larger than usual. also got goals from McKenna "It was really great because Keenan. Carrie Orr and Emily we had a large crowd watch­Wagoner. ing us; it felt good to play at 
"We've gained a lot more home on a Saturday," Logan confidence in said. "I think our offense," there's a big
"We want to put the 

Logan said. "The advantage to
first half of the

scoring is playing at home. spread around season behind us ... " We have the 
because a lot of crowd in our people have favor, and we 
Carolyn Logan 

stepped it up. don't have to It's good to know Belles forward deal with the 
our offense isn't completely dependent on one or two peo­ple." 
Along with increased scor­ing, the team has been playing significantly stronger soccer since its loss to Olivet two weeks ago. 
"We definitely picked up some momentum after the Olivet game; each game mat­ters, and if you want the out­come, you have to play for it on the field," Hinton said. "We realized after the Olivet game how easily we can hit a bump in the road. and we've really picked ourselves up from that game and moved on." 
The Belles were able to ben­efit from having back-to-hack games at home this week, including the first game at home on a Saturday all year. 
"Throughout this year, we've struggled with Saturday games 
long traveling 
time to the oppo­nent's field. We just think to ourselves, 'We won't let any­one beat us on our field'." 
Although the win was impor­tant for the Belles, they now turn their attention to the game looming Wednesday against Kalamazoo. 
"After a game like this, we're proud of our effort, but we're more focused on the Kalamazoo game than cele­brating," Logan said. "We want to put the first half of the season behind us, both wins and losses, and play like this was a brand new season. We're going to focus and try our best to improve on prob­lems from before so that we can play the best soccer that we can." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy@nd.edu 


Ms>Aqrawee has served as a·tJranslator with the JOist Airborne and cOrltin:ue!; . .to work for democraq.~.in Iraq with the ' govemment.ofthe city of Mosul. -~ 

Sponsored by: 

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies The First Year ofStudies Arnold Air Society 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 


Thompsons fall just short in final 
on the season.
Sophomore twins lose in 

The Thompsons, who came final game of collegiate to Notre Dame in 2003 as the top-ranked girls' 18-and-under grand slam tournament doubles team in the United States, suffered their first defeat in seven matches this 
Associated Press 
season. 
They were the first Irish duo 

PACIFIC PALISADES; Calif. -ever reach the doubles final of Sophomore twins Christian a collegiate grand slam event. Thompson and Catrina The Thompsons -who Thompson, the seventh-ranked topped the No. 6, No. 1 and No. doubles team in college tennis, 11 teams en route to the final fell just shy over the of deliver­previous ing Notre three days Dame's -are the first-ever second set collegiate of twins grand slam ever to champi­reach the onship, as final of a they lost in collegiate
Christina

the title g r a n d match of slam.
Thompson 


t h e Riviera/Intercollegiate Tennis Association (ITA) Women's All­American Champion-ships Sunday morning at the Riviera Tennis Club. 
The Thompsons and the rest of the Irish will return to action next weekend, taking part in Notre Dame's lone home fall tournament, the Eck Classic, from Oct. 15-17. 
In the final, a pair of University of Florida freshmen, Whitney Benik and Lolita Frangulyan, put an end to the twins' run by registering an 8­3 victory to claim the first national championship of the 2004-05 season. 
Benik and Fangulyan actual­ly suffered a defeat last week in the final round of prequalify­ing for the event, but they gained a "lucky-loser" berth into the qualifying rounds and eventually were victorious in the main draw. 
The Florida rookies, who made their collegiate debuts in this tournament, are now 10-1 
The Las Vegas natives were playing in just their second grand slam tournament. 
They were the first all-fresh­man team in Division I since 1998 to earn a berth in the NCAA Doubles Championship, reaching the round of 16 in May before falling in three sets. 
The All-American Champ­ionships, the National Inter-col­legiate Indoor Champion-ships (to which the Thompsons have earned an automatic bid into the 16-team main draw), and the year-end NCAA Championships are college ten­nis' three national champi­onship events. 
The other leg of the colle­giate grand slam, the T. Rowe Price National Clay Court Championships, was discontin­ued prior to the 2001-02 sea­son. 
The Riviera/ITA Women's All­American Championships date back to 1983 and the famous Riviera Tennis Club has played host to the event since 1988. 


Monday, October 11, 2004

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall victim to stronger Calvin 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 

Calvin College showed why it is second in the conference as it pickPd apart the. Bellns on Friday. The Knights improwd to I 0-1 in conference play. 15-5 oVI'rall and complnted the sea­son swcpp of the Belles. Tlw loss dropped Saint Mary's to 4-7 in the MIAA and 4-10 on tlw sea­
SOIL 
Thn Belles played a strong lirst gamn against Calvin and just barely missed taking the early lead. ultimately losing 30-28. 
llownver, things quickly turned around for Saint Mary's in the second game as mistakes proved to be very costly. They played poorly on both offense and defense and allowed their oppo­nent to take advantage of these opportunities. 
The Knights pounded the Belles by a score of 30-10 and Calvin clinched the sweep by winning the third game 30-28. 
Overall, the Belles held their own against one of the best teams in the league. Aside from a dismal s1~cond game, the Belles were within striking distancn in the othnr two contPsts. But once again, rn1~ntal errors proved too much to overcome for the tnam. 
"We played pretty well. espe­cially in the first and third games," Elise Hupright said. "But 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
there were a lot of mistakes in the second game. and we fell apart." 
In the match. Anne Cusack continued to dominate on defense as she registered 19 digs. Rupright and Michelle Gary each ended the match with seven kills apiece on oll'ense. Michelle Turley provided 13 kills and eight digs in the contest. Senior Stacy Stark added five kills of her own against the Knights. 
This marked the second of five consecutive road games for the Belles, as well as their second loss in a row. 
"All our horne games are done for the most part," Hupright said. "We are used to traveling from the way our schedule has been and it really hasn't affected us that much." 
Even with the loss, the Belles can still walk away with the feel­ing that they can compete with any team in the league if they stick to their game. But Saint Mary's can't afford to let mental mistakes hinder ,its play as the tournament looms closer. 
Saint Mary's will travel to Tri­State University Tuesday to take on the Thunder at 7 p.m. This should be a good opportunity for the Belles to get back on track as Tri-State has yet to win a single conference match this year. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 
Orange 
continued from page 24 
the staggering scoreless streak. Clark also points the team's overall play as a signif­icant component of keeping the opposition off the score­board. 
"[The shutouts are] good team defense," Clark said. "It's great having a goalkeeper like Chris Sawyer, but you don't have shutouts without a whole team working together. You've got to hand it to the entire team." 
In both Irish overtime victo­ries this season, a free kick along the left edge of the box set up the game winner. 
While McGeeney eventually slammed home a loose ball off a free kick by mid!ielder John Stephens to top Boston College Oct. 1, midfielder Ian Etherington didn't waste any time on his free kick opportu­nity Sunday, slotting an untouched ball past screened Orange goalkeeper Alim Karem and inside the far right post for the game winner. 
"The goalkeeper has a hard job when balls are played into the box," Clark said. "It's very difficult because you don't know if people are going to touch it or miss it. It was a good free kick played into a dangerous area-it was a good goal." 
While the Irish waited until the third minute of the second overtime to extend their win­ning streak, they dominated the contest, taking 25 shots to Syracuse's six, as well as 16 of the game's linal18 shots. 
McGeeney just missed put­ting the Irish ahead on a pair of heel flicks earlier in the contest-both ricocheted off the woodwork and were cleared out of danger-and forward Tony Megna nearly netted his fifth goal in three games when his breakaway bid to end the game in regula­tion clanged off the right post with three minutes left. 


While Karem was busy deflecting shots and keeping the underdog Orange even with the Irish, Sawyer was only forced to make a pair of routine stops in recording his sixth clean sheet. 
Notre Dame will take a break from conference play Wednesday when it welcomes Michigan to Alumni Field. The Irish will be in search of some revenge after the Wolverines eliminated the Irish on penalty kicks in last season's Sweet 16. 
After looking horns with Michigan, Notre Dame will conclude the Big East portion of its schedule with four con­secutive games against confer­ence opponents. 
Notes 
Notre Dame's effort on the field wasn't the only thing that impressed Clark Sunday aftPr­noon. 
"That was a great crowd,'' Clark said of the 1,206 that watched the Irish defeat Syracuse at Alumni Field. "That was probably the best Sunday crowd I've seen." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 


Teatn finishes fifth at the Eagle Invitational 
By ANNA FRIANCO 
Sports Writer 

The Belles had a successful weekend at the Eagle Invitational hosted by Benedictine University. Saint Mary's placed fifth out of 22 teams on Friday afternoon, completing their final non-con­ference race of the season. 
The top four finishers for the Belles were junior Becky Feauto. freshman Megan Gray and sophomores Sara Otto and Katie White. 
Otto also recorded her best finish of the season. crushing her previous time by over two minutes. Saint Mary's finished only behind Northern Illinois, Goshen College, North Central and Marian. Among the teams the Belles defeated were Bethel College, Lake Forest and Saint Xavier. 
The impressive finish Saint Mary's had on Friday put the tnam in a great position mental­ly for the conference champi­onship later this month. Gray commented on the high moral that everyone had achieved. 
"It definitely gav!'l us a boost of confidence, she said. "I think we're all really excited." 
The team has been preparing through its races ever since the MIAA Invitational. and its suc­cess on Friday may have given the runners exactly the rein­forcement that it needs in order to come out of the season with the best finish in Saint Mary's cross country history. 
In order to recover for the conference race the runners will decrease their workouts begin­ning with fall break. The Belles will be training on their own next week, with everyone returning home for the vacation. 
And the break might be exact­ly what everyone needs in order to put the Belles in prime posi­tion for Oct. 30 and the confer­ence championship. But this ease in the action has come after a few weeks of difficult challenges. Everyone on the team has felt the effects of not only the harsher running cli­mate, but also the usual stress that comes along with the mid­term season. 
"We're all really tired [and] stressed-out with midterms ... but we'll all be fresh for the con­ference meet,'" Gray said. 
Everyone has managed to stay healthy and injury-free despite the pressures of the past couple of weeks. 
Between this race and the Lakefront Invitational the team ran in last week, Saint Mary's should be well prepared to lin­ish off the season in great fash­ion. In three short weeks the Belles will have the opportunity to take the cross-country pro­gram to new heights. 
Contact Anna Frianco at afrianco@nd.edu 
Holy Cross Associates 
Information Session Tonight! 

7PM AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Find out why... Holy Cross Associates may be right for YOU 
REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED 
http:1/holycrossassociates.nd.edu e-mail: hca@nd.edu 

~-------------.~--~~--~-­
---. 
Monday, October 11, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT -page 21 

~. :..... 
: ... 
~·­
-
-. 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, October 11, 2004 
Brewster 
continued from page 24 
Ashley Tarutis and junior Kelly Bum~ll posting 27 and 18 assists respPctively. Senior Emily Loomis and freshman Adrianna Stasiuk chipped in nine kills each and jun­ior Carolyn Cooper had five kills and .333 on hitting. 
On the defensive end, the Irish limited Hutgers to under .100 hit­ting in every game. Hutgers could­n't collect more than 13 kills a game and committed 27 errors overall. This, in part. was due to a collective Irish effort culminating in nine blocks. Junior Meg llenican led the team in digs, with ten. while Stasiuk and Corbett registered nine and six respectful­ly. 
The Irish retained the lead throughout the first game. After Hutgers inched closer to a victory, Notre Dame answered with a 7-2 scoring run to finish the match. Rutgers made the second game more competitive, claiming three of the first five points of the game. 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
The lloyas dealt the first blow by 
scoring with less than four minutes 
remaining in the half. But the Irish 
answered right back when Cinalli 
ti1~d the game 59 seconds later. She 
put a pass from Maggie Manning 
ovnr Goorgetown goalkeeper Jade 
!Iiggins and into the top of the net. 
Notre Dame had its opportuni­ties in the second half, but still could not manage a goal. The game looked as though it might head into overtime until Buczkowski put a feed from Jannica 'l]eder inside the left post to all but secure the victory. 
"Jannica played a great ball through and I wanted to take a good touch towards goal and then get it on frame," Buczkowski said. 
On Friday, the Irish got just what they expeeted from Villanova, a defensive struggle. It took a per­fectly placed shot from Cinalli in the middle of the first half to beat Wildcat goalkeeper Jillian Loyden. 
"She scored a world-class goal," Waldrum said. "From 25 yards out she stuck it right in the top corner." 
Irish goalkeeper Erika Bohn pro­vided ample support, posting the team's seventh shutout this season. 
The two bright spots on the weekend were the performances of Cinalli and Bohn. With her pair of goals, Cinalli now hac;; seven on the season, good for the second­highest total on the team. 
"With the [team) movement of the ball, they set me up for great opportunities so I don't do a lot of The Irish rebounded to take a 15­8 lead to secure the win. Hutgers' fate was sealed as the Irish contin­ued to maintain control of the game, only allowing their oppo­nents to get within one point 11­10. 

The Irish thrived on the momen­tum they gained from the Hutgers match, defeating Seton Hall (6-14) in four sets. llenican's 37-dig effort broke a 12-year-old school reeord during Sunday's match, while Kelbley excelled ofl'ensively with 25 kills. Kelbley's contribu­tions made her the first Irish play­er in almost four years to garner 25 kills in a match. 
"Meg did an amazing job against Seton Hall," Brewster said. "That's why we have her at libero-because she's so amazing in the back row. She can see where the hitters are going to place the ball and she adjusts for that." 
Stasiuk continued to impress her coaches and teammates defensively, notching 14 digs. Setters Tarutis and Burrell also shined, leading the Irish to 17 or more kills per game and a .340 

the work," she said. 
"She's just a highly eompetitive kid," Waldrum said of his star freshman. "If we can get her to go to the goal a little more and take advantage of shooting opportuni­ties, she's only going to get better." 
This weekend, Waldrum was also looking for one of his three goalkeepers to establish herself worthy of the starting role for the remainder of the season. Bohn's play this weekend may have earned her that distinction. 
"She played very well against Villanova and [against Georgetown] the goal that was scored was not her fault," Waldrum said. "She had a very good weekend." 
Though he doesn't think the Irish gave their best effort, he can still see signs of improvement. 
"As young as we are, we're still continuing to learn how to handle these kind of situations," he said. "We lost the game up here two 

111 class October 26-RSRC Advanced -Tuesdays, 9:30-11:00 p.m. 111 class October 26-RSRC 
LATIN DANCE LESSONS Beginners & Intermediate Beginners -Mondays, 7:00-8:00 p.m. 
11

1 class October 25-RSRC ~ 
lntennediate -Mondays, 8:00-9:00 p.m. 1st class October 25-RSRC 
...._______.. 
Registration for both Swing & Latin Dance begin October 13, 2004 at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center@ 8:00 a.m. 
Registration fee for both Swing &Latin Dance is $12.00. Fees due at time of registration. Must have Notre Dame I.D. 
For more information call1-6100 or visit recsoorts.nd.edu 
hitting percentage. Tarutis record­ed 46 assists and Burrell regis­ten~d 16. Cooper led the team in blocks, having a hand in five of the team's 11 blocks, while Brewster recorded lour block assists. 
Seton Hall threatened Notre Dame's win in the first game, leading 24-23 before the Irish claimed seven of the next points to complete the game. In the third game, Seton Hall collected their first victory against Notre Dame in the 29 games they had played over 10 matches. The game included 13 ties, but after the Irish tied the score at 24-24, Seton Hall claimed the lead again and never looked back. Although the fourth game looked to be equally chal­lenging for both teams, the Irish maintained their lead after pulling ahead 5-4. Notre Dame continued to widen their margin of victory until they finished off Seton Hall with a seven point lead. 
The Irish take the courts again, facing Illinois State on Wednesday at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
years ago and this year, to do it and win, I hope it's a sign we're growing a little bit." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 

Nine of their 10 guys are 
exactly the same, and that's a 
pretty nice option. 

"On the 5-on-3, the hesitant nature always comes from trying to make the perfect play. It's okay to score ugly goals and we're going to have to do that this year." 
Despite Minnesota-Duluth's experience on special teams, the Irish penalty kill still did an admirable job, holding the Bulldogs to 1-for-8 on their own power play Friday night and a total killing rate of 2­for-20 in the series. 
Forward Matt Amado gave the Irish a lead early on with a power play goal, but Notre Dame stymied continuously by Minnesota-Duluth goalie Josh Johnson and was unable to increase its one-goal advantage. Perhaps Johnson's biggest save came in the sec­ond period with the score 2-1 in favor of the Bulldogs, when he robbed Mike Walsh's point­blank shot from the crease with a stunning glove save. 
"I didn't feel like we were really sharp from the f'irst touch of the puck," Poulin said. "I don't know whether it's the mental side that leads to the physical side not being there. Even the focus from last night wasn't there, and we shot wide and missed. shots too often, and the times we did get the puck on net 
their goalie  was  there  to  
make a great save."  
Poulin  also  elected  to  

change his goalie from Thursday, starting sophomore David Brown in net instead of Morgan Cey. Brown made 28 saves on the night, while Johnson made 27 for the Bulldogs. 
Amado's quick wrist shot from the right dot at 3:40 of 
the first period gave Notre 
Dame an early 1-0 lead. 
Defenseman Wes O'Neill SPt 
up the shot with a perfect 
pass from just inside the bluP 
line. allowing Amado to slap 
the puck past Johnson as he 
moved over to try to make the 
save. 

"We're feeling really good 
after that first goal," Amado 
said. "We were really full of 
energy and were making good 
deeisions with the puck and 
keeping up that high tempo." 

The Irish lead didn't last 
through the period, with 
freshman forward Mike Curry 
picking up a loose puck and 
beating Brown with a power 
play goal of his own at 17:39 
of the first period. 

The second period was a mess of penalties and odd­man opportunities for both teams. It was the Bulldogs who were able to take advan­tage, with Justin Williams making a perfect pass to Tim Stapleton on a 2-on-1 break. Stapleton then had no prob­lem beating Brown for the goal at 12:20 of the second period. 
"The play that hurt was that second goal," Poulin s'aid. "I thought that the second goal was really disappointing because we've been working on our 4-on-4 play. What hap­pened was we had a forward relaxing in the neutral zone and we had a simple pass to make but we missed that pass and before you knew it we were down 2 to 1." 
The Bulldogs added two insurance goals in the third period, with Brett Hammond scoring just inside the right post and Curry pitching in a backhanded goal late in the period to put the game away. 
The Irish open conferencP play this weekend with a pair of games at Miami (Ohio). 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
RUSSIA 
FALL 2005, SPRING 2006, AY 2005-6 AND SUMMER PROGRAMS 2005 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH GRAHAM HETTLINGER AMERICAN COUNCILS FOR INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION, AND PROF. TOM MARULLO DEPARTMENT OF RUSSIAN, NOTRE DAME 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12,2004 
4:00 PM 205 DBRT 


Monday, October 11, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
E 
~
WHATS THAT I'M 

2
HEARING? IS SOME­

@..
ONE ON THIS CONFER­

E 
i "'
ENCE CALL USING THE 

"' 
"' 
RESTROOM? 

PEANUTS 
I i 
j I 
I 
8 10/11/04 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

SCOTT ADAMS 
NOW TAP THE SPEAKERPHONE 
BUTTON TO "OFF" AND BURN THE RULER. 
) 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION _-,. 
But Sarge, what 
if Ifall? 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
WHEN n-u:: RE:­
C.I<UIT WAS A.S­
rJ r J 
SIGNE:O A. TOP 
www.jumble.com 
BUNK He: WAS--­

IINLOPP ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as
I I r IJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans~r= "ITJ" (I I J(I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: BELLE DUMPY UPKI;:EP STUPID Answer: What he did when the ceiling light failed ­"STEPPED" UP 
A T A 
L 
E. S T 
A N D. M R I V A N 
I 

L L A I C E C R E A M ~"A~•LOIRE. H 0 N D 0 ro~rs 
I S T E N
c 
I P L~L -H 
0 
N E. S L I M S 
T H E ~~· 0 N E E Y E 0

H E A T R H I N E S T 0 N E EAVE EATENITUTU 0 R Y X D I 0 R S I D 0 S 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join tl.!e more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
68 Taking a break from work 
69 One of two wives of Henry VIII 
70 Hem again 71 Loch monster 
DOWN 1 Lacks, quickly 2 Up and about 3 Ancient city NW 
of Carthage 4 Tied, as shoes 5 _-bitsy 6 Shout from the 
bleachers 7 There: Lat. 8 Until now 9 Souped-up car 
10 Standard drink mixers 11 Arizona tribe 12 Tiny amount 13 Shortly 18 Swiss artist Paul 22 See 45-Across 24 Came up 25 What a TV host reads from 27 Funnywoman Margaret 29 Evening, in ads 30 Dark film genre, informally 31 Villad'_ 
32 " Croft Tomb Raider" (2001 film) 
33 Tehran's land 
WILLSHORTZ 

34 Prefix with skirt 48 Frog, at times 57 Kefauver of or series 1950's politics 
50 Unappealing35 Transportation skin condition 58 The "Star Wars" for the Dynamic trilogy, for one
52 IdioticDuo 
59 Actress Lena 37 Bird's name in 
54 1990's Israeli 
60 Folksy tale 
P.M. Wolr' 61 Whole bunch "Peter and the 
55 Wear away 41 Numbered rd. 64 Alcoholic's woe
56 Breakfast, lunch 44 Of sound mind and dinner 65 Rapper Dr. _ 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 


D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
•....._ ........~MaL&I ~~&La_..._,_ .......... ~ ......... _":_ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Jodi Lyn O'Keefe, Bob Bumquist, Tanya Tucker, David Lee Roth 
Happy Birthday: You will only have difficulty doing what you want to do if you procrastinate this year. Have faith that you will be able to deliver whatever you promise. Practical ideas coupled with discipline and hard work is what it 
will take. Your numbers are 3, 8, 12, 19, 26,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Putting in a little extra work will pay off. Your expertise will lead to a new deal. Changes may not make you happy at first, but 
if you are patient, you will succeed. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be able to surprise the people you want to impress with your ability to pull things together. Your efficiency, coupled with your practical and unique ideas, will seal a deal. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may not be seeing things too clearly today. Take off your rose-colored glasses and be practical before you lose the 
confidence of someone you have counted on in the past. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will drum up support today. Your excellent memory and terrific plans will get everyone to pitch in and do what needs to be 
done in order for you to be successful. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may want to take a walk down memory lane to remind yourself where you came from and where you are headed. Get things back on track before you lose sight of your initial goals. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have a hard time sticking to your plans today. Emotions are likely to surface if you are dealing with other people. Protect yourself from someone who may take you for granted. *** LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may not have all the information you need to make a decision or move forward with your plans. Take whatever time is required to uncover the facts and you will be successful. *** SCORPIO'(Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do your bit to help someone in need. You will impress someone you have been trying to make headway with for some time. You will attract positive interest. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be too quick to make a move. You are likely to make a mistake due to a lack of information. Don't rely on' what others tell you today.** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Love, adventure and traveling in new directions should all be on your mind. Be the one to initiate matters and you will end up in a power position. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Put a little effort into your surroundings and you will feel better about yourself. Look over your personal papers and you will discover something that eluded you in the past. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotions will run high, but if you are affectionate and loving, you will get positive results. You can secure your position in a relationship that means a lot to you. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are wise beyond your years and will always have something mysterious about you that will draw unusual people to your side. You are practical in a very unique and creative way. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
~----~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, October I I, 2004 
MEN's SoccER 

Irish edge out Orange 
By MATT PUGLISI 

Spores Writer  
History has a tendency to  
repeat itself-just ask the  
Irish.  
J\ little over a week after  
edging then-Big East leader  
No. 12 Boston CoUege 1-0 on  
an overtime tally by forward  
Justin Md;eeney, the No. 15  
Irish (9-2-1 overall, 5-1-0 in  
Big East) once again resorted  
to tho golden goal to put away.  
visiting Syracuse 1-0 on a sun­ 
bleadwd Sunday afternoon.  
The 9-2-1 start to the season  
is Notre Dame's best since  
19RR, when tlw squad went CJ­ 
0-2 to begin the year.  
"That was a terrifie win,"  
TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer eoach Bobby Clark said. "You  
John Stephens dribbles up the field in a 1-0 win over the Syracuce Orangemen Friday. Notrejust need a break to get in  
Dame Improved to 5-1-0 in the Big East, and is off to its best start since 1988. ·thern and when you don't get  
in, you've got to be patient.  
What really impressed me was  "When you'rn chasing for a  focus. And the other guys,  of the back of its net was Sept.  
our patience, discipline and  league title, these are the  they just worked hard."  23 in a  1-0 loss to West  
focus."  games you can lose -when  In addition to handing the  Virginia,  a span of 465 min­ 
Tlw thrilling victory bumps  things aren't really going your  Irish sole possession of the  utes.  
the Irish into first place in thn  way," Clark said. "[Defenders]  eonference's top spot, the vic­ While All-American goal­ 
Big East and also marks the  Jack Stewart and Christopher  tory extended both the squad's  keeper Chris Sawyer undoubt­ 
first time tlw Irish have taken  High just kept the back bottled  winning and shutout streak to  edly has something to do with  
five of their first six conference  up -I thought they did a  five games. The last time  
games in program history.  great job of keeping their  Notre Dame fished the ball out  see ORANGE/page 20  

page 24 
HOCKEY 
Power play difficulties lead to loss 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's youth and inex­perience manifested itself in the form of a stagnant Irish penalty kill as the team lost 4-1 to No. 4 Minnesota-Duluth (1­0-1) Friday night at the Joyce Center. 
The loss of five seniors to graduation has really hurt the Irish (0-1-1), but nowhere has the pain been felt more than on the Notre Dame power play. The Irish were 1-for-12 on the power play Friday, and had several opportunities on 5-on-3 but could not capitalize. 
"You simply haven't had an opportunity this early in the season to praetiee the 5-Im-3," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "It would be nice to pour out five guys who've done it before, but we just can't do that yet. You look at Duluth and they're starting out with the exact same power play they put out there last year minus one guy. 
see HOCKEY/page 22 

-
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Consistency finally materializes 
By ANN LOUGHERY News Writer 
Following eaeh loss, the Irish {R­

5) posnd diflimmt versions of the same question -what hap­pened'! 
When evaluating their perform­ance at practiee, the Irish would find weaknesses in both their oflensn and defimsn. But when it eame down to it, Notre Dame's primary weakness was consisten­cy. 
This weekend the Irish seem to have remedied that problem, upending Hutgers 30-23, 30-22, :~0-24 on Saturday and Seton I!all 20-24, 30-27, 26-30, 30-23 on Sunday. 
The statistics from Saturday's Hutgers {11-5 I game are telling. Junior Laurnn Brewster had 13 kills with .500 on hitting, while junior Lauren Kelbley contributed 12 kills with a .4 7 4 attack per­centagn. 
In each game, the Irish recordnd 16 or mom kills on hitting with a .270 or better hitting percentage -talk about consistency. 
"That's been one of our goals all season -being consistent with our offense and having a high hit­The Irish dominated statistically ting percentage," Brewster said. across the board, with freshman "We're just trying to prove our­selves week by week." see BREWSTER/page 22 

ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Top ranked women l'Vithstand l'Veekend 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame hadn't seen a close one-goal game in three weeks. This weekend they got an eyeful. 
The No. 1 ranked Irish (14-0-0, 7-0-0 in the Big East) kept their perfect record intact after two narrow road victories, edging Villanova (10-4-0, 4-3-0) on Friday by a 1-0 score and then sneaking by Georgetown (5-7-0, 2-4-0) in dramatic fashion on Sunday for a 2-1 win. Freshman forward/midfielder Amanda Cinalli scored a goal in each game, and midfielder Jen Buczkowski netted the game­winner against Georgetown with 44 seeonds left in regulation. The clutch goal, Buczkowski's fifth this season, already gives her more than the four she scored in 2003. 
With the two wins, Notre Dame clinches home field advantage for the Big East Tournament beginning Oct. 30. The team has also played the second-most games without a loss or a tie in program history. Only the 2000 Notre Dame squad had more wins to start a season winning its first 16 consecutive games on the way to an NCAA Final Four appearance. 
However, coach Randy Waldrum isn't concerned about history but rather with hio:; team's sloppy play on Sunday. Against Georgetown, Notre Dame proved to be ito:; own worst enemy with UUinecessary and se[-destructive mistakes. 

"Villanova's got a good team, but I think [against] Georgetown, we're clearly better and we · made it closer than we needed to," Waldrum said. "I hope we take this kind of a thing as a wake up call !because] every­body's good enough in the Big East [where! if you're not ready to play you're not always going to win." 
see SOCCER/page 22 
NFL 
SMC GOLF

en 
MLB 
SMC VOLLEYBALL
TENNIS 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
LLI 

Rams (33)
1-
(.) Caminiti dies at 
Saint Mary's finish 5th 
Belles win third straight 

Thompson twins lose in 
Calvin defeats Belles,
Seahawks (27)
z age 41 

final game of collegiate 
in weekend race
MIAA title. 

drop to 4-10 overall
a: s 
=c:s The 1996 NL MVP dies 
Seattle loses game after 
grand slam tournament 
of a heart attack in the 
being up 17 during the 
c:c 

third quarter 
Bronx on Sunday.

a.. !i 
en 
page 20
page 14 
page 15 
page 17 

page 20
page 19 









