-

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 47 FRIDAY, NOVEMBERS, 2004 
Students travel to Tennessee football game 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students are tout­ed as some of the best college football fans in the nation, and as will be proved this weekend, with good reason. Countless Domers will hit the road today on the 500-mile trek to Knoxville, Tenn., not only hop­ing to witness an Irish upset, but also to experience the atmosphere of a quintessential southern eollege football game. 
One die-hard making the eight-hour journey is second­year law student Sean Seymour. Ironically, Seymour received his undergraduate degree from Tennessee before coming to Notre Dame for post-graduate work. Seymour's connection to both schools provides some incentive to attend the game, but most of his motivation stems from knowing the thrill of going to a Tennessee football game. 
"SEC football is totally differ­ent from NO football in that southern football is a part of the social fabric of the South," Seymour said. "Some fans actu­ally attend the games in their Sunday best." 
Unlike Seymour, senior Pete 
see TENNESSEE/page 6 



Cheating the system 
Honor Code's effect on students debated 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Returning from lunch one December day in 2002, Xavier Creary, a Notre Dame professor of chemistry and biochemistry, expected to find everything in his office just the way he left it, save for a few new phone mes­sages and e-mails. 
Instead, he found all of his graded Organic Chemistry exams stolen and all of the fall semester's grades deleted from his computer. 
Despite having backup grades on his computer, Creary was forced to change his method of grading. Because the exams were gone, he could not look them over and make a judgment on an individual's semester grade based on per­formance on the final. 
Since the exams were stolen after they were administered 
see HONOR/page 6 


Perceptions of ND cheating problem vary 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Impressions of the amount and degree of cheating that 
occurs  at  Notre Dame  are  
largely  in  the  eye  of  the  
beholder.  

Professor and faculty percep­tions on the amount of cheat­ing 
"It is my strong impression than there isn't a heck of a lot going on in terms of cheating," math professor Alexander Hahn said. "But if you're sitting there like a bunch of sardines, it's hard to avoid." 
Some professors and faculty are more skeptical. 
''I'm sure [cheating] is wildly underreported," said Dan Myers, chair of the sociology department. "[And] even if there's a small percentage of people cheating, there's a big problem ... Cheating abuses 
see CHEAT/page 8 

Retreat center to be converted for priests 
By K. AARON VAN OOSTERHOUT News Writer 
If construction goes as planned, the new on-cam­pus, independent living home for Holy Cross priests will open in January 2006. 
While it remains unnamed, the home will occupy the current Fatima Retreat Center building. The center will close this coming January for a year's worth of interior and exterior renova­tions. 
The principal motive for shutting down the Fatima Center was a staffing prob­lem, according to Father Tony Szakaly, assistant provincial of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
"If we don't feel we have the people to staff [the Center] ourselves, we don't want to continue it on our property," Szakaly said. "We don't have as many religious [personnel] as we would like." 
see HOME/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Fathers 
•


arrive 
atSMC 

Seniors welcome dads for weekend 
By ELIZABETH CHEFFERS 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's seniors will get the chance to intro­duce their fathers to life at a women's college from today until Sunday during the highly-anticipated Seniors Dads' Weekend. 
Though Saint Mary's hosts a Sophomore Parents' weekend in early spring and a Junior Moms' weekend in April, many girls said that they are looking forward to this event in particular because of the unique experience it provides both father and daughter. 
"Obviously my dad didn't go to Saint Mary's but I think it is really exciting that he has a chance to be here and meet my friends' dads and see what it's like," senior Casandra Gerstner said. 
The weekend kicks off tonight with an elegant casino night hosted by Heartland which features a live auction, OJ, magi­cian, hors d'oevres, drink specials, casino games and dealers courtesy of Notre Dame R.O.T.C. 
Event coordinator Molly Halm said that she was especiitlly excited about the live auction. 
·"We are going to have ·a live auction in the middle of the gaming time featur­ing seven to eight main prizes valued well over 
see WEEKEND/page 4 

Scholar discusses democracy 
By MICHAEL BUSK 
News Writer 
Prominent religious scholar Jeffrey Stout warned of an impending crisis in American politics caused by governmen­tal imperialism and religious polarization during his Thursday lecture entitled "The Spirit of Democracy," but assured listeners that they had the power to avert that crisis. 
Stout, a professor of religion at Princeton University, detailed the problems of a large democratic government, like the United States', which 
see STOUT/page 4 

---------------------~ ~------­
Friday, November 5, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


My life is so svveet 
Sonwtinws I sit back and I think to my~Plf "Wow. Kate. Your life is so swPet. Could it get any better than this?" And although most psych majors arc probably jotting down my nanw 
Kate Gales 
for a lot of 
futurP tlwrapy. 
I usually 
.'.ports Production 
answer "Well, 
Hdilor
Kate, I have to 
agree. Sure. 
you could have 
better grades and no 9:30 classes 
and a fnw memories of September 
3, 2004. But on the whole, your life 
is amazing and I'm glad we're hav­
ing this little talk." 
You sec. Notre Dame, we arc all 
living these incredibly easy lives, 
and most people aren't taking the 
limo to appreciate it. 
You don't have to have those little 
mini-conversations in yout head, 
but please, the next time you feel 
like you are about to lose your 
mind, sit back. Think about how 
easy we have it. I think this 
approach would make everyone 
here quito a lot happier. 
Domers, this is not stress. Stress is a job and a mortgage and your wife getting fired and your kids not having health insurance. Stress is not an orgo lab. Prenwds, conw on -open heart surgery isn't going to makn you look back and think "Thank God I worrind so much about that clwm lab where we made aspirin from scratch." 
As far as I know, none of my friends here arc supporting them­selves. We don't have to worry about our next meal or getting evicted (tmless you're two very cool juniors on my football team, who actually dealt with that crisis amazingly). 
Eventually, w1~'1l have to worry about something more important than a business law exam-like whetlwr you'll put your parents in a nursing home and how you'll afford college for your kids. 
I don't think my life is necessarily easier than anyone else's, but I think I enjoy it more on a day-to­day basis than people who don't take this view. Okay, I'm a business major, but engineers, don't knock accounting until you take it, please. If you think you can go out every night as a business major and still pass your exams, you have been lied to -I am living proof of that. 
But there's always time to have a LaFortune study break and watch "Old School" for the hundredth time. Nothing de-stresses like girl talk in a room dominated by a pink futon, pink curtains, or a massive collage of football pictures snipped from The Observer. And the Eagles on Monday Night Football will always take precedent over an exam. 

So live a little. Worry less about reading an existentialist novel and more about building strong rela­tionships with friends. Take a sec­ond to appreciate a cold beverage at a hot dorm room party. 
And remember how sweet your life is, because no matter who you are, I bet it's great. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In !he Nov. 4 issue ofThe Observer, Professor Jean Bechkc Elsh!ain's name was incorrecdy printed as Professor Jean Elspeth. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 







Chris Ban  Katie Osterholz  Kirsten Hoelmer  Mike Kim  Steve Mattingly  
senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior Pasquerilla East  junior St. Ed's  senior off-campus  
"Notre Dame 28, Tennessee  "Notre Dame of course ... I  "[Tennessee coach] Phil  "25-20, Notre Dame. "  "Steelers 38, Eagles J. ·:  

hope. " Fulmer will eat 
7· 

one ofhis own 
players. " 

Gi=O~F MATTESONffhe uoserver 

Jim Kavanaugh, Interim Director of the Fatima Retreat Center, stands outside the Center. The Center will close in January for a year's worth of renovations In prepara­tion for Its reopening as an Independent living home for Holy Cross priests in 2006. 
OFFBEAT 

members. 
Superintendent Bert Bleke said he agreed with the school's decision to sus­pend the student but want­ed to know why adults at the party failed to stop the senior, who was wearing a white-hooded outfit, from entering, much less winning a prize. 
"There are a number of questions I have and don't yet have answers to," Bleke said. 
The student declined to discuss his Halloween out­fit. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Computer programs rest In peace 
DAYTON, Ohio-Among the tiny graves on Blocker llill, the wind echoes with the tortured cries of com­puter programmers. 
Beneath the· eight grave markers, and perhaps in a rumored unmarked grave nearby, lie reams of paper printouts of code for soft­ware that has left this mor­tal operating system. 
The cemetery is a quirky tradition among the pro­grammers at LexisNexis, which provides online legal and business information. Rather than simply delete programs that are retired or replaced, they print them out for a proper send-ofT. 
The name Blocker Hill was picked because the out­dated equipment and code represented roadblocks to the company's future. 
Klan costume was scariest 
CHAND HAPIDS -A high school student's costume garnered a top prize -and a five-day suspension -at the school's Halloween masquerade party. 
The Ku Klux Klansman getup took the prize for the scariest costume at the City High School dance attended by the principal, assistant principal and other staff 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
c::: 
LIJ 
:::1: 
~ 
LIJ 

3: 
..... 

c( (,) 






0 
HIGH 53 43 HIGH HIGH
..J 
LOW 35 35 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 

55 40 
58 35 
IN BRIEF 

Ala Talabani, former vice president of the Kurdistan Women's Union, will sp1~ak on "How to build peace in today's Iraq" today from 12:30 to 1::~o 
p.m. in tlw llesburgh Center Auditorium. Talabani co-f(lllnd­ed Women for a Fn~e Iraq in February 2003 and the Iraqi Women's lligh Council in October 200:~. 
As part of "ShakespearP: Hcmembering the Films," there will be a showing of "Titus" at 
6:30 p.m. and "Forbidden Planet" at 10 p.m. tonight in the Browning C:innma. 
The Student Union Board presents "Anchorman," star­ring Will Ferrell, tonight and Saturday at 8 and 1O::W p.m. in 101 DeBartolo. Tickets arP $3. 
Flipside sponsors a pt~rl'orm­ance of Butter and Sugar Show tonight from 10 p.m. to midnight in the LaFortune Ballroom. There will be free pizza and pop. 
The Student Union Board presents the SUB Professional Comedy Show tonight from 10 
p.m. to midnight at Legends. The event is free for Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's students. 
The 12th Annual Mara Fox Run, sponsored by Lyons, will take place Saturday from 9 
a.m. 
to 12 p.m. Hegistration begins at 9 a.m. and the 5k run/2 mile walk begins at 10 

a.m. 
The cost is $15, which includes a long-sleeved t-shirt. 


To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 62 I 40 Boston 52 I 37 Chicago 50 I 36 Denver 65 I 36 Houston 68 I 46 Los Angeles 68 I 52 Minneapolis 50 1 36 New York 52 I 40 Philadelphia 54 I 38 Phoenix 84 I 58 Seattle 54 I 40 St. Louis 55 I 41 Tampa 78 I 56 Washington 58 1 38 

Friday, November 5, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


OBI KS ARE lOT CHUTED E 
-
-



1.25 oz. 12 oz 7 oz. Malt 4-5 oz.




r1n• 

liquor beer(not liquor (not Wine W/mix straight a 16 oz. a 40!) solo cup!) 


1.25 oz Brandy 

10 oz Wine Cooler 
THE HIGHER THE PERCENTAGE OF ALCOHOL IN YOUR DRINK, THE FASTER YOUR BAC WILL RISE. 
WATCH YOUR BAC 
STAY IN THE GREEN ZONE 
SMC hosts identity forum 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Writer 
Hearing the phrase "Smick Chick" often causes students, especially those who attend Saint Mary's College, to react to ils various connotations. 
Contentious issues like this one were discussed Thursday evening at the College's first Identity Forum, held to encourage dialogue amongst the women of Saint Mary's in regards to diversity on campus, the College's relationship with Notre Dame and the definition of a Saint Mary's women. 
Approximately 100 stu­dents gathered in small groups in Stapleton Lounge to discuss many pressing issues. Women's Issues Commissioner Katie Kelly welcomed the students and presided as the director of the small group discussions. 
"It is important for us to find common ground as Saint Mary's women while we discover the place for ourselves in the universe," Kelly said. 
Kelly invited the groups to share their thoughts through peaceful discussion and not to accuse or defend each other, but rather to create an image of who they are as Saint Mary's women. Kelly encouraged the groups to introduce themselves to each other. and explain their experiences with diversity prior to attending college. 
After the students were acquainted with one another, Kelly invited the group to create a written list of what comes to mind when they think of the term "Saint Mary's Women." 
The small groups of women worked together to create lists that included pos­itive terms such as "intelli­gent", "leaders", "confident" and "understanding". However, the more negative stereotypes of attending Saint Mary's were unavoid­able. The phrases "easy", "Notre Dame rejects", 
"We need to be .

"drunken" to become and "looking aware ofkey involved with for 'M-R-S' The Center for
negative phrases 

degree" also Women's
and downplay

graced many Intercultural groups' lists. stereotypes.'' Leadership to After the make a differ­lists were ence and to get
Katie Press 

completed, involved in the
Saint Mary's senior 

Kelly encour­aged the women to discuss ways to eliminate the negative stereotypes while encourag­ing the more positive ones. 
"If we ignore the negative remarks it will only bother those who accuse us of being a certain way," freshman Cassie Quaglia said. 
Many groups shared simi­lar ideas of downplaying negative stereotypes, like not encouraging the female Notre Dame/Saint Mary's relationship of dislike during orientation. The goal of fos­tering a brother-sister rela­tionship rather than a par­ent-child one between the two institutions was a goal that many women approved. 
"I think it would be a good idea not to have our Pride Week shirt in Notre Dame colors and not conclude Pride Week by hosting a Notre Dame pep rally would be a good thing," junior Sinnamon Wolfe said. 
Students also encouraged each other to become more involved in Multicultural Affairs to better understand diversity on campus. Students were also encouraged 
South Bend 
community. 
"It is important for us to participate in campus activi­ties to further unify ourselves as women of this college. We need to be aware of key neg­ative phrases and downplay stereotypes," senior Katie Press said. 
This forum was the first of many in what the College hopes to be the continuing effort for students to unite to create the definition of a Saint Mary's woman. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Career Center provides job, internship assistance 
ByJEN ROWLING News Writer 

From self-assessment to job search, the Notre Dame Career Center facili­tates various career planning programs for all undergraduate students. 
Comparatively, the Career Center sur­passes the national average in providing services to its students. According to the National Association of College and Employers, the average college career center administers appointments to approximately 1.000 students annually. Last year, the Notre Dame Career Center arranged appointments for 3,444 students. 
"The numbers are here because of the drive of the students," Lee Svete, Director of the Career Center, said. 
Currently, the Career Center works mostly with upperclassmen, but admin­istrators are working on providing more services to freshmen and sophomores. 
Rose Kopec, Assistant Director and Early Career Advisor, has been inter­viewing underclassmen and observing their classes in order to provide services tailored to their needs. 
"We are trying to take students through a timeline, we focus in on early career development and then internship search," Svete said. 
Most students seek the aid of the Career Center during their junior year when they are ready to perfect their cover letters and resumes. 
"They helped me this fall to prepare a resume, figure out what to do at the business fair and how to go about find­ing an internship this next summer," junior Brett Colton said. . . 
The career fairs offered through the Career Center are well-attended by Notre Dame students. The types of fairs offered include the Business Career Fair, Graduate School Fair, Winter Career and Internship Fair, School of Architecture, Non-Profit and numerous Off-Campus Career Fairs in New York . Boston, Chicago and Washington. 
"Career fairs draw between 1,500 and 2,400 students," Svete said. 
As a result of the Business Career Fair this fall. 9,000 interviews were set up with prospective employers. 
Student attendance at individual sem­inars has increased 65 percent since last year. One hundred students attend­ed the Johnson and Johnson informa­tion seminar. 
GO IRISH, a National Association of Colleges and Employers recruiting soft­ware, has become increasingly popular with students. The number of employ­ers utilizing the software increased from 3,316 to 3,888 in 2004. Over 8,000 on­campus interviews were scheduled and confirmed online, and a total of 4,000 Notre Dame undergraduate and gradu­ate students activated the system in 2003-2004. 
The Career Center can provide almost any career service including self-assess­ment inventories, internships searches, alumni networking, interviewing skills and career research. To utilize the serv­ices offered, a student can make an appointment, walk-in or email. 
Courtney Wilson, a sophomore who set up her first appointment, said "I wanted to get a head start for intern­ships this summer I am not sure where I should apply." 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 
(')~tta-~ A~ &VW«} E~ 
~4i::o/N're'l>­SII ..l.r~ -(574) 6St• 7'170 -....t.t<M-J~ 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
HoiDe 

continued from page l 
He acknowledged that the retreat ministry will dimin­ish without the center, but many of the student retreats will continue. 
"A lot of our [priests] do 
retreats just through their noro mal ministry, like [Notre Dame Encounter]. Men's Weekend, parish retreats. social justice retreats and high school retreats." 
While there may be a shortage of Holy Cross priests in active duty, there is an excess of recently retired clergy. 

"Our demographic shows that we have a large bubble of priests that are reaching the 70-80 age plateau," Szakaly said, adding that these priests currently find themselves in an awkward transition between the Corby Ilall residence for active­duty priests and the Holy Cross House nursing home. 
As the defunct Fatima Center has left the Indiana Province with an empty building, it was decided that 
the best use for the center would be "a quality reli­gious house of mixed ages," Szakaly said. 
According to him, the resi­dents of this home could range from 50 to 
some of the 
priests may still 

function as such outside of 
the home. 

"The residents will help out in parishes that need assistance with masses," Szakaly said, "and hospitals with chaplains." 
Father Charles Kohlerman, Heligious Superior of Holy Cross House, wanted to make clear the distinction between his nursing home and the new retirement home. 
He defined the new home 
as "independent, intergener­
ational living that is elderly­
friendly." 

Its residents would require only minimal assistance, such as food preparation, whereas residents of Iloly Cross House often demand full medical care. 
"This would be as if they're going to stay with a family member," Jim Kavanaugh, interim director of the Fatima Hetreat Center, said. lie explained that when laypersons reach this age range, they typically move in with one of their children. As priests have no children, the Brotherhood of the Holy Cross should provide care for them. 
"The idoa is that the priests could live here and then transfer to the Holy Cross llouse when that was needed,'' Kavanaugh said. 
The Indiana Province will assign a religious superior to the home. but Kavanaugh will continue as building director, which means he will be in charge of mainte­nance and non-religious staff. The current food serv­ice and maintenance staff at the center will move to other rooms in the center will be transformed into 26 efficien­cy-style apartments, with a bedroom, living room and bathroom. Also, the chapel will be renovated, and two elevators, an exercise room and an outdoor porch will be 
positions  within  the  
University.  
Under  his  care,  the  40  


"The residents will help out in parishes that need assistance with masses and hospitals with chaplains." 
Father Tony Szakaly assistant provincial Indiana Province 
added. 
The Indiana Province has not yet assigned any priests to the home, but already antic­ipates many occupants, including some of those already living in the Mission portion of the current retreat cen­
ter. It will most likely not be filled to capacity within the first year, however, accord­ing to Szakaly. 
Also, as the Fatima Shrine predates the retreat center, so it will outlive it. If all goes as planned, said Szakaly, the Shrine will remain open to the public and a garden may be added to the property. 
Some renovations are already starting, and passers-by can now see much more of the land as many of the trees over­

"This would be as hanging the ifthey're going to · building have 
b e e n

stay with a 
removed. 

family member." As he sat in his corner office over­
Jim Kavanaugh 
looking the

Interim director 
front lawn, 

75 years old, and Fatima Retreat Center Kavanaugh 
motioned out­
side to the landscapers, who by this time were raking up the debris from the trees that had just sawed down. 
"It's all good, it's just dif­ferent," he said of the trans­formation. "Those Holy Cross priests that ministered to those retreats will now be some of those very priests that will benefit from living here in the future." 
Contact K. Aaron Van Oosterhout at kvanoost@nd.edu 


Weekend 
continued from page l 
one hundred dollars," Halm 
said. "Probably the most pop­
ular item auctioned off will 
be the front row seats for 
graduation." 
All the proceeds from the 
evening will help finance 
Saint Mary's senior week. 
The main event on 
Saturday is a tailgate at the 
College Football Hall of Fame 
for the girls and their fathers 
in preparation for the foot­
ball away game at 
Tennessee. 
There will also be subsi­
dized bowling at Beacon 
Bowl in the morning. 
"As funny as it might 
sound I am actually the most 
excited about the bowling 
because I always go with my 
family in the summer and it 
gives me a chance to recon­
nect with my family even 
though I am at school,'' sen­
ior Constance Golando said. 
Balm said that although they are keeping the best traditions of Senior Dads' weekend, they are also intro­ducing some new events this year. 
"We are doing a joint ven­ture with the Student Activity Board to hold a comedy club Saturday night for the first time," she said. 
Saint Mary's students are being offered free admission to the Kyle Cease comedy show at 9" p.m. on Saturday in the west wing of South Dining Hall. 
Cease is a famous young comedian known for his role. in "10 Things I Hate About You". 
The weekend concludes with Sunday mass at the Church of Loretto. 
Golando, who said that her dad has been talking about the weekend since Junior Moms' weekend, voiced a common sentiment when she said, "Family is so important to all of us but sometimes it seems like your school life is different from your home life. This gives our dads a chance to experience our col­lege life which is definitely a very different experience from their college life." 
Contact Elizabeth Cheffers at echeffer@nd.edu 
Friday Nov. 5 @ 7:00PM NO Volleyball vs Connecticut 
1st 200 fans will receive a Nalgene water bottle spon­sored by Marathon 
.,Sunday Nov. 7@ 2:00PM NO Volleyball 
~ vs Boston College
., 

Ltd. Edition Lauren Brewster Posters courtesy of the WB, while supplies
.,~ 
last! 

----~ '--------~-----. 
Friday, November 5, 2004 



Stout 
continued from page l 
he said can become so bureaucratic and hierarchical that its primary goal changes from seeking to increase the good of its citizens to desiring only to sustain 
that the First Amendment ensures a fine balance on matters of religion. both guar­anteeing its free exercise and forbidding the government from imposing any form of it upon its citizens. Stout went on to say that the tension between free exercise and government imposition has found a battle­

itself. ground in young
"When we allow
Such govern­Americans.
political
ments, Stout "What is hap­continued, advertising and pening to the almost young people
the demagoguery 
inevitably who would have 
on talk-radio and
become corrupt. joined the civil "They are cable T.V. to replace rights movement resistant to 
public reasoning if they had come 
being held of age politically
and a democratic
responsible by when I did'?" 
the societies spirit, the. result Stout asked. they are sup­tends to be "When they get posed to serve,'' to college and
government ·of the 
Stout said. "A law school, they form of govern­people, by the are exposed to ment ceases to corporation, andfor for·ms of political 
be democratic and moral phi­
the corporation. " 
when the socie­losophy that ty around it insist on the ceases to be Jeffrey·Stout importance of 
animated, both professor of religion keeping religion ethically and completely out of
Princeton University 
spiritually, by a 
concerted 
attempt on the part of citizens 
to hold one another and gov­
ernmental officials responsi­
ble." 
"When we allow political 
advertising and the dema­
goguery on talk-radio and 
cable T.V. to replace public 
reasoning and a democratic 
spirit, the result tends to be 
government of the people, by 
the corporation, and for the 
corporation," he said. 
Although these problems 
are severe, Stout also said 
that their severity might make 
citizens to realize the dire sit­
uation of American democra­
cy, causing them to do some­
thing about it. 
"A heightened sense of cri­
sis could either hasten the 
evisceration of democracy or 

shake the people from their 
slumber," Stout said. 
Stout also stressed that a ·real democracy must foster 
and protect the spiritual lives 
of those who live within it. 
"By allowing all citizens to 

express their mostly deeply 
held aspirations and commit­
ments ... a free democratic 
community also implicitly 
affirms its members as spiri­
tual beings," he said. 
Stout reminded his listeners 
politics,'' he said. 
"As a result, some of them become liberal secularists and others recoil and retreat into an anti-liber­al form of traditionalism." 
Stout recommended against both of these extreme posi­tions, warning that liberal secularists tend to mock reli­gious values so important to Christians and other theists, while Chri-stians and other theists can often push their own beliefs too far into the public sphere. 
"I don't think it will help for judges to display thP Ten Commandments in their courtrooms or for our Congressmen to sing on the steps of the capital 'God Bless America','' he said. 
Despite his critique of cur­rent American politics, Stout concluded hopefully, quoting Martin Luther King, Jr. and urging listeners that in their freedom they had they power to make things better. 
· "Injustice needs our silence to maintain its grip on power," Stout said. "Things would be different if you and I and others like us behaved differently." 
Contact Michael Busk at mbusk@nd.edu. 

Friday Nov. 5 @ 7:35PM NO Hockey vs Bowling Green 
Chevy Trading Card Night Post-game autograph session with the Irish freshmen players 
Saturday Nov. 6 @ 7PM #5 M. Soccer vs. TBD 
Come cheer on the Irish in the Big East Quarterfina Is! 





ORLD &NATION 
Friday, November 5, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TI·IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Warplanes bomb, break cease-fire 
BOUAKE. Ivnry Coast -Ivory Coast war­planes bombed the largest city of the rebel­held north in wave after wave of attacks Thursday, breaking a more than year-old cease-fire in the civil war that split West Africa's one-time economic powerhouse. 
The government's Russian-made Sukhoi jets attacked at dawn and swept back in for at least three more raids by nightfall. targeting rebel military and civilian headquarters and television in surprise attacks that left civilians cowering in their homes. 
"We are going to reconquer our territory and reunify Ivory Coast," Col. Philippe Mangou, a government military chief for oper­ations, told The Associated Press by telephone. 
Police question suspected radical 
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands -Authorities investigating the slaying of a Dutch filmmaker by a suspected Islamic radical sought links Thursday to foreign terrorist groups, including those responsible for the Casablanca bombings. 
Nine men -eight of Moroccan ancestry ­have been arrested in the stabbing and shoot­ing death of Theo van Gogh while he was bicy­cling on an Amsterdam street Tuesday. 
The 26-year-old chief suspect, who holds dual Dutch-Moroccan nationality and has been identified only as Mohammed B., is to be arraigned Friday. He had a pistol in his pocket at the time of his arrest and was shot in the leg by police during a chase through a park. 
The eight other suspects, aged 19-27, are believed to be Islamic radicals plotting a terror­ist attack, prosecutors said. Four were arrested a year ago on suspicion of planning to strike European targets, but were released for lack of evidence. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Arrests made to avert terror 
WASHINGTON -More than 700 people were arrested on immigration violations and thousands more subjected to FBI interviews in an intense government effort to avert a terror­ist attack aimed at disrupting the election. 
As with past unrealized al-Qaida threats, law enforcement officials said Thursday they don't know for sure whether any of those arrests or interviews foiled an attack. 
"It's very hard to prove a negative," Michael Garcia, chief of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in an interview Thursday. "We did cases and operations for people we thought posed national security concerns. We didn't arrest anyone who had a bomb." 


Votes lost due to machine capacity 
JACKSONVILLE, N.C. -More than 4,500 votes have been lost in one North Carolina county because officials believed a computer that stored ballots electronically could hold more data than it did. Scattered other problems may change results in races around the state. 
Local officials said UniLect Corp., the maker of the county's electronic voting system, told them that each storage unit could handle 10,500 votes, but the limit was actually 3,005 votes. 
Expecting the greater capacity, the county used only one unit during the early voting peri­od. "If we had known, we would have had the units to handle the votes," said Sue Verdon, sec­retary of the county election board. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Daniels discusses reform efforts 
INDIANAPOLIS -Gov.-elect Mitch Daniels said Thursday that he will run a leaner administration and is searching for "all-stars" who are loyal and enthusiastic about his reform agenda to run state gov­ernment. 
Daniels said his single largest task over the next several weeks would be formaliz­ing a legislative agenda. He said it would include many of the proposals he touted during the campaign, including the entire state observing daylight-saving time. 

Bush vows to pursue agenda 
President says Americans have embraced his conservatism, proposed changes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Contending Americans have embraced his conservative agenda, President Bush pledged Thursday to aggres-. sively pursue major changes in Social Security, the tax code and medical malprac­tice awards, working with Democrats if they are recep­tive and leaving them behind if they're not. 
"I earned capital in the campaign, political capital, and now I intend to spend it," Bush said a day after a decisive victory that made him the first president in 68 years to win re-election and gain seats in both the House and Senate. 
''I'll reach out to everyone who shares our goals," said Bush, who 24 hours earlier had promised to try to win over those who voted for his Democratic opponent. 
Buoyant and relaxed on Thursday, Bush cracked jokes at his first post-election news conference and said he had not decided on any changes in his Cabinet for the second term. He took congratulatory calls from world leaders from Russia, Poland, Iraq, Afghanistan, Israel and Italy before flying to Camp David for four days of rest after the grueling campaign. 

As U.S. forces in Iraq East. "Listen, I've made show discipline on spending no free lunch, and at the end mobilize for an all-out offen­some very hard decisions: bills and to enact an intelli­of the day our country will sive in Fallujah and other decisions to protect our­gence reform bill when they have a tremendous price to Sunni militant strongholds, selves, decisions to spread return to town later this pay for this profligacy." the president refused to say peace and freedom." The month. Said Bush, "I readily con­how much the war would war on terror would remain On Capitol Hill, Democrats cede I've laid out some very cost or whether he planned a priority, he said. were stunned by some unex­difficult issues for people to to increase or cut troop Bush said that at home, he pected losses in the Senate deal with. And I would hope strengths. "I have yet to hear had set an unmistakable and the defeat of their to be able to work with from our commanders on direction for the country and leader, Tom Daschle, an 18-Democrats to get this done." the ground that they need he emphasized anew he year veteran. Republicans In setting priorities, Bush more troops," the president does not foresee the need for also gained seats in the said some issues would be at said. He is expected to ask any tax increase despite big House. the front of the line simply Congress early next year for budget deficits. Democrats promised to because they have been at up to $75 billion for Iraq, Coming from a campaign challenge Bush's priorities. • the center of the political Afghanistan and operations that offered clear policy "What the president is arena before. Capping med­against terrorism. choices, Bush said, "When doing in fiscal policy is weak­ical malpractice limits, a 
The president was you win, there is a feeling ening the country, making us prized goal of Republicans, unapologetic about the that the people have spoken more vulnerable. It's so will be one of his first pro­unpopularity of his decisions and embraced your point of strange," said Sen. Kent posals because it "had been in many world capitals, such view, and that's what I Conrad of North Dakota, top debated and got thwarted a as his commitment to spread intend to tell tlffi Congress." Democrat on the Senate couple of times," the presi­democracy in the Middle He urged lawmakers to Budget Committee. "There's dent said. 

CUBA 


Military offers account of abuse 
Associated Press 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE -A female interrogator ran her fingers through a prisoner's hair and sat in his lap, a barber gave reverse mohawks and a detainee was forced to kneel so many times he was bruised, the U.S. govern­ment says in the most detailed accounting of eight abuse cases at its Guantanamo Bay prison for ter­ror suspects. 
Those responsible for the abuse have been demoted, reprimanded or sent for more training, according to an 800-word U.S. military response to a written query from The Associated Press. 

Allegations of mistreatment at Guantanamo, where 550 terror sus­pects have been held for nearly three years, surfaced after the abuse scandal broke last year at the U.S.-run Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, where pictures showed beatings and sexual humiliation of Iraqi prison­ers. 
The details of abuse at Guantanamo come as lawyers for several prisoners challenge evi­dence presented by the government, saying some could have been obtained by force. 
Only four prisoners have been for­mally charged at Guantanamo, where most are held without charge or access to lawyers. The military has reported 34 suicide attempts among detainees, though none has been reported since January. 
Guantanamo's new commander says lessons have been learned from past abuses cases and troops are treating detainees humanely with a rigorous system of checks and bal­ances. 
"They've not been mistreated, they've not been tortured in any respect," Army Brig. Gen. Jay Hood said in an interview Wednesday. 
Human rights monitors are not convinced. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 5, 2004 
Honor 
continued from page 1 
and graded. Creary believes that the perpetrator, still 

unknown,  was simply bitter  
over  the  outcome  of the  
course.  

"!Stealing the exams] couldn't have helped a stu­dent's grade," Creary said. 
But Creary's problems with cheating were not over, as a new incident surfaced the next semester. 
"While I was in a review session at DeBartolo, a stu­dent came by and got one of the custodians to open my office, saying that they were from OIT and that I had called with an important problem that needed to be taken care of immediately," Creary said. 
According to Creary. the custodian became very con­cerned when the student never went near the comput­er. 
Hummaging around by the desk, "the person may have very well gotten a copy of the exam," Creary said. llowever, despite going through pic­tures of everyone in the class with the janitor. the invader was never caught. 
Even though these inci­dnnts may seem extreme to some, Creary expressed no surprise. 
"Ttwre is really nothing nnw. These things happened 'back in the 1960s," Creary said. 
And still do. Despite the seemingly low number of reported cases last year and a widely-publicized llonor Code, students. professors and faculty acknowledge that cheating is a problem at Notre Dame. 
The University reported a total of 42 cases of cheating involving 46 students for the 2003-04 school year, accord­ing to Tom Flint. Faculty llonor Code Officer on the University Code of llonor Committee. 
During the 2002-03 school ynar. 4 7 students were involved in 40 cases of cheat­ing. 
"Does that moan there are only 40 to 50 cases of cheat­ing a·year at Notre Damn'?" Flint said. "Probably not. but wn have no way of knowing." 
Flint said that approxi­mately 1.000 cases of cheat­ing per year would be expected at an institution the siw of Notre Dame based on information from the Center for Academic Integrity, a national organization to which Notre Dame belongs. 
"And that would probably be a conservative estimate," he said. 

The Honor Code 
The most complicated problems arise from the gray areas where it is unclear whether a certain practice qualifies as cheating, Sociology department chair Dan Myers said. 
For example. reusing papers. collaborating on homowork and using dorm test files all fall into the gray area, he said. 
These less-defined issues. such as the Iiles of old tests, polarize the faculty, Myers said. "After years of teaching a class. there's only so much you can ask about Chapter Four. i\nd now everything's out there. you know. sitting in Knott lllall]." he said. 
Dorothy Pratt, a~>sistant dean in the College of Arts and Letters, was unsure of 
the Honor Code's influence and the degree to which it is observed. 
"We don't know [how effec­tive it has been)." she said. "Do we catch everybody? No. But I do know that at places without an Honor Code, cheating is rampant." 
Student adherence to the Honor Code also varies, Pratt said. 
"I think they think they take it seriously," she said. "I think sometimes they don't -. some kids that are caught tend to be surprised that the rule applies to them. It's pretty odd." 
Flint said cheating is more than an individual choice. 
"[The Honor Code creates] kind of a community of trust," he said. "Breaking that trust is really an insult to the community as a whole, to the faculty and students." 
However, if someone is determined to cheat, the Honor Code won't stop them, Myers said. 
Creary expressed doubt that students adhere to the Honor Code's policy of turn­ing in cheaters. 
"One of the principles in the Honor Code is that stu­dents are supposed to turn in people who cheat," Creary said. 
However. he acknowledged the challenge of this aspect of the Code. 
"That is incredibly diflicult. How do you turn in your roommate? Your friend? I don't know if I could do that," he said. 
Since the llonor Code was rewritten three years ago, it is difficult to determine long­term cheating patterns, Flint said. 
"Is the situation getting better or worse? I don't real­ly think we have much in the way of data to say that," he said. "It wasn't possible until two years ago to know what the situation was -there was literally no one in the University who knew how many cases there were." 
According to Flint. under the old system cases of cheat­ing would go only to the department or college and then thn respective dean, with no report made to the University as a whole. 
As a result. the Ilonor ·code, created in 1989. underwent a major rewriting. 
"It's not a good idea to be in a situation where no one in the University, and that includes the president, could know what was going on with the Honor Code," Flint said. 
Now, if cheating is report­ed, the case goes first to the honesty committee of either the respective department or the full college, depending on the department, Flint said. When the committee chair receives the report, the case is examined to see if there are grounds for proceeding to a University-level hearing. 
"My guess would be that the majority of cases go to hearing," Flint said. 
Secondly, the description of the I Ionor Code changed as it pertains to penalties, Flint said. This entails the assign­ment of penalties by commit­tees in terms of distinguish­ing between major and minor offenses as well as outlining the standard punishment. 
According to the AcadPmic Code of Ilonor Handbook, penalties for violating the honor code vary depending on the degree of the offense. 
For minor offenses -cases in which the dishonesty was not premeditated and only 
involved a limited portion of 

country this year, he is still galva­the work submitted -the 
nized by the mystique of the student receives "zero credit 

Tennessee 
Tennessee football experience. for the work with respect to 
continued from page 1 "''m really looking forward to which the violation 
the experience at Neylandoccurred," the Honor Code 
Mahoney will experience south­Stadium," he said. ''I'm states. 
ern football for this first time this told it's among the best collegeMajor offenses, in which 
Saturday. football atmospheres in the coun­the dishonestY involved a 
"It's such a honor to go to this try." substantial portion of the 
game because I know that given Sports Illustrated On Campuswork submitted and was 
the amount of fans would agree. In extensively premeditated, 
that Tennessee their September
"J hear Tennessee 
signify a failure of the course. 

brings, it will be a issue. Knoxville was Also, Flint said that the 
great atmosphere," has a great 'strip· named the best col­rewriting included the cre­
he said. so [my friends and lege football town in ation of the flagrant viola­
Although cheer­the country.
I] are excited to 
tion, where flagrant offenses 

ing the Irish Though Notre Dame "of an unusually grave 
"onward to victory" check out what a ranked fifth on the nature" may lead to suspen­
is always a top pri­real college town is list, many Notre sion or dismissal, the Code 
ority for a Notre Dame students
like."
states. 

Dame stl!dent, were eager to go However, in the past two 
Mahoney admits the extra mile -or years, "at most, there has 
that he will likely Pete Mahoney several hundred been only one time when a 
enjoy himself senior miles -to experi­committee suggested some­
regardless of the ence an entirely dif­thing could be a flagrant vio­
game's outcome. ferent brand of col­lation," Flint said. 
For him, part of the fun of going legiate football. Last year, the cases were 
to an away game is experiencing Tickets for the game against the "pretty evenly divided" 
the idiosyncra:sies of other col­highly-ranked Volunteers wen~ between major and minor 
leges. few and far offenses, according to Flint, 
"I hear Tennessee between. so stu­with 21 major offenses and 
has a great 'strip' "''m really looking dents had to rely on 25 minor. The year before, 
so [my friends and obscure connections 
forward to the
there were 22 major offenses 

I] are excited to and extreme meas­and 19 minor. 
experience at
check out what a ures to ensure seats Finally, the Honor Code 
real college town is Neyland Stadium. in the 108,000 was revised regarding the 
like," Mahoney capacity stadium. 
I'm told it's 
proportion of students on 

said. Seymour. for honor committees. 
among the best 
Senior Matt example, purchased "In the past, it was simply 
Wooldridge is a college football his tickets throughrecommended that honor 
veritable expert on eBay. Wooldridge.
atmospheres in 
committees have a majority 

the ins-and-outs of received them of students. Now, there is an 
the country. " 
Notre Dame's oppo­t,hrough a friend absolute requirement that 
nent schools. The who is a varsity ath­any committee needs to have 
Knott Hall resident Matt Woolridge lete at Tennnssnn. a majority of students," Flint 
assistant has The drawback: his
senior
said. 

attended every seat is in the Vols The University Code of 
Irish road game heated student sec-Honor Committee, also 
this year and is actively planning tion. referred to as the Honesty 
his trip to USC for the regular "I might decide to wear myCommittee, oversees cheating 
season closer. Knott IIall orange rather than my cases and proposes changes 
"It's been a really fun fall Notre Danw green," ho said. to the Honor Code. 
semester, albeit a costly one," he said. Contact Maddie Hanna at 
While Wooldridge has seen Contact Katie Perry at mhanna1@nd.edu 
numerous campuses across the kperryS@nd.edu 

NO STUDENTS! 
PLEASE JOIN US IN OUR NEW LOCATION FOR FREE & DELICIOUS FOOD AND DRINKS 
FORA 



FALL CELEBRATION 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2004 4:30·6:00 PM 
CENTER FOR AsiAN STUDIES 327 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
LEARN ABOUT: 
SPRING 2005 COURSES ON ASIA MINOR IN AsiAN STUDIES OPPORTUNITIES ABROAD 
U N I vE R S I T Y 0 F N 0 T R E D A M E FUTURE EVENTS tel: 1-04R7 Friday, November 5, 2004 

COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 

INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.44 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.81 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -1.0 I CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.05 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) -0.80 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.25 10-YEAR NOTE -0.12 5-YEARNOTE -0.21 3-MONTH BILL + 1.29 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy OL) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
Excha Rates 

YEN EURO 
POUND 
CANADIAN$ 
+0.10  22.67  
+0.23  28.47  
-0.04  3.92  
-0.01  19.28  
-0.13  16.12  
-0.12  48.26  
-0.05  40.70  
-0.07  33.25  
+0.25  19.18  
+ 1.26  50.88  
+4.80  425.40  
+ 1.65  98.00  

106.1000 0.7798 0.5412 
1.2068 

IN BRIEF 
Pharmaceuticals benefit from Bush 
TRENTON, N.J.-The pharmaceutical indus­try stands to benefit from President Bush's re­election, but it's from maintenance of the status quo rather than any new policies favoring drug makers. 
"In the scheme of things, it doesn't have any meaningful impact on the industry," said inde­pendent pharmaceuticals analyst Hemant Shah ofHK.S & Co. in Warren, N.J. 
Industry analysts say that with Bush still in the White House and Republicans tightening their control of Congress. government price controls for prescription medicines won't be on the table. The free-market system, where demand drives price, will continue, said Barbara Ryan, a phar­maceuticals analyst and managing director at Deutsche Bank Securities. 
Still, Bush may have to budge slightly on one contentious issue -allowing reimportation of cheaper prescription drugs, but on a limited basis. 
"Reimportation may actually happen under Bush," predicted pharmaceuticals analyst Tony Butler of Lehman Brothers. "but only from Canada." 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Small businesses back Bush 
President's re-election, Republi~ans in Congress spark advocacy group optimism 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -President Bush's re-election and the Republican Party's larger membership in the next Congress have made small business advocacy groups optimistic about some of the issues on their national agendas. 
The National Federation of Independent Business welcomed Bush's re-election in a statement Wednesday, and Dan Danner, the NFIB's senior vice president for public policy, said in an interview, "We believe very strongly that this president -probably more than any other in my recollection ­has gone out of his way to be a supporter of small business." 
"We are optimistic that will continue," Danner said. 
With health care costs a major concern for business owners, the election has raised hopes that national association health plans will become ,a reality in the sec­ond Bush term. Under AHPs, small businesses can buy into group health insur­ance plans anywhere in the country, giving them greater leeway in shopping for a cheaper plan. 
Although Bush endorsed the AHPs concept in this year's State of the Union address, a bill to create national plans stalled in the Senate after winning approval in the House. Now, with the Republicans win­ning four new seats in the Senate, giving them a mar­gin of 55-44 over the Democrats. with one inde­pendent, "we may see some more movement on AHPs," said Erin Fuller, executive director of the Washington, D.C.-based National Association of Women Business Owners, which supports creation of the plans. 
AHPs are also supported by the NFIB, which is also based in· Washington. Danner predicted health care will be part of an aggressive Bush small busi­ness agenda during the president's second term. 

Small business groups also expect to see more tax cut legislation during Bush's second term. 
Although there were two big tax bills during the frrst Bush term, "we are opti­mistic that it [taxes] will be a much bigger issue than people realize," said Todd McCracken, president of the National Small Business Association, another group based in the nation's capital. 
At the very least, the groups expect that tax cuts passed during the last four years and that are sched­uled to expire between now and 2010 will be made per­manent, including the expanded $100,000 deduc­tion for small business' equipment purchases. 
"Some plan should be on the agenda pretty early on to address that," McCracken said. 
McCracken's group is also looking for the administra­tion and Congress to correct one of the inequities of the Internal Revenue Code that allows employees of large companies to pay for their health insurance premiums on a pretax basis, saving them money, but that does­n't accord small business owners the same treatment. 
Fuller said her associa­tion's members would also be looking for more favor­able treatment of business expense deductions, such as those for meals and enter­tainment. Currently, busi­nesses can deduct only 50 percent of what they spend on meals and entertain­ment, while business gifts deductions ·are limited to $25 per recipient per year -an amount that has been left unchanged for decades despite the impact of infla­tion. 
The business advocates also expect tort reform, which would limit business' liability in lawsuits, to become more of a priority in the second Bush term and the next session of Congress. 
A bill that would put limits on class-action lawsuits was another casualty of congres­sional deadlock this year, and Danner said the changes in the makeup of the Senate might help move that legislation along next time around. 

1.5 million vehicles recalled 
DETROIT -General Motors Corp. said Thursday it was recalling nearly 1.5 million vehi­cles in North America, ranging from 2002 to 2005 models. 
Spokesman Alan Adler said the world's largest automaker reported the recalls -four in all ­to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration on Oct. 27. GM has recalled 
-.. 10.47 million vehicles in North America so far this year, more than the 7.8 million for all of 2003, Adler said. The latest recalls involve 1,496,056 vehicles, including 946,817 sport utility vehicles. The SUVs are the 2002-2004 Chevrolet TrailBlazer, GMC Envoy and Oldsmobile Bravada and the 2004 Buick Rainier. Adler said the tail lamps could malfunction on the vehicles. The company has identified two crashes, one with injury, possibly related to the malfunction, Adler said. A second recall involves the 2003 Chevrolet Cavalier and Pontiac Sunfire for tail lamp and turn-signal malfunctions. The total number of vehicles: 339,008. 
Five convicted of conspiracy, fraud 
government contended made the deal their lawyers also declined comment.
Associated Press 

a loan -that Enron would resell or though some said they would appeal. 
HOUSTON -Four former Merrill buy back Merrill's interest within six Christopher Wray, assistant attorney Lynch & Co. executives and a former months. general in Washington D.C., said the midlevel Enron Corp. finance executive "You can only hope and pray that the verdict "signals that executives com­were convicted of conspiracy and jury saw the truth and that's what they mitting corporate fraud will be vigor­fraud in the first criminal trial of did," said Kahanek, who was indicted ously investigated and prosecuted" Enron and Wall Street executives to more than a year ago. "I can't tell you and "those who aid such fraud will emerge from the energy company's how wonderful that is." meet the same fate." collapse. The verdict came after 21 hours of The barge case marked the first time 
Five men were convicted Wednesday deliberations in the six-week trial. Wall Street bankers were charged with of helping push through a bogus year­Jurors returned Thursday for the sen­active participation in a criminal end 1999 sale of interest in floating tencing phase, where experts for the Enron scheme. While Enron's former power plant barges to the brokerage prosecution and defense are expected auditor, Arthur Andersen LLP. was so Enron could appear to have met to testify regarding financial loss tied convicted more than two years ago of earnings targets. to the barge deal. obstruction of justice for destroying 
But the jury acquitted a former in­All the convicted defendants declined Enron documents before the collapse, house Enron accountant, Sheila comment Wednesday, appearing the barge case was the first to involve Kahanek, who testified she consistent­stunned and emotional as they former Enron employees as defen­ly opposed a verbal promise that the embraced their tearful wives. Most of dants. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, November 5, 2004 
. AFGHANISTAN 
Karzai offers hope 
in victory address 
President-elect promises to fight warlords, drugs; offers olive branch to the Taliban 
Associated Press  
KABUL  - Hamid  Karzai  
pledged Thursday to  use  his  
five-year  term  as  

Afghanistan's first elected president to crack down on warlords and the re-emerging country's booming drug econ­omy. 
Accepting his victory in the historic Oct. 9 ballot. he also oiTerod an olive branch to the Taliban. even as an offshoot of the formor ruling militia threatened to kill throe kid­napped U.N. workors who helped organize the vote. 
"The Afghan people have placed their trust in us, for which we are very grateful," Karzai said in the grounds of his bomb-damagod Kabul palace, flanked by his two smiling running-mates and circled by bodyguards. "They voted for a government based on laws and institutions. and that is what we are going to 
provid<~." 
Karzai has said that smash­ing Afghanistan's opium and heroin smugglers will be his top priority, and the key to reining in warlords resisting the feeble authority of the central government. 
lie has also pledged to clear his Cabinet of faction leaders who lwlped the United States oust the Taliban three years ago but have proved to be doadweights in office. 
Asked if any warlords or government officials believed to profit from drugs would 
the result. the country would 
go toward a crisis." 
Ethnic Hazara chieftain 
Mohammed Mohaqeq and 
Uzbek strongman Abdul 
Hashid Dostum followed suit. 
A boycott could have under­mined Karzai's chances of extending his authority across a country still torn by ethnic tensions, and poisoned the political atmosphere for par­liamentary elections slated for next spring. 
Foreign experts drafted in to examine the allegations found a string of irregularities, including ballot-stuffing, but said they couldn't have changed the result. 
Karzai has vowed to acceler­ate the slow rebuilding of a country after war and drought with the goal of doubling the income of Afghans by 2009. 
But any attempt to focus on the economy will be compli­cated by the challenge of con­fronting warlords, drug traf­fickers and Taliban militants all at the same time. 
Karzai denounced as "ter­rorist elements" an armed group who kidnapped three foreign election workers in Kabul a week ago. 
Jaish-al Muslimeen, a little­known militant band, said Thursday that talks on demands including the release of Taliban prisoners had bro­ken down, and that they would decide Friday whether to kill the three -Irish­British citizen Annetta Flanigan, Filipino 

survive the "There will Angelito purge, Karzai Nayan and
definitely, definitely not

said: "There Shqipe will not be any be any drug thing Hebibi from 
private militia in Afghanistan. We're Kosovo. forces in A purport­
going to be dedicated, 

Afghanistan." ed com­
"There will strong in working mander of definitely. def­against that." the group initely not be said U.N. any drug thing and Afghan
Hamid Karzal 

i n officials con­Afghanistan." president-elect of Afghanistan tacted them 
he said. 
"We're going to be dedicated. 
strong in working against 
that." 
lie said he would not 
<tnnounce his Cabinet before 
his inauguration in December. 
But he renewed an offer to follownrs of the Taliban ­with tho oxception of a few dozen top fugitives -"til come and participate in the rebuilding of this country." 
"The rest of them. thousands of them. they are sons of this carth. tlwy arc welcome," he said. 
Election officials declared Karzai the winner Wednesday after more than three weeks of laborious counting and arguments about whether he had cheated his way to victory. 
Yunus Qanooni, who finished s<~coml with 16 percent, com­pan~d with Karzai's 55 per­cnnt, aeeeptnd the rnsult just hours bnforc Karzai made his tnlevisnd acenptance speech. 
"For mn. Afghanistan's national interests are the most important," said Qanooni. Karzai's former education minister. "If we didn't accept 
by telephone Thursday but were "not ready for negotiations." 
"We have decided that we won't negotiate any more either. because they are not making a serious effort to get the hostages released," a man identifying himself as Sadir Momin said in a satellite tele­phone call. 
Another meeting will be held Friday, "then we will decide whether to kill them or allow more time," Momin said. 
Karzai said authorities "hope with God's help to suc­ceed in freeing them safely." But neither Afghan nor U.N. officials have confirmed any contact with the kidnappers. 
The kidnapping was the first of foreigners in the capital since the Taliban 's fall and stirred fear that militants are copying the tactics of insur­gents in Iraq. 
The group released a video­tape of the hostages Sunday and has demanded the with­drawal of British troops as well as the United Nations from Afghanistan in return for their lives. 

Regarding the severity of the cheating problem at Notre
Cheat 

Dame, senior Petula 
continued from page 1 Fernandes said, "I've never heard of anyone being caught cheating or noticed cheating, 
those putting the work in and so it's hard for me to say real­
..

is a bad practice all around." !y. 
While Myers said he hadn't Although she was unaware encountered a lot of cheating of its major revJsJons, in his classes, he noted this Fernandes said the Honor could be skewed by his code is useful. attempts to "The Honor remove temp­Code makes
''The Internet makes it
tation with sense because preventative so easy -you just cut you don't want at
measures. and paste. It's got to be cheating 
Chemistry this high a
tempting when you're 
professor level of educa­Xavier Creary tired, up late, and tion," she said. 
also discussed there's something due Sophomore the possibility Andrea
that you don't know 
of cheating Oliverio said being more how to attack. " the procedure widespread. of conducting "Cheating at Dorothy Pratt large exams in prestigious assistant dean Stepan Center 
institutions is likely prevents
College of Arts and Letters cheating.
well-docu­

mented. and how much of it goes on, stu­dents have a much better idea than faculty," Creary said. 
Expressing his fear of increasing student desensiti­zation towards cheating, Creary said he has heard stu­dents talk openly about the topic. 
"One of the things that con­cerns us is so many students know about cheating, some­times it's not even considered that serious," he said. 
Student perceptions on the amount of cheating 
Junior Molly Hogan said cheating is more widespread when it comes to daily papers and homework assignments than it is during exams. 
"Personally, I haven't had any encounter with people breaking the Honor Code at Notre Dame," she said. "I know that I definitely take it seriously. For me, the possible consequences aren't worth the risk." 
"I don't see cheating as a huge problem, especially because of the 
way Notre Dame "Personally, I makes it difficult 
haven't had any
to cheat on 

encounter with 
tests," she said. "I think the scare people breaking tactic of the pro­
the Honor Code at 
gram works real­

Notre Dame. I know 
ly well." In his opinion, that I definitely 
many students take it seriously. 
cheat less at 

For me, the possible 
Notre Dame than they did before consequences coming to the 
aren't worth 
University, fresh­

the risk." 
man Pat Lyons said. 

"I think that Molly Hogan cheating was a juniorbigger problem in high school 
than it is in college, when it answers during tests. was all about keeping the GPA up," he said. "In college, there's a different perspective Contact Maddie Hanna at on things." mhannal@nd.edu 
Free Checkingl 
The distinction between cheating and help is also important, Lyons said. 
"You can call it help when there's something you don't understand and you ask a friend to help you gain that understanding," he said. "Cheating is when you under­stand perfectly well but are not willing to expend the time. energy or effort." 
Technology and cheating 
Although advanced technol­ogy such as picture cell phones and handheld devices like Blackberrys can con­tribute to the cheating prob­lem, faculty members said only the Internet seems to be a real issue at Notre Dame. 
"The Internet makes it so easy -you just cut and paste," Dorothy Pratt, assis­tant dean in the College of Arts and Letters, said. "It's got to be tempting when you're tired, up late, and there's something due that you don't know how to attack." 
Apart from the Intr.rnet, 
Myr.rs said he has observed mon~ "low-tech" cheating. 
Using cell phones is "a bit of a stretch." he said. "The thing you s<~e most often in an nxam is people looking around." 
But whiln he hasn't personal­ly witnessed this type of cheating. Creary said he has heard of students using text messaging and electronic communication devicP.s to shan~ 


Just one of our many free products and services. 

G 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent ot the Univerlily 
-~~~ 

Friday, November 5, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Edvvards finds 111alignant lu111p 
Candidate's wife diagnosed with breast cancer 

AP 

Sen. John Edwards poses with his wife Elizabeth, right, and their daughter Cate, after Sen. John 
Kerry's concessloh speech In Boston on Wednesday. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Elizabeth Edwards, wife of former Democratic vice presidential candidate John Edwards, was diagnosed with breast cancer the day her husband and Sen. John Kerry conceded the presi­dential race. 
Spokesman David Ginsberg said Mrs. Edwards, 55, discov­ered a lump in her right breast while on a campaign trip last week. Her family doctor told her Friday that it appeared to be cancerous and advised her to see a specialist when she could. 
She put off the appointment until Wednesday so as not to miss campaign time. 
The Edwards family went straight to Massachusetts General Hospital from Boston's Faneuil Hall after Kerry and Edwards conceded on Wednesday. 
Mrs. Edwards had a needle biopsy performed at the hospi­tal, where Dr. Barbara Smith confirmed the cancer, Ginsberg said. 
He s-aid the cancer was diag­nosed as invasive ductal cancer. That is the most common type of breast cancer, and can spread from the milk ducts to other parts of the breast or beyond. 
More tests were being done to determine how far the can­cer has advanced and how to treat it, he said. 
Ginsberg said spirits are high at the Edwards household. "Everybody feels good about it, that this is heatable," he said. 
Edwards, who leaves his North Carolina Senate seat in January. said in a statement. "Elizabeth is as strong a person as I've ever known. Together, our family will beat this." 
The American Cancer Society estimated that nearly 216,000 American women will be diag­nosed with breast cancer this year. 
Treatments have been getting better. The current five-year survival rate for breast cancer is 87 percent, up from 78 per­cent in the mid-1980s. About 40,000 women die of breast cancer annually. 
Overall, the society says about one in seven women will develop breast cancer in their lifetime. 
Invasive ductal cancer accounts for 65 percent to 80 percent of all breast cancers, according to the Merck Manual of Medical Information. 

FRANCE 
Arafat fights for his life in French hospital 
Palestinian officials begin to shift power as 75-year-old president loses consciousness 
Associated Press 
CLAMART -Vasser Arafat was reportedly fighting for his life Thursday at a French mili­tary hospital after losing con­sciousness, as anxious Palestinian officials transferred some of their 7 5-year-old leader's powers to Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia. 
Doctors at Percy Military Training Hospital outside Paris, where Arafat was airlifted last Friday after more than two years of con­finement in the 
West Bank, "/am standing A Palestinian offi­quashed a swirl cial in Gaza who is
next to the 
of reports that close to Arafat's wife
president's bed, 
he had died. But Suha said she told the French doc­he is in grave him her husband fell tors would not unconscious after
condition." 
say much else, receiving a strong and confusion anesthetic for a 
Ramzl Khoury
ruled as biopsy. The official, Palestinians Arafat's chief of staff who spoke on condi­
issued conflict­ing reports about Arafat's condition and how close to death he was. 
In an emergency meeting in the West Bank town of Ramallah, the PLO executive committee empowered Qureia to deal with urgent administra­tive and financial matters, said committee member Qais Abdel Karim. Qureia also will meet with security chiefs in the Gaza Strip on Friday to ensure that no internal conflict erupts in the volatile area at a time of uncer­tainty, a Palestinian official said. 
A prolonged Arafat incapaci­tation -or death -could have profound impact on the Middle East. There are fears of unrest among Palestinian factions, which Arafat, viewed as a national symbol by even some who opposed him, was largely able to prevent. Furthermore, chaos in the West Bank and 

"The Palestinian 
Gaza could about 1,500 make any coop­leadership is in Palestinians eration with demonstrated in
constant meeting to 
Israel even the West Bank
follow up on the
more difficult. town of On the other president's health." Qalqiliya and hand, Israel 500 more in the and the United Balata refugee
Nabll Shaath 
States have in camp in support
Palestinian "torelgn minister
recent of Arafat. 
years shunned Arafat as a terrorist and an obstacle to peace, and his replacement by a new leadership could open the door to renewed peace talks. Such a scenario could affect Israel's plans to pull soldiers and settlers out of the Gaza Strip in a move not coordinated with the Palestinians. 
Arafat's chief of staff, Ramzi Khoury, called an Associated Press reporter to say the Palestinian leader was alive but that his condition was grave. 
"I am standing next to the president's bed. he is in grave condition," Khoury said. 
A senior Palestinian official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the AP that Arafat was in a coma in the intensive care unit, where he was taken after his condition worsened overnight Wednesday. 
French television station LCI quoted an anonymous French medical official as saying Arafat was in an "irreversible coma" and "intubated" -a process that usually involves threading a tube down the windpipe to the lungs. The tube is often con­nected to a life support machine to help the patient breathe. 
However, three Palestinian officials denied Arafat was in a coma. 
"He is not getting better, but not getting worse either. He is being examined. He is not in a coma," Foreign Minister Nabil Shaath said. "There is no .expla­
nation f0r what has 
happened." 
tion of anonymity, 
quoted Suha Arafat as saying her husband was recovering. 
Israel TV's Channel Two reported that Arafat was brain dead and remained on life sup­port. 
However, Arafat's personal physician, Dr. Ashraf Kurdi, told Dubai-based Al-Arabiya televi­sion that "Arafat has no type of brain death." He also said a brain scan showed that Arafat had not suffered a hemorrhage or stroke. 
At Arafat's compound in Ramallah, where leaders of the PLO and Arafat's Fatah move­ment were meeting, Shaath said top officials were in touch with the hospital in Clamart every 30 minutes. 
"The Palestinian leadership is in constant meeting to follow up on the president's health," 
Shaath said. 
Meanwhile, 
Israeli mili­tary leaders, including Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz. met to discuss Arafat's declining health, Israeli security officials said. The military was placed on high alert, fearing riots if Arafat dies. 
The Israeli military has not moved forces to anticipated problem areas, but command­ers were told to be on standby. The army has a contingency plan, called "new leaf," to deal with the fallout from Arafat's death. 
On Thursday, the military also discussed possible burial options for Arafat. Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has said he would not permit Arafat to be buried in Jerusalem, which is claimed by both Israel and the Palestinians as their capital. Army chiefs said they also ruled out a burial in the Jerusalem suburb of Abu Dis in the West Bank. 

r---------------------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, November 5, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46SS6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Mcghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDIHlR: Sarah Vabulas 
SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
IN Focus EDITOR: Meghan Manin 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud 
PHOTO EUITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAI'HICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADYEinJSING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 

SYSTEMS AI>MINISTRA'IUR: Mary Allen 
CONTROIJ.ER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS OESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT 0ESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 6_31-4543 sporrs.l@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S 0ESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, lertcrs and columns presem the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must he signed and must include contact information. 
Qt~>tiom ugdrdi11g Obs~rvrr policies should be dirmed to Editor i>1 ChiifMall Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th~-Ohl4.·rwr (U~PS S1i1J 1·40001 •• ruhli~htJ Mund<~r thmuth hiday l'X'"Cfl' ~iuring rum .anJ I'.M.~IInUJlt'nur.b A subu:rtp!i<"liiiU fhd>hu.TVC't is SJIK) lor PIW KM.i..-mk w.-r. S'i'ihHun, ~mol.:r Th<: OhwoJV\'1 IS~ l!lC'IIIh..:r nl thC' .....UU(I.&tl.'d l.,cu All rcrroduLiiun nghrl .uc tC"'tTVI',J, 
l"hr Olnc'f'Vl'f ,_ J'Uhh•hctl oH' 1~0. Hux 1.J: 0~4 ~1111h \lming H.~ll ll24 'lumh Dining H.U! Nml'l.· D.mw. IN 4ll~5f,,f177'J Notft' llo1mt'.IN 4f•SS(,..fln'1 1'«-nndi•o~l rmr"l:t' p.UJ "' Nmrc ll"mc­
~nJ ouldumn.tl n1.1iling oflin:• 
!M-nJ '"ldn:u t:nrrr(tltln\ 10 
lhrOh\l'tYtT 
The lllmn.:l i• .t nwmtwr nf 1hc A~'t.Xi.&fl..'l.i I'ITu, All h'jlmJu(IIOlllighr. o\l't' 
lo.'M'I'H.J, , 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Exemplify unity for leaders 
Speculation about weeks of ballot recounts, legal chal­lenges and Electoral College disasters evaporated Wednesday with John Kerry's concession speech. Americans had officially picked a president. Barely. 
While half the nation basks in President Bush's victory and rejoices in a second term, the other half bounces from seething anger to dejected disillusionment. This immedi­ate emotional overload is to be expected after a bitter, divisive campaign and an election whose exit polls illustrated just how divided the country O Th 
oserver
is -economically, racially and especially 

morally. states arc redder and bluer than ever. But But emotions -even this intense-should despite this stark division, the country can­
Editorial
not come first as citizens and politicians alike consider their next move. Instead, they must realize that a choice has been made and take a rational approach to their future calculations. Impulsive declara­tions of seizing dominance, by the· right, and lleeing the country, by the left, are as unproductive as they are unre­alistic. The results are in. Americans have to move for­ward, not look back. 
Though all but the most die-hard pundits are suffering from political exhaustion, it is critical that citizens do not 
Calling all progressives 
Be careful what you wish for. One of the chief objectives of the Kerry cam­paign was to turn out record numbers of voters, in accord with the recent electoral reality that more voters equals 
more Democratic  
victories. On Nov.  Peter Quaranta  
2. the Democrats  
achieved their  A Call to Action  
objective with the  
highest voter  
turnout since 1968 ­ about 120 million  

voters -yet they learned the difficult lesson that the means do not always meet the ends. In a surprising outcome that defied exit poll predictions and left Larry King stuttering, President George 
W. Bush defeated Sen. John Kerry by over 3.5 million votes to gain a second term as president. In the wake of the Ohio defeat, progressives across the country, shell-shocked from the returns and despairing about "four more years," have to face the sobering query of what went wrong in 2004. 
In so many ways, it seemed every­thing was going right. The Democrats were unified, the Kerry campaign had raised record funds and hundreds of thousands of new voters were regis­tered across the country. There was the rise of independent groups, such as MoveOn PAC and America Coming Together, organizing thousands of vol­unteers to get out the progressive vote. And the situation in America seemed ripe for change-chaos in Iraq, rising healthcare costs, significant job losses and deteriorating education. When I was in Ohio last weekend, there was fervor among the masses of volunteers. believing resolutely that we could bring a real change to this country. Such opti­mism and advantages floundered around 2 a.m. Wednesday morning. leaving many grappling for answers. And hope. · 
The president won on the back of his strong conservative base. led by evan­gelicals and the wealthy. i\s anticipated, the president fared strongest among those falling into the categories of turn away their attention just because the daily storm of campaigning has calmed. In the past few days, both Bush and Kerry have preached unity and encouraged their par­ties to reach across the aisle for the good of the country. While history shows that partisanship will soon overtake this honeymoon of good intentions, this period docs pro­vide a chance for the public to pay careful attention to elected officials' promises. By doing so, citizens can arm 

themselves to hold their leaders accountable 
if and when those promises are pushed aside. 
Election 2004 proved red states and blue 
not afford to separate into the gloating win­
ners and the sore losers. America still faces the war in Iraq, an economic recession and an ongoing struggle against terrorism -it does not have time to waste on internal squabbling. Unity, though perhaps an elusive achievement, is still an essential goal. 
Americans have every right to be delighted, and every right to be devastated. But if we choose to put our parti­san grudges before the good of the nation, thnre is nothing to stop pDliticians from doing the same. 
white, male, married and gun-owning. Also, President Bush carried the whole of the South, continuing Bepublican presidential dominance below the Mason-Dixon Line. I lowcver, the sur­prise of 2004 was that more exit poll respondents-about 22 percent­deemed "moral values" as the election's most important issue, of which more than 80 percent voted red. In an elec­tion season that highlighted deep national discord over Iraq, terrorism and the economy, it appears that "moral" issues such as gay marriage played the largest role in determining the leader of our country for the next four years. 
Placed in the context of other issues, this information is quite revealing. Of those who ging the question of how we define "moral issues," this reality highlights a great divide among the American peo­ple in the way we understand America. 
Though hard for many of us to swal­low, Bush called it right when he said today, "The American people have spo­ken." For those of us progressives, Tuesday was a deeply disappointing day, a day when we lost hope for our country. The thought of four years o,f,a,, second-term Bush administration. teamed with a Hepublican I louse and Senate, could not be more discouraging. More than ever, the long road to taking back America is daunting. Yet, it has never been more critical. 
In a day when Hepublicans havP 
monopolized speaking to 
moral and spiritual con­

considered Iraq to be the cerns of the many,
"For those ofus 
most important issue of Democrats must l<~arn to
progressives,
the election, 73 percent speak to the moral and voted for Kerry and 26 Tuesday was a spiritual yearnings of a percent for Bush. Of those population, connecting 
deeply disappoint­
who considered the ccon-those yearnings to policies
ing day, a day
. omy and jobs to be pri­for universal health care, mary, 80 percent for when we lost hope economic justice, civil Kerry and 18 percent for for our country. " rights and morn humane 
Bush. For healthcare, 77 
percent for Kerry and 23 
percent for Bush. For education, 73 percent for Kerry and 26 percent for 
Bush. These numbers are highly telling because they show that on the issues that the Kerry campaign highlighted ­jobs, education, hcalthcare and Iraq­they dominated. The problem appears to be that the progressives misread the American people. 
The American people wanted to hear about "moral issues," and all they received from Kerry was discourse about the economy, foreign affairs and education. The American people want­ed to hear about whether two people should be allowed to get married before they wanted to hear about the state of our schools. The American people wanted to hear about the faith of a can­didate before they wanted to hear about our affairs in the world. Beyond beg­fon~ign policy. In a day 
when Bepublicans captun~ the fears of a nation, the Democrats must lind a way in tlw years ahead to articulate an alternative politics of hope that can lift this country up to its ideals. 
Challenging days lie ahead for pro­gressives. The words of John Kerry an• best: "i\nd building on itself. we go on to make a difference another day. I promise you, that time will come, the timn will come. th<~ election will come, when your work and your ballots will change the world. And it's worth fight­ing for." And so. lnt us tight. 
Peter Quaranto is a junior political science and international peace studies major. Contact Peter at pquarant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not rwces­sarify those ofThe Observer. 
News Sports Amanda Michaels Matt Puglisi OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Eileen Duffy Ann Loughery Maddie IIanna Maggie Oldham What did you think of the networks' Viewpoint Scene election night coverage as compared to 2000? 
"/have the feeling that in a balanced life one
/\lyssa Molly Griffin 

should die penniless. The trick is dismantling." 
Brauwciler Illustrator Graphics Graham Ebetsch 

Art Garfunkel
Graham Ebctsch *Poll appears courtesy of 
one-man band 
www.ndsmcohserver.com and is based on 123 responses. 


THE 08SERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, November 5, 2004 page II 
Winning the election with God and fear 
When asked why the unemployed Ohioan voted for the president, the man said. "lie is a person of faith." When pressed that Sen. John Kerry is a Catholic who rngularly attends church and was an alter boy growing 
up. the unemployed  Gary Caruso  
man said. "That was  
in the past. I don't  Capitol Comments  
know about today."  
Voting to al'firm  

moral values proved to be the wild card in this year's election that fooled all of the pundil<i. While some may have thought a record voter turnout would indicate dis­pleasure with the incumbnnt president. it reprnsented a vote against a seemingly national moral decline embodied in same­sex marriage. It also was the first time voters could express themselves on the war in Iraq, the terrorism of Sept. 11, especially when Osama bin I .aden appeared three days before the election, and social fears that this nation was about to los~\ its moral compass. 
This year. two historical precedents had been contradictory. First, Americans had newr defeated an incumbent president during wartime. although wartime presi­dents had been reelected by naHow mar­gins. Secondly, no incumbent president under a 50 percent approval rating had ever won reelection. One of those rules had to break this year. Most, including this writer. thought that Bush's "war of choice" would be rejected. Hather. voters thought that same-sex marriage went beyond the pale. Their concern was raised to such a higher level that they felt compelled to act. 
Exit polls revealed that nationally, more voters (22 percent) considered moral val­ues their greatest concern compared to the ·economy (20 percent) or terrorism and the war (19 percent). The president won 79 percent of the "moral values" group with three-fourths support from those calling themselves evangelical Christians. Among weekly churchgoers, Bush was preferred to Kerry 60 to 39 percent. 
The president only captured one more state than he had carried in 2000, winning two of the three big prizes-Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania-which was the key to victory for both candi­dates. Pennsylvania easily went for Kerry, and Florida easily fell into Bush's col­umn, leaving Ohio as the final arbiter of the elec­tion. 
In Florida. Bush gathered a diverse religious coalition of whites, blacks. Hispanics, evangeli­cal Protestants and Jews. His language of a "culture of life" left room for various groups to define and include their personal preferences, whether abortion or same-sex marriage, under Bush's rhetorical umbrella. Exit polls showed that Bush won 16 percent of the African­American vote in Ohio and 13 percent iri Florida while only carry­ing 11 percent nationally. In Ohio, 61 per­cent of African-Americans supported the ban on same-sex marriage that also appeared as a referendum on their bal­lots. 
Ironically, moral outrage erupted when four Massachusetts supreme court jus­tices, three of whom are Republicans, interpreted their state constitution to included equal protections for same-sex marriage. More ironically, while same-sex marriage seemed to be represented by an either/or proposition symbolized with Bush against and Kerry for, a Washington­based gay human rights organization issued intriguing findings of common ground from exit polls. Fully half of the 

voters who supported civil unions voted for Bush. Also, 61 percent supported some form of legal· protection for same-sex couples with 27 percent favoring same-sex mar­riage and 35 percent favoring civil unions. 
What went wrong for John Kerry? He could not adequately 
connect with voters, most importantly in Ohio. A month ago this column suggest­ed that Kerry could better communicate 
with voters by using visual images (the 
cost of Iraq would cover every square ipch of Pennsylvania 

with dollar bills 121 times). It suggested that Kerry call the cost of the war "foreign aid," because 
Republicans are adverse to such a rhetorical description. Finally, it suggested that the president speaks out of both sides of his mouth when he says Kerry would spend $2 trillion more on newly proposed programs while the president advocates private accounts in Social Security that require a transition cost of $1 trillion. 
The negative assertions brought forth by President Bush ultimately worked against Kerry. After planting doubts about flip­flopping or saying anything to win -the same assertions used in 2000 against AI Gore -Hepublicans kept preaching to their choir. One Ohio man said, ''I'm a Democrat. if you can believe it. You ever get a feeling about somebody? I would lis­ten to him talk and I'd get the feeling he was just saying things he thought people wanted to hear." The man concluded by saying, "I think my uncle even voted Republican this time, which is weird." 
The rhetorical difference in Bush and Kerry was summarized in stops the two made only 10 miles from each other in Ohio. Kerry, playing in response to Bush's terrorism credentials. spoke past Ohioans with a national message to terrorists of we will destroy you and "you can run but you cannot hide." 
In a neighboring community, Bush enforced the negative "feeling" about Kerry by connecting with locals by saying, ''I'm running against a man who thinks you can find the heart and soul of America in Hollywood. I know where you can find the heart and soul-here in Cambridge." 
While the president proceeds with the impression that he has a mandate for his policies over his rhetoric, Democrats will best be served by recognizing how to return to Bill Clinton's way of "connecting" with voters. Only the next four years will tell if the feelings of 2004 voters were cor­rect or will become a buyer's remorse. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73. served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com: 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Basketball ticket solutions 
I am a die-hard ND basketball fan. I love ND foot­ball, but my true passion is waiting 12 hours in the cold outside gate 11 just to be able to jeer at a Syracuse or Pittsburgh player from 2 feet away. Some people have said the solution to the problem with the basketball ticket distribution situation is to abstain from distributing tickets to the fans at Holy Cross and Saint Mary's College. I can see why this argument was made but it doesn't seem rational to me when I loly Cross ticket holders amount to less than 1.7% of the total student ticket holders. I have been to almost every single game over the last two years, including away games and the last Two Big East tournaments. At all of these events I hear the same question from ND students asking, "Where is everybody?" Game after game, especially early in the season. students don't show up to the games. I don't hold anything against the students for not showing up but wonder why they complain about not having enough tickets when the seats are empty. There is a solution. but I have not seen anyone mention it yet in a Viewpoint letter. Simply raise ticket prices. For real ND fans this should not be a problem. The total cost for 13 ticket<> is only $50. By raising prices, you would cut out the casual student fan. but have more than enough season tickets left for real die-hard ND basketball fans. I would add to this James Leito's idea of letting students then fJll in the empty seats that arc left over when people don't show up. This would work out both problems of having enough student ticket booklets and having all the seats full. I hope the administration will do something to alleviate the stu­dent frustration at Notre Dame. In the meantime, I will be the guy bundled up outside gate 11 be it rain. sleet or snow. Please don't give me weird looks. 
Thomas Hogan 
semor 
Holy Cross College Nov.4 
U-WIRE 

Why we lost 
After pouring hours, sleepless it -already is. His own education capitalize on the President's blun­nights and nonstop months into the reform bill is woefully underfunded, ders. Many Americans polled after 2004 presidential campaign, I sit millions of more Americans don't the first Presidential Debate were back and ponder ... why did Kerry have healthcare. shocked to see Kerry was able to pro­lose? The economy is in the trenches; duce a· clear, coherent sentence -as 
You can blame Walden O'Dell, a we've lost 1.6 million jobs in the U.S. they had conceptualized him as an GOP fundraiser in the past three years. He rushed to incredible flip-flopper. 
Jake Resnicow 

and the CEO of war with Iraq built on lies and decep­I do feel that Kerry over-empha­Diebold (whose tion-and Cheney still parades him­sized the need for strong alliances 
Tufts University 

voting self in the media, calling it a "great with foreign allies; Americans are
Tufts Daily 

machines are success." more interested in maximum safety used in Ohio), Yes, you can call my rambling spin from terrorism. who promised to deliver Ohio to and democratic rhetoric, but truth Notwithstanding, this was Kerry's Bush. You can blame the Republicans remains that Bush entered November election to lose; and his mediocrity who went to polling locations to with one of the lowest and communications "challenge" voters' right to vote (in approval ratings at team's inability to addition to the hours and hours peo­under 46 percent, project a consistent ple waited to simply cast their vote). according to an ABC image to the
"The thing is: I don't 
You can even blame the Swifties. News poll. American people sig­If the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth Still, how did Kerry ask why Bush won. nificantly contributed have taught us anything, it's that the lose? to the current state of
The war, the economy 
credibility of an accuser is less To me, it comes affairs.
and Bush's own
important than the explosiveness of down to salesman­Many supporters the charge. ship, Which candidate mediocre campaign are justified in feeling The thing is: I don't ask why Bush would you rather alarmed for the
made this Kerry's 
woiL The war, the economy and drink a beer with? potential ramifica­
election to lose. " 
Bush's own mediocre campaign Seriously speaking, tions of this election. made this Kerry's election to lose. most Americans pre-Keep a close eye on 
When Bush would deliver simple, fer a president who the Supreme Court short speeches, Kerry would go on struggles in pro-and the national into great detail to a point where no nouncing the word "nuclear" and deficit (as another 70 billion dollar one could remember what he was maybe screws up every now and cut is expected to be proposed to a talking about. Do you remember then. Hepublican Senate and House of when Kerry tried to explain his While this shouldn't be reasoning Hepresentativcs). stance on abortion during the second behind who should be selected as the Anyone else considering going debate? Commander-in-Chief of the armed abroad for longer than a semester? 
Still, Bush turned the national sur­forces and principal defender of your plus built on fiscal responsible poli­nation, the 2004 Election indicates This column originally appeared on cies, into the largest deficit in our otherwise. Nov. 4 in the Tufts Daily. the daily nation's history. Moreover. Kerry's public relations newspaper at Tufts University. 
He dipped into the Social Security and communications department The views expressed in this column trust fund. using billions to keep the failed miserably. They were unable to are those ofthe author and not nec­budget from looking even worse than dispute Bush's wild criticisms and essarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Friday, November 5, 2004 
King's Singers comes to Notre Dame 
World-renowned vocal ensemble brings its varied musical selections to the PAC 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN Scene Writer 
The immensely suer.nssful and world-re nowrwd a r.appell a group, tl11~ King·s Singers. w iII arrive at Notre Damn's campus to porform in Urn Lnighton Conn~rt llall on Sunday al H a.m. 
This pnrformanco will feature countertPnors David llurley and Hobin Tyson. tenor Paul Phoonix, haritonns Philip Lawson and Chris (;abbitas and bass StPphen Connolly. Tho original group was founded at King's College in Cambridge in IIJhX, and has since developed into a worI d -cIas s vora I P n s em b I e. Tlw almost jll'rpntual touring has taken llw g r o u p to sueh North ;\merir. an venues as Carnngin llall and the Lincoln and KennPdy Conters, as wPII as such pn•sligious festivals as TangiPwood, Havinia and lntPrlochnn. lnlnrnalionally. the King's Singers has touclwd virtually Pvery c.orrwr of the world, perform­i n g i n m aj or v n nu e s i n I. on don , Paris. Homo, Vionna, llong Kong, Tokyo, and Mnxico City, among oth­ers. 
The King's Singers' history is one of gn~at prestige. It has produced ovor 110 rocordings, inducting "Tnnebrao Hesponsories for Maundy Thursday," released earlier this year. The group's last Grammy nom­ination eame in 2001 for the elassi­
eal-erossover recording "Cirele of Life."The group has reeeived ar.elaim in television, having appeared on /\BC in an Emmy award-winning Christmas special with such artists as Julie Andrews and Placido Domingo. T h n group is a Is o a frequent radio guest, appearing on National Public Radio's "Performance Today" and "Prairie llome Companion," host­ed by Garrison Keillor. 
During the years the King's Singers has also been dedir.atnd. to commissioning new music. It often features the works of eon­temporary artists, ineluding Gian Carlo Menotti (whose opera The Consul was performed on campus here~ last spring). Gyiirgy Ligoti, Krysztof Pendnn~eki, John HutlPr and John Taverrwr. 
The King's Singers is in the midst of a U.S. tour this October and November that includes stops in Washington, D.C., Ottawa. Minneapolis and Oklahoma City. Tickets can be purchased at the Debartolo Performing ;\rts Center's box office. They cost $45 for general admission, $35 for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and lloly Cross fac­u I ty, and $15 for all students. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of www.mmguide.musicmatch.com The King's Singers was founded at King's College Cambridge in 1968, and grew popular In the United Kingdom. The group has performed all over the world In venues such as Shea Stadium, and its repertoire now includes over 200 songs. 
1 The Simpsons' do Shakespeare 
'MacHamer' puts a comic spin on a classic tragedy using voices from the famous show 

By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
What happens when· you combine one of America's favorite cartoon families with one of the most tortured char­acters in literature? 
That is exactly what Hick Miller wondered when he began concocting one of the most original and off-the-wall interpretations of a Shakespeare play to appear since the Bard wrote his works four centuries ago. 
"MacHomer." the result of what was originally intended to be a gag at a cast party for a performance of "MacBeth" in which Miller played the illustrious part of Murderer #2, has become a sensation. Miller gives a one-man per­formance of the show using over 50 imitated voices from "The Simpsons," featuring Homer as MacBeth and Marge as Lady MacBeth. His impres­sions branch out to other characters including Barney Gumble, Krusty the Clown and actor Troy McClure. The per­formance remains 85 percent original Shakespeare, but still has a few added touches. 
"Is this a dagger I see before me? Or a pizza?" Miller asks in a famous "MacHomer" fusion. 
Miller wasn't initially sure 
his play would make it through its first four performances at the Montreal Fringe Festival, but the show has survived and prospered. Since its conception during the summer of 1995, Miller has per­formed "Mac!Iomer" for over 50,000 people around the country. 
/\!though it might seem a .little bit over the line to make one of the greatest tragedies in the English language into a cartoon comedy, the new interpretation of a well­worn classic has been widely wel­comed. The show has something for both "Simpsons" fans and Shakespeare aficionados, which makes up a pretty large cross-sec­tion of tho country. Shakespeare critics and schoolchildren alike have loved the show. 
Miller is a Montreal-based actor and graduated with degrees in architecture and theater from MeGill University. lie is famous in many diseiplines, ineluding elassi­eal theater, musical theater, film and television. His other creations include "Into the Hing," a two-per­son play based on "The Lord of the IU n gs , " an d " Bi g ge r T h a n J , " a solo exploration of Christianity. 
MacHomer will be performed Nov. 5 and 6 at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing 1\rts. Tickets cost $15 for students, $30 for faculty and staff and $37.50 for the general public. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu@nd.edu 

. I 
I 
I 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, November 5, 2004 
page 13 
Shakespeare on the silver screen 
Film festival showcases the variety of interpretations spawned by the Bard's work 

From left, Japanese director Akira Kurosawa sets his version of Shakespeare's great tragedy, "King Lear," in 16th century Japan. The three daughters in the original version are replaced with three sons, but Kurosawa is careful to add his own unique touches to the story without destroying the original's integrity. Juliet (Claire Danes) and Romeo (leonardo DiCaprio) meet in Australian director Baz Luhrmann's "William Shakespeare's Romeo+Juliet." The film updates Shakespeare's play by changing the setting from Italy to modern-day Southern California and puts the actors in modern dress, but the original dialogue is used. 
. . 
' 

By JONATHAN RETARTHA 
Scene Writer 
This weekend brings a collec­tion of both well-known and rare film adaptations of Shakespeare to the Browning Cinema in the Debartolo Center for the Performing arts. Here are the films you can expect to see: FRIDAY, NOV. 5 6:30p.m. "Titus" (1999) 
Anthony Hopkins plays Roman general Titus Andronicus in this classic adaptation of Shakespeare's earliest play. Set in anr.ient Home, with a few mod­
'ti1rrl" day twi'!:fts', 'Titus tells the story of a victorious general who is caught up in the marriage poli­tics of the time. 
10 p.m. 
"Forbidden Planet" (1956) 
One of the most influential sci­ence fiction films ever made, Fred Wilcox puts a futuristic spin on "The Tempest" in his box office smash that features a young Leslie Nielsen. 
SATURDAY, NOV. 6 
3 p.m. 
"Ran" (1985) 
Legendary Japanese filmmaker and writer Akira Kurosawa pres­ents his vision of "King Lear." The story of politics, familial vio­lence and betrayal fits perfectly into the equally tumultuous 16th Century Japanese setting. 

6:30p.m. "William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet" (1996) 
One of the finest adaptations ever made, visionary director Baz Luhrmann ("Moulin Rouge!") t r an s I ate s t h e e m o t fo n s an d social conditions of the play into 20th century Southern California. The film, which features Claire Danes and Leonardo DiCaprio as the star-crossed lovers, replaces swords and horses with handguns and convertibles in this stylistic retelling of the well-known love story. 
10 p.m. "Hamlet" ( 2000) 
Another modernization of a Shakespeare classic, this version takes place in New York City and stars Ethan Hawke ("Gattaca") as Hamlet. Like Luhrmann's "Romeo + Juliet," the original language from the play is used. This technique adds a depth to the story by emphasizing its timeless themes. 
All performances are $3 for stu­dents and can be purchased at the Debartol-O Center for the Performing Arts box office. 
Contact Jonathan Retartha at jretarth@nd.edn 
Photo courtesy of www.cinema.ines.ro 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 Friday, November 5, 2004
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 

Jaguars already feeling loss of linchpin L~ftwich 
Quarterback's injury leaves team looking for replacement, Garrard expected to step in 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -The Jacksonville Jaguars' newfound identity may have to change. 
Coach Jack Del Hio entered the season thinking Fred Taylor would be the centerpiece of the offense after he ran for 989 yards in the final eight games last year and led the Jags to four victories. 
Del Hio figured that would carry over. lie even counted on it during mini-camps. training camp and the preseason. 
But Byron Leftwich changed everything. The second-year quarterback

' 
has directed four game-win­ning touchdown drives in the closing minutes this season, made everyone around him better. played through pain and allowed offensive coordinator Bill Musgrave to expand the playbook. In short, Leftwich has become Jacksonville's equivalent of Brett Favre or Johl) Elway. 
Now the Jaguars (5-3) might 
have to play without him. 
Leftwich sprained the lateral 
collateral ligament in his left 
knee last week at Houston and 
could be sidelined one week, 
six weeks or even longer. 
Although Leftwich has some 
hope of starting Nov. 14 against 
Detroit, his injury could drasti­
cally affect the rest of the sea­
son. 
The Jags entered their bye 
week in first place in the AFC 
South. a half-game ahead of 
llouston and Indianapolis. 
"This bye comes at a very 
opportune time," Del Rio said. 
Leftwich spent the week on 
crutches, giving way to backup . David Garrard in practice. If Leftwich can't play against the Lions, Garrard would make his 
second career start. 
The Jags expect a decision 
Monday after Leftwich is re­
evaluated. 
"Don't count me in, don't 
count me out," said Leftwich, 
who has completed 64.8 per­
cent of his passes for 1,891 
yards and nine touchdowns. "If 
it's humanly possible, I'll be 
there." 
He could need season-ending 
surgery or he could just need 
rest. Either way, the Jaguars 


are planning to play without him -and probably alter their identity. 
"I have to step in now and try to finish where he left off and have this season work out the way we want it around here," Garrard said. "We're family and that's just how it is. Sister or brother or whoever has to step up and take care of things. It's my turn now to do the job." 
Garrard, a fourth-round pick in 2002 from East Carolina, has played in seven games over three seasons. His only start, which came in the 2002 finale at Indianapolis, was hardly memorable. lie completed 13 of 26 passes for 135 yards. was sacked three times and fum­bled once. And the Jags lost 20­
13. 

"I was a rookie; things were !lying," Garrard said. "I'm real­ly much morn comfortable now." 
The Jags hope so. 

But they probably won't ask the !leet-footed Garrard to do too much. Instead, they likely will turn to Taylor. 
lie has 510 yards rushing, including just one 100-yard game. 234 yards receiving and two touchdowns this season. He had similar numbers at this point last year: 583 yards rush­ing, 291 yards receiving and three TDs. 
But he came on strong late and 11nished with a career-high 1, 942 total yards. 
Taylor was expected to pick up where he left off this year. but injuries to several linemen and tight end Kyle Brady derailed the running game. 
Ran1s, Patriots battle for first tin1e since 2002 Super Bo-wl 
Isaac Bruce said there's nothing under the weight of four referred to them as a Super respected isn't as dynamic as it 
Associated Press 

special about facing the Patriots turnovers in a 34-20 loss to the Bowl-caliber team. and earlier used to be. The Hams were held 
ST. LOUIS -The last time the for the first time since then, He Steelers last week. in the game week he called to 14 points by the previously St. Louis Rams and New doesn't even think about the The loss was the Patriots' first Belichick a "Hall of Fame winless Dolphins two weeks ago England Patriots played, every­game that could have solidified since Sept. 28, 2003 against the coach." in their last game before a bye, thing was at stake. the Rams as one of the great Redskins. "I mean this sincerely when I and are averaging 22 points per 
In their heyday as the Greatest offensive forces in league histo­Understandably, they're more tell you that he's the standard game -although as they Show on Turf. the Rams were ry. proud of accomplishing what we're all trying to get to," Martz showed three weeks ago during the oddsmakers' two-touchdown St. Louis won its first Super the Rams couldn't: those two said. "He may be as good as a 17-point burst in the final 5 favori~R in the 2002 Super Bowl. Bowl after the 1999 season and Super Bowls wins. there's ever been." 1/2 minutes against the They were one of the biggest was attempting to win two "We've always said that you're Belichick returns the favor, Seahawks, they're still danger­favorites to fall, losing 20-17 on championships in a three-year defined in this league by cham­admitting he's borrowed aspects ous. Adam Vinatieri's 4 7 -yard field span -something the Patriots pionships, and not how many of the Rams' offense over the "It's a very explosive offense," goal as time expired. subsequently did. regular season games you win years. Belichick said. "Mike has done a 
"I still remember just turning "I don't hold any grudges," in a row," linebacker Mike "Don't get me wrong, we're great job of developing it and around and watching that ball Bruce said. "It's spilled milk and Vrabel said. "People always not the Rams-not even close," utilizing the different people." sail through the uprights and all the milk's been cleaned up, so remember the champion, and Belichick said. "The things that The Patriots will be at a disad­of that confetti falling in the you just move on." that's our goal every year." we do, we've definitely studied a vantage because neither of their wrong color," defensive tackle Now, the focus is more on the The Rams (4-3) had known lot of what they've done, and starting cornerbacks will be Tyoka Jackson said. "That's the Patriots' amazing record since Bill Belichick was building used some of it as it applies to available. Ty Law will miss four memory I'll think of always." then. New England (6-1) had something special earlier in the what we do." to six weeks with a broken bone 
Not all of the Hams who were won an NFL-record 18 straight 2001 season when they won 24-To start a new streak, the in his left foot sustained in the around then have that same games and 21 in a row counting 17 at New England. After that Patriots will have to control an Steelers loss, and Tyrone Poole depth of feeling. Wide receiver the postseason before collapsing game, coach Mike Martz offense that while still greatly is out with a knee injury. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. Hey Welsh, there's no 'E' in stadium. WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL WANTED FoR RENT AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. TICKETS PERSONAL Gina, I can't wait tor Christmas...our 
HOME,W/D,NEAR decorations are going to be so cute! Tutor tor high school student. DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW CORBYS/STJOE CHURCH. BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX Spring Break Bahamas .Celebrity Granger family sees tutor for 9th LEASING FOR 2005-2006 AVAIL NOW. CALL JOE GRIM-PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES Party Cruise! Happy Birthday Erin ... in like three grade girl in algebra. physical sci-SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS-MINS: 574-229-3659 OR 679-2010. 273-3911 5 Days $299! days! Just waiL we have a big sur· 
ence, and Spanish. ES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED Includes Meals, Parties! prise for you!!! Yeah, we're sneaky Must be patient, organized, positive, HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 Apartment for rent 2 br, partially fur-For Sale: ND football tix. Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, like that! focused and able to speak Englsh BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT nished, desirable North Shore Good prices. Jamaica From $459! Panama City & clearly. NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY Triangle neighborhood, 1.25 mi 232-0964. Daytona $1591 "We're not stupid...we can read!" One to two hours Monday, Tuesday SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF from campus, second semester www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800­and Thursday at 3 30. ON CALL, WASHER. DRYERS. special $400/mo plus electric, 233· Wanted: ND football tix. Top $$$ 678-6386 You think you're too cool tor school, Email reply to 1604 251-1570. but I've got news tor you Walter 
WrightHarmon@ aol. com VISIT OUR WEBSITE ADOPTION Help us complete our Cronkite ...you arent! WWW DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR 6-7 bdrm house on S.B.Ave across ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-family, baby wanted. Jeanie & Dan CONTACT KRAMER from radio tower available tor 06-07. 2378 p.m. 288-2726 877-895-9790 Toll Free "Oh my gosh, he is SUCH A BABYl" 
FoR SALE (574)234-2436 OR Completely renovated,large 

(574)315-5032. rooms,3 full baths. ND Ave house Buying and selling ND football tix, ADOPTION-Happily married couple Um yeah so Cavanaugh is totally Plan your next trip! w/5bdrms available tor 05-06. especially Boston College 574·289-long to provide your newborn with a going to win it all this year VW EUROVAN 2-6 Bedroom homes tor 05-06 Will lease to as few as 3 8048 happy home. warmth. security and pop-top camper 1999 Walking distance from ND students,good location & competi-unconditional love. Expenses paid. i love the Cubs! Sleeps 4 MMMRentals.com live rent. NEED TICKETS Nov. 13 Pitt. Call Carolyn and Kevin 1-866-206-3323 273-9959 Leave a phone number. 532-1408 Email ndhouses@yahoo.com Amy 219-872-5932 PIN#7774 oh classitieds! 
----..,.----..........,-----,..--,---~­
. 
Friday, November 5, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Parcells, Lewis suffering sophomore slumps 
Both coaches having trouble repeating prevwus success 
Associated Press 
Cincinnati's Marvin Lewis fin­ished second in voting for the NFL's coach of the year last sea­son and Dallas' Bill Parcells was· only a half-vote behind. Both were recognized for taking over beaten-down franchises and immediately breathing life into them. 
So halfway through this sea­son, their second on the job, things should really be clicking. Right? 
Wrong. 
The Cowboys and Bengals hit the season's midpoint against each other Sunday in Cincinnati play,ing for demoralizing stakes. The winner gets to keep alive long shot playoff hopes, while the loser may have to start view­ing the rest of the season as groundwork for 2005. 
"We both had some success last year, but we're not getting the same results this year," Cincinnati receiver Chad Johnson said. "We know we're good. We know we can do it. It's just a matter of a little fine-tun­ing. There's no magic solution. It's just a matter of you have to keep working hard." 
Dallas is 3-4, third in the NFC East with two games remaining against unbeaten Philadelphia. 
Parcells told players two weeks ago to aim for being .500 with half the season left. The Cowboys took the first step last Sunday by beating Detroit 31-21, ending a three-game losing streak while 
· scoring their most points of the season. Dallas' slow start is a big change from last season, when an early five-game winning streak helped break a cycle of three straight 5-11 finishes. The Cowboys went 10-6 and made the playoffs, something Parcells had never done in his first sea­son with a club. Now he's in jeopardy of anoth­er first: missing the playoffs in 

PGA 
Singh lurking at the Tour Cham_ps 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Vijay Singh went 15 holes without a birdie. He missed half his fairways and a half-dozen putts inside 12 feet. And when he walked off the 18th green Thursday at the Tour Championship, he was right where everyone expected him to be. 
JI ,...~,Sin 1~,h. f'Pfilt~p~ed, ~rut~ a 1­under 69. leaving him two shots out of the lead as he tries to become the first player in 54 years to win at least 10 times on the PGA Tour. "''m right there, and there's three days to go," Singh said. Not everyone wants to see the 41-year-old Fijian to get his 1Oth victory of the year. Darren Clarke, Jerry Kelly and 50-year-old Jay Haas would be thrilled to win their first. They took a step in that direction on a soggy, blustery day at East Lake, each posting a 3-under 67 to share the lead. Everyone was curious to see how marriage would affect Tiger Woods. The answer? Not 
a bit. He still can't hit a fair­
way, struggling off the tee and 
with his distance control out of 
the rough for a 72. 
But this was not a day to 
attack East Lake. 
The 67 was the highest score 
to lead the Tour Championship in the four years it has been held at the course where Bobby Jones learned to play. . Only 13 plc;wers among the,top 31 on the money list managed 
to break par. 
And no one was surprised. 
Heavy rain Thursday morn­
ing turned fairways into small 
rivers, but a new drainage sys­
tem at East Lake allowed the 
season-ending tournament to 
start on time. It dried up so 
well that tour officials decided 
to play the ball as it lies, leav­
ing players to face several 
shots with mud splattered on 
their golf balls. 
Then came the wind, 
whistling through the trees 
and making the closing holes 
play even tougher. Perhaps it 
was no coincidence that the 
trio in the lead had the earlier 
starting times. Either that, or they know this is their last chance to win. 
That's something that both­ers Clarke. Even after another successful Ryder Cup, his year won't be complete if he's not hoisting a trophy. 
''I've had a very poor year," Clarke said. "We all play to win, and I haven't managed to do tha,t this year so far." 
Haas has gone 11 years with­out a victory, although he wouldn't trade his season. He became the second-oldest player in the Ryder Cup, and Wednesday was honored with the Payne Stewart Award. 
"I was probably more nerv­ous about my speech yesterday than I was about my first round today," Haas said. 
The old man showed he still has plenty of game. 
He nearly found the cup on the fly with a 6-iron on the par-3 11th, making a 12-foot­er. He surged into a share of the lead with a 5-wood lnto 15 feet on the par-5 15th to make eagle. 
''!'m weak, short, slow, whatever," Haas said. "In the field of athletics, I would not be the favorite by any means. But there's no defense out here, so that's the good thing for me." 

his second season. 
Parcells insists it is too early to panic. He says the standings change so much between the seventh and 12th games every season that a team only needs to emerge from that stretch close to the leaders, then can pull togeth­er in December. 
"That's why you have to keep plugging along, putting one foot in front of another," he said. "You got to try to maintain hope. And until you get seven or eight losses where you start to get mathematically eliminated, you have that." 
Hope and Cincinnati rarely went together until Lewis arrived last season and went 8­8. 
But the Bengals (2-5) are back to their bungling ways. At least they have a good excuse ­youth, particularly at quarter­back -and there is faith that Lewis will straighten out every­thing. 
Yet if this is the season that they end a playoff drought dating to 1990, they better get cracking. Only three teams have gone from 2-5 to the postseason (1990 Saints, '95 Lions and 2002 Jets) and all won their eighth game. 
"It's now time to push over that hump and quit looking and being a little bit hesitant ab.out sticking our neck out there," Lewis said. "Let's just go push over and make football plays and win games." 
NEW YORK MARATHON 

U.S. holds high hopes for the N.Y. Marathon 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -After Meb Keflezighi and Deena Kastor made history in Athens, the town where they train decid­ed to honor them with a parade they would never for­get. 
So the people of Mammoth Lakes, Calif., shipped in Greek columns and statues. from a hotel in Las Vegas, decorated them with ivy and placed them around the town square. 
A banner on Main Street read, "Congratulations Deena and Meb, Mammoth Olympians." And then, the defining moment: Keflezighi and Kastor jogged down a red carpet to cheers and applause as the new royalty of American distance run­ning. 
"It was a great celebra­tion," Kastor said Thursday. "It was very generous and nice for the town to do some­thing like that." 
The party came about a month after Kastor won bronze and Keflezighi took silver in Greece, marking the first time the United States won two medals in the 26.2­mile race at the same Olympics. 

Now comes the big ques­tion. 
Can the excitement over their triumph help the Americans sustain a consis­tent level of success against the world in the event? Keflezighi and Kastor get their chance to show their medals were no fluke Sunday when they run in the New York City Marathon. 
They will have their work cut out for them. Both fields feature several Olympians, but this could be the strongest starting lineup for the women. Kastor must run against defending NYC Marathon champion Margaret Okayo, world record-holder Paula Radcliffe, 2003 third-place marathon finisher Lornah Kiplagat and cross country champion Benita Johnson. 
"The field is just incredi­ble," Kastor said. 
Life certainly has changed for Keflezighi and Kastor since Athens. Both are more recognized, and being target­ed for their success. 

ENTERTAINMENT AT THE CAFE' 

FRIDAY, NOV. 5 "GROOVESIDE" (Smooth Jazz) 
SATURDAY, NOV. 6 
"LITTLE FRANK & THE PREMIERS" 
(funk, jazz, swing) 
**All performances start@ 9:00pm** ***ALL AGES WELCOME** 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 5, 2004 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish hope to zoom past Big East's UConn, BC 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
J\ftnr spending much of the season on the road, Notre Dame is due for a tunc-up. 
Coach Debbie Brown says this weekend offers the perfect opportunity for the Irish to gauge their progress and polish their performance. 
"Every match is a learning experience," Brown said. "We just want to play the best volley­ball we can at the end of the season." 
The Irish (13-6, 6-0) hope to zoom past Connecticut and Boston College this weekend as they return for a pair of home matches. Captain Meg Ilenican emphasized that neither team looks to be a pushover; in order to win, the Irish must take the driver's seat early, extending runs and regulating the tempo of the match. 
"We need to play at a high level throughout the match," Henican said. "It's going to take a good team effort in all aspects of the game for us to win. We've put it all together a couple of times, but now we just need to sustain that high level from start to finish." 
Notre Dame will receive its first challenge from conference­rival Connecticut {16-7, 5-1). who is expected to thrive on the 
momentum from last weekend's win against Central Connecticut. The Huskies swept Central Connecticut in three games 30-20, 30-23, 30-19, with tri-captain Megan Crawley notching a match-high 13 kills, live blocks and .423 hitting per­centage. 
llenican anticipates a tough match against the Huskies, who have recorded just one loss in the Big East. 
"They're going to make us work for our win," Henican said. 
On Sunday, the Irish hope to breeze past the Eagles (17-10, 3-3), who return to the courts looking for redemption after a heartbreaking loss to West Virginia last Sunday 30-26, 30­27, 14-30, 28-30, 15-13. Boston College's Katie Andersen led the Eagle's effort, logging her sec­ond double-double of the week­end with a match-high 29 kills and 13 digs. 
Last weekend, the Irish put the breaks on Georgetown and Villanova, sweeping both teams in three games. Versus Georgetown on Saturday, Notre Dame hit .339 with live players contributing eight or more kills on .295 hitting percentages, securing a win 30-24, 30-23, 30-22. 
Villanova proved to be a more formidable opponent, but the dogged Irish defense held their 


Freshman Adrlanna Stasluk bumps the ball In a 3-0 loss to Nebraska Sept. 3. The Irish return home this weekend for a pair of matches against Big East rivals Connecticut and Boston College. 
ground. Notre Dame averaged praise of Big East officials, who the team and the team's suc­
4.50 blocks and 20 digs per named Henican the Big East cess." game, limiting Villanova to a player of the week. Henican Fueled by this team-oriented .007 attack percentage. The said that while she's flattered to attitude, the Irish look to garner Irish walked away with a 30-27, receive recognition, it is the their share of success this 30-24, 30-22 victory Sunday team that deserves the credit. weekend taking on Connecticut afternoon. "It's a huge compliment to the on Friday at 7 p.m. and Boston 
Henican chipped in 26 digs -team," Henican said. "No one College on Sunday at 2 p.m. at the second-highest total ever for could excel without the whole the Joyce Center. a Notre Dame player in a three­team's effort. It's nice to get rec­game match. Her p~rformance ognized individually, but when Contact Ann Loughery at last weekend earn~d her the it comes down to it, it's about alougher@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles drop first round MIAA match to Calvin College 
game in second place in the scores of 30-20. a sophomore, Cusack dis­Mary's gained some momen­
By JUSTIN STETZ 
conference with a record of They went on to drop their played terrific skills on tum and at one time was as 
Sports Writer 
25-8. final game of the season, 30-defense during the entire sea­high as l"ifth in the league and This was the third time Saint 19. son, and the Belles will expect challenging for the fourth 
The Saint Mary's volleyball Mary's faced the Knights this Shelly Bender led the team even better things from her in spot. However, they were team concluded its season year, and in three matches, with eight kills on offense. the years to come. never quite able to pull it all Tuesday, losing its first round the Belles failed to win a sin­On defense, both Michelle The Belles finished the sea­together and !inishcd the sea­match in the MIA/\ gle game. Turley and Amanda David had son seventh in the MIAA with son 2-11 in their final 13 Tournament. The Belles never really got strong performances as they a record of 5-11. Overall, Saint matches. 
The Belles faced Calvin into any sort of rhythm as they combined for 23 digs. Elise Mary's concluded the season College who came into the lost the first two games by Rupright added 5 kills in the with a record of 6-19. After Contact Justin Stetz at match, while Bender and Anne beginning the year 0-5, Saint jstetz@nd.edu 

Senior Michelle Gary bumps the ball In Saint Mary's victory over Manchester College last Sept. The Belles were eliminated Tuesday. 
Cusack finished with 9 digs each. 
On the season, Turley fin­ished first on the team with 237 kills. Her 253 digs on defense was second behind Anne Cusack, who finished with 323 digs. In attack per­centage, Elise Rupright's mark of .259 was first on the team and Turley's .225 ranked sec­ond. Hupright also ended the year with 128 kills, while teammate Shelly Bender was first with 153 kills. In the block department, Bender led the team with 54 and Hupright added 50 of her own. 
The seniors leaving the Belles include Michelle Gary, Hupright and Stacey Stark. Eaeh player had an important role for Saint Mary's this year and will be difficult to replace. All three captains made up the nucleus of a team that strug­gled throughout the year, but also showed signs of brilliance at times. 
Next year, the Belles will look to rising seniors Turley and Bender to pick up where this season's seniors left off. Both had tremendous seasons and should continue to get better over the next year. Only 
A 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS ls All about Choices!! 
Apph' today and pick your choice of ~ Location ~ Neighbors 
Remodeled or non rernl)delcd units Upstairs; ur downstairs 
If you have any questions please contnct the office or stop by to pick up your application packets today! 
Turtle Creek Apartments 
The Mudents· fir~t t'hoice in off-c11mpm ht\Uiing~ 171U TunkCTet•k Driw (by the turtle!') South Be,nd, IN ~M:n '74·272·812-l 
oft1t·e@turtlecn•dmd.mm 
wwwtunlemetndwm 
Friday, November 5, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Keenan, Siegfried to battle 
By THOMAS BARR 
Spans Writer 
The Juggerknotts (3-2) enter Sunday's contest after upset­ting No. 2 Carroll wbile the Dawgs (3-1-1) are coming off a nail-biting upset of their own. 
The Dawgs are taking their quest for the Stadium one game at a time. 
Led by captain AJ Remen, Alumni recognizes that it is about to face a quality oppo­nent. "Knott is a good team, and they obviously beat some goog teams to get here," Remen said. 
However, Remen remains confident that if his squad sticks with its style of football and play like it has all season, the Dawgs will prevail. 
Alumni has a very adjustable defense, switching from 4-3 to 


Halfback Eric Laumann heads upfield in a game against Alumni earlier this season. Keenan meets Siegfried Sunday. 
WHAT THE BLEEP ARE YOU WAITING FOR? 
Alife changing film is in theaters now! 
What tHe f3LEEP 
Do wL (k)n:ow!? 
Come experience the phenomenon! 
"I SAW YOUR MOVIE LAST NIGHT. . I AM SO BLOWN AWAY 
I AM INVITING MY WHOLE NEIGHBORHOOD TO fHE MOVIES ON TUESDAY NIGHT, AND BUYING THEIR TICKETS:' 
Jody Higgs -Starksboro, VT 

"THIS TRUTH, THIS BEAUTIFUL CHALLENGE, BY YOU AND EVERYONE INVOLVED HAS RE-AWAKENED SOMETHING IN ME. I PRAISE THE GOD IN YOU FOR REAWAKENING THE GOD IN ME! THANK YOU!" 
Stephan Byron Sa/it -San Francisco. CA 

"I HAVE SEEN THIS MOVIE 7 TIMES. 
EACH TIME, I SEE SOMETHING NEW. 
IT HAS HELPED ME IN THINKING AND SEEING IN A DIFFERENT WAY." 
Christine Mat/yow-Hoff-Prineville, Oregon 

"I SAT SPELL-BOUND DURING THE ENTIRE MOVIE! I FELL TOTALLY AND COMPLETELY IN LOVE LAST NIGHT! I AM STILL REELING TODAY AND WANT EVERYONE TO SEE THIS FILM." 
Shoshana Wolfinton -Thousand Oaks, CA 

• www.whatthebleep.com EXCLUSIVE ENGAGEMENT KERASOTES THEATRES 

SHOWPLACE 16

STARTS FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 51"! 450 W. Chippewa 
Call theatre or see directory ad for showtimes. (SOO)FANDANGO 
4-4 to 5-3. 
Its offense strives to be bal­
anced as it runs out of the I­
form. 
Remen believes that the per­
formance of his line will be 
crucial. 
"Our linemen are going to be 
the key to the game, as they 
are for every game," Remen 
said. "When our linemen per­
form, our team responds posi­
tively and come up with big 
plays." 
The Juggs are captained by 
fifth-year senior Drew "Mel" 
Donovan. They have been run­
ning a 4-4 for most of the sea­
son, but have been working on 
some three-linebacker sets. 
Similar to their opponents, 
they usually run their offense 
out of variations of the I-for­
mation. 
According to halfback John 
Lyons, to be successful Knott 
needs to get the running game 
going. · 
"I definitely need to step up," 
Lyons said. 
In addition, the Juggerknotts need to protect the ball and not turn it over so the whole . team needs to be up for this 
game. 
Knott has had a good week 
of practice and is feeling confi­
dent going into the game. 
The showdown between for­
mer underdogs is slated to 
take place Sunday at 2 on the 
Stepan fields. 
The semi-final matchup 
between #6 Alumni and #7 
Knott will be their first meet­
ing of the season and looks to 
be a good one. 
Contact Thomas Barr at tbarr@nd.edu 

Knott, Alunmi m.eet in semifinal matchup 
·By KATE SERYAK SportS Writer 
The Knights and the 

Ramblers are all set for a no­
holds-barred power matchup 
this Sunday. 
Having finished the regular 

season undefeated, it is no sur­
prise that Keenan has made it 
this far. 
Siegfried, however, has 

turned a few heads with its per­
formance in the playoffs .so far. 
At the end of regular season, 
the Ramblers were No. 5. 
Both teams are very confident 

in the ability of their defenses. 
Thus, Sunday's semifinal 

game should be 
a riveting 
match up 
season with a record of 3-1­but records and regular season standings to matter during playoffs. 
The Rambler's are coming from a fifth place ranking to face the No. 1 team-the only team that stands between them and stadium glory. 
"This is our biggest game of the season," Siegfried captain John Hughes said. "Keenan has been playing very well, but we're going to go out there with a lot of heart and win the game. We are ready to come out and play." 
The Rambler's defense has also done very well this season, stopping both the passing and 
running games 
to shut other 
teams down. 

between equal  ''As for offense, we  "We need  to  
opponents. "We are two very evenly  need enough plays to win, and I know  offer a strong balanced attack at the game,"  
matched  that we'll get them."  Hughes  said.  
teams," Keenan  "We played well  
captain Patrick Downey said. "We know a  Patrick Downey Keenan captain  all season and that was awe­some. Now we  

semblance of what they can do, but we know that all we can do is play our game. As long as we do that, we'll be fine." 
Keenan's team, as a whole, has depended upon the per­formance of its defense throughout the season. 
"We've ridden their backs the whole time," Downey said. "As for offense, we need enough plays to win and I know that 
are ready for 
the next step." 

But Keenan was in this exact same position last year and lost-giving them motivation and a burning desire to move past last year. 
"No one on our team has made it to the stadium," Downey said. "This is a new experience for all of us and it's a motivation for us too." 

With Prof. Paul McDo·well and returnees of the program 

Tuesday, November 9, 2004 7:30PM 119 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004 
-

Acaden1ic Year 2005-2006 Fall 2005 Spring 2006 Applications available: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
we'll get them." Contact Kate Seryak at Stanford finished the regular kseryak@nd.edu 


University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
"Tying Up Loose Ends Before Packing Your Suitcase'' 
INFORMATION MEETING 


AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM TilE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Friday, November 5, 2004 
College Football Polls 
AP  Coaches  
team  team  
1  usc  usc  1  
2  Oklahoma  Oklahoma  2  
3  Auburn  Auburn  3  
4  California  Wisconsin  4  
5  Wisconsin  Georgia  5  
6  Texas  California  6  
7  Utah  Texas  7  
8  Georgia  Utah  8  
9  Tennessee  Michigan  9  
10  Michigan  Miami (Fla.)  10  
11  Miami (Fla.)  Tennessee  11  
12  VIrginia  West Virginia  12  
13  Florida State  Florida State  13  
14  louisville  Virginia  13  
15  West Virginia  Boise State  15  
·16  Boise State  louisville  16  
17  lSU  lSU  17  
18  VIrginia Tech  VIrginia Tech  18  
19  Oklahoma State  Oklahoma State  19  
20  Iowa  Iowa  20  
21  Southern Mississippi  Southern Mississippi  21  
22  Texas A&M  Texas A&M  22  
23  Arizona State  Arizona State  23  
24  Boston College  Northern Illinois  24  
25  Texas·EI Paso  Boston College  25  
Women's Soccer Top 25  
team  record  
1  UNC  16·0·1  
2  NOTRE DAME  18·0·1  
3  Penn State  16·1·1  
4  Santa Clara  13-4-2  
5  Virginia  14·2·1  
6  Portland  16·3·0  
7  Kansas  16·3·0  
8  Tennessee  13·3·2  
9  Auburn  14-2·2  
10  Texas A&M  14·5·0  
11  Stanford  12·4·2  
12  Princeton  14·2·0  
13  Ohio State  13·3·3  
14  UClA  12·6·0  
15  Arizona  14·4·0  
16  Florida  13·3·3  
17  Duke  12·6·0  
18  Illinois  12·4·2  
19  Boston College  14·5·0  
20  Florida State  12·5·1  
21  Texas  11-5·2  
22  San Diego  10·7-2  
23  VIllanova  13·5·1  
24  Colorado  13·4·2  
25 (tie)  Wisconsin  15·4·1  
25 (tie)  Washington  12·4·1  

Women's Volleyball Division I 
AVCA Rankings 
team 
1 Washington (63) 
2 Hawaii (2) 
3 Nebraska 
4 usc 
5 Minnesota 
6 Penn State 
7 Ohio State 
8 Florida 

9 Colorado State 10 Texas 11 California 12 Stanford 13 St. Mary's (Calif.) 14 TexasA&M 15 Tennessee 16 UClA 17 Utah 18 Kansas State 19 UC Santa Barbara 20 Santa Clara 21 San Diego 221 louisville 221 Arizona 24 Florida A&M -25 Illinois 
record 
19·0 20·0 19·1 14·3 21·3 19-2 
. 21-1 
20·2 
20·2 
19-2 12-7 15·6 19·2 14·5 21-2 14-7 18·3 14-7 16·3 16·4 16·4 20·2 13·8 20·2 15·6 
around the dial 
NBA 
Indiana at Boston 7:30 p.m., WTIV4 
NBA 


Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -A day after signing his first long-term contract as an NBA head coach, Lawrence Frank wasn't in a mood to celebrate. 
Between the joy of extend­ing his childhood dream and the news conference to announce it on Thursday, Frank had to watch his New Jersey Nets play a horrid game in a 100-77 season­opening loss to Shaquille O'Neal and the Miami Heat. 
It was the franchise's worst opening-night loss since joining the NBA in 1976. 
Talk about letdowns just hours after signing a 4-year, $10 million contract exten­sion. 

"You can search for rea­sons and I take responsibili­ty, but we just played out of character," Frank said. "We didn't have much of a pres­ence out there." 
That may not be too sur­prising this season. 
Frank has re-signed to coach a team that has been transformed from the lead­ing contender in the Eastern Conference to one that will be lucky to make the play­offs with Kenyon Martin gone and Jason Kidd side­lined indefinitely with a knee injury. 
There were three new 
IN BRIEF 
Sourrier withdraws from 
Florida coaching search 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -If Steve Spurrier decides to coach again, it won't be at his alma mater. 
Spurrier withdrew his naine from consideration Thursday to replace Ron Zook, saying his time at Florida has passed. 
The announcement relieves any reservations boosters and school offi­cials had regarding Spurrier's poten­tial return. It also opens up a coach­ing search that was widely consid­ered Spurrier's to lose. 
"He said he's done his thing here and he just thinks it's better for us to go find a coach who will be here for the next 10 or 15 years," athletic director Jeremy Foley said. 
The Gators won six Southeastern Conference championships and the 1996 national title under Spurrier. He posted 122 victories over 12 sea­sons, tormented opponents with his offensive flair and witty one-liners, and left town with the best winning starters -guards Jacque Vaughn and Ron Mercer and forward Eric Williams -in the opening night line­up, and six new players on the 12-man active roster on Wednesday night. 

"I think that there is nobody that knows more about the game than Lawrence does, nobody pre­pares better and no one has a passion for this game any more than Lawrence," Nets president Rod Thorn said. 
For the most part, Frank negotiated his own contract, saving a 4 percent agent's fee. He spoke with fellow NBA coaches for advice and got some legal help in fash­ioning the deal. 
Frank said there were attainable incentives includ­ed. 
"Every time I have ever had to deal with Rod, he has always been above-and­beyond being fair," Frank said. "It's really the way I am. I am more worried about team than personal contracts." 
Frank, still boyish-looking at 34, took over as coach of the Nets in January after Byron Scott was fired. He 
. won his first 13 games -a record start for a coach of a major professional team in North America -and post­ed a 25-15 record in lead­ing the Nets to the confer­ence semifinals. 
percentage in league history. 
Zook, hired in 2002 after Spurrier left to coach the Washington Redskins, was fired last week after the latest in a series of embarrassing losses-a 38-31 defeat by lowly Mississtpf!i State. 
Roddick, Henman upset at . 
Paris Masters PARIS -Top-seeded Andy Roddick and defending champion Tim 
Henman  were  upset in the third  
round  of the  Paris  Masters  on  
Thursday.  

Roddick lost 7-6 (2), 6-2 to qualifi­er Max Mirnyi, while Henman was beaten 7-5, 6-1 by unseeded Mikhail Youzhny. 
Roddick lost his composure in a second set riddled with errors and marked by a running feud with umpire Lars Graff. With Mirnyi lead­ing 3-1, Roddick questioned a call and then asked Graff: "Do you play golf?" 
The chair umpire said, "No." Roddick replied: "Good, because if 
you did, you should use your mulli­g_an on that call." Uefending champ Mauresmo 
advances at Advanta 
Championships 
VILLANOVA, Pa. -Defending champion Amelie Mauresmo advanced to the quarterfinals at the Advanta Tennis Championships on Thursday, defeating !veta Benesova 6-2, 6-2. 
"I played well here last year," the top-seeded Mauresmo said. "! just hope I can keep it going for another few days." 
Second-seeded Anastasia Myskina struggled but held on to beat Hossana Neffa-De Los Rios 6-4, 7-6 (0). Myskina trailed for much of the first set before rallying to tie at 4 and win. 
Neffa·De Los Rios held a 3-1 lead in the second set before Mysikna was able to find her game again and take a 6-5 lead. Neffa-De Los Rios won her service game to force the tiebreaker, but Mysikna shut her out the rest of the way. 

Friday, November 5, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
ND set to lock horns with BC in Big East semis 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer  had a couple of saves that kept the game really close," Irish coach Randy Waldrum  defensively. "We want to be more effi­cient around the goal,"  St. John's gives us that extra energy and is keeping us focused on scoring goals,"  that has remained a constant force for Notre Dame is Claire Gallerano.  
said. "They are definitely not  Waldrum  said.  "[Boston  Waldrum said. "All  season  "Clare may  not  have the  
The Irish will be looking for  an easy team to breakdown."  College is] too good of a team  long we've done a good job at  stats like other players, but  
redemption in today's match  Despite  the  difficulties  defensively to miss those key  waiting for the next opponent.  the times she has come in, she  
against Boston College in the  Boston College presents, the  opportunities. At this point of  We  have  just  been  more  has done very well and played  
semi-finals of the Big East  Irish blame themselves for  the season, everybody is  so  focused."  vital  minutes  for  us,"  
tournament. The last time  last year's loss.  good and fully  Additionally, the Irish  are  Waldrum said. "She and other  
these two teams met in the postseason was in last year's Big East tournament where Notre Dame fell 2-1 to tlie Eagles. Despite already defeating the Eagles 1-0 on Oct. 16,  "We stopped ourselves. We had three or four missed opportu­nities," Waldrum said. "We were scrambling to  "All season long we've done a good job at waiting for the next opponent."  capable of beat­ing us." Although the Irish are focus­ing on struggles they've encoun­tered through­ expecting their defense to give another strong perform­ance, similar to the match in October. It was clear Boston College struggled offensively as the team had only one shot at the goal throughout the  players like her are really key in making the chemistry of the team work. It gives us opportunities to be flexible." Waldrum attributes the team's flexibility to how deep in talent the Irish have been  
they are not anticipating an·  find things offen­ out the season,  entire match.  this season.  
easy victory this afternoon. Notre Dame is expecting the same amount of intensity  sively by the time we got to Boston College."  Randy Waldrum Irish coach  it does not take away from their confidence  "It is rare that we haven't been solid and consistent in the back," Waldrum said. "But  "They all know if you're not making an impact for 20 min­utes, we've got somebody else  
frrrm  Boston  College they  But these mis- entering today's  I hope they can continue it  waiting," Waldrum said. "This  
came across one month ago.  takes and lost opportunities  match. Notre Dame is coming  because this is the stretch of  creates  a  more  competitive  
Additionally, several key  are what Waldrum is hoping  off  a  7-0  victory  over  St.  the season where you have to  training environment, and it  
starters  will  be returning  will drive the team to victory.  John's and is looking to pres­ be good."  shows because every time we  
from  last  season's  loss,  Missed opportunities have  ent the same number of prob­ Another part of the team  step  on  the field,  we  com­ 
including last year's Big East  also remained a key focus for  lems for Boston College.  Waldrum is expecting to play  pete."  
goalkeeper of the year, Kate  the  program  this  week  "I think the team has been  well during this last stretch of  
Taylor.  because  of  the  strengths  pretty confident throughout  the  season  is the substitu­ Contact Dan Tapetillo at  
"Last season  Kate Taylor  Boston  College  possesses  the season, but the win  over  tions. One player in particular  jtapetil@nd.edu  


And for all the go-getters who say, 

'\ive eve.r"i da'f \i"-e it.....s. 'fOUr \a..s.t..."' I say, 
.:=:~······ 

-ted alexandre 
As Seen On Comedy Central and Letterman 

ro 
Free Show @ Legends Friday, November Sth ND Students Only 10:00pm 
opening for Ted will be Daric Snyder, winner of Legends 'last comic standing' 
brought to you by sub -sub.nd.edu 

-

I~:t S 
...A,. ~....1. :r.~ 

Semester Around the World Program 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 
6:00 p.m. Toes, November 09 in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's OR 6:00p.m. Wed. November 10, in Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements Itinerary: Tokyo, Kyoto, Beijing, Xian, Chengdo, Tibet, Bangkok, Saigon, Vietnam, Deli, Agra(Taj Mahal), Fatehpur Sikri, Jaipur, Khajuraho, Varanasi (Banares), Calcutta, Darjeeling, Madras, Mahabalipuram, Bangalore, Mysore, Kodaikanal, Pcriyar (Wild Life Sanctuary), Munnar, Cochin, Bombay; optional travel through Easter and Western Europe on the' same air ticket 
St~MESTER AROUND THt: WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473 · FAX (574) 284-4866 
-
e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarys.edu/saw 


...-------------------------------­
--~--­
Friday, November 5, 2004 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
FENCING
~· 
Irish to compete in Junior World Cup event 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
In what may prove to be a valu­able tune up for regular season NCAA competition, several Irish fencers will travel to Louisville this weekend to compete in a .Junior World Cup event. 
Five of the six starting sabers will trawl to Kentucky including the wonwn's trio of Olympic gold medalist Marid Zagunis. defend­ing national champion Valerie l'rovid1~nza and Angela Vincent. Matthew Stearns and Patrick Ghattas will represent men's saber. 

Epeeists Amy Orlando. Aaron Adjemian and Greg Iloward and fn~shman foilist Diego Quinonez round out the Notre Dame partic­ipants. 
Ilowever, ratlwr than compete for their respective schools. the fmu:ers will take to the strip for their countries. All of the Irish fencers will mpresl'nt the United Stat<~s except for Quinorwz who will represent his native country of El Salvador. The event will fea­ture world-class fencers from around the globe and Irish coach .Janusz Bednarski knows that this is a rarn opportunity f(Jr sonw of his prot<iglis. 
"You have to be chosen by the national coach by a system of selection which they have by points," he said. "It's not open for everybody." 
World Cup competitions are held several times throughout the year. The fencers face off against their international opponents try­ing to jockey for both national and world rankings. 
Bednarski strongly encourages his fencers to participate in these events because he feels the cal­iber of the opponents is far stronger than on any collegiate level. 
"Simply, they have to fence with opponents who represent their level en masse," he said. "If they compel!~ only in [collegiate] com­petition. they have one or two or three good opponents. In the World Cup they will have 20. The level of the competition should be to the level of their technical developnwnt and tactical knowl­edge." 
The Irish will need to compete at a high level if they hope to be successful against what appears to be an imposing schedule. With five regular season confrontations with last year's top two national f1nishnrs. Bednarski wants his playnrs to bn as sharp as possible. 
Notre Dame will fence archrival and 2004 National Bunner-Up Penn State next week in its first tournament of the year. Then in late January, the Nittany Lions pay a visit to South Bend for the Notre Dame Duals. 

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles look to rebound against Rose-Hulman 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
This wtH~kend should be some­what of a break for the Saint Mary's swimming and diving after coming out of a diflicult match last wenkend against Hope College and Olivnt College. 
The Belles will travel to the Hosn-llulman Institute of Technolo~-,ry in Tern~ Haute, Ind., wlwre they will compete at 1:00 on Saturday. Although the meet is a thrne-team competition. Saint Mary's will only have one tmun to facn. Thn third school. Wabash College, is an all-men's school. 
-
Hosn-llulrnan. a Division-Ill 
school and member of the Southern Collegiate Athletic A-;sociation, was defeat1~d in their home-opnncr last week against the University of Chicago. Although the men's and women's team turned in a total of 10 first­place finishes. the women fell by a score of 112-97. Saint Mary's ought to have some advantage over the Engineers. simply because the Belles have more swimnwrs to choose from. Bose­llulman has a somnwhat small roster. with only 14 swimmers. IhlW!wer. the difl'erence may be in the nxpnricnce of the two teams. Whiln Hosn-llulman has as many seniors on the team as any other class. tlw Saint Mary's team is made up primarily of newcomers; over half of the swimmers on the tmun arn frnshmen. 
Coach Gmgg Peteofl' is optimistic 
about the potential of his swim­
mers to measure up to the exp1~ri­ence of this weekend's opponents. 
"We're looking forward to see­ing the contributions of our first­years, including two divers," Petcoff said. "And the freshmen will certainly be essential to a Saint Mary's victory over Rose­Hulman. who seems to have a fairly consistent team across the board. Last week, one of the team's top performances was turned in by a freshman. Anita Isch placed first in the 100 yard freestyle against Chicago. On the other hand. Kelly Nelis, a junior for the Belles. swam the same race last week in a better time. 
The potential is certainly there for Saint Mary's to come out victo­rious on Saturday. With both teams coming out of diflicult loss­es last week, everyone will most likely come out looking for a win. Based on its times from its previ­ous race. a<> well as the depth that has been added to the team by the addition of two new divers, Saint Mary's should be set to have a successful weekend. 
Contact Anna Fricano africaO1@saintmarys.edu 

Perhaps even more notably, the Irish will fence against defending national champion Ohio State three times during the regular season. 
Last year, Notre Dame defeated the Buckeyes during the teams' one regular season matchup. Ilowever. the Irish then failed to defend both their Midwest Fencing Conference Championship and NCAA Championship crowns, losing both to Ohio State. 
"!These areI two teams who are very strong and last year they were the teams who were above us. Penn State and Ohio State," 13Pdnarski said. "Both teams will be fencing with the same fencers. In my opinion, we are in the same position as last year. third. But we have to fight." 
Bednarski hopes to avoid a repeat of last year's performance by having his fencers ready to pPrform at a high level from day one. 
"We hope that Ghattas can get a medal," he said. "lie was third in the first World Cup leventl two weeks ago and Zagunis Won !that! competition. We will have a lot of kids but the competition is very strong so if we get one or two medals we will be very happy." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 


TAKE INDY BY STORM 
Please Visit: www .SunlakeApartment Homes. com 888-414-9225 www.SunblestApts.com. 866-390-3823 
OLYMPICS 

Turin Olympics organizer resigns 
Associated P(ess 

ROME -The chief organizer of the 2006 Turin Olympics is quitting in a power struggle with the Italian government, just 15 months before the start of the Winter Games. 
Valentino Castellan, head of the organizing committee known as TOROC, said Thursday he will submit his res­ignation at a Nov. 24 board meeting. 
Castellan said he was under­mined by the government's nomination of Mario Pescante, culture ministry undersecretary and former head of the Italian Olympic Committee, as overall supervisor for the Feb. 10-26, 2006 games. 
Pescante's appointment was confirmed in a meeting in Home on Wednesday. 
"The powers given to Pescante ... represent a lack of confidence in the work done here up until now, and above all, in the capacity to continue it," Castellan said in a state­ment. 
TOROC has come under sharp criticism for a $227 million budget shortfall. The games 
also have been hindered by a lack of public awareness and enthusiasm in Italy. 
International Olympic Committee president Jacques Hogge met with Italian Premier Silvio Berlusconi last month to press the government to step up support for the games and encour state companies to sign up as sponsors. 
The right-leaning governnwnt responded by naming Pescante as supervisor. a position that Castellan felt came into direct conflict with his own mandate. 
"That's it. It's not worth trying to work this way anymore," said Castellan. a former left-leaning mayor of Turin. 


NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect 
for winter. Ask any ya-k. 

300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 


DUTPDST Hours: 
Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:00pm
~ 

Sat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm 
Cold Weather Experts 

Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm 
Friday,.November 5, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Exhibition 
continued from page 24 
things. We want to keep that pace up a little bit and keep the pressure up, so we might sub a little bit more at the beginning of the game." 
In the win over Premier, Irish fans saw a glimpse of McGraw's talented freshman class. Guards Tulyah Gaines and Charel Allen scored four and nine points, respectively, while center Melissa D'Amico added 10 points on 5-of-5 shooting. 
"I think our freshman are going to add a tremendous amount of good things," McGraw said Wednesday. 
Notre Dame had Thursday off from pra,ctice after six straight days of workouts. 
After Saturday's game, the Irish will have a week before the Preseason National Invitational tournament begins. Notre Dame will host the first round against Illinois State and could play up to four games, if the team continues advancing. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer 

Freshman guard Amanda Tslpls tries to distract a Premier Sports player at Wednesday's exhibition game. 
Seton Hall 
continued from page 24 
"We aren't all 100 percent yet," coach Bobby Clark said. 
"They were [better] on Monday and a little better on Tuesday. Hopefully by Saturday we'll be back to full strength." 
It will be tough for the Irish to beat the Pirates on anything 
else -Notre Dame won at conference play 5-5, but fin­Seton Hall in October on a goal ished the season ranked at No. 
by  Joe  21.  
Lapira in the  "We  know  
80th minute. "It remind­ed us first­hand that  "They're one of the strongest eight seeds I've seen in the conference. "  they're a very good team," Clark said. "They're one  
they  are  a  of the strongest  
good team," Clark said. "I look at  Bobby Clark Irish coach  eight seeds I've seen in the conference."  
that  ...  game  Clark knows  
in  New  that  beating  

Jersey as one of our best wins the Pirates will be no easy of the season." task, despite having played Seton Hall finished Big East them before in the middle of 
• 
an unbeaten streak dating to Sept. 23. 
"You've seen them before, and you know what they do," Clark said. "The same works for them -we know what they do but they certainly know more about us ... it's a double-edged sword." 
"Home court advantage is always a help, I think, [and] stats clue that out, but the home field certainly doesn't win you the game," Clark said. 
"You've got to win the game. The comfort of playing at home is always nice but it's not 
going to win the game. "The team has got to win the game." 
The Irish look poised to move on, however, with a final record of 13-2-2 after this week's match against Michigan State was canceled. 
The first step will be Seton Hall this Saturday at 7 p.m. 
"We've got a lot of work to do before we get to the Final Four," Clark said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Offense 
continued from page 24 
against Miami of Ohio. 
Cey ended the game with 34 saves, while Jordan Sigalet made 30 in net for Bowling Green. Of the 11 goals Cey has allowed this season, only four have come at even-strength. 
The Falcons got on the board first with a power play goal a lit­tle less than seven minutes into the game. Derek Whitmore notched the tally at 6:50 of the first period to give the home team a 1-0 lead. 
That lead lasted into the first intermission, as the Irish sur­vived being outshot 17-9 by Bowling Green in the first period. 
Notre Dame tied the game back up in the second period, as freshman forward Mark Van Guilder scored his first game of the season. 
The goal was assisted by Cory McLean, and allowed the Irish to go into the second intermission with a tie game and a newfound momentum. 
Dana Hanson's power play goal at 8:10 of the third period helped temper the Irish momentum somewhat, and Alex Foster's goal at 16:21 all but extinguished Notre Dame's hopes for its first road victory of the season. 
The Irish pulled Cey late in the game on the power play, but were unable to score on the 5­on-3 advantage, only getting off one shot on the power play. 
Notre Dame returns home Friday to take on the Falcons in the second game of the home­and-home series. Face-off is scheduled for 7:35 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschu­ver@nd.edu 

: ERASMUS BooKs WOMEN'S SOCCER 
: • Used Books bought and sold 
: • 25 Categories of Books 
•• 25,000 Hardback and 

Irish gain recognition 
: Paperback books in stock : • Out-of-Print search service 
defensive player of the year,

•. Appraisals large and small Special to the Observer 
Katie Thorlakson collecting VERNON, Conn.-Notre offensive player of the year and
OPEN noon to six 

Dame became the first team in Randy Waldrum receiving an ­
Tuesday through Sunday 

nine years to sweep the three . unprecedented fourth Big_ East
1 027 E. Wayne 

major awards at the Big East coach-of-the-year award. 
South Bend, IN 46617 

women's soccer banquet, with Several other players gained 232-8444 Melissa Tancredi repeating as recognition, including Jen Buczkowski and Amanda I Cinalli, who were as first team I all-BIG EAST selections while
f_2___00UF-RF-:~:·~o~:h· 
I I 
Candace Chapman, Christie Shaner and Jill Krivacek col­
I 

I lected third team all-Big East : •Polish-n-Sealer I honors.
: B E sTWaxApplied 
' I 

: • 2-Step Underbody I f 1 Protectant I 
52694 State Road 933 1 South Bend, Indiana 46637 I !,· Spot-Free -2 mi North of NO I
WASH • 
Rinse 
Offer good at the South Bend location only I 

".,.I:Htt.,..:-~_..:-,_.._~~*"'*" ... IIIIMWII!I! ... __ ~----....--------....f 

-


Come support the IRISH as they battle Tennessee on Saturday, Nov. 6, 1:30 pm (EST) at: 

Complementary WINGS &other apetizersl Drink Specials all day! 
Only at: 
KEGLERS 

Located in: 
243-BOWL 
MUST BE 21 OR OLDER 
5419 N. Grape Rd.* Mishawaka, IN-46545 * (574) 243-BOWL 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 5, 2004 
out with 15:23 remaining in the that we worn going to have a lot of lirst half. Thomas had three poinl'i di!rcrent options and a lot of difli~r­
Pu01as 

and three ent looks." continued from page 24 assists, with "Ifyou have Cornette or Jordan Cornette 
Francis (12 said.
[Omari] Israel as your
and the Notre Dame !{Uards led olr points. nine Cornett!' start­the inside-out game established by rebounds) third perimeter guy, that ed and finished the post presences ofTorin Francis struggling but the ganw with
is a really big, long back 
and Dennis Latimore. still scoring eight points, !iv1~
line."
"Torin and Dennis are going to seven early rebounds and command so much attention that points. Notre two blocks. the guards have to keep throwing Dame then Mike Brey Latimore it in them and work olr of them." scored three another starter
Irish coach 
Quinn said. points in the along with 
St. Joe's fast break style is next five min-Thomas. Quinn uncommon compared to the Big utes. and Francis -scored six points East opponents Notre Dame will Brey rotated players, and with and had liJur rebounds. face this season. The Irish strug• just under seven minutes to go. Notre Dame had iL'> biggest btd gled with the guard Hussell coming out of a sncond half tinw­Pumas' pesky Carter entered out with II :45 remaining. style at time, "Our guys were in there the game to Freshman Bob Kurz made two but Notre ignite a stag­lillll shol'i to send the Irish up 18
talking about how 
Dame's size nant offense. points, 6(>-48. But St. Joe's played overcame any physically strong they The Irish. up quick dnfm1se and pushed till~ ball inconvenience were and how tired {our 33-31 at on ollimse to keep it a game. St. Joe's caused. Carter's Brey tlwn went to a two-threP
guys] werefrom just
"Our guys entrance. type zone on d1~li~nse to use Notrn were in there banging on them. " scored seven Dame's sizn to iL'i advantage. talking about unanswered "If you have Conwtte or !Omaril how physically points and went Israel a<; your third perinwter guy.
Line Darner 
strong they on to take a 48-that is a really big. long back line." 
St. Joe's coach 
were and how 36 halftime Brey said. "Of eoursn. we have to 
tired [our guys] lead. Carter lin­play against that lzonel in our 
were from just ished the game league with Syracuse. and it cov1~rs 
banging on them," St. Joe's coach with four. points and an assist in a lot of ground." 
Unc Darner said. eight minutes, one of many players 
The Irish came out of the gate to contribute. Contact Pat Leonard at sharp on olfense. At the first time-"Through practice, we knew pleonard@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
• 

St. Josephs proves to be anything but a pushover 
By MATT LOZAR 
Spores Wri rer 
The unusually numerous beads of sweat on his forPhead told the story. 
Even if it was just 31 minutes against a Division II school in the opening exhibition game, Irish guard Chris Thomas was drain1~d. 
"We have to work on our condi­tioning out there a little more." Thomas said. "We won't sec any­body pressing on ofl"ensc like that the rest of the year. It was incred­ible to see how fast they were g<~tting up and down the court." 
The major reason Thomas wa'i exhausted after the game can be attributed to the fact he was just cleared to return to the court Aug. 10. and right now Irish coach Mike Brey said it will just take time to get Thomas back to where he usually is. 
"lin's getting there. We're at a point now where he has to play his way into shape," Brey said. "lie used to not even blink at 35 minutes. lie was laboring a little." 
But it wasn't just Thoma<> who looked like he was laboring at the end of the game. Other Irish play­ers seemed to be dragging by the time the linal horn sounded. Brey attribut1~d that to some of the oll'­seascin injuries and the inability of the team to not run 5-on-5 for a long period of time in practice. 
"We usually practice longer and go 5-on-5 in live and play our­selves into shape." Brey said. "We're not there yet. but I didn't think we'd would be. We need that. really starting !today! after 
fg'J2~~~
only at --=--•~ Sminutes~ 
{!om OUTPOii'T 

Campus 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
practice." 
Kurz Impresses 
In his first collegiate game. Irish forward Hob Kurz fit into 13rey's rotation and didn't seem to be lost at all on the court. 
For Brey, that wasn't a sur­prise. 
"Kurz plays older than a fresh­man. Our guys respnct him because that's what he's done all summer," !key said. "lie doesn't try and do anything he can't do. He just til<> in and makes hustle plays. Obviously, [I'ml very impressed, he knows what we needs and has been very impres­sive." 
Kurz said he didn't have the expected !irst-game butterf1ies, but was more excited to finally put on that Irish uniform and play at the Joyce Center. 
"It was definitely a good experi­ence and have been looking for­ward to it for a long time," Kurz said. Athleticism shows 
Grant1~d. Saint Joseph's tallest player was only 6-loot-8, but the Irish made a bunch of athletic plays Thursday night. 

Hussell Carter took an alley-oop from Chris Quinn in the lirst half and also came flying from the backcourt to tip in a Thomas miss. 
But the highlight of the night belonged to Thomas and Dennis Lattimon~. Otr a timeout. Thomas hit Lattimore for an alley-oop. 
Seven blocked shots by six dif­ferent players lilled out the stat sheet. 
Quick hits 

The Irish shot 53 percent in the first half but only 33 percent in the second.... Connecting on 11­of-23 (48 percent) 3-pointers allowed the Irish to slowly open up a lead .... The shorter and smaller Pumas outrebounded the Irish 44-41 .... Saint Joseph's brought about 200 fans to the Joyce Center and spent Wednesday night in South Bend to prepare for the game.... Brey said Hick Cornett might do some things in practice today and bn back to full speed on Monday. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
No cover ever with studet1tiU 

~1 Sports 'ar it1 South 'et1d 2046 South 'et1d Ave -Across fro.., Martit1s Plaza 272-1766 NU Football Headquarters Ot11it1e sports it1fo 
"G-reat Food, G-reat Fun Mot1: Monday Night Football TUES: COLLEH NltHT -UJ 8--SPECIALS (STARTINt AT •1.0OJ Wed: n~.IVIA Night"-~ring your teatMs -Prizes 
THUU: PJ -FIRST fHUitSVAY EVERY MONTH: JASSY C.RAZZ 
Fri: Live EntertaintMent 
THUUVAY SPEACIALS
Sat: NU gatMes 
START AT '2.00!
Sut1: Sports -14 screens 


GEOFF MATIESONfThe Observer Sophomore Colin Falls goes for a layup under pressure from two St. Joseph's players at the exhibition game Thursday night. 
-----------------·--------------­
2004-05 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
1\etors Fron1l'he l1H H:J( Hl Stage AMidsummer Night's Dream 
bv William Shakespeare 
Wednesday, November 3 and Saturday. November 6 Both performances at 7:30p.m. 

~~---------------------­
Leighton Concert Hall, Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General Public $18.00 • Seniors/N D Faculty/Staff $16 • S'tudents $1 2 
Tickets available at the Mane P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 631-2800. 
The Actors residency is supported '" part by the Henkels Lecture Seroes. 
r;:t;JUNIVfRSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  32  function  48 Brightly-colored  
1 Flightless birds  33 One of the  marine polyps  
that can run up  Ewings on  
to 40 m.p.h.  "Dallas"  DOWN  
12 The Hatfields and McCoys,  36 Sinai sermonizers  1 Like calliope music  
e.g. 14 Attractive bar 16 Unmatched feat  37 "_next?" 38 Plastic handle? 39 ''The Farm" or  2 Maximally 3 Expression of disbelief  
17 More delicate 18 Handy 19 Flimflammery 20 Toss more than a few back  "Still Life With Old Shoe" 40 French city largely destroyed during the  4 Dispatch 5 Bucket conveyor's load 6 Abandoned ship, possibly  
21 It settles indoors  Normandy  7 Title character  
22 Not straight 23 Beer from Japan  campaign 41 Gibson's "Lethal Weapon" role  from Shakespeare 8 One of Mars'  
24 Tail, maybe  42 Unhelpful  twin sons  
25 Right hand  friends of  9 PC alternative  
26 "It  _  add up!"  alcoholics  10 Decade  
27 Ancient Balkan Peninsula  44 Because of this, in legalese  satirized in "American  
dwellers  45 Party bosses?  Psycho"  
29 Bull or bear, 47 Helped out in a e.g. crisis ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -:-r-;::-r-:--r~  11 Admission discount recipients, often 12 Strengthen 13 Enter via cracks  25 Sad statement 26 Place for a throne 27 Going nowhere  30 Key with no sharps or flats 31 Salsa instruments 33 City nesters  40_Cruz, known as "the queen of salsa" 41 Fact-finding mission  
14 Sticks with sticks  28 Geritol  34 Odin's home  43  land  
15 England's third­longest river  ingredient 29 Dumb  35 They're rigged 37 Jug head?  44 Lead  
19 19th-century  performers  38 Good point  46 Collide with  
women's rights  
advocate  


Friday, November 5, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

DILBERT 
HAVE UNCONTROL­LABLE UR.GE5 TO 5HOW PEOPLE BETTER. WAY5 TO DO THING5. 
PEANUTS 
DO YOU THINK THE REAL I55UE MIGHT 
BE MY IN5ECUR.ITY? 

SCOTT ADAMS 
WELl-, I WOULDN T DATE YOU, BUT THAT'5 
M05TLY BECAU5E OF YOUR. L00K5. 
NOT HELPING. 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
JUMBLE 
Jru9M00)1J!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GULEN ± 
©2004 Tribune Med1a Serv.ces,lnc. All Rights Reserved. 
CENUD 
rJ [)
tBOUSTE 1 ~ 
.. 
YOU MIGHT S/\Y THAT L-YING IN THE SHADE: TURNW
J r [)
1 
www.JUmble.com 
THE: STE:E:R INTO THIS.
tBOFRID j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
) ( I I I

""-..LJ..-~;::~~:;:;:~;:~.........~su~g~g~ested by the above cartoon 
Ans= 

'l I I I I I J" (I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: FAMED KNELL AFFIRM DENTALYesterday's I 
Answer: When he visited his pal the baker, indeed he found a-FRIEND IN "KNEAD" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with aElizabeth credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
Stanton 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 22 Self-control crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 23 "King_ Lives" Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
(much­past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ballyhooed Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 1986 film flop) solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City __________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kevin Zegers, Alison Sweeney, Jimmy Fallon, Trisha Yearwood 
Happy Birthday: Get your strategy in place and analyze your situation so you are prepared for any unexpected challenges. If you are organized, you will have nothing to worry about and everything to gain. This can be a terrific year as long as you are ready to reach your goals. Your numbers are 9. I 0. 17. 26, 
35,44 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Prepare a budget. Chances are good that you will be able to afford what you want, but you will have less stress if you know 
your limitations and stay within your means. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The more active you are. the less trouble you will encounter. Idle time may lead to trouble with the very people you spend the most time with. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your mind may be on your work and what you can do to impr_ove your situation. Don't worry so much. You are versatile. intelligent and your options are far greater than you realize. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Time spent interacting with others will bring favorable results both personally and professionally. Good ideas will be shared and something very creative should develop.***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Problems at home are likely to fester. Either get things out in the open and move on or get out of the line of fire so that you can give yourself more time to think. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Plan a day trip and you won't be disappointed. This is a perfect day for love and romance, so don't waste it by working on things that can be left for tomorrow. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take a walk down memory lane. Visiting old familiar places will clarify whether you need to make changes in your life or not. You will likely run into someone from your past. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let this highly creative day go to waste. This is the perfect time to present what you can do. Someone is likely to spot your talent and make a few positive suggestions.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't rush ahead with a deal without knowing if it is a legitimate and viable plan. Research is your greatest resource, so be sure to use it. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Spend time with family. friends or your partner. The time spent with the people you care about will enhance these relationships. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will probably need some serious advice when it comes to your personal life. A move or change is apparent and will be beneficial to you in the long run. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will attract attention no matter what you do today. Your sensitive and compassionate nature will lead to a very close cennection with someone you really care about.***** 
Birthday Baby: You are everyone's best friend. You are easy to get along with. eager to help and always interested in what everyone else is doing. You are smart, determined and very much a team player. 
Chel'k out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvict'.l'0/11 and eugenia/ast.l'0/11. 
THE OBSERVER 
... 
PORTS
Friday, November 5, 2004 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Pesky Pumas keep Irish on toes 
St. foe's limited Notre Dame's lead for most ofthe first half, but the Irish pulled ahead for an 80-67 win 
By PAT LEONARD A"ociat<' Sports Editor 

. Chris Thomas scort>d 22 poinl<; and coaches experinwnted with lineup combinations as Notre l>amo beat l>ivision-11 St. .Joseph's College (lnd.J. S0-67, in a pmst~a­son Thursday night game at tlw .Joyce Center. 
Coad1 Mike Brey used ten play­ers and installt~d a version of' the two-throo zono in the See also second 
"St. Joseph's

half' to 
proves to be

t:ountnr an up-tempo anything but a style of' pushover" play from page 22 the out­
s i z (1 d 
Pumas. 
St. .Jon's kept the game dose li>r the m<~jority of' thn first half' and gave Notrn l>anw problmns. 
But tl1n Irish made doso to 48 pnrcnnt of' their three-point attmnpl<; and made onough sound plays to preserve thP win. 
"I thought WP were very unsnllish. and I liko that ofl(msive­ly," Brey said. "We arP unsnlfish, and we're looking lilr each oth1~r." 
Thomas lml NotrP l>amfl in scor­ing, making (>-of'-13 shol<; from the field and 4-of'-7 throo point atlompts. Thomas, Chris Quinn (16 poinl<;, 5-li>r-7 thnw pointors) 
see PUMAS/page 22 


...... 

Senior Forward Jordan Cornette maneuvers around a St. Joseph's player in Thursday night's exhibition season opener. Cornette contributed eight points and five rebounds to the Irish effort. 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Team_ recovers, sets sights on Big East 
Irish are back in 

action after fighting 
a severe stomach 

virus, facing eighth 
seeded Seton Hall 
.By KATE GALES Sports Wrirer 

Recovery isn't an easy road -and neither is winning a Big East Tournament title. 
After a week dedicated to recuperating from a severe stomach virus, the men's soc­cer team is ready to lace up the eleats and take the field against eighth-seeded Seton Jlall for the Big East Tournament title. 
see SETON HALL/page 21 

HocKEY 
Offense struggles in 3-lloss 
Listless Irish offense leads the team to a loss to Bowling Green 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Another gamB, same old story. 
Despite another good game in goal by Morgan Cey, the Irish offense wasn't able to step it up and could only scorl' one goal for the third straight game as Notrn Dame {1-5-2, 0-4-1 in CCI lA) lost 3-1 to Bowling Green (4-1-0, 2­1-0) Thursday night. 
In their eight games so far this season, the Irish have only scored a total of 11 goals. 

In the critical third period of games, they havP only scorod one, and Thursday night was no different as the Faleons scored two goals in the third to break a 1-1 tie and come away with the victory while the Irish were held scoreless in tho final 20 minutes. 
Two of the Falcons' thren goals were power play tallies, as thl' Irish penalty kill continued to struggle on the road. In their last road eonferencl' series, Notre Dame allowed a total of six power play goals in two gamos 
see OFFENSE/page 21 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish preparing for final exhibition gallle 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will play in its l'inal preseason tune-up on Saturday before opening the regular season against Illinois State on Nov. 12 at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish, who defeated the Premier Sports All-Stars 84­52 on Wednesday, face the Hoosier Lady Stars at noon inside the .Joyce Center. 
The team was led by all­American forward Jacqueline Batteast, who netted 23 points and five rebounds in just 25 minutes. Guard Megan Duffy added 16 points and three second half 3­pointers as Notre Dame improved to 21-1 in exhibi­lion games. 
"Everybody just seems to have a more aggressive tone this year," Batteast said aftnr Wednesday's victory. 
DHspite an overall solid performance, head coach Muffet MeGraw said she wants her team to play better on Saturday. 
"We want to sec improve­ment from game-to-game," said McGraw, who played all her bench players during tho first preseason victory. "Saturday, we expect to start out with a little bit better pace. I thought we really started out very slowly I in Wednesday's game I. although defensively we did some gtiod things. We want to keop that 
see EXHIBITION/page 21 


FENCING 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
NO VOLLEYBAll 

NFL
SMC VOLLEYBAll 
IRISH INSIDER 
Several fencers will 
Notre Dame looks to
The Irish are looking 

The Belles fell to 
The Jaguars are 
The Irish travel to 
travel to Louisville this 
preserve its undefeated
for redemption from 

Calvin College in the 
already missing quarter­
Knoxville to battle 
season to compete in a 
record in the Big East as 

MIAA Tournament
their loss last year 

back Byron Leftwich 
Tennessee Saturday. 
Junior World Cup event. 
they face Connecticut 

after he sustained an
against Boston College 

Tuesday. 
in the Big East tourna­
and Boston College. 

injury in last Sunday's 
ment. 
game. 
page 20 
page 18 

· page 14
page 19 
page 18 
Insider 


.·.· ... 

' 
/' 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 5, 2004 

Welco~ne New and Returning Notre 'Dame ~ St* Mary(s Students*Faculty""Staff Notre Dame Papa John's St. Mary'J. Papa John's 1821 South Bend Avenue North Village Mall 
271-1177 2.71-7272 
PAPA PREDICTS: ND 33 • TENNESSEE 21 
Papa John>s Pizza is proud to be a Promotional Partner of Notre Dame Athletics and the Oftidal Detivery Pizza of NCAA Athletics. 
r-----... r PHAT TUIEStUW '"~ ~THIN-THURSDAY~ r LUNCH SPEciM
1 IRISH SPECIAL 1 

I Any Specialty pizza & I I Small 1-t~ing & 2 20-oz. 
large 1-topping, targe Thin .crust Cheese
breadsticks 

111 111
I Breadsticks & Coke 4-to-go I II! Ptzza Ill I cokes ~8...!19
I $14..!19 I 
gope~ til 4:00 p.m.

I S14.B!I I I S!l..!l!l I
I add a Cinnapie $2.96.~ ~ Ill lj~l 
I 
I ('()upan Rc>qtllnt'd 1-.plr~f. :JI) d~ys.. · · I I CruJpott #!t"qul~d. f.xpb·e" 3:0 days.~-· .. l I ~~ C:i.Wifn'm RfltqMfnt-d. 1E.~plre~ 3.0 d"'Y"'. ~ ""'"P"" R<..,ulr..t. hJ>I•«• 30 dny>. ~! Offi:'{' gf..wd h"H n Umltfc•rt tim~ »:t p~utkiJ.)Iftlny Piij.HI' Off"''' 9C.Ux1 f<n OS UmiWd t'lm~": at rtc:tttk.lfUJlh~g P<11p•1 Ol:h~1· 9>1'Jnd ff)t .~ tlrnR.r!d Omt~ at r,o,n·t·ktpal.lr\g fl'C\fM ON~1 good to{' d llmit(~d llmt~ >tt pal'tklpcu.lng P.:c(M John"\ resto*ur.:mh only. Add!UOtl<tl topping$ CKtr3. !I Ill john'~ re~t.avranu :f,H1fy. Additional toppings extra. II II jl!)hr-,'$ r-e~uorant "So oqJy. Addltlona~ toppings t;-Xtnt. II II lohn'~ 1"¢$-tauo·•mh (Ulfy, AdtUtlonal t<tppiiJg!t e,.;tns. Nvl <J.tlh.f wi01 1110)1 t)tht>r (.msp,.ltt~ or dl-u.ounl~. Ill II Not v~Ud wiU1 iH'l-}' lJtl'lf.•{' c.ouporn• nr dh.t:ount~. II Jl Not Y<Jtlid ,...-ith osny othN' t'Xa~pon~ ln (iht".mtnh II II Nt~t v~tUd wlth -'tHY oUl~t' ~-.o\.tpmn or dh<.:()l.mh. Umlh•d dl:"'lv~:r)' 111r\'l..,., t:h~ffJ'I':' r•Hi}" .tpply. Umht~d ddl'o'~fy 1$ft~J'i, dH'If9~~<; l1'My <:tpp1y, Umlt.ed dl{:\ilt~~r ~~ m·~.a, charg~~r. m.ay ~p-ply. Ut·nit<'d d¥:-HV~fY ,u·t-4. .-;·h;Hgt":~ tl~"'Y >ll"f}lly.
•<.:us= r~=bJ~ :,:'$•p=le L=. .I L.Cus= re!.=bfe ~l.sp=l~ t~ .I ascus= res.=bl~~li!p=let~ • .<.:1.u=res=bl'i.! ~~ <lp=te t:;:;. 
r

r-----'"1 ----­
~ -PAnTY PAK-~ ~ -CHIESE ff!-~ LATE NITE
1 fAMILY SPECIAL 1 

2 Large 1-topping, 2 Iii Large Cheese and your Ill I SPECIAL
large Works and

I 1 Large 2-topping I I Breadsticks, & Coke 4 to I 111 choice of breadsticks or 111 I Ex-large 1-topping for Go for only Ill cheesesticks Iii 
the price of a lanJP only

1 S1B.!IB 1 I S24..!19 I I S12..9!1 I 
I $11..9!1~ 

~ Ill l~ilill
I C.nupm1 R~quired. f.xplr4f'f. .JO d.¥ty-s.: ·;I I C<>uf'''" n~q"'"'"'· ••P•••• •o d•r• ~I 1 Cu.u~~ Rr:qMirmi. Jt'~otpf:ru 3-0 do:P:y:~>. ~ 11 I Cmtpt.Mt R«-quinru E~plr'l.'r. :\0 day~ 
Oft~ good for a llmlt('d tim<~ ~t p~rt.h:lp,:Hhlg P~p.-j OftCI' 9<1<td for u limited tim~" at partu;·!p~t!n.g P~!H Ofh"'r ~1--cl t"n 14 llmft"~d thr1e ;st ~"1--ar~{,_ !paling Papi¥ OHcr goud to{' "'llmfh--tl klrne: i$t p.a1 tkip<ttlng Pap<ll I john·s. "'-·~taunmh only. Adrht1onal topplnqs. ~xtra. 1: Ill lohn's r¢<'>ti:Jl~rar~h on!y. AddWonal toppiHgs extrd. II g ]tlhn'$ l'e.?>taur&nb fJn~y. AdditiosMI topJ,llngs e-xt{'fl. Ill II jQhn's re~taurAnts only. AddjtiunAI toppings '-'"'tnt. Not ..,c~lld with .¥0)' ~>th~r ,.uuplHt'S. t>r dl-s<.ount-s. I II Not v~Hd with iH'lY uth*"r anspfJ:rl"> (~:r di~t·.ounb. II Jl N~)t Y.:ilkl wB.h •sn~· t"sthP.r t'.CK~f.Mm~ {'W dht".t"J.\Inh !M II Not v.1Ud wtth •ny t"1tht!r n1upcm-, t)t dh:\'OlHth limited d~llvcry dtl.":il, chc119~'S rfl,'JY .tt:pf)l_y. t.lm-Ued ~d!Vt:f'Y l)r-ell.. c:har9><?~ m.-1y aptily. Um1t0d ddlvery ($,.~.,, ch~rgt~:<> tna)' ,"J.pply. LirnJt<?'d dt"!'tlvery an~a. <:h>lrlJ-f:~ !flAY o1pply.
... ____ _

Custosn~r re~pon!dble fur all <tppUc.i!hl~ tff~e?.-. Cu,;tom~c ~e~pon~~bl-e (.o:r i!il 6pplk<'l-bl~ ld.t~.e~. Ct$!1-tumH re$-pon~ihltP. for ./'Ill ~Pi-}li'C-rlbt~ tcu.~1.
I.Cm= ,..,=bl~ :,:•«p=Je t::. .J 

L-....... -............. d ................ --....... d 
SCHOOL HOURS SUMMER/HOLIDAY HOURS
r-----DVo _.--... -"'r---C;;;_a.:co;;-4~o:Go~-MJ Monday-Thursday Monday-Thursday 
11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
I Buy any Large of Ex large Pizza at regular I I"'Coca-Cola 4-to-Go is 4 20-oz bottles! 1menu price and get. FREE your choice of any 1 lfor the price of 3 including 4 FREE 1 Friday -Saturday Friday -Saturday of our 3 DVDs. l1tles change every two Music Match downloads 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. I months. Through Dt~cember 2004. I I I Sunday Sunday Noon to 1:00 a.m. Noon to 12:00 a.m.
·-----------·~--------~-d
If your group is having a meeting or planning a get-together, call for information on our large Order Discount. 

DELIVERY DELIVERY NOTRE DAME PAPA JOHN'S ST. MARY'S PAPA JOHN'S
We NOW offer Grilled Chicken and fresh sliced Roma Tomatoes 271-1177 271-PAPA

Try our Chicken Barbeque Bacon on our thin crust pizza dough Try our Spinach Alfredo Chicken Tomato 

Irish need to rebound after loss 
If the 2004 football season  Oh. how things have  sive coordinator Kent Baer  "As I said after [the Boston  
has bnnn likn a boxing match  changed.  said. "A lot of guys are  College game], in that locker  
for Notre Damn, thn opening­ Now Notre Dame must  around that don't have to be.  room, those kids were devas­ 
game loss to Brigham Young  somehow, someway, look  So that tells me a lot right  tated," Baer said. "As I told  
was a hard body blow.  within themselves and knock  there. Sometimes when the  them, the thing I feel most  
The loss  ofl' one of two top-1 0 teams on  guys are real down, they don't  badly about is a lot of those  
to Boston  the road in the next few  want to be around and going  kids don't play much football  
Collngn two  weeks. Two more losses and a  to stay as far away from the  after this year or after two  
wonks ago  not-gimme-anymore win  coaches as possible and that  years. You learn from it and  
may have  against Pittsburgh puts the  wasn't the case. After a few  it's always the case. It's unfor­ 
benn the  Irish at a mere 6-5 and head­ hours, you get over it, I don't  tunate, but it's part of life.  
knockout  ing to some .com bowl in the  know if you ever get over it,  Things don't always work out  
punch.  middle of nowhere.  but you move on."  the way you want."  
II' it was­ If thern was ever a time for  Moving on means traveling  Knocked down after the  
n't, No.<)  Joe Hettler  Notre Dame's players to pick  to Neyland Stadium where the  Boston College loss, Notre  
Tnmwssnn  themselves up after being  Irish will be greeted by more  Dame must slowly stand up  
and No. 1  .)'ports Writer  knocked down, it's now.  than 100,000 screaming  and prepare for another  
Soutlwrn  After losing to BYU, Notre  orange-clad fans singing  round. They're weary, beat  
California  Dame was mad. The team  "Rocky Top" as loud as possi­ and disappointed. People  
are eagerly waiting to take  wasn't letting that defeat  ble. That's the unappealing  pave quit on them. Few, if  
thnir shots at turning a onen  negate all  difference  any, believe this group can  
promising season for tlw Fighting Irish into another all­ the hard work and  "This·is a big-time  between the Brigham  rise up and conquer Tennessee or USC on the  
to-familiar nightmarn.  dedication  environment, and you are  Young and  road.  
Notrn Dame sits at 5-3 with  they put in  always under scrutiny on  Boston  But Willingham hasn't given  
arguably thn toughest rnmaining schedule of any  during the oll'season. A  the eye of the media, in  College loss­es.  up on his downtrodden squad. "This is a big-time environ­ 
team in the country. Just a  week later,  the eye of the Notre Dame  Bouncing  ment, and you are always  
few days ago, things looked  Notre Dame  family."  back at  under scrutiny on the eye of  
bright for Tyrone  came out  home is  the media, in the eye of the  
Willingham's third team. Notrn Damn was 5-2 and  and spanked a  Tyrone Willingham  manage­able.  Notre Dame family," Willingham said. "So our  
knowing a win against Boston  top-H)  Irish head coach  Bouncing  young men are prepared for  
College at home and another  ranked  back  that."  
vietury versus Pittsburgh  Michigan  against a  With their backs on the can­ 
would be enough to likely put  team to get the season back  top-1 0 team on the road is  vas, Notre Dame has only one  
Uw Irish in Uw Gator 13owl on  on track.  infinitely times more dil'ficult  choice to save their season ­ 
Jan. I.  After the latest loss, the  than doing so in the comforts  stand up again and start  
The tnam would bn back on  Irish players are trying, once  of Notre Dame Stadium.  swinging.  
t.rack. The fans would bnlieve  again, to look forward, not  Yet, there aren't many  The views expressed in this  
in Willingham and his eoach­ behind.  options at this point for the  column are those ofthe  
ing st.afl' again. And Notre  "What's really glaring to me  Irish ­ besides pulling off a  author and not necessarily  
Danw would oncn again make  is how many guys come  huge upset. Any way you slice  those of The Observer.  
sonw noise on Uw collngn  around on Sunday or  it, Notre Dame is in grave  Contact Joe Hettler at jhet­ 
l'ootball senrw.  Monday," Notre Dame defen­ trouble.  tler@nd. edu  

game hype 


Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
'We have to have. both the running and the passing game goingfor 
us. 

Ryan Grant Irish running back 

':4sI talked with ourfootball team [Monday], we will have to fight and scratch, and give our best effort to get this win against Notre Dame." 
" We anticipate that with I04.ooo to 109,000 people, it's going to be loud." 

Brady Quinn Irish quarterback 
'We need to play hard, physical and fast football every play. Every single play, we can't have any loafs. We need to get after it every single play. " 

Phillip Fulmer Tennesee head coach 


Friday, November 5, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Volunteer opportunity 
No. 9 Tennessee headlines brutal remaining schedule for 5-3 Notre Dame 

!where] they're better than 
Michigan is their backfield is so 
strong." 
Both Baer and Diedrick know 

the nature of Saturday's game 
will demand ultimate prepara­
tion. 
Three and done 
Notre Dame does not underes­

timate the strength of schedule 
in its final three games. 
Tennessee and USC have lost 
one game combined. Though 
Pittsburgh has played a weak 
schedule compared to Notre 
Dame's, the Panthers did beat 
Boston College in overtime, 20­
17. 
The Irish had no such luck. 

In order to find for the team to regain its footing, Harris believes he has found the key to · ensuring victory over Tennessee. 
"Run the ball," Harris said. "I 

think [if1 you look at the game 
Tennessee did lose against 
Auburn, Auburn ran the ball. I 
don't how many yards their run­
ning backs had, but they ran the 
ball, and they were physical every play. So that's what we've got to do.'' 
Auburn gained only 148 rush­ing yards to 252 pass yards, but the Tigers called 42 running plays to just 23 pass plays. Auburn won, 34-10. 
"We're a veteran offense," Harris said. "There's no room for saying that we're a young ollimse any more. To make mis­takes like the mistakes we've made really isn't acceptable for a veteran offense. And we need to get beyond that, and we need to mature and be able to come back from a bad series, a bad play and perform." 
In this case, Notre Dame seeks to rebound not from a bad series or a bad play, but a bad game. But the Irish are thankful, because they have no need to hire a top ranked opponent to catapult them back towards the end season polls. 
Now, there are Volunteers. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame sufl'ered one of its worst losses in years Oct. 23, and thrm the Irish rested. 
Players nursed mental and physical wounds. Rhema McKnight caught up on sleep during the bye week. And when McKnight and the rest of the team woke, there was the remaining schedule -three opponents with a combined record of 20-3. 
"To say we are anxious would be an understatement," offen­sive tackle Hyan Ilarris said. 
Notre Dame goes on the road Saturday to begin a three-game attempt at salvaging the 2004 season, beginning with Tennessee (7-1 ), stopping to host Pittsburgh (5-2) and ending with a trip to Southern Cal (8-0). 
But the first stop is Knoxville, in Tennessee's Neyland Stadium, which seats 104.000-plus fans. 
"We're all ready to go out there and prove ourselves," Harris said. 
"First and foremost to our teammates that we can beat a ... top-15, top-five team, and also to other people involved in the program and say 'Look, this sea­son isn't over. And we have a great shot to go 8-3.' " 
Though llarris evokes opti­mism. the Volunteers and USC are two teams that critics will favor heavily over the Irish. But Notre Dame is 23-2 when com­ing oil' a bye week, and the posi­tive prospects of beating Tennessee (No. 9 AP/ No. 11 ESPN/USA Today/No. 8 BCS) are obvious. 
"We become bowl eligible, for one, and it's another victory, if we can get it," McKnight said. 
"That would give  us a  lot of  
momentum  going  into  
Pittsburgh."  

Notre Dame is projected bowl eligible at the moment -in the Las Vegas Bowl, facing New Mexico. 
The Irish can start to change that Saturday. Rocky Road 
Tennessee wins away games. The Volunteers beat now-No. 5 AP Georgia (19-14) and Mississippi (21-17) at their respective venues, and last week Phillip Fulmer's team dispatched of South Carolina (43-29) out East. 
But Tennessee thrives at home. 
"We look forward to being back home and having the fans be the 12th man in this football game," Fulmer said. 
The Tennessee band and fans create what many describe as a deafening roar throughout the game, in particular with their version of "Rocky Top," an old­time Tennessean song. 
Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer was a coach at California when the Bears played at Neyland in 1987, and Baer knows the stadium can be intimidating. But he also has respect for the players on the field. 
"They're a typical SEC, Tennessee-looking football team with great athletic people and tremendous size," Baer said. 
Baer does not use the word 'typical' to indicate mediocrity. 
Notre Dame is 19-13 all-time against SEC teams, but the Irish are 2-4 overall against Tennessee. And Tennessee's quick defense and serviceable offense will give the Irish prob­lems -as will the crowd. 
"I think when you go into an environment like this, when you know that the crowd noise is going to be a factor, you have to ... be focused as a player so that the other stuff is blocked out," offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. 
But the outcome of Saturday's game might have more to do with the coaches. Coordinating victory 
While coaches call plays and formations from the sidelines, talent on the field is the end cause of a play's result. But Tennessee players and atmos­phere could put more emphasis on the ell'ectiveness of the Notre Dame coordinators' initial play calling. 
"Probably what !crowd noise] docs for your system, it probably prevents you from really going in and trying to utilize a lot of checks and whatnot," Diedrick said. "So you're probably going to be playing with a lot more locked plays." 
Volunteers linebacker Kevin Burnett is one of 12 semifinalists for the Bednarik Award, pre­sented to the nation's outstand­ing collegiate defensive player. Notre Dame's 'locked plays' ­plays called by Diedrick and unaltered by quarterback Brady Quinn at the line of scrimmage -will be the only method of beating Burnett (74 tackles) and a defense that surrenders just 
21.1 points per game. 
On the other side of the ball, the Volunteers spread the field for freshman quarterbacks Erik Ainge and Brent Schaeffer, though Schaeffer will not play Saturday due to a broken collar­bone suffered Saturday against South Carolina. 
"They use some personnel groups we haven't seen much, so that's going to create some problems," Baer said. "It does for anybody I'm sure." 
Tennessee relies primarily on its running game behind Gerald Riggs (129 carries, 604 yards, two touchdowns) and Cedric Houston (96 carries, 642 yards, three touchdowns), but Baer and the defensive front have proven they can stop the run. 
Baer's game plan against the pass -and the defensive back­field's abilities -will receive another test. 
"It does make preparation more difficult [because] they really don't have a go-to-guy," Baer said. "I think last week they ran the ball so well [that] two guys had two catches and five or six guys had one catch. So they spread [the ball] around a lot. They use three or four wide receivers all the time, and they do a nice job of spreading the football around. You just don't know who to." 
Wide receiver Tony Brown leads Tennessee with 19 catch­es, followed by two receivers with 16 catches, one with 14 catches, one with 11 and two with nine catches. Wide receiver Bret Smith leads the Volunteers in receiving touchdowns with five. 
"They're very similar athleti­cally and size-wise to Michigan," Baer said. 'They've got a young quarterback like Michigan does. They've got great receivers !with] a lot of speed. But I think 


by the numbers 
Completion percentage for Volunteer quarterback Erik Ainge a true freshman who is eighth in the SEC in pass­
54.4
ing-efficiency 

3 8 3 
Total offense per game Tennessee averages, including 181.4 yards on the ground and 201.6 in the air 
Percent of games Notre Dame has won against teams that make up the SEC, good for a19-12 record 
6 
Number of wins the Irish will have if they win Saturday, making them bowl-eligible 
The last time the Irish beat the Volunteers, winning 34-29 in 
199o 
Knoxville 

The last time Notre Dame beat a SEC team. It beat LSU 39-36
1998 

Number of passing yards the Notre Dame defense gave up 2 4 o 
against Michigan's true freshman quarterback, Chad Henne 
CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 

Rhema McKnight makes a catch against Boston College Oct. 23. McKnight and the Irish face a tough task in Tennessee Saturday as they look to rebound from the loss to Boston College. 
17 
Number of players on the Tennessee team who have scored at least one touchdown, including 10 passing touchdowns 
-.,---------c-------------­
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 5, 2004 
HEADT4
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 


Tyrone Willingham third season at Notre Dame career record: 
64-49-1 
at Notre Dame: 
20-13 
against Tennessee: 0-0 

Tyrone Willingham 
head coach 

Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  lit.  Wt.  YR  
1  jan'd Clark  TE  f>-4  250  SR  
2  Frt'ddie Parrish  DB  n-1  202  so  
3  Darius WillkL•r  RB  5-11  200  FR  
4  H'f,'mCrant  RB  6-J  218  SR  
5  R wma McKnight  WR  6-1  215  JR  
6  Carlos Campbell  CB  5-11  195  SR  
7  Carlyle I Jnhday  WR/QB  6-J  215  SR  
H  MMty Moom•y  QB  n-2  210  JR  
8  Qut.•ntin Hurn·ll  FS  6-0  195  SR  
q  Tom Zbikowski  Dll  5-11  203  so  
9  Pat Dillinv;h.tm  QB  n-2  205  SR  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  o-4.  224  so  
11  M,ucus Wil~m  RB  5-11  202  SR  
12  · Jo:-.h Schmidt  Fll  6-1  232  SR  
13  DclVid Wolkt.•  QB  n-4  205  FR  
15  Prt•shm Jackson  CB  5-9  180  SR  
1n  Rash<m Pt)Wt•rs-Nt.•al  FB  6-2  243  SR  
tn  Stan Rt.•vcllt.•  QB  5-11  195  SR  
17  c_;l'tlffrcy Prict.•  r  6-3  190  SR  
17  ).).Warren  QB  6-1  184  so  
18 18  ghr~~d~~~~dukwe  QB DB  6-2 6-2  185 223  FR so  
19  D.). Fitzpatrick  K/1'  6-1  200  SR  
21  Maurice Stovall  WR  6-5  227  JR  
22  Ambrose W(XKit.•n  CB  5-11  186  so  
21  Chast• AnastclSitl  WR  6-1  202  so  
24  Dwight Ellick  CB  5-10  185  SR  
2'i  Niltc Schiccatano  FB  6-2  242  JR  
26  Witdt.•lams  DB  5-8  170  FR  
26  Travis ThomclS  RB  6-0  212  so  
27  Lion<.•l Boll'n  DB  6-0  210  SR  
27  John I.bons  RB  6-1  192  so  
2H  rn'KH  ucrsnn  DB  5-10  170  FR  
28  Colt' Laux  FB.  5-10  240 .  SR  
JO  Mikl' Richardson  DB  5-11  190  JR  
31  j.t~<' Carney  FS  6-0  192  JR  
Jl  A.J. C'cdt•no  DB  6-0  191  so  
32  )loff )l'llkins  RB  6-0  216  )R  
33  Justin Hoskins  RB  6-0  195  FR  
34  Tcrr.til Ltmbt·rt  DB  5-10  190  FR  
37  Junior jabbit•  lJB  5-11  190  FR  
37  M.tttMitrh<·ll  Cll  5-9  190  JR  
38  L.A•oh•rrirw  DB  6-0  180  FR  
39  Brandon lloyh•  l.B  5-11  231  SR  
40  M.turkc Crum, Jr.  L.B  6-1  215  FR  
41  Mikl' ( ;oolsby  l.B  6-4  242  SR  
42  Anthony Vt.•rna~lia  l.ll  6-4  220  I'R  
43  Anthony Sa)v,ltor  l.ll  6-2  212­ JR  
44  justin Tuck  lJE  6-5  261  SR  
45  Carl <.;ioia  K/1'  5-10  185  so  
45  Rkh Whitm•y  J)(l  6-J  205  JR  
4h 47  Con·~M~s Mitr l'll omas  l.B l.ll  6-1 6-J  243 210  SR so  
48  !<'rom<· Collins  n:  6-4  2'iR  SR  
4lJ  I>Prt•k Curry  l.B  6-3  215  SR  
50  Dan Santucci  OL  6-4  292  JR  
51  ).1mi<• Ry.m  OL.  6-5  310  JR  
52  jot> Brockington  l.ll  6-1  225  so  
53  Dan llickt•y  OL.  6-3  224  JR  
53  joSt.•ph Boland  l.B  6-J  224  JR  
54  ~J.avid Fit~nt•r,,ld  OL  6-4  285  JR  
55  Z,ll'h<lry lrll'S  c  6-3  281  SR  
56  Nkk BorSt.•ti  l.B  6-4  23R  so  
58  Abdel Banda  l.l!  6-2  215  FR  
54  ).lmL>sllmt  01.  6-1  271  Jll  
54  r>,m Chcrvanick  llT/NG  6-2  265  Jll  
no  Cas..•y l"ullm  LB  6-2  212  so  
hi  ).). janM•n  LS  6-3  215  FR  
62  S<.:tltt l<.trid{IO  OT  6-6  310  )R  
1>4  CdSl't. 1>unn  ClL  n-4  256  SR  
h5  lim  ,ritzman  IJ(i  6-J  210  FR  
liO  Dt•n•k l"mdri  NC  6-2  278  )R  
n7  John K.1dow1  01.  6-7  310  FR  
h8  Ryan llarris  OL  6-5  289  so  
nlJ  Darin Mitdwll  OG  6-3  290  SR  
70  Chaunct•y lncarnato  OL  6-6  280  FR  
71  Jam"s Bnn(.'lli  01.  6-4  290  JR  
72 73  t~!;~~:~r:lll  OL OT  6-4 6-7  285 310  SR SR  
74  I>an Stt•vt•nsnn  tx:;  6-5  293  SR  
75  Chris Froml'  DE  6-5  271  JR  
76  Bob Morton  tx;;c  6-4  JOO  )R  
77  Cli.•)l f'.tUly  lJT  6-6  295  SR  
78  John Sulliv;,m  c  n-3  295  so  
79  BriimM.lttl'!-1  OL  6-5  292  )R  
HIJ  Chris V,lllt;hn  WR  6-4  205  FR  
81  Br.mdon }lclrris  WR  6-1  190  JR  
82  Matt Sht.•lton  WR  6-0  175  SR  
HJ  jl'ff S,lmardzijcl  WR  6-5  215  so  
H4  Mik<•O'Il.trn  WR  5-9  175  JR  
H4  Rob Woods  WR  6-2  205  JR  
85  llillyl'.lim<•r  TE  6-3  256  SR  
87  M.trcu.s Fn•t•man  TE  6-2  248  JR  
H8  Anthony FmiclOO  TE  n-4  256  JR  
89  John C.ulson  TE  6-5  248  so  
YO  Brian Beid.Jb..c..·h  IlL  6-2  295  SR  
91  Craig Cardillo  K  6-Q  169  JR  
92  Kyl<• Budins<:ak  DE  b-4  275  SR  
l)J  Hmndun Nicolas  [)1.  6-5  275  FR  
94  Justin Brown  DL/l.B  b-4  225  FR  
95  Victor Abiamiri  DE  6-5  269  so  
9h  Bohhy Rcnk<•s  K/1'  6-0  190  so  
97  Travis Lcitko  DE  6-6  275  )R  
9H  Tn·vor Laws  DL  6-0  285  so  
94  Ronald Talley  [)[.  b-4  245  FR  

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 2004 Schedule 
Sept. 4 at BYU-L Sept. 11 MICHIGAN -W Sept. 18 at Michigan St. ·-W 
Sept. 25  WASHINGTON  -W  
Oct. 2  PURDUE-L  
Oct. 9  STANFORD-W  
Oct. 16  --at NAVY-W  

Oct. 23"-···~tfOSTOKrtOLL.-L Nov.6 at Tennessee Nov. 13 PITTSBURGH Nov. 27 at USC 
WIDE llECEIVeR

NOTRE DAME 21-llawll 
82-Sh$1!on
OFFENSE 

CORNERBACK 
33-Hernev 29-Johnson 

TAILBACK 4-Grant 3-Walker FULLBACK RIGHT END 

16-PoWOI$-NBal 46-Neal 
12-Schmidt 94-Hall 
OUTS JOE
. 

LINEBACKER .. 
2-Bumett 42-Brooks

·.~ 
TENNESSEE 
:~r
DEFENSE 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
LLI 
:E 
c:r: 
c 
LLI 
c::: 
..... 
0 
z 
LLI 
LLI 
rJ) 
ffl 
z 
z 
LLI 
..... 

Willingham and stafi' were scrutinized alter the loss to Boston College for ques­tionable decisions_ They punted on the Eagles' 30­yard line, and the Irish failed to dose out the game_ The Irish haven't improved all that much this season, and the stall' is partially responsible.  Quinn did not play well against Boston College, throwing two interceptions and making qucstionnable throws. However, he has improved from last season and is putting together a solid sophomore season . Quinn must make good decisions to be successful under eenter.  Against Boston College, the Irish ran the ball for 104 yards. They average 124.R yards per game. Notre Dame has strug­gled at times to run the baiL When Grant is healthy, they are much better. Walker and Wilson split the rest of' the carries.  Quinn had one of' the poorer games of his career against. Boston College_ McKnight and Stovall have been solid, and Shelton continues to be the Irish's big-play receiver. The Irish passing attack averages 239.R yards per game.  
Fulmer has a .SOl win pPr­centage in his 12 years at Tennessee. Fulmer has won numerous coach of' the year honors and has gone to a bowl game in eaeh of' his 12 seasons with  Ainge has put up stagger­ing numbers under center for a true freshman quar­terback_ lie throws the ball well and makes solid decisions. He was eomple­mented by SchaPll'er, but  Tennessee f:,Tives up 123_6 yards on the ground. Last week against South Carolina it gave up 226 yards on the ground. Their line is led by Haralson, who has 30 tackh~s. includ­ Tennessee gives up 226 yards in the air. Lnd by Allen, they are a solid secondary. Allen leads thn SEC in tackles pnr game, averaging I 0.4. Allen also has f>O solos.  
the Volunteers, including the 1998 Fiesta Bowl, where the Vols won the national championship.  will be all alone Saturday, as Schaeffer is hurL Ainge has been solid for the Vols.  ing 11_5 for a loss. However, this unit ha'i not been able to stop the run consistently.  Campbell was the starter last week at free safety for the first time this year.  
Fulmer has the experi­ence and is a proven win­ncr_ Willingham is still inconsistent and l1is job has been question~d throughout the Irish sea­son. Tennessee has the better coaching staff, as they have more experi­ence and more wins than that of' Notre Dame.  Ainge has been more con­sistent for Tennessee, but Quinn is more experi­CJ)..!(ed. Without Sch<J,efTer. the VQ}s' qJlarterhack J?dsition ~s lt}ss vo~ati~~. butAinge is moro'thiirt competent under center. Playing at home makes up for his lack of experience.  Although Notre Dame has struggled to run the ball. Tennessee hasn't been able to stop the run_ The Irish should be -able 'io run the ball on the Volunteers with Grantthe healthiest this season .<!-ftlilr the bye week, Walker and Wilson will also contribute. ·  Notre Dame needs Quinn to stop up to make good decisions. However, Tennessee is a Uttlf': shaky against the pass, but they will be able to rattle Quinn enough at their home stadium. Last week this defense gave up 341 yards in the air.  



We're going to see what this team is made of on this team continues not to get down on itself, 
This game could get real ugly, real l'asL But 

Saturday. Tennessee is an outstanding team, and the coaches have surprisingly been in 
with a excellent oll'ense and solid defense_ The
Irish 

Irish must have a Michigan-like performance to seems like a real possibility, but this Irish team 
good spirits the past two weeks. The upset 
pull ofT the upset, and accomplishing that at just doesn't have it to come away from 
Neyland Stadium will be even tougher_ Notre
experts Dame has a fighting chance, but it better bring its 'A' game. 
Neyland Stadium with the upset 

FINAL SCORE: Tennessee 27,FINAL SCORE: Tennessee 20,

Matt Lozar Joe Hettler Notre Dame 13Notre Dame 13
Editor in Chief 
AME 

Friday, November 5, 2004 The Observer' IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Tennessee Volunteers
HEAD 
Record: 7-1 
AP: 9 

Tennesssee Volunteers Coaches: 1 1 


VOLUNTEERS VOLUNTEERS RUSHING PASSING 

Notre Dame's rush defense  The Irish secondary has  Fitzpatrick has emerged  
is solid and the strength of  been beat up all year.  as the Irish's best special  
the Irish defense. They  Against Boston College,  teams player. He averages  
give up an average of 99.9  Paul Peterson threw for  42.8 yards per punt,  
yards per game and have  297 yards in the second  including a long of 67  
given up just five rushing  half alone. Ellick,  yards. He has converted  
touchdowns in eight  Richardson and Jackson  8-of-11 field goals as well.  
games. Budinscak and  have struggled, and  With some changes on  
Tuck are run stoppers on  Zbikowski and Burrell  kick coverage, the Irish  
the ends, and Landri and  have been quiet in the sec­ have improved that part  
Pauly anchor the middle.  ondary.  of special teams.  
IIouston is ninth on  Ainge has put up great  Colquitt is solid for the  
Tennessee's all-time  numbers for a true fresh­ Vols, averaging 41.9  
rushing list with 2,246  man. Although Schaeffer  yards per punt. He is a  
career yards. He aver­ is out with an injury, Ainge  consensus All-American  
ages 6.4 yards per carry  is more than competent to  and a Ray Guy Award  
and 77.1 yards per  handle the load. He is  finalist. Wilhoit has strug­ 
game. Higgs comple­ eighth in the SEC in pa,ss­ gled, converting just 50  
ments Houston with a  ing efficiency and seventh  percent of field goals.  
73.1 yards per game  in passing yardage. He  The Volunteers are aver­ 
average and two touch­ has already thrown 16  age on kick and punt  
downs on the season.  touchdowns in five games.  returns.  
Tennessee averages  Ainge should be able to  Fitzpatrick is solid as a  
181.4 yards per game on  pick at the susceptible Irish  punter and kicker for  
the ground, but the Irish  secondary. He can run and  the Irish, but so is  
give up less than 100.  throw, but prefers to throw.  Colquitt as a punter for  
Notte Dame's defens.¢  unlike Schaeffer. Tennessee  t Itmtee¢~:·Ne!~P:e~l  
specializes in stopplng  should have no problem  t isi!:s~•~c~aeul~ri!~  
the run, but ·· the  reaching its season average  t .ategory\,Ib~ ;Yol$  
Volunteers will come at  of 201.6 passing yards per  struggle in the place­ 
them with two solid run­ game, as the Irish give up  kicking department,  
ning backs in Houston  an average of over 250  and the Irish struggle  
and Riggs.  yards per game in,the air. ·  in the return games.  

Ainge will take care of business, despite being without his partner in crime. The Irish will struggle on the road and the big Tennessee line will be too much to handle. Quinn will struggle and this upset bid will fail. Notre Dame will not be bowl eligible yet, and Tennessee will be on its way to a major bowl. 
FINAL SCORE: Tennessee 24, Notre Dame 14 

TENNESSEE 2004 Schedule 
Sept. 5 Sept. 18 Sept. 25 Oct. 2 Oct.9 Oct. 16 Oct. 23 Oct. 30 Nov.6 Nov. 20 Nov. 27 

UNLV-W FLORIDA-W LOUSIANA TECH-W AUBURN-L at Georgia-W at Mississippi-W ALABAMA-W at South Carolina-W NOTRE DAME at Vanderbilt 
. KENTUCKY 

SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame has 104,000 people rooting loudly against iL The Irish need this game,­but it will be tough on the road. Notre Dame is coming off a heart­breaking loss to Boston College, but they are 23-2 after a bye week since 1984.  
Tennessee and ·Rocky Top" have all its fans behind them at Neyland Stadium. They are coming off a big SEC win against South Carolina and have lost just one game. They expect to win, and they can do it on their home turf.  
Tennessee has every­thing going for it. The Irish have all the pres-' sure. At ·Neyland Stadium, the Irish lo'§"e the ability to hear sig­nals, which could prove to be costly. The Volunteers have every­thing clicking, and Ainge keeps getting better.  



Tennessee has every reason to win this game. If the Vols beat Notre Dame Saturday, they have a bye week and then Vanderbilt and Kentucky to beat to finish the season 10-1. Sounds like motiva­tion to me -especially at Neyland Stadium. 
FINAL SCORE: Tennessee 30, Notre Dame 17 
z 
~ 
::0 
I'T1 
0 
:s:)> 
I'T1 
..... 
I'T1 2 2 I'T1 
(/) (/) 
I'T1 
I'T1 


Phillip Fullmer 13th season at Tennessee career record: 120-29 at Tennessee: 120-29 


against Notre Phillip Fullmer Dame: 3-0 head coach 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  HI.  Wt.  YR  
1  Jason Swain  WR  6-1  210  so  
2  Kevin Burnett  LB  6-3  235  SR  
3  Robert Meachem  WR  6-3  210  FR  
4  jonathan Wade  DB  6-0  185  so  
5  Kevin Simon  LB  5-11  225  )R  
6  )a'Kouri Williams  TB  5-11  185  FR  
7  Brent Schaeffer  QB  6-2  195  FR  
9  Bret Smith  WR  6-3  200  so  
10  ErikAinge  QB  6-6  200  FR  
11  james Banks  WR  6-3  205  )R  
12  C.). Leak  TE  6-4  220  SR  
13  Chris Hannon  WR  6-4  195  JR  
14  Bo Hardegree  QB  6-5  200  FR  
15  jim Bob Cooter  QB  6-1  220  so  
15  Sinclair Cannon  WR  6-3  190  FR  
16  Rick Clausen  QB  6-3  210  JR  
17  C.j. Fayton  WR  6-2  195  )R  
18  jason Allen  DB  6-2  200  )R  
19  john Henderson  H/P  6-0  220  SR  
19  jarod Parrish  DB  6-3  195  so  
20  Derrick Tinsley  WR  6-0  195  SR  
21  Cedric Houston  TB  6-0  220  SR  
22  Robert Boulware  DB  5-10  185  JR  
23  Corey Larkins  TB  5-8  205  SR  
24  Ben Greene  DB  6-0  205  )R  
24  Antwan Stewart  DB  6-0  185  so  
25  James Wilhoit  PK  5-10  190  so  
26  Corey Campbell  DB  6-3  190  so  
27  Arian Foster  TB  6-1  208  FR  
28  Chris Brown  TE  6-3  235  FR  
29  Inquoris johnson  DB  6-0  170  FR  
30  David Holbert  FB  6-2  235  FR  
31  Gerald Riggs  TB  6-0  220  JR  
33  Jonathan Hefney  DB  5-10  172  FR  
34  jabari Davis  TB  6-0  230  SR  
35  . jason Mitchell  LB  6-1  225  )R  
36  RoshaW1 Ft'llows  DB  6-0  185  I'R  
37  Ryan Fusco  PK  5-10  195  )R  
37  Antonio Gaines  DB  5-9  180  FR  
38  Brandon Johnson  DB  6-1  200  )R  
39  Ryan Karl  DB  6-0  205  FR  
39  Robert Williams  FB  6-3  245  JR  
40  Marvin Mitchell  LB  6-3  240  )R  
41  jared Hostetter  DE  6-5  265  FR  
42  Daniel Brooks  LB  6-4  235  so  
43  David Yancey  TB  5-8  !85·  so  
44  Omar Gaither  LB  6-2  225  )R  
45  Cory Anderson  FB  6-3  270  so  
46  Karlton Neal  DE  6-4  260  SR  
47  Dustin Colquitt  r  6-2  1%  SR  
48  Ellix Wilson  DB  6-0  205  FR  
51  Robert Ayers  LB  6-3  229  FR  
52  Rob Smith  OG  6-4  308  so  
53  jerod Mayo  LB  6-2  215  FR  
54  Eric Young  OT  6-4  300  FR  
55  Jesse Mahelona  DT  6-2  300  JR  
56  Jon Poe  LB  5-11  . 235  )R  
57  Ovince Saint Preux  LB  6-3  240  JR  
58  James Tuml•r  LB  5-11  210  FR  
59  Adam Miles  DS  6-0  230  JR  
63  Jason Respert  c  6-3  305  SR  
64  Cameron Mayo  c  6-4  265  FR  
66  David Ligon  OG  6-5  285  so  
67  Chuck Prugh  c  6-3  310  SR  
68  Scott Newsome  DS  6-2  2.10  )R  
70  Cody Douglas  OG  6-4  325  )R  
71  Steven 1ones  OT  6-4  310  FR  
72  Albert Toeaina  OT  6-6  350  JR  
74  Richie Gandy  c  6-5  315  JR  
75  Tyler Williams  OG  6-2  305  SR  
76  Arron Sears  OG  6-4  315  so  
77  Michael Munoz  OT  6-6  315  SR  
78  Ramon Foster  OT  6-7  285  FR  
79  Anthony Parker  OT  6-4  290  FR  
80  Britton Colquitt  p  6-3  195  FR  
81  Tony Brown  WR  6-2  200  SR  
82  Bill Grimes  WR  6-4  200  FR  
83  Victor McClure  TE/FB  6-4  310  SR  
84  Jomo Fagan  WR  6-2  195  JR  
86  Brad Cottam  TE  6-8  260  FR  
87  justin Reed  TE  6-7  275  )R  
88  jake Finlayson  TE  6-5  265  )R  
89  Antonio Reynolds  DE  6-3  245  FR  
90  Turk McBride  DE  6-4  260  so  
91  LaRon Harris  DT  6-3  300  so  
92  justin Harrell  DT  6-4  300  so  
93  Xavier Mitchell  DE  6-3  248  FR  
94  jason Hall  DE  6-3  265  JR  
95  Tony McDaniel  DT  6-7  300  so  
96  Greg jones  DT  6-6  300  JR  
97  Ell Ash  DE  6-5  273  FR  
98  Parys Haraison  DE  6-2  255  )R  

Once they fall out of major bowl contention, Tennessee usually folds the rest of the season quicker than one would fold a pocket 2-7. Unfortunately for the Irish, the Vol<> are still in bowl contention and Neyland will be rocking. The team competes, but comes up short. 
FINAL SCORE: Tennessee 31, Notre Dame 24 

Heather Van Hoegarden 
Sports Editor 


Justin Schuver 
Associate Sports Editor 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 5, 2004 
Sizing up the Irish and Volunteers 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE TENNESSEE'S OFFENSE 
vs
AVERAGE PER GAME TENNESSE~~S DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

total yards gained l___364.5l total yards allowed 
-~­


rushing yards gained 
rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained 
passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained 
kiek return yards allowed 

punt return yards gained l__ 8.8 punt return yards allowed_,-­
________J 

yards per punt 
41.41 punts blocked 1 

turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
total points scored total points allowed Notre Dame yards penalized Tennessee yards penalized 


TENNESSEE

NOTRE DAME 
RuN DEFENSE

RuN OFFENSE 
Notre Dame is play­
Tennessee gives up 

ing on the road against 
123.6 yards per game 

a top-1 0 team. In order 
on the ground. Last 

to have a chance at the 
week, it gave up 22(J 

upset. they must set the 
yards in a win over 

tone with the run 
South Carolina. 
game. 
Defensive end Parys 

Hyan Grant must per­
' Ilaralson (above) leads 

form well on his well­
the linemen with 30 

rested hamstring and 
tackles, including 11.5 

Darius Walker and 
for a loss. lie is joined 

Marcus Wilson (above) 
by linebacker Kevin 

· must provide a spark 
Burnett, a semifinalist 

oil' the bench. 
for the Butkus and 

When the Irish run 
Bednarik awards. lie 

the ball, they win foot­
has 7 4 tackles. 

ball games. This game 
If the Volunteers 

is no difierent, especial­
want to stop the Irish, 

ly at Neyland Stadium 
they must stop the 

with over 100,000 fans. 
run. Notre Dame is not 

The run game must 
as strong when it can­

take the pressure off 
not run the football. 

quarterback Brady 
llaralson will be key 

Quinn and will be key 
as will Burnett and 
to this game. 
the linebaekers. 





1..25 oz 1.25 OZ~ 1.25 oz. 12 oz 7 oz. J\.lalt 4..5 oz. 10 oz
rin 

Brandv "' Liquor liquor beer(not liquor (not \\iinc \Vine \V/ntix straight a 16 OZr a 40!) l~ooler sulu cup!) 

liRI ISIRE IIOT CREATED Ell 
-
-





rfHE HI<;HER THE PERCENTA<;E <>F ALC<>H<>L IN Y<>lJR DRINK, THE FASTER Y<>UR B~~C \\J'ILL RISE. 
WATCH YOUR BAC STAY IN THE GREEN ZONE 


I ' 

Friday, November 5, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Landri finally emerges on defensive line 

Tired, hurt Volunteers to take on Irish 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Wrirer 
The difficult Southeastern Conference schedule may be catching up with the Volunteers. 
Saturday will be Tennessee's eighth consecutive game without a bye week with six of those games coming against SEC opponents. Going 5-1 in those six games, the Volunteers won those five by a combined 19 points while their loss was a blowout -34-1 0 to Georgia at Neyland Stadium. 
That diflicult stretch has left the Voluntoers physcially hurting -highlighted by the loss of quarterback Brent Schaeffer to 
a broken collar­bone. 
"We are a lit­tle more banged up than we have been," Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer said. "The guys have fought through that all season long. Because it is [sol much to challenging physically, par­
ticularly with the schedule we play and have had to play for young people to do that. You have to be really lucky to get through it without any injuries." 
The last time Notre Dame traveled to Knoxville was in 
Irish nose guard has overcome numerous injuries to succeed 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associare Sporrs Ediror 
While the defensive ends might get most of the sacks and hype, the nose guards occasion­ally get a chance to get some of the glory as well. From the first snap of the ball they plow straight ahead, hoping to engage an offensive lineman and open things up for the rest of the defense. 
And occasionally, they get a few tackles, like Derek Landri did Saturday in one of the few bright spots of Notre Dame's 24­23 loss to Boston College. 
Landri had big shoes to fill this season, coming in to com­pete for the job 

left behind after "I can tell
"He's been really 
Cedric Hilliard you what we
unlucky in that he's
graduated at the saw of him on end of the 2003 been banged up all the high school season. But the film and we
time:"
junior nose were very, very guard has taken excited about the job and run Greg Mattison him," Mattison with it, improv­Irish defensive line coach said. "Some 
ing each game and coming in as the second-leading tackler against Boston College with six tackles. 
"Everybody talked about when Cedric [Hilliard] left and. they asked how we could fill that hole left once he's gone," Irish defensive line coach Greg Mattison said. "When the pro­gram is going the way it's sup­posed to be going then the next guy gets his opportunity and steps up." 
felt he was one 

of the best nose guards in the country at that time, playing at Concord De La Salle. He's been really unlucky in that he's been banged up all the time. 
"That to me is a real testimo­ny to the kind of kid he is. He came in and had a badly-broken ankle when he first got here. A lot of kids would have really been down; he came back faster than he even should have prob­ably. He then had a knee in the 
1999 during Bob Davie's third all of that is very similar." season at the Irish helm. The In his weekly press confer­Irish lost 38-14, and it was the ence, Fulmer essentially out­biggest regular season loss in lined every position of the Irish Davie's five years football team as coaching the Irish. something that The last time the "We are a little concerns him Irish played heading into
more banged up 
Tennessee, the Saturday's game. Volunteers won 28-He talked about
that we have 18 at Notre Dame been." Brady Quinn Stadium. being a future Saturday will be star. Notre
Phillip Fulmer 
the first time the Dame's offensive 
Tennessee coach 
Volunteers have line being the 
faced Notre Dame's pro-style attack, and it's the first time Willingham has evero coached at Neyland Stadium. 
"[The Irish] are very similar Ito the 1999 team)," Fulmer 
"As I talked with our football team [on Monday], we will have to fight and scratch, and give our best effort to get this win against Notre Dame." 
Phillip Fulmer Tennessee coach 
said. "Their front line is very big and physical. Of course in 2001 they were dif­ferent in that they were run­ning the option, and now they are much more different in running a pro style of attack. So that is com­
pletely different. I guess in 1999 they ran the option as well the best I can remember. Offensively, they are different but again a big and physical team that is well coached. They play the kicking game well, so 

Landri has started every game spring practice already up until so far this season, and has col­he couldn't go anymore and lected 28 total tackles and half a then he had his knee taken care sack. In addition, the nose of. He's had a shoulder injury­guard has successfully broken Derek Landri is a warrior." 
up four passes  With consis­ 
a mark that leads the  "Everybody talked about  tent time  playing for the  
team. Landri has also forced a fum­ when Cedric [Hilliard] left and they asked how we  first time in his career, Landri is start­ 
ble and recov­ could fill that hole left  ing to live up  
ered ble.  a  fum­ once he's gone."  to some of the hype he  
Mattison  received  in  
said that he  Greg Mattison  high  school.  
has  been  Irish defensive  The California  
especially  line coach  product  was  

pleased with the lineman's ability to bounce back from injuries. After coming in as a prep superstar out of high school powerhouse Concord De La Salle (Calif.), Landri contin­ued to hit stumbling block after stumbling block in his early 
Irish career. 
ranked num­
ber five overall on CNNSI.-com's top 101 prospects list and was also named a first-team USA Today All-American. 
"Last year was his first time playing so he really improved," Mattison said. "He saw the pace of the game, saw what he had to see. He trained really hard in the off-season. He did every­thing [Irish strength coach I Mickey [Marotti] wanted him to do and then some. He just came out this year and has had a really good year." 
Landri will probably pay even more dividends next year, since he will be one of the few return­ing starters on the defensive side of the ball. But for now, the Irish coaches are content to let Landri make big contributions for this year's team. 
"He's the kind of kid you want in the middle of your defense because he doesn't say much. but when that ball is snapped he's going to give you everything he has," Mattison said. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


most athletic the Volunteers have seen this year. The tight ends being a "big focus" in Tennessee's game planning. 
As for the defense, Fulmer said the defensive line is very athletic and that the linebackers may be the best in Notre Dame history. And the kicking game is very aggressive. 
That's a lot of praise for a 5-3 football team coming off of, what 

-
many players called, a devastat­ing loss. 
"As I talked with our football team [on Monday], we will have to fight and scratch, and give our best effort to get this win against Notre Dame," Fulmer said. "What I need from our football team is one more big push here before we get a chance to take a break for the open date and then finish with our two SEC games." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 5, 2004 
-









