) 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Final three election tickets approved 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 

The remaining three tick­ets in the student body pres­ident/vice president elec­tions have received approval of their petitions to run. The tickets of Mark Healy and Mike Healy, Adam Istvan and Karla Bell, and Ryan Craft and Steve Lynch were notified last Tuesday of their approval for the race. 
In order to be approved, petitions are first verified by Judicial Council president Elliot Poindexter. Petitions 
· are then sent to the Office of Student Affairs and to the Registrar. The candidates must be in good standing with each office. _ Petitions were due Jan. 23, but three tickets were turned in well before the deadline. The Charlie Ebersol-James Leito ticket, which the candidates turned in on Jan. 19, was approved Jan. 20, said Director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin. The three other tickets, however, were not approved until Jan. 27. Student body presidential candidate Mark Healy said he turned in his petition on Jan. 20 but was not notified of its approval until Jan. 27. He said he was unaware of 
any problems with either 
the Office of Student Affairs 
or the Registrar. 
"I was not notified of any 
problems," Mark Healy said. 
"I went almost every day 
that the Student 
Government was open to 
meet with Elliot Poindexter 
to see if my petition had 
been approved, and he said 
that it wasn't." 
Mark Healy said he felt the 
length of time it took to get 
the final three petitions 
approved needed to be 
explained. 
"I think that it's something 
that needs to be looked 
into," he said. "It seems 
peculiar that it would take 
so long for the rest of us to 
be approved, when it didn't 
take that long for the first 
ticket to be approved." 
The Istvan-Bell petition 
was turned in on Jan. 21, 
Istvan said, and Craft said 
he turned in his petition on 
Jan. 23. Neither candidate 
said they were notified of 
any problems in approving 
their petitions. 
"It's taking forever to go 
through the approval 
process, trying to get every­
thing in," Istvan said. 
When asked about the ·a·mount of time it took for the Healy-Healy and Istvan-
see ELECTION/page 4 
Students seek off-campus housing 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 
Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have already signed their leases for off-campus housing next year, said managers oflocal apartment complexes. 
Officials representing tradition­ally popular off-campus options confirmed that leasing is pro­ceedingly strongly for 2004-05. Tammy Michaelbrink. the proper­ty manager at Turtle Creek, said many students have chosen to renew their leases from this year, wbile the number of new renters is about the saine as in previous years. 
"[Students] like it here, and we love to have them," Michaelbrink said. "Pretty much all of the renters here are students, besides the staff. I live here, and we have on-site maintenance and two security officers." 
Turtle Creek -drawing 95 percent of its renters from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students -maintains a flexible system and is still taking applications for next year, Michaelbrink said. attracts many students, sales 
"We had just started leasing in manager Marianne Loftus-Heon October," she said. "We don't said. like to pressure kids three years "Twenty-five percent are stu­in advance to sign to live here." dents, but out of that 25 percent, 
Castle Point Apartments also there are three and four students 
MONDAY. FEBRUARY 2, 2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
White, Moran win SMC elections 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
Sarah Catherine White and Mary Pauline Moran were elected as Saint Mary's 2004­05 student body president and vice president Friday. White and Moran will take office April 1. 
The ticket received 58 per­cent of total votes Thursday, beating out Sarah Brown and Michelle Fitzgerald, whose ticket received 38 percent of votes. Four percent accounted for abstentions in an election where 50 percent of the stu­dent body voted, a turnout considered successful by elec­tion officials. 
"I am extremely pleased with the student body's involvement in this election," said elections commissioner Nicole Haeberle. "Fifty per­cent of the campus voting is well above national averages for colleges and shows that all of the candidates captivated the attention of Saint Mary's women." 
Haeberle added that this year's election exemplified the strides made by Saint Mary's student government in recent years.. Most notably, this elec­tion marked the first time in three years that more than one ticket ran for the student body presidency. In addition to White-Moran and Brown­Fitzgerald, Shay Jolly and Veronica Saabedra rounded out a group of candidates going into the primary elec-

per apartment," she said. 
Notre Dame junior Kathryn Wendel said the mixed atmos­phere of students and older resi­
see HOUSING/page 4 
tion, Haeberle said. 

Both White and Moran agreed, citing a respectful election with tough competi­tion. 
"It's an honor," White said. "We're delighted and thrilled to see that so much of the stu­dent body supports us. It's exciting to see the school take interest in student government through the election." 
"It really revitalized things on campus for people to know that they have a choice," Moran said of the competing candidates. 
Before taking office, White and Moran will shadow cur­rent student body president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl to better understand what their roles will include. The shad­owing process will consist of attending both administrative and student government meet­ings and evaluating the lead­ership demonstrated by past administrations. 
The ticket said that their first priority upon taking office is to welcome new College president Carol Ann Mooney on behalf of the stu­
see WHITE/page 4 
Lozar named 2004-05 Observer editor-in-chief 
Observer Staff Report 

The Observer General Board elected associate sports editor Matt Lozar as the 2004-05 editor in chief on Saturday. 
Lozar, a junior MIS major from Willoughby Hills, Ohio who lives in Keough Hall, joined T h e Observer as 


Lozar 

an interhall football reporter during his freshman year. Since then, he has covered a wide variety of sports, including football, men's basketball, softball and the national champion fencing team. 
"I look forward to the opportunity to use the experi­ence I've gained with the sports department to improve the paper as a whole," Lozar said. "It is a tremendous chal­lenge, but one I am willing to accept." 
As an associate sports edi­tor, he helped run the sports department while coordinat­ing a variety of projects. Lozar's primary responsibili­ties included planning and producing the Irish Insider special section used to pre­view multiple sports events. 
He is the fourth editor in chief in the last five years to come from the sports depart­ment. 
"I have complete confidence in Matt's ability to lead The Observer next year," outgoing editor in chief Andrew Soukup said. "He has a wealth of great ideas and an excellent relationship with the staff." 
Among the projects Lozar hopes to undertake during his tenure include establishing a recruiting and training system across all departments and getting color into the paper five days a week. 
"I was excited to see what I could do to see The Observer improve next year," Lozar said. "And I'm extremely ~ager to work with a very tal­ented staff." 
Lozar officially takes over as editor in chief on March 1. 

Monday, February 2, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Love and Hallmark 
The countdown has begun. 

As calendars flipped to February this weekend, moans of absolute agony and squeals of delight were heard echoing off of dorms and Domes alike. 
Saccharinely­

sweet red and. Amanda Michaels silver heart deco­rations have appeared in the Production most unpre­Editor dictable of locales, including the walls of South Dining Hall-and never has 24-hour fruit salad been more roman­tic. 
Sinatra is stuck solidly on repeat as couples gear up for candlelight dinners and moonlit walks, and singletons simultaneously loathe and revel in their solitude. 
The ultimate Hallmark holiday is within sight. 
That's right: Looming just beyond Groundhog Day and nestled snugly between Washington and lincoln's birthdays is Valentine's Day. Feb. 14­the holiday said to honor the patron saint of lovers, when candy, flowers and kisses are exchanged by the tons and the suicide rate rivals that of Christmas. 
In Roman times, before St. Valentine was celebrated in its place, Lupercalia was the major mid-February holiday. During the celebration, the names of Roman girls were written on slips of paper and placed into jars, and each young man would draw a name in a kind of "love lottery." The two would then be partners for the duration of the festival, and many times they would go on to marry. 
In the light of modern thought, though, this impersonal matching sys­tem may seem like the ultimate in bad blind dates to many and a mockery of the freedom of true love. To those peo­ple, may I present ... the Notre Dame dating scene. 
True couples aside, as they are clear­ly the minority on campus, dating at Notre Dame seems to consist of drink­ing, dancing, debauchery and dumping -all in the same night. From my experience, dorm parties are like little Lonely Hearts clubs for students look­ing for a quick make-out session. Given, there are many of those who go just to have fun, but they are quickly siphoned off as the music grows louder and the room steamier. 
With such an appealing alternative to the single life -who wouldn't want to be picked up and tossed out in the next breath -why not bring back the lottery of olden times? It certainly puts the "random" in "random hook-up;' and it would limit ResLife interference, as beer goggles would no longer be necessary to find a partner. Besides, the jar, perhaps in a lovely shade of pink, would go so well with the rest of South Dining Hall's decorations. 
With 12 days to go before the holi­day, as the scramble for a significant other reaches a fevered pitch, I send out a blanket plea for intelligent date choice. When faced with spending Valentine's Day with a group of friends or a drunken stranger, go with the for­mer. Unless you really like the idea of being just another name on a slip of paper. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT QUESTION WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE IN THE OBSERVER QUESTION 
OF THE DAY? 


Dave Dopller 
Senior Keenan 
"What is your favorite bug?,, 

Hope Feher 
Senior Lewis 

·:4re you a Mexi-CAN or a M exi-CAN,T? ,, 
Tad Skotnlckl 
Senior Siegfried 
"Where do you see yourselfin IO weeks?, 
Shauna Dee 
Sophomore 
Cavanaugh 
..Which member ofSon ofGlam would you want 

Matt Silent 
Junior Siegfried 
..Do you believe in a thing called love?, 
Jorge Plstonere 
Sophomore St. Edward's 
..Where have all the cowboys gone?, 



to date?,, 
; 


Techle  gives  first  son  
name 2.0  
HOLLAND,  Mich.  

Tacking Jr. or II onto a boy's name is too common, a new father decided, so the self­described engineering geek took a software approach to naming his newborn son. 
Jon Blake Cusack talked his wife, Jamie, into naming their son Jon Blake Cusack 2.0. 
Version 2.0 was born Tuesday at Holland Community Hospital, and the proud parents took him home Friday. 
"I wanted to find some­thing different to name him besides Jon Blake," Cusack, 
who is self-employed with 
Westshore  Design  and  
Cusack Music,  told  The  
Holland Sentinel.  

He said he had the idea for a few months, and spent the better part of that time persuading his wife to go along. 
Russian boxers married In the ring 
ST. PETERSBURG, Russia -There's usually a ring in a wedding ceremony, but a wedding ceremony in a ring? 
The top matchup on the Saturday night card at a St. Petersburg boxing ring was the wedding of two Russian boxers who exchanged vows -and then blows -in what they called the great­est experience of their lives. 
"We decided to have our wedding party in a boxing ring because we first met in the ring and thought it would be very symbolic," said Nikolai Kibkalo, 40, who tied the knot with Natalya Karpovich, 31. 
On Saturday night, the pair of pugilists wore tradi­tional wedding garments, but donned boxing gloves after the ceremony and duked it out for a while. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 

Eat free pizza from the Saint Mary's Student Activities Board when the Belles face off against Olivet College in bas­ketball tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Center. 
Attend the First Year of Studies' Honors Convocation from 8 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. Tuesday on the concourse of the Joyce Center. Students earning Dean's List status will be recognized. 
Come see Money Never Sleeps: Global Financial Markets, the latest film in the Higgins Center Labor Film Series' "The Working Poor in America: Climbing the Down . Escalator," from 4 to 6 p.m. tonight in the Hesburgh Auditorium. A discussion with associate professor of econom­ics Martin Wolfson will follow. 
The Class Council Leadership Summit will be held from 8 to 9 p.m. Tuesday at Legends. 
Learn about a career with the State Department from former Ambassador Curtis Kamman from 4:30 to 5:30 
p.m. Tuesday in 114 Flanner Hall. 
Audition for the Not-So­Royal Shakespeare Company's production of King Lear from 6 to 10 p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall on Wednesday. Auditions will con­sist of cold readings from the script, and additional pre­pared monologues are option­al. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. ~ 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH LOW 

23 
16 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
D: 
L&l 
::c 
~ 
L&l 
~ 
.... 
c( 
(,) 



....0 HIGH 32 HIGH 32 LOW 26 LOW 16 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

Monday, February 2, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 



Movie 'Black Barbie' Beauty·piays at SMC 
Film depicts African-American's struggles with concepts ofbeauty 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
News Wrirer 
Kareemah El-Amin's "Black Barbie Beauty," a film that portrays a young African­American woman struggling to fit in with society's image of beauty, premiered Friday night in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
~·I wanted to make this film because, growing up in the '70s and '80s, I struggled a lot with the image I saw looking in the mirror," El-Amin said. "I look at young women today, and I see these women dyeing their hair and wearing con­tacts to tty to fit in." 
Throughout "Black Barbie Beauty," the lead actress is shown staring at herself in the mirror. She applies baby powder to her skin in order to lighten her appearance and wears blue contacts with a blond wig. 
In a voiceover, the audience hears a poem that El-Amin wrote nearly seven years ago about the pain of looking dif­ferent from what mainstream America calls beautiful. 
"I wanted people to leave this film loving themselves for who they are," El-Amin said. "You should be proud of your heritage, proud of the way you look, even if you don't fit into the blond-haired, blue­eyed image." 
After the screening, which 

was only five minutes in length, an hour-long question­and-answer session was held. 
Many audience members provided El-Amin with posi­tive feedback on the film. Others shared their personal experiences with not fitting the ideal American image of beauty. 
One audience member com­mented on the lack of African-American beauty in mainstream America. 
"You just don't see black magazines on the news stands in the grocery store, and when you do see an image of African-American beauty, it's someone like Beyonce [Knowles] who has a blond hair weave and colored con­tacts," the audience member said. "This world is too slow still." 
El-Amin and the actors in the film then fielded questions and commented on the cre­ation of the movie. 
El-Amin has entered "Black Barbie Beauty" into the film festival circuit in hopes that it will reach many more young women who struggle with the way they look. 
"I think it's important to affirm young women," she said. "Don't let the main­stream influence who you are, because you are beautiful." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

In Focus conference draws 120 
By CLAIRE HEININGER Assistant News Editor 

Despite clashes over the 
publicity scheme leading up to 
the third annual AAA In Focus 
Student-Run Conference, 
executive chair Ryan Leung 
said the event successfully 
boosted recognition of Asian 
and Asian-American issues at 
Notre Dame. 

"I think that, overall, the 
conference was a success," 
Leung said Sunday. "People's 
eyes were opened to some 
things they weren't aware of 
before." • 

Leung said the conference was well attended, with 120 people present at the closing banquet and most of those also participating in various workshops throughout the day. 
"Being an all-day Saturday event, it was hard to get peo­ple to attend every workshop we had," he said. "But I'm glad we were able to get peo­ple to come to parts of it." 
Prominent Asian-Americans in a variety of career disci­plines led workshops at the conference, including actor Parry Shen's presentation of "Personal Journey," which narrated his experiences as one of the few Asian­Americans in Hollywood. 
AAA In Focus Public Relations chair Sarah Liu said the conference was eye-open­ing, but that students' interest in Asian-American concerns should not be confined to a yearly event. 
"I really hope that the ques­tions we raised ~ill go beyond just the conference this week­end," Liu said. "I hope the stu­dents who came felt empow­ered and will go out to make an impact on the Notre Dame community. I really hope that people will continue to chal­lenge others and themselves." 

While some of the flyers used to promote the event on campus were perceived as fur­thering anti-Asian stereotypes, Leung said they were not intended to be offensive. 
"I didn't get any official com­plaints, but I heard a lot of talk," he said. "Some of the flyers were seen as perpetuat­ing stereotypes, but we saw them as a method to bring issues Asian-Americans face to the forefront, to get people to discuss them and to pro­mote change." 
Advance publicity notwith­standing, the conference did bring the AAA into the spot­light. 
"A lot of people who came without any knowledge of the Asian community gained knowledge and insight," Liu said. 
Leung agreed that the goals of the weekend were achieved. 
"The most important mis­sion of the conference was to spark that fire in students' hearts to promote a better understanding of multicultural_ issues on campus," he said. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 



We J)o Mondays Like No lPiace Else! 
MISJ~AWAI<A 
4810 Grape Rd. 574-271-1330 

*Offu valid evo,ry Monday 11 am fo clo-. 
Halaga: AQur'anDiscussion and Con\~~rsation Circle ·TuHdays startiDg 
Tut.'Sda¥'! Fehruarv3-7--8:30 pm . 
.•%. 

MeditationRoom, 102 (~oleman-Mone Center Introduction on the basics ofQur~an 
& 
Discusions on Chapter 19, Yerses 1-32 


Monday, February 2, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
dents was one deciding factor in her choice to live in Castle Point next year. 
"Castle Point is the least expen­sive and nicest of the complexes, despite its longer distance from school," Wendel said. "Also, because it is not just for students, I will be able to interact with many different types of people, which is something that I think many people forget about while on campus at Notre Dame." 
In preparation for studying abroad this semester, Wendel signed her lease in early October. Some students, however, are not so prepared -causing complica­tions as the signing deadline nears. 
College Park property manager Patty Russworm said students attempting to 
renew their "As students stay here Point and leases later on longer, they know more Turtle Creek, in the year can but as soon as
and more students who 
create prob­we heard that 
lems. live off-campus. They the apart­
"Five percent think that means that ments would of them just be open for
everyone wants to 
assume that ,, our senior 
move.
since they're year, we kept already there, that as our they automati­Jeff Shoup first option," cally get their she said. "If
director of Notre Dame 
apartment next we don't get
Residence Life and Housing
year," one, we are 
nished, and we won't have to worry about paying rent and util­ities every month." 
Saint Mary's director of Residence Life Michelle Russell believes the apartments are a strong draw. 
"It's an option to the independ­ence of students without having to move away," Russell said. "You're close to class, close to the heart of campus -yet you still have your own kitchen, your own apartment. You get that free­dom. 
Saint Mary's Residence Life reported receiving more applica­tions than there are spaces for the new apartments. There will be a lottery for the 12 double and 12 quad apartments on Feb. 3. If a student is not chosen, her room deposit will roll over to the regt!­lar room drawing. 
Firmstone said relying on the dorms as a back-up plan is not an option for her. "We looked into Castle 
Russworm said. These students then are left to sign up late or not at all -College Park has been sold out of apartments since early October. 
"We have a list for the [20]05­06 school year starting already," Russworm said. "One hundred percent of all our renters are stu­dents." 
Some complexes, however, have not begun that renting process yet. The former Campus View Apartments, renamed Clover Ridge, has come under new ownership that aims to focus on this year first. 
Lisa Donlon, property manager of the recently purchased apart­ments, said the complex is remodeling and does not want to begin leasing until the renova­tions are complete. 
"So far, we're in the middle of remodeling. We're putting in new carpets, dishwashers, wash­ers and dryers -all of it," Donlon said. "We're looking to start leasing at the end of February or early March." 
Management hopes that new rent-covered inclusions such as Internet access and basic cable 
· will lure students to Clover Ridge. 
Many Saint Mary's students, however, said they will not take the bait ·-instead turning to the new on-campus apartments. 
·· Junior Michele Firmstone said the proximity of the apartments is a major selling point. "It's convenient. There's no driving issue," Firmstone said. "The apartments are already fur-
still moving off 
campus." 

Jeff Shoup, director of Notre Dame's Residence Life and Housing, said the popular per­ception of the entire senior class moving off campus is miscon­strued. 
"There actually aren't a lot of students moving off-campus," Shoup said. "As students stay here longer, they know more and more students who live off-cam­pus. They think that means that everyone wants to move." 
Shoup said that on average, 5 percent of sophomores, 25 per­cent of juniors and 55 percent of seniors choose to live off-campus. Notre Dame had difficulties fmd­ing space for all the students liv­ing on campus this year, he said. 
"We had more students return to campus this year than the year before," Shoup said. "We began the year with no openings and had 30 people on the waiting list for housing." 
Notre Dame eventually convert­ed over 30 lounges into dorm rooms and now has four or five spaces available on campus. However, many students are attracted by the freedom that off­campus housing offers and are making the decision to move now. 
"My friends who had lived off campus previously really enjoyed the independence and freedom that off-campus housing provided them," Wendel said. "I am look­ing forward to those very things." 
Contact Nicole Zook at Zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

Registrar's office. "The Healy ticket and the
Election 
continued from page 1 

Bell tickets to be approved, Coughlin said that both were approved by the Office of Student Affairs on Jan. 22, but were held up in the Istvan ticket [were faxed] to the Registrar's office on Jan. 
21. We dido't hear anything from them," Coughlin said. 
"When the Craft ticket showed up ... we faxed their names, and we re-faxed the Healy and Istvan tickets. 
not the only ones who will be doing all of the work," White

White 

said. "It's everyone who is continued from page 1 interested and wants to get involved." 
Confident in their leader­dent body. This goal will be ship capabilities, White and followed closely by their sec­Moran look forward to repre­ond priority to form a Board senting students' voices in a 
• of Governance. year filled with internal and "We truly realize that we're external change on Saint When they [were approved] .. , there was a little note say­ing 'Sorry for the delay.' They were in the Registrar's office for five days." Coughlin said. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
Mary's campus. 

"I think Sarah Catherine and Mary Pauline will do a fabulous job transitioning into their new roles and tak­ing the lead in furthering stu­dent government," Haeberle said. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at Wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
Lecture to· discuss the 'other' Americas 
Speical to The Observer 

J. Michael Dash, professor of French and director of the Africana Studies Program at New York University, will deliv­er a lecture titled "The Relating Island: The South of the South in the Americas" at 4 p.m. today at the Eck Center auditorium. 
Presented by the University's Working Group for the Americas, in conjunction with its Institute for Latino Studies and African and African­American Studies Program, the event is free and open to the public and will be followed by a reception. The lecture is a con­tinuation of the "Caribbean Inventions" conference held last fall at Notre Dame. 
Born in Trinidad, Dash previ­ously served for 21 years as professor of Francophone liter­ature and chair of modern lan­guages at the University of the West Indies in Jamaica. He spe­cializes in the study of Haitian literature and French Caribbean writers, especially Edouard Glissant, whose works "The Ripening" and "Caribbean Discourse" he has translated into English. He is the author of numerous books, including "The Other America: Caribbean Literature in a New World Context," "Libete: A Haiti Anthology" [with Charles Arthur]. and "Culture and Customs of Haiti." 
The event is co-sponsored by Notre Dame's Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, Kellogg Institute for International Studies. Cushwa Center for the Study of American· Catholicism, the Departments of Romance Languages & Literatures,English and Anthropology, and French and Francophone Studies. 

I..Jafayette Square To"vnhomes 

• Only !) .Blocks ft~..)m Campus 
+ . t,aundry Ai"Ctt '\\-ith W;isb~ and Dryer . 
· • ··· ·· Fully Fqllipperl Kitthcii Inchtding Dishwasher an4#iarbagc Disposal 
+ · Private Patio 

• ADT AJ:mn S}·s~ (Optional Monitoring) 
+ C~tral Air Conditiomng 

• Assigned Purkin8 . + Ent.-rgy Efficient Gas Heating 
+ Profmionally M.a·oagcd 

• 24 · .U.our :Emergency On-Call Malritcnancc 
Hor 1\Wre Triformnti.O:.n: .R.cat Estai\: Management Corporation P.0. Box 540 South Bend, TN 46624 ·. Tdcpbon~; 57+2.14-9923 Facsimile: 574-234·~)925 Jhlad(it<chrc:?J1:~Qm,· 

I~rotre Datne Apartn1c11ts 
• Jwrt 4 Bloc.ks Somh ofthe N-otre Dume Campus 
+ Spaciol.tS 2-.Bedroom ~o\.partrnerHs on Notre Dame Avenue 
• Currenl 1-ye.lr & 10-m.onth Leases Available 
+ On-Site I...aundry Fru::ility 

• 2 Closers an~ lOcsk in Euch Bedroom 
+ Plivate Patk1ng Lots 

• 
24 -hour On-Call Emerltency Mahttenancc 

• 
Up to 4 PeT~ms Per Apartment 


For Mor~ WJ.P.n~mtio.u: Real f$lale Man&gml"'lctlt Corporation P.O. Box 540 
South Bent.~ TN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Jhlad.\~ichresh&~·ml 


Monday, February 2, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Hundreds killed in hajj disaster 
MINA, Saudi Arabia -At least 244 people were trampled to death and hundreds more hurt Sunday under the crush of worshippers in one of the deadliest disasters during the annual Muslim pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. 
The stampede occurred during the stoning of the devil, an emotional and notoriously perilous ha.ij ritual. Pilgrims frantically throw rocks, shout insults or hurl their shoes at three stone pillars -acts that are supposed to demonstrate their deep disdain for Satan. 
The stampede broke out on one of two ramps leading to the 50-foot stone pillars. Tens of thousands of people were on the uppermost ramp, which is about the width of a five-lane highway. 
Islamic leaders now Israeli targets 
JERUSALEM -The leaders of violent Islamic groups are targets for assassination, Israel's defense minister said Sunday. raising the possibility of a further escalation in the three years of Israeli-Palestinian bloodshed. 
Shaul Mofaz issued the threat in response to a declaration by the spiritual leader of Hamas, Sheik Ahmed Yassin, that the group plans an all-out effort to kidnap Israeli sol­diers. 
"The statements of Yassin just emphasize the need to strike the heads of Hamas and the Islamic Jihad," Mofaz told the weekly meeting of the Israeli Cabinet, according to an Israeli official who attended the meeting. 
The statements by Mofaz and Yassin threaten to inflame an alreadv violent con­frontation that has led to the d-eaths of more than 3,500 people on both sides during three years of fighting. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Bush to order intelligence probe 
WASHINGTON -President Bush, under mounting political pressure, will sign an executive order to establish a full investiga­tion of U.S. intelligence failures in Iraq, a senior White House official said Sunday. 
The investigation will look at what the United States believed it knew before the war against Saddam Hussein's regime and what has been determined since the inva­sion. Former chief weapons inspector David Kay has concluded that Iraq did not possess weapons of mass destruction, a chief ration­ale for the U.S.-led war. 
The investigation will examine not only Iraq but also intelligence issues dealing with stateless groups such as terrorists and secre­tive regimes such as North Korea, the official said, insisting on· anonymity. Given the broad mandate of the investigation, it is not likely to be completed before the November elec­tions. Bush had resisted an investigation of Iraq intelligence but agreed to an inquiry amid growing pressure. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Ind. Guard members deployed 
INDIANAPOLIS -About 800 National Guard members from Indiana and other states who are heading to Bosnia­Herzegovina on peacekeeping duty received a warm sendoff at a ceremony attended by Gov. Joe Kernan and other dignitaries. 
About 500 Indiana Guard members were among the group that Kernan ch~racterized as "well-trained and up to the task, no mat­ter what the task." 
"Know that you have the unconditional support of every man, woman and child that calls Indiana home," Kernan, a decorated Navy veteran, told the group Saturday at the Indiana Convention Center. 
The Indiana-based troops being deployed are from the Indianapolis-based 38th Infantry Division, the Terre Haute-based 38th Support Battalion and the 138th Personnel Services Battalion. 
IRAQ 






Suicide bombers hit Kurd headquarters 
Associated Press  
IRBIL -Two suicide  
bombers with explosives  
wired to their bodies  
struck the offices of the  
country's two main  
Kurdish parties in nearly  
simultaneous attacks  
Sunday, killing at least 56  
people and wounding more  
than 235 in the deadliest  
assault in Iraq in six  
months.  
The attacks struck in the  
Kurdish heartland and  
took a heavy toll among  
senior leaders of Iraq's  
most pro-American ethnic  
group.  
Elsewhere, an American  
soldier was killed and 12  
were wounded in a rocket  
attack on a logistics base  
in Balad, 50 miles north of  
Baghdad, the U.S. com­ 
mand said. The death  
raised to 523 the number  
of U.S. service members  
who have died since the  
Iraq conflict began in  
March.  
The Irbil attackers  
slipped into the offices of  
the Kurdistan Democratic  
Party (KDP) and the  
Patriotic Union of  
Kurdistan (PUK) along with  
hundreds of well..wishers  
Reutersgathering for the Muslim  
The blast of a suicide bomber Sunday ripped apart the headquarters of the Patrioticholiday of Eid al-Adha, or  
the Feast of Sacrifice. Union of Kurdlstan, one of the primary Kurdish political parties In Iraq.  
Kurdish television said  
both bombers were  marked the first time per­ poin~ [about who is respon­ rorism together.  
dressed as Muslim clerics.  petrators have worn explo­ sible]. It could be Ansar al­ "These terrorist acts are  
Leaders of both parties,  sives rather than using  Islam. It could be al-Qaida.  against the Islamic religion  
whose militias fought  vehicles.  It could be any of a n urn­ and humanity and we shall  
alongside U.S. soldiers  Sunday's blasts came a  her of foreign terrorist  work more seriously  
during the invasion of Iraq  day after a car bomb out­ groups operating in Iraq,"  toward uniting our  
last year, were receiving  side a police station in the  said U.S. Brig. Gen. Mark  [Kurdish] government,"  
hundreds of visitors to  northern city of Mosul  Kimmitt, coalition deputy  Talabani said. "We will  
mark the start of the four­ killed at least nine people.  chief of staff for opera­ work together in order to  
day holiday when the  Hours later, a mortar  tions. .  live in a democratic, feder­ 
blasts went off.  attack hit a Baghdad  U.S. administrator L.  al Iraq."  
Guards said they did not  neighborhood, killing five  Paul Bremer pledged to  No matter who was  
search people because of  people and wounding four.  work with Iraqi security  behind them, the blasts  
the tradition of receiving  U.S. officials said foreign  forces to capture those  may heighten tensions  
guests during the holiday.  militants or Ansar al­ behind Sunday's bombings.  between the Kurds and  
Neither party's top leader  Islam, an al-Qaida-linked  The attackers "are seeking  Sunni Arabs. As U.S. and  
-Jalal Talabani of the  Is!amic militant group  to halt Iraq's progress on  Iraqi leaders try to map  
PUK and Massoud Barzani  based in the north thai has  the path to sovereignty and  out the country's new form  
of the KDP -was in Irbil  frequently clashed with the  democracy," Bremer said  of government, some  
when the attacks occurred.  Kurds, may have carried  in a statl1ment.  Arabs have sharply  
Although Iraq has suf­ out the attacks. There was  In statements, the lead­ opposed Kurdish demands  
fered numerous suicide  no immediate claim of  ers of both parties, once  to retain or even expand  
bombings in recent  responsibility.  bitter rivals, expressed  their self-rule region in the  
months, the attack Sunday  "We have no proof at this  their resolve to fight ter­ north.  






Rovers still plagued by software 
mation back to Earth. Even with the computer glitch, engi­
Associated Press 

Once its flash memory is reformat­neers believe at least one of the 384­
LOS ANGELES-NASA said Sunday ted, Adler said, Spirit should be able pound robots may last longer than its Spirit rover was a week away from to leave the low-power mode, which their warranted 90-day lifetimes. A rolling on Mars again and that the has restricted nighttime operations, 15-watt heater that's been turning on software problem vexing the space­and begin operating normally again, unnecessarily on Opportunity may craft may trouble both it and its twin, by Tuesday at the earliest. curtail its extended mission, however. Opportunity, for the duration of their "Then I think we can declare we NASA scientists said the solar-pow­double-barreled mission. are completely back in our normal ered spacecraft have ample time to 
Engineers deleted more files from mode," Adler said during a confer­roam like no other mission to Mars Spirit's flash memory but held off ence call with reporters. ever has. Once underway, the rovers from reformatting it completely until Engineers will have to keep deleting could cover thousands of yards Monday -giving them more time to computer files from Spirit's flash apiece. diagnose ongoing problems, mission memory to keep their numbers low ··1 don't think the mobility side of manager Mark Adler said. NASA orig­enough for the rover's random-access the equation has hit us in the head inally planned to perform the task memory to manage. The same will be yet," project manager Pete Theisinger Saturday. done for Opportunity. said recently. ·The first time we take 
The rover has been hampered by Engineers also may regularly refor­a panorama and the lander's not problems since Jan. 21, when it mat the robots' flash memory, per­there, it will hit home what we've stopped transmitting intelligible infor-haps every week or two, Adler said. accomplished." 

Monday, February 2, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
IRAN 
One-third of legislators resign 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN -More than one­third of Iran's lawmakers resigned in protest Sunday over disputed elections and the par­liamentary speaker charged ruling clerics with trampling on the rights of his countrymen. 
Speaker Mahdi Karroubi appealed to Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to help resolve the crisis caused by disqualitication of thousands of liberal candidates from the Feb. 20 vote. 
Some 124 Iawmakers in the 290-seat Majlis, or parliament, resigned Sunday in a dramatic gesture intended to force the clerical hierarchy to reinstate the disqualified candidates. 
The mass resignation "will determine Iran's direction: rule of absolute dictatorship or democracy," reformist lawmak­er Mohammad Kianoush-Rad told The Associated Press. 
Karroubi said he and reformist President Mohammad Khatami started new efforts to resolve the crisis, holding dis­cussions with Khamenei, who has the final say on all state matters. 
But Khamenei left the capital Tehran for an undisclosed loca­tion, making it difficult to reach him, parliamentary officials said. 
Karroubi, the parliamentary speaker, launched a rare verbal attack on the Guardian Council, the unelected body of hard-line clerics that disqualified more than 2,400 reformist candidates from the legislative elections. 
"Are you loyal to Islam if you pray daily, but then trample on the rights of the people?" said Karroubi, himself a cleric. 
He accused the Guardian Council, whose 12 members are appointed by Khamenei, of "dis­respecting democratic values and having no faith in a popular vote." 
The furor began in early January when the Guardian Council disqualified more than 3,600 of the 8,200 people who filed papers to run in the polls. After protests and an opinion from Khamenei, the council on Friday restored 1,160 low-pro­file candidates to the list. 
Reformists say the council disqualified liberal candidates to fix the election in favor of conservatives. Hard-liners lost control of the parliament in elections four years ago, and repeatedly have thwarted Khatami's efforts toward greater democracy and a relax­ation of the Islamic social code. 
The council denies political motives and argues that the dis­qualified candidates lacked the criteria to stand for election, even though more than 80 of them were elected in 2000. 
Those lawmake·rs resigned Sunday. 
"An election whose result is clear beforehand is a treason to the rights and ideals of the nation," resigning legislators Rajah Ali Mazrouei told the par­liament. 
The leader of the biggest reform party in parliament, Mohammad Reza Khatami, resigned and accused the Guardian Council of killing all opportunities for resolving the dispute. 
"There is no hope for a solu­tion. We will not participate in this sham election. Even if all those disqualified are reinstated today, there will be no time for competition. Elections on Feb. 20 are illegitimate," said Reza Khatami, the president's younger brother and a deputy speaker. 
Iran's leading reformist party, the Islamic Iran Participation Front, has called a meeting Monday and is expected to announce a boycott of the polls. 
President Khatami called an emergency Cabinet meeting to discuss the dispute Saturday, but was forced to postpone it when he suffered severe back pain and was confined to his house by doctors. 
On Saturday, President Khatami suggested his govern­ment would call off the elec­tions. 
"My government will only hold competitive and free elec­tions ... the parliament must represent the views of the majority and include all [politi­cal] tendencies," he said. 
If he follows through, that would leave voting in the hands of hard-liners most likely rely­ing on elite Revolutionary Guards and supporting military forces to organize the polls. 
Many hard-line legislators did not attend Sunday's session, apparently hoping to deny it a quorum. But the quorum of 194 of the Majlis' total 290 seats was reached. 
Inmates surrender as standoff ends 
Associated Press 
BUCKEYE, Ariz. -A correc­tions officer was released Sunday from the prison guard tower where she had been held hostage by a pair of inmates for two weeks, a Corrections Department spokeswoman said. 
The inmates surrendered, corrections spokeswoman Cam Hunter said. 
Hunter said the guard, whose name was not released, was receiving medical atten­tion. 
The surrender at the medi­um-to high-security Arizona State Prison Complex-Lewis ended one of the nation's long·est prison hostage situa­tions in decades. Negotiators had regular contact with inmates throughout the stand­off, and at times had seen the guard or talked to her by tele­phone 
The standoff at the 4,400­inmate prison west of Phoenix began Jan. 18 when an inmate attacked two guards and another worker in a kitchen area. That prisoner and another inmate then got into the observation tower, where they took the two guards hostage. 
One of the correctional offi­cers -a man -was released Jan. 24. 
The inmates were identified 
by prison officials as Ricky Wassenaar, 40, and Steven Coy, 39. 
Wassenaar is serving 28 years for armed robbery and assault. 
Steven Coy, who is serving a life sentence, has spent the better part of two decades in Arizona prisons. His offenses include theft, burglary, crimi­nal damage and drug posses­sion. He was sentenced to life after a 1993 crime spree in Tucson that included armed robbery, aggravated assault and rape. 
Both Coy and Wassenaar have committed numerous infractions while in prison, officials said. 

Shuttle anniversary 
commemorated 

Associated Press 
' 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­One year after Columbia broke apart and fell in flaming streaks from the Texas sky, NASA workers who launched the shuttle and its seven astro­nauts and then gathered up the remains stood united in sorrow Sunday at the precise moment of destruction. 
The first anniversary of the catastrophe was a time for everyone -rocket engineers, debris searchers, school chil­dren, space enthusiasts, even football fans -to pause and remember. 
"One year ago, at this very hour, the unthinkable occurred," Kennedy Space Center's director, Jim Kennedy, told the crowd of a few hun­dred who gathered on a gray, drizzly morning at NASA's astronauts memorial. 
Kennedy quietly recited the names of the Columbia astro­nauts, carved into the black granite monument behind him: Commander Rick Husband, co­pilot William McCool, Michael Anderson, David Brown, Kalpana Chawla, Laurel Clark and Israel's first astronaut, Han Ramon. 
"They were our friends. They are our heroes. Their loss will not be in vain. We will come back bigger, better and stronger than ever before, and I can assure you that crew and their beloved families will never, ever be forgotten," Kennedy said. 
Almost all of the mourners held a long-stemmed rose. After the brief outdoor cere­mony, they tucked the red, yel­low, peach and ivory-colored roses into the white fence sur­rounding the memorial. 
Many wiped away tears. 
The ceremony began at 9 a.m., the instant NASA lost communication with Columbia over Texas on Feb. 1, 2003. 
It ended at 9:16 a.m., the time the spacecraft should have landed on the Kennedy Space Center runway. By then, Columbia had shattered into tens of thousands of pieces that crashed down on Texas and Louisiana. 
A piece of fuel-tank foam insulation had torn a hole in Columbia's left wing during the mid-January liftoff and allowed hot atmospheric gases . to enter during atmospheric re-entry. 



Kidnapped woman 
discovered alive 
Associated Press 
WHEELING, Ill.-A woman was found severely beaten, wrapped in duct tape and inside a plastic garbage can in her ex-husband's storage unit on Sunday, a day after she called 911 from the back of his truck saying he had abducted her. 
Teri Jendusa-Nickolai, 38, was in serious but stable condi­tion at a Park Ridge hospital, Wheeling Deputy Police Chief John Stone said. 
Jendusa-Nickolai, of Wind Lake, Wis., was found in a stor­age facility near the airport where her ex-husband, David Larsen, works, Stone said. An 
employee of ..We again rejoiced Chicago had no the facility comment on the
and we thanked
found her after case Sunday and
the Lord for all of
walking past the FBI could not Larsen's unit our prayers being immediately be and hearing a reached.
answered.·· 
mulled sound, Jendusa-Nickolai he said. had last been heard 
Jan Johnson 
Jendusa­from when she Nickolai had family friend made a 911 call 
baby sitter Larsen had left them with. 
··when we got the good news that Teri had been located, we again rejoiced and we thanked the Lord for all of our prayers being answered," said Jan Johnson, a friend of Jendusa­Nickolai's family. 
Multiple jurisdictions are involved in the case because Jendusa-Nickolai apparently was abducted in Wind Lake, about 50 miles northwest of Wheeling. 
Authorities said it was not immediately clear where official charges against Larsen would be filed. Stone said federal charges would be filed in the case, but the U.S. attorney's office in 

been wrapped in duct tape and placed inside "a big plastic garbage can," Stone said. She had been severely beaten, Racine County, Wis., Sheriff Bob Carlson said at a news confer­ence. 
Larsen, 39, was arrested Saturday when he reported for work as an air traffic controller at Palwaukee Municipal Airport. He was in custody Sunday on an initial charge of false imprisonment. 
Jendusa-Nickolai's rescue was a relief to her family, who were terrified Saturday with the disappearance not only of her but of her two young daughters. Amanda Larsen, 6, and Holly Larsen, 4, were found with a from her cell phone 
Saturday after­noon, saying Larsen had bound her hands and placed her in the back of his truck. 
A neighbor said they saw Larsen driving away from his home in his pickup truck Saturday morning, towing a trailer with his ex-wife's car on it. Jendusa-Nickolai's empty 1994 silver Camry was later found parked on a Milwaukee street, near a rental property owned by Larsen, Carlson said. 
Jendusa-Nickolai had obtained a restraining order against Larsen for domestic abuse on Jan. 22, and the two were in court recently for a child custody hearing, accord­ing to sherifl"s· officials. 


Monday, February 2, 2004 

page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

fc,~~s 10,488.07 -22.22 
"t' Same: ~ Composite Volume:
I, 01 174 • 1,638,835,968 
AMES(. 'We .. ·~~'• 1,i97.l~f·i~~[+2':41~' ­


~DAQ ,~,-!:~~t!~:iL;tw:~:g~"'S;'''' 0 
s&P 500 1,131.13 -2.98 
NII<K£1(Tokyo) 10,783.61 +4.17 
. Wi 

FTS£ IOO(London) 4,390.70 -20.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.96 -0.25 25.71 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.20 -0.37 30.52 
JDS UNIPHASE USDU) +3.24 +0.16 5.10 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.33 -0.33 13.86 
MICROSOFT ~p (MSFT) -0.93 -0.26 27.65 


Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.00 -0.50 49.65 
10-YEAR NOTE -1.41 -0.59 41.38 
5-YEAR NOTE -1.87 -0.60 3 I .50 
3-MONTH BILL -2.18 -0.20 8.97 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.24 33.05 
GOLD ($[Troy oz.) +3.50 402.90 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.40 84.925 
Exchan e Rates 

YEN 105.8 
EURO 0.8022 
POUND 0.5482 
CANADIAN$ 1.325 
IN BRIEF 
Winn-Dixie reports severe losses 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -Supermarket chain 
Winn-Dixie Stores Inc. reported a loss for the 
latest quarter, suspended its dividend and 
announced plans to cut $100 million in annual 
costs that could include store closings. 
The announcements Friday came as Standard & Poor's lowered Winn-Dixie's corporate debt rating and said it was reviewing the situation to see if further reductions were warranted. Wino­Dixie shares tumbled $2.53, or 28 percent, to close at $6.56 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
The company, which operates a 1 ,078-store chain in 12 Southeastern states and the Bahamas, said Friday it plans to cut payroll and corporate services, sell money-losing stores and tighten its centralized purchasing. 

US. Steel reports fourth-quarter losses 
PITTSBURGH -U.S. Steel Corp. on Friday reported a net loss for the fourth quarter fol­lowing a year in which the company pared down its work force and shed a money-losing online venture. But its sales jumped with the acquisitions of steel firms in the United States and Europe. 
The world's largest integrated steel company reported a loss of $27 million, or 26 cents per share, in the last three months of 2003 com­pared with a profit of $11 million, or 10 cents per share, for the same period in 2002. The loss includes dividend payments on preferred stock of $5 million. 
The consensus forecast of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call was for a loss of 37 cents per share. U.S. Steel shares rose $1.34 to close at $34.05 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Chevron-Texaco's profits double 
SAN RAMON, Calif. -ChevronTexaco Corp.'s fourth-quarter profit nearly doubled, capping a year in which the oil giant. cashed in on high fuel prices to snap out of a financial malaise. 
The San Ramon-based company said Friday that it earned $1.7 billion, or $1.63 per share, during 2003's final three months. That marked a dramatic improvement from net income of $904 million, or 85 cents per share, at the same time in the p(ior .Y~.ar~, _ .. _.. 
COMPUTING AND ELECTRONICS 
Gateway to buy eMachines 
A5Sociated Press 

SAN DIEGO -In its lat­
est attempt to find profits 
in the notoriously low­
margin personal computer 
business, Gateway Inc. 
will buy privately held 
eMachines Inc. in a deal 
vaiued at $235 million. 
The combined company 
"'"NW>"'---.....__ ""··-···----..................
would still trail Dell Inc. 
-··-----­
--·-··--...........
and Hewlett-Packard Co.. 
----·-···-.:.__ 
---··----..­
but executives hope the 

----_ 
--..·---·--....._
increased volume will give 
-·--.........-.............,..____ 
it more leverage in negoti­
ating with suppliers. A 
similar argument was 
made when HP announced 
it was buying Compaq 
Computer Corp. in 2001. 
"There's an element of 
last man standing here," 
said Roger Kay, an analyst 
at the research firm IDC. 
"The PC industry is defi­
nitely consolidating and, 
at this stage, bulk counts." 
. Gateway and eMachines each had about 3.4 per­cent of.the total U.S. mar­ket in the fourth quarter of last year, according to IDC. By comparison, Dell and HP together com­manded more than half. 
The agreement announced Friday came a day after Gateway posted its 12th loss in 13 quar­
ters, a result of sharply Two customer service representatives work at an Illinois Gateway store 
declining sales and 
Wednesday.. Gateway announced Its $235 million acquisition of eMachlnes Friday.
charges related to its makeover from a personal luster holiday sales failed cally gets answered" by mostly in Orange County, computer maker to con­to validate its gamble to the acquisition. hiring outside firms and sumer electronics compa­branch into consumer Once the deal is closed selling its lower-end PCs ny. electronics. in about six to eight through major electronics 
"Competing against Dell Last year, Gateway's PC weeks, Waitt will be retailers, including Best and HP is tough," said shipments fell 24 percent replaced by eMachines' Buy, Circuit City Stores Stephen Baker, an analyst to just under 2.1 million CEO, Wayne Inouye. Waitt, Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores for NPD Group Inc. "There units. EMachines shipped 41, will remain Gateway's Inc. isn't anything they can do 1. 9 million PCs last year, chairman. Inouye, 51, was Gateway, which employs to close that gap that meaning the transaction senior vice president of about 7,500 people, sells would be meaningful. would effectively double computer merchandising its higher-end gear at its That gap is so big that Gateway's PC business. at Best Buy Co. before shrinking chain of 190 there's just nothing you Ted Waitt, who founded joining eMachines in 2001 stores and over the can do." Gateway in 1985 and to turn around the then­Internet and phone. 
Gateway's revenue last returned as chief execu­struggling company. Gateway said it had no year was little more than tive in 2001, said skepti­The two companies, plans to carry the one-third what it was in cism by analysts about the which began negotiating eMachines brand in its 2000. The company intro­future of the company's PC about a month ago, have stores and hasn't duced a raft of flat-panel business, which still targeted different cus­approached eMachines' TVs, cameras and music accounts for about 70 per­tomers. EMachines retailers about carrying players last year, but lack-cent of its revenue, "basi-employs only 138 people, the Gateway brand. 
AIR TRAVEL 

ATA strikes deal with bondholders 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -The parent company of ATA Airlines Inc. reached agreement with bondhold­ers Friday, buying itself more time to repay debt and ease a cash crunch that threatened to bankrupt the nation's 1Oth largest carrier. 
ATA Holdings Corp. said it had met conditions for completing a bond exchange offer. The conditions included gaining satisfactory con­sent from bondholders and complet­ing amendments for leasing Boeing 737s and 757s that ATA had ordered before the Sept. 11 attacks. 
ATA also said it had won approval from the federal Air Transportation Stabilization Board, which guaran­tees loans to airlines. 
The low-fare carrier had faced the prospect of paying off $300 mil­lion in debt over two years while making aircraft lease payments. 
Friday's announcement "will cer­tainly give ATA a lot of breathing room to recover from the last cou­ple years of industry difficulties," said Richard Bittenbender, an air­line analyst at Moody's Investors Service. 
ATA shares closed up 41 cents, or 
3.3 percent, at $12.84 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 
Indianapolis-based ATA said last summer that it could not meet debt obligations unless it won mor~ ti,me_ , to repay bondholders. The airline warned of a possible Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing unless it secured new repayment terms. 
Under the bond swap, ATA has more time to repay $175 million in bond notes originally due in August and $125 million in notes that were due next year. In exchange for stretching out the repayments, bondholders receive more favorable interest and cash consideration terms. 
ATA made its initial bond exchange offer Aug. 29, but was forced to revise the terms and extend the offer's deadline several times after failing to win enough bondholder ~uppo~t. . I 
, I 


p

page 8 Monday, February 2, 2004 



• 
Don't appeal to Catholicism 
Speculating whether a more Catholic voter should choose a Republican or Democrat is an exer­cise in both absurdity and intellectu­al insecurity. Anyone who requires the comfort of 
Bill Rlnner
knowing that God will approve of his vote to either retain 
A Voice of
or oust George W. 
Reason

Bush is bound to be disappointed and should reevaluate the purpose of vot­ing. 
No matter how much you are influ­enced by Catholic social teaching. it's no surprise that the distribution of issues across the party platforms makes neither Democrats or Republicans truly shine from a pure­ly Catholic perspective. 
Democrats would never nominate a candidate who would sign a ban on abortion or nominate S.upreme Court justices who would overturn "Roe v. Wade," and the incumbent Republican facilitated what Catholic social teaching considers an unjust war in Iraq. There you have it; now get over it. 
The reality of the modern political arena is that no candidate will ever espouse every social tenet of Catholicism, so many try to find com­fort in the ability to weigh certain Catholic issues and vote for the less­er of two evils. It is an unfortunate position for any voter to find himself in, but I take issue with anyone who allows such a strong religious bias into their voting preferences. 
No single vote will ever make you more or less of a Catholic, and those who seek divine inspiration for their voting.patterns will likely end up at the polling booth trumpeting a skewed notion of God's will. To even suggest that Catholics should only vote for a single candidate is an insult to the church's endorsement of 
in election 
free will as God's greatest gift to humanity. 
If a priest mentions in his homily that you, as a good Catholic, should vote for a specific candidate, then you are not hearing the voice of a mediator between the human and the divine, but rather a human who is abusing his office and has the same political biases as the rest of us. The Church, or any member of it, should never make our voting deci­sions for us. and to suggest other­wise is to sanction a severe injustice. 
So why would someone conceivably appeal to his religious faith as justifi­cation for his political preferences? 
Simply put, the answer is insecuri­ty. We live in an era where complete deconstruction of political figures is now as American as apple pie. During our lifetimes. the prestigious role of the president has eroded sig­nificantly after countless scandals and a media that revels in inflating every minor shortcoming or mis­speak for the sake of higher ratings. I don't challenge or bemoan this development, which is the product of a free society, but I can understand that those with only moderate politi­cal views would feel insecure choos­ing between two flawed candidates. 
As a natural but unfortunate con­sequence, those who grew up in a wholly Catholic atmosphere and con­sider their faith to be crucial to most aspects of their lifestyles will gravi­tate toward the realm of religious reasoning during each election cycle. It happens all the time. You couldn't decide if you preferred Bush or Gore during the 2000 election; neither had a character or platform that was a perfect match for your personal views, so you looked at your "W.W.J.D?" wristband for some sign of inspiration. 
Oh, the folly of man. 
The solution I offer to this tendency is purely a challenge: Grow beyond the bonds of your religious back­ground and develop your vision, foremost, for which candidate would best serve the country. Reevaluate your reasoning for political views and how you would express them in elections. 
Listen to your conscience regarding political issues, not your religion. If you can't distinguish the two, then make sure you have arrived at those conclusions through a reasoned analysis of your opinion, not just because it makes sense within the confines of your religious views. The loudest voice in your head should be your own intellect, not what you heard at Mass this weekend. 
Better yet, when you finally decide for whom to vote in the upcoming election, make sure that you support the party you believe offers the best vision for the future of America based on the curr~nt domestic and international climate, not some utopian religious view of how America "should" be that is inconsis­tent with the reality of the modern world. 
We don't ask God how to run our country, nor does He directly influ­ence any election, which is a testa­ment to the free will of mankind. Claiming that a true Catholic should only vote in one direction is only a flawed way to alleviate a troubled conscience, and this mindset is unhealthy for the nation as a whole. 
Bill Rinner is a junior economics major studying abroad at the London School ofEconomics. He's a religious introvert who promised himself never to write about religion but changed his mind. He can be contacted at wrinner@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Appreciat~ng NDSP 
I am currently a junior here at Notre Dame, and for severe allergic reaction and had to be taken to the hospi­almost three years I have heard many negative stories tal. At five in the morning, an NDSP officer was helpful concerning the NDSP while positive experiences seem to enough to give my roommate a ride back to campus and have been at a minimum. I myself had had neither a bad drove him right to the front door of the dorm. nor good experience with the NDSP, until last Friday. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the men 
Upon walking out to the 06 parking lot and finding that and women of the NDSP for doing more than what is snow had been plowed two feet high around my car, I required of them, and to the rest of us students: Cut these knew I would need help getting my car out of the parking guys some slack -they aren't so bad after all. space. After about five minutes of my futile attempts to remove such large quantities of snow by myself, an NDSP Michael Milligan officer drove up and offered to let me borrow a snow 
)UfllOf 

shovel. After clearing a path, the officer then helped push O'Neill Hall my car out of the parking space and I was on my way. Feb. I Only a week before, my roommate had suffered a 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
OBSERVER POLL 
Joe Troin.bello Sports What new residence hall options would 
"Politics and the pulpit are terms that have
Matthew Pat Leonard 
you like to see at Notre Dame? 
little agreement.,, 
Smedberg .· Matt Puglisi . 
Viewpoint Scene 
Eileen Duffy Maria Smith Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
Edmund Burke 
Illustrator www.ndsmcobserver.com 
author 
Pat Quill 

• 

Edwards, not Kerry, will depose Bush 
Governor Howard Dean's barbaric yawp, in one fell swoop, derailed his campaign. The conservative strategists, aiming to paint Dean as an angry liber­al, found in The Scream the fullest 
expres~ion of the Roque Strew 
erstwhile frontrun­
ner's lunatic fury. 
Luckily for the GOP, 
Straight, No
the press promptly 
Chaser
turned The Scream 
into an Event, and 
that, more or less, is the story of the 
doctor's self-administered coup de 
grace. 
But how lucky was the GOP? Many believed, after all, that Dean was less electable, or more liberal, than Sen. John Kerry or Sen. John Edwards. In fact, the right-wing National Review had its fingers crossed for months, praying Dean would keep ahead of the other candidates. In other words, with Dean now (I think) out of the picture, the right now faces a few more formi­dable challengers. 
Let's examine the big two, Kerry and Edwards. Where some sense gravitas, I find in Kerry an affected solemnity. None of his rhetoric rings true to me, especially in light of his voting record. His flip-flopping runs the gamut, which bespeaks either plainjane opportunism or ideological incoherence, perhaps a mix of the two. 
After his wins in Iowa and New Hampshire, "The New Republic" sub­jected Kerry to closer scrutiny. What they found was a man attacked in the past as a "soft-on-crime, soft-on-wel­fare, crazed-on-taxes paleoliberal." Rove will mine that quarry happily ­and more aggressively-but it'll be an uphill battle to gainfully weigh Kerry's "early years as a warrior, protester, prosecutor and legislator" against "Bush's early years as a drinker." 
However, it's the later years where 
Kerry falters. As much as Kerry's recent legislative hijinks worry me, so does his cam­paign. If you look at every cam­paign excepting Edwards'. Dean's and Kerry's espe­cially, you'll encounter the inevitable exchange of criti­cisms, some even verging on smear. But Edwards has, from the outset, run a positive campaign. Even conser­vatives have applauded Edwards' serenity. 
Add to that 
his biography. 
What 

Edwards shares with Clark is an authentically plebeian, not patrician, back­ground-he's not another affluent Bulldog churned out by Yale, like Dean, Kerry, Lieberman and Bush. (In fact, Bush and Kerry were even members of the same infamous "secret socie­ty" of elites at Yale, Skull and Bones.) Edwards, on the other hand, went to North Carolina State. Unlike Bush, he didn't attend an exclusive prep school. And he doesn't hail from a political dynasty or oil money. On the contrary, his father worked in a textile mill. Which, then, can better relate to Middle America? 
Notre Dame's own College 
Democrats, a predominantly female 
group, share a strong balance of opti­
mism and outrage. Bush won't serve another term -not on their watch. But my handful of experiences with them also suggest to me something else: a collective hope that, after each successful debate; Edwards 
will, Mia Hamm­style, tear 
off his oxford shirt and bare his sculpted pectorals in all their Hellenistic 
majesty. Looks matter-I 
think we have a con­sensus here. America simply 

would rather not have an unsightly commander-in-chief. The GOP barely passes muster here. Not so the 
Democrats. The tradition of handsome, youthful Democratic candi­dates begins, of course, with JFK. (William F. Buckley, Jr., goes so far as to say that JFK's real legacy was his beauty.) Then Gary Hart in 1984 and Bill Clinton in 1992. And now Edwards -deemed by People magazine a few years ago the "Sexiest Man Alive" in the politician category. 
Back to Edwards' debating skill. He's an astonishingly successful attorney, first off; argument is his profession and he's proved to have mastered it. Some believe that if Edwards ended"up as the Democratic nominee, Bush would sim­ply refuse to debate him. The soothing drawl, the warm smile, the swift intel­lect -it'd be over before it started. 
Bush, let's be honest, couldn't debate his way out of a wet paper bag. (Maybe he could cheer his way out of one.) Top-dollar schooling evidently failed him in that department. So the prospect of our beloved incumbent locking rhetorical horns with Edwards -on national television, no less ­must have Karl Rove shaking in his imported loafers. At that same prospect, people like me are all but salivating, gleefully imagining the sound thrashing Edwards would deliv­er. 
Let's backpedal and revisit the morn­ing after The Scream. Because the media focused nearly all its attentions on Dean's antics, the more substantial story was buried: Edwards' second­place finish. Kerry was·instead lav­ished with attention, which undoubted­ly helped in New Hampshire. So the media, in reality, dealt both Dean and Edwards a solid blow. The former's done with, but the latter, as the GOP knows and fears, is still fighting the good fight. With us behind him. Edwards, not Kerry, will depose Bush, 
Roque Strew is a junior political sci­ence major who vehemently denies having a so-called man-crush on Sen. Edwards. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at wstrew@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defending 'T~e Vagina Monologues' 
Exploring play's complexities 
I would like to respond to Professor Rice's Jan. 28 column concerning "The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame. 
In 2002, when "The Vagina Monologues" first came to Notre Dame, Professor Rice expressed concern and distress for some of the content of the play, as he did again this week. He worried about, the questionable nature of some of the mono­logues and what they would mean for women and for Notre Dame. And he is right to worry. As the play says, "We were worried about vaginas." 
"The Vagina Monologues" is not a simple play­it is incredibly complex. To attempt to cast the entire play in a single light is to miss the point it is trying to make. Professor Rice's mistake is that he attempts to do just that-classify the entire play as an advertisement for immorality and perver­sion. 
It is true that some of the Monologues will make audience members uncomfortable. Others may cause outrage. Others may cause fear or pity, while still others will create an unwavering sense of hope. The fact is that "The Vagina Monologues" is a metaphor for women and an example of women's diverse experiences in life. To silence even one of them, no matter how upsetting or out­rageous, is to silence us all. And once we get to talking, there's no stopping us. 
Professor Rice chastises the administration for its decision to allow such a play to be performed on the campus of Our Lady. I say that Our Lady would be proud. She, too, had a story to tell. Pregnant out of wedlock with only an incredible explanation for her husband-to-be, she asked that 
others hear her story and have faith that, 
although she did not fit into the mold that society 
expected her to, she was an important and worthy 
woman. 

Mary had a vagina. And I bet she would have something to say. 
Finally, I find it disturbing that Professor Rice refers to the administration's responses to criti­cism as "academic banalities." In a University as well-respected as Notre Dame, how can any aca-_ demic pursuit be considered banal? Have faith, Professor Rice, that the students of Notre Dame will see the play, take it all in, and decide for . themselves. I encourage everyone, even the most steadfast critics, to see the play. Explore the com­plexities of the stories, of the women and of their lives, and decide for yourself how you will inter­pret them. 
Congratulations to the amazing women of V-Day ND 2004. Your hard work and dedication will no doubt make this year the most fun and informa­tive yet. Every moment you put into this work, every person you talk to about the play or about V­Day, and every time you think about your own beliefs because of this effort, you are helping to be sure that women everywhere will be able to live happier, safer lives. 
Kerry Walsh class of2002 former V-Day NO organizer Jan. 30 
An equal opportunity production? 
I am writing to address a grave concern of mine: the trav­esty known as "The Vagina Monologues." Oearly, allowing them to come here will put a blemish in our school's other­wise great reputation. I cannot believe that we are allowing ourselves to take such a significant step backwards in the development of our atmosphere of sexual equality. 
Where, I ask, are 'The Penis Monologues?" What kind of equal-opportunity campus are we if we can't even provide comparable theatre experience for our men and our women? Now, I don't know much about this monologue play, but I do know that it has vagina in the title, and to me, thatjust exudes discrimination. Clearly, this can only be bal­anced out with a play that has penis in the title. I mean, come on. Men have sex organs, too. We can get onstage and talk about them. Ever think about that? Seriously. 
I hope if you have been reading this far, you are either very angry with me, or laughing hysterically. (I will accept either result.) I wrote this letter as a joke, hoping to prove the point that you can't really complain about something unless you have experienced it. And by "experienced," I don't mean you saw a special on C-SPAN, or you looked up a few quotes about lesbians to put into an editorial. So before you throw a fit about administration laxness, school reputa­tion, or your own inability to deal with the word "vagina," buy a ticket and see what they have to say. I know I will. 
Justin Smith freshman Dillon Hall Jan. 30 


page 10 Monday, February 2, 2004 

oc 


Motion City Soundtrack, Sugarcult, MxPx and Simple Plan hit Chicago Frida 


By MAUREEN BUSH 
Scene Writer 
The first large pop punk tour of the year breezed though the Windy City Jan. 30, leaving the young adults of Chicago with a warm feeling despite the biting cold outdoors. Motion City Soundtrack, Sugarcult and co-headlin­ers MxPx and Simple Plan took the downtown Rivera Theater by storm that night, filling the theater to the brink and pleasing the anxious crowd. 
The show opened with Epitaph recording artist Motion City Soundtrack from Minneapolis. This excellent blend of unusual vocals, electric keyboards and beats was a powerful way to start the night. The band played their much 
too short 

eight song set with flare. They began their set with "Cambridge" and contin­ued by play­ing the majority of the songs on their full­length album, "I Am the Movie." 
Lead singer and guitar, Justin Pierre, has an excel­lent voice, and the qual­ity shone through to the crowd of exuberant teenagers. Motion City Soundtrack is rounded out by Joshua Cain on gui­tars and back-up vocals, Tony Thaxton on drums, Jesse Johnson on moog (a small key­board-type instrument). and Matthew Taylor on bass and backup vocals. Their set flowed beautifully as they finished up with fan-favorites, "The Future Freaks Me Out" and "My Favorite Accident." 
This band has an amazing amount of talent and this was · evident as they played their set. The group could do something spectacu­lar in the future. 
As Simple Plan lead singer Pierre Bouvier said later that night, "Give it up .for Motion City Soundtrack. We're OK. They are great." 
The next act of the night was Santa Barbara, California's own Sugarcult. This powerful pop-punk foursome put together an excel­lent set that was 
The Canadian rockers of Simple Plan headlined last weekend's tour
very well received 
up-and-coming bands. 
by the crowd who 

was looking to take 
the energy level up a notch. Sugarcult 
did just that entering the stage to with 
popular song, "Stuck in America." The high energy continued through the night as they played songs from their full-length album, "Start Stc;ttic," such as, "Daddy's Little Defect," "She's the Blade," and "Pretty Girl." They also played their new song, "Memory," to supplement the older favorites. This song is on their new full length titled, "Palm Trees and Powerlines," which is scheduled to be released on April 13. 
Leading the way was singer/guitar Tim Pagnotta, with band mates Marko 72 on gui­tar, Airin on bass and vocals, and Ben Davis on drums and vocals. Their hooks were incredibly catchy and kept the crowd jumping the whole set. Their clever use of lyrics enhanced the melodies. The music had enough pop credence to draw the crowd in and was smart enough to keep them excited for the next song. Sugarcult played an excellent set and made · one lucky fan's night by pulling him out of the crowd to videotape the set for their impending DVD they will be releas­ing. Members of the band could also be found out by their merchandise booth during the show and after the show to take pictures and sign autqgraphs for the fans. This kind of atti­tude, supplemented by their punchy music, will help them continue on their path to fame. Next in line was veteran 

Christian punk act MxPx, hailing from Bremerton, Washington. Made up of Mike Herrera singing and playing bass, Tom Wisniewski on guitar, and Yuri Ruley on drums, MxPx has released over 11 albums since 1995, the most recent being, "Before Everything & After," released in August on A&M Records. They began their set with "Play It Loud" and kept up the intensity all night. They played their set like the veterans they are. 
The show was an excellent mix, hit­ting both old favorites and the newer songs. They played "The Next Big Thing," "Southbound," and brought out the acoustic guitar for "Quit Your Life" among the others. Like Sugarcult, they made two girls' night by bringing them up on stage to have the band's first ever bass-off. The band gave each girl a bass guitar and had them battle it out to see who was the best. Neither girl had ever played before, but the use of crowd participation was a hit with the fans. 
After the bass-off, the band finished up with a cover song followed by one of their own, having Wisniewski sing "Should I Stay or Should I Go." They left the stage and came back momentarily to break into a cover of "Summer of '69" and popular song, "Chick Magnet." As always, they finished their set play­ing "Punk Rawk Show" to the delight of the crowd. 
The set was perfect length and was well planned. Hearing the older songs was nice, but it was a surprise that they played only six new songs in a 1 7 song set list. Still, it was a well played set that kept the predominantly Simple Plan fan crowd happy. 
The final act of the night was north­ern neighbor Simple Plan from Canada, with Pierre Bouvier on vocals, Chuck Comeau on drums, Jeff Stinko on lead guitar, David Desrosiers on bass and backup vocals and Sebastien Lefebvre on bass and back up vocals. 
THE OBSERVER 
E

Monday, February 2, 2004 


page 11 

lY night in one of the year's first big rock tours 
These French-Canadian punks were the high­light of the night for many of the teens in the crowd whose resounding screams filled the building as they took the stage to the Star Wars theme, "The Imperial March." They immediately ripped into their set, playing many of the songs off their 2002 debut album, "No Pads, No Helmets..: Just Balls," includ_ing radio hits, 'Tm Just a Kid," "Addicted," and ''I'd Do Anything." 

This high-energy band is very reminiscent of fellow pop punk band Good Charlotte. Both have catchy hooks and fast paced anthems for disillu­sioned teens who want to scream their frustrations about growing up. The band played their songs and made jokes between them in Blink-182 fashion for the captivated audience. After playing some of their songs. the band really kicked in covering Pink's, "Get the Party Started", The Black Eyed Peas "Where's the Love", and also the Turtles' "Happy Together". Hearing so many cover songs in one night was a bit surprising. 
Bouvier and his acoustic gui­tar provided the second encore 
1.com 
of the night with Simple Plan's 
r of latest radio hit, "Perfect." Bouvier started the song him­self, but then stopped and allowed the thousands of voic­es in the Rivera to do the work for him. Halfway though the song the rest of the band joined him on stage and they filled out the rest of the music in an excellent end to the con­cert. Overall, it was a well-crafted tour with an interesting mix of different bands. The talent of some of the bands was over the heads of the kids who were seemingly there for one pur­
pose, to see Simple Plan. Simple Plan deserves a lot of credit for realizing this talent and taking these bands on tour to give them exposure to the masses. 
Contact Maureen Bush at bush3328@saintmarys.edu 

Aery for the original Viewpoint 
I come to you today, my dear friends, to bring to light the dire situation we are fac­ing concerning The Observer Viewpoint section. Many peo­ple turn to the Viewpoint sec­tion in order to explore the various perspectives of fellow students and faculty, hoping to gain insight on current issues that are reievant to the student body and in our world. This, after all, is why the section exists. 
I have noticed, however, that the scope of the issues cover~d in The Observer by the student body has become increasingly narrow. In fact, on any given day, there's a pretty good chance that most students can name two_ or three of the articles that are published before even open­ing the paper. Because of this, I have decided to layout for you a quick list of what I believe to be the most played -out Viewpoint articles of all time. 
First of all, I must point out the "obscure political refer­ence that no one cares about" article. This is typical­ly a full-page article that attempts to turn the student body towards either tree­hugging liberalism or "ostra­cize everyone but the upper­middle class" conservatism. Thanks for the effort guys, but if I were looking for an article like this I would've picked up copies of "Common Sense" or the "Irish Rover." 
Second, there's the typical "Cherish your time at NO" . article that someone is sure to send in once a week. This 
· usually comes from a senior who is lamenting over their experiences at Notre Dame and talking about anything from what they think to be a funny Frosh-0 experience to the last time they got drunk at the Linebacker. On occa­sion, these articles can be tolerable, giving the student body a chance to reflect on their experiences here, but after awhile they start to sound like an NBC "the more you know" commercial. This type of article can also easily be coupled with the "thank God I'm finally 21" article, which generally recounts close calls with bar busts or fake ID stories. 
Then, of course, there is the ''I'm ultra-sensitive and everything offends me" arti­cle, carrying the tone of the movie PCU throughout. This article rants about different events going on around cam­pus that "don't fit in with the Catholic nature of the University" and usually tries to stifle much of the creative 
thinking that goes on here. 
Two of the usual suspects 
that are attacked here are 

the Vagina Monologues and --. 
the Keenan Review. I must 
say, if 
you're Tom Raaf 
going to 
object to 
Scene
something 
Columnist
about the 
Keenan 
Review then you should go 
off about the annoying girls 
in the crowd that sing all of 
the songs between skits. 
They are simply unbearable. 
Oh, and that awful head-bob­
bing that accompanies the 
singing ... Lord, please make it 
stop. 
On a related note to the 
previous article, there is the 
"offended person's response 
to the offended person." This 
is when someone writes a 
Viewpoint about something 
that offended them and the 
next day another article 
comes out about how offen­
sive the previous article was 
to another person. These 
articles can get a little ridicu­
lous and are at times hilari­
ous because the writer often 
ends up looking like a total 
crackpot. Does anyone 
remember that girl who was 
fuming about clothing styles 
on campus? If not, you can 
find her at the first table on 
the left in North Dining hall, 
according her instructions. 
I consulted a classmate of mine, fellow women's studies major Dan Block, for a reac­tion to lack of diversity in the Viewpoint's students are sub­mitting and he had this to say; 'Tm just surprised that no one has written on the plight of the three-toed Sri Lankan tree lemur. This rare species travels the forests in fear of his life while heartless poachers chase him like they're playing some kind of game. It's a damn shame, Jenkins, a damn shame." Upon hearing this, I shed a tear then quickly reminded him that my name was in fact Tom, not Jenkins. 
I would continue on my lit­tle ramblings about the com­mon Viewpoint themes, but then my article would look really long on the page and everyone would skip over it. So. in closing, I must say this; if anything I have said hurt your feelings or offended you, I'll see you in the Viewpoint section tomorrow. 
The views expressed in· this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Tom Raaf at traaj'@nd.edu. 


Monday, February 2, 2004 

page 12 The Observer+ SPORTS 
FENCING 

Irish down slew of challengers at dual meet 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 

Saturday's dual meet marked the first time all season the Notre Dame fencing team showcased its talent in front of a home crowd. The defending national champions did not disappoint. 
Ten other teams arrived in South Bend with the hopes of b~sting the host Irish teams. Both the men and the women mowed down their opposition, finishing the tournament at a perfect 9-0 and 10-0, respective­ly. The women improved their season record to 20-0 while the men advanced to an 18 -1 mark. 
The dual meet began on Saturday with Notre Dame fenc­ing against Cleveland State and Air Force. Neither the men nor the women had any problem tak .. ing either match. The men topped Cleveland State 24-3 while the women dominated with a 26-1 victory. Air Force didn't put up much more of a fight, as both squads dispatched the Falcons 21-6. The next match against Ohio State, as expected, proved to be the most difficult of the weekend. 
Against an Ohio State team ranked second on both sides, the Irish faced a much steeper chal­lenge. Against the Buckeyes, the men's epeeists and sabers strug­gled to a combined 9-9 record leaving the match for the foilists to decide. But the Irish foilists faced a formidable foe in the per­son of Ohio State freshman Boaz Ellis. Ellis quickly swept aside both freshman Frankie Bontempo and senior All­American Forest Walton 5-1 and 5-0, respectively. That was when senior Derek Snyder put the team on his back. 
In his first bout against Buckeye sophomore Alexander Law, Snyder faced a 4-0 deficit and match point. But he battled back, scoring five unanswered touches to win in a 5-4 decision. 
His greatest test, however, came in the team's last match against Ohio State when he fenced Ellis. "Seeing where he finished in all the world cups he always does really, really well," he said. "I knew that it was going to be the toughest match up to this point in the season." 
With both teams and a throng of Irish fans circling the strip, the two squared off in one of the most intense matches of the day. This time, Snyder jumped out to the early lead, putting Ellis in a deep 4-1 hole. Ellis fought back and used a furious rally to record the next three points and tie the bout at four. Both fencers strug­gled in the deadlock until finally Snyder scored the final touch to secure a 5-4 victory. 
A roar burst from the Notre Dame faithful as the men defeat­ed Ohio State by a 15-12 score. Snyder's win capped a big day as he fmished Saturday with a per­fect 12-0 record. 
The women's match was even closer. 

Despite the epee team winning Bustamante, who is not on schol­rely on the rest of your team and only two of nine matches to Ohio arship, showed just how deep the you fence better when you don't State, junior Natalie Irish talent pool goes. have that pressure." Bustamante's surprising 5-4 vic­"It was great because our tory over top Buckeye epeeist walk-on beat their top girl," Contact Matt Mooney at Alexandra Shklar proved critical. Walton said. "You know you can mmooney@nd.edu 
ND SWIMMING 

Michigan spoils near-perfect weekend for Irish women 
Rolfs Aquatic Center on fly) also chipped in event victo­The men's squad won 11 of NO. 16 MICHIGAN 166,By MATT PUGLISI 
Saturday. ries as the Irish won 11 overall the 13 overall events to wrap NOTRE DAME 134 Sports Writer 
"Michigan has some of the events in shutting down the up a 5-2 January with a 159-at ROLF'S AQUATIC CENTER top breaststrokers and dis­Buckeyes and Spartans Friday. 7 5 thrashing of St. 
400 medley relay: Sara Johnson, Kelli

What's the deal with tance swimmers in the· coun­Notre Dame, however, was Bonaventure (6-5) in the Rolfs 
Stein, Anne Weilbacher, Lindsey SmithMichigan? try," freshman Katie Carroll unable to repeat the triangular Aquatic Center Saturday. (UM), 4:13.78. 800 freestyle: Susan Gilliam Thus far this year, the said. "Although we lost, as a meet performance Saturday. (UM), 8:43.56. 200 freestyle: Amy 
Wolverines have managed to team we did great and every­While Hulick (1 00-meter McCullough (UM), 2·02.01 100 back­
stroke: Danielle Hulick (ND), 1:03.62. 200

embarrass the Irish football one swam up to their poten­backstroke and 50-meter NOTRE DAME 159, 
backstroke: Ellen Johnson (ND), 2:15.37.

ST. BONAVENTURE 75
team, to knock the men's soc­tial." freestyle), Garcia (200-meter 200 butterfly: Lisa Garcia (ND), 2:16.87. cer team out of the NCAA tour­On Friday, Notre Dame butterfly), Johnson (200-meter ai ROLF'S AQUATIC CENTER 50 freestyle: Danielle Hulick (ND), 26.40. nament, to hand the Irish defeated Ohio State and backstroke), Carroll (200-100 freestyle: lindsey Smith (ND), 56.71. 
400 medley relay: Doug Bauman, Tim 100 backstroke: Kelli Stein (UM), 1·11.77 .. 
women's soccer team two of Michigan State, 194-105 and meter individual medley) and Randolph, Frank Krakowski, Matt 
200 breaststroke: Kelli Stein (UM),

their three losses -including 160-138, respectively. Seniors Perry Eaton (1-and 3-meter Obringer (ND). 3:25.79. 1,000 freestyle: 2:34.21. 400 freestyle: Susan Gilliam (ND), a season-ending upset in the Danielle Hulick (100 back­board) all posted event victo­Ted Brown (ND), 9:30.95. 200 freestyle: 4:15.26. 100 butterfly: Anne Weilbacher 
Brown (ND), 1:44.09. 50 freestyle: Tim
NCAA tournament -and to stroke and 50 freestyle), Lisa ries, it wasn't enough as (UM), 1.02 16. 200 individual medley:
Kegelman (ND), 21:40. 200 butterfly: J.R. 
Katie Carroll (ND), 2:18.37. 400 freestyle

top a higher ranked women's Garcia (200 butterfly and 200 Michigan exploded out of the Teddy (ND). 1:55.13. 100 freestyle: 
relay: McCullough, Smith, Abby Seskevics,

tennis squad. individual medley) and gates, winning the meet's first Randolph (ND), 47.31. 200 backstroke: Weilbacher (UM), 3:50.55. 1-meter diving:Add women's swimming to Meghan Perry Eaton {1-and 3-three events on its way to tak­Chris Zeches (ND), 1:57.43. 200 breast­Meghan Perry-Eaton (ND). 302.63. 3­
stroke: Matt Cormier (St Bonaventure),
the list of victims. meter board) and Carroll (1 00 ing 9 of the 16 total events. meter diving: Perry-Eaton (ND), 315.38. 
2:11.88. 500 freestyle: Jamie Lutkus (ND),
A day after taking care of and 500 freestyle) each The Irish women will hit the 4:44.95. 200 individual medley: Jamie both Ohio State (9-4) and recorded a pair of first place water again next Saturday Lutkus (ND), 1:54.51. 400 freestyle relay: Michigan State (1-9) in East finishes. when they host Oakland in Brian Coughlan, Teddy, Patrick Heffernan, 
Steve Shomberger (ND), 3:18.07. 1-meter
Lansing, Mich. Friday, the No. Freshman Ellen Johnson their final tune up before the 
diving: Scott Coyle (ND), 298.13. 3-meter
21 Irish (7 -2) fell to No. 16 (200 freestyle) and sophomore Big East Championships from diving: Randy Kozlowski (St. Contact Matt Puglisi at Michigan (8-1), 166-134, in the Christel Bouvron (100 butter-Feb. 19th to Feb. 21st. Bonaventure), 300.38. mpuglisi@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
r CLASSIFIEDS 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! B&B for JPW/grad/football for up to UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Search 24 bookstores with 1 click' 12 people, 1/2 mile to ND, ema1l not go it alone If you or someone NOTICES S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com FoR RENT domercondo@ yahoo.com PERSONALS you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr Mary 
Large 1 Bedroom Condo 1 0 min 3·6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON 2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO #1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819 For DOMUS PROPERTIES .. HAS A 8 from Univ All App Pool Low taxes MO., FURN. 272·6306 CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas & more information, see our bi-weekly BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM less than rent mmmrentals@ aol.com 272·1525 Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, ad in THE OBSERVER. HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM 574-299-4997 LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION· Best Pnces! Book Now! 800-234­DUPLEX AND THREE 3 BED· ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND Rental House, 2004-05@ 911 7007 endlesssummertours.com Go Eagles. ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR IDEAL FOR 3·7 STUDENTS Corby. Clean, 4 bed, 2 bath w hdwd THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL 2773097 firs, new w1ndows,AC,washldry & To the beautiful g1rl 1n the red Signing day approaches. 
WANTED
YEAR ...WE ARE ALSO STARTING alarm sys 11 o. lease Landlord is sweater having lunch with 3 friens TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 New luxurious 3·4 bdrm 3 bath, 2· NDAium at Cafe de Grasta on Tuesday. Pink shirt SCHOOL YEAR ...CONTACT Wanted· Old pamtings, especially car garage, fireplace, sky lights, Contact L1sa Thank you for bnghtening up the KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286· close to campus $1640 monthly, call @ theemurphs@ hotmail.com/619· room with the awesome Call me honest You wish you knew CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 9359 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 804-3359 smile.-Wolf the words he spoke. 
.. 

.. • • t •• "'.. -f.~..'t '~ -~. ·~ .... ·,., -·,, •• • ..,~. , ••• ·~ ..
• .. • 4
•• ".. ~ ~~t•. ~·.. --.. ~.............,,...._..... · • • 
Monday, February 2, 2004 page 13
The Observer + SPORTS 
TENNIS 
Federer defeats Safin to capture Australian Open title 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia ­
Roger Federer skipped the sob­
bing this time. He is, after all, 
getting familiar with the honor: 
Grand Slam tournament cham­
pion. 
Playing shrewd and confident tennis that has left him at No. 1, Federer won the Australian Open 7-6 (3), 6-4, 6-2 Sunday against a weary and frustrated Marat Safin. 
Federer has captured two of the last three majors following his Wimbledon triumph. 
"I feel like I'm living the game when I'm out there," the Swiss star said. "When a a guy is going to hit the ball, I know exactly the angles and the spins. I just feel that I've got that figured out." 
It was enough to end Satin's great run. The unseeded Russian beat top-seeded Andy Roddick in the quarterfinals, then stopped defending cham­pion Andre Agassi's 26-match winning streak at the Australian Open in the semis. 
But after more than 18 hours and 27 sets in six rounds, Satin had little left. Federer clearly was fresher, having spent just more than 10 hours on court and losing only two sets. 
When Federer won Wimbledon last summer, he responded with sobs of relief. At Melbourne Park, he was moved, bur far more composed and controlled. 
"What a great start to the year for me, to win the Australian Open and become 
No. 1 in the world," Federer 
said. "It means a lot to me." 
A day earlier, Justine Henin­Hardenrie added another title, winning a third all-Belgian Grand Slam final against Kim Clijsters to remain No. 1. The 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 victory was her third major in eight months. 
Federer, seeded second, was already ensured the top rank­ing by beating third-seeded Juan Carlos Ferrero in the semifinals. Roddick's loss in the quarterfinals ended the 
U.S. Open champion's stay No. 1. 
In addition to his two major titles, Federer also won the season-ending Masters Cup at Houston. 
"When it gets important, I feel like I can raise my game," he said. 
He surely did that against Safin. The Russian slammed his racket to the court and drew a code violation when he smashed a racket after a dou­ble-fault. He talked to himself and to the crowd; he shook his head and shrugged after most of his 41 unforced errors. 
Against Agassi, one of the best serve returners in the game, Safin had 31 aces and no double-faults. Against Federer, the balls kept coming back. 
Federer chased overheads and forehands down the line that had the look of winners. Safin, the 2000 U.S. Open champion down, was drained. 
"I was out of energy, my legs were just too tired," he said. "I was a little too tired to keep up 
with him. I felt that I was miss­
ing just a little bit. Against 
Roger, you have to do better 
than that. I'm not playing a yo­
yo." 

Satin lost his last six matches in 2003, a rough year in which he struggled with an ailing wrist. He entered the tourna­ment at No. 86 and will improve to the low 30s on Monday. 
''I'm actually very glad to be in finals again," he said. ''I'm really glad to play my best ten­nis after the injuries I had last year." 
He did get one reward for his marathon effort in Melbourne, matching Harold Solomon's record of 30 sets for a Grand Slam tournament set in the 1976 French Open. 
Henin-Hardenne, with three Grand Slams, wants a fourth ­on grass. 
"Wimbledon this year, for sure, is going to be another goal," she said after adding the Australian to her wins at the French and U.S. Open last year. 
She's proved too good for Clijsters in their last three meetings in majors following a stretch in which the Williams sisters dominated. 
"I still have to improve my game on grass, especially against the strong players like Venus or Serena," Henin­Hardenne said. "I always lost against them over there because they're so powerful." 
In Melbourne, she didn't have to face Venus Williams, who was upset in the third round by Lisa Raymond. 

Icon Sports Roger Federer of Switzerland celebrates his victory In the men's tennis singles championship at the Australian Open. 
NCAA.BASKETBALL 
Provid·ence falls to Seton Hall in Big East play 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -Seton Hall decided not to double team Providence's Ryan Gomes, and see if anybody else could beat them one-on-one. 
The plan worked. 
Gomes got 28 points, but Seton Hall never let any of the other Friars get going, and the Pirates held No. 23 Providence to its lowest point total of the season in a 55-46 victory on Sunday. 
"It was our best defensive game from beginning to end since I've been here," said coach Louis Orr, in his third season at Seton Hall. 
Andre Sweet was 7 -of-9 from the field and scored 18 points to lead Seton Hall (14-4, 4-2), which won its the third straight -all in the conference. 
Providence (14-4, 5-2) had a six-game winning streak snapped, and fell out of a first-

The Office ofStudent Activities is cutTently accepting new club proposals. Ifyou have an idea for a club, whose pt~ose is not currently served by an existing club, the Club Coordination Council encourages the submission ofa new club proposal to the Student Activities Oftice for review. More information can be found at: \.\-"'\.vw.nd.edu!~sao/clubs/newclub.htm All requirements must be c.ompleted before the new club proposal ''rill be reviewed, including: 
Budget List ofplanned events!acti-vit1es Advisor List ofofficers Bylaws and purpose statement 
Submit the required information to Amy Geist, 314 LaFortune, by 5pm Frida}' February 13, 2004 for review this year. The next nc:w club review will not occur Wltil January 2005. Contact the Student Activities Office with any questions~ 

place tie in the Big East with No. 7 Pittsburgh. 
"We didn't play with that swagger [we had] in the past three weeks," Providence coach Tim Welsh said. "We played back on our heels and side­ways, but they make you play that way. We just didn't have that look." 
Gomes, who had 13 rebounds, scored 20 points in the second half, including 16 straight for the Friars at one point. 
Gomes "is a tough guy to stop. I thought we did a good job to make him work for his points, but also did a good job with the other people," Orr said. 

J.R. Morris scored 13 points for Seton Hall, which shot 54 percent in the second half, while Kelly Whitney added 10. Andre Barrett, the Pirates' leading scorer with an 18.4 average, was held to a season­low six points, and had four assists. 


•-­

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Syracuse at Connecticut 7 p.m., ESPN Missouri at Kansas 9 p.m., ESPN St. Joseph's at Villanova 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 

St. Louis at Minnesota 8 p.m., FOX Sports Tampa Bay at Philadelphia 8 p.m., Comcast 
NBA Golden State at Memphis 8 p.m., NBA TV LA Lakers at Indiana 7 p.m., FOX Sports San Antonio at Utah 9 p.m., NBA TV 
NFL 


Associated Pn:ss The dependable duo had uncharacteristic mistake. decided it. done it again. Brady, who didn't throw Thirteen yards to Troy
HOUSTON -With a 
chance to put the Patriots With his second Super an interception in any Brown, then 13 more to the ahead early, Adam Bowl title in three years, home game during the same guy. Then, with over­Vinatieri missed -not Brady stam.ped himself as regular season, simply time looming and the clock once, but twice. With a one of the game's best threw it and hoped. running down, a perfectly chance to put them in con­clutch passers. But he was Reggie Howard's inter­tim!tid 17-yard pass to Deion trol late, Tom Brady threw feeling a lot more like a ception in the end zone left Branch along the right side­his worst pass of the play­failure after throwing his him hoping for another line. offs. only interception. chance. As Branch tumbled out of 
When it really counted, The Patriots were Brady ·got it, and deliv­bounds with 9 seconds left, New England's two coolest already well within ered twice. He led a pair of another Lombardi Trophy customers were perfect. Vinatieri's range early in scoring drives in the final was within the Patriots' 
Brady stood up to the fourth quarter when minutes, including a last­grasp. All they needed was a Carolina's nasty pass rush, Brady threw one that he second drive that was a 41-yard field goal from making the throws that got immediately knew he bookend to the closing sec­Vmatieri, who beat the Rams New England in position to should have just flung onds of the Patriots' win with just such a kick. win another Super Bowl away. over the Rams two years "I looked up and it was on a last-second kick. Instead of letting ago. going down the middle," Vinatieri then delivered Vinatieri make the kick With the score tied and he said. "I've been very again with 4 seconds left and put the Patriots up by 68 seconds left, he made fortunate, very lucky to be for a 32-29 victory Sunday. eight points, he made an three clutch throws that on such great teams." 
IN BRIEF 

CBS apologizes for end to Moss, Indiana State's leading scor­NASCAR will not penalizehalftime sliow er, faces a domestic battery charge Spencer for comments 
NEW YORK -CBS apologized on for allegedly attacking a woman fol­NASCAR will not penalize driver Sunday for an unexpectedly R-rated lowing an argument. Jimmy Spencer for a remark about end to its Super Bowl halftime show, Moss, 20, was arrested early the Japanese bombing of Pearl when singer Justin Timberlake tore ofT Saturday after police responded to 
Harbor or his hope that Toyota'spart of Janet Jackson's top, exposing a 19-year-old student's report that 

venture into truck racing will be a her breast. she was being battered at a campus failure.
"CBS deeply regrets the incident," residential hall, according to an e­"That's Jimmy Spencer," NASCARspokeswoman Leslie Anne Wade said mail from university spokeswoman spokesman Jim Hunter said Sundayafter the network received several 
Teresa Exline. when asked about comments the
calls about the show. 
The woman, who refused medical outspoken driver made last weekThe two singers were performing a treatment, reported that she had about Toyota's entry into Craftsmanflirtatious duet to end the halftime been in an argument with Moss and Truck competition. 
show, and at the song's finish, 
that he had choked her, leaving They "bombed Pearl Harbor, don't
Timberlake reached across Jackson's leather gladiator outfit and pulled ofT abrasions on her neck. forget," the San Antonio. Express­the covering to her right breast. Moss, a sophomore from South News quoted the 46-year-old driver 
The network quickly cut away from Holland, Ill., was being held without as saying during media day at the shot, and did not mention the inci­bond Sunday at the Vigo County Jail Texas Motor Speedway. dent on the air. pending a Monday morning hearing "As long as it's good for the econ­
It was unclear whether Timberlake on the misdemeanor charge. omy, I guess it's OK," said Spencer,intended to expose Jackson's breast. Indiana State Athletic Director who but added that he was rooting 
Andi Myers said the school's for Ford, Chevrolet and Dodge to Indian State's leading Student Judicial Office will look into humiliate Toyota. scorer arrested the matter. "We're going to have to The Associated Press was unable 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -David see how this materializes," she said. to reach Spencer for comment. 
page 15

Monday, February 2, 20q4 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


-·-~ ~ 
:> 
·I 
~i 
--~:-: 
.... 
·-·> 
--...;.; 


--~ 
-·";" 
......... 
.Jo:. 

:f. 
'· 
-~­
•. 
~. 
-.•. 
' '
·.• 
.. 
• 
• 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
'-­
WOMEN'S TENNIS : l I 
I 
I I I 
I ND tops 2 Big Ten teams
I 
I 
I 
:. I 
....... 
I 
By ANN LOUGHERY I Sports Writer 
I 
I \ I l I \ 
The women's tennis teamillI ) defeated No. 48 Ohio State, 5­
I I 
2, then built off its momentum to trounce Wisconsin, 7-0, this
i! 
weekend. :!\ "Winning against Ohio State 
I ' I 
1}, 
helped our confidence a lot" 
' 
\ \ after losing 4-3 to Michigan,! said junior Sarah Jane Connelly said. 

Connelly and sophomore Kristina Statsny started the team off strong on Saturday, defeating Ohio State's Lindsey Adams and Sonia Ruzimovsky, 8-2. The Irish swept the dou­bles with freshmen Christian and Catrina Thompson claim­ing a 9-7 win over Erica Fisk and Jackie Leskovar, and the No. 2 nationally-ranked sopho­more Lauren Connelly and senior Alicia Salas defeated Meaghan Callville and Lindsay Williams, 9-7. 
"[We] played better as [we] went," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "The key was to get ahead early in doubles." 
Salas, nationally ranked 
I 
I 
I 
' 14th, ·capitalized on the 
' momentum provided. by the 
I 
~ early doubles victories with a 
' 
7-6 (9-7), 6-0 win over Lindsay Williams in singles. Fallowing suit was Christian Thompson, who posted a 6-2, 6-2 win over Fisk. Lauren Connelly con­tributed a 6-3, 2-6, 6-2 victory over Adams. The Irish clinched the meet when Catrina Thompson edged out Leskovar 7-5, 6-4. 
"It was good to play so quickly after losing to Michigan," Louderback said. "Our kids are really competi­tive and losing their first 
.. 
match was tough . 

1•: 
i ~ 
"They played nervous on Thursday," he said. "You have 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles finish season on high note 
Saint Mary's beats 
Chicago, preps for 
championships 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's swimming 
I: ' team finished its season by defeating the University of Chicago this weekend, 124­77. 
The Belles beat Chicago in both relay events, and four swimmers claimed first place in individual events. Senior ( Megan Ramsey led the Belles i to their second win of the I I year after winning both the ;/, 200-yard freestyle in a time 
of 2:02.77 and the 100-yard
j 
butterfly in 1:01.72. Sarah Nowak won the 100-yard breaststroke in 1:12.68. Katie Dingeman took the 100-yard backstroke in 1:14.32, and Maureen Palchak won the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 2:02.77. 
butterflies before every match, but then your nerves disap­pear later." 
Overcoming that feeling of apprehension early on this weekend proved to be key to the team's success. 
Sunday's match against No. 64 Wisconsin brought Irish wins across the board begin­ning with Salas and Lauren Connelly's defeat of Teresa Gonzaga and Shana McElroy 8-2. Sarah Jane Connelly and Statsny knocked off Kaylan Caiati and Lexi Goldin 8.:5 to clinch the doubles point. Christian and Catrina Thompson swept doubles with an 8-5 triumph over Lindsay Martin and Katie McGaffigan. 
The Irish swept singles as well over Wisconsin with Salas remaining unbeaten this spring with a 7-6 (7-3), 6-3 win over McGafligan. Christian Thompson, nationally-ranked 88th triumphed over McElroy, who started this season ranked 79th. Catrina Thompson clinched the singles point with a win against Martin. Lauren Connelly gained her third win this season, defeating Teresa Gonzaga 6-4, 6-2. Also suc­cessful was Sara Jane Connelly, who won 6-0, 7-6 (9­
7) over Caiati. Statsny swept doubles, beating Goldin 6-0, 6­4. 
The Irish have a two-week break before their Feb. 13 meet at No. 16 Virginia Commonwealth. During this time, Louderback said the team will focus on becoming "match-tough"· by making inter-squad matches an inte­gral part of practice. 
"We'll be working really hard in practice [in the next weeks]," said Sarah Jane Connelly. "Because everyone wants to beat Notre Dame." 
No. 21 NOTRE DAME 5, No. 48 OHIO STATE 2 at the ECK PAVILLION 
SINGLES No. 1: Alicia Salas (ND) d. Lindsay Williams (OSU) 7-6 (9-7), 6-0. No. 2: Christian Thompson (ND) d. Erica Fisk (OSU) 6-2, 6-2. No. 3: Catrina Thompson (ND) d. Jackie Leskovar (OSU) 7-5, 6-4. No. 4: Lauren Connelly (ND) d. Lindsey Adams (OSU) 6-3, 2-6, 6-2. No. 5: Emily DeCamilla d. Sarah Jane Connelly (ND) 6-4, 6-1. No. 6: Kristin Messmer d. Kristina Stastny (ND) 6-4, 3-6, 1-0 (10-7). 
DOUBLES No. 1: Thomp'sonffhompson (ND) d. Fiskll..eskovar (OSU) 9-7. No. 2: No. 2 Connelly/Salas (ND) d. Colville/Williams (OSU) 9-7. No. 3: Connelly/Sta.<;tny (ND) d. Adams/ Ruzirnovsky (OSU) 8-2. 
No. 21 NOTRE DAME 7, No. 64 WISCONSIN 0 at the ECK PAVILLION 
SINGLES No. 1: Alicia Salas (ND) d. Katie McGaffigan G\17-6 (7-3), 6-3. No. 2: Christian Thompson (ND) d. Shana McElroy (W) 7-5.6-4. No. 3: Catrina Thompson (ND) d. Lindsay Martin (W) 6-3, 6-0. No. 4: Lauren Connelly (ND) d. Teresa Gonzaga (W) 6-4, 6-2. No. 5: Sarah Jane Connelly (ND) d. Kaylan Caiati C\\'16-0, 7-6 (9-7). No. 6: Kristina Stastny (NO) d. Lexi Goldin (W) 6-0, 6-4. 
DOUBLES No. 1: Thompsonffhompson (ND) d. Mart.in/McGaffigan G\18-5. No. 2: No. 2 Connelly/Salas (ND) d. Gonzaga/McElroy (W) 8-2. No. 3: Connelly/Stastny (ND) d. Caiati/Goldin (W) 8-5. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
200-yard IM. Stanforth's 
1:16.62 breaststroke time was her fastest swim in two years. 
Other notable highlights 
were third place finishes by 
Kelly Nelis in the 200-yard 
freestyle and Julie 
McGranahan in the 100-yard 
butterfly. 
Prior to the meet, Saint 
Mary's viewed Chicago as the 
most comparable team they 
would meet all season -and 
after a marginal victory, the 
Belles still view Chicago as a 
great competitor. 
"They were very competi­
tive, with a team that is 
slightly smaller than ours," 
Saint Mary's swimming coach 
Greg Petcoff said. "Our girls 
left the meet with a great 
deal of respect for them." 
As the team prepares for 
the MIAA championships, the 
win against Chicago will help 
to boost the confidence of a 
team that has overcome 
many obstacles throughout 
the season. 
"It was a really difficult ·season [with] a lot of con­
everyone's spirits." 

In their preparations, Saint Mary's will reduce the amount of training and begin tapering for the next few weeks. The team hopes to go 'jnto the MIAA championships 
Feb. 19 well rested. 

"They are not going to see 
a new Saint Mary's at the 
championships," Ramsey 
said. "They are going to see a 
more rested one that is ready 
to win." 

SAINT MARY'S 123, 
CHICAGO 77 

at MYERS-McLORAINE 
POOL 

400 medley relay: Bridget Lebiedz, Katy Lebiedz, Julie McGranahan, Maureen Palchak (SMC), 2:02.27. 1,000 freestyle: Yang (Chicago), 11:11.05. 200 freestyle: Palchak (SMC), 2:02.77. 100 backstroke: Dingeman (SMC). 1:14.32. 100 breaskstroke: Nowak (SMC), 1:12.68. 50 freestyle: Ramsey (SMC), 26.00. 100 freestyle: Testa (Chicago), 57.23. 500 freestyle: Yang (Chicago). 5:26.97. 100 butterfly: Ramsey (SMC), 1:01.72. 200 freestyle relay: Palchak, Ramsey, Lebiedz. Nelis (SMO. 1:46.17. 200 individual med­ley: Testa (Chicago), 2:20.83. 
Monday, February 2, 2004 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame hits wall against No.8 Duke 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 

The Irish had no luck at 
Duke this weekend, as the Blue 
Devils swept them, 7-0, in dual 
match play. 

"We had our chances," coach Bobby Bayliss said after the match. "They're a Final Four team, in my opinion, and I expect them to do very well [this season]." 
No. 8 Duke lost just two sets in ·singles and swept doubles against No. 49 Notre Dame. The box scores, though, do not indicate that many of the matches were close. 
"The doubles were pretty close; there was a break at No. 1 early, and we lost No. 1 and No. 3 doubles by one service break -both were 8-5," said Bayliss. "No. 2 lost 9-8 in a tiebreaker, and we were actu­ally in position to win the oth­ers -they were very, very close." 
Duke (3-0) won against Texas A&M on Saturday. The Aggies beat Notre Dame 5-2 last weekend at the Eck Tennis Pavilion.. 
"We had our chances," Bayliss said of singles play. "Matt Scott lost in a match tiebreaker... [and Brent] D'Amico lost in three sets." 
Scott, ranked No. 68 coming off a recurrent leg injury, took the first set against Ludovic Walter, 6-3. Playing at number two, however, Walter ­ranked No. 7 in the nation ­battled back to win the second set and the last set in a tiebreaker. 
D'Amico came out strong, taking the first set against Jason Zimmerman 6-1, but he then lost 6-2 and 6-1 and Duke received the point. Luis Haddock, Stephen Bass and Barry King all lost in straight sets at No. 1, 4 and 5, respec­tively. Ryan Keckley, at No. 6, was forced to retire after suf­fering a sprained ankle in the second set. 
"Keckley went down in the third, fourth game of his match with a sprained ankle," Bayliss said. "We took an injury time­out-he got taped and tried to continue but had to end up defaulting, and that's a blow. Hopefully next week we'll get him back on track." 
"We were down 2-0 right off the bat, which is a pretty big psychological thing to deal with, but you move on," Bayliss said. 
Despite Scott's defeat, Bayless considered his play promising. 
·"Matt's foot started to bother him a little bit toward the end of his match," Bayless said. "I was really satisfied with the way he played; he hit the ball better than he has since the fall. I hope he's okay for the coming weekend -with Ryan's status in question, Matt shaky and Luis gone, we could be without three starters." 
Haddock will be playing in a tournament in Cuba during next weekend's match. 
No.8 DUKE 7, No. 49 NOTRE DAME 0 at the SHEFFIELD TENNIS CENTER 

SINGLES No. 1: Phillip King (D) d. Luis Haddock (ND} 6-1,6-3. No. 2: No. 7 Ludovic Walter (D) d. No. 68 Matthew Scott (ND) 3-6, 7-5, 1-0 (10-4). No. 3: Jason Zimmermann (D) d. Brent D'Amico (ND) 1-6,6-2, 6-1. No. 4: Jonathan Stokke (D) d. Stephen Bass (ND) 6-4, 6-4. No. 5: Peter Rodrigues (D) d. Barry King (ND) 6-3, 6-2. No. 6: Christopher Brown (D) d. Ryan Keckley (NO) 6-1, 1-0, ret. 
DOUBLES No. 1: No. 2 Walterflimmermann {D) d. No. 18 Haddock/Keckley (ND) 8-5. No. 2: Stephen Armitraj/Rodrigues (D) d. D' Amic!V'Scott (ND) 9-8 (7-5) No. 3: Phillip King/Jonathan Stokke (D) d. 
S. Bass/King (ND) 8-5. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


2003-0-l T H E B E S T 0 F rJ 0 T A E D A M E T H E A T A E 
Actors From'l'l1e Lonclon Stage Romeo and Juliet 
~ y J i I I i It 111 8 h 1t k a s 11 a 1t r a \il.leodr.eo5(12'q', Fei::«INY 11 ...... 7'{3.0 pm. FrKI2'q', Febru..•ty 13.......... 7'{3.0 I:>JYI. 11--.ll'o5(12'L:r; Fel:nny 12 .......... 7'{3.0 p.m. &tl.r<la:r; Fel:n1Ny 14.... 7:30 p.IYI. 
., 
~ 
F1 a~r'{l at 'Na.st"ir'{Iten 1-l:tJI •Reo >&>eo rveo:l ~2\t$ $1 8 
~llOH~ $1 4 .. All Stmlen'bso $12 
T~k>eos a..WIZ'II;:.Ieo at LZ'Fataneo St1deo1rt Ceon-er liokeot Oflbeo. 
Junior Michelle Stanforth flicts, and the team still did finished fourth in the 100-very well," Ramsey said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at yard breaststroke and the "This was a nice way to lift jtapetil@nd.edu 

Monday, February 2, 2004 page 17 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Track 
continued from page 20 
Gunn also finished third in the 200-meter, good enough to qualify for the Big East Championships. 
Sophomore shot-putter Meghan Horn qualified for the Big East meet with a distance of 12.72 'meters. She also fin­ished second in the weight throw with a 13.41-meter mark. 
Ayesha Boyd was a winner in the 400 meters, as the senior posted a clip of 55.79. She also came away with a win in the 60-meter dash in 7.69 sec­onds. 
Other winners for the Irish women were senior Kristen Dodd with a time of 24.42 in the 200-meter race and fresh­man Cassie Gullickson, who won the triple jump with a leap of 11.79 meters. 
For the Notre Dame men, Selim Nurudeen continued his QUtstanding season, qualifying for the Big East Championships in the 60­meter dash with a time of 6.93 seconds. · 
The junior has now qualified for the conference meet in three events, the other two being the 200-meter dash and the 60-meter hurdles. 
Junior Dwight Ellick, who spends the fall playing on the Notre Dame football team, fin­ished a close second to Nurudeen in the 60-meter dash with a Big East qualifying time of 6.94 seconds. 
In the 400-meter race, junior Trevor McClain-Duer came out on top, running a time of 
48.00 seconds. 
The 3,000 meter produced two Big East qualifying times for the Irish as sophomore Kaleb Van Ort and senior Todd Mobley finished second and third, respectively. 
In the middle distances, freshman Jordan Powell quali­fied for the conference meet in the 500-meter with a winning time of 1:04.49. 
Senior teammate Kevin Somok won the 800-meter in 1:53.63. 
Senior Juan Alba won the weight throw with a heave of 
17.75 meters. He also quali­fied for the conference meet in the shot put with a toss of 
15.60 meters. 
Justin Oppel won-the pole vault with a height of 4.65 meters while fellow freshman Christopher Jacques placed first in the long jump with a leap of 6.59 meters. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
spark." 
The Irish defense was up to the challenge against a Boston College team that came into the game averaging 72.3 points per game. The win marks the sixth victory in seven games for Notre Dame, and in all six victories, the Irish have held opponents to 50 points or less. The Irish defense has allowed just 171 points in the last four games. _ 
The score of Saturday's contest remained close throughout the game. Duffy hit a three-pointer to make it 14-10 in favor of the Irish, which proved to be the biggest lead of the game for either team. Notre Dame was also able to force the Eagles into 14 first-half turnovers, holding them to 22 points despite shoot­ing 43.5 percent from the field. 
''I'm just really pleased with the way they've come through this stretch [of ranked teams]," McGraw said. "It's really been a great defensive stretch for us." 
The Irish defense was also able to hold the Eagles' leading scor­er, Jessalyn Deveny, to 13 points on 4-for-11 shooting. Boston College's other star guard, Amber Jacobs, was held to 10 points on 4-for-15 shooting. Kathrin Ress, however, chipped in 14 points on 5-for-5 shooting. The Eagles shot 40 percent for the game, and the game almost slipped way from the Irish at the end. 
After tying the game at 42 with 
7:31 to go, Notre Dame missed eight free throws. 
But with 14 seconds left, Jacqueline Batteast hit one of two free throws to give the Irish a two-point lead. Boston College got the rebound on the second shot, but Jacobs was unable to hit an open, possible game-win­ning three-point attempt with five seconds to go. 
"I thought this game was criti­cal for us," McGraw said. "It really gave us just an added bonus going into the postseason. I think we're a top-25 team." 
Courtney LaVere added 11 points for Notre Dame, who 
remains undefeated at home this season (9-0). 
"We really wanted to take care of our home court this year," McGraw said. "I think mental toughness is something that last year people questioned ... and this year I think we've proven, time and time again, that we are a very, very tough team. That was an incredibly physical game, and I thought we responded very well." 
NOTRE DAME 52, 

BOSTON COLLEGE 50 
at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (13-7, 6-2) 
Starter's last name FGM-FGA FTM-FTA TP. Duffy 6-11 3-5 16, Batteast 1-7 3-6 5, Borton 1-7 0-2 2. Severe 5-5 5-8 15, Hernandez 0-1 0-0 0, LeVere 3·8 5-6 11, Flecky 0-4 3-5 3, Erwin 0-2 0-0 0. 
BOSTON COLLEGE (14-5, 4-4) 
Starter's last name FGM-FGA FTM-FTA TP, Deveny 4-11 4-4 13, Jacobs 4-15 1-2 10, Ress 5-5 4-6 14, Mecchia 2-3 1-2 5, Droesch 1-2 2-2 4, Marshall 1-4 0-0 2, Parham 1-2 0--0 2, Leahy 0-2 0-1 0, 
1st  2nd  Total  
NOTRE DAME  23  29  52  
BOSTON COLLEGE  22  28  50  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 3-5 (Duffy 3­5), Boston College 2-12 (Deveny 1-2, Jacobs 1-6, Marshall 0-3. Droesch 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 31 (Borton 6), Boston College 37 (Deveny 12). Assists: Notre Dame 9 (Borton 4), Boston College 12 (Jacobs 6). Total fouls: Notre Dame 18, Boston College 25. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duffy, Severe come to play, make .difference 
Sophomore lefty Megan Duffy hit a right-handed floater with the 
shot clock  
winding down  · Heather Van  
and 2:02 left  HoeGarden  
on the game  
clock in the  Sports Writer  
second half  
Saturday, put­ 

ting the Irish up 50-48 -a lead they would not relinquish. 
But she wasn't the only Irish guard who came to play on Saturday. Senior captain Le'Tania Severe sparked a stagnant Irish offense when they needed it the most. 
The play of Duffy and Severe made the difference against Boston College, a team rumored to have one of the best back courts in the Big East in Amber Jacobs 
2003/04-Donn Energy Comgetition 
,. . .. 
The lJ.S. contains 5% o:f the \\'Orld's population but accounts for 25% of the \vorld's energy usc. 

\ J 

For Lhe 1nonth of February, do your part to reduce your energy use and your dorn1 could win $·1 00 for its activitie-s fund. 
**To win, your dorm must decrease ils per capita energy <:onsmnprion the n1ost from Fchnmry 2003.** 
~ Students for E_nvironme.ntaf Action 
----. --. -~ --. . -. . --. -. . ----­
and Jessalyn Deveny. 
Jacobs, though, was unable to connect on a three pointer to win the game and fmished 4-for-15 from the field. Deveny was held to 4-for-11 shooting. 
Mean\;Vhile, Duffy and Severe made sure the 6,808 Joyce Center 
fans knew the Eagles were not the only team with a talented backcourt. 
Duffy played the entire game, scoring J6 points on 6-for-11 shooting, including 3-for-5 from behind the arc. She committed only one turnover, while register­ing four steals and dishing out three assists. The 5'7" Duffy also grabbed three rebounds against a team with two 6-foot-4 players in the posts. 
But then there was Severe. She ­consistently slashed and drove to the basket against the bigger Eagles. When the shot clock was winding down and it seemed like there was nowhere to go, Severe found a way to score and found a way for the Irish to win. 
Severe only took eight shots, but she made five. She didn't miss a free throw, either, going 5-for-5 when the other members of her team weren't hitting their free 
2046 S::uth &:n::l A\e 
272-1766 
Open for lunch, dinner and late night fun There is always action at Bookmakers 
Watch all your favorite sporting events on 14 screens 
Man Tues 

Wed Thurs Friday Feb 6 Sat. Feb 7 Sun 
!=p=ria1s all d::v krg BJa:y Tu:s. is NJ Ni.gJt. fP=ria]s all d:w lay. G3.tlEr at RrkiakEr s crrl dB::k OJ!: all tlE ~a]s. Im:h a:1 drily f[a:ials Live rrusic with Parrly :Mrrtin Live rrusic with Hi£P Life ~all d:v arl al }U1 CEI1 Eat B.lf fEt. $.95 
throws. And the best part about Severe's 39 minutes were her turnovers -or lack thereof. She didn't turn the ball over once, despite handling the ball a signifi: cant amount. 
And it wasn'tjust their offense that made this duo better than the backcourt of Boston College. It was their defensive effort. 
Severe and Duffy forced Jacobs and Deveny into tough shots, resulting in poor shooting per­formances. They left Boston College searching for ways to score, as they helped hold the Eagles to 50 points, over 20 below their 72.3 points per-game aver­age. 
But Duffy and Severe weren't looking to be the heroes of the game. They just wanted to win. 
. "I'm just trying to do a good job running the point, keeping every­body in the right position," Duffy said. "Some nights I get more shots than other times. Some games I have to score, some games I don't. The biggest thing is getting these guys' shots and keeping the team together. I feed ofT a lot from playing good defense, and that is kind of my game." 
In the Big East, Duffy and Severe may not be regarded as the best backcourt tandem just yet. But they sure are making a case for themselves. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe 
Observer.  
Contact  Heather  Van  
Hoegarden  at  
hvanhoeg@nd.edu  



.....­
. ' 
-~-------------------------------------------------------------...-.. I ~ 1 
) li 
I\.'1 page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 2, 2004 
i, 
), 
r \ fully killed four UAF power the third period on a goal by I ... _ plays in the first period and Curtis Fraser after another
Hockey 

took a 2-0 lead into the locker sloppy clearing pass by the room at the first intermission. Irish defense led to an outnum­1\i continued from page 20 UAF came back quickly in bered break by the Nanooks. 
the second period, with Ryan Lf:~bda would score the game­'l great effort to help us get a big Lang beating Brown for a goal tying goal, but he would not point." at the 1:16 mark of the period. prevent McKay from being~ Notre Dame has developed a Notre Dame got the game win­named the number one star in
l: 
habit of taking games to the ner in the third, though, when the game. The Nanook goalie { ...... extra period. The Irish are 0-2-Walsh took a hard shot from made 45 saves, the most any \. 4 in their six overtime contests the slot to beat Bartusch less opponent has made against the
)l 
this season. The Irish have not than five minutes into the third Irish this season. ) won a regular-season overtime period. Notre Dame has eight CCHA game since a 4-3 win over Cam Keith would score a late games remaining, including a
l 
Miami (Ohio) on Jan. 5, 2002. goal in the third for the critical series on the road thisl The Alaska-Fairbanks series Nanooks after pulling weekend against first-place ~ marks the fourth consecutive Bartusch, but UAF was unable Miami. I series in which the Irish have to get the equalizer. The Irish 
NOTRE DAME.3,
ti played at least one overtime came away with the win 
ALASKA-FAIRBANKS 2 
l 
game, collecting two ties and despite being outsho·t 42-29. 
at the JOYCE CENTER
two overtime losses in that Brown matched a career best span. with 40 saves in the victory. 
1st 2nd 3rd Total
! "Anytime you score in the Saturday, each team was AlASKA FAIRBANKS 0 1 1 2 ' last minute of play, it's a good held scoreless in a wild first NOTRE DAME 2 0 1 3 tie," Poulin said. period, as UAF's McKay and 
SCORING SUMMARY
The Irish got off to a quick Notre Dame's Brown stymied ND-Jason Paige 6 (Neil Komadoski, UAF-Aaron Voros 11 (Cam Keith), 
First Period start Friday, leaping out to an several quality chances. Notre ND-Aaron GilllO (Rob Globke, Tom Brett Lebda), PPG, 17:53. 18:49. early 1-0 lead on a goal by Gill, Dame would get on the score­Galvin), PPG, 9:30. 

ND-Globke 16 (A. Gill), SHG, 11:42. NOTRE DAME 2, Third Period 
who pushed a rebound off a board in the second, with the 
UAF-Curtis Fraser 11 (Keith), 9:56. 

ALASKA-FAIRBANKS 2
Globke shot past N anook goalie freshman Paige scoring on a ND-Lebda 5 (Komadoski, Rob Globke),
Second Period 

at the JOYCE CENTER
Kelly Bartusch in the first peri­four-on-three Irish power play. UAF-Ryan Lang 7 (Cory Rask), 1:16. EX. 19:31. od. The Nanooks would even the 
Third Period 1st 2nd 3rd Total Shots on goal: Notre Dame 4 7, Alaska
Notre Dame made it 2-0 score on the .next shift, howev­
ND-Mike Walsh 10 (A. Gill, Wes O'Neill), ALASKA FAIRBANKS 0 1 1 2 Fairbanks 31. Power plays: Notre Dame
when Gill found Globke spring­er, after Cam Keith stole the 4:51. . NOTRE DAME 0 1 1 2 1-of-3, Opponent O-of·3. Goalies: David 
ing through the neutral zone puck in the Irish defensive UAF -Cam Keith 11 (Ryan Campbell, Brown 29 saves out of 31 shots (ND), SCORING SUMMARY Preston McKay 45 saves out of 47 shots
l. f, on an Irish penalty kill, and the zone and slipped it to Aaron Jasion Grinevitch), EX, 19:32. 
First Period (UAF.)

,/, senior forward flipped the puck Voros, who beat a helpless 
Shots on goal: Notre Dame 29, Alaska No Scoring.
past Bartusch for a shorthand­Brown far post. UAF would Contact Justin Schuver at
Fairbanks 42. Power plays: Notre Dame ed goal. Notre Dame success-then take the lead at 9:56 of 1-of-4. Opponent 0-of-8. Goalies: David Second Period jschuver@nd.edu 

ing screen, his fourth foul, with down 65-57 with 5:04 to play, 
13:07 remaining. Rutgers for­Rutgers went on an 11-2 run to
Rutgers 

ward Herve Lamizana then go up 76-59 and stifle any hopes bumped Cornette. Cornette of an Irish comeback. 
continued from page 20 
retaliated, getting in the face of Last year, it was former high number of fouls called in Lamizana and pushing Quincy Scarlet Knight Jerome Coleman the second half to make 21-of-25 Douby to the floor. Douby exag­connecting on 7-of-12 3-pointers attempts from the line. gerated his fall, and Cornette to help Rutgers cruise to an easy 
Near the end of that run, was called for a technical foul. win. This year, it was the fresh­Notre Dame forward Jordan The technical counts also as a man Douby coming off the bench Cornette, who is usually calm personal foul, and Cornette and making 4-of-6 from behind 
! and collected on the court, let fouled out. the arc en route to a game-high
'' 
himself get mentally taken out of The Irish were able to cut the 24 points. the game and let the crowd get large Rutgers lead to eight even rowdier. points twice, but they nev·er got 
Contact Matt Lozar at 

Cornette was called for a mov-any closer. When the Irish were 
mlozar@nd.edu

I~ 
',I 
I 
ir'. Irish guard Chris· Thomas dribbles past Kentucky guard Gerald Fitch Jan. 25. The Irish fell to Rutgers on Saturday, 81-70. 
HOUSING CONTRACTS ARE DUE SOON ... 
DO YV UKJ.\! O~V~Pm' E.E YV U H'IU B£ LlVIJ.\!GJ.'V.EXT il'AK? 
HoJ~ aiottt 
TURTLE CREEK APARTi\lENTS? 
. 
} ' 
i}
;, 
j,
,. '' 

Spaus atfJ jfi((Jtg ttp fat .. SO AFPLY TO!JAY!
~I 
). 
i' !. 
L 
+For afmrtui iin~'ott ou~ ~ui$200 per p ersun to
ll 
Ii 
rEN«VfJYOM spot

/I
/,
(· 
+GUAKJh'V.rE €D AFAE.:mf€J.\!1' PLAC£Jl-f€J.'V.'l'ifte 
}, 
I 
rta,yott appt,; }~fJ)fl.ajfJlt M-,ott qt¢:)q"' 1q cat(en! ~ 
I 
k 
·l ~ . 
l.Jon Jt m~s -,ottr c!tmt~ to 6.tp6ttimc6 off-Ctlfrptt..!ii !tottsiu.g at TURTLE CREEK APART;."fENTS. 
CaJI. tts at S74-272-3124 or-,ott cau v~it tts on t!te H8.6 at ~.b!J'tkcreek nd.cont 


Monday, February 2, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT 
YOUR PROJECT IS MY TOP PRIORITY. 
TELL ME EVERYTHING THAT I NEED TO KNOW. 
J 

FIVES 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~ I'M SO 
I HAVEN'T

! BORED .. . 
STARTED 

~ CAN'T .. . 
TALKING

i STAY .. . 
YET. 

~ AWAKE. o-O-<*A'r 
I 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

, BUCCI 
I ( J I I 
C200<1 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Righta Reserved. 
NAIRY 
I 
I I 
WHAT A BETTOR 

-j
tPOAFFY 
HAS TO 00 WHeN HIS HORSE

) [] 
l-OSE5 THE RACE. 
www.jurrole.com 
GOSPEN 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

[IJ I I 
Print~ Mre: "( I I I J" ITJ > 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: WHINE FABLE EIGHTY GENTLE
Saturday's 

Answer: The drapery helper was fired because he couldn't -GET THE "HANG" OF IT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 "Eureka!" 64 roof 1 Eventattended 36 Scene of daz-65 Dashed by Cinderella zling goings-on
5 Dumbbells DOWN
40 Loving murmur

1oTotally unexcit­1 Pear variety 
ing 41 Toledo's lake 2 Vicinity
14 Black-and-white 42 Vermont city 3 Allow temporary 
cookie 
43 Catcher's posi­

use of
15 W.W. II plane tion 4 Ore's locale 
_Gay 
46 Drives back 16 Plumb crazy 5 Washington of 
47_1iquor 

Hollywood17 Song from 48 Disffgure 6 Alternative to "inSondheim's "A 49 Stream a bottle"
Little Night Music" 52 Scale interval 7 Cries from 20 Aria flourishes 57 "The Greatest Homer Simpson Show on Earth" 8 Spanish cheer 
21 Start 
purveyors 

9 Baglike struc­22 Sound repeated 60 "Holy Toledo!" ture
while marching 61 Bar patron's 1oMae West, for
23 Company with a 
request, with 

crocodile logo one 
"the" 11 Temperature25 Soft shade 62 Edward who extremes29 High rank 

popularized the 

12 Clearasil target 33 Cast member limerick 13 Party-giver
34 Kukla,_ and 63 Old bandleader 18 Be a natural
Ollie Columbo part 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 19 Diving bird with a weird call 

-:-+-:-+-=+:=-:+:::+:=-t 23 Public persona 
~=+=+--:-+-:::+:=-t 24 Multivitamin additive 
25 Quilt part 
....:...+-=+~±=+::::+::::-~ 26 Sneezer's cry ~..;..f.~~~~ 27 Late Sen. Thurmond 
28 Stubbed item ...,-4....,.........,...........,=-4 29 "Sesame Street" Muppet ......+=+-:-+-:=-t 30 Button material .......+...,...+.-:-+-:,.-+,-~~~ 31 Rude person 
---&..;;;..&...;..a........&....._.....__.&.......l 32 Simplifies 
WILLSHORTZ 

34 Blue-ribbon 45 Azerbaijan's 53 Pinball error position capital 54 Yellow sub? 
46 Walk aimlessly 
37 True 55 Close in on

48 Olympic award 38 Spain and 
49 "Good buddy" 56 Bronte's "Jane Portugal " 
50 Spaghetti sauce 39 Eminem's brand 
58 Root beer music 
order

51 Historical times 
44 Corrects 52 Social rebuff 59 Happy_ lark 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) . Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Celebrities born on this day: Debbie Allen, Jim Stafford, William Kennedy, 
A.J. Foyt, Marilyn Ho!fle. Ethel Merman, Sade, Kate Moss 
Happy Birthday: Don't be disillusioned by the information you receive this year. Research will help you find out the truth of any given situation. Once you have all the facts, you'll find it easy to move into the mainstream of any direction you choose. This is not a year to sit idle waiting for things to happen. Get moving and initiate whatever it is you wish to accomplish. Your numbers: 8, 10, 15, 25, 34, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Emotional problems may affect your job. Let your boss know that personal difficulties have been interfering with your performance and reassure him that you will make improvements. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will meet new and exciting friends if you take part in sports events. Someone from your past will come back into your life. Don't be too eager to trust this individual. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Socializing with friends will be enlightening. Travel w~ll stimulate your curiosity and bring you into contact with new friends. Investments can be made if you are careful. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will pick up a lot of information from the material you read. Too much idle time will create nervousness. Make changes to your surroundings, but don't exceed a set budget.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be most annoyed if your lover has made you look foolish. You will be prone to extravagance if you don't tighten your purse strings. Mix business with pleasure if possible. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Financial ventures will not be as profitable as you anticipate. Overspending should be a prime concern today. Don't let those you love cost you dearly. Offer good advice, not cash. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Pleasure trips will bring you mental stimulation. You will have conversations with interesting and informative individuals. Listen to those who offer solutions to any existing problems. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Look into career changes or start your own small business. Don't expect help from others. You will get great satisfaction if you do the work yourself. Keep your overhead down. ** "'* SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't take on issues or projects that you aren't completely comfortable with. Be diplomatic when dealing with other people's problems. Try noi to get caught in the middle.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have to be careful not to intimidate others. Don't elaborate too much about your goals. Your persuasive ways will get you into more trouble than you bargained for. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): There is no point in hiding your true feelings. Lay your cards on the table and try to sort out an amiable way to solve the existing problems. Those who aren't involved won't understand. * * * PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This will be a good time to network. You can get involved in excellent investments if you are in the right place at the right time. Laziness will be your downfall. **** 
Birthday Baby: Generous and trusting to a fault, you must learn to put yourself first and follow your own dreams throughout life in order to be successful. You have the ability to promote yourself, but you must take the initiative in order for that to happen. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
.. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _____________ State ____ Zip______ 
---~ -~--~-~-­
---~-~-­


THE OBSER\'ER 

page 20 
Monday, February 2, 2004 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish continue to suffer in torture RAC 
Scarlet Knights improve to 7-1 all-time versus Irish at home 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 

The Irish probably wish Rutgers were switching confer­ences next year. 
Eleven days after winning at Virginia Tech, who is joining the ACC next year, the Irish lost 81­70 at the RAC Saturday in a loss that has the Irish feeling they are cursed when playing in Piscataway, N.J. 
Unlike last season, when the Scarlet Knights jumped out to a 43-19 lead in the first half en route to a 95-80 victory, the Irish were able to stay in this game during the first half, holding a 38-34 advantage after the first 20 minutes. 
But then the second half start­ed. 
Over the first 11 minutes of the second half, the Irish (10-7, 4-3 in the Big East) shot 1-of-12 from the field, committed five turnovers and scored only six points. 
Rutgers (12-6, 4-4 Big East) took advantage of Notre Dame's 
HOCKEY 

leers take 3 points against Nanooks 
)
,, 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 

Returning All-American Molly Huddle set the pace for the Irish as the Notre Dame track and field teams compet­ed alongside Michigan State, Depaul. Marquette and Butler in· the Notre Dame Invitational Friday night at the Loftus Center. 
Huddle, a sophomore from Elmira, N.Y., broke her own school record in the 3,000­meter race with a time of 9:14.13. 
Huddle's time is the second­best time posted in the coun­try this season. The race automatically qualifies her for the NCAA championships to be held March 12 in Fayetteville, Ark. 
Another outstanding per­formance on the women's side came from junior Lauren King. Her time of 4:45.61 won the inile run and puts her in second place national­ly. 
Senior Tiffany Gunn won the 500-meter with a season­best mark of 1:13.37. Teammate freshman Okechi Ogbuokiri finished second to Gunn in a time of 1:16.61. 
see TRACK/page 17 
lack of offense to start the half and went on a 26-6 run to take a 60-44 lead and effectively put the game away. In the first half, · Rutgers didn't attempt ·a free throw but took advantage of the 
see RUTGERS/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Defense holds Eagles 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame (13-7, 6-2 Big East) used another stellar defensive effort Saturday to remain undefeated at home with a 52-50 win over No. 23 Boston College (14-4, 4-4 Big East). See Also 
M egan 
"Duffy, Severe 
Duffy led the 
come ready to
Irish with 16 points, three play, make assists, three 
difference"
rebounds and four steals in page 17 40 minutes of action. Le'Tania Severe also scored 15 points on 5-for-8 shooting and didn't commit a turnover in 39 minutes to lead the Irish to their sixth victory over a top -25 team this season. 
"I thought that Megan and Le'Tania played especially well today, and I think, coming off the Miami game, they really had great focus and played really well at both ends," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "Thankfully, they did score, because we really struggled to score." 
Severe, who came into the game averaging 7.5 points per game, was able to slash and create for the Irish. 
"The drive was there a lot, so I just took what the defense gave me," Severe said. "I think that we were having a little trouble scoring, and I knew I had to provide some type of a 
see IRISH/page 17 

. . 
' 
I 
' 
I 

By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Now that's more like it. 

The Irish (13-9-4, 9-8-3 in the CCHA) bounced back from a pair of disappointing one­goal losses last weekend against Northern Michigan by taking three of four points from Alaska Fairbanks (12­13-1, 11-10-1) in a series this weekend at the Joyce Center. Notre Dame won the first game 3-2 on Friday and came back to salvage a 2-2 tie against the Nanooks Saturday. 
The Irish special teams had a solid weekend with the penalty kill, stopping all 11 Nanook power plays in the two games, including eight in the win Friday. Notre Dame's power play also chipped in with two goals, and Rob Globke scored a shorthanded goal Friday to really put a damper on UAF's chances at a comeback. 
Freshman David Brown con­tinued to shine in net, playing both games and stopping 71 of 7 5 shots, a . 94 7 save percent­age. Brown helped a Notre Dame defense ranked No. 1 in the CCHA to hold the league's top-rated offense, which aver­
ages 3.42 goals per game, to just four goals combined. · 
"We took three of four points from a very good team this weekend," coach Dave Poulin said. "I thought we played real well tonight -got good goaltending and some help from the special teams." 
Notre Dame also got much­needed help on offense Saturday, as a player other than the trio of Mike Walsh, Rob Globke and Aaron Gill scored a goal for the first time since Jan. 10 against Bowling Green. Walsh, Globke and Gill scored the goals Friday, and Jason Paige and Brett Lebda scored on Saturday. 
Lebda's goal was the key Saturday, as Notre Dame came back from a 2-1 deficit to tie the game in the waning seconds. With David Brown pulled for an extra attacker, the Irish won a face-off in· their offensive zone. Neil Komadowski took a shot from the center point that was blocked. The puck hopped into the air. Lebda, who was bar­ing down the right side, caught the puck with his stick The senior defenseman skat­hard tonight. That's why I and slapped it with a baseball ed over to the bench and leapt went over to celebrate with swing into the net past UAF toward his teammates. the team -everyone gave a goalie Preston McKay with "That was a big goal for us," 
28.5 seconds remaining. Lebda said. "We really worked see HOCKEY/page 18 

NO TRACK 

Irish compete in Notre Dame Invitational 
en 
fENCING
ND SWIMMING 
SUPER BOWl XXXVIII 
SMC SWIMMING 
WOMEN'S TENNIS

MEN'S TENNIS 
LLI 
Notre Dame Dual 
Patriots 32 
No. 21 Irish take 

Duke 7 
1-u Michiii'n 166 
Saint Ma~s 124
z Notre arne 134 
Meet 
Panthers 29 

Chicago 
Notre Dame 0 
weekend 

I The No. 21 women 
The Irish sweep 
Adam Vinatieri hit a 

The Belles end their 
The Blue Devils 
Notre Dame beat

I cc: ::5 
could not break the 
weekend, including vic­
game-winning field goal 

season with a victory. 
sweep the Irish, who 
Ohio State, 5-2, and
~

\ 
I Wolverine curse 
tories over No. 2 men's 
to give New England its 
Wisconsin, 7-0.

won just two sets. 
I ( c c:c 
and women's Ohio State 
second title in three 

I 
teams. 
years. 

( A. !;
en 
page 12
page 12 
page 16 
page 16
page 16 
page 16 








