
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 69 

Apartments hit by burglaries over break 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Several student apartments in the College Park complex were broken into between Dec. 19 and Dec. 31 while tenants were away on winter break. 
The burglar entered through the front door of sev­eral of the units between 18115 and 18121 Bulla Road, and broke through the fire­wall in a closet to access adjacent apartments through the attic, reported The South Bend Tribune. Several items were reported stolen when the students returned to their apartments last week, includ-
LeMay succumbs to cancer 
Former English professor passes away at 67 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
Albert LeMay, a long-time member of the Notre Dame fac­ulty, died Dec. 10 in Memorial Hospital after a battle with pancreatic cancer. He was 67. 
LeMay was a professor of English and directed the under­graduate for­eign study program in Puebla, Mexico until 

May 2003. LeMay 

He also served as the program coordi­nator for the Helen Kellogg 
Institute for International Studies until 1999 and was actively involved with the South Bend Housing Authority for a · number of years. 
"He was an extraordinary person and one of the most generous and caring people I have ever known," said Scott Mainwaring, director of the Kellogg Institute and friend of LeMay for nearly 20 years. 
LeMay's position at the Kellogg Institute provided him with an opportunity to work closely with visiting national and international fellows, pre­dominantly from the United States and Latin America. He also worked with guest schol­
see LEMAY/page 6 
ing laptop computers, video gaming systems and DVDs. 
Students were informed of the break-ins through notes left in their apartments, which stated that any damage sustained had been fixed, said tenant Molly Walsh. 
"I got a phone call from my bpyfriend over break -t)1at's how I found out," Walsh said. "We didn't get any calls from College Park or the police, and I think we should have, just to let us know what's going on, and even though it's not really their responsibility, I think they could have had somebody patrolling the area while we were gone," she 
see BURGLARY/page 4 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 15,2004 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



ND student meets Bush through book drive 
By LAURA VILIM 
News Writer 
Notre Dame freshman Nina Pressly never imagined that a project she began five years ago to distribute books to schools in Palm Beach, Fla. 
would one day lead to meeting President Bush. 
Pressly first consid­ered donat­ing her books at the 


age of 14 as Pressly she was cleaning childhood books out 
of her room. After contacting the volunteer coordinator for the Palm Beach County School District, Pressly decided to give her books to local ele­mentary ·schools. Eventually, Pressly's idea turned into a project fulfilling the 100-hour community service require­ment for her high school, enticing other students to par­ticipate, as well. 
"I enjoyed the fact that I was actually bel ping people," she said. 
As Pressly broadened the scope of her project to include more schools, the demand for book donations became increasingly hard to meet. She exhausted the book collections of her friends, neighbors and relatives, and had to find other sources of supply. Pressly wrote letters to book publish­ers asking them to send her books to give to school chil­dren, the majority of whom came from low-income house­holds. 
Publishers Scholastic, Random House, Simon and Schuster, Rigby, and Charlesbridge responded to Pressly's request by delivering numerous shipments of brand­new books to her home. 
"I didn't think that I was going to get much of a response [from publi:;hers]. but then every day I would come home from school and there were two or three boxes [of books] from them," she said. 
With the help of publishers, family and friends, Pressly has already donated over 10,000 books to children. The amount of energy and time Pressly devoted to her project led to her receiving the Point of Light Award in 2002 from Florida Governor Jeb Bush. 
It was this contact with the governor that initially gave Pressly a chance to meet the President. Knowing that Laura Bush is an advocate of literacy programs, an official from Governor Bush's office con­tacted Pressly to ask if she would be interested in greet­ing the President upon his Jan. 
see BOOKS/page 4 

Foreign students face increased customs security 
By JULIA .MILLER-LEMON 
News Writer 
A new security screening process was launched Monday in an effort to keep terrorists from entering the United States, requiring international travelers to be digitally fingerprinted and photographed as they pass through customs. 
The new program, named U.S.-VISIT, or U.S. Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology, allows federal authorities to keep track of foreign visitors, mostly tourists, students or business travelers. Fingerprints and photo­graphs are put into a law­enforcement database that eventually will allow users to view photos of visa holders and ensure they match the person who is seeking to enter the country. The travel gram is to "make sure our data is supposed to be borders are open to visitors securely stored within the but closed to terrorists." Department of Homeland The new security should Security and made available allow customs and border only to authorized officials. officials to "focus on 'at-risk' 
An estimated  travelers  while  
24  million  speeding the entry  
international  "I think that the  of everyone else,"  
travelers enter the United States· each  added security is a good thing ... I feel  Ridge said. Notre Dame jun­ior Gabe Letona  
year.  The new  more secure now  encountered the  
$820 million program,  than I didbefore...  new screening process when he  
which  is  in  returned to South  
place  at  14  Gabe Letona  Bend  from  his  
seaports and 115 major air­ junior  native Guatemala following a semes­ 
ports, allows  ter abroad.  

customs and immigration Like other international officials to check passengers travelers, Letona was digital­instantly against terrorist ly fingerprinted on both his watch lists and a national left and right index finger, criminal database. and then photographed by a 
According to Homeland small, eyeball-sized camera Security Secretary Tom as he passed through cus-Ridge, the goal of the pro-toms. 
"Security didn't really take any longer than it normally does," Letona said. "Customs officials were real­ly strict about having all of your paper work completely filled out, but it didn't really seem like it was causing any big delays." 
Many international travel­ers anticipated major delays as a result of the new sere ening process, but reports from the Department of Homeland Security indi­cate that the added security only adds 10 to 15 extra sec­onds onto the current securi­ty procedures. 
"I think that the added security is a good thing," Letona said. ''I'm sure a lot of people might feel like it's an infringement on their rights, but I feel more secure now than I did before." 
see SECURITY/page 4 


Thursday, January 15, 2004 

page 2 · Th~ Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
CORE 


deserves a chance 
So now they've decided to cut the Core program, and I'm sorry to see it go. 
The idea behind Core is that of a "lib­eral" education. Not liberal in the politi­cal sense, of course, but in the sense of 
"freeing" the stu-Matthew dent from the blun­ders that a profes-Smedberg 
sional degree or overspecialization News Wire can easily impose. Editor In the propaganda that Arts and Letters spreads around to all who will listen, the trumpet of "liberal arts" is blown constantly. However, it seems that, where the rubber meets the road, the College thinks nothing ofgetting rid of the last place on campus where stu­dents are required to think over and dis­cuss contemporary, real-life issues with­out the comfort of choosing the dis­course they will be discussed in. Core, when taught well -and it was taught well in at least a few sections, including mine-forced a student out of his com­fort zone. And, in some ways, this uncomfortable place where Core places you is the only place where genuine learning can occur. 
I've heard all the complaints, just like you have. I even have a fairly good sense of why Core, of all the classes that the University offers, spawns so many dis­gruntled students. Calculus and Organic Chemistry are supposed to be hard courses, taught by professors whose third language is English and who come from a culture where questions are dis­couraged. Students come to college knowing, many of them, that they will need to slog through classes like that. What's not on their list of expectations, however, is taking what essentially comes to an interdisciplinary literature course, taught-or "facilitated"-by a professor who often is reading the course books for the first time himself, who feels that his time would be better spent doing research in his own field and who desperately wishes he had tenure so that he could pull rank on some adjunct professor and force her to teach the course instead. 
I readily admit that, in a situation where the professor does not want to be there, and the students have been con­vinced that the course is a colossal bad idea right from freshman orientation, there is little that anyone can do to res­cue the boat before it sinks. 
But this does not diminish how sad­dened I am that the College has chosen to abandon its single biggest commit­ment to broad education. Is it really an argument against having a requirement like Core that neither professors nor stu­dents wish to stretch their minds around ideas that are not part of their o\\-n dis­cipline? Is this not precisely w)lat Core is for: presenting the academy with a chance to break out of the stagnant pat­terns of thinking which we all are likely to fall into as we specialize into our respective fields? This University owes it to every student that they be challenged to expand their intellectual horizons; and in giving Core the axe I say they have reneged on that debt. 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at msmedber@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make: mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we: can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How IS YOUR SCHEDULE THIS SEMESTER? 



Andy Crutchfield Caitlin Evans Jill Daughtery 
freshman sophomore grad student Siegfried Lewis offcampus 
~~u 
,,

"Better than m ... "Last one!" last semester. •• 

being photographed at the airport as part of a newly imposed entry requirement for U.S. citizens, federal police said. 
The pilot, Dale Robbin Hirsh, lifted his middle fin­ger while undergoing the new security process, said Francisco Baltazar da Silva, chief of Sao Paulo's federal police. 
Police accused the pilot of showing contempt to authorities. a crime in Brazil, and escorted him to a nearby federal court­house for possible formal charges. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Sunless burgers , 

CHICAGO -It has come to this in America: Burgers are losing their buns. 
Some of them, at least. 
Burger King's rollout of breadless Whoppers this week is a nod to the low­carb craze that's sweeping the nation -and the latest evidence that the burger wars are taking a turn for the healthy. 
Smaller chains Hardee's and Carl's Jr. dumped the bread from some hamburg­ers last month, going let­tuce-wrapped instead, and TGI Friday's restaurant has started serving a bunless cheeseburger, too. 
Burger-lovers will have 

senior Pasquerilla West 
"Jt•s all locked 
in my head.·· 

the last say, and experts say the bun shouldn't be written off from restau­rants' regular fare, much less from its place in mod­ern American food lore. 
"This won't be a big seg­ment of the [burger] mar­ket," predicted Jerry McVety, a foodservice industry consultant based in Farmington Hills, Mich. "I don't see it lasting very long." 
Pilot arrested for obscene gesture 
SAO PAULO, Brazil -An American Airlines pilot was arrested by federal police Wednesday after making an obscene gesture when 
Megan Smith Rachel Meeks Steven Kurtz 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a: 
u.l 
::c 
~ 
u.l 

3: 
..... 
oc( 
(,) 



22 22 

39 16 
0 

HIGH 23 HIGH 13
..J 
LOW 17 LOW 7 



freshman freshman McGlinn Keough 
"G00d . •• "It's only the first day.·· 
IN BRIEF 
Dance the night away at Legend's Nightclub Dancing tonight through Saturday from 12 a.m. to 4 a.m. 
The Student Activities Office is sponsoring Open Billiards from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. tonight through Saturday at ND Express in the LaFortune Student Center. 
The Joyce Ice Arena will host a College Student Skate this Friday from 7 to 9 p.m. There is a $3 skate rental fee. 
Flipside will sponsor a night of bowling at the Beacon Bowl on Friday. Buses will leave the Ubrary Circle at 9:30p.m. 
The band "Kennedy's Kitchen" will preform Friday from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. at Legends. Come enjoy this seven piece Irish band, and be pre­pared to dance. 
Sign up at RecSports for a cross-country ski clinic to be held Saturday from 2 to 5 p.m. located in the old golf pro shop of the Rockne Memorial. The pro shop will also hold an open house at that time. 
The Center for Social Concerns will hold an interviewing work­shop for students applying for this summer's service programs. The workshop will take place Jan. 20 from 5 to 6 p.m. in the esc building. 
Come check out service and social action opportunities at the Social Concerns Festival Jan. 21 from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

33 15 

HIGH LOW 

Thursday, January 15, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Members approve Chin as VP 
the students." the next level." 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
To replace her as chief of Crossin attended the meet­
Associate News Editor 
staff, Chin nominated Pat ing to introduce herself to 
Corker, director of communi­Senators and said she felt pre­
At its first meeting of the cations for the Office of the pared to take on the chal­semester Wednesday night, President. Corker was also lenges of the project. the Student Senate unani­approved unanimously by the When asked if she had any mously approved Emily Chin Senate. changes to the project under as the new student body vice Furthermore, consideration. president. senators also Crossin said, 
In his letter to the Senate approved the "/ am very excited, and "There will be nominating Chin, student body 2004 "The changes to the 
rm looking forward to
president Jeremy Lao, who Shirt" presi­project-there took over the position upon dent, sopho­utilizing Senate's are changes the early graduation of former more Katie potential and making it every year." president Pat Hallahan in Crossin. Specifically,
more ofa voice for the 
December, said that he has Last year's she mentioned "1 00 percent confidence that "The Shirt" students. , a possible she will do an excellent job president Dave addition to The next semester as student body Brenner nomi­Shirt's distribu­
Emily Chin 

vice president." nated Crossin tion process,
student body vice 
Chin will now assume her in a letter to saying they
president

duties as vice president, which the Senate say­may also be include presiding over the ing "she pos­available meetings of the Senate. sesses the through the 
In response to her approval, enthusiasm, knowledge and residence halls next fall. Chin said, "I am very excited, forward thinking necessary to and I'm looking forward to confront challenges and utilizing Senate's potential and achieve goals. She will be able Contact Maureen Reynolds at making it more of a voice for to take The Shirt Project to mreynold@nd.edu 
Noted poet to visit ND campus 
Special to The Observer Office of Multicultural Student Shirts & New Skins" and "The 
Programs and Services as part Summer of Black Widows. "He 
Poet Sherman Alexie, four­of its Fine Arts Lecture Series, wrote the screenplay for time winner of the World the event is free and open to the "Smoke Signals," which was the Heavyweight Championship public. first feature film produced, writ­Poetry Bout, will present a lec­A Spokane/Coeur d'Alene ten and directed by Native ture Jan. 20 at 7 p.m. in the Indian from Wellpinit, Wash., Americans and won the Annenberg Auditorium of the Alexie is the author of numer­Audience Award and Snite Museum of Art. ous works, including "The Filmmaker's Trophy at the 1998 
Presented by Notre Dame's Business of Fancydancing," "Old Sundance Film Festival. 


Faculty rank fifth in national fellowships 
Arts and Letters faculty earn 49 fellowships in pastfour years according to ISLA survey 
Special to the Observer ment is a tribute to the quality 
of our faculty and the unique 
Faculty in the College of Arts support structures offered by and Letters are among the the College's Institute for nation's leading recipients of Scholarship in the Liberal national fel--Arts," said Mark lowships in Roche, I.A. the humani­0 'Shaughnesssy 
..This outstanding of
ties, arts and Dean the social sci­achievement is a College. ences, Notre Dame has
tribute to the quality 
according to received 16 fel­
an analysis ofour faculty and the lowships from the 
conducted by unique support National t h e Endowment for
structures offered by 
University's the Humanities
the College's Institute 
Institute for since 1999, more Scholarship for Scholarship in the than for any other in the Liberal · university in the
Liberal Arts. ·· 

Arts [ISLA]. nation. Other 
In the past agencies that four years, Mark Roche have awarded 49 fellow­dean of the College of multiple fellow­ships were ships to Notre
Arts and Letters 

awarded to Dame faculty are Notre Dame the American scholars by 16 of the funding Council for Learned Societies, agencies used by the National seven; the Guggenheim and Research Council in its rank­Fulbright Foundations and the ings for the humanities. Only National Humanities Center. four other universities earned five; the Newberry Library, more: the University of three; and the Humboldt California, Berkeley, 62; Foundation, two. Princeton University, 56; the The ISLA survey is a compar­University of Chicago, 54; and ison of the top 25 national the University of Michigan, 51. research universities as ranked 
"This outstanding achieve-by U.S. News & World Report. 
Recycle The Obse er. 
Retail Half.com 






You do the math. 
How smart is this: All the textbooks you 

~fcom~ 
\'tm#~i • a~·
need for up to 50o/o off retail prices. New or 
bydjl.
used, all you have to do is go to half.com and type in the book titles, or ISBN numbers. Same textbooks. Gatta love that new math. Smarter prices. 
Copynght 2003-2004 Half.com. Half.com, the Half.com logo, eBay and the eBay logo are trademarks of eBay Inc. All rights reserved. *Average Retail Price of a NewTextbook based on data from Follett Corp (as reponed by The Associated Press in January 2003). Average Retail Pnce of a Used Textbook based on data from Monument Information Resources. Average Half.com Price for New and Used Textbooks based on an AugusVSeptember 2003 analysis of over 500,000 books sold on Half.com. Quantities, pricing and availability are not guaranteed and will vary due to supply and demand. Coupon is for first-time buyers only. Limited time offer; excludes shipping and handling; offer subject to change or termination without prior notice. 

Thursday, January 15, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 

Part-Time Position I 
~tvdt.; ! 
JlliST1Jlftt!Al
Available for Student 
Study Australia LLC, a study abroad program provider, owned by Notre Dame Alunmi is ac-­cepting applications from students looking for part-time work. Located on the campus o'fHoly Cross Co11ege, we are seeking an enthusiastic student with good computer, communication, and people skills, ideally with previous international study experience, to support our client service staff. We work with an advanced progran1 and application tracking systems in a busy, fast­paced environment. The hourly rate is $8-$10 per hour and the hours can be organized to suit your sc?edule. The possibility exists for further employment opportunities if you are a senior, or ongorng support opportW1ities ifyou are underclassman. Applications by email only (include resume and cover letter) to Sean Lennon at sean.Jennon@study-australia.com. For information on our organization please visit www.study-australia.com 


Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support &Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
~ Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1~ 7407 
) Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 ) Sylvia Dillon, Campus Minisn-y, 1~ 7163 );.> John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 > Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 
~ Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 

South Bend Communi/)! Resources: 
;.. Women's Care Center: 234-0363 ~ Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


Security 
continued from page 1 
However, while he did understand that the new process has been put into place to protect the United States, he did express that he now felt like he was the one who security was target­ing. 
''I'd feel more secure if I was an American, if it was my country," Letona said. 
"It made me realize that the security is to .protect the United States more than me, but I understand why they are doing it." 

Books 
continued from page 1 
9 arrival in Palm Beach County for an election cam­paign fundraiser. Pressly joined government officials from Florida, including state senators and representatives in welcoming President Bush. 
"It was a little inti.midating at first, but they were really nice people and very funny," she said. 

The changes come as the United States has entered a third consecutive week on high alert for terrorism, resulting in especially tight­ened security around foreign flights. 
Since New Year's Eve, ter­rorist threats and security threats have grounded or cancelled fourteen flights on British Airways, Aero Mexico and Air France. 
The only exceptions to the new screening process are travelers from Canada who present proof of citizenship and Mexican citizens who are able to obtain a permit for stays up to three days. Also granted exception are 
Pressly said that she never ilar program at Notre Dame 
expected such  and  has  already  
an  honor  to  contacted people at  
come with the program she began. She was enthusi­ "It was a little intimidating at first. but they were  the Center for Social Concerns. As for the project she began in her home­ 
astic to meet the president, even though  really nice people and very funny.··  town, it was taken over by a group of high school sopho­ 
her time with  mores who hope to  
him  was  Nina Pressly  build upon Pressly's  
short.  freshman  work.  
"It was sur­ 
real," Pressly  

said of the experience. Contact Laura Vilim at Pressly hopes to start a sim-lvilim@nd.edu 
travelers from the 27 European nations whose citi­zens are allowed to stay in the United States for up to 90 days without a visa, including France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Japan. 
While only the Baltimore­Washington International Airport has a system to track foreigners as they leave the country, the framework is in place to ensure that all air­ports will have the system by the end of the year. 
Contact Julia Millet-Lemon at jmillerl@nd.edu 


Burglary 
continued from page I 
said. 
Paramount Management, the first-year management company for College Park, did have a security patrol earlier in the year after a similar robbery, but the patrol was stopped after no further inci­dents were reported, property manager Louann Susan said. 
"Right now, it looks as if there's going to be [a patrol] over spring break. It's hard to control any large residence area like College Park, but we're currently working on other options to see how we can make the complex's secu­rity better," Susan said. 
There are no suspects in the case, in part because many victims have yet to contact police, said St. Joseph County Police Department spokes­woman Jaimee Thirion. ­"There were seven initial reports, but as of yet, nobody has called us to say 'We're missing this,' so it's been dif­ficult to pin down the exact 
nature of the crime," she said. 
Despite the incident, stu­dents said they are still com­fortable with the safety of the College Park complex. 
"I don't really feel less safe, and I don't think it'll happen again, and nothing's ever 
-been taken while students have been there," Walsh said. "It's a shame that this hap­pened, but [College Park] is still a good apartment com­plex." 
Senior Meghan Kelly, whose apartment was not burglar­ized, expressed similar senti­ment. 
"I wasn't really shocked," she said of the break-ins, adding that they did not affect her feeling of security in the complex. 
"I guess it's kind of always in the back of my mind ... I make sure the doors are locked when I'm home alone, but it's not something that I worry about," Kelly said. 
The South Bend Tribune contributed to this report. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Thursday, January 15, 2004 COMPILED FR0~1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Female suicide bomber kills 4 
EREZ CROSSING, Gaza Strip -A Palestinian blew herself up Wednesday at the Israel-Gaza border, killing three Israeli sol­diers and a private security guard and sig­naling a new tactic by Hamas militants, who had never before dispatched a female suicide bomber. 
Hamas spiritual leader Sheik Ahmed Yassin said the use of a woman was unique for the Islamic group, but. holy war "is an obligation of all Muslims, men and women." 
Israel said it would temporarily close the crossing to Palestinians, preventing thou­sands of workers from reaching an Israeli­Palestinian industrial zone that is one of the lnst vestiges of cooperation between the two peoples after more than three years of vio­lence. 
Libya ratifies ban on nuke tests 
VIENNA, Austria -In a new signal that Libya is serious about renouncing its weapons of mass destruction, U.N. officials said Wedn~:')day the North African country has ratified the imclear test ban treaty. 
Libya's nuclear program was far from pro­ducing a weapon and the treaty is 12 nations short of the 44 ratifications needed for it to enter into force. Still, the announcement by the U.N. agency overseeing the agreement appeared to be a further sign of commitment by Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi to give up nuclear weapons ambitions. 
The Vienna-based agency -known as the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Organization -said that in ratifying the pact earlier this month, Libya agreed to host a monitoring station at Misratah. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Powell: Increase indecency fines 
WASHINGTON -Federal Communications 
Commission Chairman Michael Powell said 
Wednesday he wants a tenfold increase in 
the fines that can be imposed on broadcast­
ers for indecent programming. 
The current maximum levy is $27,500, which Powell said is "peanuts" for big media companies. 
Powell's proposal, which needs congres­sional approval, comes amid continued criti­cism of the FCC for a ruling last October that an expletive uttered by the musician Bono on a network TV program was not indecent because it was used as an adjective rather than to describe a sex act. 
Feds to overhaul drug tests 
NEW YORK -The federal government is planning to overhaul its employee drug test­ing program to include scrutiny of workers' hair, saliva and sweat, a shift that could spur more businesses to revise screening for mil­lions of their own workers. 
The planned changes, long awaited by the testing industry, reflect government efforts to be more precise in its drug screening and to outmaneuver a small but growing subset of workers who try to cheat on urine-based tests. 
lOCAL NEWS 
Committee OKs gambling bill 
INDIANAPOLIS -A House committee Wednesday approved a bill that would allow 5,000 electronic slot-like gambling machines in two Indiana horse racing tracks and two off-track betting parlors. 
The financially struggling state could pull down $93 million from the machines, according to the racing industry. Counties and local governments could share $66 mil­lion. 
The bill cleared by the House Public Policy Committee would permit 1,000 machines at Hoosier Park in Anderson and 1,000 machines at Indiana Downs in Shelby County. Off-track betting parlors in Indianapolis and Fort Wayne could each have up to 1,500 machines. 
Bush: Return to moon by 2020 
President plans to scrap shuttle, establish moon base, send astronauts to Mars 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush, envision­
ing "new journeys to the 
worlds beyond our own," 
unveiled a plan 
Wednesday to send astro­
nauts to the moon, Mars 
and beyond on missions 
sure to cost hundreds of 
billions of dollars and 
stretch the bounds of tech­
nology. He called for a 
manned lunar landing as 
early as 2015. 
Bush's election-year ini­
tiative represents the bold­
est space goals since John 
F. Kennedy laid the groundwork for the Apollo program that landed Americans on the moon in 1969. 
Intended to inject new life iiito a space program shattered by last year's loss of the Columbia shut­tle and its crew of seven, Bush's proposal faces tough questions in Congress. Many Democrats say the administration should take care of prob­lems at home before set­ting its sights on costly space initiatives, particu­larly in the face of budget deficits of about $500 bil­lion. 
Some scientists say it would be more efficient and less expensive to use ·robotic spacecraft instead of manned missions. Bush's father proposed a Mars mission in 1989, but it collapsed when cost esti­mates hit $400 billion to $500 billion. 
In a speech at NASA's headquarters, Bush laid out a timetable for robotic missions to the moon no later than 2008, the first manned flight of a new spacecraft by 2014 and a manned lunar mission as early as 2015 and no later than 2020. 
The president did not set a deadline for reaching Mars, and NASA Director Sean O'Keefe, briefing reporters later, said the timing of the mission would depend on the results of studies on the effects of space travel on humans. 
Bush said the moon, with a gravity pull one-sixth 


that of Earth, could be the 
launching pad for "human 
missions to Mars and to 
worlds beyond." He said 
his goal was to "extend a 
human presence across 
our solar system." 
Bush's speech put him in the political spotlight in the run up to Monday's Iowa caucus battle among Democrats who want his job. It was the president's second headline-grabbing announcement in recent days, after his immigration proposal last week. 
In vivid terms, Bush par­trayed the nation's space program -with its three shuttles grounded by the Columbia accident-as at a standstill. "In the past 30 years, no human being has set foot on another world or ventured farther up into space than 386 miles, roughly the distance from Washington, D.C., to Boston, Mass.," Hush said. 
In terms of .the cost, Bush gave an estimate only for the initial down-payment on his space plan. He said it would cost $12 billion ov.er the next five years, but only $1 billion in new funds. The remain­der would come from money reallocated under NASA's five-year budget. Thus, it would be for 
Bush's successors to figure 
out how to finance the 
costliest part of the plan. 
Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., 
who flew on a space shut­
tle in 1986, questioned 
whether $1 billion in extra 
funding would be enough. 
"You can't go to the moon 
by 2014 with that," Nelson 
said. 
House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, D­Calif., said Bush's plan faces strong scrutiny. "As we go forward with any initiative we have to exam:. ine our priorities," she said. "We have serious challenges here on Earth." 
In his speech, Bush got a high-tech introduction from a beamed video image of astronaut Michael Foale, aboard the Inte-rnational Space Station 240 miles above the Earth. 
"I know that I'm just one chapter in an ongoing story of discovery," said Foale, making his sixth trip into space. In the NASA audience sat Eugene 
A. Cernan, commander of the last Apollo mission to the moon in December 1972, the last man to leave his footprint on the lunar surface. 
Bush brushed aside arguments that robotic 

j 
exploration should replace 
human missions. 
"The human thirst for 

knowledge ultimately can­
not be satisfied by even the 
most vivid pictures or the 
most detailed measure­
ments," Bush said. "We 
need to see and examine 
and touch for ourselves." 
An AP-Ipsos poll out Monday found the public evenly split on Bush's plan to build a long-term base on the moon and eventual­ly send astronauts to Mars. That's similar to the way Americans felt more than 35 years ago about the first efforts to land men on the moon. · 
The poll found that just over half said it would be better to spend the money on programs like educa­tion and health care rather than on space research. 
"Mankind is drawn to the heavens for the same reason we were once drawn to unknown lands and across the open sea," Bush said "We choose to explore space because doing so improves our lives and lifts our national spirit. So let us continue the journey." 
Under Bush's plan, the shuttle fleet would be retired by the end of the decade. 
Braun to quit race, endorse Dean 
Associated Press 

DES· MOINES, Iowa -Former Illinois Sen. Carol Moseley Braun, whose Democratic presidential cam­paign never got off the ground, will drop out of the race and endorse front-runner Howard Dean, cam­paign officials said Wednesday. 
Officials close to Dean's campaign confirmed that they expected Braun to officially endorse the former Vermont governor Thursday in Carroll. The officials spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. 
Dean's campaign spokeswoman declined to comment when asked about the report. 
The officials said Braun approached Dean after a recent debate and told him she was consid­ering leaving the race and backing him. 
One of two black candidates in the race, Braun is giving Dean her endorsement even as he has faced questions about his record on race issues, including his lack of minority Cabinet members during his five terms as Vermont governor. 
Braun jumped to Dean's defense in a debate last Sunday when Al Sharpton accused the former gover­nor of trivializing race issues. 
Braun never broke out of single digits in national surveys, didn't qual­ify for several state ballots and ran up thousand of dollars in campaign debt. Even her own campaign man­ager, Patricia Ireland, had said pub­licly there was no way Braun could win the nomination. 
She leaves the race after making no impact on it, except for some bright moments in the presidential debates. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, January 15, 2004 
LeMay 
continued from page 1 
ars and graduate students affil­iated with the program. 
LeMay's popularity within the Institute earned him the nick­name "Mr. Kellogg" among col­leagues. The Albert H. LeMay Undergraduate Summer Research Grant was established in October of 2002 in his honor. 
Mainwaring attributed LeMay's success at the Institute and in teaching to his enthusi­asm and interest in students. 
"I think he was passionately committed to Notre Dame, and his students loved him," he said. 
LeMay was born in 
Woonsocket, R.I., in 1936. He 
graduated from Providence 
College in 1959 and went on to 
earn a master's degree from 
Middlebury College in 1960 and 
a Ph.D from Indiana University 
in 1971. In addition to Notre 
Dame, LeMay also taught at 
Saint Mary's and Colgate 
University. 

A Mass of the Resurrection 
was held on Dec. 13 at Saint ·Mary's Church of Loretto, and a memorial service at Notre Dame is tentatively planned for 
late January. 
LeMay is survived by his wife 
Marcia and three children. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
South Korea foreign minister resigns 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea -South Korea's foreign minister resigned Thursday, a day after President Roh Moo-hyun accused ministry officials of criticizing his foreign policy. 
Roh accepted Yoon Young­kwan's resignation, the presi­dent's office said without provid­ing other details or indicating who would replace him. 
Yoon said at a news conference that there had been "some differ­ences in perspective" between members of his staff and mem­bers of Roh's National Security Council. 
He said the Foreign Ministry should serve to implement presi­dent's policy. He acknowledged people were concerned about 

1·800-648-4849/ WWW.5fstravel.com 

remarks reportedly made by his officials and said he took the dis­pute· "heavily" and was "sincerely sorry." 
Yonhap news agency quoted Jeong Chan-yong, a personnel affairs staffer for Roh, as saying the foreign minister quit to take responsibility for failing to rein in the criticism by ministry officials. 
Yoon's resignation came a day after Roh said he would transfer Foreign Ministry officials who criticized his foreign policy. 
The identities of the officials or what they have said have not been disclosed. 
Local media reports have said the foreign ministry officials were at odds with Roh over his policy toward the United States, although details of the dispute differ. 
• 
Search 24 stores with 1 click! 

• 
Save up to 70o/o 


~bookHQ 

···············································~ 
University Resources : for Gay, Lesbian, & I Bisexual Students 

• « ~:oi 
• 
~YA!III:l ~~·$JI<M-I!II 


• $T'I.'H.ilt' K~~IM
·---­

•••• The Standing Committee on Gay and I
•
• Lesbian Student Needs
•

• (Confidential information, education, and resources)
•
• 

Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, esc, 1-5550, orstudent
•
• 

members (see web sitefor student contact info.) 
•
•
•
•• Office of Campus Ministry
•

• (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning studehts 
•

• and their friends; pertinent library resources in 
I
• 

304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) I
• 
I

• 
I


Contact: Fr. J. Steele, esc, at Steele.31 @nd.edu 
• I•• •I•• University Counseling Center •I
•
• (Individual counseling) 
• 

Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu •
•
•

• For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-sc~lsn/
•
•
•
•

••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••J 

Daschle slams Medicare "propaganda" 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Senate 
Democratic leader Tom 
Daschle accused the Bush 
administration Wednesday of 
sending seniors propaganda 
rather than explanations 
about changes in the 
Medicare program. 
Daschle was reacting to a two~page fact sheet that Health and Human Services Department officials said would be the basis of a letter sent to 40 million older and disabled Americans who par­ticipate in the government health insurance program. 
The material generally con­tains details about the Medicare drug discount card that will be available later this year and the prescription drug benefit that begins in 2006. The fact sheet begins, however, with a preamble that provoked Daschle's ire. 
"Recently, President Bush and Congress worked togeth· er to pass a new law to bring people with Medicare more choices in health care cover­age and better health care benefits," the fact sheet says. "This new law preserves and strengthens the current Medicare program." 
Daschle, D-S.D., challenged just about every word in those sentences. "This is just a piece of propaganda that I believe has no business being paid for by the American tax­payer," he said from Sioux Falls, S.D., in an interview with several reporters. 
Most Democrats fiercely opposed the legislation as too generous to drug companies and insurers and a threat to the Great Society-era Medicare program. 
Getty Images 

Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle speaks on foreign policy In 2001. Daschle criticized the GOP Medicare plan yesterday. 
Daschle and Sen. Edward lation. Seniors are confused, 
M. Kennedy, D-Mass., sent they're scared and they're HHS Secretary Tommy very disappointed," he said. Thompson a letter Republ'icans have com­Wednesday asking him to plained that Democrats, provide the cost of the mail­among other opponents of the ing and to obtain an inde­legislation, are largely pendent evaluation of the let­responsible for seniors' nega­ter before it is sent. tive views. 
Daschle has been holding HHS spokesman Bill Pierce public meetings on Medicare said the mailing would be across South Dakota this straightforward. "It will be week. He said the vast major­about what this program ity of the 2,000 people who means to you," Pierce said. have attended oppose the "The rhetoric out there is new law. "There is extraordi­from those who continue to nary concern about this legis-oppose the program." 


2004-2005 

RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
Available in the 
Office ofStudent Affairs 
316 Main Building 
through 

Friday, January 23,2004 
Applications are ~lso available for do\vnloading at: http:/Iosa.nd.edu/ 
--~. 
,_ 
:'f..' 

Thursday, January 15, 2004 page 7 

MARKET ·RECAP 

fo~V:s 10,538.37 +111.19 
'·'~ Same: ~ Composite Volume:
1;241 I 79 • 1,5114226,816 -

AMEx----··-·;;m;:;t:l:~_:;:•.:_ .••-__.1.;199.:44 ,_:,,:~:;;·~2:~t;miifl 
~rQ--··--·-:;£!~~~~!-!·m;~~-~~·-·~-~~~~~~-~i]~t~-'l~~6:~t~w;! 
S&P 500 1,130.52 +9.30 
Nl~ffcH<YoJ]J~ lfJi863!0o , : o.oo:;-~re~~ 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,461.40 +21.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -0.60  -0.10  33.39  
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW)  -0.73  -0.04  5.46  
JDS UNIPHASE ODSU)  +2.51  +0.11  4.50  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.98  +0.27  27.70  
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI)  +2.22  +0.07  3.13  
·  Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.17  -0.58  48.82  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -1.04  -0.42  39.86  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.61  -0.18  19.51  
3-MONTH BILL  -0.46  -0.04  8.58  
·  Commodities.  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.22,  33.79  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  -2.00  422.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.15  84.40  
Exchon  Rates  
YEN  106.3  
EURO  0.7908  
POUND  0.5459  
CANADIAN$  1.291  

IN BRIEF 
Fed: U.S. economy gaining steam 
WASHINGTON -A batch of new economic reports Wednesday provided fresh evidence that the U.S. economy is continuing to gain momentum. with an unexpectedly sharp nar­rowing of the trade deficit and a strengthening· of business activity in most parts of the coun­try as the new year began. 
The Federal Reserve reported in a nation­wide survey that the economy continued to rebound from late November to the early part of this year, with retailers reporting a boost from a late surge in holiday shopping and even growing signs that the nation's battered manufacturing sector was beginning to pull out of its steep nosedive. 
Intel sales, earnings beat Street 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Intel Corp. posted better­than-expected profits and record revenue in the fourth quarter, a period marked by robust global demand for the company's computer chips in laptop, desktop and business machines. 
The results offered strong vindication of Intel's decision to continue spending on research and equipment during the darkest months of the technology downturn. However, Intel's stock slid 3 percent after the report. 
For the three months ended Dec. 27, Intel earned $2.17 billion. or 33 cents a share. com­pared with $1.05 billion, or 16 cents a share, in the fourth quarter of 2002. 
KB Toys files for Chapter II 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -KB Toys, a nation­wide chain of 1,300 stores. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy Wednesday, blaming the fierce holiday price wars. 
The 80-year-old privately held business was hit hard by discounters, primarily Wal-Mart, during the Christmas shopping season. 
KB Toys, with 13,000 employees nationwide, said it will look to close unprofitable stores and cut jobs -it would not say how many ­and hopes to emerge from bankruptcy protec­tion before the 2004 holiday season. 
A Chapter 11 filing enables a company to keep operating while it tries to put its finances in order. 
Fastow and wife plead guilty 
Former Enron CFO agrees to 10-year prison term, will help prosecutors in case 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON (AP) -Andrew Fastow, chief architect of the shady, off-the-books deals that brought down Enron, pleaded guilty along with his wife Wednesday in an agree­ment that could take pros­ecutors to the top of the corporate ladder at the '• scandal-ridden company. 
The plea bargains repre­sent the biggest break­through yet in the two-year investigation into a scandal that led to the energy giant's collapse and rocked Wall Street and Washington alike. 
Fastow, Enron's former finance chief, agreed to a 10-year prison s_entence that will make him the highest-ranking executive to do time in the case. He also agreed to forfeit $23.8 million and help the gov­ernment build a case against the executives who once occupied Enron's most opulent top-floor brother sat in the packed and in violation of my duty get through this process office suites: former chair­gallery. of honest services to those the best we can," said Lea man Kenneth Lay and for­Without a plea, he would shareholders," Fastow Fastow's lawyer, Mike mer CEO Jeffrey Skilling. have gone to trial on 98 said. DeGeurin. 
"I and other members of counts of fraud, money Lea Fastow's deal calls Some experts believe 
Enron senior management laundering, insider trading for a five-month prison Andrew Fastow's plea fraudulently manipulated and other charges. sentence and a year of could break open tlw case Enron's publicly reported Prosecutors say Fastow supervised release, includ­against Lay and Skilling. financial results," Fastow, masterminded a sea of ing five months of house "Unquestionably, this is 42, said in a statement­partnerships and tangled arrest. But U.S. District the breakthrough that the filed with the plea agree­financing deals that hid Judge David Hittner will government has been pur­ment, adding that the pur­Enron debt and inflated decide later whether to suing," said Robert Mintz. pose was to mislead company profits while fun­accept the sentencing deal. a former federal prosecu­investors and inflate the neling millions of dollars to She still has the right to tor and an expert in white­company's stock price and him, his. family and select­withdraw the plea. collar crime. "There is 
credit rating. Be did not ed friends. The partner­The plea negotiations nobody besides Fastow read the statement in ships had names like LJM had stalled last week after who can make this case for court. [the first initials of Hittner refused to guaran­the government and that's 
Fastow's wife, Lea, Fastow's wife and two tee her a five-month prison why they have been pursu­pleaded guilty to filing sons] and Chewco [after sentence -a condition ing him for so long and so false tax returns related to the "Star Wars" character that Fastow's attorneys did aggressively." Enron's ill-gotten gains. Chewbacca]. not like. -When asked if prosecu­Lea Fastow, also 42, was He pleaded guilty to two The final deal calls for tors expected more indict­Enron's assistant treasurer. counts of conspiracy to the same prison time, and ments, Leslie Caldwell, 
Andrew Fastow, clad in a commit fraud -one cover­Hittner still has the right to head of the Justice gray suit, showed no emo­ing the LJM partnership, alter Lea Fastow's sen­Department unit investi­tion during the proceeding the other involving trans­tence, which the family gating the company's but flashed a smile after­actions that Fastow used to insisted on to ensure that downfall, did not answer ward as he prepared to pocket an estimated $45 their two young sons have directly. leave with his attorneys. million. at least one parent at 'The investigation is very He did not speak to "I also engaged in home. active and this is a signifi­reporters. His wife was not schemes to enrich myself "There really is life after cant development which I seen in the courtroom. and others at the expense Enron for all of us, we expect will yield results," though his parents and of Enron's shareholders believe, and we're trying to Caldwell said. 







Morgan to buy Bank One for $58B 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -In a blockbuster merger between two banking giants, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. struck a deal to buy Bank One Corp. for about $58 billion, the companies announced Wednesday. 
The merger would create a bank­ing behemoth with assets of $1.1 trillion and 2,300 branches .in 17 states. Only Citigroup, with assets of about $1.19 trillion, would be bigger if the deal is approved by regulators and shareholders. 
"It's a blockbuster of a transac­tion," said analyst Denis Laplante, who covers Bank One for J(eefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. 
The agreement was unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies, J.P. Morgan Chase a·nd Bank One said in a joint announcement. 
"This landmark transaction will create one of the world's great financial services companies -a powerful enterprise well-positioned to generate significant value for our shareholders, customers and communities," said J.P. Morgan chairman and CEO William B. Harrison. 
Bank One CEO James Dimon, the former Citigroup president who took the helm of the Chicago-based company in 2000, said the merger "makes tremendous sense strategi­cally, operationally and financially." 
Harrison said the companies' integration plan calls for the elimi­nation of as many as 10,000 jobs, or about 7 percent of their com­bined U.S. work force of 145,000. Specific job cuts haven't been iden­tified. 
Bank One shareholders would receive 1.32 J.P. Morgan shares for each share they own. Based on J.P. Morgan's closing price of $39.22 on Wednesday, the transaction would be worth about $58 billion and cre­ate a company with a combined market capitalization of about $130 billion. The premium paid for Bank One amounts to about 14 percent based on closing market prices. 
J.P. Morgan, based in New York, has heavy involvement in volatile businesses such as investment banking and· mortgages and stands to gain some stability by obtaining Bank One's retail franchise. 


THE 0BSER\1£R 

p 

Thursday, January 15, 2004 
page 8 

THE OBSERVER 


Spring Cleaning 
P.O. Box Q, Nmrc Darnc•.IN.465Xl 
024 South Dining HaJJ, Notre: Datne; lN 46556 
EDITOP. IN CHlEF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING Eorroa BUSJNJ!SS MANAGta Scott Btodfudu-~ Lori Lewahki 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR . Sheila Flynn 
NEWS EDITOR; Meghanne Downes 
VIEWPOINT EDimR.: Sar~th Vahulas 
SPOR'l'S EDITOR; Joe Hetder 
SCENE EPlTOlt: Maria Smith SAINT MA.lt\"s EDITOR: AnnelieseWoolford PHoro EDITOR: Tim Kacmar · 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: MauraCenedella AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight ' SysTEMS ADMINISTM.TOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Niero · · 
CoNTROLl..ER: Paula Garcia 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
AIJVERSTISING 
(574} 631-6900 obsetvad@n.cledu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR & AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631·4541 obsme@nd.edu 
BUSINESS 0FACE 
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu VIEWPOINT DESK . (574) 631•5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESk (574) 63h4543 5porrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
.(574} 631-4540 . scene.l@nd.edu . SAINT MARY'S DESK . (57-4) 6JI-43Z4 $mc,l@nq.edu PHOTO Om (574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 6;n...ss~9 · 
THE· · ·..... . 0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES· 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students tJf the UniYetsityofNotre Dame du~ and SainrMa.ty's College. Editorial content, including advertisements. is not governed. by policies of the administration ofeither 
· institucion.The O~er ~~the right to tefu5e· advertisements based on conrent. 
The news is reported as acturatdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editoriab represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Maruging Editor, Assisranr Managing Editor and departmem editors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is av:a.ilable to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lettefli is en,ouraged, Letters to the Editot must be signed and lnust iudude 
(:Onracr information. · · 
()pmiom regarding Obsrr""policirl sh<JuU br diruud w Editor in ChUfAndrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
1·1,. 01-~ CU~~ :\9') l-401lUit. ,..N..-hc<l Mon4oy <hmu~ hi<lay ''OU"J>' ~urio.g<,..., '"~ •.,.-.,;,.., l'<'ri<><l>. A>uh..rip<i<>n toll!c ()~,....-..,,;,$IOU fol'un<: .,...Jtmi<: y~o'".u:. S')~ fPt cmc $i.'IA<tr<r, 
1'h.-(lb...,...... ;. ru~li·l..-4 '" ro~r~vwr£~t V~4 !>out~ Ll..,io~ H.dl S<:t~<i ~clrm. \~ttJ~lk.n~ f.I.Y. Nr•<rt D..ll<. lN 46~'"Hf/N lb.· Oi>o<N<:r 
l<rl<>Ji.:.I 1-~ f.Md •• N<-= o-· OO.IIo<Q 4tJJ ,J,[itl.>o.d .n.d~o~ of6r:..~. OH ~>ulil llki>~<lll H•U 
Nutr<> [~,IN 46~51>0l7'> 
l"J,,. rll.._..-.., I, • ''""'"!,..-.of t1oo A,KO..,...,) 1...,._ ,o.JI "'J'f<><lu<tio» riJA" ... 
n·•:r.,.~·d.. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Annelicsc Mike Harkins Woolford Sports 
Joe Trombello Joe Hettler · Matthew Dan Tapetillo Bramanti Steve Coyer 
Viewpoint Scene Cheryl Barker Maria Smith Illustrator Pat Quill 
[WARNING: This article contains a generalization about men and women. In order to counteract the effects of this sexual stereotyping, we recom­mend that after you finish reading you should imme­diately spend at Peter least five minutes 
Wicks 
picturing women performing jobs from which they Englishman have traditionally Abroad been excluded, such as marine, construction worker and male nurse. Note to guys: In order for this to work. it is essential that the women you imagine not be naked.] 
I have a Thing living in my refriger­ator. We'll come back to that in jus-t a moment. 
My roommate and I recently decid­ed to clean our apartment. We do this -that is to say, we decide to clean ­on a fairly regular basis. The novelty of our recent decision was that it was followed by actual cleaning. 
I can't help thinking that we never would have allowed the apartment to reach the state it did if we had not both been men. It has been my expe­rience that while men and women both distinguish between acceptable and unacceptable living conditions, the sexes draw the line of division at very different points. She asks, "Is this room clean?" He asks, "Is this room a biohazard?" Then he asks, "Well, how serious a biohazard?" 
There's no doubt that by the time we decided to act, the apartment had reached an advanced state of deterio­ration. Before we began our Herculean task, the apartment had reached a point at which it made the Augean stables look like an operating theater. My own room had begun to bear an uncanny resemblance to the waste disposal room in the Death Star. I love Star Wars with all my nerdy heart, so I actually quite enjoyed this for a while, but soon I began to suffer anxiety attacks and hallucinate that the walls were clos­ing in on me. 

Another clue that things had gotten out of control was the number of friends who started making excuses to avoid visiting us. Another was that those who did continue to accept din­ner invitations started arriving in out­fits which made them look as if they were about to perform some delicate operation on the core of a nuclear reactor. 
The final piece of evidence that the cleaning could not be put off any longer was the death of the mouse. Adopting a tactic that I had pioneered as an undergraduate, when we first moved in during the Fall of 2002 we released a mouse in the apartment to keep track of the hygiene leveL My theory was that as long as the mouse could stay alive, so could we. Of course it's possible that Benji died from natural causes -in hindsight we should have released a control mouse in a girl's apartment -but neither of us were inclined to take that risk. 
Doing the washing up after a hiatus of more than a year is not a pleasant task, but it does have a certain scien­tific interest. The detritus in the sink had formed a distinct layer corre­sponding to the different eras of our apartment, which gave washing up the feel of a geological dig. At the bot­tom were the remnants of a more ambitious age, now almost forgotten, in which we had made enthusiastic use of the slow cooker. Above this rested a layer from the Semester of Pasta. On top of it all was the sedi­ment from our current epoch, in which we had taken to frying food­stuffs selected from the refrigerator more or less at random. 
And speaking of the refrigerator, 
during the cleaning process we dis­covered that ours has a Thing living in it. It complained when we tried to fry it. 

Now, it's actually quite common for men to keep their refrigerators. in a state such that life develops, but usu­ally it is just mold or some other ele­mentary -organism. However, given sufficient time and inattention it is not unknown for more sophisticated life­forms to emerge, and the Thing that I found in our refrigerator is so advanced that I have taken to consult­ing it for romantic advice. Our most recent conversation went like this: 
"I'm going out with Michelle tonight," I said. The Thing thought about this for a moment. 
"You should give her a gift," it said, "You could give her this pasta sauce." ''I'm not going to give her pasta sauce." 
"Each serving contains 10% of the recommended daily intake of Vitamin A," said the Thing,· pointing a tendril at a label which confirmed this to be the case. I could tell by the tremor in its tone that I'd hurt its feelings. 
"I just don't think it would send the right signal. I didn't mean to be rude. I'm just a bit nervous; this is my first date in a long time." 
The Thing quietly muttered some­thing to itself that sounded like. "Try being the only member of a species sometime," and then said, somewhat testily: 
"Well. if you're planning to invite her in for coffee, you're going to have to do some cleaning. This place is a mess." 
Pet_er Wicks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. Offers to do his vacuuming should be sent to pwicks@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author. and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Which cartoon would you rather see on the Today page: Dilbert or Classic Peanuts? 
Vote by 5 p.m. next Wednesday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
"Principles have no real force except when one is well-fed. , 
·Mark Twain writer 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A repeating cycle 
Somewhere in the air over Kentucky Monday, I began to think about The Observer. I read it almost every day of pub­lication last semester. There were many interesting means of expression on every­thing from the sewage backup in Zahm to the guns (or arms) of of our beloved quar­terback-referred to by girls simply as Brady (who incidentally lives in Zahm, but had nothing to do with the previous issue). 
Yes, The Observer covered a plethora of topics. But, I began to think about one particular area of coverage for the Observer. I remembered reading articles and articles from early in the school year on then President Pat Hallahan, and his ambitions to give the executive branch of Student Government more power. The Student Senate, with representatives from all the dorms, would inevitably have less legislative clout, and an executive branch, led by one man, would gain more power. 
I continued to read as the days went by. Hallahan spoke on restructuring Student Government and how this simply had to be done. 
He wanted more power for the President, and he wanted to modify the way that Student Government was struc­tured. To me, these seemed like pretty big changes that would be hard to reverse, and I was not so sure whether either of them were such good ideas anyway. But still, as 
president, Hallahan was supposed to pro­
mote the things he felt strongly about, and pursue them. 
That is when it hit. 

Hallahan would be gone halfway through his elected term. leaving town early to work in Washington. His good friend Jeremy Lao would become presi­dent. The cycle would begin once again. Lao would be in charge of trying to get the office of the President more power (why did we need that again?}, and trying to modify the foundation of our government. By now, I kind of needed a Tylenol. I looked outside my window and saw the snow-covered ground. As we landed and finished our journey from Florida, the pilot simply said, "On behalf of our airline, wel­come to the white sandy beaches of Chicago." 
I was well on my way back to school, hoping to find answers to this confusion about Student Government. The one answer I did find: On Feb 9, the election for next year's Student Body President will take place. Will we break the cycle? 
Mark Healy freshman Zahm Hall Jan. 13 
Caretaker of NO's soul 
Over the last several years, I have become increasingly con­cerned about the apparent lack of appreciation of the role that the football program plays in developing the overall spirit, energy, drive and pursuit of excellence that are such important elements in developing the Notre Dame student. 
These values make Notre Dame a unique environment in which to grow and prepare oneself for the outside world. They have benefited graduates over the years in their multiple roles as spouses, parents, and in their chosen field of endeavor. Anyone who has attended Notre Dame can attest to the linkage between our football program and the overall uniqueness of the University. In this regard, its success is far more important than just perceptions in the marketplace of college sports. 
While the University's leadership has made wonderful strides in the materialistic elements of the University with new build­ings, increased financial aid to students and increases in the quality and breadth of the academic opportunities, they seem to have given little attention to nurturing its soul. The waning state of the football program over the last decade can only be attributed to a serious misunderstanding of the important role it plays in the uniqueness of Notre Dame and/or serious mis­management at all levels. 
Both the Notre Dame administration and the Board of Trustees must wake up and rise to the task. They are responsi­ble for ensuring that this essential element which makes Notre Dame a special environment is given the high level of attention and quality of management that it deserves. The situation requires more than just placating words. 
Tim Kelley Class of'64 Jan. 8 

U-WIRE 


Atkins is everywhere 
TAMPA, Fla.-If you've eaten carbohydrates in the past 24 hours, then consider your citizen­ship to the United States of Atkins denied. 
The low-carbohydrate, high-pro­tein diet, named after the late Dr. 
Grace Agostln 

Robert C. Atkins, has classified pasta, bread and The University candy as the 
ofSouth 

deviL The diet 
Florida Oracle 

has been around since Richard Nixon was in office and intro­duced through the publica­tion "Dr. Atkins' Diet Revolution." Since then the revolution has been reprinted and recently revitalized with a line of Atkins food prod­ucts. 
Instead of systems like the Hollywood diet, which help you shed 20 pounds by drinking a bottle of an unknown orange liquid through the magic of nature's calling, the Atkins food line provides alternatives to carb-loaded foods. Take for instance the Atkins Endulge Caramel Nut Chew, in which you can "indulge" on chocolate, mixed with dry-roasted peanuts and some chewy caramel substi­tute that is "all completely sugar free." 
Now you're probably wondering how many carbs this mouthwater­ing sweet has so that you can order them in bulk. 
Well that depends on how you count. Those who are called "con­trolled carbers" will tell you there's two grams but the full nutrition facts gives l7 grams. What gives? Well the two grams are what's classified as net carbs. 
Not being a member of this revo­lution, I looked up the definition, which basically told me the net carbs seal placed on Atkins pack­ages sells its products better and makes you feel better because there's the illusion that you're not re<Mly consum­ing the full carb load. 
As you may have seen, Atkins has food products for every meal of the day. I'm sure commercials adver­tising the new Atkins-friendly wraps at Subway taunted football fans during the playoffs this weekend. Besides, who wants to count yards gained when you can be calculating carbohydrates 
eaten in ratio to carbs attempted for the day? 
The Atkins Web site is even cus­tomized so you can keep a journal of your carbohydrate performance for the day, week or hour. I don't 
recall Jenny Craig commercials with the Jenny phone num­ber jin­gle 
adver­tised during 

sporting events. I don't know of a diet that has been so influential that some of the most popular brands of beer have been making low-carb brew. Then again this is a revolution we're talking about. 
And any good revolution needs some good leaders. If you do some 
research outside the Atkins site, you 'II find singer Jessica Simpson lost weight on the diet. How's that for some inspiration? The same woman who thought tuna was chicken and chicken was buffalo meat. But if you're looking for some good, non-celebrity status success stories, the best yet has to be the one posted as: A Close Call. It is the story of a 30-year­old police officer who was 6'2" and 290 pounds and had a near 
fatal heart attack before going on the Atkins diet to lose 7 8 pounds. Realizing the need to change his diet, he ironical­ly joined the Atkins revolu­tion that health experts have criticized for the long-term effects it 
could have on the heart and brain because of the high consumption 
of red meat. Not to mention health experts warn that the heart and brain, two 
vital organs for living, use carbohydrates for fuel. But the critics couldn't 
ruin the celebration of weight loss and I'm sure not even a military forma­tion at Fort Knox under Gen. 

George S. Patton could have 
stopped this revolution. So when it comes to mad cow dis­ease, the rescue of public rela­tions has only said this on behalf of Atkins: Beef is not essential to the diet, in fact you can purchase our products to ensure a healthy diet. 
This article origin ally appeared on Jan. 13 in The Oracle. the daily publication at the University of South Florida. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author, and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Thursday, January 15, 2004 
page 10 



Ways to amuse yourself in the dining 
After going to the dining hall almost every day for two and a half years, I became bored \Vith simply sitting and reading School Daze again and again until it actually became funny. I decided that I needed to spark some of the dor­
Tom Raaf
mant cre­ativity that goes 
Scene
unused in 
many of Columnist my busi­ness class­es to make lunches and din­ners a little more interesting. As a result, I developed sever­al activities that can be done to provide hours of entertain­ment in a place in which most students spend a great deal of time. The first set of ideas deals simply with seating arrange­ments. If you're in South and have a group of friends who has tired of everyday lunches, arrange yourselves in the "Last Supper" seating arrangement by sitting with everyone on one side of the long wooden tables -this is preferably executed on the Right-Right side of South Dining Hall. If you are by yourself 

hall 
may not really be for you. 
Picking out food can also tend to get a bit repetitive and tedious at times, especially when the item of the day is the Quesatater Potato Tantalizer, the new food that looks like grade school mini corn dogs. If 

· you feel like making the food selection process interesting, grab a friend and rehearse a ridiculous 10-second conversa­tion. Next, find an unsuspect­ing person (preferably a quiet girl) walking around and fol­low them around, station to station, 
Another fun 
having the same laughs really annoying conver­activity is standing easily, and we sation at each sta­try to make her
by the pre-peeled 
tion. Once she spew liquids
hard-boiled egg bin 
realizes what is from her nose. going on and gives and observing the As soon as she you both a look takes a gulp of 
people who come
that says "You two are criminally insane," you can leave her alone. As a warning, don't do this around exam time because it might just be the thing that sends someone over the edge. 
Another fun activity is stand­ing by the pre-peeled hard­boiled egg bin and observing the people who come by. There 
seems to be no middle ground 

and wish to cre­Sit directly across with the hard­
ate an awkward boiled egg
from somone else
situation, sit eaters. Either directly across who is eating by they stop by, 
from someone himself, except sit grab one quickly 
else who is eating and continue on
on table away so
by himself, except their way or they 
sit one table away there's all sorts of bring a giant so there's all sort~ uncomfortable, bowl and pile of uncomfortable, just an absurd
unsanted eye 
unwanted eye number of eggs. contact. If you contact. Today I saw 
· wish to make this situation even more fun, carry on a conversa­tion with your imaginary friend across the table from you ... oh, yeah ... and this friend is telling the best story you've ever heard. If you're not really into permanently severing a relationship with a complete stranger, this idea some kid with 
like 20 eggs ... I call him Cool Hand Luke now. 
On the more normal side, experimenting with food and making yourself some new dishes can always be a good change of pace. Since the only Quesadilla the dining hall offers is cheese and broccoli, I make my own chicken and cheese ones that I call slippery muppets. Would you like to try one? The meatball sub has also been a good addition in my regular rotation ... and it keeps me regular, which is nice. Occasionally, I also build a giant dish I call Nachos Bell Grande, which has everything in the Mexican section on it. 
Looking to see if I was the only one who has tried to make time in the dining hall more fun, I asked some fellow students for their reactions. 
"I have a 
friend who 
anything, we

by. 
just say some­
thing strange to her and let nature take over," said junior Caitlin Rackish. "My favorite was when we got her to spew hot chocolate. It was probably a bit dangerous, but after doing a cost-benefit analysis with my friend, we decided it was definitely worth it." 
Junior Mike McNamara said, "When there are potato skins at dinner, I lather my face in creamy peanut butter and stick the potato skin to it. Then I run up to people saying I'm the guy from Texas Chainsaw Massacre. I've gotten four dates and two make-out ses­sions from this tactic so far." Interesting ... and curious ... rather curious. 
By no means should you limit yourself to any of the above-listed ideas. These are simply meant to be catalysts on the road to permanent din­ing hall happiness and merri­ment. Enjoy! 
The views expressed in this column are those of thf! author and not of The Observer. Contact Tom Raafat traaj@nd. edu. 


The Kitchet 
A Culinary Sleuth Solves Com 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 

Last year's August culi­nary release, "The Kitchen Detective," by renowned chef Chirstopher Kimball, offers a new variety of inventive recipes researched with the same care as 
With Kimball's 
all of his past Kimball's careful­cookbooks. carefully ly expPained culi­The editor, nary creations,
researched
founder and the prospect of
culinary creations, 
publisher of preparing a meal Cook's the prospect of from scratch Illustrated becomes much
preparing a meal
magazine less intimidating. 
from scratch
and the host All the recipes of the cook­becomes much less in "The Kitchen ing show Detective" are
intimidating.
"America's Test Kitchen" handles meats, pastas, sal­ads and desserts with equal­ly thorough virtuosity. 
"The Kitchen Detective," as well as Kimball's other cookbooks, such as "Perfect Vegetables" and "The 
150 Foolpro 
Dessert Bible," are a partic­ularly good investment for off-campus students who want a little variety in their diets but don't know where to start. Students leaving the dining hall behind for _the first time often run the risk of malnutrition from a diet of Waddick's scones, Ramen noodles and beer, but with 
preceded by an 
extensive expla­nation of why Kimball took a particular interest in a recipe, what results he wanted to achieve, and how the ingredients he chose affect the recipe. The expla­nations are by no means · 


"The Kitchen Detective" Is the latest release of chef ChrlstoJ Kimball. 

Thursday, January 15, 2004 Page 11 

n Detective 
nmon Cooking Mysteries with 
·oof Recipes 
necessary to making any of Kimball's dishes, but for a novice cook or a more 

accomplished chef who often finds his cookies a bit too chewy or lacks the time to make a good meal every day, the details of what goes into a recipe and why can go a long way to make cooking easier and more successful. 
In creating his recipes, Kimball researches many of the problems most perti­nent to a casual cook. "The Kitchen Detective" is not a budget cookbook, but the recipe for chive pesto is a good deal cheaper than its basil alternative. Since plain ingredients are gen­erally cheaper and tastier than the prepared and packaged alternatives, the cookbook is likely to be a budget saver for many stu­dents. 
Kimball also highlights how slicing your chicken a little differently lets you prepare a dish in four min­utes, and how a new skil­let, although expensive, allows for two-minute scrambled eggs every morning. 
Although recipes such as chicken with balsamic vinegar, tomatoes and capers. corn soup with coconut milk and ginger or baked goat cheese salad .in "The Kitchen Detective" are fun for people who like to try new dishes, people who are looking for a sin­gle cookbook to get them through a school year or have less adventurous taste in food might do better to 
nazon.com 
buy the slightly costlier but
topher 
much more inclusive "The Best Recipe." Where "The Kitchen Detective" offers offbeat recipes, "The Best Recipe" focuses on doing favorites like sauteed chicken breasts, spaghetti with garlic and olive oil, and big and chewy choco­late chip cookies right. Anyone will find recipes they like in "The Best Recipe." 
Dieters will have to be a little bit wary of "The Kitchen Detective." Kimball operates on the theory that excess weight comes from potato chips, Cheez Whiz and other chemical-infused junk food, not from full fat cheesecake or olive oil. Although the butter and fat content of his recipes tends to run a little high, cutting the higher fat ingredients a bit can go a long way to making the food healthier and ·doesn't detract much from the taste. 
Cooking times tactics can change with ovens and ingredients, as well, so even when following the book exactly the trial run of any recipe might need a little tweaking. 
Above all, "The Kitchen Detective" is a cookbook that anyone can continue to use for years. The recipes cover all occasions, from a quick meal alone to pasta night with friends to a full-fledged dinner party. The recipes are delicious, practical and not designed exclusively for the cooking elite. "The Kitchen Detective". will grace the shelf of a habitual chef and a casual cook alike. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
The Da Vinci Code 
Dan Brown, author of'Angels and Demons,' continues his mystery saga 

By BECCA SAUNDERS Scene Writer 
For many people, the name Leonardo da Vinci brings thoughts exclusively of art and of the masterpieces that he created. After reading Dan Brown's novel "The Da Vinci Code," it is impos­sible to connect Leonardo da Vinci with only these convention­al associations. Brown brings the mystery that engulfs the life of Leonardo Da Vinci to light in "TheDa Vmci Code." 
In his second novei surrounding the character Robert Langdon, a Harvard professor with an expertise in symbols, especially those belonging to female god­desses throughout history, Brown continues to develop the engaging character of Langdon. The novel itself is set in Paris initially, but throughout the novel the setting drifts from all over France to London, Rome, and even America. As a conspiracy thriller, "The Da Vinci Code" glows. With new twists and turns developing with each turn of the page, Brown truly does make this book hard to put down. 
The novel begins with Robert Langdon being called in by the French equivalent 
of  the  FBI  in  
regards  to  the  
murder  of  the  
curator  of  the  

Louvre. The cura­tor did not pass on without leaving a series of clues regarding a secret society of which he was a member, called the Priory of Sion. The Priory of Sion developed to keep a secret that would supposedly change much thought in the world. The villain is an extremely conservative Catholic sect called Opus Dei who, in the book, is attempting to find the secret that the Priory of Sion is hiding. 
Both groups are real organizations, although Brown's portrayal of them and of the Vatican is thought to be a bit scandalous, to say the least. The novel focuses largely on the and the sanctity that was once reason for its popularity is clear. 
associated with females as well The content of the novel forces as males. The ancient world was the reader to think, even if he or focused on balance, and, as such, she adamantly disagrees with maintained a greater realization Brown's accusations toward the of the necessary equality of males organizations. and females. The On the whole, novel challenges "The Da Vinci the male~dominat~ The secret is out. Code" is an excel­
ed Christian reli­lently written book
..The Da Vinci 
gion as guilty of full of unpre­
Code,, is really as
forcing out the dictable turns and sanctity of the good as everyone surprises. The sub­female in the reli­ject matter is
claims it is. 
gion. Leonardo da unquestionably Vinci is said to be of controversial, but this school of in being so the thought, and, as such, the con­novel provokes legitimate thought spiracy ensues. from the reader. Dan Brown has 
The actual historical reliability written a tremendous novel that of the novel is certainly question­is enjoyable on many levels for able, but the writing is convinc­nearly anyone. The secret is out. ing. Overall, the novel is continu­"The Da Vinci Code" really is as ally jumping between interesting good as everyone claims it is. and developed characters. ·'The Da Vinci Code" has been a best­Contact Becca Saunders at seller for months now, and the rsaunders@nd.edu 

nature of the "The Da Vinci Code" by Dan Brown follows up on his previous mystery female goddess "Angels and Demons," which follows the adventures of Robert Langdon. 
Thursday, January 15, 2004 
page 12 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Cincinnati stays undefeated with win over Marquette 
Bearcats win 85-73 on road in Wisconsin 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Cincinnati used its pressure defense to off­set any homecourt advantage Marquette may have had. 
Tony Bobbitt scored 18 points and Nick Williams added a sea­son-high 16 to lead No. 10 Cincinnati to an 85-73 victory over No. 21 Marquette on Wednesday night, only the Golden Eagles' second loss in 40 home games. 
It was the first time the Bearcats (12-0, 3-0 Conference USA) played a ranked team this year and they scored 24 points off Marquette's season-high 23 turnovers. 
"There's no doubt we were ready to play." Cincinnati coach Bob Huggins said. "We were looking for a challenge." 
Marquette's Travis Diener scored 19 points, but missed seven of 11 shots, and Steve Novak added 17 points for Marquette (11-3, 2-1). which had a four-game winning streak snapped. The only other loss for the Golden Eagles at the Bradley Center during the past 40 games was 73-70 to Louisville on Feb. 

field while holding the Sooners to 35 percent, including 4-of-16 from 3-point range. 
The orange-clad crowd of 13,611 was in a frenzy from opening tipoff-hundreds of students slept in tents outside the arena the night before ­and the Cowboys responded with a 12-2 run to open the game. 
Allen and forward Joey Graham carried much of the Cowboys' scoring punch early, sneaking inside the lane for put­backs and snatching away errant passes for thunderous dunks. 
The Sooners, ranked No. 6 before Sunday's humiliating 86­59 loss at top-ranked Connecticut, were mired in the same kind of shooting slump that doomed them against the Huskies. · 
The bricks and turnovers kept on coming for Oklahoma (10-2, 0-1), which misfired on its first six shots of the second half to send them into an insurmount­able hole. 
Freshman guard Drew Lavender led Oklahoma with 15 points, the only Sooner to score in double figures. 
Allen opened the second half with a thunderous one-handed dunk off a steal, keying yet another 12-2 spurt that ignited the crowd. 
Northwestern 70, No. 25 Illinois 60 
Davor Duvancic scored a career-high 22 points to help 
Northwestern upset No. 25 Illinois and snap an eight-game losing streak-to its in-state rival. 
Fans poured onto the court and mobbed Northwestern play­ers as the final seconds expired on the clock. It was just the sec­ond Northwestern win over Illinois in the last 17 meetings between the schools, and the first victory for the Wildcats since 1994. 
Jitim Young had 15 points and 10 rebounds for Northwestern (7 -7, 2-1 Big Ten). and T.J Parker added 13 points and five assists. 
Duvancic, a reserve· forward, scored 17 points in the second half. He was 7 -of-1 0 from the field, including 4-of-6 on 3-point­ers, and had three assists. 
Illinois (1 0-4, 1-2) lost its sec­ond straight and fell to 1-2 on the road. 
Illinois led 38-29 at halftime, but struggled to find good looks at the basket. Northwestern went on a 15-5 run early in the half to take a 44-43 lead when Mohamed Hachad banked in a 3-pointer from the right side. Duvancic scored seven in a row during the run. 
The game was tied at 52 when Young and Duvancic put Northwestern back on top -this time for good. 
Young put back a miss by Parke~ scored on a breakaway and made a twisting layup in traffic to give Northwestern a six-point lead. 
Duvancic then hit a 3 from the corner that bounced high off the front of the rim and dropped straight in for a 61-53 lead. 
Northwestern outscored Illinois 18-'8 down the stretch and held the Illini to 38 percent shooting for the game -the sec­ond straight Illinois was under 40 percent. . 
Dee Brown had 19 points and James Augustine had 10 points and 14 rebounds for Illinois, which missed seven of 10 free throws over the final 6 minutes of the game. 
Northwestern trailed by 12 points early but went up 27-25 on a 3-pointer and layup by Vedran Vukusic. Later in the half, the Wildcats lost Vukusic when he came down awkwardly on his left leg going for a rebound. Vukusic, averaging 15 points a game, had to be helped off the court to the locker room and didn't return. 
Northern Iowa 82, No. 24 Creighton 73 
Freshman Brooks McKowen made six of Northern Iowa's 12 3-pointers in scoring a season­high 24 points and the Panthers knocked No. 24 Creighton from the ranks of the unbeaten with an victory Wednesday night. 
Northern Iowa (8-5, 3-2 Missouri Valley Conference) shot 
59.3 percent in building a 10­point halftime and increased the margin to 21 midway through the second half. enough of a cushion to hold off a late run by Creighton. 
The Bluejays (12-1, 4-1), who joined the Top 25 only two days ago, became the third unbeaten team to lose in two nights. Wake Forest and Mississippi State both lost for the first time on Tuesday night. The remaining unbeaten Division I teams are Stanford, Cincinnati, Pittsburgh and Saint Joseph's. 
McKowen, whose previous best was 18 points against Southwest Missouri State on Sunday, fin­ished 6-for-7 from 3-point range and made four straight free throws in the final 1:06 to help secure the victory. 
Chris Foster added 15 points and David Gruber had 12 for Northern Iowa, which shot 53.8 percent for the game and upset a ranked team-for the second time in five weeks. The Panthers beat then-No. 24 Iowa 77-66 on Dec. 9. 
No. 1 Connecticut 94, Georgetown 70 

Georgetown was concerned about Connecticut center Emeka Okafor. The Hoyas should have paid more attention to Taliek Brown. 
It was too late by the time they realized it as the top-ranked Huskies were well on their way to a victory and Brown finished with one of the best performanc­es of his career. 
The senior point guard had 20 points, one shy of his career high, seven rebounds, seven assists and a career-high three blocks.. 
''I'm just trying to come into the game every day hyped," Brown said. "We just tried to be real aggressive and push it down their throat when they try to press us." 
Despite being double-teamed, Okafor finished with 27 points, 11 rebounds and five blocks for the Huskies (14-1, 2-0 Big East), who extended their winning streak to 11 games. This is their longest regular-season streak since starting 19-0 in 1998-99, the program's national champi­onship season. 
The Hoyas could do little against UConn's transition game. 
Williams' 3-pointer with 12:23 left. After a timeout, Marquette used full-court pressure to cause two turnovers on defense, and the Golden Eagles scored seven consecutive points, capped by Scott Merritt's two free throws, 
15, 2003. "There ,s no doubt to pull within 50­"We knew what we were ready to 42 with 10:08 to we had to do to go.
play.,
win, but we just Bobbitt, though. didn't execute as a scored seven team," Diener said. Bob Huggins points in the next It was the biggest Cincinnati coach 2 1/2 minutes, 
game of the year for the Bearcats, who had their streak of seven consecutive Conference USA championships snapped last year by Marquette. It was the only regular-season game between the teams this year. 
"They have something that we feel belongs to us and that's the conference title," Williams said. "They're the best team we've played all year and they're con­ference champions. They have something we want." 
Marquette practiced its offense against seven defenders to get ready for Cincinnati's pressure. It mattered little as the Golden Eagles had trouble with the Bearcats' tall, athletic players most of the game. 
"We were our own worst enemy against the press," Marquette coach Tom Crean said. "We didn't strike first. They did." 
Cincinnati used a 14-4 run to take a 50-35 lead on Field 
including a 3­
pointer with 7:30 left. as Cincinnati opened a 62­48 lead. 
Marquette fouled in the closing minutes, and the Bearcats missed nine of 21 free throws in the final 6:04 to allow the Golden Eagles to stay within striking dis­tance. 
Oklahoma State 77, No. 11 Oklahoma 56 

John Lucas scored 22 points and Tony Allen added 20 to lead Oklahoma State to a surprisingly victory over No. 11 Oklahoma on Wednesday night, the Sooners' second straight lopsided road loss. 
Oklahoma State {11-2, 1-1 Big 12), bouncing back from an embarrassing loss of its own. never trailed and was firmly in control of this matchup against its longtime in-state rival. 
The Cowboys, the Big 12's leader in shooting percentage, hit a sizzling 56 percent from the 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
NOTICES 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com 
FREE MONEY Between the Buns restaurant is offering clubs and organizations the opportunity to earn free money. Hold a 'Kickback' night at the 'Buns" and receive a 1 5% donation from what is spent that evening. Call Phil tor more details. 247-9293 
WANTED 
Avorv'Mark 50/40% Earnings Call Karen 1-866-780-28661ndependent Sales Rep 
AWESOME SUMMER CAMP JOBS! Residential camp located in Brown County, Indiana. Operated by the Catholic Youth Organization since 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 1 7 in various programs. Inclusive of persons with disabilities. Positions available for General, Specialty, and Health staff. Extensive training pro­vided starting late May. Welcoming staff community. For application and more information contact: Angi Sullivan, CYO Gamp Rancho Framasa, CYOCamp@aol.com or toll free 888.988.2839, ext. 25. Online at: www.campranchotramasa.org. 
FoR SALE 
JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS. GILLIS REALTY 272·6306 
FoR RENT 
3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON MO.,FURN.272-6306 
BULLA AD HOME.$650.M0.272­6306 
4 bedroom house. AC, garage, great location, ample space, nego· tiable rent. Contact Mike 216-408· 0780 or Matt 216-408-4744 if inter· ested LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION· ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF NO IDEAL FOR 3·7 STUDENTS 2773097 
B&B rooms available near campus for JPW. $75.00 per person per night, 2·night minimum. Call 289-4455 for more info. 
New luxurious 3-4 bdrm 3 bath, 2­car garage, fireplace, sky lights, close to campus $1640 monthly, call574­232-4527 or 269-683·5038 
PERSONAL 
And another semester at The 0 begins... 
Man, there's a lot of extra classified space 
Playing no limit, get dealt King of clubs, Queen of clubs down, flop is J of clubs, Ace of clubs, 5 of hearts. my roomate goes all in so I follow. he has tnree 5s, i just need one card. fourth street is a 3 and the river is an Ace and I lose-not fun 
Hey a 

The Trudeau Show dynasty contin· ues with a win over No.3 Michigan on the road 
How good was that game last night against UConn? 
Diana Taurasi is a man which isn't a compliment in the least-i don't Uke "her" Not ranked on the drinking rank­ings=not pleased 
Parts 

3.5 weeks until I turn 21 What up gangsta . no limit championship last night is chris moneymaker's name really 
moneymaker? I'm not so sure library girl dan's funny i guess kenny rogers is a genius what a final hand of cards g'irish 
Thursday, January 15, 2004 

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
· ministry.t@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu


Campus Ministry C-M 

Apply online at campusministry.nd.edu 
what's ha · 
friday 01.16 tuesday 01.20 
MBA Retreat Campus Bible Study Sacred Heart Parish Center 
7:00 p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 
saturday 01.11 

Confirmation Session #8The· Plunge Phase 2 
7:oo-8:45 p.m.
A mini-retreat for 

Siegfried Hall Chapel
African American Freshmen 

Weekly Spanish Mass
sunday 01. 1s · ) 10:3_0 p.m. 
RCIA Session l St. Edward's Hall 1o:oo a.m. -11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 

wednesday 01.21 
Interfaith Christian
Confirmation Night Prayer 
Rite of Welcome 

1o:oo p.m. -1;1.:oo p.m.
11:45 am Mass Coleman-Morse Lounge
S~cred Heart Basilica Theology on Tap 10:00 p.m.-11:30 p.m. Legends 



Christian Unity Week 
January 18-25, 2004 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer invites 
the Notre Dame community to join us in 
observing Christian Unity Week 



beginning next Wednesday with a talk by Prof. Maxwell Johnson & prayer and music led by the Notre Dame Celebration Choir 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21 
10:00 P.M. • COLEMAN-MORSE LOUNGE 

mass schedule 
Freshman Retreat #52 
February 27-29 February 27-29 Sign up deadline: January 23 Sign up begins: January 25 Deadline: February 20 
Main Office (CoMo 319) & Retreats Office (CoMo 114), Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 


considerations... 
Prayer for Peace 
Finding the Prince of Peace as Christmas Fades 
by Rev. Richard Warner, c.s.c Director, Campus Ministry · 
This past Sunday, the Church celebrated the feast of the Baptism ofJesus, which traditionally 
is the end of the Christmas season. We have just returned to campus after celebrating Christmas 
and the holiday season with our families and friends. 
The Church's Christmas season begins with our joyful celebration of the Incarnation, when we remember the birth ofJesus who embodies in his person the perfect union ofthe divine and the human. The coming among us ofJesus, the Prince ofPeace, marks one ofour God's deepest expressions of love and compassion for us and for all people. 
Our thoughts then turned co honor Mary, the mother of God. Her "yes" to God's will for her, began the unfolding ofevents that led to the birth ofJesus. As the first disciple of her Son, she was present throughout his life and at the foot of the cross at the moment of his d~ath. 
The Epiphany reminds us of the universal meaning of the mission ofJesus, and the extension of his message of peace and love addressed to all people. 
Finally, our celebration of the baptism ofJesus, which was the beginning of his public minis­try, reminds us that baptism is the beginning ofour personal and community commitment as Christians to take up his mission and make it our own. 
The true Christmas season revolves around these mysteries of God's love for us. Yet traces of their impact on our world today is hard to discern. 
Over the course of the past 22 years, the span of some ofyour lifetimes, our world has known a continual state of violence, war and suffering. Until the fall of the Soviet Union, wars were waged by surrogates, and were easy to ignore because they involved the peoples ofAsia and Latin America. But armed conflict over the past two decades has taken place in the Gulf, Lebanon, Somalia, Panama, Grenada and Kosovo with U.S. participation. In the past two years, wars in Afghanistan and Iraq claim more deaths among members of the U.S. armed forces than these previous conflicts, and countless enemy troops and civilians have died. And terrorism has taken on a deeper meaning for us as a people after September 11, 200 1. 
Campus Ministry, in collaboration with the Center for Social Concerns, will initiate a focused program of prayer for peace, especially in the fading moments of our celebration of the Christ­mas season whose good will and great hope still linger. 
Every Friday, the 5:15 p.m. Mass at the Basilica will be celebrated explicitly as a Mass for Peace. On the first Fridays of each month, we will publish in The Observer the names of friends, family and loved ones of the members ofour community serving ir: the wars in Iraq and Af--. ghanistan, and we will remember as well all who have diea in the Iraqi conflict and peacemakers who understand well that peace is not only a gift from God but also a hum:m work. On "First Fridays", there will also be a conversation about peace either at the Center for Social Concerns or in the Hammes Student Lounge at the Coleman Morse Center on such themes as the morality of a preventive war, the role ofthe international community in the pursuit of peace and other related topics. . 
We invite you to send via email the names offriends, family and loved ones whose names we will include in our monthly remembrance to fsantoni@nd.edu (subject "peace"). 
Please join us every Friday at the Basilica for these special Masses. 
And as Pope John Paul II reminded us in his 2004 World Day of Peace message, "Humanity needs now more than ever to rediscover the path of peace, overwhelmed as it is by selfishness and hatred, by the thirst for power and the lust for vengeance." He reminds us that love is the reason for God entering into a relationship with us, and it is love he awaits as our response. 
Second Sunday in Ordinary Time 
basi lie a of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday s:oo p.m. 1o:oo a.m~ Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c 
11:45 p.m. 

Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c 
Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: Isaiah 62:1-5 
around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. s:oo p.m. 7:oo p.m. 
Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass 
St. Edward's Hall Chapel Law School Commons Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 
, 2nd: 1 Corinthians 12:4-11 Gospel: John 2:1-11 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 15, 2004 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Clarett pleads guilty, won't face jail time for offense 
. 

l ' 
..._,. 
I 
,I 
I 
I 
i 
l 
I 
! 
' 
Tailback fined for lying to police officer 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio Suspended Ohio State tailback Maurice Clarett, accused of lying on a police report, avoided a criminal record by pleading guilty Wednesday to a lesser charge that carries no jail time. 
The judge lectured Clarett about his responsibility to the community. 
"I will definitely consider the judge's advice to me whenever I make decisions that not only affect me, but also the kids who look up to me, family, friends and teammates," Clarett said in a statement. 
Clarett, 20, pleaded guilty· to failure to aid a law enforcement officer. Franklin County Municipal Court Judge Mark S. Froehlich ordered him to pay the maximum fine of $100. 
The sophomore, who helped Ohio State win the 2002 nation­al championship, was accused of filing a campus police report that exaggerated the value of items stolen from a dealership car he borrowed in April. Had be been convicted of the original falsification charge, possible penalties ranged from probation to six months in jail and up to a $1,000 fine. 
Froehlich told Clarett he hoped the experience would make him a better person. 
"You are in fact a role model," he said. "Many people in this community look up to you. Don't let them down, but most impor­tantly don't let yourself down. Try to give back to a community that has given so much to you." 
Clarett's mother held her hand on his back as he stood before the judge and gave only yes and no answers. 
Although Clarett is separately suing the NFL to change its eli­gibility rules so that he may enter the draft a year early, he said in his statement that he wants to focus on the Buckeyes. 
"I look forward to shifting all of my attention back to my stud­ies and the team at the Ohio State University," he said. 
Athletic director Andy Geiger said the police report case "has nothing to do with us" and does­n't affect Clarett's standing with the school or team. 
"We're glad this is behind him. We're looking forward to his progress academically," Geiger said. 
Ohio State had suspended Clarett from the team for the season, but not from school, for accepting improper benefits from a family friend and for lying about it to investigators. The university determined Clarett did nothing wrong by using a dealership car. 
The university has not yet asked the NCAA to reinstate Clarett, Geiger said. He must meet school conditions such as making academic progress and donating "thousands of dollars" to a charity to make up for the benefits. Clarett is eligible to practice. 

"It's likely he'll be lifting weights and working out this winter," Geiger said. 
City Prosecutor Stephen Mcintosh said he was willing to accept the plea deal because the case was not worth the time and expense of bringing in a witness from out of state. Another wit­ness, former campus police chief Ron Michalec, now works in the Cleveland suburb of Pepper Pike. 
Clarett's lawyer, Percy Squire, met with Mcintosh before the scheduled hearing. The deal effectively canceled a hearing scheduled Wednesday to decide whether statements Clarett made to NCAA investigators should be admissible as evi­dence in the case. 
Attorneys still will pursue a r-equest that the U.S. Department of Education sanc­tion the university for giving information from those state­ments to campus police, who passed it on to prosecutors, said Lloyd Pierre-Louis, Squire's partner. 
The attorneys had argued the information should have been kept private as a federally pro­tected educational record. Mcintosh had said the federal rules didn't apply because the information came from the NCAA, not Ohio State. 
Clarett has· matured greatly over the past year and come to understand the scrutiny on stu­dent-athletes, the attorney said. 
"He's learning to use much better judgment," Pierre-Louis said. "He's learning about who he is." 

Thursday, January 15, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Garcia arrested on possible drunk driving charge 
Associated Press Garcia planned a news confer­League star has been the 49ers' 
ence later Wednesday. starting quarterback since Steve 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -San He was .Pulled over by San Young retired after the 1999 Francisco 49ers quarterback Jose State University police near season. Jeff Garcia was arrested on sus­campus, Cursi said. The player This season, Garcia passed for picion of drunken driving early attended the San Jose Sharks' 2,456 yards and 16 touchdowns Wednesday, a jail spokesman game against the Dallas Stars despite missing four games with said. on Tuesday night, injuries. 
Garcia, a three-time Pro Bowl waving to the Garcia is due to selection, was booked into the 
crowd when he ..We understand the make nearly $10 
Santa Clara County jail at about was shown on million with the
seriousness ofthis
3:30 a.m., spokesman Mark the scoreboard. 49ers next season, Cursi said. He was released six Campus police matter and regret it but the team is hours later, Cursi said. issued a state­happened.,, expected to rene­
Garcia is scheduled to make a ment saying gotiate his con­court appearance March 1. Garcia had three tract in the offsea­according to the Santa Clara passengers in his Terry Donahue son to lessen its County district attorney's office. car, which was 49ers general manager impact on the 
"We understand the serious­pulled over for salary cap. ness of this matter and regret "erratic opera-San Francisco that it happened," 49ers general tion." The statement said pre­coach Dennis Erickson, who was manager Terry Donahue said in liminary results showed Garcia's arrested for drunken driving a statement. "We are just very blood alcohol level was above while coaching in Seattle in thankful that no one was the legal limit, but that final 1995, was supportive of his injured." results would not be available quarterback. 
Donahue said the team would­for about two weeks. "Jeff's a tremendous guy and n't comment further. A call to Garcia attended San Jose does a lot of things in the com­Garcia's agent, Steve Baker, was State and lives in San Jose. The munity and for the 49ers," not immediately returned. former Canadian Football Erickson told KGO Radio. 

'"'-'University Club~ &;P. ~ Ct?o;offa~ ~.._/lf:4A'!J. 9izme 
W"edding Receptions Rehearsal Dinner Graduation Parties Anniversaries Birthda).rs Meetings Seminar 
Lunch or Dinner .Reservations 631-4678 Meetings and Private Parties 631-4679 
LAST CHANCE TO REGISTER 
''Women Leading: Is It Different?'' 
(NEW LECTURE SERIES -BA 325 & MBA 525) 
1.5 Credits, Assigned Readings & Discussion -No Exams or Term Paper 
8 Lectures, Fridays 10:40 am -12:10 pm, beginning January 16th Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 
COURSE DESCRIPTION Join your friends and classmates for this timely new lecture series, designed for male and female students alike. A prestigious group of speakers will offer their 
perspectives and insights on what it's like to be a woman leader and what it's like to work w1th and :for one. · 
Scheduled speakers include: 
• 
Dr. Paulette R. • • Kathy Mendoza, formerly of Gerkovich, Catalyst, Inc. Network Appliance 

• 
Dr. 1ana Matthews, • Danielle Boucree, entrepreneur Boulder Quantum • Sara Martinez Tucker, Ventures Hispanic Scholarship Fund 

• 
Roxanne Martino, Harr.i s • Muffet McGraw, Notre Dame Alternatives, LLC ... 


Women's Basketball 
Visit www.nd.edu/ -cba/womenleadint: for more information. 
ENROLLMENT AND COURSE REQUIREMENTS "Women Leading: Is It Different?," listed as BA-325 and MBA-525, is open to any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's Student via DART. TI1ere are no prerequisites to enrollment. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. 
You are expected to attend eight lectures, complete assigned readings, and be prepared to engage speakers. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course with rio more than one verified, excused absence to receive a grade of "Satisfactory." No examinations and no term paper requirements. · 
i· 




·.·y·· 
. /·_..,,,.
··f::· :.. ·.;· ·.·.·

ENTAL RATEJ 

5.00 FOR DAILY RENTAL 
'~;
10.00 FOR TWO DAY RENTAL 
.<; 
<· 









OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Page-16 COJ\1PJLED FRO!v'\. THE 0BSERVUtS \Villi SERVICES Thursday, January 15, 2004 

around the dial 
NBA 

Chicago at Memphis 8 p.m., Fox Sports 
Toronto at New Orleans 8 p.m., NBA TV 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Virginia at Georgia Tech 7 p.m., ESPN2 Louisville at East Carolina 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 

Dallas at Colorado 9:00 p.m, ESPN Columbus at St. Louis 8 p.m., Fox Sports 
NBA 


Getty 

Sixty-six-year-old Lenny Wilkens will take over as head coach of the Knlcks following a sudden decision by lsiah Thomas. The former Toronto coach will replace Don Chaney, who Thomas fired. 
Knicks dump Chaney in favor of Wilkens 
afternoon.
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Isiah Thomas pulled ofT a shock­er on a bizarre day even by New York Knicks stan­dards, firing Don Chaney and his two top assistants Wednesday and hiring Lenny Wilkens as head coach. 
The 66-year-old Wilkens is the NBA leader in career coaching victories and loss­es. 
"I think he's a perfect fit," Thomas said. 
Chaney and assistants Brendan Malone and Lon Kruger received the news after arriving at Madison Square Garden late in the 
''I'm not here today to point out negative things about Don or our former coaching staff," said Thomas, who also consid­ered himself, Chuck Daly and Mike Fratello for the job. "At the end of the day I thought Lenny would be the better man for the job." 
The coaching change represented the second major move of Thomas' frenzied tenure since replacing team president Scott Layden late last month. 
Thomas has turned over nearly half the roster and a majority of the coaching staff, acquiring an All-Star Hall of Farner in Wilkens. 
Chaney was 72-112 in two-plus seasons in New York and 337-494 in 12 seasons overall as an NBA head coach. 
"With the change this afternoon, I'm just still shocked and surprised that it went down," Knicks for­ward Kurt Thomas said. "Don handled this like he handles everything ­superb." 
Chaney put the team through its morning shootaround after reading in the Daily News that he would be replaced by Fratello, who later released a statement saying he had Thomas said no offer was ever made to Fratello. 
Chaney was not avail­able for comment after being dismissed. 
''I'm happy for Lenny ­he's a great guy and a great coach," Raptors for­ward Morris Peterson said. We had a lot of injuries, and there's nothing he could do about that." 
Allan Houston, who has been with the Knicks through the tenures and departures of team execu­tives Dave Checketts, Ernie Grunfeld, and Layden, struggled to put Wednesday's developments into perspective. 
IN BRIEF 
Rose's book climbs to top
of best seller list 
NEW YORK -It may not get him in the Hall of Fame, but Pete Rose's book, "Pete Rose: My Prison Without Bars," will claim the No. 1 spot on The New York Times' list of best sellers. 
Rose's book, released last Thursday with a first printing of 500,000, will top the Times' nonfic­tion hardcover chart coming out Jan. 25, reflecting the week "My Prison Without Bars" went on sale. 
In 1989, Rose was banished from baseball for betting on the game, a charge he acknowledged for the first time in his new book. Rose, the career hits leader, is ineligible for the Hall of Fame and officials had said reinstatement was impossible until he admitted that he gambled on baseball. 
Earlier this week, baseball com­missioner Bud Selig said he had not read the book and declined com­ment on what he might do. 
Rose's publisher, Rodale Press, said actual sales figures were not available Wednesday. According to Nielsen BookScan, which tracks industry sales, "My Prison Without Bars" sold just under 21,000 copies in its first tl).ree days. 
Nielsen claims to report about 70­7 5 percent of total sales. 
NCAA delays decision on 
3-point arc 
INDIANAPOLIS -Proposals to extend the 3-point arc and widen the free throw lane have been put on hold while the NCAA tries to determine what impact the changes would have on college basketball. 
The changes were recommended by the men's and women's basket­ball rules committees but were turned down this week by the NCAA executive committee at the association's convention in Nashville, Tenn. 
"The most important thing is that we make a decision that's in the best interest for the game of bas­ketball," men's committee chair­man Willis Wilson said Wednesday. 
"Coaches, obviously, have to have imput into that," said Wilson, the coach at Rice. "The court markings pertaining to the lane have not changed in the last 50 years; play­ers have changed tremendously in the last 50 years. So I think the rules committee will be very careful in terms of looking at what adjust­ments, if any, should be made." 
Earlier last year, the men's and women's rules committees approved a proposal to adopt inter­national standards -a trapezoid lane and a 3-point line of 20 feet, 6 inches, which is nine inches longer than the current 3-point line. 
In June, however, the rules com­mittees backed off a plan that would have altered the lines this season and instead delayed the changes to 2004-05. It also removed the change in the free throw lane for women. 
..'r. 

Thursday, january 15, 2004 

Recruits 
continued from page 20 
lncarnato, an Ohio native, the 1Oth and 19th offensive tackle prospects, respectively, but the best players have slipped through the cracks. 
Players such as Colorado top offensiv~ line recruit Jeff Byers, who committed to USC a few weeks after his visit to the Notre Dame-USC game are indicative of how Notre Dame has strug­gled to secure future talent. 

Frank believes monitoring the percent of players who commit after initial offers is an accurate method of measuring the success of that year's class. 
"It's interesting to see how 

many of the initial offers are left 
standing at the end," he said. 
Of the players Notre Dame ini­tially offered, the Irish have lost
..... defensive back Nick Patterson to Ohio State, defensive lineman 

Spring Break in Panama City Beach, Florida! 
800 feet of Gulf Beach Frontage • 2 large Outdoor Swimming Pools Sailboat, Jet Ski & Parasail Rentals • lazy River Ride & Water Slide Huge Beachfront Hot Tub • Volleyball • Suites up to 12 people Airport limo Service • Live Band & OJ • World's longest Keg Party Wet T -Shirt, Hard Body & Venus Swimwear Contests 
WoRLD FAMOUS 


TtKI BAR! 

·,; 
.· ... 
·::· 

.• 
~ 
Students who R.S.V.P. by January 19th wilt receive frel!i perscmtlizt!d bu~iness cards and an Offit!itl··;~'liY.etH Notre Dame name ba~.. 
Business cards will he. used during netWorking business car-d exchange wi¢ ernpioyers.. 
. . .
. 

Fot mor& information or to R..S.V. P Email; moore.1l::Z@nd~ed11 orQU; 411-9 f9l Joni:ka Moore 
Uniliersity of Notre D;~.tt~C 

Jeff Schweiger to USC and defen­sive back D.J. Davis to Texas A&M.Notre Dame has secured the verbal commitments of defensive end Ronald Talley, a 6­foot-3, 240 pound strongside end out of Detroit, Mich. and Abdel Banda, a 6-foot-2, 215 pound Morristown, NJ linebacker. 
Anthony Vernaglia brings ath­leticism to the class with experi­ence at linebacker and tight end. The Orange County, Calif. native caught 31 balls for 470 yards and ten touchdowns in his senior season. He also had four sacks, one interception and three fum­ble recoveries on the defensive end. 
One of the most recent and the eighth commitment is Tregg Duerson, a defensive back with average speed who had been recruited by few top programs. 
Unlike at this time last year, the nation's top players are glancing past the Irish as they look to play winning college foot­ball. 
The Observer + SPORTS 

"The Syracuse loss probably took some wind out of their [Notre Dame's] sails in terms .of recruiting," Frank said. "With the low number of players Notre Dame is taking, and the season that they had, it puts them in a difficult position to land the top guys." 
Notre Dame coaches have said the team will most likely sign 17 or 18 players, a significant num­ber less than the 21 players who received scholarships last spring. 
"The prospect of maybe even starting as a freshman for a struggling program is intriguing, and that's what Willingham and his staff is selling right now," Frank said. "Wh~re it becomes difficult is the very best players want to play on the very best teams. Guys want to play for con­ference championships, bowl championships and national championships." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
page 17 



Awards 
continued from page 20 

her a remarkable distinction, as she became the first Irish forward to be named to the first team. 
"[Being the first Irish for­ward to make the first team 
w a s ] extreme­ly sur­prising, especial­ly with players· 1 i k e Jenny Streiffer a n d Jenny Heft hav­
i n g 
passed through 
Radio. The Socrates award is presented to the college stu­dent-athlP-te who best exem­plifies excellence in athletics and academics. 
A few Irish players have also been called in to train with the U-21 and U-19 National Teams this month. Warner and Shaner will be training with the U-21 Team starting Jan. 23, while Buczkowski was called in to the 
U-19 Team camp
"It is an honor ... espe­
that concluded cially ifI look back and Jan. 2. Warner was 
see the other people given one of the 
limited exemptions
that have made it . ., 
allowed for players 

over the designat­ed age. 
The Irish squad also recently received the NSCAA Team Academic Award, presented to teams that earned better than a 3.0 GPA during the previous academic y e a r . Leading the way for 
Amy Warner forward 
here," Warner said. 
The Irish have also received a number of other awards since the season ended. 
Tancredi was a 

finalist for the "[Being the first Irish the Irish Soccer Buzz forward to make the w e r e Player of the Year Pruzinsky
first team was]
award, while (4.0 cumu­freshmen Christie extremely lative 
• • JJ

Shaner and Jen surprzszng. G P A ) . Buczkowski were Ashley finalists for the Dryer (3.60 
Amy Warner 
Rookie of the cumulative 
Year. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum is a finalist for National Coach of the Year for leading the Irish to the Big East Mid­Atlantic Division Title and a 20-3-1 record on the year. 
Vanessa Pruzinsky received more recognition by being one of eight finalists for the Socrates Award, a national student-athlete program sponsored by Sporting News Carpenter, who qualified for the Dean's List both semes­ters in 2002-03 as a pre-pro­fessional science major. 
forward  G  P A  )  ,  
Warner  
(3.67.GPA  
spring  2003).  and  Kim  

Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

i 
I 

I
. I 
I 

I I 
' 
I 
! 
I 
i 
I 
!



page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 15, 2004 

Bball 8. 
Hope 71, Saint Mary's 51 
On Jan. 10, Saint Mary's
continued from page 20 
dropped their fourth game in a 
row, and second in a row by four games after starting out 20 or more points, as they shot the season at 3-6. 31 percent from the floor and 
Saint Mary's was lead by turned the ball over 18 times. Emily Creachbaum, who Hope was lead by Bria Ebels scored 18 points on 8-of-19 who scored 13 points on 5-of­shooting from the field and 11 from the field. Katie Miller grabbed eight rebounds in 25 had nine points for the Belles. minutes. Maureen Bush added 11 points and four rebounds. 
The loss moved Saint Mary's Contact Bobby Griffin at College to 4-10 on the year, rgriffin@nd.edu 
and 0-4 in the MIAA. 
"We shot well from the floor and the line, we just commit­ted way too many turnovers," said Susan Bellina. 
Saint Mary's has dropped the last five games after an over~ time road victory against Tri­State on Dec. 13 and the team is just 1-7 in their last eight games. 
Throughout the losing streak, one bright spot for the Belles has been Emily Pernotto's play. She scored 14 points and 17 points in back­to-hack home losses against Merchant Marine and Widener. 
Saint Mary's 66, Tri-State 64 
At Tri-State on Jan. 24, Saint Mary's pulled out an overtime win, in a thrilling game that came down to the wire. Emily Creachbaum had 18 points and 5 rebounds in the win. Katie Miller added 11 points, 5 assists, and 4 rebounds with­out turning the ball over once. 
The win moved Saint Mary's to 4-5. Merchant Marine 55, Saint Mary's 51 
Rebecca Segert's 27 points and 11 rebounds proved to be too much, as Merchant Marine narrowly defeated Saint Mary's on Dec. 28. Ashley Carlese added 16 points and seven rebounds for Merchant Marine. Pernotto lead Saint Mary's with 14 points on 3-of­9 shooting, as the loss moved Saint Mary's to 4-6. 
Widener 72, Saint Mary's 61 
At Saint Mary's on Dec. 29, Nicole Stanley, Nikki Carden and Chelsea Luhta exploded on the offensive end scoring 18, 15 and 2 2 respectively, as Saint Mary's dropped their second game in a row. 
Saint Mary's turned the ball over 26 times, and were out­played in the second half after being tied at 31 at the half. 
Calvin 60, Saint Mary's 38 
In a lopsided contest between Calvin and Saint Mary's on Jan 6, Calvin blew the Belles out of the gym on route to a 22-point blow out. Lisa Winkle led Calvin with 14 points, but it was really an even distribution of scoring that lead to the victory. Calvin played great defense, only allowing Saint Mary's to hit 13-of-53 from the field. The loss dropped Saint Mary's to 4­
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles suffer 119-84loss to Calvin 
Sophomore Kelly Nelis stood ances, however. also resulted in By DAN TAPETILLO 
out, as well, with a second place another factor affecting the Sports Writer 
finish in the 200-yard freestyle team's meet against Calvin: 
with a personal best time of fatigue. The team swam double 
The Saint Mary's swimming 2:03.5. Nelis also took first in workouts everyday, and PetcofT team lost its first meet coming 500-yard freestyle with a time said exhaustion could have fig-off winter training, but coach of 5:33.94. ured into Saturday's loss. Greg Petcotf is still smiling. Other high­The Belles now stand at 
Despite the 119-84 loss to lights "It was just a 0-3 in the MIAA rankings, Calvin College Saturday, PetcofT include sen­and they recently suffered 
fantastic

is encouraged by the individual ior Maureen . ,, another blow -the loss of 
swzm ... 

performances given during the Palchak's one of their top swimmers, team's week-long winter train­56.65 first-freshman Caitlin ing in Islamorada, Fla. place finish Greg Petcoff Fitzpatrick, who broke four Eight swimmers were able to in the 100-school records earlier this
coach

swim personal best times y a r d season. including "performer of the freestyle, "She [Fitzpatrick] is tak­meet" senior Katy Lebiedz. senior ing a leave of absence from Lebiedz took second place in Megan Ramsey's second place college," Petcoff said. "When the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 2:17.3 in the 200-yard things like this happen, there time of 2 minutes, 37.13 sec­butterfly, and returning swim­are always people stepping up, onds. mer Sarah Nowak's second but she will not be replaced." · 
"It was just a fantastic swim, place finish in the 200-yard IM. Saint Mary's will now focus the last time that she swam this This is Nowak's first collegiate upon their next opponents fast was two years ago when race as.she and Katie Dingeman Kalamazoo and Olivet this she broke the school record," return from studying abroad Friday. Petcoff said. "She is a swimmer this past fall. who is exploding with confi­The strenuous workouts and Contact Dan Tapetillo at dence right now." subsequent stand-out perform-jtapetil@nd.edu 

Thursday, January 15, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 

PEANUTS  CHARLES SCHULTZ  
1 HEARD THE TEACHER, SIR .. SHE SAID YOUR REPORT SOUNDED LIKE YOU WROTE  I WAS FLATTERED. MARCIE ...  ACTUALLY. I WROTE IT AFTER l GOT OFF T~E 13U5, AND WAS WALKING UP T~E  
IT ON THE SCHOOL SUS ...  STAIR5 INTO 5C~OOL ..  
.....__g  
f  

u_~~~~~~j®~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~ 
FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

c~~Hion. 
J 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 


-
CINES 
I I I 
02004 Trbune Media Services, Inc. All Righla Reaerved. 
ROFEY 
I 
( J 

,_, 
THE C.OP5 CAUGHT
~ FULOWE 
THE PIC.KPOCKE=T WITH QUICK HANDS BECAUSE: OF THIS.

J I I (] 
www.jumble.com 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 


DUSKY BOUGH SALOON BOILED
Yesterday's I Jumbles: Answer: Why the beauty queen became a spy-SHE "LOOKED" GOOD. 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  34 Writers' blocks  62 Look over a  
1 Big tooth  35 1994 Paul  wall, say  
5 Whopper  Newman film  63 "Do  else!M  
9  facto  38 Din  64 Letter opener  
13 NASA gasket  40 Goombah  
15 "East of EdenM.., twin  41 1982 biography by Joseph Alsop  DOWN 1 Demolishes  
16 One with a pounding head?  42 Chair man? 44 Lingerie item  2 Muse of astron­omy  
17 Don't  46 Big galoot  3 Sistine Chapel  
18 'Send packing  49 Chopin piece  figures  
20 Not definite  51 Alliance created  ·4 Radio feature  
22 Rapper_ Kim  in 1948: Abbr.  5 Blushing bride  
23 Donald  52 Tax form info:  of '81  
Rumsfeld's  Abbr.  6 "Exodus" author  
bailiwick: Abbr. 24 Simultaneously 21 Overseas carri­er 28 Building beam 30 Revolutionary War officer Putnam 31 Farm female 32 Overly  53 Hit song by Jackson Browne, 1982 56 Savanna 58 Name in 1999­2000 news 59 Microwave 60 Sexologist Shere 61 Kind of question  7 Silicon Valley city 8 Full-length 9 Out of it 10 Wagner's final opera 11 Messina Mr. 12 " Buttermilk Sky" (1946 hit) 14 "Bravo!"  35 Junior, to Senior 36 Attractive single  45 Walk unsteadily 46 Go between  54 Not fooled by  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  19 When repeated, a cry of  person, slangily 37 Trip to tell about  47 Illinois college town  55 Wasn't colorfast  
approval 21 It used to be sung on street corners  - 38 Theater compa­ny, for short 39 Propeller  48 "I Will Survive" singer Gloria 50 Deepak  56 Econ. yardstick  
25 Hut material'  43 Bottoms of  Chopra's birth­ 57 It runs through  
26 It goes this way  columns  place  Montreal  
and that  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a · credit card, 1-800-814-5554.is eternal": Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
Yves St. Laurent 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 31 Spoilsport of a 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000sort past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 33 When one's not Crosswords for young soivers: The Learning Network, at one's best nytimes.com/learninglxwords. 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Celebrities born on this day: Lloyd Bridges, Margaret O'Brien, Ronnie Van Zant, Mario Van Peebles, Captain Beefheart, Martin Luther King Jr. 
Happy Birthday: This will be a romantic year. Get out and do things with the one who has captured your heart. If you are all alone, get out and strut your stuff because someone who's good for you is likely to come into your life. Actions will speak louder than words when it comes to unveiling your feelings. 
Know in your heart what you want and go after it. Your numbers: 6, 13, 22, 32, 41,43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Ignore colleagues who appear to be.going nowhere fast. You have enough to get accomplished without dealing with i-ndividuals who would like to sidetrack you. Don't make large purchases. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should look into acquiring as much knowledge as possible in your chosen field. You need to stimulate your mind, or boredom will set in. Pick friends who can provide intellectual debate. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Health problems may flare up if you haven't been taking good care of yourself. Take time to relax and rejuvenate. You can work out any problems you've been having at home. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take care of those less capable of caring for themselves. You can teach others valuable lessons by telling them about your own past experiences. Work on creative projects with others. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Insincerity from acquaintances can be expected when attending social functions. Concentrate on your work rather than your personal life for best results. *** ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can finish off those overdue projects that you've been procrastinating about. Look into taking subjects that will enable you to climb the ladder at work. Your ambition is growing. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0CT. 22): Try to be objective when dealing with relatives and friends. Tensions will flare up if you continue to criticize others. Not everyone has the same goals as you. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will find others insightful today. Listen and observe rather than playing a big role in the conversation. You will feel extremely fortunate if you look outside your own perimeters. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get out with friends for an evening of entertainment. You will find that a change of residence will spark your interest. "t. 
Keep your eyes peeled for things that excite you. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can expect upset due to reminders of recent encounters with your lover. You must clear the air by discussing the issues at hand. Compromise will be in order.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone around you is dubious. Don't be talked into doing things that go against your beliefs and morals. Make sure that you have all the pertinent facts before making promises. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take it easy; you need some rest and relaxation. Your nerves are frazzled, and it has probably been a long time since your last vacation. Try to spend some quality time with your mate. ** 
Birthday Baby: You have a good head on your shoulders. You know what it is that you have to master in life, and you set your course accordingly. There will be no great surprises because you go to great efforts to make sure that everything is done properly. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www. eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Narne __________________·------~-----------------­Address _______________________________________ 
City __________ State ____ Zip______ ­
... 



----~­
THE OBSER\'ER 
Thursday, January 15, 2004 

Page 20 
fOOTBALL 

I, 
Irish lack commitments as signing·date looms 

By PAT LEONARD 
Spores Writer 

Time is running out for Tyrone Willingham and the Notre Dame football team as the Irish look to strengthen their recruiting class of2008. 
With just under three weeks remaining until the designated 
. official signing day of Feb. 4, Notre Dame has received only eight verbal commitments. 
Notre Dame does not have one 
Belles fall to Adrian in 62-56 defeat 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
In a tough match up between Adrian and Saint Mary's Tuesday, Adrian pre­vailed at home 62-56 in a contest that was very much even throughout the game. 
Tied at half, Adrian outscored the Belles 26-20 in the second half to escape with the victory Tuesday night. 
Lead by the three-headed monster of Corrie Helldobler, Fallon Steele and Mandi Lemmons, Adrian moved to (6-7) on the year and (2-3) in the league. Adrian shot 45 percent from the field includ­ing 15-of-29 from Helldobler, Steele and Lemmons. Anna Psaute also added eight points on 4-of-8 shooting in only 26 minutes. It also helped Adrian that the Belles turned the ball over an astounding 25 times. 

Adrian is 3-1 in their last 
see BBALL/page 17 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Awards continue to roll in for Irish 
By ANDY TROEGER 


I, Sports Writer 
Four years ago, Amy Warner set one major indi­vidual goal that she wanted to achieve during her time at Notre Dame: to become an All-American. 
After three seasons of mak­ing the All-Big East Team, Warner made the jump as a senior by being named a first Team All-America last month. 
"It is an honor," Warner 

r. 
said of receiving the award, "especially if I look back and see the other people that have made it. Becoming an All-American was one of my goals when entering college, and I am proud to have accomplished the goal I set for myself." 

Also making the All­America team was Big East Defensive Player of the Year Melissa Tancredi, who made the second team. Warner and Tancredi were both named first team All-Great Lakes Region. Junior Mary Boland and sophomore Erika Bohn both were second team All­Region selections 
Despite coming from a pro­gram that has combined for 27 NSCAA All-America hon­ors in the past 10 years, Warner's selection earned 
see AWARDS/page 17 
of the top 25 national recruiting classes according to most publi­cations, while many past and future Irish opponents -Boston College (17), Michigan State (21), Pittsburgh (20}, Purdue (21). Southern Cal (14), Tennessee (12) and Washington (21) -have secured a significantly higher number of more talented recruits, according to recruit experts . 
.If there is a headliner to the Notre Dame class of verbal com­mitments, according to Irishlnsider.com columnist Mike Frank, that player is Justin Hoskins, a shifty, 6-foot, 195 run­ning back out of Grand Rapids, Mich. 
"I think they have a star player in Hoskins," Frank said. "I would­n't be shocked if he started at some point next season." 
The possibility of playing and making an impact next season could be attractive to recruits looking to step in and play imme­diately, such as Kentucky quar­terback prospect Brian Brohm, who has yet to make a decision. 
It is apparent, however, that this selling point has not been strong enough to attract the country's top talent. 
In addition to Hoskins, Notre Dame has secured verbal com­mitments from offensive linemen Brandon Nicholas (6-foot-5, 260 pounds), Chauncey Incarnato (6­foot-7, 280 pounds) and John Kadous (6-foot-6. 310 pounds). 
ESPN's Tom Lemming rated Kadous, an Arizona native, and 
see RECRUITS/page 17 
BASEBALL 

Irish ranked in top 20 in polls 

Irish crack top 20for fifth straight year 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 

While still more than a month 
away from their season opener 
with San Diego State in Los 
Angeles on Feb. 20, the Irish 
have found themselves ranked in 
the top 20 in the four major col­
lege baseball preseason polls. 

''I'm really excited for our guys 
that they're getting the recogni­
tion that they deserve," Irish 
coach Paul Mainieri said of 
Notre Dame's standing in the 
four pre-season polls. 

Notre Dame's highest ranking 
comes from the Collegiate 
Baseball Magazine poll, which 
has the Irish slated 1Oth -the 
program's highest preseason 
ranking in the 46-year history of 
the poll. glad that our name is out there 
The National Collegiate in front of people that are college Baseball Writers Association baseball fans, and I'm glad our placed the Irish 1.3th in its pre­kids are being recognized as one season poll, and the of the top USA Today Coaches teams in poll has the Irish at the coun­
"I'm really excited for 
17th. try." 
Baseball America our guys that they're A couple listed Notre Dame getting the of Notre 19th, marking the fifth D a m e
recognition that they
straight year the Irish players 
have cracked the top 20 in that poll -a feat accomplished by only six other teams in 2003 National Champion Rice, LSU, Cal State-Fullerton, Georgia Tech, Stanford and Baylor. 
Mainieri is not worried about the expectations that go along with his team's impressive early rankings. 
"A lot of coaches are afraid of high expectations and polls and things like that," he said. 'Tm not one of those coaches. I'm 

deserve." 
also found 
t h e m ­
selves on
Paul Malnlerl 
several
coach 

preseason A l l ­American 
rosters. 
Senior second baseman Steve Sollmann earned consensus Preseason All-America honors, as he was named to the first team by Collegiate Baseball Magazine and the NCBWA and to the second team by Baseball America. 
Sollmann hit. 384 in 2003 with four home runs, 40 RBI and 67 runs scored, and he notched 38 stolen bases. 
Junior pitcher Chris Niesel also received some recognition, earn­ing second team preseason All­American honors from both Collegiate Baseball Magazine and the NCBWA. The right-han­der fmished 9-1 last season with a 2.65 ERA. 
With the preseason rankings and All-American squads in, expectations are high for the 2004 Irish. Mainieri knows that it is now up to his team to live up to and even surpass those expec­tations. 
"And now the challenge is to go out there and prove that we are worthy of those rankings," he said. "Frankly I think that being ranked 1Oth in the country is fme and dandy, but by the end of the year, I would like to see us move up about nine spots. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


U) SMC SWIMMING 
NFL 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
NCAA BASKETBALL
w 

Garcia arrested 
Saint MarJ's 89 
Clarett pleads guilty 
Cincinnati 85 
Connecticut 94
1--u z Calvin 11 
Marquette 73 
Georgetown 70 

San Francisco quarterback 
Maurice Clarett will not
a: s 

Saint Mary's loses a key 
Jeff Garcia was arrested on 
face jail time as he pleads 
Cincinnati stays unde-
Connecticut maintains 

swimmer as the Belles drop 
drunk driving charges. 
guilty after being accussed 
feated with their latest win 
its No. 1 ranking as the

,.··iZ 
=·: 
to Calvin. 

of lying on a police report. 
over Marquette. 
Huskies defeat the 
Bulldogs.
A.!; 

page 18
en 
page 15 
page 14 
page 12 
page 12 

1.• 
' 




