
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 130 THURSDAY, APRIL 22,2004 
Morrissey rector changes parietals 

Repeated vandalism invokes stringent visitation rules 
BySHIELA FLYNN 
Senior Staff Writer 
For the second year in a row, Morrissey parietals have been ehangcd from 2 a.m. to mid­night as punishment for van­dalism in the dorm. 
Hector Father J. Steele sent dorm residents an email Wednesday citing "the inten­tional destruction of peg boards. the sounding of a false alarm and the damaging of a wheelchair" as his motivation for moving the parietals time. In addition, he castigated resi­dents for not admitting to van­dalism or urging those respon­sible to turn themselves in. 
"There is a persistent notion that we should not rat on our friends," Steele wrote in the email. "We should cover for them and never make them take responsibility for their actions. This is the Honor Among Thieves ... However, it is the duty of real friends to encourage each other to become men rather than remain boys. This is a matter of True Honor." 
Residents said they found the decision unwarranted and the email offensive. 
"I just didn't think it was very fair of him to suggest that we had a code of thieves and to question our manhood, when the vast majority of us didn't even know this was going on," said sophomore Tom Johnson. 
"It happened to us last year, but last year it had been a much bigger deal before [the parietals had been changed]," he said. 
Freshman Andrew Sheedy also said he considered the decision to be "a tad over­board," and the email to be "really cheesy and overboard and just really stupid." 
However other students, though still unhappy with the 
see PARIETALS/page 8 


Class research focuses on gay marriage 
Graphics project will highlight the controversial issue 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
Assi•tant News Editor 
Students in Robert Sedlack's graphic design III class have prepared posters, buttons, Web sites and even a gay wed­ding reception to both show­case their research on gay marriage and get their roes­sag~• across to the Notre Dame campus. 
One poster reads "Keep it 27." a eomnwnt opposing the creation of a 28th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution to ban gay marriages, while a small card asking "Whatever hap­pened to Adam and Steve?" may be opened to discover a link to a Web site highlighting both the arguments in support of and against gay marriage. 
Those who view the Web site arc forced to select either "I am against gay marriage" or "I am for gay marriage" and arc taken to arguments in opposi­
see GRAPHICS/page 8 


Howard hosts donor search 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Writer 
Howard Hall's fourth annu­al Bone Marrow Drive will take place today on the first floor of LaFortune from 8 
a.m. to 10 p.m. All members of the Notre Dame communi­ty are encouraged to partici­pate and register their bone marrow on the national reg­istry, organizers said. 
see MARROW/page 10 


Library department preserves rare books 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
Senior Staff Writer 
Notre Dame is a university imbued with the past. Students note 32 years of coeducation. Irish faithful boast of the glories of 115 football seasons. Domers celebrate the University's 162-year history. 
But those times pale in comparison to the history contained in the Department of Rare Books and Special Collections, tucked away behind tinted glass doors in 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Farley nan1ed best hall 
ByJANICE FLYNN 
News Writer 
Finest? You bet. 

The women of Farley Hall have lived up to their nick­name and have been named Overall Hall of the Year for 2003-04. 
It was a top-to-bottom effort, ranging from the sup­port of rector Sister Carrine Etheridge, to the dedication of hall presidents, staff and commissioners, to the enthu­siasm of the residents. 
The Hall Presidents' Council chooses the hall of the year based on several categories. which include academic. social. athletic. service, spirit, multicultural and gender relations. Keenan and Howard Halls were chosen as Men's and Women's Halls of the Year. respectively. 
Hall Presidents Beth Duran. Nikki Parker, Katy Ryan and Courtney Badgley, all juniors, said they were delighted by the news, and pleased at seeing their hard work rewarded. 
"We just started off the year with really high goals." Duran said. "I guess you could say our theme this year was innovation." 
This innovative spirit struck a chord with the selection committee. which was extremely impressed by Farley's year, according to Hall Presidents' Council co­chair Sarah Keefer. 
"Farley had amazingly innovative ideas and strong outcomes," Keefer said. "They had really high atten­dance at all of their events and had events that grabbed 
see FARLEY/page 6 

the concourse of the Hesburgh Library. 
Ben Panciera, the rare books curator, said some items in the collection date back to the origins of the written word. 
"We have collections that span the history of writing [beginning with] cuneiform," Panciera said. Cuneiform was a type of writing in ancient Mesopotamia, begin­ning about 5,000 years ago. 
Panciera is no stranger to old books. Before taking his 
see BOOKS/page 10 


Thursday, April22,2004

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

AIM 101 
Like everyone said I would, I've gained a lot of knowledge during my freshman year. I can tell you about economics. communism, the bun run, LaFun, T.C. and a far-off land called 
"the construction entrance of  Eileen Duffy  
Loftus." To be  
perfectly honest  Viewpoint  
with you, though, the one field in  Copy Editor  
which I could  
earn my doctorate ­ tomorrow, if I  

were offered the chance -would be AOL Instant Messenger (AIM). 
Eileen Duffy, PhD ... away mes­sages? It's true. I am online often­whether I have a few minutes or five hours straight to spare. I can now recite friends' profiles and often-used quotes (OAR's "I feel home" sound familiar to anyone?), and, like others, I check away messages fairly obses­sively. This is a leader in her field about to give you the sum total of her knowledge. Listen up. 
First. if you STILL have that link "I can't believe I found [insert screen name]'s picture here HAHAHA," get it fixed. Immediately. Do you know how many trips to OIT (a.k.a. hell on earth) that you and your dirty virus have caused? 
Going idle = cool. It means that you are so cool that you are out and about and don't even care about AIM, or away messages or updated profiles ... sigh. I have a friend in Boston who, along with her roommate, have begun using the term "idle" inter­changeably with "cool." For example, "Wow, that shirt is sooo idle!" Try it yourself1 
When it comes to profiles, please don't be soo idle (cool, that is) as to simply have "No Information Provided." Your profile is a creative outlet! Song quotes are nice, but be sure to include a good variety, like an upbeat Jimmy Buffet and a poetic Paul Simon. One of my friends "John" simply rotates a series of particularly depressing Guster quotes on his away messages. Why John, why? That's REALLY not idle. 
Inside jokes are acceptable, but I generally like to make sure that they are understood by at least three peo­ple, to avoid exclusiveness. Featuring one of your friend's quotes is a great compliment to him. And you? Well, once you've earned a place on anoth­er's profile, you have reached the pinnacle of AIM wit and skill. Well done. you. 
(One last note on profiles: if you are not yet aware of this, he who has a link to see his pictures can sometimes SEE YOUR SCREEN NAME ! A boy has checked my friend's pictures 41 times. Please, for everyone's sake, spread the word ... and ease up on picture-viewing.) 
When conversing, remember that AIM is not real life. Do not, under any circumstances. do any of the follow­ing online: a.) confess to a crush; b.) ask someone to an SYR; c.) propose; or d.) break up. You must learn the acronyms jk, lol, btw, brb and g2g. Don't forget to sprinkle some icons in (little-known fact: the tiny smiley that looks like Barney in the Simpsons actually means "foot-in-mouth" ... enlarge it to see the foot). 
Follow these instructions, kids, and you'll be the idlest cats around. 
Contact Eileen Duff at eduffy1@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­non and stnves for the highest standards of journal­Ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error . 
.. .. •• • • •. ,_ '!-•.--·. '· '· ~ ~ -~ !.. _, 
0 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU FOLLOWING THE COVERAGE OF THE '04 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION? 







Christian McNamara  Colin Taylor  Kate Kennedy  Dan McElroy  Kate Malch  Tad Skotnicki  
Senior Off-campus  Sophomore Keough  Sophomore McGlinn  Sophomore Keough  Senior Off-campus  Senior Siegfried  
':4s a Democrat, rm apparently too busy undermining the moral fabric ofAmerica to  "I live, sleep, eat and breath coverage ofthis election. ,,  "Like white on rice.  "Down with Taco Bell, up with Roque Strew.,,  "Following the elections is as delicious as Fair Trade coffee in the dining halls.,,  'Tve been focusing on my inordinately large poster of Chairman Mao instead of  

follow the campaign. television.,, 




IN BRIEF 
Howard Hall will sponsor a bone marrow drive all day in the LaFortune Ballroom. Become a part of the National Bone Marrow Registry and potentially save a life. 
Mariclaire Acosta, a Kellogg visiting fellow and former Deputy Secretary for Human Rights and Democracy in Mexico, will deliver a lecture titled "Human Rights Strategy for a Democratic Government: Mexico 2000-2003." The lec­ture will take place today at 
4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center, room 103. 
Political Science professor Christina Wolbrecht will deliv­er a lecture in the Political Science Department's annual "Intellectual Autobiography Series" this afternoon at 4:30 
p.m. in DeBartolo room 208. 
Russ Gavin will present a graduate degree euphonium recital with Bill Cernx, profes­sor emeritus of music, accom­panying. The event takes place tonight at 5 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
"Arms and the Man," the Department of Film, Television and Theatre's mainstage per­formance, will be presented tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $7 for students and may be purchased at the LaFortune box office or at the door. 
The class of 2006 will host a recitation of the rosary tonight in the Coleman Morse Chapel at 9:30p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

OFFBEAT 

Woman accused of making antifreeze drink 
OMAHA, Neb. -A bench 
trial is under way for an 
Omaha woman accused of 
spiking a margarita with 
antifreeze, then serving it to 
her former sister-in-law. 
Maureen Plambeck is 
charged with attempted 
murder. She is accused of 
using antifreeze in mixing 
drinks for Kris Cerveny dur­
ing a two-hour drinking ses­
sion last August. 

Cerveny ended up in a 
hospital intensive care unit, 
where she stayed for three 
days recovering from ingest­
ing four times the lethal 
limit of antifreeze, prosecu-
TODAY 
D:: 
LLI 
:c 
~ 
Ul 
3: 
·-' 
c( 
(.) 


tors said. 

Plambeck admitted in court Thesday to putting the antifreeze in Cerveny's drink, but said she only wanted to scare her. 
Her attorney, James Martin Davis, asked Douglas County District Judge Gerald Morgan to find Plambeck guilty of the lesser charge of first-degree assault. 
"Admittedly, it was a half­baked idea," Davis said. "But the intent was to make her sick, not to kill her." 
Scissors are left In woman after surgery 
SYDNEY, Australia -A Sydney woman demanded an explanation Tuesday from a hospital where a pair of scissors were left in her abdomen after surgery and said she planned to sue. 
Pat Skinner, 69, had part of her colon removed at Sydney's St. George Hospital in May 2001. But she said that she continued to suffer intense pain in her abdomen. 
Eventually, she demanded doctors x-ray her abdomen. They did and discovered the 6.7-inch pair of scissors, which were removed in October 2002. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 



~ 
HIGH 57 HIGH 57 HIGH 60 HIGH 60 HIGH 58 HIGH 55
.... 

LOW 45 LOW 52 LOW 40 LOW 50 LOW 48 LOW 40 
Atlanta 80 I 60 Boston 68 I 50 Chicago 58 I 42 Denver 52 I 32 Houston 86 I 70 Los Angeles 75 I 54 Minneapolis 60 1 40 New York 74 I 51 Philadelphia 76 I 54 Phoenix 90 I 61 Seattle 62 I 45 St. Louis 72 I 58 Tampa 85 I 67 Washington 80 I 59 

Thursday, April 22, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senators create new board 
Programming board approval completes work on constitution 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
N<·w' Writrr 
Tlw Studm1l Senall~ took the last slop to comploting the new Stud1~nt Union Constitution at Wt·drwsday's nwding, after passing tlw only article not yet sigrwd into law. 
Article V, which establishes an l·:xecutive Programming Board to st~t the Student Union calerHJar, was up for Senate adoption alkr former student body pn~sident .ft~romy Lao n~fusod to sign it with the rest of thf' Constitution. Lao argued tlu~ Counr.il of Heprosentativcs has s uiTir ie n t co II aboration among studont leaders to be able to work with the calendar, and that the new body would lm n~dundant. 
"WP made tho Council of HPpn•st~ntatiVf~S to be tlw most rt~presentativn body possible. This r~sponsibility can just bn moVPd in with the others," Lao said. 
Cavanaugh sonator .Jordan Bongiovanni disagn~ed. 
"It has rwver been our policy to lwap another burden on a body just bf~cause it exists," Bongiovanni said. "In COH, tlu~n~ needs to be an emphasis on policy, not programming." 
Siegfried senator James Leito spoke for the passage of the article, citing that the new group would open channels of communication not currently available among student gov­ernment. 
"This isn't a power issue, because no one person on this board is going to have control over another," Leito said. "This is about eliminating overlap and making sure we don't get five events on one weekend and none on another." 
Student body president Adam Istvan passed on a rec­ommendation from the Council of Hepresentatives that the Senate pass the article, which stated that COH "is not an appropriate venue for calendar coordination due to the pres­encn of senators. the Student Union Treasurer, and the Judicial Council President." 
The Senate voted 19 to three, with three abstaining, to adopt Article V. An amendment that would give specific to the cal­endar-setting group failed to pass, despite Lao's insistence at its necessity. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Keenan freshman Pat Arg­entieri asked Senate to support an effort to open up debate about parietals with ·the administration. In a two-page letter addressed to the admin­istration and members of the 

Office of Student Activities and 
. drafted by members of Argentieri's Introduction to Business class, students pro­pose the elimination of pari­etals on weekends. among other changes to the current system. 
"This letter is basically a series of rebuttals to any argu­ment the administration might have to the change," Argentieri said. 
The letter also recommends the formation of a committee of students to work through the matter with the adminis­tration. 
Argentieri said that he expects no action to be taken until the start of the fall semes­ter, but that he wanted to get student signatures on the cur­rent draft of the letter to make sure it had solid backing. 
Though senators encouraged Argentieri to pursue the issue, they expressed concern over the channels he was going through, suggesting that he approach the Campus Life Council instead. 
Leito, among others, also pointed out that any changes made to the letter after amass­ing signatures would render the petition invalid. and that the senators could not give it to their dorms before it was in its final form. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
CAMPUS CROSSFIRE 


Thursday, April 22, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Shack City to highlight hom.elessness 
By LAURA VILIM 
News Writer 
In an attempt to raise aware-. ness about the nation's strug­gle with homelessness and promote the achievements of Habitat for Humanity, Notre Dame students have organized a project called Shack City that will be held on South Quad today and Friday. 
To simulate the abject pover­ty associated with homeless­ness, Shack City's approxi­mately 125 participants will spend tonight sleeping in boxes set up on South Quad. While the night's primary focus is highlighting the hard­ships of homelessness, organ­izers Ryan Iafigliola and Colleen Mallahan have also chosen to include in the night's events a church service in Lyons' chapel, a presentation by a guest speaker and live music as a means of bringing students together for social as well as educational purposes. 
"Thursday night is intended to help students experience homelessness like never before -both participants and those passing by," Iafigliola said. "Whether personally lying in a box or simply passing by the· vast number of them, we hope students will come to a greater understanding of the need and be moved to action." 
The idea to hold the first Shack City event on Notre Dame's campus resulted from Iafigliola and Mallahan's invi­tation to participate in the Shack City hosted by Valparaiso University's chapter of Habitat for Humanity. After seeing how successful the event was raising awareness and funds to combat homeless­ness, both students were moti­vated to bring the project to Notre Dame. 

Iafigliola, who said he's wanted to be involved in events such as this since high school, also jumped at the chance to-challenge the way college students view home­lessness. He said Shack City's innovative methods for spread­ing its message make it a prime way of beginning this challenge. 
"This event is a way to cre­ate awareness of substandard housing worldwide and protest the thinking that we can ignore it in our daily life," Iafigliola said. "By sleeping in large boxes, we are able to create a visual that makes it hard for people to keep from thinking about it, at least for an instant." 
In addition to raising student awareness of homelessness, Shack City serves to emphasize viable options for alleviating the problem of homelessness. In fact, one of the primary pur­poses of the project is to raise money for and provide a better understanding of the accom­plishments of Notre Dame's chapter of Habitat for Humanity, an organization whose work goes largely unno­ticed among students. 
"Notre Dame has been build­ing Habitat houses for 10 years now, but there doesn't seem to be a lot of campus awareness about what Habitat stands for," Mallahan said. "Shack City is a great way for Habitat to have its presence felt on campus by the many students who walk through South Quad every day." 
The Shack City event today and Friday is the first in a series of events that will serve to commemorate the works of Notre Dame's Habitat for 
storage 
s 

4 MONTH SPECIAL MAYTHROUGH AUGUST FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 5 X 10---$149 + DEP I 0 X .1 0 ---$ I99 + DEP CALL 247-7805 CLOSETO NOTRE DAME AND AIRPORT 
Thank you 
Notre IErne, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross Students College Appreciation 
SPECIAL 
~ $4.95 for 3 hours 
regular price 
tirres: every night fran 9 to midnight 

8eaeon Bowl 
234-4167 
(By the Airport) 
Humanity. Since its inception 10 years ago, the organization has completed 10 houses in the South Bend area for needy families, an achievement that was made possible by the gen­erous donations of labor and funds from both alumni and current students. 
Colin Dowdall, co-president of Notre Dame's Habitat for Humanity, said that starting with the Shack City kick-off. this weekend is a way to show those of the Notre Dame family the positive affects Habitat for Humanity has had on campus and in the surrounding com­munity. 
"This weekend will give Habitat a chance to show how far it has come since its incep­tion 10 years ago," Dowdall said. "It gives us an opportuni­ty as a club to show that we care about fighting homeless­ness, and everyone has con­tributed to ensure that families in the South Bend area have suitable housing." 
In addition to Shack City, Habitat for Humanity will also be hosting an alumni dinner to show its appreciation for the support of its generous donors. The weekend will culminate in the dedication of the lOth house, where the family will be presented with a Bible and a priest will perform a ceremo­ny. 
"Ten years ago, a couple stu­dents had a dream of reaching out into the South Bend com­munity and making a differ­ence," Dowdall said. "As evi­denced by the number of peo­ple signed up to participate in Shack City, people on campus have shown that they under­stand the goals of our club." 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 

Student Activities to host '04 SMC Tostal 
Annual spring event 
to feature games, food and a film 
By CLAIRE VALLEY 
News Writer 

Each spring, Saint Mary's Student Activities Board hosts one of the largest social events of the year -the SMC Tostal. which takes place today. 
This event is coordinated by the Traditional Events Chair and this year, Saint Mary's jun­iors Donna Lubbers and Jen Herdman are in charge. Lubbers has 
There are many events that have become tradition at the Tostal. From 3 to 5 p.m. there will be canoe races around Lake Marion. The picnic din­ner is on the Library Green from 4:30 to 7 p.m. The drive in movie at 9 p.m., also on the Library Green, is "Mona Lisa Smile." 
There will also be inflatables, games, artists, airbrush tattoo artists and a gladiator joust. New events include a mechani­cal bull, old-time photos and a giant game of twister. "We'll see what kind of a response we get to the bull, photos, and twister," Lubbers said. "The students seem really excited 
about it all." 

planned the Tostal "Now it'sjust afun There will also for the last two be music at the
way for us all to 
years. SMC Tostal. Singer The SMC Tostal come together as a and songwriter has a long tradi­campus to celebrate Jason LeVasseur tion on campus. It will be performing
Saint Mary's in the
used to be called at 4:30 p.m. Then, SMC AnTostal springtime." at 6:30 p.m., the after the Celtic 80s band Son of festival of spring. Clam will be per­
Donna Lubbers 
"Now it is just a forming.
Event co-chair
fun way for us all to come together as a campus and celebrate Saint Mary's in the spring­time," said Lubbers. 
Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross students are invited to join in on SMC Tostal. 
Off-campus students and fac­ulty and staff and their families are also welcome, organizers said. 
The theme of this years Tostal is "Pucker Up." To pro­mote the event, secret free gifts will be passed out during lunch· at· the Saint Mary's Dining Hall. 
This year 45 vol­unteers will help set up and run the event. 
Thoughts of next year's SMC Tostal are already on the mind of Lubbers. "I can't really say anything on the record yet, but don't be surprised if you see fireworks on the schedule again," said Lubbers. 
Lubbers said that she also hopes that next year's Tostal will be able to be in conjunc­tion with the grand opening of the new Saint Mary's student center. 
Contact Claire Valley at vall2244@saintmarys.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 22, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TIIE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Amazon denies ordering killings 
TilE HOOSEVEIT INDIAN HESERVATION, Brazil -An Amazonian tribal chief said Wednesday the killing of 29 diamond prospectors on his remote Indian reservation came after they were repeatedly warned to stay away. 
In his first comments to the media since the April 7 killings, Chief Pio Cinta Larga said that Indians in the area carried out the killings, but he denied ordering the attack or taking part in it. 
"There are some very angry Indians and not even the leadership can control their actions," he said, adding that members of other tribes have joined the Cinta Larga on the 6.7-million-acre reservation, where prospectors frequently trespass. 
Communists likely to sweep vote 
GAUIIATI. India -Voters in India's north­l'astern communist stronghold of Tripura cast ballots Thursday in the second round of parliamentary elections. 
The Ilindu-nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and the opposition Congress party were try­ing to make inroads into Tripura state, which has been governed by the Communist Party of India for the past 10 years. 
Ilowever, the communists were expected to retain eontrol of the two Parliament seats at stake. 
After all the voting is completed next month. Vajpayee 's governing coalition was expected to be returned to office for another live years on the strength of a booming econ­omy and growing peace prospects with neighboring Pakistan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
'Pirates' hooks 6 MTV award nods 
HOLLYWOOD -There's no aarrgg-uing: "Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" collected a leading six nomina­tions for the MTV Movie Awards on Wednesday, including best movie and best on-screen team for co-stars Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom. 
Depp also was chosen for best male per­formance and comedic performance, while Geoffrey Rush's performance as a skeletal buccaneer earned him a mention for best vil­lain. Keira Knightley, the seafaring movie's damsel in distress, was recognized among the breakthrough female nominees. 
Drug-import bill gathers steam 
WASHINGTON -Support for legalizing lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada is growing in Congress amid an election-year clamor from states, lawmakers and the eld­erly. 
The White House and Hepublican congres­sional leaders remain opposed, saying there is no way to ensure safety. Nonetheless, pro­ponents contend that public frustration with rising drug prices and growing defiance of a federal ban on prescription imports will force action before the November elections. 
The latest legislation to allow Americans to fill their prescriptions in Canada was intro­duced Wednesday by a diverse group of Hepublican and Democratic senators. 
STATE NEWS 
Indy loans $2M to bus authority 
INDIANAPOLIS -The city is loaning its bus system $2 million in an effort to avert route cuts and layoffs, Mayor Bart Peterson said Tuesday. 
The IndyGo bus system would still have a $1.3 million deficit in 2004, even with the loan. he said. 
"The crisis is clearly still with us," Peterson said. "This is not the final solution, but at least it puts us one step closer." 
At a press conference at lndyGo's head­quarters, Peterson and Gilbert Holmes, IndyGo's president and chief executive ofli­cer, said all bus routes would be reviewed. 
Their initial hearing is scheduled for May 4 in Indianapolis. .. 
SAUDI ARABIA 
Car blast rips police HQ, 9 killed 
Suicide attack in Riyadh wounds 125, crown prince vows 'God will help us' 
Associated Press 

HIYADH -A suicide car 
bomb blasted the Saudi 
national police headquar­
ters Wednesday, killing at 
least nine people and 
wounding 125 others, just 
days after the United States 
warned of a terrorist 
attack. 

Facades were torn off buildings, revealing rooms still ablaze. Cars parked nearby were smashed by debris. Clouds of dust and black smoke rose from the seven-story building and settled over the neighbor­hood. 
A Saudi Interior Ministry statement said attackers tried to drive one vehicle into the building, which housed the headquarters of Riyadh's traffic department in addition to the General Security headquarters. 
The driver exploded the car 100 feet away from the gate, the Interior Ministry condition, and at least three headquarters of the Saudi when workers would have official said. children. domestic security service, been leaving for the Saudi 
While the statement A Saudi official said that was severely damaged. A weekend. referred to just one car Deputy Secretary of State number of homes in the Saudi TV showed the bomb, a police official said Richard Armitage met with neighborhood also were General Security building, earlier that two cars with Saudi Foreign Minister damaged. about seven floors, with its bombs were parked about Saud al-Faisal about 30 General Security oversees glass facade shattered and 50 feet away from the minutes after the attack. officers who investigate severe damage inside. building. He added "anum­The meeting was at the burglaries and murders, Firefighters worked to ber of charred bodies" Foreign Ministry, which is direct traffic and perform extinguish the blazes, and were carried from the close to the General other basic police duties in more than 20 ambulances scene. Security building in al­the kingdom. Such officers had arrived. Two helicop­
The police official had Nassiriyah, a central have been on the front lines ters flew above the site. said the blasts appeared to Hiyadh neighborhood. in a Saudi crackdown on Police blocked the area and have resulted from suicide Saudi Crown Prince Islamic militants, manning evacuated the surrounding attacks and that one Abdullah visited the checkpoints as part of buildings. assailant died and one wounded, one of them a stepped up security and Hanan Batteesha, an police officer was also young man who was occasionally engaging in Egyptian woman, was with killed. unconscious and on a respi­fire fights with suspects. her two children, aged 11 
Nine people were killed, rator. The prince stopped at Last month, a purported and 14, when she heard a including a police colonel, the bedside of another al-Qaida message appeared "big blast." and 125 were wounded, young man who appeared on the Internet threatening "We heard wails and according to officials at alert and had no obvious Saudi police, members of cries, then saw our neigh­three hospitals. injuries. A third wounded the intelligence forces and bors running down the 
It was not immediately man wore camouflage. other security agents. The stairs," she said. known if the suicide attack­"Your duty is our pride. message said targeting By the time they reached er was among the dead God will help us to defeat Saudi security agents "in the ground floor, "the gate counted by the hospital offi­these people," Abdullah their homes or workplace is was damaged, windows cials. told one of the injured. a very easy matter." started shattering, and 
Among the wounded The General Security The explosion, which glass fell all over us," she were police, some in critical building, the administrative occurred about 2 p.m., hit said. 

Deadly nuke waste goes missing 
Carolina, or a facility in Washington Sheehan cited the heightened
Associated Press 

state. He said it was also possible it awareness of the need to control 
MONTPELIER, Vt. -Two pieces of a was taken to a nuclear testing facility nuclear material that followed the highly radioactive fuel rod are missing run by General Electric, which Sept. 11 terror attacks. "We don't from a Vermont nuclear plant. and designed the plant. want this falling into the wrong engineers planned to search onsite for The material would be fatal to any­hands," he said. "This is something we the nuclear material, officials said one who came in contact with it with­would never take lightly." Wednesday. out being properly shielded, Sheehan Gov. James Douglas, after speaking 
The fuel rod was removed in 1979 said. Spent nuclear fuel also could be Wednesday afternoon with the head of from the Vermont Yankee reactor, used by terrorists to construct so-the NRC, said he was "very con­which is currently shut down for refu-called dirty bombs that would spread cerned" about the missing fuel at the eling and maintenance. Remote-con-deadly radiation with conventional plant, run by Entergy Nuclear. trol cameras will be used to search a explosives. "This situation is intolerable," he spent fuel pool on the property. offi-The NRC is helping plant officials in said in a statement. cials said. the search. The rod was part of the In 2002 a Connecticut nuclear plant 
"We do not think there is a threat to fuel assembly used to power the reac-was lined $288,000 after a similar the public at this point. The great tor. One of the missing pieces is about loss. That fuel was never accounted probability is this material is still the size of a pencil. The other piece is for. somewhere in the pool," said Nuclear about the thickness of a pencil and 17 Vermont Yankee is located in the Regulatory Commission spokesman inches long. southeastern town of Vernon, on the Neil Sheehan. "It would be very difficult to remove border with Massachusetts and New 
But Sheehan said it was possible the this material from the site without Hampshire. spent fuel was mixed in with a ship-somebody knowing about it," Sheehan The state's Public Safety Department ment of low-level nuclear waste and said. "It would set off radiation moni-and Homeland Security Unit also were ended up at a repository in South tors." notified of the mis~ing fuel. 
~-..-•::-: ~·
i . , · . ~ A-~ ·{: ,~ it ~ ! : ~ ~ •·;): 3'•}~an .:UUu~ \ ft !!~ ol!li. (··• ~ ~ ~ 11H, n . ; ~ ~' •n ~ ·• Ho ...,........,._, .,...,~ ......,-....: __ ~ ........................... -' .... 
Thursday, April 22, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
SMC invites donors to experience campus 
By LISA GALLAGHER 
News Writer 
Begirming today at Saint Mary's, donors who have contributed to various projects or scholarship programs over the past two years will arrive on campus to experi­ence college life. 
Organizers said they hope that this extended weekend will inspire benefactors to maintain their Madeleva level of support with a minimum contribution of $1,000 to the Annual Fund each year and raise their generosity. This year marks the first that Saint Mary's expands its celebra­tion to take place over the course of three days, instead of one. 
While actively continuing to seek consistent unrestricted gifts of $1,000 or more to endowment priorities, capital projects, restricted funds, as well at Mother Pauline Society members who have included Saint Mary's in their estate plans, a celebration honoring their contributions takes place. 
Last year, Saint Mary's integrat­ed the annual celebratory dinner into a full-day event which includ­ed a morning presentation, lunch­eon, an afternoon presentation, a traditional liturgy and concluding with dinner to end the celebra­tion. 
Adaline Stefanac Cashore, director of donor relations, said that the recognition weekend, for­mally known as the Madeleva society dinner, now includes not only Madeleva Society members, but also Mother Pauline Society Members and Donors of Endowment Priorities. 
Events over the course of the weekend begin with the annual Madeleva Lecture on "Women Shaping Theology." 
Friday allows donors to attend classes with students and later, a mini-retreat, poetry readings and a spring concert performed by the Saint Mary's College Repertory Performance Dance Workshop. 
More lectures will take place Saturday, as well as an apprecia­tion luncheon and movie. 
Keeping with tradition, Cashore said the events will conclude with liturgy and the Madeleva Society Reception and Recognition Dinner held at Noble Family Dining Hall. 
"We begin actively planning nine months ahead of time," Cash ore said of the festivities. She expects about 225 donors to attend the dinner and a smaller population spread out over the weekend. 
"The event allows donors to vis­ibly see and experience life on campus and create a meaningful experience," Cashore said. "It keeps the donors coming." 
Since many donors are located far from South Bend, Cashore hopes that with more to see and do on campus the trip will be worth their while. 
Contact Lisa Gallagher at lgallaO1@saintmarys.edu 

who now live off-campus, dressed as Notre Dame foot­
Farley 

ball players. Wearing stenciled jerseys complete with names
continued from page 1 

and numbers -some even not only the attention of copied the players' tattoos ­Farley, but campus as well." Farley residents did warm-ups 
Farley's determined attitude under the command of a faux­was embodied in their "Men of Tyrone Willingham. They even ND" calendar, new this year, contacted ESPN's "The Sea­according to the council. They son," encouraging the show's credit Melissa Harris for producers to come. spearheading this event after But the year was not only trying to start it for two years. about fun and spirit. Through 
Harris was one the efforts of of many dedicat­commissioners ed commission­"The sophomores Theresa Davey ers praised by and Julia Pearce,
set the tone. They
hall presidents. service became
showed how it was
"You can't do it an integral part without the help not uncool to be of Farley's excel­of many, many lence. Farley's
involved." 
great commis­service orienta­sioners," Duran tion caught the 
Nikki Parker
said. eye of anyone Farley kicked Farley co-president who attended the 
off the year with Freshman Orientation, and many of their year-long commissioners were on the Frosh-0 staff. 
"Those sophomores set the tone," said Parker. "They showed how it was not un-cool to be involved." 
Pop Farley, the hall's signa­ture event, was a great hit within the dorm, generating the usual week-long excite­ment. However this year, the hall government extended Pop Farley to the rest of campus, inviting all students to a New Year's Eve-themed party at Legends, a tradition they hope will continue and grow. 
For many Farley girls, one of the favorite parts of the year was hosting the pep rally on Halloween. Over 100 Farley girls, including those 
campus Relay­
for-Life celebra­tion in September. Farley's table was decorative, center­ing around the theme "Farley's Angels." 
Throughout the year, Farley girls drove to St. Luke's School on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons, to help the children with their home­work and play with them after school. 
Farley also stood out in the area of gender relations and multi-cultural events. They collaborated often with their brother dorm Keenan, includ­ing setting up a discussion on the bestseller "The DaVinci Code." For Black History Month in February, Farley invited the First Class Steppers to perform, and the girls had their own step com­petition by section. 
In the academic arena, the 
hall government organized ."How to Be a Pre-Med Night." Advisors, current pre-med students and seniors on the pre-med track spoke and took questions from over 100 soph­
omores and freshmen. 
The presidents describe 
their rector, Ethridge, as 
"amazing," and "a real troop­
er." Her support of Farley 
events went above and beyond 
the usual, they said. For 
Farley's "What would you do 
for Two Purdue tickets?" con­
test. Etheridge donned a wig 
and came up with her own 
act. 
"She was so positive always, so high-spirited,"= Duran said. "But she never put pres­sure on us. If we would have lost, she still would have been proud. She really trusted us." 
Farley's residents said they are excited for next year's dance in the Main Building, one of the rewards for the hall of the year honor. They plan to spend at least some of the money on a new elliptical machine, to enhance their "struggling" dorm work-out room. 
Overall, however, it was enlivening the day-to-day life in Farley that motivated hall government members, they said. 
"We want to make the girls excited they got this dorm," Duran said. "You only get once chance as president. It will be great to come back in five. 10 years and say, 'Hey we started that.'" 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynn@nd.edu 


FREE Laundry in LaFortune -4-11 pm sign up at 3pm in the SUB office FREE Tie-Dying T -sh1rts on South Quad -1-4pm Zane Wil.liams Concert-NO opener Elysium {Country Trio featuring Jessica McQuaide 
Leibowitz~ Emily Hawthorn, and TJ Mathieson) 1st 30 people get a free cowboy hat! Lafortune Ballroom-9pm-Free Boracho Burrito For about 200 (while suplies last) First 30 spectators win a cowboy hatt 
Quarter Dog Eating Contest -FREE Quarter Dogs for the first 
50 spectators -Participants and Winners win FREE ND apparel! 
Midnight at the Huddle -Register at Lafortune Elevator Lobby 
ll :30pm -PRIZES! I 

fill out the SUB Crossword puzzle in the observer and turn it in at LaFortune 203 
Upcoming Events: .
by to enter to WID the IPOD. Must be a ND student to enter. 
Thursday, April 22nd ­

Best of Acoustic Cafe -9-.11 pm -legends 
Arl Hest Concert -11 pm -legends 
Friday, April 23rd ­

Carnival on Fieldhouse Mall -PRIZES -FREE Subway! 
Joson leVasseur Concert -Spm -Fieldhouse Mall -Win an !POD! 
Saturday. April 24th ­

Jay Hansen~Movement Concert N 10pm-Legends-Win on XBOX! 
brought to you by the student union board. v-lww.nd.edv/-svb 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Thursday, April 22, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10 317.27 +2.77
}ones ' 
4fb Same: -~ Composite Volume:r"16o 148 T 1,724,322,816 

AMEX 1,230.03 -8.29 NASDAQ 1,995.63 +17.00 NYSE 6,546.77 +19.65 s&PSOO 1,124.09 +5.94 NIKI<El(Tokyo) 11,944.30 0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,539.90 -29.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -8.68 -0.33 3.47 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) + 1.18 +0.26 22.37 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0,78 +0.2045 26.2745 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.47 +0. 12 25.45 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.48 +0.02 4.16 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.04 +0.02 52.31 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.18 +0.08 44.23 5-YEARNOTE +I .33 +0.46 34.06 3-MONTH BILL +2. II +0.20 9.67 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.77 35.73 GOLD ($rrroy oz.) -6.90 391.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0. 90 I 06.85 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 109.6 EURO 0.848 POUND 0.5653 CANADIAN$ 1.36 
IN BRIEF 
Coke holds tough annual meeting 
ATLANTA -The Coca-Cola Co. defended its 
business practices in Colombia, kept mum on 
il<; search for a new chief executive and said 
shareholders elected legendary investor 
Warren Buffett to another term on its board 
despite opposition at a volatile annual meet­
ing. 
The world's biggest beverage maker also reported Wednesday that its first-quarter profit soared 35 percent from a year ago, but its stock price slipped. 
The shareholders' meeting culminated a year of intense scrutiny for Coke and some observers said the company must work harder to get average investors to focus on the posi­tives again. 
Pension costs slam Sears' Q I 
CHICAGO -A hefty accounting charge linked to its pension and post-retirement med­ical benefits saddled Sears, Hoebuck and Co. with an $859 million loss in a first quarter that also was marred by continuing weak apparel sales. 
The change to a new accounting method, which Scars said enables it to more immedi­ately recognize gains and losses in its benefit plans, set the' company back $839 million. That resulted in a bad start to 2004 on the heels of Scars' most profitable year ever -a $3.4 billion profit in 2003 that was due mostly to the sale of its credit-card unit to Citigroup. 
Computer Associates CEO quits 
NEW YOHK -With his company tangled in an accounting investigation that has already produced four guilty pleas, Sanjay Kumar was forced to resign Wednesday as chairman and chief executive of Computer Associates International Inc. 
After running the company for four years, Kumar stepped down from his executive posi­tions and the board of directors. He will remain with the company in a new position of chief software architect. · 
Computer Associates' lead outside director, Lewis Hanieri. is taking over as chairman, but the eompany expects to take "a few weeks" before naming an interim CEO, spokesman Dan Kaferle said. 
U.S. EcoNOMY 
Greenspan: Rates 'must rise' 
Fed chief testifies that interest hikes will be necessary to thwart inflation fears 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Federal Reserve Chairman 
Alan Greenspan said 
Wednesday extra-low 
interest rates "must rise at 
some point" now that the 
economy rs hitting its 
stride, an assessment rein-· 
forcing some economists' 
beliefs that rates will 
climb this summer. 
Greenspan, testifying before Congress' Joint Economic Committee, delivered one of his most upbeat takes on the econo­my's health. After a long stretch of subpar growth, the economy finally staged a significant rebound in the second half of last year and is expanding more vigorously now, he said. 
Companies also appear more willing to step up hiring. Greenspan said. AP 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan testifies Wednesday before the Joint
Following months of lack­luster job gains, the econ­Economic Committee on Capitol Hill. Greenspan said the U.S. economic recovery omy added 308,000 jobs in has good momentum and that low short-term Interest rates are due for hikes. March, the most in four years. That raised hope !lare-up in this gauge. nizes that sustained pros­that the Fed would not among private economists . "As I have noted previ­perity requires the main­change interest rates until that the labor market truly ously, the federal funds tenance of price stability after the presidential elec­may be on the mend. rate must rise at some and will act, as necessary. tion in November. A grow­"Looking forward, the point to prevent pressures to ensure that outcome." ing number of analysts prospects for sustaining on price inflation from Pressed by some law­now predicts the first solid economic growth in eventually emerging," makers to be more specific increases will come this the period ahead are Greenspan said. on when the central bank summer. good," Greenspan said. Since last June, might begin raising inter­"One thing is certain. But with the economy Greenspan and his policy­est rates, Greenspan gave The federal funds rate is rebounding, some compa­making colleagues at the no direct response. at an unsustainably low nies are finding it easier to central bank held that rate "Greenspan's message is level. There is no justifica­raise prices, Greenspan at 1 percent, the lowest interest rates are on a tion for its being there and said. He noted that the fall since 1958. This rate is one-way street up. But it before too long it will be in the value of the U.S. the interest that banks will be months before we raised," predicted Sherry dollar and a strengthening charge each other on reach that point," said Cooper, chief economist at global economy were overnight loans. It the Stuart Hoffman, chief BMO Nesbitt Burns. "An adding to pricing pres­Fed's primary tool for economist at PNC Fin­August rate hike is still the sures at horne. influencing economic ancial Services Group. He most likely." While stressing that activity. and others are forecasting It was Greenspan's sec­inflation remains low, he So far, broad inflation a rate increase in August. ond signal in two days that said it was the job of the pressures have yet to Until the recent signs of the Fed was beginning to Federal Reserve to be vigi­build, Greenspan said. But economic strength, many edge closer to raising lant for an unwelcome the Fed, he said, "recog-analysts had speculated rates. 

CORPORATE SCANDAL 
Peds charge 3 ex-Duke employees 
Associated Press  make it appear on the company's books that millions of dollars in profits  effort to falsify Duke's books. And Jim Lavine, Kramer's attorney, said the  
HOUSTON -Two former executives  were generated because such profits  charges were disappointing given his  
and a former energy trader for Duke  are figured into the company's calcu­ client's cooperation with investigators.  
Energy Corp.'s trading unit pleaded  lations for awarding bonuses, U.S.  The 18-count indictment unsealed  
innocent Wednesday to charges of  Attorney Michael Shelby said.  Wednesday alleges a scheme involving  
using bogus trades to inflate profits  "One of the principal victims of this  more than 400 improper trades that  
and secure higher bonuses for them­ crime is Duke Energy," said Shelby,  resulted in $50 million in fraudulent  
selves.  who described the scheme as "sophis­ profits  for  Duke  Energy  North  
Former vice presidents Timothy  ticated fraud."  America.  
Kramer. 40, and Todd Reid, 41, and  Shelby said the fraud took place  In 2001, Duke awarded bonuses  
former energy trader Brian Lavielle,  from March 2001 through July 2002.  worth $5 million to Reid, $4 million to  
33,  were  taken  into  custody  Kramer and Reid were fired in August  Kramer and $340,000 to Lavielle. The  
Wednesday and each released on  2002, said Assistant U.S. Attorney  government is seeking to seize more  
$100,000 bond. They entered their  James Powers. Lavielle later resigned.  than $7 million in ill-gotten gains.  
innocent pleas while wearing hand­ ·  Attorneys for all three men said  "There is no allegation of a larger  
cuffs  and  chains  before  U.S.  their clients did nothing to harm  market affect," ShC'lby said. "This is a  
Magistrate Nancy Johnson.  Duke.  very bad shell gam~ where you move  
The men were charged with racket­ "In the wake of Enron's collapse,  something from  one  account into  
eering conspiracy, wire and mail  I'm afraid that prosecutorial zeal has  another account."  
fraud, money laundering and falsify­ overtaken good judgment and  com­ Charlotte, N.C.-based Duke said in a  
ing corporate books for the I louston­ mon sense," said Thomas Hagemann,  statement Wednesday that it had noti­ 
based trading unit, Duke Energy North America. Heid and Kramer also  who represents Heid. Charles Meadows, Lavielle's lawyer,  fied the government and regulatory agencies of the alleged wrongdoing in  
were charged with money laundering.  said his client had passed a lie detec­ 2002 and "took swift action to address  
The alleged scheme was intended to  tor test and didn't knowingly join any  them."  

.. .. J' -• --~· , • ----,. • " -• • II' • . ­
Thursday, April 22, 2004

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Graphics 
continued from page 1 
tion of the choice they have selected. For example, those gay marriage opponents are taken to a fictional story about Adam and Steve that illus­trates how Steve may not visit an injured Adam in the hospi­tal because -in spite of their relationship -they are not married. 
"It's as much· of a project to get the students engaged in what is going on and allows them to make a comment about it," Sedlack said. "We [teachers] have a responsibili­ty ... to educate informed citi­zens of the world community." 
Students in his course have traditionally undertaken a social awareness campaign to state their positions on a topi­cal and controversial subject -from gun control after the shootings at Columbine High School to affirmative action before the University of Michigan Supreme Court case -as part of the course requirements. 
Sedlack said he has chosen the topics for the social aware­ness project -a different topic each semester -based on the relevance to current events. Groups of two to three students are formed both on the students' personal opin­ions on the issue and the mix of personalities in the class to ensure that each team can successfully complete the proj­ect. 
Students said that although no project shows support for an Amendment to ban gay marriage, they believe this viewpoint is already well expressed on campus due to the conservative, Catholic nature of the student body. 
"Most of the arguments in 

fERAsM_u_s_s_oo_K_s: 
I I 
:• Used Books bought and sold 1• 25 Categories of Books :• 25,000 "Hardback and 
1 
Paperback books in stock :. Out-of-Print search service 1 Appraisals large and small
• 
OPEN noon .to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
favor of the Amendment [are] more clear than those argu­ments against," said Mary Prendergast, a junior in the course. "I don't think [stu­dents] are as aware of the problems with [a proposed Amendment.]" 
Sedlack said he works hard to present both sides of an issue to students. For example, in a previous project on the then-impending war in Iraq, the class met with two guest speakers -the student presi­dent of the Peace Coalition and the current highest-ranking student ROTC officer on-cam­pus. He said that this year, stu­dents heard from Sister M.L. Gude, assistant vice president for student affairs, who has been "heavily involved in issues regarding Notre Dame's gay and lesbian community in past years," according to Sedlack. Students are also required to conduct research and spend class time dis­cussing and debating the issue at hand. 
He said the project aims to teach students how to effec­tively express a subjective message in whatever medium they deem necessary. Because so much of graphic design consists of getting a particular message across to the target audience, Sedlack. said the project is ideal. 
"I wanted them to have a point and make a stance," he said. "This is a good opportu­nity for design students to state their own opinions in a subjective way. This is not work being done for a client, but their own voice." 
He said that he hopes that the larger Notre Dame com­munity, as well as the students who have engaged in the research and completed the project, will take something away from the gay marriage debate. 

InT.--forlheSplingGameil 
Join the Crowd at 
live Entertainment Fridav & Saturdav Great Food & Alwavs ·Actioned Packed 
272-1766 2046 SOUTH BEND AVE. 


"I hope the social awareness campaign projects get under­graduates more fully engaged in serious issues," he said. "Creative dialogue is part of the educational process." 
Students said they have hung posters in O'Shaughnessy Hall as well as the Riley Hall of Art and Design. According to DuLac, "Student organizations and residence facilities may use University bulletin boards to announce activities and to advertise, provided the posters receive a stamp of approval from the Student Activities Office ... If signs and posters do not comply with these requirements, they will not be allowed to be posted." 
Some groups said they plan to launch their campaign with­out the Office's approval, while other groups said they have received the official Student Activities Office stamp and plan to showcase their work in places other than Riley and O'Shaughnessy. 
"We took this course because we wanted the posters to be hung elsewhere than just Riley and O'Shaughnessy," student Jonathan Sulys said. Sulys' group worked with the "Keep it 27" concept and has pre­pared buttons and posters in support of this view. 
One group of students show­cased a gay wedding recep­tion, complete with party favors and a cake. Small wed­ding bells with the slogan "Sounds like it's time for a change" served as party favors, and place settings with slogans like "Not everyone ... " on the outside and "will visit their loved ones in the hospi­tal" on the inside represented the rights not afforded to gay, un-married couples. At the bottom of the inside of each place setting, the words "Strive for Equal Rights for All Couples. Support Gay Marriage" indicated the group's concern to afford equal marital rights to all cou­ples. The display took place Wednesday afternoon at the Fieldhouse Mall. 
"We're taking the symbol of the occasion of marriage to be a [point] of discussion," said student Hope Feher. 
The group that has prepared the cards with a website link said they plan to distribute them around the computer clusters on-campus. A final group has prepared posters with the theme of separate but not equal to illustrate the ways in which civil unions do not afford the same legal rights as marriage. 
Students said their projects lire in no way connected with tlie "Gay? Fine by me" shirt campaign, but said it is benefi­cial that both issues are being addressed on-campus at the same time. 
"It's nice that they are hap­pening at the same time -it's topical," Prendergast said. 
Students said the required research helped them to become better informed about the issue at hand, and they said they believed that using graphic design to communi­cate a passionate cause, rather than a more objective message, allowed them to see a different side to the graphic design field. 
"If you're not really passion­ate, it's hard to get at the root of the issue," Prendergast said. "It's a different thing entirely to have to take a side of a social issue and to argue it." 
The student design group NDesign also sponsored the project, and Sedlack said he is very grateful for their support. 
Contact Joe TrombeUo at jtrombel@nd.edu 
Parietals 
continued from page 1 
parietals change, said they understood Steele's motives. 
"I don't know what would be better," said sophomore Mike Wittman. "I think some people realize that he cares about the dorm and he just is trying to protect the dorm." 
Junior Brian Donnelly agreed that mixed opinions exist within the dorm. 
"I think some people understand what's going on, and other people are upset by it," he said. 
Steele did not return a message left by the Observer. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 
Seckinger to offer training 
Special to The Observer Notre Dame Law School Professor James Seckinger will join a small international group of trial advocacy teachers in Freetown, Sierra Leone, April 16 to 23 to train the prosecuting team for that country's upcoming war crimes trial. The group will offer gener­al training on trial advocacy and will concentrate on skill­ful delivery of opening and closing statements and direct examination techniques. 


laacePI 


Friday April 23rd lOpm to lam South Dining Hall Hospitality Room 
(Next to Reekers) Free!!!! 
The Notre Dame Russian and German Clubs present a night ofcultural experiences, food, dancing, and music. 
Thursday, April 22, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
IU surgery chairman lectures on field's history and future 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Associate News Editor 
Dr. Keith Lillemoe, the chairman of the surgery department at the Indiana University School of Medicine and former program coordi­nator for surgical residencies at Johns Hopkins, lectured Tuesday on the past, present and future of surgery. The presentation was the fifth in the 10th annual "Mini Medical School Lecture Series," hosted by the South Bend Center for Medical Education and spon­sored by the Medical school. Gatch pioneered the demic medical community, it Education Foundation. adjustable hospital bed and also led to advances in treat­
The Indiana University conducted research in N02 ing patients. School of Medicine has been and 02 anesthe-"It was at the at the forefront of many sia. end of World advances in surgery, even "It was at this "Surgery can no War II and in the before the school graduated point that IU real­50s that really
longer be 'see one,
its first class of 25 students in ly made its trajec­saw the rejuve­
do one, teach one.'" 
1907, Lillemoe said. On June tory upwards," nation of sur­15, 1867, for example, Dr. Lillemoe said. gery," Lillemoe John Bobbs performed the Dr. Harris Dr. Keith Llllemoe said. first cholecystotomy or drain­Shumacker 
chairman of surgery Dr· John 
ing of an infected gall bladder served as surgery 
at Indiana University Jesseph succeed­
in his office in Indianapolis. chairman at IU ed Shumacker as 
From 1912-46, Dr. Willis from 1948-68 and chairman of the Gatch served as the chairman made cardiac surgery a prior­surgery department and of the surgery department ity. While World War II intro­reoriented the focus toward and later dean of the medical duced challenges to the aca-general surgery. 

/ /
,., 
l 
. 
' 
i. 
. 
. ' 
. 
FORTUNEt' 
100 BEST 
COMPANIESg
TO WORK FOR N 

Now it's time to put on your think.ing cap. 
At Ernst &Young, the opportunities to use your mind are endless. Welcome to our in-coming class from University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
Grayson Allen  Jake Kaczka, intern  Colin Powers  
Patrick Amato  Tim Kappel!  Jonathan Pressnell  
Grant Bartucci, intern  Jack Kingseed, intern  laura Reardon  
Michelle Bezdiceck  Matt Klein  John Reed  
Carolyn Billick  Matt Korros  Alison Ruddy, intern  
Sarah Cerreta, intern  Stephanie Lee  Matt Sanchez  
Matt Curtin, intern  Maggie McDonald  Chris Sanders  
Anthony Easterlin, intern  Sarah McSherry  Jennifer Van Hettinga, intern  
Cesar Flores, intern  Kristin Miller  Katie Wagner, intern  
lauren Fowler  David Moehrman  Elizabeth Ward, intern  
Michelle lvill  Bethany O'Hanlon  Sarah Wear, intern  
Sarah Jenkins  Elliott Pope  Byron Wittenberg  

In more recent times, Indiana University School of Medicine has experienced a period of increased growth, progress and expansion with regard to surgery, Lillemoe said. In the late 1990s, Indiana University's hospital consolidated with the Riley Children's Hospital and Methodist Hospital. The three facilities ha-ve completed sev­eral expansions in recent years and are linked via a monorail system. 
"We now have the best of both worlds," Lillemoe said. 
Indiana University's Center for Advanced Technology has also allowed medical students and residents to receive top quality training using virtual reality, endoscopic tech­niques, microsurgery and laser technology. 
"Surgery can no longer be 'see one, do one, teach one,"' Lillemoe said. "I'm happy to say that IU is at the forefront of this [new technology]." 
Currently, the surgery department at IU's medical school employees 72 faculty members and the institution received over $7 million in research grants for 2002-03. 
In the future, surgery will continue to evolve as it faces new challenges and opportu­nities and as demographics and technology change, Lillemoe said. 
Cancer and an aging popu­lation are two challenges that surgery currently faces, but increased advances in tech­nology make possible new treatment options, he said. Current genetic testing, for example, allows doctors to identify children who wi II develop a severe form of thy­roid cancer later in life and remove the thyroid to prevent such an outcome. Addition­ally, mechanical heart support systems make it increasingly possible to keep ill patients alive until a suitable heart becomes available for trans­plantation, he said. 
Perhaps just as important, the public availability of data on particular surgeons and facilities makes it possible for patients to research the best options for procedures. Larger education hospitals that perform a high volume of a particular procedure typi­cally have a significantly lower in-hospital mortality rate than smaller community facilities that perform the pro­cedure rarely. Such knowl­edge can help save patients' lives and reduce costs by min­imizing the time the patient spends in the hospital recov­ering. 
"It shows what can happen in regards to saving lives and saving money," Lillemoe said. 
Lillemoe received his under­graduate degree from the University of South Dakota and his M.D. from Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, where he also com­pleted his surgical training. He is president-elect of the Society of Surgery of the Alimentary Tract, vice-presi­dent for the Society of Clinical Surgery and director of the American Board of Surgery. 
The "Mini Medical School Lecture Series" concludes next Tuesday with a presenta­
tion  by  Dr.  Gregory  
Gramelspacher on  Medicare  
reform.  

Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
-" •--·-.-... •-r .... , ••, 
Thusday, April 22, 2004

page 10 The Observer + NEWS 
Marrow 
continued from page 1 
Four years ago, Zham Hall began the bone marrow drive for Conner Murphy, a Notre Dame student in need of a bone marrow transplant. Howard Hall continued the drive in hopes of finding a donor for the father of recent Notre Dame graduate Anne Gurucharri. 
This year's Bone Marrow Drive remains in honor of Gurucaharri's father. Although Gurucharri's father has since passed away, the bone marrow transplant he received extend­ed his life and allowed him to see Anne graduate from Notre Dame last spring. 
Diseases such as Leukemia, Hotchkins and A. Plastic Anemia are examples of life­threatening illnesses that often require a bone marrow trans­plant. Today Life Source, a bone marrow drive group from Chicago, will take contact information and a basic blood sample from participants. Then, each individual's bone marrow type will be placed into the national registry. The entire process should take approximately 30 minutes, organizers said. 
The bone marrow blood test checks for four out of six basic antigens. If these antigens match with the patient in need, further testing occurs. In order for a transplant to be adminis­tered all six antigens must match. 

Over the past two years, 700­800 participants have had ini­tial matches. When further screening was completed, two exact matches occurred. One of these matches resulted in a bone marrow transplant, while the second is in the final stages. This year Howard said that they're hoping to have between 500 and 700 people register their bone marrow. 
"The main thing is we are not just going for numbers. we want committed donors," said Camilla Pollock, commissioner for the drive. 
Individuals are more likely to find compatibility with those who share the same ethnicity or race. 
"We are in need of minority donors, a person has a better chance within their race and own ethnicity," Pollock said. 
She also addressed the mis­conception that many individu­als do not survive a bone mar­row transplant. 
"Many do go on to live healthy lives, do not be disillu­sioned," she said. 
Dana Daniels is a prime example of a bone marrow transplant survivor. In June 1993 Daniels was diagnosed with Non-Hotchkins Lym­phoma and battled the disease for three years undergoing countless radiation sessions and chemotherapy treatments. He drifted in and out of remis­sion. On Sept. 18, 1996, Daniels had a successful bone marrow transplant. 
Daniels had 222 perfect matches for his bone marrow transplant. The second highest number of matches Indiana University had ever witnessed. He had a 50/50 chance of sur­viving the transplant, followed by a 50/50 chance of surviving the first year. 
Daniels battle is one of suc­cess. 
"I am considered cured, it has been eight years now," he said. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 

Books 
continued from page 1 
current position, he worked in the University's Medieval Institute, then as a cataloguer in the rare books department. 
The department encom­passes about 80,000 volumes and 60 medieval and Renaissance manuscripts. About 100 of those volume-s were printed before 1500, Panciera said. 
He said simple means are used to preserve the books, which are surprisingly resist­ant to deterioration. 
"We have extra monitors and precautions for tempera­ture and humidity," he said. "And we ensure a completely lightless environment." 
He said the type of paper used in early printing is more durable than modern paper. Early books were printed on "rag bond" -paper made of cotton, linen or other textile materials, similar to curren­cy. Modern paper is made of wood pulp treated with acid, which destroys the pages over time. In addition, machine-bound books don't hold up as well as handmade books, Panciera said. 
"A pre-1830 book is actual­ly a lot more durable than a post-1830 book," he explained. 
He said that while the department's antique collec­tions are extensive, they can be condensed into several specific areas. 
"The emphasis is theology, the history of Catholic thought, English and Irish lit­erature anrl Renaissance Italy," he said. 
The Italian collection includes a unique assembly of works by Florentine poet Dante Alighieri. 
"We've got almost a com­plete run of the editions of Dante's "Divine Comedy" 

from the advent of printing to the 17th century," Panciera said. 
Several notable scientific works are also housed in the department, including works by Copernicus, Galileo and Newton. One of the most prized is a first edition of Copernicus' "De Revolution­ibus," in which the astronomer laid out his con­ception of the heliocentric universe. The theory was in direct contravention of 16th century Catholic teaching, which held that the Earth was the center of the universe. 
"Only 300 [copies] were printed because of the con­troversy," Panciera said. 
The department· even has a page from a Gutenberg Bible, the first printed book in his­tory. Panciera said single pages are more common in collections than entire vol-· umes, due to the extreme scarcity of intact books. 
He said the last sale of a complete Gutenberg Bible was in the early 1980s, when the University of Texas paid $1.5 million. That would be a bargain today. 
"My guess is if you bought it today, it would cost about $40 million," Panciera said. "If we had a Gutenberg Bible, I'd be ecstatic." 
The department also con­tains an extensive collection of American sports literature and paraphernalia, especially 19th and 20th century boxing and wrestling. Panciera said the sports collection is becoming increasingly rele­vant for modern researchers. 
"It's the sort of stuff schol­ars would have had much use for until recently," he said. "But now it's acknowledged that sports is important to American social history." 
In addition to combative sports, the collection also includes a great deal of base­ball material. 
"We have very extensive 
records on the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League," Panciera said. The league operated from 1943­1954 and was featured in the 1992 film "A League of Their Own." 
Panciera said the depart­ment is expanding some of its collections, particularly the Latin American and Irish sec­tions. 
"We'll focus on Argentine historical materials," he said. "And our most recent collec­tion is about 2,000 Irish nov­els from the 19th and 20th century." 
Panciera praised the uni­versity's commitment to maintaining its historical materials. 
"It's really a collection of national significance," Panciera said. "We get people ... who travel here just to use the collection." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


4th Annual Notre Dame Chess Tourney 
When: 1:30pm-6pm­Sunday April 25th 
Where: 258 Hayes-Healy Entry Fee: $3 for those who RSVP $4 for those at the door Food will be provided. Yummy. 
Prizes for all ability levels; so everyone can win! 
For questions or to RSVP Email Mike at mfailor@nd.edu 

Your parents have already converted your room into a 
wall<-in closet. 
Where will you go after graduation? Fortunately; you have 
MonsterTRAK to help you land your first job. It's the #I college recruitment solution for students and alumni. Search a wide range ofjob postings, get job hunting tips, check out employer information and more. So you can find the perfect job, and get an apartment with your own walk-in closet. 

monsteYTRAK& 
today's the day-


Monster. the Monster logo. and theTrumpasaurus character are trademarks of Monster (California). Inc. 
Thursday, April 22, 2004 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page II 
Kerry releases 120 pages of military records 
Records reveal 
respected officer who faced enemy fire 
Associated Press 
WASIIJNGTON -Hecords of .John Kerry's Vietnam War serv­iw ndnasml Wednesday show a highly praised naval of'ficer who volunteered for a dangerous assignment and at one point was "unol'ticially credited with 20 enemy killed in action." 
With conservative critics questioning his service, the Democratic presidential candi­date posted more than 120 pages of military records on his campaign Web site. Several describe him as a gutsy com­mander and detail some of the actions that won him three Purple llearts, a Bronze Star and a Silver Star. 
Kerry's most harrowing expe­rience came during the nearly five months when he command­ed a swil'tboat along Vietnam's Mekong Delta. The future Massachusetts senator was commended for gallantry, hero­ism and valor during the tour, which was cut short when Kerry was wounded three times and sent back to the United States. 
"lfe frequently exhibited a high sense of imagination and judgment in planning opera­tions against the enemy in the Mekong Delta," wrote Lt. Cmdr. George Elliott, Kerry's com­manding officer. "Involved in several enemy initiated fire fights. including an ambush during the Christmas truce, he effectively suppressed enemy fire and is unofficially credited with 20 enemy killed in action." 
Talk radio conservatives and some veterans have questioned whether Kerry was wounded severely enough to leave com­bat, but Democratic National Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe said he is eager to compare Kerry's record to President Bush's. McAuliffe accused Bush of using family connections to avoid service overseas and failing to show up for duty while in the National Guard. 
"Simply put, Kerry has a proud record of sacrifice and service whereas Bush has a record of cashed-in connections and evasion," McAuliffe said in a statement Wednesday. 
Hepublican National Committee spokeswoman Christine Iverson said, "Like so many of Terry McAuliffe's com­ments, this one is not worthy of the dignity of a response." 
Kerry's records show that throughout his four years of active duty, superiors gave him glowing evaluations, citing his maturity, intelligence and immaculate appearance. He was recommended for early promotion, and when he left the Navy in 1970 to run for Congress, his commanding offi­cer said it was the Navy's loss. 
The lowest marks Kerry earned were the equivalent of average -in military bearing, reliability and initiative. But narrative comments from his commanding officers said he was diplomatic. charismatic, decisive and well-liked by his men. 

The records cited Kerry's edu­cation at Swiss boarding school, his speaking and debating awards and his role as class orator at Yale University's com­mencement. He lettered in var­sity soccer and lacrosse, fenced, had a private pilot's license and had experience sailing and ocean racing. 
Kerry traveled throughout Europe in his youth and spoke fluent French and some German. His supervising officer later commended him for taking it upon himself to learn Vietnamese. 
Kerry cited his sailing experi­ence before the Navy when he volunteered to command a swiftboat, a 50-foot-long craft that could operate at high speeds in the rough waters of Vietnam's rivers and tributaries. 
Some critics have questioned whether Kerry's injuries were severe enough to warrant reas­signment to the United States. His records briefly describe shrapnel wounds to his arm and thigh for the first two Purple Hearts, but they don't detail the severity of the wounds. 
According to a naval instruc­tion document provided by Kerry's campaign, anyone serv­ing in Vietnam who was wound­ed three times, regardless of the nature of the wound or treat­ment required, "will not be ordered to service in Vietnam and contiguous waters." 
On Feb. 28, 1969, Kerry's and two other boats came under heavy fire from the riverbanks. Kerry ordered his units to turn into the ambush and sent men ashore to charge the enemy. According to the records, an enemy soldier holding a loaded rocket launcher sprang up with­in 10 feet of Kerry's boat and fled. Kerry leapt ashore, chased and killed the man. 
Kerry and his men chased or killed all enemy soldiers in the area, captured enemy weapons and then returned to the boat only to come under fire from the opposite bank as they began to pull away. Kerry again beached his boat and led a party ashore to pursue the enemy, and they successfully silenced the shooting. Later, with the boats again under lire, Kerry initiated a heavy response that killed 10 Viet Cong and wounded another with no casualties to his own men. 

He won the Silver Star "for gallantry and intrepidity in action" that day. Two weeks later, another fire fight led to a Bronze Star for heroic achieve­ment and the third Purple Heart that would result in his reas­signment out of Vietnam. 



page 12 Thursday, April 22, 2004 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
ISRAEL 
Palestinian PM asks Bush to reconsider 
Qureia says new West Bank settlement declaration contradicts U.S. policy 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM The Palestinian prime minister asked President Bush on Wednesday to reconsider his tacit recognition of some Jewish settlements in the West Bank. 
Israeli troops, meanwhile, killed nine Palestinians in fighting in the Gaza Strip, where gun battles in the town of Beit Lahiya trapped about 4,000 residents of a housing complex indoors for several hours. 
Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia wrote to Bush, saying recent U.S. declarations that Israel could keep some of the West Bank and would not have to absorb Palestinian refugees contradict longstand­ing U.S. policy. 
In 1991, Qureia wrote, the 

U.S. government stated that it "opposed unilateral actions that prejudge the outcome of permanent-status negotia­tions." Qureia said Bush is allowing Israel "to continue creating illegal facts on the ground" by expanding West Bank settlements. 
Bush gave the assurances to Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon during a White House meeting last week. 
At the time, Bush also endorsed Sharon's plan of "uni­lateral disengagement" from the Palestinians, including a withdrawal from Gaza and the evacuation of four small West Bank settlements. In exchange, Israel wants to keep and expand five large West Bank settlement blocs with tens of thousands of settlers. 
Bush's backing boosted Sharon's chances of winning crucial approval for the plan in a referendum of his Likud Party on May 2. 
Palestinian leaders are dis­mayed by Bush's new policy. Palestinians claim all of the 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
Oli't.I;N$1 ~-~~~ 
li'tUD!!:I'i1" fleD& 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent members (see web sitefor student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31 @nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more infonnation, checkout our web site: http:/fwww.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 
West Bank and Gaza, along with the right of refugees and their descendants to return to Israel, if they so choose. 
Bush defended his decision to support Sharon's territorial plan, saying it included the major concession of an Israeli withdrawal from Gaza. 
"The whole world should have said, 'Thank you, Ariel'," Bush told executives of more than 1,500 Associated Press­member newspapers at the cooperative's annual meeting in Washington. Instead, he said, "there was kind of silence, wasn't there?" 
Bush's move on Israel drew angry responses throughout the Arab world, including from moderate U.S. allies Jordan and Egypt. 
In new fighting in Gaza, Israeli troops raided the north­ern town of Beit Lahiya for the second straight day to stop a barrage of homemade rockets fired at nearby Jewish settle­ments. 
Nine Palestinians were killed in Wednesday's fighting, including at least three civil­ians, among them a 15-year­old boy, hospital officials said. At least five of the dead were gunmen, and 27 people were wounded. It was the bloodiest day in Gaza since March 22, when Barnas founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin and 10 other Palestinians were killed. 
The rocket salvos were retal­iation for the weekend killing of Barnas leader Abdel Aziz Rantisi by Israel. Barnas threatened "100 unique reprisals," and Sharon said other Barnas leaders would be targeted. 
On Wednesday, troops sur­rounded a housing project in Beit Lahiya. 
Bulldozers began demolish­ing a building under construc­tion, witnesses said, while gun­men exchanged fire with troops. 
HAITI 

One killed, 23 injured in stan1pede 
Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE -A stam­pede at a police academy recruiting drive killed one per­son and injured 23 others in Haiti, officials said Wednesday. 
Police fired tear gas and beat back applicants with batons as thousands of job hunters rushed the academy on Tuesday, crashing through the gates and past French guards. 
U.S. Marines helped to control the crowd by blocking the academy entrance with Humvees. 
Meanwhile, the Bahamas withdrew its diplomats from Haiti, following the shooting and robbery of its ambas­sador's wife and a threatening telephone call to the wife of a second diplomat, a government spokesman on Wednesday told The Associated Press on condi­tion of anonymity. 
During the stampede, Jerry Prophete, 23, fell and was trampled to death, said Police Commissioner Jean-Yonel Trecile, who said 23 others were injured and eight were hospitalized. 
"The crowd got so big that the police couldn't control the situation," Jean-Pierre Benjamin, 25. said Wednesday 


UNIVERSITY CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
APRJVA TE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME 
OPEN GRADUATION SUNDAY FROM 5:30PM RESERVATIONS ESSENTIAL: 631-4683 
Kevin Bacon at Notre Dame? Well, sort of. 
Notre Dame• s 6 Degrees of Kevin Bacon 

Knute Rockne 

Was in This is in 


Winning a 2T' TV/VCR/DVD combo for going to see a movie: priceless Don't miss your last chance to enter the TV giveaway! 
~IE~ 
as he recovered at a hospital in suburban Petionville. "The gates broke open and people started falling. I fell and others stepped on me." 
As many as 4,000 applicants showed up for the first day of the recruiting drive on Monday. The numbers swelled to as many as 15,000 people on Tuesday, Trecile said. 
Trecile said police had not anticipated the turnout, but said the job hunters were part­ly to blame. "At one point they went wild," he said. 
He said some officers from the riot squad on Monday were taking bribes to allow would-be recruits through the gates of the academy. Trecile said police were investigating. 
Most of the impoverished Caribbean country's 8 million people are without jobs and live on less than $1 a day. 
The police recruiting drive has been postponed until Monday, when applicants will be divided among three loca­tions and by the first letter of their last names. 
Haiti's interim government began the drive to replenish a depleted force that fled before a rebel advance in February. Hundreds have deserted, some fearing reprisal attacks 
Come see Mystic River 
Thursday April22 10 pm Friday April23 8 & 10:30 pm Saturday April 24 8 & 10:30 pm 101 Debartolo $3 dolla~s · 
Price of a home theater: $10,000 Price of a movie offcampus: $7 Price of seeing a SUB movie:$3 
because of their loyalties to ousted President Jean­Bertrand Aristide. 
Some 150 officers were fired last week for abandoning their posts and ethics violations by a U.S.-backed interim govern­ment backed by a U.S.-led multinational force. 
The Bahamas is the only Caribbean country with an embassy in Haiti. Foreign Affairs Minister Fred Mitchell told the Bahamian Parliament on Wednesday that the govern­ment did not believe the shoot­ing was politically motivated. 
But a Caribbean diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he understood the Bahamas was investigating whether the two incidents were related and connected to the bad relations between Haiti's U.S.-backed interim govern­ment and the 15-nation Caribbean Community that has refused to recognize it. 
Francoise Newry, wife of Ambassador Eugene Newry, was shot and robbed of her handbag at a market near the downtown presidential palace on Saturd:.y. That night, Michelle Williams, wife of the embassy's second secretary, received a threatening tele­phone call. 


Thursday, April 22, 2004 
The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Americans concerned terrorists might be winning 
www.legendsofnotredame.org
\LECEN DS 
F NOTRE 


]'lf:Ijli Tilf>~C'Tf'~Vr C\71Q·~' W) T;\Q;\·1
~-.. ' ;\:,!.:1;.'-.~~ .!. ,,..I( .· .. / .. .If-~~\ 
ACOUSTIC CAFE-LIVE AT LEGENDS 
fRllDJAY' ll@t~00qpm 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Half of Americans have concerns that terrorists might be winning the war on terrorism. and one in five feels strongly that way, according to an Associated Press poll that found many peo­ple pessimistic about their security. 
Fears about an attack against this country arc high. Two­thirds in the poll said it was likely terrorists would strike before the November elections. And a third said it was likely there would be an attack at one of the political conventions this summer. 
More than 30 months after the Sept. 11. 2001, attacks, two-thirds of Americans acknowledge some concern that terrorists may be recruiting faster than the United States can keep up. A third of those polled feel strongly this is the case, and another third say they have at least some wor­ries. 
"Terrorists arc winning the war for the hearts and minds of the people in the Mideast," said Christine Wyatt, a 52-year-old church deacon in Clarkston, Mich. 
Fears about the war on ter­rorism may be fueled by grow­ing worries about the conflict in Iraq, which has been described by the Bush administration as a front line of the war on terror. 
Those who think the military action in Iraq has increased the long-term risk of terrorism in the United States have increased from 40 percent in December to 54 percent now, according to the poll, conducted for the· AP by Ipsos-Public Affairs. 
The people who say the Bush administration made the right decision to go to war in Iraq, 48 percent, are now about even with those who think the administration made a mistake, 49 percent. In December, two­thirds said the administration made the right decision. 
Doubts about the war on ter­rorism are higher among women, older Americans, peo­ple who make lower incomes and people with less than a high school education, accord­ing to the poll. 
Others say the terror threat is receding after two and a half years without another attack. 
"I don't think they're winning the war, but they're sure put­ting the fear of God in some countries," said Robert Slivinski, a 33-year-old para­medic and firefighter from Woodbury, Conn. "The threat has decreased since 9/11. We're keeping them at bay." 
The AP-Ipsos poll, released Wednesday at The Associated Press annual meeting, found: 
+ 
Half feel that, in some meas­ure, the terrorists might be winning the war on terrorism. One in five in the poll feels strongly the terrorists are win­ning, while an additional 30 percent say there is at least "a little truth" to that statement. 

+ 
More than a third say they have less faith in government's ability to protect them, and an 



additional fourth say there's at least some truth to that idea. 
+ Nearly half feel strongly they are more pessimistic about the possibility of there ever being peace in the world, while an additional fourth say there may be some truth to that. 
"I think we're twitching on the edge of Armageddon; a lot of people I work with feel the same way," said Michael Miller, a 49-year-old software tester from Las Cruces, N .M. He rejected the idea that terrorists are winning the fight, but he added, "They're not losing it, either." 
As for the election campaign, President Bush has the advan­tage over Democrat John Kerry on people's trust to do a better job of protecting the country, 53 percent to 37 percent. 
Some people say they've taken steps to safeguard them­selves and their families in response to the terrorist attacks. 
+ 
Three in 10 say they've assembled a kit with emergency supplies like food, water and batteries. 

+ 
Two in 10 say they avoid crowded public spaces like shopping malls and amusement parks. 


"I know so many people who . are afraid to do things, who have changed their lifestyles," said Norma McElhaney,a 58­year-old school employee from Mineral Ridge, Ohio. "The last two years, our eighth grade class didn't go to Washington, D.C., something they had done for years." 

Many feel terrorists are winning war 
Half of people polled are concerned the terrorists might be winning the war on terrorism. More than half feel a terrorist attack on U.S. soil will occur between now and November. 
How true is the statement: the terrorists might be winning the war on terrorism? 

How likely is it that terrorists will attack atleast one ofthe political conventions this summer? 
30% 
Some­what likely 4% sure 


Despite the widespread anxi­ety, many reject the notion of terrorists winning as unthink­able. 
"I believe their cause is evil," said Cheryl Taylor, a 56-year­old teacher from Waterloo, Iowa. "I don't believe evil will win, I know it won't. I cling to the other hope." 
The AP-Ipsos poll of 1,001 adults was taken April 5-7 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. The Iraq questions were asked again April 16-18. 
How likely is it that a terrorist attack will occur in the U.S. between now and the election? 
8%----, 
Not at all likely 
Not sure How true is the statement: you have less faith now in your government to protect you? 


NOTE: Poll based on interviews with 1,001 randomly selected adults between April 5-7 within conlinenlal U.S.; margin of error plus or minus 3.0 percentage points 
SOURCE: lpsos-Public Affairs for AP AP 
page 14 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 22, 2004 



.t. The unveiling of the 15th anniversary edition of THE SHIRT 
.Y. One day only student discount-· $11 * 4t Chance to win FREE BOOKS .Y. Chance to win FREE FOOTBALL TICKETS for fall 
2004 

.t. The Band of the Fighting Irish Concert 


Allril23. 5:00 P .Boolstore. 




•one $11 Shirt per student with valid student i.d. Expires 4/24/04. 
Thursday, April 22, 2004 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 15 
UNITED NATIONS  ISRAEL  
Russia nixes Cyprus resolution  Whistleblovver freed  
Proposal would have reunified island country  after 18 years in jail  

Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -Russia used its veto on Wednesday to block a resolution outlining nnw U.N. security arrange­ments in Cyprus that would take effect if Greek and Turkish Cypriots vote in favor of reunification this week. 
The other 14 members of the council voted in favor of the resolution, which failed because of the Russian veto. 
Hussian Ambassador Gennady Gatilov said his country saw the resolution, on the table four days before Cypriots vote, as an attempt to influence the outcome of the referenda. 
Opinion polls indicate that the U.N. reunification plan will be rejected by 65 percent of Greek Cypriots but approved by more than 60 percent uf Turkish Cypriots. 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan urged the U.N. Security Council to adopt the resolution to reassure Cypriots about the U.N. com­mitment to their security. 
The United States and Britain agreed to sponsor it but many countries raised questions about why the reso­lution was needed before Saturday's referenda and sev­eral objncted to the pressure 

on the council to act so quick­Last minute efforts to stave ly on what would be a new off the veto failed but other 
U.N. peacekeeping mission. concerned countries including 
The U.S. and British ambas­France, Brazil, Pakistan, sadors both expressed regret China and Chile, agreed to after the vote. support the move. 
Associated Press 
ASHKELON -A defiant Mordechai Vanunu walked out of prison on Wednesday after serving 18 years for spilling Israel's nuclear secrets, saying he was proud of his actions and complaining he was treat­ed cruelly by his jailers. 
Vanunu, dressed in a check­ered shirt and black tie, flashed victory signs and waved to hundreds of cheering supporters as he walked into the sun-splashed courtyard of Shikma Prison in the coastal town of Ashkelon. Dozens of counter-demonstrators booed and shouted epithets. 
In the courtyard, Vanunu, 50, held an impromptu news conference, his brother Meir by his side. Vanunu said he was given "very cruel and bar­baric treatment" by Israel's security services. 
"To all those who are calling me traitor, I am saying I am proud, I am proud and happy to do what I did," Vanunu said in accented arrd at times bro­ken English. He refused to answer questions in Hebrew because of restrictions Israel has imposed. including a ban on speaking to foreigners. 
Vanunu. who converted to Christianity in the 1980s, said he was mistreated because of his teligion. He also said there is no need for a Jewish state and demanded that Israel open its nuclear reactor in Dimona to international inspection. 
"I said, Israel don't need nuclear arms, especially now that all the Middle East is free from nuclear weapons," he said. 
He left the prison in a gray Mazda van as police dispersed a large crowd. His first stop was St. George, an Anglican church in Jerusalem's Old City. More than a dozen cars and motorcycles followed Vanunu's vehicle to Jerusalem, and a helicopter flew low overhead. 
Israeli authorities have imposed a series of travel restrictions and other con­straints on Vanunu, saying he still possesses state secrets. But Vanunu said he has no more secrets to reveal. "I am now ready to start my life." he said. 
Upon his arrival in Jerusalem, he was mobbed by reporters as the Anglican bish­op of Jerusalem, Riah Abu El­Assal. escorted him into the church. Other clergy members embraced Vanunu. and a tear­ful Peter Hounam, the journal­ist who wrote the 1986 article that led to Vanunu's imprison­ment, hugged him. 

~--------­
THE 0BSER\'ER 

IEWPOINT
page 16 Thursday, April 22, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O~ Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556' 024 South Dinitlg Hall, Noi:ic Dame,1N46$5§ 
EDITOR IN CliUEF · MattLoiar 
MANAGING EmTOR 
Meghanne Downe$ 
AsST. Mi\)IM.(;!NG EDITOR Joe Hettler NEWS 
VrEWPOJJIIT EDITOR: Sarah Vahulas svoRts EDITOR: H:~tli~t va~ ~:t®g;;ta~ti •·,.•.·. SO!NE EDrroll: Mati:i Smith . SAiNT MAltY's EDITOR! MgdiSaotla PHOTO EDITOR: Oiuy BeniteZ 
.. GRAPHICS EorrORi Mll>eH~rf4nf 
AnvERns1NG MANAGER: C~r~i<: Frinkliti · Ao DEsiGN MANALliR: Kdly Nel$ori · WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nict<l 
CoNTROllER: Paula C¥dll 
CoNTACT Us 
0FACE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO . (574) 63F7{71FAX 
olll.:. 
<?74) 63Pfi927•, 
AoVERTISIN(l . 
(574)63'1-6900 AA~~n>ad@M.~.:Iu 
.. ·(~~~f~~"t~:l•< > •.•.,, ••.. 
MANAGING EDITOR &Assisri\Ht MANAGING E01t01t<< '• ·..·. ($74)6~i"4S4I ·' Jtls:lrili®ritteau+. < ~ ·· sus1N£ss oi'Fice .'.,:.::i ••••••r••·,•·•,.,•.•.•,•. '(574) 63:1:~5.~1:,::::: :.;.·.;.:.:·:::::::::::::::::/{:.:?~~:~:\1~~\i~;:;: 
(;74)63l,53~~~~~it~~J,~~ij ·.,.:,: . ViEwPotiif'oestF•'' •''''}'''•••'•}·'•••••••••••••(''••••••••••,•,•,•,.,.,,i,··.(5NY$lh5303'• tilwpo!nM@~d;iiil:M · 
SPORTS 0£SK ....... '·.•.· 
(S74)(j3H543.· •·• sp;:ii~;l@t:i~#\Ji /•·••••••.
SCENE DESI('·:''.' :}i>••······'· ••••.,. \574) 63l~4s4o ·••··· s~~ne4®hcl:¥ifU, < 
.. .. . SAINT MARY'$ DESK . . . ' 
(574)631~4324 silt¢J®nd,et!u PHOTO DESK 
(574) 6!3lc8767 ·. pil{)to®nd.edu 
SvsreMS &Wn AllMINI$TIIATOII$ (574) 6JJ~8839 .. 
THE OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotte Dame duLacand Sail1~ Maty's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements; is· not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeithet institur:ion. The Observer t"eS(:{Ve$ the rigbtto refu.<e adverri~ments based on ci:>n~e&~; 
The new~ is repqrted as acdt¢.ite!ra:nd C:~bMc:tivE;Ir as..... 
possible. UnSigned edito# repr!:llent thf ~pi@6ri of··• ••.:,::• rhe majorityo(the Ediw in Chi@ M:in;igi:lig )'1.di~~t. .· .. Assistant Managing Ediror .mq 4ip~r eifiroW ·•·•·· · Commentaries, letters and coJurnns present tl.e VieWS 
··ofthe auth,9r~ <lll4Mt t:i~~yt~e§f'@# > •··· ·•·• · o~r. ·•• ,·············•···••· i <: >i•
V'IeWpoinupaceis av.tilabk'tQ iill ~<let~: The ~ ····· t:Xpression ofall opinions through !etten; is mC:@tagi:d; litter$ [Q. the Edi~<'ir mi.lst be illgncd an!rmil$1'md\ide••• 
conracr infol-rruirion; ·· · 
~stiom ~arriing Observerp~liciN fh<luld b, dirtcuJ w!Uilor in. ChitfMtl#Lbi.izr. 
.POST. OFFICE INFORMATION 
n...oh...mcusP$m MilQil)~p.~.~;;wi..le~r '~"'~f'~r¥1>• ••<;;;g~R-~ ~A~A P.Ct~ ~:*rir<~.,-~ Th-::~9(~ id:wo:rQf.:qm:~m:K: 
~~-~~5fprQN:~~; .·. · ... ·· ·: .. :::::·.. ·.. · ·: 
;;~;r;;:.•~&a~> •·.•,''...••.~PO...•}.:.•·.~...,f!········.'.~,·····,•·.·.........•.•.;...••. ,
N~'"' o...<; IN·~~·' •••. .. .. "..,,,,..,., .. ·.· ••. ••....•.......•.•.... 
ll:t!Odl<:~.p.;.;~po;.t.;~D,... ···•·•. ~¢;~·m•···•• \••·•····
>bd •<hlllliiti<l "'>l~•t ofB<ti, •··· .... ·. ~2·f~··~DEhiilt H<ll •..• ·•···• NDi.O o,;.,.;·IN,46l~0'0779'. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sp()rts< Andrew Thagaard PatLeonard 
Scott Brodfuerher · Kate Gales · Mike Ownbliss Bobby Gt!ffifi .•. 
Matt Bramanti ........ .. scene Viewpoint • · Etiil.JY Jlim.britik · Alyssa Bral.lweiler illustra-tor Graphics Katie Knorr Mike Harkins Paul Roncal 


Where in the past alliances have been created, kingdoms forged and families made through matrimony, the gay marriage debate has set son against father and brother against brother. 
However, despite Dolores Dlaz the attention the issue has generat­ed, there is suffi­The Warm cient evidence to Gun believe that the debate may not be so newsworthy in the future. 
Polls on gay marriage, taken by the Pew Research Center and printed by MSNBC in October, show that younger Americans may be discarding their religious roots. It found "those with a high level of religious commitment oppose gay marriage by 80 percent" and in addition that "younger adults were far more likely to say they favor gay marriage." 
If this secularization of the West continues, gay marriage may become a reality in America. 
Additionally, because the accept­ance of gay marriage has been shown to coincide with secularization, and in light of the diminishing religious tendencies among American youth, although the political poles may be getting further apart when it comes to the older generations, the gap between left and right in America will decrease. 
The gay marriage debate is reliant on the political polarization that the United States embodies. This polar~ ization is especially highlighted by European coverage of America's gay marriage debate. America is por­trayed in European media as a divid­ed country, ensued in a battle between democratic and republican parties, with gay marriage as the ulti~ate dividing line. 
Criticism becomes apparent in Britain because, where the Jacobean system is present and the body politic is secular, such debate doesn't gener­ate the same amount of cultural interest. Within Anglo coverage is an irony; despite the news hole that they devote to the subject of gay marriage, there is a pervading sense of political indifference towards the issue and bafflement to the American uproar. 
When America covers its own gay marriage debate, the tension is not as blatant, but still very much present. 
Religion or politics? 
The politicization of gay marriage is apparent but portrayed naturalisti­cally for the most part. It is glossed over and taken for granted. 
There have been a number of fac­tors that have kept the debate alive in America. 
There is, first of all, a journalistic assumption in the States is that there are two sides to every issue; issues are forced into categories of black and white. Americans have been par­ticularly bothered by the gay mar­riage debate because they are tor­tured by a simultaneous desire to support equality for all peoples yet maintain a concept of universal morality. 
Americans are particularly predis­posed to this yes or no mentality; it is rooted in the framework of the United States. The belief in the notion of uni­versal truth is religious in itself and breathed into existence in the first lines of the States' constitution: "We hold these truths to be self-evident." 
Ultimately, coverage of the gay marriage debate exposes an ambigu­ous space that makes Americans uncomfortable. Anglos are not tor­tured by this same ambiguity because the Jacobean system personalizes morality, making it much more nexi­ble. 
And the result is the narrowing of the gap between liberals and conser­vatives in the United States. For months, people have argued that America is becoming increasingly divided as a nation, that the left is moving ever more left and the right more right. 
However, such findings are not in contradiction with what the gay mar­riage debate reveals. October Pew Research Center polls published by NBC on gay marriage also found that, "opposition to gay marriage has grown since mid-summer, with 32 percent favoring it and 59 percent saying they opposed gay marriage." However, the increase in opposition cannot be attributed to the younger generations of Americans who were "far more likely to say they favor gay marriage." 
Because the debate is a relatively new one, the growth in opposition to gay marriage can be attributed to older generations simply making up their mind on an issue they had not previously encountered. As older Americans are shown to be more devout in their beliefs, it is not sur­prising the gay marriage debate would cause an increase in polariza­tion of the American body politic among older Americans. 
As the less religious American youth rises and older generations die out, the political gap will narrow. The diminishing of religion would give rise to a more European mentality complete with a personalized morali­ty. The "good" for Americans will cease to be the good for their broth­ers. Universal truth in America may cease to exist. 
In the end, there is sufficient evi­dence to believe the gay marriage debate may not be much of one in the future. American youth are becoming more and more likely to give gays the right to marry. If future Americans become significantly less religious, it seems gay marriage in the United States may be inevitable. If such is the case, then a less stringently divid­ed body politic also seems inevitable. 
Those concerned with the amount of overseas involvement by the United States may be more likely to support a decline in religion to embrace a more relativistic morality in which other countries' beliefs become a topic strictly of their own concern. However, moral relativism is a dan­ger to future prosperity for the United States as well as the rest of the world. 
For opponents of gay marriage and the religious, it seems the way to ensure that gay marriages don't become an American reality would be to increase religiosity and spread the faith. This tactic may be more effec­tive than simply pursuing a political agenda. 
Either way, the gay marriage debate reveals new dimensions to what may happen in the future of America. Awareness of the implica­tions of the debate will help prevent our own victimization and ensure that we are not only active con­sumers, but producers of the news. 
Dolores Diaz is a junior English major and journalism and theology minor. She enjoys thinking. Contact her at ddiaz@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
OBSERVER POLL 
How many games do you think the Notre 
"Trees are the earth's endless effort to speak
Dame football team will win during the 
to the listening heaven."
2004 season? 

Rabindranath Tagore
Vote by 5 p.m. today at 
author 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 

--~ 
THE OBSER\'ER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 22, 2004 page 17 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
An issue of student privacy 
I have never written to The Observer before, but the disgust that I felt Wednesday in reading the names of those students arrested at the Library Irish Pub has compelled me to do so. 
The Observer staff will argue that they have a right to report the names of these students because police arrests are public information; l grant them this right. What I cannot understand is why the staff would opt to tarnish the reputations of their fellow students. I have struggled to find a reason as to why a student newspaper at this University would lower itself to such a level. especially after repeated requests that names not be used. 
Before the night was over, most knew of the bust at the Library. If anyone had wanted to find out the names of those arrested, they could have checked the daily police blotter in the local paper. This is the cause of my disgust: not one student on this campus needs to know who was arrested. What does knowing the student's name enable us to do that we would have been unable to do otherwise? The difficulty in formulating a response to this question proves that there is a line of student privacy that should not be crossed. 
My goal with this Jetter is to defend the privacy and integrity of those arrested, and to ask the question of why our student newspaper would turn its back on the students. The Observer may be a nationally recog­
nized student newspaper, but I am call it my own.  embarrassed to  
Jake Roffman  
junior off-campus April21  

Don't stop wearing orange 
Don't stop wearing orange. Civil liberties is not an entitlement-it's a fundamental, inalienable right. Being gay means that U.S. citizens and Notre Dame students have to forgo certain human rights. It means that gay couples cannot visit each other in hospitals, cannot share employee health care bene­
fits and are not eligible for the legal protections that marriage provides. 
Dame deserve better. Supporting them is not 
As a recently open gay man and recent graduate from Notre Dame, I realize that some people just won't accept homosex­uality, based on religious doctrine, institutional mandate or just plain fear. I spent years as a diversity edu­cator trying to open students' eyes to issues of diversity, wanting them to see that skin color, class, gender and sexual orientation are not reasons to hate or deny people their human rights. 
I can accept doctrinal differences. I studied at four universities during my time at Notre Dame, exposing myself to a wide range of perspec­tives. I realize that social and political beliefs come from a person's own expe­riences, social indoctrination and edu­cation. 
What I refuse to accept is denying any­one in this country equality and justice. In Virginia, small businesses cannot legally offer h~lth insurance to the same-sex partner of an employee. Many non-discrimination clauses in busi­nesses and universities fail to include sexual orienta­tion. Matthew Shephard is a reminder that hate­crimes bills have far to go. Unfortunately, these sto­ries and voices are often lost in mainstream diversity education, particular if people feel alone in their plights. 
Gay students at Notre Dame still do not have access to the same support networks as other minor­ity groups such as those resources offered by Multicultural Student Programs and Services and Campus Ministry. Allowing gay students to organize and advertise these resources without the scrutiny of 
the administration is crucial. Gay, lesbian, bisexual. 
transgender and questioning students at Notre 
a promotion of homosexuality, but it's a protection of their well-being, civil liber­ties and human dignity. There are many ways to do things better at Notre Dame. The shirt cam­
paign is only the beginning. As a for­mer resident assistant, I know that empowering Notre Dame students 
how to be just and supportive people starts in the residential life. Hall staff has a pivotal role in this process. The Observer offers an important venue for communicating dialogue on issues of injustice. 
Calling on administrators to make changes can come in a variety of advocacy efforts. Though I am proud of the blessings and challenges that I encountered at Notre Dame, I believe many crucial changes are still necessary before this world-class university is truly catholic in its 
ideals and practices. The horror of denying human rights must not be one of Notre Dame's lega­cies. 
I call on students, faculty, and administrators to open their minds and hearts and make a difference. 
Ken Seifert alumni class of 2003 April21 

Baudelaire once wrote that for the merchant, even honesty is a financial speculation. By the same token, I think what disturbs us most when we hear pciliticians speak is the sense that they arc constantly -'­reflexively -calcu­lating how their Peter Wicks words will affect their polling num­bers and their Englishman chances for election Abroad or re-election. Even when they are sin­cere, their sincerity is a strategy. Usually, they are not sincere. 
Following the British debate over the war has led me to change my opinion of Tony Blair. Before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Blair was widely perceived to be a creature of opinion polls. But Blair instinctively saw that the attacks represented an assault not just on the United States, but on civilization itself. and he sup­ported the war in Iraq in the face of widespread dissent within his own party and amongst the British people. 
It is not my intention to defend Blair's position on the war here; I just want to register my surprise at seeing him stop fawning on public opinion­such fawning is the mark of a dema­gogue. not a democrat-and become a real leader. 
That's a rare thing, and it may yet cost Blair the leadership of his party. But it was good to see that it's still pos­sible for a politician try to persuade the public rather than pandering to it. For a particularly egregious example of such pandering, let's turn to John Kerry's recent appearance on MTV. I 
Politics is not cool 
don't mean this to be an attack on Kerry particularly, but I think his MTV performance is a particularly clear example of a disease that afflicts politi­cians of every party. The show was part of "Choose or Lose", an initiative aiming to encourage people in the 
18-30 age group to vote and 
take the view that there's be "a deciding factor in something naturally pro­
the 2004 presidential election." 
Some of Kerry's comments were just standard campaign boil­erplate, which no politician seems able to do without, but what was particularly painful to watch was a four-term 
U.S. senator trying to sound cool, addressing his audience as if he wasn't sure whether he wanted them to choose him as their president or their 

roommate. 
who carried signs com­
There should be a word paring Bush to Hitler at for lies that you tell even anti-war protests did more to though you know there is absolute-help secure support for Bush than ly no chance of anyone believing you. any of his own speeches?) Such was Kerry's claim to be "fascinat­Many people -including some who ed" by rap and hip-hop. In Kerry's tele­still enjoy it-are concerned about the vised opinion, "there's a lot of poetry in misogyny of much rap music, and it. There's a Jot of anger, a lot of social about its celebration of violence and energy in it. And I think you'd better listen to it pretty carefully, 'cause it's important." 
We should note in passing the use of the terms "anger" and "social energy" as if the one implied the other. It is 
becoming increasingly popular to 
gressive about being angry. This is, I think, a symptom of the 
narcissistic turn that progressive politics has taken, to the point where many would­be activists seem more concerned with the righteous­ness of their political sen­timents than with tedious questions about whether or not their tac­tics might be counterproduc­tive. (Does anyone doubt that the people 
criminality. Kerry is prepared to admit that when rappers start talking about killing cops it "bothers" him, but he's "still listening" because "it's a reflec­tion of the street." Politicians rarely sound more foolish than when they are talking about how things are on "the street." 
In case you missed the show. I should add that Kerry is absolutely not in favor of the government censoring music, but he doesn't think that it's inappropriate "occasionally to talk about what you think is a standard or what you think is a value that is worth trying to Jive up to." So, if you think the popularity of songs like Icc-T's "Cop Killer" might be something to worry about, well then it would be okay for you to talk about that. Occasionally. 
But my purpose isn't to criticize Kerry's views, because it's perfectly obvious these aren't his views. They are just an empty gesture of goodwill to people who like hip hop music. There is something deeply condescend­ing about such a gesture. It insults its audience because it suggests they can't understand that a U.S. senator has bet­ter things to do than keep up with pop culture. It insults them because it sug­gests they can't understand that poli­tics is not, and should not be, cool. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in philosophy. Last year, he was surprised to discover that Jennifer Lopez and J­Lo were the same person. His column appears every other Thursday. 1/e can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Oliserver. 

THE 0BSER\'ER 
CENE
page 18 


George Bernard Shaw's comedy "Arms and the Man" opened Wednesday night and runs through Saturday. It is the last film, television and theater Mainstage production to grace the stage of Washington Hall. This brilliant production is deserv­ing of such a historic position in Notre Dame theater. 
Photos by 
SHAWNA MONSON 

By JONATHAN RETARTHA Scene Writer 
The curtain will fall one last time this weekend for the depart­ment of film. television and the­ater as it presents its final Mainstage production at Washington Hall, George Bernard Shaw's "Arms and the Man." 
The comedy, written in 1894, tells the story of the Petkoff family during the war between Bulgaria and Serbia. The Petkoffs are one of the most affluent families in Bulgaria, with the family's patriarch, Major Petkoff holding one of the highest positions in the Bulgarian army. Major Petkoff's daugh­ter, Raina, is also betrothed to another highly ranked officer, Sergi us. 
One night, as Raina is dreaming about the heroic actions of he.r father and fiancee, she is surprised in her room by a Swiss solider, Captain Bluntschli, who is fighting on the side of Serbia. He hides in her room overnight to escape the Bulgarian soldiers and develops a friendship with Raina, who does not want to see him captured or killed. Bluntschli also manages to distort Raina's heroic image of her fiancee. He discredits the heralded cavalry charge of Sergius by telling how the Serbs simply were not delivered bullets in time. 
Several months later, the war comes to an end and Major Petkoff returns home with Sergius, who has decided to leave the military after he failed to receive a promotion. The two tell stories of their travels, including one encounter with a Swiss sol­dier who managed to find shelter in a young Bulgarian girl's room during an attack. Raina and her mother realize the two have met Captain Bluntschli, and when Bluntschli returns to the home to give back a coat Raina lent him, an awkward reunion ensues for everyone involved. 
Raina is troubled by the lie she must now upkeep, but little does she know of the forbidden desires of her fiancee, Sergi us, who longs for an affair with the family housekeeper. These romantic plot twists and love triangles add a great deal of comedy to a play filled with dialogue about the nature of war and the status of servants and their masters in society. 
Tom Barkes is the acting man­~ger of the Washington Hall facil­ity. For 19 years, he has seen numerous plays. Student and pro­fessional plays, conferences, con­certs and other shows have passed through the doors of Washington Hall. Built in 1881, the facility was used for a multi-
Thursday, April 22, 2004 
tude of exhi­
bitions and events, including graduation. 
"Everything was there, any they had going," Barkes "When I first started here, a different classes were her DeBartolo [Hall] was built." 
The building itself is act the second Washington Ha campus. The first one was down when the current onf erected. Like the main buildi used to have steps that led the performance hall. The I ing went through a major re tion during 1983-84. where of the building was repainte1 much of the original artworl covered up. The most impo piece of art was the one by ' the building was named. 
"It used to have a pictu George Washington abov1 stage," Barkes said. 
Along with the Washin mural, there were also pair of Shakespeare, Descarte~ some of the Greek muse name a few. 
Barkes also adds in regar the large chandelier that oril ly adorned the main perforn 


THE OBSERVER 
Thm•d•y,Ap<il22,2004 p•gel9
c ENE 
~========================================================~~ 

hall, "I think 
it was the first 

building on campus 1at was built with electricity." 
Burkes is also very thankful lashington Ilall has escaped orne of the types catastrophes 1at have plagued the Main uilding over the years. "We've een very lucky, we have stayed n~tty safe." 
In regards to the many per­lrmances he has seen during his mure, Barkes enjoys both the tudent and professional per­lrmances equally, but notes that, Sonwtimes the student groups ·ill surprise you, and that's when .'s the most fun." One of urkns's favorite performances ·as Amadeus, during the 1987­8 school. year. As Barkes recalls, When we sold out before we pened, that was a fun produc­on." lie also remembers 1990 -"The first time that Actors ·om the London Stage came ­1at blew me away." 
This fall the Mainstage produc­ons. along with a great number f film. television and theater ourses will move to the new larie 1'. DeBartolo Performing rts Center. Located on the south part of DeBartolo quad, it houses a 900-seat concert hall, a 350­seat Mainstage theater, a 200­seat TIIX-Certified theater, a 100­seat organ hall and a 100-seat studio theater. 
"It'll be interesting to .sec what impact the new performing arts center will have on the cultural life of the students here," Barkes 
said. 
Barkes recognizes the need 
for increased emphasis on the 
arts at Notre Dame. 
"We have sorely missed 
that at this institution for a 
long time. I think that we 
have been pretty consis­
tent lwith the student par­
ticipation). but I don't 
think that the student 
body as a whole has 
been as excited about 
what goes on at 
Washington Hall as they 
used to," Barkes said. "I 
don't know the reason 
for that, but my sense is 
that the new Performing 
Arts Center will offer a 
great boost to the visi­
bility of the arts on earn­
pus." 
As for the future of 
Washington Hall. Barkes 
already has a full sched­
ule lined up for next year. 
noting, "Gosh, except for 
the beginning of the year ... 
it really is just as busy as it 
was this year." 
Washington Ilall will be the 
new home for the Not-So-Hoyal 
Shakespeare Company, which usually performs at the small Ilesburgh Center theater or in other small theaters around earn­pus. It will also continue to house the Pasquerilla East Musical Company and the St. Ed's Players. In addition, the hall will present next year's Notre Dame Literary Festival, Jazz Festival, Opera Workshop, Irish Dancing Workshop, the Farley Ilall Players and O'Neill Hall's Queen of NO. Barkes is also very excited about the Student Union Board's involvement next year with Washington Ilall. "SUB is going to try to do something every Friday before a football game," Barkes said. 
As for this weekend's perform­ance, "Arms and the Man" is a dialogue rich play that is beauti­fully brought to life by all of the actors involved. A wonderfully produced play. it is very deserv­ing of its historical place as the last Mainstage performance at Washington Ilall. . George Bernard Shaw's "Arms and the Man" performs at Washington Ilall and started Wednesday, running through Saturday. Tonight's, Friday's and Saturday's performances are at 
7:30 p.m. and Sunday's is set for 
2:30 p.m. General admission tick­ets are available at the LaFortune box office for $10, senior citizens for $9 and all students for $7. 
Contact Jonathan Retactha at jretacth@nd.edu 



.....
Written in 1894, Shaw's "Arms and the Man" has with­stood the test of time and remains relevant today. With commentary on social class the nature of war, its themes remain timeless. Also, the play's comedic twists and humorous love triangles are cleverly performed by the tal­ented student cast and are sure to please any audience. 
Photos by 

SHAWNA MONSON 

Thursday, April22, 2004 

page 20 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Philadelphia falls to Florida 8-7 in 12 innings 
bases on a hit to left field lead­Giants. 
ing off the Phillie&' ninth, but Bonds never even took a 
PHILADELPHIA -The last was sent back to second swing. Jak~ Peavy (1-1) struck time Mike Lowell had a game because the ball got stuck him out looking with a 2-2 pitch like this, he was swinging an under the wall, drawing a heat­on the inside corner in the sec­aluminum bat in college. ed argument from Bowa. ond inning, and Bonds also 
Lowell homered three times Ranger 4, Angels 1 walked on four pitches twice. and Luis Castillo hit a sacrifice ANAHEIM, Calif. -Rookie He wound up one game short of fly in the 12th inning to send catcher Gerald Laird is going to the record shared by Dale Long the Florida Marlins to their become a favorite of his pitch­(1956), Don Mattingly (1987) eighth straight victory over the ing staff if he keeps throwing and Ken Griffey Jr. (1993). Philadelphia Phillies. 8-7 out potential base stealers at Peavy practically apologized Wednesday night. . this rate. for walking Bonds twice. 
Lowell led off the ninth with a Laird threw out three "I was trying to throw the tying shot off All-Star closer baserunners trying to steal sec­ball. I wanted to get him out," Billy Wagner, who blew his first ond. and Michael Young hit a Peavy said. "I just couldn't do save with the Phillies. The tiebreaking two-run triple to it. The second at-bat I was Marlins third baseman also hit help the Rangers beat Anaheim careful. The third at-bat I a solo shot off Eric Milton in the for their fifth win in six tries wanted to let him hit the balL I second and a two-run drive off against the Angels. hated how things worked out." Tim Worrell in the seventh, "That's always been my Bonds was replaced in left becoming the first player in strong point, being able to field by Dustan Mohr in the team history to connect three throw guys out," Laird said. eighth after the slugger told times in one game. "Every level I've played at, I've manager Felipe Alou he'd had 
It was the first three-homer led the league in throwing-out enough. game in the majors this season. percentage, so I just want to be "I asked him after the second 
"I didn't get caught up in the consistent and continue that walk and he was kind of disap­at-bats because we were trying success. pointed," Alou said. "I told him to come back," Lowell said. "It "What it does is help out our a lot of people were expecting was a career day. I did it in tee pitchers. If they see I can throw another at-bat ... and he went record 119 losses, they beat catcher, got three hits, Tim ball and once in college (at guys out, they're going to hold back out and played defense. Kansas City 15-6 on Sept. 23. Wakefield had another solid Florida International) my soph­guys on for me," Laird added. But then the score got to be "Being on the team last year outing and the Red Sox sent the omore year." "We kept three guys out of worse and he decided it wasn't and having as many losses as Toronto Blue Jays to their fifth 
With a chance to hit his scoring position, and Dickey worth it. I wanted to take him we did, I find myself never get­straight loss with a victory. 
fourth homer and tie a major was able to do his thing and out earlier though." ting comfortable," Detroit's Before the game, Mirabelli league record, Lowell popped focus on making his pitches." Bonds was not available for Brandon Inge said. "That's just joked with manager Terry out to thir.d base in the 11th Laird, who grew up about 10 comment after the game. He because in this game, anything Francona about how he 
against Ryan Madson. Lowell minutes from Angel Stadium, probably won't play in the can happen. deserved to start over Jason came in with one homer in the has thrown out six of 10 run­series finale Thursday -he "I wouldn't expect it to hap­Varitek because he'd homered first 13 games. ners this season, including often gets a rest during day pen with this ballclub, but at off Ted Lilly before. 
"He stepped up big time,"· David Eckstein in the first games after night games. Alou the same time, my guard is up." Mirabelli, who went 3-for-4, Marlins manager Jack McKeon inning. said a decision would be made Al Levine (2-0) pitched 1 2-3 was already in the starting line­said. "They play the game right in the morning. innings to get the win in relief. up, but he's played in just three 
Pinch-hitter Ricky Ledee's and play the game hard," Peavy pitched six strong Ugueth Urbina got the final games this season, serving as two-run homer in the eighth Eckstein said. 'They're going to innings, allowing four hits and three outs for a save in his first Wakefield's personal catcher. inning off Chad Fox gave be in a lot of ballgames because striking out four. chance with Detroit. "I love my role. I can relax for Philadelphia a 7-6 lead. Jim they play for nine innings." He also had two hits and an Minnesota, which trailed 11-four days and give it all I have 
Thome also connected for the The last Rangers catcher to RBI. Jay Witasick and Jason 3, chipped away and cut the for one day," he said. Phillies. throw out three runners in a Szuminski completed the lead to three on Shannon Mirabelli, who hit six hdmers The World Series champion game was Doug Mirabelli, on Padres' first shutout of the Stewart's solo homer to open last season, had an opposite­
Marlins have won 17 of their May 7. 2001, against the White year. the eighth. But Levine and field homer off Lilly (0-2) in the last 19 games against the Sox. Tigers 11, Twins 8 Urbina combined to retire six of third. His two-run shot in the Phillies, who blew a slim wild­"I owe a lot of it to Mike," MINNEAPOLIS -The Detroit the next seven batters. fourth hit off the facing of the card lead over Florida down Laird said of Young, who shift­Tigers weren't about to relax Radke (2-1). who pitched fourth deck in left field. It was the stretch last season. ed from second base to short­with a nine-run lead -not eight shutout innings against his second career multihomer 
"They find a way to win. stop this season after AL MVP with the memory of last season Cleveland in his last start, last­game.That's why they won the World Alex Rodriguez was traded to still fresh in their minds. ed only two innings in his "Every time I get a hit it's a Series," Phillies manager Larry the Yankees. "I had a couple of Ivan Rodriguez had four hits shortest start in nearly two surprise," he said. Bowa said. tough throws and Mike made and the Tigers roughed up years. At 3-11, the Blue Jays are off 
Juan Pierre walked with one some good plays for me with Brad Radke and hung on to "I thought I made a few good to the worst start in club histo­out in the 12th against Madson those tags." beat Minnesota, ending the pitches, but I made some bad ry. Toronto is also the first team (0-1). Pierre stole second and Padres 11, Giants 0 Twins' six-game winning ones and they put the ball in to start 0-8 at home since the went to third on an errant SAN FRANCISCO -Barry streak. play," Radke said. 1992 Detroit Tigers. 
throw by catcher Mike Bonds missed out on adding Craig Monroe had three hits Red Sox 4, Blue Jays 2 "Our offense is nonexistent," Lieberthal. despite a pitchout. another record to his remark­and scored three runs, and TORONTO -Doug Mirabelli Toronto manager Carlos Tosca Castillo then lofted a medium able resume. Alex Sanchez returned to the won't be bugging his manager said. fly to left, and Pat Burrell's The six-time MVP failed to tie lineup and drove in three runs. for more playing time, even Wakefield (2-0) became the throw to the plate hit Pierre. the major league mark for con­Detroit led 9-0 in the third after hitting two homers. > latest pitcher to shut down the 
Justin Wayne (1-0) pitched secutive. games with a home inning and held on to win. "Overexposure is the quickest Blue Jays, allowing two runs on two scoreless innings for the run when his streak ended at Only once last season did the way out of this game," Mirabelli six hits, while striking out four win. seven in the San Diego Padres' Tigers score more than 11 joked. "I like where I am." and walking two in 6 2-3 
Placido Polanco circled the victory over the San Francisco runs. On their way to an AL-Mirabelli, Boston's backup innings. 
Associated Press 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
"'  
M or F roommate in D.C. (specifi- Moving to College Park? Furniture  DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8  LARGE 3 BEDROOM house for  
WANTED  cally Arlington, VA) starting June or July for 1 yr lease. Pis contact  for sale: 3 beds, 2 desks, dining table, L  BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 BEDROOM HOUSE ... 2 BEDROOM DUPLEX ...  rent. Very close to ND, 2 baths, 2 car garage, WID,  PERSONAL  
Nicole at 574.621.8515 or  couch and more. Call Aahren or  AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON- just redone two years ago.  
nwykoff@nd.edu. Preferably fun  Rob: 271-1637  DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004­ $1,050/mo available 5/1. Call 312­ 
Wanted­ & willing to go outl  2005 SCHOOL YEAR ... WE ARE  375-8220  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Old paintings, especially Indiana  ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR  not go it alone. If you or someone  
- and Notre Dame (574) 286-9359  FoR SALE  FoR RENT  THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR. .. CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE  Nice 4 bdr. 3 car garage avail. now . or fall $1200/mo 288-9673  you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR  VERY NICE 3bdrm home near  more information, see our bi-weekly  
Catholic family offering fulltime  Why pay a landlords mortgage?  CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM  SHOWINGS  Corbys(East Bank  ad in THE OBSERVER.  
summer childcare opportunity to  Duplex 4 sale. Live in one, let the  mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525  area). Washer&Dryer-Aiarm­ 
care for 4 school age children,  other pay your mortgage. Close to  New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND,  Basement-H20  ATTENTION MARKETING  
ages 5to 11,  ND and downtown.  Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4  3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky- softner-large yard-off sireet park- MAJORS  
Scottsdale Mall area,  bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer  lights.  ing.Call Joe Crimmins:cell#514­ Combine your interest in  
7:30AM to 5:00PM,  Call Kim at 574-245-5040.  or fall.  $1640/mo. Call574-232-4527 or  0643 home#273-0002.  Marketing/Sales and your Catholic  
wages negotiable,  235-3655.  269-683-5038  Faith. Earn money during the sum­ 
non-smoker preferred,  Bike+Lock $25, Desk $30, Bed  3 Bdrm. house near ND. Alarm,  mer and continue to receive checks  
own transportation a plus,  $100, Desk Chair $10, mini-PA  Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4  Stay at Homestead Bed and  cable and internet Large yard.  throughout the next school year.  
contact  $100. Call Dave  bdrms close to NO. Spring, summer  Breakfast for football games. 574­ $1000/mo.  Not an MLM. Visit us and apply at  
Maureen@ (574) 231-8126.  234-5630  or fall. 235-3655.  277-9834  Available 5/1/04. Call514-9999.  www.connectingcatholics.com  
. I  

page 21 

Thursday, April 22, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Coleman-Morse Center 631·7800 ministry.l@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu

Campus Ministry C-M 
' h . 

study days Et
sunday 0-4.2.5 
Faith Rocks 
finals 
Bleach in concert 
4:00p.m. South Quad 
tuesday 04.27 
Campus Bible Study 7:oo p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 
wednesday r.M_ ?8 
Interfaith Coffeehouse Joe Nava in concert to:oo p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
·-l 
I 
I 
' 
i 
!
: 
j i 
l 
I 
I 
I 
Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups, mass schedules and special campus  I I I  
events at  
campusministry.nd.edu  

Each year Campus Minitry offers what we hope is food for your soul, now that it's time for finals, we offer some 
Brain Food 
Refreshments provided in Coleman-Morse Center 
beginning next 
Thursday 
and lasting throughout Finals 
interreligious dialogue 
Discovering Islam: 
a dialogue with Muslim students 
TONIGHT 
7:30 p.m. 
Keough 24-hour lounge Food provided 
Sponsored by 
Keough Hall Campus Ministry , Arts & Letters' "Residing in a World of Ideas" program 
mass schedule 
basilica of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass s:oo p.m. 
Rev. Peter )arret, c.s.c 
Sunday 1o:oo a.m. Rev.Peter )arret, c.s.c 
11:45 p.m. 
Rev. Peter )arret, c.s.c 

considerations ... 
Holy Ordinations 
Grant these, your servants, the 
grace and dignity of the priesthood 
by Fr. Richard Warner, C.S.C. Director, Campus Ministry 
On Easter SatlU"day afternoon, the Indiana Province ofrhe Congregation of Holy 
Cross ordained its largest class of priests in ten years. Six Holy Cross religious were 
ordained priests in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart by the Most Reverend Daniel R. 
Jenky, C.S.C., bishop of Peoria, before a standing room only crowd of people in a very 
impressive and joyous setting. Among those ordained was Father Daniel Parrish, 
C.S.C., rector ofZahm Hall. 
There are so many joyous, solemn and impressive moments in that special liturgy. 
Over 130 Holy Cross priests concelebrated the Mass with Bishop ]enh.-y, and each of 
them placed their hands on the heads of each of those to be o"rdained in an ancient rite 
that comes to us from apostolic times. The testimony of the people who had been 
served by the priests during their deacon year was grateful, and occasionally 
humerous, reflections on how these men had served them through baptism and 
marriages, by their uplifting preaching and comforting hospital visits, and through 
teaching and working wirh youth groups. And in the closing moments of the Mass, 
Bishop ]enky received a 

first blessing from each of 
For them to request and accept
'.rhe priests and kissed their 
hands which would bless, ordination with such hope and joy during 
consecrate, offer God's 

a moment which has been difficult
forgiveness, pour water 
over the heads of those 

because of the highly publicized
they would baptize, anoint 
the sick with holy oil and scandals which have been caused by a 
bless newly married 

small but inexcusable number of priests
couples. For six yotmg men to 

and bishops, is a great sign of their love 
make this commitment to 
Christ, the Church and for a life of brotherhood and ministry 
the Congregation of Holy 
Cross is a sign of God's 

love for us and for all Hispeople. For them to request and accept ordination with 
such hope and joy during a moment which has been difficult because of the highly 
publicized scandals which have been caused by a small but inexcusable number of 
priests and bishops, is a great sign of their love for a life of brotherhood and minisrry 
that will enable them to enter into the lives of many people of different cultures under 
diverse circumstances. 

The negative aspects of our society which is increasingly secularized and seculariz~ 
ing do not give much credence to permanent commitments born of love whether it be 
through the sacrament of matrimony or the sacrament of Holy Orders. But a strong 
faith draws many young people to commit themselves to a life lived for others, and 
find great happiness carrying out the promises they made and live out of love. 
All six of these men have worked with Campus Ministry during their years of 
formation in the RCIA program, retreats, marriage preparation comses and in many 
other ways. Like those who testified on their behalf on Saturday, we, too, have found 
them to be well prepared, zealou.s and men who will make a difference wherever they 
are assigned. 

·························~··~·········· 
This has been another exciting year of ministry for all the members ofour staff and the hundreds of students who work closely with us. May God bless the seniors who have worked with us in all their futme endeavors. We know they will make a differ~ ence in the Church and in society. 
Third Sunday of Easter 
around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. s:oo p.m. 7:00 p.m. 
Spanish Mass  Law School Mass  MBA Mass  
St. Edward's Hall Chapel  Law School Commons  Mendoza COB  
Faculty Lounge  

2nd: Revelations 5:11-14 Gospel: John 21:1-19 
... 
-


1st: Acts 5:27-32, 40b·41 
~ =pa=~=e=2=2=======================================-=~=h=~O~b~s=e~r=w~r=+=-=S=P=()==R=T=S===_=_=_=_==_=_=_~~-=-=·=-~~~~=_=_=_==_=-=====T=h=ur=sd=a=y=,A=p=r=il=2=2,=2=0==04 
I 
I 
"" NBA PLAYOFFS 
Bucks survive furious Pistons rally, even series 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. ­Michael Redd bounced back, and so did the Milwaukee Bucks. 
Barely. 
Redd scored a career playoff high of 26 points as Milwaukee held on to beat the Detroit Pistons 92-88 VVednesday in Game 2 and even their series. It was the first win by a road team in this year's playoffs. 
The Bucks led 87-72 with 3:13 left before Detroit made a frantic comeback. VVith a chance to tie or take the lead, Rasheed VVallace took a pass in the corner and the ball slipped out of his hands and went out of bounds with 4.1 seconds left. 
Redd then made two free throws to seal the win. The Bucks' leading scorer had just 11 points -about half his 
-
average -and made seven of Milwaukee's 25 turnovers in its 108-82 loss Sunday. Redd scored his 12th point on the opening possession of the second half VVednesda~ · 
Heat 93, Hornets 63 
MIAMI -The Miami Heat had 
no need for another last-second 
hero VVednesday night -not the 
way the New Orleans Hornets 
missed shots at a near-record 
rate. 
New Orleans shot 24.4 percent 
to tie for the second-lowest play­
ofT point total since the shot clock 
was introduced in 1954, and the 
Heat won for a 2-0 lead in their 
Eastern Conference playoff 
series. 
The hapless Hornets finished 20-for-82. They sank seven , meaningless baskets in the fourth quarter to avoid breaking 

the record for playoff shooting futility -23.3 percent, set by Golden State in 1973. 
Dwyane VVade's basket with 

1.3 seconds left gave Heat a win in Game 1, but they wrapped up Game 2 early, taking a 23-point lead in the third quarter. 
Tlmberwolves 95, Nuggets 81 
MINNEAPOLIS -Latrell Sprewell took care of the shoot­ing, and Kevin Garnett did the dirty work. 
Sprewell scored 31 points, Garnett had his third career playoff triple-double and the Timberwolves beat the Denver Nuggets VVednesdi!-Y night to take a 2-0 lead in their first-round VVestern Conference playoff series. 
The series shifts to Denver for the next two games, with Game 3 set for Saturday night. 


--~N.wm.---------­

ND ATHLETICS ....BE THERE! --~-­
Friday/ April 23 at 7:oo PM 
Saturday, 
Apr-il 24th & Sunday 25th #6 Women's Lacrosse vs. Johns Hopkins ~ Men's & Women's Golf Big East ~ 
•Jiii-st200./itnsret."lrft)e a !tmg sleeve..:;cltedule 

Championships@ Warren GolfCOUrse 
T;.s!JiJtsponsoredh:.lJ Papa Johfl ~~ 

*MEN's GOLF_,GOLD GAME ....
•Pre-gwnetai/gatill.qparf!! spt.mson.'flhy Papa 

SUNDAY 1-3PM
·:a::..~~arlmi<.>ion_liJreveryone! I • I ....... ~'l"" .... . ~"";~;
-r-¢!:,~ -r-;-~~~~ J Women's Soccervs. Mexico National 
-i"frst 1oojans receii.Je a {;old Ganze Team atAlmnni Field,@ 7pm I ./-shirtsponsored byAero.postale 


Thursday, April 22, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 


CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
presents 
•


omen Sha I tng Theolo 

by 

Mary Ann Hinsdale, IHM, Ph.D. 
Associate Professor of Theology -Department of Theology Boston College -Chestnt1t Hill 
Thursday, April 22, 2004 
7:30 p.m.. (South Bend/Chicago titne) 
Moreau Little Tl1eatre Saint Maty's College FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
Saint Ma~s College 
NOTRE DAME · INDIANA 
The Nation's Premier Catholic Women's College 

For information, contact (574) 284-4636 • E-mail manuszak@saintmarys.edu 
I .. I 
I 
I I I I I I I 
-II 
__________________________________________________j 
1,~,24 ---------~---];-'h_e_Obser~v" +~P-~RTS~ -~~---Thu"day, Apdl22, 2004 
============================================================================================================== 
I I 
NBA 
Bryant defense cannot use accuser's records 
.. Judge refuses to allow defense lawyers to use medical records of 19-year-old woman who accused Lakers star ofrape 
Associated Press 
DENVER -The judge in the Kobe Bryant case dealt a blow to the defense Wednesday, barring access to the medical records of the 19-year-old woman accusing the NBA star of rape. 
Judge Terry Ruckriegle said no witness during three hearings had convinced him that the woman had waived her confiden­
of her condition and medical treatment," the judge wrote. 
Ruckriegle also rejected defense arguments that the woman waived privacy rights by talking with Eagle County sheriff's Detective Doug Winters, who interviewed her shortly after the alleged assault. 
The woman's attorney, John Clune, declined to com­ment. Defense attorney Hal 
Haddon did not 

tiality rights return a call,
"This is definitely an

by telling oth­and prosecu­
important victory for 

ers about her tion spokes­medical condi­people who get woman Krista tions and Flannigan said
medical treatement 

treatment. only that pros­
that don't want to lose

Ruckriegle ecutors were also threw out the privilege just pleased. defense sub­Bryant's
because they've 

poenas seeking attorneys have
decided to talk to

records from said in court three health other people or confide filings they 
care providers. in family and friends believe the 
Bryant faces woman's med­
for support., 

four years to ical records life in prison could under­or 20 years to Karen Steinhauser mine her cred­life on proba­ibility and
scholar 

tion if convict­demonstrate ed of felony she had a sexual assault. The Los "scheme" to falsely accuse Angeles Lakers star has said the Lakers star. They say she he had consensual sex with twice attempted suicide in the woman last summer at the months before meeting the Vail-area resort where Bryant, and had been pre­she worked. scribed anti-depressant and 
The judge acknowledged anti-psychotic drugs. the woman had discussed Prosecutors have argued her conditions and treatment that none of the information in general terms with friends contained in her medical and relatives, but said he records is relevant to believed it was clear she had whether she consented to sex no intent to waive confiden­with Bryant. tiality. Analysts said the ruling 
"The victim never revealed was not surprising, consider­the specific nature of her ing strong state laws protect­medical treatment, the sub­ing confidentiality and a stance of her conversations 2002 Colorado Supreme with the medical providers Court ruling that told judges nor other confidential details they cannot review medical 
In town for the game? Why 
tlfiiiiJ---..... 
not stay with family? Gramma's House B&B. Now taking reservations for the 2004 football season and 2005 Graduation. 

2 miles north ofthe Notre Dame Toll Road exit (77). Group rates for partiesof6.Phone574-272-3999 
This Week in the Department ofMusic••• 
ND Chorale & Chamber Orchestra Wednesday,April21,2004 8 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Russ Gavin, euphonium ND Collegium Musicum 

Thursday, April 22, 2004 Daniel Stowe, director pm, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh library 8 pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel 
Katie Hunt& Mark Thomas, organ Timothy Duhr, organ Thursday, April 22, 2004 Saturday, April 24, 2004 8:15pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 8 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
ND University Band& Brass Ensemble Sunday, April 25, 2004 3 pm, Rotunda, Notre Dame Main Building 
Allevents FREE andopen to thepublic! 
For more information call the Department ofMusic at631-6201. 

records -even behind port," said Karen direct knowledge about the closed doors -without con­Steinhauser. a former prose­woman's purported suicide sent. cutor and visiting professor attempts and prescription 
"This is definitely an at the University of Denver drug use. important victory for people law school. "The defense has a bathtub who get medical treatment Larry Pozner, past presi­full of evidence on her sui­that don't want to lose the dent of the National cide attempts that is not in privilege just because Association of Criminal the medical records -it's they've decided· to talk to Defense Lawyers. said the just plain old-fashioned (eye­other people or confide in defense still can seek testi­witness) testimony," Pozner family and friends for sup-mony from people who have said. 

Juniors interested in applying for the Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell Scholarships: 
Plan to attend an informational session TONIGHT, Thursday, April22nd in DeBartolo 138 at 8:00PM. 
This meeting will attempt to answer all of your application questions and discuss the procedures necessary for securing the University's nomination regarding these great awards. 
Ifyou are unable to attend, please contact the Fellowship Office (fellows@nd.edu) for additional details. 
Scholarship Questions? Visit our Website at www.nd.edu/scholarship for information on a variety of different awards. 
mountain film festival world tour 
www.banffmountainfesti.Vals.ca 2003/2004 ;A~~ 
Today: Thursday, April 22"d at 7:30 ~~~~t~~~ Annenberg Auditorium rwnm~•'+ 14 
in the Snite Museum Tickets $7 at the Lafortune box office (raffle ticket included) All proceeds going to the Big Creek Foundation 

Thursday, April 22, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Celebrate 
• '•• • ••• • --~·')!
J ,,,. '•, / 

~ :~ ·~. l -:~
~: ~· ..~.T.r ::·'~ 2 0 .o··:····· 4·:~
r·'H:~-·: ' . . :i . . ........ . 
-CI!{ ~-....~ .... -~-: ... DAY,, 
••••u"&""•••' •••• ~ ' ' '' •· •··• -~ . 
We do not inherit the earth from our ancestors, ~e borrow it from our children. -Nati~e American Pro~erb 

DO YOUR PART 
t:o reduce, recycle an.d conserve! 


for En~ironmental 
.. __...._----------------------------------------------------.-... -------------------------------------··-­
-~---------·--" 

page 26 Thursday, April22, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL DRAFT 

Ukrainian linetnan tnay be unexpected first-round pick 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Igor Olshansky was just 15 but already a behemoth at 6-foot-5 and 245 pounds. 
A high school football coach spotted him in the stands, watching a sport he was still learning eight years after emi­grating from Ukraine. 
"I put him up against a wall and spoke for 30 minutes," Vince Tringali recalled. "I told him, 'You're crazy. kid. You have to get out there. If you keep growing, you'll be worth a lot of money."' 
That prediction could soon prove true: Olshansky has par­layed his rare combination of strength, size and speed to shoot up the draft board in recent weeks, becoming a pos­sible first-round sleeper in this weekend's NFL draft. 
According to the Pro Football Hall of Fame, Olshansky would be the first player born in the former Soviet Union in the NFL. 
It's been a rapid ascension for a player who just a few years ago didn't even know there were 11 players a side in football. 
"I didn't know anything about football." said Olshansky, who played in col­


AP 

Former Oregon defensive end and Ukraine native lineman Igor Olshansky works out In his gym to prepare for the NFL Draft. 
teammates counting each rep, everyone said I'd probably be Olshansky recorded 43 lifts at a third-or fourth-round pick. I 225 pounds. Now some project don't think they really looked Olshansky as a first-or sec­at my game film and realized ond-rounder. He had visits my abilities. with Kansas City, Dallas, "There are a lot of big, Jacksonville and San Francisco strong, fast kids out there, but scheduled before the draft. a lot aren't playing football or 
"I wasn't even on the radar," can't play football. I can also he said. "When I declared, play. I make plays." 
lege at Oregon. ''I'd seen it, but I didn't understand what I was watch­ing. It looked kind of crazy." 
That's not sur­prising considering where he came from. Olshansky was born in Dnipropetrovsk, Ukraine, an indus­trial city known more as a destina­tion of American men seeking brides than it is for foot­ball. 
He came to the 
"He was very raw, but he learned football. Football is not a rocket science. There's something about this kid. He's destined for greatness." 
VInce Tringali football coach 


United States when he was 7. Growing up in San Francisco, Olshansky played basketball and boxed -sports more familiar to Eastern Europeans. "How many Igors do you 

know in the NFL? You find he could have been a high them in hockey and a few in first-round pick had he stayed basketball or maybe soccer. In for his senior season. He was the NFL? I don't think so," said motivated by the chance to Tringali, who coached Hall of help his parents financially Fame quarterback Dan Fouts and the belief he could be a 
at the same  high  
school,  St.  
Ignatius,  but  

retired before Olshansky started there. 
"He was very raw." Tringali added. "But he learned football. Football is not a rocket science. There's something about this kid. He's destined for greatness." 
Professional football wasn't exactly what 

first-rounder already. NFL draft con­
'There are a lot of 
sultant Gil big, strong. fast Brandt sees tremendous
kids out there, but 
long-term poten­
a lot aren't playing 
tial for a natural football or can't player who is still learning
play football. I can 
some of the ins
also play. I make 
and outs of foot­plays." ball. "You can always teach
Igor Olshansky 
people to do 
NFL draft prospect 
things who have ability," Brandt said. "It's awfully 
Alexandra Olshansky had in hard to teach someone to do mind for her son -she would things who don't have ability. have preferred he go into med­When you have someone who icine -but she has accepted is that size end who can run that his passion is sports, even that fast, that in itself is a big if she and her husband don't plus." understand football. Olshansky gets his strength 
At least the fans at Oregon from his grandfather. a World made it easy for them to know War II hero wounded 11 times when their son was successful. in .battle. After almost every tackle, Now 6-5 and 315 pounds, chants of "I-gor! I-gor!" rang Olshansky wowed NFL teams out in Autzen Stadium. "They with his impressive pre-draft knew that I had made a big workouts. He had a vertical 
play whenever jump of 33 1/2 inches and ran they heard my a 40-yard dash in under 5 sec­name," he said. onds. But where he really The person­shined was the strength drills. able Olshansky After bench-pressing 225 
fluent in pounds 41 times at the NFL English and combine -one short of Isaac Russian -ate Sopoaga of Hawaii and four up the attention, shy of a record -Olshansky talking back and wouldn't be outdone at gesturing to the Oregon's pro day. fans to fire them With his father looking on, up. and a legion of scouts and his 
Olshansky 
heard his name quite a bit last season. He had 58 tackles. including 15 for losses and 6 1/2 
sacks. on the way to being named the Ducks' top defen­sive lineman for the second straight year. 
Despite that, many ques­tioned why he left early, saying 


Mav20,2004
TWO MEN 
: .. · .. :
.... 
. •.•.·····
":::: ... ..·.··········.··o················.······••• 
TRUCK® 

Ticket Price $15 -All Ages Show 
"Movers Who (a.re®;, 

South Bend Centurv Center 
• 
Residential • local & long Distance 

• 
Commercial • Boxes &Packing Supplies 

• 
Packing Service • loading &Unloading of 



Tickets: O'Brien 
• Insured &Bonded Rental Trucks Available 

Recreation Center 
(5711) 675-9700 
www.twomenandattuck.com 
Visit Out Box Store/ 

514.299.4165 
11590 McKinley, Suite D • Osceola, IN 46561 
,., 

Thursday, April 22, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
NFL 
Third Annual University of Notre Dame Social Venture Plan Competition 
*Free Gift to the First 50 Spectators* 
Come watch 5 teams of ND students and alumni battle it out for $10,000 in prize money to build their dream! 
Thursday, April 22 2004 1:00pm-4:00pm Hesburgh Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Join us far a special celebration of the spirit of entrepreneurship at 1\btre D:nre. Help celebrate the vision of crea.tivity of fellow students as they present their social venture b.J.siness plan, field questions fran a panel of judges and ccnpete for prize money totaling $10,000! 
Co-sponsored by the Master of Science in Adminio:tratian Program 

Warner leaving Is• not a certainty 
Associated Press ST. LOUIS-St. Louis Rams' coach Mike Martz said Wednesday that Kurt Warner 's agent overreacted to a conversa­tion he had with the quarter­back, and emphasized there's still a chance the two-time MVP could stay with the team. Martz characterized his con­versation with Warner on Monday as a necessary "first step" in the process after he decided to go with Marc Bulger as his quarterback for next sea­son. He said he had promised Warner and his agent, Mark Bartelstein, that he would inform him when he had made a decision. "It was a very difficult conver­sation, the hardest one I've ever had with a player," Martz said. "He asked what his future was. I think from that point on it just kind of took on a life of its own." Bartelstein said Tuesday his client expected to be released after June 1 and added he expected a lot of interest around the NFL in Warner. On Wednesday, Bartelstein stood behind those words. "I don't think I overreacted at all," Bartelstein said. "I repre­sent the highest-rated quarter­back in the history of the NFL, and he wants to play football, and the world doesn't wait for you. "My job is to try to find him a new home." Martz blamed himself for not making it clear to Warner, the NFL MVP in 1999 and 2001, that he still could be back. I le also said he expects Warner to con­tinue participating in offseason workouts and minicamps. ''I'm afraid in my discussions with Kurt that I got carried away and led him to believe this was it," Martz said. It's still likely that Warner will be released. But Martz reiterat­ed that discussions on a long­term contract with Bulger could impact what happens. Any Bulger talks also could impact whether the Hams select a quar­terback in the first round of the draft on Saturday. Bulger has been a big success in one and one-half seasons as a starter with the Rams. lie won his first six starts in 2002 and led the team to a 12-4 record and an NFC West championship last year, then was the MVP in the Pro Bowl. Warner was the NFL MVP in 1999 and 2001, leading the team to the Super Bowl each year. But he had just three touchdown passes and 11 interceptions in an injury-plagued 2002 and lost his job after fumbling six times while sustaining a concussion in the opener last year. Martz declined to discuss his reasoning for going vyith Bulger. "There's a lot of things involved with that, a lot of fac­tors, and I think that's something that's better left unsaid," Martz said. "Obviously, it took a great deal of time to come to that con­clusion." 
Thursday, April 22, 2004

page 28 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL DRAFT 

Drafting quarterbacks not an exact science 

only quarterback bust: Rick were chosen in the sixth and thought Leaf would be better pick, and New England got
Associated Press 

Mirer, Jim Druckenmiller, seventh rounds. than Peyton Manning. They Brady at 199. The next round, 
NEW YORK -This year's Akili Smith, Cade McNown, "There's so much focus on brushed off reports (most the 49ers took Rattay, who draft has three "can't miss" Dave Brown, Marinovich and the top two or three quarter­recounted after the fact) that almost immediately showed quarterbacks: Eli Manning, McGwire are all long gone or backs that a lot of people for­Leaf didn't get along with more promise than Carmazzi Ben Roethlisberger and Philip at the end of some bench. get there are more than that coaches or teammates and and probably will enter next Rivers. Yes, drafting is a guessing who can play very well," St. had no leadership skills. season as San Francisco's 
Buyer beware? game as much as an exact sci­Louis Rams coach Mike Martz + In 1999, Tim Couch was starter. Think of Ryan Leaf. ence, especially when it comes says. "There are 10 of them in drafted first overall; Donovan "The thing about quarter­And remember that Todd to quarterbacks. How else to this year's bunch that I would McNabb second; Smith third; backs that nobody really 
Marinovich and Dan (Mark's explain that two-time Super really like to have." Daunte Culpepper 11th and knows is work habits," says brother) McGwire were draft­Bowl MVP Tom Brady went in Martz has some credibility McNown 12th. McNabb and Gil Brandt, the NFL's chief ed ahead of a guy named Brett the sixth round in 2000, while on the subject. Culpepper are stars, but draft consultant. Favre in 1991. two other current starters, In the summer of 2000, he Couch is still struggling, and "You get some that are going 
Leaf, of course, is not the Marc Bulger and Tim Rattay, remarked during a casual chat the other two are busts. to study tape and keep study­that New Orleans had "a kid Brooks, drafted in the fourth ing. There are others who are named Bulger I really like." A round by Green Bay before going to get big money and few weeks later, the Saints being traded to the Saints, is think they have it made." obtained Aaron Brooks and the third-best from that class. Still, some bad picks are eventually released Bulger, + In 2000, Chad Pennington simply unexplainable. Some who ended up with the Rams was the only quarterback are the result of teams failing and now starts. taken in the first round and to uncover character flaws or 
This year's top three QBs seems ready for stardom with worse in a player's back­would seem to have a better the Jets. The next QBs chosen ground. shot at success than most first were Giovanni Carmazzi (San Ten years from now, rounders. Francisco, third round); Chris Manning, Roethlisberger and 
Manning comes with a great Redman (Baltimore, third) and Rivers might very well be pedigree _ brother Peyton was Tee Martin (Pittsburgh, fifth). stars. this year's co-MVP, and father Then New Orleans took And so might one of the guys Archie was an outstanding Bulger with the 168th overall projected lower in the draft. player stuck on a dismal team in New Orleans. But horse breeders can tell you that pedigrees are no guarantee against injury or simply fail­
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
ure. The rap on Roethlisberger is that he needs work, while 
Don't go it alone. 
Rivers has a funky, semi­sidearm delivery that didn't keep him from completing 72 
rryou or someone you love needs help or 
percent of his passes last sea­
information, please call. 
son at North Carolina State. But the consensus is that all are future stars. 
"I have fallen in love with 
Confidential Support & Assistance
these guys," Baltimore coach Brian Billick says of the trio. 
Available at Notre Dame: 
Still, keep these quarter­backs in mind: >-Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407
+ In 1998, some teams >-Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 ) Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 ) Jolm Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 
);> Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 );> Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 
South Bend Comnzunity Resources: 
>-Women's Care Center: 234-0363 >-Catholic Charities: 234-3111 
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
A comedy by George Bernard Shaw 
Directed by Ann Marie Stewart Playing at Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April 21 7:30 p.m. Thursday, April 22 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 23 7:30 p.m. Saturday, April 24 7:30 p.m. Sunday, April 25 2:30 p.m. 
Resel'Ved Seats $10 • Senior Citizens $9 All Students $7 
Tickets are available at: the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. MasterCard/Visa orders, ca!l574-631-8128. 


Thursday, April 22, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
NBA 
O'Brien named Sixers head coach, Iverson will stay 
ing to come off the bench after his first choice, and that he did
A..scxiated Press 
being taken out of the starting not meet with any other poten­
PIIILADELPIIIA Jim lineup. Iverson also had a con­tial candidates. King said he O'Brien wanted to coach the tentious relationship with never asked Portland for per­Philadelphia 76ers -and Allen Brown, but the two worked mission to talk with coach Iverson. together despite several dis­Maurice Cheeks, a former 
"When you're dealing with putes. Sixers' star. somebody like Allen, I really O'Brien figures he'll have King first met with O'Brien on want to be as close to 100-per­more success getting along with March 25 in Boston and final­cent sure as I possibly could Iverson than his predecessors. ized the deal Monday, not want­that I'd be coaching him," "I have never had difficulty ing other teams to call O'Brien O'Brien said. leading people and having peo­after the playoffs. O'Brien want­
O'Brien got his wish, and the ple understand the expectations ed to return to Philadelphia -Sixers have their new coach. that I have," O'Brien said. ''I'm not that he was waiting for the 
Sixers president Billy King a fairly easy person to play for." only other team with an interim reitr.rated Wednesday that he O'Brien, who said he had a coach to come calling. will not try to trade Iverson, a brief and amicable conversation "Boston didn't want to hire former league MVP and scoring with Iverson on Wednesday, me," he said, joking. champion who is signed said whatever problems the All­O'Brien stepped down as through 2008-09. Star had with previous coaches coach of the Celtics on Jan. 27. 
"Allen will be here nr.xt year," and management would stay in midway through his fourth sea­King said. the past. lie was comfortable son with the team after clashing So will O'Brien, the former that any residual issues were with Danny Ainge, Boston's Boston Celtics coach who was ·resolved while talking with executive director of basketball introduced Wednesday. lie is King. operations. Ainge wanted to Philadelphia's 20th head coach "We had open discussions build a younger, more offensive and the third to lead the 76ers about everything that happened team. O'Brien relied on veter­since Hall of Farner Larry last year," O'Brien said. ''I'm ans who were strong defenders. Brown stepped down last May. satisfied that was then, and the O'Brien was 139-119 with the Brown, who spent six seasons future is the future. Clearly, Celtics and led them to the in Philadelphia, is the coach of what happened last year did Eastern Conference finals and the Detroit Pistons. not scare me from wanting to semifinals in the last two sea­
King picked assistant Handy lead this team into next sea­sons. He spent the last seven Ayers as Brown's successor, but son." seasons with the Celtics, joining attended Roman Catholic High Iverson on the roster. he was fired 52 games into the Veterans Derrick Coleman. them as an assistant coach in School, the 52-year-old O'Brien "It's something I've been season. Ayers was replaced by Glenn Robinson, Eric Snow and 1997 and replacing Rick Pitino was a three-year starter at thinking about since I was Chris Ford. Aaron McKie might be made in 2001. Saint Joseph's and is the son-in­about 8 years old, to get a 
The Sixers missed the playoffs available through trades or the Assistant coach Dick Harter, a law of former 76ers coach Jack chance to be a head coach in for the first time since the expansion draft. defensive specialist, was let go Ramsay. He said he has fulfilled Philadelphia at the college or 1997-98 season. Ford will O'Brien expects the Sixers to when O'Brien quit. O'Brien a childhood dream by becoming pro level-and it's come true," remain in the organization. reach the playoffs as long as wants to hire Harter, though no the coach. He now wants to he said. "And I really want the 
Iverson had several run-ins they remain healthy. deal has been finalized. achieve a professional goal -opportunity to coach Allen with Ford, most notably refus-King said O'Brien was always A Philadelphia native who winning an NBA title with Iverson." 

A'I'TENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting applications for three Admissions Counselor positions! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection ofthe first-year class by managing relations \\>ith the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communications within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation ofapplications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. 
**One position will be an undet-stood one-yeat· assignment with the possibility of permanent employment should a staff opening occur in 2005. ( 114) 
**One position will include the add.itional responsibility for recruitment efforts for African American students. ( 1 15) 
**One position will likely include the responsibility for recruitment efforts for intet·national students. ( 1 16) 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and familiarity with all aspects ofstudent life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings ~nd Saturday mornings. 
Preferred start date is July I, 2004. 
Apply on-llne via Human Resources web site or submit resume, cover letter and reference .infom1ation by Tuesday, April27, 2004 to: 
Admissions Counselor .Job Numbers: 4007-114. 4007-115, 4007-116 Department of Human Resources 'University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 


OUND THE NATION 
page 30 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVUts wnu: st:Rvtcts Thursday, April 22, 2004 

around the dial 
MLB 
New York (AL) at Chicago (AL), 
7:05 p.m., WGN Atlanta at Cincinnati, 11 :35 a.m., TBS 
NBA PLAYOFFS New Jersey at New York, 6 p.m., TNT San Antonio at Memphis, 8:30p.m., TNT 
NHL PLAYOFFS Calgary at Detroit, 6:30 p.m., ESPN Toronto at Philadelphia, 6:30p.m., ESPN2 Colorado at San Jose, 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
GOLF Round One: Shell Houston Open, 3:00p.m., USA 
' .... . , , . ' ~ · t , ~ /, I t I' 1 \ , t i ·, 
NBA 


Associated Press 
MEMPHIS -Hubie Brown answered a ques­tion about Memphis' first pro basketball playoff game by detailing how his Kentucky Colonels won the ABA title in 1975. 
He listed the St. Louis roster and pointing out that 72 of 79 players won NBA jobs after the leagues merged. 
Jerry West listened, then said: "I can't remember yesterday. How do you remember that?" 
"When you're old, you just talk," Brown said. "I take advantage of the fact that you're being charita­ble." _ 
Brown at 70, the oldest coach in the league had plenty to talk about Wednesday after winning the NBA Coach of the Year award for leading the Memphis Grizzlies to a team-record 50 wins and their first playoff berth. 
He beat Utah's Jerry Sloan in a close race with 466 points, including 62 of 122 first-place votes from a panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 
The award marks a 26­year span between victo­ries for Brown, who also was honored as the top coach in the 1977-78 sea­son with Atlanta. Gene Shue won 13 years apart, with Baltimore (1969) and Washington (1982). 
"Here we are 26 years later, and he wins another one," said West, the Grizzlies' president of basketball operations. 
West heard plenty of criticism when he hired Brown in November 2002. He couldn't stop smiling as he presented his coach with the award at a news conference after the Grizzlies' practice. He called Brown the best coach he has been around. 
"We don't even have close to a perfect team here, and he's been able to hide some of our weaknesses," West said. 
Brown said the award must be shared with owner Michael Heisley, the Grizzlies and especial­ly West, whose call came after Brown was demoted by television executives who thought he was too old to connect with the NBA's younger viewers. 
"This guy, the guy hold­ing the door, gave me the opportunity to have a little more bounce in my step," Brown said. 
Sloan got 424 points, with 56 top votes. Milwaukee's Terry Porter and Miami's Stan Van Gundy, both rookie head coaches, tied for third with 54 points and one first-place vote each. 

IN BRIEF 
Sharpe returning to Denver for another season 
DENVER -Tight end Shannon Sharpe will return to the Denver Broncos for at least one more season. 
"Shannon called Coach [Mike] Shanahan a few days ago and con­firmed that with him," Broncos spokesman Jim Saccomano said Wednesday. 
After completing his 14th season, Sharpe said in January he might retire and planned on announcing his deci­sion before this weekend's draft so the team would know whether to look for a replacement. 
Sharpe is the NFL's career leader in receptions (815) and yards (10,060) at his position, and last season he passed Jerry Smith for most touchdowns with 62. 
A seven-time Pro Bowl selection, Sharpe has won three Super Bowls _ two with Denver, another with Baltimore. He was part of an NFL record 12 straight playoff wins from 1997-01. 
Last season, the 35-year-old Sharpe caught 62 passes for 770 yards and eight touchdowns, second in the AFC to Kansas City's Tony Gonzalez. 
Closing arguments in 
Williams' trial postponed 
SOMERVILLE. N.J. -Closing argu­ments in the manslaughter trial of for­mer NBA star Jayson Williams have been postponed until Monday due to the illness of a prosecution lawyer. 
Superior Court Judge Edward M. Coleman told lawyers in the case Wednesday that he anticipates giving instructions to the jury on Tuesday morning, after which deliberations would begin. 
Coleman had set summations for Thursday, but said he was postponing them because Assistant Hunterdon County Prosecutor Katharine Errickson was ill. 
Williams is charged in the shooting death of a hired driver at his Hunterdon County mansion on Feb. 

14,2002. Summerall released from 
hospital after transplant 
JACKSONVILLE -Broadcaster Pat Summerall was released Wednesday from St. Luke's Hospital, where he received a liver transplant earlier this month. 
Summerall will remain in the Jacksonville area for several weeks for outpatient care until his doctors clear him to return home to Texas. the hos­pital said in a statement. 
The 73-year-old former NFL kicker received· a new liver on April 10. A recovering alcoholic, Summerall quali­fied for a transplant through blood tests that rank potential recipients anonymously. 
Summerall played in the NFL from 1952-61 before becoming a broadcast­er for the next 40 years. He teamed with John Madden to call Fox's lead game from 1994-01. The two called eight Super Bowls together; Summerall has called 16. 
.. ' 

Thursday, April 22, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 31 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish fall to Boilermakers 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
The Irish have seen better days. 
Earlier this season. No. 27 Notre Dame (1 0-10) jumped to a 7-1 record, defeating region­al rivals Ohio State, Wisconsin and Indiana. But Wednesday, the team fell 4-3 to No. 61 Purdue in a close meet. 
Due to variable weather con­ditions and 25 mile per hour winds. the matches were moved indoors. This change of plans proved problematic for the Irish. 
"The courts were a big factor today," fresl11:nan Christian Thompson said. "Two of the courts were slower than the rest and the ball skidded on some of the courts." 
The Irish were ahead early in the meet, taking a 3-0 lead. Hallying from behind, the Boilermakers claimed wins in four singles matches at Nos. 1, 
4. 5 and 6 to come out on top. This is the fourth 4-3 loss of the season for the Irish. 
"It's the end of the season and I think we're really lacking confidence after the heart­breaking losses," Thompson said. "It's frustrating because we have so much talent. Everyone just needs to realize how talented they are, and that comes from within. If we can do that, then I think we'll have a good end of the year." 
Notre Dame rfearly swept doubles, triumphing at No. 1 and No. 2. No. 44 Catrina and Christian Thompson were first to walk off the courts with a win against Gretchen llaynor and Melissa Woods, 8-2. at No. 
1. At No. 2 doubles, senior Alicia Salas and sophomore Lauren Connelly clinched the doubles point. outlasting Shawna Zuccarini and Hala Sufi 9-8 (7-4). Lara Bugarello and Alyssa Hodriguez defeated junior Sarah Jane Connelly and senior Emily Neighbours 8-6 at No.3. 
In singles, the Thompson twins posted points quickly at Nos. 2 and 3, both overcoming their opponents in about an hour's time. Christian Thomps.on prevailed over Ilaynor 6-2, 6-0 at No. 2, recording wins in 10 straight games to complete the match. Catrina Thompson bested Amy Walgenbach 6-2, 6-1 to con­tribute the third point of the match to the Irish effort. 
Purdue registered wins in the next four singles matches to win. At No. 1, Sufi triumphed over No. 19 Salas in three sets 6-2, 0-6, 6-0. Sufi proved to be a strong competitor, according to Christian Thompson. 
'The girl playing [Salas) hit the ball like she was hitting a baseball," Thompson said. 
Hodriguez contributed a win at No. 4 versus Lauren Connelly 6-2. 6-3 and Zuccarini beat sophomore Kiki 


CHIP MARKS/The Observer Senior Alicia Salas hits a forehand In the February match against Wisconsin. 
Stastny 6-3. 6-4 at No. 5 to tie the score of the meet 3-3. 
The final match lasted for more than an hour, with Woods clinching the win for the Boilermakers 6-2. 5-7. 7-6 (7­
1). 

"[Connelly] played a really well, but towards the end, the girl really fought back and kept slicing it," Catrina Thompson said. 
This was the final meet of the regular season for Notre Dame. The team will return to the courts for the Big East Tournament April 29-May 1. · 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles· to face crucial 
games for postseason 
-

Today's game against MIAA conference foe Kalamazoo will decide postseason destiny 
By JUSTIN STETZ 
Sports Writer 
Today's games against Kalamazoo College will decide whether or not the Belles advance into the conference tournament. 
After dropping last night's game at Bethel 4-0, Saint Mary's is 15-18 on the year and 7-5 in the conference. 
Currently fifth in the confer­ence, the Belles must win both games at Kalamazoo, a team that hasn't won a conference game this season. Still, the Belles cannot afford to take the doubleheader for granted. Albion stands in fourth place and plays its final conference doubleheader this Saturday. Saint Mary's must avoid a tiebreaker because of a subpar overall record. 
The Belles failed to score a run as the Royals gradually added to their lead Wednesday. Libby Wilhelmy and Kate Sajewich kept the Belles within striking distance, but the offense never capitalized. 
Bethel went up 1-0 in the first inning as a double to center field scored the first run of the game. Saint Mary's connected on a single off the bat of Marnie Walsh but stranded her on sec­ond, unable to bring in the run. 
The Hoyals added another in the second after a costly error helped them score. Saint Mary's could not respond and the score remained 2-0. 
In the fourth inning, Sajcwich replaced Wilhelmy on the mound only to give up Bethel's third run of the game; however. the damage could have been worse as Sajewich escaped a three-hit inning, still giving the Belles a chance. 
The last run came in the sixth on a sacrifice bunt putting Bethel up 4-0. Angie Ellison sin­gled with two outs in the bottom of the inning, but the end result was the same without any runs being scored. 
Saint Mary's finished the game with three hits and one error. 
Today's final doubleheader begins at 3:30 p.m. and will determine the rest of the season for the Belles. If the team wins both contests, Saint Mary's will await the outcome of the Albion­Hope came this weekend. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

• 


Thursday, April 22, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 33 
BASEBALL 
,_ 

Sisko proves to be more than a "fill-in" for Irish 
Senior walk-on has become team leader while filling in for injured Steve Sollman, leads team with .385 average 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
llopefully for the Irish, nobody will tell second baseman Zach Sisko that he is only supposed to be filling in. 
The senior walk-on, who before 2004 had played in just 23 games over three years with the Irish, has seen significant playing time lilling in at second for Steve Sollmann, who broke his jaw in a game against Villanova April 3. 
''I'm doing the best I can in the meantime while [Sollmann is] out," Sisko said. ''I'm trying to make all the routine plays and do whatever I can do to help out at the plate." 
Hecently, however, Sisko has done much more than that. In Notre Dame's three-game sweep of Georgetown last weekend, Sisko was 5-for-10, including a grand slam in Notre Dame's 9-6 win Sunday. Against Toledo Wednesday, Sisko recorded his first career four-hit game, going 4-for-5 at the plate. 
Before this season, Sisko had just eight hits in his Notre Dame career. Hight now -even though he has just 39 at bats on the season -Sisko is Notre Dame's team leader in hitting with a .385 average. 
''I'm just seeing the ball really 
$3perperson/$5coup 
Formai'Attire LaFortuneBaiiRoom 
1Filipino American Student Organization I 

teammate, and he will always do and it's not too bad right now. anything you ask him to do. Now But, I'm just trying to stay all of a sudden, you need him. focused on baseball -getting to and you see that with a great play every day. and getting 
attitude like [he has] how well he 
"Zach Sisko is such 
has done." Being thrust into a feel-good story. the spotlight follow­
and it's really one
ing Sollmann's 
ofthe joys you get 
injury has been a pleasant change for in this game of Sisko. Before this 
coaching."
year, he may have been more con­cerned with getting Paul Malnlerl into medical school Irish coach as a College of Arts and Letters pre­enough sleep, and just being able to go out there and do the best I can." 
But Sisko says that no matter how well he plays, he knows that Sollmann -who donned a uniform in the dugout Wednesday for the first time since his injury-will be the main well, just trying not to do too much," he said. " I just try to get some base hits up the middle." 

Irish coach Paul Mainieri says he can't help but feel excited for the senior, who has toiled quietly in the shadows for four-years behind Sollmann. 
"Zach Sisko is such a feel-good story, and it's really one of the joys you get in this game of coaching," Mainieri said. "This kid is probably the hardest working player on our team. He lives in those batting cages. He hasn't made all the trips, he has­n't played much in his career here, but he's not gotten discour­aged. 
"He's been a tremendous 

professional and history major guy when he returns. than starting every game and "''m not in any spot to replace making every road trip with the Sollmann," Sisko said. "I just Irish. want to do the little things to 
"Well, it's second semester help the team out." senior year, so it's not too much of a strain," Sisko said. ''I'm try-Contact Chris Federico at ing to take care of school work, cfcdcrico@nd.edu 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 4 & 5 Bedroom Apartments Available 2004-2005 Free DELL Laptop Valid through April 16!11, 2004 Contact: Justine or Nicole at 234-9923 
JUNIORS!!!! 
LIVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR?? 
COLLEGE PARK GARAGE SALE 
Sunday, April 25th Starting at Noon, Going till 2:30!! 
We can and will store for you this summer for free! Walk around the complx to all the apartmei}.ts partici­pating and find all the items you need for next year: 
BARS  ELECTRONICS  BEDS (many sizes)  
LAMPS  BIKES  KITCHEN TBLS.  
DESKS  COUCHES  FUTONS  
GRILLS  DESK CHAIRS  KITCHEN ITEMS  
LAZY BOYS  POSTERS/BAR SIGNS  

Contact Matt Lutz at {419) 957-2154 with any questions 
UmitedTime! 
MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND 514 W. McKinley 117 North Main Corner McKinley & Grape 1 blk. south of Colfax 574.252.5820 574.288.9450 
4615 Miami Road Miami & Ireland 574.299.2860 

•AJtime offer valid on two-year const.lml' service agreements ol $39.~ and hi~ul' Promotional J:ilone subjeCt to change Phone pr~ing includes a$30 mail-in rebate. Custll11ll" is respmsible lor all sales taxes lleduced access lee valid lor lrst 3'months of 24-month Sll'vice Agreement. free Incoming Minutes available in local call11g area only Night and weliend · minutes are valid M-F 9 Jl1l to 5:59am and all day Saturday and Smday Ni\tll and weekmd m11utes are available 111 local calling area only. Option ol 3000 Nights and Weekend Minutes, with a 7 Jl1l start tine. ~ONlY good on thP. prcrnot1onal rate plan of $39.95 for t000 minutes. Roaming charges, lees. surcharges and taxes may apply Activation fee $30. All SIIV· ice agreements subject to an early termination fee Other restrictions may apply. See store for details. limited t1me olfll" 


page 34 ·The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April22, 2004 
Softball 
continued from page 36 
third inning before wind and heavy rain cancelled the remainder of the doubleheader. 
"I would have loved to have those games against Northwestern under our belt because we were really attack­ing the ball," Gurnpf said. "Even though we weren't able to play a game, it didn't mess up our rhythm because it was basically as good as a practice here at horne." 
Like Notre Dame, Illinois­Chicago had a scheduled dou­bleheader rained out on Tuesday. In their most recent action. the Flames swept Valparaiso by scores of 15-0 and 8-0 in a Monday double-
pulled away further in the bot­torn half of the inning with a

Baseball 
four-spot on the board for a five­run lead.

continued from page 36 
The Irish started off the second tonight," Mainieri said. "My inning with three straight singles biggest challenge was trying to from Sisko, Lopez -bringing get all the guys into the game Sisko home -and Dressrnan. that I wanted to. We got a lot of Macri then hit a hot shot that guys some was mishan­work. and dled by the that was third base­
"Cody Rizzo must have hit 

good." man for an
eight home runs in the fall 

Freshman ·error, scoring J e s s games, and he hadn't hit Lopez. Stewart was Edwards then 
any until today. I don't know 

the pitcher cleared the
ifhe got mad at me or not,

of record. bases with Stewart but I challenged him a little his double off started the the wall in
bit today, and he got into 

contest and left center 
one. " 

allowed that carne t h r e e just short of earned runs Paul Malnlerl clearing the in four fence.
Irish coach 

innings Toledo got pitched to within three improve to 5-0 on the season. runs with a two-run fourth 
Notre Dame opened the scor­inning, but that would be as ing in the bottom of the first. close as the Rockets would get. Centerfielder Danny Dressrnan Right fielder Cody Rizzo, who led off with a single and Macri has struggled some at the plate followed with a two-run horner recently and dropped a fly ball in down the right field line. Toledo's two-run fourth, got 
Toledo got one run back in the some atonement with a solo top of the second, but the Irish home run to left in the fifth 
! 
t 
~ 
header. They also have won 13 of their last 14 games. 
Notre Dame's games against Northwestern were slated to be the beginning of a major road trip. After facing Illinois­Chicago today, Notre Dame will travel east to face Big East opponents Villanova and Rutgers in doubleheaders Saturday and Sunday, respec­tively. 
Villanova leads the Big East 
inning. The dinger was Rizzo's first of the s.eason. 
"Cody Rizzo must have hit eight horne runs in the fall games, and he hadn't hit any until today," Mainieri said. "I kind of challenged him a little bit before the game, because his RBI total was really not, that great. :.. I don't know if he got mad at me or not, but I challenged him a lit­tle bit today, and he got into one." 
The Irish added single runs in the sixth and seventh innings as well for the 9-3 win. 
Notre Dame will return to the field with a Big East doublehead­er Friday against Seton Hall in South Orange, N.J. 
Notes: 
+ Two former Irish players returned to Frank Eck Stadium Wednesday, but they wore the opposing team's uniforms. Cory Mee -a 1992 graduate and for­mer Academic All-American and later Irish baseball assistant coach -is now the head coach for Toledo. One of his assistants, Mike Amrhein, also played for the Irish and graduated in 1997. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

with 18 points and a 9-3 confer­ence record, while Notre Dame sits tied for second with 16 points at 8-0. The Wildcats have played four more games than the Irish at this point in the sea­son. however. 
Gurnpf sees today's games as an opportunity to tune up for one of its most important con­ference weekends. 
"Even though we're not over­looking Illinois-Chicago, we'd still like to sort of use that game as batting practice for the Big East," Gurnpf said. "We need to go out there and get the job done to prepare for our games against Villanova and Rutgers this weekend. 
"Those arc two teams that can really come after us if we' rc not ready." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 



Thursday, April22, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 35 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT THE REAL E5TATE ~ 
IT5 COVERED WITH 
THE ACCE5S ROAD I5 AAGENT ~ 
ENDANGERED FROG5 I 
NARROW PATH ACR055
AND ITS NEXT TO A

~--------------------ii 
A BOILING CES5POOLBANSHEE FARM.

THE FIR5T PROPERTY i OF TORMENTED 50UL5. 
C05T5 $10 MILLION. § 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
Suspects are in
Well, we have warm Actually, there's one 
custody. . . looks like a ::
air, blooming trees more sign of Spring 
freshman and a former : 
and happy squirrels. Nt>, but !"haven't se. 
. !his year, Chief.,.
all the signs of ....:;::•1wn1i1' a minute ..."<lldb.il/ in the ..r 
HENRI ARNOLD •
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
JJfJJJW~IK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 


•
rt(±rJ
C2004 Tribune Madia SeMcea, Inc. All Rlghta Reserved 
LAVIA 
I rJ 
b

tELVSEP WHAT THE C.OAC.H DID TO THE E:ND
] [] WHO MISSED 
www.Jumble com 
THE c.ATC.H.
tRATHEG j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I ) ( I I

..,._~:;;~~~~~~~~..;.su~ggested by the above cartoon. 
A:( I I I ][ I I JA "[ I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: TWEET TEASE RATION BECALM
Yesterday's I 

Answer: What the patrons were left with when the sweet shop raised prices-A"BITTER" TASTE 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 ''The Egg _" 55 Dentist's advice 
1 Marking on an 33 Utility's advice 56 Understand 
Celebrities born on this day: Jack Nicholson, Yehudi Menuhin, Glen Campbell,
old MIG to an excava­
57 Word in many 
Peter Framp10n, Aaron Spelling, Calherine Mary Stewan 
tor?

5 Some degs. business names 
Happy Birthday: ll's time 10 simplify your life. Choose whal you wam 10 do
36 Yank, e.g.

8 Item thrown on 
and whom you wantlo spend time wuh. You musl narrow your field a bil 1f you a barbecue 37 It comes from really want to make your mark. It's time 10 prioritize so that you can realize 1hc une tete DOWN dreams to which you have been aspiring. If you can balance your life, you will
13 Part 
find success much easier to ob1ain. Your numbers: 12, 18, 22, 28, 29, 45
1 "Phooey!"
38 Knife brand

14 Vista ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don'l be 100 pushy with loved ones. Plan' 10
39 Bowl features, 2 Scoop holder

16 Team subset do somelhing special with family. Physical activity will help_ ..Jefuse your
for short 

3 Cut short frustration. You need to keep busy if you want 10 avoid discord. •••
17 Certain 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your stress level will be significanl if
40 Kind of mark

Protestant 4 Director of exer­
you have overspent" on lovers or taken on other people's responsibililies. 19 They get into 41 Western cises, in brief Argumems will evolve if you are overly opinionated. ••• Australia's capi­GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Social evenls will lead 10 romamic opponunilics. 
jams 
5 " ... And God 

Get involved in creative hobbies that will allow you to use your hands. Spans 20 Santa's wife? such as water-skiing or skating will be challenging. •• • • 
tal 

Created 42 Round part Woman" star, CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't gel your hopes up. Your lover is nol likely22 Lots 
1956 to do what you want. You will be in the mood to nag. Try 10 contain your ugly
43 Host 

side and keep busy wilh activities that bring you satisfaction. •• 44 Make attractive LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't tum down opponunities to travel. You will learn 23 Once-popular 
6 Unfamiliar 

street liners 
through the experiences you encounter. Mix business with pleasure if al all
requests? 7 Cartoonist

24 Marina sight possible. ***** 
Drake

50 Region famous VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Uncertainties regarding children may be 
26 Architecture crit­
for the blues upsetting. You must steer clear of individuals inclined to be overindulgenl or
8 Whence the line

ic Huxtable and escapist. You have to stand up for your rights. *** 
"Thy word is a

others 51 Infinite LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): This is not the best day to visit relatives
lamp unto my 

who get on your nerves. You will find 1hat doing odd jobs around the house will
27 I.C.U. test 52 Oil holder feet" 
be appreciated by the one you love. • ** 30 library holding 53 Miss. neighbor SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Social activily should be on your agenda.
9 Blues 

29 1970's-80's iJ5 Give a waiver 45 Additionallv New relationships will develop due 10 your outgoing nature. Be ready for 31 Inlets 54 Writer Murdoch 1o1984 Peace singer Vannelli , advemure and travel if the opponunity arises. ••• 
AO Floral envelope 
46 Low digits SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Children will be confused. Take lhe time
Nobelist 

30 Group known parts 
to help them with their dilemma. Don't overspend on entenainmem. Try 10 curb
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
47 Architect

11 _Ski Valley for pranks, in your habits. You can have fun without overspending. •••••
41 "The Scarlet 
(western resort) short Saarinen CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Pamper yourself. Physical changes
Letter'' woman 

will be well-received. Fitness programs will help you keep in shape and imroduce 31 Steer 42 Digital data 48 A_apple you to new friends and partners. • •• elsewhere AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Expect some friclion in your home. You mus1
15 Precede 

49 Flat tire indica­32 Showy bloom on pitch) tor arrangements. You need some space to yourself. Don'l lei anyone lake advan1age of you. •••• 21 Conflict 34 Cyclist 44 Stamp 50 Telephone trio PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't spend too much on entertainment or cosmetic improvements. Be innovative and find ways to get the same results for 24 Produce 
43 Carry_ (sing stand up for your rights. Make changes to your living 
the least amount of cash. • • • 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
----------------------------------~-­
25 High points 

credit card, 1-800-814.-5554. Birthday Baby: You have a driving force to achieve your destinalion and very 26 Broadcast Annual subscriptions 'lre available for the best of Sunday little can stop you from doing just that. You are determined, somewhal slubbom crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
and slightly ahead of your time. 27 Opposite of vote 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
down Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eu!/ellia/ast.com 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Hollywood solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
...

D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip_______ 
..-...... .,"~ ........... t. ··­
.... 
THE OBSERV'ER 

• 
PORTS
Thursday, April 22, 2004 page 36 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIII 
Round of 16 features 13 ranked teams 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 

With the Bookstore Basketball field filed down from 580 teams to 16. the situation is starting to get much more familiar for the remaining competition. See Also 
Of the top Detailed bracket

15 ranked teams. 13 of remaining remain in the 
match-ups

tournament. 
page 32

And many of those teams have already faced their upcoming opponents in previous games. 
No. 8 Clericuzio will take on No. 9 Team Truth in the round of 16, but neither team is expecting too many surprises. 
"We definitely know those guys," Team Truth captain Carlos Campbell said. "We've played against them many times at Rolfs, and we know it's going to be a grudge match." 
Team Truth has played through injuries so far but expects to be ready for their next game. 
"We're coming back one-hun­dred percent for this game. so we should be at our best". Campbell said. 
No. 7 You Got a Bad Draw vs. No. 10 Derelict 
For team Derelict, the road to 16 has not been an easy one. The team has won three nail­biter close games so far, but they believe they can win by a larger margin tonight. "We haven't reached our potential yet," Derelict captain Kevin McNamara said. "We made it the round of 16 last year, and if we play tough defense we should be even better this year." 

You Got a Bad Draw, on the other hand, has been dominant so far despite injuries. They had an easy 21-12 victory in their last game even while playing with two replacements. 
No.6 Choc Full O'Nuts vs. No. 11 Platinum FUBU All-5tars 
Choc Full O'Nuts is anything but intimidated about their upcoming game. This will be their third trip to the round of 
see SIXTEEN/page 32 


BASEBALL 
Infielders blow up against Rockets 
Sisko, playing in place of the injured Steve Sollmann, had his first career four-hit day, and the four Notre Dame infielders combined to go 10-for-18 at the plate with eight RBis and five runs scored. 
First baseman Matt Edwards was 2-for-4 with a two-run double, while shortstop Greg Lopez was 1-for-4 with an RBI single. 
After Tuesday's game with Purdue was rained out, Irish coach Paul Mainieri had a full battery of arms in the bullpen, and the Irish skipper tried to 
work them all, as seven hurlers saw the mound for Notre Dame against the Rockets. 
"As it turns out, because we didn't play [Tuesday], we had a little bit of pitching depth for 
see BASEBALL/page 34 

Coach's threatener pleadsinnocent 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -A Florida man pleaded innocent Wednesday in federal court to making a threat against Notre Dame football coach Tyrone Willingham. 
Andrew French, 24, of Fort Myers, Fla., faces up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine if convicted on a charge of interstate transmission of a threat to injure. He is accused of threatening Willingham late last year. 
French declined comment when leaving court Wednesday. His lawyer, Robert Truitt, also declined comment. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Donald Schmid said Wednesday that French also threatened other sports fig­ures, including Detroit Lions quarterback Joey Harrington and former UCLA basketball coach Steve Lavin. No charges 
.... 

have been filed in those caS'ilS, Schmid said. 
Lavin said Wednesday he was aware of two threats against him while he was still a coach at UCLA, but wasn't sure whether either of them was allegedly made by French. 
"If they're saying that, I'm sure they are right," he said. 
A telephone message seeking comment was left Wednesday afternoon for Harrington's agent, David Dunn. 


NO SOFTBALL 
Irish seek payback on Flames 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate SportS Editor 
Two days after a rainout, the Irish hope that lightning doesn't strike twice for the Illinois­Chicago Flames. 
Following a rainout Tuesday that cancelled two games against Northwestern, the Irish (34-13) travel to Illinois today to face the Flames (24-19) in a one-game series. Illinois­Chicago knocked off the Irish 4­3 in 10 innings April 15 at Ivy Field. 
"[Illinois-Chicago] came in here and they got the job done." Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf said. "With a team like that you can't keep them in the ballgame. You have to put them away early. We have to play great tomorrow and show that we are the bet­ter team." 
The Irish did not follow that formula in their previous meet­ing with the Flames. Notre Dame took an early 2-0 lead but could not add to it late, allowing the Flames to battle back for the victory. 
Although Notre Dame was unable to play a full game Tuesday, the Irish were still able to take some positives from their trip to Northwestern. Notre Dame was up 3-1 in the 
see SOFTBALL/page 34 


Macri involved in seven of team's nine runs in the victory 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
It was a big night for the Irish infielders as No. 4 Notre Dame (31-5) cruised to a 9-3 victory over Toledo (10-24). Se"'e Also 
T h i r d · . 
base man "Sisko mor~ than Matt Macri a 'fill-in' for lrl&h" was 3-for-5 '".;-...__ at the plate page .113 

·and had his ~ hand in ";; seven of Notre Dame's nine runs with 5 RBis and two runs scored. Second baseman Zach 
en 
NFL 
MlB
SMC SOFTBAll 

NBA 
NBA PLAYOFFS
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
w 
Marlins 8 

Bryant denied 
Bucks 92

Ukranian could 
Purdue 4 
Saint Mary's at 

access to records 
Detroit 88 
Phillies 7

surprise in draft 
1--u z Notre Dame 3 
Kalamazoo 
Mike Lowell homered
Igor Olshansky would 

Kobe Bryant's defense 
The doubleheader
The No. 27 Irish 

..... =::5 
three times as Florida

team may not use 
Heat 93

become the first Soviet
= 
dropped a tough match 
against the last-place 
stole a 12-inning

medical records of the 
Hornets 63

Union native to play in
to the No. 61 
MIAA team will 
~ 
slugfest on the road. 

19-year old victim. 
the NFL.
Boilermakers. 
determine the Belles' 
postseason standing. 

Am =:;: 
page 24 

page 22
en 
page 20
page 31 
page 26
page 31 

~ 
__... 




