
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Partner discusses corporate governance 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Larry !Heger, a partner with South Bend-based accounting firm Crowe Chizek, spoke Tuesday in the Mendoza College of Business' Giovanini Commons on "Good Corporate Governance: More than Compliance." 
Hinger said the subject of his talk reflected the post-Enron corporate environment. "(Governance! is a topic that's gone from the boardroom to the breakfm;t table," he said. 
Hieger said that during his nxperiencc with major account­ing firms, he's been privy to the whole gamut of ethical situation. 
"In 29 years at Arthur Andersen. I was in on over 1,000 audit committee meetings," Heiger said. "I've seen the good, the bad and the ugly in audit committees." Heiger left Andersen after its collapse in 2002, when the firm was found guilty of obstructing justice in the Enron case by shredding documents related to the case. lie then joined Crowe Chizek, the nation's eighth-largest accounting firm, where he heads the corporate governance and risk management department. 
In his pn~scntation, Hieger said the idea of corporate gover­nance should be explicitly defined in order to be studied. "It's the systems and processes an organization has in place to 
see ETHICS/page 4 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18,2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Faculty, students laud turnitin.com 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
Assistant News Editor 
More than one-and-a-half years after purchasing a contract from turnitin.com -a service that allows faculty members to check student papers for Internet pla­giarism -faculty and students say the policy has been relatively effective at both deterring plagia­rism and catching its occurrence. 
The University purchased the service in May 2002 at a cost of about $6,000 per year, according to student honor code officer Kelly Bennett. Thomas Flint, fac­ulty honor code officer, said the service merely acts as one tool faculty can use to detect plagia­rism and is not meant to be a def­inite measure of cheating. 
"Our goal in providing this serv­ice to faculty was to offer them a quick and relatively simple way of determining whether a paper that in some way appeared suspi­cious included material from Internet sources," he said. 
Flint said that approximately 300 papers have been submitted to the service in each of the three 

Students discuss racial environment at ND 
debate, students who chose to speak expressed concern that while the dialogue was extremely valuable, it was being conducted mostly by minorities and, there­fore, was not reaching the audi­ence that they felt needed to hear it most. 
Junior Katrina Picon said that she had encouraged several of her Caucasian friends to attend the discussion, but that most 
see DIVERSITY/page 9 


semesters, for over 1,000 cases tion of the Honor Code, with 12 giarized from Internet sources. total. As of Jan. 23, 17 Honor "major" violations and nine Flint also said that only two of Code cases had been reported "minor" ones. Flint said that the 10 Internet-based plagiarL<>m this academic year. Flint said 21 many of the Honor Code viola­students had been found in viola-tions were because of essays pia-see HONOR/page 6 

By CLAIRE HEININGER 
Assistant News Editor 
In what started out as a forum to debate affirmative action and became a free-flowing discussion of race at Notre Dame, approxi­mately 70 students and faculty met in the Coleman-Morse Center Tuesday night to air their beliefs about diversity -but often wondered if they were preaching to the choir. 
Several times throughout the 



Student wins design competition 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
A.<si.-tanr News Editor 
A reluctance to take out his trash led to a $3,000 payoff for junior art design major Brad Jolitz. 
Jolitz was recently awarded first place in the International Housewares Association Student Design Competition, a contest that Notre Dame stu­dent<; had frequently entered in the past. but never won. His design-He-Bag-is an easy­to-load. compact trashcan com­
Junior Brad Jolltz, who won a product design competition with
posed of biodegradable materi­
his Re-Bag, works at his desk with the device behind him. 
als. It beat out 197 other entries from undergraduates, gradu­ates and student teams at some ticularly wanted to take out the no one wants to do it." of the top art design programs trash. Jolitz said that trash duty Jolitz said that the name for in the country. was often a common problem his product, which came near 
"I was absolutely thrilled and hassle. the final stages of the design when I found out -ecstatic," "No one wants to take out the process, represents its function. he said. trash," he said. "We cram so Jolitz's prepared his project 
.Jolitz said he conceived of the much in there. There are never for a product design class, an idea while sitting in his dorm any bags anywhere, so we end expectation of which was that room and speaking with his up ha\ling to steal someone roommates, none of whom par-else's. It's kind of a hassle and see DESIGN/page 6 
Legends hosts beer informational event 
Herter showed students a
By MATT BRAMANTI 

PowerPoint presentation
News Writer 

about the brewing of beer throughout history.
It was the course every col­One slide featured a photolege student dreams of: Beer of ancient Babylonian stone

101. Tuesday night at tablets dating back to 4300Legends, brew guru Jim BC -the earliest recordedHerter had two-dozen stu­

beer recipe.
dents at rapt attention as he The presentation was punc­discussed the popular bever­tuated with "beer factoids." 

age that generated $45 bil­

For example, the famous
lion in U.S. sales in 2002. 

Budweiser Clydesdale horsesThe event was an effort to 
each weigh nearly 2,300
teach students that the world pounds and stand six feet tall

of beer is more than 

at the shoulder.
watered-down pitchers at the 

The event also featured
Boat Club, Herter said. 

free samples of beer from
"I can just sit at a table and area microbreweries. Charlestalk about beer with people 

Krcilek, president of Back
for hours," he said. 

Road Brewery in LaPorte.
Herter's official title is 

said he was excited to partic­business manager with Notre ipate in the event.
Dame Food Services, but he's "We're a local craft brewer,

also a self-proclaimed "beer geek." see BEER 101/page 4 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 18, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Just get over it 
I'm sick and tired of hearing about all of the "political apathy" in the 2004 Notre Dame Student Body Presidential elections. 
First of all, this opinion only really seems to be 
voiced by Charlie Ebersol's camp and a few mem­bers of various campus media outlets. Unfortunately, this group has been very vocal 

recently. I'd like Chris Federico to take this space to voice a dis­senting opinion. Sports Writer 
How, in an election where 1,000 votes swung from the primary to the runoff elections, can you say voters were apathetic? 
If anything they were determined -determined to see a candidate they did not want to hold the office of President lose the election. So those students that came out to vote in the second election or that changed their vote from Ebersol to Adam Istvan made an emphatic statement as to whom they wanted to win the election. 
And if anyone has a right to com­plain about the voting procedure, it's Istvan. Based on the grade-by· grade breakdown of the primary election and the final Senate vote. it appeared Istvan carried a vast majority of off-campus votes (which is roughly 1,600 students -or near­ly an entire class), yet he only got credit for the vote of one senator for this, while Ebersol got the same vote for carrying Carroll Hall and its 100 or so residents. 
I also find it interesting that the upperclassmen -those students who have been here the longest and would know the most about campus policies, campus life and the track records of the candidates -voted en masse for Istvan. 
Finally, to criticize students for voting against Ebersol in spite of the fact that he may have more experi­ence in student government is to ignore a trend in American democ­racy in the last century or so. There are elements that come into play in elections other than experience and connections (of which Ebersol had many). These are things such as character, charisma and amicability (of which, many voters would argue, Ebersol was short). 
Clinton won the presidency in 1996 because he was charismatic. Reagan won in 1980 because he was famous. Kennedy won in 1960 because he was good-looking, even though Nixon had significantly more experience in politics. 
In closing, I'd like to say to those still-frustrated supporters of Ebersol and Leito, you lost. Sorry. Get over it and move on to something else. 
But to those who say this election was a farce and that the student body didn't take their voting respon­sibilities seriously, just whom exact­ly are you trying to kid? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE THE MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM'S CHANCES OF MAKING THE NCAA TOURNAMENT? 



Brian Hughes Chris Fortner Elizabeth Chifton Jeanie Foley Sean Rose Steve Maher 
Junior Freshman Freshman Sophomore Sophomore Freshman Alumni O'Neill Breen-Phillips Pangborn Siegfried Alumni 
"They're better "Getting "We are going "They're better "We should be a "Better than my than they were revenge on to kick butt. We than Ohio number one chances of 




seed." getting some action." 
IN BRIEF 
Professor Claude Eilers of McMaster University will deliv­er a lecture entitled, "The Origins of Rome's Jewish Community" today at 4:30 
p.m. 
The event is sponsored by the Department of Classics and will be held in 320 Malloy Hall. 

Theology on Tap will be held tonight from 9:30 to 10:30 

p.m. 
at Legends. This week's theme is "Giving to Christ­Giving to Cas ear." 


Students may attend an information meeting on a study abroad program in Seville, Spain, a new option for Notre Dame students in fall 2004 and spring 2005. The session will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in DeBartolo 117. 
The second part of the Strangers No Longer: Catholic Responses to Migration series will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Two Scalabrini missionaries from Tijuana, Mexico, and Albert Brown­Gort of the Institute for Latino Studies will be speaking on boarder policy and the migrant experience. 
RecSports, University Health Services and IrisHealth are sponsoring a Blood Drive for the South Bend Medical Foundation Thursday and Friday from 9 a.m. to 3:30 
p.m. Please call 1-6100 to reserve a donation time. The drive will take place in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

35 28 

HIGH LOW 
last week." Syracuse will have been State's boost us all the strong the last chances. " way. few games and are going to win. Go Irish!" 
Flasher interrupts clas~­es at Iowa State 
AMES, Iowa -Three classes at Iowa State University -two of them in the past two weeks ­have been interrupted by a man who flashed stu­dents and then ran. 
A man wearing nothing but a trench coat, a Richard Nixon mask and tennis shoes entered a class auditorium Friday just as a meteorology exam began, said fresh­man Erik Triggs. 
The man opened his trench coat, danced around and ran from one door to the other while yelling, Triggs said. 
TODAY c:: 

SOFIA BALLON!The Observer 
Father John Phalen, President of Holy Cross Family Ministries, lectured in Carey Auditorium Tuesday. Phalen's talk was a component of the Blessed Mother Lecture Series and focused on "Living the Mysteries of the Rosary." 
OFFBEAT 
hanging on to one of her cows as it struggled through the raging waters, local newspapers reported. 
Kim Riley was swept off her feet by the current as she tried to turn a group of cows away from the rising river at her farm in Woodville, 80 miles north of Wellington. 
"Before I knew it, I was pushed along with the cows," she said, adding that several swam over her as they struggled in the water. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
The previous incident happened Feb. 10 when a man fitting the same description interrupted a sociology class, said Brent Bruton, a sociology professor. 
The man ran from the north side of the stage to the south end, with his trench coat open to roughly 400 students, Bruton said. The incident lasted less than 10 sec­onds. 
Cow drags farmer to safety in New Zealand 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand A New Zealand farmer escaped from a flooded river by 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
LIJ 
:c 
~ 
LIJ 
~ 
..... 
~ 
(.) 0 

HIGH 38
..J LOW 35 

HIGH LOW 

41 31 

46 35 

Wednesday, February 18, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SMC students react to results of Opus aparttnent lottery 
it provides them the chance to received 35 applications for the looking for alternative housing students were notified of the 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER move out of the dorms, yet still 12 available two person apart­options aside from the dorms. results with ample time to lind 
News Writer live on-campus. This would ments and 21 applications for junior Stefanie Simmerman is other housing arrangements 
alleviate such problems as the 12, four person apart­one such student. for next fall. 
While many soon-to-be sen­daily transportation to classes, ments. According to office "I was disappointed in the For those students that did iors find themselves weighing among other issues that are data. all students who were fact that athletes were not receive apartments, however, tlw advantages of on-campus faced when moving off-cam­offered apartments-accepted given some type of priority in excitement is starting to build versus off-cam pus housing, pus. them. the lottery because having ath­at the opportunity to experi­those at Saint Mary's were All students interested in liv­"Before hearing about the letes on campus provides role ence living arrangements simi­rncnntly given one additional ing in the apartments next year opportunity to live in the apart­models for other students." lar to off-campus life while option to consider for next fall. were given the opportunity to ments we were planning to live Simmerman said. "Since my remaining on-campus. 
They could apply for an on­fill out an application, and on campus." said junior Katie fellow golfer Chrissy Dunham "1 am really excited and look­campus apartment in Opus those who turned in applica­Turner who will be living in a and I were unable to get apart­ing forward to it," Turner said. llall. the new residence facility tions were then assigned a quad apartment next year. ments. we are now looking at "I think it will be a great cxpe-· currently under construction number. The numbers selected "And if we hadn't been chosen renting at Castle Point which is rience and nice to have a little and slated for occupation in for apartments were randomly in the lottery, we would have still exciting, yet slightly more more independence." August. chosen in a lottery held earlier remained here." inconvenient." 
Many students were attract­this month. Many students who did not Despite the frustration of not Contact Laura Baumgartner at ed to this opportunity because The Oflice of Hesidential Life secure apartments are now receiving the new housing, all lbaumgO I @saintmarys.edu 

Kroc prograiTI aims to increase discussion of current events 
about any old thing," Lindley into a sort of mini debate Though the lunch series was come to this lunch arc people 
By MERYL GUYER said. "I don't have any set between people," he said. not developed in response to who are interested and inter­
News Wrirer agenda." Students who have partici­the report of students' limited esting. This is one of those 
Lindley also made reference pated in the discussions academic involvement pub­times, as a professor, you just 
Political Science professor to students bringing issues agree. lished in The Observer last sit there feeling humbled by Dan Lindley met with students they encountered during study "(The table] encourages stu­fall, Lindley said he does your students just because for lunch on Friday to discuss abroad experiences or sum­dents to consider and discuss agree that it is in the same they have such neat experi­and debate on current events. mer internships. current events. which is really intellectual context, one that ences and are so smart ... I l.indley is mediator of the The series of lunches is still important no matter what has been supported by the really enjoy that." lunch program, sponsored by in its early stages of develop­major someone is," said junior Dean. Lindley is also presenting a the Kroc Institute for ment, but Lindley said he Melissa DeLeon. "Especially Expansion is also a goal of panel on issues involving the International Peace Studies. hopes it will foster more aca­with the upcoming elections, the current events table, war in Iraq scheduled for 
Talk during Friday's session demic involvement among stu­the school needs to encourage though Lindley looks past March 2, to be followed on was dominated by issues con­dents in a casual setting. dialogue like this so students increasing publicity with March 3 by a showing of cerning the war in Iraq, but "Ideally ... [it will] get peo­will be more informed." posters or all campus e-mails. Stanley. Kubrick's "Dr. discussion is not normally lim­ple from different points of This sort of open discussion "It should just be for fun, so Strangelove." ited to wartime issues. view together, liberals having is also designed to help stu­ideally word of mouth would 
"I want students to bring one view and conservatives dents think on their feet and be enough," he said. "My sus­Contact Meryl Guyer at their own interests and talk having another and turn it perform in a scholarly debate. picion is that people who will mguyer@nd.edu 
page4 Wednesday, February 18, :?004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

the board is doing, they can "What happened over time is brilliant executives don't become "The purpose of a corporation, throw the board members out," Arthur Andersen converted from tomorrow's perp walks. Rieser in my mind, is to deliver a good
Ethics 
continued from page 1 
protect the interests of its diverse stakeholder groups," he said. 
He emphasized that in situa­tions of serious ethical failure, not only the shareholders suffer. 
"How many employees at Arthur Andersen lost their jobs? About 88,000," Riegert said. "Governance failures don't just afTect the shareholders of a com­pany; they afTect the employees, customers, suppliers, retirees and the communities they're in." 
He went on to cite studies by the· University of Michigan, Columbia Law Review, the Journal of Economics, Business Week and McKinsey & Company, saying that strong governance structures improve return on investment. 
"At the end of the day, the studies concluded the same thing: companies that fall in the good governance bucket outper­formed companies that don't," he said. 
The 1999 Business Week study concluded that companies with the most highly rated boards average 51.7 percent in share­holder returns, while the worst boards dragged their companies down to an average-12.9 per­cent return. 
Rieger said shareholders should maintain vigilance over their boards by demanding shareholder rights. "If you've got strong shareholder rights, and the shareholders don't like what 


Beer 101 
continued from page 1 
sharing the spirit of making good beer," Krcilek said, as he offered patrons samples of his wares, including Maple City Gold and Millennium Lager. Krcilek is no stranger to Legends; his potent #9 Barley Wine has been offered at the pub since its opening last year. 
Lee Richardson, who oper­ates Beer Guy Distributing in Elkhart, said the event gave him an opportunity to intro­duce specialty beers to the college market. "It lets me bring a variety of beers that aren't sold here yet," Richardson said. 
Students praised the event, saying it was well worth the $20 admission. "We learned a lot, but they kept it funny," said senior Annie Starks. 
Senior Kevin Dolan said 

he said. 
He also stressed the impor­tance of a company-wide ethical culture, saving that formal dccu~ ments are no(enough. 
"You can have all the ethics policies you want," Rieger said. "If you don't have accountability, it just doesn't work." 
As an example, Rieger cited instances in which the Enron board of directors issued waivers, specifically allowing for departures from the company's code of conduct by Andrew Fastow, the company's former CFO. 
Fastow engaged in the buying and selling of corporate assets in the name of partnerships he con­trolled -a conflict of interest under the Enron code of con­duct. However, board members permitted the transactions, which allowed the Houston ener­gy-trading giant to keep billions of dollars in debt off its books, while reporting artificially high profits. 
Rieger said that when he joined Andersen in 1973, accountability structures were in place. In one instance, Andersen decided to require stringent accounting rules for savings & loan institutions. Andersen's interpretation was more conser­vative and strict than its major competitors. However, Andersen didn't budge, even at the insis­tence of big clients. 
However, Rieger said that spir­it in Andersen had been destroyed. 
Beer 101 was educational as well as entertaining. "It was the right amount of history, technical information and lighthearted stuff," he said. "You get a lot for your money." 
Herter said that for the month of·March, Legends will feature a variety of stouts, an Irish-style beer, in honor of St. Patrick's Day. 
"We'll have several new beers, including several Celtic beers," he said. 
Beer 101 marks the first of a three-part series of events at Legends, said student worker Courtney Schuster. On March 30, the pub will sponsor Wine 101, with the aim of teaching students the intricacies of selecting the right wine. In April, Legends will host an event about the etiquette of drinking in business situa­tions. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

r-----------------------------------~ 
COUPON...CO\Jil()N...COUPOI\:_(:OUPON...<:OUI'()N...C:OliPON...t:Ol!PON...<:OliPON...COlii'ON 



~e~e~Mifld:SUBS 
AUTHENTIC 5U5S SINCE 1956 
AFREE WRAP OR SUB! 
PURCHASE ANY SUa OR WRAP WITH A FOUNTAIN DRINK. AND GaT ANOTHER 
SUa OR WRAP. OF EQUAL. QfU.IJ••IItVN..V.~..,f~ 
VALlO l.M!L MARCH 31. 2004ATMICHANA LOCATIONS USTEO. NOT VAllO WITH ANY OTHER OFFER, COlPON OR SPEOAL :"MMSHAWAKA-57181't MAIN ST. ACROSS FROM SAM$ CUJ8 IN THE FAUII.Y VIDEO BUILDINC. ~ ''SOUTH flENI). SR 933 & AUTEN RO. IN THE FAMILY VIDEO BUILDING. az.?.:!22!! • •DOWNTOWN-IN THE LOBSY_OF_THE COLL£C.E FOOTIIAI.L HALL OF FAME. ~ 
(,QI).P.Q~".(Q!.'!'.Q:-.I ...COlli>ON...COUPON...COliPON...COUPON COUPON...<:Ql!I'QN,"q:)hi!'Q~ 
professionalism to commercial­ism. We used to only do what was right, even if that means we lost a counter-attack." 
He encouraged students to remain vigilant so that today's alluded to scandals at HealthSouth, Parmalat and Martha Stewart Omnimedia, say­ing many corporations have unfortunately become solely self­serving operations. 
or service," Rieger said. "And the result is to make a profit. It hap­pens in that order." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


Announcing the Year 2004 Annual A wards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2004 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a fomml program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year ofJtalian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study wi11 enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow  
4)  a budget indicating the costs i:nv;olved  
5)  the names oftwo references.  
Application Deadline:  Thursday, March 41h, 2004  
Aibert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dame  

.-----------------------------------------------­
------------~-~-~-----~--~­

ORLD & NATION 
W .lnesday, February 18, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
India, Pakistan hold peace talks 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -India and Pakistan agreed Tuesday to a timetable for peace talks both sides hope will end a bitter history of enmity and mistrust, striking the deal at a closed-door meeting of diplomats at a mountain retreat not far from their disput­ed border region. 
The breakthrough signaled optimism that change was both realistic and possible. just two years after the neighbors nearly went to war. 
"Things arc moving in a positive direction," India's Foreign Secretary Shashank, who uses one name, said Tuesday after arriving in the Pakistani capital. Islamabad. 
The agreement, announced in a Pakistan Foreign Ministry statement, will be finalized Wednesday during a meeting between Shashank and his Pakistani counterpart, Hiaz Khokhar. 
Russian missile unable to launch 
MOSCOW -A technical glitch thwarted the launch of Hussian ballistic missiles in the Barents Sea on Tuesday during naval maneuvers overseen by President Vladimir Putin, who watched the massive exercise while decked out in naval officer's garb aboard a nuclear submarine. 
Tlw failed launch -part of an exercise described as the largest show of Hussian mil­itary might in more than 20 years -marred an event apparently aimed at playing up Putin's image as a leader attempting to restore the country's military power and global clout. 
Pu tin. who is expected to easily win the presidential election March 14, went to the Barents Sea on board the giant Arkhangelsk submarine to observe maneuvers. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush visits military at Fort Polk 
FOHT POLK, La. -President Bush sought to buck up troop morale at a base that has supplied more than 10,000 soldiers to the war on terrorism -and lost a dozen in Iraq -vowing Tuesday that "the enemy will be defeated." 
"My resolve is the same as it was on the day when I walked in the rubble of.the twin towers." Bush said, his voice breaking. "I will not relent until this threat to America is removed." 
Bush spoke to a sea of thousands of rowdy troops here, who responded with hearty howls of "hoo-ah!" at his applause lines. "There is no doubt that the enemy will be defeated and freedom will prevail." he said. 
"America depends on our military to meet dangers abniad and keep our country safe," Bush said. "The American people appreciate your sacrifice." 
"Do-not-call" list upheld by court 
DENVEH -Handing a victory to con­sumers who loathe telemarketers, a federal appeals court Tuesday upheld the popular do-not-call registry, dismissing claims it vio­lates free speech rights and is unfair to busi­ness. 
The 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals called the registry of more than 56 million phone numbers a reasonable attempt by gov­ernment to safeguard personal privacy and reduce "the danger of telemarketing abuse." 
STATE NEWS 
State debates changing time zone 
INDIANAPOLIS -!louse Speaker Patrick Bauer suggested Monday that the chamber may not vote on a resolution seeking to have most of Indiana moved to the Central time zone and observe daylight-saving time. 
"It might not [get a vote]." said the South Bend Democrat, who has the power to decide such matters. ''I'm not saying one way or the other, really. I'm just studying the situtation." 
Bauer said the divisive issue had suddenly popped up, he was perplexed as to why "it's back on the table," and lawmakers already have "a lot on our plate." 
Kerry wins Wisconsin primary 
Edwards finishes a suprisingly close second; Dean likely to be out of running 
Associated Press 
John Kerry stuck to his winning ways Tuesday, but barely. John Edwards fin­ished a surprisingly close second in Wisconsin, estab­lishing himself as the front­runner's sole rival as the Democratic presidential race thundered toward a 10-state showdown March 2. 
Howard Dean trailed far behind, winless in 17 con­tests, his candidacy doomed less than a month after he stood atop the Democratic field, only to fall swiftly as voters had their say in Iowa, New Hampshire and beyond. 
Close race or not, Kerry said, "A win is a win." 
Edwards, his dream of a head-to-head matchup now a reality, declared, "We'll go full-throttle to the next group of states." 
He pledged to campaign in each of the 10 states holding primaries or caucuses March 2, including California, New York and Ohio, and awarding 1,151 delegates, more than half the total needed to claim the nomination. 

The North Carolina law­maker's breakout was fueled by the highest Hepublican turnout of the primary sea­son and voters who made their decision in the last newspaper endorsements money and momentum. Buoyed by his hot streak, week. His deepest support for Edwards. Nor did the But the Edwards surprise Kerry took two days off last was in the GOP suburbs of polls take into account 11th­ended any hope for a quick week and ignored his rivals Milwaukee. hour attacks on Kerry from conclusion to the race and in Wisconsin while focusing 
"That's been happening in President Bush's re-election earlier-than-ever general on Bush in hopes of per­other primaries, too," team. election planning. A poor suading voters the nominat­Edwards told The "We underwent a Jot of second-place showing would ing fight was over. Associated Press in an inter­Hepublican attacks the last have crippled Edwards' "Not so fast, John Kerry," view. "Hepublicans who week. Notwithstanding those campaign. Edwards said in Sunday's would consider voting attacks, we showed we can Dean, the former Vermont debate, live words that may Democratic and independ­fight back," Kerry said. governor, ignored pleas to best sum up the impact of ents are the people we have "We're winning in every give up the fight. "We are Thesday's results. to win over to win the gener­state across the country," he not done," he told his sup­Exit polls showed that half al election. That's why I'm said. "We're going to win the porters, even as his own of the voters made their the best candidate to take on nomination." advisers were saying his selection in the last week, George Bush." Kerry won 15 of the 17 campaign for the presidency most in the last few days ­
Kerry held a wide lead in elections to date -seven by was effectively over. and Edwards led among pre-election polls. but the nearly half the vote -on Dean was heading back to late-breakers. Taking surveys did not fully reflect the East and West coasts, in Vermont to regroup, in advantage of Wisconsin's voter sentiments after a the Midwest, the Great search of a way to convert open primary rules, one in statewide debate Sunday, Plains and the Southwest. his political network into a 10 voters were Republicans Edwards' criticism of Kerry's He remains the undisputed movement that helps elect and about 30 percent were free-trade policies and two front-runner, flush with Democrats. independents. 

HAITI 

Haitian leader warns of uprising 
ern port of Cap-Haitien, Haiti's sec­tion.
Associated Press 
ond largest city, after witnesses in Secretary of State Colin Powell said 

POHT-AU-PHINCE, Haiti -Haiti's the barricaded city saw a boat Tuesday "there is frankly no enthusi­prime minister warned Tuesday of an approach and rumors swept the town asm right now for sending in military impending coup and appealed for that rebels were about to attack. or police forces to put down the vio­international help to contend with a In the western port of St. Marc, an lence." bloody uprising that has claimed 57 American missionary said his life has Powell said the international com­lives. But the United States and been threatened by supporters of munity wants to see "a political solu­France expressed reluctance to send President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. tion" and only then would willing troops to put down the rebellion. "We are witnessing the coup d'etat nations offer a police presence to 
Aid agencies called for urgent machine in motion," Prime Minister implement such an agreement. international action, warning Haiti is Yvon Neptune said Tuesday, urging Powell spoke by telephone with on "the verge of a generalized civil the international community "to French Foreign Minister Dominique war." The U.N. refugee agency met show it really wants peace and sta­de Villepin, who called an emergency with officials in Washington to dis­bility... meeting in Paris on Tuesday to weigh cuss how to confront a feared exodus Haiti's 5,000-member police force the risks of sending peacekeepers of Haitians. appears unable to stem the revolt, and discuss how otherwise to help 
On Tuesday, airlines in Port-au­but Aristide and Neptune stopped Haiti, an impoverished former colony Prince canceled flights to the north-short of asking for military interven-that is home to 2,000 French citizens. 
-.. " .. .. . ..

----·-----·· .................... . 
Wednesday, February 18, 2004
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Honor 
continued from page 1 
cases this year were actually detected using turnitin.com. He said the others were discovered easily through the use of Internet search engines like Google. Flint says that this fact does not point to the failure of the service, but rather its effectiveness as a deter­rent. 
"I don't think this points to tur­nitin's being a failure ... my guess would be that its availability to fac­ulty has to some extent served as a deterrent to students tempting to cheat. That was surely our hope," he said. 
Faculty members such as Dan Lindley, assistant professor of political science, say that they strongly believe in deterrence with respect to cheating. Lindley said he frequently gives detailed lec­tures in his courses that both deter people from and teach people about cheating and how to avoid it. In addition, each class syllabus makes reference to Lindley's abili­ty to use turnitin.com per the Honor Code's guidelines and fur­ther states that he will be "furious and feel personally betrayed if anyone cheats in my class." 
"I teach about deterrence, I believe in deterrence and my poli­cies reflect that," he said. 
Lindley said he has not yet caught anyone cheating .in his classes, but also said he would not hesitate to vigorously prosecute any student who did so. 
"If I caught somebody cheating, there's no way I wouldn't prose­cute to the fullest extent," he said. 
Bennett said she feels most stu­dents don't have a problem with faculty members' ability to use tur­nitin.com. 
"Those who don't cheat should­n't be worried, and that is by far the majority of students at Notre Dame," she said. 
Sophomore Mark Basola agrees that cheating occurs rather infre­quently on campus. 
"I believe that cheating is very uncommon here," he said. "Students who have come to Notre Dame have arrived here through their own hard work and talent, for the most part." 
Despite the low occurrence of Honor Code cases, Flint said he believes that much cheating goes unreported, as faculty members either may not wish to engage in the lengthy process or choose to 
PART-TIME WORK 
~9.00 base-appt. 
• 
Flex. around classes 

• 
Cust. salesjservice. 

• 
Scholarships, All majors 

• 
Conditions Apply 


Vector "Skills for Life" 
282-2357 www.workforstudents.com 
handle matters internally. He also said students often refuse to turn in their friends as the Honor Code expects. Flint is advancing the idea of a "Let's Make a Deal" policy, a subject he explained in several let­ters-to-the-editor written earlier this academic year, that could modify the reluctance to report cases. 
The policy proposes faculty members be allowed to directly confront a student about cheating and mutually negotiate a punish­ment for the offense. A signed agreement by both parties would then be forwarded to the associate provost's office, which would keep a tile of the agreement and impose additional penalties should the stu­dent engage in future cheating. In his column, Flint noted that the number of cases at Pennsylvania State University rose from six to 400 the year after this policy was implemented. 
Flint said that although he sees several disadvantages with the "Let's Make a Deal" policy, he believes its implementation may prove more beneficial than the current system. 
"On the whole, I'm inclined toward making the change, but I think further discussion is still needed, and it's vital that students be engaged in this discussion." 
Flint said that the University Code of Honor Committee is cur­rently considering recommending the policy to University officials, but said he is unsure if the Committee will ultimately make the recommendation and when the new policy would be imple­mented, should the decision occur. 
Contact Joe Trombello at 
jtrombel@nd.edu 
in Chicago's McCormick Place. 
Approximately 60,000 visitors from over 100 countries will attend the show, and Jolitz will have the potential to sell his concept to prospective buyers and receive employment offers from interested companies. 
Although he is personally excited by the award and has already received several employment offers, Jolitz also realizes the impact that his award will have on the Notre Dame art design program. "It's a big opportunity because Notre Dame is going to get a lot of press," he said. 'Tm happy for the design department." 

Contact Joe Trombello at Brad Jolitz' design project, the Re-Bag, won the prestigious jtrombel@nd.edu International Housewares Association Student Design Competition. 
r--------------------------~ 

CJS PU B 
417 N. Michigan Street 
WEDNESDAY' S UPPER CLASS NITE 
MUST BE 21 WITH A VALID ID 
All DRINKS, PITCHERS 

II HA L F p R I cE// 
lOPM ClOSE 
Karaoke Pool-Golf-Video-Shuffle Board-Darts 
JPW F R I & SAT 
Kitchen open 11 am -10 pm Buckets and Drink Pint Specials 11 am -Close Live Entertainment 10pm 


OPEN SUNDAYS 1 pm
Buckets and Shooter Specials-Food 1 pm -9pm 
WED & FRI LENT SPECIALS STARTING ASH WED 

popcorn shrimp n' fries-fried clam strips n' fries fish n' chips-fish sand n' fries 
~--------------------------~ Sophomore Class Office Candidates The tickets of candidates running for sophomore class office are listed below. Elections will be held on Monday, February 23, 2004. Zach Holobowski Jason Laws Peter Vanloon A.J. Cedeno Bill Andrichick Lauren Usignol Maggie Teske Megan Spokes Sagar Navare Afiya Wilkins Laura Horne Stephen Shepard 'Vote Pe6ruary 23, 2004 at: fittps: 1/apps.nd: ecfu/efections 'Voice 'Your Cfioice '04  




Design 
continued from page 1 
project designs, once complet­ed. be submitted into the com­petition. Re-Bag was named best in show by ten judges from companies such as Whirlpool and Hamilton Beach. 
Paul Down. associate profes­sor of art design, was among the judges. 
"[Jolitz] was competing against some of the best design schools in the country, so it means a great deal to Notre Dame and to him," he said. "[He] was extraordinary ... dili­gent in research ... thorough, organized. We are really proud of the guy and think he did a great job." 
Down said that other judges praised the product, calling it "very elegant in its simplicity." Jolitz said that his product, which consisted of numerous drafts. revisions and sketches, could not have been completed without the assistance of the art faculty. 
"This product would never have gotten where it is without their advice and help. They were definitely pivotal," he said. 
In addition to the cash prize. Jolitz, along with the two sec­ond-place winners al).d three third-place recipients, will dis­play their products during the International Home and Housewares Show March 20-22 
----------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------­

Wednesday, February 18, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 714.88 +87.03
}ones ' 
.·~ Same: ~ Composite Volume: 2,435 t42 T t,3BB,sss,tt2 
AMEX 1,255.66 +12.11 NASDAQ 2,080.35 +26.79 NYSE 6,770.27 +78.87 S&PSOO 1,156.99 +11.18 NIKKB(Tokyo) 10,767.02 +65.89 FTSE IOO(London) 4,461.50 +53.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) + 1.50 INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.22 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +1.69 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.79 JDS UNIPHASE QDSU) +6.03 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.10 10-YEAR NOTE 0.00 5-YEARNOTE +0.27 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD {$/Troy oz.) PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) 
Exchan Rates 
YEN EURO POUND CANADIAN$ 
IN BRIEF 
+0.40 26.99 +0.67 30.81 +0.05 3.0 I +0.19 24.25 +0.29 5.10 
-0.05 49.17 0.00 40.48 +0.08 30.17 0.00 8.97 
+0.76 34.86 +5.70 416.50 -0.50 93.90 
105.7 
0.7774 
0.5246 
1.31 
Stewart's case looks stronger 
NEW YOHK -A federal judge on Tuesday further limited the government's effort to prove Martha Stewart and her stockbroker conspired to lie about Stewart's sale of ImClone Systems stock. 
The judge blocked prosecutors from putting into evidence a voice mail that broker Peter Bacanovic left for Stewart on Feb. 4, 2002, the day she was first interviewed by the govern­ment in the ImClone investigation. 
"The fact that he tried to contact her really isn't evidence of anything, other than that they talked to each other sometimes," U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum said. 
The ruling was the latest in a string of set­backs for the government as it tries to present a case that Stewart and Bacanovic worked together to hatch a cover story for why Stewart sold 3,928 shares of ImClone Systems stock on Dec. 27, 2001. 
Disney buys Jim Henson's Muppets 
LOS ANGELES -The Walt Disney Co. said Tuesday it will buy the "Muppets" characters. including Kermit, Miss Piggy and others, from The Jim Henson Co. 
Financial terms of the deal, which also includes Henson's "Bear in the Big Blue House" franchise, were not disclosed. 
The deal, which is expected to close in about two months, culminates a decades-long pur­suit of the Muppets by Disney, which came close to acquiring the characters in 1990. The deal fell apart shortly after the death of com­pany founder Jim Henson. 
The company then was bought by German media company EM.TV, which sold it back to the I Jenson family last year. 
The deal does not include the Sesame Street characters, such as Big Bird and Oscar the Grouch. who were sold earlier by EM.TV to the Sesame Workshop. 
Negotiations ·between Disney and the I lenson family continued about six months. 
The Muppet characters already exist in Disney theme parks in a 3D film, while "Bear in the Big Blue House" is a long-running show on the Disney cable television channel. 
-


THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Cingular buys AT&T Wireless 
Merger creates the nation's largest cellular carrier with 46 million subscribers 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Cingular Wireless agreed to pay nearly $41 billion in cash to buy AT&T Wireless Services to create the nation's largest mobile phone company. raising concern among consumer advocates that it may hurt competition and impede lower prices. 
The deal announced Tuesday between the sec­ond and third largest U.S. wireless companies would create a cellular giant with 46 million subscribers and 70,000 employees. Current market leader Verizon Wireless has 37.5 million customers. 
The deal -subject to approval by AT&T Wireless shareholders and federal regulators -would be a boon for Atlanta-based Cingular's efforts to cut costs, fill service gaps and expand its spectrum, or radio frequency, in several key U.S markets, thus enabling it to offer wireless Internet access at broad­band speed. 
"This combination is expected to create cus­tomer benefits and growth prospects neither company could have achieved on its own and will mean better coverage, improved relia­bility, enhanced call quality and a wide array of new and innovative services," said Stan Sigman, presi­dent and chief executive of Cingular, who will continue to lead the company. 
Some fear the merger could reduce the fierce competition that has driv­en down prices in the U.S. cellular market, trimming the number of national players from six to five. 

"Losing a competitor in this kind of market hurts consumers, especially when you're merging the big players," said Mark Cooper, director of research at the Washington-based Con­sumer Federation of America. "It's not five and six that's merging. It's two and three, and that's a much bigger impact on competition." 


Guzman and Co. analyst Patrick Comack said he doesn't expect prices to go up if the deal is approved: "You still have some very aggressive competitors out there." 
Cingular, a joint venture between SBC Communications Inc. of San Antonio and BellSouth Corp. of Atlanta, said it will pay $15 cash per share, valuing Redmond, Wash.­based AT&T Wireless at $40.7 billion. Cingular also will assume $6 billion of AT&T Wireless debt. 
The combined company will carry the Cingular name. Once a deal is approved, billing and other operational functions will be merged, though there will be no immediate effect on customers. said Ralph de Ia Vega, Cingular's chief operating officer. 
Federal regulators may ask the combined company to divest certain assets where they overlap, he said. But he said the com­panies believe that should­n't be necesary. 
"Even in areas of over­lap, there is sufficient com­petition not to warrant it," he said. 
As for possible job cuts or management changes, de Ia Vega indicated there could be some, though he would not elaborate. 
Comack, the Guzman and Co. analyst, said sig­nificant layoffs arc expect­ed because there is so much duplication. 
"They don't need the AT&T Wireless employees at all. They might save some salesman, but every­thing is redundant," Comack said. "Cingular doubled their customer base and doubled their spectrum, but they can run that with the same amount of employees." 

CORPORATE SCANDAL 
Italian company deals with arrests 
Associated Press 
ROME -The scandal engulfing Parmalat widened Tuesday as police arrested seven people, including the son, daughter and brother of jailed company founder Calisto Tanzi, and placed another suspect under house arrest. 
The latest round of arrests -the biggest batch since December ­highlights the fall from grace of a family that was once held up as a model of Italy's capitalism. 
Stefano and Francesca Tanzi, Calista's adult children. were picked up Tuesday in their homes in Parma, the northern city near the company's headquarters, and taken to the city's prison where their father is also being held. 
The two are suspected of fraudu­lent bankruptcy and criminal asso­ciation, said Maurizio Raponi of the tax police division in nearby Bologna. 
Stefano Tanzi, son of Calisto, sat on the boards of Parmalat and La Coloniale SpA, the family's holding company. But in soccer-mad Italy, he was best known as the president of Parma Calcio, a club the Tanzis bought in 1990 and which soon became the family's pride and joy. 
Stefano Tanzi stepped down from the posts in the wake of the scandal last month and was seen crying when he walked out of Parma's Tardini stadium after his resigna­tion. 
His sister Francesca sat on the soccer team's board. but her main job was to head Parmatour, the family's tourism business. one of Italy's largest. 
They have both denied any wrongdoing. 
"All the things they say he did I've honestly never known anything about and know nothing about," Francesca Tanzi said of her father in an interview with state-run RAI TV a few weeks ago. 
Calisto Tanzi, however, has told interrogators that up to $640 mil­lion was diverted from Parmalat to cover losses by the family's tourism businesses. Investigators now believe that a total of $1.15 billion was diverted from Parmalat to the Tanzis' travel business and other family activities, according to news reports. 

-------~ 
----------------. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February 18, 2004 




Law& • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
February 18, 2004 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 

"The Place of Radical Protestantism in Early Modern Christianity" 
Presenter Brad Gregory 
Associate Professor Department ofHistory 
Commentator John Copeland Nagle 
Professor Law School 


Wednesday, February 18, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 


Diversity 
continued from page 1 
ofl'nrnd her excuses instead -a response she viewed as a reluc­tance to share in the responsibility for creating change. 
"You can't baby-sit these kids, you can't drag them by the hand every time," Picon said. "It takes an assertive. mature person to pay attention to these issues and to engage in them too." 
She challenged white students to test themselves by becoming exposed to discussions about top­ics they find uncomfortable. Colleen Case, also a junior, agreed that the power of "suggestion" was not enough to combat the apathy that the majority of the student body has shown toward discussions of race. 
While the diverse racial back­grounds represented in the audi-





JPW 2004 
I 

Ticket Distribution 
WEDNESDAY, February 18th 
Sorin Room, LaFortune Student Center 7 PM until 10 PM 
*You must present your student ID in order to pick up your tickets. If you are picking up tickets for others, you will need their student IDs to sign them out. 
Call for Student Nominations 
The College ofScience 
invites student nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Take advantage of the opportunity to nominate your best professor in the College of Science for a Kaneb Teaching Award. 
Nomination forms may be found on the College Qf Science webpage at: www.science.nd.edu or you may pick up a nomination form in the Dean's Office, 174 Hurley Hall 
Deadline for nomination is Tuesday, March 2 
Return to : Sr. Kathleen Cannon, O.P., Associate Dean Dean's Office, College of Science 174 Hurley Hall 
ence made some of their points less influential. most students agreed that the need to address perceptions about race on campus is glaring. 
"My problem is walking down the quad and seeing people who look at me wondering if I only got in because of the color of my skin," said Gabriel Torres. a junior. Other students agreed that regardless of the legacies. ath­letes. women and other benefici­aries that often get thrown into the mix. any discussion of affirma­tive action will inevitably be inter­twined with race. 
"You try to tiptoe around it like it's a policy issue," Ukachi Okoronkwo. a sophomore, said. "But it is a racial issue. Racism exists ... it's not something you can turn your back on." 
"We do need this crutch," she continued, referring to a metaphor that has been associat­ed with using affirmative action as a tool for minority empowerment. "This country has broken our legs." 
Joyce Randall, a sophomore, also insisted that "you can't elimi­nate racial preference from the argument," and reminded listen­ers that the initial purpose of affir­mative action. when proposed by President Lyndon Johnson in 1965, was to create a level playing field. 
"All I really want is my opportu­nity," she said. "I want to come from my poor Chicago neighbor­hood to go to Notre Dame -even if I need special help to get there." 
However. other speakers dis­agreed that minorities needed an extra boost. leading into the issue of fairness in applicants' qualifica­tions. 
"The application process is the entire process -the whole per­son. not 'you're black, you get in,"' said junior Demetrius Hall. "It's 'you're black, you're salutatorian, you have a 3.8 GPA, your SAT is 1160 but that's because your mom couldn't afford to pay for prep courses ... so let me give her a second look." 
Speaking from firsthand experi­ence with the Notre Dame admis­sions process, First Year of Studies adviser and former admissions counselor Christy Fleming contra­dicted the assumption that affir­mative action results in less quali­fied minority applicants taking "spots" from more qualified white applicants for the sole reason of race. 
"If we took that [racial] hook off their application, they'd be here anyway," Fleming said, listing off recent figures of black enrollment. "If you think that one of 6 7, one of 74, one of 90 took a spot from a white student, you are gravely mistaken." 

Discussion also focused on the performance of minority studcnl<> once they reach the University. Senior Andrea dcVries said that although she is black. her own "extra step" came from a phone call from an uncle who sits on the Board of Trustees-and that nei­ther should matter. 
"I don't know if I needed that extra step, but that's not my con­cern -my concern is what I do once I'm here," she said. 
Case reinforced deVries' argu­ment. praising minority students who arc hall presidents and exceptional student leaders. She warned the audience, whites and minorities alike. not to fall into the trap of thinking about admittance to Notre Dame as an entitlement. 
"Being at Notre Dame is a privi­lege, not a right," Case said. "No one has a right to be here -you earn it ... you prove that you belong here." 
Two faculty members with exceptional perspectives on race at Notre Dame also weighed in. Chandra Johnson -a self­described affirmative action appli­cant as a 38-year old black female in 1992 who is now an assistant to University president Edward Malloy-praised students in attendance for engaging in an intellectual discussion instead of an angry one. 
She added that students did not need to experience guilt about the racial tension that exists today. 
"Nobody here created this situa­tion -we were born into it and no one should feel guilty," Johnson said. "But we arc responsible for exploding categories ... your gen­eration will break down the cate­gories my generation has put in place." 
Peace studies professor George Lopez. who moderated the discus­sion. closed with similar empathy. 
"This is also a faculty crisis ­we're with you in this," he said. "Professors [are expected to I teach and certifY about a world that our University doesn't represent." 
"Everyone here is privileged by a choice," he continued. "We need more ability to choose. to make the mix look like the world that's out there and the world from which you came." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
Undergraduate members of the gay, lesbian, and bisexual community are invited to apply for membership on the 
Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
Applications are now av'ailable in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Standing Committee web site 
http://www.nd.edul"'Scglsn/ 

Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Friday, April 5, 2004, and can be submitted at the Office of Student Affairs. 
COWWIYT££ ON 
GAY ltiiD &...:a•IAII 

Please visit our web site for more information. 
ITUDINT N•EDI 

THE OBSER\TER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, February 18, 2004 
Dialogue can improve diversity
THE OBSI!t\!Eit 

n;,tru/rp~!i·l>AI!Y~iii~·~·~-!""~•44#•~1#.\'A.'#¥~·················· 
...J\p;lX>xQ,l'M't~Q;lilj~(ffl4~~% • · ) 024 s~~th Dining l:l:il!;Nriir~ p;J;l~. JN 465$/ ·....·.· .. 
Eorroil IN ClnllF ··•·· 

Andrew $Qukup. . . ..•• ;. M!UoiAciNG EDITOR .. g(i~ MJiNAGtlt. •·•·•····· .• .. Scott Bro<ifitdu-et •••··••·· IJW I,eWhlskL 
AsST. MANAcmc Emma ·. Sh~ila Flynn 

Nm EmTo.Rt MC!Sh,ilineOowhi!S ····· ·· VIEWPOINT EDrtoru S<l.i~Yanil4s Sl'OllTS BI:iJTOJti}o~Hettld > · 
Sct!l¢EPltt)* l\4l~iil,~~~~h······•·•••·•·····••••••.•
Si<JNT MA.RY'sEI)trolil Aiiri.til1iSeWo.<ilf$tik•· 
PHOTO EDITOR; Tiltl Ka~i:n¥ GJW>mcs Eorrol\1. Mlk~ H<l.iklns •··· ADVERTISlNC MMIAG£ru Maufi ~~ddl~ 

.... ..... 
AD PllSlGN MANA,CFJI,; 1'1:'1$ Bhlgji(} ••..•..•••.•.•..• > ·. 
SYsrtlifs·Al:JMU"'fSTWOI'\i 'f~4 ~~~~Ht ••·•·•·· ••·····•· •·• •.· ..
WEB i\PMINISTR.ATOit! ToddNikfu / ·. · ·. 
·CoNtii.otLER.i Paliiit ti#~l~ Y>· CONTACT Us 0FACE MANAGER &GENEIIAL hiFO (574) 43J;i.'N(1 .•.. FAX..... <>74) 43M$?~:t n·· 
AnV£RST~!IIIl 


(574)631-6~09. A~$Ci'Wi;J-~4·~~#>·
EoiroR titCHtEF' .. . . ·. ($74JG3l~4M2> ... MANAGING EDITOR &ASSISTAHl~AA.GtNG E61t01i. JJ7~t6:H4$41··... t>t;~mci<$~a;~4~···· 
. .. .. .. . 8uS!N£SS· OJ'RCE i < · (5741 $~V~MM . i > • / < <574J631·53~~·~ht~;li~~6M.J~····· ><. 
• ·· V11~WPOINT DEsK •··· ·..... ••... <.: ··•..... •·• •·•.· • ····· · (574):631~53()3 vie'#!*il#t:i~n..r;;;ihC · 
SPORTS DESK ···••·•·• .... ........·. 

Assi~r:ant Mm.tging Edj1toqind4¢pM'tn<fu•t.ildi~qr:L O:mimentai~ l¢rt~ ~··~4· <::~!~@~ pt¢:i~.l),tth~ ~difu$ ofth~ iitithot~ ~a oot 'n<!l:·~ti)}':tlwi;li l'ijtJ'~ie··· 
Obse!'V<:t. 

Viewpoint .sp..ice is aWitab~\9 a!t ~~rs.Tbe fite: • expression ofall opiniom through letteis is encguraged .... Letters ro rbeEditor rriusdie si~tl<ld.~d:n'IU$tincl~~········· 
con mer information. · · ·· ·· · · · · .· ·· · 
Questiims regarding Ob~erviJ'ptiJid~ shau/4. ~r •·. >•· ilirec.;ed. wEditoi'{~ ~JqifJif(§SiJ:!Jktip• •.·. ··· 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

;:.,o:.r::!!~~:r~~z~~~~t:~~t~~w•···.·· 
)'~: JS,~.tt?t"~..:: ~¥.t-·. :.::::. :.::;: .::·.:.:::::-:·:<.:::::::.:;: ·:: :: ·>. ·:: :_:.. ::-..: .._:.: .. 
'"'qb,.,,, ;<~···~'"'""'· ··· ·•••• ~~11!J~~~;.J;W >•.•.• ··· 
~~,:~~=n~;~~~f~ ) ·............... ·.......·..... ·. ·......... :~~!:1Jt;~~u~• [~~;~.~~~~ (>·· 
ND<;,.~J~ ill;~'·"'·9179 ••.• 
11teCI~ter4~ ·m~~:¥~AHO~~-~·~~~~fiQn.:~~:~ 
n::scrv~.· ··.··· .· ..:-...... ···.··.·.····.-.·.·.·.-:-:-··:·.-......·. ·. 


. ·.::::::·:·:-::-:··:.:::::::·· .·.:. ·:::·-.::.::·:::.:-··· .·-:· 
'TODAY~S STAFF)••·········· 
News ·.. ·•··.·••···· $p9rl;$. 

Anneliese Woolford . M;#tLozar MatthewSmedberg M:ci.tt Pugli~i .·· 

~~~ ··.••.. ·~~~~~$' 
Brauweiler Graphics Paul Rorieal 


Few issues polarize the Notre Dame community as much teachings, others on academic theories. When these view· as race, gender. religion and sexual orientation. On most points are combined in a university atmosphere, misin­days, The Observer's Viewpoint pages are filled with formed stereotypes can be replaced by a healthy respect columns and letters that incorporate those ideas in some for other opinions. way, shape or form. Discussions between the In publishing a three-part series focusing on "average" Notre Dame student -white, diversity at Notre Dame, which begins today
OJhe

upper-middle class, Catholic, straight -and and continues through Friday, The Observer
userver 

members· of minority groups at Notre Dame hopes to foster discussions that are of a vital often dissolve into theoretical debates with necessity to an academic community. But sweeping generalizations as their basis. instead of focusing on theoretical issues that


Editorial 

In order to promote intellectual dialogue, involve policies and statistics, reporters pro­Notre Dame has made an admirable push toward diversify­filed more than 35 members of the Notre Dame community ing its campus. And with more than 20 percent of the in order to capture their tangible, yet underrepresented. undergraduate student body comprised of ethnic minori­perspectives. Since opinions are shaped based on personal ties -the largest percentage in school history -the experiences. it seems only appropriate to describe the lives University's identity is evolving. of those who struggle to exist in a largely homogeneous 
When diversity is mentioned, however. many often think Notre Dame community. in addition to the perspectives of narrowly of racial issues. True ideological diversity -and administrators responsible for shaping University policy. a level of diversity that Notre Dame is making an effort to Academic discussion has already irrevocably changed reach -involves including a multitude of perspectives in Notre Dame. Sixty years ago, it was unheard of for a black an academic environment to reach balanced dialogue. student to come to Notre Dame. Thirty years ago, it was Some perspectives are created from ethnic experiences, unheard of for women to attend Notre Dame. Open dia­others from what a person who is not heterosexual logue is the only way the University can continue to encounters. Some opinions are formed based on religious improve its diversity. 

What's goin' on? 
In the hopes of restoring a smidgen of current events knowledge to the strictly Observer-informed Notre Dame student body, what follows is an unbiased synopsis of some of the past week's most significant news stories. 
Well. sort of. Joey Falco 
The recent announcement that Iran will begin selling 
Forty Ounces 
nuclear reactor fuel 
ofFalco
has angered many non-proliferation activists throughout the world, even though Iranian officials insist that it will only be for "peaceful use." 
This kind of reminded me of the time when an upperclassman told me that Roofies would only make my beer taste better, and we all know how that night ended up... 
At Roger Williams University in Rhode Island, controversy arose when a group of College Republicans created a "White­Only" scholarship in order to protest the minority scholarships offered by schools throughout the nation. While their inten­tions may have been noble, many college officials felt that the group went too far when they started hanging "Non­Handicapped Parking Only" signs in park­ing places that were even closer than the actual handicapped spots. 
Not too far away at Harvard University, a similar buzz was created when adminis­trators approved a student sex magazine that would feature nude photographs of Harvard undergrads. The ramifications of this enormous leap toward liberalism sent shockwaves across America, and even spurred typically conservative Notre Dame administrators to consider the pro­duction of a similar scandalous publica­tion in which McGlinn girls would pose for shots that show a little bare ankle. 
In New York City, the Yankees continued their monopolization of baseball's top players by adding Alex Rodriguez to their already dominant roster. When asked to comment, Yankees owner George Steinbrenner calmly stated, "My plan for world domination is almost complete. Right now, we're working on negotiations 

with Heaven that would send us Jesus 
Christ to fill in our hole at second base in exchange for Ruben Sierra and a minor leaguer to be named later." 
Back here on campus, the administra­tion has cruelly turned down a proposi­tion for an AIDS benefit concert that would have featured U2, Bruce Springsteen and an appearance by Nelson Mandela. As it turned out, the event had to be terminated because of the potential threat presented by projectile marshmal­lows. 
As one stadium official stated, "Those AIDS victims will just have to hold their horses. We've got a football stadium to run here." 
In the business world, numerous corpo­rations went on a glorified shopping spree this past week, with Comcast attempting to purchase Disney for $54 billion and Cingular buying AT&T Wireless for around $41 billion. This international spending craze even prompted President Bush to alter his 2004 budget plans when he put in an offer to buy Texas for a reported "eleventy gajillion dollars." 
This past Friday. in celebration of a "Day of Purity" before Valentine's Day, high school students across the nation donned white T-shirts in support of absti­nence. When asked what he would be doing instead on the traditional holiday of lovers, the event's organizer promptly looked up from his game of Dungeons and Dragons and replied, "Well. the Sci-Fi Channel's 'Twilight Zone' marathon should take up the majority of my day, but if I have time, I might have an online e­date with my cyber-girlfriend, Amidala3266. It's our three gigaweek anniversary." 
In San Francisco, hundreds of gay cou­ples rushed to get married after Mayor Gavin Newsom began issuing marriage licenses to homosexual partners. Surprisingly, though. many conservative homophobes actually viewed this unprecedented example of gay rights as a positive. As one Republican senator put it. "These couples don't know what they're getting themselves into by throwing away perfect, commitment-free relationships in exchange for decades of cat-fights over who forgot to tape 'Sex and the City' and why someone had to spend $200 on a pair of leather pants from the Gap." Some pun­dits actually predict legal marriage to be the downfall of homosexuality in America. 
After the tremendous success of "The Return of the King" at the U.K. Oscars and with the American Academy Awards quickly approaching, one question about this year's ceremony still looms in the minds of entertainment gurus every­where: Will Billy Crystal show any boob? 
Finally, in North Korea, the govern­ment-controlled media was out in force on Monday in celebration of the 62nd birth­day of supreme ruler Kim Jong II. According to CNN. North Korean publica­tions described their great leader as "a renaissance man who has !lown fighter aircraft. written operas and shot eleven h"oles-in-one in his first try at golf." While these feats are clearly exaggerated propa· ganda distributed by the corrupt North Korean media, most could not disprove the powerful leader when he added, "And you know those Cialis commercials warn· ing against four-hour periods of arousal? I can do that without a pill!" 
So that's the news for this week. It may have been pointless, but at least it beats watching WNDU-16. 
Joey Falco is a freshman political sci­ence and spanish major. His column appears every other Wednesday. lie can be contacted atjfalco@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 

Should the student government constitution be amended so that, in the future, the Senate will not decide an election in which a candidate does not achieve a majority? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Interestingly, according to modern astronomers, space is finite. This is a very comforting thought -particularly for people who cannot remember where they left things." 
Woody Allen director 


THE OBSER\'ER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 18, 2004 page 11 
Time to make someone else the priority 
It's late and you can't sleep because this recurring feeling of apprehensive nervousness inside you cries for you to do something more. But what, if any­thing, more can be done? 
But the obsessive corn pulsive part of 
Adam Cahill 

you still needs to 
check on it and 
make sure that 
A Domer's 

there's not some­
Outlook

thing that can be 
tweaked or improved. 
So you turn on the lights in the workroom and walk into the middle of the cold cement floor with bare feet and a slight stiff wobble from tossing in bt~d for so long. You sit on the bench facing the work table and the small cracks in the cement floor. You're still in a daze and squinting because of the sudden rush of light to your dilated eyns. You turn your head to keep away from the glaring light and sec rows and rows of pictures taped to the wall of the different . stages in the project's existence. God, it's beautiful. 
Even if no one else on earth could recognize its marvelous uniqueness and unparalleled beauty, you wouldn't care. It's yours and you molded it, shaped it and fGrmed it-from noth­ing. 
A sudden wave of nostalgia envelops you and the memories come flooding back to you like a tidal wave during a hurricane. The project started as little more than just raw materials and a dream of perfection, at least in your eyes, and now it has evolved into a work in progress that has consumed your life. It created rifts between you and your spouse and loved ones because they each had their own opin­dream of the final product stayed ions on where the project should go. firmly planted in your mind so that no But you held fast, as much for the matter how bad it got, you never sake of your pride as it was for the relinquished hope. project itself. You had a desti-Putting on the reading glass­nation in mind for it all 
es that have gotten pro­along; it would just be a gressively stronger matter of time until over the years, your 
your dream would come true, too. 
The sacrifices have been many and often. There have been times when the whole project seemed doomed to fail and that the most logi­cal expla­nation was to start from scratch. There was that job in New York that you passed up on because it would hinder your work­ing space and the rent was too high. 
And then there was that trip to Europe that you had been planning for years but couldn't afford because of the monetary responsibility of paying for materials. It sure would have been nice to go, you think to yourself. But it is only Europe -it could wait. The 
hands search for the tools needed to accentuate, enhance and detail your work. Your hands work 
expertly and with ease, the 
many years of work having cal­loused and 
trained them into muscle memory. But when you pull focus you realize that 
which is equally true: You must be more tired than you 

thought because the work of art is gone; the 
clay you have sculpted for so 
many years has been gone for going 
on three years now. And as your mind clears from the 
grogginess of the late-night hours, you 
think to the people you gave your work to. They promised you that they would help the work shine and aid it in reaching its enormous potential. There have been a couple of bumps along the way, and of course you knew that was going to happen. But this coming weekend, you will be hosted in an event to honor the work you have done in bringing your project into being and the job you have done in molding it into a masterpiece. You're excited, but you don't know what to expect. You just hope that the week­end goes smoothly and that nothing drastic has happened since the last time you two were together. 
Junior Parents Weekend is a week­end especially designed to show Notre Dame parents that we, as their chil­dren, know the enormous sacrifices they have taken in order for us to be Domers. They have given us more than everything. And in turn, we owe them everything. So, if you catch either your mom or dad gazing at you with a peculiar smile sometime during the weekend, don't ask them questions or tell them to stop. Just give them a hug and thank them. 
You are your parents' greatest suc­cess. You wouldn't be here if you weren't. So, at least for this weekend, dote on them as much as they dote on you because they deserve it. They've taught you how to become a Domer for more than 20 years and they've done more than a good job at that. 
Adam Cahill is a senior history and American Studies major. 1/is column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author crnd not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Voters acted out of frustration for system 
Was it really the students making a mock­nry of student government last week during the elections, or was it the student govern­ment mocking the student? 1\vo particular­ly scathing letters were printed in the Viewpoint section of The Observer on Tuesday claiming that the Istvan-Bell ticket won only because the student body was too apathetic and immature to choose the "real" candidates. As a member of this maligned group, I wish to defend our action as that of frustration rather than tomfool­cry. For four years I have watched students campaign for president. Some were serious, while others were not. Some were student government insiders, while others were new. None of this has ever mattered. Not a single person has done anything. 
Kate Distler berates a fellow student who discounts a candidate's platform and past student government participation as valid issues for choosing a student body presi­dent. I, on the other hand, commend that student. lie or she is exactly right. lf the student government has proven to be com­pletely ineffective over the last four years, why on earth would past participation in that organization be an important attrib­ute? 
Maybe it's the bleeding-heart liberal in me, but I vote for the candidate whom I feel is in greater need of a resume boost. As pointed out so many times, poor Adam has­n't had a chance to participate in student government yet. I think he should get a turn; let him polish up the ol' resume. It docsn 't really matter who holds the office anyway; same results. 
I want it to be understood that I do not mean to belittle those of you participating in student government. I would imagine that 99 percent of you joined thinking that you were goiqg to make a difference. However, if you still feel this way as a grad­uating senior, then you will be leaving Notre Dame just as naive and with less of an excuse. My criticism is for two, more culpable groups: the administration and the whining lackeys who are complaining about this year's election results. For the adminis­tration, I don't expect you to care or change. Last year the faculty senate dis­solved itself out of sheer frustration created by the unresponsiveness from the fourth floor of the Dome. Why should students expect any better treatment? 
As for the people who want to reprimand the student body for going against the grain and choosing a candidate based on some­thing other than the status quo, I give you a sarcastic thumbs-up! To compare last week's election to the upcoming presiden­tial election only solidifies my belief that your self-importance has swelled to a debil­itating high. The presidential election affects judicial nominations, domestic tax policy and international trade. What is this year's student body president going to do this year that his predecessors could not? 
Jonathan Diffiey 
senior 
off-campus 
Feb. 17 

Campaign attacks not personal 
Though not mentioned, I believe I played a role in Friday's article, "Election campaign marred by personal attacks." I was motivated to attend Wednesday's debate because residents in my dorm com­plained to me about the rude campaigning of Mr. Ebcrsol. While campaigning. he woke up residents, interrupted studying and talked while they watched movies. I wondered what type of person would do this and thus did my own research. 
This led me to attend the debate, where I asked him two questions directly. The first: "Why was so much money lost on David Spade?" His response was, "That's a good question because I didn't." lie then lied to my face and said that it was The Observer's fault for misinter­preting the facts and that the David Spade fiasco lost no money. 
My second question~ Why was there false information on his flyers in Pasquerilla Center which claimed that the Presidential Pass In Review should be moved to South Quad because 15 percent of stu­dents are in ROTC? He again denied responsibility and said, "You need to go talk to the administration because I got the numbers from them." I pointed out to Mr. Ebersol that if he knew the student body well, he would have realized that nowhere near 15 percent is in ROTC, as the actual figure is about four percent. 
Later one of my (reworded questions) was read via index card ask­ing how Mr. Ebersol related to common students. After his response I yelled out, "Hey Charlie, What's FAFSA?" He responded, "What?" I informed him, "Free Application for Federal Student Aid," to which he responded, "What the hell are you talking about?" I finished with, "Charlie, you proved my point. Thanks." I then gave him the middle finger and left, which would be my "personal attack." 
I never phoned him, touched his Hummer or e-mailed him. I just want to make the point that maybe if he took responsibility for his mistakes, was a polite campaigner and was in touch with common students, he wouldn't be personally disliked. Thank you for allowing me to explain my "role" in ~he "personal attacks." 
Sean Williams 
senior 
St. Edward's Hall 
Feb. 13 


THE OBSERVtR 



CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, February 18, 2004 
DVD REVIEW 

Season Three of 1South Park' delivers 

By MOLLY GRIFFIN Scene DVD Critic 
To watch South Park is to enter into a twisted, profanity-laced universe made of construction paper where strange things happen on a daily basis. 
The show follows the wacky misad­ventures of four third-graders -Cartman, Stan, Kyle and Kenny, in South Park. Colo. -and has become something of a cultural phenomenon. Since its debut in 1997, South Park has been a bane to parents, a subject of protest and an issue constantly debated on nightly news shows for corrupting the youth of the nation. It has also cre­ated major ratings for Comedy Central, a merchandising empire and a theatri­cally released movie. So, like most con­troversial shows, it inspires both love and hate with few viewers remaining neutral. The show is offensive and at times borders on sacrilegious, but it is also a funny and biting critique of topi­cal issues and of society itself. 
Season Three of South Park proved that the show had enough creative force and popularity to survive the sec-ond season that normally kills fad shows. Some of the episodes seem a bit dated (Bill Clinton and Pokemon are subjects) because the show deals pri­marily with poking fun at current events, but the humor survives in spite of the lapse in time. Most of the shows just imitate the voices of celebrities (as is stated in the disclaimer before each show). but through its growing popu­larity, it sometimes manages to attract celebrity guest stars. Season Three includes guest voices such as Jennifer Aniston as a high-strung children's choir leader ("Rainforest, Shmainforest") and the band Korn as themselves ("Korn's Groovy Pirate Ghost Mystery"). 


The episodes in Season Three deal with a variety of different issues, rang­ing from Christmas to sexual harass­ment to spontaneous human combus­tion. 
Aside from the actual episodes, the DVD set doesn't include a lot of extras, but it has enough to make the discs watchable and attractive to fans. The interactive menus are easy to use, there is a "play all" feature, and there is access to individual scenes and the menus are easy to use. The set inciudes 17 episodes on three discs, and each episode has a brief commentary by creators/writers/voice artists Matt Parker and Trey Stone. The com­mentaries run through the first few minutes of each episode, and this provides a kind of intro­duction and background to each show. This 

approach to commenting works, because the viewer gets the creator's views on the show without having to deal with long pauses or not being able to hear most of the episode. The com­mentary is also available for every episode, which is rare on most DVD sets for television shows. Parker and Stone's comments are humorous and avoid being too serious or pretentious, which seems fitting for a show as satir­ical as South Park. Watching the episodes commercial-free is nice, but y.ou do come to realize that almost a full eight minutes of broadcast South Park episodes are commercials. 
The picture quality is good, and the colors of the animation remain appro­priately bright and clear for an animat­ed cartoon. The shows are in Dolby Digital sound, and they can be watched in English, Spanish and French. The special features are not extravagant, but they get the job done and there are few problems to be had while watching the DVDs. 
Season Three of South Park proves to be a very funny and interesting season, and it is presented in a manner that is simple to use and easy to watch. If you're not a fan of the show, this won't win you over, but those who love it will appreciate this set as a fitting package for a unique show. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Cruise fails to convince in epic 
ByJACK WATKINS 
Scene Movie Critic 
It's hard to appreciate a good epic ­like Return of the King or Master and Commander-with no corresponding­ly bad epic to compare it to. Fortunately Tom Cruise and director Edward Zwick have contrived to solve this problem by providing us with The Last Samurai. 

Cruise is Nathan Algren, a Civil War veteran who went on to serve with General George Custer in wiping out Native American tribes. He is hired by the Emperor of Japan to train his sol­diers in modern warfare so they can defeat a traditionalist uprising. Cruise is captured in a battle and meets the leader of the rebels, the noble Katsumoto (Ken Watanabe). Inevitably, Cruise becomes enchanted with the samurai culture and agrees to help Watanabe in his rebellion against the Emperor, a fight that can only end in a glorious, death-defying, hopefully Oscar-winning charge. 

If this all seems a little paint-by­numbers, that's because it is. Katsumoto is little more than the stereotype of a noble samurai, the plot is just another riff on the theme of evil, encroaching modernity, and Cruise is the man of 20th-century PC values trapped inexplicably in the 19th centu­ry. 
Cruise, in fact, is miscast. Simply put, he lacks the 
warriors in their fight against the Emperor. At some point, one thinks, "You know, this movie won't be that bad, as long as the ending isn't some absurd, anti-climactic betrayal of the themes of the story." Sigh. Without giv­ing too much away, it's safe to say that such an optimistic thought is misguid­ed. The ending to this film left this reviewer trembling with rage. 
Just one final note -often, screen­writers are able to defend their sappy and gutless films by using the phrase "based on a true story." The Last 
Samurai is not 

ability to rise based on a true
"The Last Samurai" 
above his own story, and it's not well-known per­
even particularly sona, making well researched. him completely The supposed unconvincing as "issues" driving
Director: Edward Zwick
either a bitter the rebellion are
Writer: John Logan, Edward Zwick and
Civil War veter­all fictional, prob­
Marshall Herskovitz

an or a convert ably because the
Starring: Tom Cruise, Ken Watanabe, Billy
to the samurai real motive for 
Connolly, Masato Harada and Koyuki
code. This makes samurai rebel­
lions in 1877 (Imperial refusal to invade Korea) was not particularly sympathetic. In other words, in addition to being bad drama, The Last Samurai is also bad history. It's actually pretty much bad at every­thing, except for filling this critic with a burning desire to see a better movie. 
Contact Jack Watkins at watkins.25@nd.ec:!1 • 
scenes that would have otherwise been merely weak or cliched ridiculous, such as the samurai gaining respect for Cruise because he refuses to quit when clear­ly beaten in a mock combat, or, most notably, Cruise's laughable audition­style speech in which he describes the horrors of war. 
For all the movie's flaws, it still packs a certain emotional punch. One is forced to admire and respect the 
THE 0BSER\'ER 



CENE
Wednesday, February 18, 2004 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
More than your average Valentine movie 
tries to meet her each day and persuade
By JACQUELINE PIMENTEL-GANNON her to like him. He is successful on some 
Scene Movie Critic days and fails miserably on others. Lucy's 
father, Marlin (Blake Clark), catches on 
If you are searching for a romantic and warns Henry to stay away from his comedy that is actually funny. look no fur­daughter. but Henry will not be deterred. ther than 50 First Dates. It can hardly be Hilarity ensues as Henry creates scenar­describ1~d as a chick flick and will be ios to meet Lucy that grow increasingly enjoyed by girls and guys alike. Drew absurd. Barrymore and Adam Sandler, together Eventually, Marlin realizes that Henry's for the first time since 1998's The intentions toward Lucy are pure and it is Wedding Hinger, star in 50 First Dates. evident that Lucy likes Henry. So Henry is Fans of either star will not be disappoint~ allowed to try a new way of dealing with nd by this hilarious movie. Lucy's condition. He makes a video that 
Sandler plays Henry Hoth, a veterinari­explains everything about the accident an in Maui who enjoys many short-term and her memory loss. She watches the flings with vacationing women. He is movie in the morning, has time to react to completely satisfied with this lifestyle it and then spends afternoons with Henry. until he meets A relationship l.uey Whitmore between the two
"SO First Dates"

(Barrymore) in a develops even diner one morn­
though it has to ing. The two hit it start from scratch off and Henry each day. They are cannot stop forced to deal with 
Director: Peter Segal

thinking about the fact that Lucy
Writer: George Wing

l.uey. lie goes to cannot remember 
Starring: Adam Sandler, Drew Banymore,

the diner the fol­him from day to day, 
Rob Schneider, Sean Astin and Dan Jb'kroyd

lowing morning and this results in a and sees Lucy comical scene in again but is confused when he goes to which Lucy awakens to a man she doesn't talk to her and finds that she has no idea recognize in her bed. who he is. Though this film is highly refreshing in 
llenry learns that Lucy had been in a its originality, it does not stray so far from ear accident the previous year, sustaining the norm as to deny filmgoers the happy brain damage that left her with no short­ending they have come to expe'ct-it just tPrm memory. Every morning she awakes comes about differently than one might with no recollection of the previous day initially think. and thinks that it is the day before her The acting is superb; Barrymore accident. matches Sandler's comedic talent and 
llnnry is so infatuated with Lucy that he there is a wonderful supporting cast that 

Photo courtesy ot www.imdb.com 

Henry Roth (Adam Sandler) tries to Impress Lucy Whitmore (Drew Barrymore) on one of their many dates In the new romantic comedy "50 First Dates." 
includes Dan Aykroyd as Lucy's doctor takes a subject matter made for a serious and Sean Astin (title character in Rudy drama and delivers an exceedingly amus­and now best known as Samwise in the ing story. Lord of the Rings trilogy) as Doug. Some It would be hard to think of a lilm that of the funniest lines come from Rob could cause an entire audience to laugh Schneider as Henry's best friend, a stoner as often and as loudly as 50 First Dates, named Ula. so whether on a first date or with a bunch 
As in most Sandler movies, expect some of friends, see this movie. crude jokes. There is some over-the-top sexual humor, but it still manages to come off as funny. Director Peter Segal Contact Jacqueline Pimentel-Gannon at (Tommy Boy and My Fellow Americans) jpimente@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
'Pirates' DVD a bloody good time 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene DVD Critic 
Pirates have always gotten the short end of the stick when it comes to the silver screen. Beyond such classics as Peter Pan, the spin-off /look and Treasure Island, pirates never really made their way into many decent movies. 
Sure. there was Cutthroat Island, and The Goonies, but these only total five that easily come to mind. Oh yeah, and one more -the truly excellent 
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the JJlack Pearl. produced by Jerry B ruckheirner. 
Pirates is the latest foray into the realm of pirates, and by now most people have already seen the movie or at least heard of it. If you happen to liave either been living in outer space, under a rock or in Carroll Hall, drop this article now and find a copy of the movie. Buy, borrow, rent or plunder a copy somehow, but find one and watch 
il. You'll he glad that you did. 

tones are dark as they should be, with no washing of the colors. The special effect~ look good, as there is only a slightly obvious distor­tion when computer generated images are used. There is a prob­lem with the DVD though; it comes on a dual layered DVD, 
But not because of the plot or the well-scripted action. In fact, the plot itself is kind of average, as is the action. No, the real reason to see the movie is Johnny Depp and the charac­ter he plays, Captain Jack Sparrow. 
The former Tim Burton staple goes well beyond anything he has done before to create a completely unique, interesting character. Depp, known for his quirky characters, has created a character in this movie that will prob­ably become his most recognizable. He has done a number of movies over the years as any search on the Internet will reveal, but it wasn't until fairly recently that he became a blockbuster star. That's not to say that he hasn't been in some quality movies, it's just that Pirates was probably the most mainstream he has been in for some time, if ever. Also look for his name to be mentioned in the upcoming Osears for his role in Pirates. 
Beyond Captain Jack Sparrow. the DVD in which you'll find the movie is of the utmost quality. Packaged as one of Disney's collector's sets, the video and sound are of supe­rior quality. The black 

which can give some DVD players a hard time, such as the first generation X-Box's. 
The movie comes with a second DVD with a reported ten hours plus of viewing material. The ten hours con­sists of various commentaries, behind­the-scene explanations, deleted scenes and a blooper reel -basically all the things you would expect from a Disney Collector's Edition DVD. One of the commentaries features Captain Sparrow himself, so fans of Depp may want to check it out to hear his insights. Fans of the theme park ride in Disneyland are also in for a treat. as there is a "Disneyland Pirates Virtual Reality Viewer," as well as a featurette called "Dead Men Tell No Tales," which provides a history of the Disneyland attraction. 

Pirates is one of those rare movies that appeal to almost everyone, and therefore almost everyone has seen it. If you're one of the unlucky few who haven't, it's time you did. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 18, 2004

page 14 The.Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Anthony, Nuggets record third straight win 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Carmelo Anthony scored nine of his 28 points in a pivotal third quarter, and the Denver Nuggets posted their third straight win, 106-85 over the Philadelphia 76ers on Tuesday night. 
Nene added 18 points and 11 rebounds for the Nuggets, who outscored the 76ers 49-31 in the second half. 
Allen Iverson, who missed Monday's practice and was held out of the starting lineup by interim head coach Chris Ford, led the 76ers with 27 points and a season-high 14 assists. 
Iverson, the NBA's leading scorer, entered the game with 
4:39 left in the first quarter and played 36 minutes overall. 
Kenny Thomas had 17 points and 16 rebounds for Philadelphia, which had 21 turnovers. 
Denver, which led 57-54 at halftime, jumped out to a dou­ble-digit lead early in the third quarter. 
Anthony scored nine of Denver's first 17 points in the quarter, capped by a fastbreak slam dunk, as the Nuggets took a 7 4-63 lead midway through the period. 
Anthony's back-to-hack rebound baskets in the fourth quarter gave Denver a 91-74 lead, and Philadelphia got no closer than 13 points after that. 
Nene and Voshon Lenard each had eight points in the first -quarter and Denver outshot Philadelphia 65 percent to 38 percent en route to a 32-19 lead. 
Lenard's 30-footjumper barely beat the shot clock and put the Nuggets up 22-10. Anthony's two free throws gave the Nuggets their biggest lead of the quarter, 27-12. 
In a second quarter filled with flurries, the 76ers started the period with a 17-4 run, including seven points by Iverson, to pro­duce a 36-all tie with 7:06 left in the period. Eric Snow's three­point play gave the 76ers their first lead of the game, 43-42. 
Denver countered with a 15-2 surge, mostly on layups and slam dunks, and Anthony's dunk on a pass from Marcus Camby made it 57-45. 
But Philadelphia scored the last nine points of the quarter, including Iverson's three-point play, to cut the halftime deficit to 57-54. 
Philadelphia shot 71 percent and scored 35 points in the quarter. Chicago 75, Toronto 73 
Jamal Crawford had 25 points, 11 rebounds and five assists, and Eddy Curry added 15 points to lead the Chicago Bulls past the Toronto Raptors Tuesday night. 
Vince Carter had 21 points, and Donyell Marshall -involved in the blockbuster trade between the two teams on Dec. 1 -had 10 points and a career-high 24 rebounds for Toronto. However, the Raptors couldn't overcome a 20-point second half deficit. 
Vancouver 109, Dallas 92 
James Posey had 19 points, Stromile Swift added 18 and the Memphis Grizzlies continued their dominance at home with a victory over the Dallas Mavericks on Thesday night. 

Memphis won its 20th home game -and six of its last seven -to tie the franchise record for home victories set last season. The Grizzlies moved nine games over .500 for the first time in franchise history and gave Hubie Brown his 400th win as an NBA coach. 
Memphis opened the fourth quarter with a 9-2 run and extended its lead to 99-80 with six minutes left when Posey tipped in his own miss. 
Pau Gasol scored 17, while· reserve Earl Watson added 12, and Shane Battier and Jason Williams each had 11 for Memphis. 
Battier grabbed nine rebounds and Williams had out eight assists. 
Memphis' bench outscored the Mavericks' reserves, 53-29. 
Dirk Nowitzki led the Mavericks with 24 points, while Michael Finley, who helped a third-quarter spurt for Dallas, fmished with 15. 
Antawn Jamison and Josh Howard had 10 points each, and Howard pulled down 11 rebounds. 
Milwaukee 127, Orlando 104 
Michael Redd scored 27 points and the Milwaukee Bucks over­came Tracy McGrady's big per­formance to defeat Orlando Tuesday night in their highest­scoring game of the season. 
McGrady scored 41 points in the Magic's eighth straight loss. 
Keith Van Horn, acquired by the Bucks on Sunday in a three­team trade, passed his physical before the game. But he didn't play, and instead headed back to New· York to take care of family matters. 

Van Horn also miss the Bucks' game at Detroit on Wednesday night. The Bucks got him in a deal that sent forward Tim Thomas to the Knicks and center Joel Przybilla to the Atlanta Hawks. 
Desmond Mason started in place of Van Horn and scored 13 points. 
Joe Smith scored 17 points and had 10 rebounds, Brian Skinner had 16 points and Marcus Haislip added a career-high 13 points for the Bucks. 
Rookie T.J. Ford matched his season high with 12 assists for Milwaukee, which had lost four of its last five. 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Spoonhour resigns from UNLV because of poor health 
Associated Press past three seasons, will serve as retirement to become UNLV's the interim head coach starting 12th head coach. 
LAS VEGAS -UNLV coach with Tuesday night's home game He was head coach at Saint Charlie Spoonhour resigned against San Diego State. Louis from 1992-1999 and Tuesday, citing health reasons. A search for a new head coach coached Southwest Missouri 
"I am physically unable to do will begin immediately, athletic State from 1983-1992. this right now," Spoonhour, 64, department officials said. In 19 years as a Division I said in a statement. "Because of Spoonhour is the second coach head coach, he compiled a my health it is in my best inter­to resign for health reasons in career record of 373-202. His est to step away. It has nothing the last month. teams made it to the postseason to do with basketball or any­On Jan. 28, Rick Majerus took 13 times, including eight trips to thing surrounding the pro­a leave of absence at Utah, cit­the NCAA tournament. gram." ing heart problems. He later UNLV athletic director Mike 
He was unavailable for inter­said he would not return to Hamrick said Spoonhour leaves views and gave no other details. Utah. a solid program behind him. 
The Runnin' Rebels (12-9) Spoonhour, who was hired "He added a lot of stability to have lost three straight games, March 29, 2001, leaves UNLV the program the last three years including a 94-60 rout at with a 54-31 record. He led the and we wish him nothing but Missouri on Sunday. team to NIT appearances in the best in the future and hope 
Jay Spoonhour, an assistant on 2002 and 2003. he can take care of these health his father's staff at UNLV for the Spoonhour ended a two-year issues quickly," Hamrick said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated.www.bookhq.com 
Large 1 Bedroom Condo 1 0 min from Univ. All App. Pool Low taxes less than rent 574-299-4997 
Freshmen check out www.nd2007 .com 
www. RepublicanConnections.com Exclusive member only site for conservative singles. Find someone who shares your values! Site opens Valentine' s Day. Email Webmaster@republicancon­nections.com for information. 
WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-9359 

Looking for full or part-time work? Reach Your Potential in outside sales with Media Direct, a growing cable TV sales, marketing and audit company. Salary plus commission. 
Bonuses, health benefits and paid training. Hard working, enthusiastic people wanted. 
Sales experience is a plus not a requirement. 
Phone 1-800-376-7961 
Summer Camp counselor for children w/disabilities. $7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Visit www.akroncyo.org -download an application. EOE 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE-Like new weights set with incline bench, leg lift. Will deliver. $150 277-1345 COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2004-2005 Academic year-Available June 1, 2 Bdrm ­2 Bath -Fully Furnished ­Security System. (626) 441-1275 or salvaty@ earth link. net 

FoR RENT 

B&B for JPW/gradlfootball for up to 12 people, 1/2 mile to ND, 
email domercondo @yahoo.com 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE. .. 2 BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM DUPLEX ... AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR... .WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ...CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 


----l 
Wednesday, February 18, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
BASEBALL 


Source says Maddux will sign with the Cubs 

Associated Press 
While the New York Yankees were welcoming newcqmer Alex Rodriguez, the Chicago Cubs were busy Tuesday luring back a familiar face -Greg Maddux. 
Maddux and the Cubs agreed to a $24 million, three-year deal, a source close to the nego­tiations told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. 
The Cubs can void the final year of the deal if Maddux does­n't pitch a preset number of innings in 2005. The deal for the free agent is pending a physical, but he was expected to report to spring training Wednesday in Mesa, Ariz. 
The four-time Cy Young win­ner returns to the team with which he made his major league debut in 1986. Now 37, Maddux will join an impressive rotation that includes Kerry Wood, Mark Prior, Matt Clement and Carlos Zambrano -a group that nearly pitched the Cubs into the World Series last October. 
Maddux was 16-11 with a 
3.96 EHA last season for Atlanta. He's posted at least 15 wins for 16 straight years, and is only 11 victories shy of 300. 
Meanwhile, the New York Mets made light of the Yankees' big move and the Boston Red Sox tried to pooh-pooh it. Still, it was hard to avoid the shock wave the Yankees sent through baseball by getting Rodriguez. 
"A-Rod goes to the Yankees and you sit there and look at that lineup top to bottom," Chicago White Sox closer Billy Koch said. "The best way to deal with that lineup is to be a Yankee pitcher. So you better ask Mr. Steinbrenner to trade for you." 
Yankees owner George Steinbrenner stayed in Tampa, Fla., as pitchers and catchers reported to camp. But manager Joe Torre and captain Derek Jeter were at Yankee Stadium, where Rodriguez put on the pinstripes for the first time. 
The Yankees finalized their trade with Texas this week, and commissioner Bud Selig approved the restructuring of Hodriguez's contract. 
"We haven't won anything yet," Steinbrenner said. "It will be a big spring. It will deter­mine a lot of things down here." 
"Every year, everybody gets better. Boston is probably the favorite," he said. 
Some early arrivals at the Red Sox camp in Fort Myers, Fla., played down the Yankees' acquisition. 
"You didn't want to sec A-Hod go to the Yankees, but just because he's there, we're not scared," catcher Doug Mirabelli said. 
Boston came close to getting the AL MVP earlier in the off­season before its proposed deal for Rodriguez fell through. 
The Yankees' move shows they "are worried about us in a way," Red Sox pitcher Alan Embree said. "They know we have a very good ballclub this year and it's exciting." 
Added Mirabelli: "Having a lot of guys over there that are All­Stars, that's going to be tough. They can't deny that. There's going to be some egos over there." 
The Mcts made their own move Tuesday, signing former Yankees left-bander Handy Keisler to a minor leagun con­tract. 
The Mets announced the Keisler move in an e-mail head­lined, "Alex Who?" 
At St. Petersburg, Fla.. Tampa Bay manager Lou Piniella was caught up in discussing Rodriguez, a former player of his in Seattle. 
"The biggest adjustment will be moving from shortstop to third base. lie's been playing shortstop since he was a teenager," Piniella said. 
"Alex likes the limelight, so New York wont faze him. New York has brought in a lot of new people, like our situation. There arc, obviously, a lot more expec­tations out there." 
The Devil Hays will not have outfielder Josh Hamilton for a while. The 22-year-old prospect was suspended until March 19 and fined for violating baseball's drug policy. 
Hamilton was the No. 1 pick in the 1999 amateur draft but has yet to play a full season in the minor leagues. lie's been hurt and also been beset by unspecified personal reasons, which kept him out all of last season. 
The Devil Hays have repeated­ly declined to discuss his situa­tion. 
"The organization is not in a position to make any further statements concerning this issue," a spokesman said. 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Stanford and St. Joseph's still working on perfect seasons 
Associated Press 
Stanford and Saint Joseph's have little in common, but there is this: They arc the only unbeat­en schools lef't in Division I. 
It's been 25 years since two men's basketball teams entered the postseason without a loss, and the No. 1 Cardinal and No. 2 Hawks could be headed that way. 
Now the real pressure sets in. 
"We're going to be really zeroed in on how we're approaching the game and how WI~ play the game. We have to anticipate the atmosphere will bP over the top, but we've dealt with that," Saint Joseph's coach Phil Martelli said. 
"Extra attention comes with our record, and we'll accept it and deal with it." 
The schools from opposite coasts take different approaches as they try to quiet skeptics and make history. 
Stanford (21-0) boasts a bal­anced offense featuring five dou­ble-figure scorers, is led by a physical frontline that outre­bounds opponents by almost eight a game, and makes 74 per­cent of il'i free throws. 
Saint Joseph's (22-0) gets nearly half of its points from its stellar backcourt, is outmuscled by more than three rebounds a game, and makes 71 percent of its free throws. 
OK, so there are similarities. And here's what they have most in common: just a handful 
of regular-season games left against conference opponents. Both play in leagues that are mediocre this season (Stanford in the Pac-10, Saint Joseph's in the Atlantic 1 0). 
UNLV was the last team to enter the NCAA tournament without a loss, in 1990-91, when the Hunnin' Hebels were upset by Duke in the Final Four. The last time two schools were unbeaten heading into the post­season was 1978-79, when Larry Bird's Indiana State and Alcorn State did it. 
No one has gone all the way to an NCAA title without a loss since Bob Knight coached Indiana to a 32-0 mark and the 1976 championship. 
Saint Joseph's and Stanford were expected to do well this season -but not this well. The Hawks were ranked 17th and Stanford 19th in The Associated Press preseason Top 25. 
Asked about his team's rise to No. 1 in Monday's poll, Stanford coach Mike Montgomery could have been speaking about his team or Martelli's when he said: "It's kind of extraordinary from where we started the season." 
Pour of Stanford's last six reg­ular-season games are on the road, beginning Thursday at Southern California. Then the Cardinal have the Pac-1 0 tour­nament in Los Angeles. 
Saint Joseph's has five games left, with three on the road, including at Fordham on Wednesday. Their league tour­nament will be at Dayton, one of the toughest places for visiting teams. 
"The thing we talked to the team about is we play five teams we've beaten by double digits, so the onus is on us," Martelli said. "We realize the circus around us will be bigger, but to me it's still about playing a basketball game." 
Stanford owns four victories against ranked opponents (Arizona twice, Kansas and Gonzaga). and not everything has come easily. Nine of the Cardinal's victories have been by 10 points or fewer. 
Childress leads the Cardinal in scoring average at 12.9 points. He missed nine games early in the season with a foot injury, and three other starters have missed games with various ail­ments. Forward Justin Davis might rejoin the team at the end of the month. 
The llawks rely a lot on Player of the Year candidate Jameer Nelson, who averages 20.2 points. Fellow guard Delonte West averages 19. Both shoot better than 50 percent from the field, including about 40 percent from 3-point range, and they split 223 assists almost down the middle. 
Nelson, from Chester, just out­side Philadelphia, returned for his senior season after consider­ing a jump to the NBA. It worked out well for a player who was on the cover of Sports Illustrated last week. 

page 16 Wednesday, February 18, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
.:MEN'5 COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Syracuse suffering ~from inconsistency 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. -Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim's postgame press conference Monday night was the shortest of the season. The frustration was all too evi­dent after the Orangemen had lost again at home. 
"We didn't play well offensively despite coming off our best offen­sive game all year," Boeheim said after Notre Dame's first victory in the Carrier Dome in seven years. "We have to play a lot better offensively than we did tonight. We're just not going to stop peo­ple all the time." 
Syracuse is 16-6 overall and 6­5 in the Big East with five games left before the Big East tourna­ment begins March 10. The Orangemen play Georgetown, No. 5 Pittsburgh and West Virginia on the road and at the Carrier Dome have VIllanova and No. 8 Connecticut, in the season fmale. 
Which means that if the defending national champions win the three games they should win and don't pull off at least one upset, they won't fmish the regu­lar season with 20 wins and could be in jeopardy of not mak­ing the NCAA tournament if they tank in the conference tourna­ment at Madison Square Garden. On Saturday, making the post­-season again had looked like a given. Syracuse shot a season­high 64.4 percent from the field _ in defeating the Miami -Hurricanes 91-74 on the road. However, the team that lost four times in the last month, including an embarrassing 66-45 defeat at home to Pitt, resurfaced against 
did last year." 
"We have to turn it around," Warrick said. "Hopefully, we can make a run and end the season off with some strong wins." 
Notre Dame won by hitting 11­of-23 3-pointers and allowing Gerry McNamara and Warrick to get their points. McNamara fin­ished with 20, but no other team­mate finished in double figures and the Orangemen's high-scor­ing duo, who played every minute of the game, were a com­bined 16-for-43. 
That's 37.2 percent shooting. Not a recipe for success. 
"We can absorb those guys," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. "No one else hurt us. McNamara and Warrick did, but nobody else went off." 
And that's one of the biggest problems. 
Starting center Craig Forth was an impressive 16-for-23 for 33 points in the previous three games to become a force in the middle. He took one shot in 21 minutes against the Irish and missed it. 
Swingman Josh Pace was 12­for-21 for 25 points in victories last week over Rutgers and Miami. Against the Irish, he scored four points in 35 minutes. 
Perhaps the most important factor is the absence of point guard Billy Edelin. He's missed five of the last six games for per­sonal reasons and remains out indefinitely. His ability to pene­trate and either score or set up somebody for an open look ­he's averaging 13.8 points and 
5.2 assists -is sorely missed, 
especially by McNamara. McNamara has struggled since 

MLB 
Trainer admits to giving steroids 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds' personal trainer told federal agents he gave steroids to several baseball players, according to documents released Tuesday. 
No players were identified in the documents and it was unclear whether the trainer, Greg Anderson, gave specific names to the federal agents. 
Anderson was one of four men charged last week in a steroid-distribution ring that allegedly supplied athletes with banned substances. 
All four pleaded innocent. No athletes have been charged. 
Federal officials released two affidavits Tuesday that support­ed search warrants used in raids on Anderson's home in September. 
"Inside Anderson's residence, agents found steroids, syringes and other paraphernalia asso­ciated with steroid distribution activities," the documents said. "In addition, agents found files identifying specific athletes. These files contained calen­dars, which appear to contain references to daily doses of steroids and growth hor­mones." 
The indictment announced last week said federal agents found about $63,920 in cash in a locked safe at Anderson's res­idence during the first raid. 
"Some of the money was bro­ken up into separate envelopes with the first names of known athlete clients written on them," the documents released Tuesday say. 
The ne.w documents say Anderson initially denied dis­tributing steroids in discussions with federal agents but later 

The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one ofyour outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Hugh Page, Associate Dean I 05 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Friday, February 27, 2004 

F1euters Greg Anderson leaves a federal courthouse Feb. 13 after being Indicted on the dlsrlbutlon of Illegal steroids. Anderson Is the personal trainer of Barry Bonds. 
said he sometimes "gave" Area Laboratory Co-Operative steroids to people he knew. -the nutritional supplements 
"Upon further questioning, lab allegedly at the center of Anderson admitted that he had the steroid-distribution ring. given steroids to several profes­"Anderson returned to his sional baseball players," the vehicle and proceeded to drive documents say. directly, without stopping, to 
Federal agents followed Pacific Bell Park, a professional Anderson on Sept. 11, 2002, as baseball stadium," the docu­he made a quick visit to the Bay ments say. 
Notre Dame. 
Syracuse shot just 38 percent and was beaten 84-72 by a Notre Dame team it had defeated 10 times in 11 games. 
"I wish I could explain why a different team shows up every game," said junior forward Hakim Warrick, who had 28 points and 16 rebounds against the Irish. "It's just not the same team every night, and we don't have the same consistency as we injuring his left groin in a loss at Seton Hall on Jan. 20, which sent the Orangemen into their tail­spin. With Edelin out, that's allowed teams to concentrate even more on shutting down McNamara, the team's lone 3­point threat. 
In the last seven games, McNamara, who's averaging over 16 points per game, has been held to 10 or fewer points four times. 


528 E. Colfax Ave. South Bend) IN 46617 ( 574) 232 ..1822 
~ 
Wednesday, February 18, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL ,_ 
TCU hands No. 10 Louisville fourth loss in 5 games 
Associated Pn:ss "It's a product of losing close Dougherty called a timeout really stretch the lead until Michigan State went ahead ones, getting a little discour­and told the team to get back closing the half with a 14-5 run 52-42 with just under five min­
FOHT WOHTII. Texas-TCU aged rather than encouraged," to what they were doing. over the final 6 1/2 minutes in utes left, but the Boilermakers coach Neil Dougherty didn't Pitino said. "All of the credit "We went back out there which six players scored. cut their deficit to three. want to talk about the signifi­has to go to TCU. We have to with a calm that is continuing Louisville didn't score inside After Kelvin Torbert, who cance of his first win over a regroup, get better and start to to grow in our team," in the first half, but opened the scored 16, made two free Top 25 team. lie was just improve." Dougherty said. "It's a calm second half with a 7-2 run that throws to give the Spartans a proud of how his team played. Louisville made its first trip and a confidence that's really included Luke Whitehead's five-point lead, McKnight's two 
"I don't know if ranked or to the Dallas-Fort Worth good for me to see." layup for his only basket and a free throws pulled Purdue unranked means as much to Metroplex since 1986, when Santee then scored seven layup by Dartez. within three with 23.1 seconds me as how our kids performed the Cardinals won their last straight points -on two free Santee then had a reverse left. against a very good Louisville NCAA championship in Dallas. throws, a bank shot after a one-handed layup to end that Davis, who was 11-of-11 at team," Dougherty said. "It was TCU had gone 0-9 against nice pass from Marcus spurt. the line, made two free throws good to see that. It was good Top 25 teams under Dougherty, Shropshire and a 3-pointer. with 2.9 seconds left. Lowe for me to see how they enjoyed a former assistant to Roy That pushed the lead to 47-31, Michigan State 62, Purdue 55 missed a 3-pointer and competing with that team." Williams at Kansas. They were and the Horned Frogs main­Paul Davis scored 21 points Buscher could not convert a 
But the Horned Frogs didn't outscored by an average mar­tained a double-digit margin and grabbed a career-high 12 putback just before the buzzer. just beat No. 10 Louisville on gin of 27 points in their other the rest of the way. rebounds and Michigan State The Spartans arc 44-2 in the Tuesday night. They embar­three games this season "This is one of those games almost didn't miss at the free Big Ten at home since the rassed coach Hick Pitino's against ranked teams: Kansas, where the other team just out­throw line in a win over 1998-99 season. struggling Cardinals 71-46. Vanderbilt and Cincinnati. played you, even when we Purdue. Both teams may not have 
Corey Santee scored 20 Chudi Chinweze added 13 tried to go on our run and The Spartans made 24 of 26 been pleased that a national points, including his 3-pointer points and 13 rebounds for the show great emotion," Pitino free throws -missing only one television audience watched on the game's opening shot, for Frogs. said. "It was just one of those in each half -and connected the game, especially in the first the Horned Frogs (10-12, 6-5 Louisville shot a season-low nights." on 10 straight during the final half. Conference USA). 29 percent (14-of-49) and did­TCU students celebrated by 3:33. It took 5:19 for Michigan 
TCU's last win over a ranked n't have a player score in dou­rushing the court, though it Michigan State (14-10, 9-3 State to make a basket. Purdue team was 102-88 over No. 20 ble figures. Larry O'Bannon's was a somewhat controlled Big Ten) moved into a first­needed almost four minutes to Fresno State two years ago at nine points were the team scene with them streaming place tie with the Wisconsin connect on a field goal. home when Billy Tubbs was high. from only a couple of areas Badgers with its ninth victory And it didn't get much better still the coach. The last win Even after shooting just 33 and meeting at center court. in 11 games. after the sluggish start. over a Top Ten team was 14 percent (11-of-33) in the first There was plenty to cele­Brandon McKnight scored 16 The Spartans had almost as years ago against No. 8 half, TCU led 33-18. The brate. and Brett Buscher had 11 for many turnovers (nine) and Arkansas. Cardinals shot just 5-of-27 (19 With its lOth win, TCU sur­the Boilermakers (16-9, 6-6). fouls (eight) as points (12), but 
"It's at the top. This is the percent) in their lowest-scoring passed last year's total. And Purdue's top two scorers -only trailed 16-12 because best win so far for our team," half of the season. there are still five regular sea­Kenneth Lowe and David Purdue was 5-of-16 with nine said senior guard Nucleus The closest Louisville got in son games and the conference Teague-struggled. They both fouls and six turnovers. Smith, who had 17 points. the second half was 40-31 tournament to play. made only one-of-eight shots Michigan State led 28-23 at 
The Cardinals (17-5, 7-4), after Alhaji Mohammed had a After Santee's opening shot, and combined for just seven halftime. with their lowest point total in steal and on the break flipped Kendall Dartez scored for points, nearly 19 below their The Spartans finished shoot­three seasons under Pitino, lost the ball back to Francisco Louisville. Femi lbikunle made average. ing 40.9 percent and limited for the fourth time in five Garcia for an easy layup that it 5-2 before both teams Each time the Spartans tried Purdue to 34 percent shooting. games since a 16-game win­ended a 6-0 run with 15:31 missed six straight shots. to pull away, Purdue wouldn't The teams combined for 30 ning streak. left. The Horned Frogs didn't let them. turnovers and 48 fouls. 

Pleas(>. join us for Im aJtetm:)on nf n::fkl:ction and discussion dt~:i~1m:>.d for datln9 couples who are d.iSCi.'tninq th~: next sta~1;e of a relDtion~hlp O(nn111Ihnent 
~undo~\ feb 29t. 2:00-5:00.p.rn.
1n rt:loi:)Hl .~~dl) of th(?.: C;olenh~n..Morse { ...A!nter 
-Pre..a~Jistu~bon is wqutta:•d by FUday. Feb 27. at ooort . 
~~-Apphc<?~th)ni.t'1m available in 114 Colel'l'iiilll"i\1orse CetJb?a· or 2tl9 Colo&tn2ln.. M>~)i'~ at tbo& H:~t\:?ptic~tl Desk (th~m~ •:s no cost :ktr this 'f!t'Ogr.arn) 
Que5tions; C(:lll John or Syfvia Dillon <.tt 1"'7163 

• 
page 20 Wednesday, February 18, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Track 
continued from page 24 
an Irish uniform. The Spartanburg, S.C. native was out with a leg injury for most of last season and her main goal was to remain healthy 
this year. "There might be some last year in 
"I think I people out there who the 1,000 accomplished meters.
are a little bitter that 

that goal," she T h. e 
we won the meet last 

said. "I also am women's side proud of the year so we will have has experi­fact that I ence too as
to be ready to defend 

improved in Dodd quali­
our title."

every meet this fied for last year." year's meet 
Boyd's strong­Juan Alba in the 60­willed attitude meters and
Irish senior 

will help her team as the Irish try to dethrone defend­ing champion and No. 12 Miami this weekend. 
"Our main goal for this meet is to beat out Miami," she said. 
Alba is also anticipating a very competitive meet this weekend. 
"There might be some peo­ple out there who are a little bitter that we won the meet last year so we will have to be ready to defend our title," he said. 
He will be helped out by senior teammates like Mbagwu, who is the top con­tender going into this week­end's triple jump with a sea­son best mark of 15.31 meters. 
Mbagwu is also the defend­ing outdoor Big East champi­on in the triple jump. 
Other seniors such as Barber and Sornok should add 
valuable experience to the team. 
Barber has competed in the 4x400 meters and the 60­meter hurdles in the confer­ence meet during his career, while Somok has been a member of the 4x800 relay team along with finishing sixth in the conference 
the 400­
meters along with winning the 4x100 relay at the 2001 and 2002 Big East outdoor Championships. 
Van Weelden was fourth in the conference pole vault her sophomore year. 
As the Big East will essen­tially break apart after this year, Alba wants to go out a winner. 
"Knowing this is my last year and the last year of the conference it would mean a lot to go out a winner," he said. 
Boyd feels the same as she approaches her final indoor conference meet. 
"Every year the chemistry on our team has grown, and it would mean a lot to go out as a winner my senior year," she said. "But even if we don't win, I will still be proud." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu. 

HOCKEY 
Senior Galvin earns weekly honor 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior defense­man Tom Galvin has been hon­ored by the CCHA as the con­ference's defensive Player of the Week for the week ending Feb. 15. 
Galvin was instrumental in Notre Dame's weekend sweep of Ferris State (4-2, 4-1) at both ends of the ice ~s he scored once and added three assists for a four-point week­end and was +3 overall. The veteran blueliner was also on the ice for six of Notre Dame's eight goals on the weekend and was on for just one Ferris State goal. He also was a key contributor on the Notre Dame penalty-killing unit that killed nine Bulldog power-play chances on the weekend. 
In Friday night's 4-2 win, the 5-foot-1 0, 190-pound defense­man was + 1 on the night and set up the first Notre Dame goal of the night when his shot from the right point was deflected by Matt Amado past Ferris State's All-American goaltender Mike Brown at 2:53 of the first period. 
The penalty-killing unit killed all four Bulldog power plays on the night. 
Galvin recorded the first 
three-point game of his career Saturday night with a goal and two assists and was +2 as the Irish took a 4-1 decision ver­sus the Bulldogs. He got the Irish offense going again when he scored at 2:53 of the first period. 
He beat Brown when he walked in from the right point, went to his backhand and flipped the puck inside the left post and Brown's blocker for his first goal of the year. 
Galvin went on to help set up a pair of Neil Kornadoski power play goals for his two assists on the way to the 4-1 win. 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Dalby named freshman All-American 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team continues to rake in post­season honors for 2003-04. Freshman Greg Dalby was named to the Soccer America Freshman All-America team earlier this month -joining teammates Justin Detter and Chris Sawyer in earning All­America accolades. 
Dalby was both a central mid­fielder and central defender for the Irish in his rookie season last fall, helping the Notre Dame defense establish itself among the best units in the nation. Dalby started each of Notre Dame's 23 matches last season and played close to every minute of every contest. 
The Notre Dame defense held its opponents to just 16 goals in 23 matches last season -and eight of those goals came in two games. Take that into consider­ation and the Irish defense held their opponents to one or zero goals in 21 of 23 matches dur­ing the 2003 season. 
In other Irish men's soccer news, sonior Kevin Richards earned his first international playing experience for the Bermuda National Team on Feb. 11, when Bermuda faced Trinidad and Tobago. Richards, a native of Warwick, Bermuda, started two matches for his home country on Feb. 11 and 13 against the Trinidadians. Bermuda lost the first match 1­0, then carne back to earn a 2-2 tie. 
How do I balance making money to sup~rt myself(and future family) with ·folltl'Afing the Christian lifestyle? 
Does God nJally love aa:ounting majors? 
Join us for a discussion on Giving. to Christ, Giving to Caesar, with guest speaker 
Fr. Tom Doyle, c.s.c, 
former rector of Keough Hall 
Spec.ial this W ednesda)1! 
-O:Teat foodt Still free! -Special giftto everyone who comest (while they last) 
·­
Doo:rs·opea}!JlJO~.,Speaker·.begins··to:I5­
BraugLt to Jlolt ·by•· Campus· Ministry vi.sit. UB OX!· fGJ! •eb:· •htt~J=//ctampusministty.nd.eclu 
Wednesday, February 18, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

Junior Jim Robinson carries the ball for the Irish against Air Force on April 12. Notre Dame has won exhibition games against Mercyhurst and Boston, 22-4 and 14-11, respectively. 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
A Talk on Robotics, AI and Implant Technology Is it a Glimpse into the Future? 

Thursday, February 19, 2004 131 DeBartolo 3:30pm 
Dr. Kevin Warwick 
University of Reading, UK 

"Cyborg Engineering: Practical Experiments Using Implant Technology" 
For More lnformaUon: 
http://xml.ee.nd.edu http://www.kevinwarwick.org/ http://www.cyber.rdg.ac.uk/people/K.Warwick.htm 
L·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
Border Po I icy and the Migrant Experience 
The Second lecture in the Program in Catho I ic Socia I Tradition's series 
Strangers No longer: 
Catha I ic Responses to Migration 
Br. Gioacchino Campese and Fr. Claudio Holzer, c.s. Scalabrini missionaries from Casa dd Migrante, TijUana, Mexico and St. Charles Borromeo Parish in Chicago Allert Brown~Gort 
Institute fl1r Latino Studies 

Wednesday, February 18th, 2004-7 pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
t 
1 

For more information contactjohn Infranca at jinfranr@nd.edu 
http://www.nd.edu/-isla/ISLA/webpages/thearts/cst/ . 
Co-Sponsored by: 

The Institute for Latino Studies The Center for Social Concerns The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies The Office for Hispanic Ministry, Diocese of Fort Wayne~South Bend 


Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 

four assists) in 2002 and was second last season to Walsh with 32 goals and two assists. Last season, Walsh became the first freshman to lead the team in scoring since Randy Colley in 1992. 
Walsh scored 20 goals and notched 32 assists. This sum­mer, Walsh also helped the United States win the under-19 men's lacrosse World Championship, scoring 13 goals and eight assists in six games. 
Walsh led the United States with four goals and three assists in a 19-10 win over Canada in the championship game. 
Other significant returning players include senior attacker Matt Howell. senior midfield­ers Steve Clagett and Owen Mulford, junior midfieldcrs Chris Richez and Brian Giordano, sophomore defense­man D.J. Driscoll and senior 
-
goalie Stewart Crosland. 

Howell st:ui'ed 15 goals last season despite playing in only nine games due to an injury. Mulford finished with ten goals and three assists. Driscoll led the team in ground balls with 61 last season and was one of just 12 players to play in every ,.,... game. 
The maturity and experience of this year's team has been evident in the exhibition games. The Irish arc careful to take the exhibition games for what they arc worth, using them as practice for the sea­son. 
"Each time we play, no mat­ter who it is or what type of game, we arc just concerned with getting better each time we step on the field," Walsh said. 
Notre Dame will play one more exhibition game this Sunday at home against Denison and open the regular season against Penn State at home Feb. 29. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
victory was Thompson's third consecutive match-clinching

Tennis 
win for the Irish. 
She built on that success 
with a doubles win with part­
ncr Christian Thompson 

Moreover, Notre Dame swept against Virginia Tech's Elissa the doubles portion of each Kinard and Felice Lam 8-2 and match after focusing on that a singles win over Lam 6-3, 6­aspect of its 2. game in the "Catrina practices before wasn't feeling the weekend's well this 
continued from page 24 

"Our coach is always 
matches. weekend, but
telling us that it's so
"Our coach is she really always telling us important to win the buckled down that it's so and showed
doubles point because 
important to how tough she •
it's difficult to win four 
win the doubles could be." point because singles... " Dasso said. it's difficult to Sophomore win four singles Kristina
Christian Thompson 
matches against Stastny con­
Irish freshman 
any · team," tinued her Thompson said. early season "The doubles success with a point is so cru-6-0, 6-0 win cial, and we basically killed over Virginia Tech's Meredith them this weekend in doubles." Holmes and combined on an 8­
Sophomore Lauren Connelly 0 shutout with doubles partner was victorious all weekend in junior Sarah Jane Connelly both singles and doubles, kick­over Virginia Tech's Ashley ing off the weekend with dou­James and Carolina Rodriguez bles partner senior Alicia Salas at the No. 3 position. with a win at the No. 2 position "She's one of our hardest 
over Virginia Commonwealth's workers and it really showed Cristina Gago and this weekend," ~ Cristina Arribas Dasso said of
"There's no doubt
8-1. Stastny. "Getting The duo is 12-2 in my mind that we a shutout is espe­this season and cially hard in col­
can beat a top ten 
has recorded vic­lege tennis." 
team ifwe keep
tories in eight of Both Thompson their last nine playing like this. " and Dasso matches. This described the was the first of weekend's wins
Catrlna Thompson 
several wins for as confidence­
Irish freshman 
Lauren Connelly, building experi­who remains ences. undefeated in both singles and "We have a deep team." doubles this season. Thompson said. "There's no 
"She has an extremely strong doubt in my mind that we can 
backhand," assistant coach beat a top ten team if we keep Michelle Dasso said. "She's playing like this." been solid so far this season." The Irish host No. 20 BYU 
Freshman Catrina Thompson Friday. also saw success this weekend with a win over Gago from Contact Ann Loughery at Virginia Commonwealth. The alougher@nd.edu. 

ourShortcut ­to SpringBreak 
Gary Chicago Airport to St. Petersburg/Tampa 
• $69 se~s trG llmltOO Fbgtts ar& Mlc cnart&rs (PC.03·201) Cha1.er operacr!er Cllll« Is SoJheasl AJlm:s Pnce doe!l'll n:lude up to $10 00 passerger !Bailly ctorges, Q-11 secull.y leGs of $250m a $310 Jed~Jal exosg taK psr SAlfJf1l'lt A sognert OOC"'SSm OIOI'li Lakool il"d cne 191drg FEJ"es IJ"& na-H~Ie bli fTlll,' b8 excturJtjGd fa a $2500 IGe FliJ&~s a.qea \O d'"erge, no dhef dSOOJ1s awy www ga-y<hcagoearp:M1 can 
..... 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 18, 2004 
-
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles try to end 4­~game losing streak 
between these two teams earli­

By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
er in the season. 

Sports Wrirer 
Brown and Riley have each earned MIAA Player of the Week honors this season.

At this point, the Belles are 
Riley's came in the second

playing for pride. After dropping the last four week of the season, while 
Brown took the award in the

games since their victory over Olivet Feb. 2, the Belles have 
fourth week. fallen to 6-17, and 1-11 in the Emily Creachbaum has led 
the Belles all season. AlthoughMIAA and are hoping to finish 

she has struggled for consis­

the season on a positive note. 
The Belles have not played tency all year, Creachbaum's 
12.8 points and 5.4 rebounds awell in their last four games, game have provided a sense ofbeing outscored by nearly 18 

points per contest. stability for Saint Mary's. Kalamazoo (13-10. 5-7) has In the first meeting against Kalamazoo, Creachbaum
had a strong season, including 
a big overtime win against scored 13 points on 6-of-12 Albion on Jan. 7. shooting. In their only meeting of the Creachbaum is coming off a 
year, Kalamazoo defeated huge week, where she scored Saint Mary's 65-61. This meet­17 points on 8-of-15 shooting against Adrian.
ing should provide the Belles 
with some confidence She then followed it up with Wednesday night, seeing that an impressive 26 points and they only lost by four points, seven rebounds in the loss to on the road. 
Alma. Kalamazoo has been led all Saint Mary's has one more season by Ashley Riley who game following Wednesday 
averages13.1 points per game night's contest with Kalamazoo and 8.2 rebounds per game, before the MIAt\ tournament. and Mary Brown who averages The Belles take on Olivet on 
12.5 points per game and 6.7 Saturday afternoon. 
Saint Mary's and Kalamazoorebounds per game. 

will tip off tonight at 7:30 p.m.

Brown also leads the team in assists, averaging nearly four at Saint Mary's. per game. Brown scored 16 points and grabbed eight Contact Bobby Griffin at rebounds in the meeting bgriffi@nd.edu. 
I St. John's 
continued from page 24 
in the second half after being down 36-33 after the first 20 minutes and were up 48-47 with 7:08 to play in the game. 
Then Jacqueline Batteast (eight points, eight rebounds, five assists) got her own tebound time and time again until she finally put it in to start a f0-2 Irish run. 
"I thought Jackie's three­point play was a real momen­tum shifter," McGraw said. "I think that persistence by her really got everybody excited. I thought that was a real turning point in the game." 
Joyce added her fifth 3­pointer from the right corner with 4:40 to go and the shot clock winding down, giving the Irish a 53-47 lead. Batteast hit a jumper, and the Irish made three straight free throws to go ahead 58-49. St. John's hit a 3-pointer, but they didn't score again until 36 seconds left in the game. 
The Irish hit 14-of-16 free throws in the final 3:01 to seal the game. 
Duffy was 8-for-10, and Le'Tania Severe was 6-for-6. Duffy finished 11-of-13 from the line, good for 17 points. 
The Irish shot 34 percent from the field, and finished 22-of-26 from the free throw line. 
The Irish outrebounded the Red Storm 45-34, including collecting 23 offensive rebounds. 
Teresa Borton had a game­high 11 rebounds to go with eight points. Severe grabbed 10 rebounds, five on the offensive end and scored 10 points, good for her first career double double. 

"She just did a great job of working hard in 23 minutes," McGraw said. "It was obvi­ously so critical and that was really important for us." 
Joyce has scored in double figures the past two games, both being career highs. 
"It's been the difference in both games," McGraw said of Joyce's back-to-back double digit performances. 
With the win, the Irish jumped to second place in the Big East, as Villanova beat West Virginia, dropping the Mountaineers to 9-4 in con­ference play. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
March 23, 2004 at 6:00 PM 
Dinner in the Notre Dame Stadium Press Box 


Father Bill Miscatnble, CSC , will reflect on Fear in the Christian Life to open a faith-based discussion with professors and fellow students. 


If interested, e-mail the Center for Ethics and Culture at ethics2@nd.edu. Please give your name, local phone number and address. Spaces are limited to the first eighty students who respond. We welcome all students regardless oftheir faith commitment. It's free dinner
-

at the press box -what do you have to lose? DON'T BE AFRAID, and sign up today! 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture For more infonnation, please visit our website at www.nd.edu/,-~ndethics 


--~~.......·.. 

' . ' . 
. ' ' . 

THE PRESIDENT EMERITUS 

The Observer 2 February 18,2004 
~------------------------------------------------------c----------~----~--~~-----· 
THE PRESIDENT EMERITUS 
"We believe in equal rights for human beings, not because oftheir color, nationality or their sex, but because they're human beings.·· 

S T 0 R Y BY SHEILA FLYNN 
I
n 1934, when a first-year student fresh out of Syracuse, N.Y. stepped onto Notre Dame's campus, he wasn't looking ahead to the day when he would become University President. He wasn't look­ing ahead to the time when he would travel the globe, visiting everywhere from China to the South Pole. He wasn't looking ahead to the ceremonies in which he would be awarded the Congressional Gold Medal or the Medal of Freedom. Theodore Hesburgh was simply looking around him. And a conspicuous absence in the University 
eommunity became glaringly obvious. 
"I asked one of the administrators why we didn't have any black students," I lesburgh said. "He said, 'All thP white ones ... so many of' them are from the South, they'd all leave."' 
Thoro wmm't a single black on campus --not in the student body, not in the faculty, not in the Main Building, not even working on the grounds, llesburgh said. 
"It was a totally white society," he said. 
But l H years later, when llesburgh had returnod to Notro Dame as the rector of Farley Hall, that homogeneity was beginning to change --albeit slowly. And th(~ administrator's prophesy was quick­ly proven wrong. 
"I had only one problem," llesbw·gh said. "I was just taking over Farley llall a.•; rector, and I got a call . . . tlw first day before school began from a lady in New Orleans with a French mune." 
The woman, whose white son lived in Farley, told llesburgh she had heard that a black student was also msiding in the dormitory. llesburgh confirmed that infill'mation. 
"She said, 'Wnll, if he's still thore tomorrow morn­ing, you send my son home,"' I Iesburgh said. 
"I said, 'We'll miss him."' 
Tho white student left, and the issue was resolved. Ten years later, llesburgh met that student --who had bPeome a doctor after attending Tulane --who said hio; mother's decision was tho "dumbest" thing shn had ever donn. 
Very few p(mple, however, made such a "dumb" mistake, llesburgh said, regarding issues of civil rights at the University. 
'"1'111~ stud(mto; wore on the side of the angels, as lhr as civil righto;," llesburgh said. 
They had a strong and influential role model in llesburgh. lie served as chairman of the United States Commission on Civil Highto; during Lyndon B. Johnson's prnsidoncy and played an integral role in passing proJ.,rressive Pqual righto; legislation. 
At the time, llesburgh said, Notre Dame was a "pretty lively place," with bonfires, rallies and huge support of soda! ch<mge across the faculty and stu­dent<;. 
"I got ofl" all right because they knew I wa'> the · civil righto; commissioner --that I was pressing for all the things that muld be done," Hosburgh said. 
And despite his very vocal and prominent position on civil right'> issues, Hesburgh said he never really faced opposition from more conservative factions, whether they be alumni, parent<; or students, them­selves. 
'Tm sure there may have been some, but they didn't come to me beeause they knew it wouldn't have done mueh good," Ilesburgh said. 
He stood firm on the issue of coeducation, as well, handling it in much the same way. Just as there were no black student'> on campus when I-Iesburgh first arrived, there were no females --at least dur­ing the academic year. 
"They used to loosen up a little bit in the summer­time and let nuns come in and do a little summer school," Hesburgh said. 
To him, though, that was simply not good enough. When he a<;sumed tlm presidency, he decided to do something about it, first attempting a merger with Saint Mary's College, and when that didn't work, opening Notre Dame up to women. He ignored OQjections and pushed ahead. 
"The place was so macho, a lot of people thought it was going to pot," Hesburgh said. 
The transition proceeded fairly smoothly, howev­er, and 1-Iesburgh said any opposing sentiment J.,Tfadually eroded. 
"Some had their sons turned down and their daughters accepted, so that took care of that prob­lem in a hurry," Hesburgh said. 
The male chauvinism that had long pervaded the University la<;ted a f~~w more years, Hesburgh said, but that, too, soon deteriorated. · 
"There were so few women that the women that survived those first four or five years, until they got more numbers here, were able to survive at any male chauvinistic place in the world," Hesburgh said. "They were used to it being one woman and 35 guys." 
And now the almost equal representation on cam­pus, I-lesburgh said, i'> one of the most significant changes in the University community. 
"Now, I think that everybody just takes it for granted," he said of the co-educational environ­ment. 
I Ie also said that, if males even tried to express a discriminatory attitude at this point in time at the 
3

The Observer February 18, 2004 
University, they would be far from successful. "I don't think they'd get away with it," I Iosburgh said. "You girls would stand up and cuff them." 
Despite such momentous strides, however, Hesburgh said there is still more that can be done to further gender equality at Notre Dame. I Ie said bat­tles continue to be fought, and progress is an ever­evolving phenomenon at tlm University. 
"I pushed behind the scenes as hard as I could until we had a woman student body president," Hesburgh said. "I think we're where we ought to bo, but that doesn't moan ~e can't get bettnr. 
"In a way, women could have more influence around here tlmn they do." 
That same opinion, he said, applies to minority students. He said the challenge is to now elect both black and Hispanic student body presidnnl'i. 
"You only have to win that battle once," llesburgh said. 
Other, more subtle, challenges, however, eontinue to face the Notre Dame community on a daily basio;, he said. While minority percentages have increa'>nd and the face of the student body is changing, I Iesburgh said the new test will be to institute actual and full integration. All etlmic groups and minorities must mingle and interact, bolstering truo diversity through a visible commitment to equality. 
"I think there ought to be more intercultural rela­tionships here," Hesburgh said, citing the benelito; of cross-cultural learning gained from sharing a room with a person from a different culture, race or coun­try. 
"Coming to Notre Dame ought to teach everybody that they're living in a very mixed-up world, and that we have to know how to live in such a world to live peacefully," he said. "It'd be wonderful if people could leave here with friends from other cultures and other religions and other nationalities." 
The Catholic religion, however, should be the foundation for thi'> entire integration and equality, Hesburgh said 
"We believe in equal righls for human beings, not because of their eolor, nationality or their sex, but because they're human beings," llesburgh said. "And on that bao;is, I think we're bound to come out on the right side of these questions. And I think we do." 
THE FIRST MINORITY FOOTBALL MONOGRAM WINNER 
""Those other teams realized that ifthey wanted to win, you had to take whoever was going to be the best for you. And I take real pride in being a part ofthat.,, 

STORY BY ANDREW SOUKUP 

ayne Edmonds doesn't have much trouble remembering his first football practice in an Irish uniform, even though that day was more than a half-century ago. 
Edmonds, who is black, was lined up at defensive end on a play when the team's quar­
terback, Ralph Guglielmi, tried to sprint away from a ferocious pass rush. But Edmonds chased down Guglielmi and delivered a punishing hit to the white quarterback. 
"Everything," said Edmonds, "got real quiet." 
The next play, three blockers flattened Edmonds. But Frank Leahy, then the Irish coach, chewed out his team. In that moment, Edmonds knew that if he never set foot on the playing field in a game, it wouldn't be because he was black. 
"I felt protected. I knew the rules," he said. "I knew that as long as I did my job right, I was going to be taken care of." 
Edmonds must have done his job well enough. In 1953, he helped Notre Dame win a national title and became the first black football player to earn a monogram at Notre Dame. 
But that didn't mean that he didn't endure his fair share of abuse both at Notre Dame and on the road. 
Edmonds likes to tell the story of a time that he got caught by a priest while he was off-campus. The priest asked Edmonds, "What are you doing out here? You're not allowed out here." The young football player replied, "I went to get a hair­cut. I can't get a haircut at Notre Dame" ­because the on-campus barbershop allowed only whites. 
On the football field, however, Edmonds' team­mates largely supported his play -something Edmonds now attributes to the intense pressure placed upon all the players. "The big thing was that everyone was so put under the telescope, you had to do well for yourself," he said. "With all the pressure on you, you didn't have time for any of that other stufl'." 
While a handful of other blacks had played before Edmonds arrived, none had seen enough playing time to earn a monogram. Even Edmonds' family in western Pennsylvania was wary of send­ing him to South Bend because they believed he would be taken advantage of. But Leahy and the rest of the coaching staff promised Edmonds, the· most talented black player to wear an Irish uni­form to date, that they would look after him. That was enough to convince him to go to Notre Dame. 
"I liked the possibilities of being first," he said. "It was important that ifI did that, and I was suc­cessful at Notre Dame, which was a white institu­tion, it would be important in my life later on." 
The coaches weren't the only ones watching after him. On a flight to an away game, a dozing Edmonds was roused from his slumber by a tug on his arm. Next to him was Father Theodore Hesburgh, wondering how Notre Dame was treat­ing Edmonds. 
"From an administrative point of view, they wanted to make sure things were OK," Edmonds said. "But from a football point of view, they prom­ised that other people couldn't harm me." 
That didn't stop people from trying, though. On away games in Southern states, hostile fans hurled racial epithets at Edmonds. Hotels and restaurants refused to host the Irish as long as Edmonds was a member of the traveling party, and teams routinely threatened not to play the Irish if Notre Dame brought its black players. 
Still Edmonds persevered. Having endured racial slurs and segregation as a high school foot­ball player, he claimed he wasn't bothered by the comments and taunts made by fans. Although many restaurants balked at serving Edmontls and the other black players, white teammates walked side-by-side. with their black teammates to dis­courage discrimination. And when teams threat­ened not to play Notre Dame, Edmonds frequently heard Leahy say, "If they can't play, then we can't play." 
Edmonds rarely returns to his alma mater and hasn't seen a Notre Dame game in more than four years. But that didn't stop him from feeling a strong sense of pride when the Irish hired their first black coach in Tyrone Willingham. 
Today, Edmonds looks out on a college athletics landscape far different from the one he endured as an undergraduate in the 1950s. Now, white and black players challenge for starting position and rarely is race an issue -an attitude Edmonds is thrilled he helped foster through his actions. 
"All these other teams we beat, people said they were supposed to be leaders. But Notre Dame was a real leader," Edmonds said. "Notre Dame just made those little kinds of moves like having blacks on its teams, and they were winning. 
"Finally, those other teams realized that if they wanted to win, you had to take whoever was going to be the best for you. And I take real pride in being a part of that." 
The Observer 4 February 18, 2004 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------~---~--~~------·-----------------------------------------------­
A BORN-AGAIN CATHOLIC 
"Life had handed me a cross I couldn't handle., 



•
an1er 

STORY BY JOE TROMBELLO 
E 
dward Manier, pro­A Notre Dame professor academic freedom and fessor of philosophy, since 1959, Manier said that greater faculty governance is not your typical disagreements with the Notre and was unwilling to adopt a Catholic. Dame administration, as well more accepting view of 
In fact, the 1953 graduate as financial and family difli­homosexuality. of Notre Dame stopped prac­culties, contributed to his "Notre Dame seemed more ticing Catholicism -and decision to leave the Church. interested in inter-faith ecu­organized religion all togeth­"Thirty years ago, life was menism and dialogue than in er --for 30 years. He teaching me that I was going consideration of liberal returned to the Church in to be just a run of the mill reform within Catholicism 1 999, after the marriage to Notre Dame faculty member, itself," he said. his second wife and the dis­and I found that lesson pretty Despite his vast differences covery of a local parish that hard to swallow," he said. with some aspects of resonates with him. "We were supporting seven Catholicism, Manier said that 
Manier said that despite children on about $12,000 the influence of his second intellectual objections to per year and I discovered I wife, whom he married _in some Church teachings, his was also a pretty miserable late 1999, caused him to problems with the Catholic excuse as a husband and begin practicing again and Church stemmed from per­father. I quit going to church they began to attend the sonal hardships that lead to and became a rather hostile, Little Flower Chureh. his eventual withdrawal in anti-clerical. bitter non­"Little Flower Parish is a 1968. Catholic." powerful force in the lives of 
"I left the Church for per­Manier also said that was me and my wife," he said. sonal reasons having to do often at-odds with a Notre "[Homilies] are very serip­with personal weaknesses," Dame administration that tun~-based, from the heart, he said. "Life had handed me proved resistant to changes land discuss[ issues I mally a cross I couldn't handle." that would promote more believe in." 
AN EARLY MINORITY STUDENT 
"Our coach, Alex Wilson, told him, 'If he can't stay here, then we won't stay here either.,, 
Bi 

ur 


STORY BY TERESA FRALI.SH 
W
hen Bill Hurd University was far from the team that stood by him when enrolled at Notre ideal educational environment; others couldn't see past hi<> skin D<une in the fall of he was the only black student in color. 1965, he entered most of hi<> classes. He and the "We had a meet down in a world far di!lerent from his other black students banded VIrginia -we traveled on the Memphis, Term. hometown. together to form the African­bus from South Bend, [and] we 
"I was one of few African­American Student Union, stopped in a small town on the American students. Having despite opposition from the way there. The owner of the come from an all-black high­University admini<>tration. hotel said he didn't allow black school, ... it was a little differ­"We needed to fight just to people to stay there," Hurd said. ent," he said. exist,"' II urd said. "But we "I wa<> the only black person on 
The class of 1968 included needed to be together." the team. Our coach, Alex only about eight black students Once granted recognition, the Wilson, told him, 'If he can't -<md no morn th<m 20 in the group served a'> a support net­stay h_ere, .~~en we won't stay entire student body. But after work for students. And when here mther. vi-;iting the campus his senior Notre D<U110 invited Sen. Strom Overall, Hurd credits Notre year in high school, llurd decid­Thurmond to speak on campus, Dame's very first black students ed Notre Dame om~md a special members of the African­for contributing positively to the blend of academic excellence American Student Union decid­University's advancement, and and athletic tradition that ed to exprnss their views about believes the University has couldn't be found anywhere Thurmond's speech, walking come a long way since the late eL'it'l. out before the talk began. '60s. 
"I choose Notre Dame over During his years at the "I think we and Notre Dame Southern Cal, West Point and University, Hurd was named an both learned a lot," he said. MIT I wantPd to do both aca­All-American and Notre Dame's "Notre Dame has grown demh~-; <md athletics," he said. 1968 Athlete of the Year, and he through their diversity experi­
But Hurd soon malized the became captain of the track ences and so have I." 
The Observer 5 February 18, 2004 

AN EARLY FEMALE PROFESSOR­
"Some ofthe men said, 'You're a woman, you can't know theology,' as ifsomehow biology played a part." 


I 
STORY BY ANDREW THAGARD t's hard to believe that Josephine Ford's five-acre snow-covered farm is less than two miles from the center of Notre Dame's campus. It's even more astonishing that this petite, gray-haired lady is the person she describes in her stories with a quiet British accent as she warms herself by an old 
fashioned stove in her living room. Then again, Ford wasn't the woman whom her colleagues anticipated when she was hired by then theology department chair Father Albert Schlitzer in 1965 as one of the first women to join Notre 
Dame's teaching faculty. 
The Holy Cross priests who dominated the University's theology department at the time expected an overly assertive woman with short hair wearing a tweed suit, she recalls with a chuckle. 
Trailblazers, it seems, come in different shapes and sizes. 
Ford made University history when she was hired in 1965 and th"en again three years later when she became the first female Notre Dame faculty member to receive tenure. She cap­tured the limelight again in 1978 -this time for suing the University alleging sexual dis­crimination in its promotion practices. 
Ford relates all of this and more with sur­prising calm as only someone who is accus­tomed to adventure can. 
The woman who says she's been too busy to marry and "settle down" spent the first part of her life in England, training first to be a nurse and later a theologian. The idea of a woman teaching college level theology was unheard of in England during those years, according to Ford, so she moved to Africa to teach. 
When the school where Ford taught experi­enced financial trouble, she began to look for a new job. Both a British bishop and a profes­sor at Oxford University whom she knew wrote to Notre Dame on her behalf. 
Although most of her colleagues in the theol­ogy department were supportive, a few ques­tioned her ability in a field dominated by priests. 
"Some of the men said, 'You're a woman, you can't know theology,' as if somehow biolo­gy played a part," she said. 
Despite such comments, Ford received tenure after three years. She languished, how­ever, in the position of assistant professor while she watched colleagues whom she per­ceived to be less qualified get promoted over her from her position on the University's appointment and promotions committee. 
"I had seen other people's dossiers and I knew that I had more qualifications than many of the priests," she said. 
Meanwhile, Ford banded with other women members of the faculty to discuss issues they faced. The informal group called themselves "Committee W" and it was there that she decided to file a sexual discrimination suit against the University. 
Ford believed then and now that Notre Dame's actions were not intentional and she doesn't recall officials or colleagues treating her badly before or after the lawsuit. 
"I don't remember any anger. There was no acrimonious behavior on either side," she said. "I think it [sexual discrimination] just never crossed their minds." 
The University reached a settlement with Ford and the other plaintiffs out of court on March 16, 1981, agreeing to promote Ford to a full professor and renew Notre Dame's com­mitment to promote and grant tenure to female faculty members at the same rate as their male counterparts. The settlement also established an appeals committee to assess the files of faculty who were denied tenure. 
In a letter distributed to all members of the faculty on Dec. 11, 1981 then-Provost Timothy O'Meara said that the University's deCision to settle was motivated in part by a desire to minimize disruption to academic life that the suit could potentially cause and fear of dis­suading women from applying to faculty posi­tions. 
Ford couldn't have been happier with the decision. She accepted the promotion and remained at Notre Dame until her retirement three years ago after 33 years of teaching. 
"I think the fact that they settled out of court [suggests] that they realized they were wrong." 
The Observer 6 February 18, 2004 -------------------­
A WOMAN FROM 1972 
"Being asked for your opinion in a classroom to represent the whole female race ... that struck me as very strange., 



am 
e 

STORY BY CLAIRE HEININGER 
A
s the first females to attend Notre Dame in 1972, Donna Campbell and her peers expected skepticism from their professors and friction from their male classmates. They didn't expect a beauty contest in the dining hall. 
"I'll never forget it -when we were in the cafeteria line, the boys used to have rating systems," Campbell said. "They'd put up cards, 9.0, 10.0, 8.5, as we walked by." 
-
Mealtime appraisals were only one predicament that the women had to adjust to. A more signifi­cant challenge, Campbell said, was the widespread expectation of her male classmates that because 
she spoke as a female, she spoke as every female. 
"Being asked for your opinion in a classroom to represent tho whole female race -as if there's not 20,000 different opinions, just one female opinion -that struck me as very strange," she said. 
Yet it w~L'> this chance to speak up, both for her­sell' and for others, and to contribute to the aca­dmnic discourse at an institution as prominent as Notre Dame that drew Campbell and her identi­cal twin sister Denise to apply in the flrst place. 
Coming from the Chicago area, Campbell aimed for a top-level university in the Midwest. "It's not like today, when you see kids applying all over the country," she said. 
And with a full background of Catholic educa­tion from grade school on up, she added, Notre Dame's Catholicism was another advantage. It seemed like the only college that fit the regional, academic and religious proliJe she aspired to. But thorn was a catch: the decision to admit women had not yet boon finaliznd. 
"At the time we were applying, it was still not sure," she said. A'> soon as it was, though, so was Carnpbnll. 
''I'll never forget the Chicago Tribune front pagn saying 'Notre Dame going eo-ed,"' she said. 
"I thought, 'Ah, this is it! I'm supposed to go here!"' 
Once Campbell arrived, she found herself among a diverse group of women enrolled in var­ious majors and hailing from all over the country. 
"We had lots of Arts and Letters, some archies, a biology, a business," she said of her close friends. However, they all had one thing in com­mon: they were confident that they belonged here just as much as the male students did. 
"We knew that we were all in this together," Campbell said of the bond she felt with the other members of the first female class. "We did face male dominance throughout the university, and stereotyping females did occur." 
She added that while those looking back may focus on the discrimination and barriers that the women were up against, she chooses to remem­ber the time as a revolutionary step for a conser­vative institution. 
"We were very excited to be given the opportu­nity to become part of a great decision," Campbell said. "I always look at the positive side." 
Campbell, who lived in Walsh Hall as a fresh­man and moved to Farley Hall for her fmal three years, added that the women's intellectual contri­butions -"we were such a small group of females, so we were seen as the eggheads" she said -became even more valuable when com­bined with what they brought to the social scene. 
"All of the sudden there were hall parties, there were girls' dorms sponsoring formal dances," she said. She explained that the dynamic of a slightly uptight, entirely male culture began to shift to reflect the atmosphere that existed at other uni­versities across the country. 
"Socially, it became a little more of the norm of what was going on on co-ed campuses else­where," Campbell said. 
She added that while males at Notre Dame already interacted with females in an academic setting by taking classes with Saint Mary's stu­dents, their adjustment to soeial inh~raction was ­harder to make. It was also more of a shock for some than for others. 
"The freshmen boys weren't quite as put off as the upperclassmen," she said. "But they all got used to it. They learned." 
They learned that the sense of belonging was mutual. And they learned that co-education at Notre Dame was an idea worthy of a perfect 10. 
The Observer 7 February 18, 2004 -------------------­
-
THE HOMOSEXUAL EX-PRIEST 
"I could not teach people in the Church about gay people ifI didn •t come out myself I had to back it up. I could not lead a double life. ,, 

STORY BY SHEILA FLYNN 
H 
e had remained silent for decades, but in April1996, he wrote the letter. An outcry replaced the silence, and David Garrick's life, as he knew it, began to unravel. Eight years later, he is no longer at Notre Dame, is no longer a priest and has disappeared from the spotlight. The last major interview with Garrick was printed in the National Catholic Reporter in 2001, and The Observer was unable to contact him for this story. But many still remember his role in shaping Notre Dame history. 
Garrick was a member of the Congregation of Soon, though, he said his life at the University So Garrick took a job, which paid $6.60 an Holy Cross. He had been a rector of Keenan changed. hour, as a Pinkerton security guard for "The Hall. He was an assistant professor of theater-"I haven't had any priestly duties on this cam-Tonight Show." He finished the play, "A Difficult and communications, he wore his hair a little pus as of April1996," Garrick said in 1998. "No Patient," and enlisted the sponsorship of the long, and he wrote poetry. men's dorms have asked me to say Mass, and local chapter of Dignity, an organization for gay
-
He was also gay, and he admitted his homo-only two women's dorms have-that's devastat-and lesbian Catholics. Because the play was sexuality to the entire Notre Dame community in ing for a priest." non-profit, the actors' union provided equity a letter printed in The Observer Viewpoint sec-Holy Cross officials, however, denied that actors and managers, who worked on the pro­tion on April9, 1996. Garrick had been relieved from any responsibili-duction for $7 a night in exchange for the 
"I could not teach people in the Church about ties based on his sexual orientation. opportunity to showcase their talents, NCR gay people if I didn't come out myself," Garrick But Garrick said the ostracization became so reported. told The Observer in a 1998 interview. "I had to bad that he .felt compelled to announce his resig-"A Difficult Patient" follows the story of a back it up. I could not lead a double life." nation from the University in March 1998. He young homosexual man in the early 1970s and 
The letter came against a backdrop of contra-also described his resignation as a protest of the his anti-gay, oppressive psychiatrist. The play versy about homosexuals at Notre Dame. The University's failure to implement a non-discrimi-opened in November 2000 and was scheduled to early 1990s were filled with protests and rallies. nation clause against homosexuals. Garrick's run for 10 nights but closed early due to lack of In 1993, GLND/SMC was told to leave its desig-departure spurred an explosion of protest, peti-attendance, NCR reported. nated space in the Counseling Center. After that tions and rallies, but the administration contin-The failure left Garrick $15,000 in debt, and decision, Garrick said, he knew he had to publi-ued to uphold its stance against the inclusion without employment -again. Because he left cize his homosexuality. clause -a which still does not exist. the Holy Cross order, he will receive no pension 
He wanted to be a role model for young, The Holy Cross order agreed to send Garrick at 65. His decision to be open about his life Catholic homosexual students -because he had to Los Angeles to work in the AIDS ministry, but destroyed it, as he knew it, and alienated him never had one. Throughout his adolescence, he was told that he would have to find another from the Notre Dame community he loved. teen years and college experience (Garrick grad-job outside the priesthood within 10 months of Where Garrick lives now is largely unknown. uated from Notre Dame in 1966) he had never his arrival in California. For his own part, All that remains at Notre Dame is memories of come into contact with anyone to whom he Garrick did not exactly make excessive efforts to what he tried to accomplish with a letter to the could look for advice and examples about how assuage tensions -he continued to put books editor. to live a both gay and Catholic life. And he want-on the order's tab and took a $2,000 trip to com-"My hope was that, if my experiment with the 
-ed to be that person for struggling students. plete an epic poem, NCR reported. truth worked that more experienced, happy, 
"Without good role models, young people fall Consequently, in June 1999, Garrick left the Catholic adults would come out to help the into despair. I want them to know that other order and began hunting for employment while young people," Garrick told The Observer in futures are available to them," he told The continuing another project-he was writing a 1998. Observer. play about homosexuality, he told the NCR in His experience, though, dashed that hope, 
In his letter, Garrick maintained that he had November 2000. along with his generous, idealistic wish for honored the priestly vow of celibacy, and he out-"It would have made more sense financially to younger Catholics. lined a personal theology that discussed living take a computer job someplace," Garrick said. "Adults," he said six years ago, "are punished with homosexuality. "Or I could put on this damn play." for coming out here." 
The Observer 8 February 18, 2004 -------------------­


AN EARLY HOMOSEXUAL STUDENT 
..They say Notre Dame is a family. If you're my parents, you've got to take care ofme. IfI come to Notre Dame not knowing I'm gay and discover it while I'm there, I don't want to be silenced." 

n 


ae 
ore 
C 
S T 0 R Y BY CLAIRE HEININGER oming out to his own family was gut-wrenching. Coming out to the Notre Dame family proved to be another challenge entirely. John Michael Yore learned the distinction the hard way when, as an undergraduate strug­gling to place his identity, he realized he was gay and sought out a priest for counseling. Instead of the spiritual guidance he expected to receive, he said he got sexual abuse and a stifling silence. Yore said he also discovered that the University's highly touted "family" didn't live up to its promises. 
"They say Notre Dame is a family," Yore said. "If you're my parents, you've got to take care of me. If I eome to Notre Dame not knowing I'm gay and discover it while I'm there, I don't want to be silenced." 
Yore said his first reports of the abuse, as well as his subsequent efforts to gain acknowl­ndgmnnt of gays on campus, were quieted by an administration that was more concerned with its image than with the values it pledged to promote and the students it promised to rnspoct. 
llowevor, Notre Dame spokesman Matt Storin said that while he could not comment on Yore's case in particular, the University took immediate action in response to all sexual abuse allegations. lie added that he believed all pnople involved in the abuse incidents were of graduate student age. 
Yore focused on the University's attitude towards gay students, saying that it was care­ful not to publicize the existence of a group that might cause controversy among donors. 
"Notre Dame has to play a game with its donors to survive," Yore said. "They're making sure none of the donors feel uncomfortable." 
Yore believes· that this money-for-image exchangn factors highly into the University's reaetion to students in his situation .. 
"They're very conservative because they don't want to offend people who give them money, don't want to interfere with the cash cow," he said. "!Sol they ostracize things that go against the 'Notre Dame family' and the university's Catholic character." 
Gay students do not fit into this ideal charac­ter, and, Yore says, Notre Dame doesn't do much to mask their exclusion. He believes that by catering to the priorities of Catholicism over the priorities of individualism and intellectual curiosity, the University not only hurts students like himself but also betrays its purpose. 
"A Catholic university is a contradiction in terms," Yore said. "There is a conservative Pope and pressure to meet Catholic priorities. But at a university you are taught to think for yourself-to question everything, to question us, to question where you end up." 
Yore's own questioning persisted throughout his undergraduate and graduate time at the 
University, when he consistently tried to bring alternative, liberal and progressive views to campus. Ilis masters' thesis, "Gay Man in Catholic Disneyland," which was pub­lished in 2002 as an introduction to his mem­oir "Tell Me What Ilome Is Like," summarized his feelings about Notre Dame's profit-driven decision making. He compared the University's image-conscious approach to a corporation trying to maintain "a theme park for Catholics." 
In addition to his thesis, Yore was involved with GALA (Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College), con­tributed consultation to the University's antidiscrimination clause and suggested that a permanent standing committee on gay and les­bian issues be created at Notre Dame. 
Yore insists that these students deserve a committee because "they have unique issues 
The Observer 9 February 18, 2004 
and unique concerns." 
"They are uniquely vulnerable because they are essentially theological minoritiAs. They lie outside the traditional Catholic thinking." 
Although Yore has since stepped outside Notre Dame, publishing "Moving Into History: Lookout Liberals, Psychological Correctness and Victim Cultures" in 2003, he continues to urge others who have been ignored, abused or both to step back into the dialogue. 
He said that for many who have been abused, the pain is so great that they "can't ­even step back on campus," but stressed that "you don't get through it by hiding -.you get through it by creating a network of people to help." 
Such a network .was missing from the University's own stance on the sexual abuse crisis, Yore said. lie said that spokesmen and administrators have focused too much on eon­gratulating Notre Dame's response to the sean­dais without acknowledging that events on its own campus were a contributing force in the first place. 
"It all comes down to how Notre Dame is sold," he said. "It goes back to the Catholic Disneyland concept. Notre Dame has a lot of first-hand experience with the sex abuse scan­dal, but [these reactions] are evidence that the University is still taking care of itself first and foremost-and that's sad." 
A self-serving and exclusive eommunity, Yore reiterated, is not worthy of the "family" title. "If you care too much about image," he said, "you're going to lose what you're all about." 
..------~~-----------------------,---,--------,----------,-------,-------c-;--;--c---c-----;----------~---~~--~­
' ' 

THE IRISH GUARDSWOMAN 
"I thought there was no way they would keep on excluding me. I showed up every day with a smile on myface, I showed I was willing to compromise by respecting traditions, I showed I could march as well as them.,, 

STORY BY AMANDA MICHAELS 
B 
efore Molly Kinder left home for her freshman year at Notre Dame, her mother alerted her to the presence of a group of extremely tall men on campus called the Irish Guard -clearly steering her 6-foot-2 daughter to a pool of suitable SYR dates. Weeks later, when Kinder watched the kilted Guardsmen march proudly across the field at her first football game as a student, 
it was love at first sight -but not the kind her mother expected. In that moment, unaware of the incredible struggle her decision would bring, she realized she did 
not want to date a Guardsman. She wanted to become one. 
Three years later, with many hurdles behind est in her experience. This created a tension up with his daughter and he says, 'Molly, this is her and more ahead, she marched out onto the that she said contributed to her difficulty inte­my daughter. She hopes to be in the Irish Guard field as the first and only female member of the grating into the group. someday.' I will forever be grateful to him. He Guard. Though her friends, family and fans were not broke the ice, and after that, the guys toned it 
Her long journey started at the beginning of shy in expressing their support, the once wel­down." 
her junior year when, after a summer of rigor­coming Guardsmen now seemed to be closing Though that first game was the "best thing 
ous physical preparation, she did not make the her out of the group. Despite compromises [she's] ever experienced", the exclusion by 
final cut for the 1999 Guard. She did, however, aimed at making the transition as smooth as Kinder's fellow Guardsmen never got easier. 
manage to integrate herself into a group origi­possible -including the concession that she "I thought there was no way they would keep 
nally "shocked" by her appearance, and, not would not perform the Victory Clog, acknowl­on excluding me," she said. "I showed up every
-
dissuaded in the least, Kinder vowed to earn a edging the uncomfortable physical dynamic day with a smile on my face, I showed I was spot on the Guard the following year. when the Guardsmen "brushed chests" during willing to compromise by respecting traditions, While working in Santiago, Chile the following the celebratory dance -the nine men treated I showed I could march as well as them. I kept summer, Kinder practiced her high-knee her "with a standard policy of segregation and that attitude for two months -my goal beeame marching through the busy streets -creating disregard" she said. to find a reason to smile at practice." "quite a scene", as she recalls-and kept a pic­"I think the guys didn't ever think I was going It was during an away game at Pittsburgh ture of the Guard in her backpack to remind to make it," Kinder said. "I was taken aback by when, after being left alone while the rest of the 
-her of her goal. the instantaneous change in the manner in Guard when to dinner, Kinder decided that she The second audition, Kinder said, was far which they interacted with me [and] their had dealt with enough. more comfortable than the first. She "felt a rebuff intensified as the days progressed -par­"I sort of made myself an honorary trumpet," great deal of camaraderie with the aspiring and ticularly after that first weekend, during which she said. "I loved that marching band more current Guardsmen." She was confident that, I later learned that the group of nine had gone than anything. They made sure I was included. had she performed to the best of her ability, on an 'initiation' excursion [which excluded In the end, I didn't take the bus home with the new band director Ken Dye would not overlook Kinder]." Guard. I was sending the message that I her because of her gender. Though Student Mfairs warned her of inte­refused to put up with that, but it never got bet­However, not all were as open-minded as he, gration issues when she was first accepted into ter." as she would learn the night before results the group, Kinder was offered no further sup­Despite the hardship, Kinder does not regret were posted. The captain of the Guard, who port and, in accordance to the promise to "keep joining the Irish Guard. She said the experience was told in advance that Kinder was to be cho­Guard talk under wraps," was left alone during made her stronger. and she is proud of the lega­sen, made an unannounced visit to her room to this challenge. cy she has left behind. She also said that she discuss the possibility of her making the group. Kinder said the most intense moment came would encourage any other young woman look­"In our nearly two-hour conversation, he during the inspection before the first home ing to try out for the Guard, but thinks the firmly laid out the many challenges I might face game, when former Irish Guardsmen are invit­University itself still has a ways to go before it is if I were to be a member of the Irish Guard," ed to come up and do their own inspection after truly a comfortable, equal setting for females. she said. "I would later learn from another the captain completes his. Kinder considered "Being let in is first step to integration," Guardsman that the talk was motivated by a these former Guardsmen to be her biggest Kinder satd. "The second is women accomplish­desire to persuade me not to join the squad." opponents. Because of concerns over how the ing things, proving themselves. But the third This situation was just an indication of what men would react, extra security was brought in step to real integration is getting the culture she would face over the next year. Amid a but was never used. and traditions and attitudes of the University up media frenzy, she tried to balance the tradition­"I was basically ignored," she said. "But while to speed with fact that the campus is split al secrecy of the Guard with the public's inter-I was standing there at attention, this guy came between male and female." 
---------------------The Observer 10 February 18, 2004 -------------------­
THE IRISH GUARDSWOMAN 

The Observer 11 February 18, 2004 
THE FIRST WOMAN STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
"J think there is social paradigm, especially where a woman is .first to do something, for a woman 
to have to work harder to do something than a man would.,, 
-



orto-n 

STORY 

B 
rooke Norton moved into her Walsh dorm room in August 1998 and was shocked to 
learn that there had never 
been a female student body 
president. 
Two and a half years later 

she was elected the first 
female student body presi­
dent. 
"I was not the type of person 

who went to Notre Dame 
thinking I would be presi­
dent," Norton said. "It just 
kind of evolved. There was 
just something that told me I 
needed to do it." 
In high school, Norton 

focused on grades and sports, 
but at Notre Dame she 
searched for another outlet. 
She said she was surprised to 
win her dorm's freshman 
class council position. From 
there she rose up the student 
government ranks. 
BY MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Norton said it shouldn't have taken 28 years since co-edu­cation before the first female student body president .was elected. 
"The way [my presidency] was different was that I had a different vantage point," Norton said. "A lot of things other presidents hadn't gone through, such as living in girls' dorm, provided that dif­ferent vantage point." 
She said Notre Dame's high voter turnout for elections and the support she received rein­forced her position. 
"There is a lot of pressure with student government and presidents get criticized because they choose to take that position," Norton said. "But you primarily but it on yourself because you want to do the best job you can." 
Norton said she received encouragement from Univer­sity President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, director of public relations Denny Moore and other male admin­istrators to run for the top position and during her term. 
Though Norton found her experience of running for and serving as student body vice president beneficial, she said the experiences were very different. When she ran for student body president, she had experience and was not asked why she was running. 
"There was a lot of encour­agement," Norton said. "I can't say that I would have just run, without the experi­ence. I don't think that would have been easy thing. I think there is social paradigm, espe­cially where a women is first to do something, for a woman to have to work harder to do something than a man would." 
THE FIRST BLACK LEPRECHAUN 
"I tried to focus on being the 22nd leprechaun, not the first black leprechaun.,, 

-Brown 
F 
STORY amous for his con­
tagious spirit and· 
uncontrollable 
exuberance at 
-
Notre Dame football games, leprechaun Mike Brown remains at the fore­front of fans' memories more than seasons after his graduation. 
Although he is remem­bered for his enthusiasm and performance, there was a day when Brown's fame was sparked by his skin color. 
"When I first became lep­rechaun, there was so much media attention drawn to it because of my race," he said. "Tl).ere was a lot of buzz around cam­pus, a:round South Bend, in my hometown, and I guess across the nation, too. 
"I don't think any of that would have happened if I 
BY BETH ERICKSON 
hadn't been the first black leprechaun," he said." 
When the leprechaun was announced for the 2000 football season, the spot­light shone immediately on Brown. 
Seizing the opportunity, he didn't miss the opportu­nity to impress. As cam­eras snapped and tele­phones rang, he good­naturedly agreed to photos and interviews, quickly working his way into the hearts of fans everywhere. 
"I tried not to focus on it too much," he said. "I tried to focus on being the 22nd leprechaun, not the first black leprechaun." 
While he heard a good number of light-hearted jokes, Brown said that, in his entire career as lep­rechaun, he never felt any­one stare and never heard one negative comment. 
Despite the positive reception he earned, Brown rejects the concep­tion that he broke any bar­riers by becoming the first black leprechaun at Notre Dame. 
"A lot of people thought I broke barriers and did something so spectacular, but I just don't think [any other blacks] had ever tried out," he said. "It wasn't really a barrier thing." 
He and the cheerleaders went out on the field every game to cheer the team to victory, regardless of skin color, he said. 
"I had a great time, no matter what," he said. "I got to meet so many people as a result, and I got to do so many things I would not have been able to do." 


----------------------TheObserver 12 February 18,2004 --------------------­

Wednesday, February 18, 2004 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 
-
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS  35 Oral, e.g.  60 Double Stuf, for  
1 Eyes 6 Marx brother's instrument  36 Literally, "I for­bid" 37 Cleans a wind- one 61 Poor Richard's Almanack item  Sharing this birthday: Yoko Ono, Toni Morrison, Matt Dillon, Jack Palance, John Travolta, Cybill Shepherd, Roberto Baggio, Juice Newton, Molly Ringwald, Dr. Ore  
1 o Says further 14 An element, to the ancients 15 Turkish official 16 Dinette spot 17 The plain in Spain  shield, like a snake? 40 Baseball rarities 41 Betting group 42 Ward off 43 Zeta follower 44 Whoop  62 Folks in smoke­filled rooms 63 Blouses and sweaters 64 Lacking slack DOWN  Happy Birthday: Patience will be needed this year, bat you will accomplish far more if you don't depend on others to work as quickly. This will be the year to finish projects and to stan new ones. Changes and hard work will be necessary. If you accept whatever comes your way, you will move forward much faster. Your numbers: 10, 17, 24, 28, 30,41 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Obstacles may cause you to drop behind in important duties. Travel will not be in your best interest. Conversations may lead you in the wrong direction. 2 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Travel will promote new friendships and  
18 Turn 45 Plays loudly 19 One of TV's 46 Cel character Sopranos 48 de vie 20 Fixes a flai, like 49 Eliminates aa supermodel? blind spot, like a23 Outlaw cosmonaut? 24 Bulletin board 55 'Hooditem 56 It may get plas­25 Sporty imports tared 29 Trim to fit, 57 Roberts ofmaybe "Everybody 31 D.C. setting Loves Raymond"34 Management course subject? 59 Do in ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -::-r:::-r::~T':"' ..:::+~+.~~ t-:-:-~!-::i....t-:-iollllhrl-::::+:=+.-:-t-:-b.-1...,-'::t-:+:-t -:-i+;,;..tl!~+:-+-=-1  1 Wise one 2 Math class, for short 3 Jazz home 4 "Beany & Cecil" boat Leakin' 5 Jail fixtures 6 Safe place 7 Census data 8 Mother of Zeus 9 Ineligible for benefits, say 1oBit of slapstick 11 Guard 12 Ready to serve 13 Blue shade 21 Driver's need 22 Tit for 25 Photo finish 26 Arctic native  35 Organic com­pound 36 Cheer starter 38 Hirer's posting 39 Worth on the open market 44 Cry before "Over here!"  45 Dickensian out­burst 47 "Love Train" singers, with "the" 48 Cultural values 49 Singer Guthrie 50 Poi source  51 Going together, after "in" 52 Fashion 53 Shah's land, once 54 Teamsters' vehi­cles 55 Egyptian cobra 58 "Savvy?"  partnerships. You will be able to expand your awareness through philosophy courses. Spend time talking to those who contribute to your objccti ves. Focus on your goals, and success will follow. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your temper will get the better of you if you discover that your finances have been tampered with. Look over your personal papers and ask questions if something looks funny. ••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Problems at home are festering. Don't overlook the possibility that someone you care about may be hiding something. You must try to communicate if you wish to help. •• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Gear up for social events. You will do well al games of strategy. Creative hobbies will allow you to express yourself. Spend time interacting with others. • • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You need a release. Do something that will be relaxing yet enjoyable. Activities that involve children will be satisfying. Your creative talent needs a new outlet. ••••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't argue with loved ones. Channel your energy into home-improvement projects that will benefit everyone. Your emotions may be hard to control if you are caught in a love triangle. •• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need to look into new ways to pass idle time. New friendships and love relationships will develop if you are willing to join groups of interest. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should be looking into making adjustments to your financial investments. You may need to take care of the personal affairs of a close friend or relative. Be obliging. ••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't jump the gun and blame your lover for something you really don't have any proof of. You must be accommodating and refrain from making hasty emotional decisions. •• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You need to become involved in group activities that will get you out of the house and moving in new circles. It's time to spread your wings and move on. • ••  
1-':'-f~:':+:::+:,.r:;~ 27 Lots and lots -:+:+.::-1 28 Super scores -:+:-+:::-1 29 Laud  For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.  PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't become emotionally involved with colleagues. There are plenty of fish in the sea, and it really isn't necessary to create a situation that could lead to misfortune. Get out with friends, and you are likely to meet someone interesting. ••••  
30 Willie Wonka's creator 32 Metric volume-:+:-:+:::+:-+::-!  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).  Birthday Baby: You will take your world by storm. Independence and finesse will lead you down some interesting avenues. You are determined to follow your own dreams and will start to move in that direction from a young age.  
7+-:-t-:-~+:::i 33 Law school sub­ject  Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords.  Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com  

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
MY NEW HOME THEATER IS AMAZING.  ITS GOT A DVD , HD , DVR, FM, SATELLITE DI5H,MP3,WIDE5CREEN TV,SEVEN SPEAKERS AND A UNIVERSAL REMOTE.  ITS FUN TO INVITE PEOPLE OVER 50 THEY CAN SHOW ME HOW TO TURN IT ON.  

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
FIVES 
A guide to interpreting roommate body language: 
"I need a 
roommate." 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
~~,~~~~;~~r 
­
I ( J -J 
C2004 Tribune Media Servk:a, Inc. 
if~fl 

tFLUINS WHAT ll1E KING
IJ I 
~IVe=D FOR HI'S 
www.jumble.com 
AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
I YURLOH ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I I r 1 J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer="( I I I I J-( I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumble~: BATHE TWEAK STRONG TRYING Answer: When she bought her cruise wear, she made sure it was -"SEE" WORTHY 

THE 0BSER\l£R 
-
PORTS
Wednesday, February 18, 2004 
page 24 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish wirt pair of exhibitions, are ready for season 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Joyce cuts up St. John's defense 
Senior records career-high 15 points in victory 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
St. John's decided to focus on controlling Notre Dame's leading scorers Mega~ Duffy and Jacqueline Batteast in a triangle-and-two defense Tuesday night, but that was fine with Jeneka Joyce. 
Joyce hit her first four 3­pointers en route to a career­high 15 points for the Irish in their fourth road win of the season, 69-56. 
"She was able to find some open spots and did a great job shooting," Irish coach Muffet 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Strong doubles spark trio of victories 
-· 
CHIP 

Lauren Connelly volleys against Wisconsin on Feb. 1. The Irish were 3-0 this weekend. 
McGraw said. 

For Notre Dame (16-8, 9-3 in the Big East). it was only its fourth win in 12 attempts. in true road games this season. But it wasn't an easy win by any means. 
St. John's (9-14, 3-9) came out red-hot in the first half, shooting 53.6 percent from the field. 
The Irish's box-and-one was not working as well as they hoped, so they switched to man-to-man in the second half and were able to pull away in the end. 
"Defensively, no question [that made a difference]." McGraw said. "I felt we played our better defenders in the second half a little bit more." 
Notre Dame came out strong 
see ST. JOHN'S/page 22 

By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
The Irish were seeing purple and orange this weekend. 
Literally. 

When walking into Virginia Tech's Burrows-Burleson Tennis Center Saturday, No. 26 Notre Dame was greeted by the school's purple and orange courts, reminiscent of Dr. Seuss's color schemes. 
Virginia Tech's bold school colors were an initial shock to the Irish as they competed in that location against both Boston College and Virginia Tech. 
"I guess you could call it a home­court advantage," freshman Christian Thompson said. "We got used to it once we started playing, but it was just real­ly hard to adjust to at first." 
Despite having to face such challeng­ing match environments all weekend ­Friday's opponent Virginia Commonwealth's courts were over­heated -the Irish overcame those challenges to register three victories. 
The Irish defeated No. 14 Virginia Commonwealth 4-3, Boston College 6-1 Saturday and No. 69 Virginia Tech 5-2 Sunday. 
see TENNIS/page 21 
ND TRACK 

Seniors pu1nped for annual Big East Ineet 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 

When most people think of track, they don't picture a physical altercation. But most people never asked Juan Alba. 
"It's always a big dog fight in there," Alba said of the Big East indoor track and field Championships. "I just want to take out the guy in front of me." 
While Alba won't actually be beating anyone up this week­end, his words aptly describe the career success of this year's group of seniors. 
The men are the defending conference champs and are primed for a repeat title this weekend in Syracuse, N.Y. behind the efforts of seniors like distance runners Mark Barber and Kevin Somok, triple jumper Godwin Mbagwu and Alba. 
The women's team is ranked No. 17 by Trackwire.com. In addition to senior sprinters Ayesha Boyd and Kristen Dodd, senior pole-vaulter Jill Van Weelden also helps to lead the team. 
Boyd is ecstatic just to be competing in her last season in 
see TRACK/page 20 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
All teams know exhibitions mean little more than practice, but that does not mean the Irish are not confident about the upcoming season. 
Notre Dame has eight starters and 20 players overall returning from last year's team, which has lead to a No. 
No. 11 squad ret"urns eight starters, 20 players 
11 preseason ranking. Last nated the first game, smother­attitude visible even in exhibi­
year the Irish finished 9-5, ing the opponent with their tion play is due to the return of 
splitting its fifth straight Great offensive attack. a solid supporting cast. 
Western Lacrosse League title The second game, played "With returning guys you 
and finishing No. 18 in the Saturday at Loftus Sports have guys who have a year [or 
nation. Center, was more of a chal­morel of experience under 
To warm up for the 2004 lenge. Down 7-2 to the their belt," sophomore attack­season, the Irish have had two Cannons in the second period, er Pat Walsh said. "You have convincing wins in exhibition Notre Dame opened a ten-goal guys who have been in game games. Notre Dame beat barrage that gave them a 12-7 situations and who know how Mercyhurst (22-4) and the lead en route to a second con­to do the stuff that you just Boston Cannons (14-11). secutive exhibition victory. can't coach." respectively. The Irish domi-The excitement and winning 'fhe headlining duo returning to the Irish starting lineup is senior attacker Dan Berger and Walsh. Both players were named honorable mention pre­season All-Americans by Inside Lacrosse in early January. Berger has played in all 27 Irish games the past two sea­sons, scoring in all but three of those games. He led the team in points with 25 (21 goals, 
see LACROSSE/page 21 
..... 
SMC BASKETBAll 
BASEBAll 

COllEGE fOOTBALl 
NBA
NCAA BASKETBAll 

BASEBAll
en 
LLI 
The NCAA blames 
Denver 106

Ia-
(.) Kalamazoo at 
TCU 71 

the University of
z Saint Mary's 
Alex Rodriguez is 
Louisville 46 

Documents released 
Phiadelphia 85 

Washington for the
Tonight, 7:30. 
announced at a press 
Tuesday show personal
situation that led to the 
=s 
conference with his new 
The Horned Frogs 

trainer Greg Anderon 
Nuggets forward
~ 
firing of former football
The Belles look to 

team, the New York 
defeat the Cardinals, 

Carmela Anthony
admitted to giving
c:a: 
coach Rick Neuheis~l.
snap a four-game losing 
Yankees. 
who have now lost five 

steroids to several 
scored 28 points. 

= a. =: 
streak. 
of six. 

baseball players. 
en 
page 19 
page 16
page 22 
page 18 
page 17 

page 14 
-










