
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

ACE program thrives while lawsuit looms 
Federal judge issues stay pending Notre Dame's appeal of church and state ruling 
Scully knew he and colleague Congress in a July 2 court ease However, on Aug. 31, Kessler against us -only futureBy ANGELA SAOUD 
Sean McGraw were on to some­that said federal money was entered a stay of her own ruling enrollees." 
Saint Mary's Editor 
thing. being inappropriately used to in light of AmeriCorps and the Of the students who went 
But now -10 years, 557 pay for the teaching of Christian ACE program's intention to through the ACE program, 26 
When he founded the Alliance graduated teachers and count­values. The plaintiffs argued appeal, University spokesman have received Ph.D.s in educa­for Catholic Education program less students later -the pro­that AmeriCorps should not Matt Storin said Tuesday. tion, 38 have studied law, 12 in 1993, Father Timothy Scully gram's future hangs in the bal­finance pro-"She ordered that nothing [in have become doctors, six have had no way ance while part of its funding is · grams that the ACE program I would be pursued doctorates and nearly of knowing disputed in court. place volun-See Also affected until after the appeal 50 others have gone on for the impact "[We] started the ACE pro­teers in has been heard," Storin said. advanced degrees in education. 
"CSC to host

ACE would gram because Catholic schools Catholic "It's estimated that a decision Scully said the program's sur­
annual service

make -or in under-resourced areas of the schools. on the appeal is not likely until prising success is due to the far­the eontro­United States were struggling to Kessler sided fair tonight" next spring." reaching effects of its grad u­V()rsy it find qualified and committed with the And for former and current ates.
page4

would cause. teachers," Scully said. "By the plaintiffs, say­ACE students, this message is a "In terms of how many folks 
After 200 grace of God, we would like to ing the ACE welcome one. we anticipated, we didn't antici­graduating continue to serve in this role for program unconstitutionally "No funding would be affected pate anything," Scully said. "In seniors the Church." crossed the barrier between in the near term," Storin said. a few short years, ACE has attendPd a That role came under national church and state and that the "The judge also said that no one already become the nation's trial nwnting that year to scrutiny when Federal District line between secular and non­enrolled in the program before largest formations program for express thPir interest in teach­Judge Gladys Kessler agreed secular activities had become the appeal decision would be ing after leaving Notre Dame, with the American Jewish "completely blurred." affected if the decision goes see ACE/page 4 


Church confronts cultural challenges 
Cardinal Dulles calls for renewed push 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Etlitor 
Recent scandals and cen­
turies of cultural assault have 
led the Catholic Church to a 
critical juncture, prolific the­
ologian Cardinal Avery Dulles 
said Tunsday. 
Delivering the keynote 
address at a symposium to 
celebrate the fifth anniversary 
of Notre Dame's Center for 
Ethics and Culture, Dulles 
insisted that now is not the 
moment for Catholicism to 
see CARDINAL/ page 8 


Panel questions ethics in scientific research 
By SARAH BARRETT 
News Writer 
Marking the fifth anniversary of the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture. director David Solomon hosted theologian Cardinal Avery Dulles, bioethicist Edmund Pellegrino and philoso­pher Ralph Mcinerny in a discus­sion on the ethical issues facing today's Catholic Church. 
With "250 years of rich contri­bution to ethical discussion" between them, the panelists were invited on the basis of their bril­
see PANEL/page 6 


Fisher Roof Sit raises $3,000 for charities 
ByJEN ROWLING NewsWrirer 
Fisher Hall completed its third annual Roof Sit fundrais­er this weekend, collecting about $3,000 for charity pro­grams. 

The Roof Sit, which ran from Friday evening to Sunday evening, serves as fisher Hall's signature event, in which resi­dents from all Notre Dame dorms sit on top of the roof for 50 hours and collect donations from students passing by below. 
About 1,300 students donat­ed money, which will be dis­tributed to St. Aldabert's Catholic School in South Bend and the Chad Sharon Memorial 
Fund, Fisher Hall vice presi­dent Jeremy Moreno said. 
The fund honors the former Fisher freshman Sharon who died in December 2002. 
As part of the roof sit, Fisher also sponsored an interhall dodgeball game which was new this year. The winners, Dillon and Keenan, received $150 to donate to the charity of their choice. 
Though student organizers deemed the event a success, last year's roof sit raised near­ly twice as much money, about $7,500. 
"We are still learning," Moreno said. "Next year will make adjustments to make it more successful, it is only the 
see ROOF/page 4 
WRC tries to adjust identity 
Center receives new name, redefined campus role 
By DOLORES DIAZ NewsWrirer 

Formerly the Women's Resource Center, the Women in Social Service and Health club has donned a new title and a new approach since steadily declining member­ship hit a new low with the opening of the new Gender Resource Center. 
For WISSH, every meeting -like last week's, when co­president Corinne Liamzon walked in to rows of empty chairs -is particularly criti­cal. 
"The WRC, no longer a resource center, will be renamed Women in Social 
Service and Health because we will now be focusing our efforts on community service, fundraising and social event planning on campus," co­president Ashley Merusi said. 

This shift in focus -from primarily counseling to com­munity service -occurred this year, now that many of WISSH's responsibilities have fallen under the jurisdiction of the new Student Affairs-fund­ed GRC. 
"We're changing perspective and changing focus," Liamzon said, "and I really hope we can get things going," 
But for WISSH, the GRC's opening has meant more than just an attitude adjustment. This year their office, previ­ously located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, was relocated by the Student Activities Office to a smaller space in the same building. 
According to Liamzon, things were very different when WISSH, then the Women's Resource Center, first opened in 1993 as a stu­dent-run center. 
"It was a very big deal," she said. "It was the first center in the school where you could come and talk about whatever you wanted. It wasn't pro­women or pro-men, but pro­humanity." 
Liamzon said WISSH has 
see WRC/page 6 

----~---­
Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


5 su:rn:rner lessons 
I had the ultimate summer job: entire days spent on a beautiful white sand beach and entin~ nighl<; spent partying on one of the United States ritziest islands. Could there possibly be a better way to make sum­mer cash? 
Maggie Oldham 
I jfeguarding for thn~e months on the beaches of Sports Wire Hilton Head Island. Editor 
S.C. wa..'i not only the most fun sum­mer of my life. but also taught some valuables lessons. I learned how to treat stingray wounds. usc radio ten-codes and clear the water for Signal 200s, 
a.k.a. sharks. 
Morn important than learning how to properly apply sunscreen to which an hour of orientation was devoted, this summer gave me a good "heads up" at what single life in the "real world" post­graduation is going to be like. Spending a summer in near paradise taught me live valuable lessons and things to expect once I leave "the bubble." 
1) Don't expect to live glamorously the lirst year atlt~r graduation. On May 15, I arrived at the "resort," my home for the next three months. Don't let "resort" writtnn on the brochure and front sign fool you. Although it makes the Howard Johnson resemble the Taj Mahal. the lifi1guard apartment<; at the "resort" were typical apartmnnl<; for young peo­ple just starting their careers. Head: safe. fun, but not nice. 

2) Expect to work with people from many backgrounds. Them were 60 col­leg11-agn lifeguards living. working and partying together with polar opposite pnrsonalities and diversn lifi1styles, a studly Canadian Buddhist for nxample. Oncn graduated out of the liomogeneity that is Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, an nntry-llwd job will no doubt be just as divnrsn. 
:~) You will not always get the credit you dnserve. Jjfeguarding on the beach is hard. You hav11 to be in top physical shape. There are no rotations and only one 30-minute lunch break. And don't expnct to talk to other lifeguards; they arn probably 100 yards down the beach. Not very many people wem on the beach at 7:30a.m. when the lifeguards each set up 30-plus sets of umbrellas and chairs bnforc nine. only to tear those sets down eight hours later. Neither did many b11ar.h-goers know that the lifeguards worked 50-hour weeks with mandatory ocean rescue training. Don't expect your entry-level paycheck to be a positive indicator of your hours and cfl'orts. 
4) The friends you meet at college will b1~ your friends for life. Students here are top-quality. My roommates' visit for my birthday was a refreshing break from the lifeguard scandals that would make MTV's Real World look like an episode of the Golden Girls. Make friends with the locals and party with your hot co-workers, but remember the friends that have been there for you these four years. 
5) Expand your comfort zone. I had never been to South Carolina. I didn't know a single person. I decided to go because it was something I wanted to do and it was the perfect time in my life to do it. Don't wait. Mer graduation, fol­low your heart. Go where you want to go and do what you want to do, be who you want to become. You will never stop thanking yourself. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highcsr standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contacr us at 631-4S41 so we can 
correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How OFTEN DO YOU CLEAN YOUR ROOM? 

Ben Gunty  Beth Ann Bisceglia  Georgia Healey  Jelanl McEwen-Torrence  Tom Mulcrone  Vanessa Valenzuela  
freshman Siegfried  sophomore Howard  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  sophomore Siegfried  sophomore Lewis  
"Never."  "I'm a clean fr<Jak-I've skipped class to  "/do it in stages, or about every two  "When I got no panties man, it's time to  "/ always like to keep the room clean for  "Before my ,parents come.  


,
clean my room." weeks. clean." my lady callers. , 




IN BRIEF 

Noel Fahey, the Irish ambas­sador to the United States, will give a lecture on the rela­tionship between Ireland, Europe and America at 3 p.m. today in the McKenna Hall auditorium. 
Margaret Foran. vice presi­dent of corporate govnrnance and secretary of Pfizer. Inc., will speak about "Corporate Governance at Pfizer" today from 7 to 8:15 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. The talk is part of the Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series in Businnss Ethics. 
I lead over the Post-Graduate Service Fair today from 5 to 8 
p.m. in tlw Stepan Center. Tlw event is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and will include information on over 70 student service pro­grams. 
The Career Center will spon­sor a videoconference for international students search­ing for jobs today from 4 to 6 
p.m. in G-20 Flanner Hall. 
Watch the movie "Harry Potter" from 10 p.m. to mid­night Thursday in DeBartolo Hall room 101. 
The men's boxing dub will hold a mandatory information­al meeting today from 7 to 8 
p.m. in the JACC Boxing Hoom. 
The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum will present a concert Thursday from 8 to 9 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
~ 
~ 

HIGH 65 HIGH 65 LOW 42 LOW 47 


CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 
Notre Dame students work on limestone sculptures In the 3-D Foundations class Tuesday morning In Riley Hall. 
OFFBEAT 

Hawaii park seeks hunters of feral sheep 
VOLCANO, Hawaii Hawaii Volcanoes National Park is lookin ~ for volunteers with rifles to help rid the park's new 116,000 acres of thou­sands of feral sheep. 
The National Par { Service recently acquired the land on the Big Island from Kahuku Ranch. With the land came thousand> of mouflon sheep, nativ·~ to Corsica and Sardinia in the Mediterranean, that were brought to the ranch for hunting in the 1960s. Their population has mul· tiplied over the year:; because they have-no nat­ural predators. 
"Their grazing inhibits the regeneration of Hawaii's endemic plants, which are defenseless against sheep. goats and other chompers and stom­pers," the park service said in a news release. 
The park service is required by law to control alien species that inter­fere with native species or habitats, park spokesman Jim Gale said 
Bear breaks Into nursing home In Japan 
TOKYO -A baby bear stunned residents of a 

nursing home in western Japan Tuesday when it broke through the front door and pounded through the facility. police said. There were no injuries to the five staff and some 100 elderly occupants of the home. 
But the eafly morning intrusion followed a string of incidents in the same area earlier this month, when a bear attacked three people, injuring two, before it was shot dead. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY c:: 
LLI :I: 
~ 
LLI 

~ 
..... 

~~ ~ 

cs: 

(.) 
0 

HIGH 70 -iiGH 68 HIGH 72 HIGH 72
..J LOW 45 ,_ow 40 LOW 53 LOW 50 
Atlanta 80 I 63 Boston 65 ' 50 Chicago 68 I 44 Denver 77 I 48 Houston 86 I 66 Los Angeles 72 I 58 Minneapolis 69 I 53 New York 68 I 54 Philadelp1ia 70 I 54 Phoenix 90 I 68 Seattle 66 I 51 St. Louis 73 I 52 Tampa 88 I 74 Washington 70 I 55 
---------------------...... 
Wednesday, September 29, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Racial equality speaker denounces racism_, advocates justice 

By APRIL THOMAS 
NewsWrirer 
Hacial equality speaker Tim Wise addrPsscd the need to develop equity -not merely tolerance -for all people dur­ing a talk Tuesday at Saint Mary's College. 
"Tolerance is just a buzz word," Wise said. "I have never nwt a woman or person of color who wanted only to be to! Prated." 
Wise asserted that equity can be achieved through five dis­tinct steps: confronting denial of opprossion, acknowledging the rnsulting privilege, halting the use of liberal platforms as avoidance, admitting that racism is engrained societal conditioning and taking action. 
WisP mnphasized a dominant group's tendency to ignore any minority group's insistence of oppression. 
"We say. 'Let me define your reality for you,"' Wise said. "We deny their credibility in identifying their own oppres­sion." 
The primary obstacle is to a!Tirm racism as a real social problem. he said. In recogniz­ing oppression. Wise added, we must acknowledge the flip­side -when groups are oppressed, othef groups must 
. by definition benefit. "Privilege is attached to oppression," Wise said. But privilege is not as simple as it sounds -it encompasses personal safety, materialistic 
advantage. societal acceptance and approval and opportuni­ties. Wise said. Often white people can recognize another group's oppression, he said, but cannot recognize their own resulting privilege. 
Wise said many people skirt around racism with liberal platforms. 
"They say, 'I'm not racist because I have African­American friends,"' he said. 
He noted that while this point is valid and positive, it is not always consistent in poten­tially discriminatory situations. 
Wise said living in American society means we will ingest racist conditioning. Even if we are not individually hateful or violent, he said, racism is built into the very structure of our culture. 
"We point at the problem 'out there,' never in our own lives," he said. 
After admitting we are con­ditioned in racism, we can begin to set our sights on establishing total equity. Wise said, and we are finally ready for the final step -taking action. 
Wise declared that. as stu­dents, we can begin locally, interrupting the functioning of racism, sexism and heterosex­ism immediately around us. The dominant group must take that risk, he said. 
"Because of your status. your voice is elevated. The question is, what will you do with it?" he said. 
Wise has spoken on nearly 300 college campuses nationwide and has trained government, law officials and journalists in anti­racism efforts. The 2001 British Diversity Award winner explained that through his years of writing and lecturing, he has observed two popular reactions: audiences either show him exag­gerated respect for addressing racism and sexism as a white man, or he faces hostility from white audiences outraged at his accusations of white privilege. His Saint Mary's attendees had their own opinions. 

"! feel Tim Wise's presence on campus was so important to the future of Saint Mary's," said Lety Verduzco, a 2004 Saint Mary's graduate and the assistant director of community connec­tions at the Center for 

Women's  InterCultural  
Leadership.  
"So often  we, the College,  

praise ourselves in doing our part to promote diversity, but there is so much more to it than just putting someone's picture in a brochure," she said. "We must address the true issues of systematic racism in order to change it rather than remedying our own guilt." 
Saint Mary's senior Katie Larsen attended the lecture for her American Minorities course. 
"! didn't realize how closely he would apply this to Saint Mary's," said Larson. "Wise's talk was energetic and pas­sionate. I would love to have him as a professor." 
Contact April Thomas at thom2549@saintmarys.edu 
0 bserver Advertising Policies 
c;E;\lERAL ADVERTISING POLICIES: -All adYertising is sul~ject to approval hy The Observer General Board. -The General Board resenres the right to reject any advertisement for any reason without specifYing the reason for the rejection. -( )nly publication ofan advertisement signifies acceptance hy The Observer. -The OhscJYer docs not accept political advertisements ti-om groups or individuals outside the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. '1 'he General Board reserves the right to determine the extent ofthe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. -All advertisemct1ts f(x establishments serving alcohol must include a "Must he 21 with valid identification" disclaimer if alcohol sales are referenced or implied in the advertisement. -All advertisements ti-om organized groups ofstudents or alumni unrecognized by the University or College must include a "'Group name' is not aftlliatcd with the University of~otre Dame or Saint Mat)''s College" disclaimer in the advertisement. -:\lh·crtisers shall defend and hold The OhserYer harmless t1-om all claims, demands and/or litigation directly or indeirectly related to improper or unauthorized use ofany photograph, drawing, likeness, name, logo, trademark, representation or any other material provided hy The Observer in any advertisement. -· J'hc advertiser and advertising agency assume liability tor all content and responsibility for any claims made against The Observer arising ti-om the publication ofthe advertisement_ 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING RATES: SPACE RESERVATION DEADLINES: 
PROOFS: RATE PER COLU~£:'\-I:'\CI I 
DEADLI:'\E (3 PM) RUN DATE 

Proofs may he created tor any ~ ational $12,oo 
Thursday Monday 
ad larger than 11 column-inches 1-ncal s;.oo 
Friday Tuesday 

for $Io. The deadlines tor Campus Business $5.25 
lVIonday Wednesday 

corrections to any proof is noon (:ampus Rate $5.00 
T"uesday T'hursday 
the day before publication. *i\11 rates are net rates 
Wednesday Friday 

All proofs are property ofThe 
-Spot color can he added for $roo in addition to the ObsetYer. 
ad price. 
All reserved ads must he received hy 12 PM -Football Insider ads cost $35 in addition to the ad 
the day before publication. pncc. -;\discount is available tor "Happy Birthday" ads. 
Advertising Department 
These cost.S2o. Larger ads will he charged the 
(574) 631-6900 
standard ad rate. One photo per ad. 
(574) 631-8840
-If a proof needs to he created t()r an advertisement, it will cost $Io in addition to the regular rate. 
email: observad@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
==============================~ 
ACE has recently expanded its program overseas to
ACE 

Ireland and Holy Cross 
continued from page I schools in Chile. Scully said -------------the program also hopes to Catholic school teachers in expand in coming years to the country." Uganda and east Africa. 
ACE has been training Chris Broughton, a 2004 teachers for two-year com-Notre Dame graduate, said mitments in parochial he first decided to apply to schools since 1994. After ACE after talking with upper­completing the teaching stint, classmen friends already in each participant receives a the program. His decision to master's degree in education. apply was confirmed after a 
ACE teachers-in-training summer of teaching English are allotted a stipend of in El Salvador through the $12,000 a year from the International Summer schools in which they teach. Service Learning Program In addition. most ACE partie-run by the Center for Social ipants are also eligible to Concerns. apply for and receive two "I was looking for a post­annual $4,725 education graduate service program vouchers. provided by that would allow me to share AmeriCorps. To qualify, the the gifts and talents that I participant completes 1.700 had developed at Notre Dame hours of service in or outside while also enabling me to of the classroom that is of a grow in faith," he said. "ACE non-religious afliliation. just seemed like the perfect 
Through the ACE program. lit for me." Notre Dame also receives Broughton said the ACE grants of up to $400 a year program is young but solid. for every full-time "ACE has established itself AmeriCorps member that as a sound teacher training signs on -money that cov-program with a proven track ers nearly 8 percent of record of producing profes­reflections throughout the program that help us to proces~• what we're doing, what we're learning, where we can improve. The pro­grams three pillars -teach­ing, community and spiritual­ly -SErve to integrate our profes~ ional and spiritual developnent in such a way that we are constantly learn­ing ho•v to become better teacher;." 
Until the appeal is review{ d. the ACE program must w 1it for a resolution to come. 
But ~;cully feels he has something powerful on his side. 
"ACE has never been health .er. Ten years ago, when ~Ae began the program, we hac no idea where we would he today," he said. "I have nc doubt that the future will ho d the same kinds of surpris~s. as the Lord finds ways to serve the needs of children, and especially those among the poor. I have no doubt that the Holy Spirit is calling the program to serv­ice in hlld ways that we have yet to ·wen begin to imag­
salaries for the ACE faculty sional Catholic educators," members who arc teaching he said. "We take classes in Contacr Angela Saoud at secular subjects. our content areas. We do saou031)3@saintmarys.edu 
In addition. last year stu­
dents also sat on Legends, 
allowing the dorm to receive continued from page I donations from tailgaters in ------------that parking lot. 
third year." However, Moreno said that 
Moreno said last year the he was especially proud of dorm brought in higher prof-this year's program. because its thmugh sales of Fisher's without the Legends loca­2003 "Dorm of the Year" tion. the $3.000 came pri­shirts. which cost $10 each. marily from student contri-
Roof 

bution:;. 
"I appreciate all the stu­dent 1;upport with dona­tions," he said. "Without the alumni tailgating, most of the do 1ations were made by the students. This made the event~ uccessful." 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 



esc to host annual service fair tonight 
By PAUL SPADAFORA 
News Writer 
To promote interest in volun­teer work after graduation. the Center for Social Concerns will help students review the choices available at the Post-Graduate Service Fair tonight. 
The annually held fair pro­motes service opportunities and volunteer positions for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's gradu­ates both domestically and abroad. 
Andrea Smith Shappel, direc­tor of the Center For Social Concerns' senior transition pro­gram, said more than 80 service organizations have been invited to campus to help recruit stu­dents. principally from religious groups. 
"There are a few secular groups. such as the Peace Corps, but the large majority are faith­based programs," Shappel said. 
According to Shappel, the reli­gious programs work to combine faith and service. 
"The faith-based programs have the volunteers live in one community with each other, and they are involved in a variety of services for the community," she said. 
Shappel said the student turnout and commitment at the activities fair is usually very high. . 
"We usually have 400-500 stu­dents come to the fair, and about half of them decide on a pro­gram." Shappel said. "About 10 percent of every [graduating] class ... commits to a program." 
Programs sponsored through Notre Dame also have a large part in the fair. The Echo pro­gram, a student service and edu­cation program from the Institute for Church Life. will be in attendance at the fair tonight for its second year. 
· Leonard DeLorenzo, Outreach Projects Coordinator for Echo, said the fair gives newer service organizations the opportunity to build interest within the University. "We got to explain the program to students, we generated a list of people inter­ested in the program and we were able to keep them in the loop," DeLonmzo said. "It helped us get started and get the word out to seniors." 
Colleen Garvey, an assistant director with the Alliance for Catholic Education, agreed that the fair helps promote student interest in volunteerism. 
"It seems like every year the interest grows as the word of mouth goes out, and people graduate," Garvey said. "I think students here are really excited about [service]." 
The Fair will be held tonight from 5:00 t~ 8:00p.m. in the Stepan Center. Although the fair is intended for juniors and sen­iors. any interested pa.rty is encouraged to attend. 
Contact Paul Spadafora pspadafo@nd.edu 



Post-GradlJiate Service Fair 
Wednesday, September 29 
C E  N  T  E  R  F  0  R  5 -8 p.m. ~p Stepan Center  
SOCIAL  The Center for Social Concerns thanks the following programs for their continued recruitment, training and  
CONCERNS  support ofstudents who commit to a year or more offull-time service after graduation. We invite all students to  



attend the fair and meet with representatives from these programs. 
International Programs 

Amigos de Jesus, Inc. Camino Seguro Claretian Volunteers Columban Fathers Lay Mission Program Coprodeli Farm of the Child Gimme a Break Good Shepherd Volunteers Humility of Mary Service Japan Exchange and Teaching Program Jesuit Volunteer Corps Marist Volunteer Program Maryknoll Mission Association Maryknoll-China Teaching Program Mercy Volunteer Program Missionary Cenacle Volunteers Passionist Volunteers International Scalabrini Missions Volunteer Missionary Movement 

Teaching Programs 

Alliance for Catholic Education Cristo Rey Jesuit Alumr i Volunteers Inner-City Teaching Co1·ps Lalanne LANCE Lasallian Volunteers Loyola University -Choice Magis New Orleans Volunteer Community New York Teacher Vol. Program Operation Teach Pacific Alliance For Catholic Education PLACE Corps Response-Ability St. Ignatius Loyola Academy The Haitian Project The Neighborhood Acc1demy 

Secular Programs 
Congressional Hunger Center Franciscan Outreach C1!nter Little Brothers: Friends of the Elderly Peace Corps ' Rosehill Center Teach for America 


Faith-Based Programs in the U.S. 
Alaska Radio Mission -KNOM Amate House Andre House Of Arizona Augustinian Volunteer Program Bon Secours Vol. Ministry Program Boys Hope/Girls Hope Cabrini Mission Corps Capuchin Franciscan Volunteers-East Capuchin Franciscan Volunteers-
Midwest Capuchin Youth & Family Ministries Catholic Charities-Minneapolis Catholic Charities/Project Serve Catholic Volunteers in Florida Center for the Homeless Change a Heart: Milvale Franciscans Christian Appalachian Project Christian Brothers Vol. Program Covenant House Faith Community Desales Service Works Dominican Volunteers USA Faith Formation Leadership Program Felician VIM Franciscan Volunteer Ministry 

Franciscans for the Poor FrancisCorps Gateway Vincentians Holy Cross Associates Holy Cross Vocation Office L'Arche Central Region L'Arche-Cleveland Lutheran Volunteer Corps Maggie's Place Mercy Home for Boys and Girls Mercy Housing California Nazareth Farm ND Campus Ministry Internships NET Ministries Notre Dame Mission Volunteers Pallotti Center Providence Volunteer Ministries Providence Volunteer Ministry Redeemer Ministry Corps Share Foundation Sojourners Vincentian Service Corps West 
and Midwest 

,--------------------------------------------~--~------~-~----~~-­
--------------------. 




ORLD & NATION 

Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Official defends janjaweed 
KHARTOUM, Sudan -A top Sudanese offi­cial on Tuesday defended an accused ring­leader of Arab militia attacks on Mrican vil­lagers as a legitimate tribal leader and warned any attempt to go after such men could ignite warfare that would tear the country apart. 
Separately, the U.N. refugee chief said Khartoum has agreed to a stepped-up U.N. civilian role and possible expansion of an African Union monitoring team in the western Sudanese region of Darfur, where 19 months of conflict have left more than 50,000 dead and uprooted 1.4 million. 
The U.S. State Department has named Sheik Musa Hila! and six other Sudanese as suspect­ed coordinators of the government-allied Janjaweed, the Arab militia largely blamed for the violence in Darfur. 
But Sudan's state minister for foreign affairs defended Hila! as a prominent tribal chief. 
Blair admits faulty evidence 
BRIGHTON, England -Prime Minister Tony Blair, skirting a direct apology, acknowledged to his Labour Party Tuesday that intelligence used to justify the invasion of Iraq was wrong, but insisted the world was safer with Saddam Hussein in prison. 
In a rousing address to the party's annual conference, interrupted twice by delegates booing and heckling, Blair defended the war and said Labour members even the war's opponents must believe he backed the U.S.­led campaign in Iraq to protect Britain. 
"The evidence about Saddam having actual biological and chemical weapons, as opposed to the capability to develop them, has turned out to be wrong. I acknowledge that and accept it," said Blair, whose primary reason for backing the U.S.-led war was the threat posed by those weapons. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Murderer commits suicide 
lAS VEGAS -A man jumped to his death at Hoover Dam early Tuesday, hours after calling police to say he had killed his girlfriend at their hotel on the Las Vegas Strip, authorities said. 
The 911 caller told police they could find a woman's body at a room at the Treasure Island hotel-casino, police Capt. Tom Lozich said. The man matter-of-factly provided the woman's Social Security number and her driver's license information, he said. 
A short time after the 911 call, Hoover Dam police noticed a man sitting atop the dam wall, said Colleen Dwyer, spokeswoman for the Bureau of Reclamation, the federal agency that oversees the dam about 30 miles east of Las Vegas. 
Board fires university president 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -The president of Florida's historically black public university was fired Tuesday after a little more than two-year tenure marked by a dispute over the. school's football program and bookkeeping problems. 
Florida A&M board of trustees voted 9-4 to dismiss Fred Gainous effective Dec. 31. It pro­vided what all agreed was a meaningless caveat that he could keep the job if he wins unanimous board support by then. 
"We knew the job was dangerous when we took it," Gainous said. "We thought we could make a difference. And I think we have." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Gubernatorial candidates debate 
FRANKLIN-Democratic Gov. Joe Kernan and Republican Mitch Daniels sparred over jobs, full-day kindergarten and other issues Tuesday in a sometimes sharply worded debate that captured their campaign themes and criticisms of each other. 
Libertarian Kenn Gividen, meanwhile, large­ly used the 90-minute debate to introduce himself as an alternative candidate who favors smaller government, elimination of property taxes and the only one of the three candidates who opposes a new-terrain extension of Interstate 69 through southwestern Indiana. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Palestinians celebrate 4 years 
Militants parade in celebration of the beginning of the Intifadah in 2000 
Associated Press 
RAMALLAH, West Bank -Palestinians marked the fourth anniversary of their uprising Tuesday amid signs that the extremist Hamas group is preparing a political challenge to Yasser Arafat despite a series of Israeli military blows at the movement's leadership. 
Hamas published news­paper ads urging support­ers to vote in upcoming municipal elections, saying "it's time for change." And a top Hamas leader indi­cated the group might try to unseat Arafat in presi­dential elections, which have not yet been sched­uled. 
Meanwhile, Palestinian militants released an Arab-Israeli television pro­ducer for CNN a day after his abduction in the Gaza Strip. It remained unclear why he was taken hostage. 
The kidnapping, coupled with Hamas' electoral challenge, were apt reflec­tions of the state of affairs in the West Bank and Gaza Strip after four years of fighting with Israel. The violence has left Arafat's Palestinian Authority severely weakened, lead­ing to widespread chaos and boosting Hamas' pop­ularity. 
"We need an evaluation of these four years," Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia said. "Where have we been right and where have we been wrong? What did we achieve and what didn't we achieve?" Qureia also called on Israel to reassess its policies. 
The uprising erupted on Sept. 28, 2000, after Ariel Sharon, then Israel's oppo­sition leader, visited a sen­sitive Jerusalem hilltop revered by both Jews and Muslims. Palestinian riots broke out, and five months later Sharon defeated Ehud Barak in a special election for prime minis­ter. 
The fighting has taken a heavy toll on both sides, killing more than 3,000 Palestinians and nearly 1 ,000 Israelis. 

In the latest violence, about 30 Israeli tanks moved into northern Gaza Tuesday night and fired several shells, witnesses said. The military said the purpose was to try to stop militants from shooting rockets at nearby Israeli towns. Earlier, the Israelis blew up a building next to the Gaza settlement of Netzarim, saying it con­tained a tunnel used by militants. No casualties were reported in either incident. 
Israel appears to have gained the upper hand in the fighting. It has con­fined Arafat to his West Bank headquarters for three years and killed hundreds of leading mili­tants. The Palestinian economy is in tatters. 

In a sign of Palestinian weariness, a recent opin­ion poll by An-Najah University found that two­thirds of Palestinians sup­port a cease-fire with Israel. 
"The uprising has not been defeated, but it has not brought victory. Frankly, it is now closer to defeat than victory," com­mentator Hani al-Masri wrote in the Palestinian daily Al Ayyam. 
Sharon has abandoned peace talks with the Palestinians and instead launched a "unilateral dis­engagement" plan meant to separate the two peo­ples. The plan includes building a huge barrier to separate Israel from the West Bank and ma~ing a 
complete  pullout  from  
Gaza next year.  
Hamas  is  vying  with  

other groups for a promi­nent role after the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza, where Hamas wields great influence despite Israeli assassinations of its top leaders. 
On Tuesday, Hamas pub­lished newspaper ads urg­ing its followers to register to vote in local Palestinian elections, which are scheduled to begin Dec. 9. "Fellow citizens, it's time for change. It's time to register your name," the ad said. 

Militiamen make threats in Nigeria 
highs of $50 per barrel Tuesday.
Associated Press 

"Any part of Nigeria, wherever we 
LAGOS, Nigeria -Militiamen try­have the opportunity to strike any ing to wrest control of the oil-rich target, we will strike," said militia Niger Delta threatened on Tuesday to leader Moujahid Dokubo-Asari, who launch a "full-scale armed struggle" heads the Niger Delta People's on petroleum-pumping operations in Volunteer Force. Africa's largest crude oil producing Dokubo-Asari, seen as a folk hero nation, urging foreign oil workers to by many poor residents who com­leave the region. plain they've never shared in the 
A military spokesman, however, country's oil wealth, said foreign called the threats "empty." Major oil workers will be considered targets as companies played the warnings of Oct. 1 the 44th anniversary of down, saying they won't seriously Nigeria's independence from Britain. affect exports and issuing no orders Dokubo-Asari claims to be fighting to staff to pull out. for self-determination in the region 
The threats, nevertheless, helped and greater control over oil push world oil prices to historic resources for more than 8 million !jaws, the dominant tri.be in the southern delta region, which accounts for nearly all of Nigeria's daily oil exports. 
The government dismisses Dokubo-Asari's group as criminals, accusing them of illegally siphoning oil from pipelines. 
Some Nigerian analysts say the militia could disrupt oil operations, but doesn't have the power to shut them down. 
"I think the militia group is engag­ing in a bit of psychological warfare by issuing those threats," said Mike Ikelionwu, an oil expert with Nigerialnvest, a business research firm in Lagos. 
page 6 The Ob;erver + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
liant and complementary ideas. Solomon said. Issues discussed includod the importance of disci­pleship to the Church. the role of the Church in the study of bioethics and the societal changes that have cmated a growing dissi­dence between Catholic moral tradition and contemporary med­ical ethics. 
"Discipleship is common to all religions; it works f(Jr a common goal, allowing personal relation­ship with the Lord and bringing together a community," Dulles said. "Everyone who is a teacher develops disciples ... teachers must understand their obligation to teach their students so students can take that knowledge and apply it to life." 
Discipleship, Pellegrino added, is essential to the continuation of bionthics. 
"People aren't accepting bioeth­ical doctors because we arc not providing stem cell research and contraception alternatives," he said. "We must train peoplo who know both about philosophy and medicine to enter in the dis­courso." 
lie called on Catholic universi­ties to "(putl their money into bioethical research to convince the world that we have something to say and that we are going somewhem." 
Pellegrino then explained his views on the feasibility of doing sciontific rnsnarch within the con­fines of catholic medicine. 
"Stem cell research. for exam­ple. is not morally acceptable ­th1~ embryo is killed," he said. "We have alternate sources like 
placental blood and apparent 
adult cells that are changeable. 
Emergency contraception is not 
an alternative -the devil will be 
there to collect on [a woman's] 
soul [if she goes through with it]." 
Mcinerny urged the audience to 
remember the importance of faith 
and responsibility in the home. 
"Don't forget that you were born as a baby, don't forget that an infant is born without the abili­ty to speak, and learns under the tutelage of their parents." he said. "Parents have the responsibility to work for the common good of the family ... for the way to the civic common good passes by way through the family." 
Dulles agreed the home is an essential starting point in recon­structing the sense of an individ­ual in society. He coneluded with a call for renewed loyalty to the Church in challenging times. 
"Culture is in trouble ... even people that like parts of it, know it's in trouble," he said. "Intellectual challenges are signif­icant and will not be met without deep participation." 
Dulles, the author of 22 books. is currently the Laurence J. McGinley professor of religion and society at Fordham University. Pellegrino is the John Carroll professor of medicine and nH~ical ethics at Georgetown University and the founder of the Journal of Medicine and Philosophy. Mcinerny. who just began his 50th year on the Notre Dame faculty. is a professor of medieval studies and the head of the Jacques Maritain Center. lie is also very extensively published philosopher. with more than 110 books to his name. 
Contact Sarah Barrett at sbarrett2@nd.edu 
WRC 
continued from page 1 
experienced declining mem­bership since 1998 when the then-WHC faced an investiga­tion into its distribution of pamphlets containing infor­mation about abortion. 
University sanctions in September 1998 allowed the center to remain open but required it to remove the pamphlets and accept a two­year probation period. Club leaders at the time maintained that the pamphlets in question 
did not openly 
promote abor­
tion. 

W h i I e Liamzon said WISSH is still dedicated to improving gen­der relations and aims to increase awareness of issu.es such as eating disor-• ders, date rape and sexual 
"The kinds ofissues that the WRC would've taken up are certainly continued in our efforts." 
Heather Rakoczy director Gender Resource Center 
harassment, the GHC will now be the official resource for information about topics asso­ciated with gender. 
"As a resource center. the WHC has strived to dissemi­nate information on resources available in the campus and community for counseling and health care for women. With only student members. the WHC has struggled to meet the needs of the female Notre Dame community," Merusi said. "For this reason, the Gender Hesource Center was created last spring as a more permanent and reliable response to the issues con­fronting the campus." 
Liamzon said WISSH real­izes the new GRC will have more resources available than the former WHC did. 
"We're happy it's opening because they have more resources available to them than we ever had," Liamzon said. "The Women's Resource Center was student run. thereby relying mainly on the availability of its members to have someone at the office. [but] the Gender Helations Center has actually been able 
to hire a person to be at the office at allot­ted times." 
lleather Hakozcy. direc­tor of the new GHC, said she intends to work closely with student leaders of the former WHC as the new center develops this year. 
"The only way the Gender Hesource Center is going to nourish is if students express an interest in it." she said. "We hope there's going to be a very close relationship lwith WISSIIJ." 
Hakoczy, who has served as rector of Pangborn Hall for the past seven years. said she sees the WRC as a precursor to the new center and believes the change represents an important transition in the University's attitude toward women and gender issues. 
"The kinds of issues that the 
WHC would've taken up are 
certainly continued in our 
efforts," she said. "It's the 
forerunner to the GHC in 
many ways." 
Specifically. Hakoczy said she planned to be in contact with Merusi this fall to receive input on the new center's direction. Ultimately. Hokoczy said WISSH might become a part of the GHC gradually over the next several years. 
The new GHC is the result of a student-led initiative started three years ago by 2001-02 student body president Brooke Norton. who investigated gen­der studies at the University as a way to commemorate Notre Dame's 30-year anniversary of female stu­dents. 
Despite this year's changes, Liamzon and Merusi said they still plan to continue the annual WISSII Distinguished Notn~ Dame Woman /\wards. The awards are WISSH's main project and honor four women faculty members for dedica­tion and improvement of the Notre Damn community on women's issues. Each year, members of WISSII collect student nominations and assemble a panel of faculty and staff to select the winners. 
"We think that the club is an important part of Notre Dame's history. and we mean to keep it that way," Liamzon said. 
Teresa Fralish contributed to this report. 

Contact Dolores Diaz at ddiaz@nd.edu 
• In[prmation Meeting ~Perth, Australia IFor students in the CoJ'leges of Science and Engineering Ontgl Wednesday, ~~eptember 29, 2004 Room 13~r DeBartolo Hall 5:30-7:00pm Application deadline: November 15, 2004for Fall 2005 only Apply on-line: www.nd.edul·--intlstud  


.-----~­
Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 

fc,~~s 10,077.40 +88.86 
··<"-Same: Qt:Mr: Composite Volume:
2,278 157 • 1,297,820,416 
AMEX 1,270.02 t6;88 NASDAQ 1,869.87 +9.99 NYS£ 6,543.41 +47.04 S&PSOO 1,110.06 +6.54 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,815.57 ~43.75 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,567.30 +26.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE CISCO SYffiMS (CSCO) +0.17 +0.03 18.o? INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.20 -0.24 19.68 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.29 +0.08 27.27 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) + 1.52 +0.17 11.36 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -2.93 -0.08 2.65 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +0.61 +0.29 48.0 I 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.38 +0.15 40.12 
5-YEARNOTE -0.21 -0.07 32.75 
3-MONTH BILL . +0.30 +0.05 16.87 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.26 49.90 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.50 414.20 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.55 94.95 
Excha Rates 
YEN 111.34 
EURO 0.8117 
POUND 0.5516 
CANADIAN$ 1.2720 
IN BRIEF 
Raises in oil production planned 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia -Saudi Arabia. the world's largest oil exporter, will raise produc­tion capacity from 9.5 million barrels a day to 11 million barrels in an attempt to rein in prices that topped $50 a barrel for the first time. the Oil Ministry said Tuesday. 
By increasing capacity, Saudi Arabia will be able to raise production when it wants. A Saudi oil ministry official, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said that the kingdom would increase production, "depending on demand." 
Oil Minister Ali Naimi announced that the capacity increase would come into effect in the next few weeks. using fields where pro­duction has just begun. 
"The fields of Abu Safa and al-Qatif. which· have just started production. will be used to increase the kingdom's production capacity in the coming few weeks to 11 million barrels per day." Naimi said in a statement. 
Motorola expects to cut I ,000 jobs 
CHICAGO -Motorola Inc. will cut 1,000 jobs that officials said Tuesday were no longer necessary as it spins off its chip oper­ations. 
Motorola spokeswoman Jennifer Weyrauch said the cuts would be made worldwide "to better align our work force" and in anticipa­tion of the separation of its chip operations. now operating independently as Freescale Semiconductor Inc. 
Motorola employs 88,000 people world­wide. 
The Schaumburg, IlL-based company said it would take a charge of $50 million for sev­erance benefits and also expects to have $80 million in third-quarter costs related to pay­ing off various debts. 
In a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. the company said the cuts also include jobs in Motorola's integrat­ed electronic systems and broadband com­munications businesses. 
Motorola shares dropped 19 cents to $17.31 late Tuesday morning on the New York Stock Exchange. 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Crude oil reaches $50 a barrel 
Unrest in the Middle East and political instability in Nigeria push up prices 
Associated Press 
Crude oil surpassed $50 a barrel for the first time and analysts said Tuesday that prices could keep rising because of a sharp rise in global demand. tight sup­plies and threats to output in petroleum-producing nations such as Iraq and Nigeria. 
Homeowners and energy­intensive industries could feel the sting from high oil prices worsen as seasonal demand picks up this win­ter. and there is already evi­dence that the supply dis­ruptions caused by Hurricane Ivan are making it more costly to drive. 
The 75 percent increase in the price of oil in the past year also promises to heat up as a political issue, with just over a month until the presidential election. 
Crude futures first hit $50 a barrel in after-hours trad­ing late Monday, spurred higher by reports that rebels in Nigeria continue to battle for control of the vast southern oil fields in the world's seventh-largest exporter. · 
A unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group, which accounts for roughly half of Nigeria's daily production of 

2.5 million barrels, said Tuesday that insecurity in the region forced it to shut percent more than was and because the industrial Ebel, director of the energy an oil flow station in the spent last year. That calcu­sector has shrunk dramati­program at the Center for Niger Delta that pumps lation is based on analysts cally. Strategic and International 28,000 barrels a day. Also estimates of an average oil But Global Insight fore­Studies in Washington, who on Tuesday, Saudi Arabia price of $40-per-barrel in casts that, by sapping some believes oil will remain pledged to boost the limits 2004, compared with $31 in of the country's economic above $40 a barrel into of its daily oil production by 2003,. as well as slightly strength, high oil prices 2005. a half-million barrels. higher demand of more have made the presidential Some analysts insist, bringing its output capacity than 20 million barrels per election a closer race. however, that oil prices are to 11 million barrels, but day. Underpinning today's artificially high, with mar­the move failed to calm This year's surge in prices high oil prices is the fact kets rallying on overblown markets since it does not has resulted in "a major that the world's supply fears. rather than supply­mean actual supplies would redistribution of income buffer, or excess capacity, is demand fundamentals. be added anytime soon. from oil consumers to oil just 1 percent of daily glob­"We're getting close to the 
Light crude for November producers" and has been a al demand of 82 million precipice" from where delivery rose 26 cents to drag on the economy, barrels. That leaves the prices will fall. said Tom $49.90 to a new settlement according to Nigel Gault, an industry little breathing Kloza, director of Oil Price high on the New York economist at Global Insight. room in the event of a pro­Information Service in Mercantile Exchange after Gault said every $10-per­longed supply interruption Lakewood, N.J. trading as high as $50.20 barrel increase in the price and it is why prices have Whatever the cause. soar­earlier in the day. of oil causes U.S. economic climbed higher each time ing oil prices are potentially 
Adjusting for inflation, growth to slow by 0.3 per­an Iraqi oil pipeline is bad news for those who today's prices are still about cent per year. The fmancial attacked or Russian oil heat their homes with fuel $30 a barrel below the level blow is mitigated by the fact giant Yukos warns that its oil, which is derived from reached in 1981 after the that the country is more output might suffer due to a crude, and could translate Iranian revolution. Even so. energy efficient than it was multibillion dollar back-tax into higher bills for home­the United States is on pace during the oil crises of the bill. owners using natural gas, to spend an extra $68 bil­1970s due to conservation "We have nothing, really, whose price tends to move lion on oil this year. or 30 measures taken since then to fall back on." said Robert in sympathy with crude. 

Delta tries to avoid bankruptcy 
tunity available to us to avoid Chapter for bankruptcy if the pace of early
Associated Press 

11," Grinstein wrote. "It is in every­pilot retirements did not slow. 
ATlANTA-Delta Air Lines' chief one's best interest that we protect Delta is seeking $1 billion in con­executive said Tuesday he is declining Delta's future by taking these steps cessions from its pilots and has his six-figure salary for the rest of the together now." already reduced its work force by year as he announced a 10 percent Atlanta-based Delta would not 16,000 employees in the last three pay cut for executives. ticket and gate immediately say how much salary years. Earlier this month. it said it agents and other staff. Grinstein is relinquishing. His prede­would cut up to another 7,000 jobs 
CEO Gerald Grinstein also said in a cessor, Leo Mullin. earned about over 18 months and shed its Dallas memo to employees that the nation's $500,000 a year. hub. third-largest airline will cut retire­Also Tuesday. Delta's pilots said The airline has lost more than $5 ment benefits and increase employee they ratified an agreement allowing billion since 2001 and has racked up contributions to health insurance as the airline to employ newly retired $20 billion in debt as it has faced part of its plan to avoid bankruptcy. pilots to prevent staffing shortages. higher fuel prices and increased com­
"We have a small window of oppor-Delta has warned it would have to file petition from low-fare carriers. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Black fartners to join conltnittees 
Agriculture Department seeks input on allocation offarm subsidies 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Agriculture Department plans to put more black farmers on tlw committees that have over­sight in how fedPral farm sub­sidins am allocatPd. 
The increase in black voters on tlw eommittees should hap­pen soon after the November Plection. Vernon Parker. the department's top civil rights oflkial. said Tuesday. 
Parker spoke on a street out­sidP the departnwnt's head­quartPrs while about 75 clPnwnstrators rallied against what they saw as the depart­nwn t 's continuing refusal to rertify a history of discrimina­tion. The department has set­tled one major class-action dis­crimination suit and faces the possibility of another. 
The planned expansion of minority participation focuses on county committees elected by farmers. The committees review eligibility for programs administered by the Agriculture Department's Farm Service Agency. 
The department's plan is a step in the right direction. said .John Boyd, president of the National Black Farnwrs Association. but is "a dime too late." If the change had been mad1~ a decade or more ago, "it could have saved a lot of black farmers." he said. 
Black farmers contend that white-dominated panels of three to five members in many 
counties have used their power 
to force the foreclosure of 
many black farms. which then 
are purchased by whites. 
The committee system is undergoing "a severe over­haul," said Parker. The depart­ment announced plans to change the committee struc­ture in August. 
The department currently has the option of appointing nonvoting minority members to county committees if farm­ers do not elect them to voting seal<> on the panels. Under the proposed changes, the depart­ment could independently nominate members from minority groups to run for vot­ing scats. It also could appoint voting members from minority groups to the committees if none run or win election. said Ed Loyd, a department spokesman. 
Placing minority group mem­bers on the committees would be an option if. for instance, a committee has been the target of bias complaints, Loyd said. 
Speakers during Tuesday's demonstration also accused the department of obstructing the process through which claims are paid under a land­mark discrimination class action settlement in 1999. 
In that case. black farmers complained they were denied loans and other assistance because of a pattern of dis­crimination. A new federal lawsuit contends discrimina­tion has continued since the 
last settlement, and seeks class action status on behalf of 25,000 blacks who farmed or attempted to farm between 1997 und 2004. 
At a hearing of the House Judici.try Committee's subcom­mitte .1 on the Constitution. lawm; kers said the 1999 class action settlement did not help most of the farmers in the class. About 65,000 black farm1·rs were excluded becau:;e they did not file claims in tirr.e, said subcommittee chair nan Steve Chabot. R­Ohio. 
"We cannot in good con­scienc ~ allow a settlement that leave.; out more potential claim<Lnts than it allows in to go ur examined or remain unresolved," Chabot said. 
CouJt-appointed administra­tors of the settlement coun­tered that their hands were tied by the settlement's own restrh Lions. To qualify for an extension, farmers had to show they were delayed by extraordinary circumstances such c.s a hurricane or serious illnes ;, and most could not, said J\.lichacl J. Lewis. the set­tlement's arbitrator. 
Con1~ress could pass a law to let th·~ excl udcd farmers try again for restitution from the Agriculture Department. said Alexander Pires. the class action's lead lawyer. But if he askec the court simply to chang~ the terms of the settle­ment, the department would object he said. 
misconceptions about the 
degree of liberty and freedom


Cardinal 

the Church allows. Though continued from page 1 these doubts can alienate casual Catholics, their con­concede to cultural pressures. cerns can be reconciled with 
"The Church is due for a trust and patience instead of reawakening of its moral con­with coercion, he said. science," said Dulles, who in And despite traditional fric­February 2001 became the tion between church and state. 
first United States theologian the cardinal expressnd hope to be named to the College of Catholics will collnctivelyCardinals in Rome. "The pres­n~claim a ~leal rolll in politics. ent crisis can be seen as a "Wn arP compellml to Pnter moment of weakness and dan­political fray because other­ger, but may also wise the future be celebrated as will be shaped by
"The Church is due
an opportunity thosP with no 
for growth." for a reawakening moral or rPligiousBut this growth principles,"
ofits moral
will be impossi­Dulles said.
conscience.
ble· if Catholics 

lamPnting the cannot first 
cultural rPluc­speak as a united Cardinal Avery Dulles tancc to invoke ethical force, he the name of God
theologian

said, adding that in the years since Vatican II. growing pluralism within the Church has led to the temptation to let individual believers make up their own minds about contentious issues like homosexuality, abortion and assisted suicide. 
"Every effort should be made to keep the Church from becoming internally polarized and divided," the cardinal said. "The first priority is per­haps getting [our] own house in order." 
The Church has immense ­but aging -resources at its disposal to do so, Dulles said. 
"Those resources arc rather feeble," he said. "The problem is imparting that rich tradition to a new generation." 
With a new generation comes new culture-induced doubts, Dulles added, such as 
in public discus­
sion. 
"Heligion is being forc1ld back into the private sphere" where it is much less inlluPn­tial, he said. 
lie encouraged listeners in the McKenna Hall auditorium. including students, faculty and Holy Cross priests, to do their part to add to the Church's self-con!idence. 
"The Church is called upon to meet this crisis by energeti­cally ... presenting a set of morals and beliefs that appeal to tlw deepest cravings of thll human heart," Dulles said. "Christians have long been on the d!d'cnsive. It is limP to launch a countllrol'fensive ­not pugnacious or angry but loving and patient." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 



Wednesday, September 29, 2004 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

--.....-......--....... 
:I 
.




Go here 
".. : ~· 
~ ....i" 


vvvvvv.. fordve hicles.com/collegegrad 
L___·..··---·-to 9et there---=--·----~]~ 
'•' 

Here's the deal: one price, no haggUng_ 
This "'student dis..ount" offer!> substantial savings on new Ford l\1otor Cornp;.:Hry vehides b<.'lsed on set prk~s f?stab!ished by ford'~ Employee Purchase Plan. 
Ther€:'5, no catch-it's a unique oHe~:, e.xclusive to g:.~ s.chooh likt:• yours. Save even more when you apply tht> turrent natir.mat incentives a.,;,<Iilable on the vehifle )>'OiJ select. 
ThE:< b.e5t part? You get what you expect-The style and features you >.vant. No-hassle de.aler experience. A pay~nt that'$ easy on your wallet and lifestyle. 
IRAQ 
Itali an women freed 
Kidnappers release 2 female aid workers, 5 others raising hopes for further cooperation 
Associated Press 
HAGIIDAD. Iraq-Kidnappers rr.leased two female Italian aid workers and five other hostages Tuesday, raising hopes for at least 18 foreigners still in cap­tivity. But insurgents showed no sign of easing their blood­soaked campaign against the 
U.S. presence in Iraq, staging a show of defiance in Samarra and striking twice with deadly force in Basra. 
It was unclear what prompted the two separate groups of kid­nappers to release the Italians, three Egyptians and two Iraqis, and whether any ransom had bnen paid. It was the second day in a row that foreigners were freed. 
The Italian women were wear­ing full black veils that revealed only their eyes as they were recr.ived by the Italian Red Cross in a Baghdad neighbor­hood. according to video broad­cast by the Arab news station AI-Jazeera. 
Looking dazed but smiling, Simona Torretta lifted her veil and repeated. "Thank you," in Arabic. Simona Pari hesitated before also lifting her veil. 
Later Tuesday, the two women were flown home aboard a Falcon 20 plane, arriving at a military airport in Rome shortly after 11 p.m. The two, now in long, white dresses, emerged smiling and held hands as they walked on the tarmac, their rel­atives by their side. 
Asked by reporters how she felt. Pari just said, "Good." 
Pari and Torretta were abducted Sept. 7 in a bold raid on the Baghdad office of their aid agency "Un Ponte Per ... " ("A Bridge To ... "). Two Iraqis, Raad Ali Aziz and Mahnaz Bassam. were also seized. 
Two different groups claimed responsibility for the abduc­tions, demanding the withdraw­al of Italian troops from the country or the release of Iraqi female prisoners. The same two groups later put out Web state­ments saying the two Italians had been killed, but the Italian government said the claims were not credible. 
News of the release came after a Muslim leader from Italy met with an influential Muslim asso­ciation in Baghdad on Tuesday to press for their freedom. though it was not immediately known if there was a connec­tion. The two women. both 29, had been working on school and water projects in Iraq. 
The Kuwaiti newspaper AI-Rai al-Aam had reported Tuesday that they could be released by Friday in return for a $1 million ransom. But AI-Arabiya TV, cit­ing unidentified sources involved in the negotiations. said no ransom was paid. 
Pope John Paul II, who recent­ly urged that all hostages held in Iraq be freed, expressed "great joy" over the release of the Italian aid workers, the Vatican said. 
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi went before Parliament to announce their release. 
RUSSIA 
Arrests tnade in tnurder case 
Two Chechen men are top suspects in American editor's death 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Two Chechen men suspected of taking part in the murder of American journalist Paul Klebnikov have been arrest­ed, police said Tuesday, and one commentator cited his interviews with a rebel leader as a possible motive. 
Three guns were seized from the men, and prelimi­nary findings indicated that one of the weapons might have been used in the July 9 murder of Klebnikov, the editor of Forbes magazine's Russian edition, police chief Vladimir Pronin told the lnterfax news agency. He added that the suspects, who were detained overnight, had kidnapped an unidentified person prior to the killing. 
Police spokesman Pavel Klimovsky confirmed the suspects had been detained, but gave no other details. 
The chief prosecutor's office later sharply repri­manded Pronin, telling Interfax that nobody is authorized to comment on the case except the appro­priate investigator and prosecutor. The release of information by anyone else is "unacceptable" and could seriously hurt efforts to solve the crime, Interfax quoted the prrosecutor gen­eral's office as saying. 
In a telephone call to The Associated Press in New York, Klebnikov's brother, Michael, read a statement from the family saying it w o u I d " w a it to .s e e t h e incontrovertible evidence that the-individuals appre­hended today in Moscow are indeed responsible for Paul's murder. In any case, this would be only a first step to identifying, appre­hending and convicting those responsible for order­ing his assassination." 
Klebnikov, an American of Russian ancestry, was gunned down outside the magazine's office in down­town Moscow in a slaying that compound­ed concerns 

"/ think that
about the safe­"If such a book . ty of journalists Chechens killed were written in Russia and about a
Klebnikov for 
about the vio­European
publishing this 
lence that is businessman, often used to book." he would go to settle scores. court and have Speculation its publication
Yulia Latynina
on the motive suspended.
Russian columnist
has focused on Klebnikov's writing about the Russian business world. In the spring, Forbes published a list of Russia's 100 richest people, which could have drawn unwanted attention to people sensitive about the source of their wealth. 
But some commentators have said a. Chechen link was also possible, pointing to Klebnikov's book based on his interviews with Khozh-Akhmed Nukhayev, a former deputy prime minis­ter in the Che.chen sepa­ratist government, which was published last yea~ 
The book, "Conversations With a Barbarian," cast Nukhayev and other Chechen rebels in a sharply negative light. "I think that Chechens killed Klebnikov for publishing this book," said Yulia Latynina, a prominent Russian colum­nist who has written exten­sively about Chechnya. 

Latynina speculated that Nukhayev's entourage expected a more friendly book from an American journalist and considered it an insult. 
"Kiebnikov fell victim of a 
cultural gap," 
Latynina said. 

But Chechens don't go to court." 
Others were skeptical. "If Chechens had killed authors of all such books, we would have seen their bodies on weekly basis," said Oleg Panfilov, the head of Center of Journalism for Extreme Situations, a media advoca­cy group. 
Panfilov speculated that blaming Chechens for Klebnikov's murder could be an attempt by Moscow to win Western support for its tough course in Chechnya. "If Chechens killed a U.S. citizen, that may force the United States to change its view," Panfilov said. 

*"f.· ¥ ~~ 
i 'i.¢::::~:::-;.: 

·: §"!
I r-,~·~ ~:p (::::) 't~~ @: ·+~m#'· ~~ ~.....,. k·'-!§ s(;t tc:: ~~::
·~· ~· 

THE ()BSER\'ER 
page 10 
IE,NPOINT Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
Adjusting the abortion lens 
1~0. Bu< Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 014 Suuth Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ED11UR IN C!i!Ef 
Man Luzar 
MANA<;ING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Meghannc Downes Mikt: Flanagan 
AsS'I: MANAC>JNC. ElliTOR 
Joe Hettler 
Nt:ws EDITOR: Claire H~ininger YIEWI•OJNT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
SI•ORTS ElliTOR: H"arlter Van Hoegardcn 
SCf.NF. EDITOR: Matia Smith 
IN Focus EDITOR: Meghan Martin 
SAINT MARY's EDJTOK: Angela Saoud 
I'HOTO EnnnR: Clatre Kelley 
GRAI'HICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: C•rrie Fr•nkl111 
An DESIGN MANA<;uu Kelly Ndson 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
CONTROUf.R: !'aula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-747! 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
Western European countries with lax linked to nconomics, especially in dewl­
(574) 631-6900 obscad@ud.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF abortion laws, such as Sweden and the oping countries, where a country's 
(574) 6.31-4S42 Netherlands, have low abortion rates, inability to meet basic human needs MANAGING EDITOR lower than the United States, while translates into harmful behavior. A tnw 
(574) 631-4541 obsme(.i>i,d.edu 
countries, such as Ireland and Mexico. "pro-life" approach must face these dif­
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
rolls toward us. it with strict abortion laws, have high ferent socio-economic rnalities that an'
(574) 631-4324 
Peter
appears that abortion rates. Here in the United States. many quite connected to the issun at stake.
BUSINESS OFFICE 
Quaranto
(574) 631-5313 will not be a crucial pro-life activists suggest that abortion The argument has been made that NEWS DESk will stop if Hoe v. Wade is overturned. the global abortion probl!~m (46 million 
issue affecting voter A Call to Action 
(574) 631-5323 ob,new,.l@nd.edu trends on Nov. 2: yet, This line of thinking ignores the fact per year) is the greatest moral evil of 
VIEWPOINT DESk 
here at our over-that many women still havn abortions, our timn, thus it demands our focus and 
(574) 631-).303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
whelmingly Catholic university, abor­orten very dangerously, in countri1~s energy. I do not disagree, but I think it
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spurts.! (<ilnd.cdu tion plays an indisputable role in our when abortion is restrict-also ckmands that we SCENE DESK political consciousness. In recent ed. Focusing solely on seriously look at why
Where the rates 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! (i<lnd.edu months, certain U.S. Cathoic bishops criminalization of abor­abortions happen. when• SAINT MARY'S DESK 
have reinforced its pivotal ·ole by tion actually misses the ofunwanted abortions happen and 
smcl@ud.edu 
claiming it is a sin to vote fJr candi­social science research· pregnancy are · how w1~ ca·nltl~aHy ··· · '· 
PHOTO 0ESK 
dates that support abortior rights. dealing with the issue. decrease or stop them. It
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu high, no matter 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISlRAlORS While this deep concern for the number The only factor that can alarms me that the pro­. (574) 631-8839 of abortions in America (mJre than 1.3 be directly linked statisti­what the law, the life movement in America million a year) is correct, I fear that the cally to abortion rates is rates ofabortion has become so focused on THE current abortion debate is 1ot only the incidence of unwanted the criminalization of 
tend also to

OBSERVER ONLINE inadequate, but also keeps us from see­pregnancies. Where the abortion in recent years. www. ndsmcobserver.com ing what it would really mf an to be rates of unwanted preg­be high as women ·Supporting political agen­"pro-life." nancy are high. no matter sometimes go to das that criminalize abor­
POLICIES 
First, semantic manipula:ion and what the law, the rates of tion, while dumbing-down 
The Ohserver is rhe independent, daily newspaper extreme measures
rhetoric have clouded the E.bortion abortion tend also to be sex education, replacing 
published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du La~ and Saint Mary's debate over the last 30 years. The cur­high as women sometimes when they feel science with ideology. College. Edirntial conre:H, including advertisements, is rent debate has dichotomized the issue go to extreme measures desperate. basing policy on simplistic nor governed by policies of the administration of either into two camps, pro-life an j pro-choice, when they feel desperate. notions of human behav­institution. Th~ Observer reserves the right to refuse which overlooks the comphlxities Do our policies help ior, increasing poverty advertisements bast:d on content. involved. This dichotomy makes it very assuage this desperation or only serve rates and eliminating our social safety 
The news is rep<mro as accur-ately ~nd objecrively as 
hard to question whether certain to exacerbate it, thus leading to risky nets, is not only morally dubious, it's 
po5sible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of 
understandings of the issuE neatly behavior, greater denial and less will­immoral.
the majority of th~ Editor in Chit{ Managing Editor, 
translate to particular poli1 y platforms. ingness to deal with the whole of the A truly pro-life approach to decreas­
A>-<istant Managing Editor and departmetlt editors. 
For this reason. the United States has issue? Can we simply impose prohibi­ing the incidence of abortion must
Commenrarie.~. letters and columns present the views of th~ authors and not necc:;sarily those ofThc witnessed incrnasing polarization and tions without understanding the situa­embrace reality along with life, to work Observer. decrnasing productive discourse about tions that tend to produce decisions wB to strengthen and support people to Viewpoint space is av-.ulable 10 all ,..,-adcrs. The tree this vital issue. might abhor. thus assuring that more make moral decisions, not simply expr~ssion ofall opinions through lcners is encouraged. In that vein. I want to look closely at and more women will face the same dif­declare 'Thou shalt not ... " and assunw Letters w the Editor must be signnl and must indudc the relationship between c1oncniving ficult choice in more trying, frightening all of society's work is done. Prohibition 
umt~ll~t irtformation 
abortion as a moral wrong and advo­circumstances? did not work with alcohol, it's not work­cating policies to prevent s11ch a. wrong. For those of us who see abortion as a ing with drugs and it probably won't 
Qu~stwns rrgardi11g Obsm•erp~licit'S should b~ 
In the wake of Hoe v. Wade sonw peo­moral wrong, the challenge is to seri­work with abortion. It's time that WI'
dirrctrd to Editor lfl Chirf'M,ttl Low' 
ple prnsume that those who opposn ously evaluate how to decrease the face the facts about abortion, and work POST OFFICE INFORMATION abortion must also adamantly promote number of unwanted pregnancies. As I with tlwse facts to create an America "\1'1t ( )\n,'lh"t \U\1'~ ".')'J l-~U(})" l'u'll1>h<~ Mmu\.rr tbn•u~ \·TKi4f .:~L·!•l Junhg the criminalization of abortion. While · see it, this task comes down to three and world that really respects and sup­l ~~.All• .UIJ to~&o.AWIIIJ"U'"'' ,.._ .~~ulru.nJ>«"''' tu I h<" (llo,~r'K"1 t\ iiCI(I h•r IIIII' .u.••u.JL,,,jL 
)•'4' $"i' lur .,,._. .._.,n.,.wr such a presumption has pervaded the areas: contraceptives. education and ports life in all its forn~s. 
1'1\,,: l)~"'tr'l~'f L• .1 mt'lnl~r nf r~u-.-\v.no. .,;m••ll-'r<"u AJI ro.•rrlhJucnnJI nghu llr• 
national psyche, it is a rickoty syllo­economics. Countries where people
rc*tY!..'J 
gism. It is a logical blunder to assume have increased access to and knowl­Peter Quaranta is a junior political
Ttw<>h••'fYffl\ 1-'uhlhht·•f •r· f'.O. H•"Q 11!4 \ou(h. l1tf1111.~ HJl OH \<oUd\ tJU\11\V, H1.ll 
that a pro-lifP stance on ab· 1rtion auto­edge of contraceptives have signi!kant­science and international peace slltdies 
Nur,.... O..wn".IN 4t•.,\h.-on? Nom· P•nK·, IN '\f.')j{...077~ 
l'~·f~t••H,.-1 ~ocnu.~~; r.u~ ~~ Nu(n IJJ.tu.: matically must lead to supporting the ly lower rates of unwanted pregnancies major. /lis column appears euery other 
.tnd J•lduton41m•tlmg r•lll'-'"' 
criminalization of abortion. and consequently, lower rates of abor­Wednesday. lie can be contacted at 
1'0\TMA\i I'Eil 
Studies actually show that the legality tion. Similarly, better education struc­pquarant@nd. edu. 
'-<•nJ .ulJrt....•o.urr••ltVI'-'111' 11)1,·l)bjot'J";l't 
of abortion in a particular country is tures provide populations with more The fliews expressed in this column 
Th~· Ol,wrY<•t h 4111<.'fllh4'1' c>( 1h1: A'roo.1:m:J l1r~"''· AU r<.•f•mduo:-riou fr"hu o~N: not directly n~lated with tlw rate of awareness about social and sexual real­are those ofthe author and not neces­r~'k'no.•J 
abortions in that country. IV any ities. Health and education are directly sarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Claire IIeininger Dan Tapctillo OBSERVER POLL Megan O'Neil Bobby Gril'lln 
Jeannine Privat Chris Khorey How many of the presidential debates Viewpoint Scene do you plan on watching? 
Maureen Bcc.ca Saunders 
Heyuolds Illustrator 
Vote by Thun;day at 5 p.m. at
Jo:ilnm1 Duf'ly Craham Ebntsch <;raphics www.ndsmcobscrver.com. Dnsiree Zamora 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"The world is very different now. for man holds in his mortal hands the power to abolish all forms ofhuman poverty, and all forms ofhuman life." 
John F. Kennedy former president 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 29, 2004 page 11 

U-WIRE 
Etnbryonic stetn-cell research will add to the tnyriad of societal ills 
Millions are su!Tering. People such as Michael J. Fox. Muhammad Ali.'J>opc John Paul II and Christopher Reeves are suffering frorri degenera­tive diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's or spinal cord injuries. Millions arc suffering, even while advocates of embryonic stern cell research purport Paul themselves to have possible Escajadillio cures for all this. But it 
San Diego
requires research that would 
Slate ·
involvP the willful annihilation 
Univeristy
of millions of embryos-mil­
The Daily Aztec
lions of lives at. their most inde­fensible stage. 
Embryonic stern-cell research is not a proven v1•nue for providing a panacea to many of the world's aff1ictions. and frankly it is disingenuous for those who are suffering to place too much hope in it. The scientific evidence suggesting embryonic stem cell research has a greater viable treatment potential for a plethora of diseases than non-embryonic stem-cell research is limited at best. In all actuality, embryonic stem-cell research applicable to humans could eventually prove to be a dead end. Lanza and Nadia Rosenthal, British stem cell researchers at the very forefront of the issue, found "embryonic stem cells pose the prob­lem of spontaneously differentiating into a hodge­podge of tissue types." Embryos also carry the "likelihood of immune rejection in humans" and present infinitely more danger than would a tradi­tional organ transplant. 
Adult stem cells, however, are less likely to be a scientific dead end. As reported in Scientific American, Catherine Verfaillie of the University of Minnesota Stem Cell Institute found adult stem cells "derived from bone marrow and dubbed a multi-potent adult progenitor cell {MAPC) can dif­ferentiate into nearly all types of mouse tissue" and are not "fusing with cells already present in the body." Another promising venue-as report­ed in The New York Times-is currently being explored at the Tufts New England Medical Center in Boston. where Dr. Bianchi found fetal cells remain in a woman's body after a pregnancy and can. after organ damage, "migrate there, divide and turn into the needed cell type." 
The American people have suffered at the hands of a partisan debate concerning stem-cell research. Thankfully, President Bush was able to find an important compromise in limiting embry­onic stem-cell research to existing cell lines, and to strongly support adult stem-cell research "by providing $190.7 million for human non-embry­onic stem cells" in the 2003 fiscal year, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 
In the second half of the nineteenth century slavery and polygamy existed in the United Sates -what Robert P. George and William L. Saunders dubbed the "twin relics of barbarism." They fur­ther go on to mention that it was the Republican Party that emerged to take on these "two great moral struggles." 
In their course to eradicate these evils, "Pro­slavery Democrats condemned them as fanatics and zealots," and yet. they prevailed. Today, George and Saunders believe a modern union of barbarism has reared its ugly head, among them, "abortion and embryo-destructive research." The Republican Party, amidst renewed contemptuous calls of religious fundamentalism. must again engage in a campaign to defeat moral evils. 
We cannot wantonly engage in the destruction of innocent life at any stage, especially in the ear­liest ones, for sheer scientific curiosity. Is it look­ing at scientific discoveries with fear, as Sen. John Kerry accuses President Bush of doing? No. Is it placing ideology before science? Perhaps. But by placing science before an ideology based on ethics and giving scientists free reign to conduct any research, we veer dangerously close to becoming passive participants in a massive genocide con­ducted by well-intentioned-but misguided­Joseph Mengeles. 
According to Dr. John Shea, a retired radiologist and ethicist from Toronto: "If we decide that there are certain classes of human beings which can be used like a product for some other good reason even, then we send a sign: We've gone right back to Nuremberg. People's rights don't come from the government." In this country, the Declaration of Independence made it clear that "all Men are created equal ... endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights," first among which is life. 
If we continue to degrade life in all of its forms and pursue a culture of death, we risk losing the very essence Of our humanity. In the end, would it be worth it? "For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" {Mt. 16:26). The life of one human being is never and can never be more valuable than that of another. 
This article originally appeared on Sept. 27 in The Daily Aztec, the daily publication at San Diego State University. 
The views expressed in this cQlumn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 0 0 0 0 ~ '.. -. . --.-···-..:-~ ~'. --tv~
·----'­

-::1 -, ~ .. _--r 
~ . 0::. 
• --:T 

"' .... 
-'

. ..... ~ 
·~ -l -. ~j 
.. 'J 
0 
0'. ~· ~ ~_) ~ 

.:."'. 0 ') 
~-~~~~­
-' ""--. 
: 'T • 
'C'.:;• -~~ 

.._........... <.-. 
. . .· . /. . . 
('-._ .. ~ . -... ·•.. : .. ~_..._.~··· "1':-. I 
~.. ·­_,·0 
.... 
... ' ./' 
.... . 


Changing abortion at the human level 
If there is an overarching flaw in the American Catholic Church {though, by no means a unique flaw), it is the deeply held, unspoken conviction that leadership is the source of all change and that the most effective solution to a problem is the "top-down" approach of an enlightened management effecting sweeping changes. 
You can see this clearly in the machina-Lance Gallop tions and strategies of the pro-life move­ment; its focus is the election of pro-life The Third Way politicians with an eye to eventual Supreme Court reform. For their part, the politicians love this. because it allows them to reduce issues to a strug­gle between good and evil, and the ensuing political hand-to­hand tends to mask more trivial factors, like how qualified the candidates are, and whether or not they can make good decisions. 
And although it admittedly began as a touch of political cyn­icism, I have become convinced that not only is pro-life poli­tics as it is now written a grievous waste of time, it so effec­tively masks the real problems and their solutions and is so incredibly self-defeating that I have no reluctance in saying that unless pro-life politics as we understand it is eliminated, abortion will always be prevalent and legal in this nation. 
The crime of politics is that it absolutely simplifies issues until they lose all connections to their origins, and in doing so it transforms politicians into antibiotic heroes with a one-dose cure-all to heal the nation. Once they become political litmus tests, people tend to stop thinking about issues, their devotion to a side clouds their judgment, and they become fixed at their end of the spectrum. Moderates are scared off by what they perceive as extremism and discussion of the topic effec­tively becomes taboo. In short, everything stands still until one side can get its particular political bandage applied, then they congratulate themselves on a job well done. 
But this is a terribly misleading situation, and worse, com­pletely ineffective. Abortion is not new, nor is it political in origin. There have been abortions in all ages, and all coun­tries, though admittedly not so many as today. It did not emerge from a vacuum; it emerged from a perceived need. It can only fully be addressed by addressing that need; no politi­cal bandage will suffice. 
Being that I am male, I can only speculate to one degree or another, but I do not see that a woman can decide to obtain an abortion without reasons. 
By all accounts the choice is so difficult that these women must possess what, in their own minds, is a very good justifi­cation indeed. The candidate I suspect most of all is fear: fear of being young and pregnant, fear of commitment, fear of consequences, fear of violence. Anger as well, and tiredness, and pain and self-delusion play into the mix. Only rarely do you see the apathetic and dispassionate "abortion shopper" that those who favor a legislative bandage solutions seem to implicitly believe in. In short, many people who seek abor­tions have, underneath everything else, a layer of desperation that drives them to that end. Today abortion is so prominent, and so well understood. and so accepted by those who seek it, that, were it taken away, they would still look for it in other nations, international waters and underground clinics. Desperate people do not listen to legislation; they do not have that luxury. 
And if the choice for an abortion is taken from them, des­perate people will fight to gain it back. In our political climate in which abortion is so polarized that most people refuse to discuss the issue, and where neither Democrat nor Republican can offer any explanation for their views beyond the abstract policy tool that abortion has become. the argu­ment of a desperate person is much more significant that the outrage of an ideology. Abortion would return. 
To address the problem of abortion, what is needed is not a political solution. Politics only gets in the way, prevents peo­ple from being open to discussion, and drives them into polar­ity or blind avoidance. Abortion must change at the grass­roots level, and to do so it cannot be a political issue, but must be a human one. Individuals must be approached with 
' the tact, empathy and understanding politics can never have and care given to solving the root issues causing abortion that politics always overlooks. People's hearts must change so that they do not want abor­tion, and more over so they do not need abortion. This cannot happen within a ridged political framework, or even as a reli­gious ideology, the solution must speak to hearts of a human level, and po bandage solution will ever succeed in changing hearts. In short, let the pro-life movement die and a holistic pro-life culture be built from its ashes. Only then will we ever see the end to abortion. 
Lance Gallop is a fifth-year senior majoring in computer science, philosophy and theology. He can be contacted at lgal­lop@nd. edu . 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
..:... ·...-.!.­

~----­
1 
I I 
I 
1'HE OBSERVER
I 
page 12 Wednesday, September 29, 2004 





<=ENE 
Ari Hest disappoints small crowd at Sl\tiC 
Singer has talent but lacks lyrical depth 

By LAUREN WENDEL Scene Writer 

Thorn se1m1s to be a curse on modern musie coming to college campuses these days. Since the emergence of John Mayer to radio, tlwrn has bmm a rush by labels to pro­du!~n as many Mayer-sounding musicians as possible. Unfortunately. this leaves the gener­al publie with little variety or sense of honest talent. Ari llest brought his version of "Mayerdom" to kick-off Saint Mary's "Pride Week" Monday evening. 
I lest, signed to Columbia Hecords this past year, is touring to promote his first major­label debut "Someone to Tell." This commu­nieations major and New York University graduate plays primarily acoustic pop/roek!funk/folk littered with generic lyrics about love and the quest to find oneself in the world. II is singer/songwriter status easily places him among the likes of Mayer and llowie Day, but with less personality than his counterparts. 
The set started on· slow with only Hest and his guitar in front of the crowd of about 50, playing long, slow love songs such as "Upper Hand" from his third self-released album "Story After Story." Gradually, he added bassist, Hob Caulder and drummer Scott Sever to the mix, creating a deeper sound as the set wore on. "Caught up in Your Love" picked up the pace with more upbeat drums and harmonies, but still lacked in lyrical complexity. 
Things began to improve with the catchy "Consistency" which caught the crowd off guard with its intense opening drums and sing-a-long refrain. llest mumbled the majority of the rest of the lyrics outside the refrain, making it difficult to appreciate the entire song. lie followed up this catchy tune with another single-ready, "Fascinate You." In faet, most of the songs sound like potential singles musically, but need lyrieal depth and variety. 
The erowd added some light cheers throughout this time, even shouting about his tall, dark and handsome appearance. Hest did not respond to much of these jests, nor did he speak during the long pauses in bntween songs. lie had a great deal of charisma on stage while singing, but shied away from the limelight otherwise. The only observance he cared to share with the large­ly female crowd was how he found it "cool not to have a balance around, it being an all­girls school." 
Songs from his new a bum kept the set fresh and moving along Jn a cold evening. llest's "Anne Marie" is a heartfelt ballad about "coexisting with someone who argues better than you, which rr, akes you break-up with them." The crowd b1:gan to warm up to Hest after this song and stayed with him through the TV soundtra1:k-esque "Monster" and "Not for Long." 0{ spite showcasing Best's vocal range nicely, these dragged on longer than necessary with lyrics that did not dick with the music. 
One of the best and m(lre unique songs of the set was a cover of Peter Gabriel's "Mercy Street." This darker ballad was nicely played with full harmonies and interweaving of instruments. Hest made a wise decision to cover this song, as it shovred a more complex view of his musical abilities. If he would con­centrate on honing thi~ sound, his music would move beyond "Mayerdom" and into a new realm of creating his own personality. Hest followed up this cover with yet another cover of Bonnie Hait's "I Can't Make You Love Me" which was less spectacular than "Mercy Street" but still a good fit for Hest's voice. 
IIest returned to his o\\ n songs with "Head for the Hills," a song written while on tour. With lyrics "Let's head for the hills/If only for tonight baby," the song needs some fine tun­ing and more attention grabbing composi­tions. Fortunately, Best {'nded his set strong with a string of single-roady tunes from his new album. 
"Holding On" was quickly followed by "They're Onto Me," Hest s first single off the album. Both of these gaye the crowd a good sense of his album, all "bile providing beats to bounce around to. "A Fond Farewell," one of Hest's personal favorites, like the majority of his other songs, lacks lyrical depth and is strongly reminiscent c·f Mayer's musical library. The long set concluded with "Aberdeen" -an almost lullaby-like song about leaving home. 
In Hest's case, if home were considered "Mayerdom," he has yet to leave and break out with his own personality. With more time, and more writing, Hest has the capabilities and hard work ethic to make an impression on the music industry, but not until he leaves "Mayerdom." 
Contact Lauren Wendel at wend8627@saintmarys.eclu 


KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer Arl Hest plays his acoustic guitar to a small crowd of students outside at Saint Mary's kickoff to "Pride Week" on Monday evening. 
The Bonefish Grill 
•


Impres_ses 

For fish and seafood, the Bone fish Grill proves consistently delicious 
By SEAN SWEANY Scene Writer 
South Bend restaurants are busiest during the Notre Dame football season. Large numbers of parents make the journey to South Bend to visit their son or daughter for a weekend. A great benefit to a visit from the family is having the chance to eat an actual meal at a restaurant instead of the dining hall. The Bonefish Grill is a restaurant where both par­ents and students can enjoy first class food, service and atmos­phere. Located at 620 West Edison Avenue in the St. Andrews Plaza Mall, the Bonefish Grill opened in July 2003 as part of a nationwide chain of fish restaurants dedicated to serving fresh 


fish every day. not detract 
The Bonefish from the Grill menu appeal of the offers mostly dish. The seafood items portion of 
interspe-rsed · ·l·•s6'ffiai bf'the with various entrees, non-seafood served alone, 
salmon fillet b<iked on a plank of cedar wood and then covered in breadcrumbs. This infuses a won­derful wood flavor into the fish which is offset by delidous sides of garlic mashed potatoes and fresh vegetables. In addition to the fish and other seafood, the Bonefish Grill serves excellent entrees that do not come from the sea. Both the sirloin and fillet of steak are highly recommended, along with the filling chicken marsala. To end a spectacular meal, the restaurant offers sever­al desserts, including outstanding key lime pie and a large warm brownie topped with vanilla ice cream and smothered in raspber­
ry sauce. 
The pres­entation of food at the Bonefish Grill is extrava­gant for cer­tain dishes, but this does 

offerings. The 
meal begins with appetizers rang­ing from light yet spicy calamari, to delightful crab cakes and the signature appetizer Bang Bang Shrimp. The Bang Bang Shrimp is a spicy fried shrimp served on a bed of lettuce and eaten with chopsticks. Each day, more than eight types of fresh fish are flown in to the restaurant to be served in the evening. The premise of the main course at the Bonefish Grill begins with choosing a type of fresh grilled fish and then select­ing a signature sauce or topping for your fish. Sauce and topping selections include lime tomato garlic sauce, warm mango salsa, garlic butter sauce and crispy shrimp piccata. Each sauce is fla­vorful and unique, offering many possibilities for savory grilled fish. The Bonefish offers a variety of unique specials, including the seasonal Cedar Plank King Salmon. which consists of a 
may be con­sidered on the small side, but the four-course meal is well propor­tioned. The staff at the restaurant is friendly, helpful and attentive, especially in offering suggestions regarding which sauce fits a par­ticular type of fish the best. The restaurant is designed to be very open with metallic fish artwork decorating the walls. The lighting makes each table seem like its own island which is secluded enough to make for enjoyable din­ner conversation. The Bonefish Grill is one of the finer restau­rants in South Bend, and as such, prices are not cheap. If you are looking for an inexpensive restau­rant for a night out, this is not it. However, if you are willing to pay for a fine meal, the Bonefish Grill is an outstanding choice for a night away from the dining hall. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 


One of the many Interesting and delicious fish and sauce combina­tions the Boneflsh Grill offers. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
page 13 
Soviet Propaganda exhibit showcases region's history 
Newest Snite exhibit is both aesthetically and academically interesting 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
When college students think about the Sovint Union, it might seem like some-· thing that has already faded into the annals of history. 
It wasn't so long ago that Soviet officials still exerted close control over information and art through vast areas of Russia, eastern Europe and central Asia. "Darker Shades of Red: Official Soviet Propaganda from the Cold War," an exhibit currently on display at the Snite Museum of Art, features propaganda posters and other artifacts from the emergence of the Soviet Union in the early 1940s until its collapse in the late 1980s. 
Posters were the main method for spreading propa­ganda in the Soviet Union for several reasons. After the Bolshevik Revolution most Russians were illiterate. In an era before television, officials made use of posters to spread images that would promote a desirable image of Soviet leaders and lifestyles. The political poster also played off the strong Russian tradition of dewtioaaJ. icons and popular prints. 
Tuesday afternoon's lecture by Karen L. Kettering, associ­ate curator of Russian art for the Hillwood Museum & Gardens in Washington, D.C., provided further insight into the methods and his­torical periods of Soviet art. Under the strict censorship of the Soviets Socialist Realism, the officially espoused method of art in the Soviet Union, became the main form of expression in almost all forms of art, including literature, drama and painting. Kettering described how Socialist Realism in the visual sphere was used to send messages to Russian citizens. 

One of the most important terms in 
understanding Socialist Realism is the 
untranslatable Russian word "zhiznera­
dostnost." The term might be loosely 
translated "joie de vivre" or "joy of life," but the terms fail to capture the full meaning of the focal term. "What you're supposed to get is a sense of pleas­ure," Kettering said. "Also, there is an idea that there is no natu­ral force· Soviets can't overcome." Soviet artists used many meth­ods to obscure the difficulties of life in the Soviet Union and try to portray this image and ideal­ize Soviet life for citizens. One overriding feature o.f the propaganda posters is the emphasis on vivid colors and bright lighting unlike what is really found in the Russian land­scape. "The intense light almost Mediterranean. It doesn't exist in northern Europe, certainly not in St. Petersburg," Kettering said. "You start to feel like you're look­ing at Mediterranean 
travel posters." 

Early in Soviet history many of the posters featured idealized images of Soviet leaders, often portraying figures like Josef Stalin not only as courageous leaders but also as caring and benevo­lent figures. Stalin was portrayed as fol­
lowing in the footsteps of great figures like Marx and Lenin. 
Other figures also began to infiltrate Soviet art as images that would show progress. Images of Uzbeks, for exam­ple, were fre­quently depicted as progressing towards an ideal state because Uzbeks citizens often had the lowest incomes and literacy rates. 
The figure of the strong Russian woman also became prevalent, partly as an image of Mother Russia. 
During post­war reconstruc­tion, there was a great emphasis on images of agriculture and industry to encourage the effort of brute force that would be needed to pull the Soviet econo­my back from the edge. Since so many young men had been killed in combat and the recovery depend­ed largely on women, women were often depicted at the center of agricul­tural and indus­
was the border guard. Soviet officials 
played off the fear that lingered from 
German attacks long past WWII to pro­
mote loyalty to the Soviet government. "They used an innate fear of war, of immanent attack at any time," Kettering said, "This was successful into the 50s, 
60s and 70s." 
In later examples of Soviet imagery the concentrated fear of war and work towards progress is replaced by images denouncing foreign organiza­tions and officials. These were less successful than posters that did not idealize the Soviets, and dealt with social problems like alcoholism. 
"There was a feeling that 'We have enough problems right here to deal with,"' Kettering said. "Artists were allowed to address current problems." 
Many of the Soviet posters feature rhymed quatrains that are powerful in Russian, but are difficult to translate. For the Snite exhibit Russian pro­fessor Alyssa Gillespie ren­dered the literal English trans­lation into rhymed verses that have not previously been included in the exhibit. 
The Soviet Union may be fad­ing into history, but its methods of propaganda are not. 
"Eighteen months ago when 
U.S. forces entered Baghdad, they found similar imagery with Saddam Hussein," Kettering said. "Hussein stud­ied Stalin. It is amazing to see the parallels." 
If history can teach lessons, this exhib­it of Soviet propaganda has many to teach. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 




trial images as well. 


Another ideal­Photo courtesy of the Snite Art Museum ized figure in "Peace, Friendship, Solidarity-No To Fascism", is a silk socialist realism screen showcasing propaganda from 1977. 
Wednesday, September 29, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

Millar's home run beats Tampa Bay in 11 innings 
Associated Press Eric Munson was starting to 
wonder if his slump was ever 
going to end. 
ST. PETERSBURG --There's Munson, who had been hit­
no letup in the Red Sox. ting .16 7 in his last 36 games, 
Just 24 hours after clinching hit a go-ahead, three-run a playoff spot for the second homer in the seventh inning to straight year, Boston crept clos­lead the Detroit Tigers to a vic­er to the New York Yankees in tory· over the Chicago White the AL East. beating the Tampa Sox. Bay Devil Hays 10-8 on Kevin "Some days, you feel great Millar's two-out, two-run and you get nothing out of it," homer in the 11th inning. he said. "Tonight, I felt terrible 
The Hed Sox, assured of no and I ran into one. I've been worse than a wild-card berth. having a bad year, so it felt moved within 2 1/2 games of good to help tonight." the Yankees in the division. Munson came in in a 16-for-New York was rained out and 96 slump and was 0-for-3 will make up its scheduled before his big hit. game with Minnesota as part of "You have to credit Munson," a doubleheader Wednesday. Chicago first baseman Paul 
"This one was nice because Konerko said. "He was having a we're there in the East." Millar tough night, and then he hits a said. "It was a big game for us big homer off a lefty as a left­to keep winning." handed hitter. That's huge." 
The Hed Sox matched their Bobby Higginson reached win total for last season and base in all five plate appear­
have won 95 in consecutive ances with a homer, double and 
seasons for just the third time three walks, and Omar Infante 
in franchise history. They also also homered for the Tigers. 
did it in 1977 (97) and 1978 With the Tigers trailing 4-3 
(99), in addition to 1948 (96) going into the seventh, Carlos "The challenge is in front of us, single-season record, and the ting streak -all on the road ­and 1949 (96). Pena and Craig Monroe hit one­and the opportunity is in front Seattle Mariners pounded and is batting .486 (18-for-37) 
Boston also climbed 33 games out singles off Neal Cotts (4-4). of us also." Oakland starter Tim Hudson in during the stretch. over .500 for the first time Munson followed by lining a The Angels never trailed a victory over the Athletics. The Mariners tagged the since Oct. 1, 1986, improving three-run shot just inside the Te" as after Guerrero's two-out The A's fell into a first-place Hudson for three runs on four the best record in the majors right-field foul pole for his first solo homer in the first. It was tie with Anaheim after the hits in the first inning ­since Aug. 1 to 39-16. homer since Sept. 16. 8-( after his 36th homer, a Angels won 8-2 at Texas. Suzuki's double. Edgar 
"We want to win every game "This was a nice win," Tigers thr·~e-run shot in the sixth. Oakland dropped out of sole Martinez's RBI single to center, we play. We're just going to manager Alan Trammell said. ": 'm not trying to win the possession of first place for the a double by Raul Ibariez and balance health, production and ''I'm happy for Munson. He's MVP. I'm trying to play every first time in 54 days, since the Reed's run-scoring single. The winning," Red Sox manager had some frustration, but he's da) to win a championship," team was a half-game behind right-hander allowed seven Terry Francona said. "I don't still a guy that gives you a GuE:rrero said. Texas on Aug. 5. runs on 11 hits in six innings, think we ever let the intensity power threat." "Hight now, obviously his Bret Boone hit a two-run struck out three and didn't down." Franklyn German (1-0) stn·ke of driving the ball is re­homer and Jeremy Reed had a walk a batter. 
David Ortiz, Manny Ramirez, picked up the win in relief with em·~rging, and that's great to double among his three hits Cleveland 5, Kansas City 1 Doug Mirabelli, Doug two perfect innings, and see It's a great time to see it," and also drove in a run. Gil In this last week of a horrible Mientkiewicz and Pokey Reese Esteban Yan pitched the ninth Scioscia said. "He's been about Meche (7-6) won his third season, the erratic Kansas City drove in a run apiece for· the for his seventh save. as 1:onsistent as any player I've straight decision to beat the A's Royals have finally found a lit­Red Sox, who also got a bases­Anaheim 8, Texas 2 see 1 from start to finish." for the first time in nine career tle consistency. loaded triple from Johnny Vladimir Guerrero is hitting Gllerrero also had a homer starts. Greg Dobbs added two In each of their last four Damon to help erase afour-run the ball hard and proving him­and a double in the Angels' 5-3 hits and two RBis for Seattle games, the Royals have scored deficit after a slow start against self as the MVP of the Anaheim win on Monday night to start (61-96). trying to avoid the exactly one run -the latest left-bander John Halama. Angels in his first real pennant the series at Texas. club's first 100-loss season coming in a setback to the 
Brook Fordyce hit a two-run chase. . "I don't think he has much of since 1983. Cleveland Indians, their 100th homer and Aubrey Huff. Tino Guerrero homered twice and an approach at the plate. He Suzuki led off the game with loss of the season. Martinez, Julio Lugo, Hey drove in five runs while going just goes out there and swings," a double to right-center, then It's been a stunning calamity Sanchez and Jose Cruz Jr. 4-for-5 to lead the Angels to an said Angels starter Kelvin singled to start the fifth. He fin­of a season for a team that was drove in one apiece for Tampa win over the Texas Rangers. Escobar, the beneficiary ished 2-for-5 and needs four picked by many as preseason Bay. The fourth straight win got Tuesday. "I don't think you can hits in Seattle's final five games favorite in the AL Central. 
"It's huge. We knew the Anaheim back into first place. do much against him. You can to break George Sisler's 84-Instead, it tied the franchise Yankees have a really tough Anaheim (89-68) returned to mal•e him look stupid on one year-old record of 257 hits in a mark for futility. series with Minnesota coming top of the AL West in a tie with pitch, and he'll hit it out of the season. "I don't think anybody in this up," Damon said. "Everybody Oakland for the first time since par:c on the next pitch." The A's issued 140 creden­clubhouse feels good," said was making a deal about us June 8 after the Athletics lost E~;cobar (11-12) allowed just tials to visiting media for this manager Tony Pena. "I know celebrating about being in the later Tuesday night to Seattle. two runs on three hits over six four-game series -mostly to our fans feel real angry with playoffs. It's not like we were The Rangers (86-71) are three innings to win for the first time the Japanese media covering us. Any time you lose 100 giving up the AL East. We're games back with five to play. in four starts against Texas this Suzuki's every move. games, nobody should finger­going out and trying to get "This thing can change sea~;on. He struck out three and Suzuki had a .211 career point at anybody. It's every­wins. That's all we can do. All momentum in a heartbeat. walced one. average entering against body's fault. we can do is worry about our­There's no reason to put too Seattle 7, Oakland 2 Hudson (12-6). who has just "I don't think [things] could selves." much stock in where we are," Ic 1iro Suzuki had two hits to one win in his past five starts. get any worse for anybody on Detroit 6, Chicago 4 manager Mike Scioscia said. mm e within three of tying the Suzuki ha·s an eight-game hit-this ballclub." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PURDUE TICKET PLEASE 
Help my newlywed husband see his first NO game STUDENT SECTION GA OK 
Kate 702-249-7974 2ND ALUMS LOOKING FOR BABYSITIER FOR 18-MO. OLD FOR 3-4 HAS. IN AM. PLEASE CALL HEIDI OR DAVE AT 246-9883. 

WANTED: MALE actors for the SMC production OUR TOWN. For info: call 284-4640. 
Hacienda 1 00 Center wants YOU I Need weekend servers & Line Cooks Apply in person 
between 2 & 3 p.m. 
700 LWW. MISH.IN 4654 
FoR RENT 
ND Football housing. Walk to game. 574-315-3215. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW LEASING FOR 2005-:!006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS­ES LEFT. WELL MAlt-. TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS,S ECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY­ERS. VISIT OUR WE 3SITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMI:R.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574)234­2436 OR (574)315-5C32. 
TICKETS 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALl. TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-3911 
For Sale: ND football t x. Good prices. 232-0964. 

For Sale: ND footballtix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: ND football tix. Top $$$ 251-1570. 
ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND 
FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 674­6593. 
PERSONAL 
Spring break 2005 Challenge ... find a better price! Lowest price spe­cialsl Free Mealsl November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-eam free trips and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 1800-426-771 0 Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 www.ststravel.com. 
SPRING BREAK with BIANCHI­ROSSI TOURS! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cancun & Cabo. Book by Oct 31=FREE MEALS & FREE DRINKS! Orgranize a group-GO FREEl 800-875-4525 or www. bianchi-rossi.com 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $2991 Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona 
$159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 
1-800-678-6386 Ladies! Looking for a professional Full Body Waxing Dayspa? Kimberle Nicole uses only the best waxes that work for every type of hair. We specialize in Brazilian Bikini, Legs, Brows and much more. The Notre Dame MBA ladies rate us the #1 Dayspa for their waxing! Bring this ad and receive 10% off your visit. 
574-257-3877 www.kimberle­nicole.com 
Congrats on finally passing your dri­ver's license test Andrew 
Gary Sheffield hits a baseball hard­er than anyone in the major leagues 
I'm tired and I want to go to bed 
whatever 

Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Expos move to Washington official 
Announcement will take place today 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Major League Baseball will announce today that Washington will be the new home of the Montreal Expos, The Associated Press has learned. 
A city official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Washington has been notified by Major League Baseball of the impending announcement that will return the national pastime to the nation's capital for the first time in 33 years. 
The city is planning its own news conference at a down­town location Wednesday after­noon, the official said. 
The announcement will come one day before the 33rd anniversary of the Washington Senators' final game. The Senators moved to Texas after the 1971 season, which was also the last time a major league team changed cities. 
Baseball has been looking for a new home for the Expos since the financially troubled team was bought by the other 29 major league owners in 2002. 
Las Vegas; Norfolk, Va.; Monterrey, Mexico; Portland, Ore.; and Northern Virginia also made bids, but Washington clearly took the lead during negotiations over recent weeks. 
ThQse_n.~gotiatiol}s h11ve pro-,~ duced a 30-page document that would conditionally award the Expos to Washington, pending approval by the City Council. The document had not yet been signed as of Tuesday night, the city source told the AP. 
Final talks have been ongoing since a meeting of the sport's executive council last Thursday. Plans call for a $13 million refurbishment of RFK Stadium and a new ballpark costing slightly over $400 mil­lion, which would be built along the Anacostia River in the southeast section of the city. 
The move must be approved by three-quarters of major league owners and survive legal challenges by the Expos' former limited 'partners and possibly by Baltimore owner Peter Angelos, who objects to having a team just 40 miles from the Orioles. Bob DuPuy, 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Orton and Stubblefield key to Purdue's success 
Quarterback and r~ceiver reason for Purdue's solid start 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE -When Kyle Orton arrived at Purdue, his future favorite receiver was already there. It just took awhile for the shy quarterback from Iowa to connect with a skinny, slow wideout named Taylor Stubblefield. 
Four years later, they have blossomed into one of the nation's best pass-and-catch duos. 
happen," Stubblefield said. "It's something that, if I'm healthy, it should happen. It's not some­thing that I have to push for." 
Not bad for a player who is listed at 6-1, but is much closer to 5-10. But that's never both­ered him. 
"I don't have the little-man syndrome because I'm not that little," Stubblefield insists. 
He's certainly a big enough target for Orton. 
The two have developed a close friendship on and off the field, and the Boilermakers, who play at Notre Dame on Saturday, 
are reaping the 
benefits. 
Orton has com­

"It took me six "They're not pleted nearly 70 or seven months percent of his
attached at the hip, 

just' to meet passes for 982 Taylor," Orton but it appears as yards, the 13 said. "He hung though they are., touchdowns and out with different no interceptions. people and I was More often than
Joe Tiller

kind of quiet, so I not, Stubblefield 
Purdue coach 

didn't really hang is on the receiving baseball's chief operating offi­cer, has been attempting to negotiate a compensation arrangement with Angelos. 


The original Washington Senators played 4,610 home games before becoming the Minnesota Twins after the 1960 season, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. The expansion Senators played 883 home games before moving to Texas. 
In the Senators' last game, on Sept. 30, 1971, they led the New York Yankees 7-5 with two outs in the ninth inning when fans seeking souvenirs went on the RFK Stadium field, which could not be cleared. The Yankees wound up winning the game in a forfeit. 

out with any­body." 
They hooked up on the field for the first time later that season, when Orton threw two touchdown passes to Stubblefield in the 2001 Sun Bowl -and they haven't slowed down since. 
Even by coach Joe Tiller's high standards, Orton and Stubblefield are putting up 
gaudy  numbers  for  No.  15  
Purdue (3-0).  
Orton  has  thrown  for  13  

touchdowns in the first three games -eight to Stubblefield ­who is closing in on the Big Ten and NCAA records for career receptions. 
"They have a feel for one another," Tiller said Tuesday. "They're not attached at the hip, but it end. The fifth­
year senior has 
21 catches for 324 yards, and his eight touch­downs are three more than he had in his first three seasons in West Lafayette. 
"Before the snap, they really have an understanding of what each other is going to do," Tiller said. "That's always a great advantage for a quarterback. He's not getting involved in a guessing game because of the coverage." 
That much was illustrated on one play in Purdue's 38-30 win over Illinois last week. 
With the pesky Illini hanging around and threatening to tie the game, Purdue faced a third­and-8 in the fourth quarter. 
Orton read blitz 
and started to call 
an audible. 

appears as "Before the snap, That was when 
though they are." Stubblefield
they really have an

They're an spoke up. He interesting combi­understanding of yelled down the line of scrimmage 
nation. Orton is what each other is 
the rifle-armed at his quarter­
going to do. ,

golden boy who back, strongly has NFL scouts suggesting a dif­taking notes. Joe Tiller ferent play. Orton Stubblefield is Purdue coach obliged, and loft­
the overachiever. He's not 6-foot-4. He doesn't run the 40-yard dash in 4.3 seconds. All he does is run razor-sharp routes and catch everything thrown his way. 
"I don't have what everybody looks for in a wide receiver," Stubblefield said. "But there's only a handful of others in the nation that do." 
It's worked so far. 
Stubblefield is nine catches away from breaking former teammate John Standeford's Big Ten career receptions re.cord and 52 away from breaking the NCAA mark. 
"If it happens, it's going to 

ed a perfect touch 
pass to 
Stubblefield for a 34-yard touchdown and a 15­point lead. 
"He wanted to run something different," Orton said. "I have enough trust in him to say 'OK, run what you want' and he ran it and it was a great route and a great play." 
That trust and communication has been four years in the mak­ing. 
"They're more comfortable with one another today than they've ever been," Tiller said. "Orton has really been the same all along, but I see a big change in Stubblefield. He just seems to think he can go out and beat anybody." 
It would be hard to argue with him at this point, as the touch­downs keep piling up and the records start to fall. 
At this rate, both players could be in contention for the Reisman Trophy, but Stubblefield joked that the ultra-competitive Orton might not let that happen. 
"I think you'll see my numbers drop off if I start to catch him," Stubblefield quipped. "Hopefully we can both be there." 




OUND THE NATION 
page 16 CoMPILED FRC,M TFtE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
Women's Volleyball AVCA Poll 
team  record  
1  Minnesota  13-1  
2  Washington  10·0  
3  Southern Cal  6·2  
4  Penn State  11·0  
5  Florida  10·1  
6  Hawaii  10·0  
7  Nebraska  9·1  
8  UC·Santa Barbara  8·0  
9  Colorado State  10·1  
10  UCLA  8·3  
11  Stanford  9·2  
12  Calllornla  7-3  
13  Santa Clara  8·2  
14  TexasA&M  6·4  
15  Kansas State  8·4  
16  Ohio Stale  12·0  
17  Arizona  8·4  
18  Texas  11·0  
19  Illinois  9-2  
20  Tennessee  12·1  
21  louisville  9·2  
22  Utah  8·2  
23  long Beach State  10·1  
24  Kansas  10·2  
25  Colorado  N  

Major League Baseball AL East 
team  record perc.  GB  Streak  
NY Yankees  97-59 .622  l·2  
Boston  95·62 .605  2.5  W·4  
Baltimore  74·81 .477  22.5  l·1  
Tampa Bay  66·89 .426  30.5  l·2  
Toronto  65·909 .219  31.5  W·1  
AL Central  
team  record perc.  GB  Streak  I•  
Minnesota  90·66 .577  W-1  
Chicago Sox  79·78 .503  11.5  l·2  
Cleveland  78·80 .494  13  W·2  
Detroit  70·86 .449  20  W·2  
Kansas City  57-100 .363  33.5  l·4  
AL West  
team  record perc.  GB  Streak  
Oakland  89·67 .571  W·1  
Anaheim  89·68 .567  .5  W·4  
Texas  86·71 .548  3.5  l-3  
Seattle  60·96 .385  29  l·1  
NL East  
team  record perc.  GB  Streak  
Atlanta  94·65 .589  W·1  
Philadelphia  81-75 .519  11  L·1  
Florida  81-76 .516  11.5  . W·2  
NY Mats  7D-88 .443  23  L·1  
Montrea~  65·93 .411  28  L·4  
NL Central  
team  record perc.  GB  Streak  
St. Louis  103-53 .660  l·1  
Chlc.Cubs  88·69 •561  15.5  l·1  
Houston  87-70 .554  16.5  W·2  
Cincinnati  73·84 .465  30.5  W·1  
Pittsburgh  70·86 .449  33  W·2  
Milwaukee  64·91 .413  38.5  t·2  
NL West  
team  record perc.  GB  Streak  
loa Angelea San Fran.  90·66 •577 87-69 .558  3  W·2 L·1  
San Diego Colorado  8-72 .545 67-89 .429  5 23  W·3 l·4  
Arizona  48·109 .306  42.5  W·1  

around the dial 
BASEBALL White Sox vs Tigers 12:05 p.m., FSN Cubs vs. Reds 1 :20 p.m., WGN Twins vs Yankees 6:00 p.m., ESPN Giants vs Padres 9:00 p.m., ESPN Rockies vs Dodgers 9:00 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Miami (OH) vs Marshall 6:00 p.m., ESPN2 
OLYMPICS 



Associated Press 
The future of Paul Hamm 's gold medal has nothing to do with tumbles and flips, and ever.rthing to do with the judgment of three arbitrators. 
The Court of Ar Jitration for Sport held an 11 1/2­hour hearing Monday to determine whether Hamm should again be declared the winner of the Olympic gymnastics all· around competition, or th ~ victory should go to Ya [}g Tae­young of South Korea. 
Within the noxt two weeks, the arbitrators will take the testimony from the hearing in U.usanne, 

Switzerland, make their ruling and finalize the result of the first Olympic gymnastics meet that couldn't get settled in the gym. 
"Everything went very smoothly," Hamm said in a teleconference after the courtroom hearing. "It was a very fair hearing and everyone got the chance to say what they thought. 
"If they determine by the rules of gymnastics I should give back my medal, I will." 
It has been quite an odyssey for Hamm and Yang, who was wrongly docked 0.1 points for the level of difficulty of his par-
IN BRIEF 
Philli_pP.ous~,is upset At Shangfiai Open 
SHANGHAI, China-Defending champion Mark P 1ilippoussis lost in the first round of .he Shanghai Open on Tuesday, beaten 3·6, 6-4, 6-4 by Glenn Weiner, an American ranked No. 133. 
Philippoussis, seeded fourth, has yet to win a title this year and his ranking has fallen from No. 9 to No. 76, mostly because of injuries. He hasn't won a mat,;h since the fourth round at Wimble jon, and this was his fifth straight dllfeat. 
"It was a terril: le day out there," Philippoussis saic. "I wasn't hitting the ball well at .til. I pretty much beat myself out th,~re." 
The Australia 1 was broken by Weiner in the se'lenth game of the third set. ' 
"I kept it close <md he lost concen· tration,'' said W~iner, who hadn't even looked at th'~ draw for the rest of the tourname 1t after seeing he would play Philipr,oussis. 
allel bars routine in the a]]. around. He ended up with the bronze, 0.049 points behind Hamm. 
The International Gymnastics Federation (FIG) reviewed the meet the next day and suspend­ed the judges, admitting a mistake and adding fuel to the South Korean protest. 
Despite the suspensions, officials for the federation said repeatedly they wouldn't change the results because the South Koreans didn't file a protest in time. 
FIG president Bruno Grandi confused the issue, however, when he wrote a letter to Hamm asking him to surrender the gold medal voluntarily. 
The South Koreans brought the case to CAS ­the sports world's highest court and final authority on Olympic matte-rs -and argued that had Yang received that extra tenth. he would have won the meet by 0.051. 
Arguing on Hamm's behalf, U.S. Olympic · Committee attorney Jeff Benz said there was no way to assume Yang would have won, because there was one event left after the parallel bars and there was no guarantee everything would have turned out the same. 

Eighth-seeded Jan-Michael Gambill of the United States, the only other seeded player in action Tuesday, beat qualifier Ivo Klec of Germany 6·4, 6­3. Fiedler to start Sundayagainst Jets 
MIAMI -Jay Fiedler will replace 
A.J. Feeley at quarterback and start for the winless Miami Dolphins against the New York Jets on Sunday, a team source told The Associated Press· on Tuesday on condition of anonymity. 
That's not the only lineup change: The Dolphins placed running back Lamar Gordon on injured reserve with a dislocated shoulder, meaning he's out for the season. 
Feeley has thrown two touchdown passes and five interceptions since supplanting Fiedler at halftime of the Dolphins' opener. 
Fiedler will rejoin a lineup that has endured weekly shakeups. Both quarterbacks have operated behind a patchwork line, and with the loss of Gordon, the Dolphins are on their fifth running back since July, when Ricky Williams retired. Bonds home run fight goes to court 
SAN FRANCISCO-A court hear­ing is scheduled for Wednesday in the dispute over who is the rightful owner of the ball Barry Bonds hit for his 700th home run. 
The hearing will be in San Francisco County Superior Court, according to Daniel Horowitz, the attorney representing Steve Williams. Williams is the Giants fan who ended up with the prized ball during a melee in the bleachers at SBC Park on Sept. 17. 
Williams was notified that he was being sued by attorneys for Timothy Murphy, who said he pinned the ball underneath his leg during a serum for it after the baseball struck Murphy's chin. Murphy claims he is the ball's owner because Williams stole it from him. 

Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Eagles have right attitude to go with talent 

Team off to first 3-0 start and clicking on both sides of the ball 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPIIIA The Philadelphia Eagles had talent. Now they have swagger and per­sonality. too. 
No. these aren't the same old Eagles, who lost the last three NFC championship games. And it isn't just because they added Terrell Owens and Jevon Kearse and brought back Ilugh Douglas and Jeremiah Trotter. 
Sure. Owens and Kearse have proved to be the missing pieces on offense and defense, helping the Eagles start 3-0 for the first time since they won four in a row to open the 1993 season. 
But they've also helped pro­vide another missing ingredient: attitude. 
These Eagles are cocky and confident. They strut their stuff on the field, in the end zone and in the locker room. 
When they're not connecting on long passes, Owens and quar­terback Donovan McNabb are sharing laughs on the sidelines, or critiquing each other's dance moves. 
McNabb prefers old-school Michael Jackson routines, seem­ingly oblivious to the fact the moonwalk went out in the '80s. 
Owens likes the hip-hop style, though he has stuck to flexing and posing after scoring touch­downs this season. He hammed it up at a Monday night game by giving the national TV audience a close look at his golden mouth­piece, grinning into the camera. 
McNabb and Owens are also rubbing off on teammates. In Philadelphia's latest rout, a 30­13 victory at Detroit on Sunday, Mike Bartrum -yes, a third­string tight end who usually gets in just to snap on punts and kicks -became the first Eagles player penalized for excessive celebration this season. 
The 11-year veteran caught a 1-yard TD pass from McNabb ­four of Bartrum 's six career catches are TDs -and celebrat­ed by snapping the ball nearly 20 yards between his and tight end L.J. Smith's legs. The inno­vative move cost the Eagles 15 yards they could afford against the overmatched Lions, and assured Bartrum a spot on high­light shows. 
And, of course, there's wide receiver Freddie Mitchell, who gestures and prances after every catch he makes, including 8­yard receptions on third-and-10. 
Even stoic coach Andy Reid has joined in, occasionally mix­ing a self-deprecating fat joke into his bland news conferences. 
The Eagles are enjoying them­selves for good reason. They're not just winning, they're domi­nating opponents, outscoring teams by an average of two touchdowns. 

First, the Eagles steamrolled the New York Giants 31-17, with Owens catching three TDs in his Philadelphia debut. Then came a 27-16 Monday night victory over Daunte Culpepper, Randy Moss and the Minnesota Vikings that wasn't as close as the final indi­cates. The previously unbeaten Lions were the easiest victim, falling behind 21-0 in the second quarter. 
Five other teams remain unde­feated. None has won each of its games by double digits. 
"The guys can really challenge themselves this year," McNabb said. "Everything that happened last year has made us hungry." 

A third consecutive loss in the NFC title game -underdog Carolina won 13-3 at the Line last season-didn't sit well with fans, players, coaches or man­agement. The Eagles needed a drastic change to help them get to the Super Bqwl. 
On the first day of the NFL's free agency period. they signed Kearse to a $66 million, eight­year deal. A three-time Pro Bowl defensive end with Tennessee, Kearse has returned to his old form, becoming a disruptive force. 
Though he doesn't have an oversized ego like Owens, Kearse brings tenacity and intensity to a defense that hasn't had a player cause this many problems for quarterbacks since Reggie White wore silver and green. 
"This is a beautiful thing," said Kearse, who had all three of his sacks against Detroit. ''I'm lining up wherever they want me to and I'm having fun doing it. They just put me in the open and let me line up with someone that is not really that good at block­ing." 

CENTER FOR SociAL CoNCERNS 


Volunteer Opportunities .. 
Tutoring on Wednesday evenings 
The Church of God and Christ is running an after-school program for students ages 10­
16. The program runs from 6-8pm on Wednesday evenings. Transportation and dinner are provided. If interested, please contact Gail ar 233-9463(o) or 233-0589(h). 
Math, Science, and Language Tutoring 
The Penrecosral Cathedral is running an afrer-school program on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays from 3:30-6:30pm at their church located at I 025 West Western Ave. Please contact Berry Barry at 287-2040 for more information. 
South Bend Reads 
This new effort to promote youth literacy among in South Bend is in dire need of volunreers willing to read with children for one hour a week. Contact Amy Bruno from the South Bend Community School's Corpora­tion (SBCSC) for more informa­tion via e-mail at abruno@sbcsc. kl2.in.us or by phone at 283­8181. 
Post-Graduate Service Fair Held Tonight 
Come talk with representatives the AmeriCorps educational 
ofdomestic, incernational and award, $4,725 towards college 
teaching programs. loans or future education, is 
earned in most programs, includ­70 groups will attend offering ing faith-based programs. In one, two, three year oppornmi­other programs you earn a salaryttes. Summer opportunities, too. 

and live on your own. Most post-graduate service 
When : Wednesday, September programs offer room, board, 29 at 5:00-8:00 pmstipend, health insurance and the 

participants live in community. Where: Stepan Center 
ff funding is renewed for '04-'05, 
Rock the Vote Events 
"Voting and the American Dream: Re-Capturing the Soul of the Nation'' featuring Alvin Tillery (Political Science) 
When: September 29 at 7:00 pm, 
Where: 141 DeBartolo Hall 
Theology on Tap: Catholics and Election 2004 
When:· September 29 at 1 0:00 pm 
Where: Legends 
First Presidential Debate (televised by Rock the Vote and FTT). Pizza will be provided. 
When: September 30 at 8:00p.m. 
Where: I 02 DeBartolo Hall 
"The Power ofLabor in Presidential Politics" 
Marco Trbovich, of the United States Steelworkers of America and director oflabor policy for Senator John Kerry's presidential cam­paign, will deliver a lecture about the role oflabor and economic issues in Election 2004. 
When: Wednesday, September 29 at 8:00 pm 
Where: Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Urban Plunge Seminar Registration Opens Monday, Oct. 4 
OnlineregiStration begins Qc;:mber 4 for the Urban Plunge, . a <rne.,ctcdit eir,periendal learning qourse designed to expose studen,ts t'p ~b¢ sires and soun?s of~verty. Duringthe 48" 1tour~m111etsi6n overJanuarr ~rea¥ ~~ncs will have the 
•.. .oppo~~ublty ~o :meet.Peopl¢:~ffect~ .brpoverty ~s )VeU ~;th~e 
· workmg t() eraclH::iltettr Onhnere~s(ratton andtnfonnatron ts available at http:llcertt~rtorsoci;ilconcerns.nd,eclu. 
Regisfrationfor••l-loly.·Cross• Mission in Education ~eminai;Now Qp.en 
.· 
Applications are now availablefor the Holy Cross Mission ··· in Educ:ttion and the Border Issues seminars. · Applicad()ns c,an be picked up at d:ij! ~riterfor Social Concerns &o~t desk The registration qeadlin,e is October 8. H()ly Gross Mission in Educ,ation fpQ!S~ on the educ,ationill and outreach efforts ()fSt.John Vianney CatholicPadsh in Goodyea.r, Arizon;i, and buildsup()n NotreDarn.e's relation%hip ·with the Congregation ofHoly Cross. Studeurs also collaborate with those in ministrywith HolyCross in Phoenix; Border Issues focuses on immigration and related issues that surface berween the United States and Me.x:ico. Participants crave! to El Paso, Texas, and Ciudad Jua.rez, Mexico, to meet with refugees, work with parish organiiations, and discuss polky issues. More information can be found at the CSC's Web sire http:// centerfors(}cialconcerns.nd.edu, 
ROCK THE VOTE·Information 
You can register to vote in eitherIndhna or your home state. If you are nottegistered tovote, visit www.rockthevote.<,:oJn. To 
:vote i1J :yo11r honie state, you q-tay reques~ (tn absentee ballot, 
but yo~ must al~eady be r~isteredtovl:)te. Reqtj.esrs for an ab­
setuee ballot mUSt. be made inwriting 30days prior tO Election 
Day. Forms; reql.iirem:enrs and deadlines vary by state. For. more 
information on absentee voting, visit http://www.nass.org/elec­
tioninfu/electfaq.html for general FAQ and a. link to yourstate 
election office found on rhe "State Election Offices" page. 
page 18 Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
CLUB SPORTS 

ND/SMC Equestrian club does well in Connecticut 
Special to The Observer 
Fiv1~ members of the Notre Danw Saint Mary's Equestrian club traveled to University of Connecticut this weekend to compntn in the prestigious Intercolll~giate Horse Show Assosciation's Tournament of Champions. Twenty schools from across the country par­ticipated. 
Caitlin Land uyt represented tlw Irish in the Open division and placed 11fth in her fences class. In the intermediate division. Andrea Oliverio plac1~d sixth in her flat class. Mary Dorgant CJ,~mpeted in the Novice division. Lauren Croall in Walk-Trot-CantPr. and Anne Trout compPtnd in Walk-Trot. This is tlw first time the Irish have been invited to this event. 

Squash 
Notre Dame's squash club played in the Illinois Squash Hacquet Association's first round of tournament competi­tion this weekend at the Lakeshore Downtown Athletic Club in Chicago. The tourna­ment consists of three team matches leading to a final playoff match in January. The Irish line-up included Matt Dyer, James Zhang. Mike Gelinas, captain Sereepart Anantavrasilp and Anish Thomas. Although the club dropped all 10 of its matches, the individual game scores were close. The club will next take to the courts Oct. 30 as it prepares for the upcoming CSA season. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Indiana looks to reverse offensive woes Saturday 
DiNardo will need big effort from team to upset Michigan 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind. Gerry DiNardo prepares for each game with a mission statement. 
Last week, it was better tackling. 
This week. it is resuscitating an offense that has developed a troubling habit of stalling late in games. 
"I think you achieve what you emphasize," DiNardo said Tuesday. "We have to make sure we start playing better in the second half." 
The numbers illustrate the problems. 
In the last three games, Indiana has managed just 264 yards and one offensive touch­down in the 11nal two quarters. On Saturday, Michigan State pitched a second-half shutout by limiting the Hoosiers to 41 total yards. 
DiNardo blamed the most recent lapse on a unit that got out of sync and that didn't exe­cute well enough against a Spartans defense that made few. if any, halftime adjust­ments. 
If the Hoosiers are to turn that around against a Michigan defense that leads the nation in turnovers (19) and is ranked No. 2 nationally against the run (43.8 yards per game), DiNardo knows corrections must be made. The Wolverines (3-1) enter the game ranked No. 19 and haven't lost to Indiana since 1987. 
"We have to play better," DiNardo said. "My post-game feelings were only reinforced by what I saw on tape. I think we were all in position to make plays." 
Still. DiNardo did not blame quarterback Matt LoVecchio for the problems and indicated he was not ready to make a change. 
LoVncchio has completed 50 percent of his passes, thrown for an average of 145.2 yards per game and has five touch­downs and four interceptions -two in the second half against the Spartans. His pass­er efficiency rating, something DiNardo has stressed since August, is 123.5 and third­worst in the Big Ten. Only Northwestern's Brett Basanez and Illinois' Brad Bower have lower ratings. 

If LoVecchio were replaced, the Hoosiers' next option would be redshirt freshman Blake Powers, who has thrown just five career passes. But DiNardo made it clear he was­n't prepared to insert an untested youngster against one of the nation's best defenses. 
"Anytime you change person­nel. you have to take into account practice games, the game plan, the opponent, whether you're home or away," he said. "I remember last year, (center) Chris Mangiero started his first game at Michigan and that's not the best place to start your first game." 
DiNardo has already made some changes offensively. 
Before the season began, he decided to primarily use one running back. Sophomore BenJarvus Green-Ellis won the starting job. 
Last week, however, DiNardo more frequently used Chris Taylor and Yamar Washington, both of whom had lost the job to Green-Ellis earlier. 
"We h'ld both guys in there Saturday, and, yes, I like it," DiNardo said of the running backs. "We're going to try and find a way to get Chris and Yamar in the game." 
DiNardo also changed his game plan by adding some dif­ferent plays -LoVecchio on an option, shovel passes and deep passes. . 
The Hoosiers had some suc­cess -for a half. 
What DiNardo wants now is more consistency for four full quarters. 
"I think it could be a lot of things," he said. "I thought we got out of sync Saturday and we just have to play better." 
NFL 

Browns' Winslow out for season 
Tight end to recieve more surgery on injured right knee 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND Browns rookie tight end Kellen Winslow Jr. needs a second operation on his right leg and will miss the remainder of this season. 
Winslow. who broke his fibu­la during a loss on Sept. 19 in Dallas and had it operated on last week. will have surgery Wednesday to stabilize liga­ments. 
Winslow, the No. 6 overall pick in this year's dr(lft, was initially expected to be out for at least eight to 10 weeks but will now need longer to recov­er. 
"Our No. 1 concern is Kellnn's health and his long­term contribution to the Cleveland Browns," coach Butch Davis said in a statement Tuesday. "We know he will approach his rehabilitation with the same determination that he shows on the football field and look forward to his return for the 2005 season." 
Winslow fractured his fibula -the outer bone in his lower leg -while scrambling to recover an onside kick in the final seconds of the Browns' 19-12 loss to the Cowboys. 
Last week, the first-round drart pick had screws and plates inserted to stabilize the 
tiona! surgery. 
Following a trauma to the lower leg or ankle. the joint can become unstnady and painful. requiring an invasiw procedure to allow the liga­ments to heal properly. 
Not only will Winslow not 
play again for the Browns in 2004. but he stands to lose a 
fracture that $5.3 million one­
"Our No. I concern 
was clean time bonus. As
is Kellen's health 
through the part of the six­bone. and his long-term year. $40 million Following the contract he signed 
contribution to the 
surgery, Davis in August.
Cleveiand Browns. " 
reported that Winslow had to doctors found no participatn in 35 ligament dam­Butch Davis percent of age and said Cleveland's plays
head coach there was a this seas01i to good chance reach an incentive Winslow would be back in to trigger the bonus. November. T h ~~ a 11 no u11 ePiliP n t that But after evaluating Winslow. Winslow needs morn surgPry is team doctors decided hn need­yet anotlwr blow to tlw bat­ed more surgery. ten~d Browns (1-2). who haw "Keller needs a stabilization lost night starters to injury in of his syndesmosis (a sprain of the season's lirst thrn1~ weeks. the high ankle ligaments) in In addition to Winslow. order to prevent further laxi­defensive nnd Courtney Brown ty," head trainer Mike Colello and linebacker Ben Taylor arP said. out for the ynar with injuries. An injury such as Winslow's Taylor was placnd on injured can sometimes require addi-reserve Tuesday. 

• DES!t;N CUT&. STYLE • AOVA.NCED COLOI<.INt; &. COI<.I<.ECTION • PI<.OFEHIONA.L MA.EK-VP • • MEN'! STYLINt; • AVEDA.lPA. MA.NICUI<.El &. PEOICUJ<.El• BODY&. FA.CIA.L WA.XINt; • 
Illusions:> 
.AVEDA.· 
l'ONCP.l•t !-iAI.ON 

0PENMONTHRUSAT GIFT CERTIFICATES
574-272-0312 
Designers Trained in London, Toronto, Los Angel("_s, Atlanta & Chicago THE COI<.NEJI... Of STATE RD. 23 &. lfi...ONWOOD BEHIND SUBWA.Y 
Looking for an Opportunity to Make a Difference? 
CIA's Directorate of Intelligence will be interviewing candidates for Analyst Positions. 
Representatives from CIA's analytical arm, the Directorate of Intelligence, will be interviewing for analyst positions In Chicago during the week of November I 5th. Analysts work on the forefront of protecting national security, quickly assessing how rapidly changing international developments will impact US interests at home and abroad. They use information from classified and unclassified sources from around the world to develop and provide the. reliable intelligence that is essential for US policymakers to make informed decisions. The Dl is hiring for the following positions: 
• Analytic Methodologist  • Economic, Political, Leadership and  • Medical Analyst  
• Collection Analyst  Military Analysts  • Psychological/Psychiatric Analyst  
• Counterintelligence Threat Analyst  • Science,Tedmology and  • Crime and Countemarcotics Analyst  
• Counterterrorism Analyst  Weapons Analyst  

Candidates must have at least a bachelor's degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0. Language skills, 
previous foreign area residence or travel, and relevant work experience are pluses. Candidates must successfully complete a medical examination, polygraph Interview, and an extensive background investigation. All positions require US citizenship and relocation to the Washington, DC area. 
The CIA is America's premier intelligence agency. and we are committed to building and maintaining a work force as diverse as the nation we serve. 
For additional information, and to apply online, please visit www.cia.gov. Successful applicants who have submitted their resume by October 15th will be contacted to attend an information 


session and arrange a local area interview. THE WORK OF ANATION. An equal opportunity employer and a drug-free work force. THE CENTER OF INTELLIGENCE. 

----------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, September 29, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Harrison not the only option in Indianapolis anytnore 
Packers' secondary again. Ward for the AFC lead. areas who can do most things," him [Wayne]. people look at me
Solid play of Wayne 
"It's exciting when you throw ''We're very versatile and Harrison said last month. and prepare for me, but then it's and Stokley give the ball 2 2 times in a row," we've got a lot of guys in a lot of "When you have someone like hard to focus on one player." 
Wayne said Monday. "You neverColts more choices get tired, especially when you're getting quite a few of them 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Marvin !Iarrison always draws the most attention from opponents. Now the Indianapolis Colts' other receivers are getting in on the action. 
With Reggie Wayne and Brandon Stokley emerging as options for Peyton Manning, defenses are left with a con­founding choice. Take Harrison out of the game, and Wayne and Stokley can beat you. Try to ddend all three and Harrison can get loose. 
"There's only so many people you can take away. and whatev­c~r you take away. there are cer­tain things you're not going to take away," Stokley said. "They're not going to take away me. they're going to try to take away Marvin." 
The Colts' high-scoring offense has always created matchup problems. But by handing Manning. last year's co­MVP. the deepest and most experienced recPiving corps he's had in seven NFL seasons. the Colts (2-1) have suddenly become even tougher. 
Wayne. a first-round pick in 2001. has become a threat to any defense that focuses too much on !Iarrison. the NFL's most consistent receiver. In thme weeks. Wayne has already produced two 100-yard games and trails only Pittsburgh's !lines Ward in yards receiving (346-345). 
If there were questions about Wayne's talent, he answered them in a victory over Green Bay on Sunday. 
While the Packers focused on !Iarrison. Wayne broke free with 11 receptions for 184 yards -both career-highs -and one touchdown. lie just missed a second TD when Manning over­thrc~w him after he'd beat the thrown your way." 
Stokley has added a critical 
over-the-middle presence and 
doubles as a big-play threat. 
After missing most of the first 
13 games last year because of a 
foot injury and concussion, 
Stokley now has nine TO catch­
es in the Colts' last nine games, 
counting the playoffs. 
On Sunday, when Harrison 
was limited to five catches for 
65 yards and one touchdown, 
Stokley hauled in eight passes . for 110 yards and two TDs. The internal competition is both fierce and friendly. 
"When Stokley has one TD. he 
wants two more," backup 
receiver Aaron Moorehead said. 
"When Marvin has one, he 
wants another. That's how it is 
with these guys." 
Beyond the big three, the Colts 
have even more options. 
Troy Walters was coming off 
his best season and was expect­
ed to play a bigger role this year 
until he broke his right arm 
during a preseason loss to the 
New York Jets. The Colts have 
not placed him on injured 
reserve, hoping they can get the 
small speedster back in action 
for a late playoff run. 
At 6-foot-3. Moorehead gives 
Manning a jump-ball threat, 
and Brad Pyatt, another second­
year receiver, may be the fastest 
of the bunch. He's been a solid 
kickoff returner. but with so 
much talent in front of him. has 
had few chances to catch pass­
es. 

The anchor, of course, is 
Harrison -a five-time Pro 
Bowler who is the only NFL 
receiver with four straight 100­
catch seasons. He's closing in on 
800 career receptions and. in 
his ninth NFL season, has 
shown no signs of slowing 
down. 
His 22 receptions are tied with 
Are you ready to be an active team member from day 
Do you want to work with top management on decisions that 
If the answer is yes-join us tonight 
Learn why Notre Dame grads chose careers in management consulting 
Company Presentation Tonight September 29th 6:30p.m. Morris Inn, Notre Dame room 
All m<!iors welcome 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
The Institute for Latino Su1dies proudly presents: 
THE SIXTH SECTION A documentary by Alex Rivera 
26 minutes~ 2003 
Thursday~ September 30~ 2004 7:oo-9:oo PM Hesburgl1 Center Atlditorium University of Notre Dame 

page 20 Wednesday, September 29, 2004
Ti1e Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SOCCER 

,Volleyball 
continued from page 24

After loss to Olivet, I ead in the fourth game, as t,oth teams continued to natch each other point for
Belleshopetorebound 
point. After trailing Notre 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Spores Wriccr 
For the Belles, the success of their entire season could be decided by this next game. 
After being dealt a costly loss Saturday to Olivet College, Saint Mary's will look to regain first place in the MIAA with a win today against Hope, its archrival and current conference leader. 
"Hope has always been one 


of the strongest "We're going to go generally fields a teams in the con­strong team, Saint 
second placefinisher 
out strong, play 
ference," sopho­Mary's may have 
Albion by 14 strokes 
more Caroline our game. and made the. mistake Stancukas said. we're coming out of looking past "We always give Olivet to Hope.
with a win.,. 
By ANN LOUGHERY 

our best effort "The main thing 
Spores Wrirer

when we play about this game is them, and the Caroline Stancukas that we're entering On the golf team, there are games are always Belles forward with a different 
extremely c1ose." 
The Belles enter this game extremely driven to defeat their rival. Stancukas even went as far as predicting a victory. 
"We're going to go out strong. play our game. and we're com­ing out with a win," Stancukas said. "I guarantee it." 
Saint Mary's currently sits tied for second in the conference rankings with Calvin, but could leapfrog to first with a win today. 
"We're all very focused on this game. We want to make a state­ment in the league and beat !lope," goalie Nicole Leach said. "When they see us compete, they'll know we're serious. A lot of teams probably don't take us seriously after our loss last week. but we want them to know we mean business. We know we can 

Collect authentic 
Dame 28-26, Michigan made 
f. three-point run to get to
compete with the 'best team' in 
match point.

the league, according to the 
records." 
mindset, and we didn't play the best game we could have." Although every team in the MIAA 
Saint Mary's defeated 
Although Kelbley con­tributed two "kills to put the Irish ahead 30-29, a pair of Wolverine service aces and a kill secured the victory for Michigan. 
Burrell said the team has already identified areas of improvement from the Michigan match. 
"We were making a lot of errors on our side of the 
court and we had problems finishing games." Burrell said. "We really needed for everyone to play well at the same time." 
The Irish will take the courts Saturday against Syracuse. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

The loss to Olivet put an end to the Belles' hopes of a perfect season, but the players are mak­ing sure to move on from the 
SMC GOLF 

defeat and look ahead. 
"We really concentrated on putting Olivet behind us," Leach said. "We weren't in the right 
·Belles win Tri-State meet 
formance. Dunham fired a score of 81 
"We weren't firing on all shots, juniors Nicole Bellino cylinders, but we had some and Megan Mattia followed decent scores," Hamilton said. with 85 shots, juniors Erin "We had a few bad holes, but McQueen and Kirsten Fantom overall we had a pretty solid each shot an 88, and fresh­team. It was a big improve­man Katie O'Brien rounded ment from the week before. out the Belles' effort with a The girls just took care of 91. business and got the team Both Dunham and Hamilton back on track." described this meet as a cru­
Senior Stefanic Simmerman cial one for the team. They led the Belles' effort as the finished second out of nine 
meet's medalist,  teams  with  a  
registering score of  a 74  "Everyone is really  team score of 340 at the Kalamazoo  
shots.  focused and  meet Sept. 22.  
Dunham cred­its the hours Simmerman has  determined to play well this year. ,.  Since then, the Belles have con­tinued to focus on  
put into practic­ their  short  
ing her putting for her success at the meet.  Chrissy Dunham Belles captain  games, refining their putting and chipping.  
"She's  been  "We  were  put­ 

spending a lot of time this ting better and staying away week practicing her short from good numbers, and that game and she's been working was good to see." Hamilton really hard," Dunham said. said. "This meet helped us get "Everyone has been really our confidence back and focused and determined to helped us shoot the scores we play well this year..., know we can shoot." 
Simmerman's teammates were not far behind in scor­Contact Ann Loughery at ing. Junior Julia Adams and alougher@nd.edu 
mentality," 

Stancukas said. "We walked in Saturday thinking we could blow out Olivet; we're going to go into the Hope game playing with focus. It just made us realize that every single game needs to be taken seriously." 
Despite their loss, and their difficult upcoming schedule, the Belles remain confident about their chances, both for today against Hope, and for the rest of the season. 
"We really feel like we can beat every team in this confer­ence," said Leach. "We'll encounter bumps in the road like Olivet, but the good teams can put those behind them and keep going." 
no individuals. 

In a sport that could easily be described as independent, the Belles insist they aren't a group of individual players ­they are a team. 
"On any given day, I know someone's going to pull through and shoot a good number," senior captain· Chrissy Dunham said. "Everyone is really focused and determined to play well this year." 
At Saturday's Tri-State meet; Dunham said the Belles dis­played a true team effort. Saint Mary's captured the tournament title with a team score of 321 strokes with its closest challenger was Albion at 335 strokes. Coach Mark Hamilton said he was overall satisfied with the team's per-
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE AND LINDA SCHAEFFER, MOTHER TERESA'S LAST PHOTOGRAPHER PRESENT 
THROUGH EYES OF FAITH: A PILGRIMAGE TO INDIA 
DECEMBER 27, 2004 -JANUARY 10, 2005 

Join Linda Schaefer, author ofCome and See, a documentary on the work of Mother Teresa, for a journey into the heart and soul ofIndia-examining the life and struggles ofa rich culture through the eyes offaith. This program combines first hand experience ofthe ministry of Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity as well an engaging experience ofthe beliefs and practices ofIndians (Hindus, Muslims, Christians and Buddhists) in places of 
great natural and artistic beauty. 
merchandise sold at the 2004 Republican N a tiona) Convention 


"Dubya" Cap 

INFORMATIONAL SESSION 
100% GREEN cotton twill,2004Republican white sandwich visor, 
NEXT WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6 Convention T-shirt brown leather backstrap, 
7PM

100% cotton, light gray, sizes M-XXL metal eyelets, made in the USA. $2o.oo + $4.95 S&H $2o.oo + $4·95 S&H 
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE CHAPEL 
-NOTRE DAME Special! ­Buy any two items for $25.00 + $4.95 S&H. 
FOR MORE DETAILS, VISIT Send check or moneu order to ; 
www.hcc-nd.edu 

Dubya Duds,_ 3_55 Riverside Drive #5W, New York, NY10025 Please also mszt our Web site at www.DubyaDuds-com. 



Wednesday, September 29, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
as well, but the Chaos defense ed another shutout with a 6-0 rose to the challenge and shut victory over McGlinn Tuesday
Interhall 
them down for the rest of the night. . continued from page 24 half. The win can primarily be 
Walsh 6, McGlinn 0 attributed to senior cornerback catch tipped three times that set The Wild Women defense did it Katie Hesmond and the rest of up the Chaos for its second touch­again. the defensive squad. Hesmond down. The Farley offense showed For the third time in four c'ontinued her interception a little more life on its first drive games, the defense of Walsh post-streak, by adding two to her remarkable season total of eight. 
Legends is hosting a"Last Comic Standing" competiton. uditions October 7 Must come prepared ~ith 2-3 minute routine.rFinals October 14@ Legends 4Rounds • Celebrity Guest Judge Name: --------------------------------------­Year: ----------------------------------------­E-mail address: -------------------------­Phone#: ---------------------------------------­Open to all ND, SMC, HCC students. Must be able to attend first round auditions on the evening of October 7th in the LaFortune Ballroom at 7pm. Only routines with appropriate content will be considered. Questions? Contact legends@nd.edu.  
INFORMAitON M6etlN4S S:OOt>M ~ H-Ayes-tteALY 1Vtursdatj, september:23 or wea~sda!j, septt*btr ~  

The McGlinn offense proved to be a valiant foe, especially in the opening minutes of the game, when it moved its first offensive drive deep into the Walsh red zone. The star of that drive was McGlinn's offensive weapon, receiver On-Kay Wong. 
Wong's receiving skills backed the heels of the Walsh defense all the way to its own goal line, but, after going four-and-out inside the red zone, McGlinn regained control of the ball. 
After trading possessions, Wong again showed her receiving abilities to the Walsh defense. However, the strong Wild Women would not allow a touchdown, and it was on this drive that Hesmond made her first of two interceptions, stopping the Shamrock drive at the goal line. 
Freshman quarterback Mary Sullivan then took over. Sullivan threw a long, 30-yard run, fol­lowed by a 25-yard pass to fellow freshman CiGi Low close to the half. 
Coming out of the break, Hesmond brought down her sec­ond interception deep in McGlinn territory. While Walsh was unable to convert the scoring opportuni­ty, it did pin the Shamrocks back up against their own goal line. 
Soon after, Walsh senior Amanda Borys caught an inter­ception that gave the ball back to the Wiid Women and set up the only scoring of the game. With the ball back in the hands of Sullivan, Walsh scored on a quick pass to freshman Marie Brenner. 
The 6-0 lead was all the Walsh defense would need, as it suc­ceeded in holding the Shamrocks scoreless for the rest of the game. Breen-Phillips 12, Pasquerilla East 6 
With a slight drizzle falling throughout the second half, mud puddles building and the lights illuminating the slick field, Breen­Phillips and Pasquerilla East played on -cleats or no cleats, injury or no injury, quarterback or no quarterback. BP came out victorious 12-6. 
"The conditions were awful. The field was disgusting," PE captain Allison Ferber said. "It was like a great mud pit, but it was fun playing at night under the lights." 
To begin the game, BP struck first when wide receiver Megan Ohlenforst snagged a 15-yard touchdown pass from quarter­back Ali Brosnan midway through the first quarter. However, the Babes failed to complete the extra point to make 
the score 6-0. 
The Pyros fired back with a 
short touchdown pass of their 
own with 3 minutes remaining in 
the half to tie up the score. Wide 
receiver Caroline Murray caught 
the sharply thrown ball from sub­
stitute quarterback Stephanie 
Adams. 
Locked in a 6-6 tie, the Babes 
defense continuously worked on 
trying to figure out the Pyros' 
tricky offense, full of double 
reverses and pitches. 
"The defense did wonders," BP 
senior safety Rachel Kemp said. 
"The Pyros ran a really tricky 
offense. Once we figured it out, 
we were able to hold them." 
Kemp credited the dominance 
to the team's defense. 
"[Defensive lineman] Emily 
Voge was able to pick up a lot of 
flags, get tackles behind the line," 
Kemp said. 
Three minutes into the second 
half, Kemp broke the tie when 
she intercepted an Adams pass 
and sprinted 20-yards for the 
game-winning score. The 
defense held up for the rest of the 
game, preventing PE from com­
ing any closer than 20-yards from 
scoring. 
However, conditions did not 
benefit either team. 
Several players competed with­
out cleats, causing several colli­
sions. One of the most brutal 
clashes came when Pyros wide · receiver Caroline Murray collided 
with a defender. 
"It really looked like she swal­
lowed a golf ball through her lip. 
She had a big lump, and her eye 
was shut," Ferber said. "Our QB 
was not at the game, and we ­
were missing a lot of key play­
ers." 
Despite all of the obstacles, the 
Pyros kept up with the undefeat­
ed Babes. 
"We haven't won a game yet, 
but we play with a lot of heart," 
Ferber said. "I don't think there 
is any magic formula to make us 
win; we're a strong, athletic 
team. We're just inexperienced." 
While 3-0 BP pushes towards 
the playoffs, the team knows it 
must remain humble in order to 
achieve its goal. 
"We're just trying to keep our 
heads on straight," Kemp said. 
"This would be awesome if we 
got to fmish in the Stadium." 
Contact Tom Stiles, Nathan Dyer and Tom Dorwart at tstiles@nd.edu, ndyer@nd.edu and tdorwart@nd.edu 
0 M~rea~ Ar~~rneries 

~at amt ary~~e;~S stop 
UU a new installation by Leticia Bajuyo 

in Little Theatre/Sister Rosaire Galleries 
recent work 
ceramic sculpture byD Rebekah Wostrel 


in Hammes Gallery 
Exhibition Dates: October 1-29, 2004 Opening Reception: Friday, October 1st from 5-?pm Artist Lecture: Friday, October 1st at 6pm in Moreau 232 (adjacent to gallery space) 
All events are' free and open to the public 
The Moreau Art Galleries are located in the Moreau Center for the Arts on the Saini Mary's CoUege Campus 
Gallery Hours: M-F, 1Oam-4pm For more info. vlsit m.a.g. at: www.saintmarys.edu/-gallery 


page 22 Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
great every year we've played ::aubblefield, who is second all-ented," Willingham said. that game," Willingham said. them. It's always a close game." 1ime in receptions at Purdue. If the Irish win, it will be the "It's that game, it can help us be
Purdue 
continued from page 24 
Dame winning streak. And this year. the Irish want to avenge that loss against a team that is arguably better than last year's. But the Boilermakers are also ready to win at Notre Dame Stadium for the first time in 30 years. 
''I'm sure it's more of a moti­vational tool for them right now, getting ready to play," Irish Baer said of Purdue. "They're going to play their best football game against us. They played 

In order to knock off the No. 15 team in the country, the Irish must play the complete game they have searched for this sea­son. 
"I think our mindset going in is that you have to go out and do the things you have to do to be successful and win the foot­ball game," offensive coordina­tor Bill Diedrick said. 
And the Irish know the impor­tance of not only the rivalry with Purdue, but this game as well. Purdue sports a Heisman Trophy candidate in Kyle Orton, and his partner in crime, Taylor 
FOOTBALL 

Irish rem.ain unranked despite vvin streak 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
After defeating then-No. 7 Michigan on Sept. 11 and domi­nating unranked Washington Saturday to extend their winning streak to three, the Irish arc still unranked. 
In both the Associated Press and ESPN/USA Today Coaches'

-
Poll, Notre Dame "Purdue offers us is first in "others 
enough challenges 
receiving votes," 

that we don't need
but have yet to crack the rank­to look at anything ings this fall. 
else." 
However. Irish coach Tyrone Willingham is Tyrone Willingham focused on Irish coach 
Purdue, not the rankings. 
"Purdue offers us enough chal­lenges that we don't need to look at anything else," Willingham said. 
Willingham does, however get a vote in the rankings, and he said they take care of themselves. 
"If we win the game with the schedule we have at Notre Dame, we'll be exactly where we should be," Willingham said. "It's almost 
Victory 
, continued from page 24 
Invitational. 
After his first tournament this season, Balderston believes his troubles may be coming to an end. 
"I've been kind of struggling the first couple weeks back, but my game's slowly been coming back," he said. ''I'm happy with the way I played, happy to have my game back and be a presence on the team." 
Balderston also felt that it was up to him to make it back to this point. 
"I've been practicing pretty hard, [this victory) is kind of like payoff for all the hard work," Balderston said. 
Southern Illinois won the invi­tational as the Irish sent five players to the event, but did not enter as a team. This was due to NCAA regulations of each team only being allowed 24 days of competition during the course of the season. Therefore the Irish could send players who need more experience at the varsity level. The challenge for Balderston proved to be a sue-impossible for us not to be there. 

"There are opportunities. We just have to play, and if we do that, everything will unfold in a wonderful manner." Vemaglia strong and healthy 
True freshman Anthony Vernaglia is healthy after missing some of fall camp with injuries. The former linebacker is playing strong safety in practice, Willingham confirmed Tuesday. 
"He's been improv­ing and getting better every day," Willingham said. 
Vernaglia was a 
U.S.  Army  All­ 
American  in  high  
school  as  a  line­ 

backer, and was list­ed as the 95th best player in the country by espn.com. 
Grant uncertain 
Willingham said 

running back Ryan Grant's status for the game against Purdue is uncertain, as it has been in past weeks. 
Grant did not play against Washington Saturday. True fresh­man Darius Walker started in his place. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
cess. 
Following Balderston in the standings were sophomore Adam Gifford and freshman Eddie Peckels. This was the first NCAA event for Peckels. The pair tied for 17th in the field by shooting three-round total scores of 222 each. 
Junior Daniel Klauer finished in 37th place with a total of 230. Junior Federico Salazar, who was also competing in his first event as a collegian, placed 52nd by finishing with an 18-over-par total of 234. 
After the way he performed at the John Dallio Memorial, Balderston feels ready to become a contributing member to the varsity team once again and hopes to join the team next week. 
"It's where I should be, I feel like I can have a huge impact on the team," he said. "Being on the varsity team is where I play the hardest and my best." 
The Irish will be back in action on Monday, when the team com­petes in the Windon Memorial Classic. The two-day event will be hosted by Northwestern University in Lake Forrest, Ill. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
The duo has hooked up for second time in four wins this night touchdowns in just three season they will have knocked games. off a top-15 opponent. 
"Those two [Orton and "Right now. this ballgame that ~itubblefieldl. are truly, truly tal-we're playing against Purdue is the kind of team we'd like to be." 

Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

An Evening ofPrayer from Around the World 
Please join us for an evening of Christian Taize Prayer as part ofa series exploring the beliefs and practices ofthe world's great faith traditions. 
Thursday, September 30, 2004 330 Coleman-Morse Center 7-7:45pm 
Sponsored by: Graduate Sn1dent Union, Indian Sn1dent Association, ND Muslim Student Association, International Student Services & Activies, and Campus Ministry. 


Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
DILBERT 

PEANUTS 
WELL, IF IT'S 601N6 TO PI-10TO DID YOU WANT, 
W14AT KIND OF A 

BE A CAMPAIGN ~OTO, I '' PIGPEN''? 
FIGURED IT SHOULD ~AVE A DOG IN IT... 
~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+,+.-1 18 _Fail (Irish coronation stone) 
22 Modern viewer's option, briefly 
sees his father's ghost 24 Gager's offense 
The Observer+ TODAY 

SCOTT ADAMS 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
WILLSHORTZ 
61 Shocked response in conversation 
65 Reaches over 66 Move, in 
Realtor-speak 67 Easy gait 68 "Roots" writer 69 Once, once 
upon a time 70 Hightailed it 
DOWN 1 Get the drop on 2 Stir 3 Tubes on the 
table 4 Being the 
reason for 5 Best bro 6 Pooped 
person's plaint 7 Pacific ring 8 "Happy 
Motoring" 

company 9 Mephistopheles player in "Faust'' 
10 Valedictorian's feat, perhaps 11 Comparatiltely 
cockamamie 12 Court contest 13 "Contacr 
astronomer 
26 Destination for  40 Place with  49 Wakeup calls  
many pilgrims  sawdust  51 Riffraff  
29 "Three's a crowd" 31 March master 34 Exiled Amin 36 Org. concerned with PCB's  41 Zero 42 Leaf holder 44 Gallivants 45 J. Alfred Prufrock poet 46 Himalayan  52 Cracked 54 Performed 57 Fictional Jane 59 Barn birds 62 Donne's "done"  
38 Onetime TWA  guide  63 Big brute  
rival  47 Mixer  64 Koppel of ABC  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
NOSOW 
1 
rJ rJ 
C2004 Tribune Media Servtces, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
PYKER 
(] b

tTEPICS l 
· J r
1 
www.jumble.com 
Answer: 
I Jumbles:
Yesterday's 
Answer: 

CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mira Sorvino, Hilary Duff, Gwyneth Paltrow, Janeane Garofalo 
Happy Birthday: Love, talent and all the wonderful things life has to offer are in your reach this year. Put a little of your own effort and hard work in play to ­achieve your goals. This is not the year to sit back and be lazy. Your numbers 
are 3, 11, 16, 29, 30,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Look around and you will realize that you are on your own. As long as you fend for yourself you'll do fine. Step over the line 
and you will meet opposition. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will have a good eye today, so put it to good use for your surroundings and your own appearance. Don't think about 
it--do it. **** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have a lot going for you, but don't lose sight of the fact that not everyone will be on your side. Take the initiative and prepare to prove you are the best. **** . 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be aware of SOJileone lurking in the background, ready to derail your ideas or make you look bad. Rely on your memory and your preparedness and you will overcome any interference. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The sky's the limit and you are reaching for the stars. Your outgoing personality and your leadership ability will result in getting what and who you want. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Not everyone will be on the same page as you. Work diligently on sorting through the paperwork. Don't leave anything to chance. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will see things clearly and, if you put your ideas on paper, you will be able to follow a game plan to success. Prepare for 
the future. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will dazzle everyone you work with. Your vivid imagination and strong will to make things happen will put you in control. Don't look back. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take pride in the fact that you are a doer and you will accomplish far more than you expect. You will attract love, friendship or profe~sional partnerships through your actions today. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't count on anyone but yourself. Be careful not to offend someone you are close to. Avoid those trying to pull you 
down.** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Listen to a friend and you will turn a negative 
into a positive. Things are not that bad ·-it's evident you can find happiness. **** PIS~ES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be a real dynamo, determined to go after 
your dreams today. Your creative talent will be obvious to others and will attract someone who will help you reach your goals.*** 
Birthday Baby: You have a good head on your shoulders and the charm and intuitive intelligence to pull off anything you put your mind to. You are gracious, pristine and sophisticated. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
WHEN SHE: WAS ''TAKEN" BY Hi=R FRIEND'S BEAU SI-ll= WAS RE:MIND­
E:O THAT HE:--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
BRAND JADED BANANA SURTAX The musicians didn't use the rickety platform because it was -A "BANNED" STAND 
EUGENIA LAST 

ACROSS Drug buster 
5 Eight furlongs 
9 Fishermen's pailfuls 4 1998 Sarah Mclachlan hit 5 Double agent 
Aldrich 6 Sleep disorder 7 Fake cover 
stories 9 "Bad" for "good," e.g. •o Dress with a flare ~1 Stephen Foster 
classic ~3 Back of the boat ~5 Key of 
Beethoven's Symphony No.7: Abbr. 
~7 Attacked with zeal ~8 Not nerdy :o Bikini blast, briefly 
32 Stumblers' sounds 33 Get a program on the radio 35 Mars explorer 37 Homeric epic 38 Familiar Olympics chant 39 King protectors 43 Watch 45 Catch between bases, say 46 K. C.-to-Little Rock direction 48 Surveyors' calculations 50 _Stanley Gardner 51 Grand 53 Equine quipster 55 Airline to Amsterdam 56 Hermit 58 Omnium­gatherums 60 Running wild 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
----~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-
l[HE OBSERVER 
F~ORTS
Wednesday, September 29, 2004 
page 24 
FooTBALL 

Boiling rivalry 
No. 15 Purdue has not won in South Bend since 197 4 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
No player on either Purdue or Notre Damn was alive the last time the Boilermakers beat the Irish on their home turf. · 
The last timn Purdue did accomplish this feat was in l974, wlwn th1~ Boilermakers upset the then-No. 2 Irish, 31­
20. Since 1 S96, this SPries has hnm1 a rivalry of two top foot­ball teams. 
"I think this is the second most common opporwnt that Notre Danw has. and this will lw lnu~ e t i ng I No . 7 6 . " I r is h lwad coarh Tyrone Willingham said. "There are only about roughly thr11e hours or so Sl~p­arating tlw two schools. and those two things usually givn you a pretty intPnse rivalry." 

-
Irish defnnsive coordinator Kent BaPr downplaynd the amount of time since the Boilermakors 13-0l beat the Irish in South Bl'nd. 
"All our kids know IJ>urdtwl hasn't won lwrP since I')74, we all know that." Baer said. "That's about as far as it goes. ITlw Irish team! umiPrstands tho rivalry. In faet, ganws like this, hopefully you don't get rnady too early. Thnn~·s a lot of intensity involved, they know what happened a year ago. There's no problem getting these guys rnady to play." 


Tlw snries b11gan in 1S96 wlwn Purdue beat Notre Dame in South Bend. 28-22. Ever since that game, the Irish have registnn~d a 49-24-2 record against their rivals from West Lafayette. 
llowevnr, the games have been dose. Notre Dame (3-1) has not been shutout by Purdue since 1933, and the last six games have been decked by seven points or less. 
"That's good football," Willingham said of the elose games. "It only makes it more inter se that it goes right down to tl-n wire. That just makes for and improves the intensity of th ~ rivalry." 
La5t season, the Irish left Wes1 Lafayette with a bad taste in tt eir mouths, losing 23-10. snar:ping a three-game Notre 
see PURDUE/page 22 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish lose to rival Michigan in 4 sets 
Lauren Kelbley led the team with 24 kills 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 

Notre Dame fell to Michigan Tuesday night, losing 30-23, 30-25, 27-30, 32-30, despite a career-high performance in kills by outside hitter Lauren Kelbley. 
Kelbley led the Irish effort with 24 kills and .404 hitting, notching just f'ive attack errors on 47 attempts. Junior Kelly Burrell described her teammate as the cornerstone of the offense during Tuesday's match. 
"She really performed at a high level tonight." Burrell said. "She's one of our best offensive players, and it was really important that she. played well tonight. She was basically the only person get­ting kills tonight." 
The Irish (5-5I ovPrcame the Wolverines' (11-2) early lead in the first game, pulling ahead 18-17. Michigan surged back, earning the next f'ive points. but Notre Dame bounced back to put the score at 25-2:3. Claiming the f'irst set of the game, the Wolverines collected the next five points. 
While the second game· 
looked promising at times for the Irish, the Wolverines kept Notre Dame at arm's length for much of the game. After a 21-14 Michigan lead, the Irish rallied to nearly ev1~n the score at 26-25. However, the Wolverines extended their lead, taking the next four points for the win. The Irish recorded a .170 hitting mark as a result of Michi!-{an 's dogged defensive efforts. 
"We definitely w1~ren 't play­ing our best and they bought their game tonight," Burrell said. "We really needed to execute, and we didn't." 
Burn~ll deseribnd the third game as a bright spot for tlw Irish that night. 
Although the Wolverines jumped to an early lead, the Irish made a comeback and tied the score at 13-13. The teams matched naeh other point for point before the Irish pulled ahead 20-17. Michigan was unable to recover its lead and junior Lauren Brewster ~nded 1he game with a kill. Brewster finished the match with a .294 attack percentage and 12 kills, recording double lig­ures for thn ninth time this season. 
The Irish had 19 kills with .405 hitting in the third game. Neither team held a deeisivn 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 20 

WOMEN'S BLUE INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Cavanaugh defeats Farley 14-0 
By TOM STILES, NATHAN 
DYER and TOM DARWORT 
Sports Writers 
Farley's Finest n1wer knew what hit them. 
Cavanaugh came onto the field with intensity as it drove down lhe field on its first offensive pos­session. The Chaos scored on the fourth play from scrimmage, en route to a 14-0 shutout of Farley. 
The notion that the Chaos ofl'ense might come out a little rusty after not playing a game in over a week was quiekly put to rest. In fact, Cavanaugh viewed the time ofT as an advantage. 
"It was actually good to be able to make corrections in practice during that week in between games," Cavanaugh coach Hunter Craig said. "We were really motivated to come out and get that first win, espe­cially since we were ranked No. 1 in preseason." 

The highly-talented Chaos defense dominated the Finest offense throughout the night, recording its second shutout in, as many games this season. Farley was held to only 80 yards of total offense for the game, as constant pressure from the defensive line kept Farley's offense ofT-balance. The Chaos offense, on the other hand, had little trouble moving the ball, as last week's scoreless tie with Walsh was undoubtedly in the back of their minds. 
"The three practices that we had this last week allowed us to work on the passing game," Chaos quarterback Lisa Ruffer said. "We knew we had to win this game." 
Ruffer contributed to the team's success by throwing for 155 yards and two touchdowns and running for another 35 yarli s. Despite her contribution to t 1e total yards the Chaos gained, she still credited the defense for the win. 
"We always try to shout and scream to motivate our defense and intimidate the other team," Ruffer said. "We want the defense to know how important the)' are." 
Although Farley's defense did give up 190 yards on the night, it managed to keep Cavanaugh out of t11e end zone for the rest of the kst half. 
Unfortunately for Farley, the secc,nd half was almost a mirror image of the first, with Cavanaugh scoring on its first pos~;ession again. 
The drive even included a lat­eral for a big gain and a great 
see CHAOS/page 21 

MEN'S GOLF 
Balderston triumphs at John Dallio Invite 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 

Tommy Balderston is ready to reclaim his spot in the Irish line­up. 
Balderston, who had been struggling in recent weeks, brought his best game to the John Dallio Memorial Invitation. Balderston won the event by two strokes Tuesday, after three strong rounds over the course of two days. 
The junior had an impressive second round, in which he shot a five-under-par 67, the fourth low­est round in school history. 
Partnered with his first and 3rd round scores of 72 and 74, respectively, Balderston's score of 213 ties a career best that he set 

DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer 
Tommy Balderston's varsity teammates competed at the ND Invitational on Sept. 19. 
at the 2002 SMU/Stonebridge 
see VICTORY/page 22 

en 
CLUB SPORTS NCAA FOOTBALL 
NFL 
MLB 
NCAA FOOTBALLNFL 

1,&,1 ND/SMC Equestrian 
Indiana University 
The Browns' Kellen 
The MLB will Kyle Orton and Taylor The Eagles have start-

1-u 

z Club goes to 
Winslow is out for sea-

ed the season 3-0 with a 
announce today the 

Stubblefield are the rea-Connecticut for 
hopes to improve its 
offense Saturday against 
son with knee injury 

mixture of talent and move to send the Expos son for Purdue:S explo­
a: s 

Michigan.
Intercollegiate Horse 
and will undergo a sec-

personality. 
to Washington D.C. next sive offense. They are 
=c:J 

Show Association's 
onj surgery. 
season. 
considered to be one of 
a.. !;: cc 

tourney of Champions. 
the top combos in the nation. 

page 18 page 18 
page 18 
page 17 page 15 page 15
en 




