COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members continue policy revisions 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Members of the Council of Representatives convened Monday evening to discuss their ongoing work on revamping the Student Union constitution. 
Student .body president Jeremy Lao emphasized the group's need to create a finalized, well­written constitution. 
"What I really want to stress for the rest of this semester is to write this constitution well," Lao said. "April 1 is the deadline." 
The meeting's discussion cen­tered around the programming side of student government. Though members disagreed on final details, they did approve a plan to create a Campus Programming Council, which would consist of one representa­tive from each residence hall. The CPC would work on cam­pus-wide events, essentially tak­ing on the role of the current Student Union Board. In addi­tion, members approved the concept of a Residential Programming Council, also com­posed of representatives from 
see COUNCIUpage 4 

Students observe caucus 
ND students campaign for runner-up Edwards 
By KATE GALES News Writer 
Notre Dame and Purdue students witnessed firsthand the Iowa caucus in which 
Massachusetts  Sen. John  
Kerry finished  
first,  with  
North Carolina  See Also  
Sen.  John  
Edwards  a  "Kerrywins  
close  second  caucus"  
and  Vermont  
Gov.  Howard  page 5  
Dean in third.  

Notre Dame senior Casey Fitzmaurice·, along with 34 students from Notre Dame and Purdue, worked for Sen. Edwards, whose second­place finish surprised many political analysts. CNN.com called Edwards' high voter numbers "surprising." 
"We knew when we came out here that organization was the most important thing about Iowa," Fitzmaurice said. "But we didn't really understand that until we were given the responsibili­ty." 
Fitzmaurice said she believed that the door-to­door campaigning students did on Edwards' behalf con­tributed to his finish with 32 percent of the vote. Kerry 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Student body president Jeremy Lao chairs a Ca.npus Life Council meeting held Monday after­noon. Lao presides over the Council of Representatives as well as the CLC. 

received 38 percent, Dean finished with 18 percent and former House Democratic leader Dick Gephardt totaled 11 percent. 
"We covered four precincts, and our efforts meant that we won them," Fitzmaurice said. "[We] knocked Dean out in our precincts, and that could have made a huge dif­ference." 
Fitzmaurice said hundreds of students from Indiana, North Carolina, Georgia, Wisconsin, Arizona and California spent the weekend in Iowa working on the Edwards' campaign. 
"As soon as they hear 
see IOWA/page 3 

President delivers address 
Jablonski-Diehl updates college 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 
Student body president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl highlighted the successes of Saint Mary's student govern­ment during her State of the School address Monday evening. Approximately 40 students and faculty gath­ered in Carroll Auditorium for the speech. 
Sponsored by the Student Government Association, the address was intended to update interested parties of SGA activities, answer ques­tions and allow students to voice their opinions. 
Jablonski-Diehl focused on three areas she said SGA has been particularly successful in promoting, including VISA, the Friends With Sisters program and the new dining hall. 
Student government joined forces with the VISA pro-
see SM C/page 6 


Group
•


reviews proposals 
Work continues on revamped College Seminar program 
By AMANDA MICHAELS News Writer 
The College Seminar pro­gram, formerly Core. continues to face both praise and criti­cism as the Feb. 1 deadline for course proposals draws nearer. 
Approved at the Dec: 9 College Council meeting, the one-semester College Seminar stands in place of the full-year Core course currently required for all sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters. and will officially take effect next fall. The new program will offer a variety of multi-discipli­nary courses in both the fall and spring semesters -a major adjustment to Core's common curriculum -but also allows students to take the full­year Core course as an elec­tive. 
George Howard, director of Core and professor of psycholo­gy, said he is currently aware of 18 course proposals, includ­ing Environment, Materialism and Consumption, Reconciliation in Film, Theatre and Psychology, Social Psychology and Men and Music. The program's finances allow for 35 proposals to be approved, though that number was flexible, said Howard. 
"We want at least 30 propos­als, and since the professors are committed to teaching the course twice over a three-year period and we plan to offer 30 courses in the fall and 25 in the spring, we should be covered for at least a year with that number," said Howard. "However, we will be faced with the exact same problem next year. So, the best long­term interest for the College is to have more than 30 propos­als." 
In the event of too many sub­missions, a committee made up of one faculty member from humanities, social science and the fine and performing arts will make the final selection. 
Though there was doubt sur­rounding the future of Core Congress, the voice· for student concerns about the program, Howard said that, at this time, they intend to keep the Core Congress, now appropriately titled the College· Seminar Congress. The congress, he said, has been a valuable resource providing what have been, at tim~s. surprising responses of students that led to changes in the program. 
Faculty feedback, previously ambivalent after the divisive 
see SEMINAR/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Easing the return back 
My buddy list has shrunk. As a second semester junior, this is a common occurrence, as many of my peers have opted to escape the Bend and spend a non-football semester over­seas. 
Matt Mooney
While trying to cope with read­ing fewer away 
Sports Writer 
messages as a 
distraction from 
work, I realized 
that these worldly travelers have it 
pretty tough. Aside from the not­
so-rigorous curriculum, the multi­
tude of travel opportunities and 
newfound alcoholic freedom, 
abroad students must cope with 
unfamiliar surroundings and life 
without the dining hall. 
But fear not. There is hope, and I 
have a plan. To ease the transition 
away from English and/or heavy 
accents, I urge the University to 
adopt a Semester-in-a-Week 
Program. 
This program will place an outgo­
ing student in a host dorm room for 
the first week of school before they 
head to wherever. The goal is for 
the guest student to experience all 
of the missed on-campus social 
interaction in one week. 
To make the Semester-in-a-Week 
plan work successfully, the host 
room should attempt to vary the 
emotional atmosphere at least by 
the day, if not more frequently. For 
example, Monday should be filled 
with happiness and merriment as 
everyone basks in the afterglow of 
a long break. This may prove diffi­
cult to replicate, as most people 
will be busy spending the better 
part of 10 minutes registering for 
the semester, but fit in what you · 
can. 
The middle of the week remains at the discretion of the host dorm, but make certain to use at least one day for spring break. Travel somewhere exotic, like Reekers for those residents of Mod Quad. Maybe take a cruise on the frothy yet affordable seas of the resur­rected Boat Club. 
Saturday, or study days on the accelerated timetable, only requires the absence of studying. Alcohol consumption is encour­aged, provided, of course, all such actions correspond with Indiana State Law. Just like they always do. 
Concluding the week is Surly Sunday. On this day, the simulated exam-induced stress causes every­one to stress and flip out at each other. Shouting matches are encouraged, using blunt projectiles when necessary. 
But above all, the guests should feel at home. They should have packages delivered to the room at 10 a.m. on a Saturday morning, when UPS needs a signature from one Matt Mahooney. Distribute the room phone number to everyone they know, so that no one misses a heartfelt goodbye. Then, when they are finally ready to say "bon voy­age," they might just reward the hosts' hospitality by giving the resi­dents a case of ... Strep throat. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS • 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize: that we will make miS[akes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
Tuesday, January 20, 2004 

TheDbserver+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DOING FOR MARTIN LUTHER KING DAY? 







Alicia Fehring Brian McDonald Caroline Rycyna Ken Williamson Liz Dolan Matt Medlock 
Sophomore Freshman Freshman Senior Freshman Freshman McGlinn Dillon Lewis Off-campus Lyons Alumni 
"I didn't do "!was mad at "/ took a long ·~bsolutely "/just went to ."No comment., anything. •• my friends nap.·· nothing., class, hung out because and went to Michigan didn't cardio-boxing ... 
have school. , 

A chef prepares dinner for students In South Dining Hall's stir fry station on Monday evening. 
OFFBEAT 
Microsoft takes on teen 
over web site 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -Mike Rowe thinks it's funny that his catchy name for a Web site design company sounds a lot like Microsoft. 
The software giant, how­ever, is not amused. 
"Since my name is Mike Rowe, I thought it would be funny to add 'soft' to the end of it," said Rowe, a 17-year-old-computer geek and Grade 12 student in Victoria, British Columbia. 
Microsoft Corp. and its attorneys have demanded that he give up his domain name, the Vancouver Province newspaper reported Sunday. 

Rowe registered the name in August. In November, he received a letter from Microsoft's Canadian lawyers, Smart & Biggar, informing him he was committing copy­right infringement. 
He was advised to trans­fer the name to the Redmond, Wash.-based corporation.. 
Club cancels dog show over carpet worries 
MUNCIE, Ind. -The dog show will go on -just not on the carpet. 
The Muncie Kennel Club 
has canceled four days of 
dog shows usually held at 
the Horizon Convention 
Center in January because 
management would permit 
them only if the group 
covered the center's newly 
carpeted floor with plastic. 
"Convention officials wanted us to cover the carpeting with plastic, but the insurance company wouldn't cover it and the dogs and their owners wouldn't tolerate it," said Tim Catterson, the kennel club's president. 
Information compiled from The Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:::c 

!i 
LLI 3: 

..... 
cc 

CJ -I 0 HIGH 18 HIGH 29 LOW 11 LOW 19 



HIGH LOW 

22 11 

nothing special.·· 
IN BRIEF . 
Students for Environmental Action will hold a meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns lounge. During the meeting, the organi­zation will plan events for this semester. 
The Career Center is hosting an information session for Morgan Stanley at 6 p.m. tonight in the Stadium Room of the University Club. ~ 
Come learn more about Teach for America during an informa­tion session tonight at 7 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall. 
The Graduate Student Union will sponsor a blood drive on Wednesday from 9 a.m. to 3:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Any students, faculty and staff who are able are invited to make a donation. 
Test your knowledge during the College Bowl Competition on Wednesday from 6 to 9 p.m. in 'the Notre Dame room of LaFortune. The Bowl is the longest running general knowl­edge quiz competition. 
A workshop on post graduate service opportunities will be held at 5 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Any student interested in participating in the workshop is asked to contact the 
esc. 
The Late Night Olympics will be held Friday night from 7 p.m. 
t.o 4 a.m. in the Joyce Center. Events will include broomball, inner tube water polo, kickball, target golf and more. 
To submit information to be included in this section of Th.e Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about· an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

28 19 

HIGH LOW 

page 3 
Tuesday, January 20, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Lao takes charge of organization 



CLC members Charlie Ebersol (left) and Aaron Zielinski lo~k over the agenda during Monday's meeting. During the meeting, members discussed plans for the spring semester. 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 

The Campus Life Council reconvened Monday for its first meeting after Christmas break, led by new chairman and student body president Jeremy Lao, who replaced the now graduated Pat Hallahan. 
"I really look forward to work­ing with you all this semester," Lao said at the start of the meet­ing. "I really firmly believe [CLC] is one of the most important com­mittees [within student govern­ment]." 
Lao challenged members to use the council to its full potential. 
"In the past few years, I don't think CLC has been fully utilized," he said. ''I'll do my best to bring topics to the agenda." 
Emily Chin, formerly the chief of staff, replaced Lao in the posi­tion of vice president, and her former post was filled by senior Patrick Corker. 
Liam Magee also joined the CLC as a new member and repre­sentative from the Diversity Council. 
CLC plans to host a social gath­ering in the coming weeks to pro­vide an opportunity for the mem­bers to better get to know each other 
In other CLC news: 
+ Chin briefed members of changes that are taking place within the Council of Representatives. The organiza­tion will now be divided into two areas: policy and programming. Work is still underway to deter­mine which components of stu­dent government will fall within the two divisions, Chin said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
SMC campus gears up for '04 election 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's students are beginning to show interest in this year's presidential election and Campus groups are preparing for it as they closely monitor the national news. 
The Student Government Association wants to ensure that students are being heard, said Sarah Brown, student body vice president. 
Brown said that campus groups such as Peacemakers, Feminists United, the political science club and the College Democrats and Republicans are joining together to educate vot­ers and possibly even present a voting drive. 
A campus-wide week of voter education will start January 26th. Groups will have a day to present issues important to them and present the candidate or candidates they will be backing in the election. 
"We are meeting tomorrow night to discuss our plans for the elections," said Jessica Millanes, president of College Republicans. "Voting is very important and college students are a very underrepresented demographic. Saint Mary's women are well­informed, and we can work to change those statistics." 
Like most students, Millanes said she stays informed by watching the nightly news and reading the paper often. Recently, newspapers have become a more friendly option for on-campus students through the Collegiate Readership Program. 
Managed by USA Today, the CRP delivers leading local and national papers to over 250 par­ticipating colleges nationwide. The program is designed to enhance the campus-learning environment and is billed as a relevant real-world resource for higher education. 
Mary Nelson, College Democrats vice president and co-founder, said that the papers provided around campus are a key learning tool. 
"The newspaper is the primary source of information about our country and the world, and I think the readership program gives us direct access to that every day," Nelson said. 
Contact Nicole Zook at Zook8929@saintmarys.edu 

Iowa 
continued from page 1 

Edwards' message, they're will­ing to drive out here and come out," she said. 
"Our group [from Indiana] got such a great response," Fitzmaurice said. "We divided between Waterloo and Mason City, and each group was lucky enough to have Sen. Edwards for an event. We got to meet him, have pictures and support him in front of the Iowan voters ... There were huge turnouts ­people were overflowing into hallways." 
A political science major, Fitzmaurice enjoyed the hands-on campaign experience, which included calling committed vot­ers to make sure they attended the caucus. One Edwards sup­porter had to be called four times after falling asleep and forgetting to attend. 
"This is a completely unique way to elect a president," Fitzmaurice said. "Now we have a better understanding of it ... 
It's a completely valuable expe­rience." 
Casey Stanton, co-organizer of the trip, echoed Fitzmaurice's enthusiasm. 
"It only took two minutes in a room with [Edwards] while giv­ing a speech to be completely won over," said co-organizer Casey Stanton. "We think that's how the rest of the country is going to feel." 
The students plan to continue working for Edwards in Indiana, raising the 4,500 sig­natures needed to put him on the ballot and working the pri­maries, most importantly in Michigan. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


IS ASTHMA TAKING THE AIR OUT OF YOUR LIFE? 
THE PEGASUS ASTHMA MEDICAl RESEARCH STUDY MAY BE ABLE TO HELP YOU. 
If you suffer from asthma, you're invited to participate in the Pegasus Asthma medical research study of an investigational medication. Qualified participants will receive study-related medication, including an inhaler for their symptoms, lab tests, and medical exams. To find out if you qualify to participate, visit www.GoAsthma.com or call toll-free 1-866-404-4447. 


THE 15TH ANNUAL NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT 




FILM 

FESTIVAL 
•oK.. here • s my idea, 
.. therE's tHts Nunri~>bt?. lllld sh~·s smokin' a cigarette,oK .. • 

THURS•FRI•SAT•MON JA U 
7:.30 &9:45PM • HESBURGH LIBRARY CAREY AUDITORIUM • $5 ADMISSION TICKETS ON SALE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER (WHILE THEY LAST) 
PRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE 
-

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 20, 2004 
Seminar 
continued from page 1 
30-18 vote that made the 
College Seminar official, is 
now, as a whole, positive. 
"It is fair to say that everyone 
is reconciled to the changes. As 
with most things intellectual, 
the more you think about them, 
the more excited you get, so 
there seems to be a growing 
enthusiasm for the program. 
The fact that I have been con­
tacted by 18 people already is 
very heartening," Howard said. 
Many current freshmen, the 
first to be affected by the 
changes, have responded 
favorably to the new program, 
citing freer schedules and 
more course choices as positive 
developments. 
"I like that the one-semester 
program frees up our sched­
ules. We have the option to 
explore different areas of inter­
est, which is important since 
sophomores have to be ready 
to declare a major by the end 
of the year," freshman Kristin 
Hopson said. 
Not all students, however, are 
pleased by the changes, which 
are a departure from the broad 
liben.l arts values represented 
by the Core program. 
''I'm disappointed that they took away the collective learn­ing experience that Core offered," freshman Daniel McLaughlin said. "It's a shame that this unique program was overshadowed by the need for efficiency. I will probably take the full-year as an elective though." .~ 
Sophomore John Schneider, currently enrolled in his final semester in Core, sees the College Seminar program as a welcome change but does not regret taking the full-year. 
"Although Core has potential for good, it doesn't often mate­rialize, so ending the full-year requirement is a good thing," said Schneider. "I don't feel gypped, but from my experi­ence, they made a good policy decision." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Council 
continued from page 1 
each dorm. 
Hall Presidents Council co­chair Sarah Keefer and SUB manager Charlie Ebersol pro­posed having CPC, RPC and Campus Affairs Council candi­dates run on the same ticket within each dorm to facilitate communication. Keefer said uni­fied tickets would be an improvement over the present system. 
"There are a lot of hall presi­dents who never see their sena­tors," she said. 
Some members, however, expressed doubt that these tick­ets would produce the best can­didates, and Lao sent the debate to a committee for further dis­cussion. 
Keefer urged members to approve the idea, saying that further delays could cause prob­lems in upcoming elections. 
"If we table this until next week ... we could be a week beyond our deadline," she said. 
Keefer said the CPC and RPC would report to a Programming Council Executive Cabinet to coordinate work on campus­wide and dorm events. 
"They would keep a synthe­sized calendar," she said. 
Lao created three committees to hammer out details in the policy, programming and administrative areas of the new constitution. He also expressed concern that the council's work on the document might come at the expense of student welfare. 


"Issues on campus haven't been expressed as much,'! Lao said. 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni echoed the senti­ment. 
"I've been hearing a lot of complaints," she said. "People are upset that the executive branch isn't keeping up with student needs." 
In other COR news: 
+ Club Coordination Council president Seth O'Donnell announced that at least two members from each undergrad­uate club must attend their respective division meetings next week. On Jan. 27, mem­bers from the academic and athletic divisions will meet. On Jan. 28, the meeting will include cultural and performing arts clubs. On Jan. 29, social service and special interest clubs will eonvene. 
O'Donnell also encouraged students to run in the upcoming CCC division elections. Representatives will be elected from each of the six divisions. Candidates -who must be dues-paying members of a rec­ognized undergraduate club ­must attend one of the three CCC division meetings. 
Contact Matt Brarnanti at mbrarnant@nd.edu 
If you've got ambition, we've got room. 

... 
We set high standards. We want people who share them. People who want to work on some of the most interesting business issues, for some of the most prestigious brands in the world. You'll need to be determined, but you'll never be on your own. Because in our teams, you'll find the right experience, knowledge and support to bring you along. The sky's the limit. 
ey.comjusjcareers 
!!/ERNST&YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---­

Tuesday, January 20, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Search continues for crash victims 
KINGSVILLE, Ontario -A Canadian Coast Guard icebreaker with a team of divers aboard used a robotic ~canner to search the icy waters of Lake Erie on Monday for the bodies of 10 people killed in a weekend plane crash. 
The single-engine plane went down in snowy weather Saturday afternoon, killing eight hunters returning home to Ontario, along with the pilot and a friend of the pilot. 
The crew of the icebreaker planned to pin­point the wreckage before sending the half­dozen divers into the 24 feet of frigid water. 
"It's very cold, very difficult dive conditions in the best of times -even more so because of the wind and ice," police Constable Dennis Masse said. 
The cause of the crash is under investiga­tion. 
U.S. air raid kills II Mghan civilians 
KANDAHAR, Afghanistan -A U.S. air raid in southern Afghanistan killed 11 vil­lagers, including four children, Afghan officials said Monday. The U.S. military said it killed five militants in the weekend raid in insurgency-plagued Uruzgan province. 
Sunday's incident came as American commanders and Afghan officials hunt for Taliban and al-Qaida suspects and try to improve security in the lawless south and east ahead of planned summer elections. 
Their task was highlighted anew by a bold daylight raid on a remote military base that injured three American soldiers. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
King day marked with war protests 
ATLANTA -Americans observed Martin 
Luther King Day on Monday with some activists 
charging that the war in Iraq and other Bush 
administration policies run counter to what the 
civil rights leader stood for. 
"We have to be concerned not just about us. We have to be concerned about all our brothers and sisters throughout our nation and world," King's son Martin Luther King III said in a serv­ice at Ebenezer Baptist Church, where his father preached until he was assassinated in 1968. 
"How many Iraqi children have been killed? When will the war end? We all have to be con­cerned about terrorism, but you will never end terrorism by terrorizing others.'' 
Talks continue in hostage crisis 
BUCKEYE, Ariz. -Negotiators tried to talk two inmates into freeing a pair of prison guards held hostage in an observation tower Monday for a second day. 
The guards sent word that they were not seri­ously hurt. But authorities would not say whether the inmates had made any demands or threats and would not disclose whether they were armed or why they were in prison. 
"The conversations have never broken off," Cam Hunter, a state Corrections Department spokeswoman, said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Call lines help immigrant workers 
SOUTH BEND -Immigrant and native work­ers can receive advice on their rights in the workplace with toll-free telephone calls to the latest in a string of advocacy centers across Indiana. The Worker Rights Center, which opened Monday in a South Bend AFL-CIO office, takes calls in English, Spanish and Polish. 
Volunteers staffing the telephone lines will advise callers on workplace rights and which government agencies can help them in the event of violations, said Joe Carbone, coordinator of the center. 



Annan to consider U.S., Iraqi request 
A.uociated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan promised U.S. and Iraqi leaders Monday he would weigh their request to send a U.N. team to study if Iraq could have quick, direct elections for a new legislature. 
A decision by U.N. 
experts would help resolve 
a growing dispute between 
the United States and a top 
Shiite cleric over the best 
way to transfer power 
before a June 30 deadline. 
Annan, who stressed that 
security of U.N. staff would 
be paramount, gave indi­
cations he was le-aning 
toward approving. . 
"If we get it wrong at this 
stage, it'll be even more 
difficult and we may not 
even get to the next stage," 
he said. "So I think it is 
extremely important that 
we do whatever we can to 
assist." 
The United Nations is essentially being asked to help resolve an argument between the Bush adminis­tration and Iraq's most prominent Shiite leader, Ayatollah Ali al-Husseini al-Sistani, who has demanded direct elections to choose a provisional government by June 30. The coalition wants to keep to a handover plan dating from Nov. 15, which calls for caucuses to lapse of Saddam Hussein's Vieira de Mello and 21 oth­where the U.N. with its

choose a provisional 

Sunni-dominated regime. ers. expertise in elections canassembly. 
Al-Sistani has indicated "Obviously, the scope for offer a perspective."
Agreeing to al-Sistani's he would accept the U.N. operational U.N. activities Adnan Pachachi, the cur­request would essentially team's decision, even if it inside Iraq will continue to rent Governing Council

mean holding the direct elections by May, and affirms Annan's belief that be constrained by the president, said the decision 
direct elections are unfea­security situation for some on elections must beAnnan has said repeatedly sible. time to come," Annan said. resolved by the end of
it doesn't appear that 

Annan had initially The top U.S. administra­February, when the Iraqiswould give enough time to called Monday's meeting tor in Iraq, L. Paul Bremer, will implement basic lawsprepare for a fair vote. 
with the Iraqi Governing who attended Monday's for the handover and tran­
Annan said he recog­

nized the election issue Council and the U.S.-led meeting, has said elections sition. That means Annan was urgent and that he Coalition Authority to help cannot be organized in would have to decide clarify a possible new U.N. time to meet the June 30 quickly about the team. 
hoped for a speedy deci­sion. Experts were expect­role in the future of Iraq. deadline, given the ongo­"We should not stick to 
The crucial issue for ing violence and lack of rigid positions on these
ed to start technical talks 

later Monday. Annan is whether U.N. voter rolls. matters," said Pachachi, Underscoring that staff will be safe operating But he acknowledged the who was also at Monday's urgency, tens of thousands in Iraq. He ordered all plan's election formula meeting. "We've got to find of Shiite Muslims marched international staff to leave could be altered-an indi­ways and means to deal in Baghdad on Monday to Iraq in late October follow­cation that the United with problems as they demand early elections. It ing two bombings at U.N. States is taking al-Sistani's arise and I think this is a headquarters -including demand seriously. "We very healthy way of man­
was the biggest public dis­play of Shiite political one on Aug. 19 that killed think that that is a legiti­aging the affairs of our 
top U.N. envoy Sergio mate question and one country."
power here since the col-



Kerry wins caucus, Gephardt quits 
pulling out of the race. America and an image of America
Associated Press 

-His campaign given up for dead that we will be proud of." 
DES MOINES, Iowa -John Kerry just weeks ago, Kerry predicted Just two weeks ago, before the and John Edwards rode 11th-hour another comeback in New Iowa race turned testy and tumul­surges to a one-two finish in Iowa's Hampshire's Jan. 27 primary. tuous, Dean and Gephardt sat atop . kickoff presidential caucuses "As I've said in New Hampshire the field in Iowa, with Dean leading Monday, dealing a stunning blow to and here, I'm a fighter," the in New Hampshire and national favorite Howard Dean. Kerry's Massachusetts lawmaker told The polls. Kerry and Edwards turned comeback blew the nomination fight Associated Press. 'Tve come from that on its head, closing their cam­wide open, setting the stage for a behind before and I'm going to take paigns with positive, forward-look­free-for-all in New Hampshire's fol­the same fight that I've been making ing messages while Dean and low-up primary. here to New Hampshire." Gephardt bickered over past votes 
Dean finished third, stripped of his Edwards, 50, also claimed momen­and quotes. front-runner's mantle but still defi­tum. "My campaign to fight for working ant-"We will not give up," he told "This campaign, this cause, this people may be ending tonight, but backers. Rep. Dick Gephardt fin­movement is about bringing real our fight will never end," Gephardt ished a weak fourth and planned to change to America," Edwards told said in a post-caucus speech that end his 33-year political career by supporters. "You and I can build an sounded like a political farewell. 
Tuesday, January 20, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Church to split over gay clergy 
Associated Press 
PLANO, Texas Conservativ.e Episcopalians opposed to a gay bishop's con­secration and other liberal trends were on track to estab­lish a nationwide protest organization by the close of a two-day meeting Tuesday. 
Planners insist the budding Network of Anglican Communion Dioceses· and Parishes is not a schism or denominational split but a "church within a church" whose backers will remain Episcopalians. 
The immediate cause of dis­sent was the Episcopal Church's decision last summer to elevate Bishop V. Gene 
• Robinson of New Hampshire, who has lived for years with a gay partner. But the meeting's chairman, Bishop Robert Duncan of Pittsburgh, told a news brief­ing that the denomination "split from its own history this past summer, so who left?" The closed-door meeting involved 100 bishops, priests and lay members representing a dozen dioceses with 235,000 members, or a 10th of the nation's Episcopalians. The delegates at the meeting plan to complete an organiza­tional charter for the network. They also are trying to pro­duce a new theological state­ment based upon previous conservative platforms. 
The Episcopal Church is the 

U.S. branch of the internation­al Anglican Communion and the network hopes to draw legitimacy from overseas Anglican branches that agree with it. 
"You've never had this many dioceses rallying to say a mas­sive corporate mistake has been made," said Canon Kendall Harmon, a South Carolina delegate. 
Canon Bill Atwood of the Texas-based Ekklesia Society, which aids churches in devel­oping nations, said in a phone interview from Uganda that plans are under way for a for­mal declaration recognizing the new network from leaders representing a majority of the world's Anglicans. 

pus." school fight song. These activities include The fight song lyrics, voted
SMC 
December's caroling event on by the student body, will 
and the Halloween party held be revealed in the February
continued from page 1 
for the convent. Both were newsletter sent out by the gram this year to ensure that highly successful and are Student Government prospective and new students expected to be continued, Association. • who wished to take tours of Jablonski-Diehl said. Jablonski-Diehl said that 
the Saint Mary's campus were Student government has holding the State of the pleased with their stays. worked closely with the din­School address is important 
"SGA is recruiting and ing hall this year, according because student input is nec­training the tour guides," to Jablonski-Diehl. Earlier essary to plan major events Jablonski-Diehl said, adding this year, several forums such as these. that since SGA has united were held in which members "It allows students to speak with VISA, the visitor ratings of the student body could up on campus issues that stu­have gone up. ''All guides attend and voice their opin­dent government may not have received fives [the top ions and ask questions about have realized were important score]." the new Noble Family Dining to the student body," she said. 
Friends With Sisters is an Hall. "It really holds student gov­on-campus volunteer oppor­"The dining hall issue ernment accountable as tunity in which students and forums were a success," elected officials of the school Sisters of the Holy Cross are Jablonski-Diehl said, as stu­and lets students know what paired for visiting and friend­dents and visitors alike have we're doing, where their ship. Participation has complimented the changes money is going." jumped this year. implemented this year. After the address, the floor 
"There are 100 Friends Other topics discussed dur­was opened for students to With Sisters pairs," ing the address included cam­pose questions. SGA was Jablonski-Diehl said. "There pus cable, the alumni job asked to look into the rising are also activities for cam-shadowing program and the price of textbooks in the 
We have an exciting oppor-tunity for YOU to help prevent youth violence in Sou-th Bendl Learn ways "to help reduce violence while having fun in"terac"ting with children · 
alk It Out .. . Walk It Out .. . in area schools. Wait It Out .•. 
• Become a member ofa Take Ten team and
Please Contact: 
Kim Overdyck at spend an hour a week in an area school taketen(Ci{nd.edu 
• Various schools, age groups, and meeting
Or at 

times to fit your schedule
631-9424 Visit us at • Multiple training opportunities to leam 
'lVUfW n.-1 F-tiu/-t<'tlc.~t,.,n 
more about violence and how to work with children 
~­
Take advantage of this opportunityROBINSON 
to leave an ~verlasting impact on
COMMUNJTY 
LEAANING the youth of South Bend! 
CENTER 
bookstore and faculty holding class meetings on Reading Day. Vice President Sarah Brown fielded many of the questions. 
"We are working out the kinks in study day and issues of interpretation with SAC. A survey will go out on Prism next week. Student response so far has been positive, it was a big success and very helpful," Brown said. 
Linda Timm, vice president for Student Affairs, said she was very pleased with the address and with student government in general. 
"I think the level of volun­

. teerism that it takes to make st.udent government work is amazing," Timm said. "It requires a lot of hard work and effort on the students' part and many people recog­nize and appreciate that." 
Contact Nicole Zook at Zook8929@saintmarys.edu 

HELP MAKE OUR SCHOOLS VIOLENCE FREE ZONES 

Tuesday, January 20, 2004 

MARKET RECAP 


fc;>,:S 10,600.51 +46.66 
~•·· .klme: ~= ~~ 
I,.G94 I.SO • IJIZ79'0016 

COM FA NY %CHANGE I$Ci0.1N I Pf:J CE 
1ai UNIP~ E: liDS~ -1-ll.~9 -1-0.~0 .:.. I~ <":ISCOS YST E:11S K:~) .... ~.1!1 -1-1.9~ 19.1 ~ ~ N t-u::: IIC'i YS I~ t-Nw') -1-0.!1~ -1-0.0~ !1.~9 IUNIP~ t-.ITVV..:.S • NPII) .... ~0 ..!1 ~ -~-~.00 19.9~ 11K)1(],2QF T (:P 1115 FT) -1-0.98 -1-0.U 1.~ .S I 

~0. YE:AJ: Et;:) ND  -1-0. ~.!I  -1-0. I '  <IS. n~  
10. YE:AF: NOTE:  -1-I. OS  -1-I)A ~  <10. I<I  
.l-... &<\ J: t-.IOT E:  -1-1.~ 1.  -1-0AS  ~0. I!I  
~-1-K)t-.IT ~ BLL  -1-I. I '  -1-0. 10  53. ~1.  


IN BRIEF 

Dollar rallies on jump in inflows 
NEW YORK -The rebound in the dollar 
accelerated across the board Friday on data 
showing strong foreign demand for U.S. 
assets, with the euro finishing the week 
about 5 cents below its all-time high of 
around $1.29 set Monday . 
The Treasury Department released figures showing that foreigners stepped up their net purchases of U.S. securities to $87.6 billion in November from $27.8 billion the month before. 
Investors had become increasingly con­cerned about the United States's ability to attract enough investment flows to fund the massive current account deficit following a paltry $4.2 billion net inflow in September -a five-year low. 
The report is "overwhelmingly positive" for the dollar because it "shows that the decline in U.S. interest rates to 45-years lows has not undermined foreign appetite for U.S. securities to the degree thought ear­lier," Michael Woolfolk, senior currency strategist at Bank of New York, said in a research note. 
Wheat, corn prices rocket higher 
CHICAGO -Wheat prices jumped sharply higher Friday on the Chicago Board of Trade. 
Corn and soybeans also increased. 
Wheat for March delivery rose 11 3/4 cents to $3.98 a bushel. March corn rose 3 3/4 cents to $2.72 112 a bushel. March oats rose 4 cents to $1.60 3/4 a bushel. 
March soybeans rose 3/4 cent to $8.35 3/4 a bushel. 
Beef futures advanced while pork futures settled mixed on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. 
February live cattle rose .85 cent to 78.70 cents a pound. March feeder cattle rose .03 cent to 84.10 cents a pound. February lean hogs rose .95 cent to 54.75 cents a pound. February pork bellies fell .88 cent to 82.27 cents a pound.rest of the way. 


THE OBSERVER 



I page 7 
Backlash brews as jobs shift abroad 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 

Executives from Silicon 
Valley to Wall Street are 
adamant that shifting white­
collar jobs from the United 
States to developing coun­
tries is good business, but a 
backlash is brewing. 

Indiana's state government 
canceled a $15 million con­
tract with an Indian consult­
ing firm in November. And 
eight states voted on bills 
last year that would ban the 
use of taxpayer money on 
contracts with foreign work­
ers. Though none of those 
measures passed, the states 
and several others are 
expected to consider similar 
bills this year. 

Democratic presidential 
candidate John Kerry says 
he would require overseas 
call centers to disclose their 
location the New 
Economy version of the 
"made in America" label. 

The Massachusetts senator 
said he wouldn't ban out­
sourcing, but would provide 
tax credits to companies that 
maintain U.S. factories and 
"close every single loophole 
that gives companies incen­
tives to move jobs abroad." 

Outsourcing critics say Americans have been com­placent about the loss of technology jobs to overseas workers since the trend began in the late 1990s. But with elections in both the like doing business with work at a desk, beware -Dell are high-profile excep­United States and India, they companies from countries the foreigners are coming tions to what has become believe 2004 could be a that work against us politi­after your job." the rule of outsourcing. turning point. cally, like France, or eco­Fear of a backlash was a In a research report in 
"Politicians can't outsource nomically, like India and major issue at a technology mid-2003, Gartner Inc. pre­the vote," said Scott Kirwin, China. Consumer activism is summit this month in dicted that at least one out of founder of the Wilmington, an important part of putting Hyderabad, India. Indiana's 10 technology Jobs in the DeL-based lobbying group the brakes on the outsourc­failed contract with Tata United States would move Information Technology ing movement." Consultancy Services, and overseas by the end of 2004. Professionals Association of After his software develop­customer complaints that Forrester Research predictsAmerica, which compiles ment job was terminated in prompted Dell Inc. to reroute at least 3.3 million white-col­data from nearly 100 anti­2002, Florida's Mike some help desk calls from lar jobs and $136 billion in outsourcing Web sites. Emmons decided to run for India to Idaho in November, wages will shift from the Kirwin, who launched ITPM Congress on an anti-out­worry Indians, who have United States to low-cost after a large investment sourcing agenda. His mea­received billions of dollars in countries by 2015. 
bank asked him to train the ger campaign funds come outsourcing contracts. "The idea of a backlash Indian worker who then mostly from unemployed "This is a matter of con­makes for great press, and it replaced him, says said only programmers who visit his cern for all of us," India's makes for great rhetoric in broad consumer revolt will Web site, info tech minister, Arun an election year," said John reverse the trend. OutsourceCongress.org. He Shourie, told officials from C. McCarthy, vice president
"In the 1980s, many peo­is trying to get on the ballot 30 Asian countries at the of research at Forrester. ple boycotted companies for the Democratic primary summit. "We must come "But the reapty is that everythat did business with the this summer. together to fmd a consensus day there's a new customer apartheid regime in South "This is hitting medical approach to fight this back­with new cost savings from Africa," Kirwin said. "Many transcribers, financial ana­lash." this. The economics are of those same people have lysts, radiologists, everyone," Business experts say India hugely compelling, and it's more money today and don't said Emmons, 41. "If you needn't worry; Indiana and not going away." 

Dow begins week at 22-month high 
. 

"There's more than one buyer for any cent and the S&P 500 rose 1.6 per­
Associated Press 

stock being sold, and there are both cent. 
NEW YORK -The Dow Jones institutional and retail buyers. And GE, a Dow component, posted industrial average reached its highest that's because earnings are showing fourth-quarter profits 4 7 percent level since mid-2002 Friday as us that fundamentals are sound." higher than a year ago, boosted by investors greeted strong earnings The Dow Jones industrial average increased industrial demand. G E from General Electric Co. and the was up 46.65, or 0.4 percent, at closed up $1.35 at $33.35, a new 52­technology sector. The market's major 10,600.51, a new 52-week high. It week high. indexes were all up for a seventh was the index's highest close since "These early earnings reports show week in a row. March 19, 2002, when it finished at signs of a broad economic recovery," 
GE's earnings helped reassure 10,635.30. said Subodh Kumar, chief investment 
investors skittish following Intel The Nasdaq finished up 31.38, or strategist for CIBC World Markets. Corp.'s disappoiniing revenue projec­1.5 percent, at 2,140.46, eclipsing the "However, unlike the first through tions earlier this week. previous 2 1/2-year high reached third quarters, where the markets 
"The key thing here is that you're Monday. The Standard & Poor's 500 responded strongly, the expectations starting to see some aggressive buy­index closed up 7.78, or 0.7 percent, of the earnings are already built into ing coming back into the market," at 1,139.83. the market prices, so we'll see more said Jim Raphalian, head of institu­For the week, the Dow was up 1.4 price fluctuation on individual tional trading at Charles. Schwab. percent, the Nasdaq gained 2.6 per-reports." 

Andrew Sou~up <··•··.·................ ·.·.• \ .. •/ ~A~c Eorroa BOSlNllSS ~G£a Scot( Br<xifudu-~ 
AssT. MAN.\GING EOITOil Sheila Flynll · 

·····v~;;.:;::•·•rJv~:~wnes 

Sl'OmEotTOll: Jot Ji~ttter 

SCJ!M?. &>rroa: M;&ria Smhh SAJ.NT M:..utrs EDITOR: AnneIiese Woolford PHom EDITOR: Tir:t\Kac:mar 
GRAJ>HICs EDIToR: .Mike Harkins ADVE~G MANAGER~ Ma~a CenedeUa AD DmGN MANAGER: TQrn Haight SVSTEMS AJ)MJNJSTMTOR: Jed Bangert Wm ADMINISTRATOR:. TQdd Nieto CoNTROu..ER: Paula Garcia 
Colf1ACT Us 

OFAC£ MANAGER &GENEIW. INFO (574) !)3h?i471 
... fAX >••.• (574) ()31..69t7. . ADVERSTISING ­·.· (5V4} 931-(;900 ·. !lbservad@l®;elfu EDITOR IN CHIEF {5'.74) 6~1-~542 . . M.wGtNG EonOR & AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Wl4}631454l ohSm:e@nd.edu BuSIN£SS OFFiCE 
(~74).()3}~):},3
··NEVIS Deslt < (574}():11..;5323 #snew'$-l@{ld-edu 
.. Vl£WP01NT 0£SK ··•·• ...• 
· ·• .· £?7:4) <?31..53(13 vi~pl)iruJ@)nd.e4u 
• <:···.···.·•·····•· SPOftrsDEstt : < •. ·• 

······•·.C?14163.~~4543•··•··5po£ts~l~il~.edu···?••·:•·:·•··.. > • . .. . . . . ...• StEJI&£ O~SK > . . •...... ··•. •t574) ~3(~45~Q .i~11~1~@.~u •> 
• . . SAINT MARY'$ DE'sK {5741 ('}31-4:324 -lllttc,l@m!.e<lu·.. :< .. · 

. . . . .· PKOT00Esl . . ($74) 63f::S767 ··. ·. ·hof~nd.edu · > SYSTEMS &Wu AoMlNISTRATORS {574) 6Jh88J9 

· o'B~ERVERONL/NE

www.adsmcobserveunm · · 
POLICtES 

.·-.· ..·.·..·.·.·. -' '·..· ...· 
The Observe£ is the irnlependen,t. daily newspaper . .. published inprint and onlin~ by the nudents uf the .·UniV<:rsity ofNotteD~e du~ ~d Sain~ ..s ·.··· 
College. Edi£orial contenc.inclU.ding advei1ismlent5, i$ ··•· · not governed by pollcie:s ofthe administration ofeither .· inscitu.rion.The O~r ~es the right tO tefu5e adverrisemena based on oonrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and o()jectivdy as possible. Uruiglled editoriak represent the opiruon Qf · the majQdty ofthe Edhw in Chief. Managing Ediror, . Assistant Managing Editor arid~pa.rtmmr cdirors. Commentaries, letters and colu.mns present the views· uf theauthors and oot n~iJyth()g of1"lw. 
0~. . . V'~ewpoinupaceis awilabtetl3it.ll readers. The free expression ofail opinions through lettcn is c:ricouraged. ··•· · letter$ to me Edit~ m~fbe $ig®d and rnuStW:tude contaC[ informatiqtt. · 

POST OFFICE INFORMATIOM rho ~{USI'$m MaQa) ;, ~Mo"'r tt-"'.,.t. fri4-r ~.!HIA>f 
•...,. ond ~l'<fiods,A..ib..:np<ic>t< _, ~ ~' iiJIII!tl<>r.,.,.,~i<'>""'' 5~H~• ~ .m.-t, . . . . 
TIM: Oto~i$ pobli~w~ . · rotrMMra 

lll4. S..orl, P~RI Holt•• ·•··· ~ ~owril'l w. 
No<t<O~ll~H65~ •··· ~~ 

l'l:riodi.:;al~~d.£~D~ · .· · h Q .ad adr.lltltii>M maltibj o:.l&tt~ · ........ ~~ ritlliitt.IcoJI···· Nou~ po,;;,;,IN 46~~1i-am 
n.~~,.;,·•"""'h<f<>fckA,ocoq~~.AJi~•i<oniiiJia~ 
.......<'!!.......... ··. · ..•···•·.·.··•· 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Graphics Andrew Thagard · Graham Ebetsch 
Amanda Sports Michaels Dan Tapetillo Maureen Matt Lozar Reynolds Steve Coyer 
Viewpoint Scene Sarah Vabulas Julie Bender Illustrator Vanessa Saenz 





THE OBSERVER Restructured Core shows promise 
JLJ~ ~~~~'."'fJ..-.-'s.itdM-?~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notte Dame, 1N 465~ 

024 SOuth Dining llill. Nor:R: D~ll. IN 46~56 EDITOR IN CHllF · The University's decision to eliminate the Core requirement optional college seminar course. And students who take the 
is a good example of the positive outcome that can be elective are presented with an additional option, as well; the reached when officials consider student input and work with college seminar will be offered as both a semester and year­students to make changes. long class. Professors, instead of following a rigid syllabus, 
Officials collaborated with students through­out the examination of the Core course. First, 0 The the Core Congress was created and represen­oserver tatives from each Core section were called ~ upon to give their feedback and opinions. 
Edi
Then, Core administrators and faculty actually incorporated some of these suggestions into the course, experimenting with new ideas garnered from student advice as they tried to tailor the course more effec­tively to perceived student needs and wishes. 
But after years of continued complaints about Core from the Congress, the faculty and the students, the College of Arts and Letters realized that repeated course tweaking and modification had failed to fix the course and it eliminated the mandatory Core requirement. 
Even in this final step, the University has made impressive efforts to satisfy all factions. Core will still be offered as an 
Sucking the marrow out of ND life 
can propose their own ideas for material on a variety of topics. By allowing faculty membersal freer reign to teach subjects about which they 
• are passionate, the level of enthusiasm willL0fl unquestionably be increased in both the instructors and their pupils. 
This new system stands as an example of University commitment to truly fulfilling the academic needs of faculty and students. The College consulted all parties involved to create an adequate and acceptable alternative to the previously flawed Core course, which reflected a desire to foster a cooperative, comprehensive and progressive learning community. The University should be congratulated for its open-minded and responsive handling of the Core issue, and the implementation of the new program will undoubtedly prove beneficial to all Arts and Letters faculty and students. 
"I went to Notre Dame because I wished to live deliberately. to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. I did not wish to Peter J. live what was 
Quaranto

not life, living is so dear, nor did I wish to A Call practice resig­to Action nation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out the marrow of life ..." 
Alright, maybe I am not the parallel to Henry David Thoreau that I had hoped in my more idealistic days, but I do believe that we can always learn something from Western Massachusetts poets who spend years of solitude in the woods and refuse to pay war taxes. In this case, Thoreau's plea for the passionate life is a plea that all of us Notre Dame over­achievers can appreciate. Yet, it is puz­zling that so few of us seem to really live the sort of life of which Thoreau sucked the marrow. 
For too many of us, we make Notre Dame a factory of conformity, compla­cency and conventionality. Most of us arrive here determined to live life to the fullest, but our lives quickly become con­sumed with Notre Dame football games, Turtle Creek parties, summer internships and barbeque sandwiches at the dining hall. I love barbeque sandwiches, but I just wonder if life, even life here in col­lege, is supposed to be about something more. 
Mahatma Gandhi once said, "My life is my message." Gandhi built on Thoreau by saying that we should be delicately aware of the many implications and effects that our lives have on those around us and all of humanity. Thus, Gandhi raised the stakes of Thoreau's plea for us "suck of the marrow of life" by introducing a necessary component of justice to this journey. 
This component of justice falls far from the normal American college student of the 21st Century, who is care.er-driven, politically-apathetic and heavily-organ­ized. Modern college students are well­suited for jobs at J.P. Morgan, but do they really know what it would mean to begin to "suck the marrow" of life in a way that promotes justice? Could you imagine a student committed to writing poetry in a log cabin in the woods in Western Massachusetts? Could you imagine a student leading a non-violent social movement or creating a philoso­phy of peace? The modern college stu­dent is out of touch with Gandhi or Thoreau, thus making any discussing of "sucking the marrow" a hard one to swallow. 
• Here at Notre Dame, these university trends are apparent. Most upperclass­men can relate to these trends and have been affected by them. Yet, there is one group that remains relatively outside these trends: freshmen. There is still time and there is still hope that the freshmen of Notre Dame might wake up the echoes of Thoreau and Gandhi. 
Freshmen, you lie at a crossroads, where your current decisions will affect the rest of your lives. Your first semester was your orientation and your socializa­tion here at Notre Dame, but your sec­ond semester is your placement. It is the semester where you choose the sort of person you want to be. It is the semester when you choose between Thoreau and 
J.P. Morgan. Gandhi and Morgan Stanley. 
I am exaggerating the importance of the second semester in the freshmen year, but it is certainly an important semester that can play a pivotal role in one's university experience. I want to suggest a few ways that this year's group of highly-gifted Notre Dame freshmen scholars might begin to ..suck the mar­row" out of Notre Dame life. 
First, get involved with an interesting activity. Try yoga with RecSports, take a one-credit theology course, get lessons for a musical instrument, go on a Campus Ministry retreat or do anything that will force you to expand your hori­zons and meet other people. 
Second, submit a letterto the editor to the Observer. Write about anything from your thoughts on dining hall food to your analysis of the current political situation to your angry response to one of my columns later this semester. 
Third, make time for yourself. I'm not talking Playstation-2-time; rather, I am talking about making some quiet time for prayer, meditation, Thoreau and Gandhi. I know this can be the most difficult in our go-society, but it is evermore neces­sary. 
Finally, come to the Center for Social Concerns Festival tomorrow night from 7-9 p.m. to learn about different service and social justice activities. Tutor a kid, work with the homeless, go to New York City for break to learn about children and poverty, or take advantage of any of the many opportunities. I believe that there is no greater way to "suck the mar­row" of life than sharing in the suffering of others and working for the common good. 
So freshmen, suck the marrow out of Notre Dame life. And maybe in the process, you'll inspire all of the rest of us, elders, to do the same. 
Peter Quaranta is a sophomore politi­cal science and international peace stud­ies major. He wants to encourage every­one to vote for John Kerry in the demo­cratic primaries and he wants to thank Peyton Manning for throwing four inter­ceptions in Sunday's game against the New England Patriots. Contact him at pquarant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 

Which cartoon would you rather see on the Today page: Dilbert or Classic Peanuts? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One ofthe penalties for refusing to participate in politics is that you end up being governed by your inferiors.·· 
Plato 
philosopher 




Friends do more than just help with the band aid 
The boat gently rocks against the calm wavy seas of the South Pacific, the storm having passed by some time ago. Looking at the craft that is keeping 
me afloat. I'm amazed that I  
still enjoy the ability to be above the water and not  Adam Cahill  ,  
somewhere four miles below  
the water's surface. The boat  
is in shambles and so am I.  A Domer's  
I've most certainly broken a  Outlook  
number of bones, crushed by  
splintered lumber during the  

storm. But the boat is just as beaten up. Jimmied, shimmied and make-shifted together like a pair of old sneakers that refuse to die despite the number of holes irt them, the boat can look no worse. Duct tape is everywhere and there is enough rope holding the deck together to give Tarzan some excitement. It creaks and whines with the tide but it's still floating. I wonder quietly to myself: how can the hells that I've gone through in the past week do me any good? What purpose does it hold for me? Certainly, noth­ing good could come of it in the immediate future. 
There's no time to think of that; all that can be done is the task at hand -keep my ship from sink­ing long enough to get back to port so I can repair. So that's exactly what I do. I ration my goods, rein­force any loose joint that may snap from stress against the sea and keep my body from infection. And when I lean back against the delicate starboard rail, enjoying the first bit of sunshine in days, I know that there is a greater purpose in my survival. One can only wonder what it will be though. 
Several years have passed since that day and I still keep to my ship. It took a few weeks for me to recover, the boat a bit longer. But it's fully recovered now except for a few cosmetic differences which I believe only add character. I keep sailing, too. My reasoning is that you don't stop doing what you love just because of a few mishaps along the way-why should you stop living when you haven't died? ~y friends and Ijoke about what I went through, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Forget your idealism, welcome to the real world 
questions don't bother me, though. It's 
just something that happened to me. I walk down the small dock and throw in my gear, bracing for another adventure. It's going to be a short trip, a long week­end. Straight toward the horizon I go, as always, nothing in front of me but the deep blue of the Pacific. It's a calm trip as far as weather goes, and I throw a silent prayer toward the sky in thank­fulness as I try and beat the sun to the horizon. 
But on the return journey, an unexpected event befalls me. Through the calm waters, I find bits of driftwood and marine gear, looking like a car that has dragged its tail, a muffler here, a hubcap there. Bits of rope, wood. plastic and sail litter the sea· and I make haste in fol­lowing the trail. But as the day progresses, the weather gets increasingly worse. But instead of being a budding storm, I was heading into the tail end of one. It's a relief as far as I am con­cerned; there is no then a familiar scene appears on the horizon, It's a boat, but an injured one -no mast, no sail. As I struggle to come to its aid with my own boat, I see that it's one 
Jacqueline Cuisiniet's article "How can Catholics support Bush?" in the January 19th, 2004 printing of the Observer ends with the line: "I believe that he [Dick Gephardt] is the man who will best carry out Catholicism's idealism." 
By saying this. Ms. Cuisinier is openly admitting that she is. an idealist. Unfortunately. we live in the real world. 
It might be nice to think that the world is a great place, but this simply is not true. As Catholics, we need to not only follow the ideals of our faith, but also use common sense and rationality whe·n making decisions. If you blindly follow your faith or anything else for that matter, you are no better than a puppet. 
Many of Ms. Cuisiner's criti­cisms are based on the idea that the United States is onlv benefiting itself through its actions. For this, I recom­mend that Ms. Cuisinier take a political science class and read "The Tragedy of Great Power Politics" by John Mearsheimer. In sum, all 
.nations do what is in their best interest. Nothing is "right" or "wrong." Ms. Cu i s i u <' ,· wo u I d s a y t h a t we 
· should JUSt make everything 
"right." But, she does not realize that there are implica­tions to changing our foreign policy to do what is considered "right" from the Catholic per­spective. 
There is no doubt everyone on this 'Campus wants the most comfortable live possible. If we decided to change the poli­cies of the United States in favor of Ms. Cuisiner's opin­ions, we would have to give up our McDonalds, Abercrombie, and SUVs. Who is prepared to do this? Are you realistically prepared to make the sacri­fices of not living in luxury for the people of Tajikistan? 
While it might be easy to criticize the Bush administra­tion from the cozy confines of Notre Dame, I urge Ms. Cuisinier to look beyond the bubble that we live in and adopt a more worldly perspec­tive, and stop blaming Bush for the "problems" of the United States. The United States purely acts in a way to make our lives better, like it or not, no matter who is in office. Welcome to the real world. 
David J. Tagler freshman Dillon Hall Jan. 19 
always over good times and wine. I retell the story of my friends. And as I pull up alongside him, I . like a grandfather reciting stories around a camp­came to realize that which was equally true: the fire. Even the hard questions I answer. Why nightmare I spent on the seas years ago has wouldn't I? They are my friends. The .-----.~--saved his life he would later say. He had 
taken my story and learned from it. The boat looked remarkably like my own, the one I had kept together back then. 
No story is the same. And his turn of bad luck was no sim­pler than mine. He had lost 
radio contact early; where­as, I had lost my mast first. But the specifics didn't 
matter. A lot of things had gone wrong to be sure. He had been 
injured as well but like the rest of his situation, the injuries were differ­ent. 
So when I hopped aboard his boat the only thing he said to me was thank you. No, no, he 
said. Thank you. I could see it in his eyes and I understood. It wasn't the actual act of helping him that mat­

tered. What mattered to him was that I shared my experience and in the end, it 
was what saved him. 
Adam Cahill is a senior history and American studies major. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be contacted at acahill@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those 
ofthe author and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 


War should not be a factor to vote Gephardt 
The question, according to Jacqueline Cuisinier, is how a Catholic can be a Republican. Let me do my best to respond to this great riddle. 
It may surprise her, but the free mar­ket is not contrary to Catholic doctrine. Nor are tax cuts. I recommend that anyone confused about this issue read the encyclical "Rerun Navarum," which, interestingly enough, condemns socialism (which Jacqueline seems to be clamoring· for) far more than capi­talism. The free market is no more inherently evil than is democracy. If some people use the wealth they acquire through free and lndependent economic activity in ways not in accor­dance with the demands of charity, the fault lies with them, not with capital­ism. If an elected official abuses his power, we do not blame democracy, the system through which he obtained that power. do we? 
Regarding the war -true, the Bush administration has done a lot of killing, but that is not necessarily wrong. As a former serviceman who still has friends serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, I would say it is pretty clear that the vast majority of those who have been killed have been people eager to kill innocent civilians both in America and abroad. Why, though, does the Democratic party get a pass on killing the unborn, as some ..unfor­tunate" plank in its platform (it is not a plank, but the core of the platform; but that is for another time). while Bush is held to the flames for killing terror­ists? Why not say the war is just an "unfortunate" part of the Republican platform? If you are so smugly con­cerned for the poor, Jacqueline, why not for the unborn? What makes you so sure we who oppose abortion are just rationalizing our greed? Why do poor states vote Republican (look at a map) while rich states vote Democrat? 
As for the rest of the world. I am not so sure her assertion that most of it is against Bush is correct. Countries like Iran and France and China are, while countries like Kuwait and Poland and Albania are not. Perhaps there is something wrong not with Bush, but with the countries which oppose him. Ever think of that, Jacqueline? I had no idea Bush severed out ties with the United Nations, by the way. Read the news, miss. Also, it seems to have slipped your notice, but Bush asked Congress for $15 billion to fight dis­ease in Africa-this is about $15 bil­lion more than what was allocated before him. You ask if anyone even knows what is going on there; have you asked yourself? 
Go ahead and vote for Gephardt. Such a compassionate, humble, and diplomatic man deserves such a com­passionate, humble, and informed voter. 
Jason Arnoult Class of '99 Jan. 19 

THE OBSERV.ER 



E Tuesday, January 20, 2004 

This weekend's film festival will showcase the creativity a 
By KATIE WAGNER 
Scene Wrirer 

A select group of Notre Dame's film students will debut their cre­ativity, technical skills and endless days of hard work to the student body Thursday at the Department 
of Film  Television  and  Theatre's  
15th annual  Notre  Dame  Student  
Film Festival.  

The festival screens Jan. 22, 23, 24 and 26 at 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. each night. This approximately 115 minute show includes 12 student­
produced short films and a brief introductory film produced by Tim Mandell, an FTT faculty member and head of the festival. 
Mandell, a 1986 Notre Dame gradu­ate, has been a member of the faculty since 1988 and has run every film fes­tival so far. His work for the festival includes providing suggestions for stu­dent films, choosing which films to show with FTT professors Jill Godmillow and Bill Donaruma, choos­ing the order of the films, designing marketing materials, overseeing ticket sales; 

_created by students taking the intro­ductory and intermediate level classes have appeared in the festival on occa­sion. This year the festival will include films from students enrolled in Intermediate Film Production, in addi­tion to films from students enrolled in 
Advanced  Film  Production  and  
Advanced  Digital  Video  Production.  
Besides  quality,  other  factors  are  

considered in choosing which films 
will be used for the show. The running time of individual films does play a small role 
putting all the films in this process.
"One thing about an 
onto one DVD and mak­"Basically, we try to
ND film festival is that 
ing his own film. get as many deserving 
Although this is it's not predictable.·· films in the show as Mandell's 15th year possible and keep the creating an introducto­festival to around two
Ted Mandell 
ry film for the festival, hours long," Mandell

FTT Professor
he is far from exhaust­ing all of the possibili­ties for the subject of this film. In addition to maintaining the typical use of humor in his films, Mandell has recently incorporated a new tactic for capturing the audience. Last year Mandell began the festival with a Coach Tyrone Willingham's big screen debut in "Survivor Tyland." Mandell promises more humor and another surprise Notre Dame celebrity in his 2004 film. Overall, Mandell thinks the film will be full of surprises. 
"One thing about an ND film festival is that it's not predictable." Mandell said. 
Undergraduate students from Notre Dame's advanced film courses have produced most of the films selected for previous film festivals. However, films said. 
Although Mandell 

said he finds it extremely difficult to give general rankings to his festivals, he does com­pare certain aspects of his festivals from year to year. 
"Each year it seems to me that the films tend to get more sophisticated and the ideas are more sophisticated," Mandell said. 
Although the students come up with the ideas for their films and film them completely on their own, professors give students suggestions for their films during filmmaking classes, and students typically discuss their initial ideas with their professors. Professors then provide them students with sug­gestions, including a final critique of the film. 
Notre Dame students taking film-­making classes say they require extreme levels of commitment and dedication. Like most producers of the films pictured in this year's festival, senior film major Sarah Cunningham found her Advanced Film Production class to be very intense. 
"For that whole semester it was my life," Cunningham said. \'Almost every­one in my class stayed for fall break and for Thanksgiving break we were asked to stay if possible." 
The amount of time and energy that the students put into their films both during and outside of class is incredi­ble. In one semester these students are expected to write, shoot, stage, cast and edit a film for just four cred­its. 
Although cameras are pro­vided for students by the FTT 
department, students still ·"For that whole semes­tion was very must purchase their own film ter [the film] was my big for us," and props. In addition to Mukhopadhyay
life.··
equipment, finding a location said. to shoot as well as actors that Other films will work for free is sometimes Sarah Cunningham featured in the shoot other parts of "Martinsville" was especially challenging. Amenta and Mukhopadhyay were not allowed to shoot their film in a place that any­one would see them because of the activities and costumes that were being used. Before they shot at any of the spots pictured in their film on cam­pus, they had to get special permission from several people and organizations of Notre Dame. They ultimately found a few isolated spots to shoot, but Mukhopadhyay still felt quite rushed during their shooting, due to guards tpat were required to monitor them. 
"Everywhere we went we had to get a clearance," Mukhopadhyay said. Despite all their struggles, overall 
Amenta and Mukhopadhyay said they 
were pleased 
with their film. 
"This produc­

much more challenging task than one would expect. 
Film major Matt Amenta and Kajal Mukhopadhyay, a 2003 graduate of Notre Dame as well as the only non­film major involved with the film festi­val, found that the subject of their film created quite a few obstacles for them. Their film "Martinsville" is about an unusually racist town in Indiana. These producers actually traveled four hours to get to this town to be able to shoot real footage of it from inside a car. Finding a location on campus to stress to the lives of their producers. 
Senior  festival  also  
were  time- 
intensive  and  
certainly  added  great  amounts  of  

Senior film majors Justin Rigby and Ryan Steele encountered some techni­cal errors while shooting their film "Civil Wars." which will be the second student-produced film shown. 
"My experience with making this film was crazy," Rigby said. "Our first shoot was plagued with almost every equipment problem you can imagine." 


Tuesday, January 20, 2004 page n 
present the 2004 Film Festival 



'nd hard work by some ofNotre Dame$ best F7T students 
.-."" 


Smith, a 2003 "Assuming
··Each year it seems to me 
Notre Dame grad­Identity," pro­
that the films tend to get
uate, served as duced by Taylor Boruff's partner more sophisticated and the Romigh and Liam in producing this Dacey. This film
ideas are more sophisticat­
film about a suici­is about homo­
ed ... 
dal adolescent sexual students girl. at Notre Dame. The first stu­Ted Mandell "Molly has dent-produced Three Jobs," pro­
FTT Professor 
This film's main character is a high school boy that excels in the classroom and on the wrestling mat and is quite popular with the rest of the student body. Behind his par­ents' back though, he sells drugs. 
Todd Boruff, film major and pro­ducer of "Lucky Rock," which is featured in the festival, ·said that making this film forced him to pull his first two all-nighters. Emily 
film that will show is "South Bend By Night." Senior film majors· Joe Muto and Garrett Fletcher produced this humorous documentary about vampires dur­ing their Advanced Digital Film Production class last spring. Muto said he is really excited about his film's primary position in the show. 
''I'm really proud of this film. It's a great culmination of four years," Muto said. "I'm amazed it came out as good as it did." 
Muto also helped produce a sec­ond film with Sarah Cunningham called "Theresa C." 
Muto and Cunningham shot this film with an extremely advanced, but also rather costly type of film. 
"Theresa C" is about a girl out of high school that is in denial about being pregnant. Cunningham came up with the idea for this film and wrote its script. Muto was ini­tially nervous about producing a film about such a feminine subject. 
"I surprised myself," Muto said. "I thought I'd be giggling [while film­ing]." 
Another film featured in this festi­
val includes 
duced by Ernie 
Grigg and Garrett 
Fletcher, will fol­low this film. It's about a single mother struggling to support her son, by taking on too many jobs. 
"Spanglish," produced by Lance Johnson and Andy Gomez describes the hardships suffered by a charac­ter that immigrates to the United States as a six-year-old. The same twenty-year-old actor is used to play this character as both a six­year-old and a twenty-two-year-old. 
"Bye Bye Birdie," produced by Alex Grunewald and Juli Baron, is about a filmmaker searching for the perfect place to put his poodle Birdie that is diagnosed with can­cer. 
"Roses are Red," produced by Kristina Drazaic and Kateri McCarthy, is a brief black-and­white film about a college student's secret admirer. 
Chris Bannister and Saleem Ismail produced "Ad Nauseum," which compares the reactions to 9/11 to the reactions to the United States' entrance into war with Iraq last spring. 
This festival ends with "Quieres Camerografo," a film about a Notre Dame senior desperate for a date, produced by Justin Leitenberger and Derek Horner. 
Tickets are $5 and are being sold at the La Fortune Box Office. If tick­ets are still available, they can be purchased at the festival. 
Contact Katie Wagner at katherine.a.wagner.54@nd.edu 

Featured Student Films 
2004 
South Bend By Night (joe Muto, Garrett Fletcher) 
Civil Wars (justin Rigby, Ryan Steele) 
Lucky Rock (Emily Smith, Todd Boruff) 
Assuming Identity (Taylor Romigh, Liam Dacey) 
Molly Has Three jobs (Ernie Grigg, Garrett Fletcher) 
Spanglish (Lance johnson, Andy Gomez) 
Bye Bye Birdie (Alex Grunewald, juli Baron) 
Theresa C. ,. (Sara Cunningham, joe Muto) 
Roses Are Red (Kristina Drzaic, Kateri McCarthy) 
Martinsville (Kajal Mukhopadhyay, Matt Amenta) 
Ad Nauseum (Chris Bannister, Saleem Ismail) 
Quieres Camerografo? or Searching for Love in a Post Title IX Era (Justin Leitenberger, Derek Horner) 

• 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 20, 2004 
CLUB SPORTS 

Talamo leads bowling club to 32nd place finish in Las Vegas 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame bowling club finished 32nd in a field of 36 teams at the Las Vegas National College Shoot Out. Jim Talamo led the Irish with a 169 average and a 190 high game, followed by Vance McClenton with a 162 average and a 240 high game. Van Koppersmith posted a 160 average and a 193 high game, while Matt Nieves rolled a 152 average with high game of 
192. Dan Martin averaged 151 including a high game of 193. 
Two women club members entered the event as individu­als. Danielle LaFramboise averaged 119 and Michele Taets 104. Captain Jason Raver started the tournament for the Irish, but his foot stuck on the second frame of his opening game. He fell onto the lane, slicing his finger and was unable to grip the ball, forcing his withdrawal from competition. 
The club will host one of the premier events in the country this coming weekend, Jan. 24­25, the Blue and Gold Classic at Beacon Bowl. This will pos­sibly be the largest and strongest field in the country with over 70 schools entered. The tournament will begin Saturday at 8:00a.m. 
Ski club 
The Midwest Collegiate Ski Association season opened last weekend as the Irish competed in both men's and women's events. The women's squad placed second overall behind Michigan State. The Irish cap­tured first in the slalom and second in the giant slalom, while the Spartans finished second and first in the two events. By the narrowest of margins, Michigan State edged the Irish for the overall cham­pionship. 
Leigh Hellrung waged a per­sonal contest with Michigan State's Nikki Smith. Smith, a transfer star from national champion Massachusetts, edged Hellrung by one second in the giant slalom, with Hellrung taking first by two seconds the next day in the slalom. Alana Lungren took fifth in the slalom, while team­mate Molly Butler was sev­enth. Lungren and Butler placed seventh and 12th respectively in the giant slalom, with Rita Morgan 14th. 
The men's squad finished fourth behind Michigan State, Western Michigan and Grand Valley. The Irish placed-ahead of Michigan and Central Michigan, Northwestern placed first and second in both slalom and giant slalom, but did not have a full team com­peting and were not ranked. Top men's performances in the slalom were Mike Ryan, eighth, Joe Payne 16th, Kevin Wolf 36th and Alex Gloeckner 51st. Conditions were very dif­ficult for the slalom, as only 51 of 108 racers were able to fin­ish the course. In the giant slalom, Leif Peterson took 23rd, followed by Payne 24th, Bill Liemkhueler 27th and Dan Block, 28th. 

Men's volleyball 
The Notre Dame men's club volleyball team opened regular season play at Marquette this past weekend, dropping all six matches. The Irish had to throw together an alternate lineup due to the absence of starting setter Dan Zenker to mononucleosis. The opening losses were by scores of 25-19, 25-13 to Ball State, 25-21, 25­17 to Lakeland and 25-22, 22­25, 15-5 to the host Warriors. Freshman Kevin Overmann made his debut at setter filling in for Zenker. Throughout the day, Notre Dame was able to spark big runs behind ace serving from Nico Lopez and Mike Toomey. The Irish we also able to out block their opponents with the help of outside hitters Mike Giampa and Brian Michalek. 
The Irish concluded the tournament with losses to UW­Milwaukee, 26-24, 25-21, Iowa State, 23-25, 25-15, 15­13 and Illinois State, 25-22, 25-18. As the day went on, it was apparent that Notre Dame was gaining more confidence and improving as a team. 
Notre Dame continues its season play on Jan. 30-31 at Michigan State. Women's Ice hockey 
The women's ice hockey club dropped a 7-1 decision to Michigan at Ann Arbor last weekend. Injuries and players studying abroad depleted the Irish lineup. 
Michigan scored three times in a penalty free first period. At 10:14 of the second period, Julia LaPointe rifled home the only goal for the Irish, assisted by Amy Mcintosh and Tori Blainey. Michigan answered four minutes later for a 4-1 lead. The Wolverines padded the lead with three more goals in the final period to complete the scoring. Becca Frigy con­tinued to play well in goal, making many saves while being peppered with shots the entire contest. 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Connecticut gets physical in 68-65 win over Pitt 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. Connecticut and Pittsburgh went retro Monday night. Not in what they wearing or the music being played. They played a Big East-style game like the ones that gave the league its physical reputation. 
"Only the brave dared report for that game," Connecticut 
. coach Jim Calhoun said of his fourth-ranked Huskies' 68-65 victory over No. 8 Pittsburgh­the Panthers' first loss of the season. "The 10 starters all played at least 30 minutes and if you didn't stand up you got knocked down. You couldn't find a place to hide." 
The Huskies (15-2, 3-0 Big East) bounced back from Saturday's 68-65 loss at North 
,. Carolina that knocked them from the No. 1 spot they held in the rankings for the previous five weeks. "Two losses in a row, we did­n't even.,think about that," Connecticut guard Taliek Brown said. Now that's a possibility for 
the Panthers (18-1, 4-1), one of the last four unbeaten teams in Division I. 
"A lot of people didn't think we're as good as we are because our schedule wasn't that tough," Pittsburgh guard Carl Krauser said. "We're as good as our record says we are." 
The game was a lot slower than Connecticut, which aver­ages 85.9 points, wanted. Pittsburgh used up most of the shot clock on virtually all of its possessions, the way a team that averages 71.3 points usu­ally does. 
"We couldn't speed things up," Calhoun said. "We tried everything and they'd bring the damn thing back out again." 
That Connecticut' was able to play that way and win was even more impressive because preseason All-Americans Emeka Okafor and Ben Gordon didn't have their usual stand­out games, although Okafor came up big on the defensive end in the final minute. Denham Brown led the Huskies with 20 points. 
Taliek Brown scored in the lane with 1:44 left to give Connecticut the lead for good at 64-63. Freshman Josh Boone, who matched his career-high with 10 points, scored on a tip-in with 1:04 remaining to give the Huskies a three-point lead. 
Krauser, who had a career­high 24 points for the Panthers, made two free throws with 34 seconds left to make it a one-point game. Pittsburgh had only four teams fouls and had to commit three in a span of 6 seconds to get the Huskies to the free-throw line. 
Denham Brown made both ends of a 1-and-1 with 25 sec­onds left to make it 68-65. Krauser's shot was blocked by Okafor with 13 seconds to go. Taliek Brown missed the front end of a 1-and-1 with 7.8 sec­onds to go and the Panthers had one last chance to tie. 
Krauser sent the ball across the court to freshman Antonio Graves, whose open 3-pointer bounced off the rim at the buzzer. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South I?ining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS 
The charge 1s 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com 
FREE MONEY Between the Buns restaurant is offering clubs and organizations the opportunity to eam free money. Hold a 'Kickback' at the 'Buns• and receive a 15% donation from what is spent that evening. Call Phil for more details. 
247·9293 . 
WANTED 
Avon/Mark 50/40% Earnings Call Karen 1·866-780-2866 Independent Sales_.Rep. 
AWESOME SUMMER CAMP JOBS! 
Residential camp located in Brown County, Indiana. Operated by the Catholic Youth Organization since 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 17 in various programs. Inclusive of persons with disabilities. Positions available for General, Specialty, and Health staff. 
Extensive training provided starting late May. Welcoming staff commu­nity. 
For application and more information contact: Angi Sullivan, CYO Camp Rancho Framasa, CYOCamp@ aol.com or toll free 888.988.2839, ext. 25. Online at: www.campranchofra· masa.org. 
Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches is now accepting applications for third shift drivers and inshoppers. 
JJs offers competitive pay in a fun fast-paced working environment. 
Drivers must have dependable transportation, insurance, and a clean driving record. 
Call Andy or Mike between 2-5 p.m. at 277·8500 with any questions. 
FoR SALE 
JUDAY LAKE HOMEON LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS. 
GILLIS REALTY 272-6306 
FoR RENT 

3·6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON MO.,FURN.272-6306 
BULLA AD HOME.$650.M0.272­6306 
4 bedroom house. AC, garage, great location, ample space, nego­tiable rent. 
Contact Mike 216-408-0780 or Matt 216-408-4744 if interested 
LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION­ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND IDEAL FOR 3-7 STUDENTS 
277·3097 B&B rooms available near campus 
for JPW. 

$75.00 per person per night, 2-night minimum. 
Call289-4455 for more info. 
New luxurious 3-4 bdrm 3 bath, 2­car garage, fireplace, sky lights, close to campus $1640 monthly, 
ca11574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 
TICKETS 
Need 2 Pitt Bball GAs. Will pay or trade 2 UK or UConn student tx. 
Call Jenny 634-4507. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, esc, at 1·7819. 
For more information, see our bi· weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
There is no meaning behind any­thing I say 
What's a bakery? 
Amanda is not an athlete 
Rafting down the Mississippi. From Will 

Tuesday, January 20, 2004 page 13
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



tudent International Business Council 
www.nd.edu/~sibc 
Finance Accounting 
Marketing Hurnan Resources Internships 

Business Consulting Global Development Information· Technology 
Informational Meeting January 21st at 7:00 pm Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

page 14 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, January 20, 2004 

tuesday


january27 
1pm-3pm 

diversity reception 
•

1110nogram roo111, JOycecenter 4pm-8pm 


career&internshipfair 
joycecenter north dome 
hockey rink side,enter gate 3 student ID required· business casual attire 

leica Geosystems little Brothers -Friends of 
the Elderly liz Claiborne lockheed Martin Madison Center, Inc. Marathon Ashland Petroleum McGiadrey & Pullen Mercer Human Resource 
Consulting Mercy Home For Boys and Girls Motorola MPI Research MTV Networks National Cancer Institute* National City Corporation NAVAIR Newell Rubbermaid Northern Indiana Center for 
History Northrop Grumman Northwestern Mutual Financial 
Network-Hoopis Financial Nova Group of Japan NVIDIA* Office of Human Resources, 
Notre Dame Office ofthe Corporation 
Counsel Organon Pharmaceuticals Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical Peace Corps Pfizer Press Ganey PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Radio Flyer* RFBinder Partners* Ruder Finn SBC Communications Schlumberger Technology Corp. score Smithsonian Institution National 
Museum of American History Social Security Administration Southold DanceTheater* Southwestern Diabetic 
Foundation/ Camp Sweeney Stockman Kast Ryan Stryker Instruments Studebaker National Museum* Talbots Target Corporation Technology Services Group The Children's Museum of Indianapolis 
The Elkhart Truth 

The Gillette Company The Vanguard Group ThinkEquity Partners Thrivent Financial for Lutherans Travelers 
recent registrants 


findoutmore! 

For more information about the participating 
organizations,job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to http://careercenter.nd.edu 

• 
Click on Undergraduates, then click on Go IRISH 

• 
Enter your NetiD (AFSID) and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Search Jobs/Internships 

• 
Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 

• 
Scroll down to Keyword Search, type in WCIF, then dick on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on "'Organization" -Positions, click on HPosition Title" 





UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME pfhe Career Center 
... 
I!! 
~ 
0 
c. 
E 
Gl 
Abercrombie & Fitch Accenture ACNielsen BASES adidas America Advocate Health Care Allstate Insurance Company Amate House American Enterprise Institute* American Legislative Exchange 
Council AOL Time Warner Book Group* Aon Associated Press Augustinian Volunteer Program Bank One Corporation 
cow 
Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Apartment Finders Chicago Consulting Actuaries CIEE Cisco Systems* College Football Han of Fame Council on Foreign Relations* Cultural Service of the French Embassy Deloitte &Touche Dominican Sisters of Springfield, ll Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant/American Electric Power Easter Seals Wisconsin Camps EchoStar Communications EDS Elkhart EnviroCorps/ AmeriCorps Enterprise Rent-A-Car Ernst & Young FPL Group General Electric Gilbane Building Company Goodwill Industries of Michiana H-E-8 Grocery Company Hewlett-Packard Hill/Holliday Holy Cross Associates Honeywell IBM 
IES: Institute for the International Education for Students* 
lndalex Indiana Dept. ofTransportation Indiana Legal Services Indiana State Personnel 
Department lnstitut National de Ia Recherche 
Agronomique* Interlochen Arts Camp John F. Kennedy Center for the 
Performing Arts Kellogg Institute for International Studies, Notre Dame KPMG 
Travelers Property Casualty* Tucker Alan University Directories 
UPS 
US Air Force US Army Corps of Engineers* US Army Healthcare Recruiting US Dept. ofJustice, 
Antitrust Division US Dept. ofTreasu ry, Internal Revenue Service 
Alliance for Catholic Education~ Notre Dame Anson Industries Boehringer lngelheim City of Madison, WI Police Department DaimlerChrysler Services North America Fund for Public Interest Research 
US Marine Corps Officer Selection Team 
US Navy 
U.S. Cellular Vistakon Walgreens Wesco Distribution Wisconsin Badger Camp WNITTelevision WPS Resources Corporation Xerox -The Document Company 
Indiana Dept. ofWorkforce Development/Work One Center 
Kellogg Company* 
Mother Caroline Academy* NFL 
Starcom Worldwide 
The Heritage Foundation* 
YAI/Nationallnstitute for People 
with Disabilities* 
*Resume drop 


every college • every major • internships • full-time 
-
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·--1 
Tuesday, January 20, 2004 page 15
The Observer+ SPORTS 
"But there are some things we team's offensive output against nent's field goal and 3-point Pittsburgh, played just threeDefense can do better." the Orangemen. percentage · and have the first-half minutes against 
It begins with Notre Dame's But the Irish have displayed league's third-worst turnover Syracuse. Neither player scored, continued from page 20 defensive effort. Under Brey, the an inability to lock down on ratio. either. 
Irish have always been a team defense in tough games or to "I don't think this-team does That means Brey could move "We're not in that ballpark, and that relied on outscoring teams weather runs opposing teams the tough stuff that other teams Timmermans into the lineup we may not be in that ballpark to beat them. And the Irish pile on. The Irish are ranked do," senior Torrian Jones said. more to give the Irish a more this season. coach was satisfied with his last in the Big East in oppo-"We are kind of physical presence 
considered one of inside. 
THE CAREER CENTER 
248 Flanner Hall· www.cateercenter.nd.edu 
Up and Coming Employer Presentations: 
Date CompanvName Location Time
-
-

1l20/04 Tt3chforAmenca····•·· JjeBartolo HaD 

·.·.··. '• ..·.. . . 
1/20/04 MorganStanleY·· 
·.. ·Stadium Room,·JJfliversi~ Club ~8 p.~ · , . l/21/04" Kellogg~(CFO· will :be here) L.owetLevel.14.C·E···. · 
. .·. . '\;,. s..6p.m. 1/22/04 Citigroup ND Room, Morrislnn 1/26/04 WPS Resources Room l12,CCE 7•8 p.m. 


l/28/04 KPMG-Take aBreak-OpenHouse Room 210, CCE 12-3 p.m. 2/03/04 Teachfor America•CNN S.creening DeBartoloHall 7-9 p;m. 2/{)4/04 l\fercer Alt1111ni Room, Morris Inn 6-9 p.m. 2/ll/04 FactsetResearch Sorin Room, LaFortune 6-7 p.m. 2/ll/04 Ford l\iotor Room 122, Mendoza 6:30·8 p.m. 
Check Tbe Career Center website daily for additionalcompaniesthat are coming to campus and to sign up for interviews. 
the pretty boy "I think it's just
"Things will be 

teams of the Big the other teams are
tougher for us

East, and other being tougher than teams feel that we before they get us as of right now," try to outscore Timmermans said.
better." 

everybody, and "We've had some that's the mindset games where we've 
Chris Quinn

we have going into played tough, but the game. We can't Guard [against Syracuse] 
dq that." 
The presence of a healthy Tom Timmermans, who recorded career-highs in both minutes (32) and points 
(16) Saturday after missing five games with back spasms, may give Brey another option along­side Torin Francis in the paint. . And with Timmermans per­forming as the most consistent player against the Orangemen -both on offense and defense -that squeezed Jordan Cornette and Rick Cornett most­ly ·out of the lineup. 
"Getting something out 'of [Cornette and Cornett] is some­thing we need to work on," Brey said. "We need some juice out of that." 
But how much remains up in the air. Cornette played a sea­son-low 10 minutes Saturday and Cornett, after sitting out the second half against Villanova and the entire game at 
we got pushed around on the backboard." 
Brey has always emphasized offense, but that approach may change with Notre Dame's struggles against ranked teams. All season long, the Irish have countered multiple baskets by opposing teams by believing they can hit a big shot to stop the momentum. But Notre Dame's defensive disappoint­ments have led Brey to say the Irish have to recommit them­selves to their defense. 
"We have to step up," guard Chris Quinn said. "From guards to big guys to wings, from the first guy to the 13th guy, we have to step it up. 
"Things will be tougher for us before they get better." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

2nd half 
continued from page 20 
said. "Even though we did not win the game, we walked away finding out a lot about our­selves and the level that we can play at." 
Another goal for the Belles was to avoid turnovers and careless mistakes. After giving up a staggering 25 turnovers in their loss against Adrian College, the Belles limited themselves to seven turnovers against Alma. 
Despite having an improved total team effort and cutting back on turnovers, the Belles extended their losing streak to six games as Alma's first half lead was too much to over­come. Faced with that disap­pointment, the. Belles still have a determined outlook. 
"The team attitud,e remains positive even with the losing streak," Bellina said. "We plan to continue playing with the same type of intensity and focus." 
Contact Steve Coyer scoyer@nd.edu 


Wondering what life will be . like outside the bubble? 
. . . . . . . . ... . . 

Afraid of leaving behind your friends and dorm community? 

Doors open at 9:30,. Speaker be:g~ns circa 10:15. 

~Free T -shirt to the first 100 students~ 
~Seniors -free gift! 



Bt-Y1t~ght t1J J(tU by (;~lmpt# .~Htlhn-y dt thl~ C'fat.~ (~f ~,I)OJ, vL~h vs on th~~ VV'(·h~ htq:i;/'·. (~~\rnpusrnini.s:tty .. nd.(·du 
DON'T MISS OUT ON THIS OPPORTUNITY! 


TURTLE CREEK APART~1ENTS NOW LEASING FOR 2004-2005 
Apartments and Townhomes frJtn as low as $280/month per person. 
Call for detail$ 272-8124 Visit us at WW\'1. turtlecreeknd. com 









around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Indiana at Ohio State 7 p.m., ESPN NC State at Boston College 6 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 
Dallas at Edmonton 9 p.m., Fox Sports 
NBA 
Detroit at Indiana 7 p.m., Fox Sports New Jersey at Dallas 8:30p.m., NBA TV 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Gunther 

All-American Miami tight end Kellen Winslow leaps to avoid a tackle. Winslow will enter the NFL draft a year early along with fellow teammates Sean Taylor and Vince Wilfork. 
Three Miami players enter draft early 
only two years in college. in New York on Sept. 23 Virginia Tech lost star
Associated Press 

NFL rules require that a challenging the NFL's rule running back Kevin Jones NEW YORK -Miami player's graduating class and a ruling could come by and cornerback DeAngelo was the hardest-hit school 
must be three years Feb. 1. Hall.when the official list of removed from high school National champions Other prominent playersearly entries for the NFL to enter the draft. But Southern California and 
on the list include, Ohio

draft was released Fitzgerald spent a year at LSU each lost key players 
State cornerback Chris

Monday, losing All­a prep school before enter­early as well. USC All­Gamble, Oklahoma defen­Americans Kellen Winslow ing Pitt and is hoping to get American defensive end sive tackle Tommie Harris,and Sean Taylor, along a special waiver. Kenechi Udeze joined LSU Oregon State running backwith standout defensive "We are in the process of quarterback Matt Mauck 
Steven Jackson, Georgia

tackle Vince Wilfork. clarifying his status," NFL and receiver Michael defensive back Sean Jones,The three· Hurricanes spokesman Greg Aiello Clayton on the list. 
Miami of Ohio quarterbackwere among 41 players said Monday. Arkansas was also hit 

who left school early for Clarett was suspended hard, losing All-American Ben Roethlisberger, Florida the draft. That list does not this season for accepting offensive tackle Shawn State receiver P.K. Sam, include Ohio State running improper benefits from a Andrews, defensive back Maryland defensive tackle back Maurice Clarett and family friend and lying Ahmad Carroll, tight end Randy Starks and Pittsburgh receiver Larry about it to investigators. Jason Peters and fullback Washington receiver Fitzgerald, who have spent He filed a federal lawsuit Mark Pierce. Reggie Williams. 
IN BRIEF 

Federer Opens with easy on center court. Kevin Garnett led Minnesota with Spaniard Felix Mantilla, seeded 29 points, 15 rebounds and seven
win 

MELBOURNE, Australia 23rd, joined the seven other seeded assists, drawing a foul with 18.2 sec­Wimbledon champion Roger Federer men's players out in the first round onds left that led to New Orleans when he lost 7-5, 6-1, 7-6 (3) to
found his range with his powerful coach Tim Floyd's ejection. 
Frenchman Thierry Ascione. 
forehand and beat Alex Bogomoiov Baron Davis had 25 points for the 
Greg Rusedski lost 6-4, 6-3, 6-4 to
Jr. 6-3, 6-4, 6-0 in a first-round Hornets before mildly spraining his
26th-seeded Albert Costa in likely his
match Tuesday at the Australian left ankle midway through the fourth
last match before he faces an ATP
Open. quarter with his team trailing.85-84.
doping hearing at Montreal on Feb.
The second-seeded Federer reeled Without its star, New Orleans lost9.

off seven consecutive games to close its cool. 

Rusedski admitted two weeks ago
in 1 hour, 29 minutes and extend Darrell Armstrong beat the shot

Bogomolov's record in Grand Slam he'd tested positive for nandrolone clock with a 3-pointer that put the
last July, but claims the banned
tournaments to 0-5. 
Hornets up 90-87 with 3:30 to go, but

steroid was contained in supplements
Federer will meet another 

dispensed by ATP trainers. Cassell hit a 10-footer to cut the lead
American qualifier in the second 
to one.
round after Jeff Morrison beat Dennis Timberwolves over the Steve Smith missed a long jumper, van Scheppingen 6-4, 6-2, 6-4. 

Venus Williams, a four-time Grand Hornets 97-90 Garnett got fouled as he made a shot Slam winner returning to a major for MINNEAPOLIS -Sam Cassell had in the lane on the other end and the first time since losing the 22 points, including seven in the final Floyd went crazy. He chucked his Wimbledon final to her sister Serena 2 1/2 minutes, leading the Minnesota jacket off, kicked a bouncing ball into last year, faced American teenager Timberwolves to a 97-90 victory over the seats, got ejected and angrily Ashley Harkleroad in the later match the New Orleans Hornets on Monday. chased after referee Phil Robinson. 
-
Tuesday, January 20, 2004 page 17 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Poulin said. "I think that goal­who has never had a goal­tending is one of the strengths tender finish his career with a
Goalies 
on our team. save percentage higher than continued from page 20 "I really feel we might have .900. But Cey and Brown have the best tandem in the coun­been turning heads this season "Our goalies were just try." as quickly as they've been turn­
tremendous," coach Dave Strong words for a school ing away pucks. 
University of Notre Dame Intet·national Study Programs 
LI Information Session 
Volunteer Opportunities in Spanish through Memorial Hospital, South Bend 

Specificallyfor: Returnees ofSpanish Language Study Abroad Programs Participants ofMedical Spanish Courses Interested Students with a High Level ofSpanish 
Thursday, January 22, 2004 5:00-6:00 pm 138 DeBartolo Hall 
-------------------------------------------------------------.---------------------­

lVISPS 
FINE ART'S LECTURE SERIES 
Prese11ts 



Sherman Alexie 

D4lte: Tuesd~lJ', 'lJanu~lr)~ 20tll Ti111e: 7:00 P.l\<1. '\71tere: S11ite l\-1usetttl1 ­
...i\.Itnettburg ~~udit•)riunt (_~tlst: FREE F,REE 

With the Irish getting quality 
goaltending at one end of the 
ice, senior forwards Rob 
Globke and Aaron Gill and 
sophomore forward Mike Walsh 
were able to excel at the other 
end. 
Globke and Gill each scored 
two goals on the weekend, 
while Walsh scored the crucial 
game-tying goal after 
Wisconsin took an early 1-0 
lead Sunday. Walsh has already 
shown a knack for coming 
through in big games, scoring 
the only goals in 1-0 victories 
over both Boston College and 
Maine. 
"Mike's goal on Sunday was 
really the turning point," Poulin 
said. "Wisconsin obviously felt 
that they had lost a point 
against us the night before and 
thought they'd be able to win 
easily. We were able to tie it up 
and get the momentum back, 
and that was the difference." 
The weekend began on an 
ominous note for the Irish, who 
ran into a storm near the 
Illinois-Wisconsin border that 
delayed their bus ride to 
Madison for four hours. 
"I was very pleased with how 
the team handled that adversi­
ty," Poulin said. "It took us a lit­
tle while to get our legs back 
under us from the bus ride, but 
we were able to get going and 
do well in a difficult arena to 
play in." 
The Irish fell behind 1-0 early in the first Saturday as John Eichelberger scored for the Badgers on the power play. Notre Dame's sluggish start was apparent, with the Irish not even recording a shot on goal until the 14:40 mark of the first period. 
That shot would be a big one, however, as Gill picked up the rebound of a Globke shot and slipped it past Wisconsin goalie Bernd Bruckler. The goal came on an Irish power play and marked the then-fifth straight game that the Irish scored on a power play (they would also score a power play goal Sunday to run that total to six). 
Eichelberger would regain the lead for Wisconsin in the second period with his second goal of the game, but Gill would match him once more on the 
scoring sheet with another 
power play goal just 1:23 into 
the third. Globke also collected 
an assist on the play. 
All four goals Saturday came 
with the man advantage. Each 
team was 2-of-7 on the power 
play. 
"When you're not getting a 
lot of shots on goal, it's impor­
tant to take advantage of your 
power play chances, and we 
did just that," Poulin said. 
The Irish again got off to a 
rough start Sunday, perhaps 
facing an angry Wisconsin 
team focused on revenge. 
Brown faced 13 shots in the 
first period, aliowing a goal to 
Rene Bourque, while his 
Wisconsin .:ounterpart Brian 
Elliott only faced two Irish 
shots. 
Walsh tied the game about six 
minutes into the second period 
as he wristed a shot past Elliott 
to give the sophomore his ninth 
goal of the season. 
Ten minutes later, the Irish 
took advantage of a 5-on-3 
power play to take the lead, 

with Globke collecting the goal ··, 
off assists from Tom Galvin and 
Neil Komadowski. Globke's goal 
was the game winner and gave 
him 13 in his career, tying him 
with Brian Urick and Poulin. 
The senior forward would 
score his second goal of the 
game with an empty-netter to 
put the Badgers away for good. 
Penalty killing was a big part of Notre Dame's success Sunday, as the Irish killed all six Wisconsin power plays in the game, including three in the first period. 
"Special teams were huge for us this weekend," Poulin said. "When Wisconsin had those three power plays in the first Sunday, it allowed their offense to get in gear a little, but we never backed down and did a great job playing through that difficult situation." 
Notre Dame finishes out the regular season with 12 straight conference games, starting with a visit to Northern Michigan this weekend. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 



---------· 
r---­
f 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 20, 2004 
However, the Army team failed Dame Stadium. emphasize having a good played for their former com­to advance after a tough loss to "It's a chance for units to time." manding officer, Col. Mark
ROTC 
continued from page 20 
beat the Virginia and Tennessee State Air Force squads to advance to the championship game, where they beat the Colorado mixed­service team in the Joyce Center arena to win the tour­nament. Tournament par­
ticipants voted "It's a chance for success, thanks to Notre Dame his fellow cadet
units to build unity 
sophomore Greg 
within
Belatti as tourna­
ment MVP. themselves ... , After beating 
Marquette's 
Andrew DeBerry 
Army Batallion 
Air Force cadet
in the women's division, the Notre Dame Air Force cadets defeated the Purdue mixed­service squad for the champi­onship. 
The results were mixed for the other services at Notre Dame. The Navy unit beat Purdue's Navy team before los­ing to Colorado's mixed-service squad in the men's semifinals. 
r-----------~-----------------------~
I O'NEILL HALL I : 1STANNUAL · : 
I I I I 
I . I I i . . _ · . . . ... . -.. , . _.-·. --. -. , , . __ · · I
:NlGHT-,QF CAPTAINS;
I . . -I 
I I I I I I 
:NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC CAPTAINS: 
I I I 
: O'NEILL 24 HOUR LOUNGE 
I 
WEDNESDAY' JANUARY 21ST 7:30PM 
FREE PIZZA 
CAPTAINS FROM SOME OF NOTRE DAME'S ATHLETIC TEAMS WILL BE SHARING THEIR EXPERIENCES AS LEADERS AND STUDENT• ATHLETES. 
COME, USTEN, ASK QUESTIONS, HANG OUT. 
~--------------------------~--------~ 
~'·~~~~ 


GRE-Ar w~LL 
CHtN£~£ AMERICAN RESTAURANT Au~IS(. Sr~-hlian. Mandarin lliYNr'l (uisilll!!! 
I-Ielp \Ul c(.Iehra.t:e the (-h·. .N v. ' 
~ Jnt:~r . cw J.ear.. 
l,z.:luJ.... Scup. s.!...! ·p,.._,~ -' ;i'''r...~· 10 Ent:n" aad -o-n. O>.b-s "'""" i!e= al..o .woiWl),. 
222 Dixie WayS., S.B~ .. 37+2nM7376 
~~~~­



At~~ 
~ Announces the tonow;no lntroductooy offe,. of••• 
·----~·---~·----··----··----· 
I I I I I $69 I I I I $79
$ 8 $ 6 $79
I l I I l I 1 Color, Cut & I I I I I
Highlights,

I Mens Cut I 1cm & StyleI I Style I I P<rm, Cur e< Sryl< I I Cut & Style 1 One Process 
·----~~---··----··----·~----· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist B~re Services Are Pn:formed 
Offer Good With KJ -Kelly-Elena -Chrissy-Desiree -Stefanie -Jennifer 
Norwhd lOr spiral I""""· l.ongouinarlluir add $10. No odl<o-dis­ATRIA SALON oouna apply. Open """"' cv<ni"S'. AIRIA Salon """"""' Ill< rigtv to rdUx xrvirx w .ny dient whole hair rondicion is untttatabk.. 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Corner of Edison OFFER EXPIRES 3-1-04 289-5080 
success." 
The tournament also fea­tured a 3-point shootout and a cadre bracket, in which com­manders' faced off on the floor. In addition to basketball, the Air Force cadets hosted a gath­ering at Legends. as well as tours of the campus and Notre Marquette. 
Andrew DeBerry, a fifth-year senior Air Force cadet who was in charge of the tournament, said the tournament has become a Notre Dame and ROTC tradition. 
"It's the largest annual ROTC competition in the nation," DeBerry said. 
DeBerry said the 
tournament was a 
leaders. 
"I had a great staff," he said. "Because of the contributions of a sharp starr.· a sup­portive wing and great leaders, this tournament was a 
sPECIAIJ 
Bufftt s..9pm 
(2 Da.ys Only) 
Adults 

s9.95 

Oilldrtn 1tndtt 10 
s4.95 .....,.., 


build unity within themselves, DeBerry said this year's tour­Gehri, who is now serving in camaraderie with other future nament was especially unique. Afghanistan. officers across service lines "It's dedicated to all deployed and have an excellent tourna­servicemen and women," he Contact Matt Bramanti at ment," DeBerry said. "We said. In particular, the cadets mbramant@nd.edu 

Conversation 
Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning 
Students at Notre Dame 
Uesday, January 20th 
(and every third Tuesdayof the month) 
7:00--9:30 p.m. 

316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their 


friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 

Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 
+ Monda.y & WednesdayOR . 
Tuesday & Thursday -3:30A:30 or 4:30-5:30 
t Work Study and Volunteer positions available 
+ TrainingJanuaty 22nd and 28th -Sign up ·now! 
• Five differentsites 
throughout the cotrunurnty 
• Transportation can be 
provided by Transpo Bus or by carpool 
ROlHNSON COMMUNITY IAEARNING CENTER 
921 NoJth EddyStreet 
South Bend, JN 46617 
Contact Kri~ Miller, 
Volunteer Coordinatorat: 
Phone: 631-9427 
Etnall: kmllle18@nd.edu 
Become a tutor and become a mentor. Help a child learn to read and learn a lot from them too. You can make an impact in the South Bend community. Get involved... tutor at the RCLC! 

Celebrating Learning... One Relationship at a Time! 


Tuesday, January 20, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 

FIVES 

JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ZAGER
I rJ (]
1 
C2004 Tri>une Media Services. Inc. All Rights AeeeNed. 

PHEES 
rJ I rJ
1 
QUIROL 
rJ 
www.jurmle.com
f
:VIPSEL 1 j 
1 





rx tJ 
Ans~r= "( I I I J" [ I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) DUCHY LOFTY GUIDED CRAVAT
Yesterday's I Jumbles: Answer: What the couple did when the carpeting was installed -CUT A RUG 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

~ UPHOL-5TE:R.E:R SAID THE: C.HAIN5 ON Hl5 TIRE:S 
we:~--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 36 Teutonic turn-66 Best Actress down winner for "Blue
1 Fr. holy women Sky"
5 Nut's partner 37 Wreath for the head 67 Mountain-climb­
9 Rite place ing aid38 Took advantage14 Bath powder 
of 68 Just manages, ingredient with "out"40 Like some15 Tom Joad, for organs 69 Pushed strongly
one 42 Herbert sci-fi 70 Took to court
16 Mr. Moto por­classic
trayer 71 Deliver a tirade 43 Dracula portray­
17 Boorish er 
18 St. Paul's archi-DOWN
45 Burned-out
teet ship, e.g. 1 Barbershop 19 Shoe blemish band? 
47 Amigo
20 Flexible educa-2 Hosiery shade tional environ-48 "Guys and 
3 One to respect
ment Dolls" composer 4 Postcard-pretty 
23 You should 51 Car loan fig. worry if you're in 5 Play in the alley 
52 They, in Tours 
it 
6 Gumbo pod53 Simoleons24 Suffix with auc­7 Epitaph word
tion 57 Payee's con­venience 8 Got uptight 
25 Lobbying grp. 62 False move 9 Election loser 
28 "Smile!" show 64 Mate's greeting 10 Plumb crazy
33 California's Big 32 "Spy vs. Spy" 46 Gridder-turned-58 "Picnic" play­65 False move 11 Falsified, as magazine politician Jack wright charges 
33 _drug (infec-49 Back-to-back
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 59 1 0 C-notes 
12 Kennel sound tion fighter) awards for ~~:""'~"'::~ 13 Officiate Hanks 60 Inside info 
34 Take forcibly 50 Top contractor? 
~~~~ 21 Tartan-wearing 35 With respect to 61 Checked out group 54 Honshu port39 Put on 62 Winter bug
-=+-=+::~ 22 Some California 55 Compare
41 Neighbor of Ger.
political moves 56 Bikini event, in 63 Musical percep­44 Sidestepped old headlines tion
26 Place to fight · 
27 Sahara trans­1-!-+......+,.....,,-4 port For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
29 Britain's Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundayChamberlain 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ~.::+:~~ 30 Early sixth-cen­Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
tury date 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year}. -=+=+-:~':"4 31 _dark {clue­Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, less) nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Lorenzo Lamas, David Lynch, George Burns, Federico Fellini, Patricia Neal, Slim Whitman Happy Birthday: Your outgoing nature will "ttract exciting connections. You will be open and receptive to new ideas. Expand your circle of friends and sign up for seminars that interest you. Everything you learn will come in handy later on. You've got what it takes to be a leader, so don't shy away if the opportunity arises. Your numbers: 4, 17, 33, 35, 41, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Business opportunities will be plentiful, but you must be sure that you don't allow others to push you into putting up all the cash. Don't lend money or possessions to others·.*** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't overreact. Your emotional problems are likely to interfere with your "Professional efficiency. Take one thing at a time and don't be too quick to enter into joint financial ventures. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Try to be honest in your description concerning recent happenings. You could easily be blamed for something you didn't do. Social events will lead to lasting romantic connections. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your sensitive nature will be appreciated by friends who need help. Don't take on too much, or exhaustion and minor health problems will occur. Changes in your home are apparent. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Fitness and sports will make you feel better and lead to good results. You will be able to finish creative projects that you left on the back burner. Relationships are stabilizing. u• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your ability to be responsible and practical will be appreciated by someone special. Relationships can develop if you are interested in the advances being made by an admirer.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Co-workers may not be looking out for your best interests. Be aware that someone you work with is trying to take the credit for your hard work. Don't be taken for granted or taken advantage of. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't take drastic measures if you aren't happy with the actions of your personal partner. Do a little soul-sC4lTching and decipher if you may be partly to blame for the disharmony at home. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Job changes look promising. You will experience delays while driving. Check into any financial ventures that interest you. Let your mate know your true feelings. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your attitude is changing rapidly, and you have probably taken on way too much. Try to enlist the help of those you trust in order to complete the demands you face. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be competitive at work. Be careful not to step on the wrong person's toes. Opportunities for romance will surface. Be careful or minor accidents may occur.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Financial deception is evident. You may misplace money or jewelry if you aren't extremely careful. You should sign legal documents that need to be updated.*** 
Birthday Baby: You have it all. You are materialistic and philosophical, all wrapped up into one little package. As a seeker of truth and a believer in the unusual, you should seek a leadership position that will allow you the freedom to follow whatever path you choose. Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 


THE OBSER\'ER 
Tuesday, January 20, 2004 

HOCKEY 
Badgering all of their opponents 
'I 
Irish tie 2-2 and win 3-1 on the road against No. 4 Wisconsin 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
As if they needed to make their case anymore this sea­son, the Irish once again showed the hockey world they can compete with the best. 
Already this season, the Irish have defeated then-No. 1 Boston College and then-No. 3 Maine away from the Joyce Center. Add No. 4 Wisconsin to Notre Dame's list of van­quished ranked foes on the road. 
Despite being outshot by the Badgers by a combined 69-37, the Irish remained undefeated 
' 
,. (2-0-1) at the Kohl Center in Madison, Wise., thanks espe­cially to the play of their goal­tenders. 
Junior Morgan Cey made 36 saves Saturday to help the team to the 2-2 tie, and fresh­man David Brown continued his impressive rookie cam­paign with 30 saves as he backstopped the Irish to their third win over a top-five team. 

see GOALIES/page 17 

Page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Effort on 1 D'needs 
•

to Improve 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
In two straight games against two ranked teams, Notre Dame has appeared more than willing to step aside and let its oppo­nents do what they will. 
Easy lay-up? It's yours. Loose ball? You can have it. Want a rebound? Here's a space to jump from. In fact, in back-to­hack losses to Pittsburgh and Syracuse, the Irish have surren­dered more than 40 points in the paint each time and allowed both opponents to shoot over 48 percent from the field. 
The schedule doesn't get any 
· easier. After the Irish (8-5 over­all, 2-2 in the Big East) travel to Virginia Tech (8-6, 1-2) tonight, Notre Dame plays six ranked teams in nine games. So far this year, the Irish are 0-3 against foes ranked in the top 25. 
"They're really, really good," Irish coach Mike Brey said of Syracuse Saturday night. 
see DEFENSE/page 15 

ti.
t\ 
~~I· 
~ 
r1 
1: '· 
:~ 
.~ 
!i J 
:g 
:I 
I 
'' 
•I' •I
,, 
,( 
il 
I. 
·~ 
I 
I! 
l
I! 
li 
,, :) 
SMC BASKETBALL 


Second half rally not .enough for Belles 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 
In desperate need of a vic­tory this weekend, the Belles made a strong second-half comeback but still came up short in a 70-67 loss to Alma College. 
The Belles (4-11) found themselves down 45-32 at halftime after being unable to stop Alma's powerful offense. In the second half, the Belles closed the gap with a resilient defensive effort that almost gave them the victory. 
"Our defense really picked us up in the second half." coach Suzanne Bellina said. "The lack of defensive inten­sity in the first half made the difference between winning and losing." 
The Belles certainly had their hands full on defense trying to contain Alma for­ward Karen Hall, who had a double-double with 24 points and 10 rebounds. 
Alma built its lead in the first half on a solid inside game and accurate shooting. The Scots shot 60 percent for the game from behind the arc. 
Center Emily Creachbaum was the leading scorer for the Belles with 19 points, while guard Katie Miller chipped in 15 points with 5­of-1 0 shooting from 3-point range. 
Before the game, the Belles realized that a team effort would be necessary to win. After a shaky first half, the Belles regrouped and were able to move the ball better and play tighter defense. 
"This probably was one of our best team efforts of the year, if you look at the assists as well as the defensive effort that was put forth," Bellina 
see 2ND HALF/page 15 
ROTC 


Notre Dame hosts ROTC tourney 
Air Force unit wins 18th annual hoops tournament at JACC 
By MATT BRAMANTI Sports Writer 
The Flying Irish soared again. 
Last weekend, Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC cadets won the 18th Annual ROTC Invitational. Detachment 225 of the Air Force ROTC sponsored the tournament, held in the Joyce Center, which was open to Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC units nationwide. 
The invitational featured 53 teams from across the country, who played at least three games each in brackets named after Notre Dame legends like Sarin, Hesburgh and Parseghian. 
In the men's bracket, the Notre Dame Air Force team 
see ROTC/page 18 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
41 players declare early for NFL draft 
Miami loses three key players -Sean Taylor, Vince Wilfork and Kellen Winslow. 
page 16 

NCAA BASKETBAll 
Connecticut defeats Pittsburgh 68-65 
Connecticut bounces back after their loss at North Carolina that knocked them from the No. 1 spot. 
page 12 
CLUB SPORTS 
Bowling team finishes 32nd in Las Vegas 
Jim Talamo led the Irish with a 169 average and a 190 high game. 
page 12 







