
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE SO WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10,2004 
Complex fire investigation continues 
By KATE ANTONACCII 
1
News Writer 
After a string of unexplained fires at Castle 1 Point Apartments nearly fourIweeks ago, investigations coptinue into possible causes, including arson. 
1 
"We still have thre~ open eases regar·ding that and until we close any one oflthem; they're all open becau~e they oceurred in the same eo.m­plex," Clay fire marshaf Dave Cherrone said. "That's their common denominator." I 
In addition to the Indiana state marshal and the Clay fire marshal's involvement, Castle Point has hired a private com­pany as a third party to investi­gate. 
"We weleome [the private investigation] beeause it gives you someone else to bounce information off of to see if they see something that you didn't, to test some things that may not have been initially tested," Cherrone said. "That's a stan­dard thing beeause insuranee eompanies have a finaneial interest and they want to make sure they are getting the best 
they can for the tenants money." 
Sinee the fires took plaee right before fall break, it was diffieult for authorities to begin a prompt and complete investi­gation, as many residents had left for the week. 
"We st~ll have some people that we are questioning," Cherrone said. "We are just hoping that we get some defini­tive answers in the next week or so." 
Cherrone eonfirmed the trashcan fires have been listed as arson beeause of their loea­tion and time. The third fire, which damaged two apartment units, is still listed as undeter­mined. Though all three eases remain open, there are sus­peets for the first two fires. · 
"We had already begun, of course, the investigation in regards to the trashcan inci­dents before the other fire oeeurred," Cherrone said. "There were some people who were questioned in regards to that and some who we are still looking at as far as those two'." 
Castle Point has increased lighting in dark areas of the 
see ARSON/page 4 


Fairness, efficiency of registration questioned 
Senior Jonathan Sundy, . examines course selection on lrishlink. Right, students flip through class registration books out-

side the College of Arts 'and Letters advising office in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students will begin assembling their srring schedules today through an 
online eourse registrttion 
process  -formerly  e  lied  
"DART-ing"  - that  has  
prompted  some  Dome  s  to  

question its effieieney an . fair­ness. 
1 
The eurrent proeedure for seheduling seeond semester elasses is ealled lrishLink web registration. However many students and faculty members still refer to the process in terms of its arehaie aeronym, DART, or Direet Access Registration by Telephone, even though this particular method of scheduling was ter­minated several years ago. 
"We asked aeademie depart­ments and eolleges to stop using the term 'DART,' but old habits die hard," Notre Dame Registrar Harold Paee· said. 
In web registration, eaeh stu-. dent enrolled in the University is assigned a unique PIN num­ber, whieh will allow him or her to enter the lrishLink data­base during a randomly allo­eated time slot within his or her appropriate level. Levels are for the most part class-spe­cifie in that they are assigned based on the number of semes­ters and eredit hours eomplet­ed by the student. 
Members of the first level ­eomprised of seniors and 3rd year law and graduate busi­ness students -choose their eourses earliest in the registra­tion proeess. Juniors and 2nd year law and graduate busi-. 
see CLASSES/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Journalist analyzes election 
Carlson cites religious groups as key to win 
By MICJ-iAEL BUSK 
News Writer 
Margaret Carlson, a political commentator and 2004-05 journalist-in-residence at Notre Dame, spoke about the presidential eleetion Tuesday, contending t h a t 
·' ··:........
Pr«;Jsident 
Bush won 
because of 
I 
his ability to 
;,-···_··:_: .•
!"""..'.-..--·· ,.~
mobilize his ''{:-·: ...... conservative 
•base and get them to the polls. Carlson 
"How did Bush get here? Kat! Rove and those four millions evangeli­cals. He said he was going to get them, and he did ... and he formed a religious coalition. he got Orthodox Jews and he got Catholics," she said in her lee­ture at the Ilesburgh Center. 
But Carlson also said the issue of moral values, whieh helped make conservative turnout so high. is in faet mueh more complex than Bush and Republieans would have Ameriea believe. 
"Mueh is being made of the moral values issue, and people voting on that basis, but you have to ask, 'What does it mean? What are moral val­ues,"' she said. "Do people that voted for Bush have better ones than the people that voted for Kerry?" 
see CARLSON/page 6 


Pink bracelets show solidarity in breast cancer fight 
By KATIE O'HARA 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses arc 'bad.. ding' together in the fight a~ainst breast eahcer, as separat pink wristband campaigns are run­ning at both schools 
At Notre Dame, the W men in Soeial Service and II ~alth (WISSII) eireulated the rist­
bands through dorms lastrlweek as a fundraising effor for breast cancer patients. "This is the first thing e've 
been able to get out there," senior Ashley Merusi, eo-~esi­dent of the newly fo med 
WISSJI, said. "I've seen [t em] around eampus, and I've ~een getting good feedback." 1 
Resource Center. But when the full-time Gender Resource Center was developed, the WRC members felt they had to redefine their student-run dub. 
"As the Gender Resouree Center grew, we had deeided we. weren't really needed any­mon-l," Merusi said. "We've switched our focus to fundrais­ing, awareness and service projects. We still distribute information. but we are no longer the primary source." 
Prompted by the national sueeess of the LiveStrong yel­low bracelets, whose proceeds supported the Lance Armstrong Foundation and cancer survivors, Merusi said WISSH wanted to simultane­ously raise money and inerease breast eaneer awareness. 
WISSH had, until last year, Women in Social Service and Health are selling the pink wristbands pictured above for $2. All been known as the Women's see BRACELET/page 4 proceeds will benefit breast cancer patients. 

GEOFF MATIESONfThe Observer 
Political science professor Dan Lindley, far right, speaks at the panel "Iraq: What's Next?" held Tuesday In the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. He was joined by peace stud­Ies professor George lopez, second from left, and military science professor Gary Masapollo. Associate director of the Kroc Institute Martha Merritt, far left, moderated. 
OFFBEAT 
page 2 
INSIDE CoLUMN 

Betting on blind faith 

I have deep loyalty in many things, one of them being the New York Yankees. 
Their stunning loss to Boston in the ACL':l was heart-wrenching enough. but the pain that befell me following their Game 7 defeat was only amplified by the fact that I had gam­
bled on th1~ series. Katie Perry And when the Yankees lost. I lost. Wire News Big-time. Editor In my mind. bet­ting on the Yankees was like betting on gravity. For me to lose would mean that some universal law of nature would be defied. and this of course could never happen. I was so certain of victory that I hastily placed bets with two separate friends. I barely li'iten1~d to the terms ­alter all, I wasn't going to lose-and continue~ exuding over-the-top confi­dencl1 in my team. While some may per­ceive my lofty declaration of imminent victory a.<; sheer arrogance, I ascribe to it a dillimmt name-blind faith. My swagger only increased as the Yankees steamrolled through the first three games of the series. The momen­tum was ours and the sweep was certa,in. With Game 4 looming I was on top of the world. I incessantly taunted the friends I had placed bets with, a..'i well a..'i every other Hed Sox fan I encountered. My ·stance on the Yankees' intrinsic supl)rior­ity was becoming instantiated, and I was not about to let anyone forget it. And then it happ1~ned. We lost. but not just once. W1~ lost fimr times in a row. Four consecutive deft1al'i, and the Hed Sox had somehow broken a curse, made history, and severely traumatized every Yankees fan on God's green Earth. It felt as though someone had jabbed a piece of David Ortiz's shattered bat through my heart. Hecalling my bets only added insult to injury. In the first bet I was required to wear a Hed Sox T-shirt for an entire day. Not so bad, I thought to myself. Even though I would never willingly dress in such atrocious apparel, I still could imag­ine a worse predicament. I Iowever, when I was given the shirt I was stunned to sec that it had been altered, and the once-plain Pedro Martinez jersey now donned a myriad of humiliating phrases. In large black letters across the stomach read, "David Ortiz is My Papi." "A-Hod Cheats and Is Ugly," read the neckline. The back was decorated with "I Want to Have Pedro's Children" and "Curt Schilling Has allot [Butt]." The second bet involved a slightly more arduous task-eight weeks of laundry duty. Again, I assured myself that it could bil a lot worse. I obviously did not know what I had gotten myself into. I soon found that some boys are extraordinarily fastidious regarding their clothing, that "rolling" boxers is ideal to folding them, and that some people prefer a "deep fold" in their socks. T-shirts that cost over $20 arc placed on the left, all others go on the right. and one more thing, fold­ing them in thirds just won't cut it­halves are acceptable, however. One day as I sat on the floor rolling boxers, folding sox, and halving shirts, someone walked by raving about the Duke men's basketball team. I immedi­ately interjected and asserted the potency possessed my hometown team of Syracuse. ''I'll bet you my Dukies make it farther in the NCAA tournament than Syracuse," he said. Without hesitation, I responded. "You're on." I guess some things never change. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Obsc:rv<r regards iudfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, howev<r. rccogniu: that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, pl=e contact us at 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 
Wednesday, November 10, 2004
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE DART PROCESS? 


Alex Harty  Chris Christensen  Jana Miller  
sophomoreO'Neill.  junior Knott  sophomore McGlinn  
"It's the biggest rush ofmy school year. "  "I think it needs to be revised to a certain extent."  "It's a little confusing."  

LLI ::::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
<C 
(.) 
0
.... 

Atlanta 58 I 36 Boston 42 I 34 Chicago 60 I 38 Denver 45 I 24 Houston 76 I 62 los Angeles 69 I 54 Minneapolis 52 125 New York 45 I 38 Philadelphia 47 I 34 Phoenix 74 I 55 Seattle 56 I 40 St. Louis 63 I 46 Tampa 80 I 60 Washington 50 139 




Bridget Higgins Dan O'Brien Rusty Bresnahan 
freshman senior · senior Cavanaugh off-campus off-campus 
"Oh yeah, I "I say just play "''m not an have to pick out the music and athlete." my classes, dance. I don't I?" graduate in December." 

Even Santa can't get flu shot 
DENVER -Apparently there is no special exception for Santa -at least not for flu vaccines. 
Nick Pallotto, 62, who plays Santa Claus in malls, turned up at a flu clinic in Colorado Springs and was denied a shot because he wasn't 65 or suiTering from a chronic health problem. 
"They asked me if I was 65, and I said, 'No, but I am Santa,"' he said. 
For the past four years Pallotto has worked for Naturally Santa Inc., appearing as Santa Claus at malls in New Jersex. Denver 
TODAY c:: 

60 
45 

HIGH LOW 

48 24 

HIGH LOW 
and will work this year in Virginia. 
Pallotto said he gets a flu shot every year because he has so many contacts with children. More than 10,000 kids were on his lap last year. 
Double golfing ace beats long odds 
SPOKANE, Wash. -Chris Varallo thought it was quite amazing when he aced the third hole at Liberty Lake Golf Course. Then he went ahead and hit a second hole­in-one on the 11th hole of the same round. 
Odds against that are about 67 million to 1, 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
according to Golf Digest. 

"The first one was pretty amazing," said Varallo. "But after the second, everyone was in utter disbelief. Other people on the course heard the screaming and were coming over to see what had happened." 
The 22-handicapper, an attorney, finished his round 31 strokes over par at 101 at the course located about 10 miles east of Spokane. 
Varallo, who has never broken 90, called his two aces Saturday "the two best shots I'll ever hit." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The lecture "The 2004 Elections and Latino Polilks" will be lwld today at 12 p.m. in 208 McKenna I fall. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will play an nxhi­bition game against <)uiney tonight at 7:30 p.m. at tlw Joycl' Center Arena. 
The play "Forlinbras" will be performed tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the Philbin Studio Theatre at thP DnBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
The lecture "Landseape of Memory, Looking Back at the Holocaust after 60 years" will be given by Huth Kleger <it S 
p.m. tonight in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. 
A special showing of "The Grudge" with screenwriter Stephen Susco and actor William Mapother will be shown Thursday at 7 and 10 
p.m. at the Browning CinPma in the DeBartolo Center for tlw Performing Arts. 
A Fall Choral Concert by the Saint Mary's Women's Choir and the Collegiate Choir will be performed Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
Tonight at S p.m. at the f1ag­pole on South Quad there will be a prayer service to bless the crosses for the Cemetery of Innocents as well as to pray for all those who sutTer from the pain of abortion in any way. All are welcome to attend. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

41 28 


47 30 
·I 
I 

Wednesday, November 10, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
I 

sium addresses nuclear proliferation


Symp 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
NewsWritL·r 
Three speakers oflered a 
ariety of thoughl'i on nuclear pro ifera­tion Tuesday evening in a s 
mpo­sium panel discussion c 
died, 
"Bethinking tiw Bomb: Nrclear Weapons in the Ag, of Terrorism." 
Tlw discussion. sponsor 
~d by Tlw Notre Dame Journal o Law, Ethics and Public Policy as •ell as The Thomas J. White Cen or on Law and Government, l'e-tured guest speakers Dale We tson, Joseph Cirincione and ared Silberman. with professor immy Gurule of the Law School cting as the moderator. Each f the three men ofl'ered unique i sight into the threat of nuclear p olifer­ation, based on his indi idual experiences. 
"During the most recent presi­dential debates. there we e few issues on which Bush and Kerry could agree," moderator urule said in the opening. "But when asked about the greatest th eat to national security, both candidates responded -without hesi ation -nuclear weapons in the ands of terrorists." 
After outlining the general prob­lem of nuclear proliferati n, he introduced the main speake s. 
Wal'ion. former executive assis­tant dirnctor of the countcr-t rror­ism division at the FBI, spok' first. Ile brought up the issue of Sept. 11 and addressed two of' th . rea­sons behind the attack. 
First, he said. we are the !mel of 
immigrants. Second, we constitution of liberties. 
CENTER FOR SocrAL CoNe RNS 
UNIVERSITY pF 
NOTRE DAME 
' 

"With those freedoms comes absolute vulnerability," Watson said. 
He described his fear, which had existed even before Sept. 11, that Osama Bin Laden would acquire nuclear weapons. 
"Would he use them?" Watson asked. "Absolutely. And he contin­ues to strive to get his hands on them today." 
Wal'ion also explored the consti­tutional and judicial efl'ects that a nuclear attack would have on the United· States today, such as the issue of quarantining victims. 
"You have to be on the offen­sive," Watson said in conclusion. "Prevention is the number one key to success." 
Cirincione, director of the non­proliferation project for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, then spoke, beginning with an anecdote from his recent trip to Germany. 
"Some German government offi­cials said to me, 'What we hear from America, all we hear is to be afraid.' Germans see terrorists as a problem, but not an overwhelm­ing, terrifying issue," he said 
He then outlined four nuclear threats faced by America ­nuclear terrorism. the emergence of new nuclear weapons states (such as North Korea and Iran), the danger from existing arsenals and the diplomatic danger of the collapse of existing non-prolifera­tion regimes. 
Cirincione recalled past presi­dential administrations who suc­cessfully fought against various types of weapons -President Richard Nixon against biological weapons and President George H.W. Bush against chemical weapons. In President George W. Bush's term, the focus became who rather than what as the administration became intent on eliminating the regime rather than the weapons. 
Essentially, he said, our focus 
must be on preventing terrorists 
from getting at the existing 
nuclear material in Russia and 
elsewhere. The ultimate problem 
terrorists have is getting such 
material. 
"Even a softball-sized chunk of 
highly-enriched uranium would 
be the key to them making a 
weapon," Cirincione said. 
Silberman, associate counsel for 
Arms Control and International 
Lq,w in the United States Navy, 
spoke last on two themes of non­

. lethal weaponry and non-prolifer-ation. 

"Increased lethality of weapons .is not necessarily the best means 
to achieve success," Silberman 
said. 
He presented an extensive list 
of non-lethal weapons, including 
high-powered microwave agents, 
which would bring a burning sen­
sation upon the enemy's skin with 
no harmful effects, acoustic alter­
ation, which would bring about an 
unbearably loud noise without 
actually deafening the enemy and 
calmative agents, which would 
put enemies in a sleep-like state. 
Although most of the weapons 
he mentioned are currently illegal 
in warfare due to the ban on 
chemical weapons, he said such 
weapons would be beneficial not 
only in preventing lethality but 
also in raising morality in soldiers, who would be able to complete their missions without killing. There would also be fewer people needed on the battlefield. 
Silberman praised Bush's Proliferation Security Initiative. He pointed out that 34 nations have fully embraced it, and 60 total have accepted it in a general way. 
After a question and answer session and some closing remarks from Gurule, Watson asked per­mission to add one more thing. He encouraged both law students and undergraduates from Notre Dame to take up public service. 
"Serve something other than your own personal interests," he said. "If not you, who's going to step up and take the challenge?" 
' 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy1@nd.edu 


Volunteer 

Opportuni~ies 
Dickinson Intermediate Center 
I 
Dickinson Intermediate Center desperately needs f volunteers. They have a Ia ge special education populari n and almost all of their stu ents live below the poverty line. They need volunteers to help with programming that they o er 3:00-4:30pm Monday-Th rsday. If interested in tutoring, mentoring or just listenin , call Diane Richardson at 283-625. 
LaSalle Academy 
The LaSalle Academy ne ·ds tutors Mondays rhru Thu sdays from 3:00-4:30 p.m. Stud nts in 
the gifted and talented ed  ca­ 
rional program need help  ith  
tutoring, especially with s  pport,  

organizational assistance, · nd encouragement. Contact ice 
Principal Otha Reese at 2 3­7509. 
Good Shepard Montetori School 
Good Shepard needs vol nteers to assist with the after-sch ol program for elementary s hool aged children one day a w ·ek. The program runs from 3 30­5:30pm Monday-Friday. lease call Kathy Royer at 292-2 90 or 288-0098. 

Prayer Service Held Wednesday for the Cemetery of the Innocents 
The Notre Dame Right to Life Club will be holding a prayer service as parr of irs efforts to reconstruct the Cemetery of the Innocents. 
Members of the campus community are invited to participate in the prayer service and to keep vigil at the cemetery from Midnight to 6 a.m., Wednesday to Thursday and again Thursday to Friday. Contact Kyle Bertoli (kbertoli@nd.edu) for more information. 
When: Wednesday at 8 p.m. 
Where: South Quad. 

. A Call for Leadership in Action: LEAD­ND & The Youth Action Project 2005 
Join the corps of diverse ND leaders working to provide equi­table after-sch·ool opportunities for ALL youth to learn the value of community service and active citizenship. Empower traditionally underestimated, under-resourced young people through an engaging, service-based leadership development program. 
The Youth Project is an initiative of LEAD-ND and is sponsored by the Institute for Educational Initiatives and the CSC. V 
Visit the LEAD-ND website for more details: www.nd.edu/~leadnd. Applications due November 24. 
When: Information sessions on Wednesday, November 10 and .17 at 7:00p.m. 
Where: Center for Social Concerns. 
"Building a Common Civic Identity" 
A talk about civic integration and citizenship among immigrants by Alfonso Aguilar, Chief of the Office of Citizenship, US Citizenship and Immigration Services, Washington, D.C. 
When: Thursday, November 11 at 5:00 p.m. 
Where: McKenna Hall, Room 210 
'Vocation & Leadership in the Catholic Social Tradition' Course Offering 
TheCenter for Social Concerns is offering a course in the spring semester, "Vocation and Leadership in the Catholic Social Tradition" and would like to invite students to consider taking it. 
Specifically; the Center is looking for students who will con­tiime to be involved in the greater South Bend community next semester. The service/social action experience will be built in as one of the dimensions of the course. The course description follows: 
THEO 273--Tuesday and Thursday 2-3:15 p.m. 
This course will invite students to consider the meaning of vocatiqn in relation to the social mission of the church. Beginning with a theological understanding of the significance ofvocation and charisms, this course will provide a narra­tive-based exploration of the vocational journey of prominent figures in the Catholic social tradition such as Dorothy Day, Cesar Chavez, and Oscar Romero. 
The emergent understanding ofvocation will be held in con­versation with the witness given by leaders from other religious traditions, e.g., Badshah Khan, Gandhi, and Thich Nhat Hanh. Using the method of service-learning, this course will invite students to develop an awareness of their social justice commit­ments in light of their own sense ofvocation. 
Permission is required. More information about the course format is explained in the Learning Agreement and Application Form, which are available at the Center for Social Concerns. If you have questions, email Andrea at ashappel@nd.edu. 
How to Submit Events to Happenings 
To submit an event for the CSC Happenings or for "Communique" the weekly email newsletter for the esc, send your event to commque@nd.edu. For more information on events, check out http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~commque or http:/ /centerforsocialconcerns. nd.edu. 





vvvvvv.fordveh icles.com/collegeg rad 
.

:[_________________ to ge t the r e --------------:J....­
• 

Here's the deal: one price, no haggling. 
This "student discount" offers substantial savings 
on new Ford Motor Cornpany vehicles ba~ed on set p4'"1ces established by Forc!'s Employee Purchase Plan. 
There's no catch -~t's a unique offer, excltnive to ~ schools hke yours. Save even more when you apply the current national incentives available on the vehicle you select. 
The best p.ut? You get what you expect. The styte and features you want. No-hassle dealer experience. A p<tyment that·~ easy on your wallet and lifestyle. 
-.............~ ........... 
!
.




Go here 
.... : /
"......."' 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
majority of the time and 
only fails when late times 
are repeatedly given to the 
same student over the 
course of many semesters. 
The University has accounted for this appar­ent setback, however. During the last two years, students who have received a fourth consecu­tive second-day appoint­ment have had their appointment automatically changed to a first-day appointment, Pace said. Other steps to prevent problems of this sort have also been taken. 
"A request has been made to alternate the first-day and second-day appointments for under­graduates from semester to semester," Pace said. "We are testing the feasi­bility of this proposal, and if feasible it could be implemented in the future." 
The Office of the Registrar is continuously considering alternative methods and options to make class registration easier and more efficient, said Pace. 
"I am always open to ideas and formal propos­als from the student lead­ership -even individual students -concerning ways to improve the regis­tration process," Pace said. 
Registration for the sum­mer and fall 2005 semes­ters will involve brand new software recently purchased by the University. Students, advi­sors and faculty will start receiving information about the forthcoming sys­tem in January. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

Bracelet 
continued from page I 

"People like to give money to good causes," Merusi said. "When it is something they can wear and, as opposed to a T-shirt, wear everyday to show support, it reminds every­one that [breast cancer) is a con­stant issue." 
The pink bracelets sport the phrase "Notre Dame Fighting Breast Cancer WISSH" and are sold for $2. Proceeds will go to the South Bend community. 
"We are trying to come up with the best place Ito donate the money to] right now. We want the money to go toward treatment, not research," Merusi said. "We want it to help a womaR who has !breast cancer]. whatever stage she is at ... give her heat for the winter, whatever we can do." 
WISSH spent $500 making 1,000 bracelets. According to Merusi, the manufacturing costs will be taken from the WISSH club fund, allowing 100 percent of the proceeds to go toward breast-cancer patients. Merusi hoped to sell all the bands 

Arson 
continued from page I 

complex, added smoke detectors and enforced stricter rules for gaining access to laundry rooms following the fires. An increased number of safety patrollers have also been hired to watch the grounds. 
"They've done a lot of things on their own to ensure that the area stays safer," Cherrone said. "They already had a list of things they want­ed to improve upon before the trash­can fires. Hopefully people will notice the changes as time goes on." 
An apartment was displaced for a length of time following the third fire, though Castle Point owners Raed and Hani Zidan, began immediate work to 
.
. 
Wednesday, November 10, 2004 
and raise $2,000 by the end of November. 
"I distributed them at Hall Council and I only have 150 left within two days," Merusi said. "I don't know, though. how many have been sold within the dorms ... I would love to order more." 
Students can purchase the bands through their hall presidents. 
At Saint Mary's, Le Mans I !all resi­dent assistant Kate Brand is running the campaign herself. 
Brand was introduced to the wrist­band concept by her sister, a fresh­man at Indiana University who bought one for her from a friend at school. 
"After talking to [my sister] about what her friend had done at IU with the bracelets to raise money and show support for the causf~. thought it would be a great thing to do at SMC. especially being an all­women's college," Brand said. 
Four hundred have been sold thus far during the three-week campaign. with Brand ordering a second ship­ment of 200 after the first ran out. 
Contact Katie O'Hara at korhara2@nd.edu 
deal with the damage. 

"They immediately cleaned the con­tents and started painting to get those people back where they belong. which is a big thing to undertake in any situation because you get a lot of smoke damage," Cherrone said. "Part of the investigation is dealing with all of the people who were affected in some way." 
The owners are being cooperative with Cherrone in this lengthy process. 
"Our investigation will continue until we actually have something or someone that states that they were responsible for any of the events," Cherrone said. "But the people there are very cooperative and have bf~cn very cooperative. so that's a big plus." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


It's how you 
get there! 

J 





ORLD & NATION 
Cotv\P!LED FROM THr ()!)Sf:RVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
I 0 killed in Ftllujah attack 
NEAR FALLUJAH, Ira -U.S. troops pow­ered their way into the c nter of the insurgent stronghold of Fallujah on Tuesday, over­whelming small bands ot guerrillas with mas­sive force, searching h mes along the city's deserted, narrow pas ageways and using loudspeakers to try to g ad militants onto the streets. 
As of Tuesday night, the fighting had killed 10 U.S. troops and two members of the Iraqi security force, the US niilitary announced. 
As the offensive movfd into a second full day, up to eight attack ircraft including jets and helicopter gunshi s blasted guerrilla strongholds and raked t e streets with rocket, cannon and machine-g n fire ahead of U.S. and Iraqi infantry who fwere advancing only one or two blocks behin1 the curtain of fire. . 
U.N. workersj kidnapped 
KABUL, Afghanistan 1 Two of three U.N. workers kidnapped in1 Afghanistan called home to reassure relati es they are all right, as negotiators tried Tu sday to secure their release after 12 days in he hands of Taliban­linked militants. 
Afghan officials cited rogress toward free­ing the trio, though i remained unclear whether prisoners s me perhaps from 
Guantanamo Bay mightbe freed as part of any deal. Armed men abducted Shqipe Hebibi of Kosovo, British-Irish A netta Flanigan and Angelita Nayan of the hilippines in a bold 
raid in downtown Kab~l. All three helped organize Afghanistan's Indmark Oct. 9 elec­tion. 
A militant group rei ased a video of the three and threatened t kill them unless its demands were met, fan ing fear that Afghan insurgents were copyin~ their Iraqi counter­parts who have execut~d a string of foreign hostages. / 

NATIONAL NEWS ! 
Reagan honored with stamp 
SIMI VALLEY, Calif.~-A twinkly-eyed Ronald Reagan is goin on a U.S. postage stamp. 
Nancy Reagan unveil¢d a giant replica of the stamp Tuesday at jthe Ronald Reagan Presidential Library. 
1 

"He considered it anf,honor of a lifetime to be president," Mrs. eagan said. "And I know he would say, 'N w, don't make such a fuss."' ' 
New airlin-e provisos imposed 
WASHINGTON -Th1government and a dozen airlines struc a· deal Tuesday requiring sanitation mprovements and increased testing of dri king water aboard aircraft after officials: found evidence of harmful bacteria in the water of one in every eight planes test~. At the same time, he Environmental Protection Agency ann unced it would per­form random water q ality tests on 169 domestic and internati nal passenger air­craft at 14 airports th oughout the United States and publish the esults by the end of the year. If coliform bacteria re discovered, the airliners will have to e disinfected within 24 hours unless the agency grants an ~xtension because th plane involved is outside the United Stat s. In the meantime. passengers would find signs posted in the lavatories and galleys o affected aircraft. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Truck crashes i~to school bus 
STOCKWELL -A tru k slammed into the rear of a school bus on a highway Tuesday, injuring at least three elrmentary students, a school oflicial said. 
I 

The last two rows on tre driver's side of the bus were smashed in by he crash, which hap­pened along four-lane US. 52 near Lafayette . in western Indiana. 
Members of Cabinet resign 
Attorney General John Ashcroft and Commerce Secretary Don Evans step down 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Attorney General John Ashcroft. a favorite of con­servatives, and Commerce Secretary Don Evans. one of President Bush's closest friends, resigned Tuesday, the first members of the Cabinet to leave as Bush heads from re-election into his second term. 
Both Ashcroft and Evans have served in Bush's Cabinet from the start of the administration. 
Ashcroft. in a five-page, handwritten letter to Bush, 
·said, "The objective of securing the safety of Americans from crime and terror has been achieved." "Yet I believe that the Department of Justice would be well served by new leadership and fresh inspiration," said Ashcroft, whose health problems earlier this year resulted in removal of his gall bladder. "I believe that my ener­gies and talents should be directed toward ·other challenging horizons," he said. Ashcroft's letter was dated Nov. 2, Election Day. Evans, a longtime friend from Texas, wrote Bush, "While the promise of your second term shines bright, I have concluded with deep regret that it is time for me to return home." advisers," Bush said. "Don mentioned as a possible Bush's 2004 campaign Bush issued statements has worked to advance White House chief of staff chairman, former Mon­of praise for both men and economic security and in Bush's second term, but tana Gov. Marc Racicot, for the policies they prosperity for all Amer­the president decided to and White House general advanced. icans. He has worked keep Andy Card in that job. counsel Alberto Gonzales. "John Ashcroft has steadfastly to make sure One name being men­Meanwhile, three high­worked tirelessly to help America continues to be tioned for Evans' job at ranking Bush administra­make our country safer," the best place in the world Commerce is Mercer tion officials said they the president said. "John to do business." Reynolds, national finance would like to remain on has served our nation with Ashcroft, 62, has been chairman for the Bush the job. Agriculture honor, distinction, and well liked by many conser­campaign, who raised Secretary Ann Veneman, integrity." vatives. At the same time, more than $260 million to Interior Secretary Gale Bush's farewell to Evans he has been a lightning rod get him re-elected. Norton and Environmental was more effusive and for criticism of his han­Speculation about a suc­Protection Agency Admini­more personal, fitting to dling of the U.S. end of the cessor to Ashcroft has cen­strator Michael Leavitt all their more than three war against terror. espe­tered on his former said they want to contin­decades of friendship dat­cially the detention of ter­deputy, Larry Thompson, ue. ing to the oil business in ror suspects. who recently took a job as Washington continued to Midland, Texas, where Evans, 58, was instru­general counsel at buzz with speculation they would attend church mental in Bush's 2000 PepsiCo. If appointed, about the futures of together and meet every campaign and came with Thompson would be the Secretary of State Colin day for a three-mile jog. him to Washington. Evans nation's first black attor­Powell and Defense "Don Evans is one of my has told aides he was ney general. Others promi­Secretary Donald H. most trusted friends and ready for a change. He was nently mentioned include Rumsfeld. 

Darfur peace agreement signed 
Mohammed Ibrahim said. "We will African Union and the talks' host
Associated Press 

do our utmost. to make sure it is praised the accord. 
ABUJA, Nigeria-Sudan's govern­implemented on the ground. Only "There is no problem in Africa that ment and rebel representatives that will bring peace and stability to we cannot solve if we in Africa are signed accords Tuesday meant to end Darfurians." given the opportunity," he said. hostilities and guarantee aid groups Sudan signed the accords under Obasanjo added that the African access to 1.6 million people uprooted international pressure, including the Union, which has more than 500 by conflict in Sudan's bloodied west­threat of U.N. sanctions, after 21 peacekeepers in Darfur, would ern region of Darfur. months of a conflict that has driven "insist on the scrupulous implemen­
For the first time, Sudan agreed to 1.8 million people most of them non­tation of the agreement." the creation of "no-fly zones" over Arab villagers into camps in Darfur "Future violations of the agree­Darfur, banning military flights over and neighboring Chad. ment ... should not and will not be rebel-held territories. The accords on security and tolerated because too many 
Rebels and African Union media­humanitarian access came in the Darfurians have suffered because of tors had demanded the no-fly zones third week of talks in Nigeria's capi­violations of the cease-fire agree­following widespread accusations of tal. after two previous rounds of ment," Obasanjo said. government bombings of villages. African Union-brokered talks failed. Sudan and the Darfur rebels 
"It is really a historical moment," Nigerian President Olusegun signed a cease-fire accord in Chad in Sudanese spokesman Ibrahim Obasanjo current chairman of the April, which failed to hold. 
Wednesday, November I 0, 2004
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Republicans look to open Alaskan drilling 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Hcpublican gains in the Senate could give Pr11sident Bush his best chance yet to achieve his No. 1 energy priority -opening an oil-rich but environmental­ly sensitive Alaska wildlifn refuge to drilling. 
If he is successful, it would be a stinging defeat for envi­ronmentalists and an energy triumph that eluded Bush his f"irst four years in the White I louse. A broader agenda that includes reviving nuclear power, preventing blackouts and expanding oil and gas drilling in the Hockies will be morn diflicult to P.nact. 
Hepublicans in the House and Senate said this week they 

"With oil trading at nearly $50 a barrel. the case for ANWH is more compelling than ever." ·said Domcnici. "We have the technology to develop oil without harming the environment and wildlife." 
Bush is also expected in his · second term to renew his call for action by Congrnss on a broader. largely pro-produc­tion. energy agenda_ from easing rules for oil and gas drilling on federal land in the Hocky Mountains to expand­ing clean-coal technology and improving the reliability of the electricity grid. 
New tax incentives to spur construction of next-genera­tion nuclear power plants also will be back on the table after Democrats and some moderate 
plan to push for He publicans
"With oil trading at 
Alaska refuge scuttlnd it last
nearly $50 a
drilling legisla­year. Greater usc tion early next barrel. the case for of corn-based year, and they ethanol in gaso­
ANWR is more 
predict success, line also has
compelling than 
given the 55-44-wide support at 1 GOP Senate ever. the White House majority in the and in Congress. next Congress. Drilling in the
Pete Domenici
Democrats and Alaska refuge
U.S. Senator
sonw environ­mental activists say con lin ued protection of tlw refuge has rwver been as much in doubt. 
"It's probably the best chancn we've had," Hep. Hichard Pombo, H-Calif., chairman of the House Hesources Committee and a vocal drilling advocate, said in an interview. 
Sen. Pete Domenici, H-N.M., chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Hcsourccs Committlw. said he will press to open the coastal plain of tlw Arctic National Wildlife Hefuge (ANWH) as part of the governnwnt's budget delibera­tions early in 2005. That would enable drilling propo­nents to skirt an otherwise certain Democratic-led fili­bustP.r that would be difficult to overcome. 


has bcPn all but 
dismissed as 

unachiPvable since drilling opponents two years ago beat back a pro­development measure by a 52-48 vote. Bush did not make an issue of the refuge during the presidential cam­paign. 
But with four new GOP sen­ators expected to support ANWH drilling and the loss of a Hepublican moderate who opposed it. drilling advocates believe they now have at least 52 votes in the Senate, enough to get the measure through Congress a.s part of the budget process. By Senate rules, opponents of drilling cannot filibuster a budget measure. ANWR qualifies as a budget measure because it will gen­erate income for the govern­ment from oil companies. 
NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect 
for winter. Askanyyak. 

300 Weight Polartec(!) fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for 

wet-weather protection. Denali Jacket 
~ 

DUTPDST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

3602 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, Indiana 
259·1.000 

Hours: Mon.-Fri.: w:oo om -9:oopm
Sat.: Jo:oo am -B:oo pmSun.: l2:oo pm -6:oopm 


Carlson 
continued from page I 
She related her own moral values to the criticism of lib­erals. 
"I didn't want my daughter watching Britney Spears or Paris Hilton and some of MTV or Viagra commercials during the Super Bowl," she said. "I am not responsible for Janet Jackson's wardrobe malfunc­tion. I don't want it any more than people in the red states, and yet Karl Hove seems to suggest that we [liberals] are okay with it." 
After rejecting this conclu­sion of conservatives as unfair, Carlson said that con­trol of media content ulti­mately rests with the presi­dent. She went on to blame Hupert Murdoch, the political­ly conservative owner of the FOX Corporation. for some amount of the vulgarity on television, including the Janet Jackson incident and Viagra commercials, both of which occurred during FOX's Super Bowl coverage. 
Carlson also said another reason for President Bush's reelection was the popular impression of Sen. John Kerry as liberal. aristocratic and coldly cerebral -and there­fore unable to connect with the common person. 
"It was the atmospherics of Kerry, the five mansions, the windsurfing. Nantucket, the outfits." Carlson said. "When it's Wrangler's versus Cortex, clearing brush versus wind­surfing, when it's the wife from Mozambique versus Laura Bush ... Kerry was too easy to caricature, a little too French, a little bit too rich. a little too long-winded. a little bit too intellectual." 
Carlson then turned on the perceptions of Kerry's ceo­nomic plan. 
"Another thing that stuck was the 'tax-and-spend liber­al,"' she said. "Tax-and-spend is a real.ly bad label, and there was no way a Massachusetts liberal was going to be able to say we can begin this health care pro­gram and then look in to the camera and say he's not going to raise taxes on Americans that make less than $200,000." ­
Carlson also said that oppo­sition to the Iraq War was made difficult by the presi­dent's tactics. 
"Bush welded together the war on terror and the war in Iraq ... no amount of media coverage or .John Kerry speeches could pull thP two apart," she said. 
She then cited as an exam­ple a poll taken of Univ1~rsity of Maryland stud1mts, 70 p!~r­ccnt of whom believed incor­rectly that there was a con­nection between Saddam Hussein and the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Carlson also mentioned Kerry's inability to articulate a clear exit strategy for U.S. forces in Iraq as a reason why he was unable to capitalize upon the Bush administra­tion's lack of success there. 
"Kerry never had a plan." she said. "People didn't buy that he could lix Iraq any bet­ter than Bush would be able to do." 
Contact Michael Busk at mbusk@nd.edu 

Falwell announces new coalition 
Associated Press 
HICIIMOND. Va. -Seeking to take advantage of the momentum from an election where moral values proved important to vot­ers, the Hev. Jerry Falwell announced Tuesday he has formed a new coalition to guide an "evangelical revolution." 
Falwell, a religious broadcaster based in Lynchburg, Va., said the Faith and Values Coalition will be a "21st century resurrection of the Moral Majority," the organi­zation he founded in 1979. 
Falwell said he would serve as the coalition's national chairman for four ynars. 

lie added that the new group's mission would be to lobby for anti-abortion conservatives to fill openings on the Supreme Court and lower courts. a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, and the election of another "George Bush-type" con­servative in 2008. 
"We all, for the first time, began to realize the potential of religious conservatives. particu­larly evangelicals. when some­thing over 30 million of them went to the polls." he said, noting most supported tlw pn1sident and anti-abortion candidates, and voted to approw 11 initiatives across the country banning gay marriage. 
Also. a decision by tlw Massachusetts Supreme Court allowing gay marriagns "lwlped en11rgizc our peopll\," Falwell said. 
And when San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom began per­limning gay marriages, it "really caught the attention or peopll\ of faith in this country. and what WI\ have been saying could happPn actually happ1m!1d," he said. 
Dept. of Irish Language & Literature Roinn Theanga agus Litriocht na Gacilge 

Eire 

"Irish -Not just forT-Shirts" 
Irish is the oldest vernacular literature in Europe and the living language of An Glweltucht in Ireland. Widely spoken by Irish emigrants to the United States in the 18'11, 19'11 and 20111 century, it is spoken in U.S. cities such as Boston, New York, Chicago and San Francisco. The Department of Irish Language & Literature/Roinn Thcanga agus Litriocht na Gaeilge offers courses for absolute beginners, i'ntennediate and advanced students next term. 
•Discover your heritage • Learn about IrclanJ 
*Satisfy the Irish Studies MinOI •satisfy the Foreign Language Rl!quircml!nl 
••Jrish has been t<mgh( at Notre Dame since 1868. Isn't it time you took a coua:sc?" 
IRLL 101 A fun and entertaining introduction to the modern Irish language. This course introdm:c:s th<: basi<.: pnncipks of !,.'Tammm· and sentence structure, as well as core vo.:abulary. Emphasts 1:-. placed on the applit:ation of these principles in every-day situations. 
IRLL 102 A continuation of IRI ,L I 0 l. Emphasis is placed on reading simple texts 111 Irish and expandmg the student·s linguistic, grammatical and cultural knowledge. The stuJcnts t,rrows in confidence and linguistic ability. 
IRLL 103 A continuation of IRLL 102. Develops the student's existing l:mguage skills. Emphasis is on expanding fluency, competency and reading literature in translation. 
Spring 2005 IRLL 101 :OJ T H ll:00-12:15 Pr·of. Sarah lVJcKibbcn IRLL 101:02 M\VF I0:40-J I :30 Prof. J>ctcr l\'lcQuillan IRLL 101:03 T 1112:30-1:45 Prof. Brian(> Conchubhair IRLL 102:01 T H 2:00-3:15 J>rof. Sar·ah McKibben IRLL 102:02 M\VF 9:30-10:25 J>r·of. Peter McQuillan IRLL 103:01 T H J 1 : 00-1 2 : 15 Prof. Brian 6 Conchubhair 

THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Wednesday, November 10, 2004 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

1;326.65 +6.90 2,043.33 +4.08 6,886.34 -3.36 
S&PSOO i 1,164.08 -0.81 NIKKEJ(Tokyo)j 11,964.87 +0.00 FTSE IOO(Londc)n) 4,717. 70 +1.10 
COMPANY I %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFTJ) + 1.67 +0.49 29.77 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.65 -0.15 23.08 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSC ) -1.10 -0.22 19.75 

TASERINTL(TASR) I -5.76 -3.115 51.00 
30-YEAR BOND +0.18 +0.09 49.39 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.07 +0.03 42.1 8 
5-YEAR NOTE -0.14 +0.05 35.14 
3-MONTH BILL + 1.75 +0.35 20.37 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.72 47.37 +2.80 436.20 
105.7600 EURO 0.7754 POUND 0.5389 CANADIAN$ 1.1998 

IN BRIEF 
Scandal results in layoffs 
NEW YORK-Insurance brokerage Marsh & McLennan said T~esday it will lay off 3,000 employees, or aboyt 5 percent of its work force, because of fallout fr'om a bid-rigging scandal that has engulfed the insurance industry. 
Marsh & McLennan the nation's largest insur­ance brokerage satd in a statement accompa­nying its earnings teport that the job cuts are "based on the realities of the marketplace and our current situation." 
The layoffs are the result of a civil lawsuit filed last month by !New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer that ciccused the company of bid rigging and price fixing in the sale of property and casualty insuramce to businesses. 
Several executives at Marsh and other insur­ance heavyweigfuts, including American International Gro~p. have stepped down or been ousted amid the investigation, which has caused the companies' stock prices to tumble. Marsh's stock is offjmore than 40 percent since Spitzer announced pis investigation on Oct. 14. 
Chinese investment blooms 
NEW YORK -With a series of open-market reforms and an ecdnomy expanding by at least 8 percent a year. ¢hina has enjoyed unprece­dented inte.wation~l investment and investors have enjoyed double-digit returns. 
So how do mutual fund investors get in on the China phenomenonp. And what is more impor­tant. how much shoj.Ild they risk? 
Naturally, there ate mutual funds available for people who want to invest in China. According to fund watcher Lipper, 22 China region funds with assets totaling $1.94 trillion had average returns of 5.19 pe!rcent in the third quarter. Over the past year, !they've returned 16.52 per­cent, with returns Iof 29.05 percent over two years and 18.96 pe~ent over three year. 
"The Chinese stodk market is becoming much more accessible, a:d new sectors of the econo­my are being open· d up," said Philip Ehrmann, head of Pacific and emerging markets at Gartmore Funds in· London. "As time has gone by, whole new com~anies exploiting opportuni­ties are becoming a ailable to investors not only in China, but to fore gil investors as well." 
Anthem and Wellpoint merge 
Garamendi allows creation of nation f s largest health insurance company 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
California's insurance reg­
ulator dropped his objt}C­
tions to a $16.4 billion deal 
to create the nation's 
largest health insurance 
company on Tuesday, after 
the companies agreed to 
pay hundreds of millions of 
dollars for state health 
care improvements. 
For· months, Insurance 
Commissioner John Gara­
mendi had blocked 
Indianapolis-based Anthem 
Inc.'s proposed acquisition 
of WellPoint Health 
Networks Inc., saying it 
would pull $400 million a 
year out of California in 
the form of dividends and 
that the buyout package it 
offered WellPoint's chief 
executive was excessive. 
In the proposed deal, 
Anthem would acquire ·Blue Cross Life & Health, a California subsidiary of Wel!Point and the only one of 75 subsidiaries involved that would fall under 
Garamendi's jurisdiction. 
Garamendi had also 
demanded the companies 
contribute $600 million to 
California's uninsured pop­
ulation as a condition of 
his approval. 

On Tuesday, Garamendi 
told reporters that he 
negotiated a slate of "con­
cessions and contribu­out deal. gained about 5.5 percent, California would be able to 
tions" last week that would In all, some 28 million or $4.73, to close at review an accounting of 
ensure the deal would not people in 13 states would $91.23. BCLH's rates to make cer­
result in higher premiums be covered by a combined A lawsuit Anthem filed tain premiums would not 
for California consumers Anthem-WellPoint, with against Garamendi in increase to pay for the 
while benefiting health about a quarter of those in August for blocking the buyout. 
care programs for low­California. proposed merger was dis­The companies also 
income residents. In a joint statement, the missed as a result of the agreed to contribute $35 
"With these additional companies said they were settlement agreement, the million to provide health 
concessions and commit­in talks with other state commissioner said. care clinics in underserved 
ments by Anthem and officials. After holding a series of California communities, 
WellPoint I am today "We are well prepared to public hearings, Gara­$15 million to extend the 
announcing that I will quickly and successfully mendi rejected the deal number of children cov­
approve Anthem's applica­integrate our two organi­July 23, saying it would ered by the state's Healthy 
tion and will allow a zations," said Larry C. reduce the quality of Families and MediCal pro­
change in control of Blue Glasscock, Anthem's chair­health care for policyhold­gram and $15 million to 
Cross Life & Health man, president and chief ers. He also criticized the train 2,500 new nurses. 
Insurance Co.," Garamendi executive. merger's executive com­The _companies also 
said. Investors were enthused pensation package, saying pledged to allocate $200 
Despite California's with the resolution, as the payouts were excessive million over 20 years to 
blessing, Anthem and WellPoint shares soared in a state where 6 million invest in health care serv­
WellPoint still must secure 8.5 percent, or $8.93, to residents lack health insur­ices to underserved com­
approval from insurance close at $113.90 Tuesday ance. munities, and to develop a 
regulators in other states on the New York Stock Garamendi said that as program to improve health 
before completing the buy-Exchange. Anthem shares part of the new deal, care quality in the state. 


Flu vaccine production may increase 
Associated Press 

The nation's sole flu shot supplier said Tuesday it had won a federal con­tract to move toward year-round vac­cine production, a step that should mean faster action if a new killer flu emerges. 
The $10 million contract to Aventis Pasteur, the vaccine division of French­based Sanofi-Aventis, comes just two days before the world's vaccine makers gather in Geneva to plan how to respond to a pandemic. 
Flu vaccine is made from chicken eggs that are produced on a seasonal basis. The contract will allow Aventis to maintain chicken flocks that are lay­ing eggs year-round. That would ensure a constant supply of eggs that could be used to make a new vaccine if one were needed in· a hurry to fight a new deadly s.train. 
The new contract will have no effect on the current flu shot shortage, but experts believe it will help address a more dangerous threat a flu strain for which people have no immunity. 
The company also will make a poten­tial pandemic vaccine once a year from a virus identified by federal health offi­cials that can be held in reserve in case a worldwide epidemic emerged. 
Aventis already has made 8,000 doses of an experimental "bird flu" vaccine to be tested in people early next year and another 2 million doses to be held in bulk in case the worri­some outbreaks in Asia become more widespread. 
"The company already is involved in multiple pandemic vaccine develop­ment efforts in Europe and the United States" and would welcome the chance to make similar arrangements for year-round flocks in other countries, said a statement from Aventis chair­man David J. Williams. 
The contract can be extended for a total value of $41 million over five years. 
"The existing flu vaccine manufac­turing system is not adequate to meet the nation's needs in the event of a flu pandemic or a shortage," said a state­ment from U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson. 
Wednesday, November 10, 2004
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
White House seeks to block assisted suicide 
Appeal would overturn Oregon state law allowing doctors to administerfatal drugs 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The Bush administration asked the Supreme Court on Tuesday to block the nation's only law allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients die more quickly. 
The appeal from Attorney General John Ashcroft had been expected since May, when a lower court ruled the federal government could not punish Oregon doctors who prescribed lethal doses of federally con­trolled drugs. 
Oregon voters approved the law and since 1998 more than 170 people have used it to end their lives. Most had cancer. 
The Bush administration has argued that assisted suicide is not a "legiti­group 
mate medical "/ am extremely 
with Dignity, purpose and disappointed that called it that doctors 
Attorney General "Ashcroft's 
take an oath to parting shot
Ashcroft has
heal patients, 
from the far­

not help them chosen to continue right at the peo­die. ignoring the will of ple of Oregon."
While not as Oregon is the
the voters of
prominent as 
only state that 

abortion, the Oregon." has an assisted issue is an 
suicide law,important one approved by

Ron Wyden
for conservative voters in 1997,
U.S. Senator
Christians, who 
helped President 
Bush win a sec­
ond term last week. The 
government waited until 
Tuesday, the final day possi­
ble, to file paperwork at the 
high court. 
Oregon's law. known as the 
Death With Dignity Act, lets 
patients with less than six 
months to live request a 
lethal dose of drugs after 
two doctors confirm the 
diagnosis and determine the 
person's mental competence 
to make the request. 
Paul Clement, acting solici­tor general, said in the appeal that the law conflicts with the federal govern­ment's powers. The attorney gent1ral's conclusion that doctors should not be allowed to treat patients with lethal doses of drugs "is the position maintained by 49 states, the federal gov­ernment and leading associ­ations of the medical profes­sion." he told justices·. 
The Supreme Court proba­bly will decide early next year whether it will review the ease. The court has been hearing cases now with 1~ight members, because Chief Justice William H. Hohnquist is under treat­nwnt for thyroid cancer. 
The high court has dealt with right-to-die cases bnfore. Justices held in 1997 that while Americans have no constitutional right to assisted suicide, states may d1~cide the issue for them­selves. And in 1990, the court ruled that terminally ill pnople can refuse life-sus­taining medical treatment. 
Hehnquist wrote both opin­ions. I n tlw 1 9 9 7 ruling. he s a i d t 111~ i d e a o I' h a v i n g somPonn help nnd another's lif'1~ conflicts with our nation's history. lngal tradi­
tions and practices." 
Kathryn Tucker, legal director for Compassion in Dying in Seattle. said she expects the Supreme Court to reject the appeal, based on the previous decisions that let states set their own policies. 
"I am extremely disap­pointed that Attorney General Ashcroft has chosen to continue ignoring the will of the voters of Oregon." said Sen. Hon Wyden, D-Ore. "I certainly plan to look into how many taxpayer dollars Mr. Ashcroft has wasted in his attempt to disenfran­chise Oregon voters." 
The filing came on the day Ashcroft's resignation was announced at the White House. Scott Swenson, exec­utive director of the advocacy Death 
although lead­
ers in other 

states have con­sidered laws of their own. A bill is expected soon in the California Legislature. 
At issue for the court now would be the bounds of a federal law declaring what drugs doctors may pre­scribe. Traditionally states, not the federal government, regulate medical practices. 
A federal judge and the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco have ruled that federal offi­cials do not have the power to circumvent the Oregon law to punish health profes­sionals in Oregon. 

Abortion risks re-examined 
National Cancer Institute declares procedure has no link to cancer 
Associated Pre.s 
WASHINGTON -In several 

states, women considering 
abortion are given govern­
ment-issued brochures 
warning that the procedure 
could increase their chance 
or developing breast cancer, 
despite scientific findings to 
the contrary. 
More than a year ago. a 

panel of scientists convened 
by the National Cancer 
Institute reviewed available 
data and concluded there is 
no link. A scientific review in 
the Lancet, a British medical 
journal, came to the same 
conclusion, questioning the 
methodology in studies that 
suggested a link. 
The cancer information is 

distributed to women during 
mandatory waiting periods 
before abortions. In some 
cases. the information is on 
the states' Web sites. 
"We're going to continue to educate the public about this," said Karen Malec, president of the Coalition on Abortion/Breast Cancer, an anti-abortion group. She dis­missed the National Cancer Institute's findings as politi­cally motivated and main­tained that the link has been scientifically proven. 
The effort to write the issue into state law began in the mid-1990s, when a few studies suggested women who had abortions or mis­carriages might be more likely to develop breast can­cer. The warnings are now required in Texas and Mississippi, and health offi­cials in Kansas and Louisiana voluntarily issue them. 
In Mississippi, women who want abortions must sign a form indicating they've been told there is a "medical risk" of breast cancer. In other states, brochures say there is a link or that evidence is mixed. 
Minnesota law requires the health department to include this information on its Web site, but the department backed down after an outcry from the state's medical 
community. Montana law also mandated the warning, but the state Supreme Court struck it down. 
The brochures still in cir­culation tell women the issue "needs further study." 
"They  can  do  further  
research  on  their  own  and  
determine which  or those  

studies they should put most attention on," said Sharon Watson. spokeswoman for the Kansas Department of Health and Environment. "We're just trying to provide all the information it's possi­ble to provide." 
In Louisiana there will be changes, said Bob Johannessen, spokesman for the state's Department of Health and Hospitals. He said the depart­ment's new director did not know the state 
ont, Washington and West Virginia. 
On the federal level, sever­al members of Congress complained last year al'tPr the NCI Web site included material suggesting a link between breast cancer and abortion or miscarriage. An expert panel that was asked to review the data reported in March 2003 that "well established" evidence shows no link. 
Among the studies cited by the NCI expert panel was Danish research that used computerized medical records to compare women who had undergone abor­tions with that country's cancer registry and found no higher cancer rate. 
"Having an abortion or 
miscarriage does 

pamphlet inc­not increase a
"We don't want to
luded such woman's subse­information be misleading quent risk of until contacted women who are developing bre­this week by ast cancer," the
emaking this 
The Associated NCI site now 
Press. important ~hoice." says. "If there is Those findings scientific evi­were affirmed
Bob Johannessen 
dence, and it this year: by an
Louisiana Department
certainly article in the
of Health spokesman 
appears there Lancet, which 
now is, we 
would certainly make the nec­
essary changes in that" 
brochure," Johannessen said .Tuesday. 
The brochure, he said, is a 
reflection of the "very, very 
strong pro-family, pro-life 
leaning" of Louisiana. 
"Nonetheless, it's incum­
ben t o n us as t h.e h e a Ith 
agency to make sure any 
information is factually cor­
rect," he said. "We don't 
want to be misleading 
women who are making this 
important choice." 
A Democrat, Kathleen Blanco, was elected Louisiana governor last year, replacing a Hepublican. 
The issue continues to be debated in state legislatures, with bills considered this ye­ar in Georgia. Hawaii. Illin­ois, Iowa, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Hampshire. New Jersey, New York. North Carolina, Oklahoma, Verm­
reviewed 53 studies. Lancet found that studies that purported a link had flawed methodologies. 
Still, anti-abortion activists are unconvinced. 
Joel Brind, a biochemist at Baruch College in New York who advises the Coalition on Abortion/Breast Cancer, noted that a woman's chances of getting breast cancer go down if she gives birth at a relatively young age. lie reasons that those who opt for abortion are giving up a chance of reducing their breast cancer risk. 
Therefore. he says. abor­tion increases the risk of cancer. 
lie dismisses the findings of the National Cancer Institute, calling it a "politi­cal exercise, a charade if you will." lie participated in those discussions and !'ilcd a minority report. 

........................................................................
. . 
ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: November 12-22, 2004 Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from O'Hara Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in~ Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide selection of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter; 
books. Cookbooks and other books great for ~ families are also available for purchase. · How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. Why: SUPPORT ECDC! Great holiday gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials 
.. . . . . . . . . 
... . . . . . . . . . . . .•. . .•.. . . . . 
.. . . . . ...... . .. . . 
........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
--r: 
! 

Wednesday, Novem~er 10, 2004 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
SUDAN 
Ivory Coast borders on civil \Var 
Leaders struggle to maintain peace in precarious political environment 
Associated Press 
DAKAR -On a cohtinent that absorbs 75 percent of the world's U.N. peacekeeping forces and budget, Ivory Cof1St'S violent downward spiral thrc~tens hard­won gains against \\(est Africa's devastating civil wars of the 1990s. 
If Ivory Coast -"'rest Africa's economic powerhouse and the world's top cocoa ptoducer­returns to war, everyone from its neighbors to the world's choco­late lovers will feel the pain. 
Many hold one maJn responsi­ble: President Laureht Gbagbo. Ilis fate after the week's violence stands to determine his country's fate as well. , 
Tuesday saw Sou~h African President Thabo Mbeki arrive in Ivory Coast on a peace mission, amid deadly rampages that erupted when Francf destroyed the country's tiny ~ir force in response to an aidtrike that killed nine French pfjacekeepers and an American aid worker. 
The world's chocdlate lovers will probably feel thp elfects of the chaos by Christmas. The vio­lence has shut down Ivory Coast's cocoa exports since Saturday, closing porf that ship 40 percent of the world's raw material for chocolate. The likely result will be higher prices with­in a month, and then a shortage. 
Ivory Coast's neighl!>ors felt the effect immediately -5,000 refugees 11ed into neighboring Liberia and Guinea massed troops at its border for fear of unrest. 
As Ivory Coast plunges into war, its neighbors are reveling in the quiet victories of peace. 
Nl but unnoticed by the world, the first 500 of 300,000 Liberians st.ill living in camps for war-displaced people waved goodbye and boarded buses home this week after 14 years of vicious civil conflicts in their country. 
"When I get back home, I will start to make gardens to survive, and then make blocks to rebuild what once was my small but decent house," said one grateful refugee, 62-year-old Momo Perry. 
It took an unprecedented com­world's oil reserves in West Africa, the United States and other nations increasingly are saying they have a strategic interest in Africa -and a stake in keeping it peaceful. 
More than half the world's total peacekeepers -32,402 ­are based in Taylor's old stomp­ing grounds -Liberia, Sierra Leone and Ivory Coast itself, divided by civil war since 2002. 
With Taylor in exile in Nigeria, Gbagbo is looking like the biggest current challenge to peace. 
The Ivory Coast president has 
mitment by the international com­munity, and the 
"When I get back 
world's largest 
deployments of home, I will start to peacekeepers, to get make gardens to Perry and the others 
survive ....
home. In 2002, British, 
U.N. and West Momo Perry African armies refugee crushed a vicious Liberia-backed insurgency in Sierra Leone. The countrymen. 
commanded the loyalty of his supporters by pitting them against anyone seen as an out­sider -declar­ing it a matter of their survival to fight the French, African immi­grants and their own northern 

next year, American, U.N. and West African forces and Liberian rebels routed the chief promul­gator of West Africa's wars, Liberia's Charles Taylor. 
Taylor, a Cold War creation of Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi's guerrilla camps, had trafficked arms and insurgencies across West Africa's borders since 1989. 
Today, 75 percent of the world's 62,000 U.N. peacekeep­ing troops are trying to enforce peace deals acrGSs Africa, and $2.9 billion of the world body's $3.9 billion peacekeeping budg­ets are spent here. 
With up to 10 percent of the 
The airstrike on the French was part of three days of govern­ment attacks that broke a more than year-old cease-fire. 
Street protests put Gbagbo in power in 2000, during an abort­ed vote count in elections meant to restore civilian rule after a 1999 coup shattered the nation's reputation for stability. 
Ivory Coast had been consid­ered West Africa's most prosper­ous country since independence, and its commercial capital, Abidjan, was dubbed the "Paris of Africa" for its nightlife and its boutiques. The Hotel Ivoires even boasted an ice skating rink, one of only two in sub-Saharan 



A Special Offer for Leprechaun Legion Members 
WEAR ±he Chili's Sponsored Leprechaun Leeton T -Shir± ±o 
Chili's any Tuesday Friday ~ receive our Fajiofa '.Ri±a Monday 
special* --a double order of chicken. sfeak or combo fajifas (enoush for fwo) for jusf $llf 
Live a little., MISIIAWAI<A · 4810 Grape Rd. · 271-1330 
*Offer valid Tuesdays -Frtdays open to dose thoush May 13. 2005. T-sh!d must have Chdi.s Ioeo on !the back fo be eiesib!e for the offer. Cannot be combined with any other discount or prJmofionai offer. One offer per f-shid. 
NETHERLANDS 
Retaliatory violence, vandalistn continues 
Filmmaker Van Gogh's murder riles nation 
Associated Press His killing -and the violent 
response -has shocked many 

AMSTERDAM Dutch in the Netherlands who prided Muslims and Christians urged themselves on being part of an end to a cycle of retaliato­what they considered a peace­ry vandalism of mosques and ful and open society. churches Tuesday as slain It evoked memories of the filmmaker Theo van Gogh was 2002 assassination of Pim cremated, a week after his Fortuyn. a populist right­murder by a suspected wing, anti-immigration politi­Islamic radical. cian. His slaying triggered a 
In a memorial service hardening of the government's shown live on television, attitude toward newcomers friends and family told stories and the expulsion of many about Van Gogh's playful thousands of asylum seekers. nature and his love of provok­Th.e murder prompted an ing debate. outpouring of rage aimed 
About 150 people gathered mostly at the Muslim minority, at the De Nieuwe Ooster which makes up about 6 per­Crematorium. Hundreds more cent of the Dutch population. watched on a screen outside. Six men are in custody on Mourners left flowers, ciga­suspicion of forming a terror­rettes and beer at a makeshift ist conspiracy to kill Van monument where the 4 7 -year­Gogh, iqcluding the 26-year­old filmmaker-a distant rel­old alleged killer Mohammed ative of Vincent Van Gogh -Bouyeri, a dual Dutch­was killed. Moroccan citizen who was 
"Our country is confused arrested in a shootout with and grieving," said former police. Rotterdam Mayor Bram Peper, A newspaper reported calling Van Tuesday that a Gogh's murder an suspected ter­attempt to silence "He had a big rorist network "the power of the believed respon­
mouth but
word." sible for Van
everyone like it 
Van Gogh, a Gogh's killing master of irony, because he was had access to was cremated to confidential
one of the few
the music of the secret service
people who said
Lou Reed song intelligence. "Perfect Day." He what he thought. " The NRC is survived by his Handelsblad parents, former newspaper, cit­
Hans Debrlchy 
wife and 12-year­ing an internal 
mourner
old son. secret service 
"He had a big mouth but everybody liked it because he was one of a few people who said what he thought," mourner Hans Debrichy said. 
The Netherlands has been tense following his death, with attacks on both mosques and churches. Molotov cocktails caused minor damage at churches in Rotterdam, Utrecht and Amersfoort on Monday night following a half-dozen similar incidents at Muslim buildings. 
Suspected arsonists also burned down an Islamic ele­mentary school on Tuesday in the southern town of Uden, a day after the bombing of a Muslim elementary school in Eindhoven. Somebody had scrawled "Theo Rest in Peace" in the schoolhouse in Uden. 
Van Gogh, who received death threats for his film, "Submission," that criticized the treatment of women under Islam, was shot and stabbed while bicycling on a busy Amsterdam street. The killer cut his throat and -in a note impaled on Van Gogh's chest -threatened more attacks in the name of radical Islam. 
Mainstream Muslim groups condemned the killing and asked the government to pro­tect mosques after the explo­sion at the Muslim school in Eindhoven on Monday. 
Jan-Gerd Heetderks, dean of the Netherlands' Protestant churches, said "the violence, the aggression must stop. And that goes for people who get the idea that they should damage Muslim mosques or schools, too." 
investigation, reported that a friend of Bouyeri received an unmarked envelope last sum­mer with information about extremist networks of which he was allegedly a member. 
The Dutch secret service admitted information had been leaked when police found confidential agency information at a house in Utrecht during a terrorism­related search in September. 
Bouyeri is allegedly a mem­ber of a radical Islamic group said to have ties to terrorists in Spain and Syria. 

Van Gogh was a cherub­faced cynic who loved to irri­tate -and sometimes insult -those he felt were too sen­sitive. 
''I'm deeply religious -I worship a pig," he once said. "I call him Allah." 
During his award-winning career, he lost several jobs for crossing boundaries of good taste and had complaints filed against him by Jews. Christians and Muslims. 

On his TV interview show. "A Nice Chat," Van Gogh wore suspenders, chain-smoked and gave his guests cactus plants as parting gifts. 
Parliamentarian Ayaan Hirsi Ali, who wrote the script for "Submission" and was threat­ened in the murder note, went into hiding after the killing. 
"Don't feel guilty, Ayaan Hirsi Ali. Theo was threat­ened long before 'Submission,"' said Van Gogh's mother, Anneke, her voice cracking slightly. "Make sure that he is not forgotten: Freedom is not for people who are afraid." 

THE OBSERVER 

page 10 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, November 10, 2004 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports 
Amanda Michaels Matt Puglisi Megan O'Neil Eric Hetter Jeannine Privat Ken Folwer 
Do you think that academic cheating is a
Viewpoint Scene 
problem on campus? 
Eileen Duffy Becca Saunders Graphics Illustrator Mike Harkins Graham Ebetsch 
Vote by Thursday at 5 ·p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
1!0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Solllh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46SS6 ED110R IN CHIEF Matt Luzar 
MANAG!NC; EDITOR  BUS!NF-SS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
A~s·1: MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hertler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: futgda Saoud 
l'llOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

GRAI'IIIC-S E!JITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVFRT!S!NG MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD OF-SIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia 

OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-'i323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(5?4J 6,)!-8767 photo.@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OssERVERONLIN£ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Ohserver is the independent, daily newspaper 
puhli>hed in print and online by rhe student.5 of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The Obsorver ro:serves the right ro refuse advertisements ba,ed on conrcnr. 
The news is reported a.' accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lencrs Jnd columns preseJH the views of rhc authors and nor necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space is avail.tble to all readers. The free expression nf all opinions through letters i~ encouraged. Letters to the Editor tnU\f be signed and must indude u>nr~Kt mf(,rinaritJn. 
Qtmtiom rrg.mling Obsrrv.rpolicies ,};ould !Jt• ditrcud tn F.ditor in Chi~(Mtllt l.ozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

·1 11~' t )(l,....rvt·r (U~I'~ 'i~~~ .!AUUU) I\ jiUhhthcJ M11nl!J)' rhruu~h haJ.ay ~'IIHfH dunng <Uill .a.nol ~ .....;.unn l"'fl•~h A •uh .....npunuto Th,· (lh~l'fh'l j, J 100 f.utmr ,.....Jcmi~ 
)'Coli S'i\IIIILIIIl'"'llll-,lll 
n... Ol...,;r\rl ,, .IIIH1UI>cl of rh..· A..w~ro.t.u.:J Pros All r\rruJu.:tion nght· .an: ll'\l.'n,.J 
Tht t Jh...,..,.., 1\ t•uhh~tw.·J .u 1~0. 1\m.Q (jJ.rj ~!111ft (lthllll; fl..ll 1114 .\uurh DitUHK llod/ 
Nu~tl' O.utu., IN'"'"''" U'i'?lJ Num·l)wnu:, IN 16~'ih-1177lJ 
1\-nuoli..AI l"''~'"i'' J•.UJ .u Nutrt• IJ.mk: .unl .dJuiono~lm.uliul utfk.n 
I'LhTMA!\TER 
rtu:Oin .. rYC'r 
TJ,,.(>Inl'fYCf •• .ttn.:tubt-r ufthC" A.wo.iii,.J f'r~"'•· AU n.•l'rodw::uun "~""" 
fdl'tVI.'\J. 
Being divided where it counts 
I must admit. after working on elec­tion matters full time in Portland, Ore. for the summer and part-time with campus groups in our communi­ty and swing states. I am only now acclimating . 
myself to the fact Kamana Porter 
that it is over. 

Breaking the 
While I was highly 
Habit

disappointed with the results, I feel it's time to move on, evaluate this event and get ready for the next fight. Yet, how Republicans and conserva­tive pundits have described this elec­tion concerns me. Vice President Dick Cheney declared last week, "President Bush ran forthrightly on a clear agen­da for this nation's future. and the nation responded by giving him a mandate." Much like the Republican platform, I find fault with every word of this statement. 
First of all. President George W. Bush's re-election campaign was any­thing but forthright. Anyone remem­ber how Bush shirked questions, spouted ambiguous allusions to policy and continually resorted to Sen. John Kerry bashing and fear-mongering over answering questions in every debate? Even now, Bush has no defi­nite plans for his next term's policy focuses-Social Security reform, tax code reform and securing the peace in Iraq. On the infamous "moral issues," Bush's stance remains unclear. lie ran with the pt·omise of a constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage, yet a week before the election on Good Morning America, declared civil uniQilS w~re...(ine by him. He said, "I don't thin¥f.vt! should ·deny people rights to a civil union." This has some members of his Christian conservative base-who adamantly disapprove of any extension of rights to same-sex couples-grumbling. Even Bush sup­porters are unclear what the next four years will bring. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
BETSY 2004 
Enough of Bush's incoherent cam­paigning; now let us turn to the extremely troubling "Bush-Cheney­Rove-vision" of Tuesday's results. They claim to have received a "man­date" from the American people, chalk full with "political capital" to further their policy goals. Looking at the statistics, to declare a mandate is an exaggeration. Bush won on the narrowest margin of a sitting presi­dent since former President Woodrow Wilson. With a 51 percent to 48 per­cent edge over Kerry, the only thing Bush can claim this time is that he was actually nlccted. 
I understand their thinking though. To go from what a New York Times article describes as "a one-term acci­dent of history" to a real, but close win in the popular vote and electoral college must feel like a "mandate," yet expecting the 48 percent of voters who stood against Bush to share their sentiments is folly. Furthermore, the illusive "political capital" Bush lacked these past four years did not stop his decisions to take unilatPral and aggressive moves to invade Iraq or give tax cuts to the wealthy. Sounds like more of the same out of touch­ness with reality from the Bush camp. 
Now to this warm and fuzzy talk of uniting America after the election. While it sounds nice to promise to bridge these gaps, it is neither realis­tic nor favorable. Blue voters and red voters, for the most part, are divided where it counts. We have dramatically different conceptions of policy reme­dies to national and international 
. problems~ The passj.Qn .!lvb.i.l}'i..these convictions produced high..}'{glr turnout, volunteer participation and political dialogue. The surprising part, which caused great confusion and grief among Democrats. was that this division extends to conceptions of America's essence. As New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman wrote, "We don't just disagree on 
what America should be doing; we 
disagree on what America is.,; That 
point of division will not disappear 
with "compassionate conservatism," 
and I do not think we should brush it 
aside. Instead of grasping for empty 
prospects of unity, we need to broad­
en our discussion of political issues to 
find and reconcile the roots and val­
ues in these different conc(~ptions of 
our nation. 
I would like to see the passion and constructive energy behind this divi­sion on the left/progressiv(~ side to continue and grow. In tlw next four years. we could see massive changes to our constitution, contimu~d consoli­dation of corporate power and (dite wealth with tax reform. privatization of Social Security and furtlwr dese­cration of the environnwnt. We who believe government must address tlw income and living standard disparities with progressive income tax code and social welfare programs. that preserv­ing the Earth comes befon~ economir efficiency and expediency and that America can not orchestrate demo­cratic elections in Iraq and Afghanistan until we ensure each American vote counts. must not con­cede our positions for any n~ason. While our mobilizations to take back the White Ilouse fell short. we did amazing work and have much more to do. Division among citizens is our democracy's last line of defense against narrow single-minded inter­ests and factions from dictating to everyorw what America is and does. Let-US-kc..cp our Llivis.iun sharp and, " safeguard our democracy. 
Kamaria Porter is a junior history major. She can be contacted at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are lhose of the author and not neces­sarily of The Obseruer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"You can't build a reputation on what you're going to do." 
Henry Ford entrepreneur 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Wednesday., November 1 0, 2004 
page 11 
LETTER TO THE! EDITOR 
Brqaden understanding of ~moral values' 
I I 

It appears that it as the "moral val­ues" folks who were the swing voters and not the youth v te. I asked several evangelicals what t e most important issue in the campai n was to them: gay marriage. They also said Sen. John Kerry was not a rna of moral convic­tion. 
I issue a challenge to my conservative Catholic and evange .ical friends. 
I challenge you tor,ay more attention to other moral values that are rel1ected in the Bible. For ins ance, in Isaiah, the prophet is very ang1: at the Israelites for not being concer ed about "the orphan and the wid( w," about the "usurers" (i.e. bank rs) charging high interest rates. In othier words, he was angry at the prioriti~s of making too much money at othe s' expense and for not being very cone rned about the less fortunate. 
1 

The election is over. and I am not try­ing to win your vote,: but I am hoping you will broaden ym,tr understanding of "moral values" as re!flected in the Bible. Bush's policies, such: as the tax cuts, favored the wealthy !and not the poor/working/middhj class. You may say -the wealthy pay h~gher taxes so they should get higher be,nefits. But doesn't the Bible argue that the wealthy have a greater social respmh.sibility to society because God has entrusted them with greater wealth? Many wealthy people such as steel magnate Andrew Carnegie believed they have a greater social responsibility. Carnegie gave away his entire fortune. 
People complain about 
personal satisfaction, not 
paying taxes, but don't we all benefit from paved roads, the public taxes as possible. Why not take pride in paying taxes as part of one's civic duty to improve society instead of pocketing 
. as much as possible? Why not teach one's children to choose a profession that betters society or brings 
one that brings in as much ll)oney as possi­ble? Are these not 
school system, 
moral values? Some fire/police depart-argue they would ments, electricity rather give through and homeland faith-based initia­security? They 
tives than taxes, have to be paid for 
but that would somehow. 
remove the burden Freedom isn't free, 
from non­but neither are all 
Christians who these things. wouldn't have to Besides, Jesus gave pay anything. Most unto Caesar what churches I've been was Caesar's, and he to couldn't afford never complained such a burden any­about it. way. 
He also gave away The Bush administra­everything he had. His tion also won't allow the goal wasn't to make as much federal government to buy 
money as possible. He had more lofty goals. Perhaps we as a society could begin to promote more lofty voca­tional goals besides making as much money as possible, and paying as little 
prescription drugs from Canada because they are "unsafe." Hmmm. Canada? Could it be that the pharma­ceutical companies that make huge contributions to the Republican party have something to do with it? Several states already have this program and buy dJ;ugs for half the cost, and no one is dying. Is this policy valuing the rich or the average person? 
Also, China forbids its citizens from having more than one child and will then sterilize women. If a woman does become pregnant a second time, she is forced to have an abortion, even in the eighth month. Christians in China are also persecuted. Why isn't Bush protesting or removing favored nation status? Again, he doesn't want to jeop­ardize all the money made in trade. Mammon over moral values. 
I applaud you for having moral values and believing in them strongly. My favorite theologian says, "the worst kind of evil is indifference to evil," i.e .. apathy. So kudos to you. But I also chal­lenge you not to be indifferent or apa­thetic to other moral problems. God is not. Let's not have him return and say, "I came to you when I was naked, and couldn't pay for my insulin, but you told me that your taxes were too high and that arguing about gay marriage was more important." 
Kristine Boeke graduate student Nov. 9 

U-WIRE 
Election shows Democratic woes 
As a student of politics and history, it is neces­sary for me to understand trends tend to repeat themselves. The election of 2004 has proven once again, in times of war, the nation ov!)rwhelmingly stands behind its leadership as a sign of unity and r_esolve for the difficult · Paul A. ttmes ahead. Abraham Escajadillo 
Lincoln in 1864, Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1944, San Diego State Lyndon B. Johnson in University 1964. Richard Nixon in The Daily Aztec 1972 and now President George W. Bush in 2004 all prove this. Furthermore. this is a :select pantheon of great American presidents. : 
While there exists a small faction of ardent opponents who will never admit to the resound­ing victory the Arneric~n people delivered to the sitting president. it is tindeniably an absolute majority won with mote than 3 million votes over Sen. John Kerry-in addition to increased gains in the !louse and Senate -that presented a mandate to the Republicans. Not even the politi­cally astute former President Clinton could muster an absolute majority popular vote during the 1990s. Additionally, without the specter of "illegitimacy" many Democrats ardently believed arose in Florida in 2000, even despite evidence to the contrary, Bush has now clearly become everyone's president, regardless of political aflili-· ation. 
The timing of Bush 'sire-election victory couldn't have been better. The United States must remain firm --and it will -fbr the coming years. On the international scenJ. events are rapidly occur­ring: Iraq will hold free and fair elections come January, Yassir Arafat[and Fidel Castro cannot maintain their strangleholds much longer, Iran's nuclear ambitions mu$t be addressed, Sudanese genocide should be st~ped and punished and North Korean intransi ence has to be dealt with. The second Bush adm nistration must tackle these difficult tasks so lasting peace and stability emerge in Iraq, new oderate leadership may finally allow a true Isr eli-Palestinian peace accord and finally, C a could become -after more than five decade of an oppressive commu­nist dictatorship -an open and democratic soci­ety. As for the court of European public opinion, its arrogance in attem ting to sway the electorate is appalling and conde cending. What business did France's Le Mond have in endorsing Kerry? 
Mon Dieu (My God)! This in a country that allowed Jean Marie Le Pen to advance to a presi­dential runoff in 2002? If any fences are to be mended, it is those self-serving countries that should approach the United States with their tails between their legs. 
Kerry lost the election because he was a peren­nially uninspiring candidate whose entire cam­paign agenda was based on highlighting purport­ed "mistakes" committed by the Bush administra­tion. Not only did Kerry state he would not have made those mistakes, but would have offered bet­ter solutions. It is quite easy to criticize in hind­sight, Kerry, but it is quite another to govern. 
The Democratic Party has lost touch with the plight of the common man, while the rabid "Michael Moore" wing has successfully alienated moderate voters. A presidential ticket consisting of two lawyers is ijlso highly unappealing. This party has consistently shown a propensity to rule by "judicial fiat"rather than "political persuasion" or "litigation rather than legislation," as present­ed on Oct. 31 by George F. Will of the Washington Post, proving the advancement of liberal ideals is superior to representing constituents' interests. Furthermore, not since 1960 has any individual been elected president directly from the legisla­tive branch of government; all presidents since then have had experience in the executive branch at either the state or federal level. 
From policy perspectives, the notion of higher taxes for the "rich" advances the acceptability of class warfare, while Kerry's liberal social agenda did not accurately reflect the will of a majority of the electorate. On defense and foreign policy, Kerry's Senate record and undefmed "global test" were, in addition to his degrading and hurtful anti-war involvement after returning from Vietnam, markedly lacking in a time of ongoing dangerous levels of terrorism. 
The American voter is becoming increasingly more sophisticated at detecting and electing true leadership. Second-tier parties should learn this if they ever want to effectively contest elections again. I mean, could the electoral map have been any redder? 
This colurTm first appeared on Nov. 9 in The Daily Aztec, the daily newspaper at San Diego State University. The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Four years might not· be sO bad 
In the famous, oft-quoted words of Benjamin Franklin, "In this world nothing is certain but death and taxes." Though it may be hard to realize from the post-election attitudes of many liberals, death is not quite upon us. And interestingly enough, President George W. Bush's second administration might make a profound (and positive) result on our nation's tax structure. 
First of all, let me clarify -I'm about as liberal as they come on certain issues, and taxation is definitely one. I have little sympathy for the "over $200,000" bracket when they complain about bearing the brunt of our nation's taxes. I was­n't a fan of Dubya's tax cut plan, and frankly, I'm not a fan of him-period. On election night, I tossed a drink in the face of one of my best friends because he started chanting "four more years" when Ohio was called for Bush. I got in a dozen argu­ments with other friends that were slightly less than cordial. 
And yet, I expect something good to come of his second term. According to the Nov. 8 New York Times, the Bush administration is seriously considering a drastic overhaul of the federal tax code -and for the first time in two decades he has the "political capital" to do it. With Republicans in control of the House and Senate, he continues to have the party block that he had in his first presidency, and now he has the clear support of the American voters-as much as it pains me to see it. With this power, Bush hopes to take on two of the most vilified groups in American politics: the Internal Revenue Service and the "special interests." Simplifying the tax code, and cutting out the loopholes that confuse everybody, is some­thing we can all agree on but that politicians can never enact because of the entrenched special interests who profit by the complexities. If this generation has ever seen a president with the guts to take on the impossible because he believes it is the right thing to do, it's Bush. Coincidentally, if this generation has ever seen a president who believes "the right thing to do" involves making things easier to understand, it's Bush. 
So if you're stuck in a post-election depression. trying to fig­ure out what's wrong with our country, then take solace. As long as the president doesn't reverse a century of American politics by abandoning the progressive tax structure, this could be a great event for the American people. So you see liberals, it's not the end of the world. Not yet at least ... that will come when Bush pisses off nuclear-equipped North Korea. 
Paul Joice 
senwr 
off-campus Nov. 9 
• 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Wednesday, November 10, 2004 
Malloy's experiences told in 'Monk's Travels' 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scene Editor 
University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy is a well-known figure to virtually all Notre Dame students. Although actual contact with him is gc~nerally rare for the average student, any student knows enough about Malloy to get a reasonably extensive impression of him. llowever, their knowledge usually tmds arter his char­acteristically slow manner of talking is 
disntss<~d. 
The opportunity to understand Malloy as a person, not just as a tall president. 1lresents itself in Malloy's latest novel "Monk's Travels." Malloy provides insight into his life, character 

Europe,
Monk's Travels
and opinions 
Mediterranean throughout the Region, Eastern novel, which is Europe, Latin composed of edit­America, South ed journal entries Author: Father Edward Malloy America, Africa, d e s 1: r i b i n g h i s Down Under and 
oxporiences Publisher: Andrews McMeel Publishing the Far East. 
novel ends with "Snapshots" describing Malloy's encounters with various famous people of the world including Pope John Paul rr, former President George Bush, current President George 
W. Bush, Martin Luther King Jr. and even Donald Trump. Saving the best for . last seems to be the case in deciding to end with the "Snapshots" as they are the most interesting and entertaining portion of the novel. The "Snapshots" provide an insight into Malloy's charac­ter and personality, as well as showing the prominence of his position as the president of the University of Notre Dame. 
The actual travels of Mafloy cover almost the entire world. The entries are divided into sections by continent 
and include the 
abroad, at Notre Dame and with some of tlw world's prominent peoplo. 
While the novel on a whole is not entirely captivating, it is an interesting travel narrative spotted with some of Malloy's personal opinions and experi­tmces. 
"Monk's Travels" is exactly what one would guess it to be from the title -a travel narrative outlining Malloy's spe­cific experiences. Must of the novel is taken directly from the journal Malloy kept as he traveled around the world. This covers the bulk of the content of the novel, but the actual novel begins with Malloy's account of the activities at Notre Dame surrounding the attack on Sept. 11. 
From the campus-wide Mass to the firefighters from New York being hon­ored at the U2 concert on campus that happened soon after 9/11, Malloy's thoughts and feelings are revealed. The Some of the most 
interesting accounts revolve around Malloy's trip to the Holy Land. Beyond descriptions of the scenery, Malloy also covers the history of the region and the senti­ments of the region at the time of his visits. 
Malloy recounts a particular conver­sation with a Christian Palestinian woman from Ramallah in the West · 
Bank. ·· 
•II 

"She spoke of her disappointment that so few of the 800,000 Christian tourists each year make any effort to learn about the local Christian communities," Malloy writes, "and she expressed fears that the sacred Christian shrines in the Holy Land could become muse­ums instead of places of active worship if the Arab Christian population is not supported." 
Malloy's opinions regarding the area are intriguing and interesting because he is an educated man in both faith and histo­ry, and his opinions are generally very well­founded and rather objective. 
llis unique perspec­tive is made more apparent in his descrip­tion of his visits to Home. While Malloy shows a great respect for the Vatican , he is not above criticizing some of the smaller aspects of the Vatican itself. Malloy reveals, "I must admit that, other than the fundamental sense of loyalty I feel as a Homan Catholic and a 
; 
priest, I am not attract­ed to the Vatican scene. Much of the pomp and formalism I find off­putting, and I am hard­ly unique in these feel­ings." 
lie continues on the greater state of the Church saying that although the men of the Vatican are generally good men of prayer, "Yet I wish that the broader church com­munity would have more of an impact on the Vatican as a bureaucracy, and I ~i&h .mow _pf ,th\l.se cho~w~. f.?r i;,obs .f.Lt the Vatican had spent more ttfPe away from Rome, in the local church more than in the diplomatic corps. I also wish there were more women and mar­ried people entrusted with major lead­ership responsibility." These are large opinions, but appropriate for a man of such great character. 
As an overall read, "Monk's Travels" is less than thrilling. For people inter­ested in learning more about the man behind the institution of Notre Dame, however, the novel is a great choice. 
With anecdotes about getting moved to the end of his row in the Vatican due to his great h.eight tp movii?_Kct :c:ouch with President Bush In the locker room of the JACC, Malloy's general character is seen in a way that most Notre Dame students never get to personally expe­rience. While the content of the novel is generally less than gripping, it is well-written, and for people interested in the regions of the world Malloy dis­cusses or Malloy himself, "Monk's Travels" is well worth the read. 
Contact Becca Saunders at saunders.S@nd.edu 
'Swan Lake' ballet arrives at the Morris 

By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assisranr Scene Ediror 
While many people may not have extensive knowledge of' bal­lets, most will have -at least heard of "Swan Lake." 11. is one of the most popular and fre­quently performed productions in ballet, and there are interest­ing stories behind the story, music and choreography that add to its mythic status.· The Moscow Ballet will perform 
"Swan  Lake"  at  the  Morris  
Performing  Arts  Center  
Thursday at 7:30p.m.  

The story of "Swan Lak<~" is part of a longstanding mytholog­ical tradition of women trans­forming into birds, with exam­ples in a diverse range of cul­tures. including Greek, Arabic and Russian. The ballet follows Odette, the Swan Queen, who is transformed into a swan by the sorcerer, Von Hothbart. 
The Swan Lake was formed by her parent's tears after she was kidnapped by the magician. A prince, Siegfried, falls in love with her, and Odette explains she must remain as a swan­woman hybrid until she is pledged a man's undying love. Siegfried pledges his love to her, but he is tricked into giving his love to Octile, who is Odette's evil twin. 
The prince realizes he has accidentally betrayed his love, and he races to meet Odette. She is dying, but he throws her tiara in the lake, it rises and they are united together in death. There are many subtle variations applied to the story, and like many classics, it is reinterpreted with a variety of settings and costumes. 
Peter Tchaikovsky, the famous classical composer, wrote the score to the equally well-kn9wn ballet. He had never written an entire ballet before "Swan Lake," and he died before he ever saw the work performed in its entirety. The difficulty and complexities of the score initially caused trouble for the original dancers, but the work radically changed the music to which bal­lets were performed, as well as how they were danced. 
Due to the usual nature of Tchaikovsky's score, the chore­ography of "Swan Lake" became somewhat of a problem. Hussian choreographers Marius Pepita and Lev Ivanov worked to create dances that worked with the composer's difficult score, and they finally nmnrged with what has become the standard chore­ography for "Swan Lake." 
Italian ballerina Pierina Legnani addnd an anotlwr level of technieal difficulty when she introduced a sequencn that ineluded 32 'fouettes,' which are fast, whipping turns done on orw foot. The musie and beauty of the production, combin11d with tlw technical diiTieulty of the 
production  has  made  it  a  
favorite  of  audiences  and  
dancers the world over.  

Tickets are available at the Morris Performing Arts Center. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, November 1 0, ~004 
page 13 
Green Day rocks Chicago 
With Sugarcult and New Found Glory, Green Day performs an entertainingshow heavy with political messages 

political views on the road on a
By MICHELE JEFFERS 
tour sponsored by Verizon 
Scene Writer 
Wireless and MTV2. Attempting 
to amuse the crowd before the 
On Monday, Chicago bore Wit-show, Verizon set up large 
ness as thousands of a~~st~~ll~d. screens..that the audienc~ c~uld 
teenagers emerged from mul,dle-· send text messages and ·p1ctutes 
class suburbia fully clad in their from their cell phones. 'Mer wit-
mismatched clothing and metal nessing a fair share of messages 
jewelry to unite together in 4efi-proclaiming "I LUV BILLY 4EVA" 
ance of all oppression and and "I want to make out with a 
authority. high school girl," Sugar Cult 
That's right. These rogues stood opened the show. It gave an 
tall against the law and pro-enthusiastic performance in 
claimed their inalienable right to which the lead singer's gymnastic 
go out on a school night. A mag-abilities would put many a cheer­
nanimous few even allowed their leader to shame. The set was rel­
driver's license and credit card atively short, but included radio 
toting parents to tag along-as hits like "Stuck in America," 
long as they didn't stand 'too "Pretty Girl" and "Memory." 
close, of course. Defiance of Next up was New Found Glory, 
authority was indeed the name of MTV's favorite pop-punk band 
the game Monday night as G~en from Coral Springs, Fla. New 
Day performed with Sugar Cult Found Glory mostly played songs 
and New Found Glory at the UIC from its latest album, "Catalyst," pavilion. including its single "All Downhill With the release of its success-from Here." Other songs included ful concept album, "American "My friends over you," ·Idiot," Green Day has taken its "Understatement" and "Head On 
Collision." Disappointingly, the only older song played was "Hit or Miss." New Found Glory playeq a decent set, but its stale on-stage banter left much to be desired. 
' · After being Introduced by a beer chugging rabbit, Green Day took the stage with "American Idiot" -a song that lead singer Billie Joe Armstrong feels even more passionately about since last week's election. Banners fea­turing hand grenades hung from the stage as a symbol of fascism, while the audience raised its arms in unison in support as Armstrong derided the masses blind allegiance to propaganda in the media. Green Day played the first half of "American Idiot" in the order of the album. During "Holiday," the album's most pointed attack against the Bush administration, Armstrong urged the audience not to be afraid to "dream and differ from the hollow lies." The band's goal is to show the youth of America 
that they have a responsibility to stand up for their ideals even when pressured by authority. 
The new regime fell to the old as bass player Mike Dirnt played the familiar bass line of "Longview" from its ·1994 hit album, "Dookil:l." Next, Green Day performed an extended version of the incredibly infectious "Hitchin' a Ride." Much to the chagrin of chaperoning parents, Armstrong's bellows gave way to an ecstatic onstage simulation of masturbation. The rest of the set included songs like "Basket Case," "She," "Brain Stew" and "When September Ends"-a new ballad dedicated to the mem­ory of Armstrong's father. The band also performed lively cover of "Shout," in which a trumpet playing bumble bee came on stage while Armstrong regally cavorted in a crown and cape. 
Beyond entertaining the audi­ence as a guitar-clad Puck, Armstrong pulled out all the stops to get the crowd involved. Green Day kept up its concert tradition by allowing three audience mem­bers to come on stage, take over on guitar, bass and drums and have the chance to feel like rock gods for a few moments. 
Green Day's encore included on-stage explosions and falling confetti as the band went out with a pounding cover of Queen's "We are the Champions." Holding the last chord, Armstrong remained on the stage alone and ended the show with their popular ballad "Good Riddance (Time of Your Life)." 
Overall, Green Day put on an amazing performance with a well-balanced mix of songs from its new album and older crowd favorites. It was a little bit of a let down to see that Green Day was using the same improv pieces in the show it used three years ago, but it was still just as fun the sec­ond time around. 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu 


Sugarcult opened the Green Day concert. The rock band provided a harder fla­vor of music to the concert. 
Wednesday, November 10, 2004

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 

Roethlisberger rewarding Steelers for their faith in him 
Associated Press 

PITTSBUHGH Ben Hoethlisberger saw it coming, even when nobody else did. 
Hoethlisberger is accustomed to being slighted, beginning when his high &chool coach's lack of prescience limited him to one season at quarterback, and continuing when he was an often-overlooked star at "the other" Miami -the one in Ohio, not in Florida. 
So when quarterbacks Eli" Manning and Philip Hivers were chosen before the Steelers drafted him No. 11 in April, Hoethlisberger responded with words that bordered on anger and were wrapped with a promise: Play me, and I'll show you. 
"Everyone seems to think they (Manning and Hivers) had bet­ter systems, have played against better teams. have been born into a football family," he said. "I feel that once I get on the field. my will to win is much greater than both of them .... I think I bring a little more ath­leticism than both of them. but I guess we'll have to wait and see." 
That didn't take long. Halfway through a season in which the Steelers (7-1) themselves are the NFL's other big surprise story, he is, indeed, showing them. 
Thanks to an ace quarterback and a Duce (Staley), an owner's reluctance to change and a coach's determination to return to the past, the Steelers are coming off easy victories over the otherwise unbeaten Eagles and Patriots. If they're not the Super Bowl favorite, they're on a short list with Philadelphia and New England. 
"We played the Patriots, who everybody said was the best team in football, and we beat them," linebacker Joey Porter said. "Then we played the Eagles, who everyone said was the best team in football, and we beat them. I'll let you take it from there and draw your own conclusions." 
The Steelers haven't opened as fast or as furious since they won four Super Bowls in six seasons from 1975-80 yet, remarkably, are essentially the same team that was 2-6 a year ago. 
The only major personnel changes were adding Hoethlisberger and free agent running back Staley (101 yards per game) and promoting line­backer Clark Haggans and safe­ty Troy Polamalu to starters. The biggest changes came off the field, with Ken Whisenhunt taking over the offense after Mike Mularkey left to coach the Bills, and Dick LeBeau return­ing as defensive coordinator, the same job he had 10 years ago. 
Some impatient NFL owners might have fired Bill Cowher after last year's 6-10 season, which matched his worst in 12 years in Pittsburgh. Instead, the Steelers -who haven't fired a coach in 35 years -gave him a contract extension though 2007. 
The move was viewed by some as stubbornness, a refusal by chairman Dan' Rooney to admit Cowher's time might be up. Cowher has justified Rooney's confidence by making sure his team was confident, poised and focused since train­ing camp began, a mind-set his players have carried throughout the season. 
"That's what it comes dJJwn to: Do you believe your coach can win a championship for you?" team president Art Rooney II said. 
While the Steelers were reluc­tant to make a change, Cowher wasn't. Days after the 2003 sea­son ended, Cowher talked of his determination to rebuild a run­ning game that was the NFL's second-worst last season, lost amid a trickery-laden and pass­heavy system. Cowher also felt the defense was too soft and passive and had moved too far away from the blitzing and pressure he preferred. 
Returning to what they tradi­tionally do best, the Steelers lead the NFL in rushing, gaining only 202 fewer yards in eight games than they did all last sea­son and plowing through the exceptional New England and Philadelphia defenses for a combined 473 yards. 
"I feel like personally, I go into the game knowing what we're trying to do," right guard Keydrick Vincent said. "Last year I didn't feel that way. so hat's off to the coordinator. I know if he says he's going to run the ball, he's going to call the run. It's a big difference, knowing what you're going to do and then going out and doing 

AP Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger reacts after throwing his first career touchdown on Sept. 19 against the Ravens. 
it." 

On defense, the turnovers and sacks are way up under LeBeau, who has brought back the edgy aggressiveness and zone blitzes that characterized his Blitzburgh defense of the mid-1990s. 
"We've got a fast defense and. when we turn it up right, we can cause some problems," LeBeau said. 
But it is the 6-foot-5. 241­pound Roethlisberger who has energized Pittsburgh like no Steelers quarterback since Terry Bradshaw, providing the last missing piece to a team that has acted like it couldn't wait to win since training camp started. 
Consider this: No other quar­terback in NFL history ever took out undefeated teams in consec­utive weeks the way Hoethlisberger did the Patriots and Eagles -and he did it in his first six weeks as a starter. 
NFL Rookie of the Year? With a 69 percent completion rate, an average of only one intercep­tion every two starts and a team that can't wait to play behind him. Roethlisberger is making a · case for the MVP award. 
MLB 

Roger Clemens wins record 7th Cy Young 
Associated Press League. in 2005. Clemens won three Cy reach the World Series for the 
He's the oldest Cy Young win­Arizona's 41-year-old Randy Youngs with Boston (1986-87, first time, but Houston fell one 
NEW YORK Roger ner. Gaylord Perry was 40 Johnson, second to Clemens 1991), two with Toronto (1997-win short. Clemens couldn't Clemens easily won his record when he won the NL honor in with five Cy Youngs, finished 98) and one with the New York hold a 2-0 lead against St. seventh Cy Young Award after 1978. second in the voting with eight Yankees (2001). He is the first Louis in Game 7 of the NL putting off retirement and Clemens retired after pitch­first-place votes and 97 points. player to win BBWAA awards championship series, when being about as dominant as ing for the New York Yankees The Big Unit went 16-14 with a with four teams, and the first Albert Pujols hit a tying double ever-even at age 42. in the 2003 World Series. then 2.60 ERA and a major league­to win eight awards -he was in the sixth inning, and Scott 
The Rocket received 23 of 32 changed-his mind and signed leading 290 strikeouts the AL MVP in 1986. Rolen followed with a two-run first-place votes and 140 points with his hometown Houston Arizona scored two runs or With a 328-164 record, homer. in balloting released Tuesday Astros and went 18-4 with a fewer in 17 of his 35 starts. Clemens is lOth on the .career Clemens earned a $100.000 by the Baseball Writers' 2.98 ERA and 218 strikeouts. Houston's Roy Oswalt, who wins list, and his 4,317 strike­bonus for winning the award, Association of America to win Currently in Japan with a tour­went 20-10 to lead the NL in outs are second to Nolan while Johnson got $150,000 for the NL Cy Young for the first ing major league all-star team, wins, was third with 19 points, Ryan's 5,714. finishing second. Oswalt and time after capturing six Cy he said last week he hasn't followed by San Francisco's He signed with the expressed Schmidt earned bonuses of Youngs in the American decided whether he will pitch Jason Schmidt with 13. intent of helping the Astros $25,000 each. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr ro edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES TICKETS FoR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW 6-7 bdrm house on S.B.Ave across Spring break 2005 Challenge ... find 
LEASING FOR 2005-2006 from radio tower available for 06-a better price! Lowest price spals! 
SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS-07. Completely renovated,large Free Meals' November 6th dead-
ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED rooms,3 full baths. ND Ave house line! Hiring reps-earn free trips and 
Moving to Chicago? Sublease in BUY/SELL F06TBALL TIX 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 w/5bdrms available for 05-06. cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 
4br Lincoln Park apt. w/3 ND grads. PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-Walking distance from ND BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT Will lease to as few as 3 1800-426-771 0 
$575/mo, open Dec. 1 . Call Andy @ 3911 MMMRentals.com 532-1408 NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY students,good location & competi­
312-371-4415 SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE tive rent. Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity For Sale: ND football tix. Good 6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO NO. STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY-Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes pric~s. W/D, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. ERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, 
FoR SALE 
Plan your next tripl VWEUROVAN pop-top camper 1999 Sleeps 4 273-9959 Leave a phone number. 
Gently worn NO winter hip length jacket. XL $60. 233-2431. 

232-0964. 
Wanted: ND football tix. Top$$$ 251-1570. 
NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 ­
NEED TICKETS Nov. 13 Pitt. Call Amy 219-872-5932 
AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. AVAIL.NOW. CALL JOE GRIM­MINS:574-229-3659 OR 679-2010. 
MISHAWAKA 2-3 bedroom,2.5 bath, 1 ,200 sq.It + full basement + 2-car garage, $875/mo. 574-273-9000. 
WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234­2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
Apartment for rent 2 br, partially furnished, desirable North Shore Triangle neighborhood, 1 .25 mi from cam­pus, second semester special $400/mo plus electric, 233-1604 
PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi Toursl Over 18 years of Spring Break experience! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cacun & Cabo. Organize a group-Go Free! 800-875-4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com 
Nassau, Jamaica From $459! Panama City & Daytona $159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1­800-678-6386 
Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 

Wednesday, November 10, (-.004 page 15
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


l 
~ ~ 

~ ~ 
I I I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
-


Apply online: Due November 12 www.nd.edu/,..,teamwork 
eamwor omorrow 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 16 COMPILED FROM TilE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, November I 0, 2004 
Bowl Championship Series 
team  record  points  
1  usc  9·0  .9847  
2  Oklahoma  9·0  .9664  
3  Auburn  9·0  .9097  
4  California  7·1  .8247  
5  Wisconsin  9·0  .7990  
6  Texas  8·1  .7904  
1  Utah  9·0  .7511  
8  Georgia  8·1  .6810  
9  Michigan  8·1  .6608  
10  Boise Slate  8·0  .5926  
11  Virginia  7-1  .5642  
12  Florida Slate  7-2  .5183  
13  West Virginia  8·1  .4671  
14  Louisville  6-1  .4599  
15  Tennessee  7-2  .4093  
16  Arizona State  7-2  .4031  
11  Miami  6·2  .3991  
18  Virginia Tech  7-2  .3933  
19  LSU  6-2  .3273  
20  Iowa  7-2  .3254  
21  Texas A&M  6·3  .1956  
22  Oklahoma State  6·3  .1237  
23  Boston College  6·2  .1054  
24  UTEP  6·2  .0952  
25  NOTRE DAME  6·3  .0671  

AVCA Women's Volleyball Poll 
team record points 
1 Washington (60) 20·0 1,620 2 Hawaii {2) 21-0 1,537 3 Nebraska (3) 22·1 1,513 4 Penn State 21-2 1,415 5 Minnesota 22·4 1,298 6 usc 15·4 1,243 7 Florida 21-2 1,235 8 Ohio State 22·2 1,219 9 Texas 20·2 1,053 10 Colorado Slate 20·3 1,012 11 Stanford 17·6 1,004 12 Saint Mary's (Calif.) 21-2 838 13 TexasA&M 16·5 764 14 Calilornla 12·9 673 15 Tennessee 24·2 661 16 UCLA 15·8 657 11 Utah 20·3 577 18 UC Santa Barbara 19·3 498 19 San Diego 11-4 449 20 Kansas State 15·8 446 21 Arizona 15·8 288 
22 Santa Clara 16·5 286 23 Louisville 22·2 277 24 Florida A&M 20·2 160 25 Illinois 17-6 140 
Women's Basketball AP Preseason Top 25 
team points 
1 Tennessee (20) 1,085 
2 Texas (7) 1,056 
3 LSU (12) 1,053 
4 Connecticut (6) 1,017 
5 Georgia 887 
6 Duke 838 
7 Stanford 827 
8 Baylor 794 
9 North Carolina 696 
1ot NOTRE DAME 635 
10! Ohio Slate 635 
12 Texas Tech 633 
13 Vanderblll 525 
14 Minnesota 489 
15 Michigan State 428 
16 Purdue 423 
17 Rutgers 407 
18 Boston College 376 
19 Kansas State 358 
20 DePaul 248 
21 Penn State 211 
22 Oklahoma 182 
23 Maryland 166 
24 Arizona 156 
25 louisiana Tech 137 
around the dial 
NBA 

Suns at Cavaliers 8 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
TCU at Louisville 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated P~ss 
COLUMBUS, Ohio ­Former Ohio State star Maurice Clarett accused coach Jim Tressel. his staff and school boosters of arranging for him to get passing grades, cars, and thousands of dollars, including for bogus sum­mer jobs. The school immediately denied the claims Tuesday. 
Most of· Clarett's charges, made in an inter­view with ESPN The Magazine, were addressed as part of an NCAA probe that found the running back lied to investigators, leading to his suspension from the team he helped win the 2002 national title. 
Ohio State athletic direc­tor Andy Geiger was not surprised by the accusa­tions, saying Clarett had vowed to try to hurt the program. 
"In moments of frustra­tion during the investiga­tion, (Maurice) might say something like, 'I can blow this whole program up,' or something like that, and so we would then say, 'OK, blow it up. Tell us what you know,"' Geiger said. 
After being suspended by Ohio State and the NCAA for the 2003 season, Clarett went to court to challenge the NFL's rule preventing players from entering the draft less than three years after graduating high school. He won initial federal court ruling but lost several appeals and was kept out of the draft. 
Friends and family members say Clarett has been working out with a personal trainer in prepa­ration for the 2005 NFL draft. He has not spoken publicly in months. 
"I have had a chance to read the article, and the allegations as they were mentioned are, simply, untrue. Period," Tressel said. 
According to the maga­zine, Clarett said Tressel set him up with a loaner car. 
Geiger said Tressel did try to help Clarett buy a car through the dealership that leases cars to several Ohio State coaches and administrators. But Clarett and his mother did not meet with the dealer to make arrangements to buy the car, and the dealership came to Columbus several days later to repossess it. 
Geiger said Tressel's actions did not break NCAA rules, adding that the coach put other play­ers in touch with the deal­ership, too. 

IN BRIEF 
Six women test for possibleride in Infiniti Pro Series 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indy Racing League expects to have the first female driver in its developmental Infiniti Pro Series next season in preparation for an eventual ride in the IndyCar Series. 
The Infiniti series graduated three drivers to the bigger open-wheel cir­cuit in its first two years of competi­tion. This week, six women are test­ing at Texas Motor Speedway for a possible ride next year. 
"This is designed as the developing ground for the IndyCar series," IRL spokesman Tim Harms said Tuesday. "The same type of cars, running the same circuits, running at speeds just slightly slower than the IndyCar Series cars. Everything is basically set up to give them an environment as close to the IndyCar Series as pos­sible." 
Car owner and former Indianapolis 500 winner Bobby Rahal said in May he would give a ride next year at Indianapolis to Danica Patrick, who competes in the Champ Car's devel­opmental Toyota Atlantic series. 
And Nunn Motorsports, the only IRL team owned by a woman, is conduct­ing the tests this week in Texas and plans to offer at least one of the six women a full-time Infiniti ride in 2005. 
"It is probably the best training ground there is to get somebody into the IndyCar Series, a very good opportunity for the women in this test to take that step," Harms said. Swimming sensation Phelpscharged with drunk driving 
SALISBURY, Md. -Six-time Olympic champion Michael Phelps was arrested last week and charged with drunken driving. 
A trooper saw the 19-year-old swimming sensation go through a stop sign Thursday night, state police said Monday. The trooper saw signs of intoxication and arrested Phelps for driving under the influence, police said. 
Phelps also was charged with vio­lation of a license restriction and failure to obey a stop sign. The legal drinking age in Maryland is 21. 
"I want to say that last week I made a mistake. I wanted to share my feel­ings and I know that getting in a car with anything to drink is wrong, dan­gerous and is unacceptable," Phelps told The Associated Press. Ricky Gutierrez joins list of 
Red Sox free agents 
BOSTON -Red Sox infielder Hicky Gutierrez filed for free agency Tuesday. joining 15 Boston team­mates headed for the open market. 
Gutierrez was obtained in July after several Red Sox middle infield­ers got injured and before the team traded for shortstop Orlando Cabrera. 
The 34-year-old Gutierrez hit .214 with eight HB!s in 45 games for the Mets and Red Sox last season. lie has also played for Cleveland. San Diego, Houston and the Chicago Cubs. 


~-~~-,------­
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
FAITH FORMATION 11 DERSHIP PROGRAM 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
TODAY! 
W!DNESDAY. NO'l 10TH. 8PM. COMO LOUNGE 

WHAT IS ECHO? 
ECHO IS A TWO YEAR SERVlCE PROGRAM IN FAITH FORMATION 
LEADERSHIP WHOSE MISSION IS TO FORM NEW PARISH CATECHETICAL LEADERS TO ASSIST lN MINISTRY IN DIOCESES AND PARISHES 
THROUGH THE APPLICATION OF GIFTS AND TALENTS OF RECENT NOTRE DAME GRADUATES. 

ECHO CAN HE.LP YOU~~~ 
-EXPERIENCE PARISH COMMUNITY LIFE AND SERVICE -WORK CLOSELY WITH AN EXPERIENCED CATECHETICAL LEADER AS YOUR 
MENTOR -PURSUE A MASTER'S DEGREE IN THEOLOGY -LIVE lN AN INTENTIONAL FAITH COMMUNITY -GROW IN FAITH 


()yESTtONS? 
PLEASE CONTACT: 
LEN NY DELORENZO 631-2915 DElORENZ0.2@ND.EDU 
I I I I I I I I I 
-I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
-I 
CENTER fOR CATECHETICALINITIATIVES I I 
I I I I I 
INSTITUTE fOR CHURCH LIFE. · I 
I I 
-' 
I 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 Wednesday, November 11, 200
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Manning uncharacteristic in Colts victory over Vikings 
Associated Press drive against Minnesota that that can make things happen." and helped lead the Colts (5-3) so he did his best impersonatio 
INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton nothing is off limits. He can beat For Manning, football has back into a first-place tie with of Michael Vick before hook Manning is known as a conven­opponents right-handed. left­always been about preparation Jacksonville in the AFC South. sliding for the big gain. A tional pocket passer. lie's quick­handed or even with his feet. and execution. He spends Manning is on pace to throw unnecessary roughness penalt ly adopting an unconventional "That's the kind of thing good countless hours studying videos. for nearly 5.000 yards. lie on Minnesota's Lance Johnston( style. players, MVP-type players, do," working on the smallest details. needs just three more TO pass­tacked on 15 more yards. 
Manning showed Monday Colts coach Tony Dungy said preparing for any contingency es to match the total from his "We caught them in man-to night on the game-winning Tuesday. "(Daunte) Culpepper is he might face and playing with­co-MVP season of last year. and man and all the receivers wen the same way, and guys like in the system. his quarterback rating of 121.2 accounted for," Manning said 
The combination would seem­is nearly nine points better than "No one accounted for the quar ingly make Manning g an Steve Young's NFL record of terback and usually they don' unlikely candidate to master 112.8 set in 1994. play a spy on me." improvisational skills, but that's Those are the tangible results. Why would they? what he's done. What's become increasingly In ·Manning's 103 previou. 
On the biggest play in Monday more complex for opponents is NF L g a m e s . he r a n f o r 60 :1 night's 31-28 victory, Manning gauging Manning's strategy. career yards. a measly average switched ·the ball from his domi­"I t.hought we'd stop him, but of 5.9 a game. nant right hanr;l. to his rarely we let him get out scrambling," Three plays later. Manning used left hand and somehow Vikings coach Mike Tice delivered again on third-and-5 pushed a pass forward to lamented after Manning ran for from the Vikings 21. This time. Edgerrin James, who caught it 15. yards late in Monday night's he was pressured from the sid and ran 6 yards for a first game. and opted for what he consid down. Minnesota never got Manning us..ed to confound ered the safe play -a left another chance. defenses with mind games such handed flip to James. 
An improbable play, yes, but · as the Colts' no-huddle offense "That's one of those you kin it illustrated the kind of season or his continual gesturing at the of practice every now an Manning is having. line of scrimmage. then," he said. ''You're ou 
After eight games, he's Now he's adding new wrin­thPre on a Saturday and don' thrown for 2.429 yards, 26 kles. really want to throw so yot touchdowns and has just four With the score tied at 28 and might do a couple !eft-hand!'( interceptions. lie's thrown nine 2:B to go, Manning faced flrst­options. I did a little option ir 
AP TO passes in the last two and-10 from the Colts 44. high school, that's about the las weeks, produced a single-game Comfortably in the pocket, time I did anything ldt-hand career-high 472 yards passing Manning had no open receivers ed." 
NFL anxious to finalize contract negotiations! 
I 
Associated Press games; CBS will pay $3.7 billion, A unique aspect of the exten­or cable packages of eight the season, the NFL has thel or $622.5 million a year. In the sions and something games, which would be televised right to pull a game for Monday1 NEW YORK-CBS got what it current deal, Fox is paying $550 Tagliabue has sought for several on Thursdays and Saturdays. Or Night Football and we're still in1 
wanted. Fox did, too. million a year and CBS is paying years -gives the NFL the the league could take those conversation on (details)." So did the NFL. $500 million. option to move seven late-sea­eight games and show them DirecTV also extended its deal Now it's ABC/ESPN's turn. "We're extremely excited to son games from Sunday to regionally in prime-time tele­with the league through 2010 The NFL, eager to get new TV have a new six-year deal with Monday night to feature more casts on Sundays and Mondays. for the Sunday Ticket package. 
deals in place before the current NFL," CBS co-president Leslie attractive matchups. "We got some protections," The satellite distributor will pay 
contract runs out after the 2005 Moonves said. "This happened The NFL also can develop Fox Sports chairman David Hill $3.5 billion for the five-year 
season, agreed Monday to $8 ahead of when we thought it late-season prime-time satellite said. "The last several weeks of extension. 
billion in extensions with Fox would happen, but we are 
and CBS to televise Sunday thrilled with the deal we made. 
afternoon games for six more "We made money on the last 
W~dnesday, November 1Oth 

years. The deals also would deal and will make even more allow the league to show better on this deal." matchups late in•the season in The league still is in talks for prime time. the prime-time packages. The 
"Our goal in the negotiations exclusive negotiating period for has been to continue to deliver ABC/ESPN extends for nearly our games to the widest possible another year. But there's been audience," commissioner Paul speculation other networks, Tagliabue said. "The agree­even cable entities, might chal­ments underscore a unique lenge for the Sunday night and commitment to broadcast televi­Monday night packages. sion that no other sport has." 
The current eight-year con­tract was worth $17.6 billion, including the Sunday night (on ESPN) and Monday night (on ABC) packages. The extensions Offering 
affordable

will run through 2011 and rep­
flying lessons

resent a 25 percent increase in 
from South Bend

rights fees. Regional AirportThe breakdown, according to an official within the league who · spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity: Fox will pay $4.3 billion, or $712.5 million per year for the NFC 

THEOLOGY ON TAP 
presents Prof. Brad Gregory History Department 
TAKING A LOOK AT 
JP II AND THE PAPACY 
Get tapped in at Legends. Doors open at 9:30pm, Speakers start~ !O:OOpm Free soft drinks and food, cash bar 
C-M 

*Can't make it? We'll be back on 77/77. Campus M!11is[ri 
T ~-­
Wednesday, November 10, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Strahan gone for the year 
and you have to have a cer­Panthers, 5-3, who come off a tain level of maturity. When double-overtime loss to
Letdown 
teams have that level of Syracuse, 31-28. The continued from page 24 maturity, you see them be Panthers, much like rhe Irish 
much more consistent week have been inconsistent this failure," Irish coach Tyrone in and week out. That's what season, losing to Connecticut Willingham said Tues~ay at we're hoping to get to." and escaping Furman in over­his weekly press conference. Willingham and the Irish time, while they beat Boston "That's where you have to will count on their seniors to College. guard against those things avoid a letdown against the The last thing the No. 24 
Atrxa 
Specializing in Color 
.

~~~~2-5080 1357 N. Ironwood 
GOLDWELLII South Bend, IN 
PROFESSIONAL HAIRCARE 

Featured on "A Makeover Story" on TLC Convenient, close to campus Bring your student ID and receive 15o/o off your service. Ironwood and Edison location only. 
FOOTBALL 
Panthers sit in saine spot as Irish: vvhat if? 
Tuesday that his offensive pro­By HEATHER VAN 
duction has not been as good
HOEGARDEN as he had hoped. However, he 
Sporrs Editor 
reiterated that if the Irish win. there can't be too much to 
The Pittsburgh Panthers complain about. have been inconsistent this "How do you fix it?" season, much like Notre Dame Willingham said. "How do you has been. try to get it better? Our guys 
But that doesn't mean the are trying, they're working Irish aren't concerned about hard, they're playing to do the the Panthers, as they see them best they can do. Our quarter­
as a very dangerous team. back doesn't want to throw 
"You see two teams that will any incornpletions. I don't have a very similar approach think our linemen want to in terms of attitude about how miss a block, I don't think important this football game Coach Willingham wants to is," Irish head coach Tyrone put them in a bad situation. Willingham said. We're trying to do all those 
Pittsburgh doesn't have' things. But do understand, the Larry Fitzgerald at wide number one prerequisite for receiver anymore, but Coach Willingham is we won." Willingham said its offense Injury report could potentially present prob­Willingham said Tuesday lems for the Irish defense. that true freshman Chris 
"We know this is a very dan­Vaughn was out for the season gerous team," Willingham said. with a knee injury. Vaughn "From an offensive standpoint, played on special teams pri­it's difficult to say, but true, in marily, and saw a limited many regards this offense may amount of action at wide be a more 'team' offense than receiver this season. the offense they had a year ago Maurice Stovall left with Larry Fitzgerald. They Saturday's game with an ankle are doing some things a lot -injury that has been reoccur­better and don't rely on just ring this season. Willingham one guy as they did a year ago. said he expected Stovall to be Any time you have more fine by the end of the week. weapons at your disposal, it Another true freshman, makes you a greater challenge. Justin Hoskins did not travel We know defensively they are to Tennessee because of an a physical group that can run injury. Hoskins had be en around. Even though on some returning kickoffs for the games they've given up Irish. He was replaced yardage, they will play their Saturday by Matt Shelton. best ballgarne this weekend and that goes without saying. " Struggling to find consistency Contact Heather Van Hoegarden I 
WillingJ:larn acknowledged at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
l 
.l 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, JIII.J.­The New York Giants' charkes of getting back to the playoflfs took a major hit with the loss bf All­
Pro defensive end Ml'chael Strahan for the rest of th sea­son with a chest injury. 
Strahan, the NFLs all-ti e sin­
gle-season sacks leader, iore a pectoral muscle on his rig t side while attempting a tackle .in the third quarter of Sunday's 128-21 loss to the Chicago Bears. I 
Not only did the Gian~ (5-3) lose the six-time Pro Bowl player and cornerstone of .their defense, they also lost the other starting defensive end, Keith Washington, for the seasop with a knee injury. 
"Obviously Michael is an inte­gral part of our defense/' cor­nerback Will Allen said Monday. "He is the foundation of our defense. Some way, somehow, the rest of the guys on the field are going to have to find away to pick it up." : 
Strahan is scheduled tlhave surgery Wednesday. He w s not available for comment. 
The losses of the def nsive ends made the questt·n of whether it was time for to draft pick Eli Manning to take er at quarterback for Kurt W~rner insignificant Monday. Fqr the record, Warner will start at Arizona on Sunday. 
"We see what Michael means to this team every time w~ take the field," coach Tom Coughlin said. "Michael is the one $JY on our defense that opposing offenses know they have to fig­ure out a way to block ifthey are going to be successful." 
Strahan was hurt early in the third quarter, reaching Qut to tackle Anthony Thomas. When the Bears' running back cut inside, Strahan's right arm bent back. He walked off the field with his arm hanging down. · 
Coughlin called the injury a shame. 
"On the field, our players look to him for inspiration," Coughlin added. "Actions inspire. What the average person doesn't see is what a leader Michael is in the locker room and in the weight room when nobody is watching/' 
Osi Umenyiora and Lance Legree fmished the game at the defensive ends. 
The Giants, looking to rebound from a 4-12 season, don't have many replacement options. Lorenzo Bromell, on the physi­cally unable to perform list with a knee injury, is one. The former Oakland Raider has been prac­ticing with the team in recent weeks. 
"Like I told Osi last night, in the event that me and Stray are out, it's the young guys, they have to step forward," said Washington, who tore an anteri­or cruciate ligament in his left knee. 
Strahan has not missed a game since sitting out against Dallas late in the 1995 season with a hamstring injury. He has played in 137 straight regular­season games. starting 136, including the last 95. The only missed start was midway through the 1998 season when back spasms prevented him from starting against Dallas, although he played much of the game. 
Strahan also has started five playoffs games in that span. His 175 career games with the Giants is sixth in franchise histo­ry. 
A 1993 second-round draft pick out of Texas Southern, Strahan leads all active NFL players with 118 sacks, which is 12th all-time. 
He had four sacks this season, including one against Craig· Krenzel of the Bears for a 14­yard loss Sunday. 
Strahan won the NFL Defensive Player of the Year award in 2001 with a single-sea­son record 22 1/2 sacks, break­ing Mark Gastineau's record of 22 in 1984 with the New York Jets. 
Strahan, who will be 33 in two weeks, led the NFL with 18 1/2 sacks last season. 
While a star, he has never taken the easy route. He has been a tireless worker on the field, in the weight room and in the video room, where he stud­ies opponents and fellow defen­sive ends, looking for things to add to his repertoire. 
''I'm afraid to fail," Strahan said in an interview with The Associated Press in October. "I think at one point, when you get to a certain level that you expect of yourself and everyone expects of you, you can't take a break. 
"If you do, your game drops off, and it's noticed easier than if you are trying to build a career. So for me. I want to play at a certain level until I am tired of playing. At that point, it's time for me to quit," Strahan said. 
The Giants also announced that backup safety Jack Brewer will be sidelined indefinitely after having surgery on his right leg Monday. 
Brewer was kicked in the leg on Sunday and had swelling overnight. Surgery was per­formed to improve the circula­tion. 
Irish want to do is have a let­down after an emotional road win last weekend, especially because Notre Dame knows that Pittsburgh would love to knock them off to make it bowl-eligible. 
"But what we understand, and I think our players understand, is that everyone 
increase, in most cases, what bowl we can go to. So that is my focus for our team. Every win creates another level. We have two remaining games, so if we can win those two, not putting the second game in front of the first game, but if we can win this one, hope­fully it will establish a certain 
that plays Notre Dame, this is level of bowl game we can go their bowl game, this is their to." national championship," Irish running back Ryan 
Willingham  Grant said if the  
said. "We have  team  stays  
to be prepared to bring that emotional level  ''I'm going to lay it on the line for my boys.  focused. they won't have a problem with a  
to any contest.  We have to get the  letdown  this  
Everything less than that makes for a  win. You definitely don't want to lose."  weekend. "We have to stay focused,  
difficult day."  understand that  
Meanwhile, the Irish are  Ryan Grant Irish running back  we have a good Pittsburgh team  

looking for a bowl of their own. A win on Saturday would put the Irish at 7-3 going into their final game at Southern California. But Willingham said there are plenty of other people to worry about what bowl the Irish might find themselves in. 
"As you know, there are so many variables about the bowls," Willingham said. "I can't calculate them yet, so I'm better off just to stay away from them. "What we do know-we are bowl eligi­ble. We do know with every win we have a chance to 
corning in," 
Grant said. "We 

have to get it done, get a win." 
Grant and his fellow seniors will be p-laying their last game in an Irish uniform at Notre Dame Stadium. perhaps added motivation for a group that has played an important role this season. 
"''m going to lay it on the line for my boys," Grant said. "We have to get the win. You definitely don't want to lose. So I'm going to do everything I can to help us get the win." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
page 20 Wednesday, November 10, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 


Dalby 
continued from page 24 
season. 
"(Good midfielders] have got to have. obviously, a good work ethic and they've got to have ability." Clark said. "There's got to be balance in the midfield ­not all players can be everything to everyone, but you need to have balance. You have to have some players that are more defensively minded and some that arc more offensively mind­ed." 
In the 4-4-2 formation that Clark favors, midfielders are a crucial component of goal scor­ing. Etherington and Yoshinaga have each put three crucial points on the scoreboard for the Irish this year and Norman and Boughen come in with two apiece. Additionally, Etherington led the Irish with five assists as Boughen added four and Norman put up three. All have taken turns at starting positions for the Irish. 
"Whoever starts doesn't always mean they're the best players -you put players in for different phases of the game," Clark said. "It depends what stage we're at, what we're look­ing for in the game -if we're looking to open the game. get offense [and] generate scoring opportunities." 
The midfielders haven't just generated offense. Dalby, who saw time on defense last year, is considered the most defensive midfielder and is the only mid­fielder to start every game so far for the Irish. 
"He gives a balance, he gives the poise, he's got to anchor the midfield," Clark said. "He's got to be that person who is usually the deepest, [so) he doesn't go for­ward quite as much. But he's got to be able to see the field-to switch fields-which gives the other three mids ·much more license to go forward." 
Dalby and the midfield have helped the vaunted defense allow only seven goals all season, leading to a 0.37 goals-against average-the nation's best. 
Although young, the midfield has spent the year beating more­experienced opponents. 
"We have got a lot of very hardworking players there, but also players that can create things, especially on the flanks." Clark said. "The flank players gave us a lot of creativity­Yoshinaga, Etherington and Norman [are] all very key play­ers that can make things hap­pen." 
They have made things happen for the Irish all year. Clark can only hope for more of the same in the NCAA Tournament. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


···············universitY'Reso·u:r·ces········· 
for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
'¢ONMI'M C.IE ON 
o.......,.......IIA... 
STUO~NT N1t£o• 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Tami Schmitz: 1-3106: schmitz.8@nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scelsn/ 
........................................................................ 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL 

Zook to sit out the 'Gator Grow-l' 
Associated Press 

GAINESVILLE, Fla . .:_ Florida coach Ron Zook will skip one of the school's top homecoming festivities, saying Tuesday he doesn't want to be a distraction in his final days with the team. 
Zook won't take part in "Gator Growl" on Friday night, a day before the Gators host South Carolina in their home finale. 
Normally, the coach intro­duces the seniors in front of a packed stadium. Steve Spurrier did it during each of his 12 sea­sons. So did former coaches Gary Darnell, Galen Hall, Charley Pell, Doug Dickey and Hay Graves. 
But Zook, fired Oct. 25 after an ·embarrassing loss at Mississippi State. said he want­ed to make sure the focus is on the event, not him. 
"I don't want anything to hap­pen that would interrupt a spe­cial time for them," he said. "This is their time and I would hate for something to happen that would take away from their moment." 
Zook declined to say whether he thought he would get booed. 
The loss to Mississippi State, one of the Southeastern Conference's worst teams, was just the latest in a series of problems for the third-year coach. 
The Gators finished 8-5 in each of Zook's first two seasons -losing to unranked teams each year -and have had sev­eral late collapses and two more near meltdowns. 
Zook also got into a heated confrontation with several members of a campus fraternity in September, two days before losing at Tennessee. 
When he was fired, Zook agreed to coach the rest of the season because he felt he owed it to his players, especially the seniors. 
He opted to skip "Gator Growl" for the same reason. 
He said he wasn't sure who would stand in for him, but it could be one of the seniors ­possibly linebacker Travis Harris, safety Cory Bailey or offensive lineman Casey Griffith. 
''I'm not sure how they're 
going to do it," Zook said. "They'rn going to do it without 
me." 
Zook said lw hoped the play­ers would not be distracted by any homecoming activities, which includes a parade Friday. 
"I Iomecoming is for the peo­ple who have been here," he said. "That's one of the things we tell the players: don't get caught up in the festivities. The festivities are for the alumni. Your chance for homecoming's going to be after you graduate and ~rc gone. 


Infonnation Session for the University ofNotre Dame's International Study Programs 

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 1, 2005 

Wednesday, November 10, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Canadian Benninger leads both on and off the course 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Spores Writer  short of brilliant. The sophomore runner from Chepstow, Ontario is coming  ished second place overall, where he ran a 23 minutes. 43 seconds and in the Pre­ get a good idea about him as an athlete. "You can't see how hard he  "My expectations are that as a team, we'll go in there and qualify for [the NCAA's]  
off a seventh-place finish in  Nationals, Benninger finished  works, you can't see how ded­ and get one of the automatic  
When one considers the fine  the Big East Championships  eighth place overall, with a  icated he is, you can't see  qualifying spots." Benninger  
athletes hailing frpm Canada  that  helped  facilitate  the  time of 24:07.  how he gears his life to being  said.  
that have risen to prominence  Notre Dame victory, where he  In both races, he  was  the  that of a  good,  a  great dis­ That's not to  say that he  
in the last several years  - finished  one  second behind  first Irish runner to  cross the  tance man,  a  great athlete,"  doesn't expect a  lot of him­ 
namely, Eric Gaine, Steve  Irish  leader  finish line.  Piane  said  of Benninger's  self. Benninger knows exactly  
Nash and Martin St. Louis  - Tim Moore.  In the Great  character and importance to  what  he  wants  when  the  
one is talking aboljlt individu­als who have impacted his respective game/ at a very  "[Benninger1 has a burning desire fo win,  "We knew how good we were, and we just went  Lakes region­al, it will be important for  the team. "It's not to say that he doesn't have a great social life, but he does everything it  NCAA's are the season done.  over, and when is all said and  
high level. J While Kurt Bennmger is not nearly at that !eve~ of athletic distinction, he hasl still made  and a burning desire to be good at what­ever he does,  out there every race, ·and we just proved [it].,,  Benninger and Moore to run well together, something  takes to be a great athlete." Piane also stressed how much improvement Benninger has made this season.  "''d obviously like to end up being an All-American and be up there as close to the front as I can." Benninger said.  
quite an impact fot the No. 5  and  that  they  have  "He's really stepped it up.  "My main goal though when  
Notre Dame m~n·s cross country team -a !squad that is looking to makje noise in  becomes infec­tious," coach Joe Piane said.  Kurt Benninger Irish runner  worked hard at this season, in order for  He was a very good runner last year, but he was basically our third or fourth man,"  we go there is to have our team to be on the podium, which is in the top four."  
the NCAA Great La~es region­ "I  think  that  the  team  to  Piane said. "He made a major  Before that happens though,  
al Saturday.  '  he has really  qualify for the  step last year in track  run­ the Irish have  a  race  to  run  
"The season has really gone  had a profound positive effect  NCAA's.  ning 3:41 in the 1,500, which  this weekend.  
well for  us, it's l(jft  us  with  on the team."  "I just want to go out there  is equivalent to  a  sub four­ With the way that the sea­ 
really  high  expectations,  It  is  unfair  to  say  that  and work together with Tim  minute mile, and y.ou could  son has gone thus far, and the  
which we  had coming in, but  Benninger has been the sole  especially and just get in the  just see  his confidence go  dedication that Benninger as­ 
everyone was reallr overlook­ reason  for the success of the  front group and  race conser­ up."  well  as  the rest of the team  
ing us," Benninger said. "We  Irish squad, but it cannot be  vative and smart," Benninger  Even though Benninger has  has shown towards fulfilling  
knew how good w11 were, and  denied that he has strung a  said.  put together a great individ­ their goals, the Irish should  
we just went out there every  number of impressive finishes  While Benninger's individ­ ual season, the runner's pri­ be in a good position.  
race, and we just proved [it]."  together this season.  ual  finishes  have  been  mary focus -for good reason  
Benninger's performances  At  the  Notre  Dame  impressive, it isn't fair to look  -is making sure  that the  Contact Bobby Griffin at  
to this date have been nothing  In vitationa!. Benninger fin- at his numbers this year and  team does well this weekend.  rgriffi3@nd.edu  

. 

pus prior to the Sept. 11 Zeller is ranked No. 61 on Notre Dame-Michigan football the Rivals.com Top 150 play­
Class 
game. Though Zeller did not ers list for current seniors, continued from page 24 play, he and Hillesland stood averaging 19.8 points and 9.4 
out as the big rebounds in his Hillesland, Ryan Ayers, Kyle bodies of the junior year for McAlarney and Luke Zeller to class, Zeller, a "/just talked to the Washington complete the recruiting class 6-foot-11 cen­Hatchets.
Coach Brey tonight, 
of 2009. ter from Hillesland "I just talked to Coach Brey Washington and it seems like a plays power for­tonight, and it seems like a High School in long time ago since ward at 6-foot-7 long time ago sinde all of us Washington, for St. John's
we all committed. ,,
committed," Zeller said. "It Ind., became Jesuit High will be real nice to make it the second School in official, have it written down player to sign Luke Zeller Toledo, Ohio. on paper and have no when he But the left­
Irish recruit 
chances of anything else hap­declared his handed. ZOO­pening." intention to pounder said he All four recruits scrim­attend Notre Dame in late looks forward to giving Brey maged with the teaim on cam-April. more options. 
"Growing up, I've been playing any position,"
WORLD FAMOUS DUELIIIG 
Hillesland said. "Point guard, shooting guard [and] all the
PIAIIO SHOW EVERY IIIGHI 
way down to center. So wher­BUY ONE SANDWICH OR WRAP ever I play in that [Notre & GET SECOND ONE AT 1/l PRICE Dame] motion offense and WITH CURRENT STUDENT ID! 
free-flowing offense, I just task of complimenting Quinn feel I fit in really well." and eventually filling the role 
Ayers (6-foot-6, 190 pounds) of ball-handler and playmak­stands just an inch shorter er. than Hillesland. but he plays So far in high school, that more of a perimeter-to­role has not seemed to bother midrange game with his him. slighter frame at Germantown The Staten Island, N.Y. Academy in Fort Washington, product averaged 35 points Penn. per game as a point and 
Ayers. the son of former shooting guard for Moore Ohio State and Philadelphia Catholic High School in his 76ers head coach Randy junior season. But now Ayers, averaged 16.4 points McAlarney is only focused on 
per  game  in  making  his  
his junior sea­son and feels  "/feel I would fit in very  commitment official.  
the Notre Dame offense caters to his talents.  well [at Notre Dame] because he does exploit his shooters and does a  "It's going to feel real good," he said. "It's almost  
"[Brey] real­ lot of  like all four of  
ly develops big wings like myself." Ayers  movement without the ball.,,  the commit­ments signed like three  
said. "[Notre  years  ago  
Dame's] offense fits my style or  Ryan Ayers Irish recruit  because we all committed so early. So it'll  
scheme. I feel  feel real good.  

I would fit in very well there I'm real proud of it." because he does exploit his All four players are proud, shooters and does a lot of and all four are anxious. The movement without the ball." Notre Dame coaches are 
Chris Quinn, one of the enthusiastic about the incom­guards who fits the current ing class. system, can play point guard "Everything they say is posi­for Notre Dame after Chris tive." Hillesland said. Thomas graduates after the season. Contact Pat Leonard at 
But McAlarney will have the pleonard@nd.edu 
vs. Quincy Troop ND half-time show! 
Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for the latest promotional information 
Wednesday, November 10, 2004 

game to ensure Cornett's lower back injury continues to
Quincy 
heal and the junior is ready continued from page 24 later in the season. 
+ Brey said former Notre 

Dame guard Matt Carroll, who Great Lakes Valley was cut Nov. 1 by the Golden Conference. State Warriors, is hanging 
Along with rebounding, Brey around in the Ray Area wants to see his because the Warriors may sign team continue him as another sharing the ball practice body in
"I love the fact we
and working on the next few finding lineup were so unselfish in days. 
combinations moving the ball. I If that doesn't 
with the deep work out, Brey
want to see us still do
bench. said Carroll "I want to be that." might go to the a little bettPr on National the backboard. Basketball
Mike Brey
I love the fact Development
Irish coach 
we were so League or unselfish in choose to pur­moving the ball. I want to see sue other career options. us still do that," Brey said. "I "I talked to our team about think for [Chris] Quinn. this, it's one of the reasons he Francis, [Dennis[ Latimore went to Notre Dame," Brey and [Chris) Thomas to just said. "lie has a Notre Dame keep getting degree, and comfortable maybe he playing gets on with
"We've done a little bit 
together. his life. Those
ofblock out stuff but I
Those four arc all those are an think it's more of what decisions 
important you focus on. Get the big he'll make 
nucleus for here in the 
guys a little more
us along with next month I then who focused about getting to think." 
plugs in with the backboard." + Former 
them. We're Notre Dame still getting guard and 
Mike Brey
familiar in current 
I the dress Irish coach Chicago Bulls 
I I rehearsal general man-type situa-ager John
I 
I 
tion." Paxson visited practice
I 
I Tip-off is set for 7:30p.m. Tuesday and was supposed to I I-speak to the team. 
I Notes: 
I 
I + Brey said he will probably I continue to hold out forward Contact Matt Lozar at I Hick Cornett from tonight's mlozar@nd.edu 

TIM MATIESONffhe Observer Junior forward Torin Francis goes up for a dunk in Notre Dame's 80-67 victory over St. Joseph's. Francis scored 12 points and pulled down a team-high nine rebounds in the exhibition game. 



WV\Clt waL LLfe be LL~e ~V\-2015 ? 
MBA-525 I BA-325 Readings, Lecture, and Discussion REGISTER NOW I 
·>:.-•'•• ·:.·<·.· 

What challenges will business and government leaders wrestle with in the year 2015? This 1.5-credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society over the next decade. Aseries of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts on economic demography, biotechnology, religlou$ fundamentalism, oil and peace1 futurism and work~ and natural resources . 
• 
"l'fmVHtt HW!ce" Jallated as 
•
BA-326 and MBA-526, and Is 
open toall Notre Dame 
undorQttduatt or ar1d1tate 
1tuden1a, or Saint Mary's 

• Long Range Global Challenges and Their Implications for Business
Studtnt via DART. Tbere are no prelfquls'-to enroll. See Jerome Glenn, Director. The Millennium Project 
your ~cademld advisor or your department chair ror additional detail. 

• The Future of Water
-
You are expected to atwnd all President &CEO, GE Infrastructure Water &Process TecrtnoloatlaS lecturet and b&' prepared to eng;gt speakers. No unexcupd abJenc.a. This It a 
•
"SI1iaf8tory1Un~ecwy· 
¢ourst. Tbla cout'141 rtqulrn 
no Wlltbo,Ok purehaaea, , 
uamJnallonsor term .,..,.'!.it , 

• Oifand Peace ,;firlday mornings: 10:40am -12:10pm 
, •.,/ , Fundamentalism, Jordan Auditorium ' t)lbley Telharni, Mendoza Collegeo~E}qsiness 
1.5 ·credit l~tu.re series 


Wednesday, November 19, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS 
5~------------------u~-----------------­
~ ~ ~ 
OUR CUSTOMERS KNOWg OUR PRODUCT COST5 ::o THE HEALTH RISKS I so ~ $80. ARE YOU SAYING ~ TECHNICALLY THEY'RE ~ THAT EACH ONE KILLS 'ii KILLING THEMSELVES.

il:: l.f-0 PEOPLE? gu 
8 = 
Ul <Ji 
E
..
., 

50 TECHNI­CALLY WE ARENT SCUM? 

\__ 

c=~~A-~gLB~--~~ 
CHARLES SCHULZ 

DILBERT 
OUR REVENUE IS NOW DOUBLE THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE THAli' OUR PRODUCT HAS K1lLLED ... RECENTLY. 

PEANUTS 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one Jetter to each square, 
Any Come gas? aboard

rro;~~;;'" r 
­
rI J . I· 
Cl2004 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
www.jumble.com 

I AROTTE j Now arrange the circled letters to( ) ( form the surprise answer, asI I
.__-l.:........<L----'-"-'";;::::::;:;~,..,.....~su~g~gested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: THE 

rI I I JrI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: SHEAF LEECH MODISH COWARDYesterday's I 
Answer: What the bartender said when he shared his exotic drink recipe: "HERE'S HOW" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sisqo, Nick Lachey, Chris Jericho. Lou Ferrigno 
Happy Birthday: Fence-sitting will lead nowhere this year and will probably set you back. Make your move in a powerful and positive manner. You can instill confidence in those willing to support your actions. Your numbers are 9, 
II, 16, 28, 37,40 

ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Staying busy will be half the battle today. If you are informed, ready to take action and willing to compromise, you should be able to make relationships or deals work. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Partnerships and work will go hand-in-hand today. You can get ahead if you aren't stubborn or refuse to do what's required of you. Being adaptable will be what counts. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make a personal change that will help you move .2­forward in life. Educational pursuits or getting involved in a work process that will teach you as you go along will lead to prosperity. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can't waffle today even if you aren't sure what to. do. At least make a motion that will give everyone around you the information required to make his or her own decision. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have the courage, knowledge and finesse to voice your opinion and drum up assistance today. Don't get flustered if someone opposes you. • * • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone from your past will help you remember your life goals. Separate yourself from people who are moving in the opposite direction. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be in a creative mood, so put it to good use. Develop one of your ideas or work on a project that requires artistic skill. You will attract love, so don't be shy. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take the initiative today and you should be able to make your investments grow. Create a comfortable space for you to work from home. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A love relationship will change or, if you are single, you can meet someone who's right for you. A worthy cause will interest you and should lead to a proposition you can't turn down. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may feel unsure at an emotional level. Don't count on getting any help. You will make poor choices regarding your career.** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.lS): You really can't do anything wrong if you are persistent about following through with your plans. You will have a very unique idea that someone will want to help you explore. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Creative accounting may be required. Think about your options and what you can do to change your life for the better. Begin personal changes at home. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are charming and graceful and can win anyone's acceptance with your sophisticated and well-spoken rhetoric. You are a born leader and you will always use a unique and creative demeanor when dealing with others. 
Check out Eugenia's Web .l'ites at astroadvice.com a11d euge11ialast.com. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Like most world table tennis champions 6 One who's been 
down the aisle 10 Sales caveat 14 "Ars 15 Roman way 16 "Out with it!" 17 Ways up the 
slopes 18 Court plea, for 
short 19 Cameo stone 20 What friends 
said about 29-Across? 23 Bonanza find 24 Capp and Capone 25 Book before Esth. 26 Long-eared animal 29 Subject of this puzzle 
32 ~lay's start 35 L!ke very n~rrow shoes 36 Opportunities, so to speak 
37 ~ubberneck 38 asty 41 ~uff 42 "~eer Gynt" 

composer 44 Uhornme over 
there 45 180's 46 What 29-Across 
I'T)ight say about 
a: good joke 

50 L~ke very wide s, oes 51 Item worn around the neck 
52 A.T.M. need 
53 Give a nickname 
56 29-Across's political aspiration? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

60 Mine, in Marseille 62 Cross letters 63_sprawl 64 Artworks 65 Dodge compact 66 Actress Witherspoon 67 Pubrnates 68 Sailor's drink 69 Cousins of harps 
DOWN 1 Even if, 
succinctly 2 Off the sauce 3 Blown away 4 Indian tourist 
city 5 Capital of the 
Bahamas 6 Plane stat 7 Words of 
agreement 8 Grand theft auto, e.g. 
9 Chipped away at 1o,Wide-eyed 11 City on a strait 12 Wrigley Field 
· flora 
13" sells" (advertising catch ph rase) 21 Soprano Gluck and others 22 Is rae I's Barak 
27 Leave the flock 28 Methods: Abbr. 
29 Outdoorsman of a sort 30 Pre-kickoff call 31 Tend to a spill 
WILLSHORTZ 

32 Cow college 47 Dove's activity 57 Villain's student reception
48 Julie _,the 33 Bill of fare voice of Marge 58 Suffix with 
Simpson

34 Like buck Hawthorne's 49 Roll out 
59 Glenn of the "Tales" 

53 Rome's river 
Eagles39 Won ton, e.g. 

54 Have of the 
60 Earthlink40 Kid's song jitters alternativerefrain 

55 Inheritance 43 Kotter of 70's TV carriers 61 War stat 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
----------·---------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published M(])nday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Obserlver an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 ­
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ______________ State ______ Zip__________ 

THE OBSERVER 

I· I 
I 
PORTSI Wednesday, November 10, 2004 
page 24 ' 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Crashing the boards 
No. 20 Notre Dame concludes preseason against Quincy tonight 
By MATT LOZAR SpomWriter 
Tapnd into every player's locker before the opening exhibition game against Division It's Saint Joseph's was a sheet of paper with three goals on it. 
The second goal had to do with having a defensive inten­sity, rebounding and field goal deffmse. 
A 44-41 rebounding disad~ vantagn and allowing 20 o!Tnn­sivn rebounds to a team rna­turing a tallest player of 6­foot-S showed the Irish entirn­ly meet that goal. 
That's why the Irish have been emphasizing rebounding sinee the final buzzer sounded Thursday night and in practice thn last snveral days. 
"Thal's something we know we nnnd to do but with thll style of play we wnn~ playing against, wn mally didn't attaek that hard," Irish ftirward Torin I."rancis said. "They had us out on tlw pnrirneh>r so we didn't hav«> guys insidn getting on tlw boards. They WPrP sPmling all tlwir guys to the boards and that's not thn styli' of play wn 'rn used to playing against. I think basically it's about Iwing morP aggrnssive." 
In Notre I>anw's dnfnnsn, 
Saint Joseph's style of play was unorthodox for what the Irish are used to seeing. The Pumas offensive system ran its play­ers all over the court with any­body capable and willing of shooting from behind the arc and then crashing the boards. 
That dearing of the lane kept the Irish big men away from the hoop. 
In practice the past few days, Irish coach Mike Brey has run his players through some drills but feels it's more mental than physical when it comes down to eleaning the boards. 
"We've done a little bit of block out stuff, but I think it's more of what you focus on. Get the big guys· a little more focused about getting to the backboard," Brey said. "They were in tough positions the other night because they were a ltmg way from the bucket. 
"I think the team we play Itonight! has a little more size, and they are a little more post up even though they have some big guys that will step out and shoot." 
Thn Quincy Hawks eomn to the Joyce Center tonight of'f a <Jl-f>4 loss to Bradley University Thursday. 
Tlw llawks are a Division II school and a member of the 
see QUINCY/page 22 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Big four expected to sign 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Zach llillesland was the first high school senior to make a verbal commit­ment to play basketball at Notre Dame. On Tuesday night, less than 24 hours away from signing his national letter of intent to play for the Irish, Hillesland sounded rest­less enough to want to sign first, as well. 
"It feels like I committed forever ago," llillesland said. "And to be finally be set in there and ready to go, it's going to be a good feeling to get it all out of the way." 
The Notre Damn basket­ball tnam nxpeets four high school seniors to sign national lntters or intent to join the Irish this morn­ing on National Signing Day. 
Coach Mike Broy will hold a prnss con l'en~nen at 
11:30 a:m. al thn Joyee Center to announcu the official eommitments or 
see CLASS/page 21 

FOOTBALL 
Irish hope to avoid letdown 

-
CLAIRE KELLEY fThe Observer 

Running back Ryan Grant emerges from a crowd during Notre Dame's 17-13 upset victory over Tennessee last Saturday. 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
After their second win against a top-ten team, one that made them bowl-eligible and brought them back into the national spotlight on the football field, the Irish will face a team that has strug­gled most of this season. 
It sounds like the perfect time for a letdown -but don't tell this team that­they have plenty to pla·y for when Pittsburgh comes to town Saturday. 
"I've always said this, and will continue to say it-When you have success, it can be just as detrimental to you as 
see LETDOWN/page 19 

COllEGE FOOTBAll NFL 
MEN's SoccER 

Balanced and young, midfield holds strong 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
It's never easy to lind a for­mula for regular-season suc­cess. 
Some teams swear by a rock­solid defense. Others credit an opportunistic offense. Bobby Clark likes to have both. But without a reliable midfield, the two sides of the field will never be able to capitalize on each other. 
Luckily, a balanced midfield is just what the Irish have in a talented group of young play­ers. 
"I think the midfield is obvi­ously the engine room of any team," Clark said. "You need a hardworking midfield -you need a midfield that can help defensively, you also need one that can help attack." 
The Irish have found both defensive consistency and sharp shooting tendencies in a quick-transitioning midfield. Sophomore Greg Dalby has been steady in the center for the Irish all year after earning freshman All-American honors in his rookie season. lie has worked with Alex Yoshinaga, Ian Etherington, Luke Boughen, Nato Norman, John Moushino and Jon Mark Thompson in a variety of emn­binations en route to posting a 13-2-2 record for tho regular 
see DALBY/page 20 
MLB 

Former  Ohio  State  Pittsburgh  rookie  Astros pitcher Roger  
running back Maurice  quarterback  Ben  Clemens takes home his  
Clarett accuses Bucks of  Roethlisberger  is  seventh  career  Cy  
cheating.  rewarding the Steelers  Young.  
for having faith in him.  
page 18  page 14  page 14  


NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Cross country runner Kurt Benninger makes an impact for the No. 5 Irish. 
page 21 
FOOTBAll 
Like the Irish, the Panthers are plagued by a case of "what if." 
page 19 
NFL 

Colts quarterback Peyton Manning is known as a convention-a! quarterback, but he's adopting an unusual style. 
page 1d 






