
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
Women's soccer wins national championship 
Irish beat UCLA by 1 penalty kick; first title since·1995 season 
By DAN TAPETILLO News Wrirer 
CAHY. N.C. -Irish forward Kati<' Thorlakson announced hr.r intention of remaining with tho Irish on Sept. 24, foregoing thn opportunity to compete for Canada at the Undor-19 World Championships in Thailand. 
It's a good thing she stayed. 
Notre Dame won the national championship Sunday after­noon defeating UCLA 4-3 in pnnalty kicks after playing to a 1-1 tie in 110 minutes, the lone Irish goal scored by Thorlakson. 
Against the Bruins, Thorlakson scored the game­tying goal on a penalty kick to send thr. contest into overtime. 
It was her fourth goal of the NCAA Tournament. 
In overtime, neither team scored, and the game went to a best-of-five penalty kicks, the first time ever in a women's national championship game. Both teams made three of five, and the game went into sudden victory. 
Irish midlielder Jill Krivacek found the back of the net, and goalkeeper Erika Bohn stopped the Bruins to preserve the Irish win. 
It was Notre Dame's second national championship ever, and the first since 1995. Thorlakson's performance in the NCAA Tournament proved to be key to the Irish title. And it was safe to say she was glad she stayed. 
"It mean:s everything to me because you play with these people every day," Thorlakson, a Hermann Trophy candidate said. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum knew in September when Thorlakson announced that she would stay at Notre Dame that something special could hap­pen. 
"This is a huge moment for our program because it shows the commitment of an elite player willing to stay and help win a national championship," he said at the time. 
And Thorlakson did just that. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at 
jtapetillo@nd.edu 



Students get early ·start on job search 
Many Arts and Letters seniors interviewed in the business sector during fall semester 
Career Center. 
However, a greater number of Arts and Letters students have interviewed with companies in the business sector this fall. Several have received job offers, 
. which is a small feat considering that poor job markets in recent years have forced companies sueh as consulting firms and investment banks to limit recruit­ment of liberal arts majors. Interest in service programs and graduate schools remain high, but are not necessarily influenced by the economy. Every year about 10 percent of graduates pursue one-or two­year service programs, which roughly translates into 200 stu­
see JOBS/page 4 
Flasher approaches student 
By EILEEN DUFFY News Writer 
A young male riding a bicycle exposed himself to a female student early Friday morning, the Notre Dame Security/Police Department reported in a Crime Alert e-maiL 
As the student walked back to her residence hall, she first observed the male ride past her with his lower back exposed. She then noticed that he appeared to be following her. and she turned to walk between Farley Hall and North Dining Hall. At thi<> point. the suspnet rode up to her, exposed his genital area and made a 
see FLASHER/page 4 


By JANICE FLYNN News Writer 
Despite this fall's strong job market, most Arts and Letters seniors will wait for the spring hiring season or opt for service programs or graduate school as they have in past y~ars, although several students with business · aspirations have already secured post-graduate employment. 
Students whose interests include journalism, public rela­tions, media, advertising. public policy and government find 70 percent of their career opportuni­ties during spring semester and the early summer months, according to a statement released by the Notre Dame 

Procrastination on ca111.pus increases as finals approach 
AIM, video games and social events provide studying alternatives 
By RICKY McROSKEY 
New' Writer 
As the snnwster draws to a close and Notre Dame students begin to frnt over finals, most students will spend the majority of tlwir time doing a whole lot of nothing. 
With the dark cloud of finals descending over campus. now is the time for students to pre­pare for rigorous tests, to labor over 12-page papers, to attend study sessions or. most likely, to procrastinate. 
Proerastinating -putting off until tomorrow what can be done today -has become an art that many dabble in and some master. The daily grind of classes and working obliga­tions leaves many with the desire to kick back, relax and wait until tomorrow. But do Notre Dame students procrasti­nate? 
"Absolutely," junior Michael Beverley said. "In fact, I'm pro­crastinating right now." 
The vitality and social atmos­phere of campus, evident in the lounges of LaFortune, Reekers and even dorm rooms, can also serve as a major distraction to getting work done. 
When asked which places on campus seem to attract pro­crastinators, sophomore Megan Sweeney said, "Besides your own room, a lot of people go to LaFortune just to look like they're working." 
Freshman Kevin Conroy agreed that dorm rooms are a plague..on study habits. 
"I find my room to be the least productive place to get work done," Conroy said. 
Senior Kelly Marquez said that her biggest distraction was "friends stopping by." Other in­dorm distractions that students mentioned included instant messaging friends, watching movies or, as Sweeney put it, ·:sitting around doing nothing 
see TIME/page 4 


In the spirit of true procrastination, two Notre Dame students put off homework in order to play a video game in their room. 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Real student athletes 
Many studnnL'> will sit around in their 

dorm rooms today, eontmnplating a 6-5 
football season and wondnring what 
wtml wrong. Was the problmn Ty, or 
was firing him a mistake'! 
Mmnbers of this 

year's Oil" Campus 
Christie Boisen

womon's inttwhall 
f(Jotball tnam. on 
the othnr hand. 
Assistant

will sit around in 
Scene Editor 

thnir apartmonL'> 
and houses today 
as they pregame 
f(w Club 23. mntnmplating their 0-5 
stmson and wondering what went 
wrong. Was thn problem the excessive 
pregaming, or was not pregaming 
onough a mistake'! 
Somn might say that the Oil' Campus run for the championship was a miser­able failure since thny didn't win any games. but those dose-mindod poople don't understand the true meaning of' boing a senior, whkh this inspiring group of athlntns epitomiznd. It's not a.hout winning-it's about finding something elsn to drink to when you lose. 
"Thn high point of the soason was probably tho socond to last game," said team coadws Nato Haschke and Tim Brdtbarh. "What's bettor than drunk girls litlling all ovnr tlwmsolves and doing cartwhnnls on the sidnlines'?'' 
Evnn t.htiugh it bncame apparont by midsoason that the team's drinking habit. was taking a toll on its ability to win any games. tmtm f(lllnder and cap­tain Lauren Blum snmned morn unmn­corrwd than discouraged by thn tnam's dismal finish. 
"I think that if we had scored morn poinL-; than our oppononts we probably could havo won a few games," Blum said. 
For both eoarhns. t.hn 011' Campus f(Jotball nxperinncn was a little dillerent than traditional interhallf(lOtball. 
"!Tim and 11 played men's interhall f(lOtball and won tho championship the last two years; moving oil' campus and coaching this team was dfllinitely a humbling expPrienee. I think it was all part of Cod's plan ... I 1-,'lless lie really wanted to stick it to us. but we're bettnr pnople for it in the long run," Haschke said. 
The very existence of this team might bP considernd a moral victory for all off­campus seniors. They arn maybe the most unloved demographic in the eyes of the administration. whkh shows iL'i tru11 lhelings for those keg-loving hooli­gans at Turtle Creek and St. Pete St. by st~lling their parking loL<; to Gurley-Leep. 
With no rnlurning players for next year. one can only hope that another enterprising ~-,rroup nnxt ynar will take time out of their busy sdwdules of beer pong. Boat Club and finally taking that last thnology rnquirnrnent to carry on th11 Off Campus football legacy. 
The moral of this tnam 's stori11d one­y1mr tradition is that no setback can dampen the spiriL-; of an intoxieatnd Notre Dame senior. 
'Td like to be able to say that we improved," Breitbach said, "but who are wn kidding here, at least we had a lot of fun." 
The IJiews e;rpressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser/Jer. Contact Christie /Jolsen at cbolsen({f!nd. edu. 
CoRRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error, The Observer incorrccrly identified the plane number Notre Dame personnel travelled on 10 Utah. The correct plane number should have read NS75EW. The Observer regrets this error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, December 6, 2004 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE WAY TO PROCRASTINATE? 

Carolina Surla Kevin Baker Lou Apollon Pat Manning Linda Kamen Pat Gallagher 
freshman freshman sophomore sophomore freshman senior Lyons Keenan Siegfried Siegfried /,yons (~ffcampus 
"/ hang out in "/play ESPN "Watching my "Wait, give me 'Talking on IM "Writing WVFJ's vault football on Anime. , a few minutes with friends." sonnets to my 



and listen to XBox. , to think about records." it... , 
girlfriend. " 
IN BRIEF 
The Ladi11s of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's will be sponsoring a UNICEF card and gift sale in the llesburgh Library coneourse from 9:30 a.m. until 4:30p.m. 
The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board will bP show­ing the movie Elf' tonight in Carroll Auditorium at 7 p.m. 
The Notro Dame Collegium Musieum will perform their Christmas correcrt Wednesday at H p.m. in the Heyes Organ and Choral IIall in De Bartolo Performing Arts Centnr. 
Thn Saint Mary's Wind Ensemble and Moreau Chamber Wind Ensemble con­cert will be at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday in Little Theater. 
The Empire Brass Christmas eonecrt will be at 8 p.m. on Friday in Leighton Concert Ilall of DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are available through the DeBartolo ticket office. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will take on Michigan State Friday at 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. · 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will play Washington on Saturday at noon at the Joyce Center Arena. 
The men's b.asketball team will take on DePaul University at 5 p.m. at the .Joyce Center Anma. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obser/Jer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

47 36 

44 30 


GEOFF MATIESONfThe Observer 
Students celebrate Christmas a little early by decorating a tree in Zahm Hall's lobby last Thursday during the dorm's Christmas party. 
OFFBEAT 
Woman auctions father's ghost on eBay 
HOBAHT. Ind. -A woman's effort to assuage her 6-year-old son's fears of his grandfather's ghost by selling it on eBay has . drawn more than 34 bids with a top otTer of $78. 
Mary Anderson said she plaeed her father's "ghost'"'on the online auc­tion site after her son, Collin, said he was afraid the ghost would return someday. Anderson said Collin has avoided going anywhere in the house alone since his grandfather died last year. 
In a description titled 
"This isn't a joke," 
Anderson told Collin's story 
on eBay: 
"I always thought it was 
just normal kid fears until 
a few months ago he told 
me "VhY he was so scared. 
lie told me 'Grandpa died 
here, and he was mean. 
His ghost is still around 
here!'" 
Anderson also put her 
father's metal walking cane 
up for auction so she would 
have something to actually 
send the winning bidder. 
Police: Man sets blaze to delay hearing 
SENECA FALLS, N.Y.-A suspeeted drunken driver 

found a way to delay his court appearanee: lie torched the building, police said. 
Christopher Chianese, 26, set the new municipal offices on fire on Nov. 19. causing at least $300,000 in damages, just hours before he was scheduled to answer a felony charge of driving while intoxieated, village authorities alleged. 
Chianese, a student at the New York Chiropractie 
College,  was  charged  
Tuesday night.  
Information  compiled  

from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
It: 
LLI 
::J: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..J 
t( 
0 


50 
46 


55 33 

44 31 
0
_. HIGH 53 LOW 50 

Monday, December 6, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
ROTC sponsors Field Day for local children 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Writer 
The Air Force ROTC Detachment's squadron of the Arnold Air Society organized a fi11ld day event Saturday for the ehildnm of the South Bend com­munity. 
The event, whkh has taken place since 199<J, brings Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross student cadets from Arnold Air Society and volun­teers from Silver Wings, a eivil­ian national service organization that works dosely with Arnold Air, to help with the field day event. 
Field Day is a gigantic Christmas party for underprivi­leged children from the South Bend area. Childn~n·s groups that participate in this activity indude The Boys and Girls Club, St. Margaret's House, Center for tlw Houwlnss, The Family and Children's Center. The Hobinson Community Center, Madison Cnnter and Logan Center. 
Ashley Shelton, Field Day organizer, said this event helps kids to enjoy the holidays when tlwy may otherwise have noth­ing to look forward to. 
"It's a chance for the kids, who might not usually have the opportunity to do something like this," Shelton said. "To relax and havn fun for a whole day nnjoying the Christmas spirit!" 
The Arnold Air Society Cadets and Silver Wings interact with the children in a variety of activ­ities. Together they played vari­ous games, went through an obstacle course, decorated cook­ies, painted faces and played in inflatables. In addition, the Notre Dame Porn Squad and Troop ND performed throughout the day for the children. The day culminated with ·presents and a visit from Santa Claus. 
"It's an amazing service proj­ect, and it's incredibly fun," Shelton said. "Everyone involved in putting it together worked extremely hard. But, I think we'd all agree that it's totally worth it. At the end of the day when you see how happy the kids are, knowing that you helped put those smiles on their faces, it really hits you how rewarding 'Service before Self' 
Ione of the Air Force  core val­ 
ue·s] can be."  
Shelton said this is  an  event  

that will surely be done this year. 
"Wild horses couldn't keep us from holding this again next year, or any year after that, for that matter," Shelton said. "I think everyone who worked on Field Day would agree that seeing all the kids so happy and knowing we added to their celebration of Christmas is one of the most worthwhile things in the world." 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 

History professor receives a-ward 
Special to The Observer 
History professor George 
M. Marsden, Francis A. McAnaney is tho 2005 recipient of the Louisville Grawemeyer Award in Religion for his biography of early American theolo­gian Jonathan Edwards. 
Given jointly by Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary and the. University of Louisville, the annual award includes a cash prize of $200,000. 
Titled "Jonathan Edwards: A Life," Marsden's biography·"por­trays Edwards as exempli­fying the tension between tho ·Puritan evangelical her­itage and the secular world and mindset then emerging out of the Enlightenment," said award coordinator Susan R. Garrett, professor of New Testament at Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary. "This central cultural tension of Edwards' era surfaces today as the ongoing strug­gle between evangelicalism and intellectual inquiry in American Christianity and in the American political process." 

An expert on the history of Christianity in America, Marsden holds bachelor's degrees from Haverford College and Westminster Theological Seminary, and master's and doctoral degrees in American stud­ies from Yale University. He taught at Calvin College and Duke University before coming to Notre Dame in 1992. He has written or edited more than a dozen books, on the histor:y and present state of fundamen­talism in America and the culture of American univer­sity eel ucation. 
Marsden has received fel­lowships and awards from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Pew Freedom Trust and the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation. 
In addition to the Grawemeyer Award, Marsdon's "Jonathan Edwards: A Life." publishPd by Yale University Press, won a Bancroft Prize from Columbia University. the Merle Curti Award from the Organization of Ameriean Historians, and the Annibel .Jenkins Prize from the American Society for Eighteenth Century Studies. It also was named one of 10 "Books of the Year" for 2003 by Atlantic Monthly, one of eight "Best Heligious Books of 2003" by Publishers Weekly, and one of 12 "Notable ·Heligious Books of 2003" by Richard Ostling of the Associated Press. 


HOW TO YOUR WALLET IS AS ~---R FRIDGE. 



15% off with aStudent AdvantageeCard. Craving to go home for the holidays? Try Greyhound. With over 2,200 locations nationwide, you can travel just about anywhere and still have money left over for gifts. Save 15% today on walk-up or online fares at www.Greyhound.com/student. GREYHOUND 

Don't have your Student Advantage Card yet? Get your Card at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Student Advantage'Card is aregistered trademark of Student Advantage, Inc. Discounts based on current offers and are subject to change. See studentadvanlage.com for offer details. 
Jobs 
continued from page 1 
dt>nts. Arts and Letters stu­
denlo; an• always the most rep­
wsentnd college, according to 
the Center for Social Concerns. 
This year. Teach for America 

received 45 applicants from 
Notre Dame stmiors by the first 
deadline. compared with 27 
last ynar. Other service pro­
grams. including the Alliance 
for Catholic Education, t~xpect 
a largP applicant pool. 
Ilowever interest in graduate 

school has increased over the 
past years for Arts and Letters 
studPnts. This year. 15 percent 
of graduates have expresst~d 
intentions to attPnd graduate 
school. up from 11 percent last 
year. according to the 2004 
Dean's Heport released this fall. 
Fall can be daunting for lib­

eral arl-; seniors as they watch 
their business peers secure 
post-graduate employment. 
but the Career Center urges 
studenL-; to be patient. 
"It's an unfolding story of 

second semester," said Lee 
Svete, Career Center director. 
Many companies appealing to 
liberal arts students post job 
optmings in the spring because 
they want studtmts to begin 
working lhur to six weeks alter 
the job (Jfli~r. 
"It turns second semester 

into almost the second half 
kickolT," Svete said. which 
begins with on-campus and 
off-cam pus caret~r fairs ovnr 
wintPr bn~ak. 
I .ike many ArL-; and I .etters 

st>niors, Lizett Martinez will 
wtdgh stwt~ral options. She 
plans to attend thP career fitir. 
but will likely pursue a teach­
ing Sl)rvicn program or attend 
law school. 
"I know that a career right now would be just to gain experience," said Martinez. a political science and FTT major. "It seems that at this point, it's the most conveninnt timP to do lst~rvicPI. latPr on it will bP much mort) dillicult to take time out." 
Months of research and preparation paid ofT for Kim Andorson, an economics and political scionce major. one of the f(wtunate Arl-; and Letters students to have secured a job with a consulting firm. 
While she found that compa­nies wern open to hiring libnral arlo; studnnts. proving she was qualified was not always an easy t.<tsk. · 
"You could always tell in the int1~rview who had bem1 libt~ral arts majors and who was busi­ness," she said. "Those lrncruitersl that wnre At1s and I..dters wen~ slightly less skep­tical of your ability to do the job you were bPing asking to do." 
Like Anderson, Kate Brennan took advantage of the fall recruitment. but realized tlw business world W<L'i not ((Jr her. After several frustrating weeks ol' researching other liPids, tlw senior economics major is now exploring the non-profit sector. 
"It wa'i good to know I didn't want to have their job," Brnnmtn said. referring to busirwss n~cr11itnrs. "Just hav­ing interviews wa'> really help­ful to mtL I'd probably still be looking into management and consulting if I hadn't go no. 
"Now I'm actually excited to finish all my schoolwork and stm1 looking into jobs becausP I found a lot out then~ that's still pn~tty cool," she said. 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynnl @nd.edu 
obvious academic conse­quences," he said. "And second­ly. it doesn't set a good prece­dent for work in the future because procrastination is tol­erated less in some disciplines." 
As a solution to procrastina­tion, Weis offered several sug­gestions. 
"First of all, it's important to set realistic expectations for yourself," We is said. "Look at what can be done. what can be done well. and concentrate on that. Also, break things down so they don't feel so over­whelming, one step at a time." 
For students looking to man­age their time more effectively, the UnivPrsity Counst~ling CPnter has walk-in counsPiors available to give advicP and lwlp students organizt' their schedules. llowPver. to morn thoroughly assess their individ­ual situations. Weis encouragPd students to sdwdule a lirst-timt~ appointment to discuss organi­zational strategies and plan­ning. · Whether they thrive on it or not, most students agree pro­crastination holds a dear place in their hearts. 
Contact Ricky McRosky at rmcroske@nd.edu 

TiiDe 
continued from page 1 
with a roommate." 
"My favorite place to pro­crastinate is my bed because it's warm and soft and it never judges," Beverley said. 
Ultimately, however, dead­lines approach and students are faced with the unkind reality that there is schoolwork to do. Some thrive on the pressure. while others stress. 
"It's not stressful. I kind of plan on it when it gets down to the wire," Sweeney said. 
To Marquez, however, the encroachment of deadlines caused a little more anxiety. 
"It's always a surprise to me," she said. 
But why exactly do students procrastinate? According to Andrew Weis of the University Counseling Center, "Sometimes students set impossibly high standards. Often academic tasks require many steps, so they get frustrated easily and put off starting those tasks until the last minute." 
Also. Weis said procrastina­tion can be detrimental to stu­dents for two main reasons. 
"First of all, there are the 
Flasher 
continued from page 1 
lt~wd comment. 
The victim immediately ran to catch up with a friend who was also walking back to her residence hall. The suspect did not follow her and she did not notice which direction he rode after this contact. 
The suspect is described as a white male of medium build in his South lknd and Mishawaka Police Depat1ments in an attempt to nab the suspect. 

NDSP investigated live separate cases of indecent exposure last spring that occurred between March 18 and April 18. The cases went unsolved: 
"There are some similarities [between those casPB and tl1is most recent one]." said llurley. "Most notably, they all took place in the scune area." 
The five cases last spring were confined to North ()uad. and this case li>llownd suit. Abo, orw or till' SlL'ipecL<; last spring was clad in yd­low panl'i. 
NDSP n~minds students not to walk across campus alorw during nighttime hours. ND Saf'nwalk is availablt~ betwt)tm the hours of 8::m 
p.m. and 2:30 a.m.. and studnnL-; may request an orticer to escort tlu~m home by calling (>31-5555. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffyl@nd.edu 
late 20s to early 30s witl1 a goatee. lie was wearing a dark-colored hooded sweatshirt and yellow track pants witl1 two black stripes running down his legs. 
While no sin1ilar cases have been reported since the alert was issued, all residence hall security staff and regular patrol oiJicers have bnen informed of the incident. said Chuck IIurley, a'iSistant director of NDSP. 
In addition, an NDSP detective has been assigned to the case -he will make contact with the victim and the 


t'OIJR C4TERitJG 
Got.tJTION~ U 
Bll.lf 1-lll'l'dlr .(;. P!f.llli.116,. NlllJ$! 
on.r.enmllEm vii ilaul~a i.Wil~·)·a:.il.t'~ ji'r"iltlii"L 
REE&fE.S: WJI.;l, diJfll ttm 
llriu~ hlnu~ aM~t.l :i4ilflul::i, luiulu, tit&i•:t. ~~~~~~ W:.uio.s; Dijultrwl;t-\1, iii& 'lltrtp-; iilJ.-·~iilt:l 

WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK tr SOUTH BEND 54570 N.IRDNWDDD DR. 574.277.8500 "VOfJR MOM WANTS VOfJ 0 EAT AT JIMMY JOfiN'$!" © 



ORLD &NATION 
Monday, December 6, 2004 CoA,tPILED FROM TliE OBsERVEIts WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Suicide car hombs kill 14 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Suicide car bombs struck Iraqi police and Kurdish militiamen in Baghdad and northern Iraq on Saturday, killing at least 14 people, wounding dozens, and again demonstrating the lethal reach of Iraq's insurgency just weeks ahead of crucial elections. 
The U.S. commander in Iraq, Gen. John Abizaid. acknowledged that the country's homegrown forces aren't yet up to the task of ensuring secure elections, necessitating the plannf1d increase in U.S. troops. More than 40 Iraqis have been killed in the last two days alone. 
But U.N. special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi criticized the military's hardline approach to the insurgency and said credible elections cannot be held Jan. 30 under the current conditions. 
Legislature fails to pass changes 
KII\V, Ukraine -Supporters of opposition leador Viktor Yushchenko lost a round to their foes in parliament Saturday, when pro-govern­ment lawmakers helped block legal changes intfmdnd to prevent fraud in the Dec. 26 repmtt of the country's presidential runofT vote. 
Buoyed by a momentous Supreme Court rul­ing a day earlier that ordnred the new vote, Yushehenko's supporters vowed to force par­liament to adopt the legislation by continuing their marathon protest in Kiev's central square. 
Outgoing President Leonid Kuchma tried to bring European pressure on the opposition, which he accused of reneging on its promises. Kuehma called for a new round of European­mediated talks with the opposition on Monday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Drug kingpin transported to Miami 
MIAMI -A founder of a Colombian drug cartel that became the world's chief supplier of cocaine in the 1990s was transported to a Florida jail Saturday after being extradited from Colombia. 
Gilberto Rodriguez Orejuela, 65, landed before dawn in a U.S. government plane and was driven to a downtown Miami jail. His first court appearance is set for Monday. 
Rodriguez Orejuela is charged, along with his brother, Miguel, with running a drug network responsible for producing 80 percent of the 
U.S. cocaine supply in the 1990s. The brothers have been jailed in Colombia for nearly a decade. 
Bush defends Pakistan's efforts 
WASIIINGTON -President Bush on Saturday defended Pakistan's cooperation in the hunt for Osama bin Laden despite the inability of U.S. and Pakistani troops to fmd the al-Qaida leader who, Bush once declared, was wanted dead or alive. 
The trail has gone cold in the more than three years since U.S. forces toppled the Taliban, bin Laden's patrons in Afghanistan, after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Bin Laden, who masterminded the strikes, is believed to be hiding in the wild mountainous region along the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
The Oval Oflice meeting between Bush and President Pervez Musharraf came just days after Pakistan's army said it was pulling out of one important area along the border. 
LOCAL NEWS 
ISTEP testing may move to spring 
INDIANAPOLIS -The latest effort to move !STEP testing from the fall to the spring is gaining support and has a good chance of passing the 2005 General Assembly, says a top Hepublican in the Indiana Senate. 
With Hflpublicans now in control of both housos of the Legislature, the chances of moving the test seem much better given Daniels' support, said Sen. Teresa Lubbers, chairman of the Senate Education Committee. 
ISRAEL 

Egypt releases convicted spy 
The Israeli was exchangedfor six Egyptian students, the deal shows wanning relations 
Associated Press 
EILAT -Egypt on Sunday released an Israeli man convicted of spying in exchange for Israel's release of six Egyptian students, a deal that signaled a warming of relations between the two countries, officials here said. 
As part of the deal, Israel may also release Palestinian prisoners in 
the  future,  Prime  
Minister  Ariel  Sharon  
said.  
Egypt  freed  Azzaro  

Azzaro, an Israeli Arab sentenced in 1997 to 15 years in prison after an Egyptian court convicted him of espionage. 
At the time, Azzaro ran a textile factory in Egypt and Israel has denied he was an agent. The case against Azzam was based, in part, on allega­tions he used invisible ink to transmit information. 
Israel in turn released six Egyptian students who had sneaked into the country in August and were arrested on suspi­cion they tried to kidnap Israeli soldiers and com­mandeer a tank. 
The transfer took place at the Taba crossing between Israel and Egypt. After Azzaro crossed into Israel in a van, he was taken to a nearby airport at the Red Sea resort of Eilat, apparently for a flight to central Israel. 
Israeli security officials who accompanied Azzaro said he cried and flashed a victory sign as he emerged from the van. 
Azzaro was expected to undergo a medical check at a hotel in Eilat before returning to his family in the northern Israeli vil­lage of Mughar. He briefly spoke to his wife Amal by phone from Eilat. 
"Azzaro, I can't believe it's you," his wife told him, looking faint and emotional as the family cheered in the back-ground. 


Azzaro's brother, Iftan, said the family only found out earlier Sunday that he was about to be released. 
"We invite the whole state of Israel to cele­brate with us," Iftan Azzaro told Israel Radio. 
Israel's relations with the Palestinians and with Egypt have been steadily improving since the death last month of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. 
Sharon said in a state­ment Sunday that he was considering releasing an unspecified number of Palestinian prisoners as part of the swap with Egypt. More than 7,000 Palestinians are being 
held by Israel. 
The swap came several days after Egypt's foreign minister and intelligence chief met with Sharon in Jerusalem. Earlier this week, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak praised Sharon, saying Palestinians should be able to strike a peace deal with the Israeli leader. 
Mubarak's comments marked a significant warming of ties after an extended frosty period during more than four years of Israeli­Palestinian fighting. 
Shortly after the out­break of the conflict in 2000, Egypt had with­drawn its ambassador 
from Israel. 
However, Egypt expects to play a major role in Israel's planned with­drawal from the Gaza Strip in 2005. Last week, Egypt and Israel agreed on deploying 7 50 Egyptian troops on the Egyptian side of the bor­der with Gaza and on Palestinian security offi­cials being sent to Egypt for training. 
Azzaro was arrested by Egypt in November 1996. At the time, he was the director of a textile facto­ry in Egypt under joint Israeli-Egyptian owner­ship. The case against him included women's underwear allegedly soaked in invisible ink. 

Bush downplays Thompson's warnings 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush played down on Saturday a stark warn­ing from his resigning health chief that the nation's food supply is largely unprotected from terror attack. 
Bush said that the government is doing what it can to safeguard the pub­lic from threats, but much work remains. 
"We're a large country, with all kinds of avenues where somebody could inflict harm," said Bush, asked about the issue after an Oval Oflice meeting with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf. "We've made a lot of progress in protecting our country, and there's more work to be done, and this administration is committed to doing it." 

Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson said in a speech Friday announcing his coming depar­ture from the Bush Cabinet that he wor­ries "every single night" about a possi­ble terror attack on the food supply. 
Despite dramatic increases in inspec­tions of food imports, only "a very minute amount" of food is tested at ports and airports, Thompson said. 
"For the life of me, l cannot under­stand why the terrorists have not attacked our food supply because it is so easy to do," Thompson said. "We are in1porting a lot of food fi·om the Middle East, and it would be easy to tamper with that." 
Asked to respond to Thompson's com­ments, Bush neither criticized them nor implied that the food supply is safer than Thompson asserted. 
Bush asked for Congress' help to boost domestic security, urging law­makers to confirm quickly his choice to take over leadership of the Homeland Security Department. On Friday, Bush nominated former New York Police Chief Bernie Kerik to succeed Tom Ridge, who announced his resignation Tuesday from the department created to oversee the nation's protection from attack. 

C?B~ QDCP TI®®m ®mrnm Bm ~~ ®C2 m~W~ W 0fJJB~ lr® TI®Q!JC2 ®®®C2o 
TI®Q!JC2 ~0m B0 ®®C2 ~®G:lc:l~®o 

o 
Shop the largest selection of used textbooks 

o 
Search for books by course number 


o 
One-stop for all your course books and materials c No hassle returns and exchanges 



( The best place for books is closer than you think 
HAMMES 


IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631·6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

.... 
. ' . 



THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Monday, December 6, 2004 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 592.21 +7.09
Jones ' 
··~.. Same: Qown: Composite Volume: 2,093 137 ~ 1,562~,192 

AMEX 1,415.58 +12.73 NASDAQ 2,147.96 +4.39 NYSE 7,092.62 +17.80 S&PSOO 1,191.17 +0.84 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11 ,07 4. 89 
0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,747.90 -3.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +3.99 NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) +0.15 INTEL CORP (INTC) +5.28 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.52 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -3.34 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -2.10 10-YEAR NOTE -2.89 5-YEARNOTE -3.40 3-MONTH BILL -0.23 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
+0.29 7.55 
+0.06 40.13 
+ 1.20 23.91 
+0.14 27.23 
-0.18 5.21 
-1.06 49.42 -1.27 42.70 -1.27 36.13 -0.05 21.67 
-0.71 42.54 +5.50 457.80 -0.93 I 00.78 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 101.8900 EURO 0. 7434 POUND 0.5144 
CANADIAN$ I 1908 
IN BRIEF 
Walt Disney world revamps pricing 
LAKE BUENA VISTA. Fla. -Walt Disney World. revamping its admissions policy for the first time in at least two decades. is offering lower prices for longer stays but raising the price of single-day tickets by 9 percent. 
The pretax price of a one-day ticket to a sin­gle park will rise $5 to $59.75 when the changes go into effect Jan. 2 and a week's admission will cost $199 _ $28.43 a day. 
For children ages 3-9, prices range from $48 for a day to $160 for a week. 
The system currently in use gives visitors only two choices when it comes to the length of their stay: one-or four-day passes. 
Disney's "Magic Your Way" package also offers a Ia carte alternatives, such as a "Park flapper," allowing guests to roam among the four theme parks for $35 in addition to the regular admission fee. 
"The No. 1 request at our ticket booths today when a guest comes up and is buying a one-day ticket is, they want to hop to another park," Walt Disney World president AI Weiss said Wednesday. 
American Greetings cuts jobs CLEVElAND -American Greetings Corp. said Thursday it is eliminating 300 jobs to cut costs. 
The company said about 175 of the job cuts will occur at its Cleveland headquarters. which has 2,000 employees. American Greetings has about 
20.000 employees overall. 
The company announced the cuts after the New York Stock Exchange closing. On Thursday, American Greetings shares were up 45 cents, to $27.39. 
Chief Executive Officer Zev Weiss said the cuts were consistent with other cost-cutting meas­ures. 
"The decision to elimina"te positions is a difficult· one, but an action that is necessary given the business challenges we face," he said. 
American Greetings earned $6.9 million. or 10 cents per share, on sales of $391.9 million in the second quarter of its fiscal year that ended Aug. 
31. the most recent quarter reported. That reversed a $9.7 million loss, or 15 cents per share, in the same quarter last year. 
Interstate wine sales reach court 
Maryland customers break the law when they bring home wine purchased in Virginia 

Associated Press 
MIDDLEBURY, Va.-It bothers Juanita Swedenburg that many of her customers are criminals in the eyes of the law. 
Swedenburg sells premium handcrafted wines made from grapes she grows on her 130-acre farm in north­ern Virginia, and after nearly 20 years in business she has developed a loyal following. · 
But if a customer from Maryland crosses the Potomac River into Virginia, buys a case of Swedenburg Estate Vineyards. wine and takes it home, he is breaking Maryland law regulating the sale and shipment of alco­holic beverages. 
"It seems to be restraint of trade, seems to be against a basic tenet of the economy," Swedenburg said. "If we could only buy things made in Virginia, we'd all be eating just peanuts and tomatoes and drinking wine." 
This week, the U.S. Supreme Court is to hear arguments in three cases, including one by Swedenburg, on whether such laws are an unconstitu­tional barrier to interstate commerce or are allowed under the 21st Amendment, which repealed Prohibition but left states with broad powers to regulate alcohol. 
Jeremy Benson, executive director of Free the Grapes, a coalition of wineries and con­sumers that advocates for legal direct shipments of wine, said the various states' widely disparate laws make it difficult for consumers and wineries to know what is legal. 
"It's almost like you're exporting to 49 different countries," Benson said. 
Swedenburg and her late husband, Wayne, were wine enthusiasts throughout their career in the Foreign Service, serving in the Far East, Middle East and Africa. 
When they retired in 1980, they bought land in Loudoun County, about 40 miles west of Washington. They first raised cattle, then decided a winery might be more prof­itable -Thomas Jefferson had likened VIrginia's soil to that found in France -and set out making cabernets, chardonnays and other dry, traditional wines. 

Vmtner was a perfect sec­ond career for Swedenburg, who is now in her late 70s, despite the hard work. 
"I had been all over the world. I didn't need to go on a bunch of cruises," she said. ''I'd already done the travel. I'd already done the cocktail parties." 
Swedenburg began ship­ping wine to customers in other states who perhaps had tried her wines during a visit to Virginia, but she stopped after learning that out-of-state deliveries were illegal in many states. 
The states that employ 
restrictive measures argue Internet. that such laws help keep "As a society we need to be alcohol out of the hands of thinking about ways to make minors. it harder for children to get 
Opponents say that con­alcohol, not easier." cern can be addressed by Fitzpatrick said. requiring an adult to sign for Swedenburg got help from a shipment. Clint Bolick, a wine aficiona­
But John Fitzpatrick, a do and co-founder of the spokesman for the Wme and Institute for Justice, a liber­Spirits Wholesalers of tarian law firm that seeks to America, said it is not rea­advance property rights and sonable to expect delivery economic liberty. companies and truck drivers "When I found out what to be law enforcers. kind of work he does, I said 
And while minors might 'Boy, do I have a case for not necessarily be interested you,"' Swedenburg said. in purchasing Swedenburg's They fought a law that cabernet · sauvignon, allows New York state resi­Fitzpatrick cited a recent dents to get wine shipped case in which an underage from vintners in that state, student at VIrginia Tech was but not from out-of-state able to buy absinthe -a sources like Swedenburg, liqueur that is illegal in the and won a lower court deci­United States -on the sion. 
Surge in sales of SUVs up to $24 million 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Sales of sport utility vehicles jumped 56 percent between 1997 and 2002, a new government report says, resulting in one SUV for every eight licensed drivers. 
SUVs also drove more miles than ever before -315 billion miles in 2002, up 100 billion miles in five years, according to the report released Thursday by the Census Bureau. 
"The headline news out of this is that there are now over 24 million SUVs ... up from 15 million" in 1997, said Census Bureau Director Louis Kincannon. 
"That's an impressive change.... 

It's important the way that it is changing the makeup of the vehi­cle inventory of this country." 
The 56 percent growth in SUV registrations actually marked a sharp drop from the 81 percent growth of the previous five years, according to the Census Bureau. Kincannon said that probably reflected a degree of market satu­ration. 
Along with 24.2 million SUVs. Americans registered 38 million pickups in 2002, making the nation's vehicle fleet much larger. 
Not surprisingly, the biggest states -California and Texas ­had the most SUVs. Sales grew fastest in Tennessee, Georgia and Indiana. 
Kincannon released the report on SUVs, trucks and minivans at a news conference at a Lincoln­Mercury dealer in Dallas. SUV crit­ics said the location of the event amounted to a tacit endorsement of large, inefficient vehicles. 
"It's disturbing that a top Bush administration official would cele­brate our oil addiction by helping tout SUV sales," said Daniel Becker, a Sierra Club analyst. 
Kincannon said he looks for visu­ally interesting locales to release Census reports, citing recent examples of a day care center and World War II memorial. 
The Census Bureau report cov­ered a period when gasoline prices were comparatively low. 
' ••

-----'"-'-:....------=·~·~----'-.....__________:.....::._.:____________~________.__.A..-.."'-.............______~~----·-·-· -~·-­
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box Q, No!r< llam<·. IN 46SS6 02•i Somh I >ining H.dl. Nuuc I)ame, IN 46'))(, El>ITOR IN CH!El' M.ttr Lozar 

MANAGING El>ITOR  BUSINESS MANA!;ER  
Meghanne l lownes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAI;ING EDITOR  
Joe I !euler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire !Ieininger VIEWl'OlNT Ell! !'OR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: llc:a!hcr Van Hocgardcn ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smi1h SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PliO l'O EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

GRAl'lllC~ EnnOit: Mike: Harkins AnvERTISING MANAf;ER: Carrie l·ranklin An DFSI!;N MANAGF.n: Kelly Nelson SYSTEM.~ ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Alk·n CoNTROl! f.R: Paula < ;arcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
('i741 ()j 1-7471 fAX ()74) (>51-6927 
ADVERTISING 
('i"'•J) <>51-6')00 oh,cad~i•nd.,·dn 
EDITOR IN CHIEF ('i71i) 6j 1-4'i42 MANAGitlG EDITOR 
('i7'J) (dl--i'i·J I ohsmc&'nd.c:du ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
('i74) 631-432·1 
BusiNESS OFFICE 
('i74) 6.31-S3U 
News DESK 
(574) 6.~1-)323 obsm·ws.I@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT 0ESK 
(~7 11) (,j 1·5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4545 sporls.l @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK ('i74) 6.~ l-4S40 scene.! (it1nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
snJC. I @)nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
('i74) 631-1!767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(S74l 631-8839 
IHE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The ObsefYI:r is rhe independent, daily newspaper I • puhlislwd in print and online by 1he s[Udems of the University of Notre Dame du be and Saint Mary's Collt·g,·. Fdirori.!l contem, including advertisements, is not gowrned hy policies of rhe adminis1ra1ion ofeirher insriouion. The ( lh't·rver reserves the right to refuse ~tdV(.'!'I iscntent.\ I>:Lo;;cd on contt'llt. The news is reponed as .ll·curately .md objecrivdy as 
pos>ihll'. lfnsignt·d editorial> rc:pre>t·nt the opinion of rht· m;Jjority of the r.diror in Chict: Managing Editor, As.sisranl Managing Ediror and department editors. Commt'lllari,·s. letters and columns present the views oftlw .uuhors and not JH:Les.,arily rhoS<' ofl'lw OIN·rwr. 
Viewpoint sp.Ke is avaibhle wall Te:Hic:rs. The free <'xprt·ssion of all opinions through k·ners is t'rKouraged. I ~·11ers to till· hli1or mnsl bt· signed and must indude rontact int(umatiotl. 
(/umio11s rrgarding (Jbserver polidrs shoul.tl be dim'fed to Editor i11 ChiefMattl.oZilr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Thr Oh\\tver (USP~ ~'I'J : 11)110) 1' puhlu.hcd M,•ndll)' lhtuugh Frid.ly '""'Ccj•l dunn!{ ('UII\ ,u.ol v-•~·111011 pcfuw.b -\. .uh~npuunt•• 111:<.' tlll>.C.rvtt i~ $JI)(J tOr one .acJdt"mk yeu; $')')'"'nne :oemrucr 
Ihe ( )h,...Hct '' o1 ml'mllc:r ul tlu: IUMJ~o.IJI~·II Prt~s. AU rl.'pruJU\:tiun llf,ht' oUt' r,·'\l.'rvcd 
"lhe<)\,...,ncr 11puhl•~~io11' P.O.BuxQ 
O.!<t '-•mh l>millft lf.lll 024 ~nuch flining ll.all Nofrt' [),uuc, IN Mo'i'V~ 0...,-., None 0Jme, IN 1M·'i6-U779 
['t.'ti<Mlt,.tl pn~I"K< p.wl ;U Nuuc-C\unc .md o~ddtltun.t\mou\u~ nJii,,. 
I~)STMA.>TER 

The I lh.crvc:r j, ~ mrm\1(', ul du: A-Ki;~fct{ l'r~"'· All1r.-pwtluuion fl!'hb .uc r~1'*1l 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Angola Saoud  Justin Schuver  
Kelly Mnehan  Ann Loughery  
Jen Howling  Kate Seryak  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Justin Spack  Christie Bolsen  
Graphics  Illustrator  
Dnsirec Zamora  Meg Dwyer  

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, December 6, 2004 
Iraq in hindsight: a colossal mistake 
In retrospect. invading Iraq was dearly the most irresponsible decision of U.S. for­eign policy-makers in recent history. The eonseqw~nees of this action are severe; thousands upon thousands of lives have bmm lost, taxpayers will be paying for tlw Michael war fi>r generations to Poffenberger come, the nmr.h of ter­rorist networks hm; 
SayWhyNot
expanded, and tl1e devnlopment of tho international rule of law hw.; regn~ssed half a enntury. 
;\ rnsnar('.h report recently published by The l.anent, a leading academic journal for public health, pegs the number of' dvilian deaths in Iraq to be approximatnly 
100.000. Hesearchers used Iraqi household surveys to determine the change in mortal­ity rates onee the war began, and then cal­culated the net em~el'i of tlw spike in deaths. They (~stimat.n that a m<\iority of the innornnt lifil lost was dun to Arnnriean b( m1 bing -cam pai).,TJis. 
This rPport has serious implications for tlw prospnd-> for surr:ess in the mconstruc­tion of Iraq. Think about it: tlw United States-alrnady hatml by Iraqis fill' iL'i imperialist tnndenrios and unjust support fi)r Israel-entered into a sovernign nation, dostroyod ib inlht.'itrurture and killed 100,000 civilians. Now, the United States nxpeds to gain the support of all Iraqis, deeming those who do not agree to bn "tnrrorisL'i." Is this going to "win the hearb and minds" of Iraqis and others in the Middle East'? 
Tho war will not gain international sup­port fi>r Amoriean policy or even for the brand of "democracy" that the US is attempting to export. Instead, it h&'i exac­crbatnd global divisions and increased anti-American sentiment. By most expert. accounts, the reach of terrorist networks h&'i expanded and America is less secure 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
now than before. 

Simply stated, the consequences of this war fi1r Amoriea and the reality on thn ground in Iraq demonstratn that tiiC per­spective of the Bush Administration is demented, often displaying a blind J()llow­ing of ideology and a total disregard for prahTJnatic eonsideral.ions. 
This is not a partisan observation. In 191JH, fi1llowing the first Gulf War, Prnsident George I I.W. BtL'ih and his national security advisor publishod an arti­cle in Time explaining why thny did not invadn Iraq to remove I Iussoin, writing that "Extending the war into Iraq would have incurred incalculable human and political costs. We would haw bnen liJrCild to oecupy Baghdad and, in efli~ct, rule Iraq. Tlw coalition would insLantly have eol­lapsed, the Arabs doserting in anger and other allies pulling out as well. Excnnding the UN's mandate would have destroyPd the prnendent of intnrnational n·sponse to aggrnssion we hoped to establish. IJad we gone tlw invasion routn, tl1e US could still be an occupying pownr in a bitterly hostile land." 
Tlw cosL'i of' this occupation to Amnriran taxpayers have been astronomical. Thus fitr, Americans have paid 150 billion dollars li1r tlw takc~over of Iraq, and that numbnr grows eaeh day. If you pnrcnivn-t.ho U.S. invasion to have bonn one to serve humani­tarian purposns, think about how many morn elli~ctiV(l ways there are to save lives with that mueh money. According to tho National Prioritins Projnet, the monny spent in Iraq could also have fully-funded all global campaigns against AIDS for the m1xt 14 years or provided basic immunjzations for cvnry living child lor the next 50 ynars. Furthermore, the debt run up from this war will cripple the future of our nation's ability to carry out b&'iic social services. 
Finally, the prec~dent set by this war turns back tl1e clock on the international rule of law. lntPrnationallaws present accountability and order fi>r an otherwise anarchie global systmn, and are the only hope for the eonstruction of a less violent global futum. Ironically, it is exactly tho vio­lation of these norms that tlw Unitod States usnd as an excusn to illegally invade Iraq. Thn ripple ofli~cl'i f'rom this war will be obsnrvabln in tim actions of othnr nation statns who choosn to fi>llow tlw lead of thP Unitml States. 
In hindsight, what are wn lnf't with from the inva'iion of Iraq? Wn are loft with an administration in power that purposd'ully mislod the ;\mnriean pnopln to smve idoo­logieal intnrnsL'i. We arn lnft with a sadden­ing-loss of human lif(l, an astronornieal dnbt. tlw nxpansion of tnrrorisrn and a wnaknning of the intnrnational ruin of law. Thnsn consPquenees almost mrtainly out­wnigh any potPnt.ial fi>I' positivP gains from the war, nvnn if dPmocrat.ic nlndions in Iraq arn sun:Pssful. 
This rnality should furtlwr bring us to q unstion the usn of systmnatir violnnen to snrvn any politiral purposns, (~spndally in this day and ag(~. Diplomacy and nconornic means of' prnssuring nations to conform to intPrnat.ionallaw am lwcoming morn and morn succnssful. Following .Just War prin­r.iplns-nspncially in rngards t.o thn mandate that war ))(' only a last rnsort-is porhaps no longer possibh 
IIop(>J'ully, ;\nwrir.ans willlnarn thnsn hls­sons from the war in Iraq and pnwent such reeklnss irresponsibility in the futurP. Otherwisn, any hopos liJr reaching a sus­tainablo global peace an~ lost. Should we bn aiming fi.Jr anything nlsn? 
Michael Poj]'enberger is a senior anthro­pology and peace studies major.1/e can be reached.al'mpf'Jf.reN.b@rul.edu~'" ·u: '··Hh•nw 
The l'imos expressed in this mlumn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those oj'The Obseruer. 
Speaker helped increase awareness 
We would like to thank Notre Dame Right to Life for bringing Pro-Life Feminist Sally Winn to e<mlpus Wednesday. In spitn of a low and almost exclusively fimmle turn out Winn gavn a pownrful presentation on the history of Amerkan fi11ninism, reminding us that our fim1inist fim~motlwrs, women like Susan B. Anthony, Elizabnth Cady Stanton and Mary Wollstonecraft, wore without exception pro-woman and pro-life. These radical sulli·agisL'i fought for a truly fr~minist society in whieh the basic righl'i of all human bnings wnro upheld. 
In the tradition of pro-lif'P finninism, Winn urged lwr audience to aeknowlodge that abortion is not a solution but rather a symp­tom of a social disoaso that sees women as defective males who persist on gntting prngno.nt dnspitn the inconvenience to bossns, boyfriends, neighbors and friends. 
This systnm dons not taktl seriously the fertility of women, nor dons it oflfw them real reproductive choices. Hather, it forces thmn to adopt a (nomssarily not prPgnant) male-model for their lives; coercing them into smgery, so that their condition can bo cun~d. when they an~ not sick. Society has failed women. In par­ticular, college ago women, m; one in live abortions is perfimned on a eollege student. Women are too olten asked to choose between their oll'spring, their education or job, and their self~ mspeet. What kind of chokes are these'? 
Clearly we need to refimn society, giving rna! choices and real support to men and women facing unplannod pregnancies, and we need to begin here at Notre Dame. Being pro-life should be about more than rnstricting access to abortion. It should be about crnating a community that is wnlconw to wo11wn and ehildrnn. What is the womb if not tlw first and most generous welfare state? 
Our eulturp will not bn a truly lili1 aflirming o1w until it fully supporls those who choosn to panmt, ofliu·ing thmn aecnss to dayr:are at work and sdwol, matornal health covoragn, limn ofl' for dnlivery and shame-freP mnotional and tinandal support. There is a eonsidnrabln state int.nrnst in nnar.ting pro-fiunily poli­cy that. indudos all familins, not only tinandally secure husbands and wivns. Argumenl'i that this kind of policy nneourages promis­euity have allowed tho pnrf(~d to bnrome the enemy of tlw good, and historically have bonn mon• opprnssive to linninine sexuality than prevnntativn of unplannnd pregnancies. 
The eurmnt antagonism is politically paralyzing. Tho Hev. Jnrry Falwell's renaming of NOW, the National Organization of'Wonwn, as the "National Order ofWitehes" is hateful to womnn. IIOW(JV(1f' NOW's contention that abortion is "thn most f'undamental right" of' women, is not only narrow-mindnd, it is capitulation tri patriar­chal and laissez-faire capitalistic norms -litnrally the antithesis of feminism. 
Abortion hurts women. Partisan bickering donsn't snmn to lwlp them. Maybn a truly fnminist society could. 
Anna Nussbaum and Martha Patzer junior. senior Farley hall, off-campus Dec. 2 
OBSERVER POLL 
How many finals do you have? 
Vote by Tuesday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful, we must carry it with us or we find it not." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson author 

Tl·1E OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, December 6, 2004 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Adtninistration has tnistnanaged football teatn 
The administration has fail11d the stu­dent body, the alumni and, most impor­tantly, our classmates on the lbotball (nam that chose to play at Notre Dame over a variety of other schools. Coach Tyrone Willingham was a man of deep integrity and honor that, absent the blowout losses of this year, was progress­ing in his reconstruction of the Notre Damn filotball program. The ommse had showed flashes of brilliance this year, but this was not enough for the older alumni, and certain dements of the student body, who demanded that Notre Dame win now. 
Thus, we fired Willingham with the obvious goal of hiring Urban Meyer, a for­mer Notre Dame special teams/wide receiver coach and famnd rebuilder of programs, and yet we messed this oppor­tunity up as well. Meyer will instead be replacing Ron Zook as the head coach at tho University of Florida. Why? There are two roasons. 
The first was that he was concernnd about the academic standards at Notre Dame and our inability to win unless they were lowernd, which the administration refusnd to do. Tony Rice, the quarterback of our last national championship tnam, was also Notre Dame's first Proposition 4H admit, and he graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in Psychology. The school frequently admitted individuals with lower GPAs and SAT scores than their elassmates under Lou Holtz, and since this policy has changed, we have watched the gradual decay of our football program. By shrinking the pool of players that we can recruit with our high aca­demic standards, the administration is restraining the football program from 
Notre Dame has not lost its vvay 

I love college football. More specifi­cally, I love Notre Dame football. But if someone where to ask what my favorite thing about Notre Dame was, it would be not be football. Sure, it is something that brings that campus, alumni, friends and family together on Saturday after­noons in the fall. But is this the essence of Notre Dame? I don't think so. That is why I have been very upset by the reac­tion to the firing of head coach Tyrone Willingham. 
Many people, both here in The Observer, on ESPN and numer­ous other media out­lets, have said they are disappointed by the decision, that the decision proves that Notre Dame is just · another "football facto­ry," and that the decision tarnished the Golden Dome. People have written that Notre Dame will never be the same again. 
I certainly was shocked on Tuesday upon hearing the news, and I personally really liked Willingham, as a great representative of the University. While I may not have agreed that this was the right thing to do or the right time to do it, I never thought that this decision had any 
rocruiting players that instead are going 
to our opponents, such as USC, Tennessee 
and ironically, Florida. 
In addition to refusing to lower our aca­
demic standards, the University allegedly 
offered Meyer considerably less money 
than the University of Florida. This truly 
boggles my mind. As a Floridian, one of 
us is acutely aware of the fiscal crisis . ongoing on the institutions of higher edu­
cation in my state, and yet it was able to · 
oller more money to Meyer than Notrn 
Dame did, a school with an endowment of 
wnll over $2.6 billion. Notre Dame i.s cur­
rently paying off the millions of dollars in 
buyouts to two of our former coaches, 
and the administration refused to go the 
extra mile in hiring the new one? 
The mismanagement of the lbotball 
team, a group of individuals that repre­
sent our University in the national spot­
light and has to contend with long hours 
of practice in addition to the rigorous 
coursework at Notre Dame, is inexcus­
able. The shameful manner in which 
Coach Willingham was frrnd, in addition 
to the failed attempt to hire the coach we 
had identified as the man that would 
allow us to have a true "Return to Glory" 
is indicative of the poor stewardship of 
the football team under University 
President Father Malloy, and a bad omen 
for the direction the football team will 
take under University President-elect, 
Father John Jenkins. 
Brian Lange Owen McGovern Mark Meisner juniors Keough hall Dec. 3 
bearing on what Notre Dame stands for. All of these people act like football defines what a school is. Maybe it does at a football factory. It shouldn't and I don't think it does at Notre Dame. 
When I think of Notre Dame, I think of ~he incredible educa­tion I received, the great teachers and mentors, life­long friends, the absolutely beautiful campus, Mass at 
the Basilica, studying abroad, praying at the Grotto, tl)e amazing sup­
port network -I could just go on and on. This is Notre Dame. Okay, some of the leaders at Notre Dame decided that Willingham wasn't the coach they wanted 
for our football team. We all want to win and I don't think that this makes us bad people. Whether or not this broke with tradition, whether or not we all agree that it gave him a fair chance, none of this takes the tn!ly amazing nature of 
Notre Dame away from us. Those things are what make Notre Dame special. 
Heidi Ketvertis alumna Class of 2000 Dec. 3 

Writing classics and happy endings 

There are of course other techniques available for making the 
Peter Wicks 

arduous task of dissertating more manageable. One tobaceo-free method for relieving stress is to fantasize about tenure, taking 
Englishman

solace in dreams of all the things one could do with a guaran­
Abroad

teed job for life. Popular tenure fantasies include attending fac­ulty meetings wearing a dressing gown, playing "Eye of the Tiger" at the start of every lecture, or finally coming out to one's colleagues as a Republican. My own tenure fantasy is to write a novel. 
I should say right away that my novel will not be a daring work of postmodernist fiction, densely-packed with allusions to everything from Homer through to Quentin Tarantino. It will not feature a chapter in which the playfully erudite nar­rator digresses with a meditation on the existential significance of quantum physics cribbed from Stephen Hawking's Brief History of Time. There will be no cameo appearance by a character with the same name as the author, nor any other blurring of the line between fact and fiction. The novel will not hold a mirror up to society. It will not -not even remotely, not in any way -be an unflinchingly honest analysis of the way we live now. 
I am going to write a Harlequin romance novel, complete with heaving bosoms, ripped bodices and a happy ending. 
Part of my motivation is the childish pleasure I get from the idea that one day I might be a tenured professor with a faculty bio that includes the line "Peter's pre­vious books include Wittgenstein's Moral Philosophy (4 vols.) and The Isle of Forbidden Passion." But the truth is I wanted to write a romance novel even before I decided I wanted to be an academic, ever since I discovered that there's a kit. 
To get the Harlequin novel-writing kit you used to have to write to them, but now everything an aspiring romance novelist needs to know can be found on their web­site. 
Before looking at the guide for writers, I decided to survey the catalogue to check out the competition. Harlequin has a truly bewildering amount of titles. The website provides a book matcher to help customers identify the novels that will best suit there needs, using pull-down menus to select their preferred time period, type of hero, heroine and theme (options range from "hero to the rescue" to the apparently self-explanatory "baby"). Since you can only select one option for each category the hero can be royalty or a bad boy but, frustratingly, not both. For those who don't want their romance to be set here in the United States there are a range of exotic locations offered, including France, Italy and -inexplicably -Canada. 
I am not, I admit, a likely candidate for a romance novelist. For one thing I am a man and romance fiction is written almost exclusively by and for women, Harlequin describes itself as a purveyor of "women's fiction." Also, I'm not entirely sure what a bodice is. But with some expert guidance I was confident that these obstacles could be overcome, so I clicked on a link promisingly entitled "learn to write". 
First I came across a Q&A for prospective writers. The tone was markedly defen­sive. It was noted that the general public fails to give romance novels the respect they deserve. The notion that writing these books is easy was considered and firm­ly rejected. 
Reassured as to the respectability of my avocation, I turned to the writer's tips, which suggested that I "use commas between compound sentences joined by con­junctions." A conjunction-I have this on good authority-is "a joining word, such as and, but, or and because." There was also a helpful section explaining the difference between "its" and "it's," although I find that I have forgotten the details. 
It's a mistake to think of romance fietion as second or even third rate literature. It's not bad literature; it's something else, with different criteria of success. Part of the art of literary writing is to give characters depth and life, but a Harlequin hero -whether he's a playboy, a sheik or a bodyguard-must be as two-dimensional as a pin-up poster. 
People sometimes argue about whether love at first sight is possible. I think it's not just possible, it's easy. Anyone can fall in love with someone across a crowded room, because the unknown represents the possibility of perfection. And so it is with a romantic hero; give him eyes like dark stars, a physique reminiscent of a variety of powerful fauna, a scar in an intimate location gained playing polo or some other suitably exotic sport, and stop there. Leave it to the reader not to fill in the gaps, but to enjoy the speculation. 
There is a love that comes after knowledge -you see it in the best marriages ­but it is not the stuff of fantasy. 
Peter Wzcks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. He can be con­tacted at pwicks@nd. edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Monday, December 6, 2004 
'Volum_e One' is a rare glim_pse into Dylan 

By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scene EdJtor 

When most of his fans heard that Bob Dylan, one of the most private famous men of today and recent history, was writing a memoir, they expected to finally get a glimpse into the inti­mate lil'e of one of the greatest songwriters of all time. These expectations are let down in Dylan's recent memoir, "Chronicles, Volume One." However, Dylan fans should not lose heart at this announcement, because although the intimate details of his life are excluded, 
"Chronicles, Volume One" 
"A song is likP a drPam. gives readers insight into and you havP to make it the grea•t mind that come true," to beautiful­changed the face of music ly descriptive lines. "A in America. blizzard was kidnapping 
Essentially divided into Author: Bob Dylan the city, lif'l' spinning three parts, or eras of around on a drab ran­Dylan's life, the memoir vas. lry and rold." Dylan begins with Dylan describing his life in dives into his opinions on BoosPVI'll. dPsrribing Greenwich Village in New York. lie details his how he thought Boosi'VI'lt rould havP "stPppPd struggle to play in increasingly better known out of a folk ballad" and much mort• Thr· and better attended bars and clubs as he memoir is beautifully wrillPn, but thr• langungr· stayed on the couches of various friends and can get a bit bogged down in imagPry at timPs. acquaintances. The young Dylan comes across Although Dylan does not give an l'ntircly as introverted and deeply inquisitive. Pages revealing account of his life, tlw rcadl'r is are dedicated to describing the books Dylan allowed glimpses into his mind and drPams. read at that time and the music he listened to. often seemingly inadvertpntly. Speaking of 
Many characters are introduced, but few are Picasso, the dreams of the young Dylan are expounded upon to a great extent. The first revealed, "Picasso at seventy-nine years old part of the memoir is rather slow, but interest­had just married his thirty-fivr)-year-old model. ing in that the pre-songwriting Dylan is intro­Wow. Picasso wasn't just loafing about on duced and becomes·a bit more understood. Ile crowded sidewalks. Life hadn't rlowed past is a young man who sees no need to perform him yet. Picasso had fractured the art \Vorld his own music when there are so many terrific and cracked it wide open. He was revolution­folk songs that he can develop and play with a ary. I wanted to be like that." new twist all his own. Dylan is hard-headed. Dylan plays down his desirP to be gr<'at at telling one record executive that he came to points, but it is clear that he realizes what lw New York by jumping on a freight train and has done to American music in general. !lis had a previous job as a bakery truck driver, all memoir gives insight into the mind of a man of which is untrue. Bob Dylan is a man who who has seen great change and saw it coming does not care what people believe is true, and before it even got here. The languagl' of the the first section of "Chronicles. Volume One" book is beautiful. and the man himsl'lf' is makes this exceedingly clear. intriguing. "Chronicles. Volume Orw" is a must 
Dylan's home and life in Woodstock is read for any Dylan fan. but evl'n for tiHJSP who explored throughout what is essentially the aren't it is an interesting jourrwy though thP second section of "Chronicles, Volume One." last half of the twPntiPth cr•nlury in i\nwrira. Woodstock was a place where Dylan moved to led by a tour-guidP who has had a part in a live the American home-life, not wanting to be good deal of the development or i\nwrira at tracked and bothered by fans who wanted that time and even now. Dylan to play "Prophet, Messiah, Savior" for their various causes. Although the retreat to Contact Becca Saunders at Woodstock is essentially attributed to a desire rsaunders@nd.edu 

to live the family life. his family is only vaguely men­tioned; he hardly even drops the names of his different wives or children throughout the entirety of the memoir. 
The third and easily most entertaining section of "Chronicles, Volume One" covers Dylan's journey of working with producer Daniel Lanois, recommended to Dylan by U2 lead singer Bono. Set in New Orleans, the third section reveals Bob Dylan as more satisfied with the meaning of his songs. The book ties up with a visit back to the young Dylan in the early 1960's in Greenwich Village, realizing that "The folk music scene had been like a paradise that I had to leave, like Adam had to leave the garden. It was just too (Wrf'Prt." 

Overall. "Chronicles, Volume Onp" is intPr­csting, but not immensely entertaining. It becomes clear throughout the novl'l that Dylan wrote this book as he wrote folk songs: to LPII the story with carefully chosnn words. Folk songs arc not catchy or even gcnPrally vPry shocking, and the same rings trul' for Dylan's memoir. As one reads, the slow and detailPd pace of Dylan's writing becomes a bit wearing at times, but generally a more rcvplatory sec­ond half makes up for the slow-moving and overly detailed nature of the l'irst half' of thr· memoir. Much of' what Dylan writPs sounds like would bn song lyrics. From abstract lint's like. 
Photos courtesy of www bobdylan<mages 8k com 

This picture was taken of a young Bob Dylan in 1962. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, December 6, 2004 
page 11 
Video games for new and old fans 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Wrirer 
"Dragon Ball Z: Budokai 3" 
Fans of the show can finally reJOice, as "Dragon Ball Z: Budokai 3" has finally gotten the definitive game it deserves. With over 40 characters from the show, and countless items to unlock, this is any anime fan's dream come true. 
The gameplay runs very similarly to the previ­ous Budokai games on the market. You choose one character from the Dragon Ball Z universe to fight another. The controls are pretty intu­itive, with one button being reserved each for punch, kick and block. 
Unlike the other fighting games on the mar­ket, "Dragon Ball Z: Budokai 3" is quite easy for the average gamer to pick up and play. While other lighting games require a skillful hand to pull off the super moves, this one has moves that can be pulled off by even the most casual gamer. This means that everyone will be able to use even the flashiest moves. pleasing everyone. 
However, this also means that the game can be easily played by simply mashing the buttons on the controller. This may turn off serious fans of fighting games, which could be a mistake. Although the super moves are intrinsically easy to accomplish, there is a wealth of abilities in the game that were absent from the previous ones. 
l'r/.ew to the series, i? the aqjJity to ~eleport, both offensively and defensively. Performing this move requires timing, giving experienced gamers an edge over newcomers. If used exces­sively, this move tires out the character, leaving him vulnerable to attack. 
Another new addition to the series is the drag­
on rush. Less appreciated than the previous 
addition. this technique relies more upon luck 
than skill to successfully pull off. It amounts to 
pressing a button, and hoping that your oppo­
nent does not press the same button. A lesser 
addition to the series, but one that does prove to 
be useful in story mode. 
The single player mode is where a lot of 
garners will spend their time, as that is where 
the majority of the characters, and stages, are 
unlocked. Dubbed the Dragon Universe, eleven 
of the show's main characters can be played 
through unique storylines that follow the show 
fairly accurately. It's good for newcomers to 
experience the show for the first time, and fans 
to relive their favorite moments. 
Part of what makes this an exceptional light­
ing game is the previously mentioned variety of 
characters. With the cast ranging from Goku to 
Broly, and the almighty Omega Shenron, it cov­
ers all of the TV shows that were released. Any fan of anime, or cartoons in general, will appre­ciate the sheer variety that has been tossed into this game. 
Overall, this game is one of the most fun fight­ers in the market. While it may not have the deepest fighting engine, it is a large improve­ment from the previous versions, and is worth a look by old and newcomers alike. Grade: A 
"Goldeneye: Rouge Agent" 
The average college student grew up with a Nintendo 64 around, either in his or her house, or a friend's. When asked about their collection, the Mario games are often mentioned, as are the Zelda. But the game that was in almost everyone's collection was "Goldeneye." 
What many consider to be the defining first person shooter, "Goldeneye" was the action game of choice for someone with a Nintendo 64. With a compelling single player mode, and a fun multiplayer, it was one of the top selling games for the N64. 
Now, many years later, the first direct sequel has arrived. However, it is a sequel in name only. Following in the vein of the previous game, "Goldeneye: Rouge Agent" is all about action. Those looking for a deeper game will want to check out "Halo 2," or "Killzone." "Goldeneye: Rouge Agent" is about non-stop action from start to finish. 
The title "Rogue Agent" comes to bear in the storyline. Shocking as it may be, this is the first Bond game that doesn't actually star Bond. The famous 007 is only in the game for the first minute or so of gameplay, as the player assumes the role of agent Goldeneye. 
After being blamed for the simulated death of a famous individual in Bond history and per­forming intolerable acts, Agent Goldeneye is kicked from MI-6 to become a free agent. He is quickly picked up by Goldfinger to work for the other side of the law. 
Following the interesting beginning however, the game slides into a state of tedium, as the player fights what appears to be an endless army of clones. Little variety has been included within the game. To compensate, Electronic Arts has made the game very short. This game could be finished in one study day, leaving you the rest to focus on more important tasks. 
What is probably most disappointing is that the fact you are a bad guy is never capitalized on. The opportunity to fight Bond never arises, along with any other important figure in Bond history. Actually, the ability to fight anyone important only happens twice in the game, with the rest being filled with the aforementioned clones. 
However, the original's main area of longevity was the multiplayer. So the question arises, does this one meet the original's expectations? The 
answer is yes and no. · The original had outstand­ing multiplayer with a variety of people to play as. The sequel both builds upon that, and subtracts at the same time. Gone is the variety of characters, causing fans of "Oddjob" to weep everywhere. They are replaced with slight­ly better arenas to fight in with newly introduced death traps, which add some humor to the multiplayer. 
Overall, a solid and yet lack­ing game. Fans will be disap­pointed if they have played anything since the original, such as "Halo" or "Killzone." At least the multiplayer has been balanced more than the previous, so if you were a diehard fan, you may want to check this out. Grade: C+ 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 



MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Offense must match defense's solid performance 
ANN AHBOH, Mich.-The st:oreboard read Michigan 27, Notre Dame I(,. 
Thn~e minutes, :~6 -seconds mmained in the first half". 
Thus far. tl1n Irish had six field goals. They also had f<nu· travnling vit )]at.it ms. 
Michigan had just scon~d on it.s first. posses­sion out of" t.hl' Matt Lozar TV tinwout. 


but. sonwthing 
had dw.ngnd .')ports Writer 
in this Notrl' 
Dame f('am. 
lt. finally looknd likn thn learn tW<~rymw had bl'nn waiting to sen through tht• first thrnP-plus gamos of" tlw regular season. 
In llw next 3::~h. llw Irish dou­blf'd tlwir liPid goal total from six 
t.o 12. and wh!•n Chris Thomas dropped in his only fipld goal of" t.he ganw with tHll' SP<:ond IPI"t in tlw hall", all of" a suddPn tho Irish and Wolwrilws werl' tied at :m. 
Thn~e minutes of" irnprnssivo IJaskPI.!Jall l'raSI'cf 17 minutes of" had baskPt.ball. 
The Irish ranw out of" the locker room with that same attitude. Hiding tlw suddenly rPjuvm1atf'd Torin Frands, :~-point1~rs from Colin Falls and a coupln of" shots from Dennis Latimore. thoy built a 51-41 lead. 
Tlwn with I I :30 rmnaining in llw game, that attitude seemed to go away. 
It wasn't an instant drop-ofT, but 
fiJr the rest of the game, the Irish 
had fiJUr finld goals. 
For those scoring at home, eom­bining the first 17:30 with the last 
11:30 and the Irish got I 0 field goals in 29 minutes of basketball. In the other 11 minutes, they had 14 field goals. 
This is a tPam in transition. Tho del"nnsn throughout tlw entin• 40 minutes. minus a fi~w lapses hnrn and tlwn~. was as good as it's bmm under a Mikn Bmy-coached tPam in South Beml. That ofl~sna­son dndkation will payofl" as tho snason progmssns. 
In all ofthat work, the Irish lost their oll"nnsn. As surprising as that sounds, tlw numbnrs don 'tlie. 
Tlwy average 6:~.25 poinb per game, shooting 40.1 pnrennt from the linld and comwcting on 30.7 from behind the arc. 
Thosn stat.<; !lhow there's a prob­lem. 
"I think we're a littln behind whom WP HXpPded to be omm­sivnly," Irish guard Chris Quinn said. "In the preseason with tho guys we have on this team, wn didn't antieipatn seoring to bn one of our problt~ms. We filcusnd a lot on tlw dnfimsivn end and I think it's showing that. We eoneentratnd a lot on dnfnnsn. 
"With a tough ltmm like Michigan, you think if you hold thmn to (,1 points, you arn going to win the game." 
During that opening stretch, the Irish looked like a team that had­n't playnd fbr night days and was playing its first road game of tho season. 
Dnspite the abysmal ofli:msive start, the Irish persevnred and usnd their defense to f,rive them­selves a golden opportunity to become 4-0 and pick up a non­eonfernnce win that would have lookt~d grnat on their resume como March. Last year, a young Notre Dame tnam would have wiltnd on the road, but that nxpe­rinneo from last season allowed them to have a chance to win at Crisler Arnna. 
For all the things they did wrong, tlw Irish learned a lot about themselves Saturday. 
"Just that wn can come in hern and play on the road and control the game. When it comes down to the wirn, we have to dose the . door on the game," Latimorn said. "llopef"ully we ean do that in Indiana." 
The Irish can takn what they learnnd in Ann Arbor to Bloomington. 
That's nasier said than done. 
Look up the yoar 1973 in tho Notre Dame-Indiana series to lind out why-that's tho last year the Irish have won on the road in the series. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of71te Observer. Contact Matt /,ozar at mlozar@nd. edu. 


Bovvl conunittee announces Irish vvill take on Oregon State 
challenge for our football Conference, behind California the Pac-10's Hose Bowl spot. that Fiesta Bowl tnam.
Baer anticipates a 
tnam" Irish interim head coach and Southern California. California was invited to the "When I hoard about the challenging matchup Knnt Baer said. Typically Holiday Bowl, and Arizona matchup, I had flashbacks to "Oregon State based on the State was invited to the Sun the L20011 Fiesta Bowl, so it's versus Beavers has been a "Playing Oregon bowl hierarchy, Bowl. kind of ironic that my first sea­power in the State is a tremendous the Insight Bowl That meant that UClA, which son at Notre Dame and my last Pac-10 the last receives the was long predicted to be Notre will both end against Oregon
By JUST!N SCHUVER opportunity and
several years, highest remain­Dame's opponent in the Insight State," Goolsby said.
Associate SportS Editor 
challenge for our

and they have a ing Pac-1 0 team Bowl, dropped down to the Las "I know I ean speak for my 
lot of talent. football team.,, after the Rose, Vegas Bowl. teammates when I say we're . Tlw Insight Bowl committee We're looking Holiday and Sun The Beavers provide an looking forward to going down announeecl Sunday that Notre forward to the Bowls are filled. interesting opponent for the there and, especially, looking
Kent Baer 

Damn (6-51 would faee Orngon challengn of When the new Irish, as Oregon State defeated forward to playing and winning
Irish interim coach 

Statn (6-5) in tho Insight Bowl playing them." BCS rankings Notre Dame 41-9 in the 2001 a bowl game." on Dne. 2S in Tempe, Ariz. The Beavers came out Fiesta Bowl. "Playing Oregon Statn is a finished tied with Arizona State Sunday, however, Texas moved Senior linebacker Mike Contact Justin Schuver at tremendous opportunity and for third in the Pae-10 ahead of California and took Goolsby was a freshman on jschuver@nd.edu 
----~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for contell! without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED FoR SALE 
Interested in a lucrative career in 17630 JUDAY LAKE 3 BEDRM Pharmaceutical Sales? HOME. LAKE PROPERTY.NEAR www.beapharmarep.com CAMPUS. BROKER OWNED.272­
6306,329-0308 

Work for Better World Books. 
Earn $7-8/hr 
plus overtime FoR RENT 
from Dec. 8-Jan. 31. 
Email paul@ betterworldbooks.com DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW 
LEASING FOR 2005-2006 

Disc jockey at Legends. SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUS-
Love of music & familiarity with ES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from ND 
MMMRentals.com 532-1408 
6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. WID, ON-SITE PARKING. 
AVAIL. AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. HOME,W/D,NEAR CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. AVAIL. NOW. CALL JOE CRIMMINS: 574-229-3659 OR 679-2010. 
MISHAWAKA 

2·3 bedroom. 2.5 bath, 1,200 sq.ft +full basement+ 2-car 
garage, 
$875/mo. 
574·273-9000. 

COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year ­Available June 1, 2005. 2 Bedrooms -2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System. Fully Furnished. (626)441-1275 or Salvaty@ earthlink.net 
House for rent across from ND. Spring Break 2005 with STS, Avail now Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. and for 2005-06 school yr. Hiring campus reps. Call for group Call 232-0875. discounts.lnfo/Reservations 1-800­
648-4849 www.ststravel.com 

House for rent walking distance from campus. Call273-9102 FREELANCE ONLINE TUTORS 
Instruct 3-12 grd stdnts;lnternet 2-6 BDRM HOMES. NOW & connex reqd; tutor/teach exp. prefrd 2005/6. 272-6306 jobs@ brainfuse.com 
Erin! Tell Jingle that Noel says hi! 

PERSONAL 
Candy Cane Lane looks amazing!!! Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! Dan, Mozart took ltalian ... shouldn't 
equipment a must. HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 5 Days $299! YOU? Call Aaron at BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEW 3·4 BEDROOM, 3 BATH. Large 4-bdrm,2.5 bath home, 1.2 Includes Meals, Parties! 631-2973. NEIGHBORHOODS,SECURITY SAFE,CLOSE TO CAMPUS,2-CAR miles north of ND. Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau. Thank you, Talis, for helping me out 
SYSTEMS. MAINTENANCE STAFF GARAGE. FIREPLACE,FAMILY Lvg.room,dining room, large Jamaica with the lights! -Smalls Looking for 2 club staff members at ON CALL, WASHER. DRYERS. ROOM,LARGE DECK kitchen,fam room w/frplc. From $459! Legends. Do you like the nightclub VISIT OUR WEBSITE 3-season patio w/built-in BBQ & Panama City & Daytona TIDAL WAVEII! atmosphere? This could be the per-WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR $1,660/MO. much more. $159! feet job for you. CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-CALL 1·574-232-4527, OR Call Wayne www. SpringBreakTravel.com Tom, we should make another 
'• Call Aaron at 631-2973. 2436 OR (574)315-5032. 1-269-683-5038 574-339-1638 1-800-678-6386 Target run and visit the boo-bahs! :) 
Monday, December 6, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

D P A C PRESENTS 

Empire Brass Christmas Concert 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Federal Credit Union NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION
Friday, December 10 at 8 p.m. http://performingarts.nd.edu/empire.shtml 
Start your holiday season at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center with a Christmas Concert by The Empire Brass in the Leighton Concert Hall. These fabulous musicians will play some familiar holiday favorites as welt as some music from Christmases past. There will even be·o sing-a-long. The Empire Brass enjoys an international reputation as North America's finest brass quintet, renowned for its brilliant virtuosity and the 
unparalleled diversity of its repertoire. Tickets $44, $35 faculty/staff, $15 all students 
V 0 CAL ENSEMBLE 
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 

ND Collegium Musicum 
Wednesday, December 8 at 8 p.m. www.nd .edu /~music/ensembles/ collegium. html Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Free and open to the public 
ND Collegium Musicum performs music for the Christmas season. The Collegium is a small vocal ensemble specializing in sacred and secular music from the Medieval, Renaissance, and Baroque eras. 
Concerts that are free and open to the public require tickets that may be obtained by calling or visiting the ticket office. 
D P A C PRESENTS 
A CONCERT TO GIVE FOR CHRISTMAS 

The Chieftains 
Sunday, January 30 at 8 p.m. http://performingads.nd.edu/chieftains.shtml Leighton Concert Hall 
The first word in Irish Music is the Chieftains. In 
1989 the Republic of Ireland appointed them the official musical ambassadors for Ireland. They have exported Irish music to every corner of the world and finally they come to Notre Dame. Their appearance is far overdue. There are a lot of groups who play traditional Celtic music, but they all owe a great debt to the Chieftains who paved the way for them. There are few concert experi­ences as completely fulfilling as an evening spent in their company. 
Tickets $48, $38 faculty/staff, $15 all students 

N D C N E M A 
Lost Boys of Sudan (2003) 
90 minutes Saturday, December 11 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. http://performingarts. nd.edu/sudan. shtml 
"This tidy and fascinating documentary follows the plight of two young African refugees transplanted to the U.S. to make a better life." -Elvis Mitchell, NEW YORK TIMES 
"It might help you understand an unfamiliar face walking toward you on the street, and that's a great accomplishment for anY. film." -Michael Booth, DENVER POST 
Lost Boys of Sudan is a feature-length documentary that follows two Sudanese refugees on an extraordi­nary journey from Africa to America. Orphaned as young boys in one of Africa's cruelest civil wars, Peter Out and Santino Chuor survived lion attacks and militia gunfire to reach a refugee camp in Kenya along with thousands of other children. From there, remarkably, they were chosen to come to America. Safe at last from physical danger and hunger, a world away from home, they find themselves confronted with the abundance and alienation of contemporary American suburbia. 
NDPRESENTS 
LIVE AT THE MORRIS 

St. Petersburg State Ballet Theatre 
performing Romeo and Juliet at the Morris Performing Arts Center Thursday, January 13 at 8 p.m. http://performingarts. nd.edu/ballet.shtml 
A timeless love story danced by one of the lead­ing ballet companies in Russia. This Romeo was choreographed by Serge Vikulov to the beautiful score by Sergei Prokofiev. 
Tickets $15-$38 
Call the Morris Performing Arts Center Ticket Office at 235-9190 or buy on line at ww.MorrisCenter.org 
Discounted tickets are underwritten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. sign up for updates at 

MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS http://performingarts.nd.edu 
Call 574-631-2800 


OUND THE NATION 
page 14 CoMPILED FROM TilE OBSERVER's wiRE SERVICES Monday, December 6, 2004 
College Football ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team record points 
1 usc (35 113) 12·0 1,490 2 Oklahoma (16 1i3) 12·0 1,459 3 Auburn (9 113) 12·0 1,435 4 California 10·1 1,286 5 Texas 10·1 1,281 6 Utah 11·0 1,215 7 Georgia 9·2 1,117 8 Louisville 10·1 1,066 9 Virginia Tech 10·2 1,037 10 Boise State 11-0 943 11 LSU 9·2 932 12 Michigan 9·2 874 13 Iowa 9·2 812 14 Miami 8·3 738 15 Florida State 8·3 643 16 Wisconsin 9·2 599 17 Tennessee 9·3 559 18 Virginia 8·3 455 19 Florida H 324 20 Pittsburgh 8·3 318 21 Texas Tech 7-4 234 22 Ohio Slate 7-4 181 23 West Virginia 8·3 177 24 Arizona State 8·3 173 25 Texas A&M H 147 
College Football AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 usc (44) 12·0 ' 1,599 2 Oklahoma (14) 12·0 1,556 3 Auburn (7) 12-0 1,525 4 California 10-1 1,399 5 Utah 11·0 1,345 6 Texas 10·1 1,337 7 Louisville 10.1 1,183 8 Georgia 9-2 1,117 9 Virginia Tech 10-2 1,111 10 Boise State 11-0 960 11 Iowa 9·2 948 12 LSU 9·2 929 13 Michigan 9·2 917 14 Miami 8-3 776 15 Tennessee 9·3 651 16 Wisconsin 9·2 648 17 Florida State 8-3 tl47 18 Virginia 8-3 482 19 Pittsburgh 8·3 415 20 Florida 7-4 325 21 Arizona State 8·3 222 22 Texas A&M 7-4 213 23 Texas Tech 1-4 168 24 Ohio State 7-4 155 25 Boston College 8·3 150 
Men's Central College Hockey Asso~iatlon 
team CCHA overall 
Ohio State 9·2·1 11·4·1 
Michigan 9·1·0 11-4·1 
Northern Michigan 6·3·1 8-4·2 
Bowling Green 5·3·2 8·4-2 
Nebraska-Omaha 5·6·1 7·6·1 
Alaska Fairbanks 5·5·0 6-6·0 
Lake Superior 4·5·1 5·8·1 
Western Michigan 4-7·1 8-7·1 
Michigan State 4-6·0 7-8·1

--Miami 3-6·1 7·8·1 NOTRE DAME 2·7·3 3·8·4 Ferris State 2·7·1 5·10·1 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Virginia at Iowa State 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 
Cowboys at Seahawks 9 p.m., ABC 
NBA 
Bobcats at Kings 10:30 p.m., FSN2 Pistons at Mavericks 8:30p.m., NBATV 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL 


Associated Press 
Now Auburn knows what it feels like to be the odd team out. 
Southern California and Oklahoma finished atop the final Bowl Championship Series standings Sunday and will meet in the Orange Bowl on Jan. 4 in a title game that might not produce a unanimous national champion. 
Auburn, which finished 12-0 just like the Trojans and Sooners, finished third in the BCS points system that relies on The Associated Press and coaches polls, plus .comput­er ratings. So the Tigers will have to settle for a Sugar Bowl berth against Virginia Tech on Jan. 3. 

"It's not a perfect system, and if it was we'd all be happy today," Auburn coach Tommy Tuberville said during ABC's broad­cast of the BCS pairings announcement. 
USC finished with .9770 in the standings, and Oklahoma had .9681. Auburn, third much of the season, had .9331. Oklahoma's strong comput­er rankings kept the Sooners ahead of the Tigers in the BCS stand­ings, while USC held on to first place thanks to its strong showing in the polls. 
Last season, USC was left out of the BCS title game, despite being No. 1 in both the AP and coaches polls at the end of the regular sea­son. Instead, Oklahoma played LSU in the Sugar Bowl, even though the Sooners lost the Big 12 title game. 
When all the bowls were finished, LSU won the BCS championship, and USC was No. 1 in the final AP polL 
In an attempt to avoid a repeat, the BCS scaled back its formula this sea­son, making it far more reliant on the human polls. But another problem arose, of course: For the first time since the BCS was implemented in 1998, iliere were more ilian two unbeaten teams from major conferences. 
At least Auburn is in a top bowL California was left out altogether after Texas passed the Golden Bears and moved into fourth in the final BCS standings. The Longhorns (1 0-1) will play Big Ten co· champion Michigan (9-2) in the Rose BowL 
Utah (11-0) officially became the first team from a non-BCS conference to receive a bid to one of the four $14 million bowl games. earning a spot in the Fiesta Bowl. 
IN BRIEF 
Sgain bt:ats United States to 
wmDaVIsCup 
SEVILLE, Spain -Andy Roddick searched out Carlos Moya in the throng of jumping, screaming Spanish tennis players, hoping to shake hands. 
Moya had just beaten Roddick 6-2, 7-6 (1), 7-6 (5) Sunday to clinch Spain's second Davis Cup title -and extend the U.S. team's drought in tennis' top team competition. 
"When someone accomplishes something like the Spanish team did today, you have to respect that and give them their due credit," Roddick said. "They did a great job." 
Holding back tears, Moya ran over and reached up through a rail to greet Prince Felipe, heir to the Spanish throne. and his wife, Princess Letizia. 
"The Davis Cup is my dream," Moya said. "I can't ask for more. There is nothing bigger than what I've lived today" 
His victory over Roddick on the slow, red clay that dulls the American's powerful serves and fore­hands put Spain up 3-1 in the best· of-five series. 

U.S. 
captain Patrick McEnroe was counting on getting two wins in sin­gles from Roddick, who won the 2003 

U.S. 
Open and finished that year atop the rankings. Spain figured to have the edge, because of the surface and the drum-thumping din of 27,200 red-and-yellow-clad fans at Olympic Stadium. NBA says it won't seek tem­


porary restraining order 
NEW YORK -The NBA informed the players' union Sunday it will not seek a temporary restraining order in federal court, clearing the way for a grievance hearing over suspensions for the Pacers-Pistons brawL 
Arbitrator Roger Kaplan will pre­side over the hearing Thursday and Friday at a Manhattan law office. Suspended players Ron Artest, Jermaine O'Neal and Stephen Jackson are expected to attend. 
Artest was sidelined for the season, Jackson for 30 games. and O'Neal for 25 for fighting with fans Nov. 19. 
The NBA has already filed a law­suit in US District Court challenging Kaplan's authority to hear the griev­ance, and the league was expected to try Monday to prevent the hearing from going forward. 
But in phone calls Sunday between attorneys for the two sides, the league told the union it would not br. seeking a restraining order. 
"Our position hasn't changed. We've started a proceeding in federal court, and it will remain pending while we see what the arbitrator does," NBA deputy commissioner Huss Granik said. 
The union categorized the league's decision as a significant change of course. "Our goal all along has been to secure a hearing on the merits of the case as soon as possible. Now. tlw last impediment from that happr.ning has been removed," union spokesman Dan Wasserman said. 


Monday, December 6, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S BASKETBALL SMC BASKETBALL 

Wolverines upend Irish 61-60 
By PAT LEONARD Associare Sporrs Ediror 
ANN ARBOR. Mich. -The crowd at Crisler Arena was at a whisper with 11 minutes remain­ing Saturday. 
By the eight-minute mark, it was at a roar. 
No. 20/19 Notre Dame relin­quished a 10-point lead and Michigan guard Daniel Horton scored all 15 of his points in the second half as the Irish fell to the host Wolverines (4-3, 0-0 in the Big Ten). 61-60. 
"Where you're disappointed is in game situations," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "But I like how our team played in a tough atmos­phere today, and I think it's some­thing we can really build on." 
Notre Dame (3-1, 0-0 in the Big East) shot under 40 percent and made costly mistakes down the stretch. the most notable coming when the Irish had a 60-58 lead. Horton stripped Irish guard Chris Quinn from behind and streaked down the court for a lay-up and was fouled with 20 seconds remaining. 
Notre Dame forward Dennis Latimore (18 points, 7-for-13 shooting) committed the foul that gave Horton the free throw and Michigan the one-point lead. 
"We just had little lapses," Thomas said. "We can't give up a three-point play at the end of the game. We've got to have a hard fouL We've got to protect the ball. We've got to get open. We've got to run our play." 
The Irish called a timeout and gave Latimore a chance to redeem himself. drawing a play to give him the ball on the low block. 
But Michigan forced Irish guard 
Lunch and Conversation 
For Gay? Lesbian? Bisexual}' and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, December 9th 
12: 00 -1 : 30 p. m . 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay? 
lesbian? and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family}' their 


~:.•a'-'WIJ .... UN .(;O,rvor oUt*~! Lc••IAN SO.Titi':......T Nr.. ~ 
friends? and supporters to an 
inform a llunch and study break at 
the Co-Mo. 
Evel'jone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
'"Lunch will be served'" 
Chris Thomas to take a fade-away jump shot that missed off the backboard. Notre Dame's final possession -a full-court race by Thomas with four seconds remaining -was thwarted when Michigan forward Brent Petway blocked Thomas' shot to end the game. 
"We didn't get into our play well [and] we should have called a timeout," Thomas said. "But those things happen. I thought for the most part our team played really well and just game situations down the last couple minutes real­ly hurt us. A lot of that was Michigan though, too, defending us. You've got to give them some credit." 
Latimore and Francis (12 points, 5-for-6 shooting) were the only two Notre Dame players in double figures. Thomas and Quinn. the starting Irish back­court, combined to shoot 3-for-24 from the field. 
Thomas fmished with two points in Notre Dame's frrst regular sea­son match-up with Michigan since January 16, 1993, when the Irish lost 70-55, also in Ann Arbor. 
"The one thing [Thomas] did do, [though] I know you go back to his shooting, he controlled the whole tempo for us today," Brey said. "He really quarterbacked a heck of a game. He got eight rebounds, ten assists. He just distributed, and then he had to guard Horton and [Dion) Harris a lot. Sometimes you don't have legs." 
Notre Dame used a 2-3 zone to hold Michigan to 11 points in the opening nine minutes of the sec­ond half. Latimore converted off a Thomas assist with 11:30 left in the second half to give Notre Dame a 51-41 lead, their largest of the game. 
But Michigan adjusted to the zone and Notre Dame switched back to man-to-man, allowing Horton to score 11 points with Thomas guarding him in the frnal 11 minutes to secure the Michigan victory. 
"A lot of times as coaches ­and certainly the coach in the other locker room is one of the best -a lot of times you want to change up or switch [defenses] because maybe you're thinking the team is trying to get prepared for that last defense," Michigan head coach Tommy Amaker said. "I know we've done that, and it has worked. I'm not saying that the way we played down the stretch was because they went man, but it had a lot to do with some big-time hustle plays." 
Michigan point guard Dion Harris scored 10 points and for­ward Ron Coleman fmishe 
with 11 points off the bench. 
The Irish and Wolverines were tied 30-30 at halftime after Notre Dame closed out the final 3:36 with a 14-3 run. 
Game notes 
+ 
Brey and Amaker were assis­tant coaches together at Duke from 1987-95. Both helped the Blue Devils to back-to-back national titles in 1991 and 1992. 

+ 
Michigan swingman Lester Abram underwent surgery on his left shoulder Sunday and will miss the rest of the season. Abram was Michigan's leading scorer last sea­son and played nine minutes on Saturday. Wolverines' forward Graham Brown, who scored eight points in the Michigan win, will miss four to six weeks following hernia surgery. 


Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Belles fall to Olivet despite early lead 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Wrirer 
Saint Mary's watched another lead slip away in the second half on Saturday. The Belles led for much of the game, but were badly out­played down the stretch, falling 79-69 to Olivet. 
Saint Mary's started the game off hot, maintaining a double-digit lead for most of the opening period thanks to excellent shooting. In the first half, the team shot 59 percent from the floor and connected on 60 percent of its 3-point attempts. 
With 2:11 left before half­time, freshman forward Bernadette Broderick hit a jumper to give the Belles a 39-28 lead. The Comets surged at the end of the half, though, going on an 8-2 run. Saint Mary's entered halftime leading 41-36. 
Olivet continued its hot play at the beginning of the second half. Comet guards Kari Searles and Emily Fix hit consecutive three pointers to put Olivet up 42-41 for its first lead of the game. · 
The Belles and Comets stayed close and traded leads for most of the second peri­od. Sophomore point guard Bridget Lipke connected on a jumper with 4:37 left in the game to give Saint Mary's a 65-64 advantage. 
This would prove to be the Belles' last lead of the game, though. The Comets immedi­ately responded with a bas­ket from freshman guard Amy Brackenwagen. The score sparked a 15-4 Olivet run that ended the game. 
"I think that in the second half, instead of taking it to them and really being aggressive, we became a lit­tle more tentative," senior guard Katie Boyce said. "We were settling for outside 

-

shots instead of taking it right at them." 
Saint Mary's struggled to find an answer for Olivet guards Kari Searles and Emily Fix all game. Searles. the Comets' leading scorer, scored 17 points, and Fix added 20 of her own. Amy Brackenwagen had 13 points, six rebounds and six assists for Olivet in her first career start. 
Senior forward Emily Creachbaum led the Belles in the losing effort. scoring 14 points and grabbing five rebounds. Center Maureen Bush added 12 points and five rebounds. 
Despite the disappointing defeat, Saint Mary's can take some positives from the per­formance. The Belles dis­played great depth, with ten different players logging minutes. Freshmen Allison Kessler and Bernadette Broderick played very well off the bench, scoring eight and nine points, respectively. 
The Belles must be con­cerned with their inability to close out games. however. For the second straight con­test, Saint Mary's gave away a big early lead. 
"It is definitely a motivating factor that we will use in the future," Boyce said. "That is something that we will work on -the mentality that you have to stay with it the entire game." 
Saint Mary's will look to turn things around this week with home games against Anderson and Tri-State. 
"The next three days of practice are going to be real­ly important," Boyce said. "We know that we need to win both games this week before Christmas break to get us back on the right track." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 



NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Tean1 finishes 5th in weekend n1eet 
Perry-Eaton takes first place in diving at Georgia Invite 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 
It was a tale of two dtins for the No. 21 Irish women this wneknnd as the team split between thn Notre Dame Invitational and tlw University of (;norgia Invitational in tlw !wart of the South. 
;\t tlw Notre Damn Invitational. Ml'ghan Perry­Eaton took honw the top prize in diving, with only three divers and orw swimnwr competing. 
Thn Irish f'inishnd l'il'th at (;eorgia with 272 points. with tho host No. I Bulldogs taking first overall with 1.2XH points. Coach Baill~y WPatlwrs chose to take the majority of his team to i\tlwns, (;a., lmrausn of superi­or com potition. 
"The woml'n's teams that camn lo c;norgia an• kind of a dil'fornnt lPvel Jthan those at tlw Notro Danw Invitational!," lw said. "(;norgia is probably lhn b1~st team in tl111 country right now ... it's good for our t1Huns to son those kids." 
No. H California, Minnesota and No. 22 Florida State took lirst, sneond and third, respec­tively, in tlw women's competi­tion. 
Irish swimmers put up 16 top-20 finishes at the Ceorgia meet's final day with a strong showing in a variety of areas. 
"I think our dnpth was a prl't­ty big stn'llgth," Weathnrs said. "Michigan State and ~lorida Statn and Cal-Berkley were pretty rnstnd, so that was hard 
for us, but in general I think Hopkins finished 19th at just our depth was good." 2:07.76, Kelly Battle took 23rd 
Chistnl Bouvron finished sixth at 2:12.81 and Kiley Gooch fin­with a time of 2:02.69 in the ished directly behind her at 200-yard butterfly ";\" final and 24th with a time of 2:14.42. eighth in the 100-yard butterfly In her second season with the ;\ final. She competed for her Irish, sophomore Abby Strang native Singapore in the 2004 is swimming her way into the Athens Olympics in the ZOO­record books as one of the yard event, finishing 32nd this fastest distance swimmers in summer. the team's history. Her time of 
Jnssiea Stevens also compet­17:06.28 was good for the ed in two A finals, taking sixth event's seventh-place finish and in the 200-yard breaststroke established her as the eighth­with a time of2:18.34 after tak­fastest freestyler in school his­ing seventh in Friday's 2,000-tory. Barton took 12th in the yard individual medley event. race with 17:24.75 and Georgia 
Tlw B final of the 200 breast­Steenberge brought home 18th stroke featured both senior co­with 18:13.66. captains Kelli Barton and Notrn Dame was wnll repre­Cnorgia Healey. Barton posted sented in the 200-yard bark­a season-best 2:20.98 for an stroke. Ann Barton took 11th 
I I th-place f'inish with 2:03.72, fol­and llealey fol-lowed by Kristen lowed her with a Peter's 13th-place 12th-place finish "/ think we're touch at 2:04.06. and another sea­Caroline Johnson
where we need to
son-best time of brought home 
2:21.05. Katie be. " 16th at 2:07.26, llopkins took 19th Ellen Johnson in the C final with took 18th at
Bailey Weathers 
a collegiate-best 2:04.02 and
Irish coach 
time of 2:24.68 Noemie Brand and junior placed 24th with Courtney Choura a time 2:10.58. was close behind her in 21st Gooch finished 26th with a lime place with a season-best of 2:09.35. 
2:24.85. The Irish will next see com­
"We had a lot of [swimmers'! petitive waters in the best times. so that was n~ally Caribbean as they take part in niee," Weathers said. the New Year's Invitational at 
The personal best times con­St. Lucia. Weathers is confident tinuod for the 400-yard in his team's ability to continu­freestyle relay team. which ally improve this year. brought homo its lowest time of "I think we're where we need tho fall season. The foursome of to be," Weathers said.." "We'll Caroline Johnson, Katie Guida, just continue to work on tech­Ellen .Johnson and Rebecca nique stuff and everything." Grove finished tenth in 3:29.39. 
In the C final of the 200-yard butterfly, three Irish swimmers Contact Kate Gales at swam to top-25 l'inishes. kgales@nd.edu 

MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish claim Invitational title 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Spons Wrirer 
As the rest of the students on campus brace tlwmsolves for finals week, the men's swim team facnd a final exam of it'i own this weekend. 
Turning in a dominating per­formance at the annual Notre Damn Invitational, a thren-day championship-styln meet that dosed out tho tnmn's fall smnos­tnr campaign, the No. 21 Irish sniznd tlw top spot with 2,709.5 points, morn than 1,000 points morn than tlw nnxt dosnst com­pditor. West Virginia. 
"Wn knnw we had to go in there early and assort our dominancn," senior captain Matt Bertke said. 
Sophomore Tim Kegelman pnr­forn111d brilliantly for tho Irish, s11tting two pool and m11Pl records and posting several NCJ\A qualifi­cation timns during the meet's IWnnts. Kngnlman won the 1on­yard buttnrlly in 4H.11 seconds on Friday. good mwugh for an NCAA "B" qualification. lie fol­lowed up the performance by posting a time of 1:47.53 in the 200-yard butterfly, also good nnough for a m!Hlt and pool rneord. On Thursday, Keg11lman postnd a NCA;\ "B" qualif'ying time in tlw 200-yard individual medley. 
.
.. 
"JTim Kegelman] got up there and just had some amazing swims," Bertke said. "He broke two records while swimming some extremely fast times that people haven't done before on our team. Anytime anybody steps up and has some big swims, it can be a rallying point for the rest ol'the team." 
Senior Frank Krakowski also porforrned well for the Irish, win­ning the 1 00-yard frenstyle with a time of 45.72 and helping the 400-yard freestyle relay dose out the meet with a victory. Krakowski. Kegelman, sopho­more Louis Cavadini and junior Tim Handolph took first place in the 400-yard freestyle raee, post­ing a time of 3:01.75. 
Other first-place finishers for the Irish in Saturday's events included sophomore Chris Zeches in the 1,650 freestyle ( 15:42.65) and junior Doug Bauman in the 200-yard backstroke (1 :49.53). Bauman also notched a win in the 100-yard baekstroke earlier in the meet. 
"I was impressed by how we had so many guys who were rest­P.d-and guys who wernn't rest­ed -that stepp11d up and really had some great swims," Bertke said. 
Thn Irish divers also pnrfimned wPII at the meet, as freshman Sam Stoner finished first in the one-meter board competitions. Stoner took first place with 
273.80 points. Sophomore Scott Coyle matched his efl'orts won the three-meter event, helping the Irish rack up valuable points from the diving competitions. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
Call:zsg-1ooo for more details 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
Florida signs Meyer as nevv head coach 
Meyer said the opportunity was too good to pass up 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY Coaching Notre Dame is still Urban Meyer's dream job. It just isn't the one he's taking. 
Meyer said Saturday the professional and financial opportunity prosented to him by Florida was too good to pass up. And by the time Notre Dame called, Meyer already knew he was heading for The Swamp, not the Golden Dome. 
"This was a family decision that was mado prior to the other situation," Meyer said Saturday after the lil'th-ranked Utes praeticed. 
Florida athletic direetor Jeremy Foley said Saturday in Gainesville. Fla.. that Meyer's contract was for seven years. $14 million. 
"lie's got a presence," Foley said. "You walk into a room and you can tell he has a littln something about him." 
Meyer said he met with Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White on Thursday night after White and the school's new president flew to Salt Lake City. But Meyer said the meeting was out of respect for the school where he spent live seasons as an assistant. 
"I heard people say it was your dream job. It still is," Meyer said. "It just so happens I have three children at a [young] age and a situation that was well into effect before 
that  one  was  even  on  the  
radar."  
Meyer  told  his  players  

before practice Saturday that he was taking the Florida job, confirming what they already knew. By going 10-2 in Meyer's first season and 11-0 this year, the Utes vaulted Meyer to the top of many sehools' wish lists. 
And Florida, which fired 
Effective December 1st. college I university 
Hon Zook in October, was apparently the first in line. Foley is looking good after lur­ing Meyer, who has never lost more than three games in a season in his four years as a head coach. The Gators had been spurnod thrno years ago by Oklahoma's Bob Stoops and Denver Broncos coach Mike Shanahan when Steve Spurrier left for the NFL. 
Spurrier, who was consid­ered an early candidate for the Florida job when Zook was fired, is the new coach at South Carolina, which plays in the same division as tl111 Gators. 
~ ~1-TE 
:~.': ~-Ec··H·s,." ·" 

t__ /-1--h ~ . ~ lYI ~:~ 
Somettm..We F..l Guilty Becauw Wo Are Gu1lfy 
b)'h\wlPff!.IJ<IIlOV.., 

students can take advantage of TRANSPO's 31 Day Student Pass. Unlimited rides for 31 days, only $25. Show your valid school I D when using the 31 Day Student Pass. For Pass sales locations, call 233-2131 

-

\.1onday, December 6, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

HOCKEY 
Irish swept by Michigan this weekend 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Spores Ediror 
Oh what a· difference a year makes. 
Notre Dame (3-8-4, 2-7-3 in the CCHA) simply did not look like it belonged on the same rink with No. 5 Michigan (11­4-1, 9-1-0) this weekend, falling by decisions of 6-1 Friday in Ann Arbor and 8-0 Saturday at the Joyce Center. Last season, the Irish swept Michigan at the Joyce Center by scores of 4-1 and 5-2. 
"That was tough night at the office in every single way," Irish head coach Dave Poulin said after the 8-0 loss Saturday. "It was disappoint­ing, difficult, unexpected from our point." 
The shutout Saturday was the worst loss by a Poulin­coached team at the Joyce Center in Notre Dame history. The last time that the Irish lost at home by eight or more goals was an 11-1 drubbing by rerris State on Dec. 21. 1988. 
Poulin took over head 
coaching duties in the 1995­
96 season. 
"We have no excuses," Poulin said. "We didn't go out and execute in any part of the game. It was to a man, I can't tell you of anybody who played well -we had some guys who played hard -but we didn't play well to a man." There were few positives for the Irish this weekend. The Irish switched goalies in the middle of both games, with ·David Brown starting Friday before giving way to Morgan Cey after Brown allowed four 
goals on 11 shots. 
Cey began in· the net Saturday, but was replaced by Brown after allowing three goals on 20 shots in the first period. 
"That's two straight nights [we've had to switch goalies] and neither was really too sharp," Poulin said. "They're battling to play and you want someone to stand up and grab it. We knew going in that we would have to have good goaltending in order to be successful, but these losses don't come down to goaltend­ing alone. 
"There's 20 guys in that locker room and every one is responsible." 
The Irish penalty kill, which has characteristically been a strength under Poulin, was 
abysmal  against  the  
Wolverines.  Notre  Dame  
allowed  Michigan  seven  

power play goals on 16 power plays, including a 5-for-9 clip in Saturday's shutout. 
Notre Dame's power play wasn't much better. with the Irish scoring just once in 19 opportunities in the two games. 
"We allowed five power play goals tonight, and that's just not going to get it done," Poulin said. 
The Irish fell behind early Friday, with Michigan's T.J. Hensick and Eric Werner each scoring goals to put the Wolverines up 2-0. Notre Dame would cut that lead in half on the power play at the 
15:55 mark of the first period. 
Irish forward T.J. Jindra took a shot from the left face­off circle that was deflected on the way in, but Michael Bartlett was there to pick up the rebound and slap a shot past Michigan goalie AI Montoya. Bartlett's tally was his first goal of the season, and it would be the last goal the Irish would score on the weekend. 
The Wolverines scored two goals in each of the last two periods of Friday night's game to come away with the 6-1 victory. Brandon Kaleniecki, Chad Kolarik, Milan Gajic and Brandon Rogers each found the back of the net. 
Saturday wasn't much bet­ter for Notre Dame, as the Wolverines took a 3-0 lead after the first period while outshooting the Irish 20-8. Hensick, Kolarik and Werner each scored goals on Cey ­with Kolarik and Werner each collecting on the power play -to put the Irish down big after one period. 
Brown didn't fare much bet­ter, allowing five goals on 22 shots in the next two periods while Notre Dame would only muster a total of eight shots on goal in the last 40 minutes of the game. 
Kevin Porter and Jeff 
Tambellini each· scored two 
goals against Brown and 
Jason Ryznar scored one. 
The Irish will try to bounce 
back this weekend as they 
face Michigan State in anoth­
er home-and-home series. 
Notre Dame faces the 
Spartans at the Joyce Center 
Friday at 8:05 p.m. and in 
East Lansing Saturday at 7:05 
p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
page 17 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Team drops NCAA match to Badgers 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Spores Writer 
Notre Dame's season came to an abrupt end-Saturday as Wisconsin swept the Irish 36­34, 30-16, 30-16 in the second round of the NCAA volleyball tournament. 
The Irish avenged an early season loss to Valparaiso Friday in the first round, beat­ing the Crusaders 30-21, 20­30, 30-28, 30-20, setting up Saturday's showdown with the Badgers. 
Team captain Meg Henican was disappointed after the Irish lost in the second round of the NCAAs for the second time in three years. 
"We didn't get all of our goals accomplished," she said. "I wish we could have done a lit­tle better." 
The Irish led by a score of 29-23 in the first game but could 
games combined and were 
forced  into  33  errors  by  
Wisconsin.  
Henican  was  one  of  the  

bright spots for the Irish, like she has been all season, as the libero's 13 digs gave her a school-record 553 for the year. However, the accomplishment did not ease the pain of defeat. 
"That's just something that goes with [playing the game]," she said. "It's a nice pay off but it's not what I focus on. I just want to win games." 
Friday's win over Valparaiso gave the Irish revenge after losing in five games to the Crusaders at the Joyce Center on September 7. 
It also helped Notre Dame advance to the second round of the NCAA tournament for the 1Oth time in the past 13 sea­sons. 
Henican's 27 digs were the most ever for an Irish player in 
the NCAA tourna­
ment, passing 

not convert on 10 Nicole Coates'
"We didn't get all 
consecutive game mark oC26 set 
our goals
points against against Minnesota 
Wisconsin. Outside accomplished. " in the round of 16 hitter Maria back in 1993. Carlini finished off Middle blocker
Meg Henican
the amazing Lauren Brewster 
Irish captain
Badger comeback buoyed an Irish 

when she spiked a kill through the Notre Dame defense for Wisconsin's first two point lead of the game and the game one win. 
The 36-34 tally was the longest NCAA game the Irish have been a part of since rally scoring began in 2001. 
Wisconsin's defense flustered the Irish offense, especially in game one. The Badgers had 
15.5 blocks for the match, with 10 of those coming in game one. Middle blocker Sheila Shaw had eight blocks as Wisconsin held Notre Dame to a -.015 hitting percentage for the match. 
After the marathon Game 1 the Irish couldn't keep up with the Badgers. They only had three blocks in the final two 
defense that held 

the Crusaders to a hitting percentage of .191. The junior matched her season­high with eleven blocks while senior Emily Loomis had ten blocks in her last victory in an Irish uniform. 
Brewster also led the team in 

hitting against Valparaiso with 
a percentage of .306. An all-Big 
East first team performer, she 
will lead an Irish squad next 
season that loses only one 
starter from this year's team in 
Loomis. 
"I have huge expectations for 

next season," Henican said. 
"We have a ton of returners 
and having another year of 
experience will be huge." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
TAKE INDY BY STORM 
Please Vislt: 
;~,:~'" ·~;i~!H1ftl~,£l'lW~OlDSlt~1:1£:~,~mB! S88-4i.tP)225 
\'lt\:11/W.SLUllblest}\pl:S.C•\HU 
866~300·382.3 

-·· 

Cha01ps 
continued from page 20 
mysnlf' but I caiiP£1 for it. With t.hn big crowd. tlw othnr playnrs probably couldn't lwar it. II was just a miscommunication." 
Tho Irish tlwn look11d !'or sev­oral opportunities to tin tlw scorn. Tlw opportunity finally camn oiT a controvorsial eall madn during tlw 73rd minuto of' play. Katin Thorlakson ran towards tlw ball as shn nnared tho top ol' tho box and was knorknd down by UClA dnf'onder Mary Castelarwlli. Tlwrlakson l'oll within tho box and was givon a penalty shot. llowovnr, Castnlarwlli placPd a hand on the ball outsidn or tho box prior to the pnnalty, which would have rnsultod in a l'mo kick from that spot. lnstnad. a pr~nalty kick was r.allfHl and Thorlakson took advantago by placing tho ball in tlw bat:k lPI't eonwr of' tlw net li1r tho 1-1 tin. 
"I didn't IWIHl know all of what happ11nnd ]with the controvorsial call]," Thorlakson said. "I just know I tho pnnalty shot] was going in, I didn't have any doubt in my mind." 
After t.lw goal by Thorlakson, UCLA continund to play aggrns­sivoly and rnc:nivnd a pnnalty kick during the 85th minute of play when Irish senior defender Melissa l~werndi was called l'or the foul after tripping Castnlanelli inside thr~ box. 
The Bruins Kendal Billingsley sent the pnnalty kiek to the right sido ol' the goal, but Bohn was thoro to block the ball from ontering the net for her second save of the game. I lowfwer. the ball was sent past the right end linr~. setting up a comor kick from the Bruins. 
The Bruins nearly took advan­tage of the opportunity and almost scored their seeond goal of the game·, before senior Candm~e Chapman, on the goal line, kiek11d the ball to the right end line, s11tting up another cor­ner kick for UClA. llownver, the Bruins once again missed their ehance for the lead in the dosing minutns of' regulation. 
"IAftPr Bohn bloeked the shot] I knew we were going to win the game," Chapman said. "]After the corner kick! I was just in tho right spot at the right lime." 
Aftm regulation ended in a 1-1 tin, the two teams were unable to score al'tnr two 10-minute over­times. Thn gamn went to penalty kic:ks and required a best-of'-livo pnnalty shots li1r the victory. 
Thorlakson was the first for tlHl Irish to attempt a penalty kiek. ller shot was bloeknd by a leg-save from Bruins goalie Valerie llenderson. The Bruins then sent Caitlin Ursini for their first attempt at a penalty shot. Ursini eapitalized giving the Bruins a 1-0 load in penalty kicks. 
Sarah Halpenny was the next player to attempt a shot. This game was only her sixth appear­ance for Notre Dame this season and her second throughout the tournanwnt. She took advantage of' the opportunity by scoring the first goal for the Irish and tying pPnalty kicks at one apiece. 
"We let the players deeide the order," Waldrum said. "Sarah llalpenny just steppnd in cold." 
The nnxt Bruins player was Brynn McGrath who sent her shot wido right of the goal, leav­ing tlw seore 1-1. 
Irish midf'ielder Jen Buczkowski then stoppnd in and scored for the 2-1 advantage. ller goal was followed by a miss l'rom the Bruins Kim Devine ­Bohn's fifth save of' the game. Annie Sehefter was the next Irish playnr to score a penalty shot , giving the Irish a 3-1 advantage. ller goal was f'ollowed by the Bruins .Jill Oakes to make the score 3-2. 
The lif'th Irish player to take a penalty shot was Christie Shaner who l'ailnd to convert her oppor­tunity into a goal. UCLA follownd with a goal from the Danesha Adams, evrming the score 3-3, after the live shots for each tnam were taken. The game then went into sudden death. 

The sixth penalty shot was the diiTerence in the game, and the NCAA Championship, as Krivacek knocked her shot· through and Bohn was able to make the save on Greco for her sixth, and most important, save 
After the win, the Irish eele~ bratcd their emotional victory. 
''I'm not an emotional person," Thorlakson said. "But I just started crying." 
Notre Dame 1, Santa Clara 0 
Despite sending No. 1 seed North Carolina home in the third round of the NCAA tournament, Santa Clara could not eome up with an answer for Notre Dame (24-1-1) during the semi-finals Friday afternoon. 
Despite facing a first half' stale­mate against Santa Clara, the Irish took advantage of' a key opportunity with only 18 minutes remaining in the second half. Senior Candace Chapman worked the ball towards the net as she sent the ball to Katie Thorlakson right above the box. Thorlakson then sent thn ball back to Chapman who was sur­prised to have the ball sent back to her. 
"I wasn't expecting to get it 
back," Chapman said. 
After taking a seeond to get 
control of the ball, she sent the 
ball to the right of tJw goal past 
Broncos goalkeeper .Julie Hyd1~r. 
As the game bngan eoming to a 
close, Sa,nta Clara could not take 
advantage of' its late game 
opportunitios ineluding a heador 
made by Leslie Osborne during 
tlw dosing minutes of the game. 
Osborne trim] to knock the ball 
towards the ldl sido of' the goal 
lbr Irish goalkeeper Erika Bohn 
to grab to end the NCAA tourna­
ment run for the Broncos. 
"We put away zero of our dan­
geniUS chances and they put 
away one of theirs," Santa Clara 
coach .Jerry Smith said. "And 
that was the difl'nrcnc:e." 
Notes: 
+ Thl\ Irish had !'our players 
n~tmed to the All-Tournament Tnam. 
+ 
Forward Katie Thorlakson was named the most outstanding ofl'ensive player and goalkePper Erica Bohn was named tho most outstanding delimsive player. 

+ 
Also named to the team were Melissa Tancredi and Candacn Chapman. UCLA had five members on thn team, and Princeton and Santa Clara each had one honorr~e. 


Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

Tea01 
continued from page 20 
Erika Bolm to stnp up. Shn 

blorked a potential gamo-win­
ning penalty kick from thn 
Bruins with 5:01J n•maining. 
Afkr the tnmwndous save by Bohn, it was f(~rward Candac:e Chapman's turn. 
She kkkml a hall inchns away 

from entering thn goal. pnwent­
ing UCI A's dmam of a national 
title. 
After showing imprnssivn tnamwork to pull the toam back into contention of tlw vietory. thn dndding litc.tor c:ame down to prmalty kir.ks. 
I lownver. after Thorlakson fitilnd to eonvert lhP first attmnpted pPnalty kkk into a goal. thn Irish did not brnak­down. 
lnstPad, thny rPliPd upon Sarah llalpnnny, a player who only totaled IOX minutes of' play­ing limn this sew;on. Iter last appnarancr~ ww; Nov. 12 in thn first round of thr~ NCAA tcJUrna­mnnt against EastPrn Illinois. She didn't faltnr, hitting her prmalty kick. 
But it wasn't justllalpenny, nither. 
It took goals from Jen Buczkowski, Annie Sehellnr and .Jill Krivacek to seeurn thn win in addition to the six saves Bohn mado throughout the contnst, induding two saved prmalty shoL<>. 
But it wasn't just thfl unsnllish play of Sunday's final that 
brought Notrp Damo the nation­
al title. 
This tnam relind upon every 
individual ovory game through­
out thn entiro soason. 
In the first game of tho season 
against Baylor, the Irish expnet­
nd big things from their vntnr­
ans. I lownver, it WiL'> th~shman 
forward Amanda Cinalli who 
provod to br~ pivotal in the win -with two goals and an assist. 
The tnam even depended 
upon Tanerndi, thn Big East 
delimdnr or the year, to score the 
game-winning shot against No. 
11 Arizona State. 
It wasn't always the players 
who could narn the end-of'-the­
snason awards or seornd the 
game-winning shoL<>. 
Irish eoarh Handy Waldrum 
has stressed throughout the sea­
son tlw importance of unsung 
herons such as Annie Sehefler, 
Kim LornnzPn and Claire 
Gallerano, who are all necessary 
eomponenl<> to a championship­
winning prof.,rram. 
Af'tnr a snason or continuous 
dedication and tinsnlfish play, 
tho Irish finally narncd their ulti­
matn goal of daiming the 
nationaltitln. 
And just like they had the 
entire snason, it wasn'tjust one 
playnr who made it happnn. 
The opinions expressed in this 
column are those (~!the author 
and not necessarily those ofThe 
Obseruer. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at 
jtapetif(glnd. edu 

r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·,
Now leasing quality houses 
close to campus for the 2005/6 and 2006/7 school years. 
Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 
.574-532-1895 

L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
Defense 
continued from page 20 
She sullerPd a broken wrist her junior year. Dnspitn these misfor­tunns, it's been thesn injuries that have inspirnd her to eompnte to her full potential this season. 
"Whnn you're on the sideline, you want to play so bad," Gunnarsdottir said. "So when you get the chance, you appreciate it more and it is a lot more fun, so you play much harder." 

This season, Cunnarsdottir has been a true inspiration !'or thn tPam-chosen as a eo-captain fi1r tl1e 2004 season. 
ller teammatns attribute tho honor to her talent and dndieation she h<L'> giwn to the program the last three seasons. 
"She is such a great dofender and one I would not want to go against [as a f(~rwardl." senior eo­eaptain Mary Boland said. "She has a tremendous work ethic and shn is a person who doesn't have to say a lot because her actions speaks so loudly. She is thB perfi1ct 

2 0 0 5-2 0 0 6 
tPammate." 
What has also madn this season special for Gunnarsdottir is hnr parml<> watching her play in the Unitml States for the first time as she dainwd thn national title. 
"She ha<> had sueh a 1,rreat year as shn finishos her ycmr <L'> a cap­tain. I know they have to be nxtremdy proud of h()r," Waldrum said. "It eouldn't havn happrmed to a better kid to be linishing hnr carnnr out this way." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

Assistant Rector Applications 
:fOr 
University Residence Halls are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building For more information call the 
Office of Student Affairs 631-6114 
or go to 
http://osa.nd.edu for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed applications must be submitted by February 4, 2005 



Monday, December 6, 2004 The.Observer +TODAY page 19 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
r--------------------------,Er--------------------------,~r-------------------------~ ~ THANK '(OU FOR. THAT !!% G/\b. b.\.\.\.
TR.'(WORKING 
® VALUABLE ADVICE. I ;, GATHER. nn N AROUND THE 
~ HAD PLANNED TO STARE ~ ~J~R.E I'VE B££PROBLEM. 

-g AT M'( SCREEN UNTIL I g MAKING A Bll"'"ED 
~ STAR.VEDTODEATH. ~ I'IV 
g DECISION. BYTHE. 
E 
0 
0 
~ 
.0 
'C 
~ 

r=---'--'------'-1 ~ 
CHARLES SCHULZ 

PEANUTS 
1
1DLIKE TO 
I I=ORTUNATEL'(, 
6NE PE66'1' JEAN IF YOU DONT I DON'T A NICE PAIR GIVE 14ER EXACTLY 14AYE TOBE OF 6LOVE5 FOR Wl-lAT 51-1E'5 EXPECTING, INVOLVED.. 
C~RISTMAS, 5UE1LL UATE YOU FOR T~E REST OF
BUT I CAN'T 
YOUR LIFE ..

AFFORD IT.. 
12/6/04 
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
ACEEP 
j
I I r 
©2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved . 
REELD 
j
rJ r 


WHEN THE

ZARDAH 
PRI?ONER WA? f-JO?PITAL-IZEl?,

I I I 
HI? PROGNO?I? 

www.jumble.com 
WA?--­

tGRUNNE I Now arrange the circled letters to ... form the surprise answer, as
IJ I I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print answer here: 
"( I I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: ADULT SAUTE EMBODY ANKLET Answer: What it takes to learn to walk down a fashion runway-A"MODEL" STUDENT 
-~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Dietary no-no 70 Irish poet who for Mrs. Sprat wrote "The Lake
1 "So long!" 
Isle of lnnisfree"39 Holds on to5 Burden 

42 Tiny weight 71 Lambs' mothers .1=-+--+---+­

9 Museo in Madrid 
72 Soaks 14 Death notice 
43 Former 

Argentine 15 It follows song dictator 
DOWN or slug 45 Actress Patricia 
1 Big gobblers16 Pine exudation of "The Subject 

2 Aid and
Was Roses"

17 Gets together in 3 Layer47 Drunkard's woe,person for short 20 "Biondie" or 48 Returns a gaze"Beetle Bailey" 52 Ugandan tyrant21 Tennis champ ldiSteffi 53 Rules, shortly22 Vegetable that 54 Pres. Lincolnrolls 57 Urges (on)23 Narrow street 59 "Gesundheit!"
26 Jannings of old precedermovies 63 Strolls, as with28 Confronts, with a sweetheart ''with" 67 1950's 
34 "_ Baba and candidate 
the 40 Thieves" 
Stevenson 35 "Kiss me" miss 68 B or B+, say 36 Tangle 69 Nobelist Wiesel 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint. Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
4 Famous Hun 5 Not at work 6 Teachers' org. 7 Grp. that patrols 
shores 8 Sound system 9 Opposite of 
losses 10 Ump 11 "Quickly!" 12 Backgammon 
equipment 13 Prime draft status 18 Not spare the rod 
19 Domesticate 
24 Bismarck's state: Abbr. 
25 Toward sunrise, 
in Mexico 
27 Yearn (for) 
28 Precipitation at 
about 32° 
29 Crown 
30 ltsy-bit~y 
31 Late 32 Speak from a soapbox 33 Stately shade trees 34 Austrian peaks 
38 Comic Dunn 50 Capture, as 60 Robust formerly of one's attention 
61 "Don't bet !"
"S.N.L." 40 Person of equal 
rank 41 Fill up 44 Unbeatable foe 46 Boston airport 49 ['Tis a pity!] 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
WILLSHORTZ 
-
51 Shun 62 Lyric verses
54 Not home 64 Krazy_
55 Requested 
56 Fitzgerald, the 65 Mother deer First Lady of 
66 They'reJazz 
checked at 58 Precipitation checkpoints, in below 32° brief 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY:.Frankie Muniz, John Rzeznik, Margaret Cho, Julie Khaner 
Happy Birthday: Your desire to throw everything into one pot and see what you get may not work this year. Preparation and order will be what contributes to any gains you make. Step back and take a look at the big picture. Follow your schedule precisely and you will excel. Your numbers are 6, 22. 31. 35. 48. 49 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Make some personal changes that will correct some of the problems you have been experiencing. Good health will put you in a better frame of mind. *** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Whatever you do for others will be appreciated and rewarded. Children will play an important role in your life today. A partnership will result in positive changes. *****· GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Criticism will drive you crazy today. Avoid those who just don't understand what you are trying to do. It's your life --protect it. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Family outings should be on your-agenda. A conversation you hilVe will spark a great idea to explore in the new year. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make some alterations to your life that will lead to a better future. Consider what you want to do and what skills you'll need to follow through. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can't let emotional people confuse you today. Communication will keep things straight and get you back on track. A change of heart may be the outcome. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may be questioning some of the ideas you have regarding gifts and things you want to do for others. Stick to your budget and you will make the right choices. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Offer help to an organization trying to make it possible for the poor to have a happy and festive season. Your good will won't be wasted. You will meet someone special along the way. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may say something that will lead to trouble. Someone will call your bluff or oppose your ideas. Don't back down but use diplomacy. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take the plunge and do something that will surprise your loved ones. Make time to spend with the ones you love and let them see how much fun you can be. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The decision will be up to you, but the input you get from others might guide you to do what's right. An older relative will be counting on you.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your aetions may not be clear. Lay your cards on the table before you give the wrong impression. Someone you care about may not understand*** 
Birthday Baby: You are practical, loyal and cautious. You tend to keep things to yourself, but your emotional sensitivity is strong. You are powerful and determined once you make up your mind. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer ·P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 


I 
I 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, December 6, 2004 page 20 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
.. 
National chantps! 
Irish win second 
_Entire team plays a national title; defeat role in championship UCLA 4-3 on extra season for Notre Dame penalty kicks 
CAHY, N.C.-Sum llwy had 

national player ol' the year candi­By DAN TAPETILLO dates. Sum, thny had two playnrs Sports Writt·r who wnrn asknd to play liu· thnir 
rnspnctivo countrios. But thnre 

CAitY, N.C.-Notn~ Dam1\ won were no its sn1:ond national rhampi­"stars" on this onship in wonwn's soe1:nr Notrn Damn Sunday in sudden victory ponal­tnam. ty kicks ov<'r UCI A aftnr playing Sunday's to a 1-1 tin at tlw end ol' rngula­final against tion and doubiP overt.inw. UClA was to 
Notrn Damn sneurml tho 4-3 be tho eulmi­pnnalty kirk virtory al'tnr Irish nation ol' an midl'ieldnr Jill Kriva1:Pk made nntirn season Uw d1~ciding kick and Irish goal­ol' snlflnss play. knnpl~r l~rika Bohn dnflnetnd During thn UCLA's LindsPy Gn\eo's shot NCAA final, widP to sPeurP tho Irish win. thn Irish lilUJJd 
"ITiw win will! sink in a little themsPlves latN and how exciting the final trailing thn Bruins 1-0 with 22 was," Waldrum said, "It had a 
minutes remaining in rn~-,rulation. liUJn bit of I~Vnrything in it." Thn tally was scowd oil' an own­
The Irish celebrated
DespiiP a scornlnss first hall', goal. a UClA goal se<m~d by Notre tlw Irish nearly cost tlwrmwlvns Damn.
their first national
thnir dutnci\S ol' a national title Did tho Irish panic'? No. 
oarly in thn sncond al'tnr an Did the lnam rnly solely upon 
championship since
own-goal was srornd during thn Ilermann Trophy playPr-ol~thP.­
(,I st minutn ol' play. Bruins liH·­year candidates Katie Thorlakson 
1995, defeating
ward Crystal .James sont ·a leap and Melissa Tanen~di to pull them 
pass bnyond thn midlinld point out? No.
UCLA 4-3 on 
towards tlw Irish goal. Irish snn­H took 90 minutes of rngulation ior <;udrun Gunnarsdottir lookod penalties after a 1-1 and two ovnrtimes of Sl~llless play, to have control ol' tlw ball as she linn· penalty kkk gimls and a snnt tlw ball bal'k to Bohn. She tie in regulation. bnnch ready to step up at any camn out charging towards thfl given tim<\ but the Irish got the 1­ball. but it wPnt right past lwr 1, 4-3 p<malty kiek win. And with and into thn goal, giving the it eame a national tith
• 
Bruins tlw 1-0 lnad. PHOTOS BY To begin the Irish comeback, 
"It was just a miscommunica­Thorlakson took advantagn of a tion." Bohn said. "Tlw ball came RICK penalty kkk to tin the scorn 1-1. through as I eanw out to dnar it Thfl tnam then looked to goaliP 
FRIEDMAN 
see CHAMPS/page 18 see TEAM/page 18 
D~spite mishap, Gunnarsdottir and Irish 'D' stay strong 
standing play of the Irish defense crs. tome." "She had a maturity about her By DAN TAPETILLO 
not only this snason, but on "Soccer in America is a lot more It wa..'i important a..'i well fiJI' Irish and that only comes from a kid Sports Wrirl'f 
Sunday a..'i welL physical,'' Gunnarsdottir said. "In coach Handy Waldrum to lind a willing to movn thousands of miles During Sunday's win, Notre Europe it is more about making player with years of experience away to live lin thn Unitnd States] 
CAHY. N.C. -UCLA's Crystal Damn only allowed six shots on the plays. So I've boen abln to against high-level eompetition. and play soccer." Waldrum said. .Janws sPnt tlw ball up lidd toward goal and nonn found thn net. learn a lot on how to play both "When lthc coaching stalll saw "She was rnady." the Irish goal. As Irish central Kim Lornnznn, Melissa Tancn~di styles." her play with her national toam, I Gunnarsdottir quickly mach~ an defender (;udrun Gunnarsdottir and Christie Shaner may have After training against world liked her technical abilities. llnr impact lhr the Irish hnr fi·nshman looked to control the ball, she received most of the attention this eom petition with Iceland, level was higher and much morn yoar a..'i she madn 17 appnarancns, ki1~knd it lightly in the dirnetion of sna..'ion, but without (;unnarsdoitir, Gunnarsdottir wanted to challenge athletic than most of her team­including four starts at central Lhn Irish goal, where knnper 1\rika this del(mse would not have been herself with the physical and more mates, Waldrum said. "llern in tho d1~!i•ndm·. Bolm awaited. But the kick sailPd as elli~ctive as it W[L'i. aggressive play of college soccer. States, we are morn alhletie and llowevnr, she sum~rnd a string or wide of Bolm and right into the I lor talPnt stems from hnr inter­When dedding upon which college she had a mixturP or both. She had injuries her sophomorP and junior goal, giving UCI A the lnad with 22 national experienen or playing to play l'or, Notrn Dame was the so many games under her bolt and years that limit(ld lwr playing minutes rPmaining in the national with tlw fcelandk National Team. dnar choke. I thought that experience was limn. duunpionship game. Prior to joining the Irish f(>ur years "I wanted to play harder games going to rnally help us, nspecially Gunnarsdottir only compntml in 
At tlw !imP, Cunnarsdottir ago, Gunnarsdottir had alrmuly and go to a good school," at the time we were recruiting sevnn gamos hnr sophomon~ ynar 
'-looked to lw tlw goat for tlw eompl'ted against players such ·as Gunnarsdottir said. "They organ­her." aftpr enduring a stn~ss f'rarttii'P potentially dnvastaling national Mia llamm and developnd a knnn ize very well horn, thny help you Gunnarsdottir's maturity lnvnl and a sn1L'ion-onding ankl1~ iqjury. l'hampionship loss for tlw Irish._ sPnsn of tlw sport that is not with sehool and you gnt bnttnr at also snt her apart from most eol­llownwr, lost in it all was tlw out-always l(nmd from Amerimn play-your soccer. That is very important IPge f'roshmen. see DEFENSE/page 18 

Dan Tapetillo 
Sports Writer 

en 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
MEN'S SWIMMING
HOCKEY 

MEN'S BASKETBALL
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
SMC BASKETBALL 
w

1-
(.) 
No. 21 Irish win 

Team places fifth 
Wisconsin knocks 
Olivet 79,

Michiifi'n 61,
No. 5 Michi~an 

at Georgia Invite
z sweeps Iris 
Notre Dame Invite 

Notre arne 60 
Saint Mary's 69
ND out of NCAAs

a: :3 
The men's team 

The Irish had 16 top-
The Belles blew a five-
Notre Dame fell by 
The Irish fell to the 

Notre Dame let a late 
Badgers in th.ree games 
turned in a dominating 

20 finishes on the last
C) = 
scores of 6-1 and 8-0 to 

lead slip away as the 
point halftime lead on
c::r:: 
performance on the way 

day of the meet in 
Irish lost their first
the Wolverines this 
in a second-round 
the way to their loss to

.., 
Athens, Ga. 
game of the season. 
NCAA matchup. 
to the victory. 
the Comets . 
weekend.

a. ~ 
page 16
page 17 
page 16 

page 15 
page 15
page 17

en 





