
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

OLUME 38: ISSUE 104 THURSDAY, MARCH 4. 2004 
CSC cancels spring trip to Haiti 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Tht' University has eancclled a planned humanitarian trip to llaiti <L'> violnnt dvil unrest inten­sified in the impoverished Caribbean nation, while other programs with voluntenrs from Notre Dame and thn CongrPgation of tlw lloly Cross eontinun, albeit in a restricted role. 
OvPr the last sevnral weeks, anti-govnrnmcnt rebels have seized much Haiti, l'ordng the oustnr of' President Jean­Bertrand Aristide and plunging tho island nation into anarehy. 
Enginnering prol'nssor Steve Silliman, who runs the Haiti Expnriential StHninar, said the d11dsion not to go was made in late .January. 
Tlw program snnds Notre Darno undergraduate stud(mts to work on watnr pumps in rural areas in llaiti for a week to I 0 days. Silliman said most student.'> work in Cap-llaitinn, the eoun­try's second-largest dty, hut some partidpate in Lnogane, about 20 miles outside thn capital of Port­au-Prince. 
Silliman organized the first seminar in 1999, after discussing the possibility with other faeulty 
see HAITI/page 4 

ND: Satellite campus seems unlikely 

Photo courtesy of Steve Silliman 
Hot~ots 


Haiti 
L.oc.ati~n of
• 
Contlict 
MIKE HARKINS and PAUL RONCAUObserver Graphic 

By CLAIRE HEININGER A•sistanr News Editor 
Tlw proposal to establish a Notnl Dame satellite campus in an Indianapolis suburb is a very recent development with very remote prospects, Univusity spokesman Matt Storin said. 
Initiated Monday by Carmel mayor Jim Brainard, the plan 

struck Notre Dame as an "entirely new proposal" Storin said. 
"There really has been no discussion here within the administration," he said. 
Brainard agreed that talks have been preliminary, but added that he "look[ed] for­ward to working with offi­cials at Notre Dame" to advance the project. He said he would advocate an exten-

Class encourages entrepreneurship 
Editor's note: This is the first in a Thursday series focusing on interesting classes in the Mlmdoza College ofBusiness. 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Build a better mousetrap, and the world will beat a path to your door. 
That's an old saying, often used to encourage budding entrepreneurs. But how can you do it with only $20? 
That's the question posed to students in Introduction to Entrepreneurship, a cour-se taught by David Hayes, a fac­ulty member in the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies. 
The course centers around the "$20 Challenge," a pro­gram in which Hayes person­ally lends each student $20, with which they have to start a business. Students can pool their money in teams of two or 
see BUSINESS/page 6 
sion of Notre Dame's business school and an architecture laboratory for the new cam­pus. 
However, he said no time­frame had yet to be estab­lished, and declined to com­ment on how University offi­cials reacted to his ideas. 
"Until we get farther along, that's all I can say," he said. Storin said that due to the family image and close cam­
pus atmosphere that Notre Dame tries to foster, the pos­sibility of an extensive satel­lite was fairly unlikely. 
"It would be, at most, a very limited facility if it ever came to fruition," he said. 
Sheila Flynn contributed to this report. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheinging@nd.edu 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Registrar clarifies policy 
By CLAIRE HEININGER A•sistant News Editor 
Although the Ol'fice of the Hegistrar announced last fall that final grade ·reports would no longer be mailed homo, which triggered a eampus-wide sigh of relief, mid-semnster grades will still be sent out next week, Hegistrar of'f1cials said Wednesday. 
Associate registrar Lora Spaulding and grading and academic records specialist Jennie Brackett emphasized that the deeision to make paper final grade reports avail­able only upon written rnquest did not affect mid-semester reports. 
"Mid-semesters are going to go out regardless nf whnther or not you've filled out that request form," Brackett said. For students to understand this distinction, Spaulding added, it is important for them to realize that whiln final grades are fac­tored into the student's University grade point average, mid-semester grades are not written in stone. 
"It's up to the students on how they perceive how impor­tant that information is," Spaulding said. "Let thnm use their judgment if they want to take it seriously or not." 
Brackett also pointnd out that the mid-semester grades sent home -all grades for first-year students and defi­ciency reports for upperclass­men receiving D's and F's ­are still addressed to the stu­dent. 
"They're always sent to the student's attention -they're not directed to the parents," she said. "That's why we need 
see GRADES/page 4 

STUDENT SENATE 

Senators elect 2006 class council 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
By a margin of 16 dorms to 12, the Miller-Zerante-Adams­D'Addabbo ticket was elected as the class of 2006 coundl over Hamrumn­Mullins-1 Jallemann-Short. The ded­sion took place during the dosed portion of Wednesday's Senate meeting, when the senators votnd for the candidate who rneeived the plurality of votes during F(1b. 26's runofl' election in their dom1. 
see SENATE/page 4 


Thursday, March 4, 2004

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Meinorable Inovie lines 
If you can't think of anything to say, an appropriate quotation from a humorous, well-known movie will almost always suffice. That's a rule I've always abided by, anyways, and it hasn't back­
fired too often.  Kate Gales  
When I find a  
movie I like, I tend to watch it over, and over  Sports Production  
and over, until I  

can recite the script with the actors. It's not landing me in Hollywood anytime soon, but while I'm in South Bend I can give you "7 Situations In No Particular Order Where You Might Need An Appropriate Quote From A Movie." 
7. Government class. You didn't do last night's reading and the profes­sor calls on you for an opinion. Channel "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" by stating "Supreme executive power derives from a mandate from the masses, not some farcical aquatic ceremony!" Refuse to elaborate. You made your point. 
6. You're in front of ResLife for just about anything. Are they more terrifying than meeting your future in-laws? Probably not. So reassure them that you "pass on grass" ­just like Greg in "Meet the Parents" -and you should make it out alive. If you stick to your statement. 
5. Your friend says something stu­pid. Roll your eyes and think of Babe Ruth smiling down from base­ball heaven when you admonish him or her "you're killing me, Smalls!" from "Sandlot" ... classic. 
4. You are the perpetrator of a hijacking. I don't recommend this, but since the future is unpre­dictable, you might as well get some mileage out of the infinitely quotable "Super Troopers"-"You boys like Mex-i-co?" My bet is yes. (Note: probably any situation can be remedied by the use of a quote from this movie.) 
3. Your current love interest does something nice for you. "You know, there's a million fine looking women in the world, dude. But they don't all bring you lasagna at work. Most of 'em just cheat on you" -nothing says love like Kevin Smith and "Clerks." 
2. You're running from the NDSP. The officer is on a bike. You're run­ning and looking for motivation. Look no further than "Ferris Bueller's Day Off' and the wisdom "If I get caught, it is not going to be by a guy like that." And run. 
1. Some unfortunate situation occurs. Life has its ups and downs -"it doesn't mean that we too can't not die in a freak gasoline fight accident," in the words of the clas­sic Derek Zoolander. 
I hope these are able to help you out if you ever find yourself in one of these situations. This column is dedicated to Nick Steinmetz, a freshman from Stanford, who I've actually never met, but who sent me an e-mail after reading one of my columns helping me think of ideas. One good turn deserves another. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion and srrives for rhe highest standards ofjournal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR SPRING BREAK? 



Mlsha Shemyakln  Frank Brannon  Josh Odelson  
Senior  Junior  Senior  
Off-campus  Alumni  Alumni  
"Cruisin' the  "Going home  "Going to find  
Caribbean."  and babysitting  monkeys in  
for my parents  Costa Rica."  
who are going  
to Puerto  
Vallarta. "  

Bobby Gorynski  Diana Dolinsky  Jason Perkins  
Junior St. Edwards  Freshman Pangborn  Senior Morrissey  
"Fine wine and beautiful  "Going to Jamaica. "  "Going on tour with Voices of  


women." 

MEGAN DAVISSONfThe Observer 
Notre Dame junior Darryl Burton takes a break In his ·corner and receives advice from his coach during Bengal Bouts Wednesday night at the Joyce Center. 
OFFBEAT 

One-handed golfer sinks 3 holes In one 
VENICE, Fla. -A Florida golfer defied the odds, rack­ing up three holes in one in the past six months, all while swinging one-handed. 
According to the National Golf Foundation, the odds of an amateur golfer hitting a hole in one are 12,600 to 1. The odds of what 68-year­old Bill Hilsheimer of Nokomis accomplished could short-circuit a calcu­lator. 
His most recent was last week at the 157-yard, par 3 13th hole at the Bird Bay Executive Golf Course in Venice. In January, he aced 
TODAY a: 
a 157-yard hole at the Gulf Gate course in Sarasota and in September, he had anoth­er ace on a 105-yard hole on a course in Ohio. 
Not bad for a player who lost most of his right hand 59 years ago when he was run over by a train in Columbus, Ohio. Hilsheimer, who has a 15 handicap, doesn't use his right arm when he swings. 
Rare 1866 sliver dollar Is found 
PORTLAND, Maine ­America's rarest silver dol­lar -and possibly its most famous stolen coin -was discovered in a box filled with miscellaneous coins by a Maine librarian who was­n't even a collector. 

The coin, thought to be one of only two 1866 silver dollars minted without the inscription "In God We Trust," is estimated to be worth at least $1 million. 
The "No Motto Dollar" was among thousands of coins taken during an armed robbery at a home in Coconut Grove. Fla., in 1967. Most of the best­known coins taken in the unsolved heist have been recovered. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
LLI ::1: 
LLI 
t 
(7~
:: ~ 
~\••
. 
.... 
0
C( 
t 
(,) 
0 

..... HIGH 46 HIGH 47 HIGH 50 HIGH 33 LOW 37 LOW 46 LOW 24 LOW 27 


Faith." 
IN BRIEF 
Menachem Fisch of the Cohn Institute for the History and Philosophy of Science and Ideas at Tel Aviv University, will deliv­er a lecture titled "Self-con­fronting: Philosophy and the Limits of Self-criticism." The lecture takes place today at 
11:15 a.m. in DeBartolo room 
214. It is sponsored by Notre Dame's History and Philosophy of Science Program. 
Fran Day will present her "Sept. 11 Survivor Story," describing how her life as changed since that day in 2001 when her son's fiancee was killed in the World Trade Center. The presentation takes place this afternoon at 5 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
The class of 2006 will sponsor a reciting of the rosary at 9:30 
p.m. tonight in the Coleman Morse chapel. 
Come laugh with (or at) Notre Dame's funniest students tonight during Student Stand­up Comedy Night. The event starts at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
Enjoy music and drink spe­cials tonight at Legends during their senior night. The fun starts at midnight and contin­ues until 4 a.m. 
The Omaha Theatre Company for Young People presents the play "How Anansi Came to America." The performance takes place Saturday at 3 p.m. in the Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Call 284-4626 for ticket information. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 35 HIGH 35 LOW 30 LOW 22 
Atlanta 72 I 56 Boston 49 I 36 Chicago 47 I 42 Denver 39 I 20 Houston 76 I 62 Los Angeles 66 I 52 Minneapolis 37 I 18 New York 50 I 42 Philadelphia 54 I 46 Phoenix 63 I 47 Seattle 48 I 40 St. Louis 58 I 51 Tampa 82 I 65 Washington 60 I 49 
Thursday, March 4, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND students, faculty 
College Republicans end hiatus 
SMC club holds first meeting in over amonth 
state level through such activities that the members hope to 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
as phone surveys and campaigns. accomplish this through several 
News Writer 
"We see ourselves as a club not activities. including traveling to just for Hepublicans. but for the state legislature in After a brinl' hiatus. the Saint political awareness in Indianapolis, Mary's College Hepublicans is general," Fitzgerald attending the back in business. The club held said. "We plan on "This meeting is upcoming its first meeting in almost a holding forums, debates held by
important to gain 
month last night, after taking a speeches and panels Congressman break from il'i scheduled weekly for the Saint Mary's focus for the club, Chris Chocola nwdings to reformat and pre­community as well as to gain and traveling to pan~ for next year. participating in activi­the Conservative
membership and to
I' res i d ~~ n t-e Iect M ic heII e ties outside the Saint Political Action Fitzgerald mnphasiznd how use­Mary's campus." embark on the new Conference. ful the bnmk wa..'i for the club. On campus, the opportunities that Renshaw was 
"We created an executive club plans to collabo­also pleased
we have for 
board to nwet once a week out­rate with other cam­that the incom­silk llw nwetings to plan struc­pus groups such as the club." ing and outgo­tun~ and discuss what we will be the College ing officers were covering at the meeting," she Democrats and using the end of
Michelle Fitzgerald 
said. "This meeting is important Peacemakers to hold this school year
Club president-elect 
to gain focus for tho club, to gain debates and inform to prepare for membership, students. the future of the and to embark Fitzgerald said that the club. on the new club is highly aware Current College Republicans
"/ think this is a
opportunities that most Saint Mary's president Jessica Millanes and
good signal. We're 
that we have and Notre Dame stu­vice president Vanessa Hetrick for the club." identifying dents get their only will both graduate in May. Tlw St. news from television Fitzgerald and vice president­
younger students 
.Joseph County and The Observer's elect Lauren Fabina arc under­
... to get involved 
w 0 Ill ~~ n . s "World and Nation" classmen who intend to stay He publican and provide future section. highly involved with the club Club, which "We definitely want until the end of their senior
leadership. " 
tlw Saint to increase political years. Mary's club awareness on the Saint "I think this is a good signal," forged a con­Claude Renshaw Mary's campus -not Renshaw said. "We're identifying nection with Club advisor just republican issues, younger students, freshmen and this year, will but all issues that are sophomores, to get involved and provide some being discussed nation­provide future leadership." of these new opportunities. The wide," she said. club wants to get involved in poli­Claude Renshaw, a business Contact Nicole Zook at tics on a local and possibly even professor and club advisor, said zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

to journey to Cuba 
Special to The Observer 
Some 20 students and faculty from the Notre Dame will travel to Cuba during spring break to examine the life and situation of the Catholic Church there. 
Most of the students are enrolled in a Notre Dame theol­ogy course, "From Power to Communion," taught by Father Hobert Pelton, professor of the­ology and fellow of Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies. Father Pelton will lead the tour. sched­uled from Friday to March 14. 
Father Pelton led a similar trip to Cuba last year, when the visit was limited to the city of Havana. but this year the Notre Dame group will visit a variety of sites throughout the island. Catholic Helief Services. which administers several projects in Cuba, will serve as a host and guide to the group. 
Pelton. who directs the Kellogg Institute's Latin American/North American Church Concerns (LANACC). is a frequent visitor to Cuba and the author of numerous articles and books about the Catholic Church in Latin America. lie will be accompanied on the trip by James McAdams, professor of international affairs and director of the Nanovic Institute for European Studies. 
NDPresents to host Cirque performance 
Special to The Observer world entertaining audiP.nees 
with an eclectic ensemble or 
NDPresents, the new arts virtuosic feats. "Nomade" is a presenter of Notre Dame, will nighttime carnival filled with host Cirque Eloize perform­song, dance and astonishing ing "Nomade" on March 22 acrobatic feats. It features at South Bend's Morris jugglers, rope climbers, a Performing Arts Center. trapeze artist, a contortion­
Described as "modern ist, acrobats, clowns and oth­nomads," the members of ers. Cirque Eloize travel th-e 
,.••,. 
:~ 
,,
,. 




Thursday, March 4, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
turn the project over to the and funded by a grant from a ly 500,000 Haitians. The preven­Haitians, coming back to check South Bend family. tive drug, which is effective for a
Haiti Grades
on their work.· Despite the cancellation, biolo­year, wards off new infections by The aim of the program is to gy professor Father Tom Streit the parasitic worm that causes
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
members. 

"I had looked for ways to get involved in developing countries. The potential for interaction with [Haitian] society was spectacu­lar," Silliman said. "Students are trained on how to fix hand pumps, which are the primary source of drinking water. More importantly, they teach groups of Haitian men how to fix their own hand pumps, and we leave parts and tools with those guys." 
Silliman said participants include himself and up to 10 stu­dents, half of whom are engi­neering majors. Non-engineering students help put the technical work into a social context. 
"The technology is actually extraordinarily simple," he said. "Making that technology work in a different society requires skills way outside the engineering experience. 
In a typical trip, students spend the first day speaking with a local pastor and identifying a group of young men to train. The next day, the students train the men on the pumps' components. For the next few days, students repair wells and pumps as the locals observe, and then they 

Senate 

continued from page 1 
Steve Miller, whose ticket gar­nered 48.2 percent of the vote in the runoff, expressed his excitement at the victory. 
"My running mates and I are excited for the opportunity to lead the class council," Miller said follow­ing the Senate meeting. 'We're look­ing fo'rward to doing great things with programming. We're glad this whole process is over though, and build a base of Haitian workers that can continue the repair efforts after the seminar has ended. 
Silliman said he's encountered some difficulties during the pro­gram, especially in persuading the locals to accept pay for their continuing work. 
"We have to get the villagers to talk about what they're going to get in exchange," he said. "It's not a money-based society. It's a barter-based society." 
Silliman said he has received at least six e-mails this week from students who participated in the program in previous semesters. 
"Everybody comes back just completely blown away by the experience," he said. "They're pretty well connected back there in their hearts and their minds." 
Despite the cancellation, the students who planned to go to Haiti are still undergoing their training, and Silliman was opti­mistic that conditions will improve. 
"We're still meeting two hours a week as if we were still going," he said. "The vast majority of [students] are looking to go next fall or sometime in the future." 
The seminar is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns 
we're going to work on making the transition until April 1 as smooth as possible." 
After the meeting was opened the public, Kaitlyn Redfield, chairman of the committee on gender issues, announced that the effort to estab­lish a gender relations center has finally succeeded. 
"They tried in '94, 2002 and many times in between," Redfield said. 'The evidence was compelling, the research was perfect, and it was obvious that Notre Dame was behind its peers in regards to gender relations. There have been more said dozens of volunteers from Notre Dame and the Congregation of Holy Cross con­tinue their fight against filariasis, a mosquito-borne disease that leads to grotesque disfigurement. 
"We have about 70 people working with us in Haiti, and they continue heroically," he said. 
However, he added that per­sonnel have recently been evacu­ated from the areas hardest hit by the violence. 
'There are some areas where our work stopped the week before last," Streit said. 
Streit left the country in late February, but he was optimistic that he and others will be able to return. 
"We anticipate students going down [to Haiti] this summer," he said. 
The project is a collaborative effort, including assistance from Emory University and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control. 
The efforts center around St. Croix Hospital, an Episcopal institution in Leogane. In 2000, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation gave Notre Dame a $5.2 million grant to fund anti­filariasis efforts in that city. 
Streit said last year, volunteers administered medication to near-
students, faculty and alumni behind this push than most other issues, so we're grateful that we saw it passed." 
Redfield explained that the center will be a place where both men and women can come for information about sexual violence, and a resource center that focuses on a variety of issues including gender in careers, on campus, in Catholicism and sexual discrimination. 
Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman named Heather Rakoczy, Pangborn Hall rector, director of the center at filariasis. 

Streit said the eventual aim of the project is to eradicate the dis­ease. 
"It's going to be exciting for Notre Dame to be part of such a historic achievement, and that is to eliminate [filariasis] forever," Streit said. 
The only time such a thing has happened was in 1980, when the World Health Organization declared that smallpox had been eradicated. 
Michele Sexton, a staffer in the biology department who has worked in Haiti, said she is opti­mistic that the deployment of peacekeeping troops will stabilize the troubled nation. 
''I'm glad the Marines have gone in," she said. "Hopefully they'll be able to secure the roads and get the humanitarian effort there." 
Sexton, whose fiance is work­ing in Haiti, said the struggle against poverty and disease must persist. 
"It continues to be difficult there," Sexton said. "You have people who are worried about what's going to happen." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Monday's Campus Life Council's meeting. 
In other Senate news: 
+ 
Pat Corker announced that Alcohol Awareness Week, March 15 to 18, will feature a drunk driving simulator, a speaker delivering an underlying message of alcohol responsibility and T-shirt and refreshment giveaways. In conjunc­tion with PILlARS, students are also encouraged to sign a spring break alcohol safety pledge. 

+ 
Senators were encouraged to tell 


to have the deadline for grades prior to spring break, so students are aware of their status before they come back." 
Timing is also crucial because the last day to drop a course is March 19, Brackett said. 
"It is a good indicator for the student to know how they're doing at that point in the semester because the last day to drop is looming," she said. 
While students may write off mid-semester grades as a wake-up call at best, they remain a daunting and essential task for the Registrar's office. Professors are required to submit all first year and all deficiency grades by Friday at 3 p.m., but it is up to the individual professor's discretion whether or not to post addi­tional grades on lrishLink, Spaulding said. 
The office will mail out the reports early next week. 
Contact Claire Heininger at 
cheining@nd.edu 
their constituents about the new ability to print from the dorms to computer clusters. Additionally. books checkedout from the Hesburgh Library can be returned to ai].y of the different campus libraries. 
+Elections for next year's senators and other dorm positions are to take place by March 19, according to Emily Chin, student vice body presi­dent. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at 
amichael@nd.edu 

Need an apartment for the SUMMER? Turtle Creek Apartments 
Can help! 

ons: 

May 2004-August 2004 (SUMMER ONLY) August 2004-May 2005 (SCHOOL YEAR ONLY) June 2004-May 2005 (FULL YEAR) July 2004-June 2005 (FULL YEAR) August 2004-July 2005 (FULL YEAR) 

We DO ALLOW SUBLEASING! 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
Nq&Ca~~!!~~~~ 
Apply for ajob or internship NOWI ImmediateApplication Deadlines for Top Notch Companies! 
Apply via Golrish by logging on to http://careercenter.nd.edu Questions? Call the Career Center 631-5200 
Application Deadlines 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car (FIT) Pulte Homes (FIT & Interns) .3/5 A&L, BUS 3/15 A&L, BUS ONLY 17 applicants ONLY 17 applicants 
ND Athletics (Post Grad Humana (Interns) Interns) 3/5 A&L, BUS, 3/15 BUS SCI, ENG, GRAD 
Marathon Ashland (Interns) 
We only have three...yes you read that correct, ONLY THREE 
Sun Life Financial (FIT) 3/16 ENG 
2bedroom apartments remainill.g for any ofthe lease tenns listed 
3/5 A&L, BUS ONLY 6 applicants
above!! 
RR Donnelley (FIT) Wells Fargo·-MN-FIT
Call us for details: 574-272-8124 
3/15 BUS, ENG, SCI 3/16 BUS
WWW.TURTLECREEKND.COM 
ONLY 8 applicants 
L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·J 


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 4, 2004 CoMPJLED FROM.TIJE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israeli gunship kills militants 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -An Israeli heli­copter strike killed three llamas militants riding in a car Wednesday, the second such targetnd attack in five days and a possible sign that Israel is stepping up its campaign against militants ahead of a plannnd with­drawal from the Gaza Strip. 
Two missiles slammed into the car, trigger­ing a lire that bystanders tried to put out with sand and their jackets. One man, using a blanket, lifted 11 charred body out of the car and heaved it onto a stretcher. 
The Israeli military said one of those killed, 24-year-old Tarad Jamal, was behind several roadside bombings and rocket attacks on Israelis. The other two were identified as Ibrahim Deri, 34, and Amar llassan, 21. 
French Senate bans headscarves 
I'AHIS -A law banning Islamic head­scarves in France's public schools was adopt­ed Wednesday in the Senate by a vote of 276­20. 
The vote mirrored similar overwhelming support by the National Assembly, the lower chamber of parliament, which passed it 494­36 on Feb. 10. 
Prnsident Jacques Chirac must now for­mally sign it into law within 15 days. He had said such a law was needed to protect the French principle of secularism. 
The law forbids religious apparel and signs that "conspicuously show" a student's reli­gious afliliation. Jewish skullcaps and large Christian crosses would also be banned, but the law is aimed at removing Islamic head­scarves from classrooms. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
County performs gay marrias;!es 
POHTLAND, Ore.-A new front in the bat­tle over same-sex marriage opened Wednesday in Portland, where county offi­cials issued dozens of licenses to gay couples after deciding that Oregon law allowed the unions. 
New York's attorney general. meanwhile, said gay weddings in that state arc illegal, even though he personally would like to see the law changed. His opinion didn't deter a second mayor in the state from announcing not only that he would conduct gay mar­riages, but that he intends to marry his own same-sex partner. 
Mayors and county officials in four states have allowed gay marriages, including thou­sands in San Francisco, which started the wedding march Feb. 12. 
Pair plead guilty in missile plot 
SAN DIEGO -Two defendants admitted their roles Wednesday in a plot to sell Stinger anti-aircraft missiles to the Taliban and al­Qaida, authorities said. 
The pair admitted they planned to sell 5 tons of hashish and a half-ton of Pakistani heroin in exchange for cash and four shoul­der-fired Stinger missiles, which they intend­ed to sell to the Taliban. Such missiles can be used to shoot down airplanes, including com­mercial jets. 
In a plea bargain, Ilyas Ali, a naturalized 
U.S. citizen born in India, and Muhamed Abid Afridi of Pakistan pleaded guilty to pro­viding material support to terrorists and con­spiracy to distribute heroin and hashish, according to the U.S. Attorney's oflice. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Fort Wayne to 'save big money' 
FOHT WAYNE-A judge has cleared the way for the city to take possession of a most­ly deserted shopping mall so it can be torn down to make way for a new Menard's home improvement store. 
Allen County Circuit Court has set a value of $3.44 million for the Southtown Mall prop­erty, Mayor Graham Richard said. The figure is based on the average of three independent appraisals ordered by the court. 
Bush to face Kerry for 2004 bid 
Senator from Massachussetts looks to unseat incumbent by winning key states 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush versus 
John Kerry. What promis­
es to be a contentious 
eight-month battle for the 
White House opened 
Wednesday with the 
incumbent buffeted by 
dangers in postwar Iraq 
and the loss of jobs at 
home, yet holding the 
upper hand on money and 
Electoral College math. 
Partisans from both par­
ties are already fretting 
over their candidate's 
chances. 

"President Bush has the 
best odds, but incumbency 
has its disadvantages, 
too," said Tom Slade, for­
mer chairman of the 
Florida Republican Party. 
"There's four years of 
record to throw rocks at, 
and I've often debated 
with myself over which I 
would rather be -the 
incumbent or challenger." 
"This election might set­tle that question," Slade said with a sigh, "for bet­ter or worse." 
If so, it may be settled in Florida and 15 states that Bush won or lost by 5 per­centage points or fewer in 2000 -the Midwest states of Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin; the Northwest's Washington has moderated the politics Reapportionment has Minnesota, Pennsylvania, and Oregon; Pennsylvania, of this state," said state increased their value to Iowa, Oregon, Wisconsin Maine and New Hampshire Sen. Ken Cheuvront, an 278, without a vote being and New Mexico. Winning in the Northeast; Western Arizona Democrat. cast. all six, no easy task, would states Nevada and New In his first ad blitz, Bush Kerry's base consists of put Kerry within striking Mexico, and the South's is targeting the 16 battle­11 states plus the District distance of the coveted Tennessee and Arkansas. ground states from 2000 of Columbia won most eas­270 electoral votes. 
Tennessee may be the . -minus Tennessee but ily by Gore in 2000, worth He would still need to only 2000 battleground plus West Virginia and 168 electoral votes Nov. 2. win at least one of the that doesn't qualify. If AI Arizona. "We know this In addition to those most competitive states ­Gore couldn't win his election is going to be Democratic strongholds, Nevada, New Hampshire, Republican-leaning home decided in a limited num­Kerry's strategists believe West Virginia, Missouri, state, Kerry probably ber of states in the he can add Michigan, Arizona, Ohio and Florida won't, Democratic and Electoral College and Washington state and are among the targets. GOP strategists said. we've made decisions Maine to pass the 200-vote Other Southern tossup 
Two states Bush won by based on that," said threshold. Claimed by states may come into play just 6 percentage points­Matthew Dowd, the cam­Gore in 2000, they may be for Kerry, but only if he's Arizona and West Virginia paign's chief strategist. the ripest Democratic tar­doing unexpectedly well -could be more competi­Changes in the Electoral gets among all tossup everywhere else. Martha tive this year. Map favor Bush. The pres­states, but Bush is compet­Dixon of the Democratic 
"The Hispanic influence, ident won 30 states four ing hard for them. National Committee gave as well as massive immi­years ago, worth 271 elec­The next tier of Kerry Bush a good shot in gration from California, toral votes in 2000. targets are even tougher: Arkansas. 

HAITI 

Rebel leader promises to disarm 
Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE -Rebel leader Guy Philippe said Wednesday his forces would disarm as U.S. Marines fanned out in the capital -rifles at the ready -to help bring order amid Haiti's bloody uprising. 
Earlier, Washington warned the rebels, who overthrew President Jean-Bertrand Aristide after seizing the northern half of the country, to disarm and disband. 
"Now that there are foreign troops promising to protect the Haitian peo­ple ... and they have given the guar­antee to protect the Haitian people ... we will lay down our arms," Philippe told a news conference. 
In their first reconnaissance sweep since arriving Sunday, a convoy of Marines in Humvees and armored vehicles rumbled out of the presiden­tial National Palace as troops on foot moved onto surrounding streets. 
They patrolled an area stretching 30 blocks, pushing old burned-out cars from the road. The Marines met no resistance and then returned to the palace. 
Despite the rebel vow to disarm, a gunbattle erupted Wednesday between rebels and militant Aristide loyalists in their stronghold, the sea­side La Salines slum. The shooting started when rebels, who started patroling the city Thesday, tried to disarm the militants. 
There was no sign at the scene of the American and French troops, the vanguard of an expected U.N.­backed peacekeeping force. Marine commanders told a press conference they had 1 ,000 troops on the ground in Haiti. In addition, Chile said it was sending 120 special forces to Haiti, the first of about 300. France said it would have some 420 soldiers and police here by th·e end of the week. 
Also Wednesday, U.S. Marines guarding the airport said they blocked rebels from chasing ex­Aristide oflicials into the main termi­nal. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March 4, 2004 
Senate budget proposes to halve deficit by 2007 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Senate Budget Committee began debat­ing a Republican-written 2005 budget on Wednesday that claims to halve the record deficit in three years, even if Congress provides $30 billion for Iraq. 
The plan proposed deeper deficit reduction and lower defense and domestic spending than President Bush sought in his budget last month. The Senate's $2.36 trillion election­year proposal parted company with him in other ways, too. 
It ignores Bush's proposals to eliminate dozens of programs, to cut spending on water proj­ects popular with lawmakers, and permit mineral drilling in a 
major Alaskan wildlife preserve. It also shows the effects of spending $30 billion to maintain 
U.S. forces in Iraq. Bush's budg­et omitted that expenditure, even as administration officials conceded they would ask for up to $50 billion after this November's presidential and congressional elections. 
"We did think it was important to put a plug in for that number because it is a more realistic estimation" than leaving it out, said Senate Budget Committee Chairman Don Nickles, R-Okla. 
Even so, Nickles conceded to reporters that by the time the full Senate votes on his ·budget -probably next week -law­makers likely will boost Pentagon spending to the levels Bush proposed. Domestic spend­ing may rise as well, Nickles said. 
The potential spending increases underscore the sup­port from pro-defense conserva­tives and moderate Republicans that he will need to move the measure through the narrowly divided chamber. 
Democrats criticized Nickles for not doing enough to reduce the deficit, arguing that his bud­get's $144 billion in tax cuts over five years would enlarge the red ink. They also com­plained that by limiting its pro­jections to the next five years, the GOP plan hid the dramati­cally worsening budget picture beyond when the baby boom generation starts to retire. 
"We are plunging into deep debt and dangerous policies 

without even a nod to the fiscal peril that stands before us," said Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va. 
Reflecting the perils of an election year, the GOP plan shows little taste for taming the growth of benefit programs like Social Security, which consume two-thirds of the budget. 
Nickles said overall savings from those programs would total $21 billion over five years -a tiny fraction for programs that will spend more than '$7 trillion during that period. He proposed culling what he calls waste, fraud and abuse from Medicaid and from the earned income tax credit for poor work­ing families. and raising cus­toms fees. 
Congress' budget sets overall tax and spending targets. Its details are not binding when lawmakers later write bills·gov­erning revenues and expendi­tures. The president does not sign the congressional budget. 
Nickles hopes to push his budget through his panel on Thursday. The GOP-run !louse Budget Committee plans to vote next week on its own, similar plan. 
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office expects this year's deficit to hit $4 77 billion -a record in do.ilar terms. 
The Senate fiscal blueprint envisions shrinking the red ink to $338 billion next year and dropping it to $223 billion by 2007 -less than half this year's expected figure. Those figures exclude the costs for Iraq. 

Business 
continued from page 1 

three, but Hayes requires each project to generate a 700 per­cent return, meaning students have to turn $20 into $160 in just a few weeks. 
Students can use their own personal resources, but may not contribute their own money to the business. 
"They have $20, and they're otherwise broke," Hayes said. "If they use their own assets, they have to charge themselves rent." 
Hayes said he enjoys putting his own money at risk, because it inspires confidence in his stu­dents. 
"I like doing it myself," he said. "It allows me to say, 'I'm putting faith in you."' 
At the completion of the course, students pay back the $20 interest-free. 
"I tell them I'm the least expensive banker they'll ever meet," Hayes laughed. 
After writing business propos­als, making cash flow projec­tions and planning for contin­gencies, students are ready to jump into their own business. Hayes said the challenge allows students to combine small-busi­ness principles with hands-on experience. 
"In addition to learning about the characteristics and behav­iors of entrepreneurs, we get to do it," he said. "We see all the things that happen in the real world." 
"We have partnerships that people regret ... and we have great surprises that the market just embraces." 
In particular, Hayes singled out the highest-returning project to date, a calendar produced by former Irish basketball player Karen Swanson. In the fall of 2001, Swanson developed the calendar, which features photos of women basketball players. Copies sold like hotcakes, lead­ing to an astonishing 55,000 percent return, and allowing Swanson to donate $4,000 to support the education of chil­dren orphaned by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
Many students donate part of their profits to charities, though it is not a course requirement. Hayes said that students' proj­ects have generated over $60,000 in profits, and over 10 percent has been contributed to nonprofit organizations. 
The program has become wildly successful. Hayes said that of about 150 projects over the five-year history of the course, only two have failed to hit the 700 percent target, and none have lost money. 
"The average is always much higher than 700 percent, proba­bly closer to 900 percent," he said. 

Successful business begun in the course have run the gamut of commerce, from Tyrone Willingham-themed "Ty Ties" to massages. 
Seniors Megan Horner and Margaret Mason are currently in the course. Their business cen­ters around a campus-wide video game tournament, which will pit students against each other in Madden 2004 for prizes. 
The students have spent the last week promoting the tourna­ment, which will be held after spring break. Would-be digital gridiron stars pay a $5 entry fee, and compete for a $100 Best Buy gift certificate. The winner's dorm will also receive a $7 5 prize. Sign-up sheets are posted in the lobby of each residence hall on campus. 
"We're trying to make this a dorm pride thing," Mason said. "But off-campus students can do it too." 
Mason said the games will 'be held in at least two locations on campus, probably in dorm 
· lounges. "We're trying to have a North Quad location and a South Quad location," she said. "Once we make the brackets, people will just go there and play." Students unable to attend at the appointed time will be able to make up the game and report the results, similar to the proce­dure followed in the Bookstore Basketball tournament. Horner said the event will like­ly appeal to men on campus, many of whom are avid video game players. but she welcomes female participants. "Going into it, we knew our target market was going to be mostly limited to guys, but we'd love to have girls," she said. "But most girls play Mario Kart if they play video games at all." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


£atin Club 


Dancing 
lntro ~ latin Danting t\awt wi\\ tnm T~-&om 1-1SOpm in N.t IZm offue.~. and1m l~tla&twrt\ mu;tfrom &-&SOpm. ~ fu for tm temKter \ong t\a it $10. (l.egi&ter in advana at ~· Opm to a\\ ND tiudmt!, fatu\i'j, staff: ~tiru& and imir tpot.1$K. ~ it \imite4. 
~gn-Upt> 6egin: Tu~. Marc.n 1(,,­s:ooam-~ a~ ~in: Tu~, Marth 1~, ­
~t. F-m. 2. ~ 
THE UNIVERSITY CLUB 
PRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME 
CONGRATULATIONS 
EN'S BASKETBALL ON YOUR NCAA BID!!!! 
SEE 'IOU AT THE JOYCE!!! GO IRISH!!!! 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Thursday, March 4, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
ENTERTAINMENT 
Stocks 

Dow 
Mouse's roar hits Disn~y boss
10,593.11 +1.63
}ones , 
Up: Same: Dowo: Composite Volume: 
Eisner loses chairman job after shareholder backlash; former senator to step up
1,609 

184 ·~' 1,323,395,456 
, 
Associated Press 

AMEX 1,254.59 -18.13 NASDAQ 2,033.36 -6.29 
PHILADELPHIA-The Walt Disney Co.'s board
NYSE 6,718.33 +1.20 
voted late Wednesday to
S&P 500 1,151.03 +1.93 
split the roles of chairman 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,448.77 +96.85 
and chief executive, hours after shareholders deliv­
FTSE IOO(London) 4,525.10 -15.00 
ered a stinging rebuke by withholding 43 percent of
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
their votes for CEO Michael 
MAMMACOM INC (MAMA) +25.74 +2.60 12.70 
Eisner's re-election to the 
board. Disney directors voted 
INTEL CORP (INTC) ·1.89 -0.56 29.04 
FUTUREMEDIAADR (FMDAY) +75.51 +0.74 1.72 
unanimously to make 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.43 -0.33 22.70 
board member and former senator George Mitchell the 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.08 -0.02 26.37 
company's new chairman
Treasuries 

and voiced their continued 
30-YEAR BOND +0.16 +0.08 49.09 
approval of Eisner's man­agement and the compa­
10-YEAR NOTE +0.35 +0.14 40.60 
ny's strategy. 

5-YEARNOTE +0.50 +0.15 30.37 
The change is effective 
immediately. The board also rejected a 
3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 9.42 
Commodities 

renewed overture from 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.86 35.80 
cable television giant GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.10 392.70 
Comcast, saying it would serve no purpose to recon­
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -1.025 97.675 
sider a merger offer
Excha Rates 
already dismissed as too 
YEN 110.2 
low. 

Although the restructur­ing curbs Eisner's control 
EURO 0.823 
POUND 0.5484 
of the company and satis­
CANADIAN$ 1.343 
fies the concerns of corpo­rate governance groups who had called for the change. it won't satisfy the
IN BRIEF 
company's most vocal crit­ics -ex-board members Major brewers to join forces 
Stanley Gold and Roy E. SAO PAULO, Brazil -Belgium's Intcrbrew 
Disney -who have vowed and Brazil's AmBev shook up the global beer 
to continue their fight to industry Wednesday with a blockbuster $11.4 
oust Eisner. billion deal to form the largest international 
Mitchell, a former sena­brewer by volume, surpassing U.S.-based 
tor from Maine, may also Anheuser-Busch. 
prove to be a controversial The companies insisted that their stock 
choice. Shareholders with­transaction is an "alliance" and not a merger 
held 24 percent of their because lnterbrew and AmBev will operate 
votes from his re-election independently in different hemispheres, 
Wednesday -the second­maintain separate stock listings and name 
highest total after Eisner. four directors each on a new 
Mitchell has been criti­InterbrewAmBev board. 
cized by Gold and Roy Disney as being too close to Eisner and not independent 
Toys 'R' Us earnings slip in Q4 
enough because his law
MOUNT LAUHEL, N.J.-Toys "R" Us Inc.'s 
firm has worked for Disney. 
profit declined 48 percent in its fourth fiscal 
In its statement, the
quarter that covered a disappointing holiday 
board said it understood
sales season for the nation's second biggest toy retailer. 
The Wayne-based company, which trails only Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in toy sales, also 
CORPORATE SCANDAL
announced Wednesday that it was selling 124 of its empty Kids "H" Us stores to Office that investors were con­cerned about more than just the issue of separating the chairman and CEO positions. 
"We are aware that some voted for an immediate change in management and in the board," the statement said. "However ... we believe the action we have taken today is in the best long-term interest of the shareholders of the company." 
"It's not a surprise," said David Miller, an analyst at Sanders Morris Harris, who earlier in· the day said the board would make such a move within 24 hours. 
"It should satisfy at least a portion of the 42 percent of those who voted against Eisner." 
Institutional Shareholder Services, a proxy advisory firm that had recommend­ed its large investor clients withhold their votes from Eisner, said the Disney board's change was wel­come, but not enough. 
"If the Disney board believes this is the silver bullet to fix all the prob­lems, they are sort of mis­taken," said Cheryl Gustitus. an ISS spokes­woman. 
Earlier Wednesday, the nation's largest public pen­sion fund, which withheld its 9. 9 million votes from Eisner, called for his resig­nation. 
"This discontent is too wide and way too deep in the marketplace, and it has led us to believe that Eisner should go and the board should get quickly to work on planning for an orderly transition," said Sean Harrigan, president of the board of administration of the California Public Employees Retirement System. 
The board's actions fol­lowed a nearly five-hour shareholders meeting marked by cheers and standing ovations for for­mer board members Gold and Roy Disney, who have waged a bitter three-month campaign to oust Eisner. 


The two hailed the vote and said it was a clear indi­cation that Eisner should go. 
The 61-year-old Eisner, who chaired the meeting, showed little emotion, even as Gold and Roy Disney took the stage. 
His voice a bit hoarse, Eisner briefly defended himself, saying he enjoyed an "excellent relationship" wjth the dissident board 
members until things soured. 
"Stanley felt we weren't listening," he said. "We felt we were listening and not agreeing." 
"I love this company," Eisner said. "The board loves this company. And we are all passionate about the output of this compa­ny." 
Eisner acknowledged that the performance of Disney's ABC network was "disappointing," but he also told shareholders that Disney has "the manage­ment skills and creative talent to continue its growth path." 

Depot Inc. for $197 million. Analysts said they expected a poor earnings report and 
Stewart jury begins deliberations 
that the news of the real estate deal was 
responsible for a boost in stock prices. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, shares in the company we.re up $1.09, or 7.1 percent, to close at $16.39. 
Fed: Economic recovery on track 
WASIIINGTON -Factories hummed and consumers kept cash registers busy in the first two months of this year, fresh evidence the economic recovery is moving ahead, according to a Federal Reserve report Wednesday. A separate survey of chief execu­tives of the nation's biggest companies sug­gested hiring could start to pick up. One­third of the executives said they expected to increase hiring in the next six months. while 22 expected to cut payrolls and 45 percent expected no change, according to a Business Houndtable survey. 
The association said that is the first time since the fall of 2002 that a larger share of executives planned to add to payrolls rather than cut them. 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Jurors in the Martha Stewart case ended their first day of deliberations Wednesday without reaching a verdict on whether the founder of a gracious-living empire lied about a well-timed stock sale. 
Deliberations were to resume Thursday. 
The jury received the case after 90 minutes of complex instructions from 
U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum. 
After about two hours of delibera­tion, the jury of eight women and four men requested a readback of testimony regarding former broker­age assistant Douglas Faneuil, the government's star witness. They also asked to see charts detailing phone calls of the main players in the case on the day of the stock sale. 
Later in the day, jurors also asked for several pieces of evidence, includ­ing what the government claims is a doctored worksheet used to make a supposed stock sale agreement appear legitimate. 
The combined charges against Stewart carry up to 20 years in prison. but she would probably get far less under federal sentencing guidelines. 
However, if convicted on any charge, the 62-year-old Stewart would have to step down as chief creative officer of her media compa­ny, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia. 
Stewart and ex-stockbroker Bacanovic are accused of lying to investigators about why Stewart sold 3,928 shares of ImClone stock on Dec. 27, 2001, just before it plunged on a decision by the Food and Drug Administration to reject ImClone's application for a cancer drug. 
Prosecutors contend Stewart sold her stock after Bacanovic tipped her off, through Faneuil, that ImClone founder Sam Waksal was trying to sell his own holdings. 
But Stewart and Bacanovic claim they had a standing agreement to sell Stewart's stock if the price fell to $60. The supposed agreement is the cornerstone of their defense. 
Stewart is charged with conspiracy, obstruction of justice and making false statements. Bacanovic is charged with making false state­ments, making and using false docu­ments, conspiracy, perjury and obstruction of justice -charges that carry up to 25 years behind bars. 


MO'IOROI..A imelligence everywhere­
• A true image 65_.ooo..color screen • A built..U. 'Sip8ilbrphone • An Integrated VGA-quaHty camera • Photo caller m• 
• Download Cblleg•tbemed MP3 ringtones and graphics* 
Act now and save $150 (after $100 instant rebate and $SO maiJ.in :rebate.. with a two year service agreementfrom Cingular Wireless). Price before rebate is $299.99. See rebate for complete details. Hurry, limited lime olfer. 
Visit hellomoto.com/uslv400for more infonnation Moot the Motorola V400. avaDable exclusively at Cingular stores.. 
cingular·
Rnd a location near you • eingular.com or eall1..a&&-CINGUL.AR. 
Thw~day, March 4, 2004 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ENGLAND 
Coke questioned about ""ater ads 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The Coca-Cola Co., world famous for its "real thing" sodas, is being questioned in Britain about using the word "pure" to advertise its Dasani bottled water. 
Why? Because it's specially treated London tap water. 
On Tuesday, British trading standard oiTicials asked the bor­ough where Coke's headquarters is based to look into the matter. 
Coke. which sells a similarly made I>asani water in the Untied States. said it's confident it's abiding by the local rules. 
"We work closely with all reg­ulatory bodies and in this instance we are fully satisfied that we arc compliant with all guidelines and regulations," the company said in a statement. 
A Coke spokesman said on condition of anonymity that the complaint may have been made by its competitors in Britain's $1.9 billion-a-ynar bottled water market. 
Coke says its Dasani water is treated in a highly sophisticated filtration process, perfected by NASA to purify fluids on space­craft. 
But why, British newspapers such as The Daily Mail asked Tuesday, should consumers pay up to $1.76 for 17 ounces of Dasani when it's based on London drinking water that costs 6 cents for the same amount? 
The same purification process is used for the Dasani water that Coke has sold in the United States since 1999. Dasani is the second-best seller in the bottled water market there, behind a similar purified water product­
Aquafina ­ made by Pepsi-Cola  
Co.  
Britain's  Food  Standards  

Agency asked the borough authority where Coca-Cola's headquarters is based to look into whether the term "pure, still water" breached labeling guide­lines. 
Dasani, which was launched in Britain last month, uses munici­pal water at Coca-Cola's factory in Sidcup, southeast London. 
The soft drinks giant said a "highly sophisticated purification process" removes any impuri­ties, such as "bacteria, viruses, salts, minerals, sugars, proteins and toxin particles" from the tap water. 
The Food Standards Agency said Dasani may have broken guidelines designed to protect shoppers from misleading mar­keting. 
"This bottled water does not appear to follow our labeling guidance on the use of the term 'pure,"' an agency spokesman said on customary condition of anonymity. 
"Consumers may not realize that there are three types of water sold in bottles: natural mineral water, spring water and drinking water [which can be tap water]. If a product is not labeled as mineral water or spring water. it will, in fact, be bottled drinking water." 

imprinted merchandise* 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME ....B.O.OKSIORE... 
IN THE ECK CENTER 

JOYCE CENTER
phone, (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookltore.ellm 
*Not valid with any other offir, in-store on(y, see store for details. E-cpires 316104. Excludes textbooks, c/.ass rings, computer hatdware and software, andprofessional reference. 
MEXICO 

Fqx says he'll push for 111igration accord 
Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY -President 
Vicente Fox said he will 
encourage President Bush to 
keep promoting a migration 
accord, but he acknowledged 
that U.S. Congressional 
approval was still in the dis­
tance. 

"We know it is going to take a long time, at least this whole year, before we reach an integrated agreement on migration," he said Tuesday in an interview with The Associated Press. 
Fox ,said guaranteeing progress on a migration accord would be his top pri­ority when he meets with Bush on Friday and Saturday in Texas. He also said he would urge the United States to treat Mexican visitors in the same way it treats those from Canada. 
"We want to ask for equal treatment, the same system," he said, without giving details. "We shouldn't be treated differently." 
Currently, Mexicans must have a visa to vacation and work in the United States, while restrictions on Canadians are much lighter. 
Fox said he would work to "further the agenda" on a migration accord, although he said he did not expect any conclusions. 
"It's a key issue for both of our nations," he said. "It's very important for our economies. It is very impor­tant for economic growth and expansion." 
Fox has pushed for an accord since taking office three years ago, but the issue was temporarily sidelined by the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Mexico has increased secu­rity to combat terrorism, but Fox said Tuesday that offi­cials had found no evidence that terrorists were operat­ing from Mexico -despite 
U.S. concerns. 
Even so, he said the coun­try would continue to cancel flights and take other pre­cautions when necessary. 
"You don't always have to have all the evidence before taking action," he said. "We can't run the risk of a terror­ist act in Mexico or a terror­ist passing through Mexico 
on their way to the United 
States." 
Fox's government was criti­
cized at home after it can­
celed several flights to Los 
Angeles and allowed FBI 
agents to work visibly at 
Mexican airports, in part 
because of U.S. warnings of 
possible terrorist attacks. 
Because of the criticism, Mexico launched an investi­gation into whether the ter­rorist concerns were valid. Fox said nothing had been found. 
He said U.S. officials had 
told Mexico they were con­
cerned the planes could be 
used as weapons, but he 
indicated they gave few 
details. 
The meeting at Bush's ranch in Crawford, Texas, is the latest sign of mended ties between the two countries. 

Mexico was Bush's first trip overseas as U.S. presidnnt. and he traveled to Fox's ranch in central Mexico. But relations between the two leaders were strained after Fox refused to back the Iraq war and canceled a trip to Texas to sec J3ush because the state executed a Mexican man. 
In January, however, rela­tions began to warm after Bush announced his new plan for a migration agree­ment that would give visas to Mexicans with U.S. jobs. During a meeting in January in northern Mexico, Bush invited Fox to his Texas ranch and Fox readily accepted. 
Fox said he would discuss with Bush ways to make sure that North America including Canada -can compete with Asia, especially the growing power of China. Mexico has lost thousands of jobs to its Asian rival. 
He also said he didn't believe the United States had overstepped its authority in helping negotiate Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide's removal from office. 
·Aristide has said American troops forced him to leave Haiti -a claim denied by Secretary of State Colin Powell and other American officials. 
LESOTHO 

Britain's Prince Harry helps AIDS orphans 
Associated Press 

MOHALES HOEK -Britain's Prince Harry, seeking attention Wednesday for parentless chil­dren with AlDS, planted a peach tree at an orphanage in this HIV-stricken nation . 
Holding the hand of a 4-year­old orphan named Mutsu Potsane, the prince walked to a flower bed at the Mants'ase Children's Home where he planted the fruit tree. Mutsu . helped the prince fill the hole. The orphanage is 60 miles south of the capital, Maseru. 
The 19-year-old prince said his trip to Africa had been "fan­tastic" so far, adding he hoped his presence would bring recog­nition to the problems of this tiny mountain kingdom. 
"Lesotho is not a country that is well-known. but it needs all the help it can get," llarry said. 
The previous night, Harry attended a barbecue with the home's 25 residents. Some of whom have lost parents to AlDS. 
'Tie's too nice," said 13-year­old Khotso Senoko, grinning. "We played with a ball." 
THE 0BSER\'ER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, March 4, 2004 
The spirituality of sexuality

Society gives our generation hot images that impress ideas about real, good sex. But people following these ideas may feel empty by what promises to deliver and eventually fails to pro­vide happiness. 
Our society's Andrew obsession with 
DeBerry

sex points to a deeper need for meaningful rela­ND Changing tionships. What Times is needed is inti­macy, which could also mean "into-me-see," where people in a relationship see fully into one another. 
To harmonize our hearts with our bodies, we need to strip down our cul­ture's idea of sexuality and return to the naked truths of Genesis. Then we can explore ideas about the relation­ship that needs to be linked with sex. 
In the beginning, man and woman were each created as "an image of the power and tenderness of God" (Catechism 2335). "A man will leave his father and mother to be united to his wife" (Genesis 2:24). They would become one not just in flesh, but also in heart and spirit. 
In this union the heart opens up com­pletely to expose our soul and deepest emotions. Sex acts as a personal way to communicate with our loved ones and serve their most intimate spirit and body. We show unconditional accept­ance of their very person and life. It's a liberated expression: "I love you com­pletely for who you are. I take your weaknesses, cares, heart and soul. I do this for you and for no other person." 
Unfortunately, we can have sex but tragically miss its spiritual intimacy. In trying to satisfy a deeper desire of the heart, we may experiment with sex outside of its deeper relational context. Or, both inside and outside of mar­riage, we may use sex as a physical release with little genuine regard for the other person. In both cases, one person -most often the woman -is hurt in the experience. 
People who have healthier views are those dating who can share physical and emotional intimacy without having sex. Whether we still have the gift of virginity or not, we can similarly build a stronger love now for our future spouse by firmly honoring chastity. When married, spouses can earnestly say, "I loved you even before I knew who you would be." 
Deeper views of sexuality are largely missing from our generation's environ­ment. People of goodwill feeling hyper­sensitive about sexuality can suppress related discussion. The resulting void gets disastrously filled by forces that promise instantaneous gratification. 
What we really need is godly dis­course about intercourse. People must proclaim from the rooftops the special power of sex as a self-gift that involves the highest concern for the other person. Karol Wojtyla (now Pope John Paul II), who counseled many young couples in his early years as a priest, shares this view. In his book Love and Responsibility, he underscores ~he need for continu­ous sexual edu­cation with the purpose to "create the conviction that the other per­son is more important than 
I." 

His focus is on a relationship where a man and woman belong to each other. The Catechism explains that "sexuality becomes personal and truly human when it is integrated into the rela­tionship of one person to another, in the complete and lifelong mutual gift of a man and a woman" (2337). Consequently, the Church upholds sex as a rich gift for a committed couple in marriage. This gift of self is by its very nature unitive and life-giving as a couple shares in God's creative power through their children. As the Pope noted in an address, "the words of the spouses, their movements, their gestures correspond to the interi­or movements of their heart ... Love unleashes a special experience of the beautiful, which focuses on what is vis­ible, at the same time involves the entire person." 
Studies show that the joy of sex is most alive for those in a close, married relationship. According to a survey of 3,432 Americans in a past cover story for U.S. News and World Report, "those who reported being the most physically and emotionally satisfied were the married couples." 
The Church teaches that sex puts us in touch with an ecstasy that brings us only a few steps away from the 
Kingdom of God itself. The experi­ence becomes like a heaven­ward prayer. The relation­ship echoes Jeff Buckley lyrics when he sings, "The holy dove was moving too and every breath we drew was Hallelujah." 
Our sexual nature shouldn't be suppressed. 
On the contrary, it needs to be engaged with openness and firmly matched with a high regard for rela­
tionship. In developing this outlook, we will 
discover in our future not only real, good sex, but 
more importantly the rewarding gift of last­ing intimacy where we see fully into another per­son and cherish what we find. 

Andrew DeBerry is an aerospace engineer. He works with theories all day. He looks forward to seeing how well his theories hold up in practice someday. He can be contacted at ade­berry@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Empowering dialogue found in 'The Pa·ssion' 
I sincerely want to thank Saint Mary's students and fac­ and Sister Elena Malits on religion and film .  
ulty who took part in the discussion on "The Passion of the  Comments from students frequently disagreed with the  
Christ" on Tuesday.  panel, but did so responsibly. Questions were genuine and  
I  have  been  teaching  in  the  Religious  Studies  ·  often really insightful. An authentic dialogue was going  
Department at SMC since 1970, and I've not experienced  on, with all parties respecting differences and seeking  
such an open and honest discussion in  a large group. A  understanding. Whatever faults the Mel Gibson film may  
considerable crowd stayed for  an hour and  a  half in  have, it can only be applauded for engendering this level  
Stapleton Lounge, listening with attention and speaking  of dis-discussion. May we have more sessions like this.  

intensely. 

Four RLST faculty presented short statements about the film based on their academic specialities: Stacy Davis on the Hebrew Scriptures, John Fotopoulos on the New Testament, Sister Kathleen Dolphin on theological issues 
OBSERVER POLL 
How many midterms do you have? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Elena Malits Professor Emerica, Religious Studies Saint Mary's College Mar. 3 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The only way to have a friend is to be one." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson author 
·~ 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 4, 2004 page II 
U-WIRE

lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Breaking everyday habits 
Liberating .society 
Wednesday, a good man, Adam Cahil, lamented the way that everyday at Notre Dame you pass by hundreds of exceptional students without a second thought. However, I would like to take a minute to honor a few of those who broke this trend and have made my time at Notre Dame just a little bit cra­zier and therefore, just a little bit bet­ter. 
Much like the Fresh Prince of Bel Air, my first story is about how my day got flipped, turned upside down, if you will. Allow me to present to you "that dining hall girl" (TDIIG). Now we all know the drink lines at South Dining Hall can be mentally excruciating as you observe many of the not so exceptional Notre Dame students at work, but this time was diff(lrent, this time was special. 
While waiting for the "fancy" water machines, a voice randomly comments about how slow they are. Expecting to turn and see a familiar face, instead I was greeted by a complete stranger, it was TDIIG. Bather than drop my tray and seek cover below the marshmallow counter, I embraced this "crazy" woman and we exchanged pleasant chit chat on a broad range of topics such as: Why are these machines so slow? Why do we bnlicvn the water is any different from that out of the little blue things? Ilow do those things have enough pres­sure to blast your average dining hall cup into orbit if needed? 
Coincidently we both proceeded to the milk line and admired what quality din­ing hall machines -efficient, effective, just a pleasure to behold -those fine milk machines arc. Once out of the drink line we exchanged pleasant adieus and were off our own ways. 
What TDIIG couldn't have known was if I would have thought she was a frca~. She couldn't have known that I just had a pretty rough day, and I'm sure she didn't know just how much she turned my day around. From one crazy person to another, thank you TDIIG, I thank you from the bottom of my heart. Your courage and craziness has made my life better. 
My next salute is to "that guy" (TG). A number of my friends and I had gone for late night cherry icees, and ran into a very funny and very cute cherry ieee girl. When TG -quite possibly the nicest man alive -mentioned this to me, I recalled the cute and funny cher­ry ieee girl of my sophomore year whom I let slip away. Unable to bear the thought of TG suffering such anguish, I convinced TG to go ask for a cherry ieee and her phone number. 
Politely he did. He was shot down swiftly. for this cherry ieee girl was already involved. None of us were sur­prised, who wouldn't want to date this cherry ieee girl. While TG may have struck out with the ieee girl, he became a legend in the minds of an admiring few. Carry on TG, carry on. 
Finally, I salute "that frosh-o girl" (TFG). TFG and I didn't even meet at an ice breaker, rather at one of those use­less advisor meetings. I was late and a sweaty mess from my futile attempt at making the cross country team. Much like the Grinch, I shouldn't have been touched even with a thirty-nine-and-a­half foot pole. Unwavered, TFG struck up conversation and I proceeded to fail three times at pronouncing her name correctly. Still she pressed on, we did lunch, and four years later TFG is still my best friend. 
Everyone talks about the horribly awkward moments we experience at Notre Dame, but I just wanted to applaud those brave and wacky people who make it all worthwhile. God bless you crazy people and best of luck bring­ing just a little more randomness into our lives. 
Sean MacCready semor Fisher Hall Mar. 3 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

from the absurd con­cept that Catholic Charities performs secular services such as provid­ing low income housing, coun­seling and aid to immi­grants and therefore is not a reli­gious organiza­tion. How this court can label charitable actions as secular, despite their jus­tification and require­ment in deep-rout­ed tenets of Christian faith, is an enigma in defiance of basic common sense. 

How the court can use such a preposterous argument to manipulate the actions of a religious group is an outrage fly­ing in the face of the state's separation from faith. The fact of the tnatter is, Catholic Charities has been -and still remains -a religious organization. Albeit pop­ulated predominately by the lay, the group was founded in 1910 as a conference of national Catholic charities. 
The contemporary group is funded by donations from a diverse group of donors, but finds a great-deal of support from the Catholic Church. Catholics donate privately to the organization, while the Mass often includes col­lections designated for distribu­iion to the group. 
Consequently, the charity fund
• 

The California Supreme Court benefits directly from an aspect of ruled yesterday that Catholic the Catholic liturgical service ­Charities, a non-profit Catholic the most fundamental aspect of organization performing charita­Catholic practice. ble deeds nationwide, must pro-Furthermore, the organization 
vide contra-includes a division intended to 
Staff Editorial ceptive cov-organize the activities of member erage to groups within the Catholic social employees in teachings. 
The Collegiate accordance The group cannot be separated 
Times with from its foundation in faith, and California the court has succeeded in delib­law­erately ignoring the relationship despite and rationalizing the fabrication 
Catholic teaching against contra­of such a division. ceptive techniques. The courts, and indeed the gov­
Without a word of qualification, ernment, must recognize the the Supreme Court has infringed rights of religious groups to teach upon the rights of religious and uphold beliefs within reason­organi.zations to follow and sup­able bounds-without the inter­port the teachings for which they ference of the secular world. are responsible. This is an unpar­While Catholic Charities does alleled violation of religious free­indeed employ and minister to dom, and has set a precedent non-Catholic individuals. the from which courts around the court should not use this asjusti­country may find support for sim­fication for their impunity. ilar rulings against the rights of Neither set of individuals are religious organizations. forced to contribute or benefit 
The foundation for the 
from the fund and requir­court's 6-1 ruling comes ing the organization to 
defy its own religious ideology from which it is founded is an enforced hypocrisy tan ta­mount to tyran­ny. If this coun­try is to meet 
the demands of what seems to be 
a large fraction of its popu­
lace, it will divorce religion from the state. In this event, it must not be a mere 
restrain­ing order on religion, 
as the California Supreme Court has issued. Yesterday's ruling snubs the constitution­al rights of reli­gious freedom on the grounds of over­whelming disregard for Catholic Charities' 

religious presence. Moreover, the California court has purposefully declared that the government will wrongfully retain influence over religion when it interferes with secular social agendas. 
This is a double standard that cannot exist in a truly free and liberated society. 
This article originally appeared on Mar. 2 in The Collegiate Times, the daily publication of Virginia Tech. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 

THE 0BSER\'ER 
CENE

page 12. 
Thursday, March 4, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Thursday declares war 
Photo courtesy of mtv.com Underground rock band Thursday recently released its major label debut, War All the Time, but the band retains its roots. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

New jazz album is 'strangely liberating' 
tone poems. 

Douglas, who plays the trumpet, has created a group with a very unique and refreshing sound. 
Clarence Penn, who plays the drums, has the spectacular ability to recognize the time in all of its subdivi­sions and exploit them in such a way that the feel is always fresh and never tiresome for even a measure. Like a great drummer should, he takes con­trol of the music and drives it to where it wants to go based on the feeling of the other players. His fills are simple and tasteful, and his brush­work is incredible. 
Frisell is a star whose playing shines on pretty much every album on which he appears, and Strange Liberation is no exception. He carves out his own little niche nicely in a group that has played together extensively without 
him. His sig­nature blue­grass twang comes out at just the right moments, and his har­monics and palm mutes fit so well that you could go as far as to call them necessary to the music. Frisell has an extremely creative sense .of melody when improv1smg. He weaves in and out of the chords with a mas­ter's touch and stays right in the pocket, no matter how syn­copated his rhythmic figures may seem. As an accompanist, he employs a superior reper­toire of chord voicings to create any color or mood that he chooses. 

Chris Potter is another player who challenges you to find a bad spot on his discography, both as a leader and a side­man. He and Douglas play very well together, which is a testa­ment not only to both players' ability but to Douglas's fantas­tic composing. 
Caine utilizes the sound of the Fender Rhodes with tremendous skill and adds a 

Photo courtesy of davedouglas.com Trumpeter Dave Douglas utilizes a modern jazz sound on his group's latest release. 
certain ambiance to the group that a normal piano wouldn't achieve. He accounts for Frisell's addi­tion to the rhythm section by pulling back and sharing the accompaniment duties. Both players respect one another's space under the soloist. 
James Genus rounds out the rhythm section very well. His playing is very lyrical at times, and he will frequently neglect a regular pulse in favor of col­orful lines that not only hold the group together but add another voice to the mix. 
This is definitely an album that you can listen to all the way through. The title track alternates between straight and swing feels, or broken swing, and features Douglas improvising over the melody. "Skeeter-ism" is a great tune that's very loosely based on "Blue Monk," and alternates between a bouncy double-time feel and a gospel­esque groove. "Just Say This" is a somber ballad, and Douglas's subtle and classy tribute to those affected by the 9/11 tragedy. "Mountains From the Train" is a freer, more experimental piece that features Frisell 's mastery of loop and effect pedals for the guitar. 
Strange Liberation is a tremendous album that both the student of jazz and the casual listener should be able to enjoy. 
Contact Christopher Kepner at ckepner@nd.edu 
By MICHAEL TENNANT 
Scene Music Critic 

Thursday's third full-length album brought with it the heavy burden of huge expectations from not only the band's fans, but also from similar bands hoping they would carve a path into the mainstream that others could follow. After releasing two albums, including 2001's hit Full Collapse under Chicago-based independ­ent label Victory Records, the band signed with Island Def Jam Records, home to both Jay-Z and Bon Jovi. Even with the backing of a major label, these New Jersey punk/hardcore rockers refuse to forget 

By CHRISTOPHER KEPNER 
Scene Music Critic 

Strange Liberation pairs Dave Douglas' current working quintet with guest guitarist Bill Frisell. The leader expresses sheer joy at the opportunity to collaborate with Frisell, and claims that he has desired to do so since 1987. On his Web site, Douglas describes hearing Frisell and his band as a "revelation." 
The music on this record is very modern in style. The tunes exhibit long, drawn-out themes for the most part, and the solos, especially Frisell's and Uri Caine's, can be anything but traditional at times. Some of the tracks on this album, most notably "Just Say This" and "Mountains From the Train," might even be classified as 
Strange 
their roots. 

On War All the Time, which was released in late 2003, Thursday stays true to the heavy yet emotional style that they are known for. The album is full of intense start/stop guitar playing interwoven around slower and deliberate melodies. Lead singer Geoff Rickly finds a near-per­fect mix of low, quiet singing and loud emotional outbursts that should be described as screams, but often feel more like painful cries. 
The album starts with the musical equiv­alent of a punch in the face, as the first track, "For the Workforce, Drowning" begins with an explosion of crunched gui­tar chords. This same intensity is carried throughout the rest of the album, either by the guitar work of Tom Keeley and Steve Padulla, or by the poignant vocals of Rickly. Even the beautifully written piano ballad "This Song Brought to You by a Fa I I i n g Bomb," car­ries an energy about it thanks to 
Rickly's uncon­ventional and strained voice. 
Lyrically, this album show­cases a more m a t u r e Thursday than the one that recorded their previous two albums. The lyrics are very poetic, as was the case with 

Full Collapse, but the songs on War All the Time have much deeper and usually darker meanings behind them. As the album title suggests, all the songs appear to revolve around some aspect of war. But this is not an album full of anti-war protest or pro-war rallying cries. Instead, Thursday uses war as a metaphor for battles in life, ranging from relationships to mindless violence and even suicide. 
One of the best songs on the album, "For the Workforce ... " talks about people drowning in the corporate nine-to-five existence, waiting for life to start. It also includes an excellent breakdown at the midway point, leaving just the skilled drumming of Tucker Rule and Rickly's vocals mixing with melodic guitar lines, all building up to the most intense moment on the album. 
"Signals Over the Air," the first single from the album, also stands out. This song about communication and sexual identity confusion contains the biggest hook on the album. Long-time Thursday fans might see this as the band walking dangerously close to the line of mainstream radio rock. In actuality, the moving yet also disturbing lyrics coupled with the skillful guitar work of Keeley and Padulla make this one of the best songs on the album. 

With War All the Time, Thursday has put together a quality album. The unconven­tional start/stop rhythm of the driving gui­tars along with the painfully emotional lyrics create an album that pleads for one to listen with the same intensity that the band put into the record. This is not back­ground music. What it is, though, is a great example of why the New Jersey under­ground scene is so proud of this band. 
Contact Michael Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 

~----~----~ 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 4, 2004 
Final stretch begins with tonight's Senior Night 

By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 

The discussion isn't about whether the Irish will beat Georgetown or St. John's, but how many games in the Big East Tournament the Irish need to win to have their name called on Selection Sunday. 
But sitting at 14-11 overall, 7-7 in con­ference with a home loss to Central Michigan, the Irish aren't looking past these next three days -especially with tonight being Senior Night. 
"We just want to get No. 8 right now," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "If this team can finish with a win­ning record in Big game. I'm just going to do what I've been doing all season and hopefully we come out with a win." 
Despite their 4-1 0 record in the Big East, the Irish know from recent history a challenging, and perhaps lengthy game, could come from the Hoyas tonight. 
Two years ago at the MCI Center, the Irish and Hoyas battled for four over­times in a classic 116-111 win for the Irish. Last year at the Joyce Center, the Irish survived a double overtime game winning 93-92. 
''I'm hoping it's not going to take that much. I don't know if we have that ener­gy and because we are short on bodies," Jones said. "Obviously we are going to go out
"Once we get done with the 
East play, that'd be a there and play our heck of a thing to Big East Tournament, we'll hearts out. If it takes hang our hat on." four overtimes we'll
see where we stand and 
That eighth win play the 60-minute
how the chips fall. " 
would be a nice part­game." ing gift for Brey's The Irish recognize
-
seniors -Torrian Torrian Jones a loss in the next three Jones and Tom days would kill their
Irish senior
Timmermans -in their last regular season home game. Last year the Irish couldn't send their seniors out with a win in their last home game against Syracuse. That's something this year's underclassmen don't want to happen again. 
"I've been playing all my three years with those guys, so they've been instru­mental in my career and for the other guys in the locker room," Irish forward Jordan Cornette said. "For the simple fact that our teammates are great friends, we want to get this one for them." 
While the Irish came into this season with higher expectations, Jones and Timmermans have found their roles on this team and learned how to contribute on a nightly basis. 
That's why its appropriate Jones is try.­ing to treat tonight's game against Georgetown like any other at the Joyce Center. 
"''m just trying to go about it with the same approach as any other game," Jones said. "It's still a big game on our schedule and the fact that it's my last game doesn't get in the way of our main goal, our main focus of the season. 
'Tm not going to go out there trying to score 30 points because it's my last 
NCAA Tournament 

hopes, and they can't look ahead to making noise in the Big East Tournament yet. That's the message Brey gave his players after the loss to Providence. 
"It really helps to focus because we know how important every single game is." Jones said. "Forget about the post­season right now, don't even talk about it -just think about one game at a time, winning every game. Once we get done with the Big East Tournament we'll see where we stand and how the chips fall." 
Hearing that attitude from a senior like Jones is what makes Brey appreciate his senior class. Jones and Timmermans weren't asked to step into the spotlight until this season, but they've done an admirable job in helping the Irish over­come all of the adversity they have expe­rienced this season. 
"I think you got to be very proud of Jones and Timmermans. They were always role players in our system," Brey said. "We asked them to do more against the toughest schedule we've ever played. I'm proud that at a key time they're play­ing their best basketball for us. 
"Certainly we'd love to send them out with a win." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
PosT PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 




Give Brey credit -when almost everyone else was counting the Irish out, Brey kept his team calm and helped the Irish roll off three big wins in February. But is that enough to get the Irish into March Madness?  With Francis out, Notre Dame has adopt­ed a five-out set where all five starters move around the floor and slash to the basket. If the Irish are making their 3-pointers, they're tough to beat.  While the Irish lost their most reliable low­post presence in Francis, Cornette and Timmermans have . picked up the offensive production and are mobile enough to cause problems for a lot of teams.  When Thomas, Quinn and Jones are hot, look out. The three have formed the bulk of Notre Dame's offense since Francis left and have demonstrated a solid commitment to defense that has helped Notre Dame through a tough February.  Only Falls and Cornett have seen sig­nificant action for the Irish. Falls has started hunting for his shot more, and Cornett is developing into a solid low-post presence, but neither play enough minutes to have a sig­nificant impact.  It's senior night. A loss puts a serious dent in Notre Dame's tourney hopes. The Irish are on a roll coming back from a California trip. Notre Dame has too many reasons to win this game, and not too many to lose.  
Esherick has strug­gled since taking over the Hoyas. He is 90-59 in his four years at Georgetown's helm, but has accomplished little. Plus, his team is in the midst of one of the worst conference sea­sons in Georgetown history.  The Hoyas are really a two-man game, led by Riley and Bowman. Yet, like Notre Dame, they're not afraid to hoist the 3-pointer. They also feature a stingy defense that leads the Big East in steals.  With Sweetney finally out of the picture, the skinny Bowman is the most dangerous low­post threat. He leads the team in rebound­ing, is second in points scored and also has the range to shoot the 3­pointer.  Cook has done an adequate job at the point, but Riley is the team's leading scorer. However, no other guard averages more than nine points a game. Owens, however, is a dangerous threat from behind the arc.  The Hoyas go eight­deep by playing Reed, Causey and Kilkenny­Diaw. Yet the trio are little more than people who give starters rest -neither averages at least five points a game, even though they have played in all the Hoyas' games.  Right now, Georgetown is fighting with Miami just to make the Big East Tournament. The sea­son has been a wash for the Hoyas, but a win at the Joyce Center would be a nice feather in the cap.  
Brey has led the Irish to thre~_ straight NCAA Tournaments while Eshe~ri•~ fighting· to, gif:L h " team into tht\~__lS_-­_l Tour_nt;~.,tn~t__.11_'''" . yisn't ­~~;a; · deb he  With Notre Dame's offensive inconsistency, it's tough to tell who has the eclge hera. If, the Irish play J.i.k1l ~y · ~id in mid-February, fh'~Y're "unn~lievably' good. If they struggle again at home, the Hoyas could make things interesting.  Cornette wiij. match up well with B'own,tan, and with tnif w~a)'., Timmermans 1111$ beenil playing, the Iris "~' ~­ufl;; cause ,ig p~~ . ffr· th0 ··1 .Y -.-i sp~-'_·: \_j  Notre Dame's guards. when they're at tb,e top of their game, can <.6-, pete with any back~~: in the, nattoi--w Gep__ rg~to~mwi-~__telits han ' · · · l£0 .ooutain ' h ' -co-.1,. ·''1 jt.,.______J \......-.  Neither team is known for its bench, and that's something that is typical of both, coaching ·styl~.s. Brey and Esherick prefer to 'ride their starters aS' much as possible and rarely go to the bench except to give some­body a rest.  In their last thr~e meetings, the Irish and the Hoyas have playf)d an average of two over-> time: periodS. B11t with 1 se~mingly eve~qg ) wor~ing,_Jn . : Nf1$:e J Dame's favor, it doesnl' -apiitar~at "'11I ha~ain tlu~e.  

Thursday, March 4, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
No keeping up with this Jones 
Merely a role player for his first three years with the Irish, senior .Torrian Jones now explodes through his final year 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Senior StafJWrircr 
Mirnd in a Big East season whnro he spent more games on tlw lwni:h than he did on the eourt, Torrian Jones grew frus­trated. 
lie watehed his teammates nwl off night straight wins to loek up tj-w Big East West Division titln. lin watehed the Irish make their first NCAA Tournanwnt in ovnr a decade. lin watdwd. he watehnd, and wlwn he thought he was done watching, he watched some morn. 
But when he listened to then­assistant eoaeh Anthony Solomon. hn f'elllwttl~r. 
"It's not about the aecolades. It's not about thn statistics," .Jones remembers Solomon barking at him time aftnr time. "It's about how you linish your r.arenr." · 
Tonight, .Jones will play his l'inal rngular snason game in tlw .Joyee Center. will st1~p onto the court with his parents to a thunderous roar from the crowd and will reeeive a heart­fnlt hug from his lwad eoaeh. 
That's because .Jones now starts every night, leads every day and avnragns 32 minutes, IJ.I points and 6.3 rnbounds a gamn. 
But haek when hn was a frnshman. whnn he privately wondered il' he'd bn able to eonlribute to the Irish, he bare­ly nqualed those numbers in the entire Big East season. Freshman futility 
Jonns joined a Notre Dame tnam in 2000 that was meeting its third head eoaeh in as many yp,ars. And while Jones. who originally eommitted to former Notre Dame coach Matt Doherty, nnver considered changing schools, he wondered whern his place on the team man. would be. "I got in the game, I felt com­
It turned out thn coaching fortable, and I wasn't nervous," staff was wondering the same he said. "I was helping the thing. Over the eourse of his team out, and that's when I 
freshman year. Jones played a realized I could contribute for 
smattering of point guard, my team." shooting guard and wing -Boost of confidence mostly in spot duty to give the Just because he could con­
more experieneed Irish rest. tribute, however. didn't mean 
"I was stuck  that  Jones  
in high school  would see his  
mode for a while," he said. "I want­ "You're rooting for a guy like Torrian Jones."  minutes dra­matically increase. He  
ed  to  do  was  stuck  
everything flashy, to make that  Mike Brey Irish coach  playing behind veter­ans like  

spectacular thread-the­needle pass you could make in high school but not in collegfl." 
Towards the end of the sea­son, something clicked for Jones and his coaches. lie set­lind at the wing position, where he eould most effectively drive to the basket to score acrobatic layups. In wins against Hutgers 
and  Virginia  Tech.  Jones  
playml 14 minutes.  
But it wasn't until  Notre  

Damn's last game of the season -a loss against Mississippi in the second round of the NCM Tournament -whnn Jones finally startnd fneling comfort­abln. The stat line showed that he playnd only six minutes and scored four points -but it meant the world to the fresh-
D a v i d 

Graves, Matt Carroll and Dan Miller, and the arrival of McDonald's All­American Chris Thomas meant Jones would essentially be relieved of his point guard responsibilities. 
So he settled into the life of a role player, getting called on to play live minutes one game, 20 minutes the next. 
"It's always tough, and I knew it was going to be like that," he said. "And it wasn't like I was getting sat for guys who didn't deserve to play. 
"But it's tough because you want to contribute more, and that means toning your game down and taking that role play­er position. I'd get discouraged because I wanted to unleash 

my full game, but I was win­
. ning games and I was happy." While he consistently talked with his coaches about playing more, Jones understood his role as the team's defensive spark. With Solomon's assis­tance, Jones became a more refined player who demonstrat­ed increased maturity and decision-making. 
He got an unexpected boost of confidence midway through the season, when Brey inserted him into the starting lineup in place of a struggling Graves. He ended up starting nine of the next 10 games and scored a career-high 17 points in a win against Miami. 
"It showed that the reason that they weren't playing me wasn't because I couldn't con­tribute, but because they had older guys who could do it," he said. 
Jones' selfless, team-first attitude continued into his jun­ior year. He looked around the country and saw his peers playing major minutes or start­ing, yet he remained in a large­ly-supporting role. 
His classmate and close friend, Chris Markwood, could­n't take it. Unsatisfied with his minutes midway through the season, Markwood transferred from Notre Dame. But Jones didn't -and earned respect from his teammates as a result. 
"There's a lot of guys in his situation who would have transferred," Brey said. "I real­ly respect how he handled it." 
Speaking up 

If Jones was a supporting actor on the court, then his vocal leadership made him the star in the locker room. 
It began in a game 

at Indiana "It's not about the rebounds-per­his sopho­game average
accolades. It's not about 
more year, by five. When
the statistics. It's about 
w h e n Torin Francis Jones and how you finish your was sidelined, senior Jones grabbed
career."
R y a n 12 rebounds in Humphrey wins against started 
Torrlan Jones Connecticut yelling at on advice an assistant coach and Syracuse each other gave him as a freshman -two wins 
in the mid­dle of a timeout. The scene was almost comical -a wet-behind-the-ears soph­omore going toe-to-toe against a future NBA first-round draft pick. 
But when the two left the huddle, they shook hands and Humphrey said he was proud of how Jones called the veteran out. 
"When you get to a point like that where an accomplished senior and a guy who is going to the NBA says that and shows you that respect, you have that much more confidence," said Jones, who modeled his own off-court attitude off Humphrey's style of motiva­tional and vocal leadership. 
Soon. Jones adopted a vocal role in the loeker room. If his contributions weren't evidnnt on the eourt, they wore obvious ofT of it. 
"Even as a sophomore, hn always had a good voice in our locker room," Brny said. "That was always something he had. Once we pushnd tho buttons. we knew he'd be grmtt at it." 
Senior moment 
The departurns of Graves, Carroll and Millnr left a start­ing spot open in the Irish baek­court. And in Brny's mind, there was no question who he was going to give it. to. 
"It was only fitting," Brny said, "that he deserved to bn a starter and a 30-minute-a­game guy given that he's bnm1 such a team player." 
Given the chance to do what­ever he wanted, Jones tried to do everything. In seeking to fill the void left by Notre Dame's shooters, Jones worked on his shooting over the summer, believing he had to duplieate their 3-point prowess for Notre Dame to win. 
But when the season started and Notre Dame lost three of' its first live games. Jones start­ed trying to earry the Irish by playing out of his elmnent. 
'That's probably as much my fault as it was his fault," Brey said. "You're not tnlling him not to shoot or seore, you neP.d him to score, but he had to remember who he is." 
"I was trying to l'ill the void the wrong way," .Jones said. "I tried to be like Matt and Dan in shooting 3s and jumpers. 
"That's not my game. I was trying to do all I could to help out, and it was like I was doing all the wrong things." 
Brey and Jones came to the conclusion at roughly the same time. So just before Big East play started, the two sat down and the head coach told his senil)jl "get baek to what you do best," which is driving, -dishing and rebounding. 
The results were immediate -Jones' point-per-game aver­
age increased 
by one and 
that helped 
propel the 

Irish to the brink of the NCAA Tournament. Now, Brey thinks Jones deserves to be named the league's most improved player. 
Jones isn't Notre Dame's leading point seorer. He isn't the most prolific 3-point threat or the team's best rebounder and shot blocker. 
But he's a player everyone is watehing. 
"You're rooting for a guy like Torrian Jones," thP. Irish coaeh said. "What he's getting now ho deserves to got." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Thursday, March 4, 2004

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
BREAKING 
DOWN THE 
BUBBLE 
AIR FORCE 
As Selection Sunday approaches, the Irish sit squarely on the proverbial bubble. After analyzing the key factors the selection com­mittee uses to chose the tournament field, The Observer predicts that 35 teams (at right) have done enough to quality for the final field regardless of whether they win their conference tournaments. Additionally, we project that 18 conferences will send only their league champion to the NCAA Tournament. After adding three more auto­matic bids from conferences where some top teams could be considered bubble teams if they don't win their conference tournament (Jar right), nine at-large spots remain for the 20 bubble teams listed below. 
BYU 
21-5 overall, 11-2 in the Mountain West 
16-7 overall, 8-5 in the Mountain West 
RPI:  48  Analysis  
Schedule strength: 168  The top seed in  
Road record:  7-5  the conference  
Last 10 games:  7-3  tournament  
vs.  Top 50 RPI: 3-1  has a  terrific  
Top  100 RPI:  6-4  record against  
Top 25 RPI wins: 0  top  teams  it  
plays, but one  
bad loss and a  
weak schedule  
Remaining game:  strength hurt  
Wyoming (away)  its case.  

FLORIDA STATE 
17-11 overall, 6-9 In the ACC 
RPI:  47  Analysis  
Schedule strength: 26  If  the  road  
Road record:  2-9  record is over­ 
Last 10 games:  4-6  looked,  the  
vs. Top 50 RPI: 4-9  ACC's  depth  
Top 100 RPI: 8-11  may be enough  
Top 25 RPI wins: 3  to get Florida  
State in even  
though they'll  
finish  with  a  
Remaining game:  losing confer­ 
Georgia Tech (away)  ence record.  

MISSOURI 

RICHMOND
., 
' 

17-11 overjt. II, 9-'4i In ttAtlantlc 10 
RPI: i ~ alysis Sched~ sti\mgth: 2? ."'V h i I e Road ret;ord\ ~~6 Al'tichmond is 1­
Last 10 ~~li:  7-3  ..~~~ainst  top  
vs. Top 50 f{PI: 1-7  ~a~it is 6-3  
Top 100 ~Jft;t-t.-10 Top 25 Rfl vfin~ ilf f J  ~inst mid­levlf teams and beat,Kansas. A  
;  winning road  
\  r  e  rc  o r  d  
Remaining g.me:  enhances  its  
Massachusetts (h~me)  case.  




-
Will the 
Irish qualify? 
NEVADA 
17-8 overall, 11-5 in the WAC 
RPI:  42  Analysis  
Schedule strength: 48  Nevada  has  
Road record:  5-8  beaten every  
Last 10 games:  .8-2  top  100 RPI  
vs. Top 50 RPI: 2-2  team it played  
Top  100 RPI: '6:..6  and  is  on  a  
Top 25 RPI wins: 1  red-hot pace  
in its last 10  
games. A win  
Remaining games:  over  Kansas  
Hawaii (home), 'San  looks impres­ 
Jose State (home)  sive as well.  

RICE 
1:9-8 overall, 11-4 in the WAP 
· · f' teams has a 
Rll~i  57  Analysis  
SchedtJle strength: 96  While ~ice  il>  
Road ~ord:  5-6  playip.g  well  
Last. 10 games::  i<ii3  recently, it has  
vs. Top50 _"RPI: ,2-4  llfl1eofthe:'eas­ 
Top  1Otf' lfPt:  5·-6  iest schedules  
Top 25 RP~~~':-;0,  ~f  .  bubble  
'  

1-'"'·"',J ·Jess~th~n-stel­
·~;.... 1, ·Iar RPI and Remaining game: hasn't beaten Louisiana Tech (home) a top 25 team. 
UTAH STATE 
23-2 overall, 16-1 in the Big West 
R 'J:''~-~~"--'"1: 39 S<! lledule strenfb: 193 R ad record: ~ 9-2 Lest 10 gam~: 9-1 vs. Top 50 Rfl: 1-1 T p 100 RJ>l: 2-2 Tc p 25 RPI \fins: 1 --·-· , 

~ACC·~· ~A-10·­
:::> BIG ~ • et.l & 'i:t & 
gEAST~~'~ f121111l~ 7/; 
~BIG 12~ ...BIGTEN•s• 
Z CONF & ida.~ ~ ~ MISSOURI­
(§ USA /J§!J' 81 .. L ~ •.. VALLEY
8PAe-1o I iJ! wee~ · gsEc ~~~\lc···JJr&i 
RPI: 34 Schedule strength: 43 Road record: 4-7 Last 10 games: 7-3 vs. Top 50 RPI: 1-3 Top 100 RPI: 4-5 Top 25 RPI wins: 1 
Remaining game: UNLV (away) 
Analysis Even though the Cougars are -the 
Mountain West 
team with the most balanced resume, their low RPI and hot streak are equally impres­sive. 
"" .1.
• -oth: • "
'J

Remaining game: m err con1er­Idaho (away) ence tourney. 
Jlia:fVs"~"'~"-·"j
fhe~one of just ~e tea s ~ thel;ount y "fvith twcr~oss s. But :tf ;iwe k schedu'te giv s 
j.Jtah_Sf.a.;t·.Jen~­son to.:be n e 

COLORADO 
16-9 overall, 9-6 in the Big 12 
RPI:  51  Analysis  
Schedule strength: 67  As a team that  
Road record:  6-5  has played· its  
Last 10 games:  6-4  way onto. the  
vs. Top 50 RPI: 3-7  bubbl«:J  with  
Top  100 RPI:  7-8  its league per­ 
Top 25 RPI wins: 0  formance, the  
Buffalos  are  
hurt by their  
lack  of wins  
Remaining games:  against elite  
Nevada (home)  opponents.  

NOTRE DAME 
14-11 overall, 7-7 in the Big East 
RPI:  46  Ailalysis  
Schedule strength: 16  The  Irish  
Road record:'  5-5  countered an  
Last 10 games:  5-5  early loss  to  
vs. Top 50 RPI: 4-8  Centra:!  
Top 100 RPI: 6-10  Michigan with  
Top 25 RPI wins: 3  three  big  
February wins.  
Notre Dame's  
Remaining games:  tough $Chedule  
Georgetown (home),  on!yhelps its  
St. John's (away)  cause'"···  

RUTGERS 
15-10 overall, 7-8 in the Big East 
RPI: 38. Analysis RPI: 
Schedule strength: 18  Absolute I y  
Road record:  2-9  atrocious  on  
Last 10 games:  5-5  the  road,  
vs. Top 50 RPI: 1-7  Rutgers has a  
Top  100 RPI:  4-7  tough schedule  
Top 25 RPI wins: 1  and a solid RPI.  
They beat the  
Irish and can  
help  their  
Remaining game:  cause against  
Seton Hall (home)  Seton Hall.  



BIG WEST Utah State is the easy favorite to win the tourna­ment, but if they Jose, they could gobble up an at­large bid. MOUNTAIN WEST Air Force, BYU and Utah all have legitimate enough credentials to justify two at-large bids. WAC Nevada, Rice and UTEP all have decent chances of impressing the selection committiee enough to earn an·at-large bid. WEST COAST Gonzaga is a lock to make the NCAA Tournament, but they've never made it through a season without losing at least one wee game. 
DePAUL 
17-8 overall, 10-4 inC-USA 
48 Analysis 

Schedule strength: 64  This is  a  far  
Road record:  6-4  different team  
Last ·to games:  8-2  from the one  
Top  50  RPI:  3-5  the Irish beat  
Top  100 RPI:  6-8  in December,  
Top 25 RPI wins: 2  as  shown  by  
how they beat  
Memphis and  
Remaining games:  Louisville and  
Cincinnati (home),  their  great  
South Florida (away)  league record.  

MICHIGAN 


16-10 overall, 7-8 in the Big Ten 
RPj: 53 ~ysis Sc~ule strerurth: 53 lri a woeful\Big Roli(l,record~ 2-7 "ftm, Michigan 
rv:.t::~ft~~~~; ·:·~~f::~:~~ 
!fop r1'00'· It'PI:" S-tJ ·and 'its~ play 
TlftrZS RPI'W11\s!"2 "':fg;,til1SJ -"'t'tf]f teams, e-ven though ~he 
Wt!Jhe-t'f11 e s Remaining game: 'neal N.C. State Northwestern (away) and Wisconsin. 

OKLAHOMA 
17-9 overall, 7-8 In the Big 12 

RPI:  44  Analysis  
Schedule strength: 37  Oklahoma has  
Road record:  3-6  slipped  in  
Last 10 games:  6-4  recent  weeks  
vs. Top 50 RPI: 2-8  and hasn't had  
Top  100 RPI:  5-9~  much success  
Top 25 RPI wins: 0  against  top  
·t o n f e r e n c e  
teams. Yet its  
RPI  is  ·good  
Remaining games:  enough tO keep  
Baylor (home)  them around.  

1~~ :;:~a~~;~~·Atla···;~;;;ioRPI: "\ 60,/Analysis/ Sched strength: Xavierts poor Road re d: ~6 RPI / and Last 10 g es: 8-2 un&/ectacular vs. Top 50 PI: 4-4 c ofl f e r e n c e Top 100 .RPI: 6-9 rec'\rd is hal­Top 25 ¥1 wins: 2 anceli,. by wins
/  l\ a  g a'\j  n  s  t  
.  \ ~incinri'li  and  
/  .  i.ellow but!ble- 

RJetainin~ g&q!~·'' d w e l l~r 
IempTe\away · · " I'Mnmonl!."' 
Andrew Soukup -Senior Staff Writer The Irish will have to win at least two games in the Big East Tournament to improve their tournament resume. If they do, they're in. But Notre Dame has only won two tourney games since it joined the Big East, and it won't beat the second­round foe it needs to in order to make the NCAAs. 
Prediction: NIT 

Matt Lozar -Editor in Chief Ifthe Irish don't win tonight, Saturday and in the Big East Tournament opener, their tourney dreams are over. The biggest game of the year comes in the second-round against one of the top three teams in the Big East. A win gets the Irish to 18 victories and three wins over top 10 RPl teams. A loss puts the Irish on the wrong side of the bubble. 
Prediction: NCAA Tournament 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Thursday, March 4, 2004 
Page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
John Frusciante collides with greatness 
By BRIAN FOY • 
Scene Music Critic 
Why should we expect mediocrity in the albums we listen to? Why should we buy an album that is only a mere 30 minutes in length? (Cough, Cough ­The Strokes) Why should we submit to albums where every song sounds that same as the one before it? (Achew -Linkin Park) If record labels continue to 

By RYAN RAFFERTY Scene Music Critic 
If a band wants to be successful today, it needs some sort of gimmick that makes it stand out. Consider the past success of musicians like Dashboard Confessional, Blink 182 and Britney Spears. Each has its own specific shtick that sets it apart from the masses. Dashboard Confessional has the emo market corner_ed with whiny lyrics and acoustic guitar. Blink 182 has the oxymoronic category of punk-pop cov­ered with its over the top goofball music. Britney Spears has ... well, Britney Spears, and let's face it, sex sells. None of these bands have produced anything musically groundbreaking, but they all became huge thanks to their own gim­micks that numerous artists have imitat-turn out the same sickening "music," then we must turn back to the great the artists for the remedies we seek. 

Two of the well constructed and com­plete albums of the last five years are the Red Hot Chili Peppers' Californication and By the Way. These albums border on perfection for a myri­ad of reasons, but the most apparent is the intricate and progressive play of John Frusciante. He has taken the Red Hot Chili Peppers from a good California band to one of the best bands 
on the planet. 
Frusciante and the rest of the Red Hot Chili Peppers released its lat­est album By the Way only two years ago, but somehow Shadows Collide with People goes in new directions the Hed Hot Chili Peppers have yet to explore. The album is a far cry from previous efforts by Frusciante and for those looking for Californication "The Hemix" or By the Way "Part Deux," this is not the place to find it. 
Shadows Collide With People manages to blend Frusciante's gui­tar playing with pro­gressive arrangements 
and sounds. On the 
ed. Cue the Volcano. Mark Duplass, lead singer and organist 
for the band Volcano, I'm Still Excited, began his musical career as a solo acoustic guitar act However, after being diagnosed with severe tendonitis in both arms he decided to give up guitar -but not music. Instead Duplass picked up a keyboard and started recording the foun­dations of what would become Volcano, I'm Still Excited's debut release. Duplass joined fellow Austin, Texas natives Craig Montoro, guitarist for labelmate Mates of State, and drummer John Thomas. After fleshing out their self-titled debut release, the result is glorious. 
Volcano, I'm Still Excited has a unique shtick that separates it from many bands, which is its entire musical setup. The band consists of Duplass playing a ten-
dollar Casio keyboard, Montoro playing guitar and Thomas playing a double bass drum kit. But their uniqueness does not end there. The band's lyrics main­ly consist of one single phrase. While this may seem like a very boring and bland approach, the band pulls it otT beautifully. 
For instance, on a song entitled "Trunk of My Car," Duplass begins singing alone: "Love are you waiting I underneath my bed I love are you I riding in the trunk of my car I trust, hope, faith." Montoro then suddenly enters singing the exact same words, but in a round sort of manner. The two sing these opening track, "Carval." a synthesizer is used to pro­duce a sound that can only be described as a prehis­toric birth. Then from the waters of life. Frusciante's familiar voice and guitar emerge. Frusciante reveals his 
Shadows Collide with People 
John Frusciante 
Warner Brothers Records 



angelic voice as it casts a spiritual shadow over the song's chorus. During the bridge, an eerie, funky bass materi­alizes that runs in and out through the rest of the track. By the end of "Carval," there are so many intricacies present that they appear as a rolling wall of sound. 
"Song to Sing When I'm Lonely" shows how well Frusciante matches his guitar with vocal and musical har­monies. The track's introduction is composed of a synthesizer that conjures up images of the Victorian Age. This leads to the refreshing vocals and acoustic strumming that Frusciante does so well. Both the vocal and guitar melodies are rather simple on this track, but it is the way that they are used to create the final product that is impressive. The transitions throughout 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Quirky band holds its own 
Volcano, I'm 
Still Excited 
Volcano, I'm Still Excited 
Polyvinyl Records 

lyrics over and over in a round throughout the entire song. Keyboards, guitar and drums ensue after four rounds and build th~ song's rich melody. Think "How, Row, Row Your Boat" jazzed up a bit. 
Most of the band's songs are performed in this way. The lyrics of "By No Means" consist solely of three words: No, means and yes. In the final song, "Two Exclamation Points" Duplass sings the band's namesake: "Volcano, I'm Still Excited." The best track on the album, "Goodbye, Casio," is by far the simplest track with only minimal keyboard chords, a subdued bass drum and of course the incredibly simple lyrics: "Calm me down I I've been so uptight I and I'm ready this time." 
The simple, repetitive lyrics may sound unexciting, but Volcano, I'm Still Excited harmonizes so brilliantly one doesn't seem to notice. The three band members' singing complements the music perfectly. They go together like peanut butter and the track showcase Frusciante's ability as a musician rather than simply a gui­tarist, while his ability to sing over his guitar playing only reinforces this. 
Shadows Collide with People show­cases Frusciante's ability as a gifted musician far more than his previous releases with the Hed I lot Chili Peppers. On this record, Frusciante is in control and at the helm of a musical adventure. He mixes familiar guitar playing with innovative musical sounds and arrange­ments that produce one of the truly ... great albums of the young year. Shadows Collide with People proves the Hed Hot Chili Peppers depends on Frusciante for more than his ability on the guitar -he is a creative musical genius. 
Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 

jelly or macaroni and cheese. There is only one problem with these honey drip­ping harmonies: they seemingly appear out of nowhere. The music has no crescendo or build up. Every song seems like a snippet from a much longer song. The average length of the songs is about two and a half minutes -far too short. The songs are achingly catchy, fun and beautiful. but they are so short they leave the listener wanting much more. 
Overall Volcano, I'm Still Excited's debut album is amazing. Its music is nothing groundbreaking, and it takes the same ·­musical path blazed by They Might Be Giants and Elvis Costello. But the band puts a new spin on the classic quirky key­board driven music with its unusual approach to singing and lyrics. which refreshes the style. Volcano, I'm Still ..... Excited is a fun, quirky band that anyone with an open mind will enjoy. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rraffert@nd.edu 
,-------­
page 14 Thursday, March 4, 2004 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Bryant's accuser will appeal order to testify 
Associated Press 
EAGLE, Colo. Prosecutors will ask the Colorado Supreme Court to overturn a judge's decision to allow Kobe Bryant's attor­neys to ask his accuser detailed questions about her sexual history. 
State District Judge Terry Ruckriegle denied requests from prosecutors to scrap a March 24-25 closed-door hearing where the 19-year­old woman will testify in the ca!!e for the first time. On Tuesday, he also rejected their request to limit what the defense can ask her. 
Prosecutors intend to file an appeal with the state's high court, spokeswoman Krista Flannigan said Wednesday. She refused to comment further. 
The judge's ruling came after a two-day hearing on evidence in the case. The woman had been scheduled to testify Tuesday, but Ruckriegle delayed her· appearance to consider pros­ecution objections. 
Bryant, 25, is accused of sexually assaulting the woman in June at the Vail­area resort where she worked and he was a guest. The Los Angeles Lakers' star said they had consensual sex. If convicted of felony sexual assault, he could face four years to life in prison or 20 years to life on probation. 
Under Colorado's rape­sliield law, the sexual activity of an alleged victim is pre­sumed to be irrelevant. Defense attorneys have to convince the judge otherwise in order to present details of other sexual activity to a jury. 
Defense attorneys Hal Haddon and Pamela Mackey say the details of · the woman's sex life are impor­tant in determining whether injuries found after her encounter with Bryant could have been caused by other men and whether she suf­fered emotional trauma, as prosecutors claim. 
Prosecutors argued such questions were irrelevant to the woman's claim that she was raped. 
The woman has told police she had sex with someone two days before the alleged attack. The defense, however, has repeatedly said she slept with multiple partners that week -including less than 15 hours after her encounter with Bryant. 
The hearing, nearly all of it held behind closed doors, also addressed the question of whether the woman waived her right to keep her medical records confidential and whether investigators illegally questioned Bryant after the alleged attack. 
Ruckriegle did not immedi­ately rule on the medical confidentiality question, and more arguments scheduled for the hearing later this month. 
NHL 

Bruins trade for Gonchar 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The Boston Bruins acquired defenseman Sergei Gonchar from the Washington Capitals on Wednesday in a bid to add scor­ing punch to their power play. 
The Bruins dealt Shaone Morrisonn and first-and sec­ond-round selections in the 2004 draft for the 29-year-old Gonchar, general manager Mike O'Connell announced. 
"The addition of Sergei makes us a better hockey club," O'Connell said. "He is one of the premier offensive defensemen in the game and that was an element that we felt needed upgrading on our team. He moves the puck very well, has great awareness on the ice and will be a great addition to our power play." 
The Bruins rank 14th in the league in power-play scoring with 39 goals in 242 opportuni­ties [16.1 percent]. 
Gonchar was leading the Capitals with 42 assists and 49 points in 56 games. He had four power-play goals and 11 multi­ple-point games. Morrisonn had one goal and six assists for Boston in 27 games this season. 
The trade is the latest move by the Capitals to slash their payroll. Gonchar, the leading scorer among NHL defensemen this season, follows Steve Konowalchuk, Jaromir Jagr, Peter Bondra and league scor­ing leader Robert Lang out the door. 
Capitals general manager George McPhee said he was only considering deals in which the Capitals would get a young defenseman in return. 


"The market was very limited, because there weren't many teams willing to give up a young defenseman," McPhee said. 
McPhee said the moves give the Capitals a foundation of young, talented players. 
"It's been difficult, but ... we're trying to do what we think is best for the hockey club in the near future," he said. 
Gonchar, who turns 30 next month, is in the final year of a contract that pays him $3.65 million this season. He becomes eligible for arbitration this sum­mer and will become an unre­stricted free agent the following year. He'd expressed a desire to leave the Capitals rather than be a part of a long-term rebuilding process. 
The 6-foot-2-inch, 215-pound native of Chelyabinsk, Russia, had spent his entire career with Washington after the Capitals selected him with the 14th overall pick in the 1992 draft. 
Since the start of the 1998-99 season, he's been the leading scorer among NHL defensemen with 109 goals. He's second among defensemen in points with 317. 

NBA 
Timberwolves devour Mavericks in 24-point victory 
down the stretch in a loss at "Tonight, we wanted to force 3s we were getting were pretty (Olowokandi) alone down in the
Associated Press 
Philadelphia, prompting coach the issue and exploit every wide open." block in a lot of one-on-one sit­
MINNEAPOLIS -First, the Flip Saunders to give the team scoring opportunity we had." Saunders gave much of the uations. If he keeps scoring like Minnesota Timberwolves took Monday off, then an intense The results could not have credit for the perimeter space that, they'll have to start out their frustration over an practice on Tuesday. been better for the to the play of center Michael guarding him. The one time embarrassing loss on each "It was definitely a cleans­Timberwolves, who shot 55.2 Olowokandi, who was 6-for-7 they came down and trapped other in practice. A day later, ing," Garnett said. "We were percent from the field and set a from the floor, scored 14 points him, he threw it out to Spre for they made the Dallas Mavericks totally embarrassed in Philly. season high for points scored in and grabbed five rebounds. an open 3." pay. Yesterday was a very heated a regulation game and 3-point­Saunders said Olowokandi Marquis Daniels and Michael 
Kevin Garnett had 28 points practice and we got after it. ers _ hitting 11 of 21. Hudson flourished because the Finley each scored 16 points and 19 rebounds as Minnesota That carried over to tonight." was 4-for-9 from behind the Mavericks tried to pay extra for the Mavericks, who had bounced back from a poor Guard Troy Hudson, who arc, while Latrell Sprewell hit attention to Garnett, who aver­won 19 of 23 games, but were showing on Sunday with quite scored 22 points off the bench, four 3s and scored 20. aged 30.0 points, 17.3 playing without point guard an offensive show in a 121-97 said Tuesday's film session was "We have Wally (Szczerbiak) rebounds and 7.0 assists in Steve Nash for the second win over the Mavericks on eye opening. and Troy, and if people are three games against Dallas this straight night. Nash missed the Wednesday night. "We couldn't believe it when scrambling to them it opens up season. game with a stomach virus. 
The Timberwolves scored we saw it on tape how slow we the floor for Spre," Minnesota "They were very much aware Dirk Nowitzki added 15 points, only 7 4 points and stumbled were moving," said Hudson. coach Flip Saunders said. "The of KG, and they let all in the first half. 
• 

The Observer accepts classifi~ds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. · 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a child! Located on the shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions  Summer Camp counselor for chil· dren w/disabilities. $7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in Summit County, Ohio. Visit  DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE ... 2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX... AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON­ 2 bdrm apt. for rent. A/C, WID, dish­washer, spacious, close to campus. New appliances. $650/mo. Available 4/1 bulflexible. Call Paul514-3188.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
available for Counselors,  www.akroncyo.org -download an  DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004·  Louise Gude, CSC, at1-7819. For  
.......  BABYSITTER Needed ASAP for  Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/  application. EOE  2005 SCHOOL YEAR .... WE ARE  COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR  more information, see our bi-weekly  
family in Granger, Summer avail. a.  Arts & Crafts/Recreation/ Canoeing,  ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR  LEASE 2004-2005. Academic year·  ad in THE OBSERVER.  
plus! Call Laura: 243-4776  Nurses, Therapists, Food Service,  THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ...  Available June 1. 2 bdrm-2 bath •  
need math tutor ASAP.  and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June  FoR RENT  CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234·2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR  Fully Furnished • Security System. (626)441-1275 or salvaty@earth·  Misa Jar-Jar Binx.  
call574-247-0242  13 through August 8. Salary, room &  SHOWINGS  link. net  Are you sure it was a book? Are you  
WANTED  board, and experience of a lifetime provided. Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, Big Bay, Ml 49808,  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272·1525 New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3  VERY NICE 3bdrm home in EastBank area w/washer-dryer & alarm system inci.Nice yard for val­leyball etc-full bsmt.Walk to  Niles, 5 bed, 2 bath home, 15 min to Notre Dame, tranquil wooded set-ling, avail now, $1150/month 269· 349-7334  sure it wasn't.. nothing? The Hawk will never die. The Garden's going to be tight.  
Wanted· Old paintings, especially  (906) 345-9314, e-mail  full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky·  Corbys&StJoe Church. Call Joe  
Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359  BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit us at www.baycliff.org  lights. $1640/mo. Call 57 4-232· 4527 or 269-683·5038.  Crimmins@ 57 4-514-643( cell)or 57 4·273·0002(home)  PERSONAL  Harvard. Lovell House. Second floor. Right on the couch.  

Thursday, March 4, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.l@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu
Campus Ministry C-M 
51• 
toda 
Get involved, go on a retreat More info & applications in Room114 Apply online at campusministry.nd.edu 
wh t' h · 
Coming 3-27.04 
Notre Dame Encounter #81 
April 2-4 April 2-3 April 2-4 Sign up deadline: Sign up deadline: Sign up deadline: March 5 March 26 March 30 
i --,--.,.---·-. Main Office (CoMo 319) ~ Retreats Office (CoMo 114), Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 
. -__............_.._.__~--~~·---·~---~----­
~-­
---· 
considerations ... 

The Black Catholic Experience 
Uncommon 

Faithfulness 
by Chandra johnson 
Director, African American Student Ministry 
If you've ever celebrated a Catholic Mass with a predominantly black Catholic congregation, you've never forgotten it. There's something about how we do Church that touches the soul's very core. 
For centuries, people ofAfrican descent baptized into the Catholic faith have sought an intimacy with ... God that surpasses a common understanding. Some say our prayer is a little different than most. I'll never forget the Sunday about nine years ago when a black priest from Atlanta presided at the 11:45 a.m. Mass in the Basilica. During his homily, he made reference to my favorite Negro spiritual, "Give Me Jesus." His scriptural exegesis was so moving that after his h~mily, I stood at my place and sang "Give Me Jesus" a capella. I couldn't help it. Something came over me and if I didn't stand up to sing, I was going to explode·. How does one explain that? Well, you can't. My only answer to those who asked why I was led to do that was "the Spirit moved me to sing." 
The black Christian faith experience derives from an intimacy and ease in one's relationship with God. We love God because we know God loves us. We trust God because we know God trusts us. We hear God because we know God hears us. God is in no way distant or evasive. Black Catholic worship is a unique form of prayer and praise offered to a familial and 
His scriptural exegesis was so moving that 
accessible God. The 

familiariry with which after his homily, I stood at my place and sang people ofAfrican descent 
"Give Me Jesus" a capella. I couldn't help it. 

Campus Ministry wishes you a restful and safe Spring Break. 
mass schedule 
Freshman Retreat #53 

Man's Weekend 
speak to God is an uncommon faithfulness 

Something came over me and if I didn't stand 
rooted in black history and evident in the black up to sing, I was going to explode. My only 
Catholic story. 

During Spring Break, answer to those who asked why I was led to
spring break 
over 250 black Catholics 

do that was ''the Spirit moved me to sing."
will arrive on campus to share the black Catholic story of God through theological discourse and prayerful examination. Convened by the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism, "Uncommon Faithfulness: The Witness of African American Catholics," will be held at McKenna Hall, March 11-14. The conference will examine the larest scholar­ship on black Catholics in history and theology, explore critical issues for rhe ongoing development of African American Catholic studies, and celeb rare and enhance rhe viraliry of black Catholic life in the United States. Eighteen conference speakers will represent renowned experts on black Catholics in rhe Unired States. Liturgical services will include a prayer service on Friday, March 12 at 5:30p.m. in rhe McKenna Hall auditorium, and the closing Mass on Saturday at 5:00 p.m. in the Basilica. South Bend's Sr. Augustine's Catholic Church Choir and rhe Spelman College Glee Club from Atlanta will lead rhe congregation in song. "Uncommon Faithfulness" will be a relished momenr in rhe inrellecruallife of our University. 
For many black Catholics, being black is being Catholic. The message ofJesus Christ is embedded in rhe past, present and future of people of African descenr. As scripture comes alive in rhe sacramental life of the Church, black Catholic faith is recognized as a journey initiated by God, made flesh by Jesus Christ, and passed down for generations to come. "Uncommon Faithfulness" will provide the venue in which this story will be retold from the intellect and witness of those whose scholarship preserves God's image in the rheological reflections of black Catholic Christians. We welcome this scholarship ro our campus and stand ready ro be taught by them. Please join us next week and let the Spirit move you to sing! 
Second Sunday of Lent

basilica of the sacred heart around campus (every Sunday) 
Saturday Vigil Mass 
Sunday 1:30 p.m. s:oo p.m. 7:00 p.m.s:oo p.m. 
-1o:oo a.m. Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass Rev. Tom Gaughan, c.s.c Rev. Tom Gaughan, c.s.c 
St. Edward's Hall Chapel Law School Commons Mendoza COB 
11:45 p.m. 
Faculty Lounge 
Rev. Nicholas Ayo, c.s.c 

Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: Genesis 15:5-12, 17-18 2nd: Philippians 3:17-4:1 Gospel: Luke 9:28b-36 
------------------------------------------~====~~------------------------~~ 
page 16 
NFL 
Springs and Griffin sign with Redskins 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. -The Washington Redskins reached a contract agree­ment with free agent corner­back Shawn Springs on Wednesday, The Associated Press has learned. 
Highlighting a busy first day of free agency, the Redskins also signed defen­sive tackle Cornelius Griffin, re-signed offensive lineman Lennie Friedman and wel­comed running back Clinton Portis and quarterback Mark Brunell. 
Portis and Brunell were acquired in previously announced trades that became official Wednesday. 
Springs, Seattle's first­round choice in 1997, the third overall pick in that year's draft, was being flown to Washington late Wednesday and was to sign his contract Thursday, said an NFL source who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Tight end Walter Rasby also paid a visit and the team ·< hoped to sign the free agent 
before the day was done. 
Springs, considered one of the top cornerbacks avall­able, will replace four-time Pro Bowl cornerback Champ Bailey, who is being traded to the Denver Broncos for Portis. 
Springs went to the Pro Bowl in 1998 when he had career-high seven intercep­tions, but he has been ham­pered by injuries over the past four seasons. He missed the first four games last sea­son after fracturing a bone in his right shoulder. 
Terms of Springs' contract were not immediately avail­able. The Redskins had no comment. 
Griffin, who has played four seasons with the New York Giants, arrived early Wednesday and signed after passing his physical. Griffin had one sack in 15 games last season and has 12 1/2 sacks in his four-year career. His best season came as a rookie in 2000, when he had five sacks even though he wasn't a starter. 
Griffin and Springs became the fourth and fifth signifi­cant offseason acquisitions for the Redskins, joining Portis, Brunell and defensive lineman Phillip Daniels. Griffin and Daniels are the first steps in the overhaul of 1 the front four on a defense that ranked 25th last season. 
The Portis trade was cemented when Bailey agreed to a seven-year, $63 million contract with Denver late Tuesday. The deal includes an $18 million sign­ing bonus and $5 million in other bonuses, making it one of the richest contracts ever for a defensive player. 
Earlier this week, Portis agreed to an eight-year, $50.5 million contract with the Redskins. 
The Redskins sent a third­round pick to Jacksonville for Brunell, who agreed to a seven-year, $43 million con­tract with the Redskins last month. · 
~-----------~--~ -~­
Thursday, March 4, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

Keyshawn could stay put 
Galloway contract could prevent trade from happening 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Tampa Bay's Keyshawn Johnson reached agreement Wednesday on a four-year, $20 million contract with the Dallas Cowboys, 'who are seeking the three-time Pro Bowl selection in a trade for Joey Galloway. 
But the proposed swap of highly paid receivers may not go through if Galloway fails to restructure a seven-year, $42 million contract the salary cap­strapped Buccaneers want to reduce dramatically. 
Galloway's agent, Leigh Steinberg, said the speedy receiver is nowhere close to an agreement with the Bucs, who cut five players Tuesday to free space under the NFL's $80.6 million salary cap. 
Galloway earned $6.6 million in 2003. Steinberg said Tampa Bay's best offer has been about $1 million for one year. 
A source involved in the nego­tiations told The Associated Press that Johnson's deal with Dallas includes a $4 million signing bonus and $2 million base salary for 2004. He could earn more with incentives. 
"If Keyshawn's been offered $5 million a year, that's four million more a year than Joey's been offered," Steinberg said. 
Bucs general manager Bruce Allen was unavailable for com­ment. 
"Our hope had been with the readjustment of their cap they might me in better position to adjust their offer. We've waited to see if that's going to happen," Steinberg said. "One million for one year at this stage in his career is not exactly what Joey is looking for." 


Johnson declined to comment, other than to say he's "extreme­ly happy." 
The receiver was deactivated for the last six games of 2003 after meeting with Gruden and former general manager Rich McKay to inform them he had no intentions of playing for Tampa Bay beyond 2003. 
Johnson was halfway through an eight-year, $56 million con­tract that Bucs gave him after acquiring Johnson from the New York Jets in exchange for two first-round picks in the 2000 draft. 
He helped the Bucs win the Super Bowl two seasons ago, but became increasingly more unhappy playing for Gruden in 2003. 
The Bucs owe Johnson a $1 million roster bonus on April 1, but have no intention of paying it. Allen hoped to complete a trade by Wednesday to create additional salary cap room and allow Tampa Bay to be active in free agency. 
Gruden's wish list in free agency includes offensive line­men, receivers and a running back, and the team had visits Wednesday from candidates to fill needs in all those areas. 

Bailey's contract unprecedented 
Associated Press 
DENVER-Pro Bowl corner­back Champ Bailey will be the highest-paid cornerback in NFL history. 
Bailey agreed to a seven­year, $63 million contract with the Denver Broncos that includes an $18 million signing bonus and $5 million in other bonuses. 
Bailey's agent, Jack Reale, said the deal was reached late Tuesday. 
The Broncos declined com­ment Wednesday. The team set a news conference Thursday, but would not specify the topic. 
The agreement clears the way for the Washington Redskins' four-time Pro Bowler to be traded to the Broncos for running back Clinton Portis, who ran for 1,500-plus yards each of his first two seasons. Denver also receives Washington's second-round draft pick in April. 
\ 

Washington signs for $14 million 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -The Oakland Raiders took the first step toward revamping their defense Wednesday by agreeing to a $14 million, four-year con­tract with veteran defensive tackle Ted Washington. 
Washington, a key member of the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots last season, receives a $4 million signing bonus. 
He turned down an $8 mil­lion, three-year offer from the Patriots last week to become a free agent. 
Washington, who turns 36 in April, fills a major void as a run-stopper for the Raiders, who ranked last in the league in rushing defense last season, when they finished 4-12 only one year after reaching the Super Bowl. Oakland gave up 

156.9 yards per game on the ground. 
"He's being paid as a quality defensive lineman," Angelo Wrlght, Washington's agent, said. "It's unprecedented that he's 36 years old and doesn't play like he's 36 years old. He's excited that he has the opportu­nity to help out the Raiders return to a prominent status in the league. 
"AI Davis doesn't like to lose. 
Obviously they felt they had to strike in a couple areas to improve their defense. They were the bottom of league against the run and had to fix it. Time waits for no one." 
Washington, a 13-year NFL veteran who lives in North Carolina in the offseason, was unavailable for comment, Wright said. 
"Ted is widely recognized as one of the premier run-stoppers in the National Football League and we're very pleased to have him join the Raiders," coach Norv Turner said. "We are excited to add him to what we feel will be a dynamic defensive unit." 



Come Watch Women's Lacrosse First Home Game 
Sunday, March 7 @ Noon 
Women's Lacrosse vs. Cornell at the Loftus Sports Center 

-First 200 fans will receive a Lacrosse Schedule Glass sponsored by Legends 
Thursday, M<\rch 4, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
LPGA 
Transsexual plays in Women's Australian Open 
Bagger was born a male in Laura Davies and Rachel Teske amount of muscle mass and Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1966 -Bagger says they are misin­overall strength as a result. and began playing golf as an 8-formed. "After surgery, those effects year-old. "People aren't aware of are permanent and irre­
Golf World magazine ran a what's versible." photo of Bagger as a 14-year­involved with Another old boy posing with Greg transsexual­transsexual, Norman at a golf clinic. ism," said "She's not gaining any R e n e e 
Bagger got down to a 4-hand­Bagger, who Richards, faced
advantage from what I 

icap but stopped playing golf in is 5-foot-10 some opposi­
can understand. " 

1992 to begin a transformation and 150 tion when she to a female with hormone ther­pounds. played on the apy. Bagger had the sex-change "People Laura Davies women's tennis operation three years later, aren't aware tour in the
LPGA competitor

then resumed playing in 1998. that there 1970s. 
For· those concerned she has are certain Bagger, a physical advantage over the physiological changes you go though, is being welcomed. other women in the field -through with hormone replace­Teske and Davies were among which includes Karrie Webb, ment therapy. We lose an players who supported her 

0 

Associaled Press 
SYDNEY, Australia -Mianne Bagger brought a new twist to gender blending in golf. 
After a year in which seven women competed in men's tournaments, Bagger made his­tory Thursday in the Women's Australian Open as the first transsexual to play in a pro golf tournament. 
Bagger sees it only as an opportunity. 
"It's my dream to play top­level golf," she said before shooting a 12-over 84 in the first round. 


• Unl1·m1·ted i"./,....•. , .......... . 
. ·: : :! .~ ··...-' . ·'' 

"' Includes \h1:,, ,, .. : '~''· 
r.,:; ._.-·~ .. ,. ' 
i'. 

-(<US.Cellular 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 


.appearance at Concord Golf 
Club. 
"She's a girl now, let her have 
a go." Davies said. "She's not 
gaining any advantage from 
what I understand. She doesn't 
hit the ball 350 yards. Why not 
give her a chance?" 
This event might be the only 
chance Bagger gets. 
The LPGA Tour, U.S. Golf 
Association and the Ladies 
European Tour have policies 
that players must be female at 
birth. 
The reason for that restric­
tion was Charlotte Wood, a 
transsexual who was 50 when 
she finished third in the 1987 
U.S. Senior Women's Amateur, and reached the semifinals of the U.S. Women's Mid-Amateur. 
The USGA put the "female at 
birth" clause in its entry forms 
in 1989, while the LPGA Tour 
added the restriction in 1991. 
"We live in interesting and ever-changing times," LPGA Tour commissioner Ty Votaw said Wednesday. "How other organizations deal with this, such as the IOC, is something we're looking at in relation to this specific policy. But right· now, our regulations are they have to be female at birth." 
The International Olympic ... Committee last week put off a decision allowing transsexuals to compete in the Olympics, saying more time was needed to consider all the medical issues. 
The IOC medical commission proposed that athletes who have had sex-change opera­tions be eligible for the games after hormone therapy and a two-year waiting period. 
Women's Golf Australia, which runs the Women's Australian Open, removed its "female at birth" clause in 1998 and gave Bagger an exemption to the tournament. 
"I think the publicity has been enormous," WGA presi­dent Sally Hamersley said. "But quite honestly, I feel for the player. It's going to be quite a weight for her to carry." 
Votaw was at the Australian Ladies Masters last week, and met Bagger when he stopped by Concord Golf Club to visit players. 
"She seemed like a very nice person who is just trying to play some golf." Votaw said. "I introduced myself to her and wished her luck and told her to have fun." 
Still, her presence has creat­ed a lot of attention. 
"I can say I thought I'd never have to answer a question like that," Webb said when asked how she felt about playing against a transsexual. "It's up to the tournament, and they can choose to use their spon­sor's exemptions any way they want. I have not met her, and it doesn't really bother me. But I'll be interested to see how she does this week." 
After Bagger resumed playing golf in 1998, she won the South Australian State Championship for amateurs in 1999, 2001 and 2002, and turned pro last sum­mer by joining the Danish PGA. 
Bagger says she is not a power player. and only hits the ball about 240 yards off the tee. 
All she wants this week is a chance. 
"I want to play professional golf and have the same oppor­tunities as other women," she said. 

OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVtCES Thursday, March 4, 2004 

NFL 



around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Georgetown at Notre Dame, 7 p.m., ESPN2 Cincinnati at DePaul, 9 p.m., ESPN2 UCLA at Oregon State, 10:30 p.m., FSN 
NBA 
Kings at 76ers, 7:30 p.m.,TNT Pistons at Trail Blazers, 10 p.m., TNT 
MLB 
Cubs vs. Giants, 2 p.m., ESPN 
Associated Press 

The Philadelphia Eagles one-upped Daniel Snyder and the Washington Redskins, outbidding them for defensive end Jevon Kearse on the first day of the free-agency signing period. 
But the traditionally hyperactive Redskins also made moves Wednesday. Snyder's team agreed to terms with defensive tack­le Cornelius Griffin and, according to a league source who requested anonymity, with Seattle cornerback Shawn Springs. 
Kearse agreed to a $66 million, eight-year deal to move from Tennessee to Philadelphia, which took a risk. Kearse has been hurt often the last two seasons. playing in only 18 of 32 games. That was one rea­son the Titans decided not to protect him with the "franchise" player tag. 
But after losing in the NFC title game three years in a row, the Eagles decided to go for the pass rusher they lacked last season after letting Hugh Douglas leave for Jacksonville. 
The Redskins had been interested in Kearse, but had to settle for Griffin, who spent his first four seasons with another NFC East team, the New York Giants. He also is a risk. His best season was as a rookie in 2000, and he had only one sack in 2003. 

Springs would replace Bailey as the "shutdown" cornerback in the Washington secondary. The Redskins also took a chance on Springs, who hasn't played a complete season in four years. 
Last year, Snyder signed four players on the first day of free agency, picking up guard Dave Fiore in San Francisco just after midnight in his private plane and zooming him to Redskins Park to sign a contract. 
"One of the things I admire about Dan is he makes quick decisions," said Joe Gibbs, who didn't have to deal with free agency or the salary cap when he first coached the Redskins from 1981-92. "At 12:01, we were on the phones. It's exciting. It's one of the biggest nights we'll have." 
This year, the Skins made their splash before the official start, sending defensive back Champ Bailey to Denver for run­ning back Clinton Portis and acquiring quarter­back Mark Brunell from Jacksonville for a third­round draft choice. 

IN BRIEF 
Ranf;!ers trade Leetch to We felt that going as far as we did go Keita, who is black, attended the Maple Leafs with Toronto was as maximum as we news conference but did not speak. 
NEW YORK -The New York could get." Spielvogel and two colleagues also Rangers traded star defenseman Leetch, 36, a two-time Norris declined to answer questions after Brian Leetch to the Toronto Maple Trophy winner as the NHL's top reading the statement. Leafs on Wednesday night, ending his defenseman, helped lead New York to St. John's issued a statement 17-season run on Broadway. the '94 Stanley Cup title, the club's Wednesday night saying the school 
Leetch has only been with the first since 1940. He had 11 goals and was surprised by the allegations about Rangers in his NHL career that began 23 assists in 23 playoff games to earn the payments and that it would begin in February 1988, immediately after the Conn Smythe Trophy as playoff an investigation. St. John's also called 
he played for the United States in the MVP. the racial discrimination charge as 
Calgary Olympics. "simply not true." 
The Rangers acquired defenseman Suspended player says he Kevin Clark, the interim coach of the Maxim Kondratiev, forward Jarkko was paid to play Red Storm, and senior forward Kyle Immonen, a first-round pick in this MINEOLA, N.Y. -A suspended St. Cuffe disputed the accusations about year's draft and a second-round John's basketball player contended the payments. choice in the 2005 second-round Wednesday he got $300 almost every "No. Not at all," Clark said after a selection. The Maple Leafs also month from a member of the team 68-54 loss at Boston College on received a conditional pick. staff. Wednesday night when asked if he 
"Brian is not only one of the best In a statement read to reporters by was aware of someone giving cash to players to ever play for the New York one of his attorneys, Abraham Keita the players. Ranger, he's also a classy individual," also said he is filing a federal civil Cuffe said Keita was being "childish Rangers president and general man­rights lawsuit against the university. and immature." ager Glen Sather sa.id. "He firmly believes he was the "You can't try to bring down other 
"As we proceeded down the path we unworthy recipient of racially dis­people," Cuffe said. "We have good feel we did very well with the players parate disciplinary treatment," attor­character. He's the first one that says we got and the draft choices we got. ney Steven Spielvogel said. we're all brothers." 
--------------------------------------~---~~~--------~-­ ----­---~  
Thursday, March 4, 2004  The Observer + SPORTS  •  page 19  

BENGAL BOUTS 135 POUNDS -150 POUNDS 
Valenzuela moves closer to defending title 
By LUKE BUSAM Sporrs Wri ror 
Jon Valenzuela will advance to his second Bengal Bouts final after taking a close split-deci­sion win over senior Pedro Alves in the 135-pounds weight class. Alves came out strong in round one attacking the experi­enced junior, but it was Valenzuela who connected first after a quick slip. Alves contin­ued to initiate contact, but Valenzuela successfully slipped undnr his lead left and connect­ed to score. Valenzuela tested his right hook a number of times in the second and as the round ending he was beginning to find success with it. Alves look strong at the start of round three and dominated the early exchanges. Valenzuela was able to get inside and score impor­tant body shots as Alves cov­ered. 
Michael Schmitt fought well and earned his place in the finals against Jon Valenzuela by coming out on top in a called match against left-handed Larry Hofman. Early in round one, llofman dominated and landed two scoring lefts. llofman was effective in using his jab to set up his strong left. but Schmitt refused to relent and fought hard throughout the round. Schmitt came out quick after the bell to start round two and initiated a big exchange. llofrnan began taking some 
harder shots and Schmitt kept 
them coming, throwing three or 
four punches to every one of 
IIofman's. 
In round three, Schmitt still dominated the punch count and contacted well early in the round. A standing eight-count was given midway thru the third after llofman took a rough shot to the head. After the short break, Schmitt continued to dominate. Shortly thereafter a second eight-count was given to Hofman prompting the referee to stop the contest [RSC] with 29 seconds left to go in the third round. 
llofman fought well, but the late blows and sheer number of punches thrown by Schmitt caught up with him and ended the contest. 
145 pounds 
Luke Dillon's powerful right hooks overcame the straight, accurate jabs of Mark Pfizenmayer in the first bout of the 145-pound weight cla~. Pfizenmayer initiated contact well, but Dillon replied every time, often finishing with dev­astating right hooks. 
Dillon's hooks continued to find their target throughout the round. Pfizenmayer was not deterred, however, and his punches remained straight and consistent throughout the well­fought first round. 
Early in round two, Pfizenmayer took over for a bit, throwing more and avoiding Dillon's hook. Although Dillon's 
defense was strong throughout 
the round, Pfizenmayer was 
able to contact more than 
leather several times. 
Despite a high contact exchange to start the third, neither boxer appeared the least bit tired in the final round. Though gloves contact­ed only gloves in early exchanges, Dillon's right came alive again late in the third, prompting a clinch by Pfizenmayer. Both were scoring well and takinghard shots as the match ended. In a tremen­dous fight with many high quality blows, both boxers proved they were worthy of the .semifinals and more. Dillon won in a split decision and the finals await him on St. Patrick's 
Day. 
Senior Paul Robinson secured 

his first appearance in the 
Bengal Bout finals by winning a 
called fight against sophomore 
Todd Strobel. Robinson left the 
corner fast and closed in on 
Strobel hard to start the match. 
Following a clinch, Strobel 
began to work his jab well and 
a strong six-punch combo put 
Robinson on the ropes. 
Robinson came off the ropes 
well, replying right away with a 
large combo of his own, earn­
ing him an eight-count on 
Strobel. Strobel didn't seem 
phased by the stop and came 
out well after the eight-count. 
In round two, Robinson domi­nated early, forcing Strobel to the corner and landing often. Hobinson's jabs came in hard and he worked the body well as Strobel tried to clinch. Late in the second, Strobel's jab worked effectively, ending a clean, technical round of box­ing. 
Robinson came out strong again in the third round with a huge combo to start the round, which left Strobel hunched over. The fight was called 18 seconds into the final round with Robinson the victor. 
150 pounds 
T.J. D'Agostino is making his second trip to the finals after beating freshman Jordan Runge. Any butterflies Runge had were quickly dismissed by his first attack on D'Agostino. His first round in the semifinals was superb. Runge threw often and accurately in the first round as D'Agostino struggled to find his groove. Runge scored well as he aggressively brought the match to D'Agostino. 

D'Agostino threw significant­ly more punches in round two and he worked the high-low combination well. Runge's hands began to drop as the round continued, and D'Agostino's punches found lit­tle inhibiting defense. D'Agostino forced a standing eight-count on Runge with 1:15 in the round. 
In round three, D'Agostino used his high-low combos again while Runge stuck with an upstairs one-two. 
Another standing eight was counted on Runge at one minute into the final round. Runge's defense held up through the final 30 seconds despite D'Agostino's numerous 

SUPER 8 -MISHAWAKA 
~ 
535 University Dr. 
SUPI!II 

8 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
..DTEl 

247-0888 


FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST, BUSINESS KING­
SIZE BEDS AVAILABLE, PAY-PER-VIEW MOVIES, FREE 
CABLE AND HBQ, AND GUEST LAUNDRY 

Stay Friday &Saturday nights and Sunday night is 50°/o off! 
$10 off discount coupon 
SUPER 8 -MISHAWAKA for each day for length of stay 
Expires April 30, 2004 Discount good with coupon only Not valid with weekly rates, events, and with any other discount 
·-----------------------------­
page 20 Thursday, March 4, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

BENGAL BOUTS 153 POUNDS -160 POUNDS 
Bengal Bouts complete semifinal rounds 
was coming on strong and was unanimous to Lohmeyer.
By LUKE BUSAM 
advanced on Hum! well. Junior Mike Panzica over­
Sports Writer 
Harkins had a solid score late in came Brandon Gasser to earn 
the round, but the second round his first trip to the finals where 
Ryan Duffey fought a clean proceeded much as the first he will face Lohmeyer. Gasser match from start to finish using with good exchanges. Neither was composed as the match his slight reach and accurate boxer dominated the match. began and smartly selected his jab to pick off the advances of A strong right at the start punches. Panzica threw more the aggressive Bobby Gorynski. from Harkins sent Hum! back a often and scored well on a Round one featured mostly bit. Both boxers worked hard combo at 40 seconds into the tr-aded jabs and only a few the entire fight, continually round. When Gasser stuck with power punches. Duffey's punch exchanging and initiating con­his jabs he fought well. The first count was higher in combos in tact. Overall, it was an extreme­30 seconds were intense as the first round. Gorynski took ly close fight with the split deci­Panzica came out hard and the fight to Duffey near the end sion going to Harkins. scored early, but Gasser was not of the first, but Duffey replied to be outdone and followed with well to every advance of 155 pounds an excellent counter combo. Gorynski. Junior captain Nathan Panzica initiated contact 
Gorynski came out with a Lohmeyer took the fight to Mark more, but Gasser found success strong combo to start round two Basola early and was relentless relying on his parry and reply­Round two began intensely contact well and held the ringand initiated several exchanges in pursuing his opponent to ing with straight one-two's. with a solid 20-second early on, forcing Phillip to move early in the round. Duffey sent a start round one. Lohmeyer Round three started out fast exchange and neither fighter around him and select his 
number of stiff jabs at the ever­scored early with numerous again as Gasser pursued dominating. After the intense punches from the outside. advancing Gorynski and punch combos and worked Panzica. Late in the round, beginning, the boxers traded Though Alanis initiated, Philip remained composed throughout Basola around the ring to sever­Gasser worked Panzica to the jabs well. The second round fin­often finished the exchangesthe round. In round three, al ropes. Lohmeyer matched ropes and landed a hard right ished with clean, technical box­throwing the extra, scoringGorynski was throwing more every one of Basola's punches but took a few from Panzica in ing. A hard shot by Kerrigan punch as Alanis broke contact. punches per combo, and Duffey with three of his own and con­the exchange. Gasser needed a began the final round and he Phillip seemed he was willing to 
chose to move and counter­stantly initiated contact. quick cleanup after his offen­continued with good combos take a punch or two to set uppunch throughout the round. Lohmeyer closed hard and fast sive, and the round ended with t'hat elicited little reply from his multi-punch, scoring combi­Duffey's jabs continued on and scored in a quick combo to a fast exchange with solid con­Roodhouse. Kerrigan went back nations. Gorynski, but the junior was not end the round. tact. This was a close fight, and to working the body and head in Round two began with a hard dismayed and continued to In round two, Lohmeyer pur­Panzica won in a split decision. combination. exchange in which both boxers advance with three and four­sued Basola again and landed Both boxers worked hard took some serious shots. punch combos throughout the on a number of high punch 160 pounds throughout the third round, Phillips' one-two landed accu­round. Duffey took the split combos early on. Basola fought Colin Kerrigan is once again exchanging often and displaying rately late in the second, and he decision in the even bout. well throughout the second in in the Bengal Bouts finals after their superior conditioning. scored in nearly every combo. 
Tim Hum! and Corey Harkins reply to Lohmeyer's attacks. securing a split decision win Roodhouse fought well, but he In round three, Phillip was scor­complemented each other well Nathan set the pace again in over Alex Roodhouse. Early took some hard shots to both ing in spite of Alanis' advances. in the second match of the 153-the third by attacking hard exchanges went in Kerrigan's the head and body throughout As the round continued Phillippound class. The match was early. A stop was called at 23 favor as he attacked high and the fight. The split decision found more scores, particularlyevenly fought and the boxers seconds into the round to clean low on Roodhouse. Kerrigan went to Kerrigan. over the dropping hands of 
checked each other well early Basola's blood. Basola came on moved his head well, making Veteran boxer Bill Phillip will Alanis. Alanis left it all in the on in the first round. They trad­strong after the break and initi­him a difficult target. His jab experience the two-minute ring last night, but Phillip's abil­ed jabs throughout the first, and ated contact. Though Basola was solid throughout the round, rounds of the finals for the first ity to finish off exchanges over­
it was a technical round of box­found himself backpedaling a as well. Roodhouse often initiat­time in his Bengal Bouts career came the hardworking junior. ing as both moved well and kept bit too much at the end of the ed contact, but Kerrigan was after winning a unanimous their form. round, he fought well against successful in countering and decision victory over junior 
Contact Luke Busam at

In the second round, Harkins the junior captain. The decision moving. Justin Alanis. Alanis initiated 
lbusam@nd.edu 


NOTRE DAME MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Last Regular Season Home Game on March 4th at 7 pm 
VS. GEORGETOWN  
Come and Honor The 2004 Irish Seniors  
• •  First 1,000 fans will receive Mini Basketballs sponAll the way from Salt Lake City Jean's Golden Girl sored by Hoosier Tire s will perform at half-time  
Umited Time!  
MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND 514 W. McKinley 117 North Main Corner McKinley & Grape 1 blk. south of Colfax 574.252.5820 574.288.9450  
4615 Miami Road Miami & Ireland 574.299.2860  

•Airtime offer valid oo two-year coosumEl' service agreements of $39.!E and highEl' Promotiooal p'lone subject Ia change ~ooe pricing inclulles a$30 mail-in rebate. Cust!JTlEl' is respoosible for all sales taxes Reduced access fee valid for first 3months of 24-month Service Agreement Free Incoming Minutes available in local calling area oo~. Night and weekend minutes are valid M-F 91Jll to 5:59am and all day Saturday and Sunday. Night and weekend minutes are available in local calling area only. Option of 3000 Nights and Weekend Minutes. with a 7 1J11 start time. is ONLY good on lhe pr!JTlotional rate plan of $39.95 foc HXJO minutes. Roaming charges. fees. surcharges and taxes may apply. Activatioo fee $30. All serv­
~PREMIER

f<US.Cellulm: 
ice agreements subject to an early tennination fee. Other restrictioos may apply. See store for details. limrted time off!r
* LOCATIONS"

AUTHORIZED AGENT OFFER EXPIRES MARCH 31, 2004 
-------------------------------------------------------~ 
I i
Thursday, March 4, 2004 The Obseryer + SPORTS page 21 
De01ko 
continued from page 24 
Sarb landed Demko on the 
mat. 
"The fall looked bad," Demko said. "I admit it now after see­ing it on 111m. I was stunned monu~ntarily but I knew I could light on." 
I)nmko did not "fight on" that night, but his performance as a sophomore earned him a junior captainship with the club. Mark Criniti, a coach instrumental in Demko's devel­opment as a boxer, had offered lessons during the fighter's first two years. In training ses­sions and sparring with Criniti as a junior, Demko achieved a personal goal. 
"Every time we would spar hn would dominate me," Demko said. "What frustrated nw the most was that Mark was so good defensively, I could never get a good clean shot on him. One day I finally landed a good clean jab on him. llis nose started bleeding and he was dazed. I knew at that point that I was starting to become a pretty good boxer." 
That jab marked another step in Demko's boxing career, an important step toward com­plete self-confidence. He reached the semifinals again as a junior, losing in another split decision to Pearsall. 
As a senior captain, Demko believes his undying persist­once will lead to success. 
"During my first three years in the bouts I had found some success but I had also taken my fair share of knocks and have yet to reach the level of success I've aimed for since the beginning." he said. "I am confident my persistence will help me get to where I want to be." 
As club co-president, Demko has taken on a number of sig­nilicant duties this year. From running practice and referee­ing sparring matches to doing paperwork and running errands, the tasks sometimes leave less time for training. This has meant increased hours before and after practice as he prepares his final run in the tournament. 
Outside the ring, Demko's non-boxing life has followed a similar evolution. As a fresh­man, Demko was the Air Force Daedalian Scholarship recipi­ent. Air Force ROTC has been his other major involvement on campus for the past four years. 
"I've met some great people, have learned many things about being a leader, and it has put me in position to ful­fill my dream of being a pilot in the United States Air Force," he said. 
In addition to excelling in boxing, Demko achieved dean's Jist honors every semester since enrolling at Notre Dame. His dedication has paid off. Next year Demko will begin a 


The North Central Association .ofColleges and Schools is evaluating the University of Notre .. ·· Dame for continuing accreditation. 
There will be an open meeting for students with selected members of the NCA accreditation team on: 
Tuesday, March 23, from .5:00-5:45 p.m.~ at McKenna Auditorium~ 
AU students -undergraduate and graduate ­are invited to attend. 
The NCA accreditation team wants to hear your ideas about how Notre Dame can continue to improve as a university. 

selective pilot training pro­gram called Euro-NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training. It is a highly intense 54-week program designed to produce fighter pilots for the United States Air Force and for the air forces of eight other NATO nations. Demko says that his personal evolution with the boxing club will help be a great asset while training in the elite pro­gram. 
"The work ethic, mental toughness and confidence that I have gained through boxing have prepared me to thrive in this type of highly competitive and pressure filled environ­ment," Demko said. 
Demko's great accomplish­ments all stem from the deter­mination and courage he dis­played on day one as he chose the foreign sport of boxing. It was all there from the begin­ning -everything except the hand wraps. 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 

····:,:·.. :_ 
. ... 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
exchanges. Both boxers were bleeding. Ward came on hard with 30 seconds left, and both were sent to their respective corners to be cleaned with 20 seconds left in the match. The last 20 seconds were intense with both fighters throwing numerous and accurate punch­es. 
180 pounds 
Junior captain Jim Christoforetti moved extremely well and earned a quick victory over an aggressive Denis Sullivan. Christoforetti's parry was near perfect as it dismissed Sullivan's early jabs. Christoforetti was able to pick his spots early on in the first, choosing to counterpunch off his parry with a quick left. Near the end of the first round. Christoforetti landed a number of quick hard shots to Sullivan's head, which prompted a stum­ble from Sullivan. This stumble sent Christoforetti falling on top of Sullivan. Sullivan was slow to get up and rested on the mat with his eyes closed for a bit too long for the comfort of the ref­eree, which prompted the light being called at 1:28 into the first round. 
Eric Callahan came out brawling and took fellow senior Larry Rooney out of his element to earn his spot in the finals against Christoforetti. Though a bit uncontrolled, Callahan aggressively pursued Rooney around the ring, working his jab well and picking Rooney off as he circled. Callahan domi­nated the second round, as well. Rooney was unable to break through the taller boxer's jab to score the body combos he sought. In round three Hooney came out hard and landed three hooks under Callahan's jab as he brought the light to Callahan. 
Light heavyweight 
Senior captain Billy Zizic looked superb in his win over relentless sophomore Bryan Bylica by unanimous decision. Zizic was patient and elusive. but when it was available Bylica capitalized with his left jab. Zizic continued to move like the experienced boxer he is, and at 1:05 into the first round Zizic switched and fought as a lefty for two exchanges. ~ The versatile Zizic switched back at 1 :20 and finished the round as a righty. Zizic picked his punches well in the second. In round three, Zizic threw high into Blyica's gloves. which opened the body. 
Jonny Griffin is a first time Bengal Bouts fighter, but he doesn't seem to know it. Gril1in overcame a great fighter in sophomore Chris Cavanuagh and won by unanimous decision to earn a spot in the finals against Zizic. Griffin was patient and composed in the ring, and his punches were straight and accurate. Cavanaugh boxed well in round one, and in the third round he made Gril1in's nose bleed. Still. Griffin eventually tossed·­Cavanaugh to the mat. It was a highly physical. well-fought, aggressive battle. 
Heavyweight 
Returning champ Stefan Borovina made his first appear­ance in the bouts and will make his third appearance in the finals on St. Patrick's Day after defeating Douglas Pope early in three rounds. At one minute into the first round, Stefan backed Pope into a corner with a strong upstairs flurry. Borovina did it again shortly after, ending the round with a flurry in his corner. Hound two saw similar action. In the third. a number of hard shots from Borovina began the round and sent Pope into the ropes. Pope "'­was forced to backpedal throughout the round, and the bout was called at 54 seconas into the third. 
Nathan Schroeder's refusal to quit and a die-hard third round propelled him past junior Darryl Burton in a split decision victory. These fighters were · noticeably heavier than the pre­vious heavyweight bout. At times. it resorted to a slugfest. Burton and Schroeder traded punches in a high contact exchange on the ropes in the early going. Defense was not a major priority for either boxer in round one. Burton kept Schroeder out of the center of the ring throughout the round and patiently chose his punches and advances. 
Contact Luke Busam at lbusam@nd.edu 



Thursday, March 4, 2004 

Tennis 
continued from page 24 
can be a distraction for our kids." 
On Friday, the traditionally solid Illini (5-2) suffered a 5-2 loss to No. 4 Washington. They then defeated Western Michigan, 6-1, on Saturday. 
Louderback is confident the Irish will remain poised despite having to face such skilled opponents. 
"I feel really good about how our team competes," Louderback said. "Our girls do a good job at getting each other pumped up. They really get the momentum of the 
-··match to swing back our way and I think they'll do that [today)." 
The Irish return to the courts after a 5-2 win against Indiana Sunday. They claimed the dou­bles point and four of the six singles points against the No. 26 Hoosiers. The win marked the seventh consecutive Irish victory. 
Last year's match between Notre Dame and Illinois result­ed in a 6-1 victory for the Irish. Notre Dame claimed the doubles point and five of the six singles matches. Louderback recalled that last year's win did not come easily. 
"It was a tight match," he said. "We started off strong in doubles last year, and that's 
-what gave us momentum going into singles." Though the Irish are on a seven-match doubles winning streak, Louderback has contin­ued to concentrate on doubles 

play during practice in addi­tion to drills. Gaining the dou­bles point has been of utmost importance to the team this year. 
"As the season goes on, you start to look at singles a lot more and you can't do that," Louderback said. "Then your doubles start to slip. It really makes a difference when we 
Golf 

continued from page 24 
14th place. This was Gustafson's best finish since placing third at the SMU/Stonebridge Invitational in October with a career-low 68 in the second round. 
"It was a step in the right direction for me," Gustafson said. "It was nice for me to play well and see how I stack up 
against the best players when I'm playing pretty well." 
Fellow sopho­more Tommy Balderston tied for 64th place at 16-over par with a score of 229 (73-81-75). Balderston looked to be in the hunt 
until a string of bogies midway through the second round held him back. 
Freshman Cole ·Isban tied for 78th place at 21-over 234, while sophomores Eric Deutsch (77-82-80) and Mark Balwin (77 -82-91) rounded out the Irish lineup, placing 85th and 90th, respectively. 
"Playing against all these 
win the doubles point because 
players from the big name 
it takes the pressure off of our teams, some of the top players
singles players." Following today's match, the 
Irish face a tough stretch of opponents, beginning with No. 6 Duke on March 10 and No. 36 Tennessee on March 13. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
in the country, we weren't intimidated but we were excited and a little anxious I guess," Gustafson said. "We really wanted to do our best that maybe we tried too hard. We wanted to play well so badly that we kind of shot ourselves in the foot." 
The team has a quick turn­around with a match against Alabama Friday. While the Irish will also participate in the Conrad Rehling Spring Invitational March 12, the team will usc that week to practice 
for upcoming

"We wanted to play 
competitions.

well so badly that 
"The time we shot ourselves beforehand will be big for us,"
in the foot. " 
Gustafson said. "It will help us a 

Scott Gustafson 
lot this time to Golfer get in a good 
competitive mindset and get our games in better shape." 
The Irish hope to take some­thing away from this week's disappointing finish and use it to motivate themselves in remaining tournaments. 
"We're looking forward to opportunities to do well in the future," Gustafson said. 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 




Thursday, March 4, 2004 
· The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
ACROSS 33 "Look, ma, no 59 "Don't soul!" 
Sharing this birthday: Chastity Bono, Catherine O'Hara, Emilio Estefan, Kay 1 Seance hap­cavities!," e.g. 60 Modern: Ger. 
Lenz, Patsy Kensit, Paula Prentiss pening 34 Padlocks, say 
61 Astronauts 
Happy Birthday: Your personal life will influence your professional life this
4 Wows, in come­38 Finnish architect experience it 
year. Don't let anyone talk you into doing something that you really don't want dy Alvar 62 Computer bul­to do. Your own strength will enable you to move in the direction best suited to you. Research will be the key to choosing the path that wi II lead you in
9 Pub decoration 40 Irish girl's name letin board 
a positive manner. Your numbers: 16, 22, 27, 31, 36,44
administrator
14 Put one past 41 "The Paper Chase" topic 63 Most Mets ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Although love is all around
15 Out of port 
games are on it: you, make sure your interests are not wasted on someone who is already in a
44 Capital south of
16 Home without a Abbr. committed relationship. **** 
Chernobyl

refrigerator TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Relationships are passionate and moving 45 Sleep: Prefix quickly. You have a way of mesmerizing the one you love. Your jealous need to
17 Post office 
DOWN possess will entice your mate even more. ••
delivery: Abbr. 47 Memorable 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may want to put your 
kicker 1 Pet food brand
18 Represent efforts into changing your living quarters. The alterations will lifl your spirits 48 MGM motto name and stimulate your mind. ••• ••
19 Israeli party 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): This is a great day for a family
word 2 Get going
20 "Whatever!" outing. Get out to the country where you can teach children all about nature and
49 "Ditto" 

3 Grocery items how to preserve it. ***
23 Chores 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may find yourself in a position that brings back 24 Active sorts memories from your past. You can make extra cash if you decide to sell some of 
50 Name that 4 Doesn't run 
means 5 Bananas 

your belongings that you no longer have use for.***
25 King's home "beloved" 
6 Top of the class VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Past romantic ties will surface. Don't 28 Roman emperor 51 Sales rep's need be afraid to find out what they're up to; however, remember why your relationship 
7 2004 ... with a
after Galba split up the first time. ***
53 Company 

hint to the starts LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Express yourself in a compromising way, and you
29 Cook, as beans famous for 
of 20-, 34-and will find that others will be willing to make a concerted effort as well. With all
Centipede and

30 Premier under 51-Across that behind you, spend a quiet evening with family. * Mao Battlezone SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): This is a great day to shop for that special item
8 Back-talker 
56 Tangle you've been longing for. Make physical alterations that will improve your looks
31 Union with 2.7 Puula by Roy Laban
9 Red-haired and draw additional attention from potential new mates. ** 
mil. members 57 Muscle car 
soprano 33 Encouraging 39 One mode of 49 Seeking dam-SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have partied too hard 32 Out of shape yesterday. Rest and relaxation should get you back on track quickly. You may
58 "Eat!" French word travel ages
10 Weekend-start­want to make apologies to someone you made fun of. ••u ing cry 35 Off-road trans-42 On one's toes 50 "It's !" CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Invite family over for some fun in the sun.ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Member of an port, briefly ("Simple!'') Your cooking talents will be appreciated, and new friendships will develop if order 43 Eliminate you allow your guests to bring someone with them. ••• 36 Golfer from 51 Vivacity AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may have a smash1ng idea that
45 Certain smoke
12 Slip in a pot could be quite lucrative for all involved. Talk to close friends who may be
South Africa 52 Prairie building 
signal 

interested and put your thoughts into action. •••
13 Go-ahead 
37 Sixth-century 46 Keats and oth-53 Wood shaper PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can build a stronger bond if you take 21 Bout stopper, time to do things with children. Show an interest in the things they like to do
year ers 54 20-20, e.g.
briefly and encourage them toward accomplishments. ••• 22 Trick ending 38 Alias 47 Kodak print 55 Cabinet dept. 
Birthday Baby: Your inquisitive nature can take you in many different directions. You will enjoy the luxury of having good friends who are helpful, king For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a caring and always trying to keep you moving in a positive direction. 
26 Tel. book con­credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.mm
tents Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
27 Plumber's piece Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 30 It's chaos Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 32 Pal nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

DILBERT 
I'M ZENOX I THE NEW MANAGER OF THIS COVEN ... I MEAN DEPARTMENT. 
fiVES 
REAL source of inflation at ND... 
a.. ,glifc:h ac.a.dun ic. f't:conis #14+ Adds .oool llfs 
sivdet1+ 6PA. I Vleed boy5 ~t OJ:T to fik 
i+... Pwrl-o! 
/ 


SCOTT ADAMS 
THE NEW

WHEN I AM DISPLEASED 
IF A MAN
DRESS

I MAKE THIS FACE AND 
ACTED LIKE
CODE IS

GROWL LIKE THE 
YOU I HE'D
"WINGED

UNDEAD. EAuHI BE CALLED
MONKEY."

6~0\J-E " . TOUGH. 
) \ 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRlON 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
BLACE 
± 
Ci!:004 Tribune Med1a Servlcea, Inc. All R1ghta Reserved. 
TEJEC 
cJ I lu 

WHAT THE: BAKE:R

TORRAM 
t 
MADE: WHE:N THE: STOCK MARKE:T SOAI<E:O. 

www.jumble.oom
t IDISSAT 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

J rJ I I 
Answer: [ 
I I I )oF"[ I I I I)" 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: FAITH POKED DEFACE COOKIEYesterday's Answer: 
How the last-minute field goal affected the victory celebration-IT "KICKED" IT OFF 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa~ nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, March 4, 2004 
page 24 
BENGAL BOUTS 165 POUNDS -HEAVYWEIGHT 
Boxers advance into final round 
By LUKE BUSAM Sports Writer 
Ross Bartels won the best fight of the night against defending 165-pound champi­on Alex Fergus by unanimous decision. Bartels came out hard and brawling in round one and was relentless in pur­suing Fergus. Fergus held his hands low, waiting to set up his powerful right. The right came at 55 seconds in and sent Bartels to his knee. Bartels sprung up and came out fast after the break, relent­less again in his pursuit of Fergus. Fergus' right found its target a few more times late in the round, but in round three Bartels took advantage when Fergus lowered his hands to set up the right hand. 
Senior captain Pat Dillon achieved his longtime goal of a place in the finals after win­ning a called fight against jun­ior Craig Thompson. Thompson brought the match to Dillon early in round one, but Dillon began the match well and used a parry, one-two combination to score a num­ber of times throughout the match. A strong right hook at 50 seconds into the second round warranted a standing eight-count against Thompson. Ten seconds later, a parry one­two-one combo stopped the fight. The RSC was called at one minute, two seconds into the second round. 
170 pounds 
Senior captain Tommy Demko won a split decision vic­tory to earn a well-deserved place in the finals. Law student Matt Smith was a strong lefty, but Demko did not seem flus­tered at all. Demko countered the advancing Smith well for the first 25 seconds and earned a standing eight-count thirty seconds into round one with a big right hand. Smith initiated contact well and his right jab often found its target, but Demko's counters were excel­lent and scored often. Late in the third round, Smith began to dominate and his right jab found its way in several times, perhaps swaying a number of judges to-call the fight for him. 
Brian Nicholson won a hard­fought split decision vi.ctory over James Ward in the second 170-pound bout. The match began as a brawl with a huge flurry featuring only a few clean punches. Nicholson set­tled down shortly after and found success with his one­two. Ward came on strong in the second round, landing his lead jab well in initiating con­tact. Round three began with a lot of contact and heavy 
see BOUTS/page 21 


MEN'S GOLF 
Tough t-wo days for Irish 
Men struggle against nine ranked teams at Cleveland Invitational 
By ANNIE BRUSKY Sports Writer 
To be the best you have the play the best, and the Irish know this season will be no smooth ride. 
Up against nine ranked teams at this week's Cleveland Golf Collegiate Invitational Notre Dame finished 17th out of 17 teams with a total of 918 (297­310-311), 66-over par. No. 10 Texas ran away with the tour­nament at S-under par 84 7, a full 15 strokes ahead of host school and second-place finish­er USC. 
"We're pretty disappointed about how we performed as a team," sophomore Scott Gustafson said. "We can't go in against teams like that, play as we did and expect to do well." 
Gustafson led the Irish with a 3-over score of 216 (73-68-75) that landed him in a tie for 
see GOLF/page 22 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish face tall order against No. 17 Illini 
primary challenges the Irish By ANN LOUGHERY (7-1) will face during the Sports Writer meet. Senior Jennifer 
McGaffigan, ranked nationally 
The teams are ranked close at No. 14 in singles and No. 7 to each other, but Thursday's in doubles, will also present a meet between No. 17 Illinois challenge to the Irish. and No. 19 Notre Dame looks McGaffigan and doubles part-to be a classic ner Cynthya · 
David and Goulet boast a
"You ,d think they 
Goliath match 16-5 record, up. were a basketball including 6-1 
"They're a big team.,, this spring as team," coach the No. 1 dou­Jay Louderback bles team. said. "You'd Jay Louderback "They're an think they were Irish coach explosive team," a basketball Louderback team walking said. "They also around because they're so play with a lot of emotion. tall." They're always yelling at each 
Louderback cited the height, other across the courts,. which strength and emotional play­ing style of the Illini as the see TENNIS/page 22 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Demko earns his captaincy 
By LUKE BUSAM Spons Writer 
For most Bengal Bouts boxers the start of January practice is in reality a return to practice. Novices come in with five weeks of fall training behind them and the veterans arrive with a year or more of experience. Tommy Demko came to his first January practice in the winter of 2001 with nothing, not even hand wraps. 
What for everyone else was a return to training was actually day one for Demko. 
"I walked into the room the first day of regular training totally clueless," Demko said. "I didn't really know anybody, and everyone else seemed like they knew what was going on. I did­n't even have a pair of wraps much less know how to put them on." 

As a freshman, Demko may have been inexperienced, but now, as a senior, he commands the attention of over 130 boxers with calm confidence. Leading them in calisthenics, teaching jabs and even instructing them on how to put on hand wraps, the captain is in his element. Demko has come a long way since that first day in January, but a look at his boxing career reveals that the talent was all there from the beginning. Minute evolutions, not drastic changes, mark his development both as a boxer and as a per­son. 
Demko said he was not as nervous as he expected himself to be before his first fight. He had experienced big crowds from his football days at Centerville High School in Centerville, Ohio. That fight ended in a split-decision loss to Chris Pearsall, but Demko turned the event into a motiva­tor. 
"Losing that close split deci­sion my freshman year motivat­ed me to improve my skills, really spend a lot of time in the gym," he said. 
Training alone over the sum­mer and fall, Demko's work ethic grew. He built on the resolve that got him through the early days of practice, and the evolution began. 
"I set a goal that I would spend an hour before practice and an hour after practice working out," he said. "I was not going to lose as a result of being outworked." 
As a sophomore the extra hours paid off. Demko advanced to the semifinals, losing in a called fight against former foot­ball player Matt Sarb. A huge right hand on the chin from 
see DEMKO/page 21 


BENGAL BOUTS NBA NHL NFL LPGA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
The matchups are set. Kobe Bryant's defense The Washington In order for Key-Mianne Bagger, the Georgetown at Wednesday's semifinal attorneys were granted Capitals trade defense-shawn Johnson to end first transsexual in golf Notre Dame bouts determine which permission to question man Sergei Gonchar to up in Dallas, Joey history is playing in the Tonight, 7 p.m.boxers will compete for Bryant's accuser about the Boston Bruins in an Galloway must first re-LPGA Australian Notre Dame seniors their respective titles. her past sexual history. attempt to cut payroll. 
structure his contract. Women's Open. play their last regular season home game. 
page 19 page 14 page 14 page 16 page 18 Irish Insider 






