
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Moo;ney looks to future as 11th SMC president 
N 0 VP will take over June 1 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD Saint Mary's Editor 
Thn Saint Mary's Board of Trustees named Carol Mooney, Notre Damn viee president and assor.iate provost, to b1~ the 11th presidnnt of' thn College. See Also Slw will take 
"ND officials
ollicn on June 
I. react to 
"I >r. Mooney 
appointment"
has nxtensive 
page3
expNinnce in Catholie high­er l'lhu:ation -as a student, pro­lilssor and administrator," said Sist.Pr .Joan Marin !:itnadman, chair of tho Board of Trustees, in a h•ttnr to tlw Saint Mary's eom­munity. "The Board bnlitwns this hm:kground uniquely suits her to adclrnss the spndal challenges inhnrnnt to this institution. The Board is conlident in her ability to 
see SMC/page 3 


Community prepares to welcome new president 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Wrircr 
Some at Saint Mary's are impressed by her pnwious leader­ship positions, others appreciate that she is a woman and others love that she is an alumna. Whatever the rna­son, most faculty and students sup­port the Board of Trustees' selection 
of Carol  Mooney  as  the  eleventh  
president of' Saint Mary's.  
"I  know  Carol  Moorwy  and  am  

thrilled that she was selncted," cur­rent prnsident Marilou Eldrnd said. "She is an excellent leader and will position the college well lhr contin­ued success." 
Studenl'i worn invited to take part of the selection process by attending student forum sessions plannnd fi1r each candidatn's visit. In addition, students had the opportunity to make their comments and concerns 
see MOONEY/page 6 



Indian tribe sues ND over land 
Library suffers water damage 
Books and periodicals damaged on lower, first floors 
By JOE TROMBELLO News Writer 

Water flooded parts of the lower level and first floor of the Hesburgh Library Jan. 8, leav­ing nearly 500 items irrevoca­bly damaged, aecording to library officials. 
A broken damper on the heating/eooling unit allowed cold air to rush in, rupturing between 10 and 16 coils. Sub­zero temperatures froze the water in the unit, which was later released through the rup­tured eoils when building faeil­ities warmed the library back up as staff' began their work day early Wednesday morning. 
The water reached about 1 inch in depth in portions of the current periodicals room on the first floor, according to Nigel Butterwick, associate director for user services 
"It looked like it was pouring rain into the periodicals room," said Kelly Koski, manager of financial and administrative services for the university libraries. 
Barbara Connelly, access services supervisor, said that approximately 490 items in current periodicals had to be discarded and about 500 items suffered water damage but still remain useable. Connelly said that her staff worked diligently to ensure that the room would be open for the first day of classes on Tuesday. 
"We scrambled together," she said, "but the current peri­odicals section is up and run­ning." 
Jennifer Younger, director of university libraries, said that the majority of the discarded current periodicals will be replaced through either paper, electronic or microfilm ver­sions. She noted, however, that there would be a gap of one or two months before replace­ment. 
A few items that were lost will not be replaced, according to Younger, because these titles were cancelled effective this calendar year to cut costs. 
Officials said that the cost to replace these materials will be relatively small, as current periodicals are easier to obtain than other sources and can be made available through a vari­ety of mediums. 
"We don't need to rnplaee much of I these! costs," Younger said. 
see FLOOD/page 4 

By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
An Indian tribe has tiled a law­suit against Notrn Dame and the 
U.S. Government alleging that part of Notre Dame's campus belongs to the tribe. 
In the suit, the Ilannahville Indian Community, a successor of the Potawatamie Tribe, says the state of Indiana illngally trans­ferred land owned by the Poutwatamie to Notre Dame. The South Bond Tribune rnportHd the eontested land is near the WNDU tehwision studio. 
Tho lildoral lawsuit seeks the litir nmtal valw! of the land occu­pied by Notrn Damn, along with a dncroe that tlw tribn is the true and absolute owner of the portion of land. 
Notre Dame ·spokesman Matt Storin dedined to comment on the lawsuit. 
"We haven't been formally served with the suit yet. We really don't want to say anything at this time," Storin said. 
The Hannahville Indian Community, formerly the I Iannahville Indian Community of Wisconsin Potawatamie Indians of Miehigan, L'> a federally recognized Indian tribe located in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. The tribe's Web site says there are 680 tribal mem­bnrs who live on thn reservation and that the tribe has flourished sincn the introduetion of gaming in the 1980s. The tribe owns and operates Chip-In's Island Hesort and Casino in Harris, Mkh. 
see TRIBE/page 6 

Wednesday, January 14, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Love the Eagles 
If you're not an Eagles fan already, you should be. Period. There is no logical argument against this. 
I don't care if you grew up in Chicago, Dallas, Miami, Boston or 
Kate Gales 
-heaven forbid ­Pittsburgh. The 
News Writer 
Line welcomes all fans. You're old enough to pick your loyalty. 
Grew up in Texas? Jump off the Cowboys bandwagon already and support the green of the City of Brotherly Love. 
Chicago native? It's time to get over the 2001 divisional playoff loss and root for the modern power­house in the NFC. We're not in the 80's anymore. Bonus: Donovan McNabb is from Chicago, but his loyalty belongs in Philadelphia­shouldn't yours? 
I understand that you might need to explain to your friends from home why you're switching alle­giance. 
Don't worry-it might be awk­ward now, but they'll appreciate your wisdom ·someday. So out of sympathy with your neophyte sta­tus. here are a few logical reasons to proudly support the Eagles on their quest for their first Super Bowl title. 
One: Donovan McNabb is simply McNabbulous. 
After Rush Limbaugh's racist com­ments, he led a 2-3 team to finish 10-4, became November NFL Player of the Month and brought the Birds to the NFC title game for the third straight year. 
Against the Packers on Sunday, he rushed for 107 yards on 11 attempts -an NFL playoff record for a quar­terback-and passed for 248, including a fourth-and-26 conver­sion against a Cover-2 defense late in the fourth quarter to set up the game-tying field goal. McNabb stepped up on big-time plays to get the victory. 
I love him. A lot. A whole lot. 
Two: Andy Reid. 
OK, he kind of looks like a walrus. 
But he has an instinct for coaching and confidence in his Eagles ­deservedly. 
Three: "Fly, Eagles, fly, on the road to victory ... " 
The Notre Dame Victory March it's not, but the wonderfully cheesy fight song of the Eagles captures the perennial optimism of fans who have never seen a Super Bowl win. 
And my last reason for loving the Eagles is Philadelphia -most notably, the fans. 
They overcome disappointment, like the Phillies losing the NL wild card playoff spot to Florida, to rally behind the football team raising their hopes yet again. Eagles Court, where unruly fans received immedi­ate consequences for their actions, is no longer necessary. 
As late Philadelphia pitcher Tug McGraw said so eloquently, "You gotta believe." 
And I do. Fly, Eagles, fly, past Indiana, straight to Houston. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, rec­ognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE CHRISTMAS GIFT? 


Andy Callan  Anne Mulligan  Brian VIloria  Jen Connolly  Kevin Boyle  Patrick Ross  
Junior Off-Campus  Junior Pangborn  Junior Off-Campus  Junior Pasquerilla East  Junior Off-Campus  Senior Off-Campus  
"The best Rolex $20 can buy in  "Two pounds of nuts.,,  ':4 mail-order bride.,,  "Didgeridoo. "  ':4 monkey butler to serve  ''All expenses paid trip to the  




Thailand.,, 


ANDY KENNA/The Observer 

The University relnltlated construction on campus In several locations over the holi­day break. Pictured above Is the ongoing work near Stepan Center, slated to house campus security. Work has also begun In front of Loftus, the location of a new sci­ence center. 
OFFBEAT 

Owner thinks eat's marks honor Earnhardt 
DELAND, Fla. -First it was the Dale Earnhardt goat, now it's the Dale Earnhardt cat. 
David Albury was at home recuperating from surgery several months ago when he noticed the black fur on his eat's back was shaped in the number "3." The fur screamed "Dale Earnhardt" to Albury. 
He told his wife of 30 years, "Valerie, we're rich." 
Albury, a NASCAR fan who regularly watches the races on television, called up the Daytona International Speedway to see if officials there were interested. The Speedway officials suggested he call Dale Earnhardt Inc. based in North Carolina. He has­n't gotten a reply. 
Earnhardt died in 2001 during a crash in the Daytona 500. The leg­endary driver's car bore the number 3. 
Man charged with riding his bike drunk 
LONDONDERRY, N.H.­A man charged with riding his mountain bike drunk will get his day in court. 
Timothy Bradley, 44, of Londonderry was charged with driving under the influence last July. His dri­ver's license had been sus­pended after a drunken driving conviction in Massachusetts the year before. 
His lawyer says the 
·charge should be dis­missed, because the state's drunken driving laws apply only to people operating motor vehicles. He says Bradley was doing the right thing by riding his bicycle instead of getting behind the wheel. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


me. Never/and Ranch.,, 
IN BRIEF 

Dance the night away at Legend's Nightclub Dancing Thursday through Saturday from 12 a.m. to 4 a.m. 
The Student Activities Office is sponsoring Open Billiards from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. Thursday through Sa.1urday, at NO Express in the LaFortune Student Center. 
The Joyce Ice Arena will host a College Student Skate this Friday from 7 to 9 p.m. There is a $3 skate rental fee. 
FlipSide will sponsor a night of bowling at the Beacon Bowl on Friday. Buses will leave the Library Circle at 9:30 p.m. 
The band "Kennedy's Kitchen" will perform Friday from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. at Legends. Come enjoy this seven­piece Irish band, and be pre­pared to dance. 
Sign up at RecSports for a cross-country ski clinic to be held Saturday from 2 to 5 p.m. located in the old golf pro shop of the Rockne Memorial. The pro shop will also hold an open house at that time. 
The Center for Social Concerns will hold an interviewing work­shop for students applying for this summer's service programs. The workshop will take place Jan. 20 from 5 to 6 p.m. in the esc building. 
Come check out service and social action opportunities at the Social Concerns Festival Jan. 21 from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 
30 
LOW 
26 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
L&.l 
::::c 
~ 
L&.l 
~ 
_, 
c( 
(.) 






0 

HIGH 30 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 

LOW 15 LOW LOW LOW 
19 10 
18 12 
26 20 

Atlanta 54 I 43 Boston 10 I -2 Chicago 34 I 18 Denver 56 I 26 Houston 66 I 52 Los Angeles 72 I 50 Minneapolis 32 I 12 New York 21 I 11 Philadelphia 24 I 17 Phoenix 76 I 50 Seattle 52 I 42 St. Louis 51 I 30 Tampa 67 I 49 Washington 32 I 24
-

Wednesday, January 14, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
to provide strong leadership and crnative direction for the College." 
Mooney's appointment, announced Dec. 26. follows nine months of a presidential search proeoss. which began after cur­rent president Marilou Eldred announced her intent to retire last March. The search commit­tne worked with executive search linn Korn/Ferry International to snh~ct and invite four candidates to campus in November. 
In addition to Mooney, candi­dates Gail Baker. vice president of public relations at the University of Florida, Josl!fina Baltodano, executive vice presi­dnnt for strategic planning at Alliant International University and Susan Keys, an administra­tor at Johns Hopkins University, met with faculty, stall' and stu­dents during their respective vis­il'>. 
Based on student feedback forms and deliberation among 
Source: Saint Mary's College 
members, the search committee narrowed the field and proposed three candidates to the Board of Trustees earlier this month. An official decision was made shortly thereafter. 
Mooney said she first became inter­ested in the position after receiving encouragement from others. 
"The process of writing to the search committee helped me to realize how much I would love to be at Saint Mary's and play a role in leading it to the next level," she said. 
A 1972 alumna, Mooney compliments Saint Mary's for giving her the skills rwenssary to excel in various phases of her career. 
"My expnricnce in academic adminis­tration, both in the !Notre Dame) Law School and in the provost's office have familiarized me with the challenges of academic administration and helped nw to develop the interpersonal skills necessary to work with the variety of people needed to meet those chal­lnngcs," she said. 
Mooney added that her role as mother to four daughters has also helped her prepare for the new position. 
"Managing the multiple roles I play has taught me a great deal about life and setting priorities." • Search 24 stores

Mooney's first priority as presi­

with 1 click!
dent is to associate herself with Saint Mary's faculty. staff, admin­
• Save up to '700/o istration and students. "I need to understand their 
hopes and dreams for the college as well as their current concerns 
committees: University Committee on Cul Academic Council Provost's Advisory Committee Academic Affirmative Action Commi Laetare 1-1edal and Notre Dame Award 
Graduated from Saint Iv1ary's College in 1972 in English, and received her J.D. from the Notre Dame Law School in 1977, graduating first 
before I can know how to best allocate my efforts," she said. In addition, she plans to make student enrollment, in terms of number, quality and diversity, a top priority. 
Fundraising and budget discipline are other areas that she deems impor­tant. 
"President Eldred has taken a num­ber of key steps to advance Saint Mary's, and I am truly grateful to her for all that she has done for the College," Mooney said. "She and I have already worked with the Board of Trustees to help ensure a smooth tran­sition. We will be meeting periodically throughout the spring so that I have the benefit of her knowledge and experi­ence when I take office." 
Mooney acknowledges that returning to Saint Mary's will be a transition from her term at a larger university, but she believes her experience at Notre Dame has provided tools that she can use in her future work at Saint Mary's. 
"Notre Dame has given me wonderful opportunities to develop the talents and skills that prepared me to take on this new challenge," she said. 
Mooney feels that she will be effective in helping strengthen and maintain the brother-sister relationship between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. She said she is grateful for the continued sup­port she receives on a daily basis. 
"My colleagues at Notre Dame have been extremely supportive both during the search process and now regarding my decision to make the move to Saint Mary's," Mooney said. "They recognize my love and admiration for Saint Mary's, my commitment to Catholic higher education and are pleased that I am moving to another Holy Cross insti­tution." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 


Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 



Assistant Rector 
fot University Residence Halls 
Tuesday, January 13, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Recker's Hospitality Room 
OR 

Wednesday, January 21, 7:30-8:30 p.tn. Recker:'s Hospitality Room 
Lightrefreslunents served 
For further information visit www.nd.edu/-stdntaff/AsstRector.html 
ND officials react to appointment 
By SHEILA FLYNN 
News Writer 

Notre Dame administrators congratulated 
vice president and associate provost Carol 
Mooney on her new appointment, but have 
not yet begun an active search for her 
replacement. 
"[University Provost Nathan! Hatch has this 
under consideration right now, ... but no 
search committee has been named as of 
today," University spokesman Matt Storin said 
Tuesday. 

Mooney has held her office since 1996. She 
is the second high-level administrator to 
leave within the past year; executive vice 
president Father Timothy Scully resigned last 
spring, and his office has not yet been filled. 
In a statement, University President Father 
Edward Malloy said the members of the Notre 
Dame community are "personally and profes­
sionally pleased for Carol." 
"Through her work in the Provost's Office 
and the Law School, ... her contributions ... 
have left an indelible mark on the University," 
Malloy said. 
Before becoming vice president, Mooney 
was significantly involved in the Notre Dame 
law school, but Hatch said the law school will 
not be greatly affected by her departur.e. 
" ... Since she's been in the provost office for 
seven years, she has had less involvement," 
Hatch said of Mooney's relationship with the 
law school. 

He said that Mooney, as a "wonderful femi­
nist and devout Catholic," is "superbly posi­
tioned to lead a Catholic women's college." 
Hatch said the search for a new associate 
provost would most likely not be limited to 
female candidates. · In his statement, Malloy said, "We'll miss 
her wise counsel, but look forward to working 
in collaboration with her in the years ahead." 
Mooney will become president on June 1 
and Hatch S{lid the University hopes to have 
found a replacement near that date. 
"We'll start acting quickly. because we'll want to replace her by this summer," Hatch said. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 
Wednesday, January 14, 20C {
page4 The Observer + NEWS 

Flood 
continued from page 1 
In addition to the current peri­odicals section, portions of the lower level, the faculty/staff lounge located on the first floor and the special collections area were also affected. 
Lou Jordan, head of special col­lections, said that approximately 150-200 books in the rare books and special collection area of the library were suspected of suffer­ing some water damage, although none were damaged irrevocably. 
Jordan said that the vast majority of the damage was only to specially made plastic cover­ings that protect many of the rare books; Jordan estimated that only 15-30 books actually suf­fered some water damage and said that this damage was often confined to only a few pages and could be treated by the preserva­tion staff. 
"It was an emergency situation ... but we really averted a disas­ter because of all of the people helping out," he said. 
He also said that approximately 20 staff members, including a team that responds to emergen­cies using specific preservation techniques, worked to save the rare books. He said that help from the police and fire depart­ment, as well as bystanders, ensured that no books were destroyed. 
The department was closed for two days for repairs, Jordan said. 
The Risk Management and Safety department quickly con­tracted a consulting firm, Munsters, to make repairs. 
The firm has been removing and repairing the ruptured coils, using fans and special tubing pumping in dry air to remove moisture and cleaning carpets and other damaged areas. Younger and Butterwick said they expect the firm will com­plete its work today. 
University facilities will absorb all costs associated with repair­ing the building, which leaves the library to foot costs associated with lost staff time. 
Younger said that a final report of the library's costs will be sent 
. to risk management, which is in charge of the University's insur­ance, in about one month for reimbursement; however, she sa-id that she expects very little money. "We don't know whether there will be any money coming back to us," she said. "[But this] does­n't look to be a huge financial burden. It will mean some penny­pinching, but it won't have an effect on next year's budget." Library officials nonetheless said that the potential for dam­ages could have been great com­pared to what was actually expe­rienced. Butterwick said the flood's occurrence at a time when students were not present and when the majority of library staff was available to assist in control­ling the damage limited the event's impact. "The damage is not as high as might have been expected," Butterwick said, "due to prompt action by library and other cam­pus staff. I was very impressed by the way that people pulled together." 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 

Governor warns lawmakers 
Conn. executive uses threats to stave offimpeachment 
Associated Press 

HARTFORD, Conn. -In 
what some lawmakers are 
taking as a veiled threat, 
Gov. John G. Rowland is 
warning legislators that their 
own ethical shortcomings 
could come to light if they 
press for his impeachment. 
"He said when the press 
gets tired of him, they will 
start on us," said Democratic 
Rep. Michael Lawlor, recall­
ing a recent meeting at the 
governor's mansion. "It was 
clearly highlighted in the dis­
cussion and inappropriately 
so, I thought." 

Other lawmakers 
including some of those who 
have called on Rowland to 
step down -said they did 
not see the governor's 
remarks as a threat. They 
said Rowland was merely 
pointing out a political reali­
ty. 

"I personally have never 
felt threatened by Gov. 
Rowland," said John Kissel, 
one of 1l GOP state senators 
who urged Rowland to 
resign. 

Rowland said he only told 
the lawmakers they should 
be careful about setting 
"standards" for impeach­
ment that could be applied to 
everyone. 

Dean Pagani, Rowland's ~chief of staff, said some law­makers were the ones who 
brought up the idea that they, too, could have ethical violations that might become known. 
"It's on the minds of law­makers as this process goes forward," Pagani said. "They realize there is the potential for unintended conse­quences." 
The governor is under fed­eral investigation and is fac­ing threats of impeachment and calls for his resignation for accepting free renova­tions on his summer cottage and then lying about it. Rowland has said that the gift-givers were friends and that he did not promise them anything in exchange. 
A draft ruling released Tuesday by the State Ethics Commission's executive director says public officials cannot accept expensive gifts from employees or state con­tractors. 
Rowland's legal counsel, Ross Garber, disagreed with commission Executive Director Alan Plofsky's opin­ion, which did not directly address Rowland's actions. 
"Current law prohibits a public official from using his office for financial gain and taking gifts from those doing business with his agency," Garber said. "It does not say what Mr. Plofsky contends." 
The commission has planned a hearing on the 
issue Friday. 

Also Tuesday, the 
Connecticut Post became the eighth daily newspaper in the state to call for the gov­ernor to resign. But despite the mounting pressure, . Rowland made it clear that 
he is staying put. 

"I've made mistakes. I've 
apologized for those mis­
takes. I've taken responsibil­
ity for those mistakes and 
now it's time to govern," he 
told a crowd of reporters 
who followed him and his 
wife, Patty, to his car after a 
speaking engagement 
Tuesday. 

Rowland is scheduled to 
meet privately Wednesday 
with Democratic House 
Speaker Moira Lyons, who 
must decide whether the 
House should go ahead with 
impeachment. 

If he were impeached in 
the House, a two-thirds 
majority in the Senate would 
be required to remove 
Rowland from office. 

Lyons' staff said she has 
not made her decision yet. 
Rowland believes she will 
likely call for some form of 
committee to look into his 
conduct, Pagani said. 

"We have been told there is 
going to be a committee. We 
don't know the details," 
Pagani said. "He is looking 
forward to a process that is 
fair and deliberativP." 

NEXT FEW DATES: 
Wednesday, January 21st ­Michael Heintz 
"Life Beyond the Dome" 
Wednesday, January 28th­Cathleen Kaveny 

"] esus, Buffy, 0 You" 
Wedr:tesday, February 4th­Lawrence Cunningham 

"Does God Really Listen?" 
. SENIOR NIGHT! 
Wednesday, January 21st All Seniors receive a Senior Gift. First 100 Students (of any class) receive a free Theology on Tap T­shirt. Brought to you by Campus Ministry and the Class of 2004. 
Lively convero$ation, interestin.y jle~fe, sooatime$. 
,...------------------------------------------------------~-------~~-----------~ 





ORLD & NATION 


Wednesday, January 14, 2004 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.N. official missing in crash 
TASIIKENT, Uzbekistan -A domestic air­liner crashed Tuesday on approach to the airport in Uzbekistan's capital, the Interior Ministry said. At least 36 people, including the top U.N. official for Uzbekistan, were aboard and no survivors were reported. 
The plane was an Uzbekistan Airways Yakovlev-40 en route from Termez, in the country's far south along the Afghanistan border, said an Interior Ministry duty oflicer who declined to give his name. He gave no further details. 
An Uzbekistan Airways ollicial in Moscow, Eduard Mirzoyan, was quoted by the news agnncy lnterfax as saying 36 people were aboard. One airport employee, who declined to give his name, said 32 passengers and five crew members were aboard the plane. He said no one was believed to have survived. 
Serial killer commits suicide 
LONDON -The once-respected family doctor who became Britain's worst serial killer was found hanged in his prison cell Tuesday, cheating his victims' relatives of the one consolation they had hoped for -an explanation of his 23-year murder spree. 
Officials are investigating why there was no suicide watch on Dr. Harold Shipman, who was convicted in 2000 of killing 15 patients and later was found to have mur­dered at least 200 more, mostly by lethal injection. He always maintained his inno­cence. 
Guards found him hanging from bedsheets attached to the window bars of his cell at Wakefield Prison in northern England at 6:20 a.m., the Prison Service said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Supreme Court OK's roadblocks 
WASIIINGTON -The Supreme Court ruled Tuesday that police may set up roadblocks to collect tips about crimes, rejecting concerns that authorities might use the checkpoints to fish for unrelated suspicious activity. 
The 6-3 decision allows officers to block trallic and ask motorists for help in solving crimes. Critics have complained that authori­ties might misuse the power. disguising drag­nets as "informational checkpoints." 
Hoadblocks are used for a variety of inves­tigations. For example, in 2002 police used them to try to produce leads in the Elizabeth Smart kidnapping in Utah and the sniper shootings in the Washington, D.C., area. 
But the Supreme Court has limited their use. 
Enron exec pleads guilty 
HOUSTON -Former Enron finance chief Andrew Fastow and his wife have agreed to plead guilty for their roles in a massive accounting scandal that brought down the energy giant in 2001, sources told The Associated Press on Tuesday. 
The two sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said an impasse that erupted last week over a judge's refusal to give Lea Fastow only a live-month prison sentence had been resolved. 
Fastow will become the highest-ranking executive to plead guilty in the federal gov­ernment's criminal investigation into the Enron collapse. 
STATE NEWS 
Governor's address criticized 
INDIANAPOLIS -Republicans said Gov. Joe Kernan's State of the State address failed to account for Indiana's dire economy and ignored government scandals. 
They also said Kernan already has the line­item veto he requested in the speech Tuesday night and that his government efli­ciency program is duplicative. 
Kernan said the state government finances will be in the black in 2004 and 2005 without raising taxes, but Republicans said Kernan's full-day kindergarten proposal threatens to put the state in debt. 
CoMPILED FROM TriE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVIcEs page 5 
Animal disease lab upgraded 
Iowa lab receives funding after mad cow disease found in state of Washington 
Associated Press 
AMES, Iowa Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman broke ground Tuesday on the govern­ment's new animal disease complex and said President Bush would ask for the final $178 million to complete it in his 2005 budget. 
Veneman said the upgrade of the lab in Ames, where tests on brain tissue from a Washington state Holstein found it was infected with mad cow dis­ease, is critical. 
"Our animal health inspection will have greater capacity to respond to animal disease outbreaks and possible acts of bioterrorism," Veneman said. 
As the search for poten­tially infected animals and feed entered its fourth week, Agriculture Department spokeswoman Julie Quick said Tuesday that USDA will soon order the killing of three cows on a Mattawa. Wash., farm that came from the same Alberta, Canada, herd as the infected Holstein. 
On Saturday, Agriculture officials began killing 129 more cows in Washington state that could be linked to the Holstein. The slaughter began at an unused facility in eastern Washington. 
The animals being killed are from the Mabton, Wash.. dairy farm that was the infected cow's final home. Investigators have identified nine cows as coming from the same Canadian herd, and cannot eliminate the possibility that the other 120 animals may have been infected. 
Officials have so far con­demned 581 animals fol­lowing the Dec. 23 announcement of the first 
U.S. case of mad cow dis­ease. Authorities last week killed a herd of 449 bull calves, which included an offspring of the infected cow. 


Meat from those animals is not being sold for human or animal consumption, officials have said. 
Agriculture officials also have placed a farm in Quincy, Wash., under quar­antine because investiga­tors believe that seven cows from the Alberta herd were sent there, Quick said. Officials are trying to determine whether the animals are still there. 
Even if those seven cows are found on the Washington farm, authori­ties will have located just a fourth of the 80 cows that entered the United States with the infected Holstein in 2001, although Quick said investigators "have solid leads on the others." 
The government still has not verified information from the Canadian govern­ment that another 17 cows, possibly including a calf born to the sick cow, entered the United States at a later date. 
Investigators are trying to find cows from the same herd because the most likely source of infection was contaminated feed that the Holstein ate as a calf. 
Mad cow disease, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy, eats holes in the brains of cattle and is incurable. Humans can develop a brain-wasting illness, variant Creutzfeldt­Jakob disease, from con­suming contaminated beef products. Officials have said, though, that the meat supply is safe. 
WEST BANK 

Palestinians receive financial aid 
Associated Press 
HAMALLAH, West Bank-Hit by waning support from fatigued donor nations, the Palestinian Authority has been forced to borrow from banks to pay salaries to its 125,000 employees and may be unable to meet its February payroll, the econo­my minister said Tuesday. 
Meanwhile, an Israeli settler was shot dead in a West Bank ambush, and a Palestinian was shot and killed by Israeli soldiers in the Gaza Strip. 
With unemployment rampant out­side the public payroll, Palestinians could be facing unprecedented eco­nomic collapse after three years of conflict with Israel. 
"We took loans from the bank for the past couple of months to pay salaries," Palestinian Economy Minister Maher Masri told The Associated Press. "If this situation continues ... we will not be able to provide salaries next month." 

Masri did not disclose the size of the loans, but figures are likely to be made public when Palestinian Finance Minister Salam Fayad pres­ents the 2004 budget to parliament next week. 
After nightfall, Palestinians opened fire on an Israeli vehicle at the entrance to the settlement of Talmon, near the West Bank city of Ramallah, killing Roi Arbel from Talmon and wounding two others, the military said. Arbel, a 28-year­old father of five whose wife gave birth to triplets two months ago, was the first Israeli to be killed in a Palestinian attack this year. 
The Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades, a militant group with links to Yasser Arafat's Fatah faction, claimed responsibility for the shooting attack. 
In the southern Gaza Strip, Israeli troops killed a Palestinian who opened fire on them, the army said, while in the West Bank, Israeli troops conducted house-to-house searches in the Tulkarem refugee camp for a second day. Palestinian witnesses said about 200 residents were rounded up for questioning. 
The Israeli military said it arrested six suspects, including one man who allegedly planned to carry out a sui­cide bombing in Israel. The opera­tion ended at nightfall and Israeli forces withdrew, lifting a curfew, the military said. 
Also Tuesday, Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon hinted that Israel might pull out of the Gaza Strip. His comments came as he is pushing mostly undisclosed plans for unilateral pullbacks from the West Bank and Gaza Strip if peace talks fail. 
Wednesday, January 14, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Test scores to affect teacher pay
Tribe 
continued from page 1 
Harris, Mich. 
The suit states that the U.S. Government made a treaty with the Potawatamie on Oct. 16, 1826 in which certain land in Indiana was ceded to the United States, other land was ceded to allow a road to be built from the Ohio River to Lake Michigan and that another tract of land was recognized as being in possession and ownership of the Potawatamie. 
The suit alleges that part of this tract was claimed by the State of Indiana and given to Notre Dame, in violation of federal laws. The suit 
Mooney 
continued from page 1 
known by filling out a question­naire on each candidate. 
Shay Jolly, residence hall associa­tion president. attended all four forums and felt Mooney was first in line for the position. 
"Out of all the student forums I felt like [Mooney] interacted with the students the best by forming a personal relationship with the stu­dents from the beginning," Jolly said. 
The student forums enabled the Board of Trustees to consider what members of the Saint Mary's com­munity wanted in their next presi­dent. 
"The first priority for students was that we have a woman as president. The second was that she have a vision for the education of women," student body president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl said. "The students felt that Carol Mooney embodied these qualities." 
The possession of strong leader­ship skills and Saint Mary's values worked well for Mooney and being an alumna also helped. 
"I think she has a very good idea of what the school is about and what we need. She is not coming into this as an outsider, but already established in the university setting and in the Saint Mary's communi­ty," .alumnae commissioner Anna Bauer said. 
In alliance with the majority of the student body, Jablonski-Diehl endorsed Mooney as a positive next step for Saint Mary's. 
"Mooney is smart, energetic and a visionary. But with all of that, her biggest strength is her commitment to Saint Mary's. It is a commitment that started years ago. She was a student here. She was an active alumna. She was always a leader," states that the U.S. government was irresponsible in allowing Notre Dame to continue to trespass on the tribal lands. 
Michael Walleri, a Fairbanks, Alaska lawyer representing the community, did not return a call seeking comment. 
John Hamilton, a local attorney who filed the lawsuit on behalf of Walleri, told the Tribune that the lawsuit is a "friendly suit" and that he believes the suit will be resolved quickly and amicably. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 
Jablonski-Diehl said. 
Students and faculty are excited to see where this new woman will lead Saint Mary's and what she has in store for her term as president. 
"I feel she will be a strong leader. I have only heard praises about her and I trust she will put her best foot forward," senior Daniela Urs said. "I see Saint Mary's becoming a stronger school, attracting more top-tier women and extending its influence into the next generation." 
Even with the support of the school behind her. Mooney faces a road of challenges ahead. 
"Mooney's biggest challenge will be the same as all incoming presi­dents. It is difficult replacing a highly effective, much-loved presi­dent. I think that Mooney will excel in the position but it will be tough following Eldred," Jablonski-Diehl said. 
Contact Nat:Jie Bailey at Baill407€-saintmarys.edu 
u




j fr\da\o~h 
Ul Januaf'/ c .....
l 

0 
Open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students 
Bring your IDI $3.00 Skate Rental 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -In her 24th year of teaching, Brenda Parrish has a new reason for ensuring her students do well on stan­dardized tests: Their scores will affect her pay raise. 
If a new commission of government, business and education leaders has its way, all teachers will find a significant portion of their raises tied to progress by their students. 
Nationwide, salaries and raises are typically based on a teacher's experience and education. 
That system "does noth­ing to reward excellence because all teachers, regardless of effort or per­formance, get the same automatic pay increases," according to a new report by The Teaching Commission, a nonprofit group formed in 2003 to imgrove the public teach­ing corps. 
Parrish. who teaches eighth-grade math at Bell Street Middle School in Clinton, S.C., will have 20 percent of any salary bump based on her students' test­score gains. An additional 30 percent will be based on test scores for her school, while the remaining 50 percent of her review will be based on classroom evaluations, including her ability to motivate stu­dents. 
Parrish says it seems fair. The school, she says, has greatly expanded regular training for teachers, and the student evaluation is done in a way designed to minimize factors outside her control, such as whether a child comes from a poor home. Still, she's nervous. 
"I tell you, as many years as I've been in teaching, I've had good years and bad years," she said, refer­ring to both her own per­formance and some unruly classes. "There are years I'd hate to think that I'd be paid based on the perform­ance of the children given the situation I was given. You don't want to make excuses, but on the other hand, it needs to be fair." 
The pay-for-performance idea is part of a compensa­tion overhaul recommend­ed by the commission, whose members include former IBM Chairman Louis Gerstner Jr.. President Clinton's Education Secretary Richard Riley and former first lady Barbara Bush. 
The group also recom­mends an increase in base salary for all teachers to make the profession's pay more competitive; new paths for teachers to boost their pay and responsibili­ties without leaving the field; and financial incen­tives for teachers to serve in hard-to-staff schools or take on high-demand sub­jects. 

'Part-Tiine Position 
<;";., tIJ d L.i ' l JfUSTJRfl LI1l 1 
An Adventure in MIND


Available for Student 
)tudy Australia LLC, a study abroad program provider, owned by Notre Dame Alumni, is ac­
:epting applications from students looking for part-time work. Located on the campus of Holy 
:ross College, we are seeking au enthusiastic student with good computer, communication, and 
1eople skills, ideally with previous international study experience, to support our client service staff. We work with an advanced program and application tracking systems in a busy, fast-paced environment. The hourly rate is $8-$10 per hour and the hours can be organized to suit your schedule. The possibility exists for fiuther employment opportunities if you are a senior, or ongoing support opportunities ifyou are underclassman. Applications by email only (include resume and cover letter) to Sean Lennon at sean.lennon@study-australia.com. .. For information on our organization please visit www.study-australia.com 
·.: 
:· .· : :·· . ·: 
:·. 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, January 14, 2004 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 10,427.18 ·58.00
}ones 


~'m.~: 
N1tEX r 1"202.0S .0.28 ~-,-. ~·.2,096.~4 -15.~3~ . 
NYSE ,. · .. ~~l2;.6o,S09.45 , -~.23:: ·.. S&P 500 1'121.22 -6.01 NIKI<E(Tokyo} 10~827.88 -21.8(t__ FTSE IOO(london} 4,440.10 -9.50 
COMoo-N' %CHioNGE I$GAJN I PRJCI 
SIRJ US SA.T ~..olD! ISIP.!! ..... 14 .().1-4 ).16 OII.ACl..E COJ!P~O'ICU •2.05 ·C. )I) l-4.)6 IDS UNFHASE ~OOJt ·I 113 ·0.0~ .C,Ji tNTa CORP liNTC) ·1.6• -l>.S6 ll.Si SLN t1~ t~NW) .. 0.91 •O.OS .B(J 
Treasuries 

lO.VEAR.&OND .0.62 ·O.l:! -t~."'o() II).Y£AI! N::>TE .I.]s ·0. 55 -40.18 HE-"RNOTE ·2.J4 -0.71 2i.69 l-MONTH I!IU. .. t.n ...o.1s B.6l 
Commodities 

UCIIT CfiJJCE (~W) -(1.39 34.1.)1 GaD t$.'Tro, ~) -1.60 -414.00 POIIK BfWES (ccno.1b.l tl) 62.> 84.SS 
YEN 106.3 BJIIO G.i'!4l PO.JNO 6.541 ~ CAN.bDIAN S 1.273 
IN BRIEF 
Migrant workers angered by Bush 
FHESNO, CA-President Bush's plan to give undocumented workers temporary legal status brings back painful memories for Florentino Lararios, who spent 14 grueling years in a similar World War 11-era program. 
Lararios, a 77·year-old with large, rough hands that never mastered a pencil, recalls the back-breaking work picking cotton in the South, the slapped-together communal hous­ing, the cold meals eaten in the fields, and the unwelcome prospect of going back to Mexico without a chance to become a U.S. citizen. 
"If we accept, then our grandsons and great­grandsons will go through what we went through," Lararios said. "We suffered a lot." 
While generally welcomed by farmers, Bush's immigration proposals face opposition from an unlikely combination that includes unions, conservatives and migrant workers like Lararios who are supposed to benefit the most. 
Chinese buy Telecom equipment 
WASIIINGTON -Chinese telecommunica­tions companies agreed Tuesday to buy $2.3 billion in equipment and communications sys­tems from mainly U.S. firms, a move praised by the Bush administration as a step toward better balancing trade between the countries. 
China United Telecommunications Corp. and China Mobile Communication Corp. signed deals with Motorola Inc. worth $1.1 billion to buy equipment and for help expanding China's wireless network. Other companies signing agreements included Cisco Systems Inc., Ericsson Inc., Intel Corp., Lucent Technologies Inc., Norte! Networks Ltd. and UTStarcom Inc. 
The Bush administration, which has criti­cized China for its expansive trade surplus with the United States. cheered the deals. 
"These agreements will help generate cor­porate revenue, and they will support high­tech manufacturing jobs in many American communities," Commerce Secretary Don Evans said. 
U.S. officials say the trade deficit with China is expected to surpass $120 billion for 2003, the largest another country has ever recorded over the United States. 

Mexico holds trade summit 
United States makes trade concessions to Mexico, Canada, other countries 
Associated Press 
MONTERREY, Mexico ­The United States reached out to its neighbors on free trade and battling corrup­tion, smoothing tense rela­tions with Latin American leaders as the 34-nation Summit of the Americas ended Tuesday. 
Canada and Mexico won the biggest prizes from the United States. President Bush told Canada it will be eligible for a second round of U.S.-financed recon­struction contracts in Iraq that the administration valued at about $4.5 bil­lion. 
A day earlier, Mexican President Vicente Fox accepted an invitation to visit Bush's ranch in Texas and praised his proposal that would allow migrants to work temporarily in the United States. 
Others also welcomed Bush's plan. Honduran President Ricardo Maduro said it would "allow us to have closer ties to Latin Americans in the United States." 

But countries complained the region was not doing enough to battle poverty. During negotiations, Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves of St. Vincent asked: "What's the use of freedom if people are poor?" support a hemisphere-wide ln a news conference declaration does not call 
Brazilian President Luiz trade area without setting after the meeting, Fox said for banning corrupt gov­lnacio Lula da Silva said a firm deadline, a conces­Mexico wanted a Free ernments from future sum­governments need "a new sion to Brazil and Trade Area of the mits, as the United States development concept" that Venezuela. Americas that favored all requested. Instead. the distributes income fairly. The United States had nations. declaration only calls for 
"If we want a world that sought a 2005 deadline for "We just don't want just consultations on countries is safe and stable. we must the Free Trade Area of the any agreement," he said. that don't meet the strive toward a just and Americas agreement. The "We want a good accord, requirements of the Inter­fair world," he said. summit's final declaration one that considers differ­American Convention 
Outside the meeting site, calls for following the ences between countries." against Corruption. in the mountains of north­FTAA's "established Despite expressing reser­Washington's concessions ern Mexico, about 100 timetable," with no specific vations about the declara­appeared aimed in part at anti-globalization protest­date mentioned. tion, Venezuelan President reversing the region's ers clashed with police, Although the original Hugo Chavez said he would increasing disenchantment hanging an effigy of Bush timetable called for an sign the document. He with U.S. policy. on a security barrier and accord by 2005, recent pushed summit partici­In return, countries burning it before a wall of FTM talks have stalled on pants for a humanitarian pledged to "intensify our riot police. the prickly issues of fund that could be used to efforts and strengthen 
Bush arrived at this removing agricultural sub­help countries during cooperation" to fight ter­week's summit to find sidies and intellectual financial and natural dis­rorist threats. In the last many nations publicly criti­property rights. Many have asters, and leaders said few weeks, Mexico can­cizing his free trade questioned whether the they will consider the pro­celed at least two flights stance. original timetable is still posal. because of security con­
The leaders agreed to realistic. In addition, the summit cerns. 


Wal-Mart hit hard by labor audit 
and should not be taken at face value. their schedules to meet a personal
Associated Press 

The document was distributed to top need, such as working through lunch 
NEW YORK -An audit by Wal­Wal-Mart executives and has emerged in order to leave early that day," the Mart Stores Inc. of about 25,000 in lawsuits against the company. statement said. employees uncovered thousands of The audit, obtained by The New Company officials declined inter­labor violations, including minors York Times, covered employee view requests Tuesday. working during school hours and records at 128 Wai-Mart stores James Finberg, an attorney who workers not taking breaks or lunches. nationwide. The Bentonville, Ark.­represents Wal-Mart employees seek­
The company's July 2000 .audit based company has 1.2 million ing class-action status in New York detailed 1,371 violations of child-labor domestic employees. and Washington state on grounds the laws, including minors working too Wal-Mart said its auditor looked at company didn't pay for all hours late, too many hours in a day or dur­numbers alone and did not examine worked, said the audit shows Wal­ing school hours. On more than employees' circumstances. "The audit Mart broke its own rules. 60,000 occasions, workers missed erroneously assumed that each time "The policy book says the right breaks and on 16,000 they skipped an associate failed to clock in or out ... things, but the pattern and practice is meal times, in violation of most state it was because the associate missed a clear -managers tell people to do labor regulations. meal break or rest break," the compa­the work, no matter how long it takes, 
In a statement Tuesday, Wal-Mart ny said. and they tell them they're not going to said the audit was not a valid study "In some cases, associates modified pay them overtime," Finberg said. 

Wednesday, January 14, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


University of Notre Dame 
DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. CELEBRATION 
-----------------~OM 
WAKE UP THE ECHO: 
A Voice for Change Then and Now 'Townhall ?\1eeting 
Thursday,]anuary 15,.. 7:30p.m."' Colernan Morse Student Lounge 
Facilitated by Prof. Carolyn Nordstrom, Anthropology* 1\1r. Roberto Gutierrez, Vice President for Public Affairs & Communication, and MLK Student Committee Members 
All are welcome! 


For information, contact Trinidad.Arredondo.5@nd.edu; Aislinn.M.Doyle.7o@nd.edu; Melissa.A.Hentges.I@nd.edu; or Kamaria.B.Porter.34@nd.edu 




Office DEPOT. 
What you need. What you need to know... 
The Best Way To Shop For
SAVE on SUPPLIES! 


Remember to
Ink, Toner, and Fax Supplies 
Stop by 

our Print, Copy·
$5 i 

Ream of EnviroCopy'" 
OffkeDDOr 
Recycled Copy Paper ; rn 
&Ship Center 

(563-024 up to a f."'Z\:'./==> i€=3 EIDJ·.,,, 
mg~·=~

$3.33 value) 
to Pick Up Your 

With Return ofANY Empty Ink DEPOT OR Toner Carbidge 
Discount Card
OFF 

Guaranteed In stock' 
Today!

Supply Purchase Technology Purchase Furniture Purchase 
Large 
S..stortfCI'datalls

of S20 or More of $50 or More of $1 00 or eJjore selection 
Everyday
Present thiS anginal C{)Upan for In-store redemption. Present this original coupon form-store redemption. Present this anginal coupon for in-store redemption. Sony, coupon offer not valid for contract customers with Sorry, C{)Upon offer not valid for contract customers with Sorry, coupon offer not valid for contract customers with low prices
INK AND TONER 
astore puiChase card or procurement card. Coupon not astore purt:hase card or procurement card. Coupon not astore purcllase card or procurement card. Coupon not 
Offers and prices available Express
I valid for purt:hases tram Tech Depot. puiChases of Gift valid for puiChases from Tech Depot. puiChases of Gift valid lor purt:hases trom Tech Depot, purt:hases of Gift Cards or Wireless. satellite. Internet, networl<mg, Cards or wireless. satellite, Internet. netwoll<mg, Cards or Wireless, satellite, Internet, netwoll<ing, check-out
In store only. 1 penpherals, camera memory, mailing or sh1pp1ng peripherals. camera memory, mailing or sh1pp1ng peripherals, camera memory, mailing or shipping Coupon Code 12871540 seMces. Photocopies and mecllanical reproductions are serVIces. Photocopies and mechanical reproductions are services Photocopies and mechanical reproductions are 
Excludes Canon &Epson Ink Tanks.
I not valid Coupon Is not transferable, and not for resale. not valid Coupoo is not transferable, and not for resale not valid. Coupon IS not transferable, and not for resate Uml one offer per customer per day.1Ouantn1es limited. We reserve the nght to limit quantities. 1 Quantities 11m1ted. We reserve the right to limit quantitles. 1 Quantities limited. We reserve the nght to limit Offer expires 2/15/04. Coupon Is good for one-t1me Offer exp1res 2/15104. Coupon is good tor one-time quantities. Offer expires 2/15/04. Coupon Is good for 
toffice Depot guarantEes your ink, toner, or lax supplies (or its eqwvalent)
1 use and redeemable In store only. 1 use and redeemable In store only. 1 one-time use and redeemable In store only. 
will be In stock. or we will waive the del111ery fee to ship kto your door! Not applicable In Alaska. Hawa11, or canada Available in store only. See store for
I Office DEPOTe Cous::2~g~O I Office DEPOTe Coug~~3~m I Office DEPOT. Couc:;1~m details. ~------------··------------~·------------·
~~~R.--~~....-RM.-~­
Wednesday, January 14, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Bush seeks to boost NASA budget over 5 years 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush will seek to boost NASA's budget by $1 billion over five years to help pay for his plan to put a base on the moon and to mount a manned expedition to Mars later in the century, a senior administration official said Tuesday. 
Bush's election-year vision calls for establishing a perma­nent presence on the moon within two decades and putting astronauts on Mars sometime after 2030, a second official said. 
"The spirit is going to be one of continued exploration ... seeking new horizons and investing in a program that ... meets that objective," Bush told reporters Tuesday during a trip to Mexico. 
To pay for the space initia­tive, which he will outline in a speech Wednesday afternoon, Bush would increase NASA's to the International Space budget by $200 million a year Station. The shuttle now costs for five years. NASA about $4 billion a year 
Congressional negotiators and the station about $1 bil­last year agreed to a NASA lion. budget of nearly $15.5 billion Bush's father, the first for fiscal 2004, President 
which began last Oct. 1.  'The spirit is going to be  Bush, posed  pro­a  
That's  a  $90  one of continued  more  muted  
million boost over the previ­ous year. The  exploration ... seeking new horizons and  project, which would have aimed  
measure, part of a broad-based spending bill,  investing program that meets that objection. ,  at putting Americans on Mars  
was  passed by  without  
the House and  George W. Bush  mention of a  
awaits approval by the Senate.  U.S. president  moon base. The cost of  
The adminis­ that enter­ 

tration said part of the funding prise was projected at $400 bil­for the moon-Mars initiative lion to $500 billion in 1989 dol­would come from reallocation lars, far too rich for Congress. of money already in NASA's The current president's plan, budget, including phasing out one official said, calls for send­of the space shuttle and quickly ing exploring robots to the concluding the U.S. obligations moon by 2008, landing humans 
Magazine accidentally prints slur 
Associated Press 
McLEAN, Va. -More than 300 newspapers that distrib­ute the weekly USA Weekend magazine have been warned that a racial slur inadver­tently appears in the upcom­ing issue. 
A photo illustration, accompanying an article about storytelling in the magazine's Jan. 16-18 edi­tion, contains the slur in randomly chosen text that was used for the illustra­tion's background. 
The freelance artist who prepared the illustration was unaware of the offen­sive language, the magazine 
said. The text came from a November New York Times magazine piece in which the author discussed the epi­thet's use. 
The slur was noticed dur­ing USA Weekend's printing run, said Marcia Bullard, the magazine's president. It was corrected, but 327 of the 598 newspapers that distrib­ute tbe magazine received tbe edition that contains the slur. 
The magazine sent a letter of apology to the newspa­pers, which have the option of pulling distribution. USA Weekend provided the papers with a statement they can include in their paper if they choose to distribute the magazine, as well as an alert that can be used if dis­tribution is withheld. 
"We are extremely cha­grined this found its way into print and believe it is important to let our newspa­pers and readers know in advance that we are aware of the problem and are apologetic," Bullard said. 
USA Weekend, published by McLean-based Gannett, has a ·circulation of 23.7 mil­lion. 
The magazine, which com­petes with Parade, uses the familiar logo from Gannett's flagship newspaper, USA Today. 

LAST CHANCE TO REGISTER "Women Leading: Is It Different?" 
(NEW LECTURE SERIES -BA 325 & MBA 525) 
1.5 Credits, Assigned Readings & Discussion~ No Exams o.; TermPaper 8 Lectures, Fridays 10:40am-12:lOpm,.beginniltgJanuary16th Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College ofllusbless 
COURSE DESCRIPTION ., 

Join your friends and classmates for this timely new lecture series, cj¢signed for ·. ·.·.· · male and female students alike. A prestigious group ofspeakers will offer their perspectives and insights on what it's like to be a woman leader and what jfs like to work with and for one. · 
5chedulcd speakers include: 

• 
Dr. Paulette R. • Kathy Mendoza, formerly of Gcrkovich, Catalyst, Inc. Network Appliance 

• 
Dr. Jana Matthews, • Danjelle Boucree~ entrepreneur Boulder Quantum • Sara Martinez Tuckel'", Ventures Hispanic Scholarship Fund 

• 
Roxanne Martino, Ranis • MuffetMcGraw, Notre Dame Alternatives, LLC Women's Basketball 


Visit www.nd.edu/~cba/womenleadin~: formore inforJ:nation. 
'!o:: 

ENROl.LMENT AND COURSE REQUIRlllMENTS "Women Leading: Is It Different?," listed as BA~325 and MBA~525, is open to any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's Student via DART. There are no prerequisites to enrollment. See your academic advisor or,your department chair for additional detail. 
You are expected to attend eight lectures• gqmplete>assigned readings, and be .. prepared to engage speakers. This is. ~e·satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" courseoyvith no more than one verified, excused absencetoreceivea grade of"Satisf~ctory." No 
examinations and no term paper requirements. 
•f•: 

there by 2020 and then launch­develop an electric-ion rocket ing a Mars expedition after that could be used to speed the 2030. He envisions using the months-long trip to Mars. moon as a steppingstone to Much of the equipment and deeper space exploration, to techniques needed for a Mars Mars and perhaps beyond. venture could first be tested at 
He said the president's a lunar base. address will give broad outlines The moon, with its gravity to the moon-Mars plan, leaving just one-sixth of the Earth's, details to be worked out later. might also be used as a jump­
The officials spoke on condi­ing off point for voyages tion of anonymity. beyond Earth's orbit, such as to 
Experts said that an effort to Mars or to asteroids. return to the moon will require Some experts have proposed building new spacecraft. They . that a colony on the moon said the eventual plan could could exploit mineral resources include sending robot craft to that are thought to be on the the moon and later to Mars to lunar surface. It's known that cache supplies for use later by lunar soils contain helium-3, a human explorers. potential fuel. Some studies 
Some have suggested that also have suggested the moon such an ambitious program may have water that could be would require nuclear power to chemically split to obtain energize the lunar colony and hydrogen and oxygen, a combi­later to provide dependable nation that can be used as a electricity for any extended rocket propellant. The oxygen Mars expedition. could be used for an atmos­
NASA already is working to phere inside sealed shelters. 
Cell phone linked to deadly bus collision 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -A truck driver fumbling for a cell phone plowed his tractor-trailer. into a stopped school bus Tuesday in rural North Carolina, killing a 5-year-old girl as she boarded the bus, troopers said. Her mother and more than a dozen other children were injured. 
The force of the crash, on a two-lane highway near Maxton, propelled the bus more than 400 feet and into the yards of nearby houses. Sheila Hernandez, who was on her way to pre-kindergarten, was killed. Maria Hernandez, 25, was severely injured as she stood nearby, watching her daughter. 
The truck driver, Gary Garnett, had been heading to pick up a load of chickens for Mountaire Farms. He told troopers "he was distracted because he was trying to locate his cell phone, which he dropped on the floorboard," said Sgt. Everett Clendenin, a spokesman for the Highway Patrol. 
Charges were expected against Garnett once troopers confer with prosecutors later 
Cross Country Ski Clinic 

Saturday, January 17 ·2:00pm Meet at the Rockne Ski Shop 
se tb.e west entrance ofthe building. 
Clinic held at Notre Dame GoH Course Register in Advance at RecSports Cost is $10.00 Includes Rental Ski fitting Available 
.z?~~ 
this week, Clendenin said. Garnett was hospitalized with severe injuries. 
According to the Highway Patrol, Garnett had been involved in at least two other accidents and had four previous driving convictions, including one for going 30 mph over the speed limit. 
Clendenin said skid marks at the scene showed the trucker attempted to stop before his vehicle hit the bus squarely in the rear and then hit the child's mother. 
Maria Hernandez was hospi­talized Tuesday in serious con­dition. Two children from the bus were also taken to nearby hospitals, but information on their conditions was not avail­able. Fourteen others were treated and released. 
Mike Terrell, Mountaire's vice president for operations, said he had no information on Garnett's previous record. 
"We make sure that we are very diligent in following the 
U.S. Department of Transportation rules and regu­lations," Terrell said. 
The accident scene was about 1 1/2 miles north of Maxton, near the South Carolina border. 
··------------, 
THE 0BSERV'ER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, January 14, 2004 
2010: An education odyssey 

"Notre Dame 2010: Fulfilling the Promise" is the provisional strategic plan for the University. This plan fol­lows COUP in 1973, PACE in 1982 and the 1993 Colloquy for the year 2000. Our leaders who produced it obvi-Charles E. Rice ously worked hard in what they see as the Right or best interest of Wrong?Notre Dame. Probably unavoidably, however, this one took the genre to a new level of boosterism and boredom. 
NO 2010 stresses the need to improve the rankings of 19 programs. It lists four academic goals: 1. "Provide ... premier undergraduate education ... integrating teaching and research bet­ter than any other university." 2. Be "among leading American research universities." 3. Be "the premier center of Catholic intellectual life." 4. Be "a diverse and international academic community." 
The real goal is research: "[W]e must take the next step -to move forward as a center of outstanding research and scholarship." In the "allocation of resources," we "must focus on those academic areas that give us the great­est opportunity for growth and funding in our research endeavors." Translation: Getthe bucks. NO 2010 hopes to "increase externally spon­sored research expenditures to ... $100 million a year, ... double the current levels." 
NO 2010 says that hiring and promo­tion should be limited to "only those faculty for whom superior teaching is a high priority." Don't bet on it. That same section lists, among the "Fundamental and Defining Premises," "a heightened sense of urgency for the centrality of research and scholarly 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
YOU R~t..I!E, 
OF COUf?S~, T~IS WSE:K MARKS 40 YeARS SINCE: TUS SURGEON GeNERAL. 
lt;~USD THAT FN/\OV~TOEMCCO WARNI~G,. ...AND YOU'RE ~TILL SMOKING?t•. 

publication," including "competition for federal, state and private dollars to support the research enterprise." This "centrality .of research" appli~s to "every academic unit." NO 2010 stress­es the importance of hiring new facul­ty, reducing teaching loads, improving research sabbatical support and increasing support for graduate stu­dent programs. ND 2010 omits two things: 
1. ND 2010 says not one word about the extent of the costs imposed on stu­dents. ND 2010 mentions several times the serious commitment to "financial aid" by the University and its excellent Financial Aid Office. But the underly­ing problem is a "sticker price" contin­ually rising above the inflation rate. In 1978-79, when Notre Dame began its pursuit of Research Greatness, under­grad tuition, room and board totaled $5,180. If it had kept pace with infla­tion it would now be $14,502. The fig­ure for 2003-04 is $34,100, a 6.5 per­cent increase over last year. Notre Dame offers various kinds of aid to stu-· dents. The primary form of aid, howev­er, is the student or parent loan, whether federal or private. 
The major universities, including Notre Dame, have built their research enterprises on the backs of borrowing students. The loan burden distorts the career and family options of students, especially if they contemplate grad study. ND 2010 is a detailed analysis of many things. Its failure even to men­tion this problem indicates an aston­ishing indifference. The main benefici­aries of the University envisioned by ND 2010 will not be the students but the researching professoriat, well paid administrators and striving academics. 
2. ND 2010 is peppered with refer­ences to Notre Dame as a "Catholic" university. But it omits any acceptance of the definition of that term in Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the 1990 apostolic constitution on Catholic higher educa­tion. ND 2010 says that the University "must take into account with ... sensi­tivity and respect the formal teaching role of the Magisterium in the life of the Church." But Notre Dame does not accept the authoritative nature of that role. For example, the bishops' Application of Ex Corde to the United States states: "Catholic students have a right to receive from a university instruction in authentic Catholic doc­trine and practice, especially from those who teach the theological disci­plines." Notre Dame accepts that duty neither in theory nor in practice. Notre Dame is servile toward secular aca­demic bodies, the government, the NCAA and others. The only authority it will not accept is that of the Catholic Church to define the "Catholic univer­sity." As Father James Burtchaell has demonstrated, a "Catholic" university that severs itself from the defining authority of the Church will predictably follow the secularizing pattern of Vanderbilt, Harvard and other origi­nally Protestant institutions. And there remains a consumer fraud problem in 
Notre Dame's claim to be "Catholic" when it does ngt accept the definition of that term by the Catholic Church. 
ND 2010 chronicles the success of our leaders in transforming Notre Dame's historic character and mission according to their own lights. But it also evokes an image of the log of the Titanic. The bill-paying students and families deserve better. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be con­tacted at plawecki.l @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
Which cartoon would you rather see on the Today page: Dilbert or Classic Peanuts? 
Vote by 5 p.m. next Wednesday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
" The entire essence ofAmerica is the hope to first make money -then make money with money -then make lots ofmoney with lots ofmoney." 
Paul Erdman writer 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January I4, 2004 
page II 
There's always next year 
Over the Christmas holidays, many of us reflected upon 2003 and vowed to make changes in 2004. (Yes, I am not afraid to use Christmas as an adjective preceding the word holiday even if it has gone out of style these days. If this is 
Joe Licandro
not politically cor­rect, so be it.) For some, it might be to 
The Licandro 
cut back on our calorie intakes­Non-Factor 
drink 11 beers every Friday night instead of 12. For others, it might be far 
nobler -watch less television and read more books. Whatever your resolutions might be, they are not always so easy to 
keep. 
Undoubtedly. many of us have already broken our New Year's resolutions only two weeks into 2004. But even if Britney Spears' marriage lasted longer than your resolution, do not despair because the start of a new calendar year is really quite arbitrary. Who says your new year has to begin on Jan. 1? After all. New Year's Day does not have any religious significance nor does it belong in the same category as national holidays like Thanksgiving. January is only for prac­tice anyways, so seek that annulment, take that mulligan. hit that reset button on the Nintendo and throw that chicken back in the oven. Feb. 1 is a perfectly tine day for a New Year's Day party. Or, if that is too long a wait, then why not celebrate it on Jan. 22 with a billion Chinese people? Behold the Chinese New Year, the second chance for all the "sec­ond chancers" out there. Just in case you are wondering, and I know you are, 2004 is the year of the monkey. 
If these dates do not work. there is always your birthday, which actually makes the most sense to begin a resolu­tion. Jan. 1 might mark the official New Year according to the Julian calendar, but does it really mark a new year for you personally? Unless you were born on Jan. 1, and I am terribly sorry if that is the case, the answer is "No." My new year actually begins on Mar. 26, so I still have nearly three months to continue practicing bad habits and exercising poor judgment. 
Now for those who have remained firm to their commitments, whether it be get­ting in shape or permanently switching from Budweiser to Bud Light, congratu­lations for being the obnoxious teacher's pet. But do not get too cocky; there is still a long way to go. Believe me because I was in your shoes last year. 
To put it nicely, my driving record is does not take anything away from this extraordinary accomplishment. Making the trip back to school in August from Louisville to South Bend would be the ultimate test. For no reason other than to raise revenue for the state of Indiana. US-31 from Indianapolis to Smith Bend is only 55 miles per hour -an absolute nightmare for any drivers under the age of 75. Despite the challenge that lay before me, I passed the test with flying 

not exactly what one would 
colors, making the round trip on describe as exemplary. I will two separate occasions this not bore you with all the semester without any tickets. 
details, but through near­ly three and half years behind the wheel, I had received a grand total of six tickets. It is not a wise idea for me to be a passenger in your car, either. Just ask my friend, whose identity will be protected in this column, and who was driving me home for Christmas break sophomore year. A state trooper abruptly stopped him • less than three miles outside of South Bend for going all of five over the speed limit. Talk about bad karma. 
Most of my citations were for speeding with a reckless driving citation and a failure to acknowledge a stop sign also thrown in the mix. For the record, a judge dismissed the reckless driving charge. A speeding ticket was also thrown out of court as well. But despite these moments ofglory, paying my car insurance has been a living hell. Heceiving my sixth ticket driving back to Notre Dame after fall break left me with no choice but to change my ways. So on Jan. 1, 2003, I vowed to go an entire year without getting caught violating a traffic law. 
Through June, halfway home and no tickets. Okay, I was in London for the first five months of 2003, but that still 

Back home in Louisville for the holidays. I looked to be straight money. But 
sometimes looks can be deceiving. On Dec. 30, at approximately four o'clock in the after­
noon, only 32 hours before the dawn of a New Year, a familiar sound filled the air and lights that I would recognize any­
where lit up the drea­ry winter sky. I was 
being pulled over ... again. But this time was worse than all the 
others. even more 
embarrassing than the ticket when my mom was riding shotgun in the passen­
ger's seat. This time, I had been 
driving for less than fifteen seconds and was exactly one block from my house when a not-so-kind policeman, whom I will refer to as Officer V., slapped me with a $120 fine for "disre­garding" a stop sign. 
Not to sound like a whiner, but I stopped. Was it full and complete? Of course. But this is a judgment call. Unfortunately, there is no mysterious black box on the sidelines to consult for an instant replay. As soon as Officer V. approached my car, I was doomed. Unlike every American woman under the age of 25, I have never convinced a police officer not to give me a ticket. I am just not pretty enough. My experi­mental Christmas break, 1970s throw­back, fu man chu moustache certainly was not helping matters. Despite my pleas for mercy and documented proof that I lived only one block away, Officer 
V. showed no compassion. 
Worst of all. he did not even bother to correctly identify my ethnicity when he mistakenly checked the box labeled Hispanic on the written citation. I am honored that he would consider me Hispanic, but why my ethnicity matters for a minor traffic violation I have no idea. For the record. I am a white guy, half-Italian and half-German, for those who care. The politically correct term for people like me is "Caucasian." When I called the Louisville Police Headquarters to complain about Officer 
V. 's misidentification. hoping the ticket would be dropped, a SergeantS. lam­basted me for suggesting the police need to revamp their ticketing policies. In her words, sometimes errors like this just happen. One mistake does not mean the whole system is flawed. Isn't that reas­suring? What if I adopted a similarly cavalier attitude the next time I filled out a graduate school or job application and "accidentally" checked the box labeled Hispanic? Hey, if I am considered to be Hispanic before law enforcement, I might as well reap the benefits of affir­mative action. Before anyone accuses me of anything, I am not really going to do this, as it would be completely dis­honest. 
Back to my main point: I will try again this year to go a full year without getting caught violating a traffic law. I wish everyone else good luck with their New Year's resolutions ... whenever your New Year's Day happens to be. Just be careful and do not grow complacent in those final days. You never know where Officer 
V. might be hiding. 
Joe Licandro is a senior political sci­ence major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted atjlicandr@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Terrorism on Christmas 
This Christmas l was driving over a small bridge on the way to pick up my grandparents for ChJ;istmas din­ner. and I saw a black plastic garbage bag in the mid­dle of the road. The bridge had just recently been fin­ished after about six months of repair, which was a contentious issue in my local community, as the con­struction redirected traffic from a fairly major road. As I swerved around the garbage bag, I could not help but think, just for a fleeting moment: what if this bag has explosives in it to blow up the bridge? 
I know. Hidiculous, right? I immediately asked myself: Why was my first thought on seeing a garbage bag in the middle of the road, on Christmas, of all days, that someone had placed it there for less-than-con­scionable reasons? My community has not been a site of terrorism in the past. We are not really even large enough for anyone to notice us. But just that past night, on Christmas Eve. I had read online that some flights between Los Angeles and Paris had been canceled for fear of terrorists taking over the plane and that a woman who had failed to stop walking when she set off a metal detector had shut down La Gaurdia for a while. 
Now, I do not consider myself a person particularly prone to irrational fear; on the contrary, I have prided myself on recognizing and refusing the patterns of thought that terrorism has evoked in so many 1\merican citizens in this modern "age of terrorism," as so many people like to call it. So why, on Christmas. did I find myself considering whether a simple bag in the middle of the road could actually be an attempt to blow me up? The only answer I can come to is that our soci­ety has so embraced this idea of terror that has been fed to us for over two years now that we have truly turned into a "culture of fear." I am sure that if Osama bin Laden, or whomever the current terrorist du jour is, could read this article in The Observer, he would sit back against the cave wall and have a nice laugh. He would probably pat himself on the back and congratu­late himself on a job well done. He has affected the thought processes of a nameless English and Education major at some fancy Catholic university. 
And isn't this the goal of these terrorists, anyway? Do we really think that they're trying to kill people and blow things up just to see the carnage and explosions? No, that's not why; they do these things to alter the way we think, and maybe, at the beginning, before they got so carried away with their cause that they actually began to kill real people, they just wanted us to notice them, to say, "Hey, look at us, we're not very happy with what's happening over here." Now they try to call attention to their situation by the only means they believe they have left, because apparently no one lis­tened when they were being a little more rational than they are today. 
But do their current means of communication, how­ever horrendous and damnable, invalidate their origi­nal message? I don't think so. This is obviously a very complex issue, and maybe l am just adding a strain to the cacophony, but I think it's worth a moment to step back and really think about what has started this "war" on terror. You can't kill an ideology by sheer brute force. We've seen that as a country on numerous occasions. I think it's time to start asking why these people are feeling so passionately about something that they think the only way to get their message across is by slaughtering innocent people in cold blood. 
So what am I supposed to take from the fact that I was semi-spooked by some garbage in the middle of the road? Have things in our country disintegrated to the point that we need be frightened of trash? I do not think so. I think the best. the most productive thing we can do is to strive to continue our normal thought pat­terns, to tell ourselves that a garbage bag is just a garbage bag, but also to recognize that our thoughts are being affected by some people who obviously feel that our country has done them some grave injustice. Instead of concentrating all our energies on trying to kill the innumerable hordes of imaginary terrorists that have infiltrated lands at home and abroad, why do we not stop for a minute and consider what it is they're actually trying to say with such horrific acts? Yes, I know that is what they want us to do, but it seems to me that instead of trying to kill an ideology, the United States could try to examine how that ideology was begun in the first plac~. 
Maybe then we could address the issue of terrorism without meeting them with their own means. Maybe then I could drive to my grandparents' house on Christmas without having to think twice about a stupid trash bag. 
Brian Squth 
semor 
Carrol Halll Dec. 26 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, January 14, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Missy rushes latest effort 
By KENYATTA STORIN Scene Music Critic 

Much like fellow pop rap group Outkast, Missy Elliot and her master producer, Timbaland, have been changing the face of pop for years. She is arguably the most successful female rap artist of all time. But despite these facts, Missy regrettably stumbles on her fifth effort, This is Not a Test! 
Across the board, Elliot's flow sounds forced, as though she has run out of things to say in her music. This is evi­dent from the very beginning, as her first track, "Pass that Dutch," sounds a little too much like a sequel to last year's hit, "Work It." Most of what fol­lows are routine party jams and bland R&B tracks, which generally lack any originality on Missy's part. However, there are a few exceptions. 

The album's best track, "Wake Up," provides a fresh perspective on hip-hop by attacking thug rap with the chorus, "And your wheels don't spin (it's all right) I And you gotta wear them jeans again (it's all right) I Yeah, if you tried oh well (it's all right) I Emcees stop the 
beef, let's sell (it's all right)." She also gets a little creative on "Spelling Bee," where she intersperses the spelling of words in her rap and on "Toyz," an ode to vibrators. But even the lyrics on these tracks are aver­age, making them gen­erally sound more gimmicky than innova­tive. 
Missy also suffers from an unfortunate number of dull, under­achieving guest appearances. Elephant Man's contributions to the .bouncy "Keep it Movin" are more dis­tracting than anything 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Belle & Sebastian return to glory 
By RYAN RAFFERTY Scene Music Critic 
Very few artists can claim such a come­back as Stuart Murdoch. 
As lead singer and songwriter of the Glaswegian septet Belle and Sebastian, Murdoch crafted two of the most elegant and eloquent albums of the '90s. But the band ruined its reputation by attempting to divvy up the songwriting and their fol­lowing albums sounded like a hodgepodge of musical styles, and the band quickly dis­appeared. 
Enter Belle and Sebastian's latest album Dear Catastrophe Waitress. This album came to the rescue and returned the band to it's previous grandeur, but with a differ­ent direction. Formerly a very private and elusive band, Belle and Sebastian has lift­ed the veil and started speaking with the press· and publishing band photos. But what really made this album a return to glory for the band was Murdoch's return as the sole songwriter. There are two songs on the album which feature other band members on vocals, but they do not stray far from the uber-pop that Stuart Murdoch and company have perfectly crafted on Dear Catastrophe Waitress. 
Belle and Sebastian teamed up with producer Trevor Horn, who has worked with the likes ofT.A.T.U and Seal, to make their latest album. With Horn's help, the band turned its formerly misguided chamber pop into pop music that could be the soundtrack to any Partridge Family episode. Many bands could easily push this sound over the edge into fluff, but Murdoch and company have learned from the past and know exactly where to draw the line. 
Dear Catastrophe Waitress, just like Johnny Cash, walks the line. It walks a fine line between fluff and intelligent and catchy; and the music is glorious. Songs like ''I'm a Cuckoo," "Piazza New York Catcher," "Stay Loose" and the title track soar amongst the lush backdrop of 1960s 
pop. Belle and 
Sebastian 
incorporate
Dear Catastrophe 


the wonderful Rickenbacker bounce of bands such as the Byrds, 
Waitress 
Belle& 
Turtles, Animals and
Sebastian 
the Mamas and the Papas into
Sanctuary Records 
every guitar riff. What makes this album so great, howev­else, and R. Kelly sounds off on "Oats What I'm Talking About." Also, rappers Jay­Z, Fabulous and Nelly all provide short, unmemorable flows. Nelly's best line, "Go, go, gadget dick," is not even his own, 

coming straight from an Eminem song. 
The album's one saving grace is Timbaland's production, once again showing that he is one of the best, if not the best, producer in the business. His batch of futuristic beats often seems to use every sound imaginable except those found on a standard drum. "Wake Up" is one of his best efforts, where he utilizes electronic echoes, subtle bells and a simple bass beat. Regrettably, Timbaland does not pro­duce the whole album. Missy does roughly half of the production, most of which are her R&B tracks, with mixed results at best. She provides solid beats for "Pass That Dutch," ''I'm Really Hot" and "Toyz," but her R&B productions are lame piano melodies that will put most listeners to sleep. 
Even with Timbaland's imaginative beats, This is Not a Test! is an unchar­acteristically conventional album for Missy Elliot. Instead of taking her time, she rushed to make a follow up to her 2002 hit album, Under Construction, and it clearly shows in her lyrics and her noticeably bland R&B tracks. The lack of quality guest appearances will hopefully lead Missy to question throw­ing so many pop stars on her albums in the future. Considering her track record, this musical lapse is likely tem­porary, and Missy will probably bounce back on her next record. But in the meantime, unless you are a hardcore Missy fan, do not bother putting this on your wish list. 

Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 

er, is the individual attention paid to every instrument. An expansive orchestra accompanies the band throughout the entire album and rivals the orchestration of the Beach Boy's "Good VIbrations" on such tracks as "Step into My Office, Baby." Other instances of attention to detail occur throughout the album, specifically the wonderfully light guitar solo in "If She Wants Me" and the simple, yet assertive bass line in "Wrapped Up in Books." 
Lyrically, Stuart Murdoch is at his finest. He writes beautifully complex character sketches of several varying, suffering char­acters such as a bullied young boy in "Lord Anthony" and a rattled waitress in the title track "Dear Catastrophe Waitress.'' His best work appears in the complex "Piazza, New York Catcher" in which he intertwines several stories of lost love and somehow manages to work in endearing words for Mike Piazza. 
Dear Catastrophe Waitress is a beauti­fully constructed album. Every song has its own character and invites the listener to explore the vast musicianship employed. The album is extremely poppy and is a step in a new direction for the band. Belle and Sebastian have ditched the introvert­ed, shy fa.;ade in favor of the new full force musical experience. The band has evolved greatly from their muddled previous albums, to the grandeur that is the pop masterpiece Dear Catastrophe Waitress. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at rraffert@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, January 14, 2004 
Page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Not 'the guy.from Rushmore's' band anymore 
By BRIAN FOY Scene Music Critic 
Question: What do you do after your song "Califilrnia" appoars as the theme to the tel­evision show The OC, your drummer and limnding momber, Jason Schwartzman, leaves to pursue his acting career and your popularity is at an all-time high? Answer: If you arn Phantom Planet, you release an unanticipated album with a unique sound dill'erent from what everyone is expecting. 
Phantom Planet's first move was to acquire the serviees of Dave Fridmann to mix and produce the record. Fridmann was tim man behind Weezer's raw, distorted sound on their cult dassie, Pinkerton, and would be sure to expand the Phantom Planet sound. The next step li>r the band wm; to rnplace their departing drummer with veteran JelT Conrad. Conrad would be asked to provide the band with new enorgy, but not change the dynamic that has made Phantom Planet so successful. 

Phantom Planet's self titled album is their third major label release. Phantom Planet is a very appropriate title for the new album because the band seems to have reinvontod its sound throughout the album. The Phantom Planet boys keep their catchy melodies and harmonizing, but add a depth and dirty sound not seen on their previous efforts. 
"The Happy Ending" proves that Phantom Planet will be very different from the previously released Guest. The track begins with a pounding drum beat and feedback before the other guitars and bass kick in and the lyries begin. The song man­ages to take the dassic Phantom Planet sound in a new and more mature direction. The lyrics continue to be honest and catchy as we hear ''I'm beg­ging and pleading I For another beating I I'm ready and waiting I For the Happy Ending." Additionally, the song mixes dean and dirty sounds by using lay1~red guitars that set the tone filr the rest of the album. A couplo of tracks later the first single, "Big Brat," dearly displays the hybrid of 

By REBECCA SAUNDERS Scene Music Critic 
Tlw "new" sound in music is often given a grnat deal of credit just for being differ­ent. Those "innovative" artists are called musical geniuses and arc thought to be pnople of an enlightened nature. In the ease of The Polyphonic Spree, the twenty plus, seventies-thcmcd choral group, genius is not a word to be used in refer­11nen to their second album The /Jeginning Stages of.. While the large choral group is unquestionably a unique idea, called "Tnlntubbies for Adults" by The Nnw York Sun, thorn is not a great deal going on beyond that big idea. 
While one must believe that the mem­bers of The Polyphonic Spree are not in tlw rneord business for the money as a twenty-plus group, one has to wonder if it is all some strange cult as the members dance around in their long white robes hemmed with bright psychedelic colors. This secular choir, whieh looks like a gospel choir in apprmrance, has pushed the boundaries and must be acknowl­edged, but this ingenuity by no means requires approval of the album itself. 
The secular nature of the group leaves the lyrics focusing predominantly on naturn, and in nature the primary focus of the group lyrically is the sun and the day that it brings. Eight of the ten songs on the album even have the words "sun" or "day" in the title of the song. With all the songs being titled "Section 1 (Have A Day/Celebratory)," "Section 4 (La La)," "Section 7 (Hanging Around the Day Part 2)" and "Section 9 (Light & Day/ Heach for The Sun)," it comes as no surprise that the lyrics throughout the album are any­thing but doaver or meaningful. With 


new and old Phantom 

Phantom Planet
Planet sound. The song starts with a 
Phantom 
driving guitar rifT that is met 
Planet 
with a comple­mentary guitar 
Sony Records 
that creates the layered efl'ect Phantom Planet calls it<> bread and but­t e r 

Furthermore, at several points throughout the song we hear the background vocals and harmoniz­ing melodies that have not only made Phantom Planet popular, but successful as well. 
"By the Bed" may not only be the finest track on the new album, but also one of the best Phantom Planet has ever recorded. The song begins with a lone guitar and the lyrics: "ller oyes were dosed I When I caught her in bed I She seemed much hap­pier thon." In the beginning, it appears to be a simple song, but as it progress we see the depth and maturity that Phantom Planet has lilund. The song lacks the classi­cally delincd chorus in favor of a building sound and extonded bridge. The emotion is present in the urgency of the lyrics: "There is nothing else I That you can do I You can't understand I What I go through." The way these lyrics are delivered and the elevating volume of the guitars and faster pace of the drums also contribute to the song's emotive quality. More than any song on the album, "By thl" Bed" proves how far Phantom Planet has come and what the futurc holds. 

Phantom Planet's self-titled third album is everything that the current music trnnd is lacking. It brnaks from thc cookie euttcr sound in favor of a raw and at times exper­imental sound. Tho album is full of emotion and harmony from the very beginning whieh will delight thn fans of Phantom Planet's early work. The band takes il'i mul­tiple guitar sound to the next level becausc they have thrown out the conventional rncording rule book. The new Phantom Planet takes chances by using a dirty and distortcd sound that is unlike anything in rotation at the local radio station, but will attract new fans. 
Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
The Polyphonic Spree should end 

-
lines such as "Have a day I Celebrate I 
Soon you'll lind the answer" in Section 1, 
"SUN I Suicide is a shame I SUN" in 
Section 2, and "Just follow the day I 
Follow the day and reach for the SUN" in 
Section 9, the album eventually becomes 
a bit redundant. Much of the good instru­
mental work in the album is very similar 
and blends together to the point where 
after listening to the album a number of 
times, one would still find it nearly impos­
sible to distinguish the majority of the . songs from one another. 
The single from The Beginning Stages 
of .. is "Section 9 (Light & Day/Reach for 
the Sun)" and it is rather upbeat and fun. 
Although sounding a bit overdone in 
happy glee, it is believable and the vocals 
and instrumentals are good enough to 
carry the song through. Any merit that wiped away by the 3CJ minutes and 30 · seconds that make up the pure torture that is "Section 10 (A Long Day)." The "Long" is not understatement, it should have been called the Eternal Day as onn listens to the droning of one singer as he never utters a word, but only makes groaning sounds which he attempts to pass oil' as singing in some world far far away. 
With no solid lyrics and instrumentals that are not good enough to excuse the absurdness of the album. one ean only 
-......
hope and pray that The Polyphonic Spree is a spree that ends soon, before anyone is forced to listen to this album and believe that it is anything remotely dose to good music. 
may be gained in "Section 9 (Light & Contact Rebecca Saunders at Day/Reach for the Sun)" is completely rsaunder@nd.edu 
Wednesday, January 13, 2004

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
--NBA 
Abdur-Rahim lifts Hawks past defending champion Spurs 
"I get tired of people who fourth quarter started, 'We will
Associated Press 
keep telling me how down the win this game if we get a push
ATLANTA-No one could 
Nuggets were last year," rookie right now. We need some pacehave seen this coming. 
Carmelo Anthony said. "They into the game,"' Saunders said.
The defending NBA champion can talk about how we're play­"We can get a couple of quick San Antonio Spurs had won 17 ing right now. Any team we buckets, get ourselves withinof 18 games. The lowly Atlanta play, we go in with the mentali­striking distance and rely onHawks were coming off three ty that we can beat them." ability to execute down thestraight embarrassing defeats. 
The Nuggets scored the first stretch, which has been hugeBut the roles were reversed nine points, led by 17 in the for us over these last 20
Tuesday night as Shareef 
first quarter, 21 at the half and games."
Abdur-Rahim scored 29 points 32 in the third quarter against Latrell Sprewell scored 26and the Hawks built a big lead the hapless Suns -0-4 since points, including a pair of key over San Antonio and held on the blockbuster trade that sent free throws with 14.5 secondsfor a surprising 86-77 victory. 
Stephon Marbury to the New left to make it a two-possession"It only takes one win to turn York Knicks. game. He was 9-of-18 from the
the season around," said 
field and 6-of-7 from the line.
Stephen Jackson, who played 
He hit a 3-pointer with under

perhaps his best game of the Kings 90, Heat 86 
five minutes to go to trim the

season against his former team. Brad Miller leaned back in his 
Hornets' lead to 81-80.

"This could be that win." locker and quietly admitted that 
Kevin Garnett added 22,

There haven't been many sometimes the Sacramento 
including a tough baseline turn­

wins for the Hawks t})is season. Kings just get bored. 
around jumper over the

They were coming off a 1-5 It showed Tuesday night, yet 
Hornets' P.J. Brown that gave

road trip that ended with a 16-they still won. 
Minnesota its first lead with

point loss in Sacramento, a 46-Peja Stojakovic scored 14 of 1:44left in the game. 
point rout by the Los Angeles his 24 points in the first quarter Lakers and a 21-point defeat to and Sacramento won its fifth Utah. straight at home over the Miami Pistons 105, Bulls 89 
"We just needed a win, Heat. Larry Brown is used to having whether it was the Spurs or a "Sometimes it seems like Ben Wallace and the Detroit high school team," Jackson we're the best-record team and Pistons dominate most oppo­said. a great team and we get bored nents down low. Still, Brown 
Coach Terry Stotts and his sometimes," said Miller, who was surprised by this. staff made the players sit had double-doubles in 11 of his Ben Wallace had 12 points through a lengthy film session previous 15 games but fell one and 17 rebounds as the Pistons the previous day. rebound short of another. controlled the boards in a 105­
"We watched film for an hour "We've got to keep punishing 89 win over the Chicago Bulls and a half and just looked at people. We've got to keep play­on Tuesday night -Detroit's our mistakes," Hawks center ing. It's just a fun environment ninth straight victory. Theo Ratliff said. "We can look out there. We play like the old Led by Wallace, Detroit fin­at it individually, but it's differ­teams, but that's what gets us ished with a 56-35 edge in ent when you're sitting there in trouble sometimes." rebounding. At halftime, Pistons with the team and they point Miller finished with 14 points, had 15 offensive rebounds ­out what is definitely supposed nine rebounds and seven the same number of total to happen on plays." assists. rebounds managed by Chicago. 
Atlanta took control against Mike Bibby added 20 points "We really rebounded well the Spurs with a 14-0 run for the NBA-leading Kings, tonight. After the first half, I encompassing the final basket including a clutch 3-pointer looked at the stats and was of the first quarter and the first with 18 seconds left. shocked," Brown said. "Ben 12 points of the second. The Sacramento beat an Eastern was great the whole night. He's Hawks led by as many as 21 Conference opponent at Arco getting better every night." points before settling for a 49-Arena for the 27th straight Richard Hamilton scored 24 32 lead at halftime. time. points, and Chauncey Billups 
Abdur-Rahim scored 17 in the After Bibby's big shot, the added 17 points and seven opening half. sellout crowd began chanting, assists. The Pistons own the 
"Beat L.A.! Beat L.A.!," refer­longest current winning streak 
ring to the Kings' final game of in the NBA, and it's the best for 

Nuggets 105, Suns 92 son as any for Milwaukee's vic­got guys coming off the bench
this three-game homestand Detroit in 12 seasons.

The Denver Nuggets are no tory over Boston. who used to start. So they defi­
Friday against the Lakers. "Right now, we have swagger.

longer one of the bottom feed­Michael Redd scored 20 nitely have depth in offensive
You can see it in our team,"

ers in the West. They've passed points and reserve Toni Kukoc weapons."
Wallace said. "We're not pan­

that label to the Phoenix Suns. Tlmberwolves 94, Hornets 89 had 16, leading the Bucks to Redd scored 11 points, includ­
icking, we're not rushing." 

Voshon Lenard scored 32 Minnesota hadn't won 15 of their sixth victory in seven ing the team's first eight, in the 
The Bulls certainly gave

points and the Nuggets, off to 18 games without a few strong games. third quarter to help the Bucks
Detroit little to worry about. 

their best start in 18 years, finishes, so coach Flip Saunders The Bucks also got 14 points lead 77-60. 
Detroit led by five late in the

handed the Suns their sixth loss wasn't too concerned when the from Erick Strickland and 12 The Bucks led 94-77 early in
third quarter when Chucky

in a row Tuesday night. Timberwolves trailed the New from Desmond Mason. All told, the fourth quarter before back­
Atkins came off the bench to

The one-sided victory was Orleans Hornets by 10 points to the Bucks' bench accounted for to-hack 3-pointers by Davis and
spark the Pistons. 

sandwiched between Denver's start the fourth quarter. 56 points. Pierce helped Boston close to games against Western power­Minnesota scored 31 points in "It's hard to look at them as 102-94 with 3:03 left. houses Sacramento and the Los the final period, 12 by Sam Bucks 111, Celtlcs 103 reserves," said Boston's Paul The Celtics were within five Angeles Lakers. The Nuggets Cassell, in a victory over the The Bucks' reserves scored Pierce, "because I'm used to before Redd made four free play at Los Angeles Wednesday Hornets on Tuesday night. more than half their points seeing those guys start. I told throws in the final minute to night. "I told our guys when the Tuesday night, as big of a rea-the guys before the game, you seal it. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r·m· at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Avon/Mark 50/40% Earnings Call  LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION­ 
NOTICES  WANTED  Karen 1-866-780-28661ndependent Sales Rep.  FoR RENT  ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND IDEAL FOR 3-7 STUDENTS  PERSONAL  
2773097  
AWESOME SUMMER CAMP  AWESOME SUMMER CAMP  
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES!  JOBSI-Residential camp located in  JOBS! Residential camp located in  3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON  Back to school  
Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated.  Brown County, Indiana. Operated by the Catholic Youth  Brown County, Indiana. Operated by the Catholic Youth  MO.,FURN.272-6306  FoR SALE  Excuse me, would you please raise  
Organization since 1946. Serving  Organization since 1946. Serving  BULLARD HOME.$650.MO.  your hand if you are a national mon­ 
-·­ www.bookhq.com  campers aged 7 to 17 in various programs. Inclusive of persons with  campers aged 7 to 17 in various programs. Inclusive of persons with  272-6306  TOP GUN SELLING The six selling systems that are used by virtually  ument  
FREE MONEY Between the Buns  disabilities. Positions available tor  disabilities. Positions available tor  3rd Roommate Needed, spring  every business in American and  Oh, hello miss  
restaurant is offering clubs and  General, Specialty, and Health staff.  General, Specialty, and Health staff.  sem. furnished house near ND  Europe. Reference STU  
organizations the opportunity to  Extensive training provided  Extensive training provided siarting  $325/mo., 1/3 utilities, Ryan@  466:Student Special: $49.97  It was like a middle school dance  
earn tree money.  starting late May. Welcoming staff  late May.  386.1785  includes the full Selling System  with nobody dancing  
community. For application and  Welcoming staff community. For  Prospecting, Account Management  
Hold a "Kickback" night at the  more information contact: Angi  application and more  4 bedroom house. AC, garage,  and Closing.  Awaiting the new rankings  
"Buns" and receive a 15% donation from what is spent that evening.  Sullivan, CYO Camp Rancho Framasa. CYOCamp@aol.com or toll free 888.988.2839, ext. 25.  information contact: Angi Sullivan, -cyo Camp Rancho Framasa, CYOCamp@ aol.com or toll tree  great location, ample space, nego­liable rent.  www.sales-job-training.com JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON  It's all about doing the wrong thing at the right time  
Onlne at: www.campranchotra­ 888.988.2839, ext. 25. Online at:  Contact Mike 216-408-0780 or Matt  LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS.GILLIS  
Call Phil tor more details. 247-9293  masa.org.  www.campranchotramasa.org.  216-408-4744 it interested  REALTY 272-6306  The Chosen One  

Wednesday, January 14, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
All our desks come with a view. 
Join us, and we'll put some of the most exciting challenges in business in front of you. Opportunities to work on some of the biggest, most prestigious brands in the global market. And we'll put the knowledge, experience and support of the best talent in the industry behind you. Get the big picture. 

..... 
Quality In Everything We Do 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, January 13, 2004 
NBA 

Kobe Bryant's lawyers provide outline of allegations 
Associated Press 

DENVER -In a broadside against the woman accusing Kobe Bryant of rape, defense attorneys argued Tuesday that her sexual past and mental health history should be allowed as evidence to prove she had a "scheme" to falsely accuse the NBA star. 
Attorneys Hal Haddon and Pamela Mackey said denying them the right to bring up such evidence would violate Bryant's constitutional right to a fair trial. 
Echoing accusations they raised during Bryant's preliminary hearing last year, the attorneys suggested the 19-year-old woman was injured during sex with "mul­tiple" men in the three days before her encounter with the Los Angeles Lakers star at a Colorado resort. 
They also said the woman's medical his­tory, including treatment for mental ill­ness, is relevant because it could help explain "her motive, scheme, plan and a spokeswoman for the prosecution. modus operandi for falsely accusing Mr. Bryant, 25, faces four years to life in Bryant of sexual assault." prison or 20 years to life on probation if 
The defense has convicted of felony suggested the woman sexual assault. He 
engaged in a pattern "Such evidence would be has said he had 
of dangerous acts, relevant to help explain to the consensual sex including suicide with the woman.
jury why this young woman
attempts and accus­The Lakers star ing Bryant of rape, to might have engaged in multiple sprained h_is gain the attention of acts ofconsensual sexual shoulder Monday an ex-boyfriend. and is expected to
intercourse. " 

The woman sit out a minimum "expected Bryant 'to of two to three put a move on her"' Pamela Mackey weeks. before she accepted Kobe Bryant attorney · Bryant is due his invitation to come back in an Eagle into his hotel room, courtroom on Jan. the defense said. 23, when state District Judge Terry 
John Clune, an attorney for Bryant's Ruckriegle is expected to hear arguments alleged victim, did not return a call seek­on whether the woman's medical records ing comment. "If we do respond, it will be can be used as evidence. The defense says in the courtroom," said Krista Flannigan, . she waived her right to medical privacy, a claim the prosecution denies. 
In the latest court filings, Mackey said evidence suggests the woman was either in a manic state or experiencing rapid cycling of manic and depressive states at the time of the June 30 incident in Bryant's hotel room. Mackey said common symptoms of mania include sexual indis­cretions. 
The defense also said the incident occurred about a month after the woman attempted suicide by overdosing on an anti-psychotic medication, Seroquel, and occurred while she was taking the anti­depressant Wellbutrin. 
"Such evid~ce would be relevant both to help explain to the jury why this young woman might have engaged in multiple acts of consensual sexual intercourse ... and/or why she might be suffering from a delusion -a false but strongly held belief -about what occurred in Mr. Bryant's hotel room," Mackey wrote. 
Jury selection begins in Jayson Williams trial 
Associated Press out questionnaires after being The 35-year-old Williams one motion. It fired and hit the NBA, unable to overcome a introduced to the former New faces seven charges, including Christofi. who was about 3 feet broken leg from a year earlier. 
SOMERVILLE, N.J.-Jayson Jersey Nets center, who rose aggravated manslaughter and away. He was suspended from his job Williams was introduced to a and said "Good morning." witness tampering, that could Two of Williams' guests as an NBA analyst for NBC pool of potential jurors The jury pool is triple the carry up to 55 years in prison. pleaded guilty to tampering after tbe shooting. Tuesday, the start of the NBA regular size because of the dif­Williams and his wife did not with evidence, one for wiping The 6-foot-10 Williams was star's manslaughter trial for ficulty of finding people who respond to questions from down the shotgun and the known for his affinity for guns, 
_ the shooting death of his limo will be able to serve through a reporters when they arrived at other for hiding Williams' and wrote in his 2000 memoir driver two years ago. two-month trial. Questioning the courthouse. clothes. Both agreed to testify that he almost shot New York Defense attorneys say the of individual jurors was to Christofi was killed Feb. 14, against him. Jets wide receiver Wayne 
shooting at Williams' estate begin Wednesday, and Judge 2002, after driving Williams' Williams retired from the Chrebet by accident at a range was an accident. Prosecutors Edward Coleman said it will friends to the player's 65-acre, Nets in 2000 after a d~cade in at the Williams estate. say Williams was showing off take several weeks to choose a 40-room estate in Alexandria 
his shotgun, then tried to panel. Township. make the death of Costas A small number of pool Prosecutors have said Christofi look like suicide. members were excused Williams recklessly handled 
More than 300 potential Tuesday because the trial's the 12-guage shotgun, opening jurors were sworn in and filled length would pose a hardship. it and snapping it together in 


r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 14, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
ND SWIMMING 

Men and women pick up wins on training trip 
not the Irish men's and women's in a triangular meet against UC­Training Meet in Encantada, Pittsburgh to compete in a 
By MATT PUGLISI 
swim teams. Santa Barbara and Wyoming, Puerto Rico on Jan. 4. quadrangular meet against 
Sports Writer 
In holiday competition last 104-101 and 133-98, respective­After trailing UCSB by 21 Villanova, Maryland and the Friday, the men's squad finished ly. points with only four events host Pittsburgh. 
Most swim teams used the off a 12-day training trip in The women swam to a first remaining, the Irish men (3-5) The women's squad, on the extended winter break for some Mission Viejo. Calif., by picking place finish in the Second cut the Gauchos' lead to 2, 95-other hand, recorded four meet much-needed relaxation, but up a pair of dual meet victories Annual Puerto Rico Winter 93, heading into the meet's final records in coasting to a first 
event, the 400-yard freestyle place finish in Puerto Rico last relay. week. 
In a neck-and-neck race to Opening the competition with decide the meet winner, Notre a victory and meet record Dame senior co-captain Matt 2:05.38 in the 200-yard Obringer touched out UCSB freestyle relay by seniors freshman Pat Cary to secure vic­Danielle Hulick.. Laurie tory for the Irish. Musgrave, Lisa Garcia and 
In addition to the 400cyard freshman Katie Carroll, the No. freestyle relay -Obringer, jun­21 Irish (4-1) never looked back, ior Frank Krakowski, sopho­dominating a field that included more Tim Randolph and fresh­St. John's, Yale, Montclair, Seton man Louis Cavadini -freshman Hall, Brandeis, Syracuse. Ted Brown (500-and 1,000-Georgetown and Skidmore, yard freestyle), Krakowski (50-among others. yard freestyle) and sophomore Carroll (50-yard freestyle). Doug Bauman (200-yard back­Musgrave (100-yard breast­stroke) chipped in with first stroke) and freshman Ann place finishes. Barton (200-yard backstroke) 
"We were very happy with our also turned in meet records for performance because we were the Irish. all swimming tired from our Notre Dame returns to the training," freshman Chris pool on Friday to challenge No. Zeches said. "We're ready to 16 Michigan and Illinois in Ann swim fast again this weekend in Arbor. Pittsburgh." 
The Irish next hit the water on Contact Matt Puglisi at Friday when they head to mpuglisi@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish experience roller coaster ride over break 
on an 11-2 run and scored seven
4-2 stretch includes 
points in the final 27 seconds to win over No. 16 secure the victory. It was the Hoyas' first win over Notre DameVirginia Tech and in 18 years and gave the Irish an
, Lafayette Square Townhomes 
0-1 start in the Big East confer­
losses to Purdue and ence. Duffy paced Notre Dame withGeorgetown 22 points on 6-10 shooting,
• Only 9 Blocks from Campus 
including hitting 4-8 3-pointers
• Laundry Area with Washer and Dryer 
By JOE HETTLER and sinking all six of her free 
• .Fully Equipped Kitchen including Dishwasher and Garbage 
Sports Editor throw attempts. Jacqueline
Disposal 

Batteast added 18 in the losing
+ Private Patio 
effort.
Notre Dame had its share of
-L----::::,.. • ADT Alarm System (Optional Monitoring) Notre Dame headed back to the
ups and downs over winter
+ Central Air Conditioning Joyce Center Jan. 10 to face a
break, but the Irish ended on a 
• Assigned Parking Virginia Tech team that had start­
high note by beating No. 16 
·..#------"'-+ Energy Efficient Gas Heating ed the season 12-1. But the Irish
VIrginia Tech 53-40 at the Joyce
+ Professionally Managed pulled it back together and used a
Center Jan. 10. Notre Dame won 
• 24-Hour Emergency On-Call Maintenance four of six games during the strong second half surge, which included a 22-7 run. to beat the
break and improved to 8-6 for the 
For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation I Iokies by 13. Notre Dame did not
season, including 6-0 at home. 
P.O. Box 540 allow Virginia Tech an offensive
After winning three non-confer­
South Bend, IN 46624 rebound in the second half and 
ence games to begin the break,
Telephone: 574-234-9923 finished the game with a 41-:H
Notre Dame fell to Purdue at Facsimile: 574-234-9925 West Lafayette on Jan. 4, 76-63, rebounding edge. 
'Tm really impressed with their
Jblad(cV,Cbresb.com and shot a dismal 25.9. Purdue 
mental toughness because wewent on a 10-point run in the really did a lot of uncharacteristic middle of the first half to jump and unintelligible things at theout to a double digit-lead they end of the game," McGraw said.
would not relinquish. The 
"I was just happy they were ableBoilermakers led 32-20 at half­to come back and play the kind oftime. 
defense we were able to play."
"They had a nice run and that Batteast had 14 points and 11was pretty much the game," Irish rebounds, while Teresa Bortoncoach Muffet McGraw said. "It also added 14 points for the Irishwas just that run they had in the as they improved to 1-1 in the
• Just 4 Blocks South of the Notre Dame Campus first half that really hurt us." 
conference.
+ Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue Megan Duffy, Le'Tania Severe 
Notre Dame started its break
• Current 1-year & 10-month Leases Available and Jacqueline Batteast all 
with a 73-62 win over USC at thescored in double figures for the
+ On-Site Laundry Facility 
Joyce Center Dec. 22 behindIrish.
• 2 Closets and lDesk in Each Bedroom Batteast's 20 points. The team led
Notre Dame tried to bounce
+ Private Parking Lots wire-to-wire en route in gaining
back on the road against
• 24 , hour On-Call Emergency Maintenance the victory. 
Georgetown Jan. 7. but blew a 6­
+ Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment The Irish squeaked by Colorado
point lead with less than a minute State on the road 63-59 Dec. 29left in the game. The Hoyas
fru:.M!Qnl.JnfQm!@!Q.!l: Real Estate Management Corporation and then ousted Marquette 72-64 
Bethany LeSueur hit a field goal,
P.O. Box: 540 on New Year's Day.
was fouled and converted the free 
South Bend, IN 46624 

throw attempt with 12 seconds
Telephone: 574-234-9923 

left to give Georgetown a 76-73 Contact Joe Hettler at
Facsimile: 574-234-9925 

win. Georgetown ended the game jhettler@nd.edu
Jblad@cbresb.com 

page 18 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 14, 2004 

AROUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 14, 2004 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S Willi SERVtCES Page 19 

Men Women 
team 

1 Conneelicut (52) 2 Duke (2:) 3 Stanford(11) 4 Wake Forest (5} 5 KentuckY. :;::;, . . . ······••• · 
6 st. Joseph's 7 AtizOiia 8 Louisville 
9 North Carolina 
10 Cincinnati 
11 Oklahoma 12 Georgia T11ch 13 Pittsburgh 14 Kansas 15 Florida 16 Gonzaga 11 svraeuse 18 Texas 19 Wi~onsin 20 Mississippi St. 21 Marquette ... 22 TexasTech 23 Vanderbilt 24 Creighton· 25 Illinois 

team record 
Indiana 28·11 
Detroll 25·13 
New Orl11ans 22~16 
Milwaukee 21-17' 
Toronto 19·16 
Chicago .1H6 
Cleveland 11·26 
Atlanta 11-28 .. 
Westem Conference, Mit~w~~it oi~iii6~i•••·•'•·' team record perc~ ··.·....-~~····~:.¥.:•:·.:..:.:::•.•¥~:•...,•••···••••••'•• 
Minn11sota 25·11 .694 San Antonio 26·12 .684 Denver 22·16 .579 Houslon 21-16 .568 Dallas 21·16 .568 Utah 19·17 .528 Memphis 19-18 .514 

Western Conference,· 
)atiflt oii~I§IJfiY•········ 
teum rec::ord 
LA lakers 23·1f
Sacramento .26·9 
,:~~·~ illlllii
11

~~~~~:d ~::~: ... 
LA Clippers 15·19 Golden State 15·21 Phoenix 12·25 

around the dial 
COLLEc!E BASKETBALL Cincinnati at Marquette 7 p.m., ESPN Wisconsin at Purdue 8 p.m., UPN North Carolina at Maryland 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL Chicago at Detroit 7:30 p.m., FOX Sports Net 
NBA 

Philadelphia at Dallas 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Lakers coach Phil left in the first quarter of come close, and he was 
Associated Press 

Jackson said Bryant won't an 89-79 victory over the removed from the game need surgery, but will Cavaliers when he faked shortly thereafter. 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. ­probably be placed on the Brown into the air outside Bryant had surgery on

Kobe Bryant joined 

injured list, meaning he'd the 3-point line and Brown his shoulder June 12 fourShaquille O'Neal and Karl have to sit out at least five landed on Bryant's shoul­weeks after the Lakers
Malone on the sidelines 

games. der. were eliminated from the
Tuesday, leaving Gary 

"I don't think there's any In obvious pain, Bryant second round of the play­Payton as the only healthy long-term effects to some­made three free throws, offs by San Antonio. lieLos Angeles Lakers super­
thing like this," Jackson but left after the period had an inflamed bursa
star. 

said. ended and went to the removed and a frayed
Bryant is expected to It's also possible that locker room for X-rays, labrum trimmed in his

miss a minimum of two-to­Bryant could miss a game which were negative. shoulder during the opera­

three weeks with an 

injured right shoulder, the in February and two in Bryant played a little tion. result of a collision with March because of hearings more than five minutes iu "You never imagine it. Cleveland's Kedrick Brown regarding the sexual the second quarter, but that's why you have 12 on Monday night, the team assault charge he faces in was clearly not himself. men on your roster," said. Colorado. running with his right arm Jackson said of the glut of 
An Mill exam taken Bryant, the NBA's sev­hanging at his side. llis injuries. "We'll have to Tuesday confirmed Bryant enth-leading scorer with a only shot was a left-hand­change somewhat. sprained his surgically 22.0-point average, was ed jumper from outside Personnel makes a big dif­repaired shoulder. injured with 5.7 seconds the foul line that didn't ference in how we play." 
IN BRIEF 

Wizards' Laettner receives Because of the Wizards' schedule, considerations involve meeting own­drug suspension Laettner will have one of the shortest ers of clubs personally. and he's talk­WASHINGTON -Washington five-game suspensions possible. They ing a very methodical approach to Wizards forward Christian Laettner have five games in seven days, end­this." 
was suspended for five games ing Monday against Chicago. He can It's unclear what teams Hodrigucz Tuesday for violating the NBA's drug return for the Jan. 23 game against is talking to. After earning $10 mil­policy. Boston. lion last year with Florida and lead­
The suspension, without pay, ing the Marlins to the World Series began with Tuesday night's home Maddux, Rodriguez remain title, the team let him go after he game against Houston. on free agent market asked for a four-year deal. 
"I deeply regret any embarrass­NEW YORK -Now that most of ment that my actions have caused to the top stars have signed, Greg Lemieux undergoes knee members of my family, my team· Maddux and Ivan Rodriguez are the surgery mates, my fans and the Washington biggest names left on the free-agent PITTSBUHGH -Mario Lemieux Wizards organization," Laettner said market. had arthroscopic surgery Tuesday to in a statement released by the team. Maddux, a four-time Cy Young repair the left hip injury that will 
Neither the league nor the team, Award winner, has been talking with sideline him for the rest of theciting the confidentiality rules of the the Chicago Cubs. his original major 
Pittsburgh Penguins' season.
collective bargaining agreement. league teams. Following seven sea­Lemieux. who hasn't played sincewould comment on when the viola­sons with the Cubs, Maddux spent Nov. 1, learned last week that twotion occurred or what substance was the last 11 years with the Atlanta months' worth of rest and rehabilita­involved. A player has to fail three Braves. 
tion did not heal the chronic tendini­drug tests before drawing a five· "We're continuing to negotiate with 
game suspension. tis in his hip. Lemieux had similar
about four, five teams," Maddux's Laettner was not allowed to attend agent, Scott Boras, said Tuesday. surgery on his right hip before miss­Tuesday night's game, although he is "There's a possibility something can ing more than two-thirds of the eligible to practice with the team. happen this week, but a lot of Greg's 2001-02 season. 
Wednesday, January 14, 2004 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Rally 
continued from page 24 
loose ball to a teammate. 

Thomas and Chris Quinn combined to 
make five 3-pointers in the last three min­
utes of the game to get the Irish from down 
nine at 63-54 to within one at 67-66 and 
down two at 71-69. 

But it was Thomas' two 3-point attempts 
coming off pump fakes, and, for the second 
straight game, his foul on an opponent's 3­
point shot that really hurt the Irish down 
the stretch. 

It was· a disappointing end for Thomas 
who had a solid all-around game. The jun­
ior finished with 29 points on 11-of-22 
shooting, including 7 -of-13 on 3-pointers. 
Meanwhile, the Panthers, who shot 50 
percent (11-of-22) from the free throw line, 
consistently beat the Irish to the loose hall 
off free throw misses and got a number of 
second chance points. 

The win extended the Panthers' (17-0, 3­. 0 iri the Big East) home winning streak, the 
best in the nation, to 36 games and ended 
Notre Dame (8-4, 2-1) its first loss in seven 
games. 

In a raucous Petersen Events Center 
where Pittsburgh has won all 30 games it 
has played, the Irish didn't let themselves 
get taken out of the game early. Thomas 
scored 13 points in the opening 13 minutes. 
The Irish held a seven-point lead with less 
than five minutes left in the first half, but 
they didn't score the rest of the half. Luckily 
for the Irish, the Panthers only scored six 
more points as both teams didn't score in 
the last 3:40 of the half. The Irish led 31-30 
at the break. 

Pittsburgh made its run down 46-42 with 
just over 12 minutes remaining in the 
game. Six different players scored on the 
Panthers' 21-8 run that allowed them to 
hold a nine point lead before Thomas and 
Quinn tried to use 3-pointers to get the Irish 
back in it. 
Indiana 66, Notre Dame 63 
Little-used bench player Ryan Tapak hit a 3-pointer with 28 seconds left to lift the Hoosiers to extend Notre Dame's losing streak to three games Dec. 10. 
Thomas led the Irish, who shot only 39 percent, with 24 points. Falls shot a 3-pointer with 2 seconds left, but his shot hit the rim and time expired. 
Notre Dame 82, DePaul 69 
In what a number of people called his best all-around game in a Notre Dame uni­form, Thomas only scored 13 points, but had five assists, five rebounds, two steals and only one turnover in leading the Irish to their first win in over two weeks Dec. 14. 
Cornette tied his career high with 17 points, and Notre Dame broke a shooting slump by making 51 percent of its field goals. 
Notre Dame 78, American 74 
The Irish overcame a hot-shooting night by American and avoided its second embar­rassing home loss of the season Dec. 21. 
American converted on 63 percent of its field goal attempts, including a stretch that saw the Eagles make 10 straight at one point. Thomas scored a season-high 28 points and the Irish won their first home game since Nov. 29. 
Notre Dame 79, Qulnnlplac 62 
Quinn finally found the shooting touch he had been missing for most of the season, connecting on his first six 3-pointers and reg­istering a career-high 25 points to lead the Irish to their third straight victory Dec. 23. 
Francis recorded a double-double with 19 points and 11 rebounds. 
Nobe Dame 84, Morehead State 69 
After missing his last nine shots against Quinnipiac, Thomas missed his first seven against Morehead State before fmding the range and scoring 23 points Dec. 28. Francis had another double-double with 21 points and 10 rebounds. 
The Irish were only up 74-67 with 4:32 remaining, but used a 10-2 run to put this one away. 


Notre Dame 63, West VIrginia 52 
For the first time in Brey's four years at Notre Dame, the Irish won its opening game in the Big East conference Jan. 7. In the process, the Irish ended Mountaineers' guard Drew Schifino's double-digit scoring streak at 48 games. 
Jones was the major reason for ending Schifino's streak. Jones also had his best all­around offensive game of the season, scor­ing 17 points and pulling down a career-high 13 rebounds. 
Notre Dame 82, VIllanova 78 
The Irish broke another streak at Philadelphia in beating the Wildcats for the firSt time in Big East play Jan. 10. Villanova was .the last team the Irish had not beaten in conference action. 
Down six points with 3:31 to go, the Irish came back on a 12-2 run to get the win. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
cial Concerns Festival Held 
anuary 21 from 7-9 pm 
Learn about service and social to opportunities with local 
action in South Bend at the community organizations. 
Center for Social Concerns 

annual "Social Concerns · When: January 21 from 7 pm 
Festival." -9pm. Where: Center for Social Representatives from area Concerns service organizations will be on hand to introduce students The event is free. 
Reception Held for Malaquias 
ntoya Exhibit 
A public reception for the exhibitions will be held 
January 25 from 2-4 pm. At 
3 pm that day, Montoya will 
give a gallery talk. 
The reception is free and open to the public. 

ehicle request forms revised 
Several policy changes will necessitate careful reading of semester will be the revised policy statements at the Center for before completing your Concerns for pick up request form. The Policy statements will be attached available for use beginning to the forms for your 
esc 
. .. 
•
. ­
the schedule for the spring

the week of]anuary 19. convenience. 
semester. 


Applications Available for Mexico Seminar 
students meet weekly to plan, work in the community.
Applications are now avail­organize and fund raise in Discussions, guest lectures, 
able for the Oaxaca, Mexico preparation for Mexico. While readings and written reflec­
Seminar. Applications can be downloaded on the Web or in Mexico, students partici­tions allow further analysis of pate in a variety of activities the cultural, economic, politi­
are a~ailable at the Center for including site visits with local cal and international forces
Social Concerns. The due date for the seminar is January non-governmental organiza­influencing Latin America. tions and other groups doing
30. 
The Mexico Seminar provides students the opportunity for two weeks of experiential­learning in Mexico City (and other areas) in collaboration with local organizations. This one-credit seminar (THEO 
366) involves extensive student-directed planning, resource development, and reflection. 
During the spring semester, 
Service & Social Action Group Leaders reminder 
Group meetings at the Center for Social Concerns are scheduled for only one semester at a time. Ifyour group used esc rooms for meetings during fall semester, please remember that you will have to contact the receptionist to be put on 


Wednesday, January 14, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Upset 
continued from page 24 
fought back with a 10-3 run to close the half down 33­26. 
Notre Dame led the entire second half. Taurasi hit a baseline jumper with 4:50 left to cut the lead to 53-51, but that was as close as the Huskies would get. The Irish closed the game with an 
run, "[Jackie] Batteast 
including five streak of 44 
points by was the best player games. Severe Batteast. also tied a sea­
on the court 

"I was excited son high with
tonight."

about our six assists and 
defense," only one McGraw said. Geno Auriemma turnover. "Our zone frus­Huskies coach "Anytime you 
said. "Probably not many 
people thought we could win 
that game. We played with 
poise down the stretch." 
Notre Dame shot a scorch­
ing 59.5 percent from the 
field and outscored the big­
ger Huskies 32-24 in the 
paint. 

Courtney LaVere scored 14 points, including her second ·career three-pointer. Le'Tania Severe added 12 points for Notre Dame, who snapped Connecticut's Big East regular season win 
trated them a little bit. We really worked hard in our zone. I think now we're starting to believe in it." 
The Notre Dame defense was key, holding the Huskies to a season low 31 percent shooting. Taurasi, who aver­ages 19.8 points, was held to 11 points on only 4 of 15 shooting. 
A crowd of 8,574, the sev­enth largest in Irish history, 
·played an important role in getting the Irish started. After Teresa Borton (eight points) missed the first shot of the game, Notre Dame hit eight straight to jump out to a 17-12 lead. They never trailed again. 
"[The crowd], made us want to play harder," Megan Duffy said. 
For the Irish, the win marked their first defeat of a top-five opponent since March 30, 2001, when they defeated Connecticut 90-7 5 in the NCAA semifinal. 
"I'm just so proud of this team right now," McGraw 
can beat a 

great team, and they are a great team, its just a great confidence booster for the program," McGraw said. "I thought the whole team played a great game." 
Borton, Batteast and Severe were forced to play with four fouls in the closing minutes. They remained aggressive, however. Batteast, who picked up her fourth foul with eight min­utes to go, came up with the block on Taurasi, and the others kept battling. 
"I thought that they played with a lot of intelligence," McGraw said. 
Connecticut was led by Jessica Moore's 13 points and six rebounds. Barbara Turner also added 13 points, and five rebounds. 
"This was a big win," Batteast said. "It just feels good right now." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Batteast 
continued from page 24 
Diana Taurasi, was the best 
player in the country on this 
night. 
Her 23 points on 10-of-13 shooting and 11 rebounds led all players in both categories. Her clutch shot after clutch shot allowed the Irish to hold onto a slim lead for much of the second half. But it was Batteast's block of Taurasi with 3:17 remaining in the game that sealed the victory for the Irish. 
After Taurasi grabbed a loose ball with Notre Dame clinging to a four point lead, the All-American went up for a short jumper that would have cut the Irish advantage in half and likely shifted the momentum back to the Huskies. But Batteast, nursing four fouls, reached up and rejected Taurasi's shot, then scored a lay-up 30 seconds later to push the Notre Dame edge to six. The team would not look back. 
''I'm so impressed with Jacqueline Batteast right now," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said minutes after the game. "She played like the National Player of the Year and had just an out­standing game. Every time we needed to score, she was there." 
Batteast played aggressive all game, and Connecticut had no answer for her. She mus­cled her way in the paint and grabbed rebounds away from two or three Huskies at times. When Connecticut gave her room to shoot, Batteast drained jumpers. When Connecticut guarded her close, she simply knocked down 15-foot jumpers in their face. When it looked like Connecticut would go on a big run, Batteast was there to 

make the critical play. 
Batteast has always been a very good player during her two and a half years for Notre Dame. But Tuesday night, she played like the best player in the country. And the Irish showed glimpses of the 2001 National Championship team that pounded Connecticut • twice by double digits. 
While they aren't as good as that team, the Irish are improving. They've bounced back from a tough road loss at Georgetown to beat two top 25 teams in No. 16 Virginia Tech and now top 5 ranked Connecticut. They played their most complete game in two years Tuesday and they gained a huge victory, much thanks to Batteast's play. 
The question now is whether Batteast can play like she did last night all the time? The answer is hard to know. A year ago against Connecticut, Batteast struggled on her way to shooting 5-of-21 in a 7 2-53 Notre Dame loss. The junior couldn't do anything right in that game and didn't play well for much of the second half of the season. In the Big East and NCAA Tournament, Batteast rarely found a shoot­ing rhythm and didn't reach her potential. 
Tuesday was the complete opposite. Batteast was in a groove and couldn't make a mistake all game. She played the most complete game of her career and outplayed Taurasi, showing she could be the best player in the nation on any given night. Now Batteast can use this game, like last season, as a stepping stone. Only this time, she can use the game to improve throughout the remainder of the season -the same way Taurasi did last year for Connecticut. 
Taurasi could take over a 

TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 

Jacqueline Batteast shoots against Connecticut. 
game at any moment for the 
Huskies during the team's 
national championship run in 
2003. Her teammates looked 
to Taurasi whenever things went wrong for the big bucket 
and the crucial rebound. 
Batteast was that player Tuesday night. She has the potential and talent to be the difference-maker every night for her team. 
And if Batteast does evolve into that role, the Irish will not only challenge for the Big East title this season, but be a very dangerous team come tournament time in March. 
Batteast was the best player on the court Tuesday night. As she continues to improve her game, she has the potential to be the best player on the court every night. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Retail Half.com 


Natural selection. 
How smart is this: All the textbooks you 

~ fcom: 
need for up to 50% off retail prices. New or 
bvdiJY 
used, all you have to do is go to half.com and type in the book titles, or ISBN numbers. Same textbooks. Then let nature take its course. Smarter prices. 
Copy11ght 2003-2004 Half.com'. Half.com, the Half.com logo, eBay and the eBay logo are trademarks of eBay Inc. All rights reserved. 'Average Retail Price of a New Textbook based on data from Follett Corp (as reported by The Associated Press in January 2003). Average Retail Price of a UsedTe)(tbook based on data from Monument Information Resources. Average Half.com Price for New and Used Textbooks based on an August/September 2003 analysis of over 500,000 books sold on Half.com. Quantities. pricing and availability are not 
-
guaranteed and will vary due to supply and demand. Coupon is for first-time buyers only. Limited time offer; excludes shipping and handling; offer subject to change or termination without prior notice. 


---:--~ --~---~~ -----~­

page 22 Wednesday, January 14, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NBC 
continued from page 24 
monitor our choice. We haven't made any decision." 
Television ratings for Notre Dame home games have steadi­ly declined in recent years. In 1993, when Notre Dame last seriously contended for a national championship, 6.2 mil­lion households watched Notre Dame football games, accord­ing to data provided by Nielsen 
M e d i a Research. But that number dropped to 2.6 million in 2003. 
The number of people who watch the Irish play on NBC appears to be tied to Notre Dame's suc­cess. In the last six years, the Irish have had just three win­
ning seasons. In those years ­1998, 2000 and 2002 -an estimated average of 3.1 mil­lion households watched NBC games. When Notre Dame has had a losing season, however, an average of just 2.6 million· households have tuned in annually. 
Yet Ken Schanzer, the presi­dent of NBC Sports, told reporters last month that NBC believed if it didn't renew the television deal, other networks would be more than willing to step in. 
The contract extension, cou­pled with other networks who consistently televise Irish away games, will help satisfy Notre Dame fans who have come to expect that the Irish will appear on television, Heisler said. 

"All of our fans have become . spoiled to that, and the expec­tation has been that in some way, shape or form the game is going to be available," Heisler said. "This will help to give that a chance to be reality on a daily basis." 
Since 1991, a portion of the money generated from the NBC 

''All ofour fans have become spoiled to that, and the expectation has been that in some way, shape or form the game is going to be available. ,, 
John Heisler associate athletic director 
contract has been chan­neled into undergradu­ate scholar­ships for non­varsity ath­letes. The University says it has distributed more than $12.6 million 
in financial 
aid from this fund, and in 
2003-04, 111 undergraduates are receiving an average of $17,600 from money from the NBC contract. 

The revenue from the televi­sion deal has been one major reason why Notre Dame says it is able to meet 100 percent of the financial needs of its stu­dents, Heisler said, "That's a huge and underpubli­cized achievement," Heisler said. "For the people in admis­sions and fmancial aid, that's a big deal." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Cey and Brown net shutouts 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associare Spores Ediror 
Right now, it doesn't seem to matter who is in net for the Irish. 
Both junior Morgan Cey and freshman David Brown recorded at least one shutout over the break as Notre Dame went 3-2, including a 1-0 win over then-No. 3 ranked Maine on Dec. 28. Cey collected consecutive shutouts versus Maine and Findlay, a 1-0 victory on on Jan. 3 at the Joyce Center. 
Brown collected Notre Dame's most recent win, a 3­0 home shutout of CCHA opponent Bowling Green on Jan. 9. It was a: nice change of pace for the freshman, who had allowed a combined 15 goals in his last three starts, all losses. 
"[Those losses] were very frustrating to me," Brown said after the 3-0 win over Bowling Green. "They were a real test to my character. I was dropping the puck in front and there were some fluky shots that went in. I just tried to focus on one shot at a time tonight and keep things simple." 
Fellow freshmen Josh Sciba and Jason Paige, along with senior defenseman Brett Lebda, provided all the 
offense Brown would need as he stopped 32 Falcon shots. The shutout was Brown's fourth of the season, a school record. 
With the win, the Irish are now 11-7-2 overall and 8-6-2 in the CCHA, good enough for third in the conference and just one point behind Michigan and Miami (Ohio) for first place. 
Notre Dame travels on the road to face No. 3 Wisconsin this weekend in a two game non-conference series. 
No. 14 Cornell 4, Notre Dame 0 
The Irish were blanked by Cornell in the opening round game of the Everblades Hockey Classic on Dec. 27, stymied by Big Red freshman goaltender David McKee, who stopped all 27 Notre Dame shots. 
Brown made 18 saves in the loss as the Irish fell despite outshooting Cornell 27-22. 
Notre Dame 1, No. 3 Maine 
0 
The Irish shocked No. 3 Maine at the Everblades College Hockey Classic on Dec. 28, defeating the Black Bears to take third place in the tournament. The win snapped a three game losing streak for the Irish 
Sophomore Mike Walsh scored the game-winning 
goal and Cey made 32 saves to pick up the shutout. 
Notre Dame 1, Findlay 0 
Cey recorded his second 
consecutive shutout and sen­
ior forward Rob Globke 
scored the only goal to give 
the Irish a win over non-con­
ference opponent Findlay on 
Jan. 3. 
The junior stopped 27 shots 
in the win over the Oilers. 
Bowling Green 5, Notre Dame 4 (OT) 
The Falcons' James Unger scored the game-winning goal with 28 seconds remain­ing in overtime to give his team the victory Jan. 8. Lebda, Sciba, Paige and sen­ior Aaron Gill each scored for the Irish in the road loss. 
Notes: 
+ 
For his efforts in Notre Dame's recent 3-0 win over Bowling Green, Brown was named the CCHA Defensive Player of the Week for the week ending Jan. 11. 

+ 
It is the first such honor for the freshman, who has been named rookie of the week three times this season. 


Brown and teammate Cey have combined for six Irish shutouts this season, already doubling the school's previ­ous record for shutouts in a year. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Thursday, 1OPM 
....... ,,·... ifi..A_.··'R•'''ur=D ,,.JtklQ·'.• ~. ·G····AVIN ·. 
·······~!;1lfl,ril\~~t~~gdn~~~~~~ter. 
Friday, 1'B~I ~ 
·. ~Dayin1998. ~ S<. t eA<!\~ .. ·:,. ·. n.at'\nti . ...
· · ·a. Utuu}l]·' 7 OVF'IY\ · .· ·,. ·. ·..· · 
··.· ~~!~~~=-~~~T:l811Hitl~:bnR~ 
quality fflUSic:iartship,, clev~r song~writing, and. unparaHeted presence .t:o any stage. A must see! 
-

Wednesday, January 14, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 34 When Krzysztof 67 Quitter's word 1 Like some got up south of 68 1940's first lady 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Faye Dunaway, Julian Bond, tracks and talk­
Warsaw? Lawrence Kasdan, LL Cool J 
69 Reproduce like ers 39 Pelvic bones 
salmon Happy Birthdayi You've got the drive and the passion to accomplish just aboul 5 Stereotypically 40 The Sixties, e.g. 70 Artist Paul anything this year. Don't even lhink about siuing on the sidelines of life. This upper-crust 41 " ... _saw is your time to take center stage and lei 1he world know exactly how powerful you can be. You will not have a problem getting the attention you
10 Make-or-break Elba" 
DOWN require, so put your best foot forward and implernenl all those innovalive ideas 
time 42 What Krzysztof 
that you've kepi locked up inside of you for so long. Your numbers: 4, 19, 28,
14 Cinco y Ires was doing 1 French W.W. I 37,41,46
commander
northwest of .saw? Ferdinand ARIES (March 21-April 19): Expand your horizons. Take trips that will 
15 Golf's "army" 
leader 
provide you with adventure and cultural knowledge. Social gatherings will
2 Stomach woe
16 Article in Der 47 "Gypsy" com-open doors to love connections. ***• Spiegel poser Jule 3 Ruler exiled in TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't lirnil yourself by being stubborn. Your 11 Falla 48 Granola morsel 1979 refusal to listen to the advice given by friends or relatives will be your downfall. Job opportunities are present. •••
49 "Fore" site? 4 November birth­18 Jockey's hand­
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Friends may be unhappy if you allow a new love
stone
ful 50 Baptism or bris to monopolize your time. Don'l be too eager to get involved in joint financial 
19 Mighty long 53 O.C.S. grads 5 Male witch ventures. •• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Healed arguments with children may lead lo
time: Var. 55 Purpose of 6 Mars: Prefix 
changes in your horne. Drastic reactions toward others will be detrimental. Be
20 Summary of Krzysztof's trav­7 Sarcastic 
careful whom you lend money to. •• Krzysztof's visit els LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your dramatic approach to emotional mailers may
8 Basso Ezio 
west of 62 Shade of green alienate you from the ones you love. Don'l lei others blame you for things you
9 "Give me a
Warsaw? didn't do. ••
63 Like Bigfoot 

straight VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Problems will surface if you have lo deal with
23 Bronx attraction 
64 Another, in answer!" institutions. Try to put off meetings with superiors until a more suitable time. 
24 _Grey tea Andalusia •••
10 Unwilling to lis­
25 Family V.I.P.'s 65 "Betsy's ten LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make major improvements if you set your mind to it. Someone you live with appears to be confused. Try 10 help without 
28 Watch readout, Wedding" star, 
11 "Mon_!" making waves. **'* briefly 1990 37 Green Hornet's 46 Singer James 58 Get one's ducks SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your mental agility will be at an all-time high.
12 In a short time
30 Model Campbell 66 Detoo aide in Pursue your professional goals. You can make excellent financial moves if you
51 "Movin' Out''

13 Ginza currency consider residential changes. • ••• 38 Shoe with a choreographer SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your need for excitement and adventure
21 Big name in
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE swoosh 52 Madonna title 59 Romance lang. will be satisfied if you travel or get involved in philosophic groups. A cbange in
pineapples 
your professional direction is in order. • • • • 
role43 Crucifix letters 

-=+-:+*.,..._,:-! 22 Nick or chip 60 French river CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may be subject to dealing with the54 Exchange buy affairs of elders in your family. If you haven't left yourself enough time, your
-:+:-+:::+:+-::-~ 25 TV's Hazel, e.g. 44 Hired compan­
ions, in Japan 55 Looking scared mate may be disgruntled by the whole affair. •••
61 Post-it message

26 Book with insets AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tension will cause confrontations with your
56 Racetrack fig­

45_days mate. Opportunities to gel involved in secret activities are evident. However,
27 Time on the job 
{happy time in ures 62 Sharp left or the possibility of damaging your reputation is likely. *** 
1-::+-::+='+:='"1 29 Number in a 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): One-sided romantic connections will only lead "crowd," in Koln you astray. You are best to keep your thoughts to yourself. Respect the politics that surround you at your place of work. • •• 
the past) 57 Meadows right 

31 Had too much, briefly 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 

Birthday Baby: It will be hard to say no to you. You know exaclly how 10 gel
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.

32 Corday's victim what you want. You're loving, adorable and quick to win the hearts of all those
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 

who come in contact with you. You have lhe energy and charisma lo hold lhe
33 "If a rich crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
attention of others and the self-confidence that enables you to inspire
man ... " 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 enthusiasm in lhose you rneel throughout life . ...,-+-:-+,.......,,-~ 35 Hard to recollect past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugelliala.l't.com 
~-=+=+:::-! 36 Son of Prince Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, Valiant ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI

FIVES 
Well Adam. now that the semester's begun I can finally use my can't-miss icebreaker line 
so... 

on Beth. This will, no doubt, establish be........~ ...,,. 
Beth...

her and I what will prove to be one of the How was your break? Go to Hell.

greatest love affairs EVER. 

) 

DILBERT 
AIRPORT SECURITY ~ .-------------------------~i 
PLEASE REMOVE 'YOUR i JACKETS AND ~ ~ 

) 
J 
SCOTT ADAMS 
PLEASE REMOVE IT IS A FEDERAL 'YOUR EPIDERMAL CRIME TO MENTION LA'YER AND PUT IT THE MOVIES"ISHTAR ,· IN A PLASTIC BAG. "GLITTER" OR"GIGLI: 
"-­
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
rro,~~~,c;·r 


rJ J
1 _ 
C2004 Tribune Media Servlc81, Inc. All Right& Reserved. 
i+ 

WHY THE BEAUTY
I rI J QUEEN BEC.AME 
www. umble.com 

A SPY. DILBOE 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Pulswer: 
SHE ·r I I I I I J' rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: ROUSE WIPED CATCHY INFECT Answer: What the sailors liked best during their leave overseas-IT WAS "DUTY" FREE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name_~-------------------------------------­
Address _____________________________________ City __________ State _____ Zip_______ 


..-----------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, January 14, 2004 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

NBC extends football contract through 2010 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
~­
Huskie-sized upset 
Batteast's all-around play leads Notre Dame to 66-51 win of No. 4 Connecticut 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
When she hit her first two shots, Connecticut star Diana Taurasi was on her way to redeeming herself after only scoring four points last year at Notre Dame in a 72-53­
win. See Also 
But Notre 
"Irish experience
Dame's Jacqueline roller coaster ride Batteast 
over break"
had plans of her own. page 17 
Batteast scored 23 points on 1 0-of-13 shooting and grabbed 11 rebounds in the Irish's 66-51 upset of No.4 Connecticut (11-2, 2-1 Big East) Tuesday at the Joyce Center. 
"Batteast was just the best player on the court tonight," Huskies coach Geno Auriemma said. 
Batteast keyed Notre Dame not only on offense but on defense as well. With 3:17 left in the game and the Irish up 55-51, she blocked a driving Taurasi, then proceeded to score against Taurasi on a driving layup to put the Irish ahead for good. The Huskies didn't score again. 
"The block deflated Connecticut," Irish coach Muffet McGraw ' said. "I thought it was a really big turnaround in the game." 
Notre Dame (9-6, 2-1 Big East) led the whole game, their largest lead other than the final margin coming with 
6:14 in the first half, when Batteast hit a layup to put the Irish up 30-16. 
Connecticut, however, fought 
see UPSET/page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Rally not enough for Irish at Pittsburgh 
By MATT LOZAR Associate Sports Editor 
Fool me once, shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me. 

After the end of Monday's 7 4­71 loss at Pittsburgh, Notre Dame guard Chris Thomas can relate to that old saying. He twice tried to draw a foul with pump fakes on 3-pointers, but couldn't execute the move, resulting in no points for the Irish. 
On defense when the Irish were down 67-66, Thomas fouled Pittsburgh guard Julius Page on a 3-pointer. At Villanova Saturday, Thomas hacked Villanova guard Allen Ray as he shot from behind the arc, but the Irish were up six and Thomas' foul was not damaging. 
But Monday, although Page only made 1-of-3 from the line, Pittsburgh forward Chevon Troutman out muscled Notre Dame forward Torin Francis for 
FooTBALL 

Elam to play at Kent 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

Former Notre Dame football player Abram Elam was convict­ed of sexual battery in August for his participation in an alleged gang rape of a female Notre Dame student with three other football players. 
But next week he will start classes at Kent State University with a football scholarship to play for the Golden Flashes in the fall with one year of eligibili­ty remaining. 
"He's paid a price," Kent State coach Dean Pees told the Akron Beacon Journal. "I feel very con­fident that he'll contribute to our program, on and off the field, in 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
For 13 years, every Notre Dame football home game has appeared on NBC. And thanks to a five-year extension announced Dec. 18, that trend will continue at least through 2010. 
Although University and NBC officials declined to say how much the school will receive annually, various news agencies reported the deal is worth $9 mil­lion annually. 
"We're extremely pleased to augment what continues to be a very special relationship with NBC Sports," Notre Dame athlet­ic director Kevin White said in a statement. "The ability to have our home football games telecast on a national basis becomes a_ tremendous vehicle for us in maintaining a national visibility and platform in terms of our foot­ball program's profile and recruiting." 
In the past, the money from the 
TIM 
Forward Courtney LaVere celebrates Notre Dame's upset. 
Batteast finally turns in a performance worthy of the best players in the country 
After the final buzzer sounded and as the students 
rushed the court, Irish forward Jacqueline Batteast stood, appropriate­ly at mid­court, threw her hands in 

the air and Joe Hettler embraced the moment. Sports Editor Yes, Jackie, that game really hap­pened. 
And while the rest of her teammates played great throughout the game, Batteast was the centerpiece in leading the Irish to a 66-51 victory over the Huskies in one of Notre Dame's biggest upsets in recent memory. The junior was the heart that kept pump­ing to carry the Irish ahead of mighty Connecticut Tuesday night. 
Batteast showed everyone in the Joyce Center that she, not Connecticut's reigning National Player of the Year 
see BATTEAST/page 20 

NBC deal has been used to pro­vide financial aid to students at the University. Associate athletic director John Heisler said he expected that trend to continue in the future. 
But the decision to renew its television deal should not neces­sarily be seen as a clear sign that Notre Dame will keep-its football program independent, White said last month. 
'There's not an immediate cor­relation of any kind between those two things," White told the Associated Press. "We made a decision to extend our deal with NBC. We're going to continue to 
see NBC/page 22 
MARKS!The Observer 
Jordan Cornette shoots against Mount St. Mary's. 
the rebound and tapped the loose ball to a teammate. 
see RALLY/page 20 
a great manner." 
Elam received an 18-month suspended sentence and two years probation for the felony. He was the only one of the four former Notre Dame players con­victed of any crime surrounding the incident. Donald Dykes was acquitted, while the prosecutor dropped charges against Lorenzo Crawford and Justin Smith before their trials. 
Elam was a reserve safety for the Irish in 2001 after redshirt­ing as a freshman in 2000. Kent State ranked last in pass defense in the Mid-American Conference last season. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 
MLB 
NO SWIMMING 
NBA 
Notre Dame 3 
Notre Dame 104 

Williams jury
Maddux, 

Bryant attorneys 
Hawks 86 

Bowling Green 0 
Rodriguez still 
UC Santa Barbara 

selection begins 
brmg allegations 
Spurs 77 
free agents 
101 

Jury selection began in 
Kobe Bryant's lawyers 
Shareef Abdur-Rahim 

Notre Dame goal­
The All-Star pitcher 

the manslaughter trial of 
say they must use 
scored 29 points as 

tender David Brown 
and catcher -are the 
The men's team inches 

former NBA player 
evidence of the victim's 
Atlanta held on to an

-gets back on track with a 
biggest names left on the 
its way to wins while the 

Jayson Williams. 
sexual and mental past 
early lead for the win 
shutout. 
free agent market. 
women win easily. 
in the defense. 
Tuesday night. . 
page 17 
page 16 

page 16
page 22 
page 14
page 19 











