
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 77 TUESDAY, JANUARY 27,2004 
Ticket penalized in elections 
filed against Brown and residents' rooms. When ques­Michelle and I were responsible
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 

Fitzgerald in regard to the tioned by elections commissioner for all materials associated with 
S:aim Mary's Editor 

Election Poster Policy. Nicole Haeberle. one resident our campaign complying with all The first complaint was filed said Fitzgerald was her friend Election Bylaws. Until this point. Saint Mary's student body can­Thursday in response to improp­and gave her the flyer. we were not aware that we didates Sarah Brown and er placement of flyers on bath­"That was explicit in the com­would be responsible for the Michelle Fitzgerald will have ten room mirrors. Consequently, the plaint form," Haeberle said. actions of the entire student votes deducted from their vote Elections Committee issued a Speaking on behalf of her tick­body," Brown said. "We were total in today's primary election warning to the ticket. et. Brown said that she and her unprepared to patrol campus and as the result of a policy violation. The second complaint filed running mate were unaware of ensure that acti.ons happening 
The College's Elections against Brown and Fitzgerald how the resident received'the unbeknownst to us complied with Committee met Friday to discuss concerned two 8 1/2" x 11" flyers handout. two separate complaint forms posed outside of tfoly Cross Hall "Our violation cited that sec ELECTIONS/page 6 
Sprinkler burst causes flood damage 
there now ... and the fire depart­By CLAIRE HEININGER 
ment has given the all-clear." Assistant News Editor 

Notre Dame Fire Department Captain Martin Orlowski said fire­Students and employees were 
fighters were able to respondevacuated from the Lafortune quickly to the alarm, whichStudent Center for 30 minutes 
sounded at about 7:20 p.m. 
Monday night when a frozen roof­"The fire alarm panel is back inlevel sprinkler head burst. causing service; the sprinkler system isconsiderable flooding to various back in service. We have [mainte­parts of the building. 

nance] up there taking care of the 
Both the DJ booth for the 
mess." Orlowski said. 
Lafortune Ballroom and the Despite the confusion that

Multicultural Student Programs 

ensued immediately after the
and Services office directly below alarm, he added, "There was noit suffered water damages, said smoke, no flames -just a frozen

Brian Coughlin, director of 
sprinkler head." 
Student Activities. 

Mike Crabtree of Notre Dame"It started in the attic, leaked Building Services said the slopeinto the DJ booth in the Ballroom, and thickness of the roof made itfilled up the floor there, and came impossible to get suction hoses todown into the office," Coughlin 
the actual site of the break.

said as he stood watching mainte­
Instead, he drilled a series of 
nance workers snake suction pipes through the second-floor hallway. "They're sucking it out of see FLOOD/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Center sponsors career fair 
By ANNA GELHAUS News Writer 
Some 150 organizations will be seeking potential employees from among the 2,000 expected stu­dents who will attend today's Winter Career and Internship Fair. 
All class levels and majors are encouraged to attend. The annual event, which is sponsored by Notre Dame's Career Center. is from 4 to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center fieldhouse. 
Various employers ofTered pre­sentations yesterday. 
Daniel Young. a Film, Television and Theater major. attended a presentation by MTV. As a junior, he sees this summer as his last opportunity for an internship before graduation. Young is opti­mistic about his chances and said his Notre Dame education pro­vides him with a competitive edge. He also cited his prior expe­rience in the field. 
"I got to help out with a com­mercial once," he said. 
Still, when it comes to getting a job, he said, "I imagine it would be tough." 
The Career Center was busy yesterday helping preparing stu­dent<> for the fair. answering ques­tion~ and critiquing resumes. 
Molly Anderson, a senior mar-
sec FAIR/page 6 

Campus, seminary. react to priest scandal 
Editor's Note: This article is said. "They are impressive part two of a two-part series because many dioceses have, in about the Catholic Church. fact, been doing the best they 
can to address t..his terrible cri­By C. SPENCER BEGGS sis. The results are misleading, News Writer however, because this process 
does not cover the many reli­
Two years after news surfaced gious orders and the thousands that Catholic Church officials of priests who belong to them. had covered up evidence about Also, some of the dioceses were sexual abuse or rape of minors not as forthcoming -and still by priests, both the Catholic are not-as they should be." community at Notre Dame and But McBrien said that it is too across the country are still com­early to tell if the scandal will ing to terms with the scandal. have negative ramifications on 
Earlier this month, the United the number of men entering 
States Conference of Catholic seminaries, but he did not think Bishops released the results of that the scandal had provoked a an audit indicating that 90 per­crisis in the religion itself. cent of the nation's 195 dioceses Crisis of faith or not, it is and eparchies are complying unlikely that the sexual abuse 
with the USCCB 's "Charter for scandal will bode well for a the Protection of Children and Church that is already having Young People." problems recruiting priests. Father Richard McBrien, the­According to a 2003 USCCB
t 
ology professor, said the audit report, 44,487 diocesan and reli­was a step in the right direction gious priests served the nation's but could have been prevented if 63.4 million Catholics -about 7 the Church had responded prop­priests per 10,000 lay Catholics. erly when allegations began In 1965, there were 12.9 priests coming to light over 25 years per 10,000 lay Catholics. 
ago. Although the actual number of "The results arc both impres­. sive and misleading," McBrien see CHURCH/page 6 

Members debate revision proposals 

focused on the issue of elec­dates. 
By MATT BRAMAN_TI 
tions. Under the new structure, "I think it should be a split 
News Writer 
each dorm would elect a hall ticket," Blake said. "With a Members of the Council of president, a campus program­combined ticket, you won't get Representatives convened mer and a policy council mem­the best combination of people." Monday evening in LaFortune, ber. Student leaders were divid­Student Union Board manag­but not for long -a fire alarm ed on whether candidates for er Charlie Ebersol proposed forced evacuation of the build­those three positions should run keeping the decision at the hall 
ing, ending the evening's debate on combined tickets. level. on the proposed revisions to the Off-campus president Sarah "Allow the rector and hall Student Union Constitution . Blake said that individual tick­
One point of contention ets would promote better candi-sec COUNCIL/page 4 

Tuesday, January 27, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Support the Revue 
Don't get me wrong; I am a proud Saint Mary's student. I love my col­lege, and if you insult my soon-to­be alma mater, I will probably beat you up. 
But with this 
Cheryl Barker
said, I do not have a problem with people pok­
Viewpoint
ing fun at the 
Copy Editor 
stereotypes that certainly exist because of the fact that we are an all-girls school. Let's face it, girls, we give the Keenan Revue plenty of material for their various skits, songs and jokes. 
For example, a women's college means only girls are admitted, thus giving us the conclusion that there are no boys at Saint Mary's. Consequently, it is necessary to leave campus to find a relationship with a member of the opposite sex. 
Have you guys seen the mass exo­dus from campus on Fridays and Saturdays? It is an exodus that can be compared to the Great Exodus of the Bible as well as the ones that happen on home football game weekends. 
This is prime material for the Keenan Revue. Pair this with the well-known, but false, assumption that most of the students at Saint Mary's are only there because they did not get into Notre Dame, or the so-called rivalry between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women, or Saint Mary's freshmen mistakes of bumbling into Hockey House or Glee Club parties, and you are bound to be made fun of. 
Let's be honest-comedians all over the world take facts like these and distort them into humorous tidbits, and the Revue is no differ­ent. And like comedians every­where, someone somewhere is bound to be the brunt of the joke, and more often than not, they take offense at the material and throw a fit. 
I agree the Revue should have a few guidelines, but let's face it­the only reason Saint Mary's gets any say in what happens at the Keenan Revue is simply because it happens at our school. 
I say let the Keenan Revue go on as it has in the past. If nothing else, the Keenan Revue is the only time when the entire Notre Dame 
· campus wants to come to Saint Mary's. 
Let it live in the past with stereo­typical comments about life at Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross. Let's face it-we're funny, and all three of the campuses, as well as South Bend, provide mate­rial for the Revue. 
So let's go and enjoy the enter­tainment of the weekend, knowing that no strange, stereotypical tidbit will escape the fury of the Revue. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Cheryl Barker at bark0916@saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer r~ds itselfas a professional publica­cion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we 
will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can • • • • • • • • • • • co rrect-ottr-erroi. · • • --. -­

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU HAD A SUPERPOWER, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 







Meghan Barloco J.R. Garcia Bryan Kreller Seth O'Donnell Drew Sandstrum Jack Lskowitz 
Senior Junior Sophomore Senior Senior Sophomore Off-Campus Morrissey Alumni Keough Zahm Dillon 
"To be "To cancel "The power to "Superfast, so I nThe ability to "The ability to permanently class." kill a yak from can set offfire turn whatever I actually look warm. even zn 200 yards away alarms with no touch into good with a 
this ridiculous ... with mind one knowing. " weather.,, bullets.,, 

PAMELA LOCK/The Observer 

Students waited outside LaFortune Monday night as the building was Inspected by firefighters from the Notre Dame Fire Department. A sprinkler on the roof level of the building froze and then burst, causing the fire alarm to sound and flooding in the Ballroom and Multicultural Student Programs and Services office. · 
OFFBEAT 
Pope hosts breakdancers 
VATICAN CITY -In an unusual spectacle at the Vatican, Pope John Paul II presided Sunday over a performance of break­dancers who leaped, flipped and spun their bodies to beats from a tinny boom box. 
The 83-year-old pontiff seemed to approve, wav­ing his hand after each dancer completed a move, then applauding for the entire group. He watched the performance from a raised throne. 
"For this creative hard work I bless you from my heart," he said. 
During the show, one dancer -part of a Polish group that helps poor and marginalized youths ­planted his head on the inlaid marble floor of the Vatican hall and spun to loud applause from his group and from Vatican officials.· Another per­former flung his body around in a series of spins and handstands. 
Parrot's oratory stuns scientists 
The finding of a parrot with an almost unparal­leled power to communi­cate with people has brought scientists up 
short. 
The bird, a captive African grey called N'kisi, has a vocabulary of 950 words, and shows signs of a sense of humour. 
He invents his own words and phrases if he is confronted with novel ideas with which his exist­ing repertoire cannot cope -just as a human child would do. 
N'kisi's remarkable abil­ities, which are said to include telepathy, feature in the latest BBC Wildlife Magazine. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY a: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
..J 
<
CJ 


0 

..... HIGH 25 16 HIGH HIGH 27 LOW 12 9 LOW LOW 20 


steak . ., mustache. " 
IN BRIEF 
The Winter Career and Internship Fair, sponsored by the Career Center, takes place today from 4 to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center field house. Representatives from over 100 organizations and companies will be on campus to speak with graduate and undergraduate students about job and internship oppurtunities. 
The Amate House, a post­graduate service program in Chicago, will hold their infor­mation session today from 8 to 9 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns lounge. Representatives from the program will answer ques­tions for students interested in this oppoortunity. 
Theology on Tap will take place Wednesday from 9:30 to 11:30 p.m. at Legends. i\t Theology on Tap you have the chance to hear speakers talk about current issues in the Catholic Church. 
Legends will sponsor a Senior Night Thursday from midnight to 4 a.m. 
The Class of 2005 is hold­ing a Class Dinner Thursday at BW3s from 6 to 9 p.m. Juniors can participate in an "all you can eat" event for $1. 
SUB is sponsoring a show­ing of "School of Rock" Thursday, Friday and Saturday. There will be two showings each night at 8 and 
10:30 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 29 
35 
LOW 26 
25 
HIGH LOW 


Atlanta 44 I 25 Boston 24 I 20 Chicago 26 I 11 Denver 45 I 22 Houston 52 I 29 Los Angeles 64 I 50 Minneapolis 17 1 2 New York 29 I 24 Philadelphia 34 /28 Phoenix 62/ 41 Seattle 44 I 40 St. Louis 29 /18 Tampa 68 1 42 Washington 36 1 30 
. . .. .. .. . . . .. . . . . . -.. . . . . . . . . . . .... -. .
. 


Tuesday, January 27, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Officials say snow, ice removal not a problem 


nternational Business Council 
www.nd.edu/~sibc 
Finance Accounting 
Marketing' Human Resources Internships 
Business Consulting Global Development Information Technology 
WEDNESDAYAT ST. MARY'S 
Informational Meeting January 28th at 7:00pm Haggar College Center 2nd Floor Parlor Ro()m 
J I _, .. e "' 
' "' ' l • 


By LIAM FARRELL 
News Writer 
Despite. dropping tempera­tures and growing piles of snow, Notre Dame mainte­nance officials said the clear­ing of campus sidewalks and roads has been running smoothly this year. 
William Thistlcthwaite, superintendent of landscape services, said that "[snow removal] is better this year than it has been in past years." 
"It doesn't take any longer [to clear snow than before]." Thistlethwaite said. "It proba­bly takes less time." 
The plows and employees of landscape services work to clear snow whenever it fa lis in South Rend, working in three shifts daily between 2:00a.m. and 11:30 p.m. 
"There are no hours," Thistlethwaite said of employ­ees' schedules, adding that plows can be running 24 hours during significant snowstorms. 
Notre Dame's snow removal team includes 28 employees, nine plows, three loaders and five brooms, and their area of responsibility runs throughout campus. Although clearing Juniper Road is the responsi­bility of St. Joseph's <:ounty, Notre Dame's crews often do it themselves. 
They "probably do a better job," Thistlethwaite said. 

• While the custodians are responsible for clearing the areas immediately in front of the main entrances to the dorms, landscape services takes care of the rest of cam­pus. Slight changes in the cleaning routines depend upon which areas will be traf­ficked heavily on a particular day. In such instances, the sidewalks in front of DeBartolo Hall may receive less attention on a weekend than the sidewalks connecting dorms and dining halls. 
Some students, however, have expressed concern over icy sidewalks and slippery walkways throughout campus. 
"The plows just clear half of the sidewalk and part of the grass," junior Patrick Fishburne said, complaining that other areas are left cov­ered in snow. 
Sophomore Alicia Lachiondo agreed. 
"I would put my tuition money into covering the side­walks when it snows," she said. 
Thistleth waite, however, said any problems students encounter occur because of the time of snow fall. He said it is the process of constantly "redoing everything" during significant storms that causes slippery walkways. 
Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrell@nd.edu 
Snow and ice cover campus sidewalks due to the recent winter weather. The University has been trying to keep up with the amount 
of snow that has .fallen.
•


PHOTOS BY 

PAMELA LOCK 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, January 27,2004 

chair Sarah Keefer proposed that budgets be approved by



Council 

both the Council of 
continued from page 1 
president to decide for their dorm on a year-to-year basis," he said. 
Members voted to table the decision until next week's meet­ing. Another issue dealt with approving student government's financial budgets. Ebersol said that in the interests of open­ness, senators should have access to all budget proposals at their first meeting of each term. 
"There's no confidential finance in student government," Ebersol said. 
Hall Presidents Council co-Representatives and the Senate, saying both bodies should have authority regarding financial matters. 

"It would provide for a good check and balance," Keefer said. 
Council members also began debate on the issue of Senate committee chairs. However, seconds after members voted to extend the length of the meet­ing, the meeting was disrupted by blaring fire alarms and the members cut their debate short in order to evacuate. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 





Junior Class Dinner 


. .. 
COrpS~ :~.~ 
*W 

an ilforffta~on meeting where you111eam mo*'"""''''''''''''''''''.,. ,, ..,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,.,.,,, ...~...·-· , JANUARY 29, 6-SPM 
..........v 

NOlRE DAME, ClR. FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
.......... 

.·· .. --A OR DROP BY 008 INFO:JABLE ON : '· 
--WEDHES.DA!z. JANUARY 28,-'iOAM-2PM ~ :··-WIEKAMP c'fll, Tui&r..the blue wal) 
...... 

Do_you wish td be a productive member, if not a leader in _yqyr work place? ·· ······ · flanningon working in corporate America? 

The Old School The New School 
ARE YOU PREPARED? SUSTAINED DIALOGUE INFORMATION SESSIONS 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28  KICKOFF RETREAT:  
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29  SATURDAY, FEBRUARY7  
7..8PM @COLEMAN MORSE  2-5 @ COLEMAN MORSE  
It's for yotu· future  


Where: BW3s Restaurant 
When: Thursday, January 29th, 6:00~8:00 PM 



Azz·you can eat and drink:* $1 
Open to all members oftheJunior Class. 
* Includes wings and soft drinks 

For more Information Contact: Tessa Garcia: tgarcial@nd.edu or Eve Thomas: ethomasl@nd.edu Sponsored by Shident Govemnment 

Tuesday, January 27, 2004 Cotv1PlLED FROJ\1 THE OBSERVER'S \VI RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Paraguayan president returns 
ASUNCION. Paraguay -Paraguay's presi­dent returned home on Monday from a vaca: tion in neighboring Brazil amid reports of a possible assassination attempt against him. 
Nicanor Duarte landed in the Paraguayan capital under heavy security, refusing to con­firm or deny the reports, first carried Monday by leading newspapers ABC Color and Ultima Hora. 
However, the president did tell reporters that U.S. Ambassador John Keane in Asuncion told him weeks ago that the United States had increasing concerns for his safety. 
He did not elaborate on details of the threat but said he would be reinforcing his security detail, some of whom he said would be advised by American security specialists. 
The matter involves "reserved informa­tion" and is "state business," he said, refus­ing further comment. 
Powell challenges Russia 
MOSCOW -Visiting Secretary of State Colin Powel1 raised objections to Russia's curbs on press freedom and the country's quest for mili­tary victory over Chechen rebels, but he and President Vladimir Putin agreed Monday that U.S.-Russian relations are on a sound footing. 
In the days leading up to his visit here, Powell had refrained from criticizing Russia. But he took the unusual step of outlining, albeit gently and sometimes indirectly, his concerns in an opinion piece in Izvestia, perhaps the country's most respected daily. 
The commentary competed for attention with Powell's two appearances here, with Putin before their Kremlin meeting and at a joint news conference later with Foreign.Minister Igor Ivanov. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Nurse indicted on more counts 
FORT WORTH, Texas -A former nurse accused of killing four elderly patients was indicted Monday on charges of killing six other people and injuring a disabled man in her care. 
Vickie Dawn Carson Jackson was indicted on three counts of capital murder, one count of attempted murder and one count of injury to a disabled person. 
Defense attorney Bruce Martin said his client will plead innocent to the charges. The former nurse has not commented publicly on any of the deaths, which prosecutors say resulted from injections of a paralyzing drug. 
Under Texas law, a defendant can be. charged with capital murder if two or more people are killed during a crime. 
Snow makes highways deadly 
A pair of storms spread snow, sleet and freezing rain across the eastern half of the nation. glazing highways with treacherous ice as far south as Georgia and closing schools and government offices Monday. 
The weather was blamed for at least 34 deaths, most of them traffic related, on Sunday and Monday. 
The heaviest snowfall was 23 inches at Duluth, Minn., as moist air swept inland from Lake Superior.· Drifting snow closed about 70 miles of Interstate 29 overnight in North Dakota. between Fargo and Grand Forks. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Town council, paper dispute lawsuit 
KNIGHTSTOWN-The town's weekly newspaper and local officials have been locked in a dispute over details of a settle­ment paid to a former police dispatcher who sued over her firing. 
Attorneys for Knightstown's insurance car­rier reached a settlement three months ago with former dispatcher GiGi Steinwachs, but it Included a stipulation that details not be made public. 



Dems exchange barbs on eve of primary 
New Hampshire voters head to polls· today for first stqte primary 
Associated Press 

NASHUA, N.H. 
Playing to huge crowds of 
wavering voters, 
Democrats swapped 
charges of dirty tricks and 
elitism Monday, closing 
out the New Hampshire 
primary on a sour note 
before the presidential 
race goes national. 

From coffee shops, 
truck stops, school gyms 
and country stores, the 
candidates took their last · 
dose of small-state retail 
politicking with a collec­
tive grimace, testy and 
tired after a seesaw week 
of campaigning. 

"It's close and it's clos­
ing fast," Howard Dean 
said, accus.ing his rivals of 
smearing him in a shad­
owy phone-and-mail cam­
paign. 

"I need your · help because we have every intention of winning the New Hampshir.e primary." 
Most public polls gave fellow New Englander John Kerry a double-digit lead over Dean, a former Vermont governor, though at least one survey had the pair in a dead heat. Sen. John Edwards of North Carolina, retired Army Gen. Wesley Clark and Sen. Joe Lieberman of Connecticut were trail­ing. 
Campaign strategists said internal polls and anecdotal evidence indi­maries. 
cated that Dean and "This race could still go Edwards had the most any number of ways," momentum in the race's said Wayne Lesperance, 
final hours. New political science professor Hampshire has a storied at New England College in his tory of upsets and sur­Henniker, N.H. "The ques­prises, largely because of tions is, how far do Dean a choosy electorate and Edwards surge?" loaded with independents The answer will come who can vote in party pri-from voters such as Connie Mackey of Nashua, N.H., who had a front-row seat at Dean's··first event. 

"I wish I could have Howard Dean's heart, John Kerry's political savvy, Wes Clark's mili­tary experience and Edwards' idealism," she said. 
So who will it be Tuesday? " Have n 't a clue," she said with a laugh. "Don't know whose soap to buy." 
The candidates were in the mood to sell, knowing the importance of a solid finish as they look toward the next stage of contests starting Feb. 3 in seven states. 

EGYPT 
Building collapses in Cairo suburb 
Associated Press 
CAIRO -A 12-story building that had drawn police attention for allegedly illegal renovations collapsed in a Cairo suburb during a fire Monday night, trapping up to 16 peo­ple inside and injuring 33, police said. 
All but two of the trapped were fire­fighters and policemen dispatched to put out the blaze, the officials said on condition of anonymity. Hundreds of people lived in the building, but most had evacuated by the time it col­lapsed three hours after the fire began in a home appliances store. 
The owner of the building had ille­gally added four floors 12 years ago and ignored an order to tear them down, police said. Tenants had also complained to police six days ago about renovations in the store where the fire began; they feared the work would damage the building's founda­tions. 
The 33 people hospitalized included both police and residents. There was no immediate word on the nature of the injuries or their conditions. 
The officials first said the fire broke out at an Egyptian fast-food restau­rant on the ground floor, but later reported it began at the adjacent store. 
A police officer at the scene, brief­ing reporters afterward, also said 16 people were trapped. The unnamed officer identified the civilians as workers in the store where the fire started. 
But the Middle East News Agency quoted Cairo security chief Nabil el­Ezzabi as saying eight people, includ­ing three policemen, remained trapped about three hours after the collapse. It was not clear if the dis­crepancy was because people had been pulled out of the rubble. 
The building, built in 1981, was in Nasr City, an eastern suburb of the Egyptian capital near the airport. The area is home to many high-rise resi­dential buildings and shopping areas. 
The structure collapsed accordion­style into a pile of rubble about two stories high. Several satellite dishes rested intact on the roof, and a panda toy, slippers, bags and a brass pot were scattered in the debris. 
Police sealed off the area and evac­uated two buildings that were dam­aged by the c9llapse, while firefight­ers and policemen worked under floodlights to rescue their trapped colleagues. 
Rescuers cleared rubble by hand in search of survivors for several hours and were jnined by bulldozers early Tuesday. 
Building collapses are common in Egypt and are often caused by shoddy construction or the unauthorized building of extra stories. The last such incident was May 4, when a seven-story apartment building col­lapsed in Cairo, killing at least seven people. 

I  page 6  The Observer + NEWS  Tuesday, January 27,2004  
il  
~ !\ I~ k ~~  Elections  Church  Seminary, said that seminarian if I became a prieapplicants are screened rigor­be part of that," Wously, though some ask about Wysocki said t st, I wouldn't ysocki said. Flood hat people's  
,I I  continued from page 1  continued from page 1  the scandal and have had a reactions to his pmixed reaction to it. tions have been overwhelming­ riestly ambi­continued from page 1  
rules of wl:llch not all students are  priests has only dropped sligh t­"People who are truly called ly positive.  small holes in the DJ booth's 
j I,\ ~ i t  aware." .. Following deliberation, the Committee decided that a violation occurred under the Policy's General Rule no. 6: "Any additional hand­outs must be smaller than the 8 1/l" x 11" flyer."  ly, the number of Catholics ithe country has increased substantially, led by Hispaniimmigration. A controversiastudy by Richard Schoenherand Lawrence Younger predicts that the U.S. will los n to do this are not going to be "Once you get t­dissuaded by it. There's scan­ple, I think those c dal everywhere. Your genera­pass away," he sail tion has become inoculated McBrien agrees r against it," King said. troversy will eve­King said that due to the but says that offie irregularities of how many peo­be more proacti o know peo­ceiling, trying to drain water into sorts of ideas buckets without soaking the d. stereo equipment around him. that the con­"We put the holes in to contain ntually pass, it," Crabtree said. ··It's pretty cials need to wet, but the water's stopped." ve in openly He estimated that within six to  
The sanction issued by the Elections Committee specified that, for each violation documented in a  16,000 priests by 2015-a 4percent decline. To make matters worse, the Catholic popu 0 ple enter the seminary each addressing it and i­year it is hard to gauge if the "For starters, th­sexual abuse scandal has had the Church need t ts causes. eight hours, the flooding would e officials of be "totally dry and under con~­o allow every trol."  
written complaint, the candidates' primary election vote total would be  lation of the country is expected to increase by 65 percent i ­any effect on application rates. relevant question n He said that there has been on the table and  to be placed Fellow Building Services discussed," worker Mike Pierson said the  
penalized five votes. "The Elections Committee felt that a penalty of five votes was a signifi­cant deterrent from future violation of the policy," Haeberle said. The candidates had until 8 a.m. Saturday to correct any possible additional problems. The Elections  that time. The average age opriests will also rise, makinturnover a much more substantial problem as seminaradmission rates falter. Schoenherr began his studin the 1980s and published hiresults in 1993. Although  f some shock and disappoint­McBrien said. g ment in the seminary, but he be ruled out of b­does not believe that it will the start. Not celiy affect the number of men seek­ordination of women. ing ordination. seminary educatiy ''From what I have seen, way bishops are s there's been an amazing the way the Churcresiliency, as well," King said. its teachings on h "Nothing can damage was fairly minor com­ounds from pared to the flooding that bacy. Not the occurred in the Hesburgh Not library Jan. 8. on. Not the "Unlike the library flood, we selected. Not can get a lot of this up with car­h formulates pet machines," Pierson said. uman sexual­"That was a mess over there."  
Committee now reserves the right to assess the same penalty per resi­dence hall room should any mem­ber observe further violations with or without an accompanying writ­ten complaint. In its defense, the Brown­Fitzgerald ticket chose to appeal the decision made by the Elections  Schoenherr's projection was initially dismissed by analysts, his successor, Younger, was able to show it to be statistically accurate within 1 percenover a 10-year period in 1998. Twenty-seven percent of U.S. parishes already do not have a resident priest.  "I haven't seen people leaving ity and reproducout of disgust." who insist that cOld College freshman Joe tions like these m­Wysocki said that the news of cussed are makint the priest scandal hasn't affect­tive resolution oed his decision to work toward term, deep-seated problem becoming a priest. impossible." ··You have to think about yourself and you have to know  tion. Those He added that freezing inci­ertain ques­dents are a fairly common prob­ay not be dis­lem during the winter months. g a construc­"This time of year, there are a f this long­lot of floods," Pierson said. "There was a lot of water, but by the way it looks, we can catch up with this."  
Committee, citing a misunderstand­ Father Jim King, director o f that that's not the majority, Contact C. Spenc er Beggs at Contact Claire Heininger at  
ing.  vocations at the Moreau  that's the minority. I know that beggs.3@nd.edu  cheining@nd.edu  

Haeberle said that all candidates 

were notified of the policy in. specific r-----------------------------------------------­
· · b g
detail b efiore camprugnmg e an. 
··1n their election information meetings ... we made it a point to adequately cover the poster policy in detail," she said. 
The Elections Appeals Board upheld the decision of the Elections Committee and penalized the ticket ten votes. 
"While Michelle and I still main­tain that we were not informed of the rule binding us to the actions of the entire student body, we feel that 1 the violation, hearing and appeals I process worked very smoothly," : Brown said. "While we are regretful 1 that the votes of ten of our support-1 ers will be invalidated, we do not I feel this will alter the outcome ofthe : 
election." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 


Fair 
continued from page 1 
keting and philosophy major, was in contact with the Career Center ear­lier this fall. 
"I had a couple of interviews then," she said. "But I didn't get a job. So I'm just ready to keep look­ing." 
At the fair, Anderson hopes to get some interviews and is actively looking for a "few more opportuni­ties." 
Students will have a chance to explore possible career options and even gain consideration for intern­ships or full-time jobs. The Career Center encourages students to bring many copies of their resume to pass out to employers. 
Andrea Manka, a senior econom­ics major, is looking forward to the busy atmosphere of today's fair. 
"I imagine it's going to be crowd­ed tomorrow," she said. 
But Anderson, who plans to attend law school and is looking for an internship, has her visit planned. She said she was in contact with a few employers through e-mail and is now looking forward to seeing them today. 
To gain access to the fair, students should bring their student ID. An alphabetical list of participating organizations, job descriptions, and further information are available at the Career Center's Web site http://careercenter.nd.edu. 
Contact Anna Gelhaus at gelhaus.l @nd.edu 

• 
The future relies on inventions from GE. GE's future relies on people like you. 
~---~------------:-~------.. 
Is 1t the w1nd that generates electr1c1ty? Or is it the idea to harness it? At GE, we believe in the power of ideas. Ideas that 
not only turn wind into electricity but 
make the world a better place than it 
was the day before. If you have those kinds of ideas, we hope you contact us. 
GECareers gecareers.com /notredame 
Winter Career & Internship Fair January 27th, 4-8 pm Joyce Center Field House -North Dome 
Come visit the GE booth today! 
Still have questions, contact us at 
GEN D@ge.com. 
Financial Management Program 
recruiters will be available in the 
Career Center to answer questions on 
Wednesday, January 28th, 8AM-4PM. 

J 
imagination at work 
··································:: Equipment Healthcare Services : 

::;:::·:'!:!.'!:!!!:::::::~ .. .:i.~IJ!!~J6ar!~rs.2o~> ' 

_j!l.11::lli:t_---...;~-------...-;..-----. 
I Opportunity Employ~r 
• -----..-... ----~ .... o;. ----....-----------------------­

Tuesday, January 27, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 702 51 +134.22

}ones ' · 
,.,.,, Same: ~ Composite Volume: r~sso 173 • 1,437,410,944 
AM£X t 1,222.97 ,.,, :t-2.70 NASDAQ 2,153.83 +29.96 ~ l\)i1mt.li!'f£I,·,· w 6,67;~W4rt;iL+45.22~41 S&P 500 1,155.37 +13.82 
tJ1~crqt<Yo)JElo,97g76J!Iilfo:()JD~~ 
FTSf IOO(London) 4,445.50 -15.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE QDSU)  +8.07  +0.39  28.48  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  + 1.12  +0.32  4.83  
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI)  -2.55  -0.08  27.33  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +3.18  +0.87  31.75  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +2.14  +0.68  5.45  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  + 1.03  +0.51  49.91  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +1.82  +0.74  41'.40  
5-YEAANOTE  +2.00  +0.61  31.18  
3-MONTH BILL  +I.73  +0. I 5  8.82  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.47  34.47  
GOLD ($ffroy oz.)  -1.30  406 7  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.)  +0.50  83.50  
Excho  Rates  
YEN  I 06.4  
EURO  0.8021  
POUND  0.5514  

IN BRIEF 
Greenspan talk sparks stocks 
N~W YORK -Encouraging words from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan sent stocks soaring Monday as investors looked forward with renewed enthusiasm to upcoming earnings reports. The Dow Jones industrials reached a new 31-month high, rising more than 130 points. 
The markets got a late-day boost from Greenspan, who told an economic confer­ence in London he was confident that jobs lost during the recent recession could be replaced. He also warned U.S. policy-makers against putting up protectionist trade barri­ers, saying it could be bad for the global economy. 
"I think Mr. Greenspan has given us some hope," said Peter Cardillo, president and chief strategist of Global Partner Securities Inc. "He's confident there will be creation of new jobs and that was what the market wanted to hear." 
The Dow gained 134.22, or 1.3 percent, to close at 10,702.51, after a weekly loss of 0.3 percent that ended eight weeks of advances. It was the index's highest finish since June 21, 2001, when it closed at 10,715.43. 
The Dow is now slightly more than 1,000 points away from its all-time high close of 11,722.98, reached on Jan. 14, 2000. 
OPEC influences crude decline 
NEW YORK -Crude futures prices fell 1.3 percent Monday on the New York Mercantile Exchange, as mounting market perceptions that OPEC may be growing more concerned about high petroleum prices prompted some traders to sell 
Analysts say many in the market believe the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, scheduled to review its output policy when it meets Feb. 10 in Algeria, may leave production unchanged at 24.5 million barrels a day. 
Until recently, many market-watchers were fretting the cartel would slash output further. 
···•·6·· .......................... .. 

Students advance in competit~on 


MBA students take second place in VCIC entrepreneurial competition 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 

A team of Notre Dame MBA students placed second in the wild card round of the Venture Capital Investment Competition (VCIC) held at Vanderbilt University Jan. 
16. The team, sponsored by the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies, faced teams from Arizona, Georgetown, Georgia, Purdue and Wake Forest. 
Members of the team 
included second-year MBA 
students Steve Abdalla. 
Chris Clevenger, Katrina 
Glerum and Jeff Stewart, as 
well as first-year student 
Paul Koss. 

The VCIC, which bills itself as "the nation's premiere strategy competition for venture-minded and entre­preneurial MBA students," allows students to take on the role of venture capital­ists, investors who inject money into new businesses in return for partial owner­Gigot Center have estab­mission is "To create a competition." ship. In the competition, stu­lished their place in forum for entrepreneurial­The 15-person class nomi­dent teams review business American business ed uca­minded members of the nated five of its members to plans and decide which tion. Notre Dame family to con­make up the Notre Dame ones to fund, then compile "It really is the 'Who's tact each other for network­VCIC team. investment terms for a port­Who' of the top 35 business ing purposes and foster the The students' second­folio of start-up ventures. schools out there," she said. development of new busi­place finish qualifies the 
Theresa Sedlack, program "It's a testament to the cal­ness opportunities," and "to team for one of four region­manager at the Gigot iber of our students." support the work of the al events to be held in Center, said the VCIC brings Sedlack said the center Mendoza College of February and March at together many different has fielded VCIC teams for Business and the Gigot Georgia Tech, Babson aspects of commerce that "a couple years now," but Center for Entrepreneurial College and the Universities students learn in the has recently stepped up Studies by providing Notre of Michigan and Colorado. Mendoza College of efforts to prepare its stu­Dame students with mentor­The Arizona team, which Business. dents for the rigorous com­ing and networking assis­won the wild card division, 
"The competition is of petition. tance that is essential for will also advance. such great value because it's "Last year, we really start­building successful new Winners from each the most holistic test of an ed to work actively to pre­businesses." regional competition will MBA education," Sedlack pare the team," she said. Over time, the preparation continue on to the national said. "You have to draw on "We brought in IrishAngels developed into a highly finals in April at the a!l your experiences from to help coach the students." competitive MBA course. University of North your MBA career and per­The IrishAngels network "Each class was taught by a Carolina, where they will sonal experiences in a 48-is made up of select Notre different IrishAngel venture com pete for a $15,000 hour period." Dame alumni and friends capitalist," Sedlack said. prize. 
She said the team's high with experience in entrepre­"Each lecture and assign­placement shows that the neurial ventures. According ment built on a skill [the Contact Matt Bramanti at Mendoza College and the to its website, the network's students would] need in the mbramant@nd.edu 

Trial opens in Lilly patent dispute 
ophrenia medications. issued," said Thomas Heneghan, and
Associated Press 
He questioned how the drug could attorney for Zenith Goldline 
INDIANAPOLIS -Eli Lilly & Co. be obvious if so many companies, Pharmaceuticals. "Lilly did not invent opened its defense in federal court including Lilly, tried numerous ver­anything. Monday of its patent on the company's sions without positive results. Zyprexa's patent was issued in top-selling drug, saying that its dis­"Lilly was right there failing with 1993, giving Lilly exclusive U.S. rights covery came after years of difficult everybody else," Lipsey said. on the drug until 2011. research. Indianapolis-based Lilly is hoping to At issue is a molecule, called olan­
Three generic drug manufacturers avoid a legal loss similar to one four zapine, that is shaped like a seven­are seeking to have declared invalid years ago when it lost a patent chal­sided ring. Previous medications fea~ Lilly's patent on Zyprexa, an anti-psy­lenge to its former top-selling drug tured a similar ring with various chotic introduced in 1996 to treat Prozac. atoms, like fluorine or chlorine, schizophrenia that has sales of about The generic drug makers -Zenith attached. $4 billion a year. Goldline Pharmaceuticals, owned by Lipsey, however, said discovering 
The companies challenging the Ivax Corp. of Miami; Indian drug olanzapine -the generic name for patent argue that discovery of the maker Dr. Reddy's Laboratories; and Zyprexa -was not as easy as chop­drug's molecular structure was obvi­the U.S. arm of Israel-based Teva ping ofT the attached atoms. ous and that a previous Lilly patent Pharmaceutical Industries -claim "That's not the way the chemistry covered it. The companies also claim Lilly knew about the Zyprexa com­works," Lipsey said, adding that that Lilly mislead the patent office and pound for years and included it in a .. nobody in a million years" would omitted certain test results when patent that expired in 1995. have ever started research with a applying for the patent. The generic companies claim that molecule lacking the additional atoms. 
Lilly lawyer Charles Lipsey said the by the time Lilly was ready to market When Lilly lost the Prozac patent, it active molecule in Zyprexa was not an Zyprexa, time was running out on the triggered a slide in Lilly's fortunes as obvious discovery because many drug first patent so it decided to apply for a less expensive generic versions of the companies were trying to find an anti­second one, which violates patent anti-depressant hit the market in late psychotic drug that would not give rules. 2001 and captured most of Prozac's patients the side effects of other schiz-"The patent should have never been market share. 
' ­

• • • ' I a • • a • • • • • a _, • • '"' • I ~ .. •• .. • .. I 
p

page 8 
Tuesday, January 27, 2004 





Remembering Martin Luther King 


The legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. means a great deal to me. Even as a child, I can remember celebrating his birthday, reading his speeches and learning about his life. While we contin­ue to celebrate him yearly, I feel that 
Kamarla Porter 
our nation has for­gotten his true mes­sage. 
Breaking the 

As a true global 
Habit

citizen, Dr. King's vision for social change encom­passed many facets of human existence. 
For civil rights, Dr. King wanted African-Americans to have true citizen­ship -with the full dignity to partici­pate equally in every aspect of society. Hatred for blacks poisoned American life across the board. The segregation Dr. King saw touched issues of housing, education, administration of justice, employment and health. 
Dr. King saw poverty not as an unfor­tunate social condition, but a violation of a person's human rights. He recog­nized systemic causes in the plight of the poor and planned to use the tools of nonviolent protest to demand income redistribution and societal restructur­ing. 
Dr. King objected and spoke against the United States' campaign in Vietnam. Dr. King declared U.S. military action exacerbated poverty domestically and joined the fight of Memphis sanitation workers. On strike due to poor working conditions, low wages and disrespect stemming from intense racism, 1,300 African-American sanitation workers 
mobilized wearing signs proclaiming "I 
Am a Man." Dr. King saw this labor 
struggle in 1968 tied with the new 
direction he wanted to take the Civil 
Rights Movement. Using the tools of 
collective action and non-violent resist­
ance, King wanted to start a mass 
action to end poverty for all Americans. 
In March 1968, King declared to Memphis workers and sympathizers, "It is a crime for people to live in this rich nation and receive starvation wages." A month later, King returned to Memphis to lead a march and delivered his famous and prophetic speech "I've Been to the 
Mountaintop." The next We must safegaurd stantial part of day, April 4, 1968 his great me cries out for a
affirmative action to 

light and moral witness change in our
equalize opportunities of

was extinguished by an community. We assassin's bullet. minorties in light of must engage in 
Today we find ourselves more open dis­
income and structural 

in an era of domestic and cussion of issues 
inequalities.

international injustice. that matter. 
abroad. In 1967, he King preached love -a by imposing cold test described the standards, but by fund­
tremendous and uplifting
actions of American ing in-school profession­
force for social 

soldiers in Vietnam al development for as a struggle "on the transformation. teachers, repairing 
Using Dr. King's legacy, I see many ways we can turn this tide. 
We must safeguard affirmative action to equalize opportunities of minorities in light of income and structural inequities that persist. Additionally, we 
should make education a national priority, not 

side of the wealthy and secure" that created "a hell for the poor." 
As a religious person, Martin Luther King saw his social action tied to the Christian mission. As a religious leader, he used stirring sermons to motivate and teach others. He also expressed his faith by being ultimately concerned with the living conditions of all God's people. King preached love-a tremendous and uplifting force for social transformation. 
To the labor movement, Dr. King 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
schools, providing chil­

dren with better books and giving great educators money to invest in the classroom and their own well-being. 
We must end U.S. military imperialist actions abroad and work with other nations to find a better way to combat violence. Instead of being, as Dr. King said, "strange liberators," the United States needs to contemplate the roots of anti-American sentiment and readjust our national goals. 
As Christians, we must embrace the unsettling challenge of the crucifixion and go beyond orthodoxy and prayer to be active citizens working against vio­lence, hate and economic inequity. 
President George W. Bush's reign of fear, militarism, exclusionary national­ism and privilege for the ruling class must end this year. 
We need to remember the American legacy of oppression of African­Americans and stop the same assaults on human dignity that are used against homosexuals. All people, no matter their sexual orientation, must not be discriminated against in any element of life-employment, expression and build­ing a family. 
Finally, at Notre Dame, something has to be done. There is a place in me that 
likes it here, yet a 
larger, more sub­
. Students need to move beyond service and open their privileged eyes to see the many ways their consumer-driven existence makes people around the world poor. We must acknowledge the dignity of our campus workers with a just wage and a voice in their workplace. 
Dr. King once said, "If a man hasn't discovered something that he will die for, he isn't fit to live." I agree that such a creed is the only way to exist fully. Dr. King showed us the way to make our lives extraordinary by speaking truth to power and living with love saturated in words and deeds. Now, more than ever; we need to follow his example. 
Kamaria Porter is a sophomore histo­ry major and wants to thank her family and friends for a great 20th birthday. Her column appears every other Tuesday. Contact her at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The ultimate measure ofa man is not 

Should Saint Mary's continue to host the 
where he stands in moments ofcomfort

Keenan Review? 
and convenience. but where he stands at times ofchallenge and controversy., 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
Martin Luther King, Jr.

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
activist 



A serving of British tidbits 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Defending Dean 
Mike Marchand's Jan. 26 column seems intent on promulgating Republican talking points and media spin about his Iowa speech. Contrary to his assertions, Howard Dean has climbed upwards in some New Hampshire polls, and seems to be staging somewhat of a "comeback." 
I was in that audience Monday night. I had spent the whole weekend working extraordinarily hard for a candidate for whom I have tremendous respect. I cannot understand this huge fuss about "the scream." 
Howard Dean is a man, an ordinary human, who was an excellent governor and will be an excellent president. At his speech last Monday night, he was "giving every­thing to the people who gave everything for me." He had an outburst of emotion, fed off of an extremely loud. energetic crowd. Why do we see this as wrong? AI Gore was criti­cized as "too boring." Now we have a can­didate, passionate and hungry for change and justice for ordinary Americans, and pundits are calling for his head. 
Was his speech "presidential?" No, and even he admits that. But why did it have to be? What is "presidential" anyway? If "presidential" is balancing 11 budgets in a row, providing health care for 99 percent of children and 96 percent of adults, reducing child abuse by 50 percent and child sexual abuse by 75 percent and bolstering Vermont's economy, then Howard Dean is certainly presidential. 

Contrary to the media spin, Dean's speech Monday night was not angry or maniacal. He was smiling and laughing-and so was everyone else in the room. This "Dean is angry" meme is a farce. Are there reasons for him to be angry? Certainly! A crippling deficit, 511 U.S. soldiers dead and over 10,000 wounded and evacuated and the worst environmental record in history are plenty to be angry about. Dean's opposition to Iraq attracted me and many others to his campaign, but the hope and promise that he offers, and delivered to Vermont, is what kept us. 
Many of us who went to Iowa from Michiana have hope in Dean's candidacy. There is Kelly, who admires his education policies, as well as his principles and com­mitment to "giving America back to Americans." Then there is Brian, who sup­ports Dean because he "wants to live in a country that is revered for our leadership, not reviled for our aggression." There is Kathy, whose son is a Marine who will be returning to Iraq, who knows that Dean will not cut the defense budget because the troops are not being supplied well enough -her son was equipped with an M-16 with no sight on it and a Kevlar vest without bul­letproof plates. There are five people I have met from Tokyo, and one from Palestine, and lots from Texas and California -all driven by hope that the country can be bet­ter. 
On Monday night, I stood with my fellow Americans and waved our flag. I even start­ed up a chant, shouting, "USA! USA!" I have never done either of these things before and in fact had been somewhat repulsed by this behavior for most of my life. Monday night was the first time in my life that I realized the flag stood for us. The flag stood for the power to make this country a great place for everyone and not just for rich peo­ple. Howard Dean has given me hope for America, hope that our country will recog­nize and help ordinary, hard-working Americans instead of giant corporations, hope that our nation can be a beacon of hope for the world instead of a bombing campaign. 
Please join us at our first meeting of Domers for Dean, Thursday at 7:30 in Lafortune 
Alii deJong freshman Brec:n-Phillips Hall Jan. 26 


Why we can't wait for affirmative action 
Affirmative action would not be necessary if race was no longer a factor in everyday life. Greg Parnell, in his Jan. 26 column, seems to for­get that race is just one factor in deciding admissions; it is not the only factor. If you want a completely "fair" system, then all forms of identity should be taken out of the admis­sions· process. 
If we should not use race as one of many factors then we should not use athleticism, legacy status or geo­graphic location. Let college and graduate admissions be a straight numbers game. The applications could consist of four things: Social Security number, SAT score, GPA and an essay on Thomas Jefferson. If you want a completely fair system, the application should consist of 3 things: Social Security number, GPA and an essay on Jefferson since it is possible to basically buy a higher SAT score. 
Maybe I am just over cynical because I saw first hand how SAT scores and college admission can be "bought" for the right price. My high school put its $20,000 tuition to good use by hiring three college advisors to council 54 girls. The SAT was a complete and utter joke as girls used Kaplan, Princeton Review and pri­vate tutors to study their way from low 1000s to 1400-lSOOs. My best friend's parents shelled out almost $8,000 on SAT prep courses to help raise their daughter's score from a 970 to 1420. She now attends her daddy's alma mater -Princeton. 
Now, I know that these experiences are not the norm but they do exist on a fairly large scale. Where is the out­rage? Spending thousands on SAT prep classes is out of the question for most blacks since the average black family income is $31,778 and 26.1 percent of all blacks live in poverty while white families are earning an average of $51,244. 
For Mr. Parnell to use Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. against affirmative action is a distortion of all Dr. King stands for. While it is true that Dr. King wanted people to be judged by merit not by the color of their skin, this is not a reality in American soci­ety today. Dr. King had the ability to recognize that "A society that has done something special against the Negro for hundreds of years must now do something special for the Negro." 
In his speech "Why We Can't Wait," Dr. King also stated "Whenever the issue of compensatory treatment for the Negro is raised, some of our friends recoil in horror. The Negro should be granted equality, they agree; but he should ask nothing more. On the surface, this appears reasonable, but it is not realistic." 
Maybe if Mr. Parnell was more familiar with Dr. King's work and speeches he would know that in 1965 a reporter asked Dr. King if he "feels it is fair to request a multi-bil­lion dollar program of preferential treatment for the Negro or any other minority" Dr. King replied, "I do indeed." 
Andrea de Vries sen1or Cavanaugh Hall Jan. 26 
Your friendly Notre Dame columnist is . here again to serve up a few morsels of British life, and since it's British, do not blame me if its indigestible. I have a whole list of stories to relate, all of them totally unrelated, so feast away. 
Geoff Johnston 
The Oxford­Cambridge ski trip was a blast. We 
A Domer at
skied at the glacier {which British pro­Oxford nounce glay-sEEr) resort of Kaprun, in the Austrir,m Alps. The buildings and houses were straight out of "The Sound of Music" (wooden base with white­washed top, reminiscent of some hearty mountain mushroom), the Austrians spoke excellent English (even the cashiers), and when I ordered a "root beer," I g(,lt a huge stein of German lager instead. 
Oh, and the food ... well at least in comparison to British cuisine (if that is not an oxymoron ... ) there is no com­parison. A local tobacco-pipe themed restaurant served us the Austrian National Dish, groestl. consisting of spicy ham, potatoes and a soft boiled egg gar­nishing the top. We also patronized what I affectionately term the "Meat Palace" or "Vegan's Hell," at which raw plates of meat are served, followed by a spiked, sizzling iron column, upon which said raw meat is skewered, sizzled and then devoured by tired ski racers. 
As a consequence of this trip, and a few well-placed calls, I have finally start­ed to meet a few honest-to-goodness British students. if you have heard from your friends who went to London about Europe's existence as a political unit is a how hard it is to meet British students, fiction; Europe's member states do not then you know the magnitude of the owe any real allegiance to one another. accomplishment. I have noticed a few Now, I knew that the Middle East, interesting facts, some of which I will though referred to as one unit, possesses relate: I have finally, after much no real. political existence, but I searching, met a student who had never considered 

conversation. Also, I played a few games of Texas hold-em Europe/Middle with a kid who East analogy has played with holds, but the world­there is some famous Phil truth to it, Helmuth, who and it is cer­apparently tainly some­attends the thing for Oxford poker Americans tournaments to think for relaxation. about when 
Similarly, I viewing have also met Europe as a a fair number political of British pro­unity. fessors, with Heard the whom I had a Dean scream conversation about, yet? Apparently among other things, the Mars missions, robots mining asteroids 
and the Anglican Church. I was struck by a few of their remarks. 
While we were discussing the impact of the EU on Europe's future, one profes­sor suddenly declared that Europe does not exist. He explained that there is a common fallacy, especially among Americans, that Europe operates as a unified community. According to him, and professors I know are 
interested in American politics -America is everywhere, from news, to burgers in the Dining Hall, to the Simpsons and Seinfeld quotes which pepper conversation. Not too many peo­ple here like Bush, and some are dis­turbed by his religious references. I myself do not appreciate religious views being proffered as justifications for polit­ical action; I can appreciate moral rea­sons, and the two are not identical. But Oxford is getting its fill of America: there are so many Americans running around here it's not funny. Just today three Americans joined the New College soccer team, and I met three new arrivals in the Dining Hall. To be perfectly blunt, Americans are desired because of Oxford's economic situation (the top-up fees debate is at a fever pitch): Oxford needs cash, and Americans can afford to pay. 
As a last comment, I would like to con­gratulate Oxford on its pro-nerd envi­ronment. As a nerd, I appreciate the fact that students here embrace anyone, including nerds, whether they have thick-rimmed glasses, constantly talk about Ovid, or view physics as an inter­esting discussion topic. (Have you heard the one about the proton who sat down at the bar? Bartender: Why so glum? Proton: Well ... I've lost an electron. Bartender: Are you sure? Proton: I'm positive.) 
As an indicator of the general level of nerdiness, note that that at a recent bop, someone remarked that I'm a good dancer -'nuff said. 
Geoff Johnston is a junior currently studying at Oxford University and he wishes to remind all of his readers to beware ofTabs (Cambridge students), Marmite (a salty, bitter British food­additive), and Magdalene College's white deer. 
The views exressed in this column are those tof the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 


,. 
page 10 Tuesday, January 27, 2004 

il'\ 
I 
I 

By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 
The St. Edward's Hall Players shot high when they decided to take on "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest." 
Thanks to the hard work of one of the biggest casts and crews in St. Ed's history, the play has turned into a big success. The St Ed's Players have always been one of the smaller acting groups on cam­pus, but with a budget of $2300 and no faculty help the group has managed to pull togeth­er a striking student­run full stage produc­tion. 
The play brings together some of the most experienced actors on campus, along with some new recruits, in one of the most popular stories in modern American liter­ature. 
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" is a 60s novel in every sense of the word. Published in 1962. the novel depicts the heroic struggle of mental institution inmate Randle Patrick McMurphy against the oppressive Nurse Hatched, an authoritarian asy­lum worker with little regard for her patients. Anyone with an itch against authority can find the original damn-the­man hero in the courageously bawdy McMurphy. 

McMurphy first enters the asylum on dubious grounds. His file shows a long record of drunkenness, assault, disturb­ing the peace, and rape ­statutory rape of a 15-year-old girl who "said she was 18, and plenty o' willin.'" McMurphy is saner than any patient, nurse or doctor in the ward, and only gets himself admitted to avoid the manual labor planned as punishment for his raucous good times. 
At least, he is sane until he enters the treatment ward. Once inside, holding on to any form on sanity is a minute by minute struggle. McMurphy's carefree rebelliousness is exactly the thing that could decimate Hatched's tyranny. The ward quickly becomes a battlefield ·of wills as McMurphy seeks to free the patients from under Hatched's well-manicured thumb. 
Ken Kesey's novel was an immediate success after its publication. Kesey based his 
descriptions of the ward 
on his own experiences. 
Kesey worked in a men­
tal institution during 
the late 1950s, where 
he talked to many of the 
patients and developed 
a strong dislike for the 
institutional system. 
"One Flew Over the 
Cuckoo's Nest" became 
even more famous with 
Milos Forman's 1975 
screen adaptation. The 


film was wildly popular, win­ning five acad­emy awards. Despite the movie's popu­larity and Jack Nicholson's indelible asso­ciation with the role of McMurphy, many Kesey fans have said the movie lost the most important aspects of the book. 
The stage adaptation bv D a I e Wasserman is said to retain 

"ONE FLEW OVER THI 
January c 
7:30 p 
Washingtc Tickets: $7 Genero 
Director: Ad Stage Manager:. ~ 
Starring: David Buckley, Lena Caligturi Dolack, Mike Federico, Ryan Greene, K McElligott, T.J. McNally, Lauren Messint Sandrock, Mark Scheibmeir, Dan Sportiellt Jason W 
THE 
OBSERVER 


Tuesday, January 27, 2004 page 11 

~tful interpretation ofKen Kesey smasterpiece 
the show I read the play about 30 times," Hanash said. "It has everything I was looking for." 
"Now you see a lot of stylized scripts, but this play is straightforward, with stylistic points. It gave me room to play around." 
Although the story is already famous, Hanash wanted to interpret the script his own way. 
'Til see the movie after the production, but I refused to see it before. I didn't want it to affect how the show came out." 
Hanash has played Othello, Tartuffe, Laertes and many other characters during his time on campus, but the play is his first swing at directing. Directing the large cast has proved to be particularly diffi­cult. A cast of 15 or 20 actors can easily dwarf the Washington hall stage. Making the action look natural required careful blocking. 
Hanash relied greatly on his experienced cast and crew to bring the show together. 
"Everyone put in so much," Hanash said. "I called in every favor I had to get it done." 
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" is an exciting play, but it is also dark and difficult to perform. The veteran actors playing the lead roles in the show worked hard to pull the story together. 
Seniors Tom Conner and Justin Williams have built up the chem­istry needed to play McMurphy and narra­tor Chief Bromden through four years of acting together at Notre Darrie. The two got their start together in "Love's Fire" their freshman year, and 
have  worked  
fE CUCKOO Is NEST"  with other plays.  each in six  
28-31  "The con­nection we've  
PM  built  makes  
ton Hall  the develop­ment and the  
"al, $5 Students  ending much  that more  
real  to  me,  
ldel Hanash  said Williams.  
Mary Aimonovitch  Senior Katy Certez, a the­ 
atre  and  
1ri, Tom Conner, T.J. D' Agostino, Kate  English double major, has  
Katy Kertez, Mike Macaluso, Drew  found her role  
ina, Megan Olive, Layne Pantea, Chris  as Nurse Hatched to be  


other roles she has 
played. 
"Hatched is a tough nut to crack," Certez said. "It's hard to find her humanity and still keep her to what the show needs, which is a villain." 
As the group prepared for their rehearsal Monday night, lighting and set technicians were hard at work. The group moved into Washington Hall only a few days before opening night, and the crew continues to work hard to perfect sound and lighting affects. 
But when the show opens Wednesday night, it promises to be an exciting event for the St. Ed's Players and a tri­umphant debut for Hanas h. 
"We have some big shoes to fill following the footsteps of such a famous movie," Certez said. "[Hanash] really went above and beyond." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


llo, Patrick Vassel, Justin Williams, nnd 
a new chal­Published In 1962, Ken Kesey's novel "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" pits the rebellious Randle Nise. 
lenge com­Patrick McMurphy against his nemesis, Nurse Ratched. A mental institution is the setting of the pa.,red to the battle between McMurphy's rowdy freedom and Hatched's oppressive attempts to subdue him. 
Tuesday, January 27, 2004 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

New Jersey coach Scott fired by team president 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFDRD, N.J. ­
Two trips to the finals, a first­
place perch in the Atlantic 
Division and a recent coach of 
the month award weren't 
enough to save Byron Scott's "job. 
The coach of the New Jersey 
Nets was fired Monday by team 
president Rod Thorn, who was 
unhappy with the team's per­
formance over the first half of 
the season. The two-time 
defending Eastern Conference 
champions are 22-20 after los­
ing five of six games. 
Scott was replaced by 
Lawrence Frank, a 33-year-old 
assistant whose promotion to 
the head-coaching job comes 
with an "interim" label for the 
rest of this season -though 
Thorn made it clear that Frank 
will keep the job if the team 
performs well. 
"Sometimes change or a dif-· 
ferent voice is good, and in this 
case with coach Frank we all 
feel confident," Nets guard 
Jason Kidd said. 
The coaching change did not 
come as a surprise to the Nets 
given the team's recent per­
formance and Scott's lame-duck 
status. With the team up for 
sale, management refused to 
offer Scott an extension last 

summer after the Nets lost 4-2 to San Antonio in the NBA Finals. 
Scott's standing in the locker room was weakened in mid­December when Kidd screamed at him during a heated postgame team meeting follow­ing a 4 7 -point loss to the Memphis Grizzlies. 
After that clash, Scott led the Nets to five victories in their next six games, temporarily saving his job and helping him earn coach of the month hon­ors. But the Nets began sliding again this month, the low point coming Friday in an 85-64 loss to Miami -a defeat that con­vinced Thorn he needed to make a change. 
"I felt it would turn itself around, and for a while it did. But it became evident to me that it wasn't going to turn around," Thorn said. "We have not played to the level we antic­ipated playing." 
Scott holds the franchise record with 149 coaching victo­ries. After a 25-56 record in his first season, the Nets went 52­30 in 2001-02 and 49-3 3 in 2002-03 before losing in the NBA Finals both seasons. 
Scott received the news Monday morning in a meeting with Thorn, who then told the team of the change. 
Kidd said he didn't know a change was imminent, although a front-office source, speaking on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press that Kidd spoke with management Saturday about the team's coaching situation. 
"I had nothing to do with this," Kidd said. "Coaching changes happen all the time. I'm a player here, I'm an employee. I have no control over who's the coach or what trades are made." 
Thorn said the team's season­long inconsistency and lack of focus convinced him that a new leadership voice was needed in the locker room. 
He said the change was not related to the sale of the team for $300 million last Friday to developer Bruce Ratner, who plans to move the franchise to Brooklyn. 
Thorn considered other can­didates from inside and outside the organization but settled on Frank because of his familiarity with the Nets' complicated offense and his rapport with the players. 
"Lawrence is a lot like Jeff Van Gundy, who I think is one of the best coaches in pro basket­ball," Thorn said. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Louisville coach Pitino taking medical leave of absence 
Associated Press  "It's gotten to the point where  few weeks.  
it's gotten a little too painful to  "I know he's been struggling.  
LOUISVILLE, Ky.  - Louisville  lead  the  type  of  coaching  Last night it probably came to a  
coach Rick Pitino is taking an  lifestyle I lead," Pitino said.  head," Jurich said. "He wants  
indefinite leave of absence to  "We'll take it from there."  to get this addressed."  
seek treatment for an undeter­ Louisville (15-1) is ranked  Assistant Kevin Willard, who  
mined medical condition that  fourth in this week's AP Top 25  last week pleaded guilty to driv­ 
left him in agony.  ~  and has  won  15 consecutive  ing under the influence of alco­ 
"I have been in excruciating  games.  The  Cardinals  host  hol, will coach the team in  
pain the last three or four games," Pitino said Monday. "It's getting worse day by day."  Houston on Wednesday night. Pitino said he did not know how many games he would  Pitino's absence. As a condition of his plea, Willard, the son of Holy Cross coach Ralph Willard,  
Pitino, 51, said the pain in his  miss.  must undergo alcohol counsel­ 
left side was "urological relat­ed," and that he had been deal­ "It could be a couple of days, it could be a couple of weeks,"  ing. Pitino sajd he disciplined  
ing with it for  four  to  five  he said.  Willard internally after his  
months. He said doctors have  The Cardinals beat Tennessee  arrest. He had no reservations  
ruled out prostate cancer, but  65-62  Sunday night.  When  about turning the team over to  
they have yet to determine what is causing Pitino pain. Pitino said he first noticed the  Pitino arrived home early Monday morning, the discom­fort was unbearable.  Willard, who also worked as Pitino 's assistant with the Boston Celtics.  
pain during a golf outing last  "I was doubled over in pain,"  "My confidence level in him is  
summer. He said doctors first  Pitino said.  ofT the charts," Pitino said.  
CHRIS LIVINGSTONIIcon SMI treated it as a muscle tear, but  Louisville athletics director  Pitino met with his players  
Louisville coach Rick Pltlno, who will soon be taking a leave of when it didn't heal, they began  Tom Jurich said Pitino told him  before practice on Monday to  
absence, watches his team win over South Florida on Jan. 10. looking for another cause.  about the pain during the past  discuss the situation.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 dassified.s must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FoR RENT  LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION­ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF NO IDEAL FOR 3-7 STUDENTS  
B&B for JPW/grad/football for up to 12 people, 112 mile to NO, email domercondo @yahoo.com  2773097 New luxurious 3-4 bdrm 3 bath, 2·  

I will not be between the pipes  
PERSONAL  We'll see how serious this is  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  They need to become men Thanks Paul, made my night:-) I love you Lisa Chuck and Chuck ...they'll build you a table  


FREE MONEY  
WANTED  Between the Buns restaurant is  
offering clubs and organizations the  
Avon/Mark 50/40% Earnings Call  opportunity to earn free money  
Karen 1-868·780-28661ndependent  
Sales Rep.  Hold a "Kickback" at the "Buns" and  
receive a 15% donation from what  
Babysitter wanted. 2 kids. Tue &  is spent that evening.  
Thurs 1-4 pm. Call Susan. 271·  
9634  Call Phil for more details. 247-9293  
Large 1 Bedroom Condo 10 min  
NOTICES  from Univ. All App. Pool Low taxes  
less than rent  
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES!  
Search 24 bookstores with 1 click!  
S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com  574-299-4997  

• • • • • • • • .. • • • 
-------------------------· ••••••••••• 41 • • ·--------------~--~·• • • • • • • • f 
6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON MO.,FURN. 272-6306 
4 bedroom house. AC, garage, 
great location, ample space, nego­
liable rent. 

Contact Mike 216-408-0780 or Matt 216-408-4744 if interested 
• ' . ... 
car garage, fireplace, sky lights, close to campus 
$1640 monthly, 

call 57 4-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO 
CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM 
mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
'1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, by the way, having your own No Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas & Limit Table in your room is one of Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, the coolest things in the world Best Prices! Book Now! 800·234­7007 it's all about doing the wrong thing endlesssummertours. com at the right time 

.. .. . .. . .. .. ... . . .. . . . ­

Tuesday, January 27, 2004 page 13
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Abercrombie & Fitch Accenture ACNielsen BASES adidas America Advocate Health Care Allstate Insurance Company Amate House American Enterprise Institute*
~ 
American Legislative Exchange Council AOL Time Warner Book Group* Aon 
~ 
Associated Press Augustinian Volunteer Program
0 
c. 
Bank One Corporation CDW 
E 
Center for Social Concerns, Notre Dame Central Intelligence Agency 
Chicago Apartment Finders Chicago Consulting Actuaries 
Cll 
CIEE Cisco Systems* College Football Hall of Fame Council on Foreign Relations* Cultural Service of the 
French Embassy Deloitte & Touche Dominican Sisters of Springfield, 
ll Donald C. Cook Nuclear 
Plant/ American Electric Power Easter Seals Wisconsin Camps EchoStar Communications EDS Elkhart EnviroCorps/AmeriCorps Enterprise Rent-A-Car Erf)st & Young FPL Group General Electric Gilbane Building Company Goodwill Industries of Michiana H-E-B Grocery Company Hewlett-Packard Hill/Holliday Holy Cross Associates Honeywell IBM IES: Institute for the 
International Education for Students* lndalex Indiana Dept. ofTransportation Indiana Legal Services Indiana State Personnel Department lnstitut National de Ia Recherche Agronomique* Interlochen Arts Camp John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts 
Kellogg Institute for International Studies, Notre Dame 
KPMG 

leica Geosystems little Brothers -Friends of 
the Elderly Liz Claiborne lockheed Martin Madison Center, Inc. Marathon Ashland Petroleum McGiadrey &Pullen Mercer Human Resource 
Consulting Mercy Home For Boys and Girls Motorola MPI Research MTV Networks National Cancer Institute* National City Corporation NAVAIR Newell Rubbermaid Northern Indiana Center for 
History Northrop Grumman Northwestern Mutual Financial 
Network-Hoopis Financial Nova Group of Japan NVIDIA* Office of Human Resources, 
Notre Dame Office of the Corporation 
Counsel Organon Pharmaceuticals Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical Peace Corps Pfizer Press Ganey PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Radio Flyer* RFBinder Partners* Ruder Finn SBC Communications Schlumberger Technology Corp. score Smithsonian Institution National 
Museum of American History Social Security Administration Southold Dance Theater* Southwestern Diabetic 
Foundation/ Camp Sweeney Stockman Kast Ryan Stryker Instruments Studebaker National Museum* Talbots Target Corporation Technology Services Group The Children's Museum of Indianapolis 
The Elkhart Truth 
The Gillette Company The Vanguard Group ThinkEquity Partners Thrivent Financial for Lutherans Travelers 

tuesday
january27 
1pm-3pm 

diversity reception 
•

monogram room, Joyce center 
. 4pm-8pm 

career &intemship fair 
joyce center north dome 
hockey rink side,enter gate 3 student ID required· business casual attire 

Travelers Property Casualty* US Marine Corps Officer Selection Team 
Tucker Alan US Navy
University Directories U.S. Cellular
UPS Vistakon
US Air Force Walgreens
US Army Corps of Engineers* Wesco Distribution
US Army Healthcare Recruiting Wisconsin Badger Camp 
US Dept. of Justice, Antitrust Division WNIT Television US Dept. ofTreasury, Internal WPS Resources Corporation Revenue Service 
Xerox -The Document Company 
•

recent reg1strants 
Alliance for Catholic Education, Indiana Dept. ofWorkforce Notre Dame Development/Work One Center
Anson Industries Kellogg Company*
Boehringer lngelheim Mother Caroline Academy*
City of Madison, WI Police Department NFL DaimlerChrysler Services Starcom Worldwide North America 
The Heritage Foundation* Fund for Public Interest 
VAl/National Institute for PeopleResearch ­
with Disabilities* 
*Resume drop 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME The Career Center 
every college • every major·• internships • full-time 

)) ~iii~ ;;;{ ;;::. ;; : :::;: :::~<: ~===== (\( B: f:\::~ =~~: f::'; ::;: ::;:: ::':ii ~::f 
·:::;::): :;:~:: :,:,:;:: ::=::: :=:::: :::::~ ;'::=: ::::;: :::-:::::::= ,,,~ ~~; '7 :::: :::::: :::::::::: { ::::, ~= ~:~ :;::; }'~ ,,, ;:::;: •::::=:: 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Purdue at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN Florida at Alabama 8:30p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 
Chicago at Vancouver 10 p.m., Fox Sports 
NBA 
New Jersey at Philadelphia 7 p.m., NBA TV Chicago at LA Clippers 10:30 p.m., WGN 
NFL 


shared his belief in the up with the Raiders." Redskins, going 49-59-1
Associated Press 

Raiders' mystique -and Turner, considered one with just one playoff berth 
ALAMEDA, Calif. someone who could resus­of football's top offensive from 1994-00 before beingNorv Turner hoped he citate Oakland's struggling tacticians, was the offen­fired with three games left would get a second chance offense. Davis believes he sive coordinator for two in his final campaign. He 
as an NFL head coach. He found his man during a Super Bowl winners in was widely criticized in was thrilled to get it with long weekend interview: Dallas in the early 1990s. Washington, but Turner the players in the silver­Turner was raised in near­He was the Miami still believed in himself­and-black uniforms he by Martinez, Calif., as an Dolphins' offensive coordi­and so did his many always wanted to wear. avid Raiders fan. nator the last two seasons. friends. 
Turner was hired by the "I never played for the "I belong here," said "I wanted to see if it was Oakland Raiders on Turner, whose playing real, because I got a lot of 
Raiders, but about 30 Monday. The former miles over there in career peaked as a backup recommendations," Davis 
said. "I felt if I waited (to

Redskins coach takes over Martinez, in the streets, I quarterback at Oregon. 
hire a coach), I couldn't do a team that went from the was Daryle Lamonica "When I got off the plane any better .... I just thoughtSuper Bowl to a 4-12 deba­many times," Turner said, the other night, I felt like I 

it was the right fit.

cle in one tumultuous year. recalling Oakland's famed was coming home. I feel Everything that we need at 
After firing Bill Callahan, quarterback from 1967-74. like I'm home now." this particular time, we owner Al Davis went look­"When my arm got tired, I Turner also spent nearly will rely on Norv to help us ing for a new coach who was George Blanda. I grew seven seasons with the with." 
IN BRIEF 

Boone's knee injury may league experience. Enrique Wilson Tim Thomas (2001). Michael Redd and newly signed Miguel Cairo are ('02), Ray Allen ('02) -all of the
cost him the season 
options to fill the spot, as is minor Milwaukee Bucks -and Kobe Bryant
NEW YORK -YaiJkees third base­
leaguer Drew Henson. ('03) of the Los Angeles Lakers. 
man Aaron Boone injured his left 
New York acquired Boone from Bryant holds the league record of
knee playing basketball and may be 
Cincinnati on July 31, just weeks 12 3-pointers in a game, set on Jan. 7 
out for the season, just three months 
after his first All-Star selection. last season against Seattle. 
after his hero-to-goat performance in 
The injury could create an opening McGrady went 4-for-4 from long
the postseason. 

Boone was hurt Jan. 16 and may for Henson, the former University of range in the first quarter and then hit have torn his anterior cruciate liga­Michigan quarterback who has strug­four straight in the second, burying a gled in the Yankees' farm system. 3 from the left wing over rookie
ment. He was examined three days 
later by Anaheim Angels team physi­LeBron James to give the Magic a 55­cian Lewis Yocum, and Boone McGrady ties NBA 3-point 46lead. informed the Yankees of the injury record During one stretch, he scored 17 
that night. CLEVELAND -Orlando's Tracy consecutive points for the Magic on a The extent of the damage will not McGrady tied an NBA record by mak­four-point play, three free throws, be known until swelling subsides, ing eight 3-pointers in one half consecutive 3-pointers and two 
and Boone has not yet been exam­Monday night against the Cleveland jumpers. ined by Yankees' doctors. Cavaliers. The league record for the most 3s If there is a complete tear, he McGrady didn't miss from beyond in a game without a miss is held by would require reconstructive surgery the arc until he misfired just before Latrell Sprewell, who made all nine that could sideline him until 2005. the halftime buzzer. he attempted for New York on Feb. 4, The Yankees do not have a backup McGrady tied the league record of 2003 against the Los Angeles third baseman with full-time major eight 3s in a half, a mark shared by Clippers. 
Tuesday, January 27, 2004 page 15
The Observer+ SPORTS 


... ;...,. 

Sports. Spirituality. Spig Roast. 
Back by noon. In time for Super Bowl at 6:25pm. 


Meet Your Sweetheart at Observer's· Rate a Pic 
Rate thousands of photos Browse by gender and state Send a free and anonymous message Meet your Valentine 
www.ndsmcobserver.com/rateapic 
MEN's SoccER 
Irish earn individual, team academic awards 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame men's soccer team was one of 75 teams across the country to earn the 2002-03 National Soccer Coaches Association of America (NSCAA) Team Academic Award. The Irish posted a 3.155 team grade point average for the '02-'03 school year. 
The Notre Dame men join the Irish women's program in earn­ing double honors for the University -one of 48 schools to accomplish that feat. 
In other Irish men's soccer news, senior Justin Detter and junior Chris Sawyer were named to the Soccer Times All­America team for 2003. Detter earned second-team honors, while Sawyer landed on the third team. 
A recent MLS draftee by the Kansas City Wizards, Detter played in 80 games during his 

fOOTBALL 
Jones is in All-Star Challenge 
Special to The Observer ,.. 
CHICAGO -Julius Jones will 

be one of eight players to par­
ticipate in the 2004 Capital One 
College Football All-Star 
Challenge at the Johnson Space 
Center in Houston. The 
Challenge will air on FOX, 
Sunday, Feb. 1, at 12:30 p.m. 
The Capital One All-Star Challenge will feature some of the greatest of the 2003 college football season. The star-stud­ded list includes Jones, Texas wide receiver Roy Williams, Washington wide receiver Reggie Williams, Michigan State quarterback Jeff Smoker, Tennessee quarterback Casey ·Claussen, Kentucky quarter­back Jared Lorenzen, Michigan quarterback John Navarre and Michigan running back Chris 
Perry. 
career and finished with 7 4 
career points and eight game­
winning goals. As the 2003 Big 
East Championship Most 
Outstanding Offensive Player, he 
earned first-team all-conference 
honors and led the team with 14 
goals and 33 points last season. 
Detter finished jn the top 15 · all-time in total points at Notre 
Dame and scored an NCAA­
match record five points against 
the University of Wisconsin­

..,
Milwaukee during postseason 
play last fall. He also participat­
ed and played well in the Major 
League Soccer player combine 
during the last month. 
Sawyer was the Big East 
Goalkeeper of the Year and his 
three shut outs during the Big 
East Championship landed him 
the tournament's Most 
Outstanding Defensive Player 
award. Sawyer led the Big East 
with 12 shutouts in 2003 and 
posted an impressive 0.67 
goals-against average. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Kentucky match is postponed 
Special to The Observer 
The men's tennis match between No. 49 Notre Dame and No. 10 Kentucky, origi­nally scheduled for today in the Eck Tennis Pavilion has been postponed due to unforeseen travel complica­tions encountered by the Wildcats. Notre Dame (3-1) will return to action Saturday, traveling to No. 8 Duke for a contest at noon. 
The match between the Irish and Kentucky will probably be rescheduled for some time in the month of April, though an exact date for it has not yet been announced. The teams have met in each of the last 11 seasons, and the Irish hold a 12-10-1 l<dvantage in the all-time series. 

Halaga: AOur'an Discussion and Conversation Circle Every other Tuesdays starting Tuesday, January 27, 7-8:30 pm Meditation Room, 102 Coleman-Morse Center 
Introduction on the basics: 
What is the Qur'an? How was it put together? 
How is it read by Muslims all over the world? 
How is it similar to and different from the Judaeo-Christian scriptures? And..•.••. 
How does aMuslim go about extracting information from the Qur'an and applying it to hisJife? 
Presented by the ND Muslim Students Association and Campus Ministry. 
Ct'1 
Umpus Mlnostr'f 


Tuesday, January 27, 2004 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
CLUB SPORTS 

Gymnastics team takes fourth in Clover Classic 
Blue and Gold Classic draws seven of nation's top ten bowling teams to South Bend's Beacon Bowl 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's gymnastics club played host to twelve strong teams this weekend at 
.Gymnastics Michiana in the annual Clover Classic. The defending national champion women's squad placed fourth in a tightly contested meet. Miami of Ohio took first, with Purdue and Penn State sec­ond and third by less than one point, and the Irish fourth by less than two points. 
Mary Blazewicz placed first for the Irish on the vault, eighth on balance beam and eighth all-around. Caitlin O'Brien placed 10th on bal­ance beam and ninth on the floor exercise. Wendy Syetanoff, Krissy Jackson, Susan Jennings, Kelly Pirozzi, Maura Steed, Maurie Donnelly, Lucianna Ravasio, Liz Maher, Kim Turnipseed, Kristi Peterson and Cecelia Torres all contributed to the Irish scoring. 
The men's competition was won by Illinois, with Purdue and Eastern Michigan follow­ing. Ross Strambu, Dana Collins, Aaron Roberts, Todd Moffat and Eric Eddy all 

I~ earned points for the Irish men's squad. The next competition will be Feb. 7 at Miami of Ohio. Bowling Seven of the nation's top ten teams converged on Beacon Bowl this weekend and were joined by 37 strong teams in the seventh annual Blue and Gold Classic. No. 3 Wichita State claimed top honors, with No. 2 Vincennes and No. 6 Kansas right behind. Chris Dilley of Kansas posted the top average, 214, as only seven bowlers were able to average over 200 on very dif­ficult lanes. Top-ranked and tournament favorite Saginaw· Valley finished sixth. The field included teams from Arizona State, Nebraska, Texas A&M, most of the Big Ten and many other top schools. The Notre Dame men's squad finished a very respectable 29th in the event. Highlighting the tournament for the squad was a team high game of 953 to defeat No. 7 Morehead State, which rolled an 844. Steve DePoy of Holy Cross and captain Jason Raver led the Irish, finishing 38th and 41st among 238 bowlers. DePoy's nine game average was 186.3, while Raver's 186 average for the nine games included a 687 series with games of 223, 217 and 24 7. Jim Talamo, had a 157 average, Dan Martin, 153 average and Van Koppersmith, 177 average completed the Blue squad for the Irish. The men's Gold squad placed 36th in the tourna­ment. Vance McClenton rolled a 153 average to lead the squad. Matt LaCroix and Joe Schuster each averaged 142, 
J.B. Bertrum, 137 and Gabe Torres, 109, ccmpleted the team scoring. McClenton and Schuster each broke 200 for the squad. 
The women's field was a strong 22 teams, and saw No. 3 Wichita, led by Anita Manns who took top honors with a 

211 average, upset No. 1Morehead State to win the event. 
Now in its second year, the Irish women's squad made its first appearance in the Classic and placed 21st among 22 teams. In all six competitions, the youthful squad totaled more than 600 pins. Saint Mary's Kim Lavigne paced the team with a 148 average, good for 68th place, and was followed by Danielle LaFramboise with a 129 aver­age. Jacqueline Pimentel­Gannon, with a 121 average, returned from studying abroad to roll a 160 in her first day back on the lanes. Katie Hunt, earned a high game of 173 and Mary Bocik, who rolled a 149 game in her first collegiate tournament, completed the team scoring. In their final game, the Irish posted a team score of 761, 
good enough to beat several 
experienced  teams in the  
round.  
Women's Ice Hockey  
Although  losing  11-3  

Saturday and 3-1 Sunday to defending NCAA national club champion Michigan State this weekend, the women's hockey club had reason to hold their heads high. A bruised and shorthanded Irish squad stood up to the Spartans and played hard for sixty minutes in both games. 
Saturday's loss marked only the third time Michigan State has given up three goals this season. The other two oppo­nents were Sacred Heart, an NCAA Division I power and highly regarded Rhode Island. Annemarie Kennedy scored the Irish's first two goals, assisted by Tori Blainey and Julia LaPointe, and again by LaPointe on the second goal. 
LaPointe scored the final goal 
for the squad. 
The Irish displayed charac­ter and resilience in a great game on Sunday. The Spartans were held scoreless until 8:38 of the second peri­od as Becca Frigy played an amazing game in net for the Irish. Michigan State scored again with 25 seconds remaining in the period. In the third period, Julia LaPointe scored unassisted at 10:01, but a late goal assured the Spartans the victory. Highlighting the Irish game was the penalty killing squad, which held the Spartans -scoreless through five penalty advantages. 
Skiing 
A long trek to Searchmont, · Canada proved to be just what the Notre Dame ski club needed as the women's squad avenged last week's second place showing and defeated Michigan State and the rest of the conference in winning both the slalom and giant slalom events. Leigh Hellrung finished first in each event for the Irish to lead the club. In the giant slalom, Hellrung was followed by teammates Alana Lungren, third; Molly Butler, seventh; Rita Morgan, ninth; Danielle Clements, 21st and Leslie Schmidt, 31st. 

The men's squad posted its best finish in many years, claiming second overall behind Western Michigan, and ahead of Grand Valley State, Michigan, Michigan State and Northwestern in that order. In the giant slalom, Jason Luecht finished sixth; Mike Ryan, sev­enth; Leif Petersen, 13th; Joe Payne, 20th and Bill Liemkuehler 37th as everyone on the deep squad performed well. 

page 17 
Tuesday, January 27, 2004 

The Observer • SPORTS 

Is it possible to find truth in pop culture? 
.t l e . .<<====ib}.,.,.;~==;i-W·. ·. . . ·. O.ai gends onW edneS· · 

Doors open at q:3o~ Speaker hegins circa Io:I)i' {'J Bt'"·04gh:t. t(• j'(~~ hy G~lmp«.f i~thd~n·y ~/f:1j~risif. \lS ('=H dh~ v;,r(·tH hnpt,/.,/\...~unp~sn:d.nist:tJl·nd~t·Ju _....-·-z;~~~1{f~· 

MCNAIR SCHOLARS SUMMER PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME 
ANNOUNCES THE 2003 -2004 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. DON POPE-DAVIS 
AND MS~...MARY NICHOLS (1-7514) 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2004 
7:00 -8:00 PM 
(Hors d'oeuvres will be served) 
IN ROOM 119 O'SHAUGHNESSY.. 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUAT~ STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
OR 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans 
(visit the program at http:://www.nd.edu/-mcnair/) ~,· 

. . . . . 
........ .................... ___ ............ .. 
Fencing 
continued from page 20 
locked with Columbia at 13 apiece, they looked to one of their many newcomers to keep their winning streak alive. The Irish were in an identical position in December's dual match against Penn State. It took the guile of freshman epeeist Aaron Adjemian to save the Irish in a winner-take-all final match. This time the team's fate again lay in the hands of another freshman ­sabre Patrick Ghattas. After he quickly fell behind 3-0, Ghattas was not to be denied, scoring five unanswered points and securing a Notre Dame victory. 
In the next match, neither team faced much of a chal­lenge from New York University. The men cruised to an 18-9 win while the women breezed to a 24-3 romp. 
Unfortunately for the men, the luck of the Irish finally wore out. The freshmen could not conjure up enough magical heroics to bail Notre Dame out against the Red Storm who handily defeated the Irish by an 18-9 score. The 90-match winning streak, which started during the 2000 season, was the longest since 1984-88 when the Irish posted 98 consecu­tive victories. The school record is 122 straight wins, --­set from 1975-80. 
Freshman epeeist Amy Orlando who finished a per­fect 13-0 headed the individ­ual performances of the day. Junior foilists Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament only suf­fered one los~ apitce finish­ing 13-1 and 11-1 respective­ly. 
Ghattas, who secured the decisive victory against Columbia, performed well all day, ending with an 11-1 mark. He '.-Vas followed close­ly by junior epeeist Michal Sobieraj (14-1) and by cap­tain and foilist Forest Walton (13-2). 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 

. . . . . . 
··Learn theCha CbaTonight! 
No.PartnerorExperience Needed. Lesson-Tuesday 7:30-~:45pm 301Rockne 
AdvancedClass·East CoastSwing ~:4)-10:00 Sponsoredbyth~ ND/SMC BallroomDance Club 


S!z~Ie'ne (Sintelin~ ­OnTuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! Asizzling skillet oftender chicken. savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;}·tene (Bellini)­
Afrosty, peach Italian work ofart for $1! 
Tiiz-<IEz (Tuesdays)­
Visit us EVERYTuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 

""" . .. . . . ... .. ... .. . ...... "' . ...... 

Tuesday, January 27, 2004 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles face tough game against Albion 

By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
Despite performing better as 
of late, the Belles will have 


·their hands full tonight when they visit Albion, a team that has been very tough to beat all year. 
Giving up a MIAA low 54.8 average points per game Albion's defense has been th~ story for its success all sea­son. The Belles will need to continue their recent clean play to escape with a victory in this tough league match­up. 


The first time these two teams played this season Albion (14-4) came out victo~ rious in a 51-40 victory. The Belles (5-12) were held to 31 percent from the field and committed 2 3 turnovers. Albion's offense failed to look much better, shooting just 32 percent and eight percent from behind the arc. If the Belles are to be victorious tonight, they will need to limit 
.' Albion to a similar offensive display while playing much better on their own offensive 
. ' i end. 
Katie Miller led Saint Mary's the_ last. time they faced AlbiOn, with 13 points on 5-of­13 shooting, and 3-of-7 from 3-point range. Emily Creachbaum added 11 points and 8 rebounds in the Dec. 10 loss. 


Despite losing the last con­test against Albion, the Belles have momentum going into tonight's game. The Belles 
' .
i 

I·;
·'. 
! ~ \ ) 
) ) ) ) 
I . 
) ) I I ) 
I I I 

: l 
I, 
I, 
' ' 
J 
snapped a seven-game losing streak this weekend with a 6 7-.64 ~vertime victory agamst Tn-State. Interestingly enough, the Belles last win before the seven-game skid ca~e in an overtime victory at Tn-State; the last time those two teams played. 
In the overtime win over Tri-State, Creachbaum had perhaps her best game of the season, scoring 26 points on 11-of-20 shooting. She was a perfect 3-of-3 from 3-point range, and grabbed 10 rebounds. Her presence will be needed tomorrow night in order for the Belles to win. 
Emily Pernotto will also need to continue to produce on the offensive end. She has looked great at times this sea­son, namely in losses to Widener and Kalamazoo, where she scored 17 points and 15 points, respectively. Her backcourt presence com­bined with Creachbaum in the interior could be important if the Belles are to win tonight's game. 
Sarah Caskey is Albion's leading scorer this season averaging 12.8 points pe; game and 42 percent from 3­point range. She has a team high 81 assists in the team's 18 games this year, and is coming off a 25 point per­formance in a victory over Adrian College on Jan. 24. 
Albion and Saint Mary's will tip off tonight at 7 : 3 0 at Albion. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
aeon 
Applu· 


SaintM:sCollege 
NOTRE DAME ·INDIANA 
The Nation's Premier Catholic Women's College 
31st ANNUAL 

EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY PROGRAM 
MAY 19 -JUNE 15, 2004 



Tuesday, January 27, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT 

FIVES 

SCOTT ADAMS 
NO ONE. THE STOCK WOULD PLUNGE AND LJE'D HAVE MASSIVE LA'YOFFS. 'YOUR CAREER WOULD BE RUINED. 
\ 


BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
day at the NDFD tra 
JOHNSON! Be--~ \c. lho~ 
1u,ifm wif'\dows -tM' ~en+;fa.+ionLGe+ ~ \o.dde.rs vp · t-.er-e to p\JJI SVfVlVOfS• .rell +hose mer1 .fo give me so•·ne ' el*%#'n wd.-ter up he.re ... Noo.N! 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

I

FREEW j 
I 
I I
I I r [] / 
I 
02004 Trllune Media SeMcea, Inc. ~ All Righi& Reearved. 
l 
l
NARVE j 
~ 
rJ l
1 

I 
NABACA 

I 
I
rrJ 1 
www.jurmle.com 
DIAMER j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: FOCUS VILLA SUBTLY PONCHO Answer: What it can cost to go after big bucks ­LOTS OF CASH 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  34 Actor's pursuit  55 Oscar winner  
1 Starting four.  35 Races horses to  Maris a  
5 Arm or leg 9 Goes on the  gain authority? 38 Music player, for  56 Word processor option  
fritz  short  57 Toledo's lake  
14 Whopper maker 15 Teen  39 "What time ?"  58 Primitive fishing tool  
16 River of  40 Put up with  59 Comedic Laurel  
Pakistan  41 Receiver of  60 Iron pumper's  
17 Fill beyond full  many Apr. checks  count  
18 First name in scat  - 42 Closely related  DOWN  
19 Bailout button 20 Horse-racing financial sys-tern? 23 Dairy airs? 24 Striped antelope 25 Jean on the  43 Is on the same page, so to speak 44 Gave lines to 45 Peter Fonda role 46 Government support for  1 Rev. Sharpton and others 2 Prejudice 3 Suffragist Carrie Chapman_ 4 Surrealistic 5 Stay out of sight  
screen  horse-racing  6 Runs without  
28 Young newts  equipment?  moving  
29 Company that makes Wite-Out  51 Plant life 52 Sharer's word  7 Suburban tun­neler  
32 At full speed 33 Lotion additive  53 Abbr. before ZIP code 10001  8 Great Plains Indian  
9 Maniacs  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  10 Certain pear 11 The same, in bibliographies 12 Desi loved her  30 _-France 31 First known asteroid 33 Hard-working  overseas 43 Grammy winner Krauss 44 Jazz's Chick  48 Minor hit 49 Bronte heroine 50 Short cut?  
13 Retired speed­ster  34 "All in the Family" co-star  45 Abbr. on a food label  51 Knox and Dix: Abbr.  
21 Trailblazing  36 "Egads!"  46 Horse's footfall  54 "You bet!"  

Daniel 

22 External For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 25 Pilgrim to Mecca credit card, 1-800-814-5554. · 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 26 Love in l'apres­crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
midi 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 27 Oven appurte­past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). nances 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, · 28 Pixie-sized nytimes.com/leaming/xwords . 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Donna Reed, Bridget Fonda, Cris Collinsworth, Mimi Rogers 
Happy Birthday: You have a lot to offer those who really don't want to think for themselves. You have a wisdom that has been earned by your incessant thirst for knowledge and experience. You are a leader and a nurturer. Others look up to you for your strength and courage to follow things through to completion. Your numbers: 3, 9, 13, 27,31,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is the day for love. You and your partner can enjoy one another. The chores that were hanging over your head are over and a romantic time for two should be on your agenda. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may feel somewhat let down today. Don't let someone you love play havoc with your heart. Be patient, not stubborn. Problems with female friends may be disconcerting. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you get the chance to travel, go for it. You will have a great time no matter what you decide to do, unless of course you choose to sit at home alone.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You need time alone with the one you love. Don't hesitate to tell others how you feel and what you want. Peace, quiet and of course a little bit of passion should be your plan.**** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It is best to spend a quiet day with your mate. Chances are good that you neglected their needs during the past couple of months and it's time to make up for lost time. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel and social activity will be a lot more fun than you had imagined. Love is in the air and you will attract potential mates.**** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can bring harmony back into your life. Spend time pampering yourself and get involved in projects that will enhance your appearance. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need a day to rest. However, if you neglected someone who loves you, difficulties may exhaust you even more. Don't bother trying to complete unfinished projects. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will enjoy the comforts of your own home today. Don't hesitate to tell friends that you want the day to lazy around. Ths is the time to rejuvenate. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You have put yourself through an emotional wringer. It's time to mellow out and reevaluate your motives. Avoid going to crowded places.** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be concerned with a friend who doesn't look well. Be sure to check in on them and offer your help in any way possible. Your kindness will be appreciated. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your high energy can he put to good use. Take things you don't need to charity groups for the needy. You can influence friends to join you in your humanitarian endeavors. **** 
Birthday Baby: You were born with a built-in common sense that will help you make the right choices throughout your life. You know how to take control right from day one and you are a master at getting everyone to do things for you. Your determination will lead you where you want to go. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in.your home.... 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
.. ••• Ill "' • • -• • .. 
I I I •••• I ! ••• ' , ' "" :-.... "" • 4 
, .............. _. ··························~· 
~

. . ... . :. : --· ....... -. ~ . . . . . . . ------6 1 f> • >r•~ ~ 4 • .• .~ ·~ • • ~ t• ! .; I ' ~ ,.~ ... I_ 1 p .e ~ .; ( ~ :.. 

By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
Entering Sunday's New York University dual meet,

l \ 
both the men's and women's fencing teams shared nearly identical success stories. Both were ranked first in the country, having previously dispatched archrival Penn State by equally nerve-rack­ing 14-13 victories. But over the weekend, something finally gave. 
The Notre Dame women fencers swept through 

! fENCING 
i\ -....­\1 
:~ The streak is over 
)~l) ' 
No. 1 men's 90-match winning streak snapped while No. 1 women go 5-0 

Sunday's matches, increasing their dual meet record to 10­0 this year. The men, howev­er, suffered their first blem­ish falling to fourth-ranked St. John's by an 18-9 deci­sion. As though the loss was­n't bad enough, it also halted the third longest winning streak in program history at 90 consecutive dual matches. 
In the opening dual meet of the day, both teams easily knifed their way through Yale, notching identical 21-6 victories. 
Columbia, however, would prove a much more worthy 
opponent. Both the men and the women were pushed to the limit, before finally squeaking by with 14-13 vic­tories. The women's side had to hold on as their lead began to slip away. A 9-4 advantage was quickly erased and the Irish found themselves cling­ing to a slim 13-12 advan­tage. Not until sabre Destanie Milo secured the decisive 14th victory (5-4) did the Irish breath easy. 
The men faced an even greater challenge. Dead ­
see FENCING/page 17 
t 
I 
: l· 
I I 

I '• 
I• 
I' 
I 

I 
'. ; I 
,ff 
I t 
' ' 
I : 
. 
I 
1' 
H 
t 
. 
( 
) 
t Tuesday, January 27, 2004 Page 20 

~ 
SMC BASKETBALL 
SMC SWIMMING 
Pete off is satisfied

Six-game losing streak ends 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 
. It's finally over. 
After being winless for the past month, the Belles snapped a seven-game losing streak with an overtime victory at home this weekend. 
The Belles See Also (5-12) recov­
"Belles face 
ered from a 
tough game
shaky second half to defeat against Albion" Tri-State 
page 18
University (1­17) in a 6 7-64 grudge match. 
A 36-2 5 halftime lead by the Belles evaporated as Tri-State made an aggressive comeback to force the game into overtime. 
In overtime, the Belles pulled out in front, led by the efforts of forward Emily Creachbaum. 
Creachbaum, who received a nomination for MIAA player of the week, led the way for the Belles with 26 points and 10 rebounds on 11-of-20 shooting. In addition, she was a perfect 3-of-3 from 3-point range and had two blocks and three steals. 
Before this game, the last vic­tory for the Belles came Dec. 13 against Tri-State. In an out­come almost identical to Saturday's game, the Belles won 64-62 in overtime. 
Mindy Tilford was the leading scorer for Tri-State, with 13 points on 5-of-13 shooting. Guard Amber Kruckeberg also contributed 12 points and 12 rebounds to help bring the game into overtime. 


The Belles only had 12 turnovers, but trouble at the free throw line nearly cost them the game. After shooting 5-of­12 in a loss to Kalamazoo, the Belles shot only 8-of-15 from the line against Tri-State. 
The overtime win gives the team a badly needed morale boost as it look ahead to its three upcoming games against Albion, Calvin and Hope. The three teams have a combined 19-5 record in the MIAA, and Calvin and Hope are tied for first in the conference. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

despite loss at Alma 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
In Saturday's meet against Alma College, Saint Mary's knew it would be difficult to overcome the deficit of hav­ing no divers. But this deficit proved too much for the Belles, as the team lost 137­97 and dropped their sixth consecutive conference meet of the season. 
Saint Mary's 0-6 standing in the MIAA is not an accurate depiction of how much suc­cess Saint Mary's expects to have at the MIAA Championships. Saint Mary's was more focused upon increasing the amount of training this past week than in previous weeks to help build the team's endurance. 
"What happened at this meet was that we worked hard this past week, and we knew that we would be swim­ming tired," Saint Mary's swimming coach Gregg Petcoff said. "We just wanted to swim the best times we could." 
Despite fatigue factoring into Saint Mary's perform­ance last weekend, multiple swimmers showed signs of progress, and several swim­mers finished the meet with season-best times. In just her third meet of her collegiate career, sophomore Sarah Nowak finished second in the 200-yard breaststroke in a time of 2 minutes, 37.25 sec­onds to place her fourth all­time for the Belles. 

"[Nowak] eats up the prac­tices, and she seems to swim well tired," Petcoff said. 
Junior Michelle Stanforth competed in the 200-yard breaststroke and placed fourth with a season-best time of 2:43.88. 
It was Julie McGranahan's stunning performance in the 200-yard butterfly that helped her to earn the per­former of the meet honor. McGranahan placed second in the event with a time of 2:22.2. 
"It jumped out at us," Petcoff said. "[McGranahan] was aggressive, and her swim was the one that was impres­sive enough to pop some eyes." 
McGranahan also finished second for Saint Mary's in the 1 000-yard freestyle in a time of 11:53.15. 
Although Saint Mary's lost to Alma, the team is focused upon leaving an impact at the MIAA Championships next month. 
"We were not willing to trade a good week of training to swim well at the champi­onships for that one win at Alma," Petcoff said. "However, we did have some good swims, and I walked away from the meet very pleased." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

i ;' ,. 
I ' SMC BASKETBALL 
CLUB SPORTS 
MEN~S SOCCER 
MEN'S TENNIS
FOOTBALL 

NCAA BASKETBAll
en

t I 11.11
1-u Saint Mary's at 

Gymnastics team 
Kentucky at 

II ; 
The Irish earn a
z Albion 

finishes fourth. 
Former Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 

Louisville men's bas-
I, 
national team award for
a: ::5 Tonight, 7:30 p.m. 

running back Julius 
ketball coach Rick Pitino 
Postponed

i ) 
their average grade
The BeHes go on the 

The Notre Dame and
I 
I 
Jones will participate in 
Due to inclement 

is taking an indefinite 
I, 
point average during
c = road after snapping a 

Saint Mary's squad com­
a skills competition this 
medical leave of
weather, today's match 
the 2002-03 season. 
six-game losing streak. 

peted in the Clover 
weekend. 
absence from the team. 
was canceled and will be

I t D. ~ 
'I I 
Classic. 
rescheduled for April. 

! = page 18 
page 16 
page 15
page 15 
page 15 

page 12 
t ) en 
' 
, II . 
'I, }
'), ' 




