
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 111 TUESDAY. MARCH 23,2004 
IRAQ: ONE YEAR lATER 
War media coverage shapes views 
Embedded reporters travel with members of the Army In Iraq In March 2003. Journalists travelling with the military have provid­ed "real time" coverage, but have also been the source of controversy due to a perceived bias In their coverage. 
Editor's note: This is the second last March's "shock and awe" Notre Dame professors. It also Department of Film, Television in a five-part series examining bombing campaign over introduced several "firsts" in and Theater and a staff member issues in the Iraq War. Baghdad, toppling statues of terms of how news is presented, of the South Bend NBC affiliate 
deposed Iraqi leader Saddam they said. WNDU. "There are a lot of differ­By ANDREW THAGARD Hussein and embedded journal­A marketplace of Ideas ent sources out there." Associate News Editor ists like Fox News' Geraldo "If you put it all together ... Indeed, media coverage of the 
Rivera. you'd probably say the media is Iraq War was marked not only by Looking back on it, the media's working as it's supposed to -ac; the presence of additional 
Reflections on the news overall coverage of the conflict in a marketplace of ideas," said sources of news, but also by media's coverage of the Iraq War Iraq has been effective in keeping Gary Sieber, an adjunct instructor likely conjures up memories of the public informed, according to of broadcast journalism for the see IRAQ/page 4 

Health care billing changes affect students 
account, but will now have to in cases of emergency. fill prescriptions began to be 
By LAURA VILIM bill their insurance company Because the Osco pharmacist used more often than on the News Writer 
directly. would contact a UHC pharma­emergency basis for which it The change in policy, which cist who would then bill the stu­was intended. According to 
The University Health Center will go into effect May 1, results dent's account, this policy made Notre Dame pharmacist Betsy Pharmacy recently announced from the campus pharmacy's it easier for students to pick up Creary, the account created that Notre Dame students who decision to close its unique prescriptions quickly without extra work for Notre Dame's fill their prescriptions at Osco account with Osco that previ­having to present their insur­own pharmacists, who had to Pharmacy will no longer be ously allowed students to fill ance cards or pay out of pocket act as the middlemen between able to bill the cost of their prescriptions al the drug store co-pays. medication to their student and bill their student accounts However, this easier way to see OSCO/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Hehir wins Laetare Medal 
By KATE GALES 
News Writer 

The University of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal was awarded to Father J. Bryan Hehir, president and treasur­er of Catholic 
Charities for t h e Archdiocese of Boston on Sunday. 
"Father Hehir has been exem­plary in min­

istry, schol-Father J. 
arship and Bryan Hehir administra­tion alike," said University President Father Edward Malloy in a press release. "In honoring him and his service, we wish to refresh our vision of and renew our commit­ment to a just and compas­sionate society rooted in the dignity of all people." 
"Father Hehir is a great example of service and dedi­cation to the church and the people of God, especially the poor and people in need," said Father Peter Jarret, counselor to the president. 
The Laetare Medal is the oldest and most prestigious award given to American Catholics. It was established in 1883, with notable past recipients including President John F. Kennedy, novelist Walker Percy and Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day. 
"We just thought it was time [Hehir] was recognized for his incredible dedication and work," Jarret said on behalf of the selection com­mittee. 
Hehir was ordained in 1966 and was appointed to his cur­rent post of president and treasurer of Catholic Charities last January. Prior 
see HEHIR/page 6 
Club hosts pro-life talks 
By MATT BRAMANTI Senior Staff Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame Right to Life Club hosted a pro-life conference on campus last week­end, drawing scores of students from Notre Dame and other uni­versities. 
Club president Janel Daufenbach said about 70 stu­dents attended the weekend's events, which centered around a number of pro-life speakers, who discussed topics ranging from the 
see PRO-LIFE/page 6 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members discuss constitutional revisions 
By KATIE LAIRD New~ Writer 

Members of the Council of Representatives met Monday to discuss new revisions to the Student Union Constitution that will be voted on next week. 
Possible changes range from the opening of new positions and the setting of a universal meeting procedure in student government that will follow certain guidelines outlined in Robert's Rules. 
A rough draft of the constitu­tion was passed out, and COR members discussed the effec­tiveness of the new changes. 
One issue that was discussed 
see COUNCIL/page 4 
_j 
~ ... ~ ..:··;:-­
Tuesday, March 23, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Queen 


Week fun 

Imagine 60 girls shoveling huge bowls of ice cream down their throats as fast as possible -all in prepara­tion for their formal at the end of the 
week.  
Imagine the mounting tension  Annie Brusky  
as balls are  
thrown, and the once-friendly sec- Sports Writer  
tion rivalries esca­ 
late into an  

intense game of dodgeball.· 
Ah, yes, I think I'm finally getting a sense of what it's like to live in Zahm Hall. 
For the next week, or so I'm told, schoolwork is to be pushed aside in Pasquerilla West and section activities take top priority. 
With the movie Jaws as my section's theme, we stress over SYR dates as we try to figure out how to make limbs hang from the ceiling and whose blood to splatter on the dan­gling swimsuits. 
It's a perfect mix. 

Such is the nature of PW's Queen Week, a tough-as-nails competition (well, not really), combined with enough laughs to keep me going through Easter break. 
Ifyou're lucky enough, you might just get to see throngs of girls sun­bathing in front of the Rock, working out at Rolfs in prom dresses, building human pyramids in the reflection pool, or doing the Macarena with a security guard at Reekers. 
You only wish. 

Sure, these events are a little cheesy and call to mind summer camps of years past-or was that FroshO?­but, I have to admit that I love them all. 
If being handcuffed in the back of an NDSP vehicle or taking a dip in Rolfs pool with all your clothes on doesn't lead to quality bonding, I don't know what will. And there will be pictures as proof lest we ever deny our crazy stints as Purple Weasels. 
Every dorm has their signature events and it's this enthusiasm and dorm spirit that sets Notre Dame apart. 
My friends at state schools often don't know the people who live a floor below them and they couldn't imagine going to dances with the rest of their dorm. 
Sure, we are all a little SYR-ed out after months of these things, but, seri­ously, we should be grateful. We get the chance to dance our hearts out with 50 of our best friends and noth­ing-not DuLac, not boys who are too white to dance and definitely not a desire to break out of our Notre Dame "bubble" -should get in our way. 
So if you happen to see purple faces at Subway or girls in facemasks and curlers at South Dining Hall, relax. 
We'll be "grown up" soon enough and our professional lives may not allow for us to be such goofballs. College is a great time to live it up, both at parties and doing random activities in the middle of the quad early in the afternoon. 
Personally, I couldn't ask for a bet­ter ride. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting l"rror in the March 22 issue, the last name of Lt. Col. David Conboy was incorrectly spelled in the article "Students cope with family in Iraq." 
In the March 22 issue, Jacqueline Baneast's first name was misspelled in the caption on page 28. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: SHOULD NO CANCEL ALL CLASSES BEGINNING BEFORE 9:30A.M.? 




Tim Uhalde  Nathan Schroeder  Jorge Fragosa  
Senior Off-Campus  Sophomore Zahm  Sophomore St. Edward's  
..Sure.,,  ··rhere·s a class before 9:30? ,,  ..It would help boost my attendance.,,  

Wells Fargo CEO Invents fictional band to motivate employees 
ST. PAUL -Most likely you've never heard of a band called Dick K. and the Revolving Loaners. 
It is also doubtful you have seen Center Stage play. 
But if you work for Wells Fargo & Co. in the Midwest, you may have. 
Center Stage is a real band, made up of Wells employees who play at company events. Dick K. and the Revolving Loaners is a fictional group -"led" by Wells Fargo CEO Dick Kovacevich and including out as a hip singer and the other execs in business garb, singing or playing instruments. 

"We wanted something fresh and fun," said region­al president Jon Campbell in Minneapolis, who over­sees the eight-state Midwest region for Wells Fargo. "It's always been part of our values to have fun, but we slip sometimes with all the other things we have to do." 
The timing for something new seemed right since Campbell last year added new employees in North Dakota and South Dakota to his group, he said. 
seven Twin Cities-based Wells executives -that was invented as a part of an internal motivational campaign. 
The communications campaign was designed by Wells Fargo to make work fun and to reinforce Wells Fargo's mission to its more than 28,000 employees in eight Midwest states, including Minnesota. 
The yearlong campaign centers on the fictional "Rock the Stagecoach" tour of the fictitious Revolving Loaners. The bank's corpo­rate logo is a stagecoach. A poster for the "tour" fea­tures Kovacevich decked 

Marlelle Connor  Jamie Holland  Cesar Alvarez  
Sophomore  Sophomore  Freshman  
Lewis  St. Edward's  Keenan  


..Wh t?,
y no. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
LLI ::1: 
~ 
LLI 

~ 
.... 
c( 
(,) 





0 

HIGH 48 HIGH HIGH 55
..J 
LOW 40 LOW LOW 38 
39 33 
HIGH LOW 
56 43 


..Huh?,. ..Yes. to pass my classes., 
IN BRIEF 
John Unsworth, dean of the Graduate School of Library Information Science at the University of Illinois will give a lecture entitled "Variations on Open Access" today from 10 to 
11:30 a.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. 
The mechanical engineering honor society, Pi Tau Sigma, is sponsoring a blood drive today from 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Students can donate in 217 Cushing Hall. 
Tomie DePaola, children's book author and illustrator will hold a presentation and book sign­ing today from 6 to 7:30p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
International Student Services and Activities will be showing the Chinese film "Shower" in room 117 DeBartolo tonight at 7 p.m. as part of the International Film Festival. 
The Kroc Institute will spon­sor "Just Peacemaking Theory: A Better Approach to Terrorism?" today at 4:15 p.m. in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. The lecture will be given by Glen Stassen. Smedes Professor of Christian Ethics at the Fuller Theological Seminary and Visiting Kroc Fellow. 
As part of Disabilities Awareness Week, a panel dis­cussion will be held today at 8 
p.m. at Reekers. Students with disabilities, as well as those who have siblings with disabili­ties, will share their stories. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 
62 
LOW 
37 
Atlanta 60 I 42 Boston 37 I 30 Chicago 50 I 39 Denver 71 I 41 Houston 72 I 62 Los Angeles 86 I 67 Minneapolis 50 I 37 New York 44 I 34 Philadelphia 45 I 32 Phoenix 93 I 65 Seattle 56 I 42 St. Louis 65 I 49 Tampa 74 I 54 Washington 48 I 33 


Tuesday, March 23, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Love: 
day of 
I 

& renewal. 
No Greater Love is a half-day retreat open to the 
entire Notre Dame community. It is designed for 
those who hunger for new ways to deepen their 
relationship with God by exploring a variety of 
prayer styles and traditions. join us in this 
opportunity to reflect on the unconditional love 
God offers us through his son, jesus. 
,_saturday, March 27th ,_1:00 p.m. -6:00 p.m. ,_coleman-Morse Lounge 
,_No Sign-up Necessary! 
For more information contact Keara Coughlin at 631-3389 or kcoughli®nd.edu
C-M 
Campus Ministry or visit us online at campusminist~.nd.edu 




Welsh Family wins contest 
Dorm with greatest energy reduction awarded cash 
ByJOE TROMBELLO 
Assistant News Editor 
In the dorm energy conserva­tion contest held last month spon­sored by the Students for Environmental Action, Welsh Family Hall reduced their total energy output by 8,310 kilowatt­hours as compared to February 2003. This was enough to secure the dorm first place and a $100 cash prize, according to club co­president Virginia Kelly. 
Kelly said the total amount of energy reduction by all dorms was nearly 42,000 kilowatt-hours, an amount she called "pretty signifi­cant." 
Badin and McGlinn took second and third places respectively. Dorms were judged on the total amount of energy reduced last month as compared to February 2003. Kelly said the club had orig­inally planned to judge the win­ners based on per capita energy consumption, but said that these figures were not provided by the Notre Dame Power Plant. 
Some dorms experienced an increase in energy consumption, a factor that Kelly attributed to a variety of factors. Differences in energy consumption habits of peo­ple who reside in each dorm and dorms that might have increased the number of residents could not be directly assessed by the con­tests. Overall, however, Kelly said that she was very pleased with the student response to the contest. 
"I hope students just learned to be aware of [the energy that they are] using ... and the simple things that are really painless to decrease energy consumption," she said. 
Kelly said she heard through word of mouth that some dorms were making a particular push to notify residents, including provid­ing information about the contest in their stall notes and getting the word out to other residents in their sections. 
Chau Nguyen, the environmen­tal commissioner from Welsh Family Hall, said that she and other residents specifically pushed energy conservation for the con­test. Although she said she contin­uously promoted conservation by making signs to remind residents of ways to reduce their energy use, she said she made a special effort in February. 
"We really emphasized it," Nguyen said. 
Nguyen notified residents of the contest through hall council and also encouraged residents at the meeting to spread the word to other people in their sections. She made signs and even placed index cards on radios in each section's restroom to remind residents to turn off their radios when they were done using them. 
"I feel like there is always some­thing you can do to improve," she said. "The little things will help make a difference." 
Nguyen said dorm residents fre­quently would leave radios, lights and their computers on when not in use. actions that she tried to encourage residents to reduce. Nguyen was surprised, but pleased, that her dorm won the contest. 
''I'm still really surprised and proud," she said. "I just [didn't] think we'd make that big of a dif­ference in one month and con­serve that much energy." 
Nguyen said the money would be put back into the environmen­tal committee and would possibly be used to partially fund the events they have planned for Earth Day. She said that as a freshman, she strove to become active in campus life and believes that serving as her dorm's envi­ronmental commissioner was a good way to get involved. 
"I always wanted to be involved [and] do something in the dorm," she said. "I wanted to be more aware of it [energy conservation] for myself and thought it [being environmental commissioner] was a good way to be more active," she said. 
The club has several events planned for the remainder of the semester, including a panel dis­cussion on the environmental poli­cies of the 2004 presidential can­didates that will probably occur on Earth Day, April 22, as well as a neighborhood clean-up and tree-planting day that will proba­bly occur in late April. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group updated on projects, successes 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Associate News Editor 
Campus Life Council mem­bers received updates on vari­ous ongoing projects and the success of alcohol awareness week during Monday's short meeting. 
With only a few meetings remaining in the semester, Jeremy 

Lao, student body ''We hope [Alcohol Business president and Awareness Week] Operations whose CLC chairman, department over­
will be built on for
announced that sees University
next year. ,.
the council would grounds keeping. focus most of its Lao then energy on laying praised the suc­
Jeremy Lao 
the foundation cess of last
student body presi­
for a successful week's Alcohol 
argument to establish a mandatory, semester long social awareness class that teaches students about racial, cultural and religious diversity. The class would also address other topics. 
"We decided we're going to spend the six weeks [remaining in the semester] to come up with . . . a plan of action so the next group of CLC members will take this on as a priority next year," Lao said. "Our 'pie in the sky' goal is to have a course that is a semester long and [that] each student will have to take." 
Lao also informed members about progress being made on the group's efforts to follow up on concerns regarding the qual­ity of the campus' appearance. 

Lao sent Father \1ark Poorman, vice president of Student Afl'airs, a letter voicing CLC's concerns about campus appearance prior to spring break. Poorman followed up, promising to contact James Lyphout, vice president for 
Awareness Week. the first such event sponsored by student government. The week featured T-shirt and cup give-a-ways and a drunk driv­ing simulator. 
"I would consider it a success considering it [was] the first year," Lao said. "We hope it will be built on for next year." 
Brother Jerome Meyer. Knott Hall rector and CLC member, commented on the feedback he received from the dorms. 
"It had good reaction in the halls," he said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 23, 2004 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Council 

continued from page 1 
was whether or not future COR meetings should be closed to the public. 
Emily Chin, the student body vice-president, explained that closed-door meetings are more effective. 
"The dynamic of the group totally changes . . . it's so much more productive," she said. "People are more open." 
Student Union Board presi­dent Charlie Ebersol disagreed. 
"Most of you people are pub­licly elected officials ... [We] are representing a constituen­cy ... they should know," Ebersol said. "Closed doors 
equal deception.  Period.  It's a  
bad, bad idea."  
James  Leito,  sophomore  

class president, agreed with Ebersol, saying, "I am willing to speak my mind whether The Observer is here or not." 
Members also discussed cre­ating a main government Web site with links to Senate, Hall Presidents Council, Office of the President and the Student Union Board. 
A new position entitled the Student Union Web site 
Osco 
continued from page 1 
Osco and the students' insur­ance companies. 
"[The account] was being used beyond the purpose for which it was intended," Creary said. "[It became] too much for us to manage." 
Creary emphasized the fact that students will not be paying more for prescriptions under the new policy, and their insurance companies will still be covering the same costs. The change that will most affect students is the need to bring a personal insur­ance card to Osco when present­ing a written prescription and to settle co-payments directly at the pharmacy when the pre­scription is filled. Students can also pay for their medication when they receive the prescrip­tion and then file independently with their insurance companies. 
The policy toward Osco is thus very similar to the ones the pharmacy has with other drug­stores in the area. 
Administrator would be in charge of updating and main­taining the Web site which would include minutes, events and other activities of various student government meetings. 
The proposed constitution states that the Web site will "facilitate communication and collaboration among student groups" and "effectively publi­cize all student group events and programs to the student body." 
Director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin explained that currently there is the Under the Dome Calendar sponsored by Student Activities. However, it has not been in service for the past couple of weeks due to a corrupted server. 
"Unlike the University calen­dar, with the Under the Dome Calendar, anybody and any­thing can be on it," Coughlin said. 
COR plans to meet twice more this week to discuss sev­eral more revisions to the con­stitution. The meetings will take place Tuesday at 10 p.m. and Thursday at 7 p.m. The final changes will be made in next week's meeting. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 
Students' option to fill any pre­scription at the campus pharma­cy during operational hours remains unchanged. In these cases, pharmacy charges can still be put on a student aGcount. but individual students are responsible for filing their own insurance claims. Creary said that these different pharmacy options allow students to choose which plan works best for them. 
"Students are welcome to use any pharmacy off campus," Creary said. "Prescriptions can [also] be picked up [at UHC Pharmacy] 24-7 as long as they are called in ahead of time." 
Creary said that graduate stu­dents may be more affected by these changes than undergradu­ates because older students are more likely to have their own medical insurance rather than coverage under their parents' insurance. 
Creary also said it is unlikely an emergency account like the one with Osco will be estab­lished again. 
Contact Laura Vilim at 
lvilim@nd.edu

•.......••..•••••••.•..•..••..•...••.....•••.•.....................•... 

'.'
. •••
a· room ance 

.;.·.·.• 

This week learn how to: 

(no partners or experience needed) Tuesday, 7:30-8:45 pm 301 Rockne •$4 Advanced Class: HUSTLE! Sponsored by the ND!SMC Ballroom Dance Club .•.............•...............................•.•......•................ 

Iraq 
continued from page I 
more time devoted to reporting ·that news. Cable news stations like CNN, Fox News and MSNBC presented nearly 24-hour cover­age of the conflict and the events leading up to it, and a prolifera­tion of internet news sources offered different perspectives that challenged America's main­
stream media coverage. 
At the same time, Sieber said, 
the public was forced to take the 
initiative and consult multiple 
sources if it wanted to obtain 
truly balanced news. 
"It's very important for every person to pay attention and not just get their news from one source," he said. Coverage In 'real' time 
The media coverage of the Iraq 
War also differed from previous 
conflicts in its ability to provide 
information on events in 'real' 
time, according to Jack Colwell, 
an American Studies professor 
and columnist for the South 
Bend Tribune. 
"People are seeing instantly what is going on and they're reacting instantly as a result," he said. "They're not waiting for several days for dispatches to arrive to the United States." 
In past wars like Vietnam, Sieber said, reports on battles were often presented two or three days after they occurred due to the lengthy filming, edit­ing and transporting process. He added that today the presence of so-called embedded journalists and new technology allows the American public to get up close and personal with the conflict 
. and watch aspects of a war from 
their living rooms never before 
seen. 
"I think it's going to be some­thing that's looked at as a 'must' in the future," Colwell said. 
At the same time, however, Sieber cautioned that instant coverage often provides exces­
sive detail that does not always contribute to the bigger picture. 
"The nice thing about [the older system] was you had two or three eyes or gatekeepers to look at it [and evaluate its impor­tance)," he said. "Now you've got a reporter corresponding from the back of a ... tank in the desert of Iraq. It's riveting; it gives you a perspective of what it's like but what does it really tell you about the overall con­flict?" 
News media making news 
Perhaps most interestingly, coverage of the Iraq War was characterized not only by news of the conflict but also by conflict created by the news media itself. 
Celebrity journalist Rivera drew the ire of the U.S. military early in the war when he motioned for his cameraman to film the ground as he drew a map of Iraq in the sand and out­lined the movements of American troops. The reporter subsequently announced that he would continue his coverage of the war from Kuwait. 
The BBC also came under fire in January after a judicial inquiry criticized its journalistic integrity when it used false infor­mation to accuse the British gov­ernment of "sexing up" knowl­edge of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction. When the news reached the public, it led several top editors to resign and forced the organization's board of gov­ernors to publicly apologize to British Prime Minister Tony Blair. 
"It's something you don't expect from ... the BBC," Colwell said. "It's [problematic] when you have one of the most respected news agencies involved in something like this." 
Both he and Sieber, however, agreed that the incident alone would likely not have long term adverse effects on the public's perception of the media. Biased coverage? 
To some critics, however, the event provides further proof of 

the existence of biased media 
coverage of the conflict, though 
the direction of the perceived 
bias depends upon who is asked. 

In an article posted on the Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR) organization's Web site, for example, the trade magazine Editor and Publisher accuses The New York Times of downplaying anti-war senti­ments. 
Additionally. a study by the University of Maryland's Center for International and Security Studies concluded that media coverage of the war failed to adequately challenge informa­tion provided by the Bush administration. 
"Too many journalists acted as virtual stenographers for the current administration, in effect validating President Bush's link­age of terrorism, Iraq and weapons of mass destruction," Susan Moeller, director of the study, told Ascribe Newswire. 
At the same time, the Bush administration has leveled its own criticisms against the media, charging that it exces­sively dwells on negative aspects of the campaign while routinely ignoring its positive benefits. 

"[This war has produced1 fewer casualties and less destruction than probably any war in history," Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld said in August 2003. "Each setback in Iraq is repeated and repeated and repeated [in the media] as if it were 10 or 20 setbacks." 
Colwell, however, defep.ded the media's overall coverage of the war and said that the presence of complaints from both sides is a good sign. 
"The news media has really called it as they see it," he said. "I think maybe that [the two­sided criticism] is a good sign. If you're going to get complaints, it's nice to get complaints from the two extremes." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

We've changed our name! 
OIT's Multimedia and Event Services 
.

Is now 

Academic Media Resources 
Academic Media Resources provides classroom media services to the 
academic community on the Notre Dame campus. If you have a media need to 
support your instruction or want to document an instructional event, call us! 

fi'or video recording services such as cla~s taping, off air taping, etc., call Claude Devaney at 631-8776 • 
For audio recording and editing of classes, and audio digitizing, call Traig Foltz at 631-3752. 
For academic photographic (digital and film) services, Passport and OPT photos, 35mm and flat art scans to CD-ROM, and slides from PowerPoint and other digital media, call Wes Evard at 631-7630. 
For scheduling TVs, VCRs, DVDs, LCD projectors, projection screens, Video Visualizer, and PA systems, call Dan Zakrowski at 631-6424 or Denis Lindquist at 631-6423. 
fi'or laser pointers, microphones, audio cassette recorders, lap­tops, slide projectors, mouse remotes, boom boxes, and more, call Bobbi McMahon at 631-9181. 
For audio and video duplication and conversion services, DVD and CD~ ROM duplication, Commencement videos, call Toby Green at 631-0961. 
http://amr.nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 23, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TI--lE OBSERVER's \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pakistanis uncover terror tunnel 
WANA, Pakistan -Pakistani forces discov­ered a mile-long tunnel leading from a besieged mud fortress to a dry stream bed, and said Monday the secret passage may have allowed top al-Qaida suspects to escape toward the Afghan frontier. 
The revelation came as Pakistani authori­ties began DNA tests to identify foreign ter­rorists killed in the weeklong offensive in South Waziristan, where thousands of troops have been battling hundreds of die-hard mili­tants. 
Forces first found a tunnel connecting the heavily fortified compounds of two tribal eld­ers -Nek Mohammed and Sharif Khan ­who have been leading supporters of some 500-600 foreign terrorists, said Brig. Mahmood Shah, chief of security for the trib­al areas. 
Afghan troops battle warlord 
KABUL, Afghanistan-Shouldering ammu­nition belts and rifles, newly U.S.-trained Afghan soldiers deployed by the hundreds to the western city of Herat on Monday after some of the fiercest factional fighting since the fall of the Taliban killed a Cabinet minis­ter and as many as 100 others. 
Forces loyal to Herat's governor, powerful warlord Ismail Khan, claimed to have retak­en control of Herat by daylight Monday after tank, rocket and gun battles raged following Sunday's killing of Khan's son, Aviation Minister Mirwais Sadiq. 
A militia commander, who admitted responsibility for the killing, was missing Monday, after Khan's forces retook the com­mander's division barracks and captured 150 of his men. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Bush admin defends terror record 
WASHINGTON -The White House is dis­puting assertions by President Bush's former counterterrorism coordinator that the administration failed to recognize the risk of an attack by al-Qaida in the months leading up to Sept. 11. 2001. 
National security deputies worked diligent­ly between March and September 2001 to develop a strategy to attack the terror net­work, one that was completed and ready for Bush's approval a week before the suicide airliner hijackings, the White House said in a statement Sunday. 
Mobster sentenced to six years 
BOSTON -A former lieutenant to fugitive gangster James "Whitey" Bulger who helped authorities unravel his gang's cozy relation­ship with the FBI was sentenced Monday to six years in federal prison, including time served. 
Kevin Weeks, a one-time gravedigger and lookout for Bulger's Winter Hill Gang, has already served nearly five years, meaning he could be released by the end of this year with good behavior. 
Before he was sentenced, Weeks stood to address the court, saying he decided to coop­erate with investigators to give closure to the families of the gang's victims. 
STATE NEWS 
Gypsy moths bug state officials 
AUSTIN -State wildlife officials are plan­ning an aerial spraying campaign in south­ern Indiana this summer to combat a gypsy moth infestation that threatens to spread to the Hoosier National Forest. 
The Department of Natural Resources said the tree-eating moths have been detected in northern Scott County, about 50 miles south­east of Bloomington. 
If the pests manage to travel about 50 miles west, they would reach the Hoosier National Forest and could cause a serious problem because the forest has so many trees for the moths to devour, said DNR spokesman Russ Grunden. 
GAZA STRIP 







Palestinians bury Hamas leader 
Thousands mourn Yassin after airstrike; militants pledge retaliatory attacks 
Associated Press 

GAZA CITY -Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians chanting "Revenge! Revenge!" flooded Gaza's streets Monday to bury Barnas founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin, who was assassinated by an Israeli missile. As ordinary Palestinians seethed with anger, militants pledged unprecedented retaliation -including threats against the United States. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and many world leaders condemned Monday's killing of Yassin, the most prominent Palestinian targeted by Israel in 3 1/2 years of fighting. The Bush adminis­tration said it was "deeply troubled" by the attack and that it had no advance warning. 
"We will get revenge for every drop of blood that spilled," said Salman the operation was to pre­Jewish state and replace it heeding the Barnas terror 
Bdeiri, a Barnas supporter vent further rocket fire. with an Islamic one. warning.crying near the mosque The Yassin assassination For the first time Monday, "If they are threateningwhere Yassin prayed short­was part of Prime Minister Hamas threatened the the United States, we have ly before being killed by an Ariel Sharon's effort to United States and suggest­to take it quite seriously," 
Israeli airstrike. 
crush Hamas ahead of a ed it might seek outside he told reporters in 
Israel sealed ofT the West possible Israeli withdrawal help in carrying out Washington.Bank and Gaza, banning from Gaza. However, the revenge attacks. While not condemningPalestinians from Israel, killing was seen as a major "The Zionists didn't carry the assassination, the State 
and placed its security 
gamble that could galvanize out their operation without Department said it increas­forces on high alert. 
the Palestinians behind getting the consent of the es tensions and would 
Later Monday, Palestinian 
Hamas. Rival Palestinian terrorist American adminis­make it harder to pursuemilitants fired several militant groups immediate­tration and it [the United peace in the Middle East. homemade rockets and ly pledged solidarity with States] must take responsi­"We are troubled," 
mortar shells at Israeli tar­Ham as. bility for this crime," spokesman Richard gets in and near Gaza. To 
The missile strike dealt Hamas said in a statement. Boucher said. 
the north, Hezbollah guer­what could be the final "All the Muslims of the President Bush's national rillas fired an anti-tank blow to the stalled U.S.-led world will be honored to security adviser,missile at Israeli troops "road map" peace plan. It join in on the retaliation for Condoleezza Rice, told NBC 
along Israel's border with also angered Egypt and this crime." that "it is very importantLebanon. Jordan, moderate Arab In the past, Barnas has that everyone step back Israel quickly responded states whose tacit support refrained from targeting and try now to be calm in 
to both attacks. It struck at Sharon needs for any uni­U.S. citizens or interests, the region." Hezbollah with planes and lateral withdrawal from instead focusing on fund­But Israel said it will 
artillery fire. No casualties Gaza. raising and recruitment press ahead with more tar­were reported. Israel sent 
Since Yassin founded within the United States, geted attacks and raids. tanks into northern Gaza Ham as in 1987, the group according to senior U.S. law "The war against terror 
near the town of Beit 
has killed hundreds of enforcement officials. has not ended and will con­
Hanoun. Israeli security 
Israelis in scores of attacks. Homeland Security tinue day after day, every­officials said the purpose of Barnas wants to destroy the Secretary Tom Ridge was where," Sharon said. 

.Nichols begins trial in Okla. blast 
"Timothy McVeigh set him up so pounds of ammonium nitrate fertilizer 
Associated Press 
McVeigh could cover up the others for the bomb in 1994 and stole blast­
McALESTER, Okla.-Terry Nichols who acted in this conspiracy," ing caps to set it ofT. Nichols, who met went on trial for his life Monday in the Hermanson said. McVeigh in the Army, also robbed an Oklahoma City bombing and was Nichols; 48, is already serving a life Arkansas gun dealer of weapons and alternately portrayed as an eager sentence on federal changes for the gold and silver coins to help finance participant in the attack and a fall guy deaths of eight federal law officers in the plot, Keel said. in a conspiracy wider than the gov­the April 19, 1995, blast that killed The blasting caps were stolen from ernment has acknowledged. 168 people. The state charges are for a Kansas rock quarry and drill marks 
Nichols hated the U.S. government the 160 other victims and one victim's on a padlock at the quarry matched a and worked hand-in-hand with fetus. drill bit found in Nichols' basement, Timothy McVeigh in assembling and Prosecutors brought the state he said. detonating the "huge, monstrous charges in hopes of sending Nichols to The bomb was delivered in a Ryder bomb," prosecutor Lou Keel said dur­the death chamber for his role in the truck that exploded outside the Alfred ing opening statements in the state bombing -the deadliest act of ter­P. Murrah Federal Building. murder trial. rorism on U.S. soil at the time. Prosecutors say Nichols helped 
"These two were partners, and McVeigh was executed in 2001. McVeigh pack the bomb inside the their business was terrorism," Keel Prosecutors allege that Nichols con­truck. said. spired with McVeigh to build the "This huge, monstrous bomb was 
Defense attorney Brian Hermanson bomb in a plot to avenge the FBI siege detonated right in front of that build­countered that McVeigh and other against the Branch Davidian sect at ing," Keel said. He said those not conspirators were responsible for the Waco, Texas, exactly two years earli­killed in the initial blast died because bombing and Nichols was manipulat­er. of glass that was sent "flying like bul­ed by McVeigh to take the blame. Keel said Nichols bought 4,000 lets." 
page 6 Tuesday, March 23, 2004
The Observer+ NEWS 

Pro-life 
continued from page 1 
use of graphic anti-abortion 
imagery to post-abortion coun­
seling. The conference was co­
sponsored by the Student 
Activities Office and the Knights 
of Columbus. 
One of the speakers was Vicki Thorn, the founder of Project Rachel, a Catholic ministry that offers counseling to those affect­ed by abortion, including women who have had abortions. Thorn founded the ministry in Milwaukee in 1984, and it has since spread to more than 110 dioceses across the country. In her remarks, Thorn discussed the psychological and physical problems women often face after abortions. 
Thorn said women who have abortions frequently encounter emotional problems following the procedure, a phenomenon Thorn attributes to the natural bond between a mother and her fetus. 
"By the fifth week, there is an infinite number of messages from the mother to the child through the cells," Thorn said. "The messages begin at concep­tion." 
She said post-abortion women are three times more likely to commit suicide than women who have never been pregnant, and six times more likely than women who have given birth. 
Thorn added that women under the age of 18 who have abortions run a higher-than­normal risk of developing breast cancer. 
Daufenbach said Thorn's remarks brought realism to the pro-life cause. 
"It's important to be cognizant that there are people around us that have been affected by abor­tion," she said. 
Saturday morning, attendees heard an actress by Mark Harrington, founder of the Center for Bio-Ethical Reform. In his remarks, Harrington defended the use of graphic, vio­lent images of aborted fetuses, saying they can help to spark discussion about life issues. 
That evening in South Dining Hall, pro-life advocate Randall Terry spoke to attendees about activism in the anti-abortion movement. Terry is the founder of Operation Rescue, which con­ference literature described as "the largest peaceful civil dis­

obedience movement in 
American history." He also ran 
an unsuccessful campaign for a 
New York Congressional seat in 
1998. 
However, Terry's participation 
at the conference raised contro­
versy, even among Right to life 
officers. Operation Rescue has 
staged sit-ins around abortion 
clinics, preventing would-be 
patients and medical personnel 
from entering. As a result, 
courts have fined Terry and his 
organization; however, he has 
resisted paying, claiming the 
fines are unjust. 
Right to Life vice president 
Lauren Galgano said that Terry's 
invitation was a cause for con­
cern among potential attendees 
from schools other than Notre 
Dame. Attendees came from 
Michigan State University, the 
University of St. Thomas and 
Ball State University. 
"I took a lot of heat from kids 
at other schools," Galgano said. 
"But he feels that he's being 
unjustly persecuted." 
Daufenbach said the week­
end's events were successful. 
"We were all so happy with the way [the conference] turned out," Daufenbach said. "It was great." 
Galgano agreed, saying the conference will lead to stronger pro-life sentiment at Notre Dame. 
"I was really encouraged by the number of students that came to the talks, as well as their enthusiasm," Galgano said. "We have a very strong core group of people who are ready to be leaders." _ 
"The more activities we do, the more people come and show their support for the pro-life movement." 
One of those activities will be held Apr. 22-24 in Washington, D.C., when students from the Right to llie Club will participate in Operation Witness. The event is a large protest meant to counter pro-choice demonstra­tions held that day. Pro-life organizers have received per­mits to assemble on sidewalks along the pro-choice parade routes. 
Galgano said Operation Witness is projected to be a huge event. 
"We're sending about twelve people, and they're shooting for a few hundred thousand," Galgano said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

Holy Cross Associates Information Sessions 
To~tght!!! 
G:DD-JL:OO pvtA. 
A• ·I (1 • I' ~ ' 
t tYle ....-ell'vrer tov· soctcn Coll'vcerll'v.~ 
I 

~at.e:~ wo~t fecw i.s KOt that we are Ut-adequ.ate, ot.e:r­dee;:>es.t fea~ Zs. that we ar-e po~~o~erft.e:L bei:JO~ ~a.s t.e:tre rtZ.s ot.e:d/.ght, ..wtot.(r-dark~.s that ~.st fri.ghtett.5 1.6. ' -Nei..so~ Mawiela 



Hehir 
continued from page 1 
to that appointment, he served as president and chief executive officer of Catholic Charities USA since 2001. 
Previous to his work with Catholic Charities, Hehir was the first Catholic priest to lead the Harvard divinity school, a post he held from 1998 through 2001. This appointment followed 20 years of service in Washington to the United States Catholic Conference, main writers of the council's 1982 pastoral letter regarding nuclear weapons, according to a Notre Dame press release. He also served on the faculty at Georgetown University in Washington from 1984 to 1992. 
now  known  as  the  U.S.  
Conference  of  Catholic  
Bishops.  
Hehir worked  as  one of the  

Father Hehir is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, the Council on Foreign Relations and the Catholic Theological Society 

of America. He is also a 1984 MacArthur Fellow and serves on the boards of organiza­tions such as the Arms Control Association and the Council for a Livable World. 
Hehir is the recipient of more than 25 honorary degrees from various colleges and universities. In 1998, he received a doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame. 
Hehir will receive the award during the University's Commencement ceremony on May 16. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Pastors rally against gay marriage 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA-From the cradle of the civil rights movement, sev­eral hundred black pastors are voicing their opposition to the gay marriage movement and rhetoric that equates it with the struggle for racial equality. 
The pastors rallied late Monday at an Atlanta-area church where they signed a dec­laration outlining their beliefs on marriage and religion. They are pressing for a state constitution­al ban on gay marriages, which will be considered again by the Georgia House as soon as this week. 
Many black clergy say they are offended by the gay rights move­ment's claim that their struggle is the same as the effort for equal racial rights. 
The declaration, which was to be presented to legislative lead­ers later in the week, said same­sex marriage is not a civil right, and marriage between a man and a woman is necessary for the upbringing of children. 
"This is neither a hate nor a fear issue," the statement said. "People are free in our nation to pursue relationships as they choose. To redefine marriage, however, to suit the preference of those choosing alternative lifestyles is wrong." 
Bishop Donn Thomas of Messiah's World Outreach Ministries said the civil rights movement "was a positive free­dom for African-Americans to experience our capabilities as men and women created in the image of God." 
"The homosexual lobby is seeking a negative freedom root­ed in the sexual revolution, and it's a negative freedom from the restraint of morality," Thomas said. 
The rally is important because the black pastors are taking a stand on such a difficult issue, said Randy Hicks, president of the Georgia Family Council, which helped organize the event. 
"They're making an appropri­ate statement about what mar­riage is and what it is not," Hicks said. "These men and women can certainly be characterized as compassionate and caring, and they are concerned about things like discrimination." 
More than 600 people rallied last month outside the Georgia Capitol, saying a constitutional amendment would violate their civil rights. 
They held signs reading "Marriage is a civil right not a religious rite" and "We say no to marriage segregation." 
"How do they figure that it's not a civil rights issue?" said the Rev. Paul Turner, a gay pastor from Atlanta who helped organ­ize last month's rally. 
"This is just a way for those conservative leadership in the black community to say, 'Look, this isn't a matter of civil rights because we're black and we did­n't have a choice in being black.' And they think gays do, and that's not true," Turner said. 
Same-sex marriage is already illegal in Georgia, but supporters of the ban say the constitution needs to be changed to make sure a judge does not direct Georgia to recognize gay mar­riages performed in other states. 

r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
Anyone interested in running for Off-Campus President, Off­Campus Senator, or Off-Campus Programmer needs to inform the Judicial Council immediately. 
Contact: 

Judicial Council 
jcouncil@nd.edu 
or 


call 631-7668 asap. 
L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 

Tuesday, March 23, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks. 

fc,~~s 10,064.75 -121.85 


·~·~5~ 

S&P 500 1,095.40 -14.34 NIKKS.· .rm.·. :tt318i51l · •······•··.•... .. · ·.·.·•·. 6·.• ••. ·
~• ... · ...•.·.·..... .. •. •.·.·.·.·."'.·.···.·.·•·.··
\ •:~T-1· · :..... .1... . .. _...,.., . ··· ..·.·.·.··.··o vv 
FTSE IOO(L.Dndon) 4,333.80 -83.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.53  -0.13  24.50  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -0.98  -0.26  26.23  
JDS UNIPHASE UDSU)  +0.50  +0.02  4.02  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -0.67  -0.15  22.35  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -1.39  -0.16  11.34  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.95  -0.45  46.74  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -1.69  -0.64  37.24  
5-YEARNOTE  -2.44  -0.67  26.81  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.65  +0.06  9.23  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.57  37.03  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +4.90  417.6  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +2.80  I 01.225  
Exchan e Rates  
YEN  106.8  
EURO  0.8102  
POUND  0.5413  
CANADIAN$  1.334  

COMPANY BRIEFS 
Walgreen profits jump in Q2 
CHICAGO -Another quarter of soaring pre­scription drug sales lifted Walgreen Co. to a 17 percent profit increase in the second quarter -the latest evidence that rapid expansion is paying off for the nation's largest drugstore chain. 
Walgreen's earnings came in slightly below Wall Street's high expectations Tuesday and its stock fell 2 percent. But the Deerfield, IlL­based company continued to report strong pharmacy results in particular, with prescrip­tion sales jumping 19 percent over the previ­ous year's total to account for 60 percent of all sales. 
Carnival merger propels earnings 
MIAMI-Carnival Corp. & PLC, the world's largest cruise company, reported a 60 percent rise in first-quarter earnings Monday because of its marger last year, the addition of several new ships and a strong recovery from the slowdown caused by terrorism and the Iraq war. 
The Miami-based company reported net income of $203 million, or 25 cents a share, in the three months ended Feb. 29, compared to $127 million, or 22 cents a share, in the same period a year earlier. That beat the 22 cents a share estimate of Wall Street analysts sur­veyed by Thomson First Call. 
Revenues doubled to $2 billion from $1 bil­lion a year ago, with $749 million in new rev­enues coming because of Carnival's merger with Britain's P&O Princess Cruises PLC, com­pleted last April. 
Home Depot to launch Net registry 
ATLANTA-Home Depot is going the way of retailers like Crate & Barrel and Macy's by offering an online gift registry. Industry observers see it as a way for the Atlanta-based company to enhance its relationship with cus­tomers, even if it isn't a boon for the bottom line. The initiative will be formally launched Tuesday. 
The home improvement chain says it is banking on its research showing that more people are getting married later in life, per­haps for a second time, and already have small appliances, fine china and cutlery. 
RETAIL 





Snite store goes out of business 
Art museum shop had been plagued by low customer traffic, space pressures 
By MATT BRAMANTI Senior StaffWriter 
The store in the Snite 
Museum of Art has discon­
tinued business after sev­
eral years of lackluster 
results, said Ann Knoll, 
associate director of th~ 
museum. Last week, the 
store held a closing sale, 
discounting inventory up to 
75 percent. 

The store sold art prints, 
books, decorative items 
and gifts. 

Knoll said it was difficult 
to pin the store's failure on 
a single issue. 

"It was several factors 
that came together at the 
right time," Knoll said. 

Those factors include declining sales, which Knoll blamed on a lack of foot traffic to the store. 
PAMELA LOCK/The Observer

Prior to 1997, the museum 
had parking available The retail store In the Snlte Museum of Art closed Its doors Friday afternoon, after 
across Moose Krause years of faltering sales. The shop struggled to attract pedestrian traffic after near­Circle. However, the by parking spaces were removed during the expansion of Notre Dame Stadium. expansion of Notre Dame Stadium eliminated those need of gallery space as hard to compete with a new art museum, con­parking spots, forcing the collection continues to them." taining a larger store area. would-be museum patrons expand," Knoll said. She Knoll praised the efforts "At this point in time, to make the trek on foot. cited a 2003 Snite internal of the store's manager, Iris we've requested that a 
"Our foot traffic has gone review, which criticized the Mensing, who will take space be held for us on the down, and our sales have lack of space available to early retirement as a result campus master plan," gone down," Knoll said. show the museum's grow­of the closing. Knoll said. "We've asked to She said those sales have ing collection of works on "It's not her fault ... she be down by the new recently averaged about paper. The collection has tried very valiantly," DeBartolo Performing Arts $55,000 per year, enough includes photographs, Knoll said. "We wish her Center." to cover the cost of mer­drawings and prints. well." She said plans for the chandise, but not enough "The best use of that The 400-square-foot new museum include a to make the store prof­[retail] space was to turn it store, discreetly tucked in "much larger shop" and a itable. into a gallery," Knoll a corner of the museum cafe or restaurant, but she 
"If we look at all the explained. near the entrance, opened acknowledged that any expenses, then no, the The store had also been in 1986, operating nearly such facility is still in the store didn't make money," hit by competition from the 18 years until its demise. early stages of planning. Knoll said. Hammes Notre Dame However, Knoll is opti­"When it will be con­
Another factor that con­Bookstore, a facility that is mistic that a new incarna­structed is anybody's tributed to the shop's more than 150 times larger tion of the store will one guess," Knoll said. demise is the necessity for than the Snite's shop. day serve the art-hungry more museum display "We were really feeling consumer. She said muse­
Contact Matt Bramanti at

space, she said. the effects of the book­um officials have encour­"We're desperately in store," Knoll said. "It's aged the University to build mbramant@nd.edu 

ENERGY 
Shell to trim Nigerian operations 
cation of 3.9 billion barrels in its that 60 percent of Shell's Nigerian
Associated Press 
reserves. The company announced an reserves didn't meet widely accepted 
LAGOS, Nigeria -Oil giant Royal additional cut to its global reserves on accounting standards for proved Dutch/Shell said Monday it plans to Thursday. reserves. streamline its operations in this West The January reductions caused a But Emmanuel Agbegir, a African nation, cutting jobs even as its shareholder uproar that led to the res­spokesman for Nigeria's ministry of tries to boost oil production by half a ignations of chairman Sir Philip Watts petroleum, said later Friday that any million barrels a day. and its head of exploration and pro­confusion about the size of Shell 
Rival ethnic groups in the oil rich duction. reserves in Nigeria has arisen because Niger Delta -where the bulk of Shell's The company has also postponed the the company "lumped together" data oil is drilled -responded by threaten­release of its annual report to give about its reserves in different countries ing to force Shell to close oil production independent auditors time to review before submitting it to fmancial regula­facilities if any of their people lose jobs. the company's reserves. Shell also tors in the United States. 
Since last year, the militants have faces a U.S. Securities and Exchange "Nigeria's reserves are proven and 
captured dozens of multinational oil Commission investigation into its there is nothing questionable about it. facilities, forcing the closure of sites accounting for its reserves. Our reserves are near proven and producing hundreds of thousands of Reserves constitute an energy com­that's the truth,'' Agbegir said. barrels of crude oil daily. pany's most valuable asset, and any On Monday, Shell said in a statement 
The disclosure of streamlining plans reclassification of reserves into less it will close some of its Nigerian offices in Nigeria come as Shell tries to con­certain categories is a major concern and create "a single corporate center," tain the fallout from its recent reduc­for investors. running a leaner and more efficient tions in its estimates of proved reserves The New York Times reported Friday organization in the country. of oil and natural gas around the that Shell had kept secret key details of Shell Nigeria's managing director, world. the January downgrading of reserves, Chris Finlayson, said the reorganiza­
Shell reduced its estimate of reserves especially those concerning Nigeria. tion's aim was to raise Shell's oil pro­in Nigeria by 1.3 billion barrels in The newspaper quoted "confidential duction from about 1 million barrels to January, as part of a larger reclassifi-documents" from late 2003 as showing 1.5 million barrels daily by 2006. 
Tuesday, March 23, 2004 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
SPAIN 

Four are charged in Spain bombings 
Associated Press 
MADRID -A Spanish judge charged four more suspects early Tuesday with terrorism and mass killings for alleged roles in a string of railway blasts that killed 202 people. 
The charges against the three Moroccans and one Spaniard followed hours of interrogation and brought to nine the num­ber of people charged in the March 11 terror attack. 
The court action came as out­going Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar defiantly declared that he has no regrets over sup­porting the Iraq war, adding that his successor's plans to likely pull troops from Iraq would weaken the international coalition against terrorism. 
Aznar's party suffered a sur­prise defeat amid charges that he had provoked the bombings by backing the war. 
"I am going with my head held high and proud of the job I have done," he said in an inter­view with the TV station Telecinco. He also accepted some of the blame for his party's loss. 
Judge Juan del Olmo charged Spaniard Jose Emilio Suarez, accused of providing explosives for the attacks, with 190 counts of murder, 1,430 counts of attempted murder, robbery and collaborating or belonging to a terrorist organization. 
Moroccan Abderrahim Zbakh was charged with all those same offenses except robbery. Officials said he left the court­room in tears. 

Mohamed El Hadi Chedadi and Abdelouahid Berrak, also Moroccans, were charged with collaborating with or belonging to a terrorist organization. 
The judge ordered a fifth sus­pect, a Moroccan, released for lack of evidence. 
Besides the nine suspects for­mally charged, four others are being held but haven't been formally accused. 
The charges stop short of a formal indictment, but suggest the court has strong evidence against the suspects. They can remain in jail two years while investigators gather more evi­dence. 
Court officials said the latest suspects were arrested early Monday, three who were picked up in Madrid's Lavapies dis­trict, a multiethnic neighbor­hood where chief suspect Jamal Zougam ran a cell phone shop. 
Suarez, a former miner, admitted helping Moroccans still at large obtain explosives but said he did not know what the dynamite would be used for. All three Moroccans denied involvement in the attacks. 
Chedadi, the brother of a sus­pect jailed in Spain in 2001 on charges of being part of a Spain-based cell that allegedly helped plan the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States, denied any involvement in the Madrid attacks and said he learned of them that same morning while watching car­toons at home with his chil­dren, court officials said. 

World population census released 
Fewer births, more AIDS deaths slow growth 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The world's population growth is slowing because women are having fewer children and more people are dying from AIDS, especially in Africa, according to a Census Bureau report released Monday. 
The report forecasts there will be nearly 9.1 billion peo­ple by 2050, a nearly 50 per­cent increase from the 6.2 billion in 2002. However, the growth rate is slowing signifi­cantly. 
The global population grew 
1.2 percent from 2001 to 2002, or about 74 million people, but growth will slow to 0.42 percent by 2050. That's far below the peak growth of 2. 2 percent between 1963 and 1964. 
The projections are gener­ally in line with separate forecasts from the United Nations and private researchers. The 2050 world projection is slightly lower than the 9. 3 billion forecast in a previous bureau report on the topic in 1998. 
Bureau officials warned that such forecasts are based on two factors that could change: fertility rates in developing countries and the AIDS epidemic. 
Generally, in the United States and Europe, women are having fewer children, while fertility rates remain high in India, parts of Africa and some other developing countries, said Carl Haub, a demographer with the Population Reference Bureau, a private research group. greatest impact in developing 
The wild card is how preva­countries of Asia. Latin lent contraceptive use and America and especially sub­family planning becomes in Saharan Africa. Botswana these countries, Haub said. and South Africa are among As an example, he cited countries that may see popu­India, where the population lation decline because of is expected to rise more than AIDS deaths. 50 percent to 1.6 billion in "AIDS alone is devastating 20 50, surpassing China as the heart of these countries, the most populous country. affecting people in the prime 
According to the bureau. years of not only their eco­
there are at least  nomic produc­ 
100  million  tion,  but  the  
women in the world's develop­ "AIDS alone is  prime years of reproduction."  
ing countries who would like to space or limit their pregnan­ devastating the heart of these countries.··  said Steve Mosher, presi­dent of the Population  
cies but are  not  R e s  e  a  r  c h  
using contracep­ Steve Mosher  Institute,  a  
tion. Family  plan­ president of the PRI  Front Royal, Va.-based group  

ning education in India and Africa is difficult because of the large numbers of rural vil­lages that cannot easily be reached, Haub said. 
In 2002, the world's women gave birth to an average of 
2.6 children over their life­time. The bureau projections assume that the fertility rate will drop below two children per woman by 2050. 
Meanwhile, AIDS has killed more than 20 million people since the epidemic began two decades ago. 
Twice that many people now live with HIV, the virus that leads to AIDS, and bar­ring major medical break­throughs most of these peo­ple are expected to die within the next 10 years, the bureau said. 
AIDS continues to have its 
that opposes 
population con­trois as a way to curb growth. 
"Population control efforts make no sense in the face of the AIDS epidemic," Mosher said. 
Still, the bureau report said the trend could reverse if AIDS edu~ation programs are expanded successfully in developing nations, and pointed to positive signs in Thailand, Senegal and Uganda, nations in which the AIDS epidemic appears to have been stemmed. 
The report also predicted the continued increase in the world's older population. In 2002. people 65 and older made up 7 percent of the population, but that age group will comprise nearly 17 percent by 2050. 
ROMANIA 

Gypsies await war reparations 
Associated Press 
MUNTENI -Things quickly got out of hand. Dozens of Gypsies clamored to meet with human rights activists who are helping them win compensation for being forced into slave labor under Romania's Nazi-allied regime during World War II. 
Windows broke and heated words were shouted before the crowd realized a mistake had been made: The visitors in town were journalists, not lawyers come to document their claims for compensation. 
That a rumor could nearly touch otT a riot underscores the tensions simmering in Gypsy communities across Romania as people wait for money -or at least some news on whether they qualify. 
The program, paid for by the German government and private industry, is the first to compen­sate Gypsies, or Roma as they also are known, for their suffer­ing in the Holocaust. Payments are only now starting to arrive. 
Those waiting -like Diamanta Stanescu, 77. who lives in the nearby village of Liesti, 140 miles northeast of the capital, Bucharest -fear they may remain forgotten. 

Sitting with 15 other members of her clan in a room in the gloom of a single light bulb pow­ered by a car battery, she wept at the memory of a youth lost in wartime concentration camps. Her father, a brother and a sister were killed -shot by German soldiers near a river in Ukraine. 
"We left as beautiful as roses and we came back naked, starv­ing, and full of mud," she said. 
Stanescu was among the 25,000 Gypsies deported by the Nazi-allied Romanian authorities to what was then the German­occupied part of the Soviet Union. Tens of thousands of Romanian Jews were also sent to the camps. 
Most of the deportees died, mainly from hunger and typhus, but executions and other brutali­ties also took a heavy toll. 
The Gypsies were used as slaves by the Nazis and their allies, forced to work on farms, fix roads, dig trenches and fell trees behind the front lines. 
About 5,900 Romanian Gypsies applied for compensation, says the International Organization for Migration, which handled appli­cations for non-Jewish victims in most European countries. 

Notre Dame Disability Awareness Week 
March 22-26, 2004 
Tuesday, 3/23 8p.m. at Recker's Panel Discussion led by ND/SMC Students with Disabilities. Free Smoothies. 
Wednesday, 3/24 9:30p.m. at Legends Theology on Tap Discussion starts at 10:15p.m. Is there such athing as wrongful life? 
Thursday, 3/25 7p.m. at DeBartolo 101 Autism Lecture Patricia Stacey is aCreative Writing Professor, former editorial staffmember ofthe Atlantic Monthly and 
author ofthe book, The Boy Who Loved Windows. Through intensive play therapy sessions, she taught her son with autism how to communicate. 
rvww.nd.edu/~bbuddies 


Tuesday, March 23, 2004 page 9 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 


The 2004 
Natural Law 
Lecture 

4 p~m. 

Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 



~-----­



THE OBSERVER 

RD. ~x R-• ~9-f!e Dllm~ ~ ~~~)# >·.....•. 
•. 
014 Southf:)iiUh!1;1l~l;.N~tni Diiiti~;lN 465$6 ···· 
EDITOR IN CHlEF Matt l.Ozar MANAGING EDIToR BOS1N£Ss M.\N"AG£8. 
Megha:nne ·[)Qwnes · Loril&walski 
Assr. MANA.GtNG Ellll'Oll. Joe Hettler 
NEWS EDITOR: Claiie Heininger VIEWPOINT EDIIDihSarah Vahuw SPORTS EDITOR: HeatherVan. Hoegarden 
Scl!NE EDITOR; Maria Smith · SAINr MARY's EDrroR:Angda Saoud PHOID EDITOR: Chuy Benitez 
GRAPHICS EDITOR1 MikeHark:ins·· .. ADVEtmsJNG MANAGER: CarrieFrankltii · . AD DEslGN MANAGElh Kelly Nelson WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto• • · CoNTROllER: Paula .Garda . . . . . •· 
CoNTACT Us 


Chasing Harvard 
When I chose to come to Notre Dame, two main attributes influenced my thinking: its Catholic foundation and its prestige. 
In my Jesuit educated, black CathoHc 18-year-old mind I figured this Kamaria Porter University would be an adequate fit for my intellectual Breaking the curiosity and social 
Habit 
concern. These past two years have marginally refuted those hopes, yet I held onto the future benefits, the excellent education and good reputation Notre Dame stood to deliver. Yet, even that vision is not a definite possibility. 
I am not one of the wealthy students. The contribution of generous benefac­tors and substantial sacrifices by my family allows me to attend this school. Mounting tuition makes me apprehen­sive about my ability to complete my study here comfortably without heaping amounts of debt or disadvantage to my loved ones. 
Tuition of prestigious universities climbs higher each year across the board. Yet, my disgust at the 6.9 per­cent tuition hike here stems from the revelation of a better and more just way for low income students like myself to access acclaimed college programs: the Harvard way. 
Last month, Harvard announced a new financial aid and admissions initia­tive to ease the burden of low-income students, increase economic class diver­sity and improve its local community relations. Harvard students from incomes under $40,000 will pay nothing towards tuition and others with incomes falling between $40,000 and $60,000 will receive a substantial increase in financial aid. 
Admissions department will vigorous­ly recruit excelling low income students who would normally never consider Harvard based on tuition. 
Lastly, to revitalize their position in the Boston community, Harvard will institute the Crimson Summer Academy for outstanding high school students from low-income families. The program will offer these students academic sup­port, mentoring and encouragement to make college a reachable and useful goal. Not only is this delightful program free, but Harvard also will pay for the student's transportation costs, medical insurance and meals, provide a stipend to cover forgone summer wages and reward completion with a $3,000 schol­arship to any university. 

Through this decision, Harvard is rec­ognizing class as an important aspect of a student's academic persona and breaking down barriers for a pool of eager and widely neglected students. 
In many discussions with profession­als here, I have gotten the sense Notre Dame harbors some Harvard envy. Who could blame it for striving to be the best? Yet, as a Catholic institution, Notre Dame ought to fill its own authen­tic niche, which I feel is currently lack­ing in many parts. 
Christianity in general, and Catholicism in particular, has rich work­ing and lower class origins. The New Testament, the foundation of our faith, depicts a new world order and the process by which we can achieve it. The Gospels call Christians to be bearers of goodwill, advocates for peace and pro­moters for economic justice. The revolu­tionary message of Jesus attracted fol­lowers from the underside of society ­women and the poor flocked to this ide­ology based on the dignity and beauty of all humanity -not on property and wealth holdings. 
Catholicism all over the world reaches out to the poor and oppressed, and not only with spiritual relief. People of faith immerse themselves in struggling com­munities, becoming one with the poor and working alongside them to bring about changes in power structures, evi­dent in the extraordinary lives of Archbishop Oscar Romero and Dorothy Day, two of the greatest example of the Catholic existence. 
When administrators resist pleas for certain programs by asserting the need to maintain the Catholic nature of this institution, I say it is rhetorical non­sense. A school with a sizeable business school, ROTC program, un-unionized workers and a wealthy apathetic stu­dent body seems pretty secular to me. 
I say, put your policies where your mouth is and make this University a beacon for Catholic Social Teaching and the Christian mission in the world. which ought to be highlighting instances of injustice. campaigning against war, eradicating poverty and cooperating with organizing drives for worker's rights. Things like the Preferential Option for the Poor, radicalism and Conscientious Objection say Catholicism to me, but certainly not to Notre Dame. 
I call the University to adopt a finan­cial aid program like Harvard's, to give lower income scholars a chance to study here. Economic downturns may shake our $3 billion-plus endowment and merit tuition hikes, but I call you to think of what a faltering and unfair economy does to low income families with zero assets. There is no compari­son with the level of damage experi­enced. 
Without help, an entire class of Americans is denied access to schools like Notre Dame. To allow this to hap­pen is an atrocious sin and a rejection of our Christian calL So, let's chase Harvard on this one because leveling the field, easing the burden on the poor and promoting justice is such a Catholic thing to do. 
Kamaria Porter, a sophomore history major, would like to thank Mr. Larry Costin, Mr. Sturm, Mr. and Mrs. Connolly, Mr. Ken Meyer and herfamily. Her every effort is to merit their gen­erosity. Contact Kamaria Porter at kporter@ nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
I would like to thank all who participated in "Gay, fine by me" and attended the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender (GLBT} Issues forum last week. As a student leader from a peer institution, I was delighted to be a part of such a great series of events. I believe that both "the shirt" cam­paign and the forum represent something that many at your University are willing to begin talking about. This truly is a wonderful starting point that will allow the University to first serve those who need i.t most. 
I would like to quickly address a correction to a misprint in The Observer as well. I truly appreciate the support and converge that the staff has given to the past week's events, but I would also like to correct a quote that was printed. In the article regarding the forum, it states that I said that "justice comes from recognition." I stated, which was also the theme of my address, that "acceptance comes from recognition" Again it is a small misprint and I still believe that the entire staff of The Observer did a wonderful job in covering the event. 
I would also like to congratulate Joe Dickmann, mem­hers of the panel and the GLBT/Allied community for their commitment, hard work and love that was put into these events. All who participated have truly strived to make the spirit of inclusion a reality when others have lost sight of its goal. I believe that open discussion events like the forum will help make your university a meeting place where all can feel welcomed. 

As I stated in my address, acceptance is found in recog­nition. As members of the Catholic community all should look to the teachings of Christ and tradition of the Catholic Church as the foundation. From this support and love of all, especially to the least of those among us, acceptance can become a reality. Only through you, as members of the student body, can true inclusion be realized. Thank you again for your warmth, compassion and hospitality. 
Michael Yaksich 
Director of G L.BT Issues Bosron College March 21 
News Maureen Reynolds Amanda Michaels 
Katie.Laird 
Viewpoint· 
Lauren Beck illustrator Pat Quill 
Graphics Mike Harkins ···sports 
Justin Schuver Steve Coyer Matt Puglisi Scene Julie Bender 
OBSERVER POLL 
Should the United States withdraw from Iraq by the June 30 deadline? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver. com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If a free society cannot help the many who are poor. it cannot save the few who are rich." 
John F. Kennedy 
U.S. president 

In gratitude for solidarity 

....--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·~ 
Perusing Parisian culture 
Well, it's been a long time since I've last written. Right now, we are enjoy­ing our Easter vacation: six weeks of relaxation from tutorials {yes, six; I'm somewhat embarrassed myself). But this long break affords us interna­

Geoff Johnston 
tionals a unique 
opportunity for 
travel (even for A Domer at 
such stick-in-the­
Oxford 
muds as myselO 
and I wanted to 
tell you about my adventures in Paris. 
Now, a few weeks ago my parents decided to make the trip here to England to visit Oxford, London and then Paris, and so I accompanied them to France. 

The first real snag hit when we tried to enter the Metro, the French rail sys­tem. I will admit that one of us was pick-pocketed, but in order to protect the innocent (or in this case, perhaps not-so) I won't mention any names. The sting was actually pretty clever. What happened was that, as one of us was passing through the turnstile, a man came from behind and stopped the turnstile from fully turning over. Then, once it had clicked into place, and the person was struggling to move it forward, the criminal reached into his/her pocket, took the wallet and took off the other way, leaving the per­son caught in the turnstile. C'est la vie, eh? 
Well, other parts of Paris were a lit­tle more friendly. Notre Dame Cathedral lived up to its reputation Notre Dame sweatshirt, and I fully expected meeting a few Darners there; thankfully I was not disappointed. 

We also visited St. Chapelle, a glori­ous little Gothic church 
each depicting a different book of the Bible. 
We then visited the Louvre, which houses such treasures as the Venus de Milo and the Mona Lisa. Thankfully we visited on a Wednesday evening, when the lines were short: a suggestion for all of you future travelers is to visit the touristy stuff on weekdays. Oh, and 
Mona's "enigmatic smile?" Well, her 
smile really is unique: Leonardo pur­
posefully painted it to appear vague 
and hazy, and the longer you stare at 
it the more possible emotions can be 
read from her face. 
Who could forget the Eiffel Tower? The Eiffel Tower is to Paris what the Dome is to Notre Dame: they both are so unforgettable, so grand that they define their relative areas. You can see the Eiffel Tower from anywhere in the city: during the day it stands as a sym­bol of progress and industry, and at night, when its huge lighthouse beam sweeps the sky over the city, it serves as a beacon beckoning people to the home of so much art and culture. 
And the food: France is famous for her desserts, and she did not disap­point. The chocolate and Nutella crepes, the soft ice-creams, the pas­tries for breakfast were all so rich, so fresh, uggh ... and now it's back to British food. 
I hope you all enjoyed your trip to Paris; I know I enjoyed reliving the sights and smells. Now where can I get a Nutella crepe around here? 
Geoff Johnston is enjoying his break by traveling and reading. He hopes that the seniors are able to enjoy every minute of their last semester under the Dome. Go Irish! Contact Geoff Johnston at gjohnsto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Shirts advocate respect, love for homosexuals 
Espousing ascientific defense 
In response to Gus Zuehlke's March 22 the­ological argument against the "social promo­tion of the homosexual lifestyle," which is "counterproductive to the true interest of homosexuals," and "results in monstrous" human behavior, I provide a simple scientific response (although I am aware that theologi­cal arguments are strictly irrefutable): there is overwhelming experimental data that social pressure and coercion cannot alter the sexual orientation of a homosexual. Homosexuality is not a disease that can be cured either by Mr. Zuehlke's preaching or by any other medicine or physician. 
In fact, as Chandler Burr states in his book "A Separate Creation: The Search for the Biological Origins of Sexual Orientation," homosexuality is no more a disease than human handedness. Inferences about the genetic origin of both of these behavioral traits have always resulted from empirical observations, because neither the gene for human handedness nor the gene for homo­sexuality has been discovered. 
Burr provides evidence, showing that there is a striking similarity between the trait of human handedness and homosexuality: both have a majority and minority orientation (right-and left-handed, and hetero-and homosexual people, respectively); the minori­ty orientation is much higher in males than in females for both traits (there are 100 percent more homosexual men than there are les­bians); age of first behavioral appearance of both traits is two years; there is an elevated rate of minority orientation in families with other ·minority-oriented members; the minor­ity orientation seems to be maternally inher­ited, implying aX-chromosome linkage. 
But the most striking statistically deter­mined fact suggesting the genetic determina­tion of homosexuality consists in the follow­
ing: if one of two monozygotic (identical) 
twins is homosexual, his or her sibling has a 
50 percent chance of being homosexual as 
well (12 percent in the case of human hand­
edness, meaning that there is more indirect 
proof that homosexuality is genetically deter­
mined than human handedness is). And yet, 
we intuitively agree that human handedness 
is a genetic product, while strongly oppose 
and refuse to admit the notion that homosex­
uality is simply a genetic variation. 
One can argue that homosexuality is a dis­
ease in a Darwinian sense, since homosexu­als cannot actively reproduce and have off­spring. However, since our society does not ·sanction biologically sterile individuals, why 
would it have to sanction gays? 
Ongoing studies and research on the heated topic of homosexuality, such as Burr's, incline me to disagree with St. Paul's centuries-old description of homosexuality as a punishment from God. It is not a disease, it does not inhibit a person from working or performing any other social function, it does not make people commit more crimes or other illicit acts. And finally, it is not chosen, much in the same way that human handedness is not cho­sen. So why, then, call it "monstrous" and why not accept a homosexual lifestyle? 
It is high time that we stop basing our arguments solely on theological constructs (which in this case engender nothing but unfounded discrimination), and cease ignor­ing the current scientific developments, which scream at our faces: "We are all human, and we are different. Learn to live with it." 
Hristo Hristov JUnior Stanford Hall March 22 

Christians are called to 
love, not condemn 
In response to Gus Zuehlke's March 22 letter, "Wearing of Shirts is Sinful," in which he quoted St. Paul to the Romans, I would like to respond with several other quotations from the Bible. 
From 1 Corinthians 13, arguably the greatest chapter on Christian love in the Bible, "If I speak in human and angelic tongues but do not have love, I am a resounding gong or clash­ing symbol. And if I have the gift of prophecy and comprehend all mysteries and all knowledge; if I have all faith so as to move mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing ... So faith, hope, love remain, these three; but the greatest of these is love." 
Mr. Zuehlke, I wore that shirt on March 18. I have friends as well as family members who are homosexual, and I have never stopped loving them, despite the fact that I understand the Bible says they are living a life of sin. 
Before disparaging them, however, I fulfill my Christian duty to love them as myself, to treat them equally and to respect their choices, whether or not I agree with them. As Christians, we are taught to love others above all else, and I believe that's what many of the students and faculty were demonstrating with their shirts. On a campus of 85 percent Catholic back­ground, and undoubtedly much higher Christian percentages, 1,600 people in shirts can't be a mistake, a fluke or an inten­tional uprising against the \Vord of the Lord. 
It is our duty as Christians to love one another in the same way that Jesus loved the adulteress in John 8, when he addressed her tormentors saying, "Let the one among you who is without sin be the first to throw a stone at her." 
When he was left alone with the woman, he asked her, "Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?"The woman replied in the negative, and Jesus said, "Neither do I condemn you." 
Mr. Zuehlke, are you without sin? Because I think that every­one in the shirts realized that they weren't. 
Brittany Sajbel freshman Lewis Hall March 22 


Tuesday, March 23, 2004 page I.~ 
Anew 
ook at so 
The switch of film format from VHS to DVD gives movie fans tJ 
Fl E \! I E \AV S B y MO 

Authors Note: Instead of spending my break getting tan nr J Notre Dame. Over the week, I naturally watched 1 lot of DVD. review some ofmy favorites. I have found that the more distra( hopefully this might help some ofyou with your transition. Enj( 
Quentin Tarantino's breakthrough movie asserts the fast-paced and violent style that would become his trademark, complete with snappy dialogue and erratic storylines that all eventually converge in the last moments of the film. The film follows the exploits of a group of criminals put together to pull off the per­fect crime. None of them know who the others are, as they are known only by monikers like "Mr. Pink," "Mr. White" and "Mr. Blonde." But when their caper goes awry, they realize that they have a police informant among their ranks. The most famous and most disturbing part of the film is the
Reservoir 

infamous "ear scene," set to the Steelers Wheel tune, "Stuck in the Middle With You." 

Dogs 

This scene highlights Tarantino's penchant for combining violence with a strange kind of comic irony, as well as his frequent use of somewhat
Director:Quentin Tarantino 
quirky music selections in his films to highlight key moments. Reservoir Dogs marked the beginnings of
Year:1992 

"indie" films having debuted at Robert Redford's Sundance Film Festival. It truly shows that a good movie doesn't need to cost a lot. The combination of a great director, a tricky film noir plot and excel­lent actors like Steve Buscemi and Harvey Keitel produces an interesting and unusual movie. Reservoir Dogs 



Now a major star of cinema and the tabloids, Irish actor Colin Ferrell got his start playing a young soldier from Texas in director Joel Schumacher's Tigerland. Ferrell plays Roland Bozz -a soldier in constant battles with his commanding officers. His refusal to follow orders and his tendency to overtly help his fellow trainees escape using his knowledge of the military system gets him into trouble. The other soldiers soon turn against Bozz because the consequences of his actions fall on them as well. When his unit is sent to Tigerland, a camp in Louisiana that closely resembles Vietnam War scenes, he is forced to assume a new mantle of leadership. 
The movie deftly combines concerns about the war with the ethos of the military, and this movie proves that Ferrell has what it takes to be a star. He completely car­ries the movie, and he portrays · 
the strange combination of defi-.---------------------, ance and fear that keeps Bozz 

Tl·gerland

from willfully bending to the 
military rules. The Texas 
accent he bears in the film is a 
Director:Joel Schumacher
big plus as well. The movie shows only men on their way to 
Year:2000

Vietnam, not actually there or on their way home, so it gives an interesting perspective to war in general and how it affects the young men who
Tigerland must face it. 

Even if you have never seen Casablanca, it is more than likely you have heard of it, or at the very least have seen it quoted or parodied at some point in your life. It has become more than just a movie -it has become a classic, and a part of our collective conscious as a society. The film follows Rick Blaine (Humphrey Bogart), a cyn­ical American ex-patriot who owns a bar in pre-World War II Morocco. The bar has become a haven for people fleeing the nefarious forces collecting in Europe. He is a man, who in his words "sticks his neck out for nobody." 
But his continence changes when the woman who broke his heart, lisa (Ingrid Bergman) arrives in Casablanca. 


Casablanca 

Director: Michael Curtiz Year : 194 2 
She has come with her new love, Victor Lazlo (Paul Henreid), who is a Czech resistance leader fleeing his pursuers. In the midst of a difficult love triangle, Rick must choose between hjs own desires and the lives of others who depend on his decisions. 
The film captures an atmosphere of desperation and isola­tion that marks the people who live in Casablanca, and reveals that in the scope of war"... the problems of three people don't amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world." The movie has everything going for it including great dia­logue, a great story, fantastic cinematography, elegant cos­tumes and perfectly cast actors. The special edition also has original trailers. It also includes a documentary about the movie's origins and information on the film's far-reaching effects on other movies. Casablanca achieves a kind of cine­matic perfection that films rarely achieve. Age does nothing to diminish enjoying the story or the impact it will make. 




Tuesday, March 23, 2004 page 13 









~me old classics 
he perfect excuse to watch some old favorites in a new way 
L L y GRIFFIN 
rollicking on a tropical island, I stayed here at good old )s _(as a good Scene writer should}, and I have chosen to ,ctwns you can find, ~he easier it is to avoid your work, so oy. Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd. edu 
Hollywood loves to make mob movies, but it is rare when one distinguishes itself from the pack and strives to be more than a mere Godfather rip-off. Martin Scorsese's Goodfellas earns its own merit by taking the often mythologized world of the mafia and putting it in the harsh perspective of reality. The film follows Henry Hill {Ray Liotta) through three decades 
of life in the mafia, revealing the effects of the lifestyle on himself, his fellow mobsters and his family. Hill rides the peaks and valleys of mob life, living from one job to the next, all of which ultimately takes a huge toll on himself and those around him. Hill must ultimately turn to being an FBI informant to avoid prison or the victim of a mob hit, and living a normal life proves to be the hardest challenge of all. 
The portrait Scorsese paints is not a flattering or particularly glam­orous one. He shows the tenuous nature of' the business and lifestyles that the men leave, as well as how it can devastate families and friends. The movie is full of great performances from Liotta, Robert De Niro {as Jimmy "The Gent" Conway), Joe Pesci (as the homicidal Tommy DeVito, which won him a Best Supporting Actor Oscar) and Lorraine Bracco (as Hill's long suffering wife, Karen). Scorsese vividly presents the violent and desperate lives the men lead in the mafia. hut also the sense of family and power that attracts them to the lifestyle. It is a long film that 


requires patience and commitment to watch, but it is deeply moving and interesting, as well as an example of great direction. Goodfellas 
Good&e((aS
l 
1 
Director: Martin Scorsese Year: 199 O 



Chocolat attempts to throw a new light on the season of Lent by showing the need to balance self-denial with a spirit of joy. This film will be somewhat painful for anyone who may have given chocolate up for Lent, but it does provide an optimistic view of the 
season. 

The film follows Vianne (Juliette Binoche), a free-spirited wanderer who opens a chocolate shop in a secluded French village 
during Lent. The town turns its back on the non-conforming woman, but her open and accepting mind helps some of those suffer­ing under the fac;ade of perfection and con­formity that the town constructs. Judi Dench plays an older woman estranged from her daughter who finds comfort in chocolate and secret meetings with her grandson. Lena Olin plays a married woman who finds the courage to leave her oafish husband and venture out on her own. Included in the supporting cast are Alfred Molina, Carrie Anne Moss and Johnny Depp. 


The townspeople learn to be more accepting and less rigid from Vianne's unique ways, and she, after a lifetime of wandering, finally joins a community and finds love. The film lags in parts, and is occasionally a little heavy-handed with the allegorical elements of the story, but it is nonetheless a charming and funny story. 
Saving Silverman is one of those movies that is so unabashedly dumb and silly that you just have to laugh in spite of yourself. It follows the exploits of three best friends, Darren Silverman (Jason Biggs), Wayne Lefessier (Steve Zahn) and J.D. McNugent (Jack Black), who have known each other since childhood and perform together in a Neil Diamond cover band. Their friendship is torn apart when Silverman starts dating the catty and controlling Judith {Amanda Peet). Silverman's two friends concoct a plan to kidnap Judith so that they can set their friend up with a past love of his from high school who is about to become a nun. 
Centering a comedy around a kidnapping, which is a tragic and dangerous undertaking, makes it hard to suspend belief enough to laugh at some of the jokes. The movie adds a few scenes and storylines that really aren't necessary. A more streamlined story would have helped the movie out. The actors in the film really deserve a better film, because all of the actors, particularly Peet and Black, are skilled in comedy. The film definitely has some funny moments. The cast works surprisingly· well together, but the movie as a whole is kind of a stretch. 
Saving Silverman is OK, but it could have been better. There are certainly a lot better Saving Silvermanrtesyofwww.anmoviephoto.comdumb comedies out there. 



Saving Silverman 

Director:Dennis Dugan Year:2001 


I ' \ \ 
I 
l \ 
! 
I ~ 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
I I I 
t 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I 
Tuesday, March 23, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 


Salmons leads 76ers to victory over Mavericks 
free throws before Salmons eight rebounds and a blocked
Associated Press sank a 3 and Green added a shot. helping to make up for the PHILADELPHIA-With Allen jumper that pushed the lead loss of O'Neal. Iverson out of the lineup, John back to 17 and put the game The All-Star forward left in Salmons got a chance to show out of reach. the second quarter with what off his 3-point shooting "Thomas was exceptional," Pacers coach Rick Carlisle prowess. Dallas assistant coach Donn called "a combination bruise Salmons set career highs with Nelson said. "He gave us all and a sprain" to his left knee 21 points and five 3-pointers to kinds of problems and we did­that is not being viewed as seri­lead the Philadelphia 76ers to a n't have an answer for that." ous. 107-98 victory over the Dallas Donn Nelson took over when "Tonight's a night we can feel Mavericks on Monday night. his father, Don Nelson, was good about," Carlisle said. "But "Shooting is just repetition. ejected 33 seconds into the sec­there's a lot to be done, espe­That's all," said Salmons, ond half for arguing a foul call. cially if we lose a potential MVP whose had never made more Thomas made 11 of 13 free for a period of time. We'll say a than two 3s in a game. "For throw attempts and had a sea­prayer tonight and hope me, there's no reason to shoot son-high seven assists. McKie Jermaine's situation isn't a seri­an NBA 3 in college. So, coming had 16 points to help the Sixers ous one." out of college, I just wasn't used bounce back from an 0-4 road O'Neal injured the knee try­to shooting them." trip that ended with a 101-69 ing to set a pick, colliding with Playing without Iverson and loss in Miami on Saturday Bulls guard Ronald Dupree just second-leading scorer Glenn night. inside the baseline. He had to Robinson, the Sixers displayed The answer to their offensive be helped off the court and into some of their best ball move­woes was a Dallas team that the locker room with 8:21 left ment of the season. allowed 122 points in the first in the first half and the Pacers Kenny Thomas tied a season matchup between the two leading 33-20. high with 27 points and added teams on Jan. 14. "You lose your best low-post 13 rebounds. Rookie Willie "I don't think we've scored threat, your shot blocker and Green had 19 points for the like that all year," Thomas said. your MVP threat," Miller said. Sixers, who ended a four-game "At halftime, we had 61 points. "Other guys are going to have losing streak. It felt good because we had to to step up. When Ron has got­Earlier Monday, Iverson was match their intensity and knock ten hurt or been suspended, we listed as day to day with a sore down shots because they're a have responded. It's the same right knee. He ended up miss­scoring team." with Jermaine. ing his 23rd game of the sea­The Mavericks' Steve Nash "I don't think we've lost a son, the most he's sat out in scored 10 points, but had just game when he hasn't been in." one campaign. three in the first 3 1/2 quarters. O'Neal, who leads the Pacers Iverson was not on the bench Michael Finley also had 10. with 20.6 points per game and during the game. A team "There's no excuse for our 10.2 rebounds, will have an spokesman said he was in the defense," Nash said. "You can MRI on Tuesday. X-rays of the training room, receiving treat­at least guard somebody when knee were negative. His avail­ment on his injured knee. things aren't going well [offen­ability for the Pacers game direction, that's fine with me. game against his former team, With Robinson missing his sively] for you." against Dallas on Wednesday is "Whatever he calls, I'm going and the New York Knicks pulled fourth straight game with an Salmons had 12 points in the uncertain, "but it certainly to just try my best to get away early in the fourth quar­elbow injury, the Sixers' slug­first quarter, including two 3s looks doubtful," Carlisle said. ready." ter to defeat the Hawks. · gish offense was supposed to be and a reverse layup in the final Jamaal Tinsley finished with Reserves Jannero Pargo and "I don't really think I sent a no match for the high-scoring three minutes that put 11 points, eight assists and Dupree were the only other message," Mohammed said. Mavericks. Philadelphia ahead 26-20 after three steals as Indiana (51-19) Bulls to score in double digits. "They knew what I could do." "We've been able to find guys one. The Sixers' lead was no snapped a two-game skid. Pargo had 12 points, while Mohammed, dealt to the that step up in these situa­larger than seven the rest of After blowing leads of 17 Dupree added 10. Knicks last month in a three­tions," Sixers interim coach the first half and they led 61-57 points in a loss to Sacramento Chicago's 15 blocked shots team trade also involving Tim Chris Ford said. "Johnny and at halftime. on Friday and l3 in a loss to was a season-high. Thomas and Keith Van Horn, Aaron (McKie) and Willie all "The odds are against us," Memphis on Saturday, the "We have some young guys played as though he had some­stepped up and did their jobs. Salmons said of Philadelphia's Pacers kept building on an 29-with talent who want to play thing to prove against the team They had an opportunity and chances in the 18 first-quarter advantage. the right way and know how to he spent nearly three years made the best of it." Eastern Conference playoff They led by as many as 26 in play the right way," Bulls for­with. He shot 7 -for-11 in just 24 Dirk Nowitzki had 30 points race. "But it's not like us to give the third quarter. ward Antonio Davis said. "But minutes. on 11-for-20 shooting to lead up." Eddy Curry led the Bulls with it just comes to a point where He took six of the Knicks' first Dallas, which had won two Pacers 101, Bulls 77 13 points on 4-of-14 shooting you have to learn how to sus­seven shots and had eight straight. The Indiana Pacers don't after averaging 26.5 points dur­tain a certain level of basket­points, five rebounds and two Philadelphia used an 8-0 run have time to enjoy their most ing a recent two-game winning ball every single night and steals before picking up his sec­to start the third quarter and recent win, not after Jermaine streak. He was pulled from the we're just not getting that level ond foul eight minutes into the extend a four-point halftime O'Neal went down with an game in the third quarter along right now." first quarter, then had 10 points lead to 12. Salmons hit a 3 with injury. with most of Chicago's starters. Knlcks 96, Hawks 84 and five rebounds in the third 
3:42 left in the quarter that Reggie Miller scored 17 "I live my life ultimately Nazr Mohammed does not quarter. gave the Sixers their largest points and Ron Artest and AI knowing that the coach is the hold a grudge against the "Actually, I was probably too lead at 80-67. Harrington each added 15 to coach and he makes all the Atlanta Hawks -even though motivated just because I got so 
Dallas pulled within 10 with help the Eastern Conference­decisions," Curry said. "Once it might have looked that way tired so quickly," Mohammed 
8:02 remaining in the game leading Pacers beat the Chicago we're on the court, we do what Monday night. said. "I don't think I played as when Nowitzki made a wide­Bulls Monday night. we can to stay out there. But if Mohammed had 18 points well as I probably should have open 3. But McKie hit a pair of Jeff Foster added 11 points, he wants to look in a different and 13 rebounds in his first tonight." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Catholic family offering fulltime VERY NICE 3bdrm home in Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 summer childcare opportunity to EastBank area w/washer-dryer & bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer
NOTICES WANTED care for 4 FoR RENT alarm system inci.Niceyard for val-or fall. 
school age children, ages 5 to 11, leyball etc-full bsmt.Walk to Corbys 235-3655. Get the "bleep" out of the cold! Wanted-Old paintings, especially Scottsdale Mall area, 7:30AM to 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO &StJoe Church. Call Joe Mexico/Caribeean only $125 each Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-5:00PM, CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM Crimmins@574-514-0643(cell) Oakhill Condo, 2-3 bedroom, 2 way all taxes 9359 wages negotiable, non-smoker pre-mmmrentals@ aol.com 272-1525 or 574-273-0002(home) bath, one block from ND, included. Other worldwide destina-ferred, own transportation a plus, $425.00/person times 3 lions cheap. Book on-line Part time supply center admin This contact DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A8 COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR people, utilities included, available www.airtech.com or person will be responsible for inven-Maureen @ (574) 231-8126. BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 BEDROOM LEASE 2004·2005. June, 231-8823 after 4:00. 
(212) 219-7000. tory, ordering, labeling, at the sup-HOUSE ... 2 BEDROOM DUPLEX... Academic year ­
ply center in Galvin Life Sciences. AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON-Available June 1. 2bdrm-2 bath ­Catholic family offering fulltime The position DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-Fully Furnished ­
FOR SALE PERSONAL 
summer childcare opportunity to will be approx. 10 hours a week. 2005 SCHOOL YEAR. .WE ARE Security System. care for 4 $11 .00 an hour Must have access ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR (626)441-1275 school age children, to email and basic excel and word Home by owner. 18827 Darden Rd. THE 2005·2006 SCHOOL YEAR. .. orsalvaty@ earthlink. net UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do ages 5 to 11, Scottsdale Mall area, skills. Send information to 3BR 2BA WIBSMNT. 1 00x360 lot. 5 CONTACTKRAMER AT OFFICE not go it alone. If you or someone 7:30AM to 5:00PM, debra .norton@ invitrogen. com Mins to ND. 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR LARGE 3 BEDROOM HOUSE for you love needs wages negotiable, 623-826-8819 SHOWINGS rent. Beautifully redone, confidential support or assistance, 
non-smoker preferred, Flexible Summer PT position. 2 bathrooms, 2-car garage, wid, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, own transportation a plus, Teach for Kaplan or Work in our Computer: 400MHZ, Monitor, Win NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF basement, short walk to campus. CSC, at1-7819. For more informa­contact study center. Call XP, CO-Burner, $200/offer 287-ND GREAT FOR 3-6 STUDENTS Available 5/1, $1 ,050. tion, see our bi-weekly ad in THE Maureen@ (574) 231-8126. 272-4135 to apply. 6459 2773097 Call 574-876-1456. OBSERVER. 



Tuesday, March 23, 2004 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 

offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, March 23rd 
(and every third Tuesday of the month) 

7:30 -9:30 p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
COMMl'f"f£2 ON GAY AND l..E&.JAN 
aTV...JIItT NEED. 


View photos and floor plans at www.REMCI.com 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
• Just 4 Blocks South of the Notre Dame Campus Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue
• 

Current 1-year & 10-month Leases Available 
• 
On-Site Laundry Facility
• 

2 Closets and IDesk in Each Bedroom
• 
Private Parking Lots
• 

24 -hour Emergency Maintenance
• 

Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment
• 

For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation 
P 0 Box 540 
South Bend, IN 46624 

Telephone: 574-234-9923 
Facsimile: 574-234-9925 
Jbladl@.cbresb. com 

HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS 
'Hoosiers' game is now 50 years old 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana 
high school basketball traded 
tradition for trophies in 1998 
when it scrapped the tourna­
ment format that produced the 
most famous shot in Hoosier 
hoops history. 
Now, 50 years after Bobby Plump's last-second basket lift­ed tiny Milan over big-school Muncie Central, the tournament is split into four separate class­es. There's almost no chance the state ever will go back to the open-class tourney. 
"They put the emphasis on getting a trophy, and now you're a champion. But you're a champion of what?" Plump said. 
"I don't want to take anything away from the student-athlete. It's still great if you're a cham­pion of 90-some schools. But you're not the champion of the whole state." 
When the 380-plus-member Indiana High School Athletic Association changed the tour­ney format, more than 80 years of tradition was abandoned in favor of separate playoffs, based on school size, to placate the state's smaller schools. That produced more champions, but it all but assured there will never be another Milan Miracle, a David-and-Goliath triumph for the heavy underdog. 
Plump and other traditional­ists are still aghast. 
"I haven't given up on trying to change it back, but I have no authority to change it," said Plump, whose high school team was the inspiration for the 1986 movie "Hoosiers." 
"The IHSAA holds all the cards.... They own the basket­ball, they own the goal, and they make the rules," he said. "How can anybody penetrate that? It's unfortunate they can't see what it has done to the stu­dent-athletes." 
Plump, the 1954 Indiana Mr. Basketball, formed a group of single-class supporters in an unsuccessful attempt to sway the IHSAA vote leading up to the format change. 
He and other opponents of the switch from a single playoff to four separate classes argued that the divisional format robbed the athletes of the chance to compete against the 
WANTED Listeners for new release sale items: 
Lou Reed The Vines Gothica DVD Cypress Hill N.B.R.D. Weezer remastered Weezer DVD Widespread Panic Leftover Salmon 
enquire at: 
II 

0~ 

• 
campus shoppes 

• 
'town 8c country 

• 
western avenue 


state's best and watered down a 
tournament known throughout 
the country. 
In 1990, before the restruc­
turing, more than 40,000 peo­
ple watched Damon Bailey's 
Bedford North Lawrence team 
win the championship in the 
RCA Dome -a national record 
for a high school game. 
Attendance and revenues have 
plummeted since the change to 
separate classes. 
Total boys attendance at all 
four rounds of the tournament 
dropped from 786,024 in 1997, 
the final year for the single 
tournament, to 440,914 last 
year, a drop of 44 percent. 
Profit to the IHSAA plunged 51 
percent, from $924,016 to 
$448,405, over the same span. 
Girls attendance and profit, 
much smaller than the boys to 
begin with, dropped 23 percent 
and 36 percent, respectively. 
"I just loved it when we had a 
one-class tournament and there 
was a possibility of a Milan, but 
that is just not even realistic in 
this day and age," said Priscilla 
Dillow, former athletic director 
at Indianapolis Ben Davis. one 
of the state's largest schools. 
"Yes, you might have one every 
50 years, but the bigger schools 
have so many more extras." 
Dillow was on the IHSAA 
board of directors and sided 
with the majority in the 12-5 
vote for separate classes eight 
years ago. With Milan's 50-year 
anniversary and a recent regu­
lar-season rematch against 
Muncie Central, the subject of 
class basketball has again been 
widely discussed. 
Dillow said she would vote the 
same way now. 
"When I voted, I was repre­senting my district, and we did a district polling to see how the principals felt. And in my dis­trict it was 60-40," she said. "I think you'd still find just about the same split. Now, so many teams have experienced suc­cess, I can't imagine them going back." 
Merrillville athletic director Janis Qualizza, the only current board member who voted against separate classes, also said she would vote the same way. 
"I had good reasoning back then, and my reason's the same," she said. "We had the best state tournament in the country, and I couldn't see any reason why we shouldn't con­tinue that tournament." 
That's what Plump felt in 1995, as the push toward sepa­rate classes gained momentum. He formed a group called Friends of Hoosier Hysteria, which enlisted such basketball icons as John Wooden, Oscar Robertson and Bob Leonard to lobby on behalf of the tradition­al tourney format. 
Acting on a study committee recommendation, the IHSAA board approved the plan in April 1996, splitting more than 380 schools into four separate classes based on enrollment. In 1999, after two years under the new system and several failed attempts in the state Legislature to force at least a public referendum, the IHSAA board voted again to keep the separate classes. 
That's the last time the IHSAA has considered it. 



Lafayette Square To\Vnhollles 
"All the fun of college, without the education" 
New Three Person Rates -$298.00 Per Person, Per Month 
+ 
Proudly Severing the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community 

+ The LARGEST Student Housing Apartments Availabl 

+ 
4 & 5 Bedroom Units 


+ 
WASHER and DRYER in Each Unit 

+ 
Dishwasher 


+ 
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 

+ 
ADT Alarm Systems 

+ 
Close to Campus 



For More Information: Real Estate Management C"""'"',.,j.,,.,.... P.O. Box 540 
South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 JbladCwcbresb.com 
You've tried the rest, now live at the best! 

Notre Dame Apartments 
Starting at just $120.00 per person, per month! 


i 
I; 
I;' ~ 
I ) 
I)I ' page 16 Tuesday, March 23, 2004 
The Observ·er + SPORTS 
I 
I I I I 

Irish travel to Michigan to face near-perfect Wolverines
I 
I I I I 
~­
1 
MEN'S TENNIS 

I I I 
I I 
!l By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 

1: 
l 
The Wolverines are hungry for a victory to close out their home

!l 
non-conference schedule, but the Irish aren't planning on being dinner. 
Despite dropping their last two matches at the Blue/Gray National Classic, the Irish may be playing their best tennis of the season. Ranked at No. 35 with a 10-7 record, Notre Dame boasts three solid doubles teams. Senior tri-captain Luis Haddock is ranked No. 14 when playing with freshman Ryan Keckley and No. 29 when play­ing with senior tri-captain Matthew Scott. Keckley is also ranked No. 44 when paired with junior tri-captain Brent D'Amico. 
Freshman Steven Bass and sophomore Eric Langenkamp have also played consistently,

\ reaching the consolation finals 
I 
\ 
of the Pacific Coast Doubles Classic earlier this month 
The rest between today's match and the two tournaments the Irish played in early March plays to Notre Dame's favor. The Irish were forced into a difficult situation earlier in the season, as top players succumbed to injury and were exhausted by a tight schedule. 
Michigan (8-1) is coming off a 6-1 win over Ball State on March 
13. Nationally, Michael Rubin is ranked No. 46 in singles play for the Wolverines, and freshman Ryan Heller has posted an unde­feated record playing at No. 3 and 4 in the dual-match season. 
The Wolverines lead the all­time series with the Irish 40-23, although the Irish posted a 5-2 victory in last year's meeting. 
The match will be at 4 p.m. at the Varsity Tennis Center in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

l SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles drop four games over the past weekend 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sporrs Writer 
Dropping back-to-hack double­headers wasn't exactly what the Belles had in mind coming off their 5-4 spring break trip to Florida. 
But that is exactly what they got over the weekend, losing a pair each to Rose-Hulman on Saturday and Saint Mary's of the Woods on Sunday. 
"We don't want to play catch up anymore. Once we begin to start playing aggressively from inning one, then we will be a much more successful team," coach Anna Welsh said. 
Traveling to Rose-Hulman after a Friday cancellation against Goshen, the Belles lost 4-1 in their first game and 4-3, in eight innings, in the second. Kate Sajewich lost the first game, giv­ing up nine hits and striking out four. 
In the second game of the dou­ble header, Libby Wihelmy gave up nine hits and struck out four. Katrina Tebbe went 3-for-3 with an RBI and a run scored. 
On Sunday, Saint Mary's was defeated by Saint Mary's of the Woods 6-5 in the early game and 5-3 in the second game. Bridget Grall gave up six hits and walked none in the loss. Grall also went 2-for-4 at the plate, driving in two runs. 

In the Belles' fmal game of the weekend, Sajewich pitched again, giving up seven hits in five innings. Laura Heline doubled for the Belles and drove in two runs. Erin Sullivan went 2-for-3. 
Welsh attributed the losses to the team's failure to get anything going until late in the game. 
"We had good comebacks over the weekend, however we waited until the later innings of the games to start hitting and playing defense," Welsh said. "In order to reach our goals on the season we are going to make adjustments to help us get prepared to have a better start in the frrst inning." 
The Belles were supposed to play Goshen on Thursday, but inclement weather postponed the game until Friday. Goshen then cancelled Friday due to a lack of players because of a team illness. 
Saint Mary's has one more tune-up game before league play begins on Saturday against Alma. The Belles travel to Purdue­North Central for a Wednesday afternoon contest. 
Contact Bobby Griftm at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
NO VS. LOYOLA 
~ .JL THURSDAY3/25 
~ ~ 4PM@IVYFIELD 
SEASON HOME OPENER!! J"!J to ·:v 5.t ~ ;.e ··~ rn ft ~t ::rut! /i'-1.1 1(t 1}\l 1'·ID ;8 crJ Tuesday • 3/23 @ 5:05 PM BE THERE. EckStadium 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer Seinor tri-captain Matthew Scott nails a forehand against Miami in February. Scott's consistent play at No. 1 and 2 this year has been a strong factor in the success of the Irish. 

INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 

OBC ENGLISH CONVERSATION SCHOOL 


is seeking university. graduates for a one year teaching position in Japan. Attractive salary, benefits and travel opportunities. 
RECRUITING DATES: March 30 & 31, 2004 at Career and Placement Services 
Japanese language skills NOT required 
Open to all majors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
Wednesday, March 24 Notre Dame vs. Hofstra at 7 PM @ Loftus Sports Center 
FREE ADMISSION for all fans! First 200 fans receive an ND Lacrosse Schedule Glass sponsored by 
EG EN D S F NOTRE DAME 


Tuesday, March 23, 2004 page 17
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Grab the V400 and score fan·friendly features: 
• 
A true image 65,000·eotor screen • A built-in speakerphone 

• 
An integrated VGA·quality camera • Photo caller tO* 

• 
Download college·themed MP3 ringtones and graphics* 


Act now and save $150 (after $100 instant rebate and $50 mail..jn rebate, with a two year service agreement from Cingutar Wireless). Price before rebate is $299.99. See rebate for complete detaiJs. Hurry, limited time offer. 
Visit hellomoto.com/us/v400 for more infonnation about the MotorQia V400, available exctusively at Cingular stores. And a location near you at dngular.eom or call 1-866-CINGUL.AR. 
·.-,; -~--· 
.:-. 
.. •.
~ 
~..,Qo. •• 
-~~~).
_,_._,... 

.,.. 
ltiiOTOROI.A 
lntelligqn&~J everywh.ertl" 


cingular· 









OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Page 18 COI\.1PILED FR.OM THE OBSERVER'S VVHli SERVICES Tuesday, March 23, 2004 



\. 


I 
l) 
I 


around the dial 
MLB 
Tampa Bay vs. Boston, 1 :05 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Middle Tennessee State vs. Notre Dame, 7:00p.m., ESPN George Mason vs. Oregon, 11:30 p.m., ESPN2 

I 
NBA 

),/, New Jersey vs. Chicago, 8:30 p.m., WGN
I ) 
I,I, 
) 
), ), 
NFL 

Associated Press 
DENVER -John Lynch is a Denver Bronco. 
The five-time Pro Bowl safety agreed to terms with the Broncos Monday as Denver continued to revamp its defense, also signing defensive end Raylee Johnson and agreeing to terms with defensive tackle Luther Elliss. 
Lynch played his entire 11-year career with Tampa Bay, but the Buccaneers released him last week. The five-time Pro Bowler was a key part of Tampa Bay's Super Bowl team two years ago, but was scheduled to make $4.2 million next season. 
Lynch, 3 2, can play either safety position, although he has played primarily free safety throughout his career. 
Johnson, who spent his first 11 seasons in San Diego, signed a three-year, $3.3 million contract that includes a $1 million sign­ing bonus. The 33-year­old is expected to split time with Reggie Hayward at right end, helping com­pensate for the loss of Bertrand Berry, who signed with Arizona. 
The Chargers released Johnson earlier this month to save salary-cap space, but tried to re-sign him. He also visited Baltimore. 
The Broncos have added Pro Bowl cornerback Champ Bailey in a trade with Washington, signed defensive end Marco Coleman and re-signed middle linebacker AI Wilson. 
Elliss spent his first nine seasons with Detroit and was a Pro Bowler in 1999 and 2000, but was released by the Lions on March 2 in a cost-cutting move. 
Lynch struggled with neck problems last season with the Buccaneers and had surgery to remove bone spurs in January. He chose Denver over the New York Jets, coached by close friend Herman Edwards. 
Johnson has 26 1/2 sacks the past three sea­sons, but missed the final seven games last year with a foot injury. 

IN BRIEF 
Davis rumored to be and was that state's Mr. Basketball Belak slashed Vaananen on candidate for Auburn in 1979. He played four years at the Saturday night and was given a BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-Indiana University of Alabama, and spent match penalty for attempt to injure. coach Mike Davis says he has not two seasons as an assistant coach He met with Colin Campbell at the been contacted by Auburn there. league's office in Toronto on 
University about its vacant head The Mobile (Ala.) Register report­
Monday before the NHL executive coaching spot despite reports in ed Friday that Auburn was moving vice president and chief disciplinar­
three Alabama newspapers that he quickly to find a successor to former ian handed down his decision. 
is a likely candidate for the coaching coach Cliff Ellis, who was fired last 
"It was a little severe I think,"

job. week. 
Belak said. "I wasn't expecting to

Davis declined to comment 
walk away with less than three

Monday. He referred questions to Toronto defenseman (games), but I thought no more thanthe athletic director, who was not in. suspended for slash five. Getting six plus two, it's kind of Davis told The Indianapolis Star TORONTO -The NHL suspended harsh."
he has had no contact with anyone Wade Belak eight games for his 
at Auburn. two-handed chop to the face of Belak is a repeat offender, having received a two-game suspension in
"Everything I've heard about the Colorado defenseman Ossi job has been from people calling me Vaananen. November 2002 when he elbowed and telling me about it," he said in The Maple Leafs defenseman will \Vashington defenseman Brendan the telephone interview Sunday. be out for Toronto's remaining six Witt in the head. 
Speculation has been fueled regular-season games and the The suspension will cost Belak because Davis is from Fayette, Ala., club's first two postseason games $67,682.94 in forfeited salary. 
Tuesday, March 23, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC TENNIS 
Saint Mary's sweeps Adrian 9-0 in MIAA contest Saturday 
By RYAN DUFFY 
SportS Writer 
Senior Jeannie Knish was able to sum up her team's perform­ance in Saturday's match against Adrian in one word: domination. 
"We expected to dominate, and we pretty much did," said Knish, who played a big role in the Belles' 9-0 dismantling of Adrian in its first conference game of the year. "We worked really well as a team. I mean, the girls were some of the nicest we've played with, and they really played hard, which I real­ly respect. But we were just all really on our 'A' game, and it showed." 
Knish certainly backed up her post-game talk, beating Laura Kelley 6-1, 6-1 from the No. 1 spot for her second win of the year and first in conference. 
The rest of the Saint \·lary's 

Seafood Celebration 
Featuring tl1e new SeafoodTrio 

Accepted ~ 
Unmistakably Italian ·'tUnbelievably Good
• 5110 Edison Lakes Parkway, Mishawaka . 
Jf 
. 574.271.1692 .. 
. 
Hours: Sunday· Thursday 11 a.m... 10 p.m.
' 

----········--············· ·········-·-· 
Free Clinic on Golf Etiquette 
March 24th 

Warren Club House at 5:15 PM 


Cl• • • t
tntc ts opcno Juniors, Seniors and Graduate Students 

Questions? Call RecSports 1-6100 

Have fun with vour~e(f on your 2.1 ~+, 
l> Rock 
Much Love, 
l>awg, P·Ki++v, 
The S+urg, etc. 

squad followed suit, giving up only 19 points across the board. While most matches take upwards of five hours, the Belles had finished taking care of Adrian within a speedy three hours. 
Sophomore Kristen Palombo also played strongly, defeating Liz Filipiak from the No. 2 spot in consecutive sets, 6-0, 6-0. No. 3 singles player Kaitlin Cutler continued her stellar season, taking down her opponent 6-1, 6-0, to improve her overall record on the year to 8-1. 
No. 4 singles player Kris Spriggle also moved to an over­all record of 8-1 after winning straight sets 6-1, 6-0 over Heather Fraser. At the No. 5 spot, sophomore Kate Bowler posted a· 6-2, 6-1 victory over Karen Kruisenga to match her teammates' success. 
"It was a great start to our season," said No. 6 singles play­er Miranda Mikulyuk, who took down Lyndsey Davis in straight sets, 6-4, 6-0. "It's always help­ful to our mentality as a team to get a conference win. I thought that we all played strongly. Each of us played our best game. 
"They're a nice team, but they're not actually our strongest competition. No mat­ter the opponent, it's always good to start a season out with a win." 
Although happy with the vic­tory, the team was also looking forward to its next game against conference rival Hope College. 
"We all played well, and we're really looking forward to our next match," said Knish. "We gave 100 percent in this match, and we plan on giving 117.5 percent in our next match." 
After demonstrating their skill in the six singles matches, the Belles showed a similar pen­chant for winning in their dou­bles matches. Knish and Bowler, who make up the No. 1 doubles team, defeated Adrian's No. 1 tandem of Kelly and Cindy Kruisenga 6-2, 6-1 in straight sets. 
The other two doubles teams followed in form. The combina­tion of Cutler and Spriggle took down Adrian's pair, Liz Filipiak and Heather Fraser, 6-1, 6-1, to improve their doubles record to 7-1 on the year. In the No. 3 doubles spot, Palombo and freshman Grace Gordon were easily victorious over Adrian's Karen Kruisenga and Davis, 6­0, 6-1. 
"It was just all around a good day," Palombo said. "It was the first match where every single flight won, and we were very happy about that. Because it was on a Saturday, a lot of the parents showed up to watch, which was great. We're all very happy about how we've started the season, and we're looking forward to our game against Hope." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy@nd.edu 


.. 
. > 
, 


Women 
continued from page 24 

before knocking out North Carolina -just the third time a No. 13 has advanced past the first round. Patricia Holmes and freshman Krystle Horton led the Blue Raiders. Those two combined for 34 points on 13-of-26 shooting and had just three turnovers. 

I 
"[Holmes] is a great player,I ' their team leader and their go
1\ : 
I .• I , to player, but the entire team
I,, 
is good," McGraw said. I' I l The Blue Raiders trailed the I l 
I>' 
Tar Heels 13-6 after five min­I ,' utes, but came back to end the
: l I)' first half on a 9-0 run and take a 35-26 advantage into inter­mission.!, With 6:48 left in 
\I 
regulation, Middle 
Tuesday, March 23, 2004

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
~: Tennessee State ""[Holmes] is a great ran a 2-3 zone ~) built a 12-point and doubled
player, their team 
lead before North and tripled
leader and their
Carolina stormed teamed 
back with a 10-0 go-to player, but the Batteast when 
spurt to close she received a
entire team is good. " 
within two points. pass at the top 
But the Blue of the block. Raiders didn't Muffet McGraw Batteast made waver under the Irish basketball coach 7-of-19 shots 
"I think it really helped [Sunday]." McGraw said. "Our experience at the end of the game, after playing in a ton of close games, really helped us. Our leaders stepped up and that really helped us. I think playing on our home court helps us more than anything." 
Middle Tennessee State coach Steffany Smith said her biggest concern is Batteast, and the juniors' ability to take over a game at any time. 
"We'll have several different people guarding her depend­ing on which position she is playing, either one of the play­ers on our front line will match up well with her," Smith said. "However, no matter who is guarding her, we have to be aware that there needs to be 
support." 
Southwest 
Missouri State 
and was still 
the game's 
high scorer. 
Smith said her team is thrilled with its first-round upset, but is not ready to exit the tournament just yet. 
"It doesn't matter what the rest of the world thinks, and I know there is going to be a very boisterous crowd out there, and a majority of them will not be cheering for Middle Tennessee, but we're here to win, we are not just happy to be here," Smith said. "That's been our mindset the entire time. We wanted to get to the NCAAs, that was our goal the entire time, its why you've worked so hard, and if you're going to go, why celebrate on just going? I think we have a very good chance to win, if we play well." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

) 
~; 
MEGAN DAVISSON!The Observer 
Forward Jacqueline Batteast looks to pass the ball against Syracuse on March 2. The Irish host Middle Tennessee State tonight In the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
POST PERIMETER j); "· COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS
F~ 
McGraw has led five of her last seven teams into the Sweet 16 and this year's team has the ability to go far. She has as much experience as any coach and has been down this road before. McGraw has built Notre Dame into a national power.  Notre Dame plays defense first and offense second. The Irish hold opponents to just 58 points a game and play especially effective perimeter defense. They won't score a ton of points, but they usually don't need to.  Notre Dame got 28 points and 24 rebounds combined from Batteast and LaVere Sunday. With Borton not 100 percent, those two will be keys again today. Batteast will be the best player on the court again.  Duffy and Severe ran the Irish offense well in the first round. But Duffy and Joyce com­bined to make just 2-of­18 3-pointers. Those two need to shoot bet­ter for the team to have success today.  Notre Dame routine­ly uses eight players and all can be effec­tive in different ways. Borton, Joyce and Erwin may all be needed to make con­tributions at some point during the game.  The Irish have a much stronger bench that should help down the stretch. MTSU is stuck with its starters for the most part, even if they tire during the second half.  
This is the second team under Smith to make the tourney. She has never coached a team past the first round and has much less experience than McGraw. She is a tal­ented young coach but has not yet built a proven program.  MTSU also plays tough defense, allowing just 58 points a game. They're a more athletic team than Southwest Missouri State. The Blue Raiders are led by Holmes and Horton. who average nearly 30 points a game between them.  Horton and Stovall are the two inside forces for MTSU. Both scored in double fig­ures against North Carolina. Even though she's justa freshman, Horton took over the game against the Tar Heels.  Holmes leads the team in scoring ­averaging nearly 16 points a game -and can shoot the 3­pointer well. McOinic is one of the best defenders the Irish will see this sea­son and could be matched up-on Notre Dame's best shooter dur­ing most of the game.  MTSU used six players in its last game and really don't have much of a bench. The Blue Raiders will play their best five and substitute occasion­ally.  MTSU is this year's Cinderella and they have a confident mind­set heading into the game. If they can hang around early, then the Blue Haiders will gain even more confidence about beating the Irish.  
N-:9.::=::::.:::=.·. qu est~QJt:::::,,,,,,,,,-,McGraw.knowa'.wbit it l~1;J~te:iiltl career and.Js faln.Ui~ir ·t:~~w,;:~~~~fo~f~·· winslri. the tournament as:a head coacti.a.ll.d is in unchartered waters.  
 
 Notre Dame plays outstanding defense against the outside shot and should bother 5'iEi~1 scorer and a defender which could make things tough on the Irish guards.  lf:~i'':·.·.·tf ish h'~·~~;· :. a OOMQP: ~tr•.u~ger betw.h. f.I.A,4':~ij~~ ~}.loul9 hiHP: , (lfl~:~f\ th~T stretcb(MTSQ is st-u¢.~ .wttli it$/•.•. ~~!~I~~~0frt~~y~{~: du,rJ.!n~ ..the ··s~cond half;·<···•··•}  Something has to give. The Irish are tough at home and ,,,,,,,,have., more.,,tal-en·t,.than [1J~!.T sl,}. . ,:~ 4tJJletBJu#. .:.L,fh~e~i~ e&;~ s~fb=a:F{ fi~~ft of the year and pose a difficult opponent in the second round.  

lj 
' 
~: 
LIJ 
~ 

c ~ 
LIJ 
a: 
t­
o 

z 

pressure, and hung out on to a 6 7-62 victory. Middle Tennessee State's demeanor down the stretch of its first-round game impressed McGraw. 
"They play with great emo­tion, but also were very poised when North Carolina made their runs [Sunday)." McGraw said. 
Meanwhile the Irish needed an extra period to stop a determined Southwest Missouri State team. Forwards Jacqueline Batteast and Courtney LaVere combined for 28 points and 24 rebounds as Notre Dame outscored Southwest Missouri State 10-6 in the extra five minutes. Guard Megan Duffy added 16 points for the Irish. 
McGraw said Notre Dame's experience of playing close games was critical for the team Sunday and for the rest of the tournament. 


-----------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Tuesday, March 23, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

Baseball 
continued from page 24 
"We didn't really swing the bats as well this past weekend as I would really like to see," he said. "But I attribute that to the fact that we didn't play during the week. When we start playing these mid-week games, I think we're really going to get into a groove swinging the bat and some good stuff is going to happen to us here in the future." 
Shortstop Greg Lopez, who proved one of the most consis­tent Irish hitters over the weekend by going 4-for-8 with a home run, leads the team with a .379 average. 
On the mound, Mainieri expects to start senior Joe Thaman against the Chippewas. Thaman, the left­handed converted first base­man, is 1-0 on the season with a 2.31 ERA over 11 2/3 innings pitched. 
The Chippewas enter the game with the Irish having won two of three from Illinois State. 

Central Michigan is batting .310 as a team on the season and average eight runs a game. 
The Chippewas are led at the plate by infielder Jim Geldhof with a .412 batting average, 22 runs scored and a slugging percentage of .676. First base­man Kurtis Wells leads Central Michigan with 25 RBis and boasts a .388 batting average. 
The first pitch is slated for 5 

p.m. today at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 



Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Sun in January and February! 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, March 24, 2004 5:00PM 209 DeBartolo 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: May 1, 2004 for Spring 2005 

Thomas 
continued from page.24 
court just prior to tip-ofT. 
Or he could have noticed the 
waves Thomas gave to dozens of 
family members who live in Fort 
Wayne, many of whom were 
watching Thomas play live in an 
Irish uniform for the first time. 
The Billikens, still in the locker room, didn't see the confidence Thomas exuded either. Then again, by the way Thomas was able to score at will in Notre Dame's 77-66 win Monday, it didn't seem like they were on the court for most of the game, either. It wasn't really fair that they happened to be the team standing on the tracks when the Thomas express roared past. 
Legendary among his team­mates for the way he religiously pops in Michael Jordan high­lights on road trips, Thomas car­ried the Irish past Saint Louis by stepping into the zone himself to turn in a spectacular perform­ance which included 12-of-20 shooting from the field, includ­ing 6-of-11 from 3-point range, and zero turnovers. 
Sure, it took him a while to get rolling-but Brey thought it was because the Irish point guard was deliberately trying to take it slow. And when the Irish walked into the halftime locker room trailing 26-25, the entire arena collectively wondered when the Irish would get going. 
The Irish never really did get going. Just Thomas. But that was more than enough 
Switching between driving to the basket to draw fouls and draining long 3-pointers, Thomas single-handedly picked apart the Saint Louis defense by scoring half of Notre Dame's sec­ond-half points. In a eight­minute span in the middle of the second-half, Thomas scored 21 of Notre Dame's 30 points­including 11 straight -to turn a two-point deficit into a 15-point blowout. 
Just how good was Thomas? On the play where he scored his 33rd and 34th points to set a career high, Thomas started with the ball at the top of the key, dribbled three steps to his left, launched his body toward the Irish bench and the ball toward the Irish basketball hoop. 
Thomas ended up on his back on the floor. The ball ended up in the hoop. 
"We always talk about MJ 
moments," Thomas said. "I had 
a little MJ moment when I hit 
that fadeaway shot. It kind of 
felt good." 
In typical Thomas fashion 
after the game, he dismissed his 
impressive scoring performance 
in favor of criticizing his 
defense. And the last thing on 
his mind before he went to sleep 
Monday was the ninth free­
throw attempt he shot-· the one 
that rattled out of the rim and 
the one that would have made 
him the first Irish player in over 
a decade to score 40 points in 40 
minutes. 
"That's what I'm going to be 
thinking about all day," he said 
with a half-chuckle about the 
only free-throw he missed in 10 
attempts. 
It's hard to tell who takes 
more criticism -Thomas, for a 
style of play that alternates 
between spectacular and spo­
radic, or Brey, for letting 
Thomas play with almost reck­
less abandon. 
But nights like Monday show Thomas' true greatness as a basketball player, where he sim­ply takes his team in his hands, interweaving Notre Dame's des­tiny with his own. And when Thomas makes the kinds of shots he did against Saint Louis, defenders, fans and teammates can only shake their heads in disbelief. 
"Everybody wants me to coach him like Jimmy Chitwood. He's not Jimmy Chitwood, he's a unique talent," Brey said, evok­ing images of Hoosiers in a bas­ketball-starved state where only the Irish are playing. "There's an example of a guy who has to have some freedom to play, the textbook stuff doesn't always go with this young man." 
By the time Brey pulled Thomas from the game with 
45.6 seconds to a standing ova­tion, the Irish point guard had all but ensured the Irish would move one win from making the NIT's Final Four. 
"That," Brey said, "has to be one of the great performances he has ever turned in an Irish uniform." 
And to think, his career isn't over yet. 
The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup @nd. edu. 
Attention First-Year MBA's 
Would you like to earn aFULL TUITION fellowship for your second-yeart 

The William G. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA program agrant that covers full twnon for the second year for one MBA studend Applicants must comply with the following criteria: 
-Must currendy be enrolled full:~e in the first year of the MB.\ program. 
-Must currently have a3.0 GPA or higher. -Must submit a500-1000 word essav on the contributions ofWb G. McGowan, founder and Chairman of MC~ to today1sbusiness world ~ general or to the telecommunications field ~ particular. -Must submit one letter of recommendacion from afaculty member. .Must exlubit attributes such as scholarslup, t~en~ leaderslup qualities, character and communi~· h1volvement. 
.-\ll FltSt-Year MB.A's are eligible, excluding those that are akeady recciving af.ill tuition fellowslup. 
Deadline: Applications are due in the MBA Office by Foday, March 26, 2004. 
\fmners will be announced in the spring. Conuct: Brian.Lohr.1@nd.edu 

-
_::-. 
-;_, 


Billikens 
continued from page 24 
hit back-to-hack 3-point goals, putting the Irish up 46-41. Saint Louis' Anthony Drejaj then missed two free throw shots'after being fouled by Chris Quinn and the Billikens would never recover the lead. 
The Irish defense was strong throughout the contest, espe­cially against 3-pointers by only allowing one during the entire game. 
Against Iowa in the first round of the NIT, Saint Louis shot seven 3-pointers, which helped the Billikens recover from an 18-point first half deficit. 
"We defended the 3-point line, they didn't shred us from there. We could absorb the twos because ... [Thomas] was scoring enough to absorb the twos," Brey said. 
The difference between the first and second half for the 
Tuesday, March 23, 2004 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
game. It had a tournament atmosphere and I was happy with it," Cornette said. 
Notre Dame will face the winner of the Oregon ­George Mason game in the Joyce Center Thursday night. 
Season ticket holders and students may purchase tickets today. with sales being opened to the general public on Wednesday. 
And while some have the attitude that the NIT is a great way to prepare for next year, Brey has his sights set on higher goals. 
"We're excited to play ... this year's team is still playing well and you play for a champi­onship in this tournament," Brey said. "We talked about three steps back to New York City-we're one step away." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 

eling call shook the Billikens were against the wall and we up even more during a media took bad shots and made bad timeout with 7:45 remaining turnovers," Thomas said. in the half. Thomas made "But for the most part we both resulting free throws, fol­played well and with a lot of 
lowed by an unanswered 3-point goal "I love that, bumping 
and two 2­

heads, trash talking, up
point goals to 

open a 17-in each other's faces, how point lead for emotional. It was a 
the Irish. 

great game. It had a
"We don't 

really know tournament atmosphere what hap­and I was happy with it." 
pened with the techni­

Jordan Cornette
cal," Thomas said. "That Irish forward 
gave us the opportunity for us to take control of the game, That fueled us to take control and keep the lead." 
Josh Fisher, with 21 points, and Reggie Bryant, with 19 points, led Saint Louis in scor­
ing. Saint Louis 
"We don't really know 
Irish was stag­gering. what happened with In the first 
that technical foul. 
half. Notre 
That gave us the
Dame couldn't get a shot to opportunity for us to 
fall, making 11-take control ofthe 
of-27 field goals ,, 
game.
and only 2-of­
10 3-point 
goals. Chris Thomas 
But in the Irish guard second half, the Irish made 14 

threatened to open a large lead at the end of the first half, with Fisher shooting three unan­swered bas­kets in between a foul shot by Bryant, and the Irish trailed 19-14. But the Irish put up 
of their 22 field goals and 6-their own run, scoring eight of-11 3-point goals. unanswered points to put 
A technical foul called them back on top. against forward Chris Sloan ''There were a couple points following a controversial trav-in the game where our backs 
I' 
t; 

emotional. 

rnaturity." 
Saint Louis also played tight defense for most of the game, resulting in a very physical, but satisfying game for Irish players. 
"I love that, bumping heads, trash talking, up in each other's faces, how 
It was a great 




-. 
-

Tuesday, March 23, 2004 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 
SCOTT ADAMS 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Ccrnt\H 
br"-c~~lb('·bra.ckt.ts1 wcoccoH UA B ovc.r ket\+vck bvm fl..,¢ bvildis-.Cf de· ••••V.'tlt:l . Vvn"'~ +ht. 
br~t.b 1 br~~th1 ~r'tl~ 
" I 
Q 
0 







DILBERT 
Sure~ Everyone enjoys 
the excitement that goes along with MClrCh Madness, but few ever get to see the dcrker side of this often debilitating disease. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FLAUW 
1 
rJ tJ 
Cl2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. Al1 Rights Reserved 
VOLEN 
I I I IWORDSYj 

WHeN n1E ARTIST WON THE= POKE=!<
rJ r 
HAND, TI-U: Losa<S
www.jurrble rom 
SAID HE:--­
CLUDED 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I (J [) 
suggested by the above cartoon . 

FORCE DELVE WIDEST GOLFER
Yesterday's I Jumbles: 
Answer: After he hung the mirror, he-"REFLECT­ED"ONIT 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  33 With respect to  64 Garden intruder  
1 Let out the waist  34 Toe the line  65 Unabridged dic­ 
of, e.g.  35 Black Russian  tionary, e.g.  
6 Ark or bark  ingredient  66 The out crowd  
10 Mexican Mile.  37 20's dispensers  
14 Pet  41 "See ya!"  DOWN  
15 Up to it  42 Orderly group­ 1 Mock, in a way  
16 Rattler's posture 17 Supporter of the arts?  ing 43 Express grati­tude to a coun­try singer?  2 Grazing locale 3 Bikini atoll, once 4 At any time  
18 Title start of a 2003 AI Franken best seller 19 Still pink 20 Fool a onetime  47 Greasy_ 49 Rip-roaring time 50 Frisk, with "down"  5 Take over for, as a pitcher 6 Europe's_ Peninsula 7 Eastern sashes  
child actor? 23 Tiebreakers, briefly 25 Clean-air org. 26 Elite group 27 Cause a sleepy old man to stumble?  51 Tie up a Midwest sena­tor? 56 Wholly absorbed 57 Show opener 58 Like a luxury car 61 Suit to 62 Guitarist Atkins  8 A Baldwin 9 New-Ager John 1oDead Sea docu­ment 11 Band hand 12 Gets pooped 13 Heads-up  
32 Car owner's 63 Give a wide document berth -------------­ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  21 Number crunch­er, for short 22 Croupier's tool 23 "Beetle Bailey'' dog 24 Chicago paper, familiarly, with "the" 28 Panel layer 29 Lehar's "The Merry_"  37 "Exodus" hero 38 Secret exit, per­haps 39 Doll's cry 40 Part of CBS: Abbr. 41 Gives the boot 42 Election loser  43 Rug, so to speak 44 Emceed 45 Set off 46 Fall behind 47 Scarecrow stuff­ing 48 Chatter idly 52 It's true  53 Bounce back 54 Agenda unit 55 Zero, on a court 59 -Atlantic-60 QB's pickups  
30 Publicity, slangi­ 

ly For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554 
31 Org. whose 

Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday 
members are 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
packing? 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 35 Chablis, for past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). one Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 36 _Park, Ill. solvers: nytimes.com/learninglxwords. 

HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joan Crawford, Chaka Khan, Moses Malone, Erich Fromm Happy Birthday: You'll be your own worst enemy this year if you try to push your will on others. Do your own thing; don't rely on what others can contribute. You have the know-how and the energy to do things yourself. Go it alone and you'll discover that it's much easier in the long run. Your success will be determined by your efforts. Your numbers: 2, 9, 18, 27, 36, 49 ARIES (March 21-April19): Ask for favors, but don't take others for granted. Do not give donations if it will mean doing without necessities. You may have a problem with co-workers. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your emotional response may cloud issues. Don't make irreversible decisions. Your reluctance to see your partner's position could make you the victim of a lonely heart. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be extremely creative. Get involved in projects that will allow you to do what you want. Children can be a source of motivation if you spend time listening to their point of view. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have to take care of those who can't do for themselves. Rewards for your actions will be granted. Financial matters such as real estate and other solid investments look good. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may feel a little cool toward your mate today. Confront the situation head-on and clear the air early in the day. Socialize, so that you both can talk to other people. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your vitality is down. You are likely to catch minor ailments if you don't get enough rest. Limitations due to bad eating habits or frustrations at work are apparent. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get involved in some form of physical activity. You will need to bum off some of that excess energy. Your laziness may lead to tension and upset in your home. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have to be careful of how you deal with family members. Someone may try to take you for granted. You will have to gauge how much time you can afford to give. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make sure that your car is in good order before you take off on a family jaunt. Check your money situation and limit family members that want to take advantage of your good nature. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Financial problems may be a worry. It's best to refrain from spending on unnecessary items. You will be experiencing some personal changes. Be willing to accept the outcome. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You're holding yourself back if you don't realize your ideas. It is best not to confide in friends or relatives today. Your reluctance to do what they want will only cause discord. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your depression will mount regarding the problems that exist between you ami your relatives. It is best to let the situation calm down before you try to talk to those concerned. ** Birthday Baby: You're bright, witty, articulate and have a huge capacity for helping others. You will always pitch in and help the ones you love accomplish their goals. Selfless and giving, you are a wonderful little tyke to have around. Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com  -­••  

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 ­
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 



I 1. 
,P,' 
) . 
)'.
' i• \ 
\. 

Tuesday, March 23, 2004 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Thomas, electric atmosphere spark victory 
Irish advance to NIT quarters with win over St. Louis 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Senior Staff Writer 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -Listening to the roar of the crowd as the Irish came on the court, no one could tell that the team wasn't at the Joyce Center. From the band to the PA announcer to even corny timeout promotions. this was essentially a home game. 
Notre Dame fed on this ·"home" energy throughout the game, recovering from a sluggish first half where they trailed Saint Louis by a point to beat them by 11, with a final score of 77-66. 
"That's one of the best atmospheres I've ever been in," Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
"To come out and look up and you've got green shirts all the way to the ceil­ing. There's no question that motivated our kids and our kids were excited to play." 
Chris Thomas led the Irish to victory, picking up a career-high 39 points and playing a key role in the turning point in the game. 
With 12 minutes remaining in the sec­ond half, Jordan Cornette and Thomas 
see BILLIKENS/page 22 


Thomas pours in 39 points as Irish defeat Billikens 77-66 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -Chris Thomas was jacked. His head coach was worried 

Over an hour remained before tip-ofT and the Irish junior bounced around his team's warm­up line, uncharacteristically throwing down pre-game dunks to the delight of the Irish crowd. 
Each display of athleti­cism simultaneously elicited a roar from those in the crowd and a grin from the player who just slammed the ball through the hoop. 
But Mike Brey noticed the unusual energy emanating from Thomas, and pulled him aside in the locker room. Calm down, Brey essentially told him, and let the game come to you. 

"How stupid was I," the Irish coach said after the game where Thomas lit up Saint Louis for a career-high 39 points­27 of which came in a second-half blitzkrieg that sent the Irish to the NIT's third round. 
Then again, Brey should have seen how Thomas gazed around the Fort Wayne Coliseum, immersing himself in the roar the Irish received when they sauntered onto the 


Andrew Soukup 
Senior Staff Writer 

see THOMAS/page 21 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

ND readies for Blue Raiders 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Middle Tennessee State may have been the No. 13 seed when it defeated No. 4 seed and 12th-ranked North Carolina in the first-round of the NCAA Tournament Sunday, but don't tell Muffet McGraw that. 
To McGraw, the Blue Raiders victory was no fluke. 
"I honestly think that the best team won that game," McGraw said. "I thought Middle Tennessee played much better as a team and played · 
well together." 
Notre Dame looks to end Middle Tennessee State's Cinderella run in the NCAA Tournament at the Joyce Center tonight in a second­round matchup that sends the winner to the Sweet 16 in Hartford, Conn. 
The Irish (20-10) were pushed to the limit in their first-round game against No. 12-seed Southwest Missouri State. Notre Dame outlasted 


HILLARY THORNTON/The Observer 
Senior guard Le'Tanla Severe brings the ball up the court against Miami In February. The Irish host the Blue Raiders tonight. 
the Missouri Valley Conference 7) won the Sun Belt conference champs 69-65 in overtime tournament as the No. 4 seed Sunday. 
Middle Tennessee State (24-see WOMEN/page 20 
BASEBALL 

Irish open home season today 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
After five weeks and 15 straight games on the road, the Irish are rP-ady to return to Notre Dame and the comfort of Frank Eck Stadium for their home opener today. 
Notre Dame (13-2) will host Central Michigan (6-1 0), as the Irish kick off their 2004 home season. 
"It's going to be really great to finally be home at Eck Stadium after being on the road for five weeks," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "Our first 15 games have been on the road, so hopefully we'II be able to play at home [today]. There are a lot of people on this team looking forward to that." 
The Irish, who split a pair of games with Southern Illinois over the weekend, have climbed as high as No. 6 in the most recent Collegiate Baseball Newspaper poll. The most recent Baseball America poll has Notre Dame ranked 13th. 

For an Irish team that began the season with some unusual­ly hot hitting, the bats cooled off somewhat during the weekend series with the Salukis. In the two games, the Irish batted just .231 as a team and scored only nine runs. 
Mainieri says he attributes the lack of Irish ofTense to the fact that the team had not played a game in a week before meeting the Salukis last Saturday. He hopes that the return to playing mid-week games and seeing action on a more consistent basis will return the pop to the Irish bats. 
see BASEBALL/page 21 
en 
NBA
MEN'S TENNIS 

SMC SOFTBALL
SMC TENNIS 
NFL
w 
Philadel~hia 107

Notre Dame at Saint Mary's 9 
Dallas 98
Former Tampa Bay
1-w-:zu Michigan Adrian 0 

Belles drop four games over 
With Allen Iverson out of the 
Buccaneer and All-Pro safety

the weekend to Rose-Hulman
cc ::5 

line-up, the 76ers got 21 points
John Lynch signs with the
c.:l Tuesday, 4 p.m. 

Belles allow only 19 and Saint Mary's of the 
from John Salmons, including 
Denver Broncos. 

No. 35 Irish travel to Ann points across the board in Woods.
c c:c 
53-pointers, to win. 

Arbor, Mich. to take on dominate victory. 
Wolverines.
a. ti 

page 14
page 16 page 19 page 16 page 18
en 




