
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Professors react to Bush's State of Union 
By LIAM FARRELL 
News Writer 
Notre Dame faculty voiced var­ied opinions to President Bush's State of the Union Address Tuesday night; some praised the strength of parts the speech, while others criticized the policies that were introduced. 
The speech was a statement of confidence, promise and protec­tion where the President touted the renewed strength of the econo­my and his administration's health care initiatives and encouraged every American to remain vigilant in the fight against terrorism and the efforts of llomeland security. 
American Studies Professor Thomas Guglielmo said that the State of the Union Address should be viewed in the context of a cam­paign speech. 
"Watching a State of the Union Address is like watching a boxing match," Guglielmo said. 
Although Guglielmo said he did 
not agree with Bush's statements or policies, he praised parts of the speech. 
See Also "To be charita­ble, it was strik­
"Bush gives ing to lead off State of Union" with [the Patriot Act) and he is
5
page bold and sticking to his guns on the most controversial part of his campaign," Guglielmo said. llowever, Guglielmo said he was not surprised that the type of strong assertions that marked last year's address, including naming 
statistics and specific numbers of chemicals and toxins available for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, were absent. 
"[Last year, Saddam Hussein) was shown as an imminent threat but a year later nothing has turned up and all he said was a quote from the Kay report which does very little [in proving his case)." 
Guglielmo said this was "clearly a weak part of the speech." 
English Professor William O'Rourke criticized the address, saying Bush seemed to be defen­sive on foreign policy and weak on domestic issues, only reciting a "laundry list" of proposals. O'Rourke said the most interesting event of the speech was the 
see REACTION/page 8 


Hesburgh lectures on Our Lady 
By MATTHEW SMEDBERG 
News Writer 
Jn an evening address that included both meditation and lecture, Father Theodore llcsburgh spoke to students, faculty and alumni Tuesday night on "Notre Dame: Our Lady" in the I lesburgh library auditorium. llesburgh, the University's president emeritus of 35 years, spoke for a little over an hour, discussing the story of Mary as found in the Gospels and mysteries of the rosary. 
llnsburgh also retold the story of the foundation of Notre Dame, stressing Father Sorin's trust in and depend­ence on Mary's guidance for the struggling, fledgling University's success. 
The lecture is part of Campus Ministry's "Blessed Mother lecture series," a series begun as an initiative of Dolores Tantoco-Stauder, a University librarian emerita. Tantoco-Stauder, hired in 1957, was among Notre Dame's first female faculty members. 
In reflecting on his own past, Hesburgh said that, as he is going blind, he is no longer able to pray the hreviary every day, as priests are ordinarily required to do. Instead, he substitutes 15 decades of the rosary. He is still able to say Mass and does so daily. 
"In the 60 years that I've been a priest, there have been 
see MARY/page 4 

ND alum catches glimpse of Mars 
Engineer supervises team for NASA rovers' robotic arms 
in space. His job, however, as the lead test and opera­tions engineer for the robot­ic arm component of NASA's Martian rovers Spirit and Opportunity, has given him a close-up look at Earth's neighbor that even a few astronauts might envy. 
"It's been tremendous for me," Baumgartner said of the experience. "When you look at those vistas from the panoramic camera, it's like you're standing there." 
Baumgartner's team is part of a larger NASA mis­sion to explore the surface of 
see MARS/page 4 

Students gear up for race 
Three teams vie for SMC president 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Campaigning begins today for the Saint Mary's student body presidential and vice presidential election, which will occur next Tuesday. 
Differing from the past three successive student body elections in which only one ticket ran, this year, there are three. The tickets are made up of Sarah Brown and Michelle Fitzgerald, Shay Jolly and Veronica Saavedra, and Sarah Catherine White and Mary Pauline Moran. 
The six candidates running for office have each held a variety of leadership roles throughout their college careers, including represent­ing Saint Mary's as Student Body Vice-President, Residence Hall Association President and Student Diversity Board President. 
"I think we have three tick­ets this year because this year's student government has done a phenomenal job in making strides for our campus," said Nicole Haeberle, elections commis­sioner. "The rise in numbers is due to the spectacular efforts of our student gov­ernment and making many 
students  want  to  be  
involved."  
In order to  run,  a  student  

see ELECTION/page 4 


By ANDREW THAGARD 
Associate News Editor • 
When a younger Eric Baumgartner learned of an indication of high blood pressure during a physical, he figured his life-long dream of becoming an astro­naut was over. 
Years later, this l\.ouble Domer (he graduated in 1988 with a degree in Aerospace Engineering, earned a Master's degree at the University of Cincinnati then returned to Notre Dame for a Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering) hasn't set foot 

page 2 The Observer._ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 21, 2004 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Read this for once 

You're not even reading this, are you? 
That's because this is the Inside Column. Most people skip it. Honestly, I don't blame you. Giving paid staff mem­bers 400 words Kate Gales every single day leads to a lot of stress and really Wire Editor pointless columns. I con­sider it overkill. 
Personally, I'm a freshman, which means I get stuck doing these columns as my coworkers of legal age go bar-hopping. It will be great to be the senior in this position, so I'll suck it up for now. But future freshmen, beware -the day I turn 21 is the day my inside column days are over. 
I'm also basically out of topics. This is a column about anything­what on earth am l supposed to write about? My life is incredibly boring. I've talked about my dad's wild college days, eating pizza at ~ 
a.m. and how I love my Cavanaugh interhall football team. I'm not going to take 400 words to talk about how I read a lot of books, love National Arbor Day, know how to knit and spend half my waking hours checking peoples' away mes­sages. 
What's more interesting? Well, I spend a lot of time -for a girl ­thinking about, talking about, and watching sports. However, I've totally exhausted this topic now that my poor Eagles are out of the Super Bowl. By the way, I'm boy­cotting the Super Bowl this year. 
Other interesting details of my life won't be appropriate for this column because (a) my grandpar­ents subscribe to The Observer and will probably read this and (b) I'm neither 21 nor married, which severely limits the diversions I can pursue according to the rules of duLac. My editors probably would­n't like those kinds of columns. Actually, they'd probably enjoy reading them, make fun of me a lot and make me rewrite the column about something more appropriate. Why waste my time? 
I'd say about three-quarters of my readers are friends who have heard me complain about how I have to write this column and want to see what all my fuss is about. I know for a fact, however, that peo­ple actually read this. That fasci­nates me. People will do anything to get out of doing productive work, including reading my columns and even e-mailing me responses. Okay, it was a bitter Giants fan -and I'd be bitter too, if I was stuck cheering for that team. 
So thanks for reading to the end of this. If you come up with a good idea for an inside, let me know ­I'll probably need one soon. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SHOULD NO GIVE TO THE INDIAN TRIBE SUING OVER THE LAND? 


Emily Pike  Jen Mulreany  John Kearney  
Sophomore Farley  Sophomore Breen-Phillips  Sophomore Siegfried  
"They can have Carroll."  "Football tickets."  "Siegfried sweatshirts. ''  




Jonah White  Matt Tara  Rob Tennlswood  
Senior Off-Campus  Senior Dillon  Junior O'Neill  
"Give them some ofthe endowment. "  "We have lakes to spare. We .can give them  "We're giving them the Stepan Center."  


SOFIA BALLON!The Observer 
Students gather In a LaFortune lounge Tuesday night to watch President Bush deliver his State of the Union address. Bush paid specific attention to health Insur­ance, national security and faith-based Initiatives In the address. 
OFFBEAT 
Good to the last drop­ping 
JAKARTA, Indonesia ­SARS fears have stopped the Chinese from eating civet cats. But that hasn't turned off others from sipping the strangest of brews -one they insist is made from coffee beans eaten, partly digested and then excreted by the weasel-like animals. 
The story goes like this: Civets live in the foliage of plantations across Southeast Asia. These fussy foragers pick the best and ripest coffee berries. Enzymes in their digestive system break down the flesh of the fruit before the animals expel the bean. 
Workers collect beans from the plantation floor, wash away the dung and roast them to produce a unique drink that devo­tees might say is good to the last dropping. 
Money stolen from lot­tery winner 
SCOTT DEPOT, W.Va.­Someone stole a bank bag containing $100,000 from Jack Whittaker, winner of the richest undivided lot­tery jackpot in U.S. histo­ry. 
The thief shattered a 

window to get ·into Whittaker's locked sport utility vehicle, parked outside his home, Chief Sheriff's Deputy John Dailey said Tuesday. 
Whittaker, a 56-year­old contractor, won a $314.9 million Powerball jackpot in December 2002 and collected his winnings in a $113 mil­lion lump sum. 
The break-in was the second time in less than a year that money was stolen from Whittaker. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a::: 
L&.l
:::c 
ti 
;:L&.l _, 
c( (,) 


HIGH LOW 


17 8 


23 10 

..9 HIGH 28 
LOW 21 
one." 
IN BRIEF 
Come learn how to be pre­pared and make the most of the Winter Career and Internship Fair's networking opportunities. A preparation session will be held tonight from 7 to 8 p.m. in Planner Hall room 114. 
The Graduate Student Union will sponsor a blood drive today from 9 a.m. to 
3:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Any students, facul­ty and staff who are able are invited to make a donation. 
Test your knowledge during the College Bowl Competition tonight from 6 to 9 p.m. in the Notre Dame room of LaFortune. The Bowl is the longest running general knowledge quiz competition. 
Spend your Thursday night at Legends' New Year's party. Music will begin at 10 p.m. 
The "Strangers No Longer: Catholic Responses to Migration" lecture series will begin Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium. Father Daniel Groody will be speaking and the film Desperado: The Deadly Journey of Undocumented Migrants will be shown. 
The Late Night Olympics will be held Friday night from 7 p.m. to 4 a.m. in the Joyce Center. Events will include broomball, inner tube water polo, kickball, target golf and more. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH LOW 

.-----------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 21, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 

Students plan cainpus drive for blood bank 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students, facul-· ty and staff arc giving back to the community at today's blood drive, organized by the 
Graduate Student Union and benefiting the South Bend Blood Bank. 
This is the first time the GSU has spon­sored a blood drive, but after the overwhelm­
ing  response  
from  the  stu­ 
dent  body,  it  

"The number of volunteers has been astounding." 
John Young chairman health care committee 

hopes for the drive to become tradition, said John Young, organizer of the blood drive and chair of the GSU's health earn committee. 
"The number of volunteers has bnen astounding. My inbox has been crammed evory day for the past week, and I have needed to turn away about 50 or 60 potential donors because the most-cov­eted time slots filled quickly," Young said. 
Only 50 donors were initial­ly expected, but due to a strong showing of interest among members of the Notre Dame community, the South 
Bend Medical Foundation agreed to send another techni­cian, bringing the number of filled appointments to 75. 
Appo in tmen ts arc scheduled every 15 minutes,
and the entire process lasts about one hour, 
Young said. 

The blood drive, suggested to GSU president Martiqua Post by graduate student Harold Ernst, will take place today from 9 a.m. to 3:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu. 


Legends entertains campus 
By KATIE LAIRD 
News Writer 
Since opening last fall, Legends has become the entertainment hub on Notre Dame's campus. 
Transformed from Senior Bar last summer, Legends provides a place for students to socialize in various settings, including din­ing, drinking and dancing, while also offering a variety of live music entertainment. 
Program Coordinator Jonathan Jorissen is pleased with the success of Legends among both the Notre Dame and South Bend communities. 
"We're the premiere venue for live music in South Bend," he said. 
Legends maintains a struc­tured set-up of events that pro­vide a wide range of entertain­ment specifically targeting stu­dents. 
"Thursdays are geared toward students ... we set Thursdays mainly aside for campus bands," Jorissen said. "Students here on campus deserve a chance to play in front of their friends." 
Students interested in per­forming at Legends are required to provide program coordinators with a demo-tape. The venue books bands ranging from hip­hop to rock to pop music. With the number of students wanting to perform, availability is com­petitive. 
"We have literally hundreds of bands that want to play, and we have to be highly selective," Jorissen said. "We don't want to be stuck to one particular genre, and we also don't want to be generic rock band central." 

Friday nights have a variety of themes including karaoke, Celtic bands, professional comedians and decade cover bands, while Saturdays are reserved for out­side groups and singers. Jorissen coordinates bands from across the country, including San Francisco, Chicago, New York and Nashville. 
"These are 
Gavin DeGraw. "It's a learn-as-you-go process," Jorissen said. 
For example, Jorisscn learned that Legends will have to post­pone programming on next year's home football Saturdays due to difficulty booking groups and attracting big crowds with traffic, parking and other activi­ties occurring around campus. 
He is especially optimistic about "Ok Go," a Chicago group performing their power-pop rock style music at Legends Jan. 31. 
bands you could The group has
"We're the 
see and hear recently been fea­
premiere venue for 
maybe in of cou­tured in Holling ple of years on live music in South Stone Magazine as MTV," Jorissen well as on MTV
Bend."
said. and VH1. 
As for deciding "Son of Glam," where to get off­Johathon Jorrlson an 80's cover­campus entertain­program coordinator band, will also be 
ment, Jorissen said it is a ques­tion of determining the acts' cal­iber. Students request bands from home, community mem­bers provide local suggestions and a national touring agency is used as a good "go-to source." 
"Our name has gotten out there quite quickly because of our ·equipment and caliber and nature of the venue," Jorissen said. 
The first semester alone has shown promising results for the new establishment. November proved a successful turnout for the ND alum pop group Umphrey's McGee and singer performing in the 
next couple of weeks, bringing with them the full look of the 80's including mullets and long hair. Legends promotes bands through Ustscrv e-mails, posters, giveaways and by playing CDs in the dining halls. Students can join the list­serv to receive information about Legends by c-mailing legends@nd.edu. 
"We've seen great turnouts ... it's been a lot of fun," Jorissen said. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu. 


Wondering what life will be Afraid of leaving behind your like outside the bubble? friends and dorm community? 
~FreeT-s 
first 100 
. 
~~~\. 




·':f:· . )'0.1)­

_···.•··•oni~tt·,._ -w-·--6 .lnes-a~~' · · 
o;ll ' .-->~,;.<.Q;J.J:..-_-_.--­




Wednesday, January 21, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Mars 
continued from page 1 
Mars and search for past signs of water and, possibly, life. The two rovers were deployed last summer at a combined cost of $800 mil­lion. 
The first of the two rovers, Spirit, has landed success­fully within Mars' Gusev Crater, a geographic land­mark that scientists believe may be a former lake basin, and its sister rover Opportunity is scheduled to touch down on the red plan­et Saturday night. 
For Baumgartner, who has been working on this project for the past three and a half years, the excitement-and apprehension -begins when the rovers reach Mars' surface and the engineers must coordinate the unfold­ing of their arms. 
"The first time we deployed the arm there was a great de>al of tension," Baumgartner said. 
The first ten minutes that Spirit spent on the planet were also particularly sus­penseful, he admits, espe­cially because during that time frame no communica-

Mary 
continued from page 1 
three days that I did not say Mass," Hesburgh said. "I have said it 500 feet beneath the Pacific on a submarine, at 50,000 feet in an airplane and at the South Pole ... I almost had the opportunity to go up 
tion existed between Earth and the rover as it bounced along Mars' rocky terrain. 
After communication was reestablished and the rover settled, Baumgartner and his team began the task of 
unfolding the vehicle's robot­ic arm. The "You feel a sense of 
rover contains being there. It's 
six instru­
almost like the 
ments, includ­ing a robot is an 
panoramic extension of 
camera, rock 
yourself"

abrasion tool and spectrom­eters for ana­Eric Baumgartner lyzing miner­
engineer

als. The equip­ment allows 
pretty much stuck," he said. "You feel a sense of being there. It's almost like the 
robot  is  an  
extension  of  
yourself."  

NASA initially estimated that the rovers would have a lifetime of approximate­ly 90 days, 

THE 15TH ANNUAL 
NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT 

FILM 
FESTIVAL 
•oK .. here's my idea, 
. therE' s tHis Nunri~ht?. 
k. f 

ll.nd abe'S gffi0 ).ll a cigarette,oK..• 
THURS•FRI•SAT•MON JA, 

7:3Q &9:45PM • HESBURGH LIBRARY CAREY AUDITORIUM • $5 ADMISSION TICKETS ON SALE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER (WHILE THEY LAST) PRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE 

the rovers to function as "robotic field geologists," according to Baumgartner. 
"It's like a geologist out in the field," he said. "It takes to the field with it the same tools that a geologist would." 
The rovers and the instru­ments they contain allow scientists to enjoy never before seen views of Mars' surface and even minute details of its rocks while also analyzing their che:m,i­cal content. 
And what's it like driving a $400 million piece of equip-

into space, and if I had I would have said Mass on the space shuttle, which is defi­nitely something you don't see every day." 
Hesburgh spoke with fierce pride about Notre Dame, call­ing it "the greatest Catholic University in the world, bar none." If you were to "take all the pontifical universities in the world," he said, and "add [them] up, I don't think they'd ment millions of miles away via remote control with a ten minute lag time? 
Stressful but pretty cool, according to Baumgartner. "There's a little bit of fear there. If you break it, you're 
though scientists now say they may be operational for longer. 
For Baumgartner, that means he'll be kept busy for the next few months. 
"I'm gonna try to stick with [the mission] as long as the vehicles are alive," he said. "You work so hard on these projects. To see that come to fruition is just tremendous." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
add up to Notre Dame." 
When asked if he had one piece of advice for Notre Dame students at the end of the lec­ture, Hesburgh responded simply, "Stay close to our Lady. It's her place; she knows how to take care of you." 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at msmedber@nd.edu. 


Election 
continued from page 1 

must be a rising junior or senior and in good academic and social standing. If she is interested in running, she must attend a meeting, abides by all campaign rules and are given $150 for cam­paign expenses. 
"It is very exciting to have worked with 3ach of the women running for election and to know that any of them would do a super job," said current student body presi­dent Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl. 
Campaigning will end at midnight on Jan. 26. Students will have the oppor­tunity to vote in the primary election Jan. 27 through PRISM. If none of the tickets receive over 50 percent of the vote, a run-off election between the two tickets with the most votes will be held via PRISM on Jan. 29. 
"The best part for me knowing that any of the women running for office are capable of developing pro­grams even more imaginative than what we have been able to do," said Jablonski-Diehl. 
Contact Kelly Meehan kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu. 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 21, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TJIE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
lrsaeli warplanes strike Lebanon 
BEIHUT, Lebanon -Israeli warplanes struck llezbollah guerrilla bases in southern Lebanon late Tuesday, threatening to re­ignitP another Arab-Israeli front that has been mostly calm for years. 
Israel said it was retaliating for a llnzbollah attack that killed one Israeli sol­dier and wounded another a day earlier. and said the attacks were intended as a message to Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon. 
The United States blamed Jlezbollah guer­rillas for the escalation and cautioned Syria against giving support to the Lebanese mili­tant group. 
Tlwre was no word on casualties from the airstrikes in a valley six miles north of the Israeli border near the Mediterranean coast, LPbanese security officials said. 
One target, a llezbollah training position, took a direct missile hit and the sound of nxploding ammunition was heard in the area, the officials said. They said they could­n't determine the extent of damage because of the remote location. 
Gas plant explosion kills 23 
ALGIEHS. Algeria -Searchers discovered ten more bodies at a natural gas complex rocked by an explosion, raising the death toll to 23, an ollicial said Tuesday. Seventy-four people were injured and rescuers said as many as a dozen workers were believed missing. 
The cause of Monday evening's explosion in the Mediterranean port city of Skikda was still under investigation, Algeria energy min­ister Chakib Khelil told state radio. 
Authorities feared the death toll could rise b1~cause it was not known how many people 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Gephardt withdraws candidacy 
ST. LOUIS -Democrat Dick Gephardt 
abandoned his second bid for the presidency 
Tuesday. delivering a political valedictory 
after some three decades of public service 
while putting his home state of Missouri up 
for grabs in the competitive primary race. 
After a poor, fourth-place showing in Iowa 
Monday. Gephardt exited the race for the 
nomination, leaving a field of seven candi­
dates. A winner of Iowa in his unsuccessful 
White House bid in 1988, Gephardt was 
unable to produce a repeat performance 
dnspitc a strong ground organization and 
union support. 
"I gave this campaign everything I had in me." Gephardt told a news conference, his voice breaking at times. "Today my pursuit of the presidency has reached its end. I'm withdrawing as a candidate and returning to private life after a long time in the warm light of public service." 
Peterson trial changes venue 
MODESTO, Calif. -The judge in the mur­der case against Scott Peterson moved the trial about 90 miles away to the San Francisco Bay area Tuesday because of hos­tility toward Peterson in his dead wife's hometown. 
Judge AI Girolami ruled earlier this month that the trial had to be moved out of Modesto to make sure Peterson got a fair trial in the slaying of his wife, Laci, and unborn son. 
STATE NEWS 
Prognosis poor for Siamese twins 
INDIANAPOLIS -Conjoined twin girls born Tuesday to a Fort Wayne woman are unlikely to survive long because they share several vital organs, said a neonatologist who is caring for them. 
The twins were in critical condition at St. Vincent Hospital after being born at 12:21 
p.m. Tuesday to April McCray, 18, and her 19-year-old husband, Rocky McCray. 
The girls, Stephanie Nicole and Hebecca Marie, are joined at the torso and have sepa­rate hearts, but appear to share a liver, intestines and other organs. 
Bush gives State of the Union 
Annual address focuses on reelection issues, capture of Saddam and Iraq war 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Laying 
out campaign themes, 
President Bush is hailing 
progress fighting terrorism, 
recharging the economy and 
helping Americans afford 
health care. But Democrats 
say his election-year State of 
the Union address under­
scores how paltry his 
achievements have been. 
The morning after he 
addressed a national televi­
sion audience and a joint 
session of Congress, Bush 
was embarking Wednesday 
on a two-day swing through 
Ohio, Arizona and New 
Mexico to highlight his job 
training and counterterror­
ism proposals. 

Those were among several 
plans he said he would offer 
in his 2005 budget-a blue­
print to be released Feb. 2 
that will be constrained by 
record deficits expected to 
approach $500 billion this 
year. 

Even as Democrats 
scrapped among themselves 
over who would oppose him 
in November, the president 
touted his administration's 
successes: the toppling and 
capture of Saddam Hussein, 
the revival of economic 
growth, and the passage of 
major tax cuts and a 
Medicare prescription drug President George W. Bush pauses while giving his State of the Union Address benefit. Tuesday. The speech dealt with Iraq, terrorism, the economy and other Issues. 
"America this evening is a terized his administration. between a man and a to the dangerous illusion nation called to great "He promised us a humble woman if courts struck that terrorists are not plot­responsibilities," Bush said foreign policy. Instead, he's down a law mandating that. ting and outlaw regimes are in his 54-minute address alienated our allies, lost the He asked lawmakers to no threat to us." Tuesday evening. "And we respect of the world commu-renew expiring portions of "We have not come all this are rising to meet them." nity and cost 500 brave the USA Patriot Act that way-through tragedy and 
The address contained few young men and women their strengthen the investigative trial and war -only to fal­major new proposals, under­lives' in Iraq," said retired reach of law enforcement ter and leave our work lining the limitations of a Gen. Wesley Clark. agencies, double funds for unfinished," the presidentbudget burdened by deficits "President Bush's speech abstinence education and said. and a campaign year in was not so much of a State codify his administration's Democrats, however, saw which far-reaching legisla­ofthe Union as a state of his award of federal grants to Bush and his policies as tive accomplishments proba­re-election campaign," said religious charities. entirely dispensable -and bly will be hard to come by. Rep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y. He also took a swipe at employed rhetoric aimed at 
From Congress to the "But the president's words Democrats who have chal-their own supporters.presidential campaign trail do not change the reality lenged the path he took in "The State of the Union in New Hampshire, where that his priorities are out of Iraq, who have said his tax may look rosy from the next week's presidential pri­touch with the priorities of cuts were an unnecessary White House balcony or the mary will be held, most Americans." boon to the rich and that his suites of George Bush's Democrats balked. They said Bush touted a cluster of Medicare expansion and wealthiest donors, but hard­Bush had ignored the job issues sure to energize con-education initiatives were working Americans will see losses, ballooning budget servative voters who are the inadequate. through this president'sdeficits, diplomatic reversals core of the Republican Party. He said the nation needed effort to wrap his radical and growing ranks of He said he would support to stay the course against agenda with a compassion­Americans without health a constitutional amendment terrorism and admonished ate ribbon," said former insurance that have charac-defining marriage as being those who would "turn back Vermont Gov. Howard Dean. 

Rebel leader ousted by wife in feud 
husband and the movement. and Democracy movement nodded
Associated Press 
"I put him there. If you open a big assent. Dignitaries streamed in for 
MONROVIA, Liberia -The wife of business and you put your husband consultations. the leader of Liberia's most powerful in charge, if you see that things are Unless rapidly resolved, the dispute rebel movement announced Tuesday not going the right way, you set him threatens to destabilize Liberia, she was taking charge, backed by aside, and straighten things up," where a U.N. force of 15,000 is back­dozens of guerrilla commanders in Keita-Conneh told The Associated ing a power-sharing government ousting a husband whose ambitions Press, as her baby daughter -who after 14 years of civil war that killed she said were endangering the she is still nursing -lay beside her a quarter-million people. nation's hard-won peace. on a bed in the family home. Peace came to Liberia in August, 
In a family feud with West Africa's A powerfully built woman in brown when warlord President Charles stability in the balance, warlord caftan and head-wrap, Keita-Conneh Taylor fled into exile as the rebels Sekou Conneh frantically took to promised she would put Liberia's 6-laid siege to his capital and interna­state radio to insist it was only a month-old peace process on track. "I tional peacekeepers moved in. marital squabble and he was still in will never agree for anybody to fight The risk is that a lasting rift command. in this country again," she said. between loyalists of rebel husband 
But Asha Keita-Conneh declared Around her, fighters of the rebel and rebel wife could revive factional she was the "double boss," of her Liberians United for Reconciliation fighting. 
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 21, 2004 

Potential 20th 9/11 hijacker was refused entry 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A man who may have been the intended 20th hijacker in al-Qaida's Sept. 11 terror attack was prevented from entering the country by a 
U.S. immigration agent, federal officials said Thesday. 
The man, identified only by his last name of al-Qahtani, was turned away by the agent Jose Melendez-Perez at Orlando International Airport in late August 2001, according to two senior law enforcement officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
FBI and Justice Department investigators say al-Qaida was attempting to bring additional operatives into the United States only a few weeks before the attacks, perhaps to join the hijacking plot or to launch a sec­ond wave of terror. 
As many as a dozen names are being examined through immigration records, the offi­cials said. It was unclear whether any of these others were stopped from entering the United States. 
The agent in Orlando became suspicious when al-Qahtani pro­vided only vague answers to questions about what he was doing in the United States and could not provide names of peo­ple meeting him at the airport or describe where he was stay­ing, one official said. 
Al-Qahtani was stopped and questioned at about the same 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Career and Internship Fair 
Take advantage of this opportunity to discuss summer service internships, ACCION internships, non-profit and for-profit businesses opportunities. 
When: Tuesday, January 27 from 4:00-8:00 
Where: Joyce Center 
Enroll Now for NYSP Program 
Ifyou have always wanted to make a difference, and enjoy working with kids, NYSP is for you. The program runs this Sum­mer 2004 (mid-June to end-July) and is a sports and enrichment camp for children from economi­cally disadvantaged com­munities. Applications due Friday, January 23 and can be picked up at the esc. 
Participants receive a $1 ,500 stipend, meals and housing on Campus, and three Theo credits. Con­tact Carl Loesch for more information. 

time that Mohamed Atta, a ring­leader of the Sept. 11 attacks, was using a pay phone at the Orlando airport, according to surveillance camera tapes. Atta called a number in the Middle East, the officials said. 
At the time al-Qahtani was stopped in Orlando, the United States possessed no information linking him to terrorism, the officials said. 
So far. investigators have not proven a link between Atta and al-Qahtani. But the FBI has long suspected that one of the planes -United Flight 93, which crashed in a Pennsylvania field after a passenger uprising ­was supposed to have a team of five instead of only four hijack­ers. The other three planes taken over that day had five hijackers. 
Melendez-Perez is to testify about the matter at a hearing next week before the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon The United States. better known as the 9/11 commission. Melendez-Perez is currently an inspector with the Customs and Border Protection bureau of the Homeland Security Department. 
FBI Director Robert Mueller told reporters last week that the bureau had shared "millions of documents" with the commis­sion and that many senior FBI officials, Mueller included, had briefed the panel members. Mueller said the briefings and documents include information about "persons we are interest­ed in" as part of the Sept. 11 investigation. 
Commission spokesman AI Felzenberg declined to discuss specifics of the Orlando case but said testimony from Melendez­Perez and others will shed new light on what happened before and after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"There are things that have not been well known in the pub­lic that will have an impact on our investigation," Felzenberg said. 
The FBI initially identified Zacarias Moussaoui, an avowed al-Qaida adherent, as the 20th hijacker. But Moussaoui, await­ing trial in Virginia on federal conspiracy charges, insists he was unaware of the Sept. 11 plot and officials now believe he may have been intended for a subsequent attack. 
Moussaoui is the only person being prosecuted in connection with the Sept. 11 attacks. 
A 2003 report from the House and Senate intelligence commit­tees concluded that all of the 19 hijackers who took part in the Sept. 11 attack were in the United States-by June 2001. 
The six organizers lived in the United States for varying amounts of time. The other 13 -the "muscle" intended to overcome pilots and control passengers -arrived in pairs, except for one group of three, the report said. All traveled to the United States through the United Arab Emirates. 
After his apprehension, U.S. 
agents put al-Qahtani on a plane prior to Sept. 11, and the failure back to Saudi Arabia, the offi­of the CIA and FBI to communi­cials said. He later wound up in cate about them represents Afghanistan, where he was cap­what congressional investigators tured by U.S. forces and is now called a major lost chance to being held along with other cap­unravel the plot. Those two ­tives at the U.S. naval base at Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. al-Hazmi -were aboard the 
Of the 19 hijackers, only two plane that crashed into the were connected to al-Qaida Pentagon. 

Social Concerns Festival Today 
Learn about service and social with local community action in South Bend at the organizations. Center for Social Concerns annual "Social Concerns When: January 21 from 7 pm Festival." Representatives from -9pm. area service organizations Where: Center for Social will be on hand to introduce Concerns students to opportunities 

Business Careers as Vocations Session Held Sunday 
The Center for Social Tom Suddes '71 (President of Concerns in collaboration Suddes Group Challenge), with the Notre Dame Dan Bell '82 (Ohio Employee Vocation Initiative will Ownership Center), host a series ofCareers as Deb Hines '90 (Center for Vocations panels this semester. Individual and Organizational Alumni and alumnae of the Effectiveness) University will discuss how they have come to understand When: Sunday, January 25 their careers in response from I :00-2:30 to the "call" and how they Where: Cenrer for Social have integrated faith and Concerns social concerns into their Pizza will be served. professions. Speakers include: 

Tom Dooley Award Lunch 
Listen to Paul Wright, Happiness. M.D., '72, recipient of When: Friday, January 23,the Tom Dooley Award, from 11:30-12:45 pm. 
speak on "Mother Teresa's 
Message." He will explain Where: Center for Social January 25 from 2-4 pm. Capital Punishment New the Purpose ofLife, How to Concerns. At 3 pm that day, Montoya Work( is now on display at Serve, his Prescription for will give a gallery talk. The S nire Museum ofArt.
For more informationHealing Humanity, Obtaining contact Tracy Wickham.

and Sustaining Peace and 

Meet Montoya at Reception 
Meet Malaquias Montoya His exhibition, "Pre­at a reception to be held meditated: Meditations On 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Wednesday, January 21, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

}ones......_ ' 
Up: Same: •• Composite Volume: 

2,062 142 1,690,759,936 

AMEX  1,210.25  +26.51  
NASDAQ  2,147.98  +31.80  
NYSE  6,599.48  +31.80  
S&PSOO  1,138.77  -1.06  
NIKKEI(Tokyo)  11,103.10  0.00  
FTSE IOO(London) 4,499.30  -18.80  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE QDSU) +10.83 +0.56 5.73 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -3.49 -0.11 3.04 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +3.71 +0.20 5.S9 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.04 +0.29 28.10 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.93 -0.27 28.86 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.95 +0.48 49.26 I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.07 +0.43 40.57 5-YEARNOTE + 1.06 +0.32 30.47 3-MONTH BILL -0.58 -0 .. 05 8.57 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.87 34.87 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.90 412.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.225 82.50 
IN BRIEF 
Regulators review lending laws 
WASIIINGTON -Federal regulators are 
proposing changes in a community lending 
law that would ease requirements for smaller 
banks by demanding less frequent government 
reviews. 
Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corp. voted unanimously Tuesday to propose 
the rule changes to the Community 
Heinvestment Act, the 1977 law that requires 
banks to make loans in low-income and 
minority areas where they operate as a condi­
tion for opening new branches. FDIC opened 
the proposals to public comment for 60 days. 
The other major federal agencies that over­
see banks-the Federal Reserve, the Office of 
the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office 
of Thrift Supervision -either have taken sim­
ilar action or are expected to do so soon. 
Hegulators say the changes, in the works for about two years, are needed to reduce. a paperwork burden on smaller banks and to more clearly define predatory lending, which gives banks a lower rating under the commu­nity-lending law. 
Stocks looking towards recovery 
NEW YOHK -The Dow Jones industrial 
average reached its highest level since mid­
2002 Friday as investors greeted strong earn­
ings from General Electric Co. and the tech­
nology sector. The market's major indexes 
were all up for a seventh week in a row. 
GE's earnings helped reassure investors skittish following Intel Corp.'s disappointing revenue projections earlier this week. 
"The key thing here is that you're starting to see some aggressive buying coming back into the market," said Jim Haphalian, head of insti­tutional trading at Charles Schwab. "There's more than one buyer for any stock being sold, and there are both institutional and retail buy­ers. And that's because earnings are showing us that fundamentals are sound." 
The Dow Jones industrial average was up 46.66, or 0.4 percent, at 10,600.51, a new 52­week high. It was the index's highest close since March 19, 2002, when it finished at 10,635.30. 
The Nasdaq finished up 31.38, or 1.5 per­cent, at 2,140.46, eclipsing the previous 2 1/2­year high reached Monday. 
Martha Stewart's trial opens 
Famous home decorating expert pleads not guilty to five criminal charges 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Martha 
Stewart waved to her sup­
porters, strode into a 
Manhattan courthouse and 
repeated a plea of innocent 
at the formal start of her 
stock-trading trial Tuesday. 
The 62-year-old million­
aire gracious-living guru 
stood in court and nodded 
at the first batch of jurors, 
who were interviewed one 
by one in a judge's private 
robing room. 

"Not guilty," Stewart said 
five times, speaking almost 
inaudibly and nodding as 
she re-entered her plea to 
five criminal counts related 
to her 2001 sale of nearly 
4,000 shares of ImClone 
Systems. 

Stewart. in a dark over­
coat, clutched two bags as 
she stepped out of a black 
town car and said "Good 
morning" while passing a 
phalanx of cameras. She 
then climbed the court­
house steps and briefly 
waved to two fans standing 
in the freezing cold, includ­
ing a man wearing a "Save 
Martha" chef's hat and 
matching apron. 

In court, she produced a ballpoint pen and green stenographer's notebook and listened to U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum instruct the 
potential jurors on their She became the queen of about an ImCione cancer to each count against him, role in the trial. home decor and amassed a drug. Prosecutors say clearly and emphatically 
"Only you can determine fortune as the head of Stewart lied to investiga­repeating the phrase "not what happened, and the Martha Stewart Living tors to cover up that her guilty." Bacanovic's five verdict as to each count Omnimedia, which stock sale was prompted counts carry a total of 25 will be your decision stamped her style on by a tip that ImClone years and $1.25 million. alone," the judge said. everything from magazines founder Sam Waksal was Stewart and Bacanovic 
Cedarbaum told the and recipes to bed linens trying to sell his shares entered the same innocent potential jurors that open­and bath towels. Her after getting advance word pleas on June 4, the day ing statements will proba­legions of supporters argue of the report. they were indicted. They bly begin next week. The she is being targeted Stewart claims she and had to formally re-enter trial is expected to last into because of her celebrity her stockbroker had a pre­them Tuesday because the March. status. existing order to sell government made last­
Stewart faces 30 years in "This is a witch hunt," ImCione stock when it fell minute changes to its prison and penalties of said Linda Smith, who took to $60 per share. indictment. $1.25 million. although she a two-hour bus ride from The broker, Peter The jury selection would likely receive far New Jersey to stand out­Bacanovic also is charged process is routinely held in less under federal sentenc­side the courthouse in sup­with five criminal counts in open court, but ing guidelines if convicted. port of Stewart. "Martha's the trial. Arriving in court Cedarbaum closed it for 
Stewart is the highest­public believes her, after Stewart, he briefly this case, saying she was profile figure to stand trial believes in her innocence." leaned in to hug her and worried jurors might be since the government The Imclone stock fell exchange kisses on the less forthcoming with their began its crackdown on sharply the day after cheek. answers if they knew corporate corruption two Stewart's sale on a nega­Bacanovic, 41, also re­reporters were in the years ago. tive government report entered a plea of innocent room. 


SalvationArmy receives $1.5 billion 
said W. Todd Bassett, national com­The 12-acre recreation and cultur­
Associated Press 
mander of the organization. al arts center serves about 6,600 
WASHINGTON -The charity The exact size of the gift won't be members, who participate in classes famous for its red Christmas kettles known until administration of Kroc's such as skating, swimming and gym­is getting a record donation from the estate is complete, which could take nastics. The goal, Kroc remarked at woman behind the golden arches. several months. the time, was to create a place where 
The estate of Joan Kroc, the "We are obviously thrilled, but gen­youths can reach their full potential McDonald's heiress, said Tuesday it uinely humbled by the exceptional and "learn of each other." is giving an estimated $1.5 billion to generosity of Joan Kroc," said Kroc was the widow of Ray Kroc, the Salvation Army to build commu­Bassett. "We recognize the deep who founded McDonald's Corp. in nity centers across the country. It's sense of trust she has placed into our 1955. A noted philanthropist, she the largest single donation ever given hands with this gift." gave away hundreds of millions of to a charitable organization. The money will be used to build dollars to promote world peace, edu­
The Salvation Army, which promis­about 25 to 30 community centers cation, health care and the arts. es "soup, soap and salvation," was a across the country similar to the Ray Mrs. Kroc died Oct. 12 and favorite of her husband, Ray Kroc, and Joan Kroc Corps Community bequeathed $200 million to National who died in 1984. He was a bell­Center. That facility opened in San Public Radio and $50 million apiece ringer for the charity in the 1950s Diego in June 2002 after a $92 mil­to peace institutes at the universities and '60s. "He used to bring coffee lion gift by Kroc tn the Salvation of Notre Dame and San Diego that and hamburgers to kettle workers," Army. bear her name. 

Wednesday, January 21, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 

Convicted pedophile priest defrocked in Mass. 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -A convicted pedophile priest who is a suspect in the mur­der of an altar boy has been defrocked decades after the allegations surfaced, the Springfield Diocese announced Tuesday. 
Richard Lavigne was defrocked by the pope on Nov. 20 and will be removed from the payroll on May 31, Springfield Bishop Thomas Dupre said. 
Lavigne pleaded guilty in 

Senate likely to pass spending bill soon 
WASHINGTON -The Senate seemed prepared to approve an overdue $373 billion measure by next week after Democrats said Tuesday they would no longer stall the bill over food labeling rules and other issues. 
In its first roll call of the elec­tion year, the Senate failed to end Democratic procedural delays that have bogged the measure down since December. The 48-45 vote fell 12 short of the 60 votes needed to free the bill, which would fmance educa­tion, law enforcement and most federal domestic programs. 
Rather than an embarrassing setback for the Senate's 

Reaction 
continued from page 1 
Democrats' applause about the impending end of the Patriot Act. 
"Democrats seemed to make a point themselves," O'Rourke said. 
O'Rourke also criticized the beginning of the address, where Bush discussed terrorism. 
"[It seemed designed] to make Americans fearful and scared to make the country more recep­tive of [the President's] plans," O'Rourke said. 
Sociology professor Eugene Halton criticized Bush's approach to homeland security and his stance on gay marriage. 
Halton said he was concerned with the "erosion of freedom in America" that has resulted from the "sense [in America] that security is a technical operation that can be solved with technical apparatus" such as the Department of Homeland Security. Although Halton said there is no doubt there are real terrorists, the fact there is a missing concern with any sort of inner threat to the very freedom President Bush states to protect is troublesome. Americans have become fearful of appearing vul­nerable, but to an extent that is necessary to enjoy freedom in the first place. 
"[Americans] need to see our­selves as a vulnerable part of a vulnerable world and as a fellow member of the world community [for] being free necessarily means being vulnerable at some points," Halton said, adding that security cannot be seen as "the be all and end all" of American concerns. 
Halton also said he believes that the President's statements concerning the need to overrule the acts of judges in favor of the 1992 to molesting two altar boys, and was suspected by authorities but never charged with killing another one ­Danny Croteau-in 1972. The boy's family believes Lavigne abused their son, and killed the child to stop him from reporting it. 

Lavigne, 62, was sentenced to a treatment facility and 10 years of probation. He was barred from serving as a priest, but still received a monthly stipend and health insurance totaling more than $20,000 a year. 
Republican leaders and President Bush just hours before his State of the Union address, however, the roll call became more of a symbolic protest. 
Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., removed the drama by predicting the Senate would approve the bill by next week, regardless of whether the problems were resolved.. Majority Republicans had said repeatedly they would not alter the food labeling or other provi­sions that Democrats opposed. 
"Our desire is not to kill the bill. Our desire is to give them a chance to fix it," Daschle told reporters before the vote. 
will of the American people towards the issue of gay mar­riage is "dangerous." 
"[At times in American history, trusting] the opinions of the masses as better judges of right and wrong [was] precarious," Halton said, citing civil rights leg­islation. He said that it is impor­tant to follow the government system as it is set up and main­tain "democracy [as] the rule of law." 
Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrell@nd.edu. 
"This is the beginning of attaining justice for the vic­tims of Richard Lavigne," said John Stobierski, the lawyer representing most victims suing Lavigne. 
Msgr. Richard Sniezyk said the diocese has received at least 40 complaints of abuse by Lavigne since the 1970s. 
In the 1990s the diocese settled suits for $1.4 million with 17 men who accused Lavigne of abusing them. Within the past two years, at least 15 other people have filed lawsuits accusing Lavigne of abuse. 
Dupre said announcing the pope's decision "brings me no pleasure." 
"Indeed no priest or bishop can ev!)r take pleasure in see­ing such a severe penalty handed down," he said. "As Christians, we must remain faithful to the church teach­ing of love and forgiveness and as such, I commend Richard Lavigne to our prayers." 
Sniezyk said Lavigne main­tains his innocence and was "disappointed" when he learned on Saturday that the Vatican defrocked him. 
Lavigne's lawyer, Max Stern, did not immediately return a call seeking com­ment. 
Dismissal from the priest­hood is a fairly unusual and complicated process. 
Since the clergy sex abuse scandal erupted in the Bo~ton Archdiocese two years ago, about two dozen priests have been suspended from the archdiocese. 
None have yet been defrocked. 


Sports. 
Spirituality. Spig Roast. 
Back by noon. In time for Super Bowl at 6:25pm. 



Jan 30-Febl 
www.nd.edu/r-~krusseau 
Wednesday, January 21, 2004 page 9 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 



Democrats end blockade of spending bill 
Asso<iated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Senate Democrats said Tuesday they will stop stalling an overdue $373 billion spending bill over food labeling rules and other issues. bowing to pressure to accept the measure's boosts for veterans and other popular programs. 
In its first roll call of the election year, the Senate failed to end Democratic procedural delays that have bogged the measure down since December. The 48-45 vote fell 12 short of the 60 votes need­ed to free the bill. which would finance education, law enforcement and most federal domestic programs. 
Hather than an embarrass­ing setback for the Senate's Hepublican leaders and President Bush just hours before his State of the Union address, however, the roll call became more of a symbolic protest by Democrats and a handful of GOP allies. 
Senate Minority Leader Tom allow an administration move Daschle, D-S.D.. removed any to reduce the number of white­drama by predicting the collar workers eligible for Senate would approve the bill overtime pay and would ease by next week, regardless of limits on the number of televi­whether the problems were sion stations a company can resolved. Majority own. Republicans had "The point is to
"The point is to
said repeatedly draw attention to 
they would not draw attention to how important 
alter the food how important this this issue is to labeling or other people across this
issue is to people
provisions that country," Daschle 
across this
Democrats said of the food opposed. country." labeling provi­"Our desire is sion, which not to kill the bill. gained promi­
Tom Daschle
Our desire is to nence after last 

Senate Minority 
give them a month's discovery chance to fix it," Leader of a Washington Daschle toold state cow with reporters before mad cow disease. the vote. That stance was a reversal 
He said if Republicans from more combative talk refused to rewrite the disputed many Democrats had used provisions, Democrats would during Congress' winter use other legislation to wage recess. They had never before their fights. The bill would said they would let the bill impose a two-year delay on pass if their problems were not labels identifying the countries addressed, and had refused to many foods come from, would put limits on how long they would delay the legislation. Democratic delays after Senate 

Bush criticized "a minority in Appropriations Committee the Senate" for blocking a vote Chairman Ted Stevens, H­for added resources for veter­Alaska, assured them it would ans, AIDS victims in Africa, be addressed in the first FBI agents imd public school spending bill Congress writes students. this year. 
"The Senate "It's an issue we needs to pass it," "Once they hear have to resolve," he said in a writ­said Stevens.
$3.1 billion in 
ten statement. Democratic
health care is
The House aides said there approved the going to be taken probably would spending meas­not be enough
away ... they're
ure in December. support to contin­
going to be calling
Since then, even ue delaying the as mad cow dis­{lawmakers]. " legislation past ease became a Tuesday's vote. political issue, The bill -for the

Bill Frlst
administration budget year that

Senate Majority 
officials and started Oct. 1 ­House GOP lead­Leader contains increas­ers have refused es for veterans' to rewrite the health care, bio­measure. medical research, education 
Hepublicans, however, have for the disabled and other pro­been pressured by some of grams popular with members their own members to address of both parties. the labeling issue. Sens. Mike Had the delays continued, Enzi and Craig Thomas, both GOP leaders were threatening H-Wyo., said they voted to limit to try to push a bill through 
Congress to finance most pro­
grams at last year's levels, 
which would mean $6 billion less spending than the stalled legislation would provide. That created major pressure to approve the delayed bill, Republicans said. 
"Once they hear $3.1 billion in health care is going to be taken away by people who vote against this ... they're going to be calling" lawmakers, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, H­Tenn., said, referring to veter­ans' groups. 
The measure also is loaded with money for theater reno­vations and other home-dis­trict projects lawmakers would be loath to lose-7,932 of them costing $10.7 billion, according to the conservative group. Taxpayers for Common Sense. 
In addition, Democrats wor­ried further delays could invite campaign-season accusations that they were threatening a federal shutdown, aides said. 
Even so, Democratic law­makers and outside groups supporting them sought to couch Tuesday's vote as a win. AFL-CIO President John Sweeney called it "a denuncia­tion" of the administration's overtime plan, while Sen. Torn Harkin, D-Iowa, said, "We are not going to give up" on the issue. 
Congressional approval four months into the budget year is an embarrassment to the GOP, which controls the White House and Congress for the first time since the early 1950s. But Hepublicans believe the public, focused instead on the economy and Iraq, will barely notice. 
The 1,182-page bill would finance 11 Cabinet-level departments and scores of other agencies, because it combines seven spending measures into a single, mam­moth package. It covers every­thing from NASA to housing aid for the poor, from foreign aid to the District of Columbia's local government. 
It also includes money for initiatives that members of both parties support. There is money to fight AIDS in Africa and the Caribbean, to help countries that achieve demo­cratic reforms and to pay for operations of the FBI, highway construction and the ArneriCorps national service 
program. 


THE OBSER\'ER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, January 21, 2004 
Elam's scholarship reprehensible 


Abram Elam was convicted of a felony in August for his who does not have a felony on his or her record. role in a 2002 incident involving three other Notre Dame Why would Pees and Kent State make such a decision? One football players and a female Notre Dame student at an off­could conclude that Kent State, which ranked last in pass campus house. All four players were dismissed from the defense in the Mid-American conference in 2003, badly University a year and a half ago and were needs defensive help. Elam, who played defen­charged with various sexual assault crimes. Of OJhe sive back for the Irish, will undoubtedly make the four, Elam was the only person convicted of userver •al an impact for the Golden Flashes next season any wrongdoing -Donald Dykes was acquitted ~ in the secondary. on all three counts and the prosecutor's office Edi.t.On But Elam's ability to improve the Kent State dropped charges against Lorenzo Crawford and football team does not excuse Pees from offer-Justin Smith -and was placed on probation. ing the defensive back scholarship money. 
Last week, Kent State University not only accepted Elam as Elam should have the opportunity to play football again a student, but Golden Flash football coach Dean Pees offered wherever he wants. But Pees should have made the former Elam a scholarship to play football in 2004. Elam has one Irish defensive back walk onto his team instead of giving him year of eligibility remaining. a scholarship. Giving Elam a second chance is not the issue, 
Give Elam credit for trying to get his life back in order in but rather rewarding Elam for his football abilities while part by wanting to play the sport he loves, and give Pees ignoring his serious personal mistakes shows poor judgment credit for giving Elam a second chance. While Elam shouldn't by Kent State. have to live the rest of his life in the shadow of a grievous Many criticized Notre Dame's disciplinary process that error he made when he was 20 years old, he shouldn't get a kicked Elam and the other three football players out of free ride, either. school before criminal charges were filed. But few can ques­
The problem lies with the scholarship money given to tion the University's moral stance. Kent State, on the other Elam, a convicted felon. The money Elam receives will conse­hand, should be embarrassed by its decision to give scholar­quently be taken from another aspiring Kent State athlete, ship money to a convicted felon. 
Even presidents write rough drafts 
Thanks to my many powerful con­nections in the White House, I actually managed to procure a copy of President Bush's first draft to last night's State of the Union address. What follows is Dubya's original Joey Falco version of the speech prior to any tampering 
Forty Ounces 
by White House 
ofFalco

officials. 
Mr. Speaker, Uncle Dick, members of Congress, oil tycoons, for­mer Enron executives, my beloved dog Barney and the rest of Daddy's friends: I come before you today to tell you that the state of our union is stronger than the spicy bean burritos that my indentured servant Juanita cooks for me on my ranch in Crawford. 
As for the economy, my Krispy Kreme stock has gone through the roof, fishin' bait is cheaper than ever, Dodge is putting a Hemi in just about every one oOts pickup trucks and I even found a crumpled up dollar bill in my back pocket this morning. 
Also, this coming year, I have even more up my sleeve to make sure that the recent economic surge continues. I'm like a sneaky Injun creeping up on you with a bow and arrow. Watch out! You never know when I might decide to pin you down and scalp you like a lost pioneer, or at least eliminate some of the highest tax brackets. 
In domestic affairs, 2004 will cer­tainly prove to the world what I've been saying for years: Don't mess with Texas. Not only is there an "Alamo" movie coming out with my favorite actor, Billy Bob Thornton, but the Houston Astros just signed Andy Pettitte and Roger Clemens. So take that, Yankees. 
And a new pitching staff isn't the only thing I've got cookin' down in Houston. As you may have heard, I've decided that NASA will return to the moon for the first time in over 30 years. Actually, I thought of the con­cept of a permanent lunar colony one day while mediating peace talks between Israel and Palestine. Since the Palestinians want a country of their own and Israel won't give it to them, I decided to give the moon to the PLO. Within a few years, we should have the technology to send every Palestinian in the world on a one-way trip to the big rock in the sky, and I, George Dubya Bush, will have single­handedly solved the crisis in the Middle East! 
Not only that, but I will also lead this great nation on its first manned mis­sion to Mars. As you may or may not know, the Red Planet is incredibly hot, millions of light years away and inhab­ited by apes. Luckily, the Millennium Falcon is still the fastest ship in the galaxy, and I'm fairly confident that my hand-picked team of Han Solo and Bilbo Baggins can brave the climate of this hostile planet. After that, who knows what I'll do next? I might even explore Uranus. Hebe. Get it? 
Now, on to a more serious note, another series of exact, scientific stud­ies from some of Britain's top researchers have shown that the Axis of Evil has spread all the way to Crapistan, a tiny nation nestled in the flat, barren desert area between Tibet and Nepal. In order to combat this ter­rible threat to American homeland security, I have decided that the time has come to reinstate the military draft. Luckily, due to the size of Crapistan's army, very few citizens will 
need to be drafted during this process. 
I actually happen to have the names of 
those selected with me today, and they 
are as follows: Howard Dean, John 
Kerry, John Edwards, Dick Gephardt, 
Dennis Kucinich. Joe Lieberman, Al 
Sharpton and Carson from "Queer Eye 
for the Straight Guy." 
If your name was just called, please 

report to your mission commander, 
General Wesley Clark, at the Paris 
Island military training facility imme­
diately. Thank you. 
Moving on, I must address an issue that has been of growing concern to Americans everywhere. And no, I don't mean Samantha being diagnosed with breast cancer on "Sex and the City," although that certainly did knock me off my saddle when I heard it. I'm talking, of course, about Mad Cow Disease, also known to us scientific types as Canine Spongy Oligopoly. In order to combat the spread of this rare disorder, I have initiated a $40 billion plan with Congress that will drastically lower the amount of beef consumed by Americans each year. Essentially, this strategy will consist of all imported cattle being told not to mess with Texas. 
In closing, I only wish to say that in 2004, if I reclaim the throne in November, God will continue to bless the United States of America. 
As long as we aren't invaded by killer Martian apes. 
Joey Falco is a freshman double­majoring in political science and Spanish. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at jfalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
Which cartoon would you rather see on the Today page: Dilbert or Classic Peanuts? 
Vote by 5 p.m. today at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The hardest thing to understand in the world is the income tax. " 
Albert Einstein physicist 

.----------------------------------------­

THE OBSER\'ER 






IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 21, 2004 page 11 
Face the music 
The year of our Lord 2003 ended exciting collegiate experience, I tra­which newcomers to the ski trip were doing yourself an injustice in thinking magnificently. Months of careful plan­versed about 10 states in three days to be initiated by way of the beer-ski so. ning crystallized into what many may alongside 109 new friends in a bus and other hushed hazing rituals. It Second, theme parties, and more or may not remember as the party of with no working toilet. running water ended, however, with the reprisal of specifically, dance and performance the year. In honor of MTV poster boy or significant leg 
room. We res­Flashdance in our living room parties, are the missing ingredient in and choreographing urrected old favorites, like to a score of '80s recordings the elusive recipe for a great social life. prodigy Wade 20 Questions and Belittle by a group of kids who My experience at the Wade Robson
David Barrett 

Hobson, we printed the Bus Driver, and still should have ended up Project dance party, and the as-yet­pocket tees bearing had the time to play at Juiliard or as unnamed 4 a.m. version, really proved his name. He made 13 hours of electron­background dancers that point. Perhaps a bit belatedly I 
A Domer's

dancing cool, and ic Catchphrase. The in "Jenny From the have now arrived at a feasible resolu­
Outlook 

we consecrated an cool kids in the Block." tion for the New Year. I resolve myself entire evening to back must have I take two very to throwing bi-weekly theme parties so thank him for that. even played a important les­that others may witness firsthand We shimmied and we shook, we few rounds of sons from my dancing's therapeutic power in helping laughed and we cried. We danced until Capture the time in to cope with a long spring and an oth­delirium and her friend euphoria told Flag. Most of Montana, both erwise lackluster social scene here at us to sit down. stop shaking and accept them emerged of which I wish Notre Dame. We already have a few the fact that life cannot get much bet­unscathed, but I had learned marinating in our minds, and fully ter. one unfortu­during fresh­intend to bring them to fruition in 
It didn't. Exam time was stressful. So nate would-be man orienta­weeks to come. Amongst them are was sitting at home over break know­skier managed tion. One, you Junior High Revisited and Springtime ing that I had forgotten to have the to tear his ACL shouldn't Slow-Dance, as well as a possible sec­post office hold the paper. So were the somewhere out­restrict the title ond installment of Wade Robson. Truly. lame end-of-year jokes-"See you in a side Bismarck. of "friend" to the options are endless. year" -and the equally unoriginal Immobilized even just those kids With an open mind and the ability to New Year resolutions -''I'm giving up before braving the who happen to literally think on your feet, you might helping people, lima beans and going blue squares, he live down the hall have the night of your life and make a to class." Nonetheless, I endured them, brought new mean­from you in your few friends in the process. It's too easy even offering up a few of my own. To ing to the week's inau­dorm. People grow to get bogged down in average enter­be expected. though, they can be help­gural pub-crawl. complacent in accepting tainment, and, quite frankly, life is too ful at holiday parties as icebreakers It was a great week as their friends only those short. Turn over that leaf, turn up the with the uncle who can't remember undeniably worth every hour I that some computer random-music and turn down the lights. This is your name. As can the adult eggnog, spent on the bus getting there. We ly assigns them to live with and the year of the theme party. which legality finally permitted me to savored larger-than-life burritos, six­next to. Just because that nice boy who partake of this season. hour beer pong tournaments with kids sits next to you in theology isn't from David Barrett is a senior economics 
Santa was once again very generous, who like college way too much and your dorm doesn't mean you can't hang and philosophy major. /lis column usu­sending me 50 hours cross-country mid-morning Blue Ribbons at the base out with him on weekends. Pretty much ally appears every other Tuesday. from Boston to Big Sky. Montana. of the mountain. By far the best all Notre Dame guys are the same inso­Contact him at dbarretl@nd.edu. Armed with my brand new L.L. Bean moment though was the 4 a.m. dance far as they assume that all those that The views expressed in this column luggage and my sole resolution to rel­party to which few were privy. It start­are not in their dorm are thereby not are those of the author and not neces­ish the remaining days of this ever-ed off as the week's capstone event. at cool. It's simply not true, and you are sarily those ofThe Observer. 
· ,"I'J011UilllfiU:l ·t 
'• 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Clarifying Moveon.org 
When I opened up the •  contest for people to express  not George Soros), "To bring  
Viewpoint section on Monday and saw that there was an  their opinions on President Bush and were posted just  the public into the political process and produce a more  
article reprinted from the  like the other more than  fact-based election process."  
Ohio State University (like  1,500 submissions. But I  As it happened, this conflicts  
there's gonna be another  guess Ed Gillespie's argu­ with the Bush  
Ohio State University) stu­ ment that Moveon.org is  Administration and its  
dent newspaper, I was, as a  responsible for portraying  philosophies so completely  
lifelong Ohio resident, imme­ the President as Hitler is  that a natural rivalry was  
diately disgusted and turned  consistent with the Bush  born.  
the page (as any Notre Dame fan from Ohio can under­stand). But I thought, "I  Administration's philosophy: censorship good, free speech bad.  Unfortunately, over the course of time. politics in the United States has been more  
shouldn't be this judgmental. Give the guy a chance; maybe your tax dollars are spent on something other than Intermediate Basket Weaving Theory and Intro to  The article continued to go awry when it claimed that Moveon.org is intended to facilitate hate for the President. When the site was launched, President Bush  about money than anything else. Fighting this $10 and $20 at a time, Moveon.org and the Moveon.org Voter Fund have managed to allow the average voter to have his  
l:al~ifyi~g Insurance Uatms. The article, entitled "Anti­Bush TV ads are weak" was another classic example of either pitiful research or malicious lying. First of all, I  was just a figment of Karl Rove's imagination. Moveon.org was actually started during the Clinton Administration in an effort to censure then-President Clinton. The site's objective  or her opinion compete with those being broadcast daily by the major parties. To be sure, the organization has been supported by famous people and some million­aires, but the heart of the  
should state that he was cor­rect in one part. The ads in  was to convince President Clinton to take his punish­ organization is still the $20 donation and the volunteer  
question were weak. There is no legitimate reason to compare George Bush to Adolf Hitler Uust as there  ment, accept censure. and "move on" with governing the country. Not exactly a left-wing conspiracy to hate  grassroots organization. Even more unfortunately, given the past actions of the current RNC and the Bush  
was no reason to morph for­ all things Republican. The  Administration. it comes as  
mer Sen. Max Cleeland's face into the visage of Osama bin Laden as Cleeland's  fact of the matter is that the site grew so wildly and unexpectedly popular that it  no surprise that they would want to drag an organization that has threatened the  
Hcpublican challenger did in the 2002 Georgia Senate race, but things happen.  never went away. The aver­age American needed an organization like  power of individual wealth in U.S. politics through the mud.  
eh'?). The difference is that the anti-Bush ads did not  Moveon.org, so it continued its ·mission, as stated by  Michael Peters  
appear on television. They  Moveon.org Voter Fund Wes  sophomore  
were part of a free and open  Boyd (not a millionaire and  Knott Hall  

'The Question' is 
unfair to 
students 
I hate "the Question." It is by far the worst possible thing to ask a senior in college. People should know not to ask it. I mean, seriously, don't they realize all the stress and all the pressure asking a question like that causes? And why does society expect us to know? Are we supposed to have life figured out at 22? In fact, why do they have to know the answer any­way? 
Complete strangers ask "the Question." The other day, I was at Martin's and the cashier asked me. I could have screamed. If I say "I don't know," then I look like an ass because, apparent­ly, I should know the answer. "Doesn't everyone know by now?" she said. 
One day, will! wake up and have it hit me like a bolt of light­ening? Or am I forever doomed to the uncertainty of it all? Will I wonder about this for the rest of my life? Because really, my answer will determine the route I will travel for a good many years. 
I know you know the question I am talking about. It probably lingers in the back of your mind like a bright yellow rain jacket in the corner of a closet. It's always there -just staring back at you ... hardly ever to be used but constantly there. letting itself be known-screaming, "I am important! You need me!" 
And all you want to do is stuff it under your bed where you don't have to worry about it any longer-you never have to see it. But you know the live-day forecast, and rain is approaching. You're going to ·have to face it. You will have to remove it from the corner of your closet and decide soon. Maybe not today. Maybe not tomorrow, but soon. 
For now, you leave it hanging there in the closet and every time you open the door to get your jacket or your shoes ­there it is. "The question." The bright yellow rain jacket that won't go away: "What are you going to do next year?" 
Mary Kartheiser 
semor 
Saint Mary's Jan. 19 



THE OBSER\'ER 



CENE 
Wednesday, January 21, 2004 
page 12 

DVD REVIEW 

Horror legends make killer comeback 


MOVIE REVIEW 

Along came predictability 
Polar opposites Reuben Feffer (Ben Stiller) and Polly Prince (Jennifer Anlston) end up In a risky romance In the new romantic comedy 'Along Came Polly.' 
are comical, especially for those who are fond of bathroom humor-literal­ly as well as figuratively. Unfortunately, most of the funniest parts of the film are revealed in the previews. 
Stiller plays Reuben Feffer, a risk assessment analyst who uses his tech­nical skills to manage and minimize the risk in his own life. His perfect life is right on track as he marries his real estate agent Lisa Kramer (Debra Messing of television's Will and Grace). Everything falls apart, howev­er, on the first day of their honeymoon as Feffer goes to pick up his new wife from her scuba diving lesson only to find her in a compromising position with the French scuba instructor Claude (Hank Azaria). 
Feffer returns home to New York to face friends, coworkers and complete strangers who all know what has hap­pened thanks to his interfering moth­er. The audience can't help but feel sorry for Feffer, even though they laugh as he deals with the humilia­tion. 
In an 

attempt plot with which 
to meet new "Along Came Polly" they had to work. people, Feffer 
The chemistry attends a party between Aniston where he meets and Stiller is Polly Prince mediocre at best,
Director: John Hamburg
(Aniston), a but their comedic 
Writer: John Hamburg
classmate from skill keeps the 
Starring: Ben Stiller, Jennifer Aniston, Philip
middle school. movie from drag­
Phillip Seymour Seymour Hoffman, Debra Messing, Hank ging.Azaria and Alec Baldwin
Hoffman, as The story, which 
Feffer's best friend Sandy, provides the most mem­orable line of the movie when explain­ing why he and Feffer have to leave the party immediately. So if for no other reason, watch this movie to truly appreciate the meaning of "shart." 
On his first date with Polly, Feffer runs into problems almost as ridicu­lous as those that confront Stiller's character in Meet the Parents. Ironically, Polly is about the only per­son who hasn't yet heard about Feffer's ordeal -though this is recti­fied soon enough Feffer's oh-so-help­ful mother. 
Despite the rough start, a romance soon blossoms between Feffer and Polly until Feffer's wife returns. Feffer then has to make the usual choice between the two women and makes the predictable decision -surprise, surprise. 
Considering several of the actors in Along Came Polly are crossovers from television. the acting is not bad at all. In fact the actors probably pulled the film off as well as they could have 
given the tired 

includes the amusing parallel story line of Feffer trying to get an important client insured, is simple and easy to follow even when half-asleep. 
In the end, watching Along Came Polly is not a bad way to spend 90 minutes if one wants a few laughs and a vacation for the mind -but it might be better to wait until video and put the $5.75 to better use now. 
Contact Jacqueline Pimentel-Gannon at jpimente@nd.edu 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene DVD Critic 
Freddy vs. Jason, directed by Ronny Yu, is an epic romance of star-crossed lovers, forever kept apart because of a cruel twist of fate. 
Yeah, right. 
At this point in history, practically everyone has seen one of the Nightmare on Elm Street or Friday the 13th sagas. In the very least, one has at least been exposed to their influ­ence. Every Halloween, one is almost overwhelmed by the flood of hockey masks and glove knives. 
The latest movie, Freddy vs. Jason, counts as Freddy's eighth film, and Jason's 11th. After all this time, the image of someone beating a dead horse springs to mind. So it is surpris­ing to discover that Freddy vs. Jason is a great little flick. 
As can be expected, the plot is pre­dictable with all of the standard precedents of the two series still in effect. Freddy makes wise cracks 


ByJACQUELINE PIMENTEL-GANNON 
Scene Movie Critic 
Ben Stiller and Jennifer Aniston star in Along Came Polly, a comedy from director John Hamburg. This movie follows tM path of the typical roman­tic comedy to arrive at the standard conclusion -the hero and heroine overcome various obstacles to end up together. 
In Along Came Polly, the obstacles 

while pursuing his victims. Jason walks slowly, and yet still catches the running teen (after she trips of course). 
Blood is spilt by the gallon. And of course, the members of society that drink, smoke and have premarital sex are the first to go, making one wonder if the scriptwriters also wrote duLac (with the drugs and sex business, not the massive spilling of blood). 
But of course, the plot isn't the real reason to see the movie, although it's still pretty fun with plenty of drinking game potential. The real reason to see the movie is for the last 20 minutes that features the much-anticipated fight. It's choreographed well, although don't expect to see Jason dodging bullets as the camera slowly whirls around him. 
However, since both anti-heroes are dead, they can take quite a bit of abuse from each other. The DVD is quite nice as one can always just skip all the boring dialogue, plot elements, and people in various stages of undress to witness the showdown. 
The DVD was released as a two-disc special edition, and it shows in the details. The video is top-notch. Never before has being bad looked so good. The audio on· the DVD is also crystal (lake) clear. You're able to hear all of the sound effects in all their gory detail, which is either an advantage or disadvantage depending on your disposition. 
In the way of special features. the DVD offers commentary from the director and the actors who played Jason and Freddy. It also offers some deleted scenes. some of which are actually quite funny but cut for good reason. For the gore hounds out there, the DVD also offers a "skip to a death" along with a scene selection. 
Freddy vs. Jason is a fun DVD that is definitely not for everyone, and those people probably know who they are. However, if you have ever considered watching either one of the two killer's respective movies, this is a good place to start. It does a good job of re-intro­ducing the two main characters, along with having the best parts of either series. The sheer carnage displayed at the end is a visual treat, although not for the weak-hearted. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
courtesy wwv'··"nao.com 
------------------------------------------~----------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, January 21, 2004 
page 13 
DVD REVIEW 
'Simpsons' DVD set delivers the goods 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene DVD Critic 
Fans of The Simpsons don't border on fanatical, but instead embrace their love of the show with a fervor bordering on fanaticism. Fortunately, the show more than earns such fren­zied devotion with offerings like the DVD of the show's third season. 
Season Three marks the show's evo-­lution both in style and content. The drawings look cleaner and resemble the current shows. and the show's trademark humor reaches new heights with some now-classic episodes. 
The Simpsons, which began its long television run as a series of shorts on the Tracy Ullman show in 1986, quick­ly branched off to become its own show in 1989. It survived the highs and lows of becoming a national fad in the early '90's, and in doing so not only garnered critical and popular success but had a massive influence on the whole of pop culture. It was named, "Best Television Show of the 20th Century" by Time magazine, and Homer Simpson's trademark exclama­tion, "D'oh!", made its way into the "Oxford English Dictionary" last year. 

After 13 years on the air, the show only gains more respect and influence with each successive season. The show doesn't shy away from topics like religion or family that are nor­mally anathema for television, but it approaches difficult topics and situa­tions with a deft balance of humor and emotion. 
A major complaint of Simpsons fans is the slow rate at which the collec­tions are released, but the extras and the overall presentation of the DVD show both the love of those involved in the series as well as their respect for their obsessive fans. It is ultimately better to wait for a superior product than to have a simple one come out early and incomplete. 
The level of detail in things as basic as the language option (each of the languages is illustrated by a specific character; Sharri Bobbins represents English, Bumblebee Man represents Spanish, and Bart's exchange host, Cesar, represents French), reveals an appreciation for the intricacies of the 
series and the fans who know all of them. 
The color of the shows seems brighter than the reruns seen on TV, and the sound is clear and has no major bugs. As a result of having so many extras, commentaries and other information, there are a good num­ber of menus to go through in order to watch the show. However, there is a "Play All" function, which is worth the sacrifice of a few extra seconds for all of the extra commentaries and other additions. 

Simpsons fans will appreciate the Season Three DVD both for its content and the extras. It is a season with many guest voices, notably Danny DeVito as Homer's long-lost brother Herb and Beverly D'Angelo (the mom from the National Lampoon's Vacation series) as Lurleen Lumpkin, the coun­try music starlet infatuated with Homer. 
The commentary track for each 
episode is an extra that most fans will appreciate, and episodes like, "I Married Marge" and "Lisa's Pony" make the show into the cultural force it is today. 
It would be difficult to make a bad Simpsons DVD because of the content, but it would be very easy to make a mediocre one. Fortunately, the brains of the Simpsons operation have not let the fans down and have come out with a DVD definitely worth the wait. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
'Polly' Dethrones 'Lord of the Rings' 
Associated Press Exhibitor Relations Co. 
"[Stiller) does seem to play this role 
a Jot, but he does it well," 
Along Came Polly came along and Dergarabedian said. "The audience 
swept The Lord of the Rings from its obviously loves Ben Stiller in this type 
four-week perch atop the box office of movie." 
list. If estimates hold, Polly will rank as 
The new romantic comedy collected the highest-grossing movie to debut $27.6 million to debut at No. 1, while on a Martin Luther King holiday The Lord of the Rings: The Return of weekend, topping the $23.4 million of the King fell to fourth place with 2001's Save the Last Dance. $10.2 million. according to studio The Tim Burton storytelling fantasy estimates Sunday. Big Fish, which lost a close race to 
Along Came Polly stars Friends Lord of the Rings for the top spot last ­sweetheart Jennifer Aniston with Ben week, held on at No. 2 with $10.4 Stiller playing yet another romantical­million. ly inept young man. The movie has slowly built an audi­
Audiences were not deterred by ence since debuting in limited release what some critics six weeks ago, and is one described as a rut for of the nominees for best
''After weeks of

Stiller. who played simi­comedy film at next lar roles in Meet the heavy dramas weekend's Golden Globe Parents and There's Awards. ­
angling for awards 
Something About Mary. "Enough people have
considerations,

"The chemistry seen and heard about it between the two stars sometimes all an to create buzz. but not was part of its appeal." audience wants is everyone has been con­said Nikki Hocco, presi­vinced to go out and see
a laugh."

dent of Universal it," Dergarabedian said. Teacher's Pet, was a bomb that didn't Worldwide, The Return of the KingPictures distribution. "This is one that could come close to cracking the Top 10. has earned $771.5 million, putting it "Sure, he's done this Paul Dergarabedlan really benefit at the box The animated feature, about a talking on track to cross the billion-dollar before, but now she's Exhibitor Relations office from awards or dog who disguises himself as a mark, especially if it fares well at the with him. That might nominations." schoolboy, was based on a TV show Golden Globes or Academy Awards.
Co. President

have something to do Torque, featuring rap-from the Disney Channel. The overall box office was down with it," she said. per-actor Ice Cube in a Although Lord of the Rings dropped slightly, with the top 12 movies taking 
"After weeks of heavy dramas motorcycle-chase action film akin to to fourth place, it is still performing in $95.6 million, down 4 percent from angling for awards considerations. The Fast and the Furious, debuted in strongly for a movie in its fifth week the same weekend last year, when sometimes all an audience wants is a third place with $10.3 million. of release. So far, the third install­Kangaroo Jack, National Security and laugh," said Paul Dergarabedian, The only other film opening in wide ment of the trilogy has collected Just Married were at the top of the president of box-office tracker release, the cartoon Disney's $326.8 million domestically. box office. 
~-~------------------------------------------------------------------------­

NBA 
Pierce leads Celtics past Heat to snap losing streak 
ter. Cavaliers 99, SuperSonics 94
Associated Press Miami led 35-24 before the CLEVELAND -Carlos Boozer
MIAMI -Everything went 

Celtics warmed up, and consecu­provided the short-handedright for the Boston Celtics down tive three-point plays by Jiri · Cavaliers points, rebounds andthe stretch. 
Welsch and Pierce left them trail­assists. But more importantly,Paul Pierce turned a potential ing only 40-39 at halftime. Boozer gave them heart-and a
turnover into a layup, Mark 
Eddie Jones sank a 3-pointer win.
Blount came up with the night's as Miami scored seven consecu­Who says LeBron James is allmost important rebound, and the tive points to lead 68-60. alone in Cleveland?
Miami Heat kept missing. 
Three-pointers by Walter Boozer matched a career-high
The combination helped 

McCarty and Mike James started with 32 points and added 20Boston rally from a nine-point the Celtics' comeback. With 48 rebounds as Cleveland surviveddeficit in the fmal 5 1/2 minutes seconds left, Blount outfought the its first game without James,Tuesday night to snap a four­6-foot-10 Odom to tap in a miss beating the Seattle SuperSonicsgame losing streak by beating by Pierce and put Boston ahead. 99-94 Thesday night. 
Miami 86-84. 
"I made it a jumping match,'' Boozer picked up the slack for "We just had that great sense Blount said. It was one of only the Cavaliers,' who were missingof urgency," Pierce said. "We eight offensive rebounds for their top two scorers -Jamescould have gotten discouraged 
Boston. (sprained ankle) and center
with four or five minutes to go, The Heat then missed their Zydrunas Ilgauskas (suspension) but we kept our composure." 
fmal four shots, including an off­-as they swept the seasonThe Celtics were badly outre­balance 21-foot try by Jones. series with Seattle for the firstbounded, but Blount's tip-in put James rebounded that miss and time.
them ahead 85-84 with 48 sec­sank one of two free with 8.2 "To win without 'Z' and LeBron onds left. The Heat's Rafer Alston seconds to go for the game's final gives everybody confidence,"attenpted a potential game-win­points. said Boozer, only the fifthning shot from 25 feet, but it 
Cleveland player to record at
glanced off the front of the rim at 
least 30 points and 20 rebounds
the buzzer. 
in a game. "Those two are a
Pierce scored 29 points, includ­Mavericks 106, Nets 93 did, but I'm not playing it up, Kirilenko wasn't one of them asDALLAS -Antoine Walker huge part of our offense, buting a highlight-reel drive that cut either." he nursed a sprained ankle forthe margin to 84-83. He lost the scored 19 of his 22 points in the other guys stepped up." 
Allen shot 9-of-25, missing the second straight night. Utah
Nobody more than Boozer, who 
ball, scooped it up, juked past second half and Dirk Nowitzki badly on his firial four attempts lost even more depth when Raja
has 64 points and 38 rebounds in
John Wallace with a 360-degree added 19 points, helping the in the last 2:22. Bell was ejected at the end of the spin and sank a layup. Dallas Mavericks continue their his past two games. 
Seattle coach Nate McMillan first quarter for kicking the ballReserve Udonis Haslem scored stronghold over the New Jersey "He was a monster in there," was disappointed with his team'S' into the crowd. 
18 points and grabbed 17 Nets with a victory Tuesday Cleveland coach Paul Silas said. 
effort. The Sonics were outre­Rookie Mo Williams ended up
"He was totally focused." 
rebounds, a record for a Miami night. 
bounded 55-35, and the Cavs leading the Jazz with 20 points,rookie. Lamar Odom came with­The Mavs hit their midpoint of Tony Battie added 17 points, had 24 offensive boards. scoring nine in the fourth quar­
Dajuan Wagner had 14 and
in an assist of only the fourth the season by winning a fifth "The Cavaliers were the ter as Denver rested most of its triple-double in Heat history, fin­straight game, their best thus far. Kevin Ollie hit two big free aggressors," he said. "They con­starters.
ishing with 12 points, 14 This was the seventh straight throws down the stretch for the trolled this game, and felt they The Nuggets hadn't won in Saltrebounds and nine assists. time they've beaten the Nets, Cavs, who went 38-of-42 from could pound the boards, and they Lake City since December, 1995. 
"It's a game we should have their longest current streak the line and beat the Sonics for did." Earl Boykins scored 15 pointswon," Odom said. "That one against any team. the first time in nine tries at Before grabbing a seat on and Andre Miller and Rodneyhurt." Nowitzki scored 15 by halftime, GundArena. 
Cleveland's bench, James said he White each finished with 10Alston's 3-pointer put the Heat then played the second half with The victory was the 300th for would take his time and not rush points for the Nuggets, who hadahead 79-70 with 5:38 left, but his left wrist taped following a Silas, making him the 46th NBA coming back to play until his 17 turnovers but could afford to"they shot 2-for-1 0 with three hard foul by Kenyon Martin. coach to reach that plateau. 
right ankle was 100 percent. be a little sloppy. 
turnovers the rest of the way. Michael Finley, just named the "It's great to be the team that "It's a long season and I've got Utah had three other two­"Our defense was the key Western Conference player of the got him No. 300,'' Boozer said of a long career,'' said James, who game losing streaks enteringdown the stretch,'' Boston coach week, scored 18 and Steve Nash his coach, who grabbed a TV has not run on his ankle as yet Tuesday, but had managed toJim O'Brien said. "We shut them had 18, too. microphone and playfully grilled the second-year forward with and was limping as he walked win before the streak reacheddown in the last five minutes." Martin enjoyed his lone annual back and forth to the Cavs' lock­three. After falling behind 24-12"We haven't been playing that trip to his hometown with a sea­questions in the locker room. 
er room. in the first quarter, the Jazzwell,'-' Pierce said, "and coach son-high 29 points and nine "Let's move on and get him 400. 
made a brief threat in the sec­has been riding us about defense rebounds. Well, let's look at 350 first." 

ond, then Denver took off andbeing the reason. The guys who Richard Jefferson added 21 Darius Miles, who skipped Nuggets 96, Jazz 75 

Cleveland's practice when he SALT LAKE CITY -Voshon kept going after halftime when
are going to play are the guys points and seven rebounds. who play defense." Jason Kidd had 12 assists, but overslept on Monday, soared Lenard scored 17 points, the Nuggets led 50-36 
The Celtics won even though shot just 4-of-11 for 10 points as down the baseline to dunk a miss Carmelo Anthony had 14 and the Anthony increased the lead to they were outrebounded 52-34 New Jersey lost its third game in by Battie, and after Lewis mis­Denver Nuggets gave Utah its 66-49 with 3:51 left in the third, and shot just 42 percent. The a row. fired on a 3, Ollie made his two first three-game losing streak of then after an airball by Sasha 
Heat, who have the worst shoot­The Nets were within 98-90 on free throws to put the Cavs up the season, beating the Jazz. Pavlovic, Miller set up Anthony ing percentage in the NBA, also a breakaway dunk by Kerry 95-91 with 27 seconds to play. Marcus Camby added 12 points with an alley-oop that increased shot 42 percent and committed Kittles with 3:40 left, but Lewis converted a three-point and six rebounds for Denver, the lead to 19. 17 turnovers. Nowitzki's rebound led to a layup play as the Sonics crept back which took a 2-0 lead in the sea­Utah pulled to 70-57 by the Pierce, shooting 26 percent by Walker with 1:51 left, and the within one, but Boozer, who was son series. The Nuggets were end of the third, but Denver over the past three games, shook Mavericks were back up by 12. coming off a 32-point, 18-swept by the Jazz last season. opened the fourth with an 8-0 
the slump by going 12-for-24 and The way Dallas protected the rebound performance in a win at The Jazz were already thin run on two 3-pointers by Rodney added eight rebounds. lead was significant for a team Utah, made four straight foul because of injuries and could not White and a jumper by Boykins The Heat, playing their first that lost advantages of 20 and 15 shots in the final 21.3 seconds to keep up with the Nuggets, who and was never threatened the 
home game since Jan. 7, got off before pulling out overtime victo­ice it. had six players score in double rest of the way. to agood start as Boston missed ries last week. "This was a big time win,'' said figures. Carlos Arroyo was the only 12 of its frrst 14 shots and sank Those games started the cur­Boozer. "Everybody stepped up. Utah dressed just 10 players, Utah starter to score in double -just 20 percent in the first quar-rent winning streak. I'm not trying to downplay what I and leading scorer Andrei figures with 11 points. 

The Obser~e~ accepts classifie~s every business day_ from _8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dmmg Hall. Deadhne for next-day class1fieds IS 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without isstting refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR SALE Mercury Grand Marquis  LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION·  
-4  NOTICES  WANTED  FOR SALE  1988 GS Mil71 ,000 EngV8Aut MAKE AN OFFER 631-5224/63.1­ ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND IDEAL FOR 3-7 STUDENTS  PERSONAL  
0259 Garcia.106@nd.edu SEE IT  2773097  
(in front ol) HESBURGH RESI·  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES!  Avon/Mark 50/40% Earnings Call  TOP GUN SELLING  DENCES here on caml:!us.  B&B rooms available near campus  not go it alone. If you or someone  
Search 24 bookstores with 1 clickl  Karen 1-866-780-28661ndependent  The six selling systems that are  for JPW. $75.00 per person per  you love needs  
S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com  Sales Rep.  used by virtually every business in American and Europe.  FOR RENT  night, 2-night minimum. Call 289­4455 tor more info.  confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,  
Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches  Reference STU-466:  CSC,at  
.....  FREE MONEY Between the Buns restaurant  is now accepting applications for third shift drivers and inshoppers.  Student Special: $49.97 includes the full Selling System  3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON MO.,FURN.272·6306  New luxurious 3-4 bdrm 3 bath, 2­car garage, fireplace, sky lights,  1·7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERV·  
is offering clubs and  JJs offers competitive pay  Prospecting, Account Management  close to campus $1640 monthly, call  EA.  
organizations lhe opportunity to  in a fun fast-paced  and Closing.  BULLA AD HOME.$650.MO.  574-232-4527 or 269-683·5038  
earn free money.  working environment.  www.sales-job-training.com  272-6306  Why are you so ridiculous?  
Hold a 'Kickback' night at the  Drivers must have dependable  
"Buns• and receive a 15% donation  transportation. insurance, and a  JUDAY LAKE HOME.  4 bedroom house. AC, garage,  TICKETS  Call the picks!!!!!  
from what is spent  clean driving record.  ON LAKE.  great location, ample space, nego­ 
lhat evening.  Call Andy or Mike between  WALK TO CAMPUS.  liable rent. Contact Mike 216-408­ Need 2 Pitt Bball GAs. Will pay or  How long until the birthday?  
Call Phil for more details.  2-5 p.m. at 277-8500 with any  GILLIS REALTY  0780 or Matt 216-408-4744  trade 2 UK or UConn student tx.  Good thing the receipts are still  
247·9293  questions.  272-6306  if interested  Call Jenny 634-4507.  around  

Wednesday, January 21, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NCAA BASKETBALL 



Seton Hall snaps 13-game Syracuse winning streak 
Associated Press 
1\AST IWTIIEHFOHD, N.J. ­Kelly Whitney had 21 points and cdght rebounds to lead Seton Hall to a 74-67 victory over No. 13 Syracuse on Tunsday night. snapping a num­bm· of streaks for both teams. 
Th11 Pirates (12-4, 2-2 Big East) had lost their last two games and their last five to Syracuse. It was Seton Hall coach Louis Orr's first win in five games against his alma matnr and former coach Jim 
Bot~hnim. 
Tlw loss ended the 13-game winning streak Syracuse (13-2, 3-1) was on since losing its sea­son opnner to Charlotte. This was the last of a threc-gamP road trip for the Orangemen. who won the first two at Missouri and Notre Dame. 
No. 4 Connecticut (3-0) is the only unbeaten team left in Big East play. 
Seton Hall started the game by scoring the first 12 points and Syracuse never really threatened to take the lead. The Pirates made sure there would­n't be any late comeback by the Orangemen by going 14-for-16 from the free-throw line over the final 3:40. 
Andre Barrett and John Allen had 16 points apiece for Seton Hall, which shot 52 percent (24­for-46). 
Hakim Warrick had 26 points and 13 rebounds for Syracuse, while Billy Edelin added 16 points. Gerry McNamara, who had six points on 2-for-10 shooting, played just 10 minutes in the second half after injuring his left leg in the first half. 
Syracuse, which came in 
averaging 82.5 points, was 27­for-63 from the field (42.9 per­cent) but was only 3-for-11 from 3-point range. Edelin made the Orangemen's first 3 of the game with 2:58 to play. The last time the Orangemen didn't make a 3 in a game was March 10, 1995, against Providence. 
Kentucky 69, Tennessee 68 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Chuck Hayes scored off his own miss with 3:49 left in overtime to lead ninth-ranked Kentucky to a 69-68 victory Tuesday night over Tennessee. 
Erik Daniels had 19 points and Hayes added 18 points and 16 rebounds for the Wildcats (12-2, 3-1 Southeastern Conference), who nearly had another scare after their 19­game SEC home winning streak was ended Saturday by Georgia. 
Tennessee (1 0-4, 2-3) trailed until it put together two 9-0 runs midway through the sec­ond half, the last giving the Volunteers their first lead at 52­51 with 7:37 remaining. 
Kentucky got the lead back and was ahead by three points with 3:53 left. 
T~nnessee's Scooter McFadgon made two free throws to make it 61-60, but neither team could score over the next three minutes. 
C.J. Watson broke the drought for Tennessee with 55.3 sec­onds left on a fast-break layup off a turnover Brandon Crump grabbed from Kentucky's Gerald Fitch. 
Watson extended Tennessee's lead to 64-61 with two free throws with 22 seconds to go, but the Vols couldn't hold on for the upset. 


Geny 
Seton Hall's Marcus Toney-EI runs down the court. 
Cliff Hawkins hit a 3-pointer with 16.3 seconds left to tie it at 
64. McFadgon missed a shot as time expired. 
McFadgon had four points in overtime, but a 3 by Daniels and Hayes' rebound and basket was all Kentucky needed to get its fourth straight win over the Vols. 
McFadgon led Tennessee by scoring 19 of his 33 points in the first half, and Crump added 14 points and 13 rebounds. 
Hawkins had 13 points and six assists for the Wildcats, who overcame 23 turnovers and 30 personal fouls to avoid a second straight loss. 
Kentucky lost 65-57 to Georgia at home, and coach Tubby Smith questioned the Wildcats' toughness. But Kentucky showed plenty against, which came in 9-0 at home this season. 
Charlotte 84, Marquette 76 
CHAHLOTTE, N.C.-Demon Bown scored 23 points to lead Charlotte to an 84-76 victory Tuesday over Marquette, which lost leading scorer Travis Diener to an apparent neck injury. 
Brown hit 6-of-16 3-pointers while Curtis Withers added 17 points and Eddie Basden 15 or the 49ers (11-4, 3-1 Conference USA), who picked up their sec­ond win against a Final Four team from a year ago. 
Charlotte beat national cham­pion Syracuse 96-92 on Nov. 26. 
Steve Novak and Dameon Mason each scored 16 points and Scott Merritt had 14 for the Golden Eagles (11-5, 2-3), who have dropped three straight games for the first time in three seasons. 
Marquette cut a once 15-point deficit to 63-60 with under eight minutes to play. But Withers responded with a 3-point play and Brown hit a 3-pointer in a 13-1 run to put it away. 
Marquette finished with 20 turnovers in a game that fea­tured 55 fouls. 
Diener, who came in averag­ing 17.3 points and 6.3 assists per game, was injured with 
13:03 left when Calvin Clemmons went for an upfake and fell hard on top of him. 

Charlotte athletic director Judy Hose said Dr. Jim Fleischli ­told her Diener had movement in his arms and legs, but was complaining of tenderness in his neck and back. lie was scheduled to undergo an MHI and a CAT scan at University Hospital late Tuesday. 

I I 
I •­1 I 
I ' 
' 
I I 
' 
' 
' 
' 
I 
I I 
II ~ 
l 
I 
I ­
I ­
I 
I 
-
' 
' 
-
' 
'
I 
' 
I
' .
' 
' 
' 






EDNESDAY 
tudent International Business Council 
www. nd.edu/t-wsibc 
•

1nance . Accounting 
Marketing Human Resources Internships 
Business Consulting Global Development Information Technology 
Informational Meeting January 21st at 7:00pm Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Wednesday, January 21, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
After being shut out in opener, Patriots have responded 

Associated Press against Carolina on Feb. 1 in Houston. 
FOXBOHO, Mass. -A team "We knew from Week 1 to that looked like an NFL power Week 2 that we needed to play emerged from New England's better than we played in Week season opener. 1," Belichick said. "And, frankly, 
No, not the Patriots. in Week 3 we felt like we need­
They lost 31-0 to the Bills. ed to play better than we played who lived up to glowing presea­in Week 2 and so forth right son predictions in that game. down the line." The Patriots, meanwhile, gave The pain of the rout was com­no indication that they would pounded by linebacker Ted start an amazing Super Bowl Johnson's broken foot -the run. first of many serious injuries to 
The loss came five days after key players that began with that the surprising release of star game. safety Lawyer Milloy, who In the second game, line­signed with Buffalo and played backer Rosevelt Colvin broke his against the Patriots. hip and was sidelined for the 
Certainly, the setback must rest of the season. In the third have motivated the Patriots. game, nose tackle _Ted Some good must have come Washington broke his leg and from such a problem-filled linebacker Mike Vrabel broke opener. his arm. 
"Good?" coach Bill Belichick Then there was the ankle said. "No. No. No." sprain that sidelined cornerback In the four months since. Ty Law for one game and the Buffalo faltered and missed the broken foot that ended guard SMI playoffs while the Patriots went Mike Compton's season after 
The Patriots' Troy Brown looks to break loose against the Colts In the AFC Champlonslp game. 16-1. They take a 14-game win­two games. 
Brown and the Patriots have won 14 straight games after losing their first game to Buffalo, 31-0. ning streak into the Super Bowl "We're down in numbers. but 
lwinter % 
tuesday
january27



careerand * 
I!" •

• h••a•r 1pm-3pm
111t"rns. IPw. diversityreception
& d1vers1ty receptiOn .,.~monogram room, joycecenter 
Abercrombie & Fitch Leica Geosystems Accenture Little Brothers -Friends of ACNielsen BASES the Elderly 
4pm-8pm 
adidas America Liz Claiborne Advocate Health Care 
Lockheed Martin 


career& internshipfair
Allstate Insurance Company Madison Center, Inc. Amate House Marathon Ashland Petroleum 
joycecenter north dome 
~ 
American Enterprise Institute• McGiadrey & Pullen American Legislative Exchange Mercer Human Resource hockey rink side,enter gate 3 Council Consulting 
student lDrequired· business casual attire 
AOL Time Warner Book Group* Mercy Home For Boys and Girls Aon Motorola
~ 
Associated Press MPI Research Travelers Property Casualty* US Marine Corps Officer Augustinian Volunteer Program MTV Networks Tucker Alan Selection Team Bank One Corporation National Cancer Institute* University Directories US Navy -0 cow National City Corporation UPS U.S. Cellularc. 
E 
Center for Social Concerns, NAVAIR US Air Force Vistakon Notre Dame Newell Rubbermaid Walgreens
US Army Corps of Engineers* Central Intelligence Agency Northern Indiana Center for Wesco Distribution
US Army Healthcare Recruiting 
Chicago Apartment Finders History Wisconsin Badger Camp
US Dept. ofJustice,cu Chicago Consulting Actuaries Northrop Grumman Antitrust Division WNITTelevision 
CIEE Northwestern Mutual Financial US Dept. ofTreasury, Internal WPS Resources Corporation Cisco Systems• Network -Hoopis Financial Revenue Service 
Xerox -The Document CompanyNova Group of Japan
College Football Hall of Fame NVIDIA*

Council on Foreign Relations* Office of Human Resources,
Cultural Service of the 

recent registrants
Notre Dame
French Embassy Office of the Corporation
Deloitte & Touche Alliance for Catholic Education, Indiana Dept. of WorkforceCounsel 

Dominican Sisters of Springfield, Notre Dame Development/Work One
Organon Pharmaceuticals
IL Center
Anson IndustriesOrtho-McNeil Pharmaceutical
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Kellogg Company*
Boehringer lngelheirnPlant/American Electric Power Peace Corps City of Madison, WI Police Mother Caroline Academy* 
Easter Seals Wisconsin Camps Pfizer Department NFL EchoSt.H Communications Press Ganey 
DaimlerChrysler Services Starcom Worldwide EDS PricewaterhouseCoopers North America 
The Heritage Foundation* Elkhart EnviroCorps/AmeriCorps Procter & Gamble Fund for Public Interest 
YAI/National Institute for People Enterprise Rent-A-Car Progressive Insurance Ernst & Young Radio Flyer* FPL Group 
RFBinder Partners* 
Ruder FinnGeneral Electric 

Gilbane Building Company SBC Communications Goodwill Industries of Michiana Schlumberger Technology Corp. H-(·B Grocery Company score Hewlett·Packard 
Smithsonian Institution National Museum of American History
Hill/Holliday Social Security Administration
Holy Cross Associates Southold Dance Theater*
Honeywell Southwestern Diabetic
IBM 

Foundation/IES: Institute for the Camp SweeneyInternational Education for Stockman Kast Ryan
Students• Stryker Instruments
lndalex Studebaker National Museum•
Indiana Dept. ofTransportation Talbots

Indiana Legal Services Target Corporation
lndi,lna State Personnel Depdrtment Technology Services Group 

The Children's Museum of 
Agronomique• Indianapolis Interlochen Arts Camp The Elkhart Truth John F. Kennedy Center for the The Gillette Company 
Performing Arts The Vanguard Group Kellogg Institute for ThinkEquity Partners International Studies, Notre 
lnstitut National de Ia Recherche Thrivent Financial for Lutherans 

Dame 
Travelers 
KPMG Research 

with Disabilities* 
*Resume drop 

findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating organizations, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to http://careercenter.nd.edu 

• 
Click on Undergraduates, then click on Go IRISH 

• 
Enter your NetiD (AFSIDJ and Password, then click on Log in 

• 
Click on Search Jobs/Internships 

• 
Click on Jobs/Internships for Notre Dame Students 

• 
Scroll down to Keyword Search, type in WCIF, then click on Search 

• 
For an alphabetical list of: -Organizations, click on "Organization" -Positions, click on "Position Title" 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME The Career Center 
every college • every major • internships • full-time 
we still have to go out and play," Law said early in the season. "It may mean we change a few schemes here and there. but overall, we know everyone on this roster can play and would­n't be here if they couldn't." 
The Patriots kept proving that. There are few big-name play­ers, but Belichick put together a very deep team that was able to fill holes with talented backups. 
"This is the ultimate team defense and this is the ultimate team," Law said after intercept­ing three passes in Sunday's 24­14 win over Indianapolis in the AFC title game. "If we play together, we feel like we can beat anybody." 
The only other team they failed to beat was Washington and they came very close. The Patriots lost 20-17 in the fourth game, but outgained the Redskins 387-250. 
Since then, New England is perfect. 
"To win 14 in a row, I mean that's unbelievable," Brady said. "I mean, who does that? Nobody does that." 
The streak started on Oct. 5 with a 38-30 win over Tennessee and continued with victories over the New York 
-...
Giants, Miami, Cleveland, Denver, Dallas and Houston. 
Then the Patriots went to Indianapolis and beat the Colts 38-34 when Willie McGinest tackled Edgerrin James at the Patriots 1-yard line on the final play. 
"Every time we play them it's a ... fight," McGinest said after­ward. "We got a lot of fighters in our locker room. We're not going to give anything away." 

They didn't as they won their last four regular-season games by a combined score of 91-29 while committing just four turnovers, then beat Tennessee and Indianapolis again in the playoffs. ­
The Patriots kept winning behind Brady's steadiness, the defense's stinginess and the entire team's selflessness. 
But Belichick wouldn't single out a game as being particularly special. 

-
"They were all special. Any time you win in this league it is special," he said. "Obviously, playoff games sit a little bit higher than the regular-season ones, but without the regular­season ones there wouldn't be a playofls." 
Wednesday, January 21, 2004 
page 18 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NHL 



Hurricanes acquire Williams from Flyers 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -Desperate to fix a struggling offense, the Carolina Hurricanes acquired right wing Justin Williams from the Philadelphia Flyers for defenseman Danny Markov on Tuesday. 

The Hurricanes rank last in the NHL with 86 goals and hope Williams will help. He has six goals and 20 assists this season. 
"Obviously there's not the right mix right now," Carolina president and general manager Jim Rutherford said. "And we have to do something to change that." 
The Flyers were forced into the trade by a rash of injuries to defenseman. Philadelphia was already in the market for a top-four defenseman before los­ing three backliners in less than a week. 
"It's our opinion that a top­four defenseman is more valu­able on our team than a third­line winger." Flyers general manager Bob Clarke said. 
Markov was in Philadelphia's starting lineup Tuesday for its game with Montreal. He was on the ice for two goals against the Flyers and when Simon Gagne scored Philadelphia's only goal in the 4-1 loss to the Canadiens. 
"I was a little bit shocked, but I know it's pPrt of the business," Markov saiJ. "Nothing surpris­es me anymore in the NHL. I try not to think about it. I try just to concentrate on my game and play." 
Williams, along with the 23­year-old Gagne, was supposed to form the future foundation of the Flyers' offense. 
"We certainly didn't want to give up Justin, but we didn't have any choice," Clarke said. 
Williams suited up for his new team Tuesday night, getting one shot on goal in the Hurricanes' 3-1 loss to Ottawa. Williams. the Flyers' first-round pick in 2000, played in all 47 games for Philadelphia this season. 
"The positive thing is I'm coming to a team that really wants me here and I'm going to play here," Williams said after the game. 'Tm excited to turn a new page in my career." 
The move brought an abrupt end to Markov's short tenure with Carolina, which went to great lengths to acquire the 6­foot-1, 190-pound defenseman. 
The Hurricanes traded for­mer first-round picks David Tanabe and Igor Knyazev to Phoenix on draft day. But it took a long time to sign Markov. who threatened to play in Russia before coming on board in August. 
Markov had four goals and 10 
assists in 44 games for~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Carolina. 
.,-..-~ 

Volunteer Opportunities in Spanish through Memorial Hospital, South Bend 

Specificallyfor: Returnees ofSpanish Language Study Abroad Programs Participants ofMedical Spanish Courses Interested Students with a High Level ofSpanish 
Thursday, January 22, 2004 5:00-6:00 pm 138 DeBartolo Hall 


]P\X! Lector auditions will t~ke place in-th~ Basilica ofthe Sacred l±eatt on each of the following dates: 
Monday, January 26th at 4:00pm Tuesday, January 27th at 4:00pm 
Please attend one OF· me t\VO.·auditiens. For further information, plea.setOt1tact.F-iarv Humphrey at 271·~7289 or 'by email'a'fthliumphre@nd.~edu. 
-
-



O'NEILL HALL 1ST ANNUAL 

NJI.GHT OF CAPTAINS 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC CAPTAINS 
O'NEILL 24 HOUR LOUNGE 
WEPNESDAy' JANUARY 21ST 7:30PM 

FREE PIZZA 
CAPTAINS FROM SOME OF NOTRE DAME'S ATHLETIC TEAMS WILL BE SHARING THEIR EXPERIENCES AS LEADERS AND STUDENT· ATHLETES. 
COME, LISTEN, ASK QUESTIONS, HANG OUT. 
--------~ 






OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 21, 2004 
team 

1 Du~ {4!i) 
2 Tennessee (1) 
3 Texn 4 TexasTecb fi Connetllcut 
6 Sl<~nlord 7 Penn State 8 Purdull 
9 Kansat State 
1o Minnesota 
11 Loul,lana Tecb · 
12 LSU 
13 Nortb carnlln<t 
14 Colorado 
15 Okl;~homa 
16 DePaul 
11 Georgia 
18 Miami 
19 Baylor 
20 Mlc:hlgan State 
21 TCU 
22 Auburn 
23 VIllanova 
24 Boston College 
25 Houston 
team 

1 North Dakota (33} 
2 Boston Colleg(l {1} 
3 Maine 
4 MlthiQan 
5 Minnesota 
6 WJsconSia 
7 St. Cloud 
8 New 
9 Mlnn~J$1'lta 
10 Denver 
11 Olllo Slate 
12 Colorallo College 
:: .:: ::· 
;l: ::

13 Cornell ., ., 
.:~

14 Ma.s<tcbuselts :l~ ::: :1 
.:: ::: 
:; :l:

15 Miami Ohio 

j~· :l :r } :; ll :; ., ,. 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Cincinnati at Louisville 7 p.m., ESPN Duke at Maryland 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

New York at Houston 9 p.m., ESPN2 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlR.E SERVICES Page 19 

Icon Sports Photos Former Dallas Cowboys quarterback coach Sean Payton congratulates quarterback Quincy Carter In the Cowboys' 24-20 win over the Panthers In November. Payton will sign a four year deal to coach the Raiders. 

Raiders replace Callahan, hire Payton 
Associated Press 

DALLAS -AI Davis has a history of not hiring high-profile coaches. Apparently, that trend will continue. 
The Dallas Morning News reported on its Web site Tuesday night that the Oakland Haiders will ma.ke Dallas Cowboys assistant Sean Payton their next coach. 
According to the news­paper, Payton is expected to sign a four-year, $1.3 million contract. 
He spent much of Sunday and Monday 
interviewing with Davis, the Haiders' renegade owner. 
Payton, 40, would become the NFL's youngest head coach. If wide receiver Jerry Rice returns to the club, he would be a year older than Payton. 
The hiring also would complete a remarkable career rehabilitation for Payton, who as New York Giants offensive coordi­nator was stripped of his play-calling duties mid­way through the 2002 season. 
This season, Payton was on Bill Parcells' staff 
IN BRIEF 

Colts owner plans to meet 
with city for negotiations 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay said Tuesday he plans to meet with city officials within the next six weeks for negoti­ations that he hopes will eventually lead to a new stadium to replace the RCA Dome. 
Under the Colts' current contract, the city is supposed to make pay­ments to the team in two out of the next three years intended to keep the team near the middle of the pack among NFL teams in terms of rev­enue. 
lrsay said it would take about $30 million over that time to reach that medium. 
He also said during a news confer­ence that he is willing to make Peyton Manning the league's highest paid player and hopes to have him signed to a new contract before March 1. 
Manning was named the NFL's co­Most Valuable Player earlier this 
with the Cowboys, over­seeing the team's passing game while working with quarterbacks. 
Hiring a relative unknown is nothing new for Davis. 
In 1998, he made Jon Gruden the youngest coach in NFL history at 34. 
Gruden went 40-28 in four seasons and led the Raiders to an appearance in the AFC championship game before leaving over differences with Davis following the 2001 sea­son. 
In Oakland, Payton would replace Bill Callahan, who was fired one season after leading the Haiders to their first Super Bowl appearance since 1984. 
In 2003, the Haiders went 4-12 and tied for last place in the AFC West. 
Callahan also drew the wrath of many of his vet­eran players for his unapproachable attitude. 
With the Haiders, Payton would inherit one of the NFL's oldest teams and a club that is expect­ed to have major salary cap problems. 
Oakland owns the sec­ond pick in April's draft. 
~ar. 

Beltran signs one-year 
contract with Royals 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Outfielder Carlos Beltran and the Kansas City Royals agreed Tuesday to a $9 mil­lion, one-year contract. 
Beltran, who had filed for arbitra­tion last week, is eligible for free agency after this season and the Royals have said it is unlikely they will be able to sign their star to a longterm deal before then. 
Despite opening the 2003 season on the disabled list. 
Beltran led the team with a .307 batting average, 102 runs, 26 homers, 100 RBis, 72 walks and 41 steals. 
Manning named Sporting
News pfayer of tlie year 
ST. LOUIS -Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning has won another postseason award, and he won't have to share this one. 
Manning, who earlier was named co-MVP along with Tennessee quar­terback Steve McNair, on Tuesday was named player of the year by Sporting News. 
Manning received 11 of 22 votes cast by NFL pro personnel directors. 
McNair was second with three votes, and Baltimore Ravens running back Jamal Lewis received two votes. 
The St. Louis-based publication ­also named New England's Bill Belichick coach of the year. 
Manning threw for more than 4,200 yards and 29 touchdowns. 
He also erased the stigma of previ­ous playoff failures by leading the Colts to two playofT wins before los­ing 24-14 to New England in the AFC 
-

championship game Sunday. 
"Peyton Manning has been a great quarterback for several years and his play this season was simply unsurpassed," said Sporting News editorial director John Rawlings. "His control over the offense is unique in the NFL and he makes the most of the opportunity." 
.-----~~~~--------­
page 20 Wednesday, January 21, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 


Win 

continued from page 24 
But the Irish jumped out to an early, 12-2 lead behind two 3-pointers from Chris Quinn and one from Jordan Cornette. The Hokies responded with a 9-2 run to get within three. A 9-2 run of their own later in the half gave the Irish some separa­tion as they went into the locker room up, 30-22. 
Notre Dame opened the second half just like they opened the game -with hot shooting. A 12-4 run put the Irish up 16 points. 
After seeming to solve the Virginia Tech pressure defense for most of the sec­ond half, the Irish had prob­lems late in the game as the Hokies implemented a full­court press and got as close as seven. 
Cornette fouled out with 
11:08 remaining and Tom Timmermans already had four fouls. 
Still, the Notre Dame guards broke the press and maintained the lead. Chris Thomas finished with 23 points on 7-of-16 shooting. Quinn ended up with 13 points, with eight of them coming in the first half. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

to compete in camp." two games. looking in their eyes, I could Irish Insider columnist Mike Crum is a 6-foot, 210-pound Crum made the decision to see fire in their eyes," he said. Frank predicted Monday night, 
Recruits 

linebacker who received hon­attend Notre Dame on Sunday "Talking about [last season], I "Not many kids will stand in continued from page 24 orable mention all-state in his morning during his visit and could see they felt pain." front of a hometown school 
junior year at Tampa Bay has can-Crum's size, and say they're going some­recruiting expert Tom Tech, making 100 tackles-13 celled a however, will where else." Lemming said in comparison for a loss -and three inter­scheduled most likely pre­ESPN reported that Brohm to the former Irish and present ceptions. He runs a 4.6 second visit to "When I was meeting the vent him from spoke with Louisville coach Indiana Hoosier quarterback. 40-meter dash and is the son Tennessee having an Bobby Petrino on Saturday and
coaches and players, I 
"He doesn't have an overpow­of former Miami Hurricane on Jan. 23. immediate waited for Monday to
knew this was the place I 
ering arm, but he has decent great Maurice Crum, Sr. "The over­impact. Wolke announce his decision. 
running ability." "Crum is solid and quick to all visit, wanted to be., is not rated Now, Notre Dame hopes vis­Wolke, at 6-foot-3, 205 the ball," Lemming said. "He's everything high and bar­its in the next two weekends pounds, threw almost every a bit undersized, but he can went well," ring anything will attract their top remaining 
Maurice Crum, Jr.
down from the shotgun at grow." he said. extreme will players -Georgia running
linebacker recruit 
Smyrna High School A four­Lemming rated Crum the "Whim I was most likely back Darius Walker and New year starter, Wolke completed 25th best inside linebacker in meeting the compete for a Jersey linebacker Brian Toal. 
53.8 percent of his passes for the country. coaches and backup role. Toal has two remaining visits 6,232 yards and 54 touch­The linebacker recorded 70 players, I knew this was the The top priority for Coach and has not decided whether downs. tackles, four sacks and one place I wanted to be." Tyrone Willingham and the or not to travel to South Bend. 
" [Irish coaches] said they'll interception for a touchdown Crum claims the attitudes of Irish had been Brohm, who play the best player," Wolke his senior season, even though the players encouraged him. waited longer than expected to Contact Pat Leonard at said. 'Til have the opportunity a bruised thigh kept him out of "Talking to everyone and announce a decision. But as pleonard@nd.edu 



ATTEN~TION JUNIORS 

-
Thursday, January 22nd, 1:00 p.n1~ to 5:00 p.m. or Friday, January 23rd, 1:00 p.m. to 5:00p.m. 
McKenna Hall ro.orns .. d1.2-114.(Centerfo·r Co.ntin.uing Education) 
Check your mail tor seatiqg registdltiori "etails and Dihner & Brun~h seating cards. You havebeensentseating car(:ls f()t ONLYthoseevents·for which· you have registered. If you are missing seatinge~rds,therewill be.addithlnal.c~tc;l$-avaUable during these times. 
IT IS NOT TOO LATE·TO REGISTER fOR JPW! APPLI.CAl"IONS. WILL BE AV.A:I.LA.BLE DURING SeATING REGISTRATION, OR ONLINE AT 
www.nd.edu/~jpw 

Wednesday, January 21, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Cuse 
continued from page 24 
again looking at not changing the starting lineup. but playing dif­ferent people at difl'erent times." 
Tho Irish have moved from an ofl'ensive-oriented starting lineup to a more defensive-oriented group. which includes Megan Duffy. Le'Tania Severe, Teresa Borton. Jacqueline Batteast and Monique Hernandez. McGraw said she plans on starting that lineup against the Orangcwomen. 
McGraw was not expecting such struggles on the road, espe­cially with four seniors and three juniors returning to the team. 
''I'm disappointed the upper­classmen haven't been able to get it done on the road," McGraw said. "It's a veteran team who is just struggling to find an answer." 
At 9-7 and 2-2 in the Big East. Notre Dame needs this game if they hope to make a run at the conference-championship. Three teams have just one loss in the Big East, including Syracuse. The Orangewomen are just 6-8 over­all, but they recently defeated Hutgers to become 3-1 in confer­ence play. Notre Dame meets Miami (4-1) two times this sea­son, while the Irish have already defeated Connecticut (4-1). 
Syracuse is led by reigning Big East Player of the Week Julie McBride, who averaged 20.0 points, 5.5 rebounds and five assists in two wins over Hutgers and Providence last week. 
Freshman Lauren Kohn has won back-to-hack Big East Freshman of the Week honors after scoring 
11.5 points and 3.5 rebounds for the Orangewomen in their most recent games. 
"Julie McBride is a great play­er. She's a senior and a great guard," McGraw said. "She's played well against us quite a few times, and we have a lot of respect for her. We really need to shut her down." 
Syracuse's greatest weakness is their lack of depth. Orangewoman coach Keith Cieplicki uses only seven players during most games. 
Notre Dame heads back to the Joyce Center Saturday to face 13-3, 3-2 Villanova at noon. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 

• Only 9 Blocks from Campus • Laundry Area with Washer and Dryer • Fully Equipped Kitchen Including Dishwasher and Garbage Disposal · • Private Patio • ADT Alarm System (Optional Monitoring) • Central Air Conditioning • Assigned Parking • Energy Efficient Gas Heating • Professionally Managed • 24 -Hour Emergency On-Call Maintenance 

For More Information! Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box 540 
South Bend, lN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Jblad(iV,cbresb.cm 
Notre Dan1e Aparttne11.ts 
+ 
Just 4 Blocks South ofthe Notre Dame Campus 

+ 
Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dan1e Avenue 


• Current 1-year & 10-month Leases Available 
+ On-Site Laundry Facility 
• 
2 Closets and I Desk in Each Bedroom 

• 
Private Parking Lots 


+ 
24 -hour On-Call Emergency Maintertance 

+ 
Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment 


For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P;O.Box 540 
South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile:· 57 4~234-9925 Jbladfakbresb.com 

TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Sophomore guard Megan Duffy drives to the basket against Connecticut Jan. 13. The Irish travel to Syracuse tonight. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to snap six gam_e losing streak 
Saint Mary's hopes to improve on what has been a disappointing season thus far 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
It would be an understate­
ment to say that the Belles' 
season to this point has been a 
disappointment. 
Saint Mary's has dropped six straight games, culminating with a 70-67 heartbreaking loss to Alma. The Belles seem lost as they try to turn around the season and need to get their feet back on the ground tonight, when they take on Kalamazoo on the road. 
Kalamazoo. on the other hand, is coming off back-to­hack wins over Tri-State and Adrian, games won by a com­bined five points. Their season has been up and down, with several winning streaks split by pairs of losses. Mary Brown has been the leading threat for Kalamazoo, scoring 13.8 points per game despite shoot­ing 36 percent from the field. Ashley Riley adds 13.1 points per game while grabbing an average of 8.6 rebounds. 
In the loss to Alma, the Belles' Emily Creachbaum played scored 19 points and had six rebounds. Creachbaum was limited to 29 minutes due to foul trouble. Katie Miller added 15 points, all coming from behind the 3-point arch. She made five-of-ten from three, and five-of-eleven from the field. 
Most impressive in the loss for the Belles, however, was their lack of turnovers, which have become characteristic of their play in recent losses. They turned the ball over a total of seven times, while managing to dish out 17 assists. In their most recent three losses, Saint Mary's turned the ball over 64 times -25 against Adrian, 18 against Hope and 21 against Calvin College. 
The Belles must continue to minimize their mistakes tomorrow night in order to be successful against a very strong Kalamazoo team. This may be a challenge for Saint Mary's, as Kalamazoo forces an average of 20.4 turnovers per game. Kalamazoo's defense, combined with Saint Mary's recent trouble in keep­ing possession of the ball, may create problems for the Belles. 
Saint Mary's has ten games remaining on its schedule. including Thursday night, before the MIAA tournament begins. They have an 0-5 record in their conference and need to finish out strong to save their season. 
The Belles will need solid efforts from Creachbaum, who leads the Belles down low, and guard Katie Miller. Miller had just one turnover in the 3­point loss to Alma. 
Tip off time tonight is at 7:30 
p.m. in Kalamazoo. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at bgriffi@nd.edu 
Wednesday, January 21, 2004

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 




Captains 
continued from page 24 

looked to for leadership and looked up to for the way they go about their business," Mainieri said. "I just felt that these three guys clearly should be named as captains and have that honor." 
Sollmann, who also served as a captain in 2003, became just the eleventh player in the history of the program and the fourth in the Mainieri era to serve as captain in multiple years. 
Last season, Sollmann led the Irish with a .384 batting average. He was named a sec­ond team All-American by the American Baseball Coaches Association and a third team All-American by the National Collegiate Baseball Writers 
Association. Already this sea.son, Sollmann has foun·d himself named to three pre­season All­America rosters and has been tabbed as the 2004 Big East Preseason Player of the Year. 

college base­
"Chris Niese[ is head and 
ball can
shoulders the guy that throw at 
everybody on our team them in Javi Sanchez and
looks to for leadership on 
S t e v e
that pitching staff" Sollmapn," 
Mainieri said. "Adding their
Paul Malnlerl 
baseball abil­

head coach 
After seeing only limited playing time as a freshman, Sanchez burst onto the Irish scene his sophomore year at shortstop after injuries to Matt Macri and Matt Edwards 
left a whole at that position. should be." That season, Sanchez hit .281 As a freshman, the right­with five home runs and handed hurler Niese! over­played a big role in Notre came a bout with mononucle­
Dame's  run  
W  o r  I  d  
Series.  

Last year, Sanchez filled anoth­er void, this time at the catcher's position vacated by Paul O'Toole. In just his first year behind the p I a t e , S a n c h e z 

to the College osis that sidelined him for a 
"Fortunately we have a couple ofsenior players that have seen just about everything that college baseball can throw at them in Javi Sanchez and Steve SalZmann." 
Paul Malnlerl head coach 
month to fin­ish 4-0 with a 3.36 ERA, but he best proved his worth at the end of the year with the season on the line. In Game 3 of the NCAA S u p e r Regionals, Niese! held off a strong­

exceeded expectations by committing only eight errors and batting .303 along the way. 
"Fortunately we have a cou­
ple of senior players that have seen just about every­thing that 
ity to concern for the team to experience from having seen a lot of college baseball, those two guys have it all. I think they are just tremen­dously unselfish players that always put the team before themselves, and I think they epitomize exactly what seniors 
hitting Florida State team in a 3-1 victory as the Irish advanced to the College World Series. 
Last year, Niese! finished 9-1 with a 2.65 ERA and 87 strikeouts in 98.1 innings pitched and was named third team All-America by the NCBWA. 
"Chris Niese! is head and shoulders the guy that every­body on our team looks to for leadership on that pitching staff," Mainieri said. "I think everybody on our team, when they look at Chris Niese!, they realize we have a bulldog out there on the mound, and we've got a chance to win. He's a great example for all of our younger players." 
The first Irish game is now less than a month away, as the Irish will travel to Los Angeles to take on San Diego State Feb. 20 to start the season. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


Wednesday, January 21, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

PEANUTS 
IT'S TOO COLD TO 60 TO SC~OOL TODAV... 
FIVES 
CHARLES SCHULTZ 

TELL THE TEAC~ER TO 6RIN6 ~E CLASS ~ERE TO MV ROOM,AND I1LL JUST STA'{ UNDER T~E COVERS ... 
WI4ERE HAVE '(OU SEEN? VOU ALMOST MISSED ntE BUS.. 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
JUMBLE . 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
THIGH 



[ J I (] 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Alghla Reserved. 
IRATI 

[ J I
t:IMBAGT 


J I I 
www.lullille.com

t
GOTFER j 
I Jumbles:
Yesterday's 

Answer: 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT THE: 13AR.FL-!f:S ~TO V'lt-a'-l THEY HAD AN 
ARGUMENT. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
SHEEP LIQUOR PELVIS 


CRAZE 
The upholsterer said the chains on his tires were 
-"SLIP" COVERS 
• 


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 30 Genealogist's 51 Exact heavy work vengeance
1 A lap a minute, 
e.g. 
31 PC innards: 53 Poi party Abbr.

5 Graceful bend 54 Quick points 34 "Concord"
9 Capital south of 55 One often
Sonata compos-

Quito asked for an er autograph
13 Norse saint 35 Flip response? 
56 Outlet option14" She 36 Whispers sweet 57 E-mailedSweet?" 

nothings 58 Writes15 Quotation nota­37 Fine points

lion 59 Work unit 38 "Okey-doke"
16 Leather finish? 39 Puts out some
17 Jump the gun DOWN
hot, swinging 19 Generally music 1 Elegy, e.g. ignored astro­
40 Manilow song 2 Chorus girlnomical occur-setting

renee 3 Tough mode of 41 Gasbag punishment
21 Token takers 42 Unwelcome 4 50/50 chance
22 "Piece of cake!" 
guest 5 On-call gizmos24 One's partner 44 Marsh plants 6 Purposely mis­25 Reebok rival inform

46 Took a look 27 Cartoonist Peter inside 7 I.R.A. increaser: 
28 Sells to the pub-36 Picnic dish 45 Sweater syn-Abbr.
29 Short break? 48 Wood cutters lie thetic
38 Bad losers8 Greek vowels 
30 Bar mitzvah 46 Brief holiday?
39 Blacksmith's fileANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Bodega patron reading 
47 Tap trouble

40 Coquettish in 
-:-+:;::+;::+=-t=-1 10 Together 31 Where shrimp the extreme 
49 Go in up to
take a dip

41 Singing sounds 
Amsterdam 32 Elbow 
42 Gird (oneself} 50 Use a straw 12 Them, in 33 Cold war inits. 
43 S<;>lid, as some 52 Laudatory
-=+=+:-f "Them!" 

35 "Careful!" furniture lines
7.+~~~~~~~;r.~ -=+:;;+.~~ 18 Epitaph holder 
... or Mick For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.~ a minute; or, with aJagger? 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
'JU~··~~~~~~~~ 20 Have words
..,;, (with) 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. -:+-:+.,-+-::-! 23 Ballet support Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
25 Wanting water 

-=+*.,....,.:-! Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, ___.___.__,__. 26 Humorist Barry nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Geena Davis, Placido Domingo, Hakeem Olajuwon, Mac Davis Happy Birthday: You'll be at odds with yourself if you have too many choices this year. Focus will be important if you really want to get ahead. You must not let others lead you astray because you're looking for ellcitement and adventure. You need to fine-tune what you're working on and set your priorities in order to achieve your goals. Your numbers: 8, 17, 18, 35, 43, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may not want to deal with the problems facing others. However, don't be too quick to refuse. Rewards can be yours if you lend a helping hand. Eltpect lots of activity in your home: *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Jealousy on the part of your mate may well be justified if you have been spending too much time away from 
-,

home. Career advancement will be yours if you're willing to pay the price. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Romance will be plentiful. However, do not get involved with someone at work. Don'tlead someone on if you aren't completely 
sure how you feel. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can enjoy the company of people you consider special. However, you shouldn't feel the necessity to pay their way if you really can't afford to. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Think before you leap. You will have a tendency to take unnecessary risks that could end in disaster. Don'! let someone you love goad you into doing things you'd prefer not to do. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Social activity will open romantic possibilities as well as bring you in touch with individuals who can lead you to higher positions. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Concentrate on your work. Lovers will only interfere with accomplishing your objectives. You haven't been seeing things too clearly on an emotional level.** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Depression due to a domestic problem is quite likely. Direct your efforts into your work rather than wasting your day dwelling 
on past mistakes.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be able to charm the world, but you had better have some concrete answers when dealing with authority figures. Lies will come back to haunt you. 2 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Romantic connections can be made through social or organizational acquaintances. You can gain popularity if you voice a humanitarian opinion. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Drastic recourse will not help if you have a problem with your lover. Seek sound advice from someone you respect. Take a long, hard look at your motives. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotional mishaps may lead to estrangement. Direct your energy into physical activities or furthering your interests. Your creative talent will be in a high cycle. *** Birthday Baby: You're a very powerful little tyke. When someone says no to you, your determination kicks into high gear. You love a challenge and you're always up for a good competition. You're in the game of life to win, and anything short of that just won't do. Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
-
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 

THE 0BSER\'ER 








PORTS 
Page 24
Wednesday, January 21, 2004 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

On the road again 
Irish domintlte Hokies inside in 7 4-63 victory 
Tuesday night's performance fourth loss in its last five For the game. the Irish held its opponent to 35.4 per­
By MATT LOZAR at Virginia Tech was a first games. outscored the Hokies 32-26 in cent from the field. 
Associate Sports Editor step in the right direction. Last week, Pittsburgh and the paint. In the first half, the Virginia Tech's 1-3-1 trap The Irish dominated inside Syracuse each controlled the Irish held the Hokies to zero zone caused some problems After Saturday's loss to in the paint and on the glass in lane against the Irish, but offensive rebounds and out­for the Irish in the first half, Syracuse, the Irish talked defeating the Hokies 74-63 in coach Mike Brey exploited the rebounded the Hokies 20-11. forcing nine turnovers and 15.-Blacksburg, Va. undersized Hokies down low. Overall, the Irish held a 42-37 overall. On the game, that
about becoming more physical. 

The win snaps a two-game Virginia Tech had no answer rebounding edge. pressure defense resulted in
Instead of outscoring their opponents, Notre Dame want­losing streak for the Irish (9-5, for forward Torin Francis, who The defensive effort also 11 steals. ed to get back to a 40-minute 3-2 in the Big East). and hands finished with 22 points and 16 improved against Virginia Tech defensive effort. Virginia Tech (8-7, 1-3) its rebounds. as the Notre Dame defense see WIN/page 20 
BASEBALL 

Mainieri names 2004 captains 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Writer 
Notre Dame baseball coach Paul Mainieri and his staff have named the Irish captains for the 2004 squad. Senior infielders Steve Sollmann and Javi Sanchez and junior pitcher Chris Niese! were granted the honor of leading the Irish into the upcoming season. 
"Each of these three guys has a great story behind him, and I'm so proud of them for the great things they've already accomplished and what they will continue to accomplish," Mainieri said. "I don't think our team could be in better hands than to have those three guys leading the way." 
In selecting captains for the baseball team, players can nominate teammates for the position in essay form, and the Irish coaching staff evaluates the letters for the players they feel are most worthy of the honor. This year, Mainieri and his staff saw three distinct favorites for the posi­tions. 
"[Sollmann, Sanchez and Niesel] were clearly the guys that their teammates 
see CAPTAINS/page 22 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish need answers, wins away from home 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
They can beat ranked foes like Virginia Tech and. Connecticut at home, but for whatever reason, the Notre Dame women can't beat anyone on the road. 

-
That trend must end soon for the Irish if they're going to make a strong run at the NCAA 
Tournament in March. Notre Dame gets a chance to improve its road mark tonight against Syracuse in Manley Field House at 7 p.m. 

"We want to play every game at home," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "Right now we just can't win on the road, and we're just·beating our heads against a wall trying to figure out a reason for it. We're losing to teams that are not quite as talented when we're on the road." 
The Irish are 1-7 in true road games -games at the oppo" nent's home court -while stak­
•

ing a perfect 7-0 record at the Joyce Center. Disappointing road losses this season include Michigan State, Georgetown and West VIrginia. 
"We're just so comfortable playing at home," McGraw said. "The crowd really helps us, and I think there's an immaturity to that -that you need somebody else to pick you up. That's what we have to work on -how can we individually and as a group find the poise to withstand play~ ing on the road? So far we haven't found the answer." 
Struggling on offense or defense can be fixed during practices leading up to a game. 
Figuring out how to beat teams in their home arena in front of a hostile crowd isn't an easy task. 
"We've tried a lot of different things, and I still feel it has to be a combination of people that we're putting in the games," McGraw said. "So we're yet 
see CUSE/page 21 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Wolke and Crmnjoin 2008 class 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Notre Dame football coaches are batting .500 recruiting quarterbacks. 
Quarterback David Wolke became the tenth verbal com­
mit on Monday with a statement from his home in Smyrna, Tenn., while top-rated Kentucky sig­nal caller Brian Brohm chose his 

h o m e t o w n David Wolke Louisville over Notre Dame, Kentucky and Tennessee on Tuesday. 
Quarterback Darrin Bragg of San Jose, Calif. will visit Notre Dame this weekend. Bragg could also commit, as coaches have said they plan to sign two quarter­backs . 
Wolke com­mitted just a day after the Irish received Crum, Jr. 
their ninth commitment from Florida linebacker Maurice Crum, Jr. While not rated high in recruiting reports, Wolke ­who bypassed offers from Kentucky and Wake Forest ­reminds one expert of a for­mer Irish quarterback. 
"[Wolke] is a blonde-haired Matt LoVecchio," ESPN 

see RECRUITS/page 20 

., en 
SMC BASKETBALL 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
NBA

NHL 
NFL 
LLI
1--
Co) Saint Mary's at 

Hurricanes and Flyers 
Seton Hall ends
Patriots' accom/lish 
Celtics 86
z Kalamazoo 

swap players in trade 
huge turnaroun 
Syracuse streak 
Heat 84


r:c ::5 
Tonight, 7:30 

The Carolina Hurricanes 
After losing the season 
The Pirates ended a 13­
Mavericks 106 
The struggling Belles need a 

dealt defenseman Danny 
opener 31-0 to the Buffalo 
game Orangemen winning 
Nets 93 
win after losing a heartbreaker 

Markov to the Philadelphia 
Bills, New England has 
streak with a 74-67 win in 
== to Alma. 

Flyers for forward Justin 
made an impressive run to
I:Lt; 

East Rutherford, N.J. 
Williams on Tuesday night. 
the Super Bowl.
en page 21 

page 18 
page 17 
page 15 
page 14 







