
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 132 MONDAY. APRIL 26.2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

University fires secUrity monitors 

Rectors lament decision, NDSP moves to community policing 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Edimr 
Notre Dame Seeurity/Police told seeurity monitors who work in the University's 13 wormm's residenee halls Friday that their positions will be eliminated after this May. 
The monitors will be ropla1~ed by an outdoor-based, eommunity seeurity oflicer sys­tem that will patrol dorms for hoth sexes. NI>SP offieials decided lo make the switeh after a six-month evaluation process that solieited input from rnetors, students, moni­tors and two police ol'l'ieers from other earn puses who vis­itml Notre Dame for two days in November, NDSP direetor Hex Hakow said. 
"They got a pretty good snapshot," he said, adding that llw outside evaluators "picked up right away that llwre was a real diseonneet betwe1111 the work nnvironment that the monitors are in and the super­vision line ... They really worked morn for the rectors than they did for us." 
Based on these observations, NI>SP concluded thf1 monitors did not fulfill the department's mission of providing safp,ty and security to male and female residents both inside and out­sidn. 
"ISentrity monitors! pretty much stayed inside and dealt with their little group of resi-
Sales of The Shirt exceed expectations 
By ANNA GELHAUS 
News Writer 
Thn Shirt 2004 was unveiled with reeord succnss Friday and is now availabln for pur­chase. 
Kale Crossin, president of The Shirt Project, said the unvniling cernmony went "way b11tter than anyone involved expected. It was an amazing collaboration of groups and people." 
Students praised the build­up to the release of this year's design. 
"They did a great job mar­keting it this year," said stu­dent Lee DeLeon. "There was good anticipation for it." 
Crossin was not able to name thfl speeific number of shirts sold this weekend, but said they did well. 
"Wn have already sold out what would have been an ini­tial shipment (for past yearsf." said Crossin. "Our first goal is to meet the 
dents," Rakow said, only reporting security incidents directly to Security/Police "probably not even weekly that we would hear about." · "It's morn irregular than it is regular," he said. "Once we got into lour evaluation! and really started asking the questions, 

Courtesy of Notre Dame Bookstore 
This year's The Shirt contin­ues the sea of green and fea­tures a "retro" look. 
60,000 initial order. Sales after that are like icing on the cake." 
Most students said they will bn getting The Shirt, which is celebrating its 15th anniver­sary this year, but many have not gotten around to it yet. 
see SHIRT/page 6 we just found that the system wasn't serving our needs as mueh as it once had." 
Female monitors were hired in the fall of 1972, the first year female students could attend the University, both to complement the "firewatch" night employees then used in 

Staff member assaulted 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Senior Staff Writer 
A physics research visitor was assaulted and robbed Saturday evening at approxi­mately 8 p.m. as he was walking near Turtle Creek apartments. 
The researcher, who is vis­iting Notre Dame from Portugal from March to May, was walking home from cam-

NDSP investigates indecent exposures 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Senior Staff Writer 
The Notre Dame Security/Police department is investigating five cases of indecent exposure that have occurred on campus since March 18. 
Four of the cases took place on the main campus and involved a student-aged male suspect and a female victim, both men's and women's dorms and to assuage con­cerns about student safety. The Security/Police department tried to eliminate the monitors' positions in 1980 -when lire­watch employees were 

see MONITORS/page 8 

pus east on Vanness Hoad, east of Ivy Hoad, when two or three youths approached him, punched and kicked him. The victim said they took his wallet after he had been knocked to the ground. The suspects f'led the scene as a student approached on a bicycle and called police from his cell phone. 
St. Joseph County Police, the South Bend Fire Department and Notre Dame 
NDSP director Hex Rakow said. No suspects have been named in the cases. 
On March 18 at 12:30 a.m., a white male, approximately age 20, wearing a white-hood­ed sweatshirt and yellow pants, exposed himself to a female student while she was walking from the Hesburgh Library between Knott Hall and Siegfried Hall. The sus­pect did not attempt to follow the victim, who contacted 
NDSP. 
On March 21 at 3:30 a.m., a female student said she was walking between Farley and Breen-Phillips when a male approached her and asked her several questions. She contin­ued walking and the male exposed his genitals to her as she approached the areas between Washington Hall and Cavanaugh Hall. The suspect, 
see EXPOSURE/page 6 

Security/Police responded to the incident. The suspeets were described to police as black males between the ages of' 18 and 25. Police searehcd for the suspects but were unable to locate them. 
The victim said NDSP trans­ported him to Health Services, but he was not treated there because he is not a student. Physies 
see ASSAULT/page 4 

Students praise the equality change will bring to dorms 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Equality was the key word among. students responding to the changes that will take place in residence hall secu­rity in the fall, as many believe the eurrenl hall mon­itor system places an unfair -and unneeded -empha­sis on safety for female resi­dents. 
"I don't think it's right that they have them only in women's halls," said O'Neill freshman Damian Selal'ani. "It seems kind of outdated." 
Though she described monitors as "a wonderful group of women, Cavanaugh sophomore Elizabeth Callahan also questioned the diserepaney between male and female dorms. 
"It's very sad to know they won't be lHlre next ynar," she said, "but at the same time it's kind of unfair that women's halls had them when men's didn't." 
Siegfried junior Hieky Leal ref'lected the experiences of many male students, saying he had always been "hands­ofT' as far as interacting 
see STUDENTS/page 6 
Monday, April 26, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Brake for ducks 
Spring is upon us. The trees and flowers are blooming. There are many little animals running around. Baby ducks follow their mothers around the lakes. In fact, I almost hit one, which would have made me cry. As I left cam­pus Sunday night, I thought about how it should be warmer outside since it is spring and all. 
With all these thoughts bounc­ing inside my Sarah Vabulas head, I began to realize how this 

Viewpoint
whole end of the 
Editor
school year thing has become a reality. 
The seniors are actually graduat­ing and not coming back in the fall. I have quite a few friends in this class, so not seeing them this fall is going to be sad, as I will miss them dearly. 
Everyone goes home in less than two weeks. What am I going to do without all my friends? I live, eat and work with my friends -most of whom do not live in Atlanta with me. I have a couple friends from school back home, but it is going to be tough to leave everyone for the sum­mer. 
I'm going to miss campus. I love to see the Dome lit up in the night sky, a shining remembrance which stands tall night after night. I'll miss the beautiful lakes. I'll miss the Grotto ­where can I go to find peace at home? 
So last night, when I had to brake for the ducks crossing the road, it made me realize that I cannot con­trol how fast the time I spend here goes. but I can control how I cherish the time. I need to slow down my life and not rush through all that I do. 
I made a promise to myself to "brake for ducks" every moment I can. I will make sure that I realize how lucky I am to be at school here. I will cherish my friends and the memories that we make together. I will look at the Dome and remember why I chose to come to school here, so far away from Atlanta and all that was familiar to me. 
Although my second year of college is coming to a close -a fact that J can hardly believe to be true -'-I know that I have two more amazing years ahead of me with incredible people to surround me as I learn and grow up. 
I'll miss the seniors, but I'm confi­dent they won't be strangers in my life. I look forward to the fall and am excited about football season and seeing all my friends again -partic­ularly those who went abroad for the semester or year. 
But before I can get ahead of myself again, I need to "brake for ducks" and enjoy what I have in the coming two weeks before the start of summer. Then, I can enjoy my time off from school. come back rested and continue to forge my path into the real world. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu454 7@saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error . 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How MUCH TIME DO YOU SPEND FILLING OUT TCEs? 




Mike Zawada  Laura Ott  Greg Conners  Sean Seymore  John Mospan  Colin Flood  
Senior  Junior  Junior  Law Student  Sophomore  Junior  
St. Edwards  Cavanaugh  Fisher  Off-Campus  Fisher  Dillon  
"More time  'TCEs are just  "!honestly  "As much as  "Isn't that a  "4.0958  
than the prof  days to skip  think I failed  possible."  testicular  seconds.  
spends looking  class."  the TCE once. "  cancer  Exactly. She  
at them.''  examination?"  timed it."  

No carb couple booted from restaurant 
SALT LAKE CITY-A couple on the Atkins Diet have a beef with a local restaurant after being booted from the buffet for eating too much meat. 
Isabelle Leota, 29, and her husband Sui Amaama, 26, both on the no-carb diet, were dining Tuesday at a Chuck-A­Rama in the Salt Lake City suburb of Taylorsville when the manager cut them off because they'd eaten too much roast beef. 
"It's so embarrassing actually," said Leota. "We 
TODAY 0: 

went in to have dinner, we were under the impression Chuck-A­Rama was an all you can eat establishment." 
The general manager was carving the meat, and became concerned about having enough for other patrons, Johanson said. So when Amaama went up for his 12th slice, the manager asked Amaama to stop. 
Offended by the request, the couple argued with the manager, then asked for a refund. The manag­er refused, and when the couple refused to leave, he called police. 
Hunters leave city, turkeys enter 
LINCOLN, Neb. -As hunters leave the city for the spring turkey hunting season, some gobblers are finding refuge strutting around inside the city lim­its. 

Linda Knott, a teacher at St. John's School, recently saw one of the large birds land on a windowsill at the • school. 
Lincoln Animal Control officials said they have received a lot of calls about turkey spottings recently. · 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Seniors may pick up their pre-ordered Senior Week Tickets today from 3 to 6 p.m. at the Eck Center. In order to pick up tickets, you must have your signed waiver, student lD and payment. 
Neil Smelser, director emeri­tus of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at the University of California, will give a lecture titled "Patterns of Scientific, Intellectual and Ideological Adaptation in the Behavioral and Social Sciences" today from 3 to 4:30 p.m. in 234 Grace Hall. 
Cellist Lan Jiang will present a graduate degree recital in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art from 6 to 7:30 p.m. tonight. Admission is free. 
The NO for Animals club will sponsor a showing of the movie "The Peacable Kingdom" from 
7:30 to 9:30p.m. tonight in the LaFortune Montgomery Theatre. 
The Notre Dame Symphonic Band and Symphonic Winds will perform their spring con­cert at 8 p.m. tonight in Washington Hall. Admission is free. 
The Class of 2005 will spon­sor a class ring blessing cere­mony at the Grotto Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
The Spanish Club will provide free food in the Coleman­Morse Center from 6 to 8 p.m. Wednesday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 


CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 

University President Father Edward Malloy and other dignitaries break ground Saturday for the Don F. and Flora Gugllelmlno Family Athletics Center. It will be a 95,840-square-foot facility that will house the Irish football program's locker rooms, offices and meeting rooms. 
OFFBEAT 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
u.a 
% 
~ 

3: u.a 
....I
cs: 
(,) 



...1 0 HIGH 61 HIGH 67 HIGH 78 LOW 36 LOW 58 LOW 46 
Atlanta 68 I 52 Boston 56 I 48 Chicago 60 I 37 Denver 66 I 45 Houston 81 I 57 Los Angeles 89 I 66 Minneapolis 52 I 33 New York 63 I 54 Philadelphia 67 I 54 Phoenix 98 I 72 Seattle 68 I 40 St. Louis 68 I 40 Tampa 84 I 67 Washington 70 I 52 

54 47 


51 
49 

HIGH LOW 

.l... ~ ..............................................................................~....,..,................~..~·................ ,.......... ~.....,-.....................................~...............-.-.......-.-........._..............t 
Monday, April 26, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Dorins coin pete in Fisher Regatta 
By JANICE FLYNN 
News Writer 
Fisher Hall's annual Fisher Hegatta attracted a strong crowd Saturday as many stu­dents turned out to watch their peers sail -or swim ­aeross Saint Mary's Lake. 
The regatta drew 32 boats. with a roughly even field of men's and women's teams. In a head-to-head competition, teams paddled across the lake in makeshift boats comprised of anything from wood to rub­ber to bicycles. 
Teams varied from two to 10 people, although the majority had three to four paddlers. 
Siegfried and O'Neill faced off in the men's final. with O'Neill emerging victorious. Two Welsh Family boats made it to the women's final. 
Fisher's own boat did well, rr.aching the semifinals before losing a close race to Siegfried. 
Like Bookstore Basketball. regatta teams ranged from the serious to the carefree. Most of the races were extremely close, but several boats did not make it across the lake and a few sank the moment they were put in the water. 
"Quite a few people ended up swimming to the other side," said Michael Coogan, one of Fisher's six commis­sioners for the event. 
Many boats were particular­ly original. St. Ed's team secured a bicycle on top of its boat. assembled so that the paddles would move when 



Camp Kesem set 
for second summer 
By KATE GALES 
NewsWrirer 
Camp Kesem, a week-long summer camp for the children of cancer patients, will take place again this summer under the direction of Notre Dame sen­ior Adam Dell. 
Started in 2000 by students at Stanford, Dell and classmate Dan Doherty instituted the first Notre Dame Camp Kesem last summer. 
The camp's mission is to help children with parents who are currently suffering from cancer, or have died from the disease. 
"Most of [the campers] don't know any other kids who have parents with cancer and kind of feel isolated," Dell said. "Camp Kesem is a place to share their experiences, build self-esteem and have a really fun week of camp. It's a break for the par­ents and a really fun time for the kids as well." 
Much of the work is done by the planning committee, which has 22 members. This year, they planned for 40 children to attend the camp and have 37 registered so far. Camp is held at Camp Crosley, a YMCA camp. 
"It's like your typical summer camp -it has a lake, playing fields, climbing wall, ropes course and hiking trail," Dell said. 
The program, for kids age 6 to 13, is offered free. 
"[Funding comes from) a vari­ety of sources -our major one is just private donations." Dell said. "A lot of people involved in the project will send out letters to family or friends or people in the community ... and ask them for donations." 
Additionally, the Alumni Association and various on-earn­pus groups donate money. 
"(We get) a lot of help from Notre Dame student organiza­tions,'' he said. "They've given donations through different fund raising events." 
The committee members also actively recruit future campers. 
"We just go out in the commu­nity and target them," he said, mentioning local hospitals. oncology units, local schools and cancer support units. "We have to have some credentials and show them that were very seri­ous ... We hold an information session and meetings to tell [families] what the camp's about and answer their questions. If the family is interested, they'll fill out an application." 
After last year's suceess and the expansion of the program, Dell is optimistic about the future. 
"We hope it will be a project that continues for many, many years," Dell said. "We have some good leadership for years to come as well." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
someone peddled the bike. But it sunk before they could get moving. 
The Regatta was a product of several weeks of prepara­tion by the residents of Fisher. 
The Regatta vied against several other events, both on and off campus, but the com­missioners were very pleased by the turnout. 
Bufalino estimated that attendance was similar to or better than past regattas. This year marked 18 years of the Fisher Regatta. 
"With so many things going on, we had a pretty good draw," Bufalino said. 
Contact Janice Flynn at jflynn@nd.edu 





ongratu ations 
Join us in celebrating tonight at 7:30p.m. 1n the Basilica o/ the Sacred Heart as these 35 men and women receive the Sacrament o/ Confirmation. 
University of Notre Dame 
(Sponsors are noted in parentheses) 
Clayton Allison (Michael Marshall} Angel Bruce (Arlene Bruce and Andrea Blyth) Alexandra Bueso {juan Diego Vargas) Patricia Bueso {Patn"cia Wolfe) Beth Colombo {]e/frey Gainey) Tricia David {Ricky Taylor) Juliana de Sousa Solis (Maureen Carney) Sarah Dunn (Sr. Madeline Therese Wllhoit, CSC) Matthew Enquist (Michael Foley andJoel Pidel) Cynthia Esquivel (Monica Jacir-Zablah) Caitlin Evans {Rick Lennertz) Ian Kennedy (John Torgenson) Kimberly Lavene {Rachel McGehee) Mallorie Lenn (Chantal de Alcuaz) Rosa Machado {Barbie Sloan) Jimmy Macias (V)ctor Contreras) 
Joseph McKenna (BiD McKenna) Sara McLaughlin (Mitch and Carole Wllkes) 
Joe Rallo {Daniel Yanez) Jackie Ramirez (Julie Higginson) Erin Reichart (Cathen"ne McMahon) Ahbi Roesch (William Cicero) Courtney Selph {Margaret Kearney) Kelly Shaffer (Megan Thomas) Adam Shipley (Kristi Pf;ster) Callie Whelan {Amy Waclawik) Andrew Williams (Elizabeth Reed) Edward Wolfe {Joe Reimer) 
Saint Mary's College 
Catherine Arzt {Man"a Ruvalcaba) Raquel DeLune (Megan Canzoneri) Tara Gonnan (Stevie Kaspn"skie) 

Annie Moranski {Nicole Shin"Da) Jackie Nguyen {Denise de Ia Rosa} Joe Nickol (Adn"ana Costello) 
C-M 

Ben Nickol (Matt Ste/ansk;) Campus Ministry 
Monday, April 26, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 


SMC students volunteer at Dia Del Nino festival 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students donated their time at the second annual Dia Del Nino, a community fes­tival put on by local radio sta­tion 98.1 Sabor Latino and the Girl Scouts. 
Sunday's fes­

tival gave com­"We still had a the event. It was munity mem­previously adver­
great time, and the

bers the oppor­tised in local news­
community

tunity to bring papers and on the their children responded really radio station. to the festival One of the board's
well to our 

for food, enter­goals for the upcom­
involvement.,

tainment and ing year is to games. increase involvement This was the Ashley Doughty in the surrounding first year Saint community. Doughty 
Event chairwoman 
Mary's Student Diversity Board has been a part of Dia Del Nino. They have been working closely with Sabor Latino for about one month to coordinate the event. 
"We were approached by a member of the radio station who came to SOB's Spring Fiesta and really enjoyed our event," event chairwoman Ashley Doughty said. "He was interested in working with us and we thought it was the per­fect opportunity to get involved with the surrounding communi­ty." 


Assault 
continued from page 1 
Department Chair Albert Barbasi took the researcher to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, where he was treated for a broken bone in his hand. 

Approximately 25 Saint Mary's students volunteered at the event. The volunteers worked in shifts and were com­prised of Student Diversity Board members and other stu­dents. 
Dia Del Nino was open to the community, and several hun­
dred people came 
out to take part in 
says she hopes the 
Student Diversity Board will remain in relations with the event's sponsors, Sabor Latino and the Girl Scouts, to stay active in the community. 
Despite encountering minor glitches during the day, Doughty said the day was a suc­cess. 
"We still had a great time, and the community responded really well to our involvement," she said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO I @saintmarys.edu 
The victim said he also suf­fered injuries to his nose dur­ing the incident. 
St. Joseph County Police is investigating the incident and anyone with information about it should call 235-9611. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 
IRAQ 

Army orders armored H utnvees 
Associated Press 
NAJAF -Deafening noise, confusion and fear erupted as the roadside bomb slammed into the U.S. Army Humvee, knocking over Spc. Stephen Monti, who was manning a gun in the turret. 
"Then we started checking whether we still had our 10 fingers on," Monti recalled of the recent ambush south of Baghdad. 
. Not only had all four soldieF5 escaped injury, but the vehicle -which had been fortified by armor plating and bulletproof glass -came through with just a few dents and a cracked windshield. 
"There probably would have been wounds, maybe mortal ones, in your basic Humvee," said Monti, of St. Louis. "Every vehicle that goes out on the road should be 'up-armored.' Your safety is dramatically increased." 
But many in Iraq are not, and attacks against them by roadside bombs and rocket­propelled grenades are driving up the casualty toll. 
On Sunday, a Humvee was engulfed in flames after a roadside bomb struck a U.S. convoy in eastern Baghdad, killing a U.S. soldier. It was not known if the Humvee had the extra armor. 
When the war began, only about 2 percent of Army's 110,000 Humvees were armored. Now, of the nearly 15,000 Humvees in Iraq, about 1,500 to 2,000 are armored, according to the Army. The numbers are increasing. 
The Army is making a "full­court press" to locate and deliver every armored Humvee in its inventory to Iraq, said 
Search is on for armored Humvees 
The Army is making a "full-court press" to send every available armored Humvee in its inventory to Iraq. A soldier's safety is dramatically increased if the vehicle has been fortified. 
Modified Humvees Added protection Back seats ~Of the nearly 15,000 
shields Humvees in Iraq, about 1 ,500 to 2.000 are armored ~ Capable of stopping AK-47 bullets, anti­personnel RPGs, most roadside bombs and mines "" Armored vehicles cost $150,000 apiece compared with about half that for a 
"soft-skin" Reinforced flooring 
SOURCE: Associated Press AP 
Maj. Gen. Martin Dempsey, commander of the 1st Armored Division. At the same time, factories are boosting production of the armored ver­sion. 
During the war last year, some Humvees were ambushed as swift-moving U.S. troops bypassed pockets of resistance. 
But the attacks have mount­ed as Iraq became what Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez, com­mander of U.S. forces, calls "a 360-degree battlefield," with none of safer rear areas of conventional warfare. 
"They were not intended to be on the front lines," Dempsey said of the unarmored vehi­cles. "In a linear battlefield, Humvees always operated behind the front lines -in most cases even out of artillery range. Iraq isn't a linear bat­tlefield. As we find ourselves in a low-to mid-intensity conflict, and we have all these vehicles designed for a linear battle­field, they come up short." 
The Army is trying to find every heavily armored Humvee "from every other place in the world," Dempsey told The Associated Press. "I saw an e­mail the other day that said there was one uparmored Humvee in Kosovo and they were tracking it coming here." 
In the meantime, soldiers in Iraq are making do. They're hardening their "soft-skins," as unarmored Humvees are called, from kits available at some bases or by getting enter­prising Iraqis to whack steel sheets onto their vehicles. 
Some who have to ride in the soft-skins resort to prayer. 
"It hasn't prevented me from going out, but whenever possi­ble, I bum a ride in an armored Humvee. There is a little extra element of having to trust God more when going out in soft-skins," said Maj. Chip Huey, of Hattiesburg. Miss., chaplain for the 3rd Briga~e. 1st Infantry Division. 


storage 
s 


4 MONTH SPECIAL MAYTHROUGH AUGUST FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 5 X I 0 ---$149 + DEP I 0 X I 0 ---$ 199 + DEP CALL 247-7805 CLOSETO NOTRE DAME AND AIRPORT 

Thank you 
Notre D:mle, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross Students 
College Appreciation 


SPECIAL 
~ $4.95 for 3 hours 
regular price 

tines: every night fran 9 to midnight 


Beacon Bowl 
234-4167 
(By the Airport) 
Have You Seen Clover Ridge Apartments latelv;J 
Tel: 514.212.1441 
email: clover ridge@ aspensquare.com 



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 26, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TIIE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
China's aid arrives in North Korea 
DANDONG. China-Emergency aid began arriving Sunday at the site of North Korea's devastating train explosion as the death toll rose to more than 160 -nearly half of them children in a school torn apart by the blast. 1\t least 1,300 people were injured. 
The Hed Cross said the explosion destroyed the railway station in Hyongchon, near the Chinese border. and turned the surrounding area into a landscape of huge craters, twist­ed rail tracks and scorched buildings. Thousands were homeless. 
"They've been taken in by other families. We were fearing people on the streets," John Sparrow, a Bed Cross spokesman in Beijing, said Sunday. "We breathed a big sigh of relief when we saw that wasn't the case." 
Pakistan frees accused tribesmen 
PESIIAWAH, Pakistan -In a gesture of reconciliation. Pakistan on Sunday freed 50 men arrested in a bloody counterterrorism offensive ncar the Afghan border, saying investigations proved them innocent. 
Th(l releases came a day after authorities pardoned five renegade tribal leaders accused of harboring al-Qaida fugitives. In exchange, the leaders promised to live peacefully and not help terrorists. 
The deal could end months of fighting between tribesmen and Pakistan's army in the lawless region of South Waziristan, which has emerged as the front line in the country's battle to control tribal militants with strong ethnic and ideological ties to Afghanistan's former Taliban regime. 
Its barren mountains and mud-brick vil­lages have long been believed to be a possi­ble hide-out for Osama bin Laden and al­Qaida's No. 2, Ayman al-Zawahri. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Michael Jackson replaces lawyers 
LOS ANGELES -Michael Jackson is replacing high-profile attorneys Mark (J(~ragos and Benjamin Brafman in his child molestation case, the lawyers told The Associated Press on Sunday. 
The pop superstar's new lawyer will be Thomas Mesereau Jr., another well-known criminal defense attorney who represented actor Hobert Blake in his murder case until they recently parted company, citing irrec­oncilable differences. 
Priest re-questioned in nun's death 
TOLEDO, Ohio -Investigators re-exam­ined the 1980 slaying of a nun whose body was found in a chapel surrounded by can­dles after another woman alleged she was abused by Homan Catholic priests during satanic and sadomasochistic rituals, a newspaper reported Sunday. 
Investigators said they could not substan­tiate the woman's allegations, but her men­tion of the Hev. Gerald Hobinson spurred police to take another look at the nun's murder -in which he had always been a suspect. 
Hobinson. 66. was charged Friday with murdering Sister Margaret Ann Pahl, who was strangled and stabbed about 30 times on April 5, 1980. ller body was found in a hospital chapel, surrounded by lit candles with her arms folded across her chest. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Wabash student reported missing 
CHAWFOHDSVILLE, Ind. -Argentine police found the passport and clothing of a missing Wabash College student Thursday in a room at an inn after an American couple told authorities they spoke to him in a moun­tain park two weeks ago. 
Anthony Hyatt Lobdell, 21, had apparently been staying at the inn since April 6, a U.S. Embassy official who asked not to be identi­fied told the Journal Review. 
Finding Lobdell's clothes and passport, "to us means he had only gone out for the day, expecting to come out shortly," the official said. 
Iraqi forces to join U.S. in Fallujah 
Plans remain to avoid holy sites, but troops destined to counter radical cleric 
Associated Press 
FALLUJAH, Iraq-U.S. 
troops will begin patrols 
with Iraqi security forces in 
Fallujah, the military said 
Sunday, as the United States 
backed down from warn­
ings of an all-out assault 
that could spark new blood­
shed and deepen anti­
American sentiment. 
The patrols are to begin 
as early as Tuesday, and 
Fallujah officials will 
announce in the city that 
anyone seen carrying a 
weapon will be considered 
hostile, the military said. 
Meanwhile, a U.S. general said troops will move into a base on the edge of the holy city of Najaf that Spanish troops will abandon when they withdraw from Iraq in the coming weeks. But the Americans will remain away from holy sites -an effort to avoid outraging Iraq's Shiite majority, which opposes any U.S. foray near their most sacred shrine. 
Brig. Gen. Mark Hertling said the troops aimed to "counter the forces" of radi­cal Shiite cleric Muqtada al­Sadr. A coalition spokesman, Dan Senor, said weapons were being stock­piled in mosques and schools in Najaf, a practice he said must stop. 
The measures in Fallujah and Najaf were announced a day after President Bush The deal to bring patrols Iraqi security forces due insurgents are concentrat­held a teleconference with 
into Fallujah meant extend­to patrol with them were ed.
senior national security and ing the cease-fire for equally ill at ease. "It will be a combat patrol military advisers to discuss another two days, U.S. offi­"I don't feel safe because in the city that is preparedthe situation in Fallujah and cials said. Military action in the Americans themselves to deal with anything they the rest of Iraq. 
Fallujah was still an option, are not safe." police Capt. run into," he said. "If we
The moves appeared 
Brig. Gen. Mark Kimmitt Jassim Abed said. "They get are attacked, we willaimed at bringing a degree said, but the warning was shot at. They can't guaran­absolutely eradicate thatof control over the cities dramatically toned down tee safety for themselves, so source of fire." But he
without re-igniting the 
from those in the past week. how can they guarantee my added that individualintense violence that began The new steps in Fallujah safety?" attacks would not lead to a
when U.S. authorities 
were not without risks. Marine Lt. Col Brennan wider engagement. 
moved on the two fronts There was little guaran­Byrne, on Fallujah's out­U.S. occupation leaderssimultaneously at the start tee that guerrillas in skirts, said patrols may not are under pressure not toof April. 
Fallujah won't attack joint start until Thursday as launch major militaryThe wave of fighting since U.S.-Iraqi patrols. Some Marines and Iraqi forces action. Some U.S.-picked
has killed up to 1,200 Iraqis Marine commanders said organize them. Iraqi leaders were angeredand 111 U.S. troops, nearly privately they had hoped to He said the patrols would by the Fallujah siege. Theas many in 25 days as the push on with an offensive be backed by armor and air top U.N. envoy for Iraq,115 Americans who were deeper into the city and support but for now will Lakhdar Brahimi -whokilled during the two-month 
were concerned Marine steer clear of Fallujah's has been asked byinvasion that toppled 
patrols would become tar­Julan district, a poorer Washington to help pick a
Saddam Hussein a year 
gets. neighborhood where many new government -warnedago. 

500,000 tnarch for abortion rights in D.C. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Abortion-rights supporters marched in the hun­dreds of thousands Sunday, galva­nized by what they see as an ero­sion of reproductive freedoms under President Bush and foreign policies that hurt women worldwide. 
Amid the clamor of an election year, the throng of demonstrators flooded the National Mall. Their tar­get: Bush, like-minded officials in federal and state government and religious conservatives. 
Speaking beyond the masses to policy-makers, Francis Kissling of Catholics for a Free Choice declared, "You will hear our pro­choice voices ringing in your ears until such time that you permit all women to make our own reproduc­tive choices." 
Women joined the protest from across the nation and from nearly 60 countries, asserting that damage from Bush's policies is spreading far beyond U.S. shores through meas­ures such as the ban on federal money for family-planning groups that promote or perform abortions abroad. 
The rally on the National Mall stretched from the base of the U.S. Capitol about a mile back to the Washington Monument. Authorities no longer give formal crowd esti­mates, but various police sources informally estimated the throng at between 500,000 and 800,000 strong. 

That would exceed the estimated 500,000 who protested for abortion rights in 1992. 
Carole Mehlman, 68, came from Tampa, Fla., to support a cause that has motivated her to march for 30 years, as long as abortion has been legal. 
"I just had to be here to fight for the next generation and the genera­tion after that," she said. "We can­not let them take over our bodies, our health care, our lives." 
------~--------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 26, 2004 
Students 
continued from page 1 
with security monitors. 
Others said they had never 
considered the monitors' 
impact. 
Leal added that he didn't 
think an inside presence was 
a necessity in residence halls 
for either sex. 
"I think dorms are safe for 
the most part," he said. "I 
don't think that's a nai've 
assumption ... I think [the 
monitors] are a bit exces­
sive." 
Pasquerilla West junior 
Tiffany Howell went as far as 
to say she thought the moni-· 
tors served no purpose other 
than "to get us in trouble." 
She also approved of the 
roving officer system that 
Notre Dame Security/Police 
plans to implement. 
"That sounds like a better 
use of our money," Howell 
said. 
However, some female stu­
dents expressed regret over 
losing the monitors, who in 
many cases developed close 
relationships with residents 
because of their long-term 
employment with one or two 
dorms. 
"Personally I think they're 
adorable," said Moira 
Madden, a sophomore in 
Breen-Phillips. "We've defi­
nitely had a close relation­
ship with them." 
She did acknowledge, how­
ever, that the monitors' role 
had become more residence 
life-oriented than focused on 
safety issues. 
"Security wise, I don't 
know how important the 
security monitors are, but as 
a part of the dorm they're an 
important part of the fami­
ly," she said. 
Female resident assistants 
-who several monitors and 
some rectors believe will 
have to pick up much of the 
slack -also offered mixed 
evaluations. 
"I think there is a possibili­
ty for more problems to be 
created for RA's -when 
girls come in drunk, night 
monitors alert us so that we 
can intercept the problem 
before it escalates," said 
Jessica Campbell, a current 
RAin Lewis. "But I can't 
imagine the RA's sitting up 
all night at the desk." 
She added it will be harder 
for ·residence hall staff to 
control parietals, calling the 
change a move she didn't 
anticipate. 
"I was surprised -I 
thought the University would 
go to night monitors in all 
dorms before they would 
eliminate them," she said. "I 
don't like that they say 
they're going to have a rule 
but not enforce it." 
McGlinn RA Sarah Eber 
agreed with Campbell that ·parietals will be the area most affected by firing the monitors. However, she said that while there was poten­tial for change next year, as she has experienced little overlap between the moni­
tors' duties and her own. 
"There have been a few 
instances of heads up when 
they've called me," she said. 
"There's a chance that they 
do things behind the scenes 
that I'm [not] aware of. but 
there hasn't been a lot of 
interaction aside from get­
ting to know them personal­
ly." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

be kept. Senior Brittany Becker,
Shirt Exposure
designer of this year's Shirt, continued from page 1 described it as "having a 
continued from page 1 vintage feel." As in year's past, students The front of The Shirt 
described as a white male were concerned over the reads "We Are ND. Irish '04 
about 5cfoot-8 wearing a grey available sizes. Football." 
hooded sweatshirt and blue "We put a much larger "It is an extremely popular 
jeans, ran away. The victim percentage of Shirts in small Notre Dame cheer that went 
reported the incident to NDSP and medium based on previ­with the theme of involving 
a day later after she saw a 
ous years. I think we hit it closer [this 
"It is an extremely
year]. We're 
popular Notre 
getting clos­er," Crossin Dame cheer that said. 
went with the 
Student 
theme ofinvolving 
reaction to this year's the entire football design var­populace.,ied. Student Tyler Wilson 
Kate Crossin
described The Shirt as Shirt President "retro." 
This year's 
the entire football 

Crime Watch bulletin describ­
populace," 
ing a similar offense. 
Crossin said. "Not 

On March 24 at 12:29 a.m., 
just the student 

a female student said she was 
section says this 

walking between Knott Hall 
cheer, but every­

and Siegfried Hall and saw a 
one in the stadi­

male standing at the bottom 
um." 

of the walkway steps and said 
The back of The 

the male pulled down his 
Shirt has a styl­

pants and exposed his geni­
ized player with 

tals. The suspect was 
the text, "The 

described as a white male 
cheering thou­

about 6 feet tall, wearing a 
sands shout their 

grey sweatshirt with red let­
battle cry," which 
tering and athletic pants. 
Crossin explains 

On April 18 at 4:12 a.m., a 
is from '"When 

female student said a male 
Shirt held true to the "Sea of  Irish Backs Go Marching ·By,'  followed her as she walked  
Green" tradition, but is  a  an  old ND song not many  from Notre Dame Stadium to  
slightly different green that  people remember."  her dorm.  She said the male  
last year's design.  "I thought it really cap­ said to her "Hey look at this!"  
Sophomore Tony Steier  tured the spirit we  were  and exposed his genitals near  
said he did not care for this  going for this year," Crossin  the Hesburgh Library reflect­ 
year's  color,  and  he  said.  ing pool. The suspect was  
described it as  a  "Sea of  described  as  a  white male  
Mint."  But he agreed that  Contact Anna Gelhaus at  with light colored hair.  
the green tradition should  agelhatis@nd.edu  In an unrelated incident,  

four students reported that a male exposed himself to them as they were walking on Courtney Lane past the Eck Tennis Center April 17 at 4:05 
a.m. The students were returning to campus from an off-campus apartment com­plex and said the man was naked, except for a grey base­ball cap. The man did not say anything to the students and he is described as a white male between 30 and 40 years of age, about 6 feet tall with short dark hair. The stu­dents contacted NDSP by cell phone as they walked back to campus. 
In the four incidents where NDSP was contacted immedi­ately after the ineident, offi­cers searched the area after the report but were not able to find any suspects. NDSP urges students to avoid walk­ing alone and to avoid walk­ing in isolated areas during nighttime hours. 
Students can request a security officer accompany them when walking at night or report information about these cases by calling NDSP at 631-5555. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 

The Office of lnforn1ation Technologies presents a Data Center ... 

Celebrating the Grand Opening of the newly renovated Notre Dame Data Center 
Tour the Data Center See the IT syste(Ils that power Notre Dame 
April 29, 2004 • 3:00p-5:00p For Notre Dame Students, Faculty and Staff • First Floor, IT Center Refreshments Provided 

i...H'f·H:.:::· Of' li'-H.-OR!I·tAfH}i_. 
·~ t(.:t,·~f'~(l-:..J)t;.~.F-~ 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, April 26, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,472.84 +11.64

Jones 
~' 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume; 1,145 148 • 1,392,537,216 

AMEX 1,240.23 w7,96 NASDAQ 2,049.77 +16.86 NYSE 6,616.88 -16.42 S&PSOO 1,140.60 +0.67 NIKKEJ(Tol<yo) 12,120.66 0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,570.00 -1.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +6.13 + 1.59 27.54 INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.81 + 1.0 I 27.53 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.73 +0.17 23.32 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) + 1.29 +0.16 12.53 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +2.81 +0.12 4.39 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.10 +0.57 52.47 I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.85 +0.81 44.52 5-YEAR NOTE +3.25 + 1.12 35.59 3-MONTH BILL + 1.60 +0.15 9.52 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.25 36.46 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) + 1.80 395.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.475 I 07.00 
Excha Rates 

YEN 109.3 EURO 0.848 POUND 0.5652 CANADIAN$ 1.362 
IN BRIEF 
Mitsubishi dives without cash help 
TOKYO -Burdened with a multibillion dollar 
debt, plunging car sales and a spate of recalls, 
Mitsubishi Motors Corp., suffered a major blow 
Friday when partner DaimlerChrysler AG ruled 
out pumping more cash into the Japanese 
automaker. 
Shares in Mitsubishi Motors plunged in Tokyo, finishing down 25 percent, the day's allowed limit. to $2.20 after UaimlerChrysler said it had "decided not to participate in a capital increase" planned by the Japanese automaker. 
The news killed off speculation that the German-U.S. automaker would unveil a revival plan that would include hundreds of billions of dollars of additional cash. 
Tyco charged with $10 million fine 
IIAHTFORD, Conn.-A Tyco International subsidiary will pay $10 million in fines and admit covering up the illegal release of waste­water into a sewer system, The Associated Press has learned. 
Tyco Electronics Printed Circuit Group has been the subject of a long federal investigation. Three former employees have pleaded guilty to covering up the release of wastewater into sew­ers ncar its now-closed plant in Manchester, in violation of the federal Clean Water Act. 
Price, side effects slam AIDS drug 
NEW YOHK-When the new AIDS drug Fuzcon was launched last year, it was touted as a major breakthrough, with expectations so high it was feared the drug would be in short supply as patients clamored for it. 
Instead, Fuzeon sales are below estimates and analysts are slashing revenue projections. Fuzeon's $20,000-a-year price tag, painful side ell'ecl-; and changing AIDS treatment strategies have made sales a disappointment, one that some experts expect will continue. 
Hoffmann-La Hoche Inc. which markets Fuzcon for the drug's developer. Trimeris Inc., is taking steps to increase sales, expanding dis­tribution and launching an advertising and pub­lic relations campaign. 
BUSINESS EXECUTIVE 
Cosmetic giant Lauder dies at 97 
Lauder's company responsible for birth of Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, others 
Associated Press  
NEW YOHK -Estec  
Lauder, who started a  
kitchen business blending  
face creams and built it  
into a multimillion-dollar  
international cosmetics  
empire, has died. She was  
97.  
Lauder died of car­ 
diopulmonary arrest late  
Saturday at her home in  
Manhattan,· said Sally  
Susman, a company  
spokeswoman.  
In 1998, Lauder was the  
only woman on Time mag­ 
azine's list of the 20 most  
influential business  
geniuses of the century.  
Jler company placed No.  
349 in the 2003 ranking in  
the Fortune 500 list of the  
nation's largest compa­ 
nies, with revenue at  
$4.744 billion.  
In explaining her suc­ 
cess. the cosmetics queen  
once said: "I have never  
worked a day in my life  
without selling. If I believe  
in something, I sell it, and  
I sell it hard."  
Lauder sold her prod­ 
ucts primarily through  
department stores -Saks  
Fifth Avenue,  
Bloomingdale's, Marshall  
Field's, Neiman-Marcus,  
Harrods in London,  
Estee Lauder, left, and Llza Mlnnelll pose with bottles of the fragranceGaleries Lafayette in Paris  
"Metropolis," at a Sept. 16, 1987 news conference In New York.-the tonier the better.  
"Beauty is an attitude,"  "I don't know her very  Queens, she was the  family house. And she  
she once said. "There's no  well, but she keeps send­ daughter of Max and Rose  began experimenting with  
secret. Why are all brides  ing all these things," said  Schatz Mentzer. Lauder  mixes herself.  
beautiful? Because on  Princess Grace of Monaco,  never disclosed her birth  While in her home  
their wedding day they  who became a friend.  date, but a company  kitchen, "during every  
care about how they look.  Said Lauder, "If you  spokeswoman said she  possible spare moment, (I)  
There are no ugly women  have a goal, if you want to  was 97.  cooked up little pots of  
-only women who don't  be successful, if you really  Lauder said her family  cream for faces. I always  
care or who don't believe  want to do it and become  always called her Esty  felt most alive when I was  
they're attractive."  another Estee Lauder,  (pronounced ES-tee).  dabbling in the practice  
The company's product  you've got to work hard,  When a public school offi­ cream," she said.  
lines have included Estee  you've got to stick to it and  cial spelled it Estee, it  Lauder went to beauty  
Lauder, Clinique, Aramis,  you've got to believe in  stuck.  salons where she gave  
Prescriptives and Origins.  what you're doing."  In 1930 she married a  free demonstrations to  
A favorite selling tool  She enjoyed entertaining  garment center business­ women waiting under hair  
has been offering a gift  in the grand manner. in  man named Joseph Lauter  dryers. More often than  
with a purchase ­a give­ her Upper East Side town­ (later changed to Lauder),  not, they became cus­ 
away that began out of  house. her oceanfront  and they had their first  tomers. Sometimes she  
necessity. Lauder started  home in Palm Beach, her  son, Leonard, three years  stopped women on Fifth  
off without enough of an  London flat. her villa in  later.  Avenue to try her prod­ 
advertising budget to  the south of France.  During the 1930s, she  ucts.  
attract an agency, so she  But that was not how  began selling face creams  "If you put the product  
used the money instead  she grew up.  that her uncle John  into the customer's hands,  
for free samples.  Born Josephine Esther  Schotz, a chemist, mixed  it will speak for itself if it's  
She also courted the rich  Mentzer in the working­ up in a makeshift labora­ something of quality," she  
and famous.  class Corona section of  tory in a stable behind the  declared.  

GLOBAL POVERTY 
IMF, World Bank discuss Middle East 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -World finance ministers promised on Sunday to do more to deal with the crushing burden of global poverty, promising help in such areas as education, debt relief and AIDS. 
But activists said the weekend meet­ings of the 184-nation International Monetary Fund and World Bank didn't back up warm words with cold cash. 
Separately, the United States said it had made progress pushing a new ini­tiative to bolster peace prospects in the Middle East by promoting econom­ic development and jobs. 
Treasury Secretary John Snow told reporters Sunday that he had been encouraged by the support the United States received on the issue both from potential donor countries and from officials from the region. 
Snow said President Bush wanted the effort to be a key topic at this year's Group of Eight economic sum­mit to be held in June at Sea Island, Ga. Various wealthy countries as well as the World Bank and IMF were exploring ways to provide further 

assistance to the volatile Middle East. "I was encouraged by the receptive­ness that we saw," Snow said. 
Finance ministers from the world's seven wealthiest countries endorsed a proposal to promote economic devel­opment in the Middle East, specifically mentioning the Palestinian areas of the West Bank and Gaza along with Iraq and Afghanistan. 
World Bank President James Wolfensohn told a news conference Sunday that there was a "readiness" by the World Bank to support Palestinian economic development. 

Monday, April 26, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
itself well to a more communi­ty-oriented type of policing." 
Monitors 

Unlike security monitors, who currently make several rounds
continued from page 1 

a night, the roving officers will removed from the men's dorms not venture onto dorms' upper after all halls installed updated floors unless they are respond­fire alarms and sprinkler sys­ing to a specific incident. tems -but decided against it "I really think the floors of after significant outcry from the hall have to be private," female rectors, Rakow said. Rakow said. "That's your 
"I think pretty "[Rectors] kind of space. I don't immediately the think we belong
co-opted [monitors] 

women rectors up there unless used their monitors into residence hall there's a prob­differently than the staff-like look, I lem that we priests that ran the need to answer a
can go to bed

previous halls," he call to." said. "They kind of earlier, I've got But citing an co-opted them into someone at my incident when residence hall staff an on-call moni­
door and they'll

-like look, I can tor discovered a
tell me what's

go to bed earlier, male student I've got someone at going on in the unconscious in a my door and they'll bathroom in the
hall."

tell· me what's Farley basement going on in the hall shortly after 3 ... In 1980, they Rex Rakow a.m. Saturday, were eight years NDSP Director Etheridge said 
into women at Notre Dame and really felt they needed their person." 
Despite the long-term pres­ence of female students -and despite recent advances in cell phone technology to respond to emergencies, another reason Rakow cited for the monitors' diminished value -many female rectors still feel that need extensively. 
"I feel terrible about this," said Farley rector Sister Carinne Etheridge, adding that her "colorful, larger than life" monitor Roberta Shupert has been with the dorm for 19 years. 

Replacing the monitors will be six roving ground patrol offi­cers, who will each be assigned to a cluster of four or five resi­dence halls to provide addition­al security -primarily outside, with periodic checks of 24-hour lounges and public spaces ­and to serve as a liaison between the security and resi­dence hall staff, Rakow said. 
"We're excited to try this ­it'll be a great departure from what we're used to," he said. "The way our residence halls are set on campus really lends 
The UPS Store 
"May Move Out '04" NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 

LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS 
Wednesday, May 5th -Saturday, May 8th 

Wednesday, May 5th-Friday, May 7th 
$1.00 off Shipping PER BOX FREE PICK UP Pickup is free, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. PERMANENT LOCATION: Martin's Plaza-S.R. 23 Hours: M-F 9 am -7 pm Sat: 1 Oam-6pm 277-6245 
Shupert and 
other monitors provide security within resi­dence halls that the new offi­cers will not be able to replace. 
"I need them roving inside," she said. "[The new officers] are going to be everybody's buddy, but I don't need every­body's buddy. I need somebody here in the middle of the night." 
Walsh rector Sister Patricia Thomas was more open to NDSP's new plan -"part of me is saying the men's halls have had to do this for a long time," she said -but stressed that her monitor will be greatly missed. Howard rector Kathy Brannock also emphasized the personal role the monitors play in the dorm community. 
"I thought their services went beyond the protecting and tra­ditional security efforts," she said. "It's safety in knowing someone's there to talk to when you need to, or security in if something happened at 3 a.m., knowing someone's awake." 
Male rectors praised the increased emphasis on outdoor security. 
"I think the whole campus can benefit from a greater presence, so I think it'll be a positive," Zahm rector Father Dan Parrish said. 
Dillon rector Father Paul Doyle said one officer for four to five dorms "seems appropri­ate, at least on the male side ... we certainly don't need some­body assigned to Dillon." 
Alumni rector Father George Rozum offered a split opinion. 
"For the men's dorms it is positive," he said, "but for the women's dorms I don't know what to think." 
Associate Vice President of Residence Life William Kirk, whose division oversees the Security/Police Department, said rectors' input was consid­ered carefully in the decision­making process in order to frame the security department's changes within the larger scope of campus life. 
"Since it falls under us, every decision like that we try to take that into account," he said. "I know the rectors worked close­ly with Rakow ... Any change is tough at first and I think [rec­tors] are having all the normal reactions." 
Although Rakow and his staff met periodically with Director of Residence Life and Housing Jeff Shoup for input and feed­back, Kirk added, the final decision was "primarily a secu­rity call based on that depart­ment's extensive research." 
Rakow stressed that research when he broke the news to the monitors on Friday night, and invited human resources employees to explain the sever­ance and benefit packages that will be offered. While three of the 14 full-time monitors are in a position to retire, the others were invited to meet with a local group called Career Transitions that will help them ease back into the job market, Rakow said. 
"The University is going to pay for that, our department is going to pay for that, to help the transition," he said, adding that monitors were -welcome to 
r----------------------------------------------------­
De.Bart:olo Hall: Open S-tudy Hours: April 29 Sam t:o 3:00am 1VIidnigh1: Snacks! April 30 Sam to 3:00a•n M'idnight: Snacks! IVIay 1 Sam "to 3:00am lVlidnigh"t Snacks! M'ay 2 Sat:n to 3:00an• M'idnight" Snacks! Finals Week: 1'\ll:ay 3-6 Saan to 3:00am *M:ay 7 DeBartolo closes 30 minutes af"t:er las-t scheduled exam through t:he Registrar's Of"fice. 
36 Non-"techuology rooms, first con1.e/ firs-t serve 
See Building Support: Person ifyou have specific needs: Roo1n I03, .Z04. 
Coleman-:M"orse: 1_s1: .Floor .l~ounge 7:00am-4am daily. Same dates as Us-ted above. Ahvays-Free Snacks! 
O'Shaughnessy: .Roo~ns availablefor open. st:u:dy except: -,vii.en scheduled by t:he .Regist:rar"'s office. 
April 29 Sam t:o 3:00am AJ:>ril 30 Sam t"o 3:00atn I\llay 1 Sam "to 3:00am lVlay 2 Sat:n to 3 :OOarn. Finals Week: lVI"ay 3-6 Sam to 3:00am Sunday 1:OOpm t:o 3:00am. lVIonday-Thursday 5:00pm-3:00am. Rooms: :108,. 1 09., 204, 206., 207, 208, 209. 
.!5.'1u:zcks during Srud_v Da:rs courres_v of-­
.Bu.~i,"6es.~ Operc1riL.nn.~ 
Can11.pus A-Finisrry s·rudeTtr CJnioTt Board 

***Good Luck ""tvith Finals*** 
------·-----·---~ ...--?-~~-~-..,.,..-..........~.......-.....................................,... 
apply for other University posi­tions. "We're hoping we've done this as compassionately as we can." 
Several monitors, however, questioned NDSP's provisions. 
"They feel, 'Oh you can go out in the workforce,"' one monitor said, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear that she would not be able to pursue another job at Notre Dame. "My goodness, teenagers can't even get jobs today, let alone 57, 58, 60-year old ladies ... I feel they should say 'You know, this is a big campus, we're going to try to find a job for you."' 
She added that while many other monitors had lost respect for the University, and some had discussed using sick hours instead of returning for the rest of the year, she planned to stick it out and still felt "very fortu­

nate" that she "[The new officers] dents) coming out of had been able buildings. because
are going to be
to work on the officers will be campus. everybody's buddy, on the outside where "My time but I don't need people will exit, and with these girls [students] won't
everybody's buddy, 
and the affec­know exactly where tion and the I need somebody they are," he said. love -even here in the middle "In a women's resi­when they've dence hall, you can
ofthe night. " 
come in drunk pretty much predict and I've taken where the monitor's care of them -Sister Carlnne going to be." there is no Etheridge He added it was greater respect difficult to determine
Farley rector
than from these girls," she said. "I mean you feel like a mother to these girls." 
A second monitor, who also requested anonymity, shared the concern for female resi­dents. 
"Who is this benefiting?" she asked. "It's not benefiting the girls, it's not benefiting the rec­tors, so I don't see who this is for ... it's going to be really tough next year for the rectors, for the RA's -they're going to have it really bad." 
Other monitors declined to comment, citing both legal and emotional reasons, but most agreed that the implications for hall staff will be greater than for the new officers. 
"I can't see where this patrol group they're going to have on the quad is going to help, I think students will just blow them off," a third monitor said. speculating that parietals will be harder to enforce. 
Etheridge agreed. saying she didn't think patrolling the com­mon areas in Farley and other dorms would be an effective way to deter parietals and alco­hol violations. 
"That's not where the action is," she said. Rakow, however, suggested that the new system may actually be more effective in those situations than the monitors had been. 
"Perhaps we'll even be able 
to find violations 
more if we see [stu­
the impact of securi­
ty monitors on pari­etals violations because "you can't measure anything you prevent," and added that as a ResLife regulation, enforcing parietals "really isn't a part of our mission." 

Rakow also stressed that the new system will be constantly evaluated. 
"It'll be a learning process," he said. "We're not in this to make a change that won't accomplish anything." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
-----~-­

Monday, April 26, 2004 page 9
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Judge throws Nichols' defense into disarray 
Associated Press 
McALESTEH, Okla. -Barely 10 days before they start pre­senting their case to a jury, attorneys for Oklahoma City bombing conspirator Terry Nichols find themselves with­out much of the evidence they planned to usc. 
District Judge Steven Taylor ruled much of the defense evi­dence inadmissible last week. lie didn't, however. bar them from utTering evidence they say indicates executed bomber Timothy McVeigh received sub­stantial help from conspirators other than Nichols with April llJ, llJlJ5, bombing. 
.Jurors may hear suggestions of another conspirator through witness accounts of the so­called John Doe No. 2, whom dozens of people said they saw with McVeigh before the bomb­ing. Authorities have said the man depicted in an FBI sketch turned out to have nothing to do with the bombing. 
The panelists also may hear more grisly testimony about a dismembered leg, found in the federal building's rubble, that Nichols' defense attorneys may suggest was that of an unknown coconspirator. 
Oklahoma's chief medical examiner, Dr. Fred Jordan, tes­tified on Friday that the leg did not match any of the 168 bombing victims and could be from an unidentified 169th vic­tim. 
Billy Joel in third accident 
Associated Press 
BAYVILLE, N.Y. -Singer Billy Joel was involved in his third car accident in two years Sunday when he slammed into a house on a wet road on Long Island. No one was seriously injured. 
There was no evidence that alcohol or drugs were involved and Joel was not suspected of any crime, said Nassau County police Officer Joan Eames. 
Joel suffered a small cut on a finger but refused medical atten­tion, Eames said. 
Joel was alone in the car, and no one in the house was injured, police said. 
A call to Joel's publicist, Claire Mercuri, was not immediately returned. 
Last year Joel was hospitalized after smashing his car into a tree along a Long Island highway. No summonses were issued, and Joel was not given a Breathalyzer test. 
Joel escaped serious injury in a crash in East Hampton in June 2002. 
He later checked into a sub­stance abuse and psychiatric cen­ter, reportedly after becoming depressed when a respiratory infection forced him to cut short a tour with fellow piano player Elton John. 

Joel and model Christie Brinkley, who divorced in 1994, have a teenage daughter, Alexa Ray. Following last year's accident, Brinkley expressed concern about their daughter riding in a car with him. 

Joel, a member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, has had more than two dozen Top 10 hits, including his signature 197 4 song "Piano Man." 
Gas prices rise 3 more cents 

,<((~ ~,Ji: 
~LAF 0 RTU Nt::::';:::::f''''"'·-~·-·cclR: 
INFORMATION DESK and BOX OFFICE 
ALL T-SHIRTS ONLY $7.00 
(EXCLUDES CLASS OF 2004 T -SHIRT) 

SELECT "ND MOM" & "ND DAD" SWEATSHIRTS ONLY $20.00 
SALE PRICES INCLUDE TAX! 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-U.S. gasoline prices climbed 3 more cents per gallon in the past two weeks because of high crude oil prices. tight capacity and rising demand, an analyst said Sunday. 
The nationwide average for all gasoline grades, including taxes, was nearly $1.86 per gallon on Friday, up 3.07 cents from April 9, according to the Lundberg Survey of 8,000 stations nation­wide. 
The average price "has broken all-time record highs for two months straight," analyst Trilby Lundberg said. However, when adjusted for inflation, she said, it remained about $1 a gallon lower than the peak of March 1981. 
Since Dec. 19, the average gas price has risen 34.55 cents, she said. 

The latest increase was prompted by crude oil prices topping $36 per barrel coupled with OPEC production cuts and a growth in crude oil demand, chiefly in the United States and China, Lundberg said. 
Demand for gasoline also is growing, thanks to an improving economy, while refinery capacity is tight and new federal rules for formulating less-polluting gaso­line add to the cost, she said. 
Push your career to the next level with a 
One-Year Accelerated MBA from Illinois Institute 
of Technology's Stuart Graduate School of Business. 
This intense full-time program is designed 
specifically for recent college grads to give you 
the experience you need to jump-start your career. 
Our unique advantages include: 
• 
16 course programs 

• 
20 course program with concentration 

• 
AACSB-accredited 

• 
Day and evening classes 

• 
Convenient downtown Chicago location 

• 
Top-notch facilities 


For more information and to apply: 
Calli 312.906.6576 email! mstates@stuart.iit.edu www.stuart.iit.edu 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 26, 2004 



MANAGING EDI'I'OR 
Meghanoe Down<l.1 AssT. MANAGING EOI'IDR Joe Hettler 

Honoring a gridiron warrior 
CONTROIUR; Paula Garcia 
CONTACT Us 


News Sports Scott Brodfeuhrer Andrew Soukup·' Meryl Guyrer AIU1 Loughery '·• 

If only Pat Tillman were more famous as a football player, perhaps more of them would have followed his example of humility and loyalty. 
He was picked by Arizona State University with their last scholar­
Mike Marchand 
ship, and excelled both in the class­room (a 3.87 
Undistinguished
grade point aver­
Alumnus
age, graduated summa cum laude in three and a half years) and on the football field (won the Pac-10 Defensive Player of the Year in 1997 despite being undersized as a linebacker). He was selected as the 229th overall player by the Arizona Cardinals in the seventh and final round of the 1998 NFL Draft, but went on to start 10 games in his rookie season as a safety and set a team record with 224 tackles in his third season. 
Even his modest. unassuming man­ner as a player stands in stark con­trast to the other football players making headlines recently. Consider Ole Miss quarterback Eli Manning, whose status as the most highly-covet­ed collegiate player in this year's NFL Draft evidently went to his head when he "suggested" that the San Diego Chargers should not draft him with the first pick because he didn't want to play for the Bolts, largely perceived as a terrible team. The Chargers obliged, drafting him but trading him to the New York Giants for their pick. North Carolina State quarterback Philip Rivers, and future draft selec­tions. 
Had Manning been more like Tillman, he would have simply been grateful for the opportunity and remained loyal to the team that draft­ed him. In 2001, the St. Louis Rams, who had recently won a Super Bowl and wished to contend for future ones by improving their defense, offered Tillman a five-year contract worth $1.8 million annually. He turned it down to remain faithful to the Cardinals, a team that hasn't been successful in years and that was only paying him less than one-third of what the Rams were offering. 
Consider, also, former Ohio State running back Maurice Clarett, whose effort to sue the NFL to gain entry into the Draft failed last week. Clarett was evidently so motivated to impress NFL scouts that he failed to show up at several of his workouts. Tillman, on the other hand, turned a planned 15­minute tryout for the Cardinals into a 45-minute demonstration because he insisted on repeating each drill until he had executed it perfectly. 
But of course, Tillman's most aston­ishing act of humility came when he turned down the Cardinals' offer for a three-year, $3.6 million contract extension and left the NFL and his family to join the Army's elite Rangers squad in early 2002. And that was all. No fanfare, no saccharin press confer­ence to serve as a soapbox for self­aggrandizement. He did what he felt he was called for: "My great grandfa­ther was at Pearl Harbor and a lot of my family has gone and fought in wars and I really haven't done a damn thing as far as laying myself on the line like that." 
He traded relative anonymity in a football uniform for relative anonymi­ty in a soldier's uniform. and most people simply couldn't comprehend how anyone could walk away from his life to risk it all in some godforsaken foxhole. His then-teammate, Simeon Rice, told a reporter that he thought Tillman was leaving the NFL because he was only an average player and wanted to live out a Rambo fantasy in the military. Rice, by the way, eventu­ally ditched the Cardinals for the more successful Tampa Bay Buccaneers and a contract worth more than $5 million per season. 

Both Pat and his brother Kevin (who played minor-league baseball in the Cleveland Indians' organization) com­pleted Ranger training, and served a mission in Operation Iraqi Freedom. On a return trip, he visited his former team and, according to coaches, com­manded respect even from the newer players who were never his team­mates. His agent informed him that teams were interested in acquiring him, thinking he was home to stay. But he turned down the opportunity to return to the league as a hero. saying "I made a commitment for three years and I'll fulfill it." 
Tillman was redeployed to Afghanistan where, during a routine patrol last week outside the village of Sperah, near the Pakistani border, his unit was ambushed and he was killed in action. Though his death is more known because of the life he left. he is but one of the 110 soldiers killed in Operation Enduring Freedom. Tillman's family has refused comment, stating that "everyone who has given their lives in the war deserves equal recognition for their sacrifice." It's · interesting to note that the national motto is "e pluribus unum," or "one out of many." Pat Tillman died in that fashion, but lived his life that way as well. 
Perhaps now that Pat Tillman is famous as a fallen soldier, more of us will follow his example of humility and loyalty. 
Mike Marchand, class of 'OJ, would like to dedicate this column to all those soldiers who have given their lives and all those who still risk theirs, football players or not. God bless you all. His e-mail address is Marchand.3@alumni. nd. edu. ..Undistinguished Alumnus" appears whenever he remembers to send it in. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
Should the Board of Trustees ask University President Father Malloy to return for another term? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Tuesday at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The hero was distinguished by his achieve­ment; the celebrity by his image or trade­mark. The hero created himself; the celebrity is created by the media. The hero was a big man; the celebrity is a big name." 
Daniel J. Boorstin 
U.S. historian 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, April 26, 2004 page 11 
Appealing to natural law 
Fifty years ago, in "Brown v. Board of Education," the Supreme Court outlawed racial segregation in public schools. That anniversary reminds us that even if the Constitution allowed such segregation, it would still be unjust. That leads to two further questions: Why is legalized segregation, or any other evil, morally wrong and unjust? 
Charles Rice
And how do we know that? The answers are in the natural law. The natural law is not a Christian invention. Aristotle and Cicero aflirmed 
Hight or Wrong?
it. Everything has a law of its nature, 
prescribed by its maker. If you throw a 
rock in the lake, it will sink. The natural 
law that governs human conduct is a rule of reason, implant­
ed by God in man's nature, whereby man (of both sexes) can 
know how he should act if he is to attain his end of eternal 
happiness with God. 
The first, self-evident principle of the natural law, in the words of St. Thomas Aquinas, is that "good is to be done and pursued, and evil is to be avoided." The good is that which is in accord with the nature of the subject, whether a car or a man. It is good for a car to feed it gasoline, but it is not good to feed it to a man. So also it is not good, i.e., it is evil. for a man to steal, since theft is contrary to that natural human inclination to live in community. 
"Moral truth is objective," Pope John Paul II said, "and a properly formed conscience can perceive it." Whether an act, e.g., murder, objectively violates the natural law is a separate question from the subjective culpability of the person who does it. You arc morally culpable, i.e., blameworthy, only if you knew the act was wrong and still chose to do it. Apart from special circumstances, such as a juror or confessor, we have neither the right nor the capacity to judge the subjective culpability of anyone. 
The natural law is the standard for the civil law as well as for personal conduct. When Rosa Parks refused to give up her scat on the bus in 1955, she made a natural law statement. A law can be unjust, said Aquinas, "when burdens are imposed unequally on the community." Legally-enforced racial segre­gation, whether on a bus or in a school, is unjust because it violates the dignity of the person and undermines community. 
As Aquinas put it, if a human law "deflects from the law of nature," it is unjust and "is no longer a law but a perversion of law." In his "Letter from Birmingham Jail," Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "An unjust law is a code that is out of harmony with the moral law." We may be obliged to obey an unjust law, as Aquinas said, to avoid a greater evil of "scandal or distur­bance," but a law that is unjust because it would compel one to violate the Divine law must never be obeyed. 
The question remains: Whose natural law are you going to apply? "The ideas of natural justice," said Supreme Court Justice James Iredell in 1798, "are regulated by no fiXed stan­dard; the ablest and the purest men have differed upon the subject." Beason can attain to moral truth. But if reason were our only guide, we would be doomed to endless and inconclu­sive debate. Our intellects are weakened by original sin and sincere advocates can be found on both sides of most moral issues. Aristotle sanctioned infanticide. When people disagree, e.g., on the morality of abortion, they can't both be right. As Aquinas tells us, "If ... we consider one action in the moral order, it is impossible for it to be morally both good and evil." 
God gave us the Ten Commandments to spell out the basic obligations of the natural law. But without a visible, authorita­tive interpreter, how are we to apply the Commandments and the natural law In specific cases? 
Pope John Paul II points to the solution: "Christians have a great help for the formation of conscience in the Church and her Magisterium. As [Vatican Ill aflirms: '(T]he Catholic Church is by the will of Christ, the teacher of ... the principles of the moral order which derive from human nature itself.' ... The Church puts herself ... at the service of conscience, help­ing it to attain the truth with certainty and to abide in it.'' Everyone has a pope, an ultimate authoritative interpreter on moral questions. If it is not the real Pope, it will be the individ­ual himself, or CBS, Katie Couric or whoever. 
It makes sense to recognize that we have only one pope, not six billion, and that he is John Paul II because he is the suc­cessor of Peter to whom Christ, who is God, gave the keys. The Church, however, is not an academic "superteacher" of natural law. Rather, she incorporates the natural law, and especially the teachings of Aquinas, into her teaching of the Truth, who is Christ. The papacy is a gift of God, permitting us to be certain as to what conduct is in accord with our nature and the law of God. 
So, on this anniversary of the Brown decision, we ought to remember that all of us, including the state, are subject to what the Declaration of Independence called "the laws of Nature and of Nature's God." 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School facul­ty. His column normally appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at plawecki.l@ nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Blame Iraqi insurgents, not 
U.S. soldiers 
Sheila Provencher's April 23 letter discussed the civilian casualties in Iraq and the American troops' "excessive and indiscriminate violence" that alleged­ly led to these incidents. It is always tragic when innocent people are killed, especially women and children, but it is unfair to place the blame for such incidents squarely on the shoulders of U.S. soldiers. Our troops are not fighting a war on a defined battle­field against uniformed militia. Instead, they are bat­tling enemies who refuse to separate themselves from the civilian population. These forces, not the Americans, deserve blame for the Iraqi civilian deaths. 
Provencher spoke of American attacks on a hospi­tal and an ambulance. We saw a year ago that Saddam's military hid weapons in hospitals and schools. In an Associated Press article dated April 24, 2004, Sgt. Aldo Hernandez related that insur­gents attacked his unit by firing assault rifles and rocket-propelled grenades at their vehicles. After Hernandez and his fellow marines sought cover, rebels poured out of nearby ambulances that they had been hiding in. One U.S. soldier tragically lost his life in the attack. The location of this battle was Fallujah, the same city Provencher spoke of. Maybe that is why U.S. forces chose the targets they did. Maybe it wasn't because they were ordered to usc tactics to "escalate the violence and compromise their own humanity," as Ms. Provencher put it. 
Insurgents in Iraq are guilty of not only hiding in civilian locations, but also of using women and chil­dren as human shields while they fire their weapons from cover. Additionally, the insurgents surround their mortar stations with children to prevent coali­tion forces from firing on them. U.S. troops have reported the occurrence of these incidents in Fallujah, Qusayba, Husaybah, and Hamadi. The Italian military reported the same thing in Nasiriyah. 
There is a reason why the opposition resorts to such despicable acts-they know U.S. troops won't fire at women and children. Contrary to Provencher's belief, our troops do have consciences. She performs a disservice to the men and women serving in Iraq by accusing them of wrongdoing instead of blaming the immoral behavior of the Iraqi insurgents. 
Shane Maguire Law Student off-campus April25 

Football frustrations 
Andrew Soukup's April 23 column contained com­ments by John Heisler and Dave Duerson that per­fectly illustrated the reason Notre Dame alumni are frustrated with the state of the football problem. Heisler believes the Irish are on the verge of return­ing to the nation's elite, but he adds that the process is a long one that can't suffer "knee-jerk" reactions when a team has a losing season. 
"You can't just flick a switch and guarantee that you'll win games by doing that," Heisler said. "It's not that simple. It's a building process." 
Duerson states, "Every program has its ups and downs, but that is not indicative of the direction the program is heading," he said, later adding, "It's time to move on [from the criticism]. Nobody is more upset about last year's finish than those student-ath­letes and the coaching staff." 
Both statements demonstrate the administration's feeble attempt to characterize alumni dissatisfaction as an inappropriate reaction to one poor season. In fact, the football program has been in decline for 10 years, with an unprecedented three losing seasons in the last five. Alumni should not be ridiculed for stating the obvious. Until this administration acknowledges the problem and commits to fiXing it, Notre Dame football will remain mired in mediocrity. 
The letter to the Board of Trustees signed by 412 alumni and endorsed by thousands of others was a painful yet necessary call to action. The only knee­jerk reaction in this entire process was the ill­advised response issued under the auspices of the Monogram Club without the knowledge or approval of its membership. 
It's time for the administration to quit circling the wagons. It missed a chance to open a private dia­logue with alumni by failing to respond to the letter, but it's not too late. The passion displayed by con­cerned alumni can easily be parlayed into a vast reservoir of emotional and financial support if Notre Dame ceases its attempt to keep them at arms length. 
John Vannie alumnus Class of 1975 April25 

Disrespectful athletes mar Bookstore tradition 
We show up to our-friends' game to realize that they are facing a team with some of Notre Dame's star football athletes. Our friends are psyched to go head-to-head with these guys, not only because it is a privilege to run with some of the best athletes in the country, but also because these are the same guys we cheer for every Saturday. This excitement only makes our friends try as hard as they can to match up. 
The football players, meanwhile, know that we respect them, and they respect our friends for playing their hearts out. We give the football players and other star athletes a hard time to get them off their game. But the players take it in stride; they laugh at our teasing, shrug it off and respond like the athletes they are. The ushers regulate all thefans equally and enjoy the game with us. And when all is said and done, we shake hands with both teams because we know everything was done in fun. And as we walk away from the courts with stories for our friends and family, we wish our fellow students the best for next season. 
Unfortunately, this is not how Bookstore Basketball always is. Instead, genuine effort from our friends and our heckling are seen as threats. Instead, certain football players treat their classmates with disrespect. One of our friends gets choked on the court and another friend faces a demeaning victory dance every time a football player makes a play. We arc told we do not contribute to the school because we do not play football. Instead of having fun stories from a great Notre Dame tradition, we leave bitter, insulted and disappointed. 
There are so many friendly and respectful athletes at Notre Dame, and we respect all the athletes who want to be a part of the close-knit Notre Dame family that we all know and love. Imagine if the others were to follow their lead. What an even closer group we could be. 
Brian Borchard Ray Areaux Drew Donovan Brian Schmutzler 
seniors 
Knott Hall Aprii2S 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, April 26, 2004 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Strokes strike a chord in Chicago 
Despite sound system difficulties, The Strokes managed to please its Chicago fans Friday night at the Aragon Ballroom 
an endless series of famous Album of the Year at
By MARIA SMITH 

and talented groups to play the Danish music 
Scene Editor 
this well-known Chicago awards, and was venue. The Aragon has hosted picked up Rolling Some bands take years to artists from Pennywise to Ani Stone and Q work their way out of obscuri­DiFranco to ~o Doubt over the Magazine as part of ty into the limelight of popu­past few years. The Spanish the wave of new lar culture. palace courtyard design and garage rockers. The Not so for The Strokes. larger capacity of the Aragon band was an appro­
These five New York City makes it a more desirable priate choice to open kids have earned their fame venue than the nearby Riviera for a group that is an quickly. Since their first Theater for many artists. integral part of a release in 1999 The Strokes Generally shows at the rock movement that have been hailed as one of the Ballroom are well performed is as much European best new groups to hit rock and well received. Friday as American. and roll. The group became night's performance by The The Ravonettes popular throughout the United Strokes was both of these, and have fairly sophisti­States, Europe and other for the most part was a pleas­cated studio work, parts of the world as one of er for the enthusiastic crowd. but if their live per­the front-runners of the The group is becoming formance was as well garage rock genre, and so far increasingly known for the coordinated, the that is where they have well-coordinated light dis­sound quality at the stayed. plays that give extra punch theater made it 
Their first album, "Is This and energy to their shows. impossible to tell. It?" earned the band recogni­The lighting at the Aragon Over the mikes the tion from Spin Magazine as was well rehearsed and music sounded more Band of the Year for 2002. sharp, but the rest of the like fuzzy Gothic rock Their second album, "Room technical support didn't do than the cleaner and on Fire," had a darker sound the group justice. The Strokes more basic sound for and more complicated guitar play with a clean sound and a which the group is mixing, but it continued the fast, punctuated rhythm, known. sound that originally made which, in order to be heard The Strokes fared the group famous, and was correctly live, depends on better than the open­equally well received by fans. good technical support to ing act. Their num­
Friday night the group came make the performance come bers came together to the Aragon Ballroom for together. Occasional interfer­well in one of the less the Chicago stop of its spring ence on the mikes and a gen­frenzied but still tour. The Strokes have been erally fuzzy sound quality energetic perform­cultivating an international as during the concert was more ances the Aragon 
The Strokes performed in Chicago Friday night playing a string of hits 
well as national fan base with detrimental to The Strokes Ballroom has seen. 
including "New York City Cops" and "Reptilia."
their hectic touring schedule. than it would have been to Where some groups Traveling throughout the many of the artists who have are known for a rau-United States since finishing played in the Aragon's history. cous stage presence, The apathetic urban sophistica­included in the group's the European leg of their tour The Ravonettes opened for Strokes will never be seen tion. Drummer Fabrizio European release of their first in January, The Strokes have the group with a set from jumping around the stage or Moretti sucked on a beer CD, was respectfully removed also recently been in their full-length debut album, smashing guitars. The musi­between sets and lead singer from the United States version Australia and made a brief "Chain Gang of Love." The cians might be soft-core sub­Julian Casablancas sang before its release after foray in Mexico in early Danish garage rock group got stance abusers, but they are through an endless string of September 11. The song March. their start when their inaugu­never very emotional, lending cigarettes. remains one of their biggest 
The Strokes are only one of ral EP was named Best Rock them an image of somewhat Guitarists Nick Valensi and concert crowd-pleasers, and Albert Hammond Jr. and Friday night was no excep­bassist Nicolai Fraiture col­tion. laborated well through the The highlight of the show, performance, although they besides the group's usual hits, were noticeably for a small was a flawless performance of section of the performance. "Reptilia." The number, one of 
Some lead singers seem their darkest and most ener­addicted to the stage and to getic, has become one of the crowd reaction, but beyond traditional closing songs for the obligatory thanks to the their shows. Although The crowd and the theater, Strokes play off a detached Casablancas didn't make image, some of their best per­much of an attempt to work formances are of songs like the crowd. The Strokes are "Reptilia" and "Take It or one of the few groups who are Leave It" that exhibit more sincere when they promise emotion. three more numbers -the It's hard to say where any group rarely if ever returns band that makes it big for a for encores. If the fans enjoy while will end up. Pushing the music the band will wel­through the rock music world come them, but they don't try takes talent and passion, and to play the game of pandering it's too early to tell if The to anyone who came to the Strokes will make the cut in show for the kicks or the the long run. The group is still image. young both in age and in 
The shows started out some­stage presence. But for the what slow, but picked up with moment, The Strokes are put­their performance of ting in the touring time and "Whatever Happened" off effort to continue to make a their second album, "Room On name for themselves, and are Fire." Hits like "Last Nite" worth keeping an eye on. 
and "12:51" were well 



An impressive show of well-coordinated lights and flashes gave The Strokes concert a needed received as always. Contact Maria Smith at boost after a poor sound system muffled the band's sound at Chicago's Aragon Ballroom. "New York City Cops," msmith4@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, April 26, 2004 
page 13 
CoNCERT REVIEW 
Air needs to freshen live sound 
.. 
.....

French duo's electronic sound is better in the studio 
ular among electronica fans.
Hy JUAN HERNAL 
In 1998, they produced their 
Scene Writer 
magnum opus. "Moon Safari," and broke through 
1\leetronic music nowadays the international market. is eharaeterized by either This album is amazing from fast. dynamk big-beat tracks, start to finish. transporting or a jadnd jazzy, lounge-ambi­the listener from romantic nnt style. Fortunately, this depths to light-hearted fun, gnnre has bnnn infusnd with a from subtle sarcasm to lush, frosh breath of Air, a duo paradisiacal soundscapes. composed of Fronch artists They collaborated with the Nicolas Godin and Jean­American Beth Hirsch, who Benoit Dunckel. Playing lent her voice in the extraor­together since high school, dinary song "All I Need." this pair used the timo to After noticing its success, nxporimont with SOs sounds, the band's record label imitating Tho Cure and other launched an anthology of grnat SOs bands. early singles, called 
Thn band nvnntually dnvf11-"Premiers Symptomes." opod a complntely unique Although a random collec­style, and has since released tion, it feels like an album of many albums, each using var­its own, due to a solid, jazzy ious and dil'f'ornnt styles. Part ambinnce, using wind instru­of tlw charm of Air is that the mnnts and various layers of' two artists making up the acoustic guitars. hand do all of their own In 2000, the duo broke its instrumentation-an unusual two-year silenee with a bril­
trait in the rnalm of elnctroni­liant soundtrack to Sofia ca whnrn most artists strictly Coppola's debut l'ilm, "The ndy on synthnsiznrs. These Virgin Suicides." Air's use of guys have fused elements bittersweet melodies softly from everywhere to generate· blends with gentle sensuality, thoir own sound and feeling. whieh proves fundamental to They have been inlluenced by the experienee of watching 
Nicolas Godin, left, and Jean-Benoit Dunckel stopped In Chicago last week to promote the album
tho sophistication of the wom­th11 movie. Godin and 
"Talkie Walkie" on the midwestern leg of the duo's American tour. 
aniznr and cabaret-master Dunckel collaborate with 
Serge Gainsbourg. as well as Gordon Tracks in the single 
the best melodic rock, jazz "Playground Love," which is melodic sound Air had so delightful sound of "Moon big chunk of their appeal is 
and bossa nova beats to be known from its use in various carefully cultivated in past Safari." Yet the guys made a found in their studio albums. 
!ward. In other words, they Levi's commercials. The very years. Some, however, feel it very different album, entirely The use of multiple textures 
take the best from the best. next year, the band worked is simply an underestimated relying on their own vocals and sound layers is meticu­
Before hitting commercial with Beck, releasing "10,000 and misinterpreted album. and singing in English for the lously crafted, but inevitably success, Air released a few liz Legend." This album was This year, Air came out with first time. It contains a few lost in concert. Additionally, 
• singles exclusively in Europe, poorly received by fans since "Walkie Talkie," which is solid songs, but their high­they did all their own singing, which became relatively pop-it departs from the soft, reminiscent of the calm, pitched vocals become tire­which is fine for a 40-minute some if one listens to it in its album, but not for 90 minutes entirety. worth of show. Promoting this latest album, Maybe Air should have Air has been touring the stuck to hiring singers on its United States and, last week, albums and performances, made a stop in Chicago for since their faithful fans have the midwestern leg of their become accustomed (or tour. The Chicago perform­spoiled?) to luscious, ance, however, was disap­sonorous voices. not the cas­pointing, since standards trato-type singing that per­were so high. The pair started vaded in the concert. out strong, concentrating on On the other hand, listnners their latest work, and display­should know what they're get­ing an engaging light show ting themselves into with an that appropriately adorned unpredictable band like Air. their music. The musicianship The majority of the crowd was impeccable without one definitely enjoyed the show mistake or screw up. Keeping and cheered the band on, neatness and coherency in a even throughout the weakest live show is a virtue without points. Thus, the opinion and doubt. expectations of every concert However, as the show devel­attendee is different; what is oped, the band progressively good l'or one fan may disap­extended all the songs in their point another. set, reaching a point where These electronic perform­they spread themselves thin. ers, Godin and Dunckel, make The experience slowly good music, but not for live became monotonous. since shows. Listnning to them live their improvisation lackod is a completnly diiT1~rnnt nxpn­imagination. The beats, rinnen -cutn, yet trite. One rhythms and sound effects should be warnod that what is dragged on and on, as if they m ad e i n tlw s t u d i o c a n n o t were about to deliver some always bn re-created on stage surprising change to their -that is onn art l'orm Air has audience, but only left them yet to master. with uncomfortable expecta­
Originally from France, Air uses its own unique blend of instrumentation to create an electronic tion. Another weak point in Contact Juan Bernal at sound that fares well on studio albums, but needs work in live performances. the performance was that a bernal.5@nd.edu 


Monday, April 26, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
Tourney captures spirit of school 
In the Final Four of the men's Bookstore Basketball tournament, D.J. Lipke of KPMG threw up a floater over imposing defenders. The ball bounced high off the rim and towards the middle of the lane. 
Varsity football player Jerome Collins leapt into the air. He flushed the rebound. The crowd exploded and a freshman taking a mid-after­noon nap in Keough Hall woke up. 
The kid could have had his window opened or closed. It doesn't matter. What does matter is that not only the freshman but nearly every person on campus knew about Collins' dunk by the time the final game rolled around at 2 

p.m. Sunday afternoon. And that is the effect this tournament has on people on a campus ripe with basketball talent. 
There are students who play every weekday from 3 to 5 p.m. at the Rock in preparation for the outdoor spring tournament. 
There are kids who sprint from their last Friday class to the Rolfs locker room, change into gym shorts and a T-shirt and walk out onto the court yelling, "Who's got next?" 
There are some who never leave the gym. 

And while Mike Brey and Chris Thomas try to take the varsity basketball program to national prominence next season, the sport of basketball and the spirit it creates has already engulfed the historically football-crazed campus in South Bend. 
Fans sat six-deep at the championship game. Others stood four-deep around the court's perimeter. Referees' whistles brought simultane­ous cheers and jeers. 
People cared about every play up-and-down the court because the players were their friends, roommates, teammates, brothers or cousins. 
..._ 
Many of the players Sunday were actually var­sity football players, guys who had just played a full-length, full-pad scrimmage Saturday but were back competing just one day later. 
Wide receiver Carlyle Holiday occasionally defended quarterback Brady Quinn. Converted tight end Collins blocked offensive lineman Dan Stevenson on several occasions. Place-kicker 
D.J. Fitzpatrick drove by safety Chinedum Ndukwe. 

Fans got the chance to see just how great of athletes these guys are, and who ended up win­ning? 
Well. the team with four freshmen, of course. Yes, freshmen. 
And as much as a freshman victory empha­sizes the tournament's positive parity, it never gets easier to watch the pain on the faces of sen­iors whose chance to take the ultimate prize has vanished. 
There are many courts and countless teams, many great names and better games. Bookstore Basketball completed its 33rd year of competi­tion Sunday, and every person on campus could­n't be more disappointed. 
Because we all have to wait until next year. 
The uiews ofthis column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu. 


Pat Leonard 
Associate Sports Editor 
Injury helps Anthony Travel win 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
The halftime score was 11-10, but most of the preceding play had been five-on-five. In the second half, play­'ng without an injured Christina Esposito, In It to Win It could not defeat the team that knocked them out of last year's Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
Anthony Travel dominated the sec­ond half Sunday, outscoring its oppo­nent 10-2 and winning the women's championship, 21-12. 
"We found holes better with the person down," said Jill Bodensteiner, of Anthony Travel. "I don't think we were playing well in the first half, but in the second we were able to get a couple easy buckets on the fast break for our point guard, Suzanne [Bellina]." 
Esposito went down with a sprained ankle late in the first half. 
Her ankle -and her team of girls from Pasquerilla West -never recov­ered. Despite the shooting of Alyssa Howell, the hustle of Heather Van Hoegarden and the play of Maureen Sprung and Sara Ryan, In It to Win It could not <Wercome the loss of a play­er inside. 
"They played incredible," Bodensteiner said. "They had great effort and intensity, and [Van Hoegarden] is an incredible athlete." 
Anthony Travel lost in the finals last year and some thought they should have been the No. 2 iq this year's tournament. A committee oversight, however, placed them out of the seed­ing and in the path of tougher oppo­nents throughout the tournament. 
"We had to play the second seed in the round of eight this year," Bodensteiner said. 
Their team won that game, 21-11. the smallest margin of victory 

Anthony Travel was composed of a collection of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame employees and coaches. 
Sara Liebscher, in fact, played on the Notre Dame women's varsity team from 1987-91. Bellina and Amanda Hall are the head and assis­tant coaches, respectively, of the Saint Mary's basketball team. 
Christy Yarnell and Bodensteiner make up the remainder of the cham­pionship roster. Bodensteiner gradu­ated from Notre Dame and lived in Pasquerilla West during her under­graduate years. The bittersweet irony of her victory Sunday against an alma mater, though, did all but disappoint Bodensteiner -a lawyer for Notre Dame and an assistant coach of the Saint Mary's team. also. 
"Nothing makes me happier than to see PW play that hard and get this far," she said. 
Anthony Travel forced even up until Contact Pat Leonard at its championship victory. pleonard@nd.edu 
2004 Bookstore Basketball 
Results 

First Team All-Bookstore 
Men 
continued from page 24 
half, featuring a physical inside game with plenty of blocks and a number of fouls called. 
USB/SMG had trouble penetrating KPMG's 2-3 zone defense, which forced them to take shots from out­side. In previous games, Dan Stevenson was a formidable inside force. However, Jerome Collins' tough defense proved difficult for Stevenson to get around. 
Shane Sigsbee's foul shot put USB/SMG up 5-4, but Tommy Walz's midrange jumper immediately erased the lead. Brady Quinn of USB/SMG answered with his own jumper, but Walz let loose from behind the arc to give KPMG a lead going into the halftime break. 
The outside shot was falling for Walz, who was named the Most 
1. 
7. UBS/SMG 
Mr. Bookstore 
Outstanding Player by the commis­sioners. 
"We took each game as a stepping stool to the next level," Walz said after the game. "We talked about and corrected problems in our defense ... this was definitely the hardest game we played." 
For a time, however, KPMG looked unstoppable. Leading 11-9 at half­time, Collins was dominant inside until he went down in pain as his team was leading 14-11. When play resumed, teammate D.J. Fitzpatrick sank a baseline jumper to give KPMG a four-point lead. 
Although KPMG had fast-break opportunities, the shots weren't falling for them. A crisp passing game and outside sharpshooters like D.J. Lipke, who was named Mr. Bookstore, and Walz helped the team build a lead in the second half -a lead which disappeared with frightening speed. 


All-Bookstore 

the game, scoring points in traffic and· hitting a jumper to bring his team within three. Quinn sank a lay-up to make the score 18-15, answering a reverse layup by Fitzpatrick. 
Then Ndukwe, who had been quiet all game, caught fire. He hit a shot from outside and made a layup in traffic on the next possession to bring USB/SMG within one at 20-19. Laumann put back his own rebound, drawing a foul and mak­ing the free throw to tie the game at · 
20. A pass on the next possession to Stevenson made the score 21-20. 
Despite a heroic effort to reclaim the lead by KPMG, Collins missed two free throws and Ndukwe sank the winning shot to give USB/SMG the title. 
"We couldn't have done anything without the fans," said Quinn, cap­tain of USB/SMG. 
Eric Laumann kept his team in Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wichouc issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Room in luxury apartment building on the UWS for rent! Elevators in each tower. Two large laundry roos on the Lobby level. Two bicycle rooms in which to store your bike all year round. Full size health club on the Lobby level with a large swim­ing pool, steam room, and sauna. 24 hour garage beneath building. Dry cleaners, two grocery stores, bank and restaurant within seconds of the front door. Continuous shuttle bus transport to subway system and buses. 24-hour doorman and security desk. Fabulous location (63rd St. and 11th Ave) Greatviewl If interested contact Nycpolo15 @yahoo.com 

LOFT for sale $125 for fall. Will hold and deliver on campus in August. RESERVE NOWI Call 243-0853. 
FOR SALE 

Why pay a landlords mortgage? Duplex 4 sale. Live in one, let the other pay your mortgage. Close to ND and downtown. Call Kim at574-245-5040. 
2003 Honda Civic EX. Four door, 5­speed, moon roof, ABS, CD player, full and extended warranty. Silver metallic paint, tinted windows. Excellent condition, 9000 miles. $15,195, obo. Call Maura, 286-3236. 
Bike+Lock $25, Desk $30, Bed $100, Desk Chair $10, mini-PA $100. Call Dave 234-5630 
Moving to College Park? Furniture for sale: 3 beds, 2 desks, dining table, L couch and more. Call Aahren or Rob: 271-1637 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 
Stay at Homestead Bed and Breakfast for football games. 574­277·9834 
Nice 4 bdr. 3 car garage avail.now or fall $1200/mo 288-9673 
DOMUS PROPERTIES...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM HOUSE. .. 2 BEDROOM DUPLEX... AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR ... .WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR. ..CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234·2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer or fall. 235-3655. 
New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky­lights. $1640/mo. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 


VERY NICE 3bdrm home near Corbys(East Bank area). Washer&Dryer ·Alarm· Basement-H20 softner-large yard-off street park· ing.Call Joe Crimmins:cell#514­0643 home#273-0002. 
Rooms available in 2-bed apt this summer. Great community, reason· able price. ghan@nd.edu 
3 Bdrm. house near ND. Alarm, cable and internet. Large yard. $1000/mo. Available 5/1/04. Call514-9999. 
NEW LISTING 1 bed, 1 bath Oakhill condo safe area within walking dis· lance (really) to campus, security patrolled, immediate availability $750 to rent or$85K to buy 
WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support • or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Thanks, 0 Staff, its been a fun ride. -Andrew & Scott 

----------~~----~ 

OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 26, 2004 
Major League Basetiiia·:···:;;~;"'''_;;;;···;·;~·;;· 
American League East 

team record pet:(l. 
Boston 12~6 .667 Baltimore 10·7 .588 New York 8·11 Atl TampaBav 1-11) .412 Toronto 6·12 .333 
American League Central. 

team record perc. lastlo Minnesota 12·6 .667 8·2 Chicago 11-1 .611 6-4 Dstroll 11-8 .$19 5·5 ClevelaM 7·12 .368 4-6 Kansas City 6·11 .353 2·8 


tf'alll Anaheim Texas Oakland Seattle 
tmun Florida Atlanta 
American League West 

record  perc.  la~t 10  GB  
11-8  .579  5·5  
11-8  .579  7-3  .  
10·9  •526  4·6  1  
6·13  .316  4-6  $  
Natfonal League East_.  
record  perc.  last 10  
12·5  .706  64  
g..a  .529  6-4  
Philadelphia 7-10 .412 6·4 New York H2 .368 2-8 Montreal 5·14 .263 3-7 


tmun record perc . 
Chicago fH •164 Cincinnati 11-7 .654 Houston 1H .543 St. Louis 10·9 •432 Milwaukee 10-10 .321 Pittsburgh 8·9 .321 
team record L:::,~UE!t~~=-:~~ :.. :::.;1~1 :•:•••:'iii!··· 
NCAA~$~~~~~~~11iil

losAnoeles 12-6 San Dleuo 10·9 Colorado 8-10 Arizona Nl San Francisco HZ 

team - 
1 2  Atlxl)lla(mUCLA(3} ·-·  ..  ..._  
3  caurornla  
4  Florida State  
5  lSU  
6 7  Georgia Alalnma  _-_  284! il-4  <ii 40P . i/  
8  Washington  22-ti  
9  louisiana lafayette  28;;.(  
10  Michigan  ~H  
11  Oklahoma  26·9·1  
12  Slantord  20;.1  
13  Tenne.,ee  26:..8  
14  South Ca rctllna  1HL  
15  Oregl!ll stall!  26~8  
16  Florida  2Ni  
17  Fresno Sfate  25-10 ..  
18  Pacific  18~8  
19  Oregon  tH  
20  Soutb Florida  33-1  
20  Nebraska  19~11  
22  G&l!rgla Tecll  21.6  
23  Texas  1Hii  
24  Baylor  21-6  
25  long 8eac:h Stale  'lN  

around the dial 
NBA 

Detroit at Milwaukee, 6 p.m., TNT Sacramento at Dallas, 8:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 

Atlanta at San Francisco, 9:15p.m., TBS 
NHL San Jose at Colorado, 7 p.m., ESPN 
CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSfRVH(S wnu SERvtcrs page 15 
NFL DRAFT 

AP 

San Diego Chargers draft pick Ell Manning, center, was traded to the New York Giants, and he holds up his new jer­sey while posing with coach Tom Coughlin, left, and general manager Ernie Accorsl Saturday • 
Manning becomes a Giant after trade 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -After a tense hour in which Eli Manning was a prospective law student, the NFL's first family of quarterbacks got what it wanted. 
Eli will be a New York Giant. 
In one of the more bizarre first hours in recent draft history, Manning was taken with the first pick by the San Diego Chargers, for whom he earlier announced he wouldn't play. 
Manning then appeared on the stage at The Theatre of Madison Square Garden with his parents, Archie and Olivia, looking as glum as any No. 1 pick ever has as commissioner Paul Tagliabue held up a Chargers jersey with "1" on it. He didn't put on the Chargers hat and boos cas­caded down from the gal­leries. 
An hour later, as Manning walked away from the podi­um at a press conference in which he insisted he would go to law school, someone rushed into the room to say the Giants just obtained him for another quarterback, Philip Rivers, who they had taken with the fourth over­all pick. 
"''m a lot happier now than I was 10 minutes ago," Manning said, jumping 
IN BRIEF 
Rain forces Houston Open 
to Monday 
HUMBLE, Texas -Vijay Singh chipped in for eagle just before play was suspended Sunday to move into a three-way tie for the lead at the rain-delayed Houston Open. 
He was tied with John Huston and Joe Ogilvie at 7 under when play was halted yet again at the Redstone Golf Club. The tourna­ment was interrupted by bad weather for the third straight day. PGA Tour officials hoped to com­plete all 72 holes Monday, when more favorable weather was fore­cast. 
"It finally got to a point late in the afternoon where the golf course, the fairways just were under water," said PGA Tour tournament director Mark Hussell. 
Only 15 players completed their third round, which had been halted by thunderstorms on Saturday. 
Hory Sabbatini shot a 3-under 69 and D.J. Brigman had a 70 and 
back on the podium. He then returned to the main room for a much happier picture, this one including brother Peyton and agent Tom Condon, the man behind the maneuvering. 
Meanwhile, the rest of the draft went on around that soap opera. 
With the second pick, Oakland took offensive tackle Robert Gallery of Iowa and with the third, Arizona chose wide receiv­er Larry Fitzgerald of Pittsburgh, a ball boy for Cardinals coach Dennis Green when Green coached in Minnesota. 
Washington then chose safety Sean Taylor of 

Miami, who was the first of six Hurricanes chosen in the opening round, a record. 
Cleveland paid a high price simply to move up one spot for Miami tight end Kellen Winslow Jr. Detroit got the Browns' first-round pick and their second. 
The Uons then took Texas wide receiver Hoy Williams, who like Taylor and Winslow ranked as players with long-term star poten­tial. And they used a sec­ond-round pick to move up late in the first to choose Kevin Jones of Virginia Tech, considered by some the best running back in the draft. 
were the leaders in the clubhouse after three rounds with a 3-under 213. 
But 14 other players still on the course, led by Huston, Ogilvie and Singh, had better scores midway through their rounds when play was suspended. Huston. and Ogilvie had three holes remaining in their third round. Singh had just made eagle at No. 12 when play was stopped.
Attorney says.Jones never 
received stermds 
SAN FRANCISCO -An attorney for Marion Jones on Sunday reject­ed reports the Olympic track star received steroids from a nutritionist charged with distributing illegal drugs to pro athletes. 
Two newspapers, both quoting sources who requested anonymity, reported Sunday that nutritionist Victor Conte told federal agents he gave performance-enhancing sub­stances to Jones, fellow track star Tim Montgomery and other top ath­letes. 

The San Francisco Chronicle reported that Conte, who faces fed­eral charges for his alleged distri­bution of steroids, told federal investigators that Jones and Montgomery received the drugs in exchange for endorsements of his ZMA nutritional supplement.
Gordon gets win over 
Earnhardt 
TALLADEGA, Ala. -This time, the decision went Jeff Gordon's way. 
After a NASCAR ruling went against him a week earlier in Martinsville, Va., costing Gordon a shot at victory, the sanctioning organization handed the four-time Nextel Cup champion a controver­sial win Sunday at Talladega Superspeedway. 
Gordon seized the lead from Dale Earnhardt Jr. with six laps remain­ing and barely beat him, ending DEI's winning streak at Talladega and bringing a rain of beer cans and garbage from the pro­Earnhardt fans. 
page 16 Monday, April 26, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Weekend meets see Irish enjoy success 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Like a car going to the mechanic to make sure every­thing is in order before a long road trip, the Irish track and field team received a tune-up this weekend in preparation for next week's Big East Championships. 
The team was split in two as most members competed in the Purdue Invitational while a handful of others participated in the Drake Relays. Overall. there were two Irish athletes who qualified for the confer­ence meet and many others who achieved season-best marks. 
Maryann Erigha led the con­tingent at Purdue, as she was a double-winner in the 100-and 200-meter dashes. Her times of 
12.03 and 24.29 seconds in the 100-and 200-meters respec­tively were season bests as well as conference-qualifying times. 
Austin Weaver was the other runner to qualify for the Big East meet as he finished first in the 10,000 meters in a time of 
31:36.03. Weaver was happy to be able to qualify as this was only the third outdoor meet he has run in all year. 
"Most importantly I feel relieved," said Weaver. "I had been expecting to qualify for the Big Easts all year." 

In the field events at Purdue, Laura Huarte had her best per­formance of the season in the pole vault by clearing a height of 3.75 meters to qualify her for the NCAA regional meet to be held in late May. 
Among the six other Notre Dame competitors to turn in season-best performances were pole valter Dave Viken, throw­ers Chip Roberts and Dan Porter. hurdler Alex Fortunado, sprinter Tricia Floyd and mid­dle-distance runner Elizabeth Webster. 
The squad the Irish sent to the Drake Relays might have been small but it garnered its share of attention. The men's 4x1,600-meter relay team won the competition for the second time since 2002 as Kurt Benninger, Vinnie Ambrico, Kevin Somok and Eric Morrison finished in a time of 16:23. Benninger led the team with an anchor-leg time of 4:02, while Morrison, Ambrico and Somok finished in 4:07, 4:05 and 4:09 respectively. 
In 2002, the 4x1,600 squad of Morrison. Somok, Luke Watson and Pat Conway won the event in a time of 16:39. This is a notable accomplishment for the Irish as the Drake Relays are billed as one of the most com­petitive meets in the country. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at 
mgilloon@nd.edu 
NO SOFTBALL 
Irish roll in weekend games 
ND still undefeated in Big East play 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 

Sports Editor 
·The pitching was solid, the bats exploded and the wins came rolling in. 
After shutting out Villanova (25-18, 9-5 Big East) 4-0, 2-0 on Saturday, the Irish came back Sunday to defeat Rutgers (23-26, 6-10 Big East) 8-5, 4-2. 
With the two sweeps, Notre Dame (39-13) remained unde­feated in Big East play, as they stand in first place with a 12-0 conference record. 
ln the first road series of the weekend. the Irish were led by stellar pitching performances from Heather Booth and Steffany Stenglein. Booth pitched the first game, giving up just five hits in a complete game shutout. She also struck out eight. 


In the second game. Stenglein matched Booth with a complete game shutout of her own. allow­ing just four hits while striking out seven. 
Offensively, the Irish were led by Nicole deFau, who was 4-for­7 on the day. deFau was joined by Carissa Jacquish, who was 4­for-6 in the doubleheader. She also added the first Irish RBI in game two. when she drove in Kenya Fuemmeler with a single in the top of the second. It turned out to be all the Irish needed. 
With the two shutouts, it was the first time Notre Dame has swept Villanova without giving up a run since 2001. 
Sunday was much of the same for the red-hot Irish as they left the Wildcats to face the Scarlet Knights of Rutgers. 
Booth started game one again, but this time gave up four runs in 6 2/3 innings. However, the Irish offense responded, as they jumped out to a 4-0 lead behind deFau. 
deFau finished with five hits on the day. with two HBI in the first game and a 2-for-3 per­formance in the second. Liz Hartmann joined in the efforts with a home run in the first game. her seventh of the season. She was 3-for-4 on the game. 
Meanwhile, in the second game, Stenglein held the Scarlet Knights in check, scattering six hits and striking out nine while allowing two runs. 
In the top of the seventh, the Irish exploded by registering four runs, all coming with two outs. Sara Schoonaert posted an infield hit with Jacquish on first to keep the inning alive for Stephanie Brown. She then hit an RBI double, driving in both runners. After a deFau walk put runners on the corners, Megan Ciolli and Mallorie Lenn hit back-to-hack RBI singles to make give Notre Dame its sec­ond sweep of the weekend. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Don't Dump it! Donate it! 
Help save alife. 


······w···••····o,··.········.. .. ···.
··.u·.····.·e·.········,··•·N····., 
. : ..· ... :: .:: . : 
Your used clothing, furniture and yes, even automobiles can give 
T 

ANDA 
someone else a new start.
TRU(K® 
Drop your donation off at The Salvation Army
"Movers Who Care®" 
Thrift Store located at 2009 South Bend Ave. or call 288-2539.
• 
Residential • Local &long Drstance 

• 
Commerdol • Boxes & Packing Supplies 


Register to win ~ $1 00 Best Buy Gift Card
• 
Packing Setvice • Loading & Unloodiog of 

• 
Insured &Bonded Rental 'Trucks Availdble 


.··· ... ·.: ,.:· .. 
(57'1) 675-9700 
www.twomenondotruck.com 
Visit Out Box Store/ 
11590 McKinley, Suite D • Os.ceola, IN 46561 


Tuesday, April 27 Softball -vs. DePaul @ 4:00 and 6:00PM GOLD GAME 
ND Baseball-vs. Ball State @ 6:05 PM 
•Gold GameT-Shirts to the first 100 fans, sponsored by Heropostale 
•DO Softball Jersey Koozies and 20 oz. Coke product to the
Wednesday, April 28 
first 250 fans, sponsored by Between the Buns and Coke Baseball -vs. Cleveland_ State @6:05PM 


page 17

Monday, April 26, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

-~-------~---------------~-----­
page 18 Monday, April 26, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 
back who showed flashes of greatness in passes to eight different receivers. He of not being on the same page or miss­his rookie season despite throwing more also looked confident in the pocket, rap­ing blocking assignments," Quinn said. interceptions than touchdowns. idly progressed through his reads and "I think our team did a good job mesh­continued from page 24 "It was a year of learning, growing showed solid decision-making when it ing well and taking away from a good 
and sometimes painful learning," Irish came to knowing when to throw a pass. opportunity." said. "That was the biggest thing you offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. His most impressive drive of the day Meanwhile, Ryan Grant carried the were concerned about. "Sometimes you learn best with the mis­came on the Blue team's final posses-ball three times for 30 yards. But he 
Willingham ended the day relieved, takes you make. You sion of the first half, scored two touchdowns, including a 16­because none of his players got injured. have an opportunity in when Quinn led the yard run in the first half when he made 
Football 

"Everyone did a great job 
Quinn ended the day as the Offensive the offseason to assess Irish on a 98-yard a spectacular cut to break into the open MVP, having thrown for 263 yards and what you did right, today. You get a lot of touchdown drive that field and score. one touchdown on 17 -of-22 passing. what you did wrong, confidence from this, and culminated in a four­The Gold team's lone touchdown came And the Blue team, composed mainly of and what you can do to yard Rashon-Powers when Jeff Samardzija caught a 24-yard
that's something this 
first-stringers, ended the day victorious, work on the things you Neal touchdown run pass from Pat Dillingham near the side­
team needs to get its 
having soundly walloped the Gold team did wrong and get bet­with 19 seconds left in line, spun away from Dwight Ellick and 35-7 Saturday in Notre Dame's final ter at that." swagger back. " the half. In that drive, scampered into the end zone untouched. spring practice performance. That's what Quinn -Quinn completed all the defensive MVP was Blue safety In a departure from normal Blue-Gold and the rest of the Irish four of his passes for Tom Zbikowski, who picked off'
Brady Quinn 

game routine, the Irish coaches kept offense -appears to 60 yards. Dillingham on the final play of the first
quarterback

most of the first-team players together have done. Coaches Quinn's lone touch-half and would have added another -a move Willingham said came praised the l(!adership down pass came on a interception if the Blue team was penal­because injuries prevented that unit he demonstrated by working with the short pass to Powers-Neal, who made a ized for being offsides. from practicing significantly during ear­receiver corps over the winter. and nifty move to elude a defender and "Everyone did a great job today," lier spring practices. Willingham said that the soon-to-be scampered 59 yards for a touchdown Quinn said. "You get a lot of confidence 
That suited Quinn fine. Although he lit sophomore quarterback's performance late in the third quarter. The Irish quar­from this, and that's something this up a defensive secondary that, due to Saturday was indicative of how he terback may have had two more com­team needs to get its swagger back." injuries, was heavily composed of third­improved the entire spring. pletions had Maurice Stovall not string defensive backs, Quinn looked far The Irisl} quarterback efficiently dropped two passes. Contact Andrew Soukup at different from the freshman quarter-spread the ball around, completing "There wasn't any mistakes in terms asoukup@nd.edu 
Draft 
continued from page 24 
to hear his name called, as the Dallas Cowboys selected him with the 11th pick in the second round. Then New Orleans picked Watson with the round's 28th pick. 
Sunday, safety Glenn Earl went to Houston with the 24th pick of the fourth round. Two rounds later, the Texans also selected cornerback Vontez Duff with the fifth pick of the sixth round. 
Jim Molinaro, the final Irish player to be drafted, was picked with the 15th pick of the sixth round by the Washington Redskins. 
The five Irish players drafted is the lowest number since 2000, when only Jarious Jackson was drafted. But the Irish haven't had at least two players drafted in the first two rounds since 1997. 

One of Saturday's more mild surprises came with Jones' selection, who some .experts had rated behind other running backs still available (including former Florida State running back Greg Jones and Oregon State back Steven Jackson). But Dallas was impressed with what they saw as Jones' ability to play a significant role early and his quickness. 
"He's got the size to get it done and was durable in col­lege," Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said. "There is no reason to think that he can't become a full-time back." 
Then the Saints surprised Irish fans even more by picking Watson in the second round ­even though some analysts thought it would be a triumph for the Irish linebacker to get picked in the third round. Watson was the fourth inside linebacker to be picked. 
"A lot of times you eliminate things when you draft guys; if you get a tough guy, he's not always a fast guy, or a tough or · fast guy isn't always instinctive," Saints director of player person­nel Rick Mueller said. "To a cer­tain degree, this guy has a little bit of everything. I think all around, he's a good player with versatility and a lot of things we're looking for." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

-<"' 
5I 
-a
::r 

Thursday, April29, 2004 0 --1 Bpm -m:C
Washington Hall ­Admission is FREE -c 
Featuring student Z winners of the 
o Q 

2003-2004 NO Concerto Competition .. --1 
.·:·:·· s . ky b' ,Js . A~ 
../&;;,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, travms --rife lfa Ulfe Rachmaninov --Piano Concerto #3 Paivi Ekroth, piano Arutunian --Trumpet Concerto 

r· ::rm 
CDO 

Ryan Berndt, trumpet 
:.)>
..
Dm ~ 

Your parents have already converted your room into a 
walk-in closet. 
Where will you go after graduation? Fortunately. you have MonsterTRAKto help you land your first job. It's the #I college recruitment solution for students and alumni. Search a wide range ofjob postings, get job hunting tips, check out employer information and more. So you can find the perfect job, and get an apartment with your own walk-in closet. 

monsterTRAK" 
today's the day~ 

Monster. the Monster logo, and theTrumpasaurus character are trademarks of Monster (California), Inc. 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, April 26, 2004 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC GoLF 

Hanlon earns career-best score, Belles finish first 
their closest competitor, enough to do when you're out the Belles win a spot in the NCAABy ANN LOUGHERY Machester, by 25 strokes. Further, playing with friends. Playing Tournament. They'll fmd out May
Sports Wnrer 

Hanlon fired a career-best score of under pressure is an even bigger 3 if they are one of the 10 teams in 
79. This season, Hanlon averaged feat," Hamilton said. "She's come the Division III tournament. 
For senior Liz Hanlon, the Tri­close an 88 each round. a long way and is as good of a "Getting to the NCAA State Invitational was a near fairy­Coach Mark Hamilton said he player as anyone in the country. Tournament means everything to tale ending to the season. couldn't have asked for a better She'll give anyone a run for their our team," Hanlon said. "We went 
Saint Mary's took first place in end to the regular season for money." last year and we want people to the tournament with a collective Hanlon. But for a truly happy ending to realize that we'll keep coming 325 strokes as a team, besting "[Breaking 80 strokes] is hard this story, Hanlon would like to see back. Last year wasn't just a 
~~----~----------------------------~--------~---, 
Calvert has been offering mutual funds that invest in 
socially and environmentally responsible companies for 
years. For more complete information on Calvert funds 
including a prospectus, call: 
Mark Unwin Vice President-Investments Smith Barney, Citigroup 211 W. Washington Suite 2200 South Bend IN 46601 Phone: 574.251.9108 Phone: 800.322.2425 Fax: 574.234.2484 E-mail: mark. unwin@smith barney.com 

GRE EC 
~~p;~­
Carryout & FREE Delivery 

CB.[il ACCEPTED HERE 
Must provide credit card inform ation when ordering for delivery.Some Marco's PiZZa stores accept checks for p(tfment By paymg With acheck. you g1ve us the nght. Without further notJce. to electromcally collect your check ana the amount of abad check fee If the check IS returned to us 
stroke of luck. We have to prove our staying power." 
The Belles' scores speak for themselves. Junior Julia Adams shot a 78, junior Stefanic Simmerman posted an 80, junior Chrissy Dunham followed with an 88, sophomore Nicole Bellino reg­istered a 92 and freshman Helen Casey rounded out the Belles' suc­cess with a 94. Each of the Belles recorded scores below their sea­son scoring average. llanlon attributed their stellar perform­ance to focusing on individual aspect'> of their games in practice. 
"It's the little things that have been making a dilfercnce. We put so many hours in during practice and things really come together for us at meets," Hanlon said. 
Hamilton said he hopes this weekend's performance is enough to spur the Belles on to a NCAA Tournament berth. The NCAA Championships will take place in Green Lake, Wis. May 11-14. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
Ol><!n Dnily 'Jnm-Kvm Sun NO<>II·Svm 
1813 South Bend Ave. 574.234.H730 


page 20 Monday, April 26, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
FooTBALL 

Powers-Neal show-s he can double as tailback 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Irish coach Tyrone Willingham knows what fullback Rashon Powers-Neal did in Saturday's Blue­Gold game. 
"Rashon is one of those guys that says to a coach, 'Coach, I'm going to change your mind.' The reference is that J've got him at fullback," Willingham said. "The other thing he does is says, 'Coach, you've got to get me more balls.' And I was pleased with that." 
1\vo touchdowns and 81 yards on only four offensive touches will make a coach think like that. 
Especially after Powers-Neal had four rushing attempts for 16 yards and caught seven passes for 50 yards over the 2003 season. 
''I'm going to come out there, play hard and prove to everybody that I am able to play that position and play at a high level," Powers-Neal said. "I went out there and had fun today and played the best I can." 
The coaches only really used four running backs Saturday -Blue starter Ryan Grant, Gold starter Marcus Wilson, Blue starting full­back Josh Schmidt and Powers-Neal. After Grant showed off improved speed and cutting ability in PJe first half of the game, the coaches replaced him with Powers-Neal­who took full advantage of the opportunity. 
He scored on a 4-yard run in the closing seconds of the first half, which capped off an efficient and impressive seven-play, 97-yard drive using the two-minute drill. 
It was when Powers-Neal found the end zone for a second time that really showed where he has made strides. 

His third quarter touchdown where Powers-Neal made a little cut to avoid a defender and ran away from the rest of the defense to find the end zone for a 59-yard touch­down is a perfect example of the two areas Powers-Neal worked hard on in the off-season -speed and catch­ing. 
In 2003, Powers-Neal dropped a number of passes: especially coming out of the backfield in the flat. That improvement came from what Powers-Neal said is concentrating more when the ball is coming his way. 
As for outrunning the defense to the end zone, that's also something Powers-Neal didn't show last year in his transition from running back to fullback. With all the weight he gained, the speed seemed to be missing. 
"I worked really hard on that in the off-season, getting my speed up, and it's kind of showing up now," Powers-Neal said. "I like to think I was always fast, especially with all the weight I've gained." 
With the small number of running backs on the team Saturday, the coaches gave him a chance to make a statement, and he did. 
"If Rashon keeps doing what he's doing, he's going to make me change my mind and move him, so we have some flexibility there," Willingham said. 
AS for questions about whether he's too big to play fullback, Powers­Neal feels that's not really an issue. 
"I could probably play tailback [with the size]," he said with a big smile. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Samardzija runs, then flies 
Hours after catching touchdown pass, receiver catchesflight 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Only a few hours after catch­ing the only touchdown for the Gold team in the Blue-Gold game Saturday, Jeff Samardzija ran to make a 6:20 
p.m. flight to Pittsburgh with the rest of the Notre Dame baseball team. 
After all, he was scheduled to start in game one of Notre Dame's doubleheader against the Panthers Sunday. 
"There are literally days where he walks right off the football field and goes over to the baseball diamond," Irish 
coach Tyrone Willingham said. "It's phenomenal that he's able to do both sports, and that he's also able to manage his academics so well." 
Samardzija was a high­school standout in football, basketball and baseball when he was being recruit­ed by the Irish, and said that there have been no conflicts so far between the two sports he plays in a Notre Dame uniform. 
"It's just something I try to put out of my mind and not let one carry over to the other," Samardzija said. "[Willingham and baseball coach Paul Manieri] are fair and understanding and they both know what is best for me and I pay attention to what they have to say." 
Samardzija was the los­ing pitcher in Notre Dame's 8-6 loss to Pittsburgh Sunday. 
Plan on visiting Italy? 
Learn to speak Italian this summer! 

Rome, Venice, Florence, Naples, Bologna, 
Sicily, Milan, Pisa, etc., etc. ROIT 101, 3 credits ROIT 102, 3 credits Complete two semesters of foreign language requirements in six weeks 
No more red jersey 

Receiver Carlyle Holiday caught a quick pass from Brady Quinn in the second half of the Blue-Gold game Saturday and lowered his shoulder to try and run over safety Freddie Parrish in an attempt to gain more yards on the play. 
That's a far cry from previ­ous Blue-Gold games, where Holiday started as qu~rterback and it was taboo to make any contact with him at all. 
"They took away my red jer­sey," Holiday joked. "Now I'm out there working hard and trying to be as physical as I can be and try to use the strength that I have. 
"As a quarterback you're always dropping back and get­ting high, so this spring I had to learn how to run low more so that's what I've really been working on." 
Just give them all the ball 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn completed passes to eight different receivers on Saturday for the Blue team, while his Gold counterpart Pat Dillingham completed passes to seven different receivers. 
Tight end Billy Palmer and fullback Josh Schmidt -along with receiver Rhema McKnight -tied for the most receptions with three, and fullback Rashon Powers-Neal had the longest reception of the day, a 59-yard touchdown. 
"One of the things we want to do is use all the guys on the field and make it to where the defense has to put someone on every player," Quinn said. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Upcoming Recitals in the Department ofMusic 
Lan Jiang, cello 
with Kui Min, plano 
Monday, April 26 6 pm,Annenberg Auditorium 
Daniel Bayless, organ 
Tuesday, April 27 B pm, Sacred Heart Basilica 
Lecture/Recital 
'"LeDonne Musicalf: 17th Century Women and their Music" 
Danlelie Svonavec, soprano 
Darlene Catello, harpsichord Mary Anne Ballard, viola da gamba Wednesday, April 28 7 pm, Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center Saint Mary's College 
Logan Biles, saxophone 
with Yoko Ya'"ada, plano 
Friday, April 30 5:30pm, Carey Auditorium Hesburgh Library 
Matthew Merten, trontbone 
Saturday, May 1 
3:30pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Leila Tascheck, violin with Palvl Ekroth, piano 
Sunday. May 2 3 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Ivana SabanoSovd, organ 
Sunday, May 2 8 pm, Sacred Heart Basilica· 
Mary Waltner, mezzo-soprano 
with Palvi Ekroth, piano 
Thursday, May 6 
1 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Rebecca Paul, soprano 
with Palvi Ekroth, plano 
Thursday. May 6 
3 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 

Allevents FREE and open to the public/ 
For more Information call the Department ofMusic at631-6201. 
In town for the game? Why 
..----..... not stay with family? Gramma's House B&B. Now taking reservations for the 2004 football season and 2005 Graduation. 
2 miles north ofthe Notre Dame Toll Road exit (77). Group rates for partiesof6. Phone574-272-3999 
Excellent Starting Pay  
ALL MAJORS WELCOME  
•  FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES  
TRAINING PROVIDED­ NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY  
GAIN EXPERIENCE IN CUSTOMER SALES/SERVICE  
100 SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE  
CONDmONS APPLY  
PART TIME AVAILABLE  
ALL AGES 18+  
APPLY NOW, START AFTER FINALS  
CALL:  
Ft. Wayne  260-483-4861  Muncie  76S·289·7407  
N.l.ndy  317-217·1481  EvansviUc  812-42S.264S  
S.lndy  3!7-865·3700  Tenc Haute  812-235-7858  
South Bend  574-282·3240  New Albany  812-941.0148  
Lafayette  765-420.8236  Kokomo  765-453-6901  
Bloomington  812-323-1357  Columlrua  812.372-6628  


OR YOU lAY APPLY ONUNE AT: 
~mW@~trStWJ~®maaC®M 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, April 26, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
support of friends and family strong," Balderston said. "That hole was a huge turn­season tournament will be held 
and the familiarity of the home Midway through the final around for all of us," in East Lansing. Mich. next
Men 
course. round, Notre Dame gained an continued from page 24 Gustafson, for his part, pulled advantage as the wind started 
in a 73, while the other three to pick up and the golfers had him All-Big East honors as golfers all shot solid 74's. to factor in gusts of 30-40 mph. well. The team struggled a little in While the Irish had been 
Sophomore Mark Baldwin the second round, dropping to practicing in similar conditions was close to repeating his all­five shots behind Virginia Tech during the preceding weeks, conference performance from at the end of first day. the other teams were not last year, finishing just out of Still, coming into the final accustomed to it. the top seven, in eighth place round on Sunday, the Irish "It gave us a huge advan­with a 13-over 223 (74-76-73). were confident in their abilities. tage," Irish coach John Jasinski 
Finally, Gustafson rounded Last year, the Irish had held said. out the lineup with a score of the lead going into the final day "It made it difficult to judge 224 (73-78-73), landing him in but were defeated by a late distances," Balderston added. 11th place. push on the part of Virginia "It helped us make up strokes. 
Playing at the par-70 Warren Tech. This year, they decided to Our team plays well on windy 
Golf Course, the Irish led by return the favor. days." two at the end of the first round The Irish made up 11 strokes With Notre Dame and Saturday. on Sunday, 10 of them coming Virginia Tech even after 13 
Isban opened with a career­on the back nine. holes, Balderston made an low round of 69. enjoying the "Everyone played really eagle on the par-S 14th hole. 
(:..:sc: 
CENTER FOil 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


SUMMER SERVICE INTERNSHIPS 
SITES STILL AVAILABLE 
ChicagO: MALE NEEDED-DRIVE BREAD TRUCK WITH OTHER VOLUNTEERS AND DELNER FOOD TO KIDS 
Durham/Raleigh, NC: CAR NEEDED-F.ooo SHUTTLe ANo .ouTREACH Harrisburg, PA: FEMALE WITH CAR NEEDED-SHELTER FOR FAMILIES 
long Island: LOCAL STUDENT NEEDED-INTERFAITH NlJTRffiON NElWORK-SHELTER AND S.OUP KITCHEN Greensburg/Uniontown, PA: LOCAL STUDENT NEEDED NW Indiana: MALE WITH CAR NEEDED-HABITAT FoR HUMANITY 
Peoria, ll: LOCAL STUDENT NEEDED-GUARDIAN ANGEL HOME FOR ABUSED/NEGLECTED KIDS 

Theology majors and CSTconcentration mayreceive a grade rather than SIU. This is a partial list. 



Devote 8 weeks to the service of those In neer! Earn 3 theology credits (with possible crossllsts) S/U Receive a $2000 tuition scholarship Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 
Wo01en 
continued from page 24 
"There's really a more younger influence [this year as compared to previous one's]," said junior Karen Lotta, the old­est Notre Dame golfer competing this weekend. "The freshmen and sophomores have helped lead the team, and they've pushed upperclassmen to play their best." 
Individually, these young stars consistently shined, with four of Notre Dame's five entrants fin­ishing in the top 10. Freshman Noriko Nakazaki finished third with 222, with her tournament low 70 coming between rounds of 75, and 77. Finishing right behind her teammate was .soph­omore Katie Brophy, who played consistently well, shooting two 75s and a 74 to finish in fourth place with 224. 
Lotta finished in seventh, shooting 81, 72, 76 in her three rounds to finish with a 229. Sophomore Sarah Bassett fin­ished four strokes behind her, finishing with round of 74, 76, and 83 to total a combined 233. Sophomore Suzie Hayes round­ed out the Irish contingent, scor­ing 245 with rounds of 78-84­83. 
Despite their best performance of the spring this past weekend and the fact that they are con­ference champions, the Irish still may not be invited to next week­end's NCAA Hegionals. 
"A lot of it will have to do with things out of our control," King said. 

Since the Big East has only held a women's golf tournament for two years, its champion does not earn an automatic spot in the NCAA Tournament, with automatic invitations only being issued to teams whose confer­ences have held championship tournaments for three years or more. As such, The Irish must compete for an at-large bid. 
Notre Dame must also rely on a little luck, hoping that no upsets occur in other conference tournaments, which could take away one of the few remaining slots from the Irish. 
"It really depends on what other teams win their confer­ences," said King. "You hope teams ranked ahead of you win their conference's automatic bid." 
Hegardless of whether Notre Dame gains an NCAA bid, which would be a first for the program. the Irish can be satisfied in the accomplishments of this young team in a year that has been called the best in program histo­ry. 
"It's the start of a new begin­ning," King said. 
However, as one era begins another must necessarily end, and the prevailing satisfaction of victory and the optimism of future success is made bitter­sweet by the quiet departure of the team's two senior captains, Hebecca Hogers and Shannon Byrne. 
"We're really going to miss our seniors," said King. "We dedicat­ed our win to them." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Beat the price increase! 
The price of the #1 LSAT course will go up $100 on May 1, 2004. 
~~~­
current price~ Enroll t~d~)'l::;;. 


1-800-KAP-TEST 
kaptest.com; I sat 
Test Prep and Admissions 

•LSAT Is a registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council. 
Balderston said. "A lot of birdies. We made up a lot of ground." 
The Irish were able to capi­talize from there on out and sailed to their fourth Big East title and first since 1997. 
"We're a young team, with only freshmen and sophomores playing up to this point," coach Jasinski said. "These young guys have been put in the fire. All those things you learn from playing, they haven't gotten yet. Every week it's been learn your lessons the hard way. 
"So to have a finish like this, with all the circumstances, it is a huge confidence boost for us." 
Notre Dame's final regular 

weekend, but Jasinski will not be sending his top players. 
The Irish will most likely be assigned to the NCAA Central Regional, which will be held May 20-22 in West Lafayette, Ind. 
The Irish played their last tournament at the Boilermaker Invitational and found it to be a good fit for their team. With a few weeks to rest and practice, they should be ready to go. 
"We're getting better and bet­ter," Balderston said. "This win was a stepping stone. If our team plays to their potential, we have a realistic shot." 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
Summer is now in session. 
Welcome to Summer Session I at Holy Cross College. 
Holy Cross College offers a wide variety of transferable credit courses this summer for students who want a chance to complete additional course work. Courses in anthropology, biology, English composition, Brit~_sh literature, precalculus, philosophy, photography and many more are taught. · 
You can easily plan a schedule that meets your needs and interests. Courses are open to current students and visiting students from other colleges. Classes begin May 17. 
For more information, contact admissions@hcc-nd.edu or call 574-239-8400. 
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE:r-s.. /!~ 
at Notre: Dame. lnd1ana ilL/ .:~ 
574·239·8400 • admlsslonsChcc·nd.edu www.hcc·nd.edu 
... 
Monday, April 26, 2004

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
ROWING 

Irish crowned Big East champions 
Notre Dame eclipses defending champion Syracuse by 34 points 
By CHRISTINE 
ARMSTRONG 
SportS Writer 
For the first time in the rowing program's short his­tory, No. 17 Notre Dame was crowned Big East champs Sunday after winning four out of five races on Lake Quinsigamond in Worcester, Mass. The Irish beat the three-time defending cham­pions Syracuse by an aston­ishing 34 points. Notre Dame's coach, Martin Stone, was also named Big East Coach of the Year. 
Notre Dame's outstanding times garnered the Irish 116 team points. Miami followed the Irish with 92 and the three-time defending cham­pion Orangewomen finished third with 82. Rutgers, Georgetown, Boston College, Connecticut, Villanova and West Virginia rounded out the rest of the Big East group. 
The varsity eight boat won in in 6:54.89, topping the Orangewomen's 7:00.43. Miami finished in 7:01.95, 

followed by Boston College in 7:04.13, Rutgers in 7:04.25 and Villanova in 7:04.29. 
In the second varsity eight race, the Irish crossed the finish line in 7:09.17 to win the Grand Final, more than four seconds ahead of the Hoyas. Miami had a third place finish in 7:13.37, fol­lowed by Syracuse in 7:13.51, Rutgers in 7:19.23 and Boston College in 7:33.27. 
But the Irish weren't done yet. The next Irish victory when their varsity four boat triumphed in the Grand Final race. With a 7:36.66 finish, the Irish easily beat the Hurricanes by more than nine seconds. They were fol­lowed by Syracuse, Rutgers, Connecticut and Georgetown. 
Finally, the Irish continued their dominance in the varsi­ty four races, taking first and fourth places in the Grand Final race. Notre Dame's A crew won the race in 7:35.74, ahead of the Orangewomen's 7:56.41 effort. Georgetown took third place in 7:56.76. Notre Dame's B boat finished fourth in 8:00.29. Rutgers and Boston College followed. 
Christine Armstrong carmstro@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Team falls just short of wins 
By MATT MOONEY Sporrs Writer 
So close, and yet so far away. 
Such was the case for the No. 6 Irish this weekend as their losing ways continued following a pair of tough one-goal losses -a 13-12 defeat against No. 9 Johns Hopkins (12-3) Friday and then a 7-6 loss to Rutgers (7~ 7, 3-3 in the Big East) Sunday. 
Notre Dame (10-4, 3-2) now finds itself searching for an expla­nation having now lost four con­secutive games after starting the season with a perfect 10-0. 
"I just do not have the answer," coach Tracy Coyne said. "If I had the answer we wouldn't have lost the game today." 
And after a quick Johns Hopkins goal, the Irish put together a streak of their own. They scored four of the next five goals, tying the game at 12 when Mary McGrath slipped the ball past Blue Jay goalie Lauren Riddick on a wrap­around play for her third score of the game. 
It looked like the Irish might have finally turned the corner in the game, maintaining a sustained attack with a chance to take the lead when Simon was awarded free position. But her ensuing shot was blocked and the Blue Jays regained possession and scored the go-ahead goal with only 3:24 to play. 
Working against the clock, the Irish retook possession with 40 seconds 

Though both losses were very close, the Irish played much better  "I just do not have the answer. If I had  remaining. They moved the ball down­ 
against Johns Hopkins on  the anwer. we  field and had a  
Friday. The game was perhaps the most com­petitive Notre Dame has  wouldn't have lost the game today. "  shot to tie. but the smother­ing defense of  
played  all  season.  Johns Hopkins  
Captain Meredith Simon  Tracy Coyne  knocked  the  

exploded in the first half for three goals and three assists to carry the team to a 7-6 halftime lead after a back and forth first half. 
But Johns Hopkins burst out of the gate in the second half, tallying the first four goals to take a 10-7 lead after only 5:28 had elapsed. After Coyne called a timeout to regroup, the Irish responded immediately scoring not less than a minute later. 
ball loose. The
coach 
Blue Jays took the ball and ran down the clock. 
Simon led the way for the Irish on Friday, scoring all six of her points in the first half. She had a hand in six of the seven first-half goals for Notre Dame. Simon's first goal, in which she completely faked Riddick out of the net, also marked the 1OOth goal of her career. Only two other players in school history have ever reached the century mark. 
But none of the Irish goals came easily. The Blue Jays employed a physical, aggressive defense which caused the Irish a great deal of dif­ficulty setting up their attack. 
Additionally, the Johns Hopkins offense was the most potent Notre Dame had seen. The 13 Blue Jay goals are the most scored against the Irish in a game all season. 
The Rutgers game ended in just the opposite fashion to Friday's contest. The Irish had staked themselves to a 6-5 lead with just over one minute to play behind pair of goals from Abby Owen and Lauren Fischer. But the Scarlet Knights scored on a free posses­sion goal from Jamie Farewell with 1:09 to play. 
After recovering an Irish turnover following the ensuing face-off, Rutgers came down on the attack and scored again with only 20 seconds remaining. Notre Dame could not muster a shot as the clock ticked. 
A failure to capitalize on those chances ultimately doomed the Irish, who managed only one sec­ond-half goal, very similar to the low output in an earlier loss to Northwestern. 
"Ultimately it's my responsibility to figure out what the problem is and to come up with a solution that gets the team back on track," Coyne said. "I just have to get some perspective." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 

ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting applications for three Admissions Counselor positions! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection ofthe tirst-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communications within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation ofapplications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. 
**One position will be an understood one-year assignment with the possibility of permanent employment should a staff opening occur in 2005. (1 1 4) 
**One position will indude the additional responsibility for recruitment efforts for African American students. (115) 
**One position wUI likely include the responsibility for recruitment efforts for intetnational students. ( 116) 
Candidates should possesS a bachelor's degree and familiarity with all aspects ofstudent life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Preferred start date is July I, 2004. 
Apply on-line via Human Resources web site or submit resume, cover letter and reference .information by Tuesday, .April27, 2004 to: 
Admissions C.ounselor .Job Numbers: 4007-114,4007-115,4007-116 Department ofHuman Resources University ofNotre Dame Notre Dame, TN 46556 

----------------------·--------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, April 26, 2004 page 23
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT 
WHY DOES THE NEW ENGINEER GET PAID MORE THAN I DO? HOW DO YOU JUSTIFY 
THAT??! 

FIVES 
You know itts the last week of classes when.. . 
Here. t:t.Y"t! ~e Tt.g"s... tf -ft.te
Here. o.re some. Ac:n.oa\ot· 

cu-e <A.YIV qv~rti'mr, -l,e answer
V\vh a."d .. .o~\ ~leE's~ 
~ d 
SCOTT ADAMS 

I HAVE A GOOD 
UNLIKE YOU I HE 
ATTITUDE! LOOK AT DOESN'T HAVE A THIS SMILE I LOOK I BAD ATTITUDE . 
\1/ 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Y&'n \Prksse>'f W\1a:h~.. CAVI r Yla ve. #te ~S for -t'-'e. \o.s+ lOweeks'? 

People come to closs 
you've never seen before. 
JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BILLE 
rJ In
1 
C2004 Tribune Media ·Servlcea, Inc. All Rights Reaerved 
CENOU 
j 
J rJ rJ 
www jumble com 
IHUBERC ±
I rI J I 
A: ( 

I I I ] "( I I I I I I ]" 
{Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: HAVOC FIORD ASTHMA SCORCH Answer: What the stranded campers used to stay warm-A "FIR" COAT 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
My next project is Asian cooking 
I 
STUDYING C.Ul-INAI<V AI<TS M.A-OE HIM THIS. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 40 Egg: Prefix 1 Opposite of 41 Baseball hit just highs beyond the infield
5 Big stingers 42 Bard of
10 Concert blasters 43 Fateful day in a
14 Hawaiian island 20-Across15 Maximum poker 45 Pays a landlordbet 47 Require16 Bob who lost to 48 "I get it!"
Bill Clinton 49 Guys-only
17 Warner's state­
ment after the 52 Cry to a mouse fact 54 "Et tu, Brute? Then fall,
19 "Roots" author Caesar!," e.g.
Haley 62 Building beam
20 "Julius Caesar," e.g. 
63 One who warned Caesar

22 -fi 64 Bronx cheer
23 Bird's home 65 Golfer Palmer,24 Fire leftover familiarly27 Eve's predeces­66 Liberals, with sor 
"the" 30 Tortilla chip dip 
67 ___-bitsy 34 Fateful day in a 
68 Fabric colorers20-Across 69 Schnauzer in 

38 Ringer 
Dashiell 39 Not so good Hammett books 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~=+=+-~~ 
i-:t-:++.:+:+.:.+::-1 25 Rudely push 
~-:+.-:+.-::+:-11-:+'Ai 26 Long-billedwader 

····~~1LUtr••••• 2a this minute 
~.,...r.+-:-+::-~ 29 "The Jeffersons" theme"_On Up" 

8-=+-:+:=+::,..fl!l~ -=+....+::::+.:+.+=+=-~ 31 Hotelier 
Helmsley 

····~mm~u••••• 32 Laziness
-=+-:+:':+::,...,.~r:-1 33 Omega's oppo­site 
-=+-:+:::+.:+.+.:::-f-:-1 35 Feels no remorse 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
DOWN 1 ___ Lane, 
admirer of Superman 2 Inauguration 
Day recital 3 Command to a 
horse 4 Broods 5 Land next to a 
road 6 Crooked 7 Turn on a pivot a Resident near 
the Leaning Tower 9 Make a night­time ruckus 10 Not limited to one use 11 Gangster's gal 
12 Defendant's declaration at an arraignment 
13 Alluring 
18 The 60's or 70's, e.g. 
21 Road section requiring cau­tion 
24 Battling 
WILLSHORTZ 


36 Drum accompa-46 VW predeces-55 Assist in crime nier sors? 
56 Fannie 37 John Philip (securities)
50 Syrian president Sousa offering 51 "Mine eyes 
57 Top-notch

have seen the
41 Moistens with 58 Mix (up)
droplets 53 Australian 
59 Deli loaves43 "Little Women" "bear'' 

family name 60 Adept
54 Land SW of 44 Grows chewers Samoa 61 Sp. miss 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learninglxwords. 
Make checks· payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to~  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Carol Burnett, Koo Stark, Bobby Rydell, Gary Wright 
Happy Birthday: Pace yourself or you'll be worn out before the year is half 
over. You need to learn to have some fun. Your focus has been too material 
oriented, and it's time you started to concentrate on your loved ones and the 
more personal aspects of life. You will learn a lot if you just give into the 
changes going on around you and stop trying to force issues. Your numbers: 4, 
7, 13,20,33,36 

ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You will be quick-witted and charming, which 
will help you gain popularity at work. Friends and relatives will give you good 
advice. Romance will be exciting and spontaneous. *** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Don't be too quick to invest in something just because someone you trust is investing. Overspending will lead to all sorts of ­problems in the future. Excessive behavior will result in poor health. ***** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't evade issues or twist the truth. If you're honest, you stand a better chance of convincing your mate that you still love him or her and that you're willing to bend. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't push your luck with authority figures. Secret affairs will eventually backfire on you. You may not get your facts 
straight, so double-check before you make decisions. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be yourself and you'll be surprised how many love interests you will entice. You can step into the limelight if you want to. Favors 
will be granted if you ask. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Emotions will flare up among family members. 
Take one step at a time and don't pick sides. Get sound advice from someone you respect and trust. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You need to look at your situation from a different 
perspective. Sit down with someone you know well and find out how he or she would handle your situation. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can prosper if you are smart with your money. Clear up any pressing legal matters or personal papers that need to be 
renewed. The time to make changes is now. **** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep your partner busy and you will avoid 
the second degree. Overindulgence will result in putting on the pounds. 
Discipline will be required. ** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Make changes around the house that you've 
been talking about. It will make a difference to everyone who lives with you. 
You can save some cash if you get everyone to pitch in and help. ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Secret affairs or hidden matters may be 
revealed. Be careful whom you confide in. Social activities that involve children 
will help bring your family closer together. *** 
PISCES (Feb.19-March 20): You may be taken advantage of. Don't be too 
quick to help someone who is telling you "poor me" stories. You're only hearing 
one side of the situation, and you can bet it's not accurate. *** 
Birthday Baby: You were bam with class and an awareness of what is good and what isn't. You have a great outlook, a good mind and will strive throughout life to acquire the finer things in life. You have qualities others will admire and look up to. 
Vi.l'it Eugenia'.\' Web site at eugeniala.l't.com. 
~..,. •• .....#1 •• , ..... , •• -~ ........................................................................................................................_ ................................., ........., ................--....... , ............. ~--..........t 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, April 26, 2004 
page 24 
BIG EAST GOLF CHAMPIONSHIPS 

A clean sweep 
Men rally late to win first Big East title since 1997, earn bid to NCAA Regionals for first time in history 
By ANNIE BRUSKY Sports Writer 
With their season on the line, the Irish finally pulled it all together. 
After a thrilling come-from-behind rally, the men's golf team won the Big East Championship and is headed to the NCAAs for the first time in 38 years. 
"We're thrilled," sophomore Tommy Balderston said. "Everything we've done in the season has been leading up to this point and coming through today has been really, really great." 
"It's been a long time coming for us," said sophomore Scott Gustafson. "It's been a long, tough spring season. It feels great to finally break through like this." 

The Irish defeated three-time defend­ing league champion Virginia Tech by six strokes with a team score of 876 (290-295-291) and a well-balanced attack that included three all-confer­ence finishes. 
Balderston (74-73-71) and freshman Cole Isban (69-75-74) tied for third place at eight-over par 218, both recording their lowest tournament score of the spring. 
Meanwhile, sophomore Eric Deutsch's breakthrough performance landed him in a tie for fifth place at 219 (74-71-7 4), a full 13 strokes better than his previ­ous low score in the spring, and earned 
see MEN/page 21 
Young women's team uses tremendous second round to capture first, now wait to see if they'll make NCAAs 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's strong performance in the 2004 Big East Tournament may translate into an even brighter future for the program. 
The team cruised to a 14-stroke victo­ry in this weekend's event held at Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course, turning in a three-round score of 905, only five shots over the team's goal of 300 per round. Perhaps even more noteworthy is the fact that the Irish did so with such a youthful lineup, perhaps serving as a sign of things to come. 
"We're moving in the right direction," Irish coach Debby King said. 

The Irish led the tournament from the start. The team finished round one ahead of second-place Miami by four strokes, shooting a 302 to the Hurricanes 306. Then the Irish caught fire, blowing out the Hurricanes in the second round with the tournament's lowest round, 293, to build up a 19­stroke lead before Saturday's play had ended. 
On Sunday, with the championship already seemingly in hand, the Irish fin­ished strong, shooting a 310 to win their second straight conference title, and much of their success can be attributed to the efforts of their young and talented nucleus of players. 
see WOMEN/page 21 

Quinn-essential weekend 
Irish QB wins MVP honors in Blue-Gold game Saturday ... 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Senior Staff Writer 

Brady Quinn dropped back from center, fired a pass and suddenly found himself lying flat on his back -the victim of a shove from a defender See Also who had temporarily vio­
"Powers-Neal shows he can
lated the no-hitting-the­quarterback rule. double as tailback" On the sidelines, 
page20
Tyrone Willingham figu­ratively covered his eyes. "Samardzija runs, then flies" "The only thing I 
page 20
prayed for and winced about every time some­body got hit or moved was that they get up and move 
CLEMENT SUHENDRNThe Observer 

about at the end of the day," the Irish coach wryly 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn surveys the defense Saturday. Quinn com­see FOOTBALL/page 18 pleted 17-of-22 passes for 263 yards to earn Offensive MVP honors. 
... then helps UBS/SMG win Bookstore tourney Sunday 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
In a stunning come-from-behind victory, USB/SMG defeated top-seeded KPMG 22-20 to win the 33rd Bookstore Basket­
ball Championship See Also Sunday. Chinedum "Injury helps Anthony Travel win" Ndukwe sparked a 
page 14
late comeback for USB/SMG, who "Tourney captures spirit of school" erased a 16-11 
page 14
deficit from KPMG. 
"We just stepped up at the end," Ndukwe said. "It was a whole team effort." 

TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer The game was within a point for most of the first 
Members of UBS/SMG trap a player on Choc Full 0' Nuts during the semifinals Saturday. Brady Quinn, at left, helped UBS/SMG win Sunday. see BOOKSTOREIpage 14 


NFL DRAFT 
5 players picked in draft 
Jones, Watson go in second round 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Senior Staff Writer 
Courtney Watson never had a one-on-one interview with the New Orleans Saints and never talked to their coaching staff on a significant basis. 
So you'll pardon the~ 
linebacker if he was sur­prised when he and his 
DRAFT
family, watch­ing from 
''lfT 
Sarasota, ~ Fla., saw his name pop up when the Saints picked him in the second round of the weekend's 2004 NFL Draft. 
"It was starting to get long, because I wasn't sure how many teams were going to pick a linebacker at this spot in the round," he said Saturday in a statement the Saints released. "It was an eight-hour marathon anyway. It seemed to take for­ever for the pick to come." 
Watson was one of five former Irish seniors who were selected over the weekend. Running back Julius Jones was the first 
see DRAFT/page 18 
en 
ROWING 

SMC GOLF
WOMEN'S LAX 
TRACK AND FIELD
NO SOFTBALL 
BOOKSTORE 
L&.l 
Notre Dame won all 

The 4x 1 ,600-meter 
The Observer has full
1-
(.) First at Big East 

Johns Hopkins 13 
First at Tri-State 
four of its weekend 

relay team won at the 
coverage of this week-
z Championships 

Notre Dame 12 
Invitational 
games against Big East 

Drake Relays, while two 
end's Bookstore
a: ::5 
foes. The Irish beat 

other Irish athletes qual-
Basketball finals ­
Notre Dame won four 

Rutgers 7 
Now the Belles must 
Villanova 4-0 and 2-0 

ified for the Big East 
including the post-tour­
races to clinch its first 

Notre Dame 6 
wait a week to see if
c::a: 
and Rutgers 8-5 and 4-2. 

Championships 
nament awards. 
conference title in 

they made the NCAA 
school history. 

Tournament.
A.tc 
en 
page 22 
page 19

page 22 
page 16 

page 16 
page 14 








