
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Board responds positively to Lao's report 

Topics include drunk driving, social responsibility and programming fund 
By SHELIA FLYNN 
News Writer 
Members of the Board of Trustees responded to a student government report Thursday with positive enthusiasm and a round of applause, congratulating student body president Jeremy Lao and his team for their accomplishments and their efforts to address Board criticisms given in October. 
Chief of staff Patrick Corker began the presentation, outlining student govern­ment's alcohol responsibility campaign. lie said the effort will include the distribu­tion of blood alcohol content cards, speak­ers and a drunk driving simulator machine during the week before spring break, and an advertising campaign encouraging students not to be "that guy" or "that girl" in regard to excessive consump­tion of alcohol. 
"Students on campus would benefit from knowing what their limits are," Corker said. "I don't think stu­dents are cognizant of 


that."  Lao  
Lao  and  his  team  
emphasized  - and included in their  

report -that the campaign promotes responsible drinking and in no way tries to impose abstinence from alcohol upon students. Instead, their initiative focuses on collaboration with local establish­ments, cab companies and other institu­tions to ensure designated driving and responsible behavior. 
The Board applauded the plan, which is 

in-depth and multi­faceted. 
"This is only a transi­tional student govern­ment, but this initiative is a first from student government," said Father Mark Poorman, vice president for stu-

Poorman dent affairs. 
The other Board members expressed approval and also voiced additional suggestions, such as cooperative planning with Notre Dame Security/Police and other bodies. Several members also expressed concerns about ensuring the continuity of such an alcohol responsibility program from year to year within student government. 
"I can't imagine that there would be an administration that wouldn't want to pur­sue this," Corker said. 
Building upon the administration's emphasis on responsibility, Student body vice president Emily Chin then addressed the Board concerning social responsibility at Notre Dame. She outlined student gov­ernment's role in the Church in Africa conference and showed a short video of Notre Dame students, including herself, visiting Nigeria as part of the conference. 
"Americans don't really see the true, other side" of Africa, Chin said, citing the continent's "hospitality," "beauty" and "rich culture." She stressed student gov­ernment's commitment to social responsi­bility and said she hopes for increased awareness on campus and continued par­ticipation in events such as the Africa con­ference. 
see REPORT/page 4 


Campus Ministry gets creative with retreats 
By MATTHEW SMEDBERG News Writer 
It begins at Freshman Orientation, with posters on res­idence hall bulletin boards advertising the Freshman Retreat. It continues with the Notre Dame Encounter and the Sophomore Road Trip. If you are a senior, man, woman, Asian, black, Latino, MBA student, gay, lesbian or bisexual, Campus Ministry has a retreat for you. 
Campus Ministries offers retreats throughout the year attracting about 3,200 students, or more than a third of the undergraduate population. Each retreat is unique, according to Father Kevin Russeau, director of freshman retreats. Russeau said that the retreats do not contain a set format, though certain elements appear in all, such as presentations by the retreat director and his or her assistant leaders, as well as ice­breakers and small group dis­cussions. 
The retreats vary widely in length, size and scope. A fresh­man retreat, offered six times a year, lasts 26 hours and can accommodate up to 90 partici­pants. The Man's Weekend, Campus Ministry's newest offer­ing, lasts nearly two days. 
The Man's Weekend is a unique event in many ways. The first one, which took place last October, included a pig roast ­but it is still geared towards developing the spiritual life of each participant. Students who attended the retreat spoke very highly of the experience. 
"It was an awesome experi­ence," said junior DJ DiDonna. "There was a good blend of spir­ituality and time to be alone, to pray, to relax. It was great to have the leaders give talks about what it means to be a man in the Church today, to have a chance to think about vocations, not necessarily as a priest, but just as a man. It was a very refreshing experience." 
Russeau said that student response coming out of retreats is overwhelmingly positive. He said that freshmen wish that their retreat could be longer, while seniors attending their first retreat wish they had done one sooner. Nevertheless, there is a certain amount of salesman­ship involved in getting students to sign up. Russeau said that his colleagues have had to essen­tially reinvent the women's retreat, because so few students signed up for it in previous years that several had to be cancelled. 
Students from all religious backgrounds are invited to par­ticipate, he said. 
"While the spirituality we offer in retreats is unavoidably Christian in nature, we do not concentrate on doctrinal issues, but on relationship." 
In the retreats he has led, stu­dents whom he knew were not Catholic "asked some of the best questions;' out of all students; he has had non-Catholics as lead­ers and presenters. 
DiDonna said that, coming from a Catholic high school, he had been to many retreats before, but the voluntary nature of Notre Dame retreats meant that "a different crowd" partici­pated. He said that, for someone 


Participants act out a skit during a recent Notre Dame Encounter. The retreats attract students throughout the year. 
who is serious about deepening their relationship with God, whether Catholic or not, a Notre Dame retreat is ideal. 
"Not every student will go on a retreat," said Russeau. "However, we like to think of those who do as acting as a kind of 'leaven' for the campus. We hope that they will be better equipped to make good deci­sions." 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at smedberg.l@nd.edu 

Events planned for Black History Month 
By ANNA GELHAUS News Writer 
A variety of cultural events, including lectures, readings and a film series, will occur throughout the semester to cel­ebrate Black History Month, said Keith Lee, the assistant director for program develop­ment for the Department of African and African-American Studies. 
Lee said that his department has decided to schedule the events differently this year, spreading them out throughout the semester rather than con­centrating them only in February. In addition, Lee said that the planned activities are targeted toward a student audi­ence. 
"We have a lot of activities spread out through February into March and even April," said Lee. "We are trying to attract students and [thus our events are] very student focused." 
As an example of the kinds of events that will take place, the next installment of the depart­ment's co-sponsored lecture series Race in the Americas will occur Wednesday. Jose Saldivar, a professor of English and Ethnic Studies at the University of California, Berkley will present a lecture entitled "Border Fillers." 
see HISTORY/page 3 


Housing 
surveys sent out 
Students e-mailed surveys about future ofon-campus housing 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
Within the next two weeks, the 
Office of Student Affairs will be e­
mailing 1,000 undergraduate 
students a survey about the 
future of residential life at Notre 
Dame. 
The survey is the product of several months of discussion by a committee for the future of resi­dential life, which consists of administrators, faculty members and students. The results of the survey will be used when design­ing and renovating residence halls. 
Ann Firth, committee member and executive assistant to the vice president of student affairs, s.aid the committee is dreaming big and these result<> will be cru­cial in determining the nature of the four proposed residential complexes that were outlined in the University's most recent 10­year plan. The committee, which formed as a result of this plan, has discussed several options such as co-educational housing, senior apartments and suite style living. 
Firth said the University also intends to significantly renovate residential halls within the next 10 years once funding is avail­able. 
Committee members said the survey is a pro-active approach by the University to gauge stu­dent opinion and to lend credibil­ity to future plans. 
see SURVEY/page 3 

r 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Why me? 

My aunt has been diagnosed with bone cancer. Her youngest child is four years old. What did she do to deserve this? I have weekly dinner with a group of elderly Holy Cross sisters who are in the late stages Katie Knorr 
of Alzheimer's disease. What did they do to ll 

deserve this? I 1 ustrator listen to a lecture by Jimmy Dunne, whose business lost a third of its employees in the Sept. 11 attacks. What about him -what did he do? I think about the heartbreak I will feel after my boyfriend graduates. the incredible pain of not knowing what will happen to the connection we've made. What, I ask myself, did I do to deserve this? This is only a glimpse of the pain I've encountered. and I'm just one person in a world of six billion. Tragedy -and sadness -are everywhere. We often wonder why, but we never find an answer. Yet I promise you ... there is one. And figuring it out will change you. As I sit in my Irish Film and Culture class, a lecture about Yeats quickly shoots me a line that I will never forget. "Love cannot exist without pain," my professor says. "for if there's no pain, the feeling isn't real." It takes a minute to sink in. I ask myself, do I buy it? Six hours later, I am sure that I do. My aunt's cancer whispers that life is precious, and always too short. The stories of love and life the sisters tell increase in volume after two years of listening to their repetition. I listen to how Jimmy Dunne risked his entire business, but man­aged to send millions of dollars to the families of those who fell in the Towers. I realize that the tears I will cry in May will reflect some of the greatest love I've ever felt, and one connection that I know will never die. I think back on the family I've · been given, the opportunities I've had, the love I've encountered. And I'm sure that no tragedy. no pain, no sadness can lessen that. In fact, it serves not to break us, but rather to make us realize the full force of life, of love, and of experience. I've had all of these things, and so have you. Now I guess all that's left for us to ask is ... What could we have possibly done to deserve it? 
This article is dedicated to Jessica McManus Warnell, Luke Gibbons, Father Michael Baxter, Ed Kelly. Jackie Bachinsky, Lee Ann Moore, Queen ofPeace Convent. Mark & Barb Knorr, Paul Green, and to all those people who know not just how to touch. but to hold, a heart. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Katie Knorr at kknorr@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
-,..-,--·1·4tf'\ , ' r 
' ' ' (
Friday, February 6, 2004

The Obs'erver +PAGE 2 ( . 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT REALITY TV SHOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE ON TV? 




Adam Kaufmann Patrick Ross Paul Critser Kevin Boyle Brian Viloria Katie Taylor 
Senior Senior Junior Junior Junior Junior off-campus off-campus O'Neill off-campus off-campus Regina Hall 
..Celebrity ..The Flu!fer. " "Survivor: Gary, "Bring back "Ijust thought "True life: I go Deathmatch. ,, Indiana . ., Man versus ofthis, Seven to to an all-girl's Beast.·· eight school., people living in 
a house and taping them in the real world. It'd be new and 
., 

awesome. 

ANDY KENNNThe Observer 

Jack Cowett, a Notre Dame junior and student comedian, performs Thursday at Legends. 
OFFBEAT 
Trucker wins driving award after accident 
MISSOULA, Mont. -A truck driver received his million-mile safe driving award in a hospital after getting injured in a crash. 
Raymond Mattes, 53, of Post Falls, Idaho, was en route from Washington state to Ohio with a load of frozen french fries and planned to stop in Missoula on Saturday to pick up his award from Jim Palmer Trucking. 
Before he could reach the company's yard, a sport utility vehicle skidded into the path of his tractor­trailer on Interstate 90 out-
TODAY 

0::: 
side of town. 
Mattes avoided hitting the vehicle by driving off the road and slamming into an embankment, the 18-year trucker said Wednesday before his release from St. Patrick Hospital, where he was treated for crushed verte­brae. 
The SUV driver was seri­ously hurt, and two fellow University of Montana stu­dents were also injured, one critically. 
Hooters job won't count as work-study 
SAVANNAH, Ga.-A 17­year-old high school senior working at a Hooters won't get class credit for her job because the restaurant. known for its waitresses in tight T-shir~ and hot pants, is too racy, school district officials decided Thursday. 
Laura Williams wanted her hostess job, for which she wears long pants and a collared shirt, to count as part of a work-study pro­gram that lets students leave school early so they can work for vocational course credit. 
Williams plans to keep the job and give up the credit. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LLI 
:z:: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..I 
<
(,) 

0 
...I HIGH 30 HIGH 29 HIGH 26 HIGH 23 LOW 20 LOW 19 LOW 9 LOW 16 IN BRIEF 
FlipSide will sponsor ice skating tonight at the Joyce Center. Admission will cost $1, while skate rentals will be $3. 
The Ahn Trio, a classical ensemble, will perform at 
7:30 tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's Moreau Center for the Performing Arts. 
Comedians A.J. Jamal and Rick Colon will perform in Reekers tonight from 7 to 
9:30 p.m. as part of the MSPS Comedy Show. The stand-up comedy show is free. 
The Pasquerilla East Music Company will perform West Side Story today and Saturday from 7:30 to 10 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
SUB will sponsor two showings of the movie Cold Creek Manor tonight and tomorrow at 8 and 10:30 pm. 
Guitarist John Rush will perform in the LaFortune Basement Saturday night. Other LaFortune events include a Euchre tournament in the Dooley Room -the winner will receive two DVDs of their choice -and a pool tournament in NDExpress for a DVD player. Both events will begin at 
10:30 pm. The activities are part of FlipSide Takes LaFortune. and the organi­zation will sponsor free subs, pizza and prizes until 1 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 31 HIGH 
26 

LOW 22 LOW 
20 

Atlanta 59 1.36 Boston 34 I 33 Chicago 32 I 21 Denver 35 I 16 Houston 57 I 35 Los Angeles 71 I 49 Minneapolis 24 1 8 New York 39 I 36 Philadelphia 42 I 39 Phoenix 65 I 39 Seattle 49 I 40 St. Louis 32 I 15 Tampa 81 I 60 Washington 41 138 
~------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-l 
Friday, February 6, 2004 page 3 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

History 
continued from page 1 
Lee emphasized that the Department of African and African-American Studies aims for programs with an academic focus. 
"We try to tie things into the academic mission of the University," he said. 
The department is also look­ing to work in collaboration with other groups on campus in order to spread out and attract students, such as their collabo­ration with the Institute for Latino Studies in the Race in the Americas series. 
In addition, Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS) will hold their annual Blak Koffee House Feb. 20 at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. The event is an annual celebra­tion of black poetry and music. 
Also, Saint Mary's will sponsor a poetry performance and read­ing with award-winning poet Sonia Sanchez Feb. 24. 
In the final weekend in March, the recipients of the Erskine Peters Fellowship will arrive on­campus to participate in a panel discussion regarding black experiences in academia. The fellowship program is adminis­tered by the provost's office and the Department of African and African-American Studies and awards five black graduate stu­dents a $25,000 stipend and a 
$2,000 research budget to com­
plete their dissertation. 
MacArthur Fellowship winner and black poet Jay Wright will be holding a reading towards the end of the month, sponsored by the Boehnen Fund for Arts, Creative Writing, Graduate School and Office of the Provost. The exact time and location has" not yet been determined. 
A six-part series of films spon­sored by the Department of African and African-American Studies, "This Far by Faith", examined black spiritual life and recently concluded Wednesday. 
Contact Anna Gelhaus at agelhaus@nd.edu 

Survey 
continued from page 1 
"As we go forward and reno­vate, we want to make sure res­idential life is important," said Bill Kirk, committee chair and associate vice president for res­idence life. "You have to be sen­sitive to the student's needs." 
Firth said that students who participate in the survey, which the Office of Institutional Research estimates should only take about 10 minutes, will be eligible for a drawing that includes ten prize packages. These packages include a lap­top computer, season football and basketball tickets, flex point certificates and pizza par­ties. 
Undergraduate students from each year, including those who live both on and off campus, will receive the survey. 
Kirk said the committee wants to know what students opt" to move off-campus so that future and renovated residence halls can provide amenities that will keep students on campus. 
Kirk said the decision to review the character of resi­dence halls and the nature of residential life was not in response to the growing trend of Catholic universities that have abandoned completely mandatory single-sex living arrangements. 
"If you look at what's going around at other campuses, after they upgrade, you realize that you have to do something to make [residence halls] attractive," Kirk said. 
Kirk said the aspects of resi­dential life that students value 
most -the stay-in-hall system, 
in-hall chapels and the small 
community-will remain, but 
that officials want to know what 
else students value and that the 
committee is remaining very 
open-minded about the range 
of possibilities that residential 
life could take at Notre Dame. 
Kirk cited the creation of Legends, Reekers, the Coleman­Morse Center and the renova­tion of Hesburgh Library and the LaFortune Student Center as recent examples of where the University solicited student opinion in an effort to enhance campus life and said that this survey will continue that effort on a larger scale. 
Keri Oxley, a senior and stu­dent member of the committee, said the administration is put­ting a great deal of energy into including students in this deci­sion making process. 
In addition to the surveys, student opinion will be gauged through focus groups. Focus groups will also target adminis­trators, faculty members, rec­tors, assistant rectors and young alumni. 
Kirk said these surveys and focus groups will be different in nature and composition than the ones used to create the revised alcohol policy that was announced by vice president of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman in March 2002. 
The committee expects to have survey results sometime this spring and the deadline for the first round of focus groups is March 15. Firth said the com­mittee's recommendation report most likely will not be completed until fall2004. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
LAST STOP ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL ... 
Student Body Presidential "Debates ... 
~ 

Come here what the future . leaders of our student body have to say. The candidates running for the office of Student Body President will be participating in a debate, Sunday February 8, 2004. This is your last chance for you to meet them and get to know the where they stand on the issues that matter to you! 
Candidates: Ryan Craft &Steve Lynch Charlie Ebersol & James Leito Mark Healy & Mike Healy Adam Istvan & Karla Bell 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium Sunday, February 8, 2004 7:30pm 
Remember elections are Monday, February 9, 2004.  
Vote online at https://apg~.nd.eduL~lecjions  
Voice %ur Clioice  
'04  

Friday, February 6, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 



Report 
continued from page 1 

Finally, Lao led his team in previewing a student programming endowment, which would allow an increased budget for big-name concerts and speakers at the University. 
"We don't want to put the full burden of financing this on just student shoulders," Lao said. 
The Student Union Board's current allotment ranges between $30,000 and $60,000, Lao said, and these funds are not adequate for luring the famous acts desired by students. 
"The major challenge here is to have big signature events," Poorman said, adding that officials do "have a willing participant rate." 
Board members suggested that, before student government finalizes its proposal and report for ·the Board's May meeting, representatives should compile a list of sample bands and speakers and their respective fees, differentiating between various entertainment levels. 
"Come back to us with some ideas and price tags," one Board member said. 
The Board also suggested that student government explore the option of fmding sponsors to match funds that they, as a body, raise. Lao and his team said they will look into this idea of making the endowment more proactive and coopera­tive. 
When one Board member inquired into using the stadium as an entertainment venue, Poorman said there is no specific prohibition against its use, but various other factors, such as the amount of nec­essary security and human resources, create difficulties. 
"It's pretty complicated because it has a lot of other complications besides the money to host the concert," Poorman said. 
Lao and his team said they would con­sider and incorporate the Board's feed­back, and they said, in response to mem­bers' requests, they will send out more frequent updates to the Board before the May meeting. 
Contact Shelia Flynn at sflynn@nd.edu 
U-WIRE 

Student political interest increasing 
By TARA EDWARDS 
The California Aggie 
Various student organi­zations assembled at tables on the University of California-Davis quad on Wednesday, providing reg­istration forms and infor­mation on their particular groups -and encourag­ing other students to vote. 
A recent study shows that this sort of student political interest is increasing significantly. Students are discussing politics more frequently and are much more aware of current events, found a recent study con­ducted by the Higher Education Research Institute at UClA. 
The study The American Freshman: National Norms for Fall 2003 -reported that the number of freshman that discuss politics regularly has increased from 19.4 percent in 2002 to 22.5 percent in 2003. Student political interest has not been as high since 1993. 
Some students said they believe that the college experience allows them to identify their beliefs and become more involved with political parties. 
Others credited the increase in political awareness to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
"[Sept. 11] didn't start any new movement; it just raised interest and strengthened groups," said UC Davis sophomore Cynthia Funes. 
Some students said they pay more attention to pol­itics because they felt sti­fled by the views they were taught before com­ing to college. Lindsey Krabbenhoft, a UC Davis sophomore who graduat­ed from a conservative Catholic high school, said that the university has offered a broader spec­trum of political views. 
"There's more of a vari­ety [of political groups] and they are more publi­cized," she said. "You find out about things easier." 
Krabbenhoft also attrib­uted her political interest to her belief that as stu­dents get older, they care more about what is going on in the country. 
Funes felt that since high schools are much smaller than many uni­versities, her political opinion didn't carry much weight. But once she started attending UC Davis, she said, she felt like she had more of a voice. She joined the National Organization for Women and found many individuals who shared her political views. 
Since Fumes is in a large organization that shares her views, she feels she can participate in outreach and have a stronger political impact. 
U-WIRE 


Voter independence affected by colleges 
By ALEXANDRIA BURRIS The Louisiana State Reveille 
A New York Times colum­
nist recently told a crowd at 
Dartmouth College that peo­
ple with college degrees vote 
less independently. 
David Brooks said rising education levels have helped shape modern politics and voting in the United States. 
"The effect of this increas­ing education level for vot­ers should be to make voters independent minded, open to argument, rational and sophisticated," Brooks said. "It's just the opposite." 
He said the number of people voting independently decreases as the voting pop­ulation becomes more edu­cated. 
Robert Hogan, a political science assistant professor, said Brooks' argument makes sense to him, because college-educated people tend to vote along party lines. 
People with college degrees know more about politics, Hogan said. 
He said strong Democrats and Republicans happen to be well-educated people who understand more about what they believe and what each political party repre­sents. 
• Hogan said people who identify themselves as inde­pendent do not hold the staunch political positions of Democrats and Republicans. 
There is a lot of evidence that shows people who iden­tify themselves as independ­ent voters are more per­suade-d by political ads, Hogan said. It is hard to determine whether they are less educated than partisan voters. 
In a Jan. 14 article in The Dartmouth, Dartmouth College's campus newspaper, 
Brgoks said education leads away from independ­ent thinking. 
"The more educated you are, the more partisan you are, the less independently you think," Brooks said to the Dartmouth. 
Hogan said he thinks Brooks is not implying that staunch party supporters are closed-minded or that independent voters are more open-minded. 
He said partisan voters just have decided what they believe politically. 
Krystal Williams, political science senior, is one of the many students who identi­fies her beliefs with a cer­tain political party. 
Williams is president of College Democrats at Louisiana State University. 
She said she believes the political ideas people have are set in them. 
Williams said her Democratic ideas were always a part of her because she came from a Democratic family. 
But Williams said she did not realize she wanted to work in Democratic politics until she came to LSU. 

The Colonial 
Pancake House 
Family Restaurant 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 6:30-2:30 PM 
• 
Gourmet coffee • Daily lunch specials 

• 
Batters made from • Come see our ND room scratch 

• OPEN FOR OVER 35 YEARS 

• 
Famous apple pancake • Call us for all occasions ­& jumbo omelettes ask for Dave 


THANK YOU FOR
·--------------· 1 YOUR BUSINESS
IEnjoy one complimentary1Entree when a second I 1 I Entree of equal or greater I 508 N. Dixie Way
.______________ .. 1 
1Value is purchased Exp 2005 1 SB, IN 46637 {574) 272-7433 
~Quality 
Diamond_s 

I 
······················--······--------·_; 
John M~ Marshall's 
lncorpora:ted 
196f.) 

.Je·wf.'lf.•l-s / Gemologists
Goldsm.it.hs / Platinumsmiths Kf'.;Y Bank Building, Snite.H10l 
South Bend, Indiana 4f,601 
287-1427 

The College ofArts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for 


Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Hugh Page, Associate Dean 105 0'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Friday, February 27, 2004 

Friday, February 6, 2004 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Trade talks stall over U.S. subsidies 
PUEBLA, Mexico -Talks on the Free Trade Area of the Americas have largely. stalled over South American demands for an end to domestic U.S. farm subsidies, negotia­tors said Thursday. 
The prospect that the talks could fail -or result in a preliminary agreement so vague as to be meaningless -cheered an estimat­ed 1,000 anti-globalization protesters who marched and briefly confronted police out­side the hemispheric meeting of vice minis­ters in this colonial city, 65 miles southeast of Mexico City. 
"There is an impasse," said Edgardo Lander, a member of the Venezuela delega­tion. "The sticking point, as always, is agri­culture." 
Smnmit establishes anti-terror center 
BALI, Indonesia -Asian and Pacific coun­tries on Thursday moved to step up the inter-· national campaign against terror with a new law enforcement center in Indonesia and legal commitments that would make it easier to extradite and prosecute terrorists. 
Delegates at the two-day anti-terror con­ference oo this bomb-scarred tourist island said they hoped the meeting would help keep the terror fight at the top of governments' agendas. 
"This has been a historic meeting. This gives real momentum to the campaign against terrorism," said Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer, who laid a wreath Thursday at a memorial for victims of the October 2002 nightclub bombings on Bali that killed 202 people, including 88 Australians. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Counselor convicted of abuse 
MOBILE, Ala. -A former Roman Catholic high school counselor was convicted Thursday of molesting a 14-year-old student in 1991. 
Brother Nicholas Paul Bendillo, 'who turns 75 next week, could get up to six years in prison on the charges of sexual abuse and enticing a child. 
The former student, Clark Glenn Jr., now 27 and living in New Jersey, testified that Bendillo, known as "Brother Vic," had told him he was concerned about the boy's sex life and the development of his genitals. Glenn said Bendillo molested him and said it would help his condition. 
Va. aliens denied in-state tuition 
HICIIMOND, Va. -Illegal aliens would be barred from attending Virginia's state-sup­ported colleges and universities, and those already in school would be expelled under 
legislation  that  passed  the  House  on  
Thursday.  
The measure, approved on a  71-29 vote  

with strong Republican support, now heads to the Senate. 
Gov. Mark R. Warner, a Democrat, vetoed legislation last year that would have forced illegal and undocumented immigrants living in Virginia to pay out-of-state tuition rates. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Ind. House passes pay raise 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana House passed legislation Thursday that could lead to pay raises for lawmakers, judges and prosecutors. 
The bill, approved 62-33 and sent to the Senate, would establish a commission to set the salaries of legislators, trial and appellate court judges, prosecutors and statewide office holders such as the governor and treasurer. The panel would be appointed by leaders in the three branches of state gov­ernment. 
Under the proposal, none of the raises could take effect until July 2005, and the ini­tial salary increase allowable for lawmakers would take their base pay from $11,600 to $18,544. 
CoMPILED fRO!v1 THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
HAITI 





Revolutionary army occupies city 
Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE -An armed opposition group seized control of Haiti's fourth-largest city Thursday, burning a police station, freeing prisoners and leaving at least four people reported dead and 20 wounded in clashes with police. 
Members of the Gonaives Resistance Front began the assault shortly after noon in Gonaives, setting afire the mayor's home and then dousing the police station with fuel and lighting it while officers fled, Haitian radio reports said. 
At least four opponents of President Jean­Bertrand Aristide were killed in gunbattles with police, Gonaives Resistance Front leader Wynter Etienne told Radio Vision 2000. Radio Metropole reported 20 people were wounded and more than 100 inmates were freed from the jail. A soldier of the Gonaives Resistance Front, which has occupied the city of Gonaives, 
"Gonaives is liberated," aims his rifle in a demonstration calling for President Jean-Bertrand Aristide's resignation. Etienne told reporters in Gonaives. "Aristide has to the government of involve­Gonaiv~s Resistance Front. where in the past year at go ... We've liberated the ment in the killing. At least 55 people have least 25 people have been 
police station and freed Aristide has denied been killed in the killed in violence blamed the population" from involvement, saying only Caribbean country since on a band of anti-Aristide Aristide's rule. the opposition stood to mid-September in clashes former soldiers. 
Etienne said the group gain. between police, protesters Thursday's clashes in aims to take control of Members of the group and Aristide supporters. Gonaives came a day after other towns, while the set fire to both the home of Opposition leaders have Bahamas Foreign Minister government vowed to Gonaives Mayor Stephan demanded Aristide's resig­Fred Mitchell and Colin restore order. Moise and a gas station he nation, accusing his gov­Granderson, assistant sec­
The attacks "are terror­owns, private Radio ernment of incompetence retary general of the ist acts undertaken by the Kiskeya reported. and corruption. Caribbean Community, armed wing of the opposi­The group also set fire to Aristide has refused to concluded talks with the tion," government a hotel where police often step down before his term opposition and met sepa­spokesman Mario Dupuy stay, according to one wit­ends in 2006 and has rately with Aristide. said. ·'The police will have ness who spoke on condi­defended his government, Leaders of the opposition to take measures to re­tion of anonymity. saying it has made Democratic Platform said establish order." Roughly 200,000 people progress despite many in a statement Thursday 
Members of the armed live in Gonaives and sur­obstacles. that during the two days of group were once allied rounding areas. The city Dupuy, the government talks they sought to with Aristide but turned -located 70 miles north­spokesman, said the "explain why Aristide and on him last year after their west of Port-au-Prince -armed attackers in his government have to leader, Amiot Metayer, was has been the site of many Gonaives didn't have the go." The opposition lead­found murdered Sept. 22. protests led by Metayer's support of most people in ers said they would "never Metayer had long support­supporters, who recently the city and linked the engage in any kind of ed Aristide, but many of changed their name from unrest to violence in the negotiation to maintain his followers now accuse the "Cannibal Army" to the nearby Central Plateau, Aristide in power." 


FBI expands ricin investigation 
intern found a small amount of ricin toxic substance with no known anti­
Associated Press 

on a mail-sorting machine in Frist's dote. It can easily be made from cas­
WASHINGTON -Investigators office. But no further ricin or other tor beans. expanded their search Thursday for evidence was in the stacks of letters Although no one has become ill the source of ricin discovered on nearby. from the ricin, nine staffers in Frist's Capitol Hill after intensive testing of Because no answers have come· office have been asked to submit two a Senate office mailroom failed to from mail or items in the mailroom, blood samples to Navy medical turn up the deadly poison's origin. investigators now -must consider if researchers, Frist spokesman Nick 
The ricin was discovered in Senate the ricin was placed on the machine Smith said. The aides were told it Majority Leader Bill Frist's office. by someone or if it had spilled out of was to see if they had developed Law enforcement officials say no let­an older letter and been there for a antibodies to the ricin, which might ter or note has been found indicating long time. If so, investigators would aid in development of an antidote. how it got there, who was behind it have to trace the paths of these older Investigators are interviewing peo­and whether the Tennessee letters, some of which may have ple who visited the buildings before Hepublican was the target. been destroyed. · the ricin's discovery, as well as 
"We're not at the point in time "We are taking a look at every pos­employees. They described everyone where we can say how it was deliv­sible angle," Ma;;on said. so far as cooperative. ered," said Michael Mason, assistant The discovery prompted the clo­One Senate aide who was ques­FBI director in charge of the sure of three Senate office buildings, tioned and spoke on condition of Washington field office. "We have not two of which reopened Thursday. anonymity said he had not been con­found a hot letter." and decontamination procedures for tacted for a second round and knew 
Mail has been the primary focus of staff and Capitol police officers who of no other staffers who were being the probe since Monday, when an were at the scene. Ricin is a highly questioned again. 
... 


'
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 6, 2004 'I 
Blake trial postponed 
Witness e-mails excluded 

after lawyer relieved 
Key witness in 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -The Robert Blake murder case was thrown into disarray Thursday when the judge relieved the actor's defense attorney because of "irreconcilable differences" with his client. 
The action forced an indefi­nite postponement of Blake's trial, which had been scheduled to enter the final phase of jury 
selection Feb. 17. "I'm sorry," Superior Court Judge Darlene  "'I'm sorry. I just did not have a choice in the  Braun, left in November 2002, followed by attor­ney Jennifer  Faneuil came during cross­examination by a defense lawyer who sought to show that the young brokerage  
Schempp  said  matter.··  Keller in January  assistant may have been out  
after stunning the  2003. His fourth  to get Stewart.  
courtroom with her announce­ Darlene Schempp  lawyer could be the toughest to  Faneuil, who handled the questionable stock trade at  
ment. "I just did  judge  find.  the heart of Stewart's trial,  

not have a choice in the matter." 

Schempp set a hearing for Feb. 23, by which time she said she hoped Blake would find a replacement for Thomas Mesereau Jr. 
Schempp spent nearly an hour in her chambers with Blake and Mesereau before announcing her decision. As they left court, neither Blake nor Mesereau would discuss the nature of the dispute that ended their relationship after some 14 months. · 
"I'm very, very 

sorry, that Mr. "How can a new spoke to Blake 
put Ms. Martha in her 
Mesereau left," lawyer get up to after the 
place!!!" 
Blake said outside announcement. 
Shown copies of the e-mails
speed with 6o,ooo
court. "I am "I know what 
in court Thursday, Faneuil 
deeply, deeply pages of was not the rea­
said: ••1 believe I wrote those 
grateful to him for evidence?, son," Cole said. 
words exactly." 
saving my life." .. It was nothing 
The e-mails emerged under 
It was Mesereau pertaining to an 
questioning by a lawyer for
Dana Cole 
who won Blake's evidentiary issue. 
Peter Bacanovic, Stewart's 
Mesereau's former 
release on $1.5 And he does not 
former stockbroker, who is 
million bail after co-counsel want to represent 
accused of ordering Faneuil to 
many months in jail. 

Blake, 70, is charged with shooting his wife, Bonny Lee Bakley, 44, to death as she sat in a car outside an Italian restaurant where the two had just eaten dinner in 2001. Blake is best known for playing a tough-talking cop on the 1970s show ··Baretta." 
The announcement is certain to have a huge impact on the trial. District attorney's spokes-
r 

~--------------------~----------~------~ 
tch * Michael Stars * Juicy Cottture * Rock 
t :::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

JohtlSOil * An11a Sui * 
J.taf~oldshmied * Blue Cult pie* Herve-Chapeli t * Seven Jea11s * Fren_...~,., 

DIRECT FROM EASTERN EUROPE OPERA VERDI EUROPA 

P E RF0 RMI N G PUCCINI'S LA B 0 HEME 
A Contt~lnporary \Votnen)s Boutique Spt~cializing in Designer Clothing and (~ifts
~-~-\_ 
Wednesday, February 11 7:30PM 


Morris Performing Arts Center
312 W. Cleveland Ave. 
For tickets, call 574-235-9190 or toll free at 800-537-6415
Granger, IN 46530 
or you may order tickets at www.MorrisCenter.org
(574) 277-6693 
528 E. Colfax Ave. 
~UNIVERSITY OF
South Bend, IN 46617 
'iG'NOTREDAME
(574) 232-1822 
ImClone shares at $60. Faneuil is the government's Faneuil claims Bacanovic star witness against Stewart ordered him to tell Stewart and Bacanovic, who are the family of the ImClone charged with repeatedly lying founder was dumping his to investigators about why shares. Stewart dumped her ImClone 
As the e-mails from Faneuil stock. were flashed on a giant screen Stewart is accused of work­in the courtroom, Stewart ing with Bacanovic to obstruct maintained the same stoic justice and of deceiving expression she has held investors in her own company, throughout the two-week-old Martha Stewart Living trial. She did not speak to Omnimedia. reporters as she left court. Faneuil has already testified 
Stewart has been mocked by that Bacanovic ordered him pundits, comedians -even in on Dec. 27, 2001, to pass a a campy TV movie -for a secret tip to Stewart that fierce temper. The image is at ImClone founder Sam Waksal odds with the calm, gracious was trying to dump his shares image she has projected for in the company. years in her media outlets and The young assistant has also her line of homemaking prod­testified that Bacanovic ­ucts. without explicitly asking him 
Lawyers  for  to lie -repeat­ 
Bacanovic have described Faneuil as ..fix­ated" on Stewart while he worked  "/ believe I wrote those words exactly ...  edly pressured him to back up his and Stewart's assertion. Defense  
at the broker- lawyers sought to  
age, and were using the e­mails in hopes of convincing  Douglas Faneull prosecution witness  discredit Faneuil as he took the stand for a third day of testimony  
the jury he did  Thursday,  with  
not like Stewart.- Apfel trying  to  

Bacanovic lawyer David introduce e-mails to show Apfel asked Faneuil whether it Faneuil and Bacanovic had a was true Stewart once said joking relationship at work for "something about how bad the months after Stewart's stock hold music was. She told you sale. she was going to leave Mr. One e-mail was a to-do list Bacanovic and leave Merrill that Faneuil had prepared for Lynch unless the hold music his boss, on which he added was changed_'' that Bacanovic could call him 
Faneuil confirmed the any time with questions ­account. Jurors broke up in "but not too early, hee bee." laughter. Another referred Bacanovic to 
In one e-mail to a friend, an article describing a man Faneuil describes Stewart -having sex with a goat. apparently thinking she was But Cedarbaum refused to speaking with Bacanovic allow the e-mails into evi­instead -mocking someone dence, and instructed jurors who answered phones at the not to consider what they had brokerage. heard. 
..This is not a joke!" he quot­Robert Morvillo, Stewart's ed Stewart as saying, just lead lawyer, was expected to before hanging up. "Merrill begin his own cross-examina­Lynch is laying off 10,000 tion of Faneuil on Monday. employees because of people The trial will be in recess like that idiot!" · Friday. 
woman Sandi Gibbons said pre­liminary jury selection that was done weeks ago must now be scrapped, and the new lawyer will have to digest reams of evi­dence in a short period of time. 
"We had no idea this was coming," Gibbons said. ·'It's like being punched in the stomach. It's like having the rug pulled out from under us. We're a lit.:. tie shell-shocked right now." 
Blake's original 

lawyer, Harland 
Stewart trial wrote disparaging e-mails 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The star wit­ness against Martha Stewart testified Thursday that she had berated him at least twice and once even threatened to take her business elsewhere because she didn't like the telephone hold music. 
The testimony by Douglas 
"How can a new 

lawyer get up to speed with 60,000 pages of evi­dence?" said Mesereau's for­mer co-counsel, Dana Cole. "And what highly capable lawyer is going to step into this hornet's nest?" 
Sources close to the case who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty said it was Mesereau's deci­sion to leave the case, and that Blake wanted him to remain. 
Cole, who won a dismissal of charges for Blake's co-defen­
dant, Earle 
Caldwell, said he confirmed that he wrote e­mails to friends describing tirades by the homemaking queen. 

In one e-mail on Oct. 23, 2001, after handling a call from Stewart at Merrill Lynch & Co., Faneuil told a friend: "I have never, ever been treated more rudely by a stranger in my life. She actually hung up on me!" 
Three days later, he wrote to another friend: ··Martha yelled at me again today, but I snapped in her face and she actually backed down! Baby 
himself. But it 

had to be some­thing so significant that the judge would let them do this. 
••It has to be an issue of client control or a colossal ethical issue," Cole said. 
Blake said of his departing giye Stewart the tip that led her to dump all her ImClone Systems stock on Dec. 27, 2001. 
Faneuil initially supported Stewart and Bacanovic's story that they had a deal to sell her 
counsel: "I'm sure Mr. Mesereau will have a great life and a great career. I'm 70 
NDPRESENTS: OPERAAT THE MORRIS
years old. I've learned I have to go forward ... I wish him all the very best." 
A company of 100 performers, mcluding singers, chorus, and orchestra 
.ch Sponsored by " us.Cellulm: 

-AIIIanii*IDimi-IN 

[ 
•·[ 
Friday, February 6, 2004 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
WALL STREET 
\ 





Cisco, Ciena trigger NASDAQ skid
Dow 10 495.55 +24.81 
Jones ' 
Associated Press 1;144 155 • 1,572,510,976 NEW YORK -A tenta­
·-Same: ~ Composite Volume: 
----.. ~;:-·-:-··::~-~---.:..:·>_'·, . "_·;·::.:.:;.;·-:··:···::·-:::-:·"!W.;<;:-:·····. -· ·-· 
tive forecast on business
AMfX 11205A6%< !3_··.·_·7.5·-·..·· 
···}f 

spending from Cisco
NASDAQ 2,019.56 . +5.42 
Systems Inc. hit the tech­
NYSE. 
61 544.28r> +lS.18 
nology sector hard S&PSOO 1,128.59 +2.07 
Wednesday, and the Nasdaq composite index
NIKJ<!.I(Tokyo) 10,464.60 ()'l.bo 
FTSE. IOO(London) 4,384.40 -14.10 
selloff dragged the rest of the market downward in 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
volatile trading. 

CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.08 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.33 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.19 LEVEL 3 COMMS (LVLT) -12.48 JDS UNIPHASE QSDU) -0.42 
, Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.46 I0-YEAR NOTE +1.21 5-YEAR NOTE +2.31 3-MONTH BILL -0.11 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
Excho Rates 
YEN EURO POUND CANADIAN$ 
Cautious investors
-0.26 23.82 
moved to defensive posi­
-0.10 29.92 
tions, with blue chip 
-0.05 26.96 
shares showing greater strength than more specu­
-0.70 4.91 
lative tech and small-cap
-0.02 4.74 
stocks. As earnings season winds down, some analysts say the market may be
+0.23 49.87 
headed for a pause, but 
+0.50 41.74 
despite Wednesday's tech 
+0.72 31.91 
selling, investors don't seem ready to pull out in
-0.01 9.11 
large numbers yet. "Today, there's a lot of 
-0.02 33.08 
indecision. This market is as wimpy as I've seen in a
+2.90 398.80 
long time," said Brian 
+3.00 91.025 
Belski, market strategist at Piper Jaffray. "But there's 
I 05.8 
a lot of pent-up buying demand, lots of inflow into 
0.7967 
the market, so I tend to 
0.5453 
think it's too early to jump 
1.338 
on the correction band­wagon." The Nasdaq tumbled 
52.07, or 2.5 percent, to 2,014.14 -its biggest one-day point loss since Sept. 24, when it closed down 58.02 at 1,843.70. 
IN BRIEF 
Toyota announces revenue jump 
The tech-heavy index was TOKYO-Even a weak dollar couldn't damp at its lowest level in more 
rising profits at Toyota Motor Corp.·, which than a month, but was still 
reported a 60 percent surge in net income 
up 0.5 percent for the during the latest quarter on robust sales 
year.

worldwide. 
The Dow Jones industri­
The world's second-biggest automaker, 
al average finished down behind General Motors Corp., said Thursday 
34.44, or 0.3 percent, at 
its net profit totaled 286.4 billion yen ($2. 7 bil­
10,470.74, while the 
lion) in the October-December period, up from 
Standard & Poor's 500 
179.3 billion yen a year ago. 
index lost 9.51, or 0.8 per­Sales rose 8 percent to 4.39 trillion yen cent, to 1,126.52.
($41.6 billion) from 4.05 trillion yen, and the The Nasdaq's slump on Japanese automaker raised its vehicle sales 
Cisco's less-than-stellar 
forecast for the current fiscal year. 
forecast underscores that 
The rising sales offset the impact of a strong "a lot of good news is yen, which hurts Japanese exporters by erod­priced in, and any sort of ing the value of their overseas earnings. The disappointment can affect dollar was trading at about 109 yen during the prices disproportionately," latest quarter, down from about 123 yen the 
said Brian Pears, head 
same period a year ago. 

• 
EPA 

John Chambers, CEO of Cisco Systems USA, attended a meeting of the World Economic Forum Jan. 25. Cisco's poor earnings statement fueled a bad day for the Nasdaq. 
equity trader at Victory Ca.pital Management in Cleveland. 
"Broadly speaking, I still feel pretty good; the econ­omy is clearly growing at this point," Pears said, adding that he would be keeping an eye on the gov­ernment payroll report due Friday. "I think the market's going to hold its breath until we get those numbers." 
Corporate earnings have beaten forecasts overall and economic numbers have 'been consistently strong>. A better-than­expected .rise in factory orders for December, reported Wednesday by the Commerce Department, offered fur­ther evidence that the recovery remains on track. 
Cisco Systems dropped $2..33, or 8.8 percent, to $24.08, although its earn­ings beat Wall Street's expectations. Industry observers had watched the results for signs that busi­nesses were investing more in tech, but the net­working equipment com­pany indicated any rebound in spending remains uncertain. 
Another significant decliner in the Nasdaq was Ciena Corp., which plum­meted $1.30, or 18 per­cent, to $5.99, after the
• 
telecommunications equip­ment maker warned investors that its first­quarter revenues were likely to drop below fore~ casts. The company blamed the shortfall on the timing of a single order. 
Tech stocks on the Dow also fell. Hewlett-Packard Co. skidded 72 cents to $23.19, while Intel Corp. dropped $1.34 to $30.02 and Microsoft Corp. fell 28 cents to $27.01. 
McDonald's Corp·. rose 26 cents to $26.41 after Smith Barney raised its price target. for the fast­food retailer, citing a fran­chisee survey that points to strong sales momentum. 
I 

National retail sales continue strong NEW YORK-Consumers lured by record­breaking cold temperatures and clearance 
AUTOMOTIVE 

sales continued their spending spree in 
January, lifting sales well above expectations for many of the nation's retailers. Even those merchants who lagged the competition in 
Dana taps Burns for top job
recent months did well. 
Some of the big surprises came from May Department Stores Inc., Sears, Roebuck and Co., and teen retailer Abercrombie & Fhch, all of which reported results that soared past Wall Street estimates. There were a few disap­pointments, including Talbots Inc., which blamed sharper-than-expected sales declines on its lack of winter inventory. 
Pepsi reports strong fourth quarter 
NEW YOHK-Buoyed by strong gains in its Frito-Lay snacks unit and its North American beverage unit, PepsiCo Inc. posted a 30 per­cent rise in fourth-quarter earnings. 
Net income stood at $897 million, or 51 cents a share, at the close of the quarter, up from $689 million, or 39 cents a share, a year earlier, the Purchase, N.Y.-based company said Thursday. Revenue rose 9.4 percent to $8.07 billion from $7.38 billion. 
Associated Press 

TOLEDO, Ohio -Auto parts maker Dana Corp. has selected the head of GM Europe to become its new chief executive officer and president, the company said Wednesday. 
Mike Burns, 51, will replace for­mer Dana CEO Joseph Magliochetti, who died Sept. 22 after developing pancreatitis. 
Burns, president of GM Europe since 1998, will take over at Dana on March 1. 
"Mike Burns has the leadership 
• skills, depth of industry experience, international acumen, energy and personal qualities to lead Dana for­ward," said Glen Hiner, Dana's act­ing board chairman. 
Toledo-based Dana fought off an unwanted takeover bid last year. -.ArvinMeritor Inc., a Troy Mich.­based supplier of shocks, struts, suspensions and exhaust systems, dropped a a $2.2 billion hostile takeover bid in November. 
Dana has about 4,500 Indiana employees and operations in Andrews, Avilla, Churubusco, Danville, Fort Wayne, Syracuse, Elkhart, Marion, Mishawaka and Mitchell. 
Dana, which makes parts such as brakes and axles, had struggled in recent years because of auto indus­try slowdowns. 
Two years ago it began eliminat­ing 11,000 jobs through plant clos­ings and consolidations. Those reductions came on top of about 10,000 job cuts because of declining auto production and slow U.S. sales. 
In October, Dana reported sharply higher third-quarter earnings, cred­iting its restructuring plan. 
Dana sales totaled about $10 bil­lion in 2002, and it employs more than 60,000 people worldwide. 
Dana's board also announced Wednesday that Hiner, the board's acting chairman since September, will continue in this role. 
William Carroll, who was acting president since September, will retire in March. 
1•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• :~ •••• 1 l.~~~~~~:~~----------------------------------~-~~:-~~:­
0 

Friday, February 6, 2004 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Super Bowl halftime 
\ 

f outrage continues 
The fallout continued
Associated Press 

Thursday: 
NEW YORK -The one-sec­+ CBS, already facing an FCC ond flash of Janet Jackson's probe for the halftime show, breast at the Super Bowl could said it would broadcast end up putting the brakes on Sunday's Grammy Awards with years of plunging standards in a five-minute delay to allow the down-and-dirty entertain­time to edit out any offensive ment industry. images. Jackson had been 
"This particular event might scheduled to appear on the b~. for the moment, the straw show, but her publicist, Steven that broke the camel's back on Huvane, said Thursday she the patience of the audience," would not attend. said talk show host Carson Daly, + A banker from Knoxville, a veteran pres-Tenn., filed a class ence on MTV, action lawsuit which produced against Jackson,
"Tolerance ofthis
the offending half­dance partner
sort ofsexual
time show. Justin Timberlake, 
"Tolerance of this imagery may have CBS, halftime 
sort of sexual reached its peak. ,, show producers 
imagery may have MTV and the net­reached its peak." works' parent 
Beryllium found at plant 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The toxic metal beryllium has been detected in everyday produc­tion equipment at one of two government uranium plants, and it could be sickening plant workers, Energy Department officials said Thursday. 
The beryllium was discov­ered last month in aluminum blades used to produce enriched uranium at the plant in Piketon, Ohio, said William Murphie, the Energy Department official who over­sees cleanup efT{)rts at the Ohio nuclear facility and a plant in Paducah, Ky. 
Murphie said the agency had not thought the metal was present at the Ohio plant, believing it was only· found in areas of the sprawling Paducah plant where old weapons work 
had been performed. ed positive for the disease, "This was in fact a surprise Murphie said. to us," Murphie said Thursday. Murphie said the area in the 
The Louisville Courier­Piketon plant where the berylli­Journal first reported the dis­um was detected last month covery of the beryllium in its has since been cordoned off Thursday edition. and similar steps were taken 
Murphie said USEC Inc .. a . protectively at the Paducah Bethesda, Md.-based company plant. that runs the government He said further testing will be plant, made the discovery. He done at both plants. said it started testing work "We're still just at the very areas in Paducah and Piketon beginning of the sampling pro­after the workers' union gram up there," Murphie said. shared the results of screen­"We may well find it in some of ings it had conducted. the other places." 
More than a dozen current Beryllium has been used to and former workers had beryl­make triggers for nuclear lium sensitivity, Murphie said. weapons, nuclear plant rods Blood tests indicated their bod­and computer circuit boards. It ies have formed a reaction to is not dangerous in solid form, the metal and they could devel­but its dust can cause serious op chronic beryllium disease respiratory ailments if inhaled. later. The scarring lung disease Government regulations call for can be fatal. tight controls and protection 
One worker at each site test-for workers from the metal. 
Carson Daly

Unlike other company, Viacom. 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·,
milestones of talk show host Terri Carlin said 
indecency -rock star Bono using the f-word on the 2003 Golden Globes.. or Madonna and Britney Spears tongue-kissing on MTV -Jackson chose to reveal her­self before the largest TV audi­ence of the year. 
And she did it precisely when federal authorities are mulling a crackdown on broadcast inde­cency. 
The Jackson case could have a "galvanizing effect" on the move to toughen standards, said FCC Commissioner Michael Copps, who has complained his commission has been toothless in responding to complaints. 
At the very least, he said, it punctures the argument of peo­ple who say that those who are bothered by things on TV just shouldn't watch. 
"How do you turn off the Super Bowl?" Copps asked. 
"There is going to be a nation­al conversation on this," said Brent Bozell, president of the Parents Television Council, which has long complained about sex and violence on the tube. "I think what this has done is sensitized the public." 
the "sexually 

explicit conduct" by the performers caused mil­lions of people to "suffer out­rage, anger, embarrassment and serious injury." 
+ 
NBC cut a scene from Thursday's "ER" that showed an elderly patient's breast, saying the current atmosphere made it too difficult for affiliates to air the segment. 

+ 
ABC said it would add a delay for its Feb. 29 broadcast of the Academy Awards. TNT also said it was considering a delay for the entertainment portion of the NBA All-Star Game, featuring 


· Beyonce, OutKast and Christina Aguilera. 
+ 
The NFL cut a halftime pro­duction number by one of Timberlake's 'N Sync band­mates, JC. Chasez, planned for Sunday's Pro Bowl in Honolulu, because Chasez's song con­tained the words "horny" and "naughty." He'll be replaced by hula dancers and local singers. 

+ 
AOL spokesman Jim Whitney declined to comment on reports that the company would seek a refund of the $7.5 million it paid to sponsor the hillftime show. 


THE JOHN MARSHALL LAW SCHOOL 




Open House 
S )ring 2 004 
The John Marshall Law School invites you to attend an open house to learn how flexible schedules, groundbrcak:ing specialties and 21st century curricula can help you in your career. 
Saturday, Feb. 7; 10 a.m. to noon Thursday, Feb. 12; 6 -8 p.m. 
Students md faculty will share their insights into John Marahall's day and evening programs, give tours ofthe f.lcilities, and answer your questions about the law school. 




Looking for a job or internship? 
ImmediateApplication Deadlines for Top Notch.Companiesl 
Apply via Golrish by logging on to http://careercenter.nd.edu Questions? Call the Career Center 631-5200 
Application Deadlines 
Accenture-Internship 2/6 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG 
FPL Group-FIT Epic Sys terns -FIT 2/10 ENG 2/6 A&L, BUS, S~I, ENG Only 14 applicants 26 students have applied 
Progressive -FIT Honeywell -Internship 2/10 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG 2/6' BUS, ENG, SCI 22 applicants for 42 slots 
Abercrombie -FIT Travelers Insurance-FIT 2/7 BUS 2/13 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG 13 applicants for 26 slots Only 19 applicants 
Group One Trading-F/T
General Reinsurance-F/T 2/14 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG, Grad 
2/9 A&L, Bus, SCI, ENG Only 6 students have applied 
ONLY 6 applicants 

Target-Internship Starcom Media-F/T
2/10 A&L, BUS 

2/14 A&L ONLY 4 students have applied 
Schlumberger-FIT 2/10 SCI ENG 


THAI RESTAURANT 
NOW HIRING EXPERIENCED 
WAIT STAFF 

211 N. Main Downtown South Bend 


232-4445 


Friday, l;ebruary 6, 2004 page9
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 

Frist staffer to resign over leaked memos 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -One of Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist'~ key staffers will resign Friday because of an investiga­tion in to how Republicans gained access to Democratic memos concerning opposition to President Bush's judicial nomi­nees. 
Manuel Miranda, who worked for the Tennessee Republican on judicial nominations, has been on leave since late last month because of the investigation into how Democratic memos stored on a computer server shared by Judiciary Committee members ended up in GOP hands. 
But Miranda, a former GOP Judiciary staffer who trans­ferred to Frist's leadership office, offered his resignation and will leave Frist's office as of Friday, Frist spokesman Bob Stevenson said Thursday. 
A message left at Miranda's home was not immediately returned. He told The Knoxville News-Sentinel on Thursday he resigned to spare Frist. 
"I have departed so as not to distract the majority leader from pursuing the needed legislative agenda for the American peo­ple," Miranda told the Tennessee newspaper. "I cer­tainly did not want to burden Senator Frist with matters relat­ed to my work op the staff of Senator Orrin Hatch." 
He told the same newspaper in January that investigators were looking at work he per­formed for the .Judiciary Committee before he joined Frist's office. "There was no stealing," he said. "No systemat­ic surveillance. I never forward­ed these memos -period." 
Senate Judiciary Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, began the investigation in November after Sens. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., protested what they said was the theft of the memos from their servers. The memos, con­cerning political strategy on blocking confirmation of several of President Bush's judicial nominations, were obtained and reported on by The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Times. 
Conservatives have talked up the memos as proof the Democrats colluded with outside liberal groups in their choices of which Bush appellate nominees to block. 
Hatch, the Judiciary chair­man, also placed an aide on leave late last year for improp­erly obtaining data from the computer networks of two Democratic senators. That aide, who has not been identified, has since left government work, offi­cials said. 
Senate Sergeant-at-Arms William Pickle has been working with the Secret Service and out­side investigators since November to try and determine how the Democratic memos got to Republicans. A report is expected to go to Hatch's Judiciary Committee in about two weeks, officials said. 
Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle of South Dakota said he would wait until that report is finished before deciding whether Miranda's resignation will satisfy Democrats. "At that time, we'll be in a better posi­tion to make an assessment of not only the investigation, but of the actions taken consequently," Daschle said. 
Pentagon nixes 'e-voting' 
Associated Press 
Citing security concerns, the Pentagon has canceled Internet voting that would have involved as many as 100,000 military and overseas citizens from seven states in November, a Defense Department official said Thursday. 
The announcement comes two 
weeks after outside security 
experts urged the program's 
cancellation in a scathing report. 
They said hackers or terrorists 
could penetrate the system and 
change votes or gather informa­
tion about users. At the time, the 
Pentagon said it felt confident 
enough to proceed. 
But Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz has since decid­ed to scrap the system because Pentagon officials were not cer­tain they could "assure the legit­imacy of votes that would be cast," said a Pentagon official who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The official said alternative voting systems will now be con­sidered, possibly using the Internet as welL The official could not say when, if ever, such a system would be ready. 
Accenture eDemocracy Services, the vendor that built the system, issued a statement indicating testing will continue. 
"This is now an opportunity to demonstrate that the Internet is viable, valuable and secure enough to use for filing absentee ballots," said Meg McLaughlin, the Accenture unit's president. "We are confident that sending absentee ballots via the Internet is just as secure and reliable as sending them by mail." 
Computer scientists were elat­ed. 
"We certainly share their desire to make sure that our military people have the oppor­tunity to vote in the national About 6 million U.S. voters live election, but it's always been our overseas, most of them mem­contention that we're not doing bers of the military or their rela­them any favor by providing tives. them an insecure system on The report from Simons and which to vote," said Barbara three other experts on a 1O­Simons, one .of four co-authors member Pentagon peer-review of the critical Pentagon voting panel said Internet voting could report and a former president of not be made secure -at least the Association for Computing using today's technology -pri-
Machinery.  marily because  
The  Secure  the Internet and  
Electronic Registration and Voting Experiment, or SERVE, was  "We are confident that sending absentee ballots  personal comput­ers are inherent­ly vulnerable to hackers and  
designed to help overseas citizens vote in U.S. elec­tions. Nearly one  via the Internet is just as secure and reliable as sending  viruses. The experts specified these central risks,  
in.three overseas soldiers registered  them by mail. ,  among others: + There is  no  
to vote in the 2000 presidential elec­ Meg Mclaughlin  way to verify that the vote recorded  
tion didn't receive  vice president of  inside the system  
ballots in tin1e.  system vendor  is the  same  as  

In a smaller Internet voting trial conducted that same year by the Pentagon's Federal Voting Assistance Program, 84 citizens submitted online ballots to Florida, South Carolina, Texas and Utah. 
This year's $22 million trial, also overseen by the Pentagon agency, was to have covered 50 counties in Arkansas, Florida, Hawaii, North Carolina, South Carolina, Utah and Washington. It would have been open to non­military Americans abroad and military personnel stationed at 
U.S. and foreign bases. Any Internet-connected computer running Windows operating sys­tems, including at a cybercafe, could have been used for voting. 
The system was to be ready for the general elections and possibly later primary states, though it had not been certified in time for use in Tuesday's South Carolina primary. 
the one cast by the voter. 

+ It might be possible for hack­ers to determine how a particu­lar individual voted, "an obvious privacy risk." 
+The system may be vulnerable to attacks from many quarters, some undetectable. Stealth pro­grams as trojan horses that har­vest data are sometimes installed on public computer ter­minals. 
Doug Lewis, executive director of the Houston-based Election Center research group, said the Pentagon decision will likely set back Internet voting. Many states had been awaiting the results of the trial before com­mitting to widespread online voting. 
Michigan Democrats already have begun online voting lead­ing up to Saturday's caucuses, which are run by the party and are thus not subject to. election certification requirements. 
HAPPY 

BIRTHDAY 
DONNY! 
I LOVE AND MISS YOU 

Open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students 
Bring your IDI $3.00 Skate Rental 
' .. 

page 10 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 6, 2004 Friday, February 6, 2004 
page 11 

UNITED KINGDOM 
Donors may transmit CJD 
Blood may pass on human variant of mad cow disease 
Associated Press 
LONDON --British scientists studying how the human form of mad cow disease is transmitted say some people could be pass­ing the illness through blood donations. 
Although it has not been proven that the brain-wasting variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease can be transmitted through transfusion, the scien­tists did find a case in which a blood donor and the recipient died of it. 
In that case, the donor gave blood more than three years before he developed symptoms, the scientists said in their report in Fridafs Lancet medical jour­nal. 
The researchers, led by Professor Robert Will at the National CJD Surveillance Center in Edinburgh, wrote that "although the epidemic of vCJD presently seems to be in decline, a proportion of the U.K. popula­tion could be incubating vCJD and acting as blood donors." 
The scientists based their study on records from United Kingdom blood services and the national CJD surveillance unit. 
The report said 48 people had been identified as having received blood from 15 donors who later developed the variant disease. 
By December 2003, all but 17 of the recipients had died but vCJD was the cause of death in only one case. The disease can only be confirmed during an autopsy by examining brain tis­sue. 
"Our findings raise the possi­bility that this infection was transfusion transmitted," the report says, adding that infection also "could have been due to past dietary exposure" to BSE. 
Scientists already believe peo­ple can get variant CJD from eat­ing products from cows infected with a similar illness, bovine spongiform encephalopathy ­BSE-or mad cow disease. 
Statistical analysis indicated that the odds of the man not being infected by his blood transfusion were between one in 15,000 and one in 30,000. 
In an accompanying independ­ent commentary, Dr. Adriano Aguzzi and Dr. Markus Glatzel from the University Hospital of Zurich in Switzerland, said, "the chance that this case is not transfusion-related is very small." 
"Shocking as it may be," they wrote, "the finding that vCJD can be transmitted via blood transfusion is not surprising. Stringent studies in sheep show that prion diseases" -such as CJD --"can be transmitted via blood, even if blood is collected in preclinical stages of prion dis­ease." 
Besides the transfusions, 20 units of plasma from people who later developed variant CJD were used to make blood prod­ucts before 1998, when Britain stopped using British blood, the Lancet report said. 
The scientists said that before 1998, "many thousands of indi­viduals may have been exposed" to blood products "derived from pools containing a donation from an individual incubating vCJD." 
So far, they said, no case of variant CJD has been identified as connected to exposure to such plasma products. The risks from plasma products are probably less than from transfusion, they added. 

Valentine's Day is Coming! 
To find the perfect gift for your snookums, come to 







Irish Gardens 
Ftowers =*Balloons =* Potpoum· ~Betta Fish=* Chocalate 
Preorders accepted until Thursday, Feb.12 Walk-in orders after Feb. 12 are limited to roses and pre-made bouquets. Preorder Today! 
Irish Gardens 
.. 

1ocated on the Lower Leve1 ofLafortune 574-631-4004 flowershop. nd. edu. M CjVt"sa accepted 
GERMANY 


Rumsfeld: Relations with Europe normal 
Associated Press 
MUNICH -U.S. relations 
with Europe, severely strained 
by the Iraq war, are now "fair­
ly normal," Defense Secretary 
Donald Rumsfeld said 
Thursday. 
He has embarked on a three­
nation European tour aimed in 
part at smoothing relations 
with Germany and other coun­
tries that were upset by the 
U.S. decision to invade Iraq and by postwar issues. 
Differences between allies 
are inevitable, Rumsfeld said 
in an interview en route here 
from Washington, and he dis­
missed suggestions that a 
major diplomatic effort will be 
required to mend fences. 
Rumsfeld flew here for a 
meeting of NATO defense min­
isters on Friday and for the 
weekend Munich Conference 
on Security Policy, which 
attracts officials, analysts and 
military leaders from around 
the globe. 
Throughout NATO's 55-year history, he said, the trans­Atlantic relationship "has gone from little difficulties to things better, from little difficulties to things better -it's been a pat­tern over my entire adult life­time. 
"I would say the relation­ships right now are fairly nor­mal." 
Rumsfeld also said that although NATO may get more involved in Iraq at some point, "Its first task really is to do well [in] the Afghanistan task" of leading the International Secu.rity Assistance Force in Kabul, the Afghan capital, and managing civil aid teams in several provinces. 
Rumsfeld said he expected Iraq to be a major topic of dis­cussion during his two days in Munich. On Sunday he is scheduled to travel to Zagreb, Croatia, followed by meetings in London on Monday. 
When he spoke to the Munich con~rence one year ago, Rumsfeld was critical of Europeans who favored giving United Nations inspectors 


The Office ofStuQeQt Activities is currently accepting new club proposals. If you have an idea for a club, '\.vhosc purpose is not cwTcntly served by an existing club, the Club C<?ordination Council encour-ages the subnussion ofa nev,· club proposal tu the Student Activities Office for review. More iuforrnation can be found at: ''"'"'v.nd.edu/-saotclubshlC"\'I:club.hln1 All requirements umst be con1pleted before the nc·w club proposal w-ill be reviewed, including: 
Budget List of planned e"\'entsiactivities Advisor List of officers Byla,vs and purpose statement 
Submit the required infonnation to .Amy Geist, 314 LaFortune, by Spm Friday February 13, 2004 for review this year. The next new club review '"ill not occur until January 2005. Contact the Student Activities Office with any questions! 

more time to determine 
whether Iraq possessed chemi­
cal. biological or nuclear 
weapons. Delay, Rumsfeld said, 
"could well make war more 
likely, not less, because delay­
ing preparations [for war] 

sends a signal of uncertainty 
instead of a signal of resolve." 
About one month later, U.S. 

forces invaded, toppling 
Saddam Hussein's regime. So 
far no weapons of mass 
destruction have been found in 
Iraq, and the head of the U.S. 
search team, David Kay, told 

Congress last week that it 
appears that the administra­
tion ·s prewar claims were 
erroneous. 
The political backdrop to 
Rumsfeld's return to Munich is 
the Bush administration's 
struggle to get past the divi­
sive ness and mistrust that 
remain among U.S. allies over 
the Iraq war and Bush's han­
dling of its aftermath. 
France, Germany and 
Belgium -all NATO members 
-strongly opposed going to 
war last year, and the French 
and German governments are 
against committing NATO 
troops to Iraq in a peacekeep­
ing role. 
France and Germany also 
were angered at Bush's deci­
sion to prohibit them from bid­
ding on postwar reconstruction 
contracts financed by the U.S. 
government. The White House 
later said it was reconsidering 
its position, but there has been 
no announced decision to allow 
French or German companies 
to bid. 
The administration wants 
wider international support for 
its postwar efforts, including 
troop contributions. A number 
of NATO countries, led by 
Britain, Spain and Poland, 
have deployed troops to Iraq, 
but NATO as an institution has 
so far not taken a direct role in 
helping stabilize the country. 
Some private analysts say there is a danger that as the United States tries to draw NATO into conflicts far from its traditional area of interest ­inside the borders of Europe ­the trans-Atlantic relationship that is the foundation of NATO could unravel. 
Anthony Cordesman, a mili­tary analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, wrote in a recent report that the Bush adminis­tration's effort to get NATO more directly involved in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere in the Middle East will "invoke countless aspects of the law of unintended consequences." 
"While it is acting from self-· ish motives. the United States is defining tangible power pro­jection missions far beyond the periphery of NATO for the first time since the end of the Cold War," he wrote. 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL ++sPRING BREAK++ Book early and save$$! Suites up to u people, 3 pools, huge beachfront hot­tub, lazy river ride, water slide, jet skis, parasail. Sandpiper-Beacon Beach Resort 
800-488-882.8 
www.sandpiperbeacon .com 


THE OBSERVER Student surveys commendable 
P.O> Box Q; Notre Dame, IN 465-56 

Residential life is both a tradition and hallmark ofNotre Dame. It her of focus groups.
024 So~ Dinlf% H:a.ll. Norte. Dame, lN 4655Q ·.· · 

fosters the family community that Notre Dame boasts about and the But this is not a situation like the alcohol policy. The administra­
EDITOR IN CHIEf. ·. 

friendships that last long after students leave the University. tion is making a concerted effort to genuinely gauge student opinion
Andrew Soukup · •·..•..•·: > • •• · 
However, traditions can sour when they have not been refreshed. via wider surveys and more representative focus groups. Essentially MANAGING EDJTOR BustN£SS MANAfu:Jt The administration realizes that residential life at Notre Dame could administrators want to hear the voice of the students and in Scott Brodfuehr¢~: · .LOri· L.ewal6ki fall victim to this fate and should be commended for seeking student response students cannot overlook the opportunity to participate 
AssT. MAN!..GlNG Eorroa 
input on the future of residential life at Notre Dame. and must be honest and forthcoming. These officials Sheila Flynn Within the next two weeks, 1,000 students will be OJhe do not have to seek student opinion, but they want to 
userver

given the opportunity to reply to a survey about the and that are enthusiastic about it 
NEWS.EnrroR: Meghanne Downes 

quality of residential life and what changes they These surveys and focus groups are examples of VIEWPOINT EDITOR: SarahVabl.llas 
. . . .. would like to see in the future. how the gap between the administration and stu­

Editorial
SPORTS. ED11UR: Joe He~det . 

Beginning last fall, a group of administrators, fac­dents can be decreased; however, the administration ScENf. EDITOR: Maria.Smirh. · ulty members and students met regularly to discuss what the four must continue to work to foster closer ties with students. The · SAINT MARY's EnrroR: ArindieSC:Woolford··· 
proposed residential complexes that were announced in the responses that are given in the surveys and focus groups must be PHoro EDITOR: Tim KaC:inar University's 10-year strategic plan would look like. This committee considered and applied to these future plans or students will lose . · GRAPHICs EnrtoRt Mik~ HarkliW ·•·· understands that students must be consulted because they are the faith in their administrators. ·•· ·· ADVERI1S1NG MANAGER: Maura Cci1eddla•····. best sources for ideas to maintain the tradition of residential life. Notre Dame's effort to reach out to students in this matter is com· An OESJGN MANAGER: Tom Haight Students constantly criticize the administration for neither consult­mendable. It is giving students the opportunity to help draft the SVS'J1lMS AoMINIS'FllAT()Jt; Ted Bang.ert ing nor listening to them. This criticism turned to public outcry fol­blueprints for four proposed residential complexes, but more impor­Wt:a ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto lowing the announcement of the alcohol policy changes in March tantly it is letting students play a role in enhancing residential life for CoNTRDW:R: Paula Garcia 2002. Yes, students were consulted, but only through a limited num-futw·e students. 
CONTACT.US 


•. OFACE MANAGER & GENEhAL 
lNFO ' . (?74} ~~1~7471 ·. 
'!\ 
fAx· ..••.. ·. ' I . <574)631~6927 . ' '· ADVERSTISiNif 

Happy ValenHog Day
o~d@~d,¢u · 
EDITOR IN CHIEF. 

{574)631·454~ ·. ·.· ... •· ··· MAMIIGiNG Eouorf& AssisTANT MANAGING Eo1roR Scholars dispute whether Jesus intended giate endeavor kno\\n as "Spring Break," black light, can be found to reveal render­
::(\.•::;:;.; :(574} 631454 L •obsme@nd.edu. ··.. · 

........ > : < to found a new religion, or merely proposed representing an attempt to retrieve this ings ofthe Cupinhog·. often sitting, anned
< BIJSIIfESS OFACE a reform movement within Judaism. It is experience, albeit at much greater expense with bow and arrow, astride an unknowing
.; ..•.... ·····: {5,74) 631~ 5313 ..•. ·. . 

. · < NEWS DESK . unlikely that either action resulted from a and with the noted absence of furry wood­cow. Other forces sought to destroy any drunken bet. That is the rumor that many land creatures. record ofthe secret, including the Vatican,
•.• ;.•.:.•:•.::·•····•=•••(5.~,~··§.~t-?3.tit£~rit3r~8ls~A4~~4~• ·•· .. 

claim as the basis The Cupinhog, whom archeologists Hallmark, FID, the Punxsutawney 
· ··· .· {574}631;.5303 viewpoin~.l~nd:edu · · 

ofL Ron believe to have stood about four feet tall, Groundhog Oub, Health Department
..·. . SPORTS Duk> .··.· . 


John lnfranca
Hubbard's cre­was covered in a very large amount of Restaurant Inspectors and Colonel Sanders.
C57'4H)3f-45•t3· ,;p<>rr.s.l@nd.edu< ·. 

ation of shaggy fur, which some credit for the later Their activities drove the Cupinhogs to relo­
•·•·•. .•·• SCUiE DESK . 

Scientology. I do romantic connotations ofshag carpeting. cate once again to a location that is now not feel qualified to Dissident Common people would spend much time unknown, but where they are believed to determine Poetry during this two week period chasing reside with Jimmy Hoffa, Marilyn Monroe whether this is Cupinhogs with the hope of plucking a hair and Elvis. true. It is clear that from the animal. It was believed that plant­Elements of the ValenHog tradition per­Hubbard created a religion, a task I deem ing such a hair in one's field would promise sisted into the 1960s. Most notable among beyond my abilities. Instead I have decided plentiful crops in the coming spring. Others these was the association of virility and to create a new holiday, a task perhaps no claimed that planting such a hair in the romance with hair. Sean Connery­less laudable. I call it ValenHog. ValenHog food of one's lover would intoxicate the per­believed to be a keeper of the secret-and 
~ i 
combines two of the least consequential son with passion for the plucker. Vestiges of other factions made a valiant stance as the
! • ~ 
.: 
holidays in existence: Groundhog Day and this belief can still be found in restaurants last of the hairy-chested leading men before 
~: Valentines Day. It is a rejection of the throughout the United States. 
finally succumbing to the forces of
' 
extreme marketing of one and an attempt As Christianity spread through Fabio and others who adorn the to retrieve the Earth-centered spirituality Northern Europe, the ValenHog covers of Men's Journal and sim-that is vital to the other. What follows is the celebration came under attack. ilar fare and who have con­brief history ofValenHog. The Churchjoined with early sciously redefined late twenti· 
Most historians date the origins of greeting card manufacturers eth century romantic chest ValenHog to a few centuries before the in assailing the beloved ani­hair discourse. Hence as the The l:le\Y.s ·is· t:e•portieda.S w;cUral:d]~#d()l>jeli:i~¥4Yas< ·•· 
Common Era. Its celebration is recorded in mal, believed to be lustful as result of clever marketing
possible. Uruigned edit<Jti.;ils reprc:sell~ 

now-destroyed Norse mythology, and refer­well as illiterate and hence and abject rejection of the 

. the majority ofthe E£litoi fu · 
ences to ValenHog persist in Druid texts unable to write notes to those "sacred furry" ValenHog day
Auistani: Managing Editor lind &pa.trrr'lenr 
erur.ors> 

through the Middle Ages. Early celebration whose love he sought and has nearly faded from memory.
.•.(:qmmentaries, lc:rtcn and c:ohu)]m present the 

• •of the: authOr$ and not n~ilyth®e of'flw • marked the end of the hibernation period of therefore an unviable potential Perhaps my pretension to the Observer. . . .. · ·· ·• · a mysterious figure know as the Cupinhog consumer for any developed mar­creation of such a holiday seems a / .·• y-IeWpoint space is a,wilabie to a!LreaJers~ The free . (Druid: Kupynhagh). Known among other keting scheme. Eventually Cupinhogs silly and ridiculous venture. I offer expression ofall opinions through !etten is eit'ooiaged. · things for his fierce temper and intense were driven underground-metaphorical­that it is no more so than the one billion 
•... Leftef$ to dkEditor ~~t be signed and must inCht£le virility, the Cupinhog's greatest concerns fol­ly speaking, as they already lived under­greeting cards purchased each year for
conracrinfiitmarion> . .... .. . . . . . 

lowing months alone underground were ground-and many sought refuge in other Valentine's Day. The four dollars spent on a 
f 
f, 
romantic rather than culinary. While other parts of the world. It is widely believed that piece of folded paper makes even textbooks creatures dined he went in search oflove, a number of Cupinhogs escaped to the seem reasonably priced. ValenHog at the armed with arrow heads formed from United States, arriving long prior to the first very least aspires to creativity. That and a sharpened acorns. As might be imagined, human Europeans and establishing com­kiss on the lips from a lovelorn Cupinhog he was often less than successful. munities in the Pittsburgh area. are perhaps all one can hope for this day.
·..· '1,._ ~MI'$.S9'Jl<~) ~p.,hh~~ ~,til~ ~,;.;r-·A~<i>~g . 
{. 
·.·•····~··••lmii<iRl>Ci~A~;.;.;.,n.~~li~witf<i®e....a.;.~.;;;.· 
·· If he was unable to find love within a fort­Soon the holiday ofValenHog was Happy ValenHog Day. I night-a period of time known best to Christianized and later separated into two 
l'OStM.\51'£11.

' 
I • s-t~.....,;:c~iiiw readers of Victorian novels-he returned holidays: Groundhog Day and Valentine's John Jnfranca is a theology graduate stu­Tloi Obo'e....r ..· • ·· •·•· ·· • dent. His column appears every other
to his hole, extending winter as well as his Day. Still a small group of individuals strug­
OO.Ho>tQ. . . .) . 

914 SIKUI. D~idt :H~ •..· own sexual frustrations. This two week gled to keep alive the true story of the Friday. He can be contacted at 
Nouo ~.IN 46~56-9/?9 


period ofromantic wandering, marked by Cupinhog, revealing the mystery in various jinfranl@nd.edu.
1: 
unseasonably warm weather, was known art fonns. Keepers of this secret are The views expressed in this column are as ''The Tlffie Between the Frosts," which believed to include the cartoonist Gary those ofthe author and not necessarily eventually gave rise to the American colle-Larson, whose work, when held under a those ofThe Obseroer. 

News Graphics··· 
OBSERVER POLL

Joe Trombello Mike Harkins· Will Puckett Sports What residence hall
Matthew ·Heather options would you like to see
Smedberg Van Hoegarden 
at Notre Dame?

Viewpoint ~· Kate Gales Nicole Qery Anne Lougherty A. All senior housing 13% illw,1rator Scene B. Full kitchens I baths 31% 
C. No parietals I extended
Katie Knorr Maria Smith 
parietals 56% 
*Courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 216 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
..Too often we ... enjoy the comfort of opin­ion without the discomfort of thought'' 
John F. Kennedy former U.S. president 

----~ 
GUEST COLUMN 
-

What I know about racial preferences 
In response to the recent spate of affirmative action articles in The Observer-some of which, I must say, were deeply disturbing-I felt the need to weigh in. At some level, these debates revolve around questions of racial preference, something I know a good deal about. Yes, I 
Tom Guglielmo

research, write and 
teach about race in the 
United States. But, per­
haps more importantly, American 
I'm an authority on Studies 
racial preferences 
because, as a white per­
son, I receive them each and everyday. 
Here's what I know. For starters, having sub­stantial savings or wealth makes one's life a whole lot easier. I also know that, like most peo­ple, much of my wealth comes from what I inher­it from family members. Because my ancestors never faced severe or systematic discrimination in buying a home, joining a union, working a quality job or receiving an honest wage they've had more of an opportunity to earn and save money-and to pass it on to me. This point helps explain why the assets oftoday's average white households are -"controlling" for income, age, occupation, and education-still $25,000 higher than those of average black households. 
I also know that, thanks to my whiteness, my job prospects are, on average, a good deal brighter than those ofnonwhites. White men like me occupy the overwhelming majority of the most prestigious, powerful and well-paid jobs in the country. To quote a recent Newsweek article: "White males make up just 39.2 percent ofthe population, yet they account for ... 77 percent of Congress, 92 percent ofstate governors, 70 per­cent oftenured college faculty, almost 90 percent of daily newspaper editors, 77 percent of1V news directors," and, I'd add, 95 percent ofsen­ior managers in Fortune 500 companies. Did someone honestly say "reverse discrimination"? 
Why the preponderance ofwhite men? An important reason is continuing racial discrimina­tion in the job market. One recent experiment that involved college students posing as job appli­cants found that white ex-cons were more likely to receive interviews than African Americans with squeaky-clean records. In another study, economists at MIT and the University of Chicago responded to 1 ,300 help-wanted ads in Chicago and Boston by sending out equivalent resumes and randomly assigning "white-" and "black­sounding" names to each. The study concluded that applicants like "Greg Kelly" and "Emily Walsh" were 50 percent more likely to get called for interviews than "Jamal Jackson" and "Lakisha Washington." 
I also know that my whiteness greatly increas­es my chances ofliving in a nice, clean and safe neighborhood. Part of this, of course, has to do with my savings and employment options; chances are I can afford a better home in a bet­ter community. But there's more to the story. For one, government agencies and businesses are far more likely to place toxic waste sites and haz­ardous landfills near African-American and Latino neighborhoods and not next to mine. In addition, racial discrimination remains rampant in the housing market. Over the last decade, numerous studies by banks, academics and gov­ernment agencies have found that African Americans and Latinos-when compared with whites of similar economic standing-have a harder time securing bank loans, are often quot­ed higher interest rates and are steered by real estate agents into particular (i.e., racially segre­gated) communities. 
I also know that my whiteness improved my chances as a child of attending a quality school. Because local tax dollars fund America's public schools (with a few exceptions), all the economic advantages I've mentioned here make it far more likely that white schools -like the one I attended -secure the best equipment. most highly paid teachers and nicest facilities. Given that the Supreme Court outlawed school segre­gation a full fifty years ago, you might think the term "white schools" is something of an anachro­
nism. I wish you were right. The truth is today's 
schools are resegregating at alarming rates. 
According to a recent report from Harvard 
University's Civil Rights Project, "African­
American and Latino students are now more iso­
lated from their white counterparts than they 
were three decades ago, before many ofthe 
overhauls from the civil rights movement had 
even begun to take hold." 
I also know that should I, during the course of 
my life, experience any health problems, my 
whiteness will be an asset. Having reviewed over 
100 recent studies on race and health, the 
Institute ofMedicine concluded last year that 
"racial and ethnic minorities in the United States 
receive lower quality health care than whites, 
even when their insurance and income are the 
same." Thanks in part to the conscious and 
unconscious biases of white doctors, Latinos and 
African Americans are less likely to receive 
appropriate medications for heart disease, to 
undergo bypass surgery or to receive kidney dial­
ysis, transplants or the most sophisticated HIV 
treatments. They are, therefore, far more likely 
to die from numerous diseases. Race, in this 
case, is literally a life or death matter and white­
ness the great immunizer. 
Finally, I know that whiteness deeply shapes 
my everyday life -when I go shopping and 
security guards take my integrity for granted; 
when I'm driving on the highways and the police 
do not pull me over or eye me suspiciously for 
Driving While White; when I walk around the 
Notre Dame campus and am never forced, on 
account ofmy race, to feel out of place; when I 
enter a classroom and need not worry that some 
students might automatically question my qualifi­
cations for being here; and when I read The 
Observer without fear that some writers, on the 
basis of my whiteness, may seek to malign my 
intelligence, character and sense ofself-worth. 
Although this list of preferences is hardly exhaustive, I trust you get the picture. Whiteness pays. Whether it's my savings, income, health, home, education, job opportunities or everyday peace of mind, whiteness offers me and other whites countless seen and unseen advantages. Given this fact, I am continually dismayed and disheartened that the very term racial prefer­ence has become synonymous in popular parl­ance not with these widespread and longstand­ing white advantages, but with affirmative action, a relatively new and limited program designed to offset them. 
Indeed, this equating of racial preference with affirmative action is the great racial fiction of our day; the twenty-first-century version of"separate but equal." It sounds plausible but is, in reality, profoundly and perversely misleading. Affirmative action doesn't "prefer" any one "race." Yes, many universities, colleges, compa­ni~ and government agencies do offer "minori­ty" applicants some form ofpreference in the selection process. But preferences also go to many other groups, such as athletes, legacies, musicians, men in nursing, Catholics at Notre Dame, Italian Americans at the City University of New York and, ofcourse, white women-the biggest beneficiaries of afllrmative action -in workplaces all across the country. 
Equally important, people of color should receive some "preference" in hiring, contracting and admissions decisions. In a country that for far too long has parceled out the lion's share of power and money, rights and resources to whites alone, how else can we ensure that all Americans receive some semblance of equal opportunity? If you've got a better solution, I'd love to hear it. But, in the meantime, let's pre­serve affinnative action and fight real racial pref­erence. It's a fight we all win by waging, for while white privilege charms the few, a more equal America enriches us all. 
Tom Guglielmo is an Assistant Professor in the Department ofAmerican Studies. He can be con­tacted at tgugliel@nd edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Consistency, please 
Ah, Notre Dame. A place where young minds come to search for new ideas, expose themselves to perspectives other than their own. A place where not just the physical landscape has beauty, but so too do our thoughts of common and uncommon, controversial and uncontroversial, Catholic and non-Catholic origin. Notre Dame must be more than simply a place where "children toss footballs" and "family and friends visit to see their darling sons and daughters and brothers and sisters," as Ricky McRoskey's article points out. 
McRoskey is apparently offended by the fact that his younger brother will have to be traumatized by the word "vagina" appearing in the dining hall. Rather than force such horror on this innocent mind let us rid the campus of these outlandish signs. I'd like to further this line of thinking. My younger sister has read The Observer, and I'd really rather her not be exposed to such excessive close-mindedness as~displayed by McRoskey's letter. Let us rid the campus of this too. In fact, let us rid the campus of everything remotely controversial. McRoskey is right; our standards of appropriateness should be those of a ten-year-old. 
But really, let's have some consistency. McRoskey's point about his inabili­ty to sell shirts with a beer logo on campus, or ones with "lewd or sexual slogans across them" is well taken. Clearly the signs saying "vagina" are similarly motivated, as a theatrical performance trying to end violence against women is as reprehensible as a student selling "lewd" shirts. 
Since when is a college campus subject to censorship at the elementary school level? May we have a little appreciation for something with a noble cause and an original approach. 
RaySchleck freshman Keenan Hall Feb. 5 
Another rationale for Monologues 
I find the "Vagina Monologues," based on what I have read about the play by both supporters and detractors, to be totally classless and unintellectual as well. These criticisms have been aired quite well already, so I will not waste any more time on them. What I would like to do is defend the play from an angle I am quite certain nobody else has even considered. 
Vocations. We all know about the vocations crunch and how it will proba­bly get even worse in the years ahead. As a man, and having spoken to many other men about the issue, I can say with confidence that, for us. the biggest obstacle to the priesthood is the desire to marry. I think "Vagina Monologues" can effectively blunt this desire for many, if not most, men. If I were a Holy Cross priest teaching theology, I would drag my male students to this play, and then ask them afterward, "Now are you sure you actually want to get married?" This is not to say, ofcourse, that most men are unaware that women have vaginas, and need to see this play to inform them of that fact. It is just not what men tend to consider primarily when they think of the fairer sex, or in such a crude and juvenile fashion. "Vagina Monologues" can fix that. 
I think internet pornography can serve the same role, by the way. Watch enough of that, so disgusting and degrading and you will be far more likely to agree with the Church that celibacy is indeed the superior way of life. There is a danger with some men of getting addicted to that stuff, though. so if I were a recruiter for the seminary I would not promote it. The "Vagina Monologues," like "Sex & the City," is a safer alternative. Or have them read the "Wlfe of Bath" tale in Chaucer. That tale is difficult to understand, though, and perhaps a little bit above the heads of most college students today. No danger of that in "Vagina Monologues," not intellectually anyway. The only part hard to understand is why female college students would pro­duce and promote something so conducive to contempt for women. 
Eric Manuosh alumni Class of 1997 Feb. 5 
THE 0BSER\'ER 
E
page 14 


Friday, February 6, 2004 







Parkin 
Rules 
Yes, they also apply to you 
Hello Notre Dame! It's time to learn something really important that will be good to know for the rest of your life. No, it's not metaphysics of weasels or advanced basket weaving. This, my fellow Darners, is a basic tutorial on parking. 
Now parking is something that should have been learned naturally around the age of 16, or whenever a driver's license was acquired. It's a sad fact that many members of the Notre Dame community are inexplicably incapable of placing their cars in an at rest position correctly. I am willing to assume that this is due to no fault of students themselves. Perhaps you had no good parking role models. For example: your parents didn't drive, had chauffeurs or are wild dogs. So to make Notre Dame a more respon­sible parking community, let's run through some common parking Rachel Ourada misconceptions. 
"Sometimes I can't see the yellow lines in the parking lot -Scene should I just park anywhere?" Columnist 
If there is a space between existing cars -you should park par­allel to the other cars, not at an extreme angle. Also make sure that you are parking in an actual row-not the aisle. 
''I'm really important! Can my car occupy more than one parking space?" 
No. 
"It snows a lot in South Bend, but I just don't understand why you can't park where the snow piles go from plowing the parking lot? And what do those crazy signs mean that say 'no parking January­March.' What ifI just park behind the snow 


"[ ?"
pz e. 
Whoa there, that's a 
+
complicated question. First ofT, it does snow 

....o.....~, •I
'1l1r == ~: .. . . .... ~!$:
a lot in South Ben, and this time of year, 
•

RACHEL OURADNObserver Illustration 
it's not going to get warm enough to melt all the snow anytime soon. That means that every time it snows there is more and more snow in the lot. To stop the entire thing from becoming a slushy mess, Notre Dame plows the aisles between cars. This is where the snow piles come in, as the snow from the aisles is pushed to these specially designated areas. Think of them as parking spaces for snow. If there is snow there, it's parked and there is no room for your car. As far as the signs go, Notre Dame assumes that its students can read basic English, which means if it says no parking, don't park there. Parking behind the snow pile is also a big no. If there's snow there, then you are not actually parking in the spot, you are in the aisle. 
''I'm in a big hurry/really lazy. Can I park anywhere my car stops?" 
Ah, you are confusing parking with your car being at rest. Summer houses in the country have huge driveways so wherever your car stops, it's parked. This, however, is Notre Dame and there are not enormous driveways. Cars have to be parked in des­
ignated areas. This means no parking where other cars have to navigate the lot. So, no creating that special parking spot at the end of the row just for you. Lots are carefully organ­ized to allow cars to both be at rest and navigate through the lot-it's not up to you to change them. 
"I really want to find a parking space-is itpolite to

.,.~o·....r.!!.IJ 
follow people around 

• • "'11'!1 ·~~ ~"!! ~·~ 
until they reach their RACHEL OURADAIObserver Illustration car?" 
Following people is, 

in most cultures, consid­ered stalking. It creeps out the people you are following while at the same time makes you look like a big jerk. So please leave the pedestrians alone and just find an avail­able spot. 
I hope that this little tutorial will be a help to the Notre Dame driving community. If you need more help, try practicing at large parking lots -like the mall or Meijer. Take the time to park correctly in every available spot. And don't come back until you figure it out. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Rachel Ourada at rourada@nd. edu. 
By JON RETARTHA and 
RYAN RAFFERTY 
Scene Writers 
Rarely in pop culture is a remake of a classic work able to become a clas­sic of its own. One of the only excep­tions is "West Side Story," which brings its special twist of Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet" to Washington Hall this week. Performed by the Pasquerilla East Musical Company, the show has created a the­ater buzz unseen on campus for a very long time. The weekend shows sold out so quickly that they opened up Wednesday's final dress rehearsal for ticket sales. 
"West Side Story" is a fairly strict adaptation of one of Shakespeare's greatest works. The setting is moved from Verona to Manhattan in the 1950s, and the rival street gangs the Jets and the Sharks replace the feud­ing families of Montague and Capulet. The lovers of this tale are Maria, sister of the Shark leader, Bernardo and Tony, best friend of Riff, the leader of the Jets. 

The two fall in love at a dance, which causes a great stir among the gang leaders. Riff does not want to see her sister get involved with one of their enemies, just as Bernardo does not want to see his best friend do the same. To complicate things, Maria has already had her marriage arranged for her, to a fellow Shark named Chino. What follows is a tale of love struggling to survive in a world full of murder and hatred. The story even goes a step further than Shakespeare in adding the extra tension of the eth­nic struggles between Puerto Ricans and Americans in 1950s New York. 
The concept of "West Side Story" came from Jerome Robbins and a novel written by Arthur Laments. Leonard Bernstein, the creator of many famous symphonies, ballets and musicals, composed the score. Lyricist Stephen Sondheim has also con­tributed to such famous musicals as "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum," "Candide," "Gypsy" 
and "Into the Woods," which was performed last year by the Pasquerilla East Musical Company. His work also includes contribu­tions to motion pictur"es such as "Dick Tracy" and "The Birdcage." 
Robbins pro­posed the idea to Bernstein in 1949. Bernstein first wanted to set it against the back­drop of Easter and Passover with the main conflict aris­ing between Jewish and Christian families. After meeting with Laments in 1955, 



Friday, February 6, 2004 page 15 

the con­e e p t w a s changed to the one seen now in the­aters. The musical opened Sept. 26, 1957 on Broadway at the Winter Garden Theater, later home to the musical, "Cats." It played there for 732 performances and then went on the road for ten weeks and returned to Broadway for 249 more per­formances. A 1980 revival on Broadway played for 341 performances. 
Unlike many musicals, the film version of "West Side Story" is just as famous as its stage version. The film opened in October 1961 and was nominated for 12 Academy Awards. It went on to win 11 Oscars, including Best Picture, Best Supporting Actor, Best Supporting Actress, Best Director and Best Cinematography. The film also won three Golden Globes, including Best Picture, and won a Grammy for Best Soundtrack. 

The soundtrack itself is one of the best parts of the show. The musical numbers of "West Side Story" are some of the most widely recognized pieces of musical theater in history. "Jet Song," "Maria," and "America" and "I Feel Pretty" are staples of the Broadway canon. The widely recognizable songs in addition to the large cast make the musical a popu­lar choice for high school and college theater companies. 
As for Notre Dame's own The Pasquerilla East Musical Company, the performances of the actors reveal the amount of hard work and effort that went into the production. Besides the lines and blocking of standard dramatic plays, the actors in "West Side Story" also had to rehearse the vocal numbers and learn the choreography to the sever­al dance numbers that are interwoven into the storyline. Director Ray Areaux also acted as choreographer, with Lauren Prieto as music director and Beth Planalp as stage manager. 
Lawrence Santiago plays Bernardo, the leader of the Sharks who is looking for a turf of his own for his Puerto Hican erver brethren. Santiago plays the role with a ;to headstrong aggressiveness needed to convey his role of authority in the organ­ization. Santiago also displays the confident qualities of a wom­anizer, while at the same time being protective and caring of his sister 
Maria. 
Natalie Martinez, in the role of Maria, has a sim­ply beautiful voice that com­mands the stage whenever she is present. The role of Maria is multi­faceted, and Martinez makes the perfect transi­tion from being a wide-eyed girl with dreams of a bet­ter future to assuming the role 
of the love stricken protagonist. Like Maria, the 
character of Tony, played by Jack Calcutt, is torn about his present life at the onset of the musical. Tony is reluctant to rejoin the Jets, but 
Calcutt's motivation stems more from having an unseen knowledge of what the gang life is all about, rather than from fear of the unknown. Calcutt beautifully balances that initial mature reluctance with his later infatuation with Maria. 
KC Kenney plays Riff, the leader of the Jets who has finally gained respect for his gang by ousting another rival city gang. Kenney plays Riff with a zeal that reflects his war-hawkish qualities and his slight overconfidence. Kenney was also one of the producers of the show. 
Jenny Radelet plays Bernardo's girl­friend Anita. She gives a powerful vocal and acting performance. She is Maria's only real confidant and is as torn as her friend over her connection with the Tony and the Jets. 
Unlike the movie version, which obvi­ously needed a realistic setting in order to make the story believable on screen, the Pasquerilla East Musical Company chose to reflect the original stage setting of the play and use a minimal amount of set design. The orchestra does not per­form from a pit, but rather behind the set of scaffolding in front of a plain white canvas with colored lights on it. The only props are a few tables and chairs and a few moveable boxes. The absence of large decadent sets and props leaves as much room as possible open on stage for the elaborate dance numbers. 
The costumes are timeless, but easily convey the identities of the rival gangs. The men are in jeans and T-shirts, while the women are primarily in dresses. The Sharks' costumes are lively and vibrant in order to reflect Puerto Rican influ­ences. The men wear bright reds, oranges and yellows with black jeans and black sneakers and occasionally simple suits and ties. The women wear colorful Latin dresses with reds and whites and ribbons and lace. 
The Jets' costumes are more muted and metropolitan, with blues, greens, and purples. The men wear blue jeans and white sneakers, along with sport coats and khakis. The women are always in pastel dresses that reflect the 1950s style. The contrast between the cos­tumes, and between the gangs, is stark when the cast members are together onstage. 

It is fitting that the honor of having so many sold out shows goes to The Pasquerilla East Musical Company, the organization that was responsible for bringing musical theater back to ·Notre Dame. Starting in 1987, the University experienced a decade long drought of musical theater productions. Neither the Department of Music nor the the Department of Film, Television and Theater would sponsor such activities. 
Then, in the spring of 1997, Kelly McGann, a resident of Pasquerilla East, worked with Student Activities to devel­op a campus group dedicated to musical theater, under a mission statement dedi­cated to "provide an outlet for musical and artistic expression and enjoyment, for Pasquerilla East and the University of Notre Dame community." The Pasquerilla East Musical Company first performed "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat," a musical take on the biblical story of Joseph in the Book of Genesis, in the fall of 1997. The production was a rousing success, and since then the group has gone on to stage productions of other several other famous musicals. In 1999, the Pasquerilla East Musical Company performed "Godspell," the story of Christ set in the psychedelic '60s, fol­lowing it the next year with "Grease," one of the most staged musicals in history. "Guys and Dolls," performed in 2001 told the gang­ster-era story of dat­ing, marriage, and gambling. The fol­lowing year staged 
"Damn Yankees," set in the golden age of baseball and telling the story of a baseball team with plenty of heart. 
This year, the Pasquerilla East Musical Company has upheld their excellent tra­dition with yet another strong perform­ance of a classic musical. The singing, acting and dancing all provide an excit­ing experience of authentic Broadway theater, 800 miles from the great white way. "West Side Story" is a tale about hatred, prejudice and vengeance, but above all these, it is a story about love overcoming all bonds. Shakespeare wrote his theater for the masses of his time, as stuffy as it may sG'em to many readers today. The P. E. Musical Company's production succeeds in tak­ing that classic love story and bringing it to a contemporary audience with an excitement and enthusiasm that is hard to find in any other medium but musical theater. 
Contact Jon Retartha and Ryan Rafferty at jretarth@nd.edu and rraffert@nd.edu 



page 16 Friday, February 6, 2004 
,. The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 
Canadiens defeat Islanders in close 2-1 game 
Associated Press in his third shutout of the season and Brendan Morrison and 

MONTREAL -Rookie ~.1ichael Trevor Linden added power-play Ryder scored the winning goal goals. The Canucks head into the midway into the third period, NHL All-Star break with six wins lifting the Montreal Canadiens to in eight games. a 2-1 victory over the New York The only two losses in that Islanders on Thursday night. span came this week against the 
Ryder, selected to play in Rangers and an overtime set­Saturday's YoungStars game back against the Islanders. during the All-Star weekend in Vancouver, wrapping up a five­
" 
:• 
St. Paul, Minn., scored his 15th game road trip, outplayed New 
' ' goal with a shot from the right Jersey so badly that Devils fans side that went in off goalie Garth were booing in the second peri­Snow's glove. od of what was only their second Ryder leads all NHL rooki~s loss in seven games. with 39 points, three more than It was appropriate the Sedins the Islanders' Trent Hunter, who did most of the damage. The will be his teammate Saturday. twins have been on a tear in Mike Ribeiro scored for the recent weeks. Daniel has three third straight game and Jose goals and seven assists in his Theodore made 27 saves for last six games; Henrik has two Montreal, which won its third goals and six assists. straight. The two combined with Mike Justin Papineau scored a Keane on a beautiful goal just power-play goal for New York, 1:11 after the opening faceoff.
J 
which lost in regulation for the Keane sent the puck from first time in seven games (4-0-1-behind the Devils' net to thef 1). Snow stopped 36 of 38 shots. right sideboards. Daniel Sedin 
The Canadiens, seventh over­then made a quick cross-ice pass all in the Eastern Conference to his unguarded brother for a with 64 points, opened a five­slam dunk into an open net. point lead over the eighth-place Daniel Sedin got his goal at Islanders. 3:51 of the second period. 

Sheldon Souray, who leads all Henrik Serlin won a faceoff, NHL defenseman in goals with retrieved the puck and sent a 15 and will make his first All­shot toward goal. Defenseman Star appearance Sunday, drew Brian Rafalski got a piece of the his 2-6th assist on Ribeiro's shot, but Daniel Sedin swooped 
power-play goal in the first peri­in and slid the puck past Martin 
od. He'd never had more than 11 Brodeur. 
points in a previous season. Morrison got his 16th goal of 
The teams each converted the season later in the period their first man-advant~ge oppor­with a great move around All­tunity of the game. Star defenseman Scott scored in the second period for 1 lead at 13:26, and Amante 0 lead late in the second period 
Ribeiro opened the scoring Niedermayer and a backhander the Flyers, 5-0-1 in their last six completed the second-period by poking a backhander past with his 15th of the season. With past Brodeur. road games. rally when he was credited with goalie Tomas Vokoun. Vokoun Islanders center Dave Scatchard Linden scored in the third Serge Aubin had a goal for the a goal that actually bounced in has given up three or more goals ofT for hooking, Ribeiro banked a period, seconds after the first of Thrashers, winless in eight off Atlanta defenseman in five of his last six games since shot from behind the goal line two Devils in the penalty box games. Ilya Kovalchuk, voted in Frantisek Kaberle with 42 sec­being chosen to the All-Star into the net off the back of returned to the ice. The point as a starter in Sunday's All-Star onds left. team. Snow's pants. tied him with Stan Smyl as the game, was benched in the sec­LeClair completed the scoring The goal came 2:01 after Boyle 
New York drew even when Canucks' all-time leading scorer ond period after his turnover led with a wrist shot from the slot scored just nine seconds into Papineau converted an opportu­with 673 points. to Gagne's goal. with 23.4 seconds remaining in Tampa Bay's second power play. nity 45 seconds into a double Cloutier had a lot of help in Niittymaki, a 23-year-old Finn, the game. But Nashville scrapped back minor to Montreal's Richard keeping his shutout. Linden won for the second straight night Lightning S, Predators 2 into the game as Arkhipov Zednik for high-sticking Oleg cleared Niedermayer's shot from in place of Robert Esche, expect­Pavel Kubina, 'Dan Boyle and scored after Erat circled behind Kvasha. the crease early in the third ed to miss at least three weeks Ben Clymer scored second-peri­the net and fired a shot that was 

The Islanders kept it tied with period and Ryan Kesler cleared with a sprained left knee. Jeff od goals and Cory Stillman deflected by Orszagh. The puck a scoreless second period Mike Rupp's rebound later in the Hackett, Philadelphia's other added three assists, leading the trickled to a stop just behind despite drawing three straight period. experienced goalie, is sidelined Tampa Bay Lightning to a victo­goalie Nikolai Khabibulin and minors, which kept them short­Cloutier's best stop came in the indefinitely by vertigo. ry over the Nashville Predators Arkhipov swept it into the open handed over for 5:41 of the final first period on a shot in close by After Gagne's goal tied it at 1. on Thursday night. net. 
6:27 of the period. Jamie Langenbrunner. the Flyers broke open the game Denis Arkhipov kept Nashville He made it 3-2 after taking a Canucks 4, Devils 0 Flyers S, Thrashers 1 by scoring twice in 32 seconds. in the game by scoring twice in pass from Orszagh just inside 
Brothers Henrik and Daniel Antero Niittymaki had 20 Recchi beat Pasi Nurminen over the second period. Martin Erat the blue line and putting it Sedin set up goals for each other saves in the second start of his the shoulder from near the end and Vladimir Orszagh added two through Khabibulin's legs. Thursday night and the NHL career, helping the line with the Flyers on the power assists each for Nashville, and Clymer stopped Nashville's Vancouver Canucks avoided a Philadelphia Flyers beat the play at 12:54, a goal that gave Martin St. Louis had two assists momentum and gave the winless tour of the New York Atlanta Thrashers Thursday him an eight-game point streak. for Tampa Bay. The Lightning Lightning a two-goal lead again metropolitan area with a victory night. Kapanen then sent a floating won their 15th road game, sur­by scoring off his own rebound over the New Jersey Devils. Simon Gagne, Mark Recchi, shot from the slot over passing last year's total. with 37 seconds left in the peri­
Dan Cloutier stopped 24 shots Sami Kapanen and Tony Amante . Nurminen to give the Flyers a 3-Kubina gave the Lightning a 3-od. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr ro edir all dassifieds for contenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated.www.bookhq.com 
Large 1 Bedroom Condo 10 min from Univ. All App. Pool Low taxes less than rent 574-299-4997 

LOST & FOUND 
LOST: 2 Keys -one a Mercury key and the other a Honda key ­on a round ring Friday night between the parking lot in back of the band building and the Joyce Center hockey entrance. Please call Gary at 247-D560. 


WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-9359 
WANTED ARCHITECT STUDENT TO HELP WITH CREATIVE IDEAS FOR A REMOLDELING PROJECT. NO DETAILED PLANS. SMALL$. NANCY 273-0322. 
Professor needs help on small equine farm 1 mile from ND. 574-277-5828 or tord.1 @nd.edu. Must have experience with horses 
I 

FoR RENT 
B&B for JPW/grad/tootball tor up to 12 people, 1/2 mile to NO, email domercondo @yahoo.com 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@ aol.com 272-1525 
Rental House, 2004-Q5@ 911 Corby. Clean. 4 bed, 2 bath w hdwd firs, new windows,AC,washldry & alarm sys. 11 o. lease. Landlord is NO Alum. Contact lisa @ theemurphs@hotmail.com/ 619-804-3359 DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE. 2 BEDROOM HOUSE... 2 BEDROOM DUPLEX... AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON­DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. .. WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR...CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 



PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Congratulations Bill Kirk on your engagement 
Happy Birthday. You are no longer a teenager. But 1t is still a worthless number. 
Dtown here I come. 
Go Cubs. April is just a few short months away 
So much snow. 
Don't make fun of my decision. To each their own :) 
Wrestle time. No, this time I mean it. 
Go Irish 
APFL 
Let's go Duke. 

At least the women can play 
basketbalL Go Irish. Mario64 -who has more stars? 
Dinner anyone? MarioKart--the sure way not to do homework. 
Hoping to get home in the snow. 
When's Valentine's Day? 

Is it the same time every year? 
Who cares. 
This is finally filled. 

~..........................
----------------------------~----­
Friday, February 6, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 



Pittsburgh's Fitzgerald eligible for NFL draft 

Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH -Heisman Trophy runner-up Larry Fitzgerald, the Pittsburgh sophomore who set NCAA receiving records in his two college seasons, was declared eligible Thursday for the NFL draft. 
The NFL's ruling came on the same day a federal judge ' opened the door for running back Maurice Clarett to also turn pro despite playing only one season at Ohio State. 
Under league rules, a player must be in college for three NFL seasons before he can be drafted. Fitzgerald left the Academy of Holy Angels in Minneapolis, Minn., midway through his senior year in 2001 and transferred to Valley Forge (Pa.) Military Academy to boost his grades for college. 
After spending nearly 1 112 academic years there, Fitzgerald signed with 
Pittsburgh and immediately became the most productive receiver in school history. He owns NCAA records for con­secutive games with a touch­down catch (18) and most TDs receiving as a freshman and sophomore (34). 
The NFL determined Fitzgerald was eligible because he would have gradu­ated from high school in 2001 had he not transferred and thus is three years past his senior year of high school. 
Fitzgerald declined comment after learning of the NFL's rul­ing. His father, Larry Sr., said, "We choose to let them [the NFL] do what they do, and then we'll do what we do." 
With numerous NFL scouts saying Fitzgerald likely will be a top five pick, his departure from Pitt was considered a foregone conclusion for weeks. 
Pitt's offense would be in a rebuilding mode next season even if Fitzgerald returned. 

No-tre Dame Li-terary Fes-tival Presen-ts 
Sunday, Feb. 8th: 
4:00 p.m. Reekers Hospitality Room Helena Maria Viramontes 
Au~hor o' The Moths a Under the Feet o,3esus 
7:30 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom Jim Shepard 
Author o£Project X, Vernon God Little, Nos£eratu and his colledion o'short«orles Battling Againld Castro 

with star quarterback Rod Rutherford, running back Brandon Miree and most of the offensive line departing. 
"Whatever Larry decides, this university is going to sup­port him whole hearted ly," assistant athletic director E.J. Borghetti said Thursday night. "The opportunity to be a top­five pick can be a fleeting one in the game of football. But education is important to Larry's family, and whatever he decides to do, he will still work to his degree. It was important to his [late] mother and to his dad and I know it remains a priority of his." 
Fitzgerald's case differs from Clarett's. The Pitt star played two college seasons, while Clarett played only one. Clarett graduated early from high school in December 2001. and his lawyers contended that came before the end of the 2001 NFL season and thus made him eligible under the three-year rule. 
The Clarett ruling, if it holds up on appeal, means high school football players and college underclassmen would be able to make the jump to the pros just as NBA. NHL and major league baseball players can. 
Fitzgerald is not believed to have formally petitioned the league to be declared eligible. But his lawyer sent a letter to the NFL last month asking that his draft status be clari­fied. 
The 6-foot-3, 225-pound Fitzgerald already has an NFL background. His father, a for­mer college lineman, is a sports writer and radio-TV show host in Minneapolis, and his son was a Minnesota Vikings ball boy for several years while in high school. 
While working in the Vikings' training camp. the younger Fitzgerald became friends with receivers Cris Carter and Randy Moss. It was Carter, a former Ohio State star, who suggested he consid­er Pitt. 
Pitt coach Walt Harris is a former Buckeyes assistant coach. 
With Fitzgerald's departure now imminent, the Panthers will be losing their most pro­ductive player since the days 

of  Dan  Marino  and  Tony  
Dorsett.  
Fitzgerald  won  the  

Biletnikoff Trophy as college football's top receiver last sea­son and the Walter Camp Award as the nation's best player. He was a close runner­up to Oklahoma quarterback Jason White for the Heisman Trophy, nearly becoming the first sophomore to win the award. 
Fitzgerald, a first-team All­American, caught 87 passes for an NCAA-leading 1,595 yards and 22 touchdowns last season, making at least one touchdown catch in all 12 reg­ular-season games. His record streak of 18 consecutive games with a touchdown catch ended in a Continental Tire Bowl loss to Virginia that wrapped up Pitt's 8-5 season. 
As a freshman, Fitzgerald made 69 catches for 1,005 yards and 12 touchdowns in leading Pitt to a 9-4 record ­its first nine-win season in 20 years. Pitt was 17-9 with Fitzgerald in its lineup. 
-------·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
r 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 6, 2004 
MLB 


Burks signs one-year contract with Red Sox 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Ellis Burks was let go 12 years ago by the Red Sox, who weren't sure he'd stay healthy and become a productive player. Now they've changed their minds. 
On Tuesday, the team's for­mer top draft choice finalized a $7 50,000, one-year con­tract with Boston. 
"It's like a fine wine -I got better with time," Burks said. 
Now 39, Burks said his release from Boston 

changed in his absence. It has new owners, numerous minority players and a repu­tation for working together. 
"That goes to show you, everything grows in time," Burks said. 
Burks made the All-Star team and won a Gold Glove in 1990, when he hit .296 with 21 homers and 89 RBis. He didn't match those numbers in 1991, then missed most of 1992 with a serious back injury. In December that year, Boston let 
crushed him but ..A lot oftimes, him go . 
spurred him to After the
when you have 
adopt a work Chicago White ethic that led to something you Sox signed • Spacious one and two bedroom apartments, his best seasons Burks, he com­
. love so dearly some with lofts and dens 
while playing mitted himself to
taken away,
with four other · working hard • Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet 
teams. He's back that helps you to and being a stu­
Club and Fitness Center 
in Boston looking re-evaluate dent of the for the champi­game. • 2 Bedroom Apartments still available 
things."
onship that has "A lot of times 
• Security patrolled nightly 
eluded him since when you have Little League. Ellis Burks something you
I. 
Burks accepted baseball player love so dearly 
Boston's offer over a proposal from Seattle. His choice was made after hours on the Internet, comparing the teams' pitch­ing staffs and lineups. 
He was selected by Boston in the 1983 draft and arrived in the big leagues in 1987. 
"It was a lot of pressure on a young kid, to hear compar­isons to Willie Mays," Burks said. "I put too much pres­sure on myself instead of relaxing and playing like I can play." 
Burks was among a handful of black players on the team. Burks said he never had any problems on the Red Sox, but remembered being uneasy at times in Boston. He cited the infamous Charles Stuart case in 1989, which awoke racial tensions when a white man killed his wife, then blamed it on an unknown black man. 
"The whole city was looking for a 6-foot-1 black man in a warmup suit," the 6-foot-2 Burks recalled. "So I didn't wear any warmup suits." 
The organization has 
taken away, that 
helps you re­
evaluate things," 
he said. 

Burks also played for Colorado, San Francisco and Cleveland. His best season was in 1996, when he hit .344 for Colorado with 40 homers and 128 RBis. 
In 2002, his last full season, he batted .301 with 32 homers and 91 RBis. Last year, his season was cut short because of a nerve con­dition in his right elbow that required surgery. 
He figures to see time mainly as a designated hitter and right-handed pinch-hit­ter, and will compete for playing time with Kevin Millar and David Ortiz, both coming off good seasons. Burks also is prepared to play outfield and maybe first base. 
"He's been an everyday player, and now he'd kind of coming down to the twilight of his career," manager Terry Francona said. "Like he said, he can still impact a baseball team." 

I
-
-

li ) ' 
UPPER DECK 
• 
Notre Dame Graduation Tent Parties at Coveleski Stadium-Friday and Saturday Nights 

• 
Great for JPW and Graduation Parties 





235-9985 
) J 
~ ~ L ­

APARTMENTS 
Cleveland and Ironwood Roads/18011 Cleveland Road/ Solllh Bend, Indiana 466371(574)272-8110 
Select Units ·Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
Frid~y, February 6, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
GOLF 


Kuchar and Henry
UConn defeats Tennessee 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE. Tenn.-No mat­ter who's ranked No. 1, Diana Taurasi and Connecticut know how to top Tennessee. 
The All-American guard scored 18 points to lead the No.4 Huskies to an 81-67 victory Thursday night, their ftfth straight win over the top-ranked Lady Vols. 
Ann Strother added 17 points for Connecticut, and Barbara Turner had 16 points and nine rebounds. Ashley Battle scored 11 points. 
Connecticut (17-2) improved to 12-6 all-time against Tennessee {18-2) in a rivalry that began in 1995. The series has included three national championship games-all won by the Huskies. 
The Huskies made a compelling case to return to the top of the polls for the second time this sea­son. Connecticut was No. 1 until Jan. 5, after losing at home to Duke two days before. 
The Huskies ran out to a 21-13 lead midway through the first half and never let go of the lead. 
Each time Tennessee appeared to mount a rally, Connecticut would get an easy basket on a backdoor cut or come off a screen to hit a 3-pointer. 
Tennessee looked out of sync on offense again without point guard Loree Moore, who is out for the season with a tom knee ligament. 
And again Tennessee melted on defense in the biggest regular-sea­son game in women's basketball. 
The Lady Vols got as close as 67-63 with 6:28 remaining after Tasha Butts made two free throws, but Connecticut had a quick 5-0 run to go up by nine. 
The Huskies outscored Tennessee 7-2 down the stretch to win their sixth straight game after losing at Notre Dame last month. 
Reserve Tye'sha Fluker and Shanna Zolman each scored 14 points for Tennessee, which had its 11-game winning streak snapped. Shyra Ely and Brittany Jackson added 10 points apiece. 
lead at Pebble Beach 
Connecticut often had several shots on each possession, grab­bing 17 offensive rebounds and 
Associated Press way to a S-under 67 at Poppy scoring 20 second-chance points. 
Hills. Mickelson, playing in The Huskies owe much of their 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. -the same group, continued success against Tennessee in 
Matt Kuchar and J.J. Henry, his solid play with a 68. recent years to Taurasi, who aver­
who slipped from view after "I had some putts that went aged 23 points in the previous six 
such promising rookie sea­in and some putts that didn't games she played against the 
sons, returned go in, just like it LadyVols. 
to the spotlight was for every­Taurasi was 3-of-7 from beyond 
Th,ursday on a b 0 d y • .. the arc, and the third made her 
spectacular Mickelson said . 
..There is only one
afternoon on the The AT&Tthe career leader at Connecticut 
PGA Tour.,,
Monterey Pebble, Beach She hurt her back Saturday at 
with 230 3-pointers. 

Peninsula with National Pro­St. John's and played only 12 min­
rounds of 7-Am is renowned
Tommy Tolles 
under 65 for a for its celebrityutes as a precaution, but showed 

professional golfer 
one-stroke lead field, stunningno signs of problems against 
in the Pebble
Tennessee. 

Beach National
Connecticut coach Gena 
Pro-Am.
Auriemma often complained 
For Vijay Singh and Phil
about fouls not called on Taurasi, 
Mickelson, only the scenery
who fouled out with 46 seconds 
changed.
left. 

Singh, closing in on the PGA
After· Turner picked up her 
Tour record for most consec­
fourth with 2:05 to go, Auriemma 
utive top lOs, recovered from
ran to the near sideline and 
a difficult start with two
clapped sarcastically in front of a 
remarkable birdies on his
small contingent of Huskies fans. 

~••• a11 iaafi•••t.e ~lia~ uJud cli!!iL'1aiiJi8it..•~=-•t• wit.h the wtWI•I .-.._-.u.-w~ttul •••tl•i)r M·ho laas dedk-at.....t her Die aucl worlw. w cupturiDg tlte 8&tigglesand Slitllerilap nl'(.:llio~,..oJpitJUJrCI!f!'lli tlu.~ l)a:lit•~l Smt«w.. 
llt-.ar Iter t~»ud 8f·or,· uul.exper1eot..'!IIC b-..1!1" work t)U"'''tgltber~~w.n e.)r.eN a5 5be dl:sc.'"IJ:S..~~ 







"Dais is.)'OUr e']Jilllllce to etHile face to 1800 withcme oYthe JD~ pro~l.K'Uti'-e IUtd lnfttu..-..thd I.-tina. vulet.-M or .... ,. tlta~~e&. }~l~r. &J.k..a.rstJUol :readlltg fi*ma lk...Y. seiet'f:oo ft'Orks,. ''iroJnon:tes 'fti)( bolt) tl di8t!USIJfoJ:a with st1Kle:nt8 and fitcult;y. 
l•"itMI •••• wlutt if" •~~~ t:u het.~MtN~ a w-.•rltlwn~rH•w•u~llif~~ li~t~•rrl
... ­
• 

llotNOUp. satld'uicJ~ Ulld drio.ks ~-.iD IJIE'I a._.'aiJabl~ wJaiJe Mtpp.lie-5 ~'f.. 
views and 
greens so soft 
and bumpy that 
only 6-inch putts are consid­
ered tap-ins. 
On Thursday, it looked like 
a "Welcome Back" party for 
some of the leaders. 
Kuchar, the former U.S. 
Amateur champion who had 
a charming run through the 
majors in 1998, won the 
Honda Classic two years ago 
but followed it up by finishing 
182nd on the money list. 
Henry had two runner-up fin­
ishes as a rookie in 2001, but 
dropped into mediocrity the 
last two years. 
The biggest surprise might 
have been Tommy Tolles, who 
shot a 66 at Pebble Beach. 
Tolles, considered to be 
among the best young players 
when he nearly won the '96 
Players Championship, 
watched his game slowly fall 
into disrepair until he was 
forced to play on the 
Nationwide Tour last year. 
Getting back to the PGA 
Tour was a big deal. Starting 
his season with a 66, which 
included a chip-in on No. 17 
that made him feel like Tom 
Watson, made it even better. 
"On the. Nationwide Tour, 
there were some tourna­
ments you just didn't feel like 
this was a setting," he said. "I 
was out here seven years, 
and I know what it's like. You 
can get competition wherever 
you go. But the atmosphere 
just isn't the same. Th.ere is 
only one PGA Tour." 
There's only one Pebble 
Beach, and Tolles really 
soaked it up. 
It started on No. 1 with a 
birdie, "a typical AT&T 10­
footer, bounced around and 
eventually went in," Tolles 
said . 
Despite hitting his approach 
onto the beach and taking a 
bogey at No. 10, he plugged 
away and got close to the 
leaders by chipping in from 
17th. It wasn't anywhere 
near the spot where Watson 
chipped in to win the '82 U.S. 
Open, but Tolles felt just as 
good. 
"The feeling is incredible, 
but when there's 500 or 
1,000 people around to cheer 
for you, it's icing on the 
cake," said Tolles, who was 
lucky to see that many people 
all year on the Nationwide 
Tour. 
"It's just so unexpected that 
you just have this, 'Oh, I want ·to do cartwheels or somer­saults.' But I'm too old for 
that," he said. 
Defending champion Davis 
Love III was in no mood for 
acrobatics, opening with a 3­
over 75 on the toughest of the 
three courses, Spyglass Hill. 


Friday, February 6, 2004 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Duke beats UNC 83-81 in overtime thriller 
Associated Press 

CHAPEL HILL. N.C. -Mike Krzyzewski thought this was more than just one of the best games in the storied rivalry between Duke and North 
,. 
Carolina. 
"I think you do it an injustice to say it was a great Duke­Carolina game," he said of the top-ranked Blue Devils' 83-81 overtime victory over No. 17 North Carolina on Thursday night. "It was a great game. You can't match the intensity level." 
There was a buzz in the 

'·. 
Smith Center minutes after the
1
'' game ended. It was the noise a crowd makes when it's disap­pointed, yet still energized. "You're told it's a rivalry and everything, but when you're on the court, the emotion of every­body -your teammates and the Carolina players -it's. like you're giving it everything," Duke freshman Luol Deng said. ,1' "It was just a fight from both teams and Chris [Duhon] made an unbelievable play to win it for us." Duhon's reverse layup with 
6.5 seconds left in overtime gave Duke its 16th straight vic­tory overall and fifth in the last six years on North Carolina's home court. 
This one was over first-year Tar Heels coach Roy Williams, and the former assistant to Dean Smith left the court as did predecessors Bill Guthridge and Matt Doherty, losers at home to Duke. 
"That was a big-time college basketball game and it's tough saying that when you're on the short end," Williams said. "If I could coach to the enthusiasm we had in the building, I'd be one hell of a coach." 
Shelden Williams had 22 points and 12 rebounds for Duke (19-1, 8-0 Atlantic Coast Conference). He had two of his five blocks in overtime and also came up with a big defensive play in the final minute to force a turnover by the Tar Heels (13-6, 3•5). 
"I told Shelden after the game, 'Your post defense was best when most people will 
I have played their worst -the ' ,. end of the game,"' Krzyzewski 
I 
I said. 
I Daniel Ewing scored 19 
I points for Duke, while Deng had 17 points and 12..cebounds, and J .J. Hedick added 14 points. 
Rashad McCants scored 27 points for North Carolina, including the 3-pointer with 13 seconds left that tied the game at 81. Sean May had 15 points and 21 rebounds for the Tar Heels, but was 7 -for-18 from the field and missed a ·number of close-in shots. 
"I told the team we all could point to one or two plays that you could have made that you didn't make that would have made a difference," Hoy Williams said. "We had a lot of opportunities early from 2 or 3 feet, and we just didn't make the baskets." 
The sellout crowd of 21,750, most wearing "Turn It Blue" T­shirts, was loud all night -but it was roaring and shaking the floor when McCants' fast-break dunk with 5:45 to go gave North Carolina a 69-62 lead. 
Duke then turned up the defense and went on a 10-0 run, taking a .72-69 lead on two free throws by Deng with 1 :06 left. · 
"That was the pivotal point of the game because a lot of teams would have been run out of here," Krzyzewski said. "All of a sudden we had the lead, which I think was shocking. That showed our team played major, major manly minutes." · 
May scored on a rebound with 53 seconds to go, and Redick restored the three-point lead on a drive with 38 seconds left. 
-North Carolina called a time­out, and Jawad Williams hit his only 3-pointer of the game with 18 seconds to go to tie it. Ewing missed a 3 with 3 seconds left for Duke. 
Shelden Williams was a force inside in the overtime. His defense forced North Carolina into a 35-second shot clock vio­lation with 22 seconds left. Redick then made two free throws to make it 81:78 and McCants, who finished 2-for-4 from 3-point range, drilled the 3 that tied it and set the stage for Duhon's heroics. 
"Those two shots they hit, come on," Krzyzewski said. "Those aren't shots kids are supposed to hit. Men do. They're the best team we have played." 
Duhon said it helped the team's confidence that Krzyzewski didn't call a time­out after either of the tying 3­pointers. 
"He told us he wanted us to win the game," said Duhon, who did. "I just kept going and it opened up and I was able to make the layup. I don't think anybody on either team could've handled [another overtime]. I tried to do both of us a favor." 
Melvin Scott missed a 3 at the buzzer for North Carolina, and it was appropriate that Shelden Williams grabbed the game's final rebound. 
The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum 
Daniel Stowe, director 


<!3uHfa.ume ~e 1Ytacija.ut: ''})tc.sse be Q;lostre ~a.me roitfj cfja.nt proper$ 
Sunday, February 8, 2004 
8:15 pmi_Basilico ofthe Sacred Heart 
University ofNotre Dame Free and open to the public 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
DEPARTMENT 01' Ml;"SIC 



JON GARDINER/Duke University/Icon SWI Duke's Shavllck Randolph battles UNC's David Noel for a loose ball In Thursday's game. Duke beat North Carolina in one of college basketball's most heated rivalries at the Smith Center. 
. · THE UNIVERSITY CLUB 
UIOTUUTt C ~UI ~F lfi>UI IHNJ 

PRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME WHERE MEMBERSHIP PAYS FOR ITSELF WITH EVERY MEAL OR D INK! 


Daily Lunch Light Lunch Soup &1/2 Sandwich Soup orSaJ~d 
Special Entree Soup &Half Sandwich Entree 
Coffee or Tea Coffee or TeaCoffee orTea 
. $6.95 $4.95 $3.95 
CHEAP AND CLOSE....YOUR UNIVERSITY CLUB.....MEMBERSHIP INFORMATION 1·4685 








OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, February 6, 2004 CoA,1PILED FRO!v1 Tu:r: OBSERVER'S vvuu SERVtCES Page 21 


!l!l 1!il'i:··; :::::::: ·:: ;: :::: ij~:~ ~·:::l;~za:·~:::i~ ;· i~ :··· :i:!;: :-:: ;:::.:,;:;-· t~~ r;,; ::r ::::•:· ::::::::: r ::::: ~@ks ;:::2 Js r: :: :::=:-: !I• . tW/. :$1: EX ;il~ I:: ?i·H :::: I•• If•WqJ ·:: :f· =::=: .::; :\:' 
around the dial 
FRIDAY 
NBA 

LA Clippers at Washington 7 p.m., FOX Orlando at New Jersey 8 p.m., ESPN 

SATURDAY 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL Arizona at Stanford 3 p.m., ABC Georgia Tech at Tennessee 3 p.m., ABC UAB at Louisville 6 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


TSN 

Ohio State's Maurice Clarett scores the winning touchdown in last year's BCS national championship against the Miami Hurricanes. A federal judge ruled that Clarett could turn pro. 
Clarett granted option of NFL draft 
1990 rule that a player vice president of the NFL, deals that make them mil­
Associated Press 

must be out of high school said the ruling left him lionaires before the ink is 
NEW YORK -A federal three years to enter the "really surprised" but con­dry on their high school judge opened the door for draft. fident on appeal because diplomas. Ohio State sensation "I was pleased that the its findings contradicted "Somebody broke the Maurice Clarett and rule was brought down," those of past court rulings. rule for Le Bran a long teenage football stars to Clarett said at a news con­The ruling, if it holds up time ago. It's just another turn pro, declaring ference. "It gives kids an on appeal, means that option," Clarett said. Thursday that an NFL rule opportunity to choose." high school football play­Scheindlin wrote that the barring their eligibility vio­Clarett's lawyer, Alan ers and college under­NFL rule "is precisely the lates antitrust law and Milstein, called it a "total classmen will be able to sort of conduct that the "must be sacked." victory." make the jump to the pros antitrust laws were 
U.S. District Judge Shira Clarett declined to say just like their counterparts designed to prevent." Scheindlin said legal issues whether he'll enter the in the NBA. "One can scarcely think are so clearly in Clarett's April draft after his Dozens of basketball of a more blatantly anti­
favor a trial is unneces­lawyers advised him that players, including Kobe competitive policy than sary. The NFL said it will Ohio State has warned Bryant and LeBron James, one that excludes certain appeal, and it will proba­even a declaration to join have gone to the NBA competitors from the mar­bly try to block the ruling the NFL would rule out straight after high school ket altogether," she wrote. before the April draft. any chance of returning to in recent years, becoming Clarett, a 20-year-old 
Clarett sued the league college ball. instant celebrities and sophomore, played just last year to challenge its Jeff Pash, the executive signing shoe endorsement one season at Ohio State. 
IN BRIEF 

be in college for three NFL seasonsLe':rls expected to announce second Klitschko fight. 
"We have had no contact with before he can be drafted. Fitzgerald
retirement 

LONDON -Looks like Lennox Lennox or his representatives," HBO left the Academy of Holy Angels in 
Minneapolis. Minn., midway through Lewis is ready to do what no heavy­Sports president Ross Greenburg said. 
his senior year in 2001 and trans­weight champion has done in nearly "We're standing by." 
ferred to Valley Forge (Pa.) Military half a century: leave boxing for good As·suming Lewis does end his 14­Academy to boost his grades for col­with a championship belt around his year career, he will become the first lege.
waist. reigning heavyweight champion to After spending nearly 1 1/2 aca­The 38-year-old Lewis will hold a quit since Rocky Marciano in 1956. 
demic years there, Fitzgerald signed news conference Friday amid reports Muhammad Ali retired with the WBA 
with Pittsburgh and immediately
he will retire rather than risk his title in 1978, but came back to lose became the most productive receiverWorld Boxing Council title in a fights to Larry Holmes and Trevor in school history. He owns NCAArematch against Vitali Klitschko. Berbick. 
records for consecutive games with a 
Secretive to the end, Lewis was Pittsburgh's Fitzgerald ruled touchdown catch (18) and most TDs keeping his decision to himself. His eligible for NFL draft receiving as a freshman and sopho­trainer, Emanuel Steward, did not PITTSBURGH -Heisman Trophy 
more (34).
return calls. But Lewis has made no runner-up Larry Fitzgerald, the The NFL determined Fitzgerald was effort to meet a March 1 deadline set Pittsburgh sophomore who set NCAA eligible because he would have grad­by the WBC to set up a fight with receiving records in his two college uated from high school in 2001 had Klitschko, and the consensus among seasons, was declared eligible he not transferred and thus is three the boxing fraternity is that he will Thursday for the NFL draft. years past his senior year of high retire. The NFL's ruling came on the same school. 
Lewis hasn't even told HBO what he day a federal judge opened the door Fitzgerald declined comment after plans to do. The television network for running back Maurice Clarett to learning of the NFL's ruling. His paid him tens of millions to fight and also turn pro despite playing only one father, Larry Sr., said, "We choose to has been waiting for months for him season at Ohio State. let [the NFL] do what they do, and to commit one way or another to a Under league rules, a player must then we'll do what we do." 
r;: -­
Friday, February 6, 2004

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS· 
MEN'S TENNIS 



Irish face tough doubles test 
By KATE GALES Spons Writer 
No. 49 Notre Dame faces another tough match this week­end, as they face No. 53 Purdue at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Boilermakers will travel to Western Michigan on Saturday and then face the Irish on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
With a 2-0 record and wins against Ball State and Butler, the non-conference match to Purdue is not to be overlooked. A key point of this match will be doubles. 
"Purdue always comes out strong when they play us espe­cially in doubles," senior tri­captain Matthew Scott said. "(There's] always a tradition of really solid doubles; it was a focal point in practice this week." 
Irish coach Bobby Bayliss emphasized the doubles play as well. 
"We worked really hard on doubles," Bayliss said of his team's preparation this week. "Purdue just absolutely pulver­ized us last year in doubles matches -they won all three, and did so convincingly." 
This year's matchup presents a special challenge to the Irish, as their No. 1 doubles team of Luis Haddock and Ryan Keckley will not be playing. Haddock will be playing for Puerto Rico in the Davis Cup and Keckley remains out with an ankle injury suffered against Duke. Ranked No. 18 nationally, Haddock and Keckley are also the No. 1 and No. 6 singles play­ers, respectively. 
"The good news is that this is one of the deepest teams I've ever coached," Bayliss said. "We are filling their shoes with Matt Scott, who is capable of playing the No. 1 spot and is regaining the form he had. He played his best match in a long time against Duke, so I expect Matt to play extremely well." 


Eric Langenkamp and Patrick Buchanan are also expected to see time to fill out the Irish ros­ter. Langenkamp has yet to lose a match, and Buchanan won his singles match at No. 5 last year against Purdue in a 4-3 Irish victory. 
Bayliss expressed confidence in the ability of his freshmen and in the bottom part of the lineup for this weekend's match. 
"Usually, when you lose a cou­ple of players it's catastrophic, especially at No. 1," said Bayliss. "We're a stronger team with them, but I don't think that the task ahead of us is an impossible one." 
Scott agreed, as he and his teammates are ready for a tough mat~h. 
"This is a very important match," Scott said. "We're just looking to go out there and take care of business.... It's disap­pointing for us but I think pres­ents a challenge and the team is ready to rise to the challenge and meet it." 
But the Irish will have to do it without Haddock and Keckley. 
"It's some great motivation to beat a Big 10 team without two key players, a third of our start­ing lineup," said Bayliss. 
The Irish are set to face Purdue at 1 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
NBA 

Iverson dominates in 76ers' home win 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -After rip­ping his team for having no heart, Allen Iverson showed they still have a pulse. 
Iverson played one of his bet­ter offensive games of the season Thursday night, scoring 39 points to lead the struggling Philadelphia 76ers past the weary and depleted Los Angeles Lakers 96-73. 
In a game that stayed competi­tive for only a few minutes, Iverson had his way against 

defender Derek Fisher  ..We don't play with no heart, we don't take a  challenge," Iverson said  
and repeated­ly freed him­ challenge.,,  during minute  a  10­rant.  
self for mid­range jumpers  Allen Iverson  "Guys don't take pride and com­ 
and drives.  76ers guard  pete."  
Iverson shot  After shooting  
15-for-29  off his mouth, it  
from the field  became  clear  

. -missing his final four shots -early that Iverson might be capa­
and added six assists in one of ble of shooting the Sixers out of 
the 76ers most lopsided victories their slump .. 
of the season. He scored six points over the 
The Lakers, playing their final 1 :05 of the first quarter to fourth road game in five nights help Philadelphia to a 25-10 and extra tired after arriving in lead. The opening 12 minutes Philadelphia around 4 a.m., lost · featured the quick ejection of Gary Payton to an ejection in a Payton by referee Joey Crawford first quarter in which they for arguing while Iverson shot scored just 10 points-matching free throws. their season low set earlier this The Sixers led 44-29 at half­week at Indiana. time behind 20 points from 
Shaquille O'Neal missed 11 of Iverson, and he reached 30 13 foul shots in the first half, fin­points with 3:35 left in the third ishing 3-for-15 from the line with quarter by hitting a 21-footer,_ 17 points. Iverson sat down for good with 
The Lakers were supposed to 4:02 remaining and the 76ers be joined by Kobe Bryant, who is ahead 89-66. 
HOUSE4SAlE MINUTES FROM CAMPUS 
+newly remodeled +one bedroom cottage with buildable lot + wood burning stove 
19433 Auten Road South Bend, IN 
Call today to see: 269-683-8336 $38,900 
2003-04 
THE BEST OF NOTRE DAME THEATRE 
Actors Fro1n The Wndo11 Sh1ge Romeo and Juliet 
by William Shakespeare 
Wednesday, February 11 ....... 7:30p.m. Friday, February 13............ 7:30p.m. Thursday, February 12 ............ 7:30p.m. Saturday,-February 14 .... 7:30 p.m. 
~ ., Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128. 
The Actors res1dency IS supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
on the injured list with a lacerat­ed finger. But Bryant defied coach Phil Jackson and did not show up, leaving the team won­dering about his whereabouts until shortly before gametime. 
Bryant's agent told the Lakers that Bryant would join them in Orlando on the fifth stop of their seven-game road trip. 
Glenn Robinson added 26 points for the 76ers, who were ripped by Iverson two nights ago following a loss to Toronto ­their ninth in 11 games. 
"We don't play 
with no heart, 
we don't take a 

--------------------------~---------------------------------------­
Friday, February 6, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
SMC BASKETBALL 
NO SWIMMING 

Belles look to knock off Hope 
Irish hope for 
By STEVE COYER 
Sports Writer 
After a demoralizing 65-42 loss to Calvin (16-3) at home, the Belles will have little time to recover as they go on the road to play the best team in the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association. 
Saturday the Belles (6-14) will face MIAA leader Hope {19-2). 
The momentum from a criti-· cal win Monday against Olivet failed to carry over into Wednesday's game against Calvin. Despite a second half comeback, the Belles only shot 27 percent from the field and the 36-18 halftime deficit proved to be too much to over­come. 
In the Belles 67-64 victory against Tri-State Jan. 24, Emily Creachbaum led the team with 26 points. However, in the last three games, Creachbaum has scored a total of 16 points, 10 of those points coming in the win over Olivet. 
As a result, the bench has taken a more active role with strong efforts from Bridget Lipke, Anne Hogan and Bridget Boyce. 
Against Olivet, the bench combined to score 33 points. As a result, the bench players saw nearly as much floor time as the starting five. 
The Belles have had a prob­lem with turnovers when they have played aggressive teams this year. In their loss to Calvin, the Belles had 2 3 turnovers and had difficulty finding open shots. 
Hope's dominating offense will also provide a challenge for Saint Mary's, averaging 73 points per game this year. Hope has also held opponents to 34 percent shooting. 
On the other hand, the Belles' offense has struggled this year and has averaged 58 points per game on 37 percent shooting. 
Despite this, the Belles look to come away with an upset on Saturday. 
"We just need to play togeth-

STEPHANIE GRAMMENS/The Observer 

Saint Mary's hopes to upset Hope at home Saturday. 
er, that's all there is to it," guard Katie Miller said. "We need to come out strong, win and have confidence in our­selves." 
The Belles will play at Hope College Saturday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 
dual meet wins 

depth." 
In addition to the Cleveland 

State match-up, Welsh 
stressed the importance of the 
Oakland match-up less than 
24 hours later. 
"It's very important for us to 

be able to race at night and 
then the following day," Welsh 
said. "This is set up for cham­
pionship time, so we're eager 
to see that." 
Last Saturday, Notre Dame 

won 11 of the 13 overall 
events to wrap up a 5-2 
January with a 159-75 thrash­
ing of St. Bonaventure (6-5) in 
the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The meet's results were 

never in doubt as the Irish 
won each of the first ten 
events, including the top three 
spots in the first five. 
"We're happy with how we 

swam this past weekend," 
freshman Chris Zeches said. 
"We know that with two more 
weeks of rest we're going to 
be ready for go for Big East." 
Freshman Ted Brown 

(1,000-yard freestyle and 200­
yard freestyle) and sophomore 
Jaime Lutkus (200-yard indi­
vidual medley and 500-yard 
freestyle) both won a pair of 
races. Freshmen Tim 
Kegelman (50-yard freestyle), 
Zeches (200-yard backstroke) 
and Scott Coyle (1-meter div­
ing), sophomore Tim Randolph 
(100-yard freestyle) and senior 
J.R. Teddy (200-yard butterfly) each contributed with an indi­vidual event victory. 
The women's squad looks to 

take care of Oakland in its 
final tune-up before the Big 
East Championships when the 
No. 21 Irish (7-2) welcome the 
Golden Grizzlies to the Rolfs 
Aquatic Center Saturday at 1 
p.m. 
"They have a pretty good team and always have some strong swimmers in the sprint events..which should present a different type of challenge for us," head coach Bailey Weathers said. "It will proba­bly be a little low key as com­pared to last weekend's meets, but still a lot of fun for the girls." 
Last Friday, the Irish won 11 overall events as they defeated two Big Ten squads on the road in East Lansing, Mich. Seniors Danielle Hulick (1 00 backstroke and 50 freestyle), Lisa Garcia (200 butterfly and 200 individual medley) and Meghan Perry Eaton (l-and 3­meter board) and freshman Katie Carroll (1 00 and 500 freestyle), each posted a pair of event victories as the Irish trounced Michigan State and Ohio State, 160-138 and 194­105, respectively. 
However, Notre Dame ran into trouble the following afternoon at home with No. 16 Michigan. 
Dropping each of the meet's first three races, the Irish were never able to rebound as the Wolverines took nine of the 16 events en-route to a 166-134 
Following this weekend, both the men and women will set their sights on the Big East Championships Feb. 19 to 21 in New York. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The men's swimming and diving team hopes to secure a winning dual meet record for the seventh time in nine years when the Irish (6-7) play host to Cleveland State (9-2) tonight at 7 p.m. and Oakland (5-3) Saturday afternoon at 1 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
While the Vikings have won their last four meets, the Irish have taken 16 of the last 17 meetings between the two schools, including each of the last eight. 
"Cleveland State is a chance for us to even our record," head coach Tim Welsh said. "So far they've been having an excellent season. One of the interesting match-ups will be some of their speed against what we hope is a lot of our 

r.·.r-,--~-----~~­
\ \ 
\ page 24 
) ' 
\.'
!l ~ Grisham 
. '~ 
continued from page 28 

.. ~ 
Grisham knew the· school was 

looking for a replacement as ' head coach. He pointed the )") administration in the direction 
~ ;. ~ 
.._ 
) of then-associate head baseball coach Brian O'Connor, who for 
t 
several years had been spoken of very favorably in coilege

~~ 

'11,,·' baseball circles as a young, tal­ented coaching prospect. 
"Over the past two or three {\ 1 years. Brian O'Connor got more and more recognition as a
' ~ . 
:.. \ 
~ ~ great baseball coach," Grisham 
•.. 
. ' recalled at the dinner. "This 
'' 
past summer, when Virginia 

' 
decided to make a change,

Jl 
I 
( .. there were a few of us that thought we knew where to go." The Cavaliers eventually I·· 
lured O'Connor away from Notre Dame, with Irish head I 1 coach Paul Mainieri's blessing,
r
. -~~ i and Grisham's ties to the Irish ] ) 
grew even stronger. In fact, Grisham -for his 

~ j 
part in helping steal O'Connor 
away from Notre Dame ­
joked that he felt obligated to 
speak at Thursday night's din­ner. 


"I wanted to be here tonight. because I feel like I owe you one, and because Paul [Mainieri] was gracious enough to invite me." he said. "Although I did not grow up an ardent supporter of Notre Dame, I have become a huge fan of this baseball program." 
Part of Grisham's support has come recently with his ties to Virginia -a school that is con­sidered a northern program when it comes to baseball. The author understands the plight of northern schools like Notre Dame in trying to overcome obstacles such as wintry weather conditions, a late start to the season and recruiting difficulties stemming from their northern locations. 
"Over the years. it's been a rough adjustment for me as an enormous college baseball fan to belong to a northern school," Grisham said. "I've become very keenly aware of the un­level playing field that exists 

1 
j 
I 
I 
j 
) 
{ 
! 
., 
J 
l 
l 
l 
~ 
~ 
~ 
I ) i 
!I 
when it comes to college base­ball, and I hope that some day soon we can get a common start to make all things fair for us northern schools." When the Irish overcame these obstacles in 2002 -earning their first No. 1 ranking and a trip to the College World Series for the first time since 1957 -Grisham was there cheering them on for northern schools everywhere that face similar problems 
"The real wakeup call came two years ago, when we looked up one morning and Notre Dame was No. 1 in the nation," Grisham remembered. "That was a huge moment, not just for you guys, but for a lot of us that realized it can be done. And when Notre Dame went to Omaha, and Nebraska was there too, we had two northern schools. We became rabid Notre Dame fans, because they were winning." 
Grisham concluded his speech with a hopeful message for college baseball fans about the growth of the sport in the past two and a half decades. 

"It's become very rewarding in the past 25 years or so to see college baseball become such a popular sport," he said. "I think it's more popular now than it ever has been. The attendance figures go up every year.. Attendance at the regionals and super regionals goes up every year, and crowds of 10,000 to 15,000 are not unu,sual at these events." 
In his final message, Grisham appealed to local Notre Dame fans to take advantage of the Irish program and to support their team. 
"You have great college base­ball here. You have a wonder­ful program played by great kids and a wonderful coach," he said. "So I encourage all the fans to come out this spring and support the team, and I hope to see you in Omaha." 
Notre Dame plays its first game Feb. 20, when the Irish take on San Diego State in Los Angeles. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
Friday, February 6, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 

Meet 
continued from page 28 

junior Tiffany Gunn and senior Kristen Dodd. Both are mem­bers of the 4x40D meter relay team that ranks first in the Big East. Gunn is also currently in 
·the top ten in the conference in the 500 meters, 60-meter hur­dles and the 400 meters. Dodd has already qualified for the conference meet in the 200 meters. 
Molly Huddle and Lauren King have had much success in the distance events so far this season. Last weekend at the Notre Dame Invitational. Huddle broke her own school record in the 3,000 meters while King sped to the second­fastest mile in the country so far this season with a time of 4:45.61. 
Both Huddle and King are returning All-Americans in their respective events and should be among the top ath­letes to watch at the meet this weekend. 
On the men's side, distance runners Eric Morrison, Kaleb Van Ort and Todd Mobley will be ready to compete for the Irish, while the weight-throw­ing tandem of Juan Alba and Chip Roberts should hold their own. 
Morrison spent last weekend with the distance medley relay team at the USA Track and Field Boston Indoor Meet. Both Van Ort and Mobley stayed at home last week and qualified for the conference champi­onships. Viken has already qualified meters, 60-meter hurdles and 
Freshman pole vaulter Dave for the Big East Conference the 200 meters. Viken is confident in his team's championships while his team­Senior Godwin Mbagwu will abilities heading into one of mate, freshman Justin Oppel, also be a contender as he cur­the biggest meets of the year. won the pole vault in last rently leads the Big East in the 
"We know we'll be facing week's meet. triple jump and ranks fourth in some tough competition, but I The top sprinter for the Irish the long jump. feel the team is prepared and men is Selim Nurudeen. The we 'II be successful," Vi ken junior has already qualified for Contact Mike Gilloon at said. the conference meet in the 60 mgilloon@nd.edu 


2004 SUMMER RESIIDENCE HALL STAFF 
~. 

~he Office of Residence Life and Housing is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
• 
Hall Manager 

• 
Assistant Hall Director/Manager 


• Desk Clerk 
The application and position descriptions are 
available in the Office of Residence Life and 
Housing or on·line at: 



orlh.nd.edulemployment 
Application deadline is February 13, 2004. 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING



ofl&li 




Friday, February 6, 2004 page 25 
The Observer+ SPORTS 


Hockey 
continued from page 28 
behind Ohio State and Western Michigan for fifth place, and two points behind third-place Michigan State and Alaska Fairbanks. 
Notre Dame earned three-of­four points against Alaska Fairbanks last weekend, defeat­ing the Nanooks 3-2 on Friday and tying 2-2 Saturday. The Irish have two games in hand on Alaska Fairbanks and one on Western Michigan. 
"From top to bottom, this is as competitive a league as I've seen," Poulin said. "The group in the middle that's vying for home ice advantage in the playoffs ­they're all right there close to each other. Even the teams in the weaker half of the league are good teams that can beat any­one." 
The Irish will face a Miami team set on revenge for last sea­son, when Notre Dame knocked the RedHawks out of the first round of the CCHA playoffs. The Irish fell behind in game one of the three-game series, dropping a 4-2 decision in Oxford on Mar. 14, but goalie Morgan Cey and the rest of the team rebounded to collect 1-0 and 5-0 shutouts over the final two games. 
Notre Dame advanced to the CCHA Super Six in Detroit, despite being the lower ranked seed (No. 7 to Miami's No. 6) in the first round and having to play on the road. 
Special teams will likely play a large part in this weekend's series, with the Irish penalty kill currently on a three game (14 straight kills) streak. Miami boasts one of the top power play units in the CCI-lA, connecting at a 21.2 percent clip, and it will be imperative for the Irish to stifle thatunit. 
"This is the traditional clash of offense versus defense," Poulin said. "But the best defense against a good power play is to not take penalties. The discipline is a real factor because when you're killing three or four power plays rather than seven or eight, you're a lot fresher and you make better decisions on the ice." 
The Irish offense that averages 
2.73 goals per game. 
"No-matter where you play, scoring first is always a big part of getting a win. It's important to come out and get some confi­dence, and get your team up on its toes and moving in the right direction," Poulin said. 
Face-off for each game is scheduled for 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Road 
continued from page 28 
scoring average. 
The last time these two teams met, March 1, 2003, the Irish escaped with a 62-60 win at home on Katy Flecky's two free throws with two seconds to play. So this year, the Irish are ready for a challenge. 
"Overall, they're a greaC defensive team," Irish coach MufTet McGraw said. "They're terrific rebounders, and they're really athletic. They hold teams down. It's going to be a challenge for us." 
The Pirates out-rebound 

their opponents by almost ten 
rebounds per game, as they 
average 41.7 rebounds to 
opponents' 31.9. Notre Dame, 
on the other hand, averages 
37.2 rebounds per game. "We're going to work on rebounding," McGraw said. 
The Irish hope to carry their performance at home on the road, as they are 10-0 at the Joyce Center this season. But after two road wins in the past two weeks, the Irish feel as though they have figured out how to play on the road. 
"Winning the Syracuse and Miami games have really given us confidence on the road," McGraw said. "We've really got to stay focused. Every game is really important for us and the team knows that." 
Notre Dame, led by Jacqueline Batteast {15 points, 
8.3 rebounds per game) and Megan Duffy (11.4 points, 4.6 assists per game), has won 11 of their last 14 games since starting the season 3-4. 
"We really took a lot of lumps early on, and we were fortunate that we were able to maintain our mental tough­ness because that was a long stretch," McGraw said. "I think this team has been really resilient this year." 
The Irish success has been in large part due to their com­mitment to defense, according to McGraw. Players know that they will play only if they excel on defense, and McGraw has shown this throughout the sea­son in her substitutions. 
"Putting Monique Hernandez in the starting lineup was a huge sign that we're serious about [defense]," McGraw said. "The other people are starting to improve defensive­ly. We're definitely starting our best defensive group. I think that by substituting, they're getting the picture." 
Notre Dame hopes to carry over their defensive intensity this weekend on the road, in what could prove to be anoth­er defensive battle. 
"Seton Hall is another great team and a big test for us on the road," McGraw said. "That's going to be a big chal­lenge for us to go out there. They're a great defensive team, so it should be another defensive battle, but it's one that we're looking forward to." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
·. _;~­irish athletics Men's Basketball Saturday, February 7th @7:00pm vs. #7 Pittsburgh FREE foam finger.to first 1,000 fans •P:··· (sponsored by Burger Ktng) ·• McNulty Irish Dancers to perform at halftime FREE Power Bar bites during the game (while supplies last)  Track and Field Meyo Invitational @ Loftus Sports Center Friday, February 6th @ 1:00pm Saturday, February 7th @ 8:30am ... Gold Game* **Meyo Mileat 2:30pm** *FREE Gold Game T;..Shirts fo~, 100 lucky fans during Meyo Mile (sponsored by Aeropostale)  
i<us.Cellular. ~PREMIER* LOCATIONS"AUTHORIZED ABENT  MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND 514 W. McKinley 117 North Main Corner McKinley & Grape 1 blk. south of Colfax 574.252.5820 574.288.9450 4615 Miami Road Miami & Ireland 574.299.2860 •Art1me offer valid on two-year consumer sel\l1ce agreements of $39 95 and higher Prcmot1011al pfme Sltlject to cha'lge Ftlone priCing nci.Jdes a$30 mali-n rebate Custcmer IS reSJ)Jnslble for ali sales taKes Reduced access tee val1d tor twst 3 months of 24-month Serv1ce Agreement Free lncornng Mrutes available lfl local call1~ cr-ea on~ N1~t and weekend mnutes er-e valid M-F9(XI1 to 559 am and all day Satllday and Sunday N~ght <Y1d weefend m1nutes are ava1lable 1n local callmg cr-ea on~ Opt1on of 3000 N!Qhts and Weeiend Mnutes. w1th a 7 pm start tme. IS ONLY gJod oo Ire prornotuml rate pliYl of $39 95 for 1OCWl mnutes Rocrn1ng charges. fees. slJ'charges and taKes may a~ly Act1valion fee $30 All serv· 1ce agreements subJect to an early termnatron fee Other restriCtions may a~~ See store for deta1ls Lim1ted tune offer OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 28. 2004  


:--. -~ ~-: 
···••~••••~••;:• ~:a '_ -• • ,' -......... " • • • • • -:: ..... :;
.. -. I~ J 
-.. . :: : . ...-:;:"~~~--Jii~~~·~ .... _.. :.~.~-···r.···· 

: • page 26 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 6, 2004
!l ~============================:::::::::=:======================================================= 
l ' 
'·\

i·; 



. ... . . 

. . . . . . 
•.•• .. •· .. "THEEINESTINOFF-CAMPUS HOUSING"
···-.. ········· 
. -:--:.·::_::-.·-::.-::.:-:-::;.·-.... ..·.·.·.-·-----.-:-:-:-::;·-·.·.·-·-·· . '': ::·.. ::.:~:-:.·.-·:_. .. ..-.---· 
.. . .. >-..:-_.·_:· .. 

Apartments are ayailable for '04-'05 and are filling up fo-r '05-'06 
Call to get the REAL story and to find out why you should live at Lafayette Square. 
AMENITIES INCLUDE: I PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT .; 24-HOUR EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE .; THELARGEST STUDENT APARTMENTSAVAILABLE 
. ·--. -·--· .,( 4-AND 5-BEDROOMS UNITS 
. .· 
.---_ -_ .-s:\>i!':(' WASHER AND Dl~.YER IN EVERY UNIT I ADT ALARM SYSTEMS I DISHWASHER I CLOSE TO CAMPUS I THE BEST VALUE PER STUDENT BY SIZE AN-D AMENITY PACKAGE I PROUDLY SERVING THE NOTRE DAME & Sr. MARY'S COMMUNITY 
Refer aperson or group that leases an apart1nent and receive a $500 referralfee!* 
(One referral fee paid per apartment leased. Call Real Estate Management for full details.*) 
Lease an apartment between February 1& March 1, 2004, and receive a free 1nonth's rent!** 
Call Real Estate Management Corp for Complete Details** 
You have looked at the rest, now lease the best! 
For more information, call 574-234-9923 and ask for Justine 
Call now! They won't last long! 
-



page 27

The Observer+ TODAY 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 

FIVES 

HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE ·.")­
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MUPLE 


I I I ~IJ
Cl2Q04 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reoerved. 
IRYAH 


[IJ I I 
PANKID 
j 
1 

ri (] 
www.jumble.com
tVOMITE J ( J [) 
Ms: 

"( I I I I I J" rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: WAFER USURY CLERGY MYSTIC
Yesterday's Answer: 

What the ship's barber gave the sailors ­"CREW" CUTS 

RAIN CAN DO THIS TO PICNIC. Pl-ANS. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  43 River through  5 European sky­ 
1 Very virile  Yakutsk  line sight  
7 Sent off 15 Covent Garden landmark 17 Showy show 18 Dedicated lines  44 Some are bitter 45 Joy Adamson's "Forever Free: Pride" 47 Second hand: Abbr.  6 Seasons of cel­ebration 7 Magicianlike 8 February figure 9 Plane-jumping G.l.  
19 Much, slangily  49 Is a contender  10 German physi­ 
20 Sarong's lack  50 Harden  cist  
21 Frontier scout's  53 One on the  11 Get very hot  
discovery  books  12 Performance  
23 Dimwit  56 Way to sign  enhancer  
24 Attach  60 Gets very hot  13 Hobby, e.g.  
27Way  61 Some frame­works  14 Held 16 Debate list  
30 Crossing user, for short  62 Distinguished  21 Places behind curtains  
31 Having an easy time of it 35 Cinematic pair of 1991  DOWN 1 Mythical craft 2 Whites or darks,  22 They're in a kingdom 23 Women con esposos  
39 Like some fine  e.g.  24 Nova Scotia  
linen  3 Football's  hrs.  
Alzado40 Name affix: Abbr. 4 Kid's cry ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -:+::-:+:~:+=~  25 Code word 26 Randomizer 27 It fell in the Old Testament 28 Starfire of 60's  40 Sicken 41 Poet Wylie 42 Nagana carrier 46 Cremains, e.g.  52 Huntsman Center team 53 Alternative to dieting, briefly  55 Ginger Rogers song "_in the Money" 57 Paris's Gare de I'- 
autodom  47 Cultural doings  
-=+~~~~  29 Dimwit 32 "Sabrina the Teenage Witch" actor Richert  48 Mind 50 Loved one 51 Zip  54 "They have pre­pared_ for my steps": Psalms 57:6  58 Very good, in the 'hood 59 0 lead-in  
~~~  33 Put on  

For answers, cail 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a
34 _trip 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.36 Dot-commer's • Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
dream, for short 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. -=+=+:~~ 37 Center of reli­
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
gious authority 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -:+~:+:::-1 38 Life-altering Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, people?: Abbr. nytimes .com/learn ing/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ __ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City ________ State _______ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

Celebrities born on this day: Ronald Reagan, Michael Tucker, Tom Brokaw, Zsa Zsa Gabor, Axl Rose, Babe Ruth, Francois Truffaut, Natalie Cole, Bob Marley, Robert Townsend, Rip Tom, Rick Astley 
Happy Birthday: You'll have the strength and courage to plunge in and accomplish your goals during the year ahead. Don't look back and don't ponder over past mistakes. Finish what you started and stop worrying about other people. You must focus on what's important to you this year if you really want to get ahead and reach your goals. This can be your best year yet if you are determined to succeed. Your numbers: 2, 9, 12, 23, 37,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will entice members of the opposite sex with your passion for life and your quick wit. You will have to watch that you don't upset someone who already thinks of you as a mate. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be nervous and anxious today. Don't get angry over trivial matters. You mustn't blame others for your own stubbornness. Correct mistakes rather than making more. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Changes at work will make you upset with your boss. The result will be far better than you anticipate. Remember, thoughts are followed by actions. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Family should take top priority today. You can be helpful if you listen to the difficulties your loved ones are experiencing. Changes in your home will be nerve-racking but favorable. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Friends may need to lean on you. Romance is evident; however, if you get involved with more than one partner you can expect repercussions. Uneasiness and upset in your home are likely. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It is best to take some extra work home with you. Problems with transportation and communications are evident. Don't make promises. Don't let yourself get run down.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Losses are likely if you get involved in joint financial ventures or if you aren't careful with your belongings. Don't let acquaintances talk you into doing things you'd rather not do. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your influences will stem from the books you read and the individuals you come in contact with. Keep an open mind. Research before making any commitments. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't waste time on legalities or problems that require you to deal with government agencies. You will have trouble expressing yourself. Stick to your job and avoid making decisions. **** CAPRICORL~ (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Friends will confess to having problems with their mates. You can offer suggestions but don't get caught in the middle. Don't gamble; loss is likely. Romance is apparent. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel will bring you greater knowledge. Problems concerning your reputation may put you under the gun. You can't run away from these matters. Get things in the open and start over. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your persuasive talent will help convince others to support your efforts. Don't hesitate to use your alluring manner to capture the heart of a love interest. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will have what it takes to make fortunes throughout your life if you want to. Your concern with the well-being of those less fortunate will lead to great satisfaction and popularity. You have a great deal to offer 
others. 

Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
.------------------------------------------------:-----~·-----------------------­

THE OBSERVER 
p
Friday, February 6, 2004 

BASEBALL 
For the love of the game 
Grisham speaks of affinity for college baseball in opening dinner 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
<. The 2004 Irish baseball sea,. son officially got under way Thursday night as the team hosted the Opening Night Dinner with guest speakers John Grisham and former Notre-Dame All-American Steve Stanley. Grisham, a rabid amateur baseball enthusiast and recent follower of the Notre Dame program, talked about his love of collegiate baseball and the role the sport has played throughout his life in the rural South. "College baseball is fun to watch, and that is one of the reasons it's my favorite sport," the author said. "I go to [the College World Series in] Omaha, Neb., every chance I get just to watch great base­bail. The reason I love the sport is that its great baseball played by great players." Grisham extolled the virtues of amateur baseball, especially on the collegiate level, for the great love and respect the players have for their favorite past time. 
"These kids respect the game, they know how to play it, they respect their schools and they're proud of their schools," Grisham said. "That's why I love college baseball. It's a great game, played by great kids at great schools like this." 
The author contrasted the devotion that players on the collegiate level have to the game and to their schools with the selfishness and "me-first" attitude that often arises in professional baseball. 
"College baseball players hustle, and for somebody that is a fan of the game, there is nothing so rewarding as to watch a kid hustle," he said. "And there is nothing more frustrating than to watch pro­fessionals who will not." 
"College baseball players play for the name on the front of the uniform, and not the one on the back. They love their schools. They respect the game, and that's the corner­stone of college baseball." 
In the last few years, Grisham has developed sever­al ties to the Irish baseball program. The attraction start­ed. in the 2000 NCAA 
Author and avid college baseball fan John Grisham speaks at Irish baseball's Opening Night Dinner. Former Notre Dame All­American baseball player Steve Stanley also spoke. 
Regionals hosted by Mississippi State in Starkville, Miss. The Irish were sent down South, and a scrappy Notre Dame team that would not be intimidated by the bois­terous home crowd almost knocked the Bulldogs out of the tournament. 
The two schools played three grueling games in 24 hours before the Bulldogs eventually triumphed with a ninth-inning home run for a 10-9 win in the championship game. Grisham, a Mississippi State graduate, was unable to attend the regional that year, but he got a full report from friends and family about the feisty Irish team. 
This past summer, with his son a member of the Univer­sity of Virginia baseball team, 
see GRISHAM/page 24 page 28 
NO TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish host top teams at Invite 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Many of the top track squads in America will meet in the Loftus Sports Center this weekend as the annual Meyo Invitational begins tonight at 7 p.m. The two-day meet will continue Saturday morning at 10 a.m., with the finals beginning at 2 p.m. 
Notre Dame is expected to face off against strong com­petition on both the men's and women's sides. The meet favorite is Arkansas, ranked first in the men's poll and eleventh in the women's, according to Trackwire.com. Alabama, Georgia Tech, Wisconsin, Georgetown, Mississippi, Wake Forest, Maryland, Michigan State, Michigan, Butler, Ball State and Western Carolina head­line the 63-team field. 
The Irish women are have had success thus far, as they are currently ranked 21st nationally. They are led by 
see MEET/page 24 


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Defensive Irish go on the road 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
No. 23 Notre Dame looks for its sixth straight win as the Irish go on the road to face Seton Hall Sunday afternoon. 
The Pirates (12-8, 4-5 Big East) come off a 64-40 loss to Virginia Tech, but hold an impressive 7-2 home record. Their only losses came against No. 4 Connecticut and Pittsburgh. 
Meanwhile, the Irish have played outstanding defense in their past eight games, holding all but one opponent to 50 points or less in their seven wins. Notre Dame defeated 
TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer 

Georgetown Wednesday night 
66-52, holding the I-loyas to a Le'Tania Severe looks to drive against Connecticut Jan. 13. Severe and the Irish hope to extend their six-game win streak. 
season-low 29.6 percent shoot­
•

ing. 
But Seton Hall is a defensive­61.4 points per game. per game. However, she is the minded team as well, as they Junior Ashley Bush leads the only Pirate with a double figure only allow 56.6 points per Pirates in scoring, averaging game. Offensively, they average 10.4 points and 6.4 rebounds see ROAD/page 25 
HocKEY 

Irish travel to face first. place Miami 
to Notre Dame this season. For 

By JUSTIN SCHUVER Miami to become the fourth,. 
Associate Sports Editor Notre Dame will have to defeat 
a RedHawks team on a five-

Notre Dame has made a game unbeaten streak, induct­habit of relishing in the David ing a sweep of traditional pow­role this season. This weekend erhouse Michigan State last they'll face another Goliath. weekend. 
The Irish (13-9-4, 9-8-3 in "I think that's why you sched­the CCI-lA) travel to Oxford, ule a tough non-conference Ohio, to face first place Miami schedule, is for situations like this season. The RedHawks this," Poulin said. "I mean, (16-9-3, 13-5-2 in the CCHA) Miami is the best team in the are currently No. 7 in both conference right now. I know national college hockey polls. that they claim they don't get 
"To play the first plaee team much respect, but I know in your conference at this point there's not one person in our of the season is wonderful," locker room who doesn't Irish coach Dave Poulin said. respect Miami." "We both play a similar style -• The RedHawks currently sit a real upbeat, up-tempo brand in first place in the CCHA with of hockey. It should be a 28 points, seven points ahead tremendous series." of the seventh place Irish. 
Boston College, Maine and Notre Dame sits just one point Wisconsin are three top-five teams that have already fallen see HOCKEY/page 25 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
NHL

MEN'S TENNIS 
SMC BASKETBALL
ND SWIMMING 

NCAA BASKETBALL
en 11.1 
Notre Dame vs.

Saint Mary's vs. 
Duke 83
Notre Dame vs.

Notre Dame vs.
1--u 
Pittsburgh

Hope 
The Canadiens defeat-
North Carolina 81
Cleveland State
Purdue 

ed the Islanders 2-1. The
Friday, 7 p.m.

Saturday, 1 p.m.
a: z ~ 
Saturday, 7 p.m. 

Saturday, 3 p.m. 
Canucks, Flyers and
No. 1 Duke prevailed
Notre Dame vs.

= 
The Irish face a tough 
The Irish look to get a

The Belles look to 
Lightning were also
Oakland 

in an overtime thriller in 
( matchup against the
cs: 
big conference win at

recover after a big loss 
victorious.
Saturday, 1 p.m. 

Chapel Hill. 
Boilermakers' doubles 
= a. !i 
home.

to Calvin. 
teams. 

en 
Irish Insider
page 16
page 23 
page 20

page 22 
page 23 


--~-~-~~~~~~~----------~~~~~-~------------------­
page 2 The Observe;+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, February 6, 2004 
February stretch make or break for the Irish 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

Mike Brey is not a coach nor­mally given to using superla­tives. 
But ask the Irish basketball coach what he thinks of Notre Dame's February schedule, and Brey offers a weak smile. 
"This is," he said, "the tough­est February ever in this pro­gram's history." 
Just how tough is the gaunt­let the Irish must run? The month's first seven games are all against teams whose RPI rating places them among the nation's top 30. 
After losing 76-69 to Boston College, the first team in that stretch, Wednesday night, Notre Dame faces a difficult stretch when they host Pittsburgh and Connecticut in a 48-hour span beginning Saturday. 
Then, the Irish get the better part of a week ofT before host­ing Seton Hall, but two days later, have to travel to Syracuse. Five days go by before the Irish have to play Connecticut -in Hartford, this time -and then host Providence. The murderous stretch concludes with a trip to Los Angeles to play UCLA. 
It's enough to make any head coach whimper. 
And with the Irish (10-8, 4-3 in the Big East) teetering on the brink of failing .to qualify for the NCAA Tournament, the Irish have to manage to get several quality wins during 
that span. are often considered bubble 
"It's another opportunity for teams. us," Torrian Jones said. "It's What's more, the Irish have going to do nothing but help us yet to get a quality win this out. We're ready for the chal­season. Notre Dame hasn't lenge, and we've shown beaten a ranked team this glimpses of our talent this year, and its most impressive year." win, RPI-wise, came Jan. 10 at 
Notre Dame's current Villanova, who is ranked No. predicament is eerily similar to 62. the one the Irish faced in All season long, Brey has Brey's first year and Jones' defended the Irish against their 
freshman year.  tough schedule, say­ 
Then, the Irish  ing that it wasn't  
had suffered through an unimpressive  ..Nobody is thinking about·  important for Notre Dame to beat every top-level team on its  
December and  the NIT.''  schedule as long as  
January  and  they beat a few. But  
were poised on the proverbial N C A A  Jordan Cornette Irish forward  those wins been lacking. "This is a  have huge  

Tournament bubble. But Notre Dame reeled off eight straight wins to clinch the Big East West Division title. 
The similarities are some­thing Brey and Jones talk about privately, but rarely dis­cuss with the rest of the team. 
"We're a little younger this time around, and we have the talent," Jones said. "But the older guys have to step up and get that eight-game winning streak. 
"Leadership is what we need most right now." 
Brey isn't so optimistic, but he knows Notre Dame needs many quality wins to improve their tournament resume. Notre Dame's RPI rating is 82nd in the nation. Come Selection Sunday, teams who have an RPI rank around 40 
stretch for us," 
Jordan Cornette said. "We've got some tough teams ahead on our schedule. We haven't had any big wins yet. We've had some tough vic­tories, but no good RPI wins." 
But Notre Dame's players haven't given up. The Irish carry a two-game losing streak into Saturday's game against No.4 Pittsburgh (21-1, 7-1) and then turn around Monday and host the No. 5 Huskies (18­3, 6-1). 
"Nobody is thinking about the NIT," Cornette said defiantly. 
He didn't have to add that the Irish have enough on their minds already. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Every Friday, while hostilities continue in Iraq, the S: IS p.m. Mass at the Basilica will be offered for Peace. 
Peace is a gift from God but it is also the result ofhuman efforts. Please join us each Friday for this special Mass. 
On First Fridays, beginning this Friday, we will pray for and remember all who have died in the conflict in Iraq, especially innocent civilians, and we will pray, as well, for peacemakers and all who yearn for peace with justice for all God's people. 
Listed below are the names of family members, friends and alumni of Notre Dame serving in the artned forces of tbe United States in tl'le Middle East. 
Jon Arras  Dustv Clark "  Mid1ael Ellis  Gahe Johnson  Scott Menol1cr  Antlwny Turnock  
Beau Arsenault  Mike Clive  Danny Fitzgibbon  Valerie June  Spence ~1iller  Stephen Vallejo  
John Paul Arsm-,.ault  ~1il~e Conway  Col. ~lark Gehri  Anna King  Andrew Mitchell  lv1ichael Vanderlaan  
Jehu Baker  Pfc. Riley J. Cook  Ricl1ie Goller  Grace Lee  Josh ~1oskaitis  Dan Vanderlinden  
Phil Barr  Salmon Cooper  Drew !-lackey  ]arnie Limongelli  Mark Patanella  Colin Welch  
Brandy Begaye  Jason Crun1  Donny I-Iale  Brian Ling  Greg Reynolds  Cluistopher Welch  
Candice Benally  Ryan Daley  Jonatl1an Hall  Aaron Llyod  Toni Sanders  Paul Whelan  
Wally Bishop  Chris Davis  Nathan Hall  Shannon Manson  Tony Scardino  David Whitaker  
Sean Brennan  Brig. Gen. !v1arlin  Theresa I--Ianscn  Pearse ~1arshner  Scott Spal  Jessica Wbite  
Cluistopher Brown  Den1psey  Sl1anon l-Ioln1an  Jeff Mayer  Ryan Stilln1an  Andre Williams  
Josh Carlisle  Michael Dougherty  Enuan Huda  Andrew Mayer  Bill Sweet  Cluis Young  
Andrew Casper  Casitnir Drowleski  Bob Jarnes  Katie lvicCauldon  Francis Tisak  If you would like to have. a name  
Simeon Chelf  Chris Eden  Jason Jenson  Ian ~1cEwan  Paul Tisak  add,!d to this list,plcase email  
fsantoni(ff:ml.edu  

Immediately after the Mass for Peace this Friday and every first Friday, Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns will co-sponsor around table discussion on atheme related to the conflict immediately after the Mass at the Center for Social Concerns. A simple meal will be served witb conversation led by Assistant Theology Professor Margie Pfeil. 
Please join us in prayer and worship at the Basilica, and for discussion and an exchange of viewpoints afterwards. 
page 3 

Friday, February 6, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

Timmermans works through frustrations to become a leader for the Irish 
play and you want to be out decisions," Timmermans said. -ByMATTLOZAR there, and then your body "With Syracuse and their zone, Associate Sports Editor doesn't want to go." the high post is going to be open 
Timmermans wasn't the only with a lot of space and opportuni­one frustrated. Combine ties to make those kind of passes. 
Tom Timmermans isn't your 
Timmermans' injury with Rick I made the passes and other peo­typical 6-foot-11, 270-pound c(m­Cornett's early season injury and ple knocked them down." ­ter. 
freshman Omari Israel recover­Timmermans camped out at
lie wows fans with no-look 

ing from ofT-season knee injury, the high post, which is alwayspasses and isn't afraid to shoot and Brey was limited to basieally open in the 2-3 zone. As Notrethe 3-pointer from the top of the two big men. Dame's guards got Timmermans key. 
Brey became so concerned the ball, he scanned the rest of
But he also docs the conven­

about the lack of depth in the the Irish offense and made pass­tional big man things like drop­
paint that he asked freshman es rivaling those of the best
ping point guards with monster 
tight end John Carlson to pull guards in the country to the open ­
picks and being the main 
double duty and join the basket­players.
enforcer down low for the Irish. 
ball team, even just to be a prac­On that night, it wasn't just the
"I enjoy that part of being 
tice body. passing ability of Timmermansphysical. It's necessary in the Big 
"I was frustrated we didn't that was on display. He regis­
East," Timmermans said. "But 
have him early this year," Brey tered career highs in points,sometimes when I have an open said. "But he's an example of assists and minutes while tyingshot from wherever it is on the what a senior should do." his career high in rebounds. 
floor, I'll take it." 
Timmermans worked with the What Timmermans would dis­It's a multi-dimensional role coaches and the training staff not play on a daily basis in practice
Timmermans has developed in ­
to rush back from the injury. became public and allowed himhis senior season with the Irish After battling his back for about a to become a Joyce Center fan
-a senior season that had a 
month, Timmermans was able to favorite.
very good chance of not being 
ease his way back into the lineup "In practice, I always knew hethis productive. 
at the end of Notre Dame's non­had a lot of talent," senior co­
Frustrations abound 
conference schedule. captain Torrian Jones said. "HeTimmermans played 31 min­By the time the Big East sched­had a nice shooting touch and
utes in Notre Dame's opening 
ule rolled around, Timmermans dribble moves.
exhibition game against the Hoop 
was ready to go. "Now you can see what he's
Group. Timmcrmans played in 
Breaking out capable ofdoing."
only two of the next eight con­
The opportunity for That unique package for a col­tests for a total of 15 minutes. 
Timmermans to assume a major legiate center TimmermansHis back InJury, which contributing role with the Irish exhibited at Syracuse is some­Timmermans said "just kind of began before the season started. thing the Irish haven't had for asneaked in there," was forcing When Brey answered questions long time -a post player whothe senior co-captain to watch about who his core group of play­will commit the hard foul, will
from the bench as the Irish 
ers would be in 2003-04, thread the needle with a pass todropped below .500 for the first Timmermans was one of those hit the open man and isn't afraid time under coach Mike Brey. 
six players Brey always talked to throw up a 3-pointer from the
Timmermans had worked in the off-season to cut down on about. top of the key. knows his role as a captain as injury, and the result is a basket­The back injury was the only It's the on the court role
acquiring quick fouls and getting well. ball player who never gave up
thing restraining Timmermans. Timmermans has grown into
into early foul trouble as he often "We have the voice in Torrian. during his career at Notre Dame. 
When Timmermans was finally with the Irish. 
did in his first three years at I'm not always the one that It's something Brey can show 
healthy entering Big East play, he "It definitely helps having
Notre Dame. He was trying to pumps them up. But I will be the to other players as something to 
become a major contributor for played 10 minutes against West somebody who can get the ball in one that says something when it strive for when everything isn't Virginia, 19 at Villanova and 24 the low post and pass it back out
the Irish. is quiet or when nobody is saying going the way one hopes. 
But his back wasn't cooperat­at . Pittsburgh. Then came to someone who is spotting up," anything," Timmermans said. "He's a good example of how a Syracuse and its notorious 2-3 Timmermans said. "Being able to
ing -and there was nothing ''I'll be the one saying, get the player progresses in your pro­
zone. pass it out for a 3-pointer is very
Timmermans could do about it. loose balls, do the physieal stuff gram," Brey said. 
Timmermans broke it down important."
"It was definitely really frus­and lead by example on the floor 
perfectly. Changing his dreams
trating," Timmermans said. "It's by doing that stuff." 
"I've always been pretty good When Timmermans was grow­Contact Matt Lozar at
your senior year, you want to Combine three previous years
with the ball and making good ing up in the Netherlands, he had mlozar@nd.edu
of waiting with the early-season 
a childhood dream. It wasn't to be a Division I bas­ketball player. 
"I did do a little speed skating back in the day," Timmermans said with a smile. 
Two factors kept Timmermans from pursuing that dream -he ­grew to be 6-foot-11 and speed skating was done outside. 
While still in school in the Netherlands, he participated in school sports and developed an attraction for the game of basket­ball. He completed his high school career playing basketball for two years at a high school in 
-
St. George, Va. 
In terms of his dislike of cold weather, the harsh climate in South Bend couldn't keep him away from a top school offering basketball and solid academics: 
''I'm definitely not liking the snow up here, but with the school and the basketball pro­gram here, the climate can't do ­anything about that," Timmermans said. 
Timmermans admits his time in the United States has changed him. His family says he has become "Americanized" and his Dutch isn't as good as it used to be. 
Timmermans has become more mature over his four years at Notre Dame and that became evident when he earned the dis­tinction of a captain in the pre­
TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer season. 
Tom Tlmmermans attempts a reverse layup around the Just like dewloping in~o a role 
Orangemen's Craig Forth. on the court, Tir1mermans 



Friday, February 6, 2004

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Sat. 7:00 

Notre Dame
at 
(10-8) Fighting Irish Mon. 7:00
Connecticut 

at
Huskies 
THE IRISH 

PosT PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 

Ul 
:E 
<C 
c 
Ul
c:: 
.... 
0 
z 
Brey had led the Irish to three straight NCAA Tournaments in his first three years at Notre Dame. Yet he faces arguably his most difficult task this year in trying to get the Irish to make a fourth straight trip.  There's two themes here. Notre Dame often begins games trying to get the ball to Francis in the post. But as the game wears on, the Irish tend to move away from Francis and win games with their outside shooting.  One of the best big men in the Big East, Francis is a formidable weapon if he gets his hands on the ball. Cornette and Timmermans have both been playing well lately, as well, giving the Irish a couple options down low.  With Thomas strug­gling, Quinn has emerged as the center of Notre Dame's offen­sive attack. Jones gives the Irish a slashing, penetrating attack when he moves to the basket, and he's easily the team's most vocal leader.  The Irish have used largely a seven-man rotation all season long. While Cornette and Timmermans have done well off the bench, Falls has yet to emerge as the deadly shooter he was pur­ported to be.  The Joyce Center can get rocking for big games, and Notre Dame's student sec­tion is one of the loud­est in the league. However, the Irish have struggled at home this season.  

THE OPPONENTS 
·PosT PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 
In his first year at Pittsburgh, Dixon has kept the Panthers among the league's elite. Pittsburgh was undefeated late into the season, and many are projecting this team as a potential Final Four candidate.  The Panthers play a style of basketball simi­lar to Notre Dame, where they use the 3­point shot to beat teams s.enseless. However, they also have a strong physical presence inside and often out-rebound their opponents.  Brown, Troutman and Taft compose the Panthers' inside game. All three are shooting over 50 percent from the field, and combined, they generate an aver­age of 32 points a game.  Page is far and away the deep threat of this year's team. His range is equivalent to that of Irish graduate Matt Carroll's, but he can also create shots off the dribble. The freshman, Krauser, has performed well at the point guard spot all year.  The Panthers can go eight-deep with ease, and they have an inter­changeable lineup that allows them to start different players on dif­ferent nights with mini­mal drop-off. No bench player averages more than 10 points a gam(~. however.  One of the league's toughest teams to beat at home, the Panthers have only played four games on the road this year. What's more, this team has a chance to challenge for a Big East title -something not lost on the Panthers when they play.  


1­
::::;) 
CJ
-
.... 
CJ 
Ul 
z 
z 
0 
CJ 
Calhoun is easily one of the nation's most respected coaches, and year after year. the Huskies are always in the hunt for a Big East title. A large part of that has to do with Calhoun's effective leadership.  Pick your poison -this year's version of the Huskies will kill you inside with Okafor or outside with Gordon. Connecticut's strength is in its versatility of offen­sive weapons, and five players are averaging double-digit point totals since league play began.  There's no question Okafor is the Big East's best big man. The only question that remains is if he's the nation's best player. He shoots a whopping 61 percent from the field, averages a double-double each game, and ha.<; blocked 96 shots this year.  Gordon is an effective perimeter player, shoot­ing 43 percent from 3­point range, but he is also a great point guard. He's complimented well by Brown, a slashing guard who picks the Huskies up on the rare occasion when Okafor and Gordon are off.  Connecti.cut can go eight or nine players deep, running bodies at opposing teams to tire them out. Their depth is one of their greatest strengths, and defense is a hallmark of Calhoun-coached teams.  Ranked No. 1 in the nation at one point this year, the Huskies are a team on a mission. Okafor's calm leader­ship helps guide Connecticut in close ·games, and the Huskies have only lost one game on the road this year.  

THE ANALYSIS 
PosT PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 
.... 
....
-
c. 
c I 
z 
Brey has been suc­cessful in the past, but he's struggled to help tM~ young team find H~ id~ntity.this ye&r; ·Still, his .tounterparCi$ benefitting wta rgeIyil from a wealth of tal­ent-it's tough to say how much of an impact Dixon has had.  Pittsburgh typically kills the Irish inside when the two teams meqt. mixing a puQ.ish­i11K in~ide gam~ witl,l a deadly pefim~fefatf.ack, ¥etif N&ire Dame is hill ting their shots and Francis is a presence inside, the Irish can counter the Panthers.  For whatever reason, Notre Dame has had problems countering Pittsburgh•s inside game. Franeis has the offensive talent to score if he gets the ball~ but defensively, the Irish have struggled. There's little sign that will change now.  If Thomas was play­ing well, this would go to the Irish. But his qffcusive: .· strpggle~ rn~an Notr~ [)arne's guard are fairly equal to the Panthers' back0 court. It remains to be seen how effective the Quinn point guard switch could be.  Since Notre Dame rarely goes to its bench in a crisis, it should be little surprise that Pittsburgh has the edg~, her~. While the Panthers bench isn't notable, it is a steady , rotation that the Irish may have trouble countering.  With a difficult game against Connecticut looming, the Irish will be eagerly motivated to get a win. Their. NCAA Tournament hopes are starting to slip away, and this game against Pittsburgh-who the Iric;;h almost beat ­is a must win.  

z 
z 
0 CJ ::::J 
c I z 
Calhoun has made seven1l trip!>-.Jo the Final.,Four,qwb,ile Brey is stilf trying tQ g_et the Irish· past the Sweet 16. Plus, while Brey is trying to sorf-otlt his team•ii struggles, Calhotfn ·has the Huskies running like a fine-tuned machine.  It will be tough for the Ir\Sh·to.match up with.' Connecticut's inside-outsfde combo of Okafor and Gordon. Plus~ 'connecticut's deep bench will hurt an Irish· team that relies heavily on its starters for minutes.  The matchup betwe~n f.r.alicis and Cornette and Okafor will .be intrtgwng; Still, Oka.for is an in~redible defender and r-eoound­er who has excellent basketball kno~ledge the Irish have yet to demonstrate.  As good as Thomas and Ql,lilUl CaJl. be when their shots are falling, the pair has ~ tv have goodgames in the same ga~, Jones··may be called on t6 contain Gordon, but the Huskies just maJb{(foo deep for Notre Dame's guards to handle.  Again, there is little doubt here who has the edge,.} Connecticut's deptb'·enables th,.em to run bodies at teams, thu~.tkeeping tha:;stars fresh' down the stretch. The lrisjl, .however, look tired fn close games because they lack the bench support.  This is hands-down the biggest game in the Joyce Center this year. If the Irish faithful aren't rocking and the players aren't fired up for this game, they won't be at all. The key for Notre Dame will be their abili­ty to weather the inevitable lluskie run.  









