
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 88 WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 11,2004 

Legends takes dating to fast lane 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Writer 
Legends set the atmosphere for Valentine's Day last night by taking a stab at match­making with a speed dating session for nearly 50 Notre Dame students. 
"ND is known as the campus with no dating, and Valentine's Day was around the corner, so it seemed to be a good idea," program coordi­nator Jonathan Jorissen said. 
Speed dating has recently become a popular phenome­non in large eities across the globe. and Jorisscn, following a suggestion from his sister, decided to try the idea on Notre Dame's campus ­despite its rep11ted stale dat­ing scene. 
Small circular tables adorned with Valentine decor arranged on the dance floor were the setting for the 27 male students and 22 female students who attended the IWCnt. 
see DATE/page 4 


GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 

Members plan spring charity gala 

By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
The Charity Gala, constitution­al changes and upcoming spring elections were the focus of Tuesday night's Graduate Student Union meeting -the first of the semester. 
The council discussed which local charity would benefit from the Charity Gala, an event to be held on April 16 on the 20th floor of the City Center. The three organizations eligible for selec­tion are the Center for the Homeless in South Bend, the women's shelter run through the YWCA of St. Joseph County and the Refugee and Immigration Services of Michiana, to which last year's Gala proceeds went. 
"Last year, we wanted to donate to an organization that might not get as much attention on campus ... and where even a small amount of money will make a big difference," said aca­demic affairs committee chair Tim Dale. "The woman I talked to [at Refugee and Immigration Services] told me that they could make even a nickel go a long way." 
A majority vote ensured that the Refugee and Immigration Services would receive $2 from every $5 ticket sold. Last year, approximately 200 tickets were sold, and organizers are hoping to see an increase to 250, so they can give the charity at least $500. 
President Martiqua Post pro-
see GSU/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Queerfihn festival debuts 

University defends departments' decision to sponsor event 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
The Queer Film Festival, a four-day event showcasing gay cinematography, debuts tonight at Notre Dame with the award-winning documentary "Jim in Bold" followed by a panel discussion featuring the film's producer. 
The festival -the first of its kind at Notre Dame -may seem, to some, out of place on the campus of a Catholic uni­versity, though it offers an intellectual opportunity for the Notre Dame community, according to University spokesman Matt Storin and Liam Dacey, the festival's organizer. 
"We arc an academic institu­tion that has a whole [range] of classes, seminars and con­ferences. and that is what we are all about," Storin said. 

The festival, which will fea­ture a series of film screen­ings, discussions and a writing workshop and will bring direc­tors, screenwriters and pro­ducers to campus, is not specifically sponsored by the University as a whole, but rather by the Gender Studies Program, the Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and the Departments of English and Film, Television and Theatre. 
"There is a difference between what the University ... does in a University-wide sense as opposed to what our academic departments do as part of their missions," Storin said. 
lie emphasized that the festi­val's aim is to promote aca­demic discourse and does not necessarily reflect the University's position or views. 
see FILM/page 4 




Accounting majors assist needy with taxes 
By TERESA NOWAKOWSKI 
News Wrirer 
With tax season well under­way, accounting majors at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have an opportunity to apply their skills through a tax assis­tance program that began Tuesday and continues through April. 

Over 60 students participate in the program to aid the greater South Bend community in filing tax returns. Students who partic­ipate in this program have a pre­requisite tax class that they must take, in addition to 10 hours of training. They then are sent in pairs to sites around South Bend and Mishawaka, working with low-income families and students to file taxes free of charge. 
Professor of Accounting Ken Milani took over the program that was created almost 30 years ago by a law student and an MBA student. 
Milani says that it is a "win­win-win situation," where mem­bers of the community get their taxes done for free, students gain experience and interaction with people who may be outside of their social class and faculty get to see if the program runs as intended. 
Students are required to write reflection papers at the comple­tion of the program, several of which Milani says brings him to tears each year. 
Mark Bellatoni, a Notre Dame senior, said that he finds the most fulfillment in helping people obtain a refund. 
"It catches them ofT guard and 
see TAX/page 4 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Watch your mouth 
Anyone who knows me also knows the one pet peeve that stands out above all others in my book: When you say you're going to do some­thing, do it. 
This past week­end, I got a call from my best friend. At one point she halted the conversation to point out, "If there's one thing about you, I know that you always 

Annellese
keep your word." 
I take pride in Woolford the fact that I hold to my com­Saint Mary's mitments. Not Editor only do I recog­nize this trait in myself, but as others get to know me, they start to appreciate it as well. 
I don't care if it's something as simple as making a phone call that you said you'd make, or following through on a favor that you prom­ised to do-chances are, another person is counting on you. Then again, maybe that's just my own wishful thinking. 
Perhaps I'm naive to presume that others take commitments as serious­ly as I do. After meeting the people I have at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's during my four years here, I've finally realized that everyone comes from a different background and, hence, has a varied moral upbringing. Looked at one way, the fact that I'm just now recognizing these circumstances could be seen as pathetic. The light bulb definitely should have turned on a lot sooner. 
Another approach, however, pres­ents the question of whether or not it really is too much to ask that peo­ple keep their word. It's a safe bet to assume that the person on the 

r receiving end will expect it. After all, 
~ 
isn't it better to assume and live up 
to someone's expectations than it is 
to brush off commitment and risk 

r upsetting someone's feelings? 
The way I look at it-and I prom­ise this is the most philosophical side of me those of you reading this will witness -is that, if you can't hold someone to their word, what can you hold them to? With commit­ment comes trust. Therefore, when a commitment is let down, so is trust (and respect too, r might add). 
To say that everyone upholds their end of a deal 100 percent of the time would be terribly utopist of me. So what? Who's to say there's anything

f 
wrong with that?

! In my realm of friends, family and people I meet, I do expect everyone to stay as true to their word as I do to mine. It's as though, initially, they get a clean slate and I give them full respect without passing judgment. So generous, I know. But seriously, all I'm asking is that the next time you say you'll do something, keep in mind that there are still people like me who put a lot of worth in words. Actions speak louder. A little effort goes a long way. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE NO's DATING SCENE? 








Jenny Stelloh Jessica Freeman Joe Brutto Josh Bruce Juan Pablo Mantlca Molly Kealy 
Freshman Junior Freshman Freshman Sophomore Freshman Lyons Lewis Keenan O'Neill Keough Lyons 
"Hopefully in "Nonexistent." "Minimal to "You have a "What dating "Nothing like 
spring things  nonexistent."  better chance  
will bloom,  with sheep."  
because so far,  
things are  
dead."  


SOFIA BALLON/The Observer A student stops to read a display of T-shlrts decorated with the stories of surviving rape and assault victims Tuesday. The display, titled "The Clothesline Project," Is exhibited In O'Shaughnessy Hall as one of several activities correlated with the Vagina Monologues. 
OFFBEAT 
Frenchwoman marries her dead boyfriend 
NICE, France-Dressed in a demure black suit, a 35-year-old Frenchwoman married her dead boyfriend Tuesday -a macabre exchange of vows that required authorization from the French president. 
Under French law, Christelle Demichel became both bride and widow as a result of the ceremony, which was per­formed at Nice City Hall on the French Riviera. 
The deceased groom, a former policeman identi­fied as Eric, was not pres­ent at the ceremony. He was killed by a drunk driver in September 2002. 

Demichel told LCI televi­sion she was fully aware that "it could seem shock­ing to marry someone who is dead," but said that her fiance's absence from her life had not dimmed her feelings for him. 
Hundreds of bats found In mall elevator 
COLUMBIA, S.C. Apparently store hours mean little to hundreds of bats that have flocked to an employee elevator at the back of a shopping mall near downtown. 
Roughly 350 of the noc­turnal mammals have been found so far, said Brian Berrios of Wildlife Solutions, which has been hired to capture the creepy creatures from the elevator's skylight at the Richland Mall. 
Mall management has shut down the elevator to keep the bats from spreading to the mall's shopping area, asking employees of a call center inside the mall to use cus­tomer entrances. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
D:: 
Ul 
:::1: 
!;: 
Ul 

==.... 
c( 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 30 HIGH 24 HIGH 28 HIGH 31
...I LOW 26 LOW 22 LOW 17 LOW 23 
scene?" two roommates sharing." 
IN BRIEF 
"Border Fillers," a lecture by Jose Saldivar, professor of English and ethnic studies at the University of California, Berkeley, will be held today from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The lecture is a component of the series on "Race in the Americas." 
The film "Jim in Bold" will be shown tonight in the Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium from 7 to 8:30 
p.m. The screening kicks ·off the ND Queer Film Festival. 
Tonight's Theology .on Ta:p will ask the question "Is There Hope in Loss?: A 9/11 Story," Attend the discussion from 
9:30 to 10:30 p.m. at Legends. 
Just in time for Valentine's Day, "Romeo and Juliet" will be performed at Washington Hall by Actors From The London Stage tonight through Saturday. Performances each night begin at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
Fisher Hall will hold a mass Thursday in remembrance of Chad Sharon from 5:15 to 6:15p.m. 
Acousticafe will feature stu­dent artists and authors read­ing from their own works Thursday from 10 p.m. to 12 
a.m. in LaFortune. Sign up outside of the Student Government office if you would like to read; however space is limited. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 30 HIGH 24 LOW 15 LOW 6 
Atlanta 48 I 37 Boston 40 I 25 Chicago 31 I 19 Denver 24 I 5 Houston 51 I 42 Los Angeles 73 I 48 Minneapolis 19 I 4 New York 42 I 27 Philadelphia 42 I 26 Phoenix 65 I 43 Seattle 51 I 36 St. Louis 36 I 21 Tampa 77 I 62 Washington 43 I 32 



Wednesday, February 11, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Jewell sheds light on life with a disability 




Wednesday to hear 
Rediscovering Hope in the Ashes ofJennifer Sands, Loss, and iS'a guest of the University a victim of 9/11, discuss her for the Sophomore Literary Festival.· experiences with finding hope Come hear her story, and help us find and faith in the midst oftragedy. answers to the question of suffering. 
Why does God allow suffering? 

Join us at Legends on Wednesday, Feb. 11th Doors open 9:30. Speaker begins 10:15. 
Brought to you by Campus Ministry 
visit us on the web: http:/I campusministry.nd.edu 
By TERESA NOWAKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Actress and stand-up comedi­enne Geri Jewell began her lec­ture at Saint Mary's Tuesday by describing her life with an admirable vitality, only casually mentioning the fact that she has lived with cerebral palsy since birth. 
"I was born this way, so it's no big deal," she said. "You know what is a big deal to me? My hair." • 
Despite her disability, a chronic condition affecting body move­ments and muscle coordination caused by partial brain damage, Jewell has maintained control of her life in every capacity she can. 
"I Ier life and her story are an amazing inspiration to every­body," said Frances Bruder, Students with Disabilities repre­sentative on Student Diversity Board. 
Best known as Cousin Geri in "The Facts of Life," Jewell was the first disabled person to be cast in a Primetirne series. She was cast in nine episodes of the show, meaning she had just nine weeks of work in four years. 
"Of course I was a token, I knew it," she said. However, Jewell did not let the typecasting discourage her. She instead rea­soned that if she made herself a public figure, she would eventu­ally break into mainstream entertainment. 
In addition to "The Facts of Life," Jewell has held roles in "I Love Liberty," "1\vo of a Kind," succeed in the tasks given to her. "Nice Dreams" and "Deadwood," Within her lecture, Jewell which will premiere in March on interspersed stories about the HBO. difficulty encountered when 

Jewell demonstrated Tuesday merging her disability with her that she will laugh at her own entertainment career, such as jokes and stories, yet is first to knocking off Big Bird's head in admit that she's "had an interest­front of a live Sesame Street ing life." audience. 
Despite her now positive out­"We deal with a lot of igno­look, Jewell's Jil'e has not been all rance on a daily basis," she said. smiles and laugh-"To say that I have ter. As a child, she to change [a non­was the subject of ''The only thing I disabled person's frequent taunting can be responsible attitude] toward and name-calling. me; that's very
for is my attitude
"You just deal unrealistic.
and what I believe 
with it," she said. Sometimes we get "I highly overcom­about myself" so used to rejection pensated." and not having In school grow­friendships that we
Gerl Jewell 

ing up, Jewell said expect it to be this 
actress

she "was the last way." 
generation of chil­dren with special needs who are not main­streamed" and a self-described "survivor of Special Ed." Although she received the best occupational and physical thera­py that was available, she was not challenged academically. 
Jewell graduated from high school and was left to the discre­tion of California state agencies. They tried to make her learn a variety of skills in a workshop, in a job at a switchboard and in a filing position, yet she could not complete any of them -simply because she was never interest­ed in what she was doing. 
"They never asked me what my interests were," explained Jewell about why she failed to Jewell insists that 
she "will go 200 yards to make someone feel com­fortable" around her, "but it's always a two-way street." 
"The only thing I can be responsible for is my attitude and what I believe about myself," she said. 
Jewell was the first in a series of guest speakers for Saint Mary's Disabilities Awareness Week. In addition to other pre­sentations and lectures, signs will also be posted around cam­pus illustrating the effects of dis­abilities and highlighting public figures that live with a disability on a daily basis. 
Contact Teresa Nowakowski at nowa9294@saintmarys.edu 

Gerl Jewell, an actress and stand-up comedian, described her life with Cerebral Palsy at Saint Mary's on Tuesday evening. 

Wednesday, February 11, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Date 
continued from page 1 
Each participant attended eight five~minute dates. Couples sat at a table chatting during their time intervals and, when time was called, they rotated to their next part­ners. 
Every potential date had his or her own scorecard. and, after the completion of each date, they evaluated the peo­ple they met. If a person had potential, a "yes" was circled. Contrarily, if there was no interest, a "no" was circled. Legends coordinators collected the score sheets and distrib­uted phone numbers if two individuals checked "yes" for each other. 
After the eight dates were completed, participants were given time to mingle. Many students had positive com­ments about their evening. 
"Everyone I met was really nice," freshman Allison Smith said. 

Senior Dave Harmen expressed a similar opinion, praising Legends' efforts to enhance the social atmosphere at the University. 
"It was a valiant attempt to establish a dating scene at ND," Harmen said. "I haven't talked to this many girls since sophomore year:" 
Senior Sean MacCready agreed. 
"I decided to give as many ladies at ND a chance at me as possible," MacCready joked. 
Jorissen was pleased with the turnout and surprised that males outnumbered females. He said he believes the speed dating idea has potential and is considering separating nights by year of graduation. 
In response to the topic of dating, in general, at Notre Dame, many students expressed similar views, but opinions varied about the impact speed dating could have on the University social scene. 
"People hang out, have fun on the weekends, then give it a name," senior Liza Davis said. "They call it dating, but all it is is hanging out on the week­ends." 
She said she doubted speed dating would ever catch on as a highly influential social force at the University. 
" I feel it would be a fun afternoon, but then deteriorate back to Notre Dame," Davis said. "I feel the relationships and people I met would not be compatible" 
Sophomore Craig Brede said that the "majority of what goes on is just hooking up," and he also doubts speed dating could greatly change Notre Dame. 
" I don't think speed dating will work, but if you think it would be fun to meet people that way, more power to you," Brede said. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 
GSU 
continued from page 1 

posed a change to the GSU's constitution that would serve to redistribute responsibilities among the chairs of two com­mittees. Under the proposed amendment, each of the two social committee chairs would take responsibility for either the fall or spring and summer social events, and each of the quality of life committee chairs would deal with either orientation or quality of life and diversity issues. 
The measure was passed unanimously, but must also be approved at March's meeting before the constitution can be amended for next year's GSU leaders. 
Post also announced the March 22 deadline for the sub­mission of application for candi­dates in the spring presidential and vice presidential elections. Each petition must have at least 20 signatures to be considered valid, and it must be accompa­nied by a typed platform, which will be posted on the GSU web­site. 
In other GSU news: 
+ Health insurance plan negoti­ations were settled, giving grad­uate students the opportunity to buy insurance through MegaLife at a premium of $999 a year, which includes all requested benefits. However, the rate for spouses and children went up considerably, with the least expensive spouse plan set at $2,400, and the least expensive plan covering all dependents set at $3,304. 
Optional dental and eye cover­age will be offered as well, giv­ing between a 20 and 80 per­cent discount off of certain pro­cedures and purchases. For a student, the dental plan will cost $72 a year, and the eye plan will cost $29. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Film 
continued from page 1 
"The film festival is being co­sponsored by a number of aca­demic departments," he said. "I think the fact that faculty and students of the University expressed interest [in this] is not exactly 'stop the presses' news. It doesn't carry any mes­sage of endorsement or dispar­agement ... by the University." 
At the same time, Dacey, a senior Film, Television and Theatre major, said he hopes the festival will increase awareness on campus and make progress in dispelling the notion that the Notre Dame community is intolerant of homosexuals, fueled in part by their sexual orientation. its top ranking in the Princeton "It's not just for gay people," Review's "where alternatives he said. "It's for everyone to 

are  not  an  enjoy. It's  a way of  
alternative" list. "We want to  "It's not just for gay people. It's for  [bringing] the com­munity together." Dacey praised the  
create an awareness that the gay mem­bers of the Notre Dame  everyone to enjoy. It's a way of [bringing] the community together. ..  support of Notre Dame's academic departments that co-sponsored the festival and that the  
community are  event has generated  
members like anyone else," he said. "We  Llam Dacey festival organizer  a surprising lack of controversy so far. "We haven't had  
also wanted to  any opposition with  

exhibit a lot of different films this," he said. "We'll see what by gay artists that you wouldn't happens when the next few normally see." days unfold." 
Dacey said the festival's events should appeal to faculty Contact Andrew Thagard at and students. regardless of athagard@nd.edu 
Tax 
continued from page 1 

they are thrilled that they got that much back," he said. 
Meghan Hanifin, a Saint Mary's junior accounting and finance major, likes the fact that she can "walk away with an extra level of confidence" that she is able to "help some­one else with that confidence." 
The tax assistance program is expected to become an annu­al event and is available to all, including students and mem­bers of the community. 
"Students that have earned income should definitely look into this program," said Claude Renshaw, professor i.n the busi­ness and economics depart­ment at Saint Mary's. "Also, if they're from a different state, they might have to file taxes in two different states, and stu­dents are qualified to deal with these kind of situations." 
Sites located in St. Joseph County include Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's, the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame, the Northeast Neighborhood Center. the River Park Branch. Western Branch, Center Branch, LaSalle Branch, and Main Branch at the St. Joseph County Public Library, the Notre Dame Downtown Center and Mishawaka-Penn Public Library. 
Contact Teresa Nowakowska at nowa929@saintmarys.edu 


our Shortcut 


SpringBreak 
Gary Chicago Airport to St. Petersburg/Tampa 


312 w-~ Cleveland .Ave~ .·Granger, IN·.4()5ao·· 
(57 4} 277~6693 
528 R ColtaxAve. South Bend, IN 46617 
(57~)2~2,-,lf324•··· 
The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each. year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Hugh Page, Associate Dean 105 0'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Friday, February 27, 2004 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TIIE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pro-Aristide fighters block roads 
CAP-IIAITIEN. llaiti -Armed loyalists of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide set up blaz­ing barricades Tuesday, vowing to attack rebels leading a bloody uprising that has spread to at least 11 towns and cost 42 lives. 
Brandishing pistols, bands of drunken youths manned barricades and threw rocks at passing cars in the northern port city of Cap-llailien. They said they were protecting the half-million residents of Haiti's second­largest city, a former Aristide stronghold where support has dwindled as poverty increases. 
Hoadblocks have prevented food deliveries to tens of thousands of hungry Haitians, the 
U.N. World Food Program warned from Gnneva, and fuel tankers also were blocked. Some gas stations have run out of fuel. 
France moves toward scarf ban 
PAHIS -France took a decisive step Tuesday toward banning Islamic head scarves in public schools, with lawmakers overwhelmingly backing the government's drive to preserve French secular traditions from Muslim fundamentalism. 
The ban on religious attire in classrooms, which also includes Jewish skullcaps and large Christian crosses, was approved 494­36 despite protests and criticism from around the world. The measure goes early next month to the Senate, where there is lit­tle opposition. 
The ban was expected to take effect in September. Applying the law could be the real test: Critics say it's .too vague and will inflame anti-French feelings among the nation's large Muslim minority. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Estimates rise in Church scandal 
The scope of sex abuse accusations against Homan Catholic clergy since 1950 appears to be much greater than previously estimated by victims' groups and the media•. an Associated Press review of reports from dio­ceses has found. 
The U.S. church will make an unprece­dented, nationwide accounting of abuse claims and costs later this month, and some bishops already have started releasing local figures. The AP contacted dioceses across the country and found that 1,341 clergy members have been accused of molesting minors, with more than half the dioceses yet to report. 
Report: Atkins was obese at death 
NEW YOHK -The debate over Dr. Robert Atkins' popular high-fat, low-carb diet flared posthumously Tuesday when it was learned that Atkins himself was a bloated 258 pounds at his death. 
A city medical examiner's report filed after Atkins' 2003 death from a fall showed the 6­foot doctor was at a weight normally consid­ered obese. A physicians group that is highly critical of the diet released details of the report, claiming the Atkins diet led to weight and heart troubles for its 72-year-old cre­ator. 
Atkins' allies immediately disputed that. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Muslims quit gay marriage debate 
PLAINFIELD -An umbrella group for North American followers of orthodox Islam has dropped out of a national coalition fight­ing same-sex marriage, citing scrutiny the Muslim group has drawn from a small num­ber of critics who claim it has ties to terror­ism. 
The Islamic Society of North America said it does not want that controversy to hurt the campaign by the Alliance for Marriage. 
The society, representing several million people from 300 mosques and Muslim organ­izations, ended its affiliation with the alliance last month. 
IRAQ 

Suicide truck blast kills scores 
Bomb at police station kills 53, wounds many more; locals blame Americans 
Associated Press  
ISKANDARIYAH -A sui­ 
cide bomber blew up a  
truckload of explosives  
Tuesday outside a police  
station south of Baghdad,  
killing up to 53 people and  
wounding scores ­includ­ 
ing would-be Iraqi recruits  
lined up to apply for jobs.  
The blast in this predomi­ 
nantly Shiite Muslim city  
followed the disclosure  
Monday of a letter from an  
anti-American operative to  
al-Qaida's leadership ask­ 
ing for help in launching  
attacks against the Shiites  
to undermine the U.S.-run  
coalition and the future  
Iraqi government.  
Many angry townspeople  
blamed the Americans for  
the blast, and Iraqi police  
had to fire weapons in the  
An American soldier with the 10th Mountain Division stands guard Tuesday out­air to disperse dozens of  
Iraqis who stormed the side the lskandarlyah pollee station. Just hours earlier, a suicide bomber detonat·  
shattered remains of the ed a truckload of explosives outside the building, killing 53.  
station hours after the  
explosion.  police chief said the bomb­ However, a local hospital  heard a very strong explo­ 
"This missile was fired  ing was carried out by a  director, Razaq Jabbar, put  sion" and was thrown to  
from a U.S. aircraft," said  suicide driver who detonat­ the number at 53 dead and  the ground.  
Hadi Mohy Ali, 60. "The  ed a red pickup truck at  60 wounded -all believed  "It was the day for apply­ 
Americans want to tear our  razor wire and sandbagged  to be Iraqis.  ing for new recruits,"  
unity apart."  security barricades in front  "This figure might  Abdul-Karim said. "There  
No U.S. or other coalition  of the station.  increase," he said. "There  were tens of them waiting  
forces were hurt, said Lt.  However, Brig. Gen. Mark  were some body parts that  outside the police station."  
Col. Dan Williams, a mili­ Kimmitt said it was unclear  haven't been identified yet.  Insurgents have mounted  
tary spokesman in  whether the bombing here  Some more bodies may be  a string of car and suicide  
Baghdad.  was the work of a suicide  · trapped under the rubble."  bombings in recent weeks.  
It was at least the eighth  driver or whether the vehi­ The explosion reduced  The deadliest so far has  
vehicle bombing in Iraq this  cle was parked and then  parts of the station to rub­ been in the northern city of  
year and followed warnings  detonated.  ble and damaged nearby  lrbil on Feb. 1 when two  
from occupation officials  Casualty figures varied.  buildings. The street in  suicide bombers blew  
that insurgents would step  The U.S. military com­ front of the station was lit­ themselves up at two  
up attacks against Iraqis  mand reported 35 dead and  tered with the wreckage of  Kurdish party offices cele­ 
who work with the U.S.-led  75 wounded but said those  shattered vehicles as well  brating a Muslim holiday,  
coalition, especially ahead  figures could be low since  as pieces of glass, bricks,  killing at least 109 people.  
of the planned June 30  Iraqi authorities were han­ mangled steel and pieces of  On Jan. 18, a suicide car  
transfer of soVereignty to a  dling the investigation. The  clothing.  bomb exploded near the  
provisional Iraqi govern­ Iraqi Interior Ministry said  Policeman Wissam  main gate to the U.S.-led  
ment.  40 to 50 people were killed  Abdul-Karim said he was  coalition's headquarters in  
The Iraqi Interior  and up to 100 wounded,  standing in front of the  Baghdad, killing at least 31  
Ministry and the local  including four policemen.  nearby courthouse when "I  people.  


Bush releases Guard pay records 
of his service time based near claiming that the records proved
Associated Press 

Houston. But in May 1972 he request­definitively that Bush had shown up 
WASHINGTON -The White House, ed and received a temporary assign­for all the Guard duties he was trying to end doubts about President ment with the Alabama National expected to. Bush's Vietnam-era military service, Guard so he could serve as political Indeed, the payroll documents and released documents Tuesday that it director on the Senate campaign of annual service "point summaries" said proved he had "met his require­Winton "Red" Blount, a family friend. could throw new fuel onto a story the ments" in the Texas Air National Bush says he recalls showing up for White House wants to quench this Guard. drills in Alabama, but his supporters election year. 
"These documents outline the days have struggled to prove it. McClellan expressed a note of frus­on which he was paid. That means he Bush was not paid for any service tration at the persistent questions on served," said Bush spokesman Scott during a five-month period in 1972, the matter. "It just kind of amazes me McClellan. However, there were still from May through September, accord­that some will now say they want gaps in the record. ing to the records released with more information after the payrolf 
"The handful of documents released Bush's approval Tuesday. records and the point summaries today by the White House creates He was paid for two days in October have all been released." more questions than answers," said and four days in November and none "Now people are trying to move the Democratic National Committee in December 1972. He was not paid goal post even more," he said, adding Chairman Terry McAuliffe. for February or March 1973. The that White House officials smelled 
McAuliffe had helped reignite the records do not indicate what duty politics. "It's just really a shame that story earlier this month when he Bush performed or where he was. people are continuing to bring this charged Bush had gone "AWOL." Nevertheless, spokesman McClellan up." With Vietnam War veteran John repeatedly held up the 13-page pack­Kerry stayed silent on the subject Kerry emerging as the Democratic et his office had released, and he Tuesday. presidential front-runner, Democrats declared in his televised briefing, "I "I just don't have any comment on have been trying to stoke longstand­think these documents show that he it," he told reporters between cam­ing questions about Bush's service in fulfilled his duties." paign stops in Tennessee and the Guard during the war. At the same time, White House offi­Virginia. "It's not an issue that I chose 
Bush joined in 1968, and spent most cials were careful to stop short of to create." 
page 6 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 


Plane carrying workers crashes, killing 43 
Associated Press 
SHARJAH -An Iranian plane carrying migrant workers back from a visa-renewing journey to a Gulf island crashed Tuesday while approaching the airport, killing 43 of the 46 people aboard and narrowly missing nearby homes. 
Three survivors of Kish Air's Flight IRK1770 were hospital­ized, two in critical condition with burns and fractures. 
Authorities recovered the Fokker-SO's cockpit voice and data recorders and hoped they reveal why the plane :-which had not reported any trouble on its final approach -crashed two miles from Sharjah airport and burst into flames. 
It was returning from the Iranian island of Kish, a favorite destination of foreign workers who must exit the Emirates and return to meet their visa requirements. 
The airline advertises cheap "visa change" excursions and its daily flights are packed with foreigners -particularly Indians, Pakistanis and Filipinos who make up the bulk of the Emirates' work force. 
According to a passenger list released by the airline, 25 of the 40 passengers were traveling on visa change package deals that included air fare and cheap hotels in Kish. 
According to the list, aboard were 13 Iranians, 13 Indians, four Egyptians, two Algerians, two Bangladeshis, two Filipinos, one Nepalese, one Syrian, one Nigerian and one Cameroonian. Six Iranian crew members also were aboard. 
One man, Yaqoub Nasir, who was listed as an Iranian, was from the Emirates, according to his family. 
Many Iranians traveling to the Emirates to shop or for business first fly from· Tehran to Kish, then make the 60-mile hop across the Gulf on Kish Air, which is significantly cheaper than a direct flight. 
Col. Saleh Ali al-Mutawaa, general director of Sharjah Police, said 43 of the 46 people aboard died in the late morning crash. Two men -an Iranian and a Filipino -were being treated at the coronary care unit of al-Qasimi lwspital, emer­gency room attendants said. 
Another man, badly burned on his face and body and with multiple fractures, was on a ventilator in intensive care, the attendants said. They did not give his nationality, but Al­Mutawaa, the police official, said two Filipinos and an Iranian survived. 
The near miss shook resi­dents. 
"I was sleeping when I heard what must have been the shriek of the engines, and then a very loud noise that was like a night­mare," said Hamza Ghareeb, whose house was only 100 yards from the wreckage. "My whole family ran out and we couldn't believe our eyes: There was a burning plane sitting in our front yard." 


Ghareeb said the smoke and fire stopped him and others from getting too close, and resi­dents feared the plane would explode. 
"All I could see was flames and smoke and bodies every­where," said Beatrice Manolo, a Filipina maid working in one of the homes in the area. 
Thirty charred bodies covered with red blankets lay in rows near the wreckage. The bodies were intact but burned beyond recognition; one was an infant, an Iranian girl. 


THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 10 613.85 +34.82
}ones ' 
··, Same: ~ Composite Volume: 
2:164 I 70 • 1,393,788.416 

AMEX 1,235.67 +8.59 NASDAQ 2,075.33 +14.76 NYSE 6,677.04 0.00 s&P 500 1,145.54 +5.73 NIKK£l(Tokyo) 10,365.40 -37.21 FTSE IOO(London) 4,404.90 -29.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRI SAT RADI (SIRI) +4.14 +0.12 3.02 JUNIPER NTWKS QNPR) +4.51 + 1.18 27.36 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.36 +0.02 5.54 CHIPPAC INC A (CHPC) + 13.80 + 1.08 8.99 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.45 +0.11 24.78 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.65 +0.32 49.41 10-YEAR NOTE +0.91 +0.37 41.02 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.44 +0.44 3 1.04 3-MONTH BILL +0.99 +0.09 9,21 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.04 33.87 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.40 407.00 PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) -1.225 93.10 
Exchan e Rates 

YEN 105.6 EURO 0.7887 POUND 0.5355 CANADIAN$ 1.331 
IN BRIEF 
Aide: Martha altered phone logs 
NEW YOHK -With an investigation loom­

ing, Martha Stewart sat down at her assis­
tant's computer and altered a record of a mes­
sage left by her stockbroker about ImClone 
Systems stock, the assistant testified Tuesday. 
Stewart immediately stood up and ordered 

the message restored to its original wording, 
Ann Armstrong said. 
The original message read: "Peter Bacanovic thinks lmClone is going to start trading down­ward." ft reflected a call by Bacanovic on Dec. 27, 2001, the day Stewart sold her 3,928 shares in the company. 
Armstrong testified Stewart saw the mes­sage about a month later, on Jan. 31, 2002, and replaced it with the words: "Pet<;r Bacanovic re ~clone." 
IRS cracks down on tax shelters 
WASIJINGTON -The Internal Revenue Service announced Tuesday it had collected $170 million in taxes and penalties on money hidden offshore and has shared with state tax agencies information about 20,000 taxpayers using scams and shelters to avoid taxes. 
Both efforts stem from the agency's move to curb the growth of tax shelters among wealth­ier taxpayers -an agency priority -said IHS Commissioner Mark Everson. 
The IHS uncovered the money hidden off­shore by offering a three-month amnesty last year to taxpayers who came forward. More than 1,300 taxpayers took the offer to avoid criminal prosecution. Those taxpayers were required to reveal the person or company who sold them the offshore scheme. 
Viacom to dump Blockbuster 
NEW YOHK -Viacom Inc., the media con­glomerate that owns MTV and CBS, is getting rid of its controlling stake in the Blockbuster video rental chain and taking a $1.3 billion charg~ to reflect the declining value of the business. The charge put Viacom well into the red for its latest fiscal quarter. 
Ironically, the reason Viacom originally bought Blockbuster 10 years ago was for the large amounts of money it made, which Viacom needed at the time to finance its bid for Paramount in a heated takeover battle against rival suitor QVC. 
....• .• ......• .• ............................,.,..............-.·.­
' 
ENERGY 

OPEC to cut world oil output 
Petroleum cartel surprises markets with million-barrel daily cut; futures jump 
Associated Press 
ALGIERS, Algeria ­
OPEC decided Tuesday to 
cut its excess production of 
crude immediately and 
lower output quotas by 1 
million barrels a day effec­
tive April 1 -a surprise 
move that could mean 
prices for gasoline and oil 
will remain high. 
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Coun­tries expects the combined cuts would reduce actual production by about 10 percent, or 2.5 million bar­rels a day. 
OPEC agreed to the two­stage reduction in output to try to keep oil prices sta­ble when warmer weather erodes demand in major importing countries. 
The oil group has often urged its members to com­ply better with their agreed quotas, but its deci­sion to make an additional cut in its official target of 

24.5 million barrels was which the delegates rati· tion would bite deeper into minister Ahmad Fahad AJ. unexpected. fled their output decision. consumers' wallets, said Ahmad AI-Sabah said its 
"As time goes on in the The planned April cut in Jan Stuart of FIMAT USA, members would be much second quarter. we will see OPEC's formal output is a New York brokerage. more serious this time. a drop in demand that will unconditional. added "What this means is that "All the signals and all affect prices. If we don't do Obaid AI-Nasseri, oil minis­consumers are going to the studies show that the anything, there will be ter for the United Arab carry on paying loads of second quarter will be a oversupply in the second Emirates. money for their gasoline very bad quarter. ... quarter of about 3 million Oil prices rose. North Sea for quite some time," he Everybody, for his benefit, barrels [a day]," OPEC Brent crude for March said. has to be strict with these president Purnomo delivery was up 69 cents at OPEC is still smarting resolutions," the Kuwaiti Yusgiantoro told reporters $29.80 in London, while after its 1997 agreement to minister told reporters. at a government-run con­March contracts for light boost production just OPEC pumps about a vention center in Algiers. sweet U.S. crude were up before an Asian financial third of the world's oil, and 
Ministers said they 60 cents at $33.43 in trad­crisis that sent oil prices its members are currently believed their action would ing on the New York plummeting to $10 a bar­producing about 1.5 mil­send a strong signal about Mercantile Exchange. rel. The group has tried lion barrels a day above OPEC's willingness to be OPEC's emphasis on the recently to take pre-emp­their output ceiling. proactive in managing need to curb over-produc­tive steps to prevent anoth­When OPEC last met in crude supplies. tion was "a sign of some er such price collapse. In December, several oil min­
"Everybody will know discipline" that should, by September, it defied pre­isters predicted making that the organization is itself, help keep crude dictions of an unchanged cuts in their output target serious, and we would like prices firm in the short production target by at this meeting to prevent to have a stable market," term, said John Waterlow, announcing a 900,000 bar­oil prices from falling as a said Libya's representative, an analyst with Wood rel cut in its output ceiling. result of the end of winter Abdulhafid Mahmoud Mackenzie Consultants in OPEC has a long history in the northern hemi­Zlitni, speaking after a Edinburgh, Scotland. of pumping oil in excess of sphere and a reduced closed-door meeting at The April cut in produc-its quotas, but Kuwait's oil demand for fuel. 

CORPORATE SCANDAL 

Tyco ex-CFO proclaims innocence 
pany. Kozlowski, 57, and Swartz, 43, dants intentionally looted Tyco and
Associated Press 

are in the fifth month of a trial on tried to cover up their crimes to let 
NEW YORK -Tyco International state charges including grand larceny the jury deliberate on the charges. Ltd.'s former chief financial officer and falsifying business records. However, the judge said he would Mark Swartz testified Tuesday that he Prosecutors say the two stole $170 rule later, perhaps just before the didn't do anything he believed was million by hiding unauthorized pay jury begins deliberations, on dismiss­illegal during the 11 years he worked and secretly forgiven loans in major ing the top count, "enterprise corrup­at the company. Tyco transactions. They allegedly tion." If convicted only on that 
Swartz took the stand after the made an additional $430 million on charge, which is usually brought in defense team for his co-defendant, Tyco shares by lying about the com­organized crime cases, the defen­former Tyco chief executive L. Dennis pany's financial condition from 1995 dants each would face up to 25 years Kozlowski, rested its case without into 2002. in prison. calling any witnesses. Defense lawyers say Kozlowski and The judge said he would also 
Defense lawyer Charles Stillman Swartz earned all the benefits they reserve decision on three counts in inquired how long Swartz had got from Tyco and that all the appro­which Kozlowski is accused of steal­worked at the company, then asked: priate overseers knew about their ing three pieces of art worth a total of "During the time you were at Tyco, compensation and loans. $14.7 million from the company. did you ever take any action that you Justice Michael Obus rejected Tyco, which has about 270,000 believed was wrong or illegal?" defense motions last week to declare employees and $36 billion in annual 
"Absolutely not," Swartz replied. a mistrial or dismiss all the charges. revenue, makes electronics and med­The defendants are accused of The judge said prosecutors present­ical supplies and owns the ADT home stealing $600 million from the com-ed enough evidence that the defen-security business. 
.... ,
·.-...... · .. . 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, February II, 2004 

Kerry's views resonate with Southerners 
Exit polls show Kerry attracted voters angry with Bush, eager for victory 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON John Kerry scored victories in Democratic primaries in Virginia and Tennessee on Tuesday by tapping into voter anger and dissatisfac­tion with President Bush, especially among those eager to win in November, accord­ing to Associated Press exit polls. 
The Massachusetts senator discovered the same hunger among Southern state pri­mary voters for victory in November and displeasure with the incumbent that he found among voters else­where in the country in a string of victories since the presidential contests in Iowa and New Hampshire. 
Kerry ran very strong among those who said the most important quality for a candidate was the ability to defeat Bush -claiming three·-fourths of the Virginia voters who said that quality was most important and almost two-thirds of Tennessee voters who want­ed to support a general elec­tion winner. 
None of hi-s rivals were even close among those vot­ers-about three in 10 of all Virginia voters and one­fourth of all Tennessee vot­ers. Kerry also ran strong in both states among voters who thought experience was the top quality. 
The economy and jobs were top issues in both states. And the ability to beat Bush was a quality many voters were looking for in both states. 
Michelle Darby, 34, a mar­keting manager for an insur­ance company in Roanoke, Va., said she voted for Kerry because she wants to see a victory by "anybody but George Bush ... electability." 
"I like what (Kerry) stands for," she said. "John Edwards is a little too young. (Howard) Dean's a crazy man. (Wesley) Clark's just, I don't know, there's some­
thing there I don't like." 
Kerry drew strong support from Virginia and Tennessee voters who said health care was the top issue -about one-fifth of-all voters. 
The economy and jobs were the most important issue for voters in both states ­picked by one-third in Virginia and slightly more in Tennessee. Kerry led with almost half of that group in Virginia compared to one­third for Edwards, a senator from North Carolina. 
In Tennessee, Kerry got four in 10 while Edwards got more than a third of those who saw the economy and 
PART-TIME WORK 
~9.00 base-appt. 
• 
Flex. around classes 

• 
Cust. sales;service. 

• 
Scholarships, All majors 

• 
Conditions Apply 


Vector \\Skills for Life" 

282-2357 www.workforstudents.com 
jobs as the top issue. 
The results come from exit polls in both states conduct­ed for the AP and the televi­sion networks by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International. 
The Virginia results of 1,256 interviews were sub­ject to sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points, higher for subgroups. The Tennessee results from 1,920 interviews were sub­ject to sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points, larger for subgroups. 
Kerry had the largest share of support from most voter groups in both states, but was especially strong among black voters, who made up one-third of the Virginia. electorate and one-fifth of the Tennessee electorate. 
Kerry had almost two-

thirds of the black vote in Tenn., said he voted for Virginia and about half of the Clark -but would vote for black vote in Tennessee. Bush in the general election 
The two Southern pri­maries gave Kerry's cam­paign fodder for the argument that he could attract black voters, a key Democratic con­stituency. But they made a less convincing case about his ability to attract Southern whites, generally a mod­erate to conser­vative-leaning group. 
Retired nurse 

"I like what [Kerry] standsfor. John Edwards is a little 
too young. 
[Howard] Dean's a crazy man. [Wesley] Clark's just, I don't know, there's just something there I don't like. " 
Michelle Darby Southern voter 
Bob Casey, a 68-year-old Edwards 
before voting for Kerry. "I don't need any more of those liberals from back East," Casey said. 
Edwards gave Kerry the strongest com­
petition among white voters in both states, get­ting almost one­third of that group to Kerry, who got more than four in 10 in each state. 
Margaret Gerardin, a 41­year-old 
supporter from 
independent from Memphis, Norfolk, Va., said she decid­
ed at the last second to vote for Edwards because she feels like he is more in touch "with the common man." 
Kerry and Edwards tied among Virginia voters who said it was most important to have a candidate who cares about people like them, while Edwards edged Kerry among Tennessee voters who said that was most important. 
Clark showed more strength among Virginia and Tennessee voters who thought national security and the war in Iraq were top issues than he did among voters who picked other issues. 
Dean did somewhat better among voters in both states who said it was most impor­tant to have a candidate who stands up for what he believes. 


The Office ofStudeD-t Activities is currently accepting new club proposals. If you have an idea 
· for a chlb, whose purpose is not currently served by an existing club, ihe Club Coordination Council encourages ihe submission ofa new club proposal to the Student Activities Oft"icc for review. More information can be tound at: ~·ww.nd.edu/-saolc.lubslne-~'club.htm All requirements must be completed before the new club proposal will be reviewed, including: 
Budget List ofplanned events/activities Advisor List ofofficers Bylaws and purpose statement 
Submit lhe required infommtion to Amy Geist, 314 LaFortune, by 5pm Friday February 13, 2004 for review this year. The next new club review will not occur until January 2005. Contact the Student Activities Office with any questions! 

t I 
' 

SliMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
G~ant~ c:lrf! designf!d to·cover only a portion of program costs. 
UrtDE~-RJ,\OUATE COMPETITION TO STUDY LANGUAGES FOR WHICH TfiE> '-'NlVERSITY DOES .NOT HAVE LARGE OVERSEAS ·.STUDY PROG.RAMS. 
For dt1tail.s and application forms, go to: 
http:J/www.nd.edu/-sumlang/ or 
Pick ~p applications from the Office of International Studies -(154 Hurley Building ~ Ph 1~5203) 
application deadline: 3/5/04 


Sponsored by the Office ofthe Assistant Provost for futematio11al Studies and the College ofArts and Letters 
Wednesday, February II, 2004 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 




Debate on gay-marriage ban brings lobbyists 
Gay-rights activists, conservative leaders converge on Mass. statehouse 

BOSTON Gay-rights activists. conservative leaders and media from around the globe conv1~rged on the Massachusetts Statehouse for a historic session Wednesday in which lawmakers will take up a constitutional amend­ment to ban gay marriage. 
As the hours ticked down, S1~nate leaders feverishly sought a middle ground, pro­posing a compromise that would ban same-sex marriage hut establish civil unions. 
"We should not engage in a divisive, all-or-nothing debate that may end by eliminating all rights for same-sex cou­ples," Democratic Senate President Hobert Travaglini and Hepublican Senate Minority Leader Brian Lees wrote fellow lawmakers Tuesday. 
The compromise prompted almost immediate criticism. including from House Speaker Thomas Finneran, who called it "highly inappropriate" to use an amendment to craft legislation or pass new law ­like one establishing civil unions. 
The gay-marriage issue has created an unprecedented spectacle at the Capitol: As many as 4,000 spectators and 300 media members are expected to attend the start of the constitutional convention. and a furious lobbying effort was already under way. 
Christian conservatives used a dolly to haul in more than 18,000 petitions signed by citi­zens from across the country urging lawmakers to pass the amendment. 
Meanwhile, children of gay couples traveled to the Statehouse to plead with the 
tion. the House and Senate 
will meet together to consider 
10 proposed constitutional 
amendments. The gay-mar­
riage issue is ncar the bottom 
of the agenda and might not 
get to a !'ina! vote for days. 
Another proposal on the agenda is an amendment that could require the state's judges to be elected rather than appointed -an issue that has taken on added sig­nificance because of the court's polarizing stance on gay marriage. 
If approved by thn Legislature during this ses­sion, the gay-marriage amend­ment would have to again be ratified by lawmakers during the 2005-06 session before it could wind up on the November 2006 ballot. 
The last time Massachusetts 
lawmakers in the heavily 
Homan Catholic state had a 
chance to weigh in on the 
issun of gay marriagn was in 
2002, when the constitutional 
convention was gaveled to a 
close before any vote took 
place. Ncar-brawls erupted 
among citizens who attended 
and raised voices were heard 
in the normally sedate cham­
ber. 
The Senate president at the time used parliamentary pro­cedures to prevent a debate or vote on the gay-marriage ban. Travaglini, who does not sup­port gay marriage but is in favor of civil unions, promised not to use such maneuvering this time. 
On Tuesday. lawmakers cir­culated proposed changes to the amendment. hoping to secure the necessary 101 votes among the 199 sitting lawmakers to get it passed. The proposed compromise establishing civil unions had critics on both sides of the issue. 
"We find that reprehensi­ble," said Hon Crews. presi­dent of the Massachusetts Family Institute. which oppos­es gay marriage. "We need legislators who will have the courage to take a stand to pre­serve and protect marriage as it is currently worded. Wn would encourage the legisla­ture not to cloud this with any other language at this date." 
Gay-rights advocates said the compromise docs nothing but camouflage a bigoted amendment. 
"At the end of the day, they're writing discrimination into the constitution and put­ting a fresh coat of paint on it." said Amy Hunt. director of the LGBT Aging Projnct, a state gay-rights group. 
''I've never seen like this." said Charles Hasmussen. spokesman for Finneran. a Democrat who supports the amendment. "And I'm told this building has never seen this kind of scrutiny from the nation­al media that anyone can remember." 
Camera crews from London, Japan and Spain Senate president Massachusetts put itself at "not to write discrimination the very center of the gay­into our constitution." marriage debate when the 

anything Supreme Judicial Court ruled 
4-3 in November that gays should be guaranteed the benefits of mar­riage. Lawmakers thought that Vermont-style civil unions might suffice. but the court issued an advisory opinion last week that left no doubt: Only full-fledged gay marriage would pass constitution­al muster. 
That cleared the way for the 
are seeking credentials for the nation's first legally sanc­event. and authorities planned tioned same-sex weddings by to beef up security to handle May. the crowds. At the constitutional conven­
''I've never seen anything like this. And I'm told this building has never seen this kind of scrutiny from the national media that anyone can remember. " 
Charles Rasmussen political spokesman 
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 

page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Defense objects to GPS evidence in trial 
Associated Press  lites.  and can't comment on what he  was operated improperly by  military  use  in  1978.  In  
REDWOOD CITY, Calif. -Defense lawyer Mark Geragos will try to convince the judge in  Geragos has said his client was tracked by Global Positioning System devices placed by authorities in vehi­ hopes to gain by keeping the Modesto police. tracking evidence Police used out of the trial. GPS to track ·Likewise, prosecu­"We all know from Peterson from  California, prosecutors who use GPS evidence in court are required to establish the device's reliability using prop­ 
the Scott Peterson double-mur­ cles he drove after his wife,  tors  haven't said  how much we use  Jan. 3 through  erly qualified experts.  
der case Wednesday that glob­al positioning technology is inaccurate and unreliable.  Laci, disappeared on Christmas Eve in 2002. Geragos wants all the GPS tracking evidence  how they hope to use the evidence. If his claims  GPS now that it's quite accurate. "  April 22, 2003, when they arrested him  Prosecutors not connected to the Peterson trial say this shouldn't pose a problem.  
Legal experts said he faces  excluded from the trial.  about GPS unrelia­ near San Diego  "We all know from how much  
an uphill battle, since the tech­ "The GPS technology has not  bility fail to per­ Mark Hutchins  only days after  we use GPS now that it's quite  
nology has been in use for many years by airline pilots  been generally accepted by the scientific community," he con­ suade Judge Alfred A. Delucchi at the  attorney  the bodies of his wife and  accurate," said Mark Hutchins, senior deputy district attorney  
and even hikers to pinpoint  tended in court papers filed in  Wednesday hear- unborn son sur­ in Alameda County. "Airplanes  
locations to within a few feet,  October.  ing, Geragos hopes to prove the  faced in San Francisco Bay.  use  it. Everyone's got a  GPS  
using signals bounced off sate!- Geragos faces  a  gag order  device used to track Peterson  GPS was first developed for  map thing in their car."  


S.D. 111ulls ban on abortion 
Associated Press 
PIERRE, S.D. -The House passed a bill Thesday that would outlaw most abortions in South Dakota, but opponents said it would do nothing but cost taxpay­ers money ifit becomes law. 
The bill, passed 54-15, would outlaw abortion unless a mother's life is in danger. It makes no exceptions for rape victims or women who could suffer perma­nent serious health problems by having babies. 
"When we're considering an innocent life, the health of the mother is not a substantial enough justification to take the innocent life," said Republican Rep. Matt McCaulley, chief spon­sor of the bill. 
Happy Ill Birthday! 

ENJ!JRONMENTS OFECUADOR {3 CR} 
' 

€1ALA:PA60S ISLANIJS, ::lfNDEBMOUNTA.lNS 
CLOUJJJ KOREST; AM:JI~ONR.AlN.FOREST 
,~ ...... ~ ............... ~·····'f·····•'•"" 
. . • • .. • ....., ••••.• -. .. .. • • .......... ~, ~ .. ~ .......... ' ' "' ' .. • ll • "' •• f_ .... " .. • ~ 
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 11 




Canines compete for top dog at Westminster 
Associ~ted Preu 
NEW YOBK-With so many top dogs in town, any win at Westminster is a big deal. So it made perfect sense that Karen Mammano let out a playful yelp when the judge picked her American water spaniel. 
No mattnr that Shane was the only American water spaniel in the show. 
"Yeah. it was a little strange being out there all by ourselves," Mammano said after taking best of breed. "But hey, I'll take an automatic win." 
I lours later, thn competition got a lot tougher at America's most prestigious canine event. Of the 2,624 dogs entered, only a handful were left in the running for best in show heading into '1\Jcsday night. 
Josh, a bounding, shiny black Newfoundland, figured to be the favorite among the crowd of 15,000 or so at Madison Square Garden. Big dogs always attract a lot of attention, although a sprightly Norfolk terrier named Coco had been almost unbeatable on the recent show circuit. 
A primped, above-it-all Pekingese and a stylish, shaved standard poodle also earned their way into the final seven with group wins Monday. An lbizan hound named Bunny -she has a white patch in the shape of the Playboy symbol on her back ­was a repeat winner Tuesday night in the hound group and a Sussex spaniel won the sporting 
).,TfOUp. 
Josh spent part of the day nap­ping in his crate, kept cool by a pair of huge circular fans. His owners planned to take him on a long walk to relax. 
"We've got to get him out of here," co-owner Peggy Helming said. 
Mikimoto on Fifth, the poodle with purple rollers in his hair, pre­pared for the big night with a little entertainment. With his paws, he played pattycake with owner Karen LeFrak. 
Keeping a dog -and its owner and handler -calm on the big day can be a doggone difficult task. Along with more than a thousand dogs in the holding area, there is a crush of people strolling backstage to look at the pooches and buy a bevy of pet products. 
"It's not an ideal situation," admitted handler Bill McFadden, who guided a Kerry blue terrier named Mick to the best in show title last year. "Sometimes, you have to take the dogs down the ramp to stretch their legs. It's cool­er down there, and the fresh air helps." 
Just in case of an emergency, Westminster keeps veterinarians on call in a Garden office right behind the ring. The vets work in two-person teams in three-hour shills. 
"Most of the problems are stress-related," vet George Korin said. "We haven't had anything too serious." ­
Mark Salemi said the biggest trauma he recalled came when a Bernese mountain dog jumped out of its crate and caught a nail that bled profusely. 


Often times, the vets wind up soothing the nerves of the owners and handlers. 
"That can be a big part of it," Salemi said. 
One dog that missed out because of an injury was a low­chen named Napoleon. Three weeks ago, a pit bull-lab mix got into the family's backyard in Lawton, Okla., and broke its leg. 

Still, 8-year-old handler Rachel Skaggs, her brother and her mother came with Napoleon as special guests of Westminster. 
"He's a brat, and so am 1," Rachel said, holding her pet. 
"We're going to come back here next year." 
Mammano had it easy in the afternoon. Though five American water spaniels were entered, hers was the lone one that showed up. 
"I've never seen it at Westminster," said Mammano, a longtime handler. 
START HERE.. GO PLACES. If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and Indiana CPA Society 
THE OBSERV'ER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
A liberal's liberal 

Let's call a spade a spade here. John Kerry is a liberal's liberal. Barring a political meltdown even more embar­rassing than Howard Dean's "I Have a Scream" speech, the current Democratic fron­trunner will win his Joe Licandro party's nomination. But despite cruising his way to victory, 
The Licandro
this might not be a 
Non-Factor
good thing for a shaky Democratic party that can ill-afford for President Bush to capture re­election this November. 
Unlike Bill Clinton's meteoric rise from out of nowhere in 1992, there is just not an overwhelming sense amongst moderate Democratic voters who comprise the party's majority that Kerry represents their best interests. Clinton secured the Democratic nomi­nation by distinguishing himself as a centrist Washington outsider disen­chanted with the extremely liberal direction in which his party was head­ed. 
Kerry, no matter how hard he will try in the coming months to portray himself otherwise, is guilty of steering the ship in that extremely liberal direction. Americans for Democratic Action, the self-described nation's oldest liberal lobbying organization, gives Kerry a lifetime rating of 93 percent. That's considerably higher than any other candidate in the field. So high that lib­eral dinosaur Ted Kennedy, who has a rating of only 88 percent, actually holds the title as the conservative senator from Massachusetts. Anyone who can make Ted Kennedy seem conservative should be cause for serious apprehen­sion. 
This primary has not exactly been one of those difficult process-of-elimi­nation tests. Amidst an overly crowded field of political nobodys and light­weights, Democrats are choosing Kerry by default. Despite Time Magazine and 
U.S. News and World Report's best efforts to drum up support for Howard Dean by placing the not-so-good doctor on their covers virtually every week over the last couple of months of 2003, the former Governor of Vermont proved to be an arrogant blowhard. 
Reasonable Democrats knew the American people were never going to elect a chronic finger-pointing-at-the­camera, left-winged radical whose face grew so red every time he spoke that it looked like he was choking on a piece of rotisserie chicken. The campaigns of Carol Moseley Braun, AI Sharpton and Dennis Kucinich were jokes, and that's putting it nicely. 
Even though Madonna and other lib­eral Hollywood entertainers publicly endorsed him, General Wesley Clark lacks both the experience and the per­sonality to play with the big boys. John Edwards, a rising star in the Democratic party, is a respectable guy, but too overly ambitious. For an ex-trial lawyer who has yet to complete a full term as Senator, he does not hold enough political clout yet to be elected President. His best chance might be four years later. But as it stands now, Edwards, regardless of his political fate in the primaries, will fade into oblivion because he will not be defending his Senate seat in 2004. 

Thus, the Democrats will nominate John Kerry not for his charisma or any dynamic political agenda, but because, as his current campaign states, "I am the only candidate who can defeat Bush." That is a scary thought, not just for the radical right wing but for mid­dle-of-the-road voters like the majority of us. 
True to the liberal mantra, Kerry believes the government should coddle the dredges of society. He voted against mandatory prison sentences for drug dealers who sell to children. He 
If his past voting record is any indica­tion, Kerry is anything but tough. Despite sitting on the Senate Intelligence committee and being privy to highly classified information reveal­ing looming security threats to the United States, he has routinely voted for military and intelligence spending cuts throughout his time in office. Kerry was also one of only a few senators to vote against the first Iraq war. In 2002, he did an about-face, voting for the Iraq war resolution, but has repeatedly criti­cized President Bush for making the decision to go to war ever since. Kerry has justified this contradiction by say­ing he voted "to threaten the use of force to make Saddam Hussein comply with the resolutions of the United 
Nations," not necessarily to go to 
also supported using the 
war. Does Kerry really think hardworking taxpayers' the American people can't 

law. 
ed bribes would have con­Occasionally, Kerry has toed vinced them to support the war. 
the line of conservatism making dis­paraging remarks about the merits of affirmative action while vocalizing sup­port for school vouchers, as well. But these are issues for the Supreme Court to decide, not the United States Senate. And given that a liberal judge who would protect abortion rights would probably not strike down affirmative action or uphold school vouchers, Kerry's conservative talk is cheap. With the possibility of as many as four cur­rent Supreme Court justices retiring in the next four years, this next election will determine the social direction of this country. Voters should not forget the type of liberal, activist justices Kerry will surely appoint. 
While social issues will be critical in this election, no issue will take more precedence than national security. Judging by his comments on the cam­paign trail, Kerry does not seem to know where he stands. Kerry deserves the utmost respect for serving in the Vietnam War, but this does not auto­matically make him a better candidate than President Bush in this area. 
Not that their support should matter anyways. The United States should never have to ask another country's permission to defend ourselves. 
Most alarming, though, is Kerry's claim that the Bush Administration has exaggerated the terrorist threat to the United States. Does Kerry suffer from amnesia? Has he already forgotten the over three thousand Americans that tragically died on 9/11? Not only are Kerry's comments cruelly insensitive to the families of these victims, but they are also frighteningly naive. 
In the coming months, John Kerry will try to paint himself as a moderate to the American people. But we know better. He's a liberal's liberal, and our nation will suffer if he is elected President. 
Joe Licandro is a senior political sci­ence major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted atjlicandr@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think Notre Dame should host the "Queer Film Festival" and "The Vagina Monologues?" 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination." 
Nelson Mandela anti-apartheid activist 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 page 13 
Bengal Bouts support Holy Cross Missionaries 
1854. Franklin Pierce was presi­dent. Notre Dame was 12 years old. And the first lloly Cross missionaries set foot in what is now Bangladesh, one of the poorest countries in the world. Bangladesh is 88.3 percent 
Charles Rice

Muslim and 10.5 percent Hindu. Could those mis­
Right or

sionaries have foreseen that, 150 Wrong? years later, lloly Cross priests, brothers and sisters would staff schools, parishes and other activities throughout that country? Maybe. But they could not have imagined that the largest single donation to their apostolate every year would be gen­erated by Notre Dame students majoring in pugilistic science. 
The Holy Cross Brothers, under Brother Alan McNeil, CSC, organized a Notre Dame boxing tournament in I 920 to support the Bengal Missions. With the encouragement of Knute Hockne, that program developed. In 1931, Dominic (Nappy) Napolitano organized the Bengal Bouts in the form in which they have continued for 74 years. 
In 2003, the Bouts contributed $44,000 to the Bengal Missions. This year. 143 boxers will try to beat that total. 
The student officers of the Boxing Club run the program under the supervision of Hich O'Leary and Dave Brown of the Club Sports office. The senior captains are Pat Dillon, Tommy Demko, Stefan Borovina, Billy Zizic and Tony Hollowell. The junior captains are Nathan Lohmeyer, Jim Christoforetti and Galen Loughrey. Each boxer is a fund-raiser, selling tickets and pro­gram ads. But the brains of the out­fit, and the key to its financial sue­cess, are the student managers, Kristin Boyd, Ashley Merusi and Rachel Anderson, who are taking the administrative and business end of the Bouts to a new level. 
This unique athletic phenomenon could happen only at Notre Dame. "The Bengal Bouts," wrote Chicago sports columnist Bill Gleason, "are as purely amateur as a sport can be." The head coaches are Chicago attorney Terry Johnson, Columbus, Ohio developer Tom Suddes and Pat Farrell, the University pilot. All are former Bengals champs. 
"We teach tradi­tional, stand-up style boxing," said Johnson, "the same way Nappy taught it for 50 years. We approach box­ing as a sport, not as a fight. The guys understand this and are dedi­cated to sportsmanship, cama­raderie and boxing for the mis­sions." 
In a workout led by Tom Suddes, the boxers count push-ups and sit­

lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
'Monologues' not what we need 

I am a woman. I have never been sexually abused but have close rela­tives and friends who have been. I have read the "Monologues:" With that said. upon reading the "Monologues," I was deeply offended and felt that my femininity was grievously degraded. I have been saddened to sec so many of my sis­ters in Christ promoting them as a means of empowering women. 
What is needed to combat violence against women in the world is a complete paradigm shift. We, as women and men created in the image of God, need to stop seeing women as objects, as mere products of negative experiences, or as a body part, and start seeing them as whole persons, as beautiful expres­sions of God's love. 
Then, and only then, will women start respecting themselves, not for the control they can have over their bodies, not for the pleasure they can give themselves, not for the power they can have over men, but because they are created and radi­cally loved by God. If we aim to eliminate all forms of violence against women, we should hardly employ violence as our means. The "Monologues" are violent emotional­ly, psychologically and spiritually. If we see women as having intrinsic, God-given dignity, then we should highlight that dignity and not do fur­ther damage to it. 
Even if the content of the "Monologues" was not violent, in many places where they are shown (although not at Notre Dame) some of the proceeds go to Planned Parenthood, which through its unqualified support of abortion and contraception completely under­mines the value and dignity of women in this country. Even though the proceeds from Notre Dame's show will not go to Planned Parenthood, an injustice to women ~nywhere is an injustice to women everywhere. 
I encourage all women on this campus to re-examine the way they view themselves and their sisters (and brothers) in Christ. We deserve better than the "Monologues." 
Let's look to the Blessed Mother for a monologue that is truly empowering. 
Christina Dehan junior Badin Hall Feb. 10 

ups by the hundred and Tom does every one of them himself (almost). "The Bouts are special," notes Suddes, "because you may end up in the ring with your best friend and after the final bell your relationship and mutual respect are stronger than before you put on the gloves." The assistant coaches, all volunteers, include Sweet 
C. Robinson, 
of the Berrien Springs 
police depart­ment, and former boxers Hyan Rans, Chip Farrell, 
Tom 
Biolchini, Jeff Dobosh and Roland 
Chamblee, a Superior 
Court Judge and four-time Bengals champ 
who may be the only active judge who also serves as 
cornerman in a boxing ring. 
Holy Mother Church is in the act with the chaplains, Fr. Bill Seetch, CSC and Fr. Brian Daley, S.J., who is also a coach. They both work out with the boxers. And the timer is Msgr. John Hagerty, appro­priately of Notre Dame parish in Hermitage, Penn. 
The primary emphasis of the pro­gram is safety. "We have never had a serious injury," said captain Pat Dillon, "and we aim to keep it that way." 
Dr. James Moriarity. University chief of medicine, closely supervises every phase of the program. EMTs are present at all contact practices. Trainer Jack Zimmerman, who is incidentally a published poet, car­ries on the exacting standard of care established by Jack Mooney, the head trainer for decades, who was literally Knute Rockne's paper boy and who. at 93 years young, still maintains his interest in his boys. 
The Bengal Bouts will be held in five sessions, all in the JACC Field House: Feb 25, Feb. 26, March 1 and March 3. all at 6:30p.m., and, in a return to an old tradition, the finals will be held on St. Patrick's Day, March 17 at 8 p.m. 
The money raised by the Bouts, said Mission Director Fr. David L. Schlaver, CSC, "enables many to earn a living, provide medical care and housing for their families and educate their children for life-and survival-in a difficult society." 
We hope the members of1he Notre Dame community will continue their strong support for this superb cause on this 150th anniversary of the Bengal Missions. We welcome you to visit the practices in the JACC Boxing Room any weekday from 4 to 6 p.m. You will be impressed. And maybe even surprised. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His col­umn appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at plawecki.l @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE 0BSER\'ER 


CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Jack and Diane at their best in comedy 
decide to take a weekend trip to 
By EMILY IAROCCI Barry's mother's house in the 
Scene Movie Critic Hamptons. They arrive at the house to 
find Erica Barry (Keaton) has also 
Jack Nicholson and Diane Keaton are decided to take a trip to her Hamptons undoubtedly two of the brightest and getaway for the weekend. Erica is a best actors of their generation. We have well-known playwright whose works grown up watching them on the big are performed on Broadway, and she is screen in such movies as Batman, A currently suffering from writer's block. Few Good Men, As Good As It Gets, The In the midst of all the awkwardness Godfather Trilogy and Father of the over the issue that Erica's daughter is Bride. Nicholson and Keaton joined dating a man who is older than Erica, forces in this winter's romantic comedy Harry has a heart attack and ends up Something's Gatta Give. Something's having to stay in the Hamptons under Gatta Give is written and directed by Erica's care for a while. Nancy Meyers, the same woman who Harry's 30-something-year-old doctor directed What Women Want, another (Keanu Reeves) becomes immediately outstanding romantic comedy. Both interested in Erica, which she is quite movies seem to transcend the stereo­taken aback by. Also, while under her typical romantic comedy, which is gen­roof, Harry begins to become interested erally brushed off as cheesy and pre­in Erica. This is a first for him since he dictable. This has never even had movie in partic­the slightest inter­

"Something's Gotta Give" 
ular is quite the est in a woman opposite of that 
over thirty in his stereotype. The entire life. Harry screenplay writ­and Erica have an ers manage to amazing last few 
Director: Nancy Meyers
add all sorts of days together. They 
Writer: Nancy Meyers
twists and turns seem to have fallen
Starring: Jack Nicholson, Diane Keaton,
within the plot in love. However, as 
Frances McDonnand and Keanu Reeves
to keep the soon as they arrive viewer engaged back in the city, for the entire two-hour length of the Harry continues to live his life the way movie. he always has. His act of ignoring Erica 
Nicholson plays a 60-something-year­helps cure her writer's block because old bachelor who has never dated a she is so overcome by emotion. woman over the age of 30. At the begin­From then on the movie follows the ning of the movie Harry Sanborn two main characters separately, though (Nicholson) is dating the much younger somehow they still manage to run into Marin Barry (Amanda Peet). The two each other and their feelings for each 


Harry Sanborn (Jack Nicholson) and Erica Barry (Diane Keaton) enjoy a walk along the beach together In the romantic comedy "Something's Gotta Give." 
other are evident at each meeting. Peet and Reeves were also both suc­Erica starts to date the young doctor cessful in their supporting roles. Meyers even though she feels strange about the has outdone herself and done an amaz­whole situation. Even the end of this ing job in the direction of this movie. movie is semi-unpredictable. Other than some slight discomfort due 
Jack Nicholson's antics in the movie to the extreme age differences involved are hilarious as is to be expected, mak­in some of the romantic relationships ing his character the most enjoyable. throughout the movie, it fully deserves Diane Keaton's character's personality all the praise it has received. Nicholson completely changes from the start of and Keaton are fantastic in this incredi­the movie to the end and watching that bly entertaining story. transformation and her emotional out­G; •. ua4 ...-llu t.h 1.1
_ ,1, .. 

bursts are also very entertaining. Both actors were at their best in this movie. Contact Emily Iarocci at eiarocci@nd.edu 
SHOW PREVIEW 

Famous opera arrives in South Bend 
Rodolfo's jealousy and decides that 
ByJONATHAN RETARTHA 
she must separate from him. 
Scene Writer 
When she hears Rodolfo coming, she hides, and Rodolfo then describes "The greatest love story ever sung" Mimi's fickleness and the sad revela­comes to The Morris Performing Arts tion that Mimi is dying. Because he Center tonight as the Opera Verdi does not want Mimi to worsen simply Europa presents Giacomo Puccini's because of their poverty, he. too, famous opera, "La Boheme." The desires that they separate. They final­opera, presented with subtitles, tells ly discover each other at the tavern, the story of Mimi and Rodolfo, two and after describing memories of their lovers who face poverty and death in past love, they decide to remain the midst of their romance. together until spring. What follows is 
The opera takes place in Paris, a beautiful account of the power that around the year 1830. Rodolfo and his love has over everything, seemingly, impoverished bohemian friends are but death itself. living in a small garret in the Latin "La Boheme" was written by Quarter when Mimi, Rodolfo's neigh­Giacomo Puccini, who, after studying bor, stops by to ask for a light for her at the Milan Conservatory from 1880­candle. When she drops her key in the 83, went on to write such operas as room, the ensu-"Le Villi," "Edgar," ing search "Madame leaves them "La Boheme" Butterfly," "La both sitting on Rondine," and "II the floor in the Giacomo Puccini's famous opera of two lovers Tabarro." "La m o o n 1i g h t who face poverty and death together Boheme" was writ­
telling their • ten in 1896, and
February 11, 2004 at 7:30 p.m.
dreams to each like many classic
The Morris Perfonning Arts Center
other. Rodolfo works of art. was
Tickets: Available now for $30-45
dreams of writ­originally harshly ing and Mimi criticized at its dreams of the coming spring. premier in Turin. However, it has 
The two fall in love and JOin stood the test of time and has become Rodolfo's friends at the Cafe Momus. a definitive work of opera. There, Rodolfo's friend, Alcindoro, The appeal of the opera's simple reignites his relationship with his for­story and beautiful lyrics and melodies mer lover, Musetta. Musetta and even inspired master filmmaker Baz Alcindoro move to a tavern on the out­Luhrmann, of such screen hits as skirts of Paris, and Mimi arrives at Moulin Rouge and William their house on a snowy morning in a Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet, to panic. She describes to Alcindoro develop a version of the opera for 

Broadway. Luhrmann changed the set­something distant; a form of art only ting to 1950s Paris to better adapt the accessible to the wealthy sitting up in opera for a modern Broadway audi­boxes wearing tuxedos and sporting ence. The show played to moderate those tiny binoculars. This aloof image box office success, even in the huge is augmented by the fact that most Broadway downturn after 9/11, and operas. are not in English, and are garnered several Tony therefore even more inac­Award nominations. cessible to the average The Morris's produc­"The appeal ofthe American citizen. tion of "La Boheme" is Puccini's opera has suc­
opera's simple 
staged by the Opera ceeded where so many
story and beautiful
Verdi Europa, a others have failed Bulgarian opera compa­lyrics and melodies because it was able to ny. The company was draw such deep emotion
even inspired
established by Ivan from a relatively simple
master filmmaker 
Kyurkchiev in 1996 and story. Take, for example, has been involved with Baz Luhrmann, of the way the religious many opera houses from chords stemming from
such screen hits as 
all over Russia and the Basilica organ fill
"Moulin Rouge" 
Eastern Europe. They campus visitors with awe gained international and "William every weekend. fame from their produc­Shakespeare's Visitors are amazed, tions of other famous even if they do not know
Romeo + Juliet," to 
operas such as the words or the lan­"Carmen," "La Traviata," develop a version guage of the words. and "Rigoletto." What ofthe opera for Puccini was able to asso­makes the company ciate music with emotion,
Broadway."
unique is their combina­and the climactic death tion of all of the major scene is able to bring Bulgarian opera houses into their per­forth tears from people who have formances. They have also worked never learned a page of Italian in their with opera houses in Romania, lives. Hungary, Moldavia and Ukraine. The Therefore, it is the simple story in company performs over 70 times a combination with the emotional music year, and this is their first tour in the that has been able to give "La United States. Boheme" such staying power. It truly 
"La Boheme" has become such a is accessible to all people. lasting presence in the world of per­forming arts because of the emotion displayed through Puccini's words and Contact Jonathan Retartha at lyrics. Many view opera as being jretarth@nd.edu 
THE 0BSERV'ER 








CENE
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Hockey never looked so good 
By ANN FLIES 
Scene Movie Critic 
Considering the long history of sports films, new .movies in this genre must be extra special in order to catch the nyc of weary movie-going audi­ences. Miracle is special. 
Miracle is the true story of the 1980 United States Olympic llockey team. At a time when life amid Cold War fears was looking dismal, the hockey team was not looked upon as a bright spot. The Soviet Union's long-stand­ing tradition of gold medal victories at the Olympics was unmatched, while the United States was not even regarded as 
competition. As luckily is
"Miracle"
the movie dent when the begins. Coach 
movie moves to llerb Brooks, the ice. As the who is played by actors' bios sug­the film's only gest, most of them 
Director: Gavin O'Connor
trun veteran have some amount 
Writer: Eric Guggenheim 

actor Kurt of hockey experi­
Starring: Kurt Russell, Eddie Cahill, Michael 
Husscll, defines ence, which serves 
Mantenuto, Patrick O'Brien Dempsey, Kenneth
a new playing to enhance the 
Mitchell, Nathan West and Noah Emmerich
technique, quality of the piece grueling practices and then share in their pride as the season progresses. 
Although the film as a whole is mag­nificent, a few weak areas stand out. Jim Craig's (Eddie Cahill) and Brooks's family dealings are basically the only personal struggles set out in the film, which may be because they are the only two who have a level of acting skill. Those actors playing the athletes arc good at the hockey portion of Miracle but sputter through portions that come close to the realm of drama. This is especially evident early in the film where a scene in a pub calling for a heated argument lacks any form of emotion. 
The lack of acting experience among 
the team members 
not evi­


determined to make his mark in history. 
As the plot unfolds, the audience watches the trials the team encoun­ters as the players learn what is involved in becoming a great team. Coach Brooks makes life even more difficult for the players with his rigor­ous training plan. Viewers are able to connect with the team as they endure 
during crucial 
moments. 

One of the truly outstanding quali­ties of Miracle is its ability to put the viewer into the action. The movement, energy and excitement of hockey are readily evident; a viewer was heard to comment that, "If you didn't like hock­ey before the movie, you will love it after." 
In spite of the fact that most viewers already know the outcome of the game, the natural momentum of the storyline keeps the suspense and excitement in place. The movie wisely reaches a crescendo with the Soviet Union game, where great camera placement captures every second of the action. Even those who are not appreciative of the game will find enjoyment in the memorable quotes and prevailing feeling of team unity. 

Overall, Miracle is an incredible 
--
thrill ride echoing past movie favorites such as The Mighty Ducks, but with a more mature and intense twist. Miracle would be good if for the sole reason that it is recounting an iconic piece of American history, but the fast-paced hockey scenes and emo­tional audience response make it truly great. 
Contact Ann Flies at aflies@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
Explosive finale for the 'Desperado' trilogy 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene DVD Critic 
Before I review Once Upon A Time in Mexico, it is my duty to enlighten the faithful reader why Hobert Rodriguez is the man. llis first film in the El Mariachi trilogy was filmed on a shoe­string budget. But it was good enough and showed enough potential that he got to do a sequel, called Desperado, an action smash starring Antonio Banderas and Selma Hayek. After that, he directed a variety of films ranging from the vampire western From Dusk till Dawn, starring George Clooney to the kid movie trilogy Spy Kids. 
lie was successful enough from all of those films that he got to direct the last part of his action trilogy, Once Upon A Time in Mexico. He was so successful from his previous films that he was able to snag some very big name actors for the movie and not just his regulars (Antonio Banderas, Salma Hayek, Cheech Marin, etc.). 

both top-notch. Shots are heard nice and clear, along with any other sound worth men­tioning. Video looks ter­rific with no discol­oration or darkness ­it is a rather superior DVD. 
However, one of the best things on the DVD is on the special fea­

Rodriguez's latest movie is practically bursting with all the stars in it, including Johnny Depp, Enrique Iglesias and Willem Dafoe. Rodriguez knows what he does well, and because of that he gets what he wants. 
This leads us to the movie, Once Upon A Time in Mexico. For starters. you don't need to have seen the previ­ous ones to understand what is going on in this one, although it helps because you notice all of the returning actors, including ones that were killed in previous movies. It is also the deep­est one of the trilogy, which seems to contrast with its action based nature. Desperado was centered basically on the Mariachi character (also known as El). This time around, the number of characters almost seems overwhelm­ing, which they are on the first view­ing of the movie. It improves upon a second viewing, which is almost required as only the most astute movie watcher will catch everything in the movie the first time. For example, see if you can find the second charac­ter that Depp plays. 
Sound in the movie 
and video quality are 


-
tures. It comes with all the staples, such as director's commentary, delet­ed scenes and such. Rodriguez also hosts a special feature called "Ten­Minute Flick School" in which he shares insights with aspiring direc­tors. 
The best special feature on the DVD, however, is titled "Ten-Minute Cooking School," starring Robert Rodriguez. In this little feature, the director shows us how to cook the slow roasted pork showcased in the movie and obsessed about by Johnny Depp's character. The four hours it takes to cook may turn off some, but others may be tempted into trying the recipe by Depp. 
This movie isn't perfect by any means. but what it does it does well. 
-
Depp turns in an awesome perform­ance, Banderas blows away bad guys with style and Dafoe is great as a deplorable villain. It's the deepest one of the trilogy, but bear in mind, it's still an action movie. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Nets post ninth straight win under new coach 
Associated Press 
Even a little adversity isn't too much for the New Jersey Nets to overcome under new wonder coach Lawrence Frank. · 
Richard Jefferson had 27 points and 10 rebounds and the Nets posted their ninth straight win -eighth in a row under Frank, rallying to beat the Detroit Pistons 89-78 on Tuesday night. 
This was probably the tough­

-
est one for Frank, who replaced Byron Scott more than two weeks ago. The Nets fell behind by 13 points after the first quar­ter and the 33-year-old coach scolded his team between peri­ods. 
"That's probably the most angry I've seen him," starting center Aaron Williams said. "You have to do that sometimes. We weren't playing the way we were supposed to play. That's his job." 
Frank downplayed his talk between periods, insisting he did a poor job of coaching in the opening quarter when the Nets fell behind. 
He shifted the credit to his team for picking up their play. 
"Our guys did a terrific job, mixing up man and zone cover­age," Frank said. "They really worked their tails off." 
Frank's 8-0 start is tied for the second best in NBA history with Pistons coach Larry Brown. It is one shy of the mark for best coaching start shared by Kurt Rambis (Los Angeles Lakers, 1998-99) and Buddy Jeannette (Baltimore Bullets, 1947 -48). 
Frank will get a chance to tie the record on Wednesday in a game against LeBron James and the Cavaliers in Cleveland. 
"He doesn't care about that," said Jason Kidd, who added 16 points, nine rebounds and nine assists in a gritty 43-minute per­formance. "He wants to win. he doesn't care about going unde­feated. He wants to win every time we go on the floor." 
Kenyon Martin added 13 points and eight rebounds and Kerry Kittles had 17 points as the Nets posted their ninth straight double-digit win and sent the Pistons to their fourth straight loss. 
"We're just flat out not getting it done," said Piston All Star Ben Wallace, who had 13 points and 12 rebounds. "We came out in the first quarter and played pretty decent. After that, every­thing was down hill." 
Chauncey Billups had 23 points and Richard Hamilton added 19 for Detroit, which made only 18 field goals in the final three quarters after mak­ing 12 in the first, when the shot 
54.5 percent in taking a 29-16 lead. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

"We didn't have a lot of guys matching their energy. That's my responsibility," Brown said. "I never thought I'd have to coach effort. It seems to me in a lot of games, we have to coach effort." 
The 13-point first-quarter deficit was the largest since Frank took over. He face was red as he yelled between quar­ter. 
"He had a legit gripe," Martin said. 
About halfway through the second quarter; the Nets finally got some stops on defense and than got their transition game going. New Jersey closed the quarter with a 14-0 run and took a 46-42 lead. Detroit missed its final10 shots. 
Jefferson was outstanding in the run. He scored eight points and ignited the run with an ally­oop lay-in of a Martin pass that might have been offensive goal­tending. 
Kidd had 10 points in the third quarter when New Jersey opened a 71-62 lead. The Nets nailed down the win, holding the Pistons to five points in the final 7:30. 
Hamilton scored 11 points and the Pistons held the Nets to just 6-for-25 shooting from the field in taking a 29-16 lead after the first quarter. 
Lakers 98, Heat 83 
Derek Fisher caught a long outlet pass, then sent a back­ward, between-his-legs bounce pass to Gary Payton for an uncontested layup in the waning seconds. 
It wasn't the only thing Fisher made look easy Tuesday night. 
Fisher went on a personal 8-0 run over a 2:28 span of the fourth quarter, capping off his season-high 18-point effort and lifting the Los Angeles Lakers past the Miami Heat 98-83. 
Miami never led in the second half, yet clawed its way within one on three separate occasions -the last coming on Hafer Alston's 3-pointer with 7:17 remaining, a shot that brought the Heat within 78-77. 
Fisher scored the next eight, and the Lakers never looked back in recording consecutive wins for the first time since mid­January. 
"I had to wait for some oppor­tunities to come around," Fisher said. "I worked up a sweat and I felt good. I like playing here. I'm from Arkansas. Humidity is my friend. Once I got loosened up, I felt pretty good." 
Shaquille O'Neal had 25 points and Payton and Devean George each had 17 for the Lakers, who overcame an early 14-point deficit. O'Neal had 19 of his points in the second half on 9­for-12 shooting, saying he was sparked by a back-and-forth series with Heat reserve Malik Allen. 
A bit of jostling resulted in a double technical for both play­ers. and O;Neal scoring 10 points in a brief third-quarter flurry. 
"He awokened a sleeping giant. I know that's not a word," O'Neal said. 
Dwyane Wade had 19 points for Miami, which dropped its fifth straight-the team's worst slide since opening the season with seven consecutive losses. Miami (21-32) is now a season­worst 11 games under .500, and dropped two games behind idle Boston in the race for the Eastern Conference's final play­off spot. 
Lamar Odom narrowly missed a triple-double, finishing with 13 points, 11 rebounds and eight assists for Miami. Eddie Jones also had 13 for the Heat, which was outrebounded 44-37. 
"I take this loss on myself," Odom said. "''ve got to have a much better, much more pro­ductive game than that. I wasn't Lamar tonight. I let this one get away." 
The Lakers were again with­out All-Star guard Kobe Bryant, who missed his seventh game because of a lacerated right index finger. Ultimately, they didn't need him. 
O'Neal, who at 7-foot-1, 340 pounds was at least three ind:es taller and 85 pounds heavier than anyone the Heat called upon to guard him, did most of his damage from in close -as In the first eight minutes of ning layup at the buzzer, usual. the half, the Heat shot 69.2 per­Garnett had his fifth 30-point 
But he secured the win with cent and scored 23 points. They performance in six February an open-court steal and break­shot just 39.0 percent the rest of games and Gary Trent scored 15 away dunk with 1:17 left, giving the game. points. the Lakers their first double­"After a very mediocre start, "Our team just keeps our com­digit lead of the night, 94-83 -when we built a big hole for posure," said Sam Cassell, who part of a game-ending 20-6 run ourselves, I thought we played had eight points and 12 assists that began with Fisher's scoring 40 minutes of very good basket­after going scoreless for the first spree. ball," Lakers coach Phil Jackson 27 -plus minutes. 
Miami could have tied the said. Corey Maggette had a season­game at 80 with 6:33 left, but high 34 points for the Clippers, Eddie Jones' 3-pointer failed to Tlmberwolves 96, Clippers 84 who lost their third straight. beat the shot clock. The Heat Still stewing over a one-point Elton Brand added 12 points. never was that close again. loss two days ago, the This was the fifth of a six­
"We did not execute at all Minnesota Timberwolves finally game road trip that takes the offensively going down the found a way to start strong. Clippers up to the All-Star stretch," Miami coach Stan Van Kevin Garnett finished with 31 break, and they emerged quite Gundy said. "We came out of points and 16 rebounds for the sluggishly. two timeouts and didn't even Timberwolves, who led the Was it fatigue? run what we were supposed to entire game in a 96-84 victory "No, I'm not going to say run. And our rebounding is over the Los Angeles Clippers on that," Maggette said. "We have becoming a major problem. It's Tuesday night. to be grown up about this. been a major strength all year "That's what a loss did to us," We're well-conditioned for this." and now we're getting absolute­Garnett said. "We had to reeval­Timberwolves coach Flip ly crushed." uate ourselves. It made us more Saunders put his team through 
Miami started quickly, scoring hungry." an intense, training camp-style on 11 of its first 13 possessions Garnett set the tone for this practice on Monday as the team and opening a 23-9 lead. Almost one with 14 points and nine tried to make amends for the as quickly, the Heat went cold, rebounds in the opening period, disappointing loss to Memphis. missing their next 10 field goal and the Timberwolves built a And on Tuesday they seemed in attempts and going scoreless for lead as big as 17 in the first half. complete control, as opposed to a stretch of more than six min­Helping Minnesota make up the familiar sight of struggling utes -during which the Lakers for Sunday's 99-98 defeat to through one of the first two went on a 15-0 run for a 24-23 Memphis in which Mark Madsen periods and playing a frantic lead. missed the potential game-win-game of catch-up. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 

all classifieds for content withour issuing refunds. 
- FoR RENT  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525  B&B for JPW/grad/football for up to 12 people, 1/2 mile to ND, email domercondo@ yahoo. com  New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, skylights. $1640/mo. Call574-232­4527 or 269-683·5038.  COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com  PERSONAL  
,_  Rental House, 2004-Q5@ 911 Corby. Clean, 4 bed, 2 bath w hdwd firs, new windows,AC,wash/dry & alarm sys. 11 o. lease. Landlord is ND Alum. Contact Lisa @ theemurphs@hotmail.com/619­804-3359  MOVING TO CHICAGO? Condo for sale by 2 ND 1995 grads. Bright 1­bedroom condo on 24th floor in secure building steps from lake & public transportation. 10-15 minute walk to grocery & Wrigley Field. May 2004 ciO'sing. 773-929-3178 or nasserweiss@ hotmail. com  DOMUS PROPERTIES. HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE .. 2 BEDROOM HOUSE. 2BEDROOM DUPLEX AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR 04-05 SCHOOL YEAR. ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR 05-Q6 SCHOOL YEAR. CON­TACT KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR CELL315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS  Large 1 Bedroom Condo 1 0 min from Univ. All App. Pool Low taxes less than rent 574-299-4997 Freshmen check out www.nd2007.com  WANTED Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-9359  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confiden­tial support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERV­ER.  


Wednesday, February II, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 



Majerus will not return to coaching at Utah 

ALLSPORT PHOTOS Utah coach Rick Majerus speaks to players during a game against Kentucky last year. After leaving the team In January because of heart problems, Majerus now says he will not return. 
Valentine's.Day is Coming! 
To find the perfect gift for your snookums, come to 



Irish Gardens 
Flowers *Balloons *Potpourri* Betta Fjsh *Chocolate 
Preorders accepted until Thursday, Feb. 12 Walk-in orders after Feb. 12 are limited to roses and pre-made bouquets. Preorder Today! 

Irish Gardens 
1ocated on th.e Lowf!r Lfroe1 of Lafortune 574-631-4004 fiowersh.op.nd.edu. MC/Vt.sa accepted 
t 
The Fisher Hall Cotnmunity and the Notre 
·Dante Sophon1ore Class invite the Notre Datne fan1ily to celebrate the n1en1.ory of Cl1ad Sharon '06 on Thursday, Febt-uary L2, the first anniversary of the announcement of his death. 
Chad will be l'emen1.be1·ed especially in a ~'lass in Pisher llall's St. Paul's Chapel at 5:15p.m. Thursday. The campus connnunity is invited. to attend this Mass. 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY -Rick Majerus said Tuesday he will not coach the University of Utah again this season, ending his 15-year association with the school he brought to national prominence. 
"No. I won't come back this year, and I won't coach next year for sure," Majerus told ESPN. 
He also ruled out coaching Utah in the future. 
"They need to hire a coach," Majerus said. "I've divorced myself from this." 
Apparently, the decision was not Majerus' alone. 
"His doctor told him that under no circumstances was he coming back this year," Majerus' attorney, Bob Henderson, told The Associated Press. 
Majerus did not immediately return a phone message to the AP left through Henderson. 
Majerus left the team on Jan. 28 because of heart problems. 
He had said he would retire at the end of the season, how­ever, both he and the university left open the chance he would still return to coach this sea" son. 
Majerus has not told the uni­versity that he would not return, athletic director Chris Hill told AP on Tuesday. However, he said officials have been in contact with some of Majerus' closest friends. 
"We have every indication that is what he was planning," Hill said of Majerus' decision. "That fits in line with conversa­tions we've had." 
Assistant coach Kerry Hupp has led Utah (18-5) to a 3-0 mark since Majerus left. 
"We're going to leave every­thing the way it is," Hill said. "We've won three in a row, and we don't want to interfere with that success." 

Taking the June 2004 LSAT? 
Competition is fierce. Start NOW! 
Classes begin on February 14th & 15th Call or visit us online today to enroll. 

1·800-KAP·TEST kaptest.com 
Test Prep and Admissions 
•LSAT is a regiS1J!ted ttademall< o1 the Law School AdmissiOn C01Jncll. 

2003-04 
Actors Fro1n The Londo11 Stage Romeo and Juliet 
by William Shakespeare 
Wednesday, February 11 ....... 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 13............ 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 12 ............ 7:30p.m. Saturday, February 14 .... 7:30 p.m. 
• 
Playing at Washingt~n Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128. The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
--
·-~ 
·­

-
.. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
NFL 


NFL asks for suspension of high school draft decision 
Associated Press 

-The NFL asked a judge Tuesday to suspend her c:!ecision to allow high school players into the draft, arguing that an onslaught of teenagers would harm the league, its athletes and college football. 
U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin issued her ruling last Thursday in a lawsuit by Ohio State running back Maurice Clarett, a 20-year-old sophomore who played just one season in college before trying to enter the draft. 
The NFL asked the judge for a stay while it appeals, saying a higher court may not be able to rule before the April draft. 
"Absent a stay, countless col­lege underclassmen, as well as high school students who lack the physical and psychological matu­rity to succeed in professional football. will be encouraged pre­maturely to declare themselves eligible for the NFL draft," it said. 
At issue is a league rule that a player must be out of high school for three years before he is eligi­ble for the draft. 
The NFL argued that fue rule is for the young players' own good: It is designed to make sure they are big enough and strong enough to play with the pros. 

The league said "immediate enforcement of the court ruling will encourage teenage athletes to overtrain -or worse -to use steroids or dangerous nutritional supplements in the hope of rapid­ly developing the strength and speed required to compete in the NFL." 
Scheindlin, however, said the eligibility rule violates antitrust law by denying young athletes the right to market their talents. 
The NFL has set a March 1 deadline for high school players and college underclassmen to apply for the draft, pending its appeal. 
The league said that without a stay, its 32 clubs will be forced to evaluate and interview a large number of prospective NFL play­ers. 
Those players then would sac­rifice their scholarships and edu­cation for an uncertain future, ultimately perhaps displacing NFL veterans. 
"There would also be corre­sponding serious, disruptive and irreparable effects on the college football programs that invested substantial sums in recruiting these players and fostering their athletic development," the NFL said. 
"Any veterans who lose their jobs "would have no remedy if tis court's ruling were ultimately reversed." 

The NFL said it will appeal Scheindlin's ruling to the 2nd 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals regardless of whether the judge agrees to suspend her ruling. 
The league cited what it called a "substantial possibility that the Second Circuit will have a differ-
Romance .Candle Kit #2571 
ent view on the merits." 
Alan Milstein, a lawyer for Clarett, said the NFI.:s arguments were frivolous. "How are they irreparably harmed by letting Maurice in? I think it's ridiculous to even go through this," he said. 
Clarett led the Buckeyes to the 2002 national championship. He was barred from playing in the 2003 season for accepting 
Fresh Cuts! Red andWhite Tulips #F079 
improper benefits from a family friend and then lying to investiga­tors about it. 
Clarett has not said whether he would enter the draft because he still might want to return to col­lege. Ohio State would have to petition the NCAA to allow Clarett to return for the 2004 season, and it is unclear whether the school would succeed. 



.JheFTD~ ..•. .·.~w~et~~arts• 
:~;tit~~~· 
I I 




Save $5 
I 

I Don't forget-Valentine·s Day is Saturday, February 14th! 
I . Shop online at WWW~ftd~com/observer or
•,Caii1-800•SENIJ•FtD and give promo code 9178 
I 
~·. I
IU 
" ~­
"' .:;; I 

• 
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
..... 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Purdue's leading scorer set to return Wednesday 




P E RF0 RMING PUCCI NI'S LA B0 HEME Wednesday, February 11 7:30 PM 
Morris Performing Arts Center For tickets, call 574-235-9190 or toll free at 800-537-6415 or you may order tickets at www.MorrisCenter.org 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
A company of 100 performers, including singers, chorus, and orchestra 
.cb. Sponsored by f" US.Cellular 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Purdue's 
unquestioned leader is about to 
return from a three-game 
absence, and it couldn't come at 
a better time for the reeling 
Boilermakers. 
Purdue coach Gene Keady said he expects forward Kenneth Lowe to play on Wednesday against Northwestern after missing three games with a sprained left elbow. 
Lowe was injured in a loss to Indiana on Jan. 27. The Boilermakers (15-7, 5-4 Big Ten) went 1-2 without him and have lost three of their last four games. 
"After the (Michigan) game, he felt like his progress was good enough," Keady said. 
Lowe participated in light workouts at practice last week and, depending upon how he looks before Wednesday's game against Northwestern, Lowe could start or come off the bench. 
His return is good news for a team that desperately needs some. The Boilermakers went to Bloomington on Jan. 27 play­ing for the lead in the Big Ten. The emotional loss sent them into a tailspin from which they have yet to recover. 
Mental breakdowns against Michigan and Ohio State, among others, have reduced the Boilermakers from Big Ten title contenders to a team need­ing a victory to get back on track. 
"We haven't had a lot of good things happen to us," Keady said. "This is a good thing. I hope he gives us a jolt, some positive reinforcement." 
The latest disappointment came Saturday when Courtney Sims tipped in a rebound with 
1.4 seconds left to lift Michigan over Purdue. Keady said a win in Ann Arbor, Mich., would have given the Boilermakers a solid shot at winning the Big Ten title. 
Instead, the loss has instilled a sense of urgency, starting with the game against the dan­"Now you have to win six in a 
-
row," Keady told his players. 
The first one, he said, will be no easy task. The Wildcats (9­11, 4-5) used an aggressive matchup zone defense to thump then-No. 14 Wisconsin 69-51 on Saturday. 
"We have a chance to run for 
the championship and we have 
to make a long run here." 
Keady said. "Our goal is to play 
that last game for the champi­
onship. We're worried about 

Northwestern and that's it, bot­-­
tom line." 
Leading the way for Northwestern is guard Jitim Young, who is fourth in the Big Ten in scoring with 18.1 points a game. He scored 17 in Northwestern's big win over the Badgers. 
"Young is one of the best war­riors in the league," Keady said. "lie's strong, understands the coach's offense. He does so many good things, just plays hard all the time." 
The Wildcats also run a ver­sion of the Princeton offense, a complicated motion o!Tense fea­turing screens and backdoor cuts. Combined with the unique matchup zone defense, it makes preparing for them a difficult prospect, which is only com­pounded by Purdue's injuries and suspensions. 

"Our kids understand they can beat us," Keady said. "They have great balance. We just respect the heck out of them. They have a lot of confidence after beating Wisconsin." 
Even though Lowe will play, he said he won't be 100 per­cent. Swingman Melvin Buckley is also nursing a sprained ankle and Chris Booker was recently ruled academically ineligible. 

Keady openly wondered this week why folks have the impression that the Boilermakers don't have the same personnel problems as other teams in the Big Ten, then added a little levity to his com­plaint. 
"Somebody needs to coach the announcers," he said. "We have three guys out, physically, and about 10 guys out mental­
-
-
---------------~-------------~
~~-------­
' 
! • 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
' 
... 
' 
' NHL
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 


' Hasek out for rest of the year with groin injury 
' 
' 
' 
•
' 
:' -Associated Press "It's very sad, but that's the way it is," he said. "I hoped for 
' 
DETROIT-Dominik Hasek's two months it would get better 
! ~ 
season is over because of a every day. But it didn't get bet­groin injury. He's determined ter, it got even worse last not to let it end his career. week." 
~ 'Til be back next season," Rich Winter, Hasek's agent, Hasek said Tuesday. said the goaltender's desire to
' 
' The 39-year-old Hasek ended win another championship will
' 
' his retirement after one year have him back on the ice next
' 
' to return to Detroit this sea­season.
' son, but he played in just 14 "He came back to Detroit to games before Tuesday's win a Stanley Cup and I think announcement. He was 8-3-2 he wants to come back again for the Central Division-lead­to be a part of another run for ing Red Wings. the Cup," Winter said. "This Hasek said he doesn't regret was not the storybook ending coming back. we were all hop­"No, I never ing for for Dom, made a mistake," in the final chap­he said. ter of his career." 
''I'll be back next 
"Unfortunately my Red Wings gen­
season.,
groin wasn't eral manager strong enough." Ken Holland said 
The Red Wings' Dominik Hasek guards the goal In Detroit's 4-4 tie at St. Louis on Dec. 4, 2003.
One of the NHL's Dominik Hasek Hasek wants an Hasek will miss the rest of the season with a groin Injury. 
all-time great extended period
Red Wings goalie 
goaltenders. of time to give Hasek won two his groin a the playoffs. desperately tried to trade didn't know where he would MVP awards and chance to heal. -"Curtis and Manny can con­Joseph. end up playing this year. six Vezina "I think in the centrate on playing," Red But no one wanted to take "I don't think there's been a Trophies. given to the league's summertime he's going to Wings captain Steve Yzerman Joseph because of the two player in the league who's top goalie, during a nine-year decide whether he wants to said. "We have no distrac­years and $16 million left on gone through more adversity stint in Buffalo. He also led the officially retire," Holland said tions." his contract. individually this season," 
Czech Republic to a gold medal from a meeting of GMs in The season started with a "We're very, very lucky that Detroit coach Dave Lewis said. in the 1998 Nagano Olympics. Henderson, Nev. big distraction. he's been a real pro through "And I think he's become a 
He joined the Red Wings The Red Wings are left with When Hasek retired in 2002, this," Holland said. "And lucki­stronger person and player before the 2001-02 season, the same goalies -Curtis Detroit lured Joseph away ly for us that nobody claimed because of it." winning his first Stanley Cup Joseph and Manny Legace -from Toronto with a $24 mil­him." "Sometimes the (trades) you that season. they had last year. Detroit had lion, three-year deal to replace Joseph is 13-9-2 with a 2.48 don't make are the best ones." 
Hasek skated with his team­one of the best records in the Hasek. When Hasek returned goals-against average this sea­Joseph did not make himself mates Tuesday, then made his league last season, but lost to and agreed to make $6 million son. He has kept his family in available to reporters after surprising announcement. Anaheim in the first round of this season, the Red Wings the Toronto area because he practice Tuesday. 


CENTI&II. FOil 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Volunteer Media Careers as Vocations 
All students are welmme to Mike Schrniedeler '94 -ViceOpportunities come to this panel presenta­President of Production, tion by Notre Dame gradu­Towers Productions, Inc.,SL Luke Memorial Church ates who will reflect on how Chicago, IL ofGod in Christ is looking they have integrated faith 
Don Wycliff '69 -Public
for hdp for their wnchool and socbl mncerns into their 
Editor, Chicago Tribune,tutoring progmm. Tutors are professions. A simple supper 

Chicago, IL
needed Monday-Wednesday will be served. Sponsored byfrom 3:30-5. Cont:2et Marcel­the CSC and NDVI. When: Sunday, February 15 la Jones-Preston at 288-6809 at 4:00 -5:30 pm
Tara Dix '98 -Assistant Edi­

or 233-5232. · 

tor, U.S. Catholic Magazine, Where: Center for Social The Hansd Center is look­Chiago,IL Concerns, Multi-purposeing for volunteer office help­Room ers. Contact Maura Hayen at 234-2150. 
Brother Bill Toomes and eight Ex-Gang Members Speak


Candlelight 

Come hear Bro. Bill Toomes, When: February 14 at 3:00
Vigil for Peace 
founder ofBrothers and pm Sisu:rs ofLove, speak with 8

February 15th Where: Center for Social
a-gang members about gang 

Concerns
life and gang rehabilitation. On the one year anniver­
sary ofthe day when over Join PSA as they protest unfair
10 million people Joined in protests, declaring •The labor practices at Taco Bell World Says No to War," the ND Peace: Coalition will Join students from thc1 Students will leave Thurs­have acandldight march Progressive Student Al­day night, February 12, and and vigil. liance as they march on return either Friday or Sat­
YUM Brands HQ{the par­urday, February 13 or 14.
Whea: Sunday, February 
ent company ofTaco Bell)

15 at 8:00pm Contact Kamaria Porter at


in Louisville, KY for their 

kponer@lnd.cdu for more
Where: Meet at Flagpole suppon ofunjwt labor 

information. 
on South Quad practices. 
.­
-~ 
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
! 




====================================================================================================== ~ 
-,. l 
EUROPEAN SOCCER 
l 
4

A111erican-born Hovvard slu111ping with Manchester Utd. ~ 
Aasociatcd Press shutouts in 24 Premier League Brunswick, N.J., joined board," he said. "I'm in the just hope you're not in that dip games. What's going on? Manchester United in a four­process of doing it, no ques­for too long." 
-
LONDON -Tim Howard United lost Rio Ferdinand, year deal last summer from tion. I'm not a finished product Howard, who has 14 shutouts keeps watching the ball whiz one of the world's top defend­Major League Soccer's yet, but hopefully getting in 30 games with United, by him into the net. ers, who was suspended for MetroStars. He immediately there." including cup play, returns to First came a 3-2 win over eight months after missing a replaced France's Fabien Howard is determined to action Wednesday night Southampton in which drug test. Barthez as the starter and laid prove the last two games were against Middlesbrough, fol­Manchester United wasted a "It's just a matter of jelling," claim to being a worthy succes­anomalies. lowed by Saturday's FA Cup two-goal lead. Then the Reds Howard said during an inter­sor to former United great "Inevitably as a goalkeeper, game against crosstown rival squandered a three-goal lead view with The Associated Peter Schmeichel. no matter who you are, what Manchester City. Intercity "der­over Everton before winning 4-Press. "It took us a while at the "If I was a good goalkeeper league, what age, you're going bies" are rabid affairs in 3. beginning to jell with Rio. Now when I came here, I need to be to go through that," he said. England, akin to showdowns Five goals in two games -a it's going to take a little bit, too exceptional," Howard said. "You're going to have highs between the Boston Red Sox 
quarter of the season total -but, hopefully, not too long." "It's trying to better myself as and lows. The most important and New York Yankees. 
against Howard, who has 10 The 24-year-old from North a goalkeeper across the thing is staying consistent. You "The fans go crazy for it," Howard said. "No matter who's struggling, who's doing well, both teams are going to be up for it. It should be a pressure cooker." Adding to the mix will be the likely appearance in the Manchester City lineup of mid­fielder Claudio Reyna, the U.S. national team captain. Howard and Reyna are among six Americans playing regularly in England's top league, joined by goalkeepers Kasey Keller (Tottenham) and Brad Friedel (Blackburn), defender Carlos Bocanegra and forward Brian McBride (both Fulham). Manchester United, which has won eight of the last 11 league titles, is two points behind unbeaten Arsenal. United also faces Portugal's Porto this month in the next round of the European Champions Cup. "Success is really determined by how much silverware you win at this club," Howard said. The recent defensive trou­bles at Manchester United coincide with a bitter off-field feud between manager Alex Ferguson and the club's major shareholders, Irish race horse owners John Magnier and J.P. McManus. · Among the deals under scrutiny is Howard's $3.6 mil­lion move from the MetroStars. A six-figure sum was allegedly paid to an agent who is a busi­ness partner of Ferguson's son, Jason. "My agent and I have said what we needed to say," Howard said. "Our slate is clean, we're sure of that." Howard will join the U.S. national team for an exhibition game in the Netherlands on Feb. 18. His performances for United have established him as a strong contender to beat out Friedel and Keller as America's No. 1 goalkeeper. 

"With respect due to those guys, they've put years of work .... in," Howard said. "I certainly am going to be pushing them to get their spot. They're going to be pushing themselves to keep their spot. That's the nat­ural progression of things." 
We set high standards. We want people who share them. People who want 
to work on some of the most interesting business issues, for some of the 
most prestigious brands in the world. You'll need to be determined, but you'll 
never be on your own. Because in our teams, you'll find the right experience, 
knowledge and support to bring you along. The sky's the limit. 





-

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Virginia at Duke 7 p.m., ESPN 
-
NBA New Jersey at Cleveland 7 p.m., FOX LA lakers at Houston 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

San Jose at Detroit 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 





OUND THE NATION 
page 22 CoMPILED FROM Tu.r: OBSERVER'S wuu SERVtcrs Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
NBA 

KAT 
Philadelphia 76ers head coach Randy Ayers reacts to a call during a game against the Washington Wizards. Ayers was fired Tuesday and assistant coach Chris Ford will temporarily assume the head coach position. 
76ers' assistant Ford takes over for Ayers 
Associated Press "Some things I was look­and upset by Ayers' firing. season, agreed with King 
ing at, I just was not com­He said he would have that a shakeup could be 
PHILADELPHIA fortable with," general liked to have heard the needed, but he says he Randy Ayers lost his job manager Billy King said. news from King first. Now wants to finish his career after less than a season as "We're going to be aggres­the NBA's leading scorer with the team he led to the Philadelphia 76ers' sive and see if we can do (27.5-point average) wants the 2001 NBA Finals with coach. If the team doesn't something to change the to have a say in whatever coach Larry Brown. turn things around, others roster. We still expect changes might come next. Ayers became the might be on their way out, every player to play hard, "Just being called the Sixers' head coach when too. be professional and play franchise player, for being Brown resigned after last 

And star guard Allen the right way." here as long as I've been season. Brown is now Iverson would like to have He said he is willing to here, I definitely feel like coaching the Detroit some input. make trades that could someone should have said Pistons. 
The 76ers fired Ayers on help the 76ers make the something," said the ''I'm crushed," Brown Tuesday with the team 21-playoffs. The deadline for league's MVP in the 2000-said before Detroit's game 31 and 1 1/2 games deals is Feb. 19. 01 season. "I feel like I'm at New Jersey on Tuesday behind the Boston Celtics King thinks some play­supposed to be involved night. "He was an assis­for the Eastern ers have not put forth a with a lot of stuff.... I've tant for me for six years Conference's final playoff full effort every game -earned the right to know and he was wonderful. I berth. Assistant Chris something Iverson said some of the things that are was proud of him when he Ford takes over on an aloud recently. going on." got the opportunity. You interim basis. Iverson was surprised Iverson, in his eighth hate to see it happen." 
IN BRIEF 

Johnson falls to Expos in 
salary arbitration 
NEW YORK -Baseball owners improved to 2-0 in salary arbitration when the Montreal Expos defeated first baseman Nick Johnson on Tuesday. 
Kevin Millwood, who had been scheduled for a hearing Friday, set­tled his case with Philadelphia, agreeing to an $11 million, one-year contract, a raise of $1.1 million. 
Among free agents, Fred McGriff agreed to a minor league contract with Tampa Bay, and Seattle agreed to minor league deals with Terry Mulholland and Eric Owens. 
Johnson, acquired from the New York Yankees in December's trade for Javier Vazquez, will made $1.25 mil­lion instead of the $1.68 million he had sought. He made $364,100 last season, when he hit .. 284 with 14 homers, 47 RBis and 70 walks in 324 at-bats. 
Arbitrators Roger Kaplan, Jack Clarke and Christine Knowlton made their decision one day after listening to arguments in Phoenix. Last week, pitcher Chris Reitsma lost to Cincinnati. Fifteen players remain scheduled for hearings. 
Millwood, 14-12 with a 4.01 ERA for the Phillies last year, had been seeking $12.5 million while the team had been offering $10 million. 
McGriff, 40, would get a contract for the $300,000 minimum if he is added to the major league roster of the Devil Rays, his hometown team. He is nine homers short of 500. 
"We're going to give him an oppor­tunity to showcase his wares," gener­al manager Chuck LaMar said, adding that it will be difficult for McGriff to make Tampa Bay's roster unless the Devil Rays have injuries in spring training. 
McGriff played 3 1/2 seasons for the Devil Rays before he was dealt to the Chicago Cubs in July 2001. The hope is he will show enough this spring to attract interest from other teams. 
"I just need to play," said McGriff, slowed by groin and knee injuries last year. ''I'm getting more and more confident every day that I'll be fine." 
Indiana's Ewing deemed 
academically ineligible 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Indiana forward Pat Ewing Jr. will not play against Penn State on Wednesday because of his academic perform­ance. 
The school on Tuesday did not release any details of Ewing's t-ou­bles, but said that he would not travel with the team to Pennsylvania for the Hoosiers' game against the Nittany Lions. 
Ewing, a freshman and the son of former NBA star Patrick Ewing, is averaging 2.8 points and 3.3 rebounds in 20 games this season for Indiana (11-9, 5-4 Big Ten). He has started six games. 
Indiana coach Mike Davis issued a statement saying Ewing will be missed, but academics takes prece­dence. 
I\ l '' • "I o 4 •••••••••••• •••••• ,' 
••• , .................·.··········.•.•·.· ..··--...•.·•·o.•.o· • • '• • " ~ • • ' I t " • • • t 1 I • t • • I I • 
Wednesday, February II, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 

U.S. WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 



Ruth Riley chosen to compete for spot on U.S. Olympic team 
international experience with the 2001 NCAA Final Four
Former Irish standout 
USA Basketball, having played when she guided Notre Dame ­one offour WNBA with the 1998 USA Basketball to its first national champi­Select Team that went 7-1 onship in the sport. 
stars chosen to fill spot against national teams from Currently, Hiley is in her first Puerto Rico, Poland and Spain. season playing with the She returned to USA Colorado Chill of the National
Special to The Observer 
Basketball a year later with Women's Basketball League, the 1999 USA World University averaging 13.3 points and 8.0 Former University of Notre Games Team, helping that rebounds per game while Dame All-America center Ruth squad earn a silver medal. In sparking the Chill to a 6-4 Riley is one of four WNBA addition, she was a 2002 USA record, good for second place players who have been select­Senior National Team hopeful, in the league. She also was ed to attend the 2004 USA taking part in that unit's recently selected as an NWBL Basketball Women's Senior spring training in Colorado All-Star and will play for the National Team training camp Sprin·gs, N W B L Feb. 19-27 in Jacksonville, Colo. Nationals in the Fla. The camp will be used as I n league's All­part of the .evaluation process September, "To be named to the Star Game Feb. in selecting the final three Hiley com­16 in Loveland,
team would be the
members for the U.S. team pleted her Colo. that will compete in the 2004 third WNBA highlight ofmy career. " Riley and the Summer Olympics in Athens, season with U.S. Senior Greece. a bang, lead­National Team
Ruth Riley
"It would be an extreme ing the Shock will train four
WNBA player
honor to be a member of this to the league days in team," Hiley said. "The highest champi-Jacksonville honor an athlete can have is to onship. The before depart­represent her country and to Macy, Ind., ing for Cuba for be named to the team would native was named tb~ Most a threl.'-game exhibition serie~ be the highlight of my career." Valuable Player of the WNBA against the Cuba Nationa: 
Joining Hiley at the USA Finals after averagir1g 14.7 Team Feb. 24-26 in Havana. Basketball training camp will points and 5.0 rebounds in the The final roster positions for be former Connecticut stand­three-game championship the U.S. Senior National Team out Swin Cash, Louisiana Tech series, including a career-high will be determined by USA product Cheryl Ford and North 27 points in the decisive Game Basketball Women's Seniur Carolina graduate Nikki 3 win over the two-time National Team Committee, Teasley. Cash and Ford are defending champion Sparks. which is chaired by WNBA teammates with Riley on the Riley also became the first Vice President of Player WNBA's Detroit Shock, while women's basketball player Personnel Renee Brown. Teasley is a two-year starter ever to be named the Finals The team is coached by Van Reuters with the WNBA's Los Angeles MVP at both the college and Chancellor, who has guided 
Ruth Riley celebrates being named WNBA Finals MVP on Sept. Sparks. professional levels -she was the WNBA's Houston Comets to 
16, 2003. Riley was Invited to try out for the U.S. Olympic team. The 6-foot-5 Riley has prior the Most Outstanding Player of four championships. 

-
-
•· 

-------------. 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
Brey 
continued from page 28 
smoke clears tomorrow, let's see where we are." 
On the more optimistic side, Monday's win could be the start of a number of positive factors working in Notre Dame's favor. 
First, the Irish finally got their big win. Before 

to is a 16-14 and 9-7 in the SEC Georgia squad from the 2000-01 season. During that season, the Bulldogs didn't have an excep­tional record, but played an extremely tough schedule, which led to finishing the regular sea­son with a No. 19 RPI ranking. 
The selection committee rewarded the Bulldogs with a 
No.  9  seed  in  the  NCAA  
Tournam ent.  
Combine  finally  

defeating the getting a big win
"We knew that 
Huskies, the Irish with gaining some had lost their previ­one big win was late season momen­ous five games all it would take tum and the last and against ranked possibly most impor­
to get the team 
teams. tant factor becomes
turned around." 
"We knew that apparent -for the one big win was all first time in Brey's it would take to get Torrian Jones tenure at Notre the team turned Dame, the Irish
Irish Guard
around and get the team in the right direction," Notre Dame senior co-captain Torrian Jones said. 
Jones and a number of other Irish players feel this win will propel them to getting hot for the rest of the season. That's a testa­ment to the attitude in the locker room, as the Irish had lost six of eight going into Monday night and just had a tough loss against No. 4 Pittsburgh only 48 hours earlier. 
"After that loss Saturday against Pittsburgh, you could just feel it," Notre Dame forward Jordan Cornette said. "These guys were like, 'We're on the brink.' We knew we had to crack sometimes." 
Second, that momentum Jones and Cornette talk about could help them pick up enough "RPI wins" over the next two weeks to make the Irish a factor on Selection Sunday. 
One team the Irish can relate 

could finish hot in those always impor­tant last 10 games of the season. 
In Brey's other three seasons, the Irish have gone 6-4. 6-4 and 4-6 entering the NCAA Tournament. This season, those marks won't do. 
The Irish haven't been very high in the RPI all season and have that glaring Central Michigan loss on their resume. But they do have a chance over the last three weeks of the sea­son to make a late postseason push. 
Brey knows the only way that can happen is one game at a time. 
"We haven't talked big pic­ture," Brey said. "I don't think we can talk big picture with the schedule we have coming up. We have to try and get guys healthy for Saturday.'' 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 

Irish guard Torrlan Jones jumps to block the shot of Connecticut guard Tallek Brown during Monday night's 80-74 win over the No.5 Huskies. 

-
-
.; 
LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME
. . . 
INFORMATION SESSION FOR MAY, 2005 & MAY, 2006 
ATTEND OUR DROP-IN SESSION ON 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004 BETWEEN 5:00-6:30 P.M. 140 DEBARTOLO HALL 
LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME RUNS FROM MID-MAY TO MID-JUNE 
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
SMC BASKETBALL 


Belles only senior hoping to go out strong 


concept that your playing days By BOBBY GRIFFIN are growing sparse could be Sports Writer difficult as the only senior on a 
losing team. but Miller said 

Despite the disappointing she has grown accustomed to season that is quickly coming it. to a close on Saint Mary's, "It was [weird]. but I was many of the Belles will look used to it," said Miller. forward to next "Throughout the year as their four years, there young team "We're building, were other girls continues to that were my age
we're still building. 
grow in hope of that were playing better things to Hopefully with this but they all ended 
come. experience next year up quitting or 
That's not the transferring, so I
they'll be a lot bet­
case for Katie was fine with it." 
Miller. the sole ter, they'll do great But Miller was senior on a things next year." hesitant to accept team comprised the idea that the mainly of jun­season was com­
Katie Miller 
iors and fresh­ing to an end. men, who will Belles point guard "It's not over be ending her yet," Miller said. basketball "It's sad, it's real­career when the Belles' season ly sad. It's been a great four to a close. years." Coming to terms with the Miller has averaged 5.9 points per game in 24.2 min­utes per game this season. Her 

24.2 minutes per game are second only to Emily Creachbaum who clocks in at 
25.5 minutes per game. Miller also has 39 assists on the sea­son. 
Despite the plethora of emo­tions that are running through Miller's head with another los­ing season coming to an end. she has remained positive about her experience as a Belle. 
"I think we've improved a lot over the past year." said Miller. 
While the Belles have · ' improved since last season, it is no secret that Saint Mary's has struggled this year despite their growth. They have faced tough competition and strug­gled to put together strong first halves against solid con­ference opponents. 
But for Miller. she sees a team growing with each other despite the losses piling up in bunches, and the wins few and far between. 
"We're building, we're still building. Hopefully with this experience next year they'll be a lot better, they'll do great things next year." Miller said. 
Saint Mary's could. in fact. improve on their 6-15 record. going into Wednesday's game with Adrian. With the develop­ment of freshmen Bridget Lipke and Jessica Binhack, among others. and the contin­ued growth of sophomores Anne Hogan and Bridget Boyce, and juniors Creachbaum. Emily Pernotto and Maureen Bush, Miller could in fact be leaving a solid nucleus of talent behind her that could make a solid run in the MIAA next year. 
While the Belles' future is undetermined, Miller's is not. It seems fitting that Miller. the ­sole senior who has been responsible for leading a younger team on and off the court. plans on going into edu­cation. 
"I plan on teaching. I'm an education major so I'm teach­ing next year ... kindergarten ­through second grade," said Miller. 
Adrian will play at Saint Mary's tonight at 7:30p.m. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu. 

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
Walsh 
continued from page 28 
was never really tempted to play on grass rather than ice. 
"I never played football. but I tried everything else," Walsh said. "I was never really pres­

• sured much by my father to play football. and hockey was the sport I really felt good with early on. "I really picked between hockey and baseball, and in my sophomore year of high school I decided that I wanted to focus on hockey and pursu­ing that sport full-time." Walsh graduated from Detroit Catholic High School in Redford, Mich., while also playing minor league hockey for Compuware Ambassadors of the North American Hockey League. He helped lead Compuware to the United States Junior A Championship in 2001-02. Walsh's exploits impressed Notre Dame coach Dave Poulin, who has used the NAHL as a pipeline for Irish players over the years. Walsh is one of six current Notre Dame players who have played in the NAHL, along with Rob Globke. T.J. Mathieson, Derek Smith. Chris Trick and Jason Paige. There was never any ques­tion that Walsh would wear the Irish uniform. "Notre Dame was always an easy fit for me," Walsh said. "Growing up with my dad who had come here, he really pushed me towards the school. But it was never a hard sell, because I always wanted to come here." Walsh expressed that he was impressed upon meeting Poulin for the first time and that the coach was a major reason Walsh decided to become a member of the Irish. "How could you not help being impressed by Coach [Poulin]?" Walsh said. "Especially for a kid who's aspiring to play in the NHL, you'd want to come and play for a guy who spent several years in the NHL." A major step toward that dream for Walsh happened at the end of his freshman sea­son, when he was selected by the New York Rangers in the fifth round of the 2002 NHL Entry Draft. 
"I was there with my par-
Golf 
continued from page 28 
momentum on despite the cold 
temperatures, strong winds and 
pouring rain. 
"It was really hard to keep the scores down," Isban said. 
The Rice Intercollegiate marks the third top-two finish of the 2003-04 season for the Irish, and the team is happy to start the spring portion of its schedule 

-
off on a good note. Young. but talented, the team is hoping to win the Big East and fare well in the NCAA Tournament. With a difficult schedule ahead, this week's tournament gave them needed experience early in the season. "It was a pretty good team effort," Isban said of their sec­ond place finish, "but. obviously. we have a ways to go." Their next event. to be hosted by USC. is not until the begin­ning of March. · 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu. 

ents. so I was happy that they were able to share that with me," Walsh said. "Especially when you consider how much time they had spent driving me to practices and games and things like that." 
Certainly one of the most impressive aspects of Walsh's game is that he also leads the team in plus-minus with a plus-1 0. It is very unusual for a player other than a defense­man to lead a team in that sta­tistic. 
"I've always considered myself a two-way player," Walsh said. "The defensive part is really where it all starts. If you take care of your defensive zone it will translate into good offense. I've been fortunate to play with two other defensive-minded line­mates [Andy Gill and Cory McLean] who are just as responsible defensively as I am. 
"That's one reason we've been so successful this season as a line." 
It's certainly one reason the Irish have been a successful team this season, as well. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu. 



Wednesday, February 11, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
WE HAVEN'T SOLD A OUR PLAN IS TO MAKE NOW CLOSE THE DEAL, 
SINGLE UNIT OF OUR THE SALES PEOPLE CLIFFY, OR IT'S PAY­NEW WIRELESS WORK IN TEAMS AND BACK TIME. HASSOCK PRODUCT. TAKE TURNS WEARING 
ELECTROSHOCK PANTS. 
f 

._~~~~----------------~~~~~----..~------~~--~ 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
We. b4A+ UCor1n1 r~ow  Co.rt y()v ~elieve it1  
we·r~ ~ +o Se+LM  I Vhislec:l ~e 3a"'e)  I WA.$ jvst \ih:  
Famous Irish Fans react to the recent win over UCONN ...  Syr•cvst.1 +\,e"' Crov Veeeec.o.o.rr\t~ \1 J  hv+ I did t(lpe. it. J I  ~Oh .... my.... DL\d / \  
Hilton  

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

rxx I I 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc All Rights Reseoved 
PRUET 
± 
tMNADAM I
J (J (] 
WWW.Jumble com
tGREJIG t Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, asJ ( J J I suggested by the above cartoon. 


Ans: ''[I I I)"..,.........(I,.,.....I'<17'""'<17'I~I""""'I.........
I~I.,..........,J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: FAULT APART STUCCO POORLY Answer: Why the tennis champ played a match with the judge-TO COURT THE COURT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  40 Waffle brand  64 "Don't even  
Frame part  41 Load to bear  bother"  
5 Hung on to  42 High home  65 Endlessly worry  
10 Chop finely  43 ''The Matrix"  
14 It may be  hero  DOWN  
dunked  44 "Put it back"  1 It may begin  
15 Sister of Clio  45 Come to  with a buildup  
16 Studio effect 17 Post master, once? 20 Came out 21 "Puh-leeze!" 22 From square one  46 Gel 47 Some cameras: Abbr. 49 Johnny Appleseed's real surname 53 Unfriendly man­ 2 Composer Khachaturian 3 Allocate, with "out" 4 1922 Physics Nobelist 5 Unruffled  
24 Take effect 25 Fire up  ner 58 Eschew table  6 Take for (flimflam)­ 
manners  7 Mover's need  
29 Bohemian  
60 Turkish money  a Summers  
31 Evasive move 34 Adds power to, with "up"  61 War correspon­dent, these days  abroad 9 Capp communi­ty  
35 United group  62 Infantry weapon  10 Circulation  
36"Que_?"  of old  director?  
37 Berlin classic  63 Server's need  11 Have a yen  
12 Pillow cover  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~,..,.....,:-~ 13 Word with run or rule 
18 Two-time U.S. Open winner 
19 Like blue humor 
~...t:-=+:=+:=+:::-t 23 Ingredients in some brownies 1-::::+-:+.::i 25 Skier's mecca 26 Compact item 
-:-fl!lt-::+-:+:::+= ~~=+-:+::*+=! 27 Money spent -:::+":+7-t-i'-1 28 Engaged in 30 Makes a stink? 
-::+::+.:+.::-! 

__.___.__._.... 31 Congo, once 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

32 "The Addams  44 Rest stop sight  52 Verne captain  
Family" actor  45 Gaming area  54 Little snorts  
33 Used a tele­scope  46 Spread out  55 Radiate  

48 Airport incon­ 
35 Treat for Rover  veniences  56 Drink sometimes  
36 _-a-porter  49 Druid, for one  served hot  
38 Up for grabs  50 •Aquarius"  57 Offed  
39 Has a traditional  musical  59_Simbel,  
meal  ~­Razor name  Egypt  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________________________________ 
Address ___________________________________ 
City ___________ State _____ Zip________ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: Jennifer Aniston, Brandy, Matt Lawrence, Sheryl Crow, Sidney Sheldon, Bun Reynolds, Eva Gabor, Leslie Nielsen, Virginia E. Johnson, Tina Louise 
Happy Birthday: You'll be high on life an" on energy. You will have the wherewithal to make decisions that in the past you tended to ponder over. You will take your position among your peers and colleagues. This will be your year to excel and to make a difference. All the information that you have gathered will now come into play and lead you to the winner's circle. Your numbers: 18, 26. 29, 34, 37, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Socializing with co-workers will lead to a better working environment. Someone you do business with will find the way into your heart. Rumors may be detrimental if you aren't discreet. •• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If you get an early start, you'll be surprised how much you can get accomplished and how much praise you'll receive from loved ones. Organization will help you achieve your set goal. ••• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It's a good idea to get busy catching up on those household chores you've been putting off. Don't leave any detail undone. You'll feel much better when everything is done.***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Attend meetings with a close friend. You not only will learn a lot about a worthwhile cause, but will meet interesting individuals who intrigue you.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let others take advantage of your generosity. You could easily misplace your wallet or items of jewelry if you aren't careful. Unreliable characters may try to influence you. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's time to get rid of the old and bring in the new. You will find that your emotions will fluctuate if you don't keep extremely busy. Don't give your mate the chance to confuse you even more. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't stress out about your career. Take the day to relax and get your mind off your troubles. Do something special with family. 
' You need support from the ones you love. •• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get together with those who could help you move ahead. You need to make new connections and get on with your life. You've wasted too much time waiting to be recognized for your good work. and talent. It's time to present yourself and your talents. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful not to offend someone you care about. People are often more fragile than they appear. Try to put your diplomatic cap on and help to build up this person's ego. • • • • CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You should be doing something to enhance your outlook or bring you knowledge. You need to experience new and exciting things. •• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let family members put demands on you. You have to learn to say no if you want to be able to concentrate on your own efforts. •••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your hean will ache if you played your old trick of emotional blackmail on your mate. You've cried wolf one time too many, and now you'll have to say you're sorry and hope for the best. 
Birthday Baby: Charming, sophisticated and intuitively intelligent best describe you. You will be blessed with popularity as well as the ability to find solutions to any problem thai you encounter. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
THE 0BSERVIR 
PORTS
Wednesday, February 11, 2004 
page 28 
HOCKEY 

Two-way threat 
Strong defensively as well as offensively, sophomore Mike Walsh has already become a leader for the Irish 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Finally able to play consis­tently, Mike Walsh has been able to show what he's capable of this season. 
Walsh, a sophomore forward who is currently third on the Irish with 10 goals, has returned from a difficult fresh­man year to play a big role on this year's team. Walsh missed a total of 17 games his rookie year with a broken jaw and mononucleosis and was never 


quite able to get any in kind of offensive rhythm. 
"Playing­wis.e, it defi­nitely affected my develop­ment in mak­ing the jump to college and all the speed and everything that changes at the next level," Walsh said. "And also, with missing 

"Growing up and playing big games, I've always thought of myself as the kind of person who can be in the right position to score a big goal. " 
.. 

Mike Walsh Irish forward 
so many games early in my freshman year, it kind of iso­lated me from being with the team and getting to know everyone right away because I'd be spending weeks at a time away from the rink." 

His one goal that rookie year was a sign of things to come, however, as Walsh notched the game-winning tally in a 3-2 victory over Lake Superior State on Feb. 21, 2002. This season, Walsh has made a liv­ing of scoring big goals. 
In Notre Dame's earlier 1-0 victories this season against then-No. 1 Boston College and then-No. 3 Maine, Walsh scored the only goal in each contest. 
"Growing up and playing big games, I've always thought of myself as the kind of person 
who can be in the right posi­tion to score a big goal," Walsh said. "The people that I play with [on the Irish] really do a lot of work, and a lot of times I'm lucky and the puck just bounces the right way at the right time." 
Playing well in big games 

runs in Walsh's blood. His father, Max, was a member of the 1963 Irish national cham­pionship football team. Despite this gridiron pedigree, Walsh 
see WALSH/page 26 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Brey hesitant with optimism 
ByMATTLOZAR Associate Sporrs Editor 
For all the optimism stemming after Notre Dame's 80-74 upset of No. 5 Connecticut Monday night, Irish coach Mike Brey knows better. 
Brey knows his team is 11:9, 5-5 in the Big East, currently sits around No. 60 in the RPI and still has its next four games
• aga1nst teams in the top 35 of the RPI. That's why Brey, at least right now, is being realistic about Notre Dame's postseason chances. 
"We haven't even talked about the bubble or getting to the bub­ble," Brey said. "Where we've been is can we work on this in practice today and try and get another league win. When the 
see BREY/page 24 

GOLF 
Men finish second despite slow start 
By ANNIE BRUSKY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team powered its way to a sec­ond place finish at the Rice Intercollegiate after compiling the lowest team scores in each of the final two rounds. 
Finding themselves in ninth place after the first round Monday, the Irish answered by shooting 289 and 303 in the fol­lowing two rounds to tie with Denver for second place at 36­over par 900, only five strokes behind the tournament champi­on, Texas-San Antonio. 
The team had hoped to win the tournament, but the lack of prac­tice time due to the winter weather made their goal difficult to achieve. 
"I think we did well for having stepped out and seen grass for the first time in three months," freshman Cole Isban said. 
Sophomore Tommy Balderston came through with a strong per­formance and earned his highest placement ever as he tied for fourth place at 2-over par 216 (78-68-72) . 
Isban, a freshman, finished in eighth place with 5-over 221, the second top-1 0 finish of his young career. 
Sophomores Mark Baldwin and Scott Gustafson finished 33rd and 42nd, respectively, while freshman Shane Sigsbee placed 63rd. 
Yesterday's final round was even more impressive in that the team was able to carry Monday's 
see GOLF/page 26 

NBA 
COLLEGE HOOPS

COLlEGE HOOPS
U) SMC HOOPS 
U.S. WOMEN'S HOOPS 

NHL 
w 
Majerus will not

Lowe returns for
New Jersey wins 
Dominik Hasek 
Riley invited to
1-u Senior Miller 
return

ninth straight 
out for season 
Boilermakers
z hopes to have 
tr" out for U.S. 
a: :3 good finish 
0 ympic team 
Utah coach Rick

The Nets get their 
Red Wings goalie 
Purdue's leading scor-
Majerus says he has offi­

ninth win in a row 
Dominik Hasek will sit 
er will return to the
The Belles only senior 
Notre Dame alum
cs: 
cially quit as the Utes

under their new coach 
out the season with a 
team for tonight's game. 
still has a positive out-
chosen to try out for the 
coach.

Lawrence Frank. 
groin injury. 
look. 
Olympic team spot. 
= 
D.. =: c:l 
page 17

page 20 
page 19

page 25 
page 16
page 25
U) 





