

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Saint Mary's prepares for transitio~ 

President Eldred Mooney anticipates 'bittersweet' leaves behind a changeover to SMC presidency 
looking forward to it." 
By ANGELA SAOUD 
After serving as vice presi­Sainr Mary's Editor 

positive legacy 

dent and associate provost of Notre Dame since 1996,
By ANGELA SAOUD Carol Mooney will become the Mooney interviewed for the Sainr Mary's Edimr 11th president of Saint Mary's Saint Mary's presidential posi­College on June 1, replacing tion last fall. On
On May 15 as Saint Mary's Marilou Eldred, who held the Dec. 26 Saintseniors walk ofT tlw College's 

position for the past seven Mary's Board of S
eampus and onto their futures, 

years. Trustees named ee Alsoanother woman will join them. 
"My leaving 
her as the next "Provost
After snven years as president 

Notre Dame 
president.of the College, Marilou Eldred searches lor
will be bitter­Mooney joinedwill servn her last ollidal day at 
sweet," the faculty of Mooney's
eommnncement before retiring. 

Mooney said. the Notre Dame
"The phrase I've been telling successor"
"I've gotten a law school inpeople is that it's bittersweet," 
lot of great 1980, became page3Eldred said. ''I'm ready to 
opportunities associate profes­mtim. I'm ready to live a more 
through sor of law in
normal life. But, at the same [Notre Darnel Mooney 1984 and pro­

timt~. it's very hard to leave 

University, fessor of law in 1991. In addi­Saint Mary's." 
and I've made many good tion to her professorial respon­Eldred r.amn to the College in friends. But at the same time, 
sibilities, she served as an I'm very exeited for the endeav­see ELDRED/page 6 ors I am about to take on. I'm see MOONEY/page 8 


Notre Dame issues statement on Taco Bell 

Seeking answers, University puts contract renewal negotiations on hold 
next fall -but put negotiations response to a letter first sent by received from the Coalition for athlntic department into ar.count
By CLAIRE HEININGER on hold due to the failure of Taeo vice president and general coun­Imokalee Workers and from con­before coming down on either 

News Editor 

Bell officials to provide details sel Carol Kaesebier on March 5. cerned students, as during the sidn. about the Code of Conduct for its Kaesebier e-mailed another copy past month several students "We have to be careful in mak­
Notrn Damn issued a public 

tomato growers. of the Jetter April 16 after a delivered letters to University ing that judgment," he said. 
statement Tuesday postponing While he stressed that the spokesperson for Yum! Brands President Father Edward Malloy Though any unfairness on thethe rnnnwal of its sponsorship "clock wouldn't start until the Inc. -the Louisville, Ky.-based and more than 120 fasted to part of Taeo Bell has yet to be eontraet with Tam Bnll until the 

fall" for facets of the renewed company that owns Taco Bell -show solidarity with the tomato brought to light, Storin r.redited
University receives specific sponsorship to take effect, Storin said the inquiry was never pickers. Storin said the crux of the students with ealling atten­answnrs aboi1t the r.ompany's 

said the University still expected received. the statement was to solicit simi­tion to the issue. 
labor standards. 

a more complete and timely The only response the lar information from Taco Bell in "It remains to be seen whetherUniversity spokesman Matt answer from the company. University will consider satisfac­an attempt to be fair to all sides. all their coneerns were justifind,"Storin said the athlntic depart­"There has to be a point where tory is "a true one," Storin said. "It demonstrates an evenhand­hn said. "But we admim all their mnnt had been in thn process of we lose patience," he said. "At the very least, we need to get ed, deliberate way of dealing with values and interest in doing that." 
renewing its existing $50,000 

Officials began drafting the the facts." the problem," he said, adding
eontrad with loeal restaurant<; ­statement late last week after The statement acknowledged that the University must also take Contact Claire Heininger atand nxpanding it to $75,000 by they did not receive a satisfactory the input Notre Dame has the priorities and mission of the cheining@nd.edu 

ND details Juniper plan 

University Architect Doug Marsh presents a plan for a new road to handle traffic that now travels on Juniper at a town meeting at Little Flower Catholic Church In South Bend. 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Senior Staff Writer 
The University unveiled addi­tional plans for a new four-lane road near Ivy Road to handle the traffic created if Juniper Hoad is closed at Tuesday's meeting at Uttle Flower Catholic Church. 
University Architect Doug Marsh unveiled the plans for the new road to the over 50 commu­nity members in attendance. The road, which will run between Edison and Douglas Roads, is similar to two different plans introduced at community meet­ings in January but contains more specific details. The new road would run through property the University owns as opposed to taking homes and the project would also involve improving 
see JUNIPER/page 8 


Lao to request $1 nilllion for program.m.ing fund 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Outgoing student body presi­dent Jeremy Lao and vice president Emily Chin will present a proposal for a one million dollar student pro­gramming endowment and a piece regarding the publica­tion of Teacher Course Evaluations (TCEs) at Thursday's Board of Trustees meeting. 
Lao said he will ask for the programming endowment to supplement the 54,,000 dollars already granted to the Campus Programming Council (CPC) for speakers and concerts. 
see BOTIpage 8 


,. The appointment ofa new Executive Vice Praident 
). A discussion ofa review reprding whether Un."wt sity President f.uher Edward Malloy will mnain as president 
• The approval ofthe Io.,ar plan. "Notre Dame 2010: IUfilling the Promise" 
Source: Notre Dame MIKE HARKINS/ News &lnfonnation Observer graphic 

j 
' 

Anne IIese Woolford 
Senior Staff Writer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Any given Tuesday 
If anything, it's made me more pre­dictable. 
Choose any given Thesday within the past year I can tell you exactly what I've done between 6:3(1 p.m. and 4 a.m. I guess that's what working as an Assistant News Editor at The Observer does to a person. 
Had I initially been asked what I'd gain at the end of my time in this position, pre­dictability would b~ the last thing on my mind. 
I never consid­ered the fact that my roommates would leave an open parking spac·~ in front of our apartment without my reminding them. I never expected tbat my friends would go out to the bars without asking me along, and I certainly never guessed that I would have a ThEsday dinner routine at Reekers. Actually, my cooking skills are virtually non-e'listent, so I shouldn't be too surprised br that last one. 
As I write this. tcnight is my last at The Observer. Now I'll need a reason to come to the basement of South Dilling Hall and I can't deny that I'll miss hav­ing one. 
To be complete!}' honest, I'm surprised that I've stuck it ot.t this far. I announced my "retirement" from all Observer-related duties at the conclu­sion of my term as Saint Mary's editor in March. The realization that I would no longer have an inc•Jme and the persist­ence of a certain n·~ws editor were the only aspects that prompted me to stay. 
Without trying tc generalize, I think many Observer readers fail to &ppreci­ate the time and effort that goes into a daily newspaper. Before working here, I too simply picked up a copy each day to flip through on my way to class. I didn't know how the stories came in, how the paper was put togE:ther or how it man­aged to be printed and delivered by 10 
a.m. I didn't care. 
Now that I've beon here week after week starring widE:-eyed at a computer screen into the weo hours of the morn­ing, I do care. With editing each story at least two times and laying out pages, many of which begin from a blank tem­plate, nightly staffers are lucky to make it out by 3 a.m. I've: even witnessed a few occasions at 5:30a.m. myself. 
Coming in at 7 p.m., that's a long night. It's made even better by time spent waiting for late stories to come in, negotiating with someone to write an inside column and uploading stories onto the Web site. At least the weather's fmally warm enough where I don't have to scrape the ice off of my car and wait for it to warm up before driving home. 
Regardless of it E.ll, I'll miss my coun­terparts here morE than anything else. With slogans like "'Jews: We Put Out The Fastest" and a blown up microwave over a simple bag of popcorn, how could I not look forward to coming in each week? I'll definitely reflect back on this experience positivEly, but can already say I'm anticipating the much-needed free time. Corby's here I come. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are thosCJ of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool833 8@saintmarys. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards it:dfas a professional publica­
tion and strives for the highest standards of journal-. 
ism at all rimes. We do however, recogni:z.e that we 
will make mistakes. I'we have made a mistake, 
please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 
correc r our error. 

----~ 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
=======~======================================================== 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How MUCH OF STUDY DAYS WILL YOU SPEND STUDYING? 

Sean Tweed-Kent  Adam Wilson  Mary Ann Jentz  Josh Frilling  Jessica Prlna  Lisa Lu  
Junior  Junior  Junior  Freshman  Freshman  Freshman  
Knott  Knott  Badin  Sorin  McGlinn  Breen-Phillips  
"Not much. It's  "None. I turn 2 I  "How much/  "Negative two.,  "Hopefully all  "From Friday  
his birthday. ,  on Saturday.,  say I will do  ofthem, but  on ... studying  
and how much I  probably none.,  ... yeah!"  







actually do are 
two different things., 

HILLARY THORNTONfThe Observer 
Irish shortstop Sara Schoonaert tags a sliding DePaul player during a double-header Tuesday night. The Irish split the double-header with the Blue Demons losing the first game 3-1, but coming back for a 2-1 victory In the second game. 
OFFBEAT 

Dog feels below par after eating 28 golf balls 
LONDON -Vets cut open a German Shepherd dog to find she had scoffed no fewer than 28 golf balls. 
Eighteen-month old Libby had been coughing blood after weeks of fetch­ing golf balls at the north­ern England course where owner Mike Wardrop works as a bar manager. 
Wardrop told Reuters on Friday he hadn't realized the dog had a secret appetite for the dimpled balls she found at Didsbury Golf Club in Manchester. 
"When I take her for a walk every day she is prone to finding golf balls," Wardrop said. "She can fit five in her mouth." 
Libby is now recovering from the operation to remove the balls, with 30 stitches across her belly. 
''I've had to buy her two footballs," said Wardrop. "She can't swallow them." 
Motorist crosses opening drawbridge 
GLOUCESTER, Mass. ­What do you do when you're driving across a drawbridge and it suddenly starts to open? 
Massachusetts resident Mark Mason faced that frightening dilemma in 
Gloucester last weekend. 

He was crossing the cen­tury-old Blynman Bridge in a minivan with his two young children in the back when -without warning -the drawbridge began to rise and fold open in the middle. . 
Unable to turn back, Mason says he made a shap decision to speed up. He barely managed to clear the gap in the middle of the bridge and make it to the other side. Mason and his kids were shaken but unhurt. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 

Notre Dame graduate and soprano Danielle Svonavec will present a lecture-recital featuring early music by Monteverdi in the Haggar Parlor on Saint Mary's cam­pus tonight from 7 to 8:15 
p.m. Admission is free. 

Join tonight's Interfaith Christian Night Prayer for a Coffeehouse, featuring music from a campus band. The event will take place from 10 to 11 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Lounge. 
Notre Dame's chapter of the computer s.cience honor society Upsilon Pi Epsilon will honor the top juniors, seniors and graduate stu­dents of the Computer Science and Engineering department Thursday. It will then formally receive its charter from UPE President and special guest Robert Roggio. All are invited to attend from 3:30 to 4:30p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra presents its Spring Concert Thursday at Washington Hall which includes Arutunian's Trumpet Concerto, Rachmaninov's Third Piano Concerto and Stravinsky's Firebird Suite. 
The Saint Mary's College Women's and Collegiate Choirs present their spring concert Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in Moreau's Little Theatre. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

61 
37 


HIGH LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
IJ.I 
:c 
~ 

;:IJ.I ...I 
c:c 
(.) 



63 58 


77 
55 

64 52 
0 

HIGH 73
...1 
LOW 69 

r----------------------------~-­
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Provost searches for Mooney's successor 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
Assistant News Editor 
The search for an associate provost to replace Notre Dame's departing C..arol Mooney. who will take over as Saint Mary's presi­dent in June, is well underway, according to University provost Nathan Hatch. lie added that Mooney's departure should not have any adverse impact on the functioning of his office. 
Although I latch said he could not comment on the names or the number of candi­
dates being inter­"We need someone accomplish the viewed lor the posi­core functions ­
who understands 
tion, he said the whatever it takes 
faculty well and

University is -we will do exploring candi­who has long and that. We will have dates both inside valued experience to adjust to what and outside of needs to be
at a University. " 

Notre Dame. done," he said. 
"We are engaged In addition to in an extensive Nathan Hatch Mooney, John­search with inter­University provost Affleck Graves 
nal candidates, and we're also looking outside of the University to try to lind the best candidates," he said. 
I latch said that a search con­sultant is being used to assist with the process. Qualified candidates should possess the necessary leadership and experience to work closely with faculty on a variety of issues. he said. 
"We need someone who under­stllllds faculty well and who has long and valued experience at a University," he said. 'The position is responsible for things like the promotion and tenure process. One has to someone who under­stands and appreciates all the dimensions of faculty life and can give leadership to that." 
!latch declined to comment on a timetable for the appointment of a new associate provost and vice president, although he noted it "will not be before May 1" and said he hopes "it will be some­time before the middle of May." 
Hatch said that the announce­ment would be made public "as soon as we can." 
lie also said that the other members of his office would pick up any necessary slack should there be a gap between when Mooney leaves and her replace­
ment assumes 
the position. 
"We will 

and John Jenkins 
also serve as 
associate provosts and vice presidents. 
Ilatch also declined to com­ment on how his office would be affected should the Board of lhlstees name someone from his office to the currently vacant position of Executive Vice President. 
"We'll have to wait until the Board of Trustees act," he said. "I expect them to name someone at the upcoming Trustee meeting. I'm not free to say anything about 
it... The Board of Trustees meets Thursday and Friday. 
Contact Joe Tcombello at jtrombell@nd.edu 
Tenants fear loss of deposits 
By K. AARON VAN 
OOSTERHOUT 
News Writer 
; 

Justin Funk, a tenant of nearby Turth:l Creek Apartments, echoed the sentiments of many off-cam­pus residents as summer vacation draws near and apartment leases terminate and residents prepare for the worst in terms of charges assessed for cleaning and dam­ages done to leased property. 
"The apartment's pretty much taken a beating," Funk said. ''I'm pretty much assuming we're not gonna get [our security deposit] back." 
Nthough details vary from one apartment complex to another, landlords generally charge ten­ants for excessive cleaning and property damage with security deposits. Tenants pay these deposits in order to establish their lease, and oftentimes in addition to other tenant charges, such as first month's rent. or first and last month's rent. The size of these deposits range from $300 per unit at Castle Point to $985 per unit at College Park Apartments. and appear to rise proportionate­ly to the complex's "party reputa­tion" among students. 
Indeed, this week many Turtle Creek residents are preparing for tonight's "Rally in the Alley," just one in a slew of widely attended parties at the complex. As fits the trend, Turtle Creek's security deposit is highest. weighing in at $300 per student. or $1200 per townhouse. This year the com­plex ran a special, however, drop­ping the deposit to $200. 
According to Jackie Hackett. Assistant Manager of Turtle Creek Apartments, of that $300, $25 goes toward "application processing," $75 goes toward non-refundable cleaning such as painting and carpet cleaning, and the final $200 is refundable depending on the condition of the room at the end of the lease. 
"For the most part, everyone gets their deposit back," she said. "At least part of it." 
According to Hackett, "mali­cious damage" would constitute a breach of contract, and money would be taken from the refund­able $200 portion of the deposit to cover the cost. For instance, "holes in the wall. complete and utter destruction of the carpet," she said. "Sometimes there's a divider between a dining room and a living room," and removing it would ruin the carpet and the ceiling. 
Walking through the alley at Turtle Creek, one can see what might constitute "excessive dam­age," whether malicious or not. Approaching the apartment of senior Ryan Crochet, a window­pane, now broken and missing a circular slice near the bottom, looks out over the front lawn. 
''I'm not really sure how that happened," he said. "We have a couple of holes in the ceiling from parties. We're gonna try and plas­ter them up." 
Funk claimed that he, too, would try and avoid charges this year by replacing the divider that he and his roommates removed. 
"It would cost $1400 or some­thing like that" for Turtle Creek staff to replace, he said, and added with a grin, "We're going to put that back together." 
Some residents felt that Turtle Creek management was simply being fair in not returning the full deposit. "I would assume that most people do not get [the secu­rity deposit] back," said senior Joe Bollini. "It's a result of the occupants and not the landown­ers' stinginess." 
Crochet concurred, saying that he had not heard of any abuse on the part of the management. "Not that I know of," he said. 
Many other residents. however, did not share these sentiments and cited stories of rampant excess charges and suspicious dealings. 
"I've just heard from people that no one ever gets it back;" Funk said. 
Assistant Manager llackett db­agreed, however. and said, "We're not out to get anybody." 
On occasion. the charges assessed at the end of the year· exceed the security deposit, and the resident is charged the sur­plus amount. Hackett claimed that these instances were rare. 
In response to these excess charges, many tenants have fried complaints with Turtle Creek staff. Most notably, 2003 graduate Jeff Baltruzak, in his November Letter to the Editor, "Beware of Turtle Creek," claimed that the management had overcharged him $480 for carpet replacement. 
Baltruzak stated that he had shampooed the carpet prior to moving out, but that Turtle Creek had replaced it anyway, and did not take pictures of the damage to prove Baltruzak's undue wear­and-tear. 
According to Marianne Loftus­Heon, co-general manager of Castle Point, her apartment com­plex does not suffer these same complaints. 
Whether at Turtle Creek or Castle Point. however. all resi­dents will be cleaning and repair­ing whatever damage has accu­mulated throughout one year's worth of life. Said Funk, gazing at the mysterious reddish stain streaking down his glass sliding door. "It defmitely won't be spot­less by any means, but we don't want to be fined." 
Contact K. Aaron Van Oosterhout at kvanoost@nd.edu 

WILLIAM MERRITT CHASE 
Four Paintings from the Lilly Endowment Collection FINAL WEEK 
Exhibition closes Sunday, May 2 

For more information 
574.631.5466 www.nd.edu/-sniteart 
This exhibition is supported by agrant from the Lilly Endowment Inc. and is orga­nized by the Indianapolis Museum of Art. 
4 MONTH SPECIAL MAY THROUGH AUGUST FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 5 X 10---$149 + DEP I0 X I0 ---$199 +DEP CALL 247-7805 CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME AND AIRPORT 



thank you 
Notre IErne, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross Students College Appreciation 

SP'ECIAL 

~ $4.95 for 3 hours 
regular price 

tines: every night fran 9 to midnight 


Beacon Bowl 

234-4167 
(By the Airport) 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


ProfE~ssor debates repercussions of recent Medicare Act 
By ANDREW THAGARD Senior Staff Writer 
Dr. Gregory Gramelspacher, an associate profe~:sor of medicine at Indiana Unhersity School of Medicine, lectured Tuesday on the Medicare Act of 2003 that President Bush signed into law in December. The presentation, titled "Medicare Reform: Did the President and Congress Write a Good Prescripticn?" marked the conclusion of be lOth annual "Mini-Medical School Lecture Series," sponsored by the Medical Education Foundation and presented by the South Bend Center for Medical Education. 
The Medicare Act of 2003 has been surrounded by controversy since it first arrived in Congress in November of that year. The House passed the bill by a nar­row margin after a debate that raged all night. 
After it was passed by the Senate and signed by the President, some hailed it as the most important bill passed by Congress since the establish­ment of Medicare and Medicaid in 1965. Others, however, claim that the legislation privatizes Medicare and will benefit the major players of the industry at the expense of p~.tients. 
The issue is an important one, according to Gramelspacher, in part because Medicare is a cen­tral component to healthcare that represent~; a significant chunk of the m.tional budget. The 2001 Medcare budget totaled $240 billion or 12 to 15 percent of the total federal budget for that year. Healthcare spending in the U.S. is equiva­lent to 15 percent of the gross domestic product and costs $5,800 per capita annually ­the highest of any nation in the world by about $2,000, Gramelspacher said. 
"In this country we've decided to take a private market, capital­istic approach to healthcare ... We spend an awful lot of money on healthcare," he said. "The problem is what do we get with all this money?" 
Not quite what we pay for, Gramelspacher said. 
America ranks 20 to 25 world­wide for longest life expectancy and number one for obesity. Forty-four million people in the 
U.S. lack health insurance­most of them children and work­ing poor, he said. 
"You couldn't get sick in a bet­ter place than the U.S. but it's not a very good place to stay healthy," he said. 
The new Medicare Act aims to address these issues. The legis­lation authorizes the creation of ·a fourth component to the Medicare system for drug bene­fits by 2006 and establishes a discount prescription card that will be available starting in July of this year. The Act bans the importation of prescription drugs from abroad and covers preventative physical examina­tions and blood tests for diabetes and cardiovascular diseases screening, among other things. It also blocks a scheduled 4.5 
percent decrease in Medicare costs that was set to be paid to physicians and replaces it with a 
1.5 percent increase in payment. 
Such changes tlon't come with­out a price, Gramelspacher said. Initially, the Act was projected to cost $400 billion for the first decade and $1-2 trillion for the second decade. It is now project­ed to cost closer to $530 billion for the first decade. Seventy-five 
· percent of these costs will be paid out from general tax rev­enue and the remainder will be funded by monthly premiums. 
"We're not going to have to worry about that [second decade, howeve~] because Medicare is projected to go bankrupt in 2019," Gramelspacher joked. 
On a more serious note, Gramelspacher said that the potential benefits of the legisla­tion will depend upon the indi­vidual. As with insurance, those people with minimal prescrip­tion costs will stand to pay more by opting into the program than if they didn't. People who use moderate amounts of prescrip­tion drugs stand to benefit from it and those who use substantial amounts will benefit the most. 
While Gramelspacher praised some aspects of the Medicare Act, he said that such incremen­tal reform is not the answer to American's healthcare prob­lems. 
"There are some things I like, there are a lot I don't like," he said. "I don't want incremental reform. I don't think it's a good prescription [for the country)." 

Gramelspacher graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in government and international relations. He earned his medical degree at Indiana University School of Medicine and complet­ed his residency in internal med­IC!lle at the University of Michigan. He is the founder of the Program in Medical Ethics at IUSOM. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

The Department ofAmerican Studies would like to recognize our senior award winners: The Hugh O'Donnell Award for outstanding academic achievement: Liam Farrell The J. Sinnot Meyer Award for outstanding service to the con1munity: Gabrielle Sopko The James E. Murphy Award for exceptionaljoumalism: Lauren Beck The Paul Neville Award for excellence injoumalism: Matt Killen The Professor Jan'les Withey Award for notable achievement in writing: Brian Kurt Copper II **Congratulations on your outstanding achievements!**  


IRAQ 


U.S. strikes Fallujah insurgents 
Special Forces gunships, howitzers bombard Sunni district after Najaffirefight 
Associated Press 
FALLUJAII -U.S. war­
planes and. artillery 
attacked Sunni insurgents 
holed up in a slum in a 
thunderous show of force 
that rocked Fallujah 
Tuesday, sending huge 
plumes of black smoke into 
the night sky. The assault 
came after American 
troops killed 64 gunmen 
near the southern city of 
Najaf. 
An American soldier was 
killed Tuesday in Baghdad, 
raising the U.S. death toll 
for April to 115 -the 
same number lost during 
the invasion of Iraq that 
toppled Saddam Hussein 
last year. Up to 1,200 Iraqis 
also have been killed this 
month. 

The second straight night of battles in Fallujah came as the extension of a fragile cease-lire ended in the tur­bulent city west of Baghdad. Marines have been preparing to begin dropped white leaflets over ahead of June 30 -the leaders demanded the gov­patrols in the city later this Fallujah before nightfall, date for installation of a ernment receive full sover­week. calling on insurgents to new Iraqi government. eignty. 
Tuesday's battle ap­give up. At the United Nations, Mohsen Abdel-Hamid, a peared far heavier than the "Surrender, you are sur­U.N. envoy to Iraq Lakhdar Sunni Arab on the previous night's clashes, in rounded," the leaflets said. Brahimi briefed the U.N. Governing Council, said the which a Marine and eight "If you are a terrorist, Security Council on plans prospect of the United insurgents were killed -beware, because your last for a caretaker government States retaining some sov­suggesting U.S. forces were day was yesterday. In order that would take over from ereignty is "not acceptable, trying to wear down gun­to spare your life end your the U.S.-picked Governing this is totally rejected." men in the Jolan neighbor­actions and surrender to Council. He also warned If the Americans do not hood, a district of narrow coalition forces now. We that there would be a "very respect agreements on giv­alleyways and ramshackle are coming to arrest you." bloody confrontation" ing complete sovereignty, houses. Fighting also broke out in unless an agreement was "then the Iraqi people 
An AC-130, a powerful Baghdad and in the south, reached to end fighting in know what route to take," gunship that can unleash a where U.S. forces are in a Fallujah. he said. deluge of ordnance, joined standoff with militiamen John Negroponte, who Two nights of battles in 105mm howitzers in open­loyal to radical Shiite cleric has been nominated as U.S. Fallujah have strained U.S. ing up on insurgent targets Muqtada al-Sadr, who is ambassador to Iraq, attempts to find a political in the neighborhood. wanted on murder charges acknowledged Tuesday way out of the siege of the Gunfire and explosions for allegedly killing a fellow that the caretaker govern­city, avoiding a resumption reverberated for nearly cleric. ment would have limited of the full-fledged fighting two hours, and an eerie U.S. forces killed 64 powers because the Iraqi that killed hundreds of orange glow shone over the Iraqis on Monday and security forces were not yet Iraqis in early April. At area while showers of Tuesday in battles with strong enough. The United least eight Marines have sparks descended like fire­militiamen outside the States would keep control died in the fighting. works. Shiite holy city of Najaf, of security forces, and the Defense Secretary Donald 
Fires were visible in the Brig. Gen. Mark Kimmitt new government may not Rumsfeld told reporters at Jolan neighborhood, and said. have the authority to pass the Pentagon on Tuesday mosque loudspeakers else­The United States is try­laws, he told a Senate that continuing negotia­where in the city called for ing to avoid a resurgence panel in Washing-ton. tions in Fallujah was firefighters. U.S. aircraft of the intense fighting Several U .S.-allied Iraqi "worth the try." 

THAILAND 

Scores die as cops battle militants 
the south where almost daily attacks Muslims there have long complained 
Associated Press 
by gunmen have left nearly 150 peo­of discrimination in jobs and educa­
BANGKOK -Suspected Islamic ple dead this year. tion. militants clashed with police in Most of the casualties appear to They also say their culture and Thailand Wednesday, leaving at least have happened in Yala province. language are being subjugated by 70 people dead in the heaviest fight­Pattani police chief Maj. Gen. the Buddhist Thais. and cite as an ing yet in the troubled Muslim-domi­Paitoon Pattanasophon told The example the state schools, which nated south, officials said. Associated Press by telephone that teach in Thai language. Muslims in 
The clashes erupted after militants clashes took place in at least five the south speak Yawi, a dialect of launched simultaneous attacks on places in Pattani province. The fight­Malay, spoken in the neighboring police bases and checkpoints in sev­ing raged for more than three hours Malaysia. eral districts of Yala and Pattani after the first shooting began at 5 The central government policies provinces, said Yala Gov. Boonyasit a.m. have been the source of a decades Suwanarat. One gunbattle was fought around a old separatist struggle, which sub­
He told reporters that most of the mosque in Kruesei district of Pattani sided after an amnesty in the late dead were young men attempting to where the militants were holed up, 1980s, but exploded again this year rob weapons from police and army he said. with the Jan. 4 raid on an army arse­bases. At least three policemen and Pattani, Yala and Narathiwat are nal and the torching of 21 schools. one soldier were also killed. the only Muslim majority provinces Four soldiers were killed in the arse­
It was the worst fighting so far in in predominantly Buddhist Thailand. nal attack. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Soldier sibs won't return to Iraq 
MADISON, Wis. -'1\vo soldiers whose sis­ter was killed in a Baghdad ambush have decided against returning to Iraq. heeding pleas of their parents, the military and Gov. Jim Doyle. 
Haehel and Charity Witmer chose instead to ask for noncombat jobs outside Iraq. 
The soldiers said Tuesday they were swayed by Maj. G~n. AI Wilkening's request they remain stateside. lie feared that if they went back, the increased attention on their units might put their fellow soldiers at risk. 
"This we will not do," the sisters said in a statement read by a family friend. 

12-year-old charged with murder 
CAHHOLLTON, Ga. -An 8-year-old girl disappeared while riding her bike to visit a friend. and was found strangled hours later. On Tuesday, a 12-year-old boy was charged with murder. 
The charge came almost 24 hours after 8­year-old Amy Michelle Yates vanished from the small trailer park. 
Carroll County Sheriff Terry Langley said preliminary autopsy results indicated the girl was strangled by hand. He said investigators believe the boy acted alone. 
"This investigation is continuing, and there still is a great deal of work to be done," Langley told the Times-Georgian. 
STATE NEWS 
Massive antique sale scheduled 
PENDLETON -A collection of rummage and antique sales that could draw thousands of people is planned for this weekend along an about 30-mile stretch of Indiana 38. 
The Indiana 38 Hoad Sale is planned for Friday and Saturday. from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Organizers said vendor booths could be set up in front yards, fields, church properties and storefronts from Noblesville to New Castle. 
As word of the sale spreads, organizers have town and Madison County police to pre­pare for as many as 5,000 shoppers. 
Three Pendleton shop owners said they were inspired to ereate a smaller version of the world's longest yard sale-the 450-mile Highway 127 Corridor Sale that snakes from Kentucky to Alabama. 
Wednesday, April 28, 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
E.ehnm~ 1998 

Eldred enies The Alliance, a student group for lesbiarl, bisexual ana questioning women, club status. Students protest the refusal the next day. 
swember 20Ql C IL opens w1th a 
$12-milfion grant. March2000 Master plan building begins . 
1997-2002with officials breaking ground 
Eldred visits every Saint Mary's alumnae 
on Dallow s Coffeehouse. 
club in her first five 
MIKE HARKJNS/Observer Graphic 
grant from the Lilly Endowment. Notre Dame and Holy Cross. Mooney coming in. ed. In 2000, Eldred helped devel­Eldred publicly announced her "If I were to give her [Mooney] "She takes the time to talk to

Eldr·ed 

op the College's Master Plan, retirement in March 2003, but some advice, it would be to lis­students in the hall and always which calls for many changes to was asked to stay on until a suc­ten when you first come in to has a welcoming attitude,"
continued from page 1 

the campus in attempt to fit stu­cessor was named. Vice presi­what everyone has to say," Mahoney said. "She exudes the 
dents' ever changing needs. dent and associate provost of Eldred said. "But don't respond mission of Saint Mary's wherev­1997 after 18 years at the Ground-breaking for Dalloway's Notre Dame Carol Mooney was to all that advice. Also, take the er she goes and can articu1ate it College of St. Catherine in St. coffee house and the WelCome chosen Dec. 26. She will begin time to set your quickly and Paul, Minn., where she served in Center took place in spring her tenure as president June 1. priorities and to concisely. We a variety of administrative roles. 2000. In April 2002, construc­Though Eldred has enjoyed learn the culture "If I were to give her want to thank Eldred became the lOth presi­tion began on the new Noble her time at Saint Mary's, she is of the College. It Dr. Eldred for
[Mooney] some advice,

dent of Saint Family Dining ready for change, she said. truly is a won­her commit­Mary's and was Hall. "My husband Don and I are derful place to it would be to listen ment to,each the first lay-Last summer, going to move back to St. Paul, be." when you first come in Saint Mary's woman to hold groundbreak­where I am going to take some Sara Mahoney, student and
"She [Eldred] exudes the to what everyone has to
the position. ing took place time off," Eldred said. "And student trustee wish her the Since becoming mission ofSaint Mary's for the first then, I hope to get involved with in 2003-04, say. But don't respond best in her president, phase of an on­some volunteer work." believes Eldred to all that advice. " retirement."
wherever she goes and
Eldred has campus stu­Over the course of seven did an outstand­From her 
can articulate it quickly
worked to dent apartment years, Eldred has made and will ing job during final weeks as
Marllou Eldred

maintain the and concisely." complex that take many memorable moments her time at Saint president, institution's will be occu­with her. Mary's. Saint Mary's president Eldred will position as the pied by seniors "Some of my fondest memo­"Dr. Eldred take with her a
Sara Mahoney 
nation's pre­in the fall. ries from campus are generally leaves an range of
student trustee
mier Catholic Future plans all of my interactions with stu­extraordinary legacy to Saint accomplishments and memo­women's col-call for the dents," Eldred said. "Other Mary's," Mahoney said. "She ries. lege. construction of highlights for me include learn­has been the catalyst of the "This is truly an amazing and 
During her a second phase ing about faculty accomplish­Master Plan as well as the wonderful place," Eldred said. "I time at Saint Mary's, Eldred of the apartments and a state of ments, seeing the strong intel­Strategic Plan. Her vision of hope that I've made it a better instituted m<my positive changes the art academic building. lectual life that characterizes where Saint Mary's can be in place." for the future. She was particu­Through Eldred's leadership, Saint Mary's and meeting so the future is inspiring to all of us larly instru:nental in creating she has revitalized the relation­many of the wonderful alumnae here at Saint Mary's." the Center for Women's ship between the College and from here." Mahoney said it was her pres­Intercultural Leadership in the South Bend community, as Although it is hard to leave, ence around campus that stu­Contact Angela Saoud at 2001, the re:mlt of a $12 million well as strengthening ties with Eldred said she is excited about dents recognized and appreciat-saou0303@saintmacys.edu 

The implementation ofthe College's 10­year Master Plan included significant construction developments and was one of the chiefaccomplishments ofPresident Marilou Eldred's tenure. At right, plans for a new Welcome Center and Dalloway's Coffee House, and, at left, the construction ofthe Noble Family Dining Hall.  FL.OORIN6 DETAIL. -------­ 
NO~TH E::!..f:VATfON  

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
page 7 
MUTUAL FUNDSMARKET RECAP FAST FooD 

Stocks 

McDonald's earnings
Janus, two states
Dow 
10,478.16 +33.43 
surge 56 percent in Ql
Jones 



settle for $225M
• Same: ~ Composite Volume: 1,841 172 "T 1,517,615,616 
Golden Arches glow despite CEO's death 
SEC probes market timing scandal
AMEX 1,251.53 +5.28 
NASDAQ 2,032.53 -4.24 
Associated Press 

NYSE 6,612.70 +15.00 S&PSOO 1,138.15 +2.62 
DENVEH Janus Capital Group struck a
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 12,044.88 0.00 
$225 million agreement
mE IOO(London) 4,575.70 +3.90 
with regulators Tuesday to 
settle claims of improper 
trading practices, the latest 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO-McDonald's Corp. posted a 56 percent increase in first-quarter earnings Tuesday, extend­ing an impressive year­long comeback for a com­pany that was jolted last week by the sudden death of its CEO. 
Chief executive Jim Cantalupo, who died of a heart attack while in Florida for a McDonald's convention, was replaced by the fast-food chain's 43-year-old president and chief operating officer, Charlie Bell. 
Bell paid tribute to Cantalupo in a news release accompanying McDonald's quarterly earnings report as "an incredibly inspiring and passionate leader" and said he is committed to strengthening McDonald's and "continuing the momentum that began under Jim's leadership." 
Net in~.:ome for the first three months of the year was $511.5 million, or 40 cents per share, com­pared with $327.4 mil­lion, or 26 cents per share, for the same peri­od a year ago. That matched the consensus estimate of analysts sur­veyed by Thomson First Call. 
Hevenue was $4.4 bil­lion, up 16 percent from $3.8 billion a year earlier. 
After suffering from weak results for the pre­vious two years, Mc­Donald's has bounced back to report higher comparative sales from its 

U.S. restaurants in each of the last 12 months. Sales have risen sharply with help from new prod­ucts, such as salads and McGriddles breakfast sandwiches, later hours and a Cantalupo-Ied focus on food and service quali­ty over expansion and capital spending. 
The leading burger chain also has profited from a slump at No. 2 Burger King and a rebound in the restaurant industry as a whole. 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.07 CONEXANT SYS (CNXT) -14.04 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.99 CISCO SYmMS (CSCO) -0.86 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) -3.36 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.25 10-YEAR NOTE -0.65 5-YEARNOTE -1.24 3-MONTH BILL +2.01 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($!Troy OL) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
Excha Rates 

to prevent future problems, 
Attorney General Ken Salazar said. 
YEN 109.6 
EURO 0.8387 
"What we want mutual 
POUND 0.5581 
fund companies to do is make sure they are treat­
CANADIAN$ 1.352 
ing all investors fairly," he said. Hegulators accused Janus of entering into
IN BRIEF 
agreements with select investors that permitted
Job growth boosts confidence 
them to engage in improp­COLLEGE PAHK. Md. -Lockheed Martin 
er, frequent short-term Corp. rode higher military aircraft sales past 
trading while diluting the Wall Street expectations Tuesday, posting a 16 
returns of other sharehold­percent increase in earnings and raising its 
ers. outlook for the year. 
The agreement was The nation's largest defense contractor 
reached in principle with reported earnings of $291 million, or 65 cents 
regulators in Colorado and per share, for the first three months of 2004, 
New York pending final up from $250 million, or 55 cents per share, a 
approval of the Securities year ago. 
and Exchange Commission. That easily beat the consensus expectation 
An SEC representative of 53 cents a share by financial analysts sur­
declined comment. veyed by Thomson First Call. 
Janus said it will take a deal to emerge from the
-0.02 27.22 
scandal sweeping the $7 
-0.81 4.96 
trillion mutual funds indus­try.
-0.27 26.88 
Janus will pay $100 mil­
-0.20 22.94 
lion to investors-$50 mil­
lion in restitution and $50 million in civil penalties ­and reduce the fees it 
-0.12 3.45 
-0.13 52.10 
charges investors by $125 million over five years.
-0.29 44.04 
The Denver-based com­
-0.44 35.07 
pany will pay an additional $1.2 million to the Colorado attorney general's office for investor educa­
+0.19 9.62 
+0.56 37.53 
tion, future enforcement and attorney's fees. It also
+2.50 399.10 
will institute measures to 
+ 1.225 I 07.80 
create more accountability $59 million charge in the first quarter related to the settlement. 
"This is a huge step for­ward for the firm. We know we still have the two priorities -restoring com­plete trust and confidence in Janus and delivering performance for our investors and we're confi­dent we can do that," Janus spokeswoman Shelley Peterson said. 
The industry scandal has resulted in criminal charges, subpoenas and scrutiny of dozens of fund companies. Other compa­nies have agreed to settle­ments ranging from $40 million to $675 million. 
Janus was under investi­gation for market timing ­a type of rapid, in-and-out trading that can skim prof­its from long-term fund shareholders. The practice is legal, but Janus policies discouraged it. 
Hegulators say compa­nies that officially forbade the practice but made exceptions for certain clients are guilty of fraud. 
Janus has acknowledged 10 market timing arrange­ments, all of which have been ended, and had said it will return to sharehold­ers $31.5 million gained from market timing trad­ing. 
The industry scandal came to light in September when New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer accused Canary Capital Partners, a multimillion­dollar hedge fund, of securing special trading privileges at several big­name mutual fund compa­nies, including Janus. 

Verizon Q I earnings fall by half NEW YOHK -Verizon Communications 
FACULTY 

Inc.'s earnings fell 50 percent in the first quar­ter, as employee buyouts increased expenses for the country's largest phone company. 
Verizon said Tuesday it earned $1.2 billion, 

Veteran accounting prof to retire 
or 43 cents ·a share, for the January-March 
period, down from $2.4 billion, or 87 cents a share, a year ago. 
One-time expenses cost 15 cents a share, most of which went toward early retirement packages for some of the 21,000 employees who left the company's payroll in the fourth quarter of 2003 as part of the company's vol­untary buyout program. 
US Air posts $177M loss for QI 
AHI.INGTON, Va. -US Airways Group Inc. lost $177 million in the first three months of 2004 despite an 11 percent increase in rev­enue over the year-ago quarter, and the air­line's n11w president again warned of the need to cut costs to survive. 
The $3.28-per-share loss compares with a profit of $1.64 billion, or $24.02 per share, in the first quarter of 2003. But the year ago profit was merely a paper tiger associated with the company's emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in March of that year. 
The company's operating loss of $143 mil­lion in the first three months of this year is a 31 percent improvement over the $207 million op11rating loss in the year-ago quarter. 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
Senior Business Writer 

After a 15-year career as an accounting profes­
sor in the Mendoza College of Business, Dan Simon will step down from teaching after this semester. 
Simon said he jumped at the opportunity to teach at Notre 


Dame's  business  Simon  
school, then known  
as  the  College  of  Business  
Administration.  

"I always wanted to come to Ngtre Dame," Simon said. "I finally got to in the late 80s." 
After receiving degrees from Indiana, Purdue and Northwestern, Simon became a certified public accountant. then taught in the IU sys­tem. 
During his time in the college, Simon taught the gamut of accounting class­es, from introductory courses to sen­ior-level auditing. 
Simon had nothing but praise for the University. 
"I can't think of anything I dislike about Notre Dame -everything's been great," he said. 
"I like the students, I like the support we have for research here, and of course everyone likes the campus." 
Despite his departure from the class­room, Simon is not leaving Notre Dame altogether. Since last year, he has been working on a scholarly paper, with fellow accountancy profes­sors Margaret Shackell-Dowell and Tom Stobe, entitled "He-Audits of Prior Years Financial Statements of Former Authur Andersen Clients." 
Simon said the paper will aim to quantify companies' loss in confidence of Arthur Andersen LLP, the former accounting powerhouse. 
"It should be interesting to see how some of the firms have the new audi­tor go back and redo some of Andersen's previous work," Simon said. 
Some audit firms have been wary when accepting former Andersen clients. for fear that the new auditors might be held liable for old Andersen errors. 
Most of Simon's research has focused on audit fees and the market for audit services in various countries, including Nigeria, South Korea and Ireland. 
Simon said he hopes his continued research will allow him to maintain ties with Notre Dame. 
"That's probably the most important thing I'm going to be doing, still con­nected with Notre Dame," Simon said. ''I'm not completely gone yet." 
In addition to his research, Simon said his retirement will allow him to spend more time with his family and play bridge. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

continued from page 1 
"The curr,mt amount grant­ed to CPC is simply just not enough to bring good concerts and speakers to campus," said Lao. "We determined that 50,000 dollars was a safe amount that could be used endowment and focused specifically on concerts and speakers each year." 
The endowment would potentially be supplemented by revenue from market returns, prl)fits from any of the concertE CPC and contin­ued donatior s, Lao said. 
Though Lao said "all of the bases are covered,'' themselves flawed. 

Lao said he will ask the Board of Trustees to have the Office of Provost make this issue a priority, but will not come out directly in favor of their publication. 
"Judging from faculty reac­tion, it's pretty evident that they don't want TCEs pub­lished, so asking the provost's office to do so just wouldn't be respectful," Lao said. "I want to see the provost's office address faculty concerns so we can work towards the publica­tion." 
Lao and Chin have been working on the report since the beginning of the semester, after they previewed a portion 
"Judging from faculty 
he still ha5 concern> reaction, it's pretty evident about th'~ 
that they don't want TCEs
perceived 

published, so asking the 
feasibility of 

the proposal. provost's office to do so just "The big· 
wouldn't be respectful. " 
gest chal· lenge when we ask for Jeremy Lao this money i:; former student body president 
that th1~ Universitv has a! re adJ• approved E. 10-year plan," Lao said. "Basically, we're asking to become a priority, and to sec]Jre the funds through a capital carr paign with the development office." 
The presentation will also address the issue of TCEs. after the Faculty Senate recently came out strongly against their publication, as they found the TCE forms 
Sally Accumanno Meghan Barnes Jonathon Becher Mark Bellantoni Michael Bergeron Jeff Borman Michael Burkholder Elizabeth Cain Jordan Carrell Jennifer Carter Dan Chervanick Nick Chimerakis Patrick Corker Karen Daniels Anthony DeVito Stephanie Didier Patrick Dillon Jennifer Dobosh Patrick Donlin Caitlin English Christina Espino Matt Fantazier Michael Flanagan Dominic Gabbianelli Michelle Gallagher Paula Garcia 
of its content at the fall Board of Trustees meeting. 
"The Trust­ees seemed receptive to the endow­ment when we included it [in the winter meeting]. so it basically comes down to having a good presen­tation and proposal," 

Lao said. "Emily and I saw [TCEs and the ·student pro­gramming endowment] as the two most important issues at the time, so that's what we're going to deal with." 
Lao declined to provide an advance copy of the proposal to The Observer. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Juniper 
continued from page 1 
Edison and Douglas, along with modifying access roads on cam­pus. 
University officials will present the plan to the St. Joseph County Council at their meeting on May 11 and the council could vote on it as early as their June 8" meet­ing. 
Under the plan, Edison Road would be moved south and run through the current tailgating lots from Notre Dame Avenue to Ivy Road. The new road would begin off Edison west of Ivy Road and curve to occupy the space where Ivy Road currently runs between Vaness Street and Dunn Road. It would then curve west, intersecting Bulla Road at a stoplight and running behind the Fischer Graduate Apartments, meeting Douglas Road at a traffic roundabout. Traffic on both directions on Douglas Road, in addition to traffic on the new road, would intersect at the roundabout. 
Marsh said that studies show that traffic roundabouts are 40 percent more efficient than a regular signalized intersection and "a million times faster" than the flashing light that currently directs traffic at the intersection of Ivy and Douglas Roads. However, the idea of a round­about was not popular with some residents, including Cesar Aquino, who questioned how well South Bend residents would be able to negotiate it even though the concept is succ.essful in Europe and the East Coast. 
Douglas Road would be expanded to four lanes between the roundabout and the current Old Juniper Road by the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. which would have a traffic sig­nal and connect with Juniper north of campus. 

A number of changes would take place on local roads, including' Ivy and Bulla Road. One segment of the current Ivy Road would run from Douglas Road to a cul-de-sac near Dunn Road. Another segment of Ivy Road would run from an alley south of Vanness Street to a cul­de-sac that would back to Edison Road. Traffic moving west on Bulla Road from Ironwood would dead-end near the current Ivy Road and would not connect to the new road. 
With the exception of Vanness Street, no local roads would connect to the new road, which could handle a 40 mph speed limit. At Vanness Street, where students currently cross Ivy Road to access campus from apartment complexes such as Turtle Creek, crosswalks would be put in place and there would be a landscaped median between both directions of traf­fic to aid pedestrians in crossing. 
Even with the median and crosswalks, residents like John Norton, who lives north of cam­pus on Juniper, were concerned about having students cross a four-lane road. 
"It's going to be a hassle for students," he said. "They'll be darting through traffic.... They've got designated cross­walks but they don't necessarily use them."· 
The plan would also involve building new roads on the cam­pus. Eddy Street. which current­ly ends at Edison, will be opened through campus. passing between the Stadium and DeBartolo, allowing public 
Joseph Gartner Andrew levy 
Federico Garza Bryan Long 
William Georgia Michael lund Vito Giovingo Matt lutz Jill Godbout Brian MacKinnon Kirk Gomsak Kara McClain Julie Gulyas Jamie McEldowney Andrew Gust Michael McGivney 
Christopher Hale Mary McGonigle Gregory Harriman Melissa McWilliams Eric Hedin Zitlalih Molina 
Birgit Heinisch Natalie Morgan Andrew Heinlein Tim Murray Patricia Hinojosa Tiara Nelson 
Christopher Holdener Michael Newell Abby Holtz Ricardo Nieto Katie House lauren O'Brien Patricia Hu David Olson 
Michael Iselin Joshiekka Outlaw Brian James Rebecca Palka Kelly Kaltenbacher John Penilla Joseph Kanaval Matthew Piggott Kenneth Kosman Brian Redmond Elizabeth Kuck Amy Reiff Kathryn Landsberg Megan Ryan Brent lawton Matthew Sarbanis 
Copyright (9 2004 Deloitte Development LLC. All rights reserved. 
access to these buildings, in addition to the Snite Museum and the new Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The access road will loop around the back of the Joyce Center and through the C1 lot, which will be redesigned to add more landscaping and safer access for pedestrians. Cars will be able to access the 82 and D2 parking lots on the northeast end of campus three ways: by entering Bulla Road via the new four-lane road, by using Leahy Drive from a new connection to Douglas Road or by driving on an access road in front of .Stepan Center to a new light at St. Joseph Drive and Douglas Road. 
Community response to the proposal was mixed. Many resi­dents are still opposed to the closure of Juniper Hoad, but are appreciative of the efforts the University has made to include community input in the propos­al. 
"I think you guys did a great job," Aquino said. "Unfortunately there is an isola­tionist attitude of Notre Dame that I hope over time changes ... [but] this a good proposal. This is inconveniencing 10,000 peo­ple, but it is only moving them 500 feet to the east." 
And many residents had been expecting the University to request the road to be closed for years. 
"It's been a long time coming," Norton said. "You could see it coming ... you've got more aca­demic buildings going across [Juniper]. They're going to have to close it, there's no two ways about it." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 



Deloitte. 
l>eloitte congratulates the University of Notre Dame Class of 2004 and welcomes the newest Associates, Interns and Leadership Students to our team! 

Anthony Schlachter Josh Schmidt Derek Schmitt Jared Schreff Kevin Schumm Colin Shanahan Kathy Singer Anuj Singhal Daniel Sirken Mark Smeraglinolo Monica Smith Tim Stawicki Brian Stefanski Ted Stransky Shelby Strong Kimberly Talianko James Terilli Heather Van Hoegarden Michael Viola RajivVohra Tara Weiler Brendan Welteroth Elizabeth Young Daniel Zychinski 
I 
I , I 

Wednesday, April 28, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Mooney 
continued from page 1 
an assistant dean from 1988 to 1991, and associate dean from 1992 to 1993. 
A 1972 graduate of Saint Mary's, Mooney is looking for­ward to a return to her alma mater. Mooney said she believes her Saint Mary's background will help make for a smooth transition. 
"[Having attended Saint Mary's! I think will certainly help in my transition," said Mooney. "The experiences I had at Saint Mary's engen­dered my love for the institu­tion. but it's important to remember, lthatl like every­thing else, Saint Mary's has 
changed. It~ been 32 years since r graduated, and it's important for me to remem­ber that things are different now." 
While Mooney plans to con­tinue on with the efforts of the Saint Mary's Master Plan and the Strategic Plan Eldred started, her plans for the campus are much broader. 
"My goal is to focus on the academic excellence of the institution," said Mooney. 
But for now, Mooney is mak­ing the most of her last month at Notre Dame, before answering to a different call. 
''I'm looking forward to meeting everyone next fall, and getting to know all the students," Mooney said. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

Pollution regulations leave farmers stumped 
Associated Press 
FHESNO, Calif. Thousands of confused California growers have failed to comply with new state regulations monitoring water pollution from farms. 
Hegulators, however, are unsure of how to enforce the rules, which environmental­ists consider too lax and are challenging them in court. 
Between 25,000 and 80,000 growers who have irrigation water or stormwatcr running off their lands had until April 1 to report what they grow, 
what pesticides or fertilizers they use and how they will test canals and creeks that eventually empty into the Central Valley's rivers. 
Until this year, farms enjoyed a blanket exemption from California's water qual­ity law, which requires busi­nesses and cities to apply for permits to discharge runoff and submit plans to reduce pollution. The State Water Resources Control Board made the exemption condi­tional under pressure from environmental groups. 
INDONESIA 
Religious conflict rages on 
Deadly Muslim-Christian violence leaves a bloody wake 
AMBON -Snipers spread terror across this provincial capital Tuesday in a third day of bloodshed that intensified fears the region could plunge back into a Muslim-Christian war that killed 9,000 people three years ago. 
Gunmen killed two paramili­tary police officers and critical­ly wounded a third and a Muslim man later was inciner­ated by a bomb explosion, bringing the death toll since Sunday to 24. 
The violence underscored the fragility of Malukus province, known as the Spice Islands during Dutch colonial rule and once held up as a model of religious harmony. Communal tensions worsened in recent decades with an influx of Muslims from else­where in Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation. 
Coming in a region where Islamic extremists have been trying to drum up support, the new bloodshed is a further complication for Indonesians heading into a presidential election in July. Six years after protests ended the dictatorship of Gen. Suharto, the main elec­tion issue has been stability in this sprawling nation of 210 million people. 
Community leaders in Ambon urged calm, hoping to head off a resumption of the 1999-2001 war. 
'Tm telling Christians to stay indoors and don't be pro­voked," Ambon's Roman Catholic bishop, Petur Canis Mandagi, told The Associated Press after talks with Muslim leaders and security chiefs at police headquarters. "The con­flict can be stopped, but we must be quick." 
Shortly after dawn Wednesday, several loud explo­sions and sporadic gunfire could be heard in a Christian part of the city. It was not clear whether there were any casu­alties. 
Muslim men armed with machetes and sharpened sticks gathered outside the main mosque, chanting "God is great" and calling for holy war against Christian separatists. Mobs put up barricades between the Muslim and Christian parts of Ambon, which is spread across wooded hillsides overlooking a sparkling blue bay. 
"We are defending our area," said one man at a checkpoint. "If we are attacked we will respond in kind." 
The U.S. State Department advised Americans to leave Ambon or put off travel to the region. 
The latest round of violence erupted Sunday after several members of the region's small, largely Christian, separatist movement rallied in the city center. Muslims, who view such public djsplays as a provocation, assaulted the demonstrators, touching off sectarian clashes in the city. 
Islamic radicals have been trying to whip up Muslim fer­vor in the Malukus in reaction to the global war on terrorist groups. 
The earlier conflict here gal­vanized militant Muslims across Indonesia, and it also attracted Islamic lighters from around Southeast Asia and from the Middle East. 
Many members of Jcmaah Islamiyah, an al-Qaida-linked extremist group blamed for a series of deadly bombings in Indonesia, have told authori­ties that they fought in the con­flict. 
There have been reports of a rift within Jemaah Islamiyah between militants who want to target Westerners and those who wish to limit their holy war to fighting Indonesian Christians in regions like the Malukus. 
Many politicians and diplo­mats said the 1999-2001 light­ing in Malukus was encour­aged by hardline military com­manders loyal to Suharto who wanted to destabilize the administrations that followed his ouster. 

Com€ and hear LINDA SCHAEFER.speak about her experit:mces with MOTHER TERF..!~A 


HOLY CROSS COLLEGE Friday, May 7, 2004 The public is invited to a first-hand account ofLinda Schaefer, photojournalist and author 
ofthe exciting and beautifully illustrated book, 
"Co1ne and See: A Photojournalist's Journey into the World ofMother Teresa" 
Book Signing-6:00p.m. in Vincent Hall Atrium LectureNideo Presentation -7:00 in Driscoll Auditoriun1, featuring the CJ!Ithor's: 
-Description ofher first meeting with Mother Teresa in Atlanta in June, 1995 · -Volunteer experiences at the orphanage and leper colony -Journey as a photographer into Mother Teresa's world -Trip to Rome, Italy for the beatification ofMother Teresa 

Re(reshntents and book sale/signing-in Vincent Hall Atrium, following the progra111 

------~~-­
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 

page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 


Son s~eeks credit for father's famous photo 
Associated Press 
PEARL HARBOR, Hawaii ­When the air alert sounded aboard the USS Missouri that day in 1945 off Okinawa, one of the battleship's cooks raced to a brid1~e armed not with a gun, bt.t a 161 mm camera. 
From his pel'ch some 70 feet above the .:tction on the main deck, Baker 2nd Class Harold "Buster" Campbell captured the fierce air battle, snapping away as a single Japanese kamikaze pilot pen­etrated the shir 's formidable anti-aircraft fire. 
"He kept coming through the greatest ack ack I've ever seen," reads Campbell's jour­nal entry of that day, April 11, 1945. "He then came direct at the ship and hit us on the starboard quarter on the main deck, burst into flames. I was shaking but felt relieved after he hit." 
The entry continues: "I took a beautiful shot of him as he hit ... " 
But did he? 

The image of the A6M Zero kamikaze taken at the moment of impact has become one of the most rec­ognized photc•s from the Battle of Okinawa. It is fea­tured prominently in books, souvenirs and aboard the decommissioned Missouri, now anchored off Ford Island as a museum and memorial. 
The photo is credited to another man, ~he late Len Schmidt, one of the Missouri's offici a! photogra­phers who also !;hot the April 11 battle and the kamikaze's collision. 
But Navy historians say photos weren't credited to individual photographers until 1973. Schmidt has been given credit sine e then based on his body of work and first­hand account of the attack, said Mike Weidenbach, cura­tor for the USS Missouri Memorial Association. 
It wasn't until last year, when Campbell'!; son saw the photograph in a souvenir book his daughter brought back from a Hawaii vacation, that Missouri hi!;torians were alerted to the possible dis­crepancy. 
Dan Campbell, a 52-year­old government worker from Baltimore, contacted Weidenbach about his father's story. If the curator wanted more proof, the son had his late father's entire collection of Missouri memo­rabilia-a small suitcase full -that he wanted to donate. 
The collection included his father's handwritten journal, a letter opener made from the kamikaze debris and more than 200 pictures. Dan Campbell scanned some of the photos and sent them to Weidenbach on a CD. 
Now, with the complete col­lection in hand, Weidenbach has seen enough to believe the son's claim is credible. 
"We saw there was photo­graphs of the kamikaze attack that we had never seen before," Weidenbach said. 
Using the photos, Missouri historians matched features and sight lines to pinpoint the exact spot from where the photo was taken: a bridge eight levels above the main deck. 
"We went back to Lennie Schmidt's description of where he was," Weidenbach said. "He tells it himself that he's below that level. He couldn't have taken this pic­ture from the perspective he says he was at. All the pieces just started to fall in place." 
Weidenbach, who's still cat­aloging and preserving the collection, said the next step is to convince the Naval Historical Center of who deserves the credit. 
Officials at the Washington­based center said Friday they were unaware of the Campbell collection and the possibility that the photo was miscredited. 
Spokesman Jack Green, who also was the center's photo curator for six years, said the claim sounds like something that would be "very, very difficult to vali­date." 
If the center receives more information and documenta­tion, its photographic section could study the matter and issue an opinion on who should get credit, Green said. 
"But that cannot be a definitive thing," he said. ''I'm not saying the fellow is wrong, but this would be something that would be dif­ficult, if not impossible, to prove." 

12-year-old arrested for murder 
gators to the boy, whose name
Associated Press 
was withheld because he is a 
CARROLLTON, Ga. -Police juvenile. He was being held in say a 12-year-old boy used his the Paulding County Youth hands to stran-Detention Center gle a third-grad-in Dallas, Ga. er who disap-Many of Amy's peared while neighbors helped
"It's so thick back 
riding her bicy­her parents 
cle to a nearby there. It's hard to search the area friend's house. find anybody." late Monday after Amy Michelle they learned she Yates, 8, was never arrived at
Bill Vallandingham 
found dead her friend's home. Monday night, neighbor Her body was hours after she found in tall went missing. weeds about 100 Tuesday after-feet outside the noon, the boy was arrested 1\vin Oaks Mobile Home Park, and charged with murder. which next to low dense 
· Carroll County Sheriff Terry woods. Her bike was found Langley and Chief Deputy between two abandoned trail­Sheriff Brad Robinson would ers within view of her home. not disclose what led investi-Children in the trailer park 

NOTRE DAME  Better Ingredients. Better Pizza.  STMARY'S  
271·1177  HOLY CROSS  
..  271~7272  

Good Luck During Finals! 
Cheese Lovers 
One Large Cheese and Cheese Sticks 
$13.. 99 

Coupon required. stlmJr: Expires 30 days •• 
------------· 

------------.. 
Late Night Special I I One Large I I One Topping I 
I

$7.22 I 
I 

Coupon required. I 
After IOprn ~--: 



------------· 


UmitedTime! 
MISHAWAKA  SOUTH BEND  
514 W. McKinley  117 North Main  
Corner McKinley & Grape  1 blk. south of Colfax  
574.252.5820  574.288.9450  
4615 Miami Road  
Miami & Ireland  
574.299.2860  

'Airtime offer valid m two-year cmsumer service agreements of $39.fli and higher. Promotimal rfione subject to change. f'nme pricing includes a$30 mail-in rebate. Custaner is respoosible fDf all sales taxes. Reduced access fee valid fDf first 3months of24-month Service Agreement Free Incoming Minutes available in local calling area mly Night and weekend minutes are valid M-F 9rm to 5:59am and all day Saturday and Sunday. Night and weekood m1nutes are available 1n local calling area only. Option of 3000 Nights and Weekend Minutes. wrth a 7 [Ill start time. is ONLY good on the pmnotronal rate plan of $39.95 f!Y 1000 minutes. Roaming charges. fees. surcharges and taxes may apply. Activatim fee $30 All serv· ice agreements subject to an early termrnation fee Other restrictims may apply. See store for details. limrted trme offer. 
Brain Food: 

·-----------­
I  
:  Two Extra large  
I 1  TwoToppings  
:  $17.99  

:coupon required. :Expires 30 days •• 
.. ____________ .. 
r------·-----­

I I $2.00
I I OffAny Large
I I or $3.00
I 

1 I OffAny Extra Large 
1Coupon required. :-aGUih :Expires 30 days •• 


·------------· 
don't typically play where Amy was found, said Bill Vallandingham, 39, a neighbor who helped with the search. 
"It's so thick back there," he said. "It's hard to find any­body." 
Amy would have turned 9 on May 5. Neighbors described her as a bright, energetic girl who made friends easily. Her classmates at Central Elementary School were hav­ing trouble dealing with her death, said Carroll County Schools spokesman Brian Doss. 
Teachers informed students of her death Tuesda·y morning on a room-by-room basis, and counselors from throughout the school system will be on hand this week to help the children, Doss said. 
·-----------­
I 
1 with any Pizza Purch~se: 
I I 1  Chickenstrips .Breadsncks  $3.99 $2.99  
I  Cheesesticks  $3.99  
I 1 Cirmapie  $3.99  
I  

I coupon reqliired. c:ift"fillli111:::::-._ :Expires 30days .. ~--­
·-----------­
I I Perfect Pizza Pak 
I 
I Three Large I I One Topping 
I I 


$19.22 
I 
1Coupon requir·ed. ~ :Expires 30 days •• 
·-----------­

Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Poll show-s that racial integration tnay itnprove education 
Associated Press 
WA'il IINGTON -Nearly three­fourths of Americans say integra­tion of the nation's schools has improved the quality of education for black students, according to an Associated Press poll that found the view more prevalent among whit1~s than blacks. 
Four in five in the poll, however, oppose transferring students to more distant schools to achieve racial balance. 
The public perception about improved education for black children 
comes at a time "We've definitely 
when black students 
made progress
continue to trail white students in since the late performance on 
1960s, but we're 
tests for reading and 
seeing a lot ofthe
math. 
The federal No progress being Child Left Behind reversed." Act, passed in 2001, 
aimed to close that 
Chungmel Lee 
gap by requiring top teachers in all core civil rights researcher 
classes, higher annual achievement by students in all major groups and other improvements. The law has come under fire from critics. who argue that it requires expen­sivn improvements without sup­plying enough money to pay for them. 
Four in five parents of school­age children prefer schools with black, white and Hispanic stu­dcnL<; over ones with students of the same race or mostly from another race. according to the poll conducted for the AP by Ipsos­Public Affairs. 
"People like the idea of racially mixed schools," said Charles Clotfelter, author of the new book "After Brown" on the historic court decision that desegregated schools. "They don't like the idea of children being bused across town." 
That Supreme Court decision, Brown v. Board of Education, declared 50 years ago next month that "separate but equal" public school segregation was unconsti­tutional. 
By a 2-1 margin, whites said 
public schools are doing a good job of serving all children equally, regardless of race. Blacks were evenly split on that question. 
People have grown more con­vinced over the past three decades that public school 
integration has increased the qual­ity of education for 
both black and white students. 

Almost three-fourths now say integration has improved the quality of education received by black students. Only four in 10 felt that way in a 1971 Gallup poll. 
Three-fourths of whites said in the AP-Ipsos poll that integration has improved the education of black students. and more than half of blacks felt that way. 
llalf said it has improved the quality of education for white stu­dents, while almost that many said it had not. In 1971, about a fourth said integration has improved the quality of education for white students. 
For 21-year-old Lena Pons, a junior at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, the biggest diversity problem in her Maryland high school involved language, not race. 
A third of the students at Albert Einstein High School in Kensington, Md., were Hispanic, which created a language barrier, said Pons. "As far as problems like violence or racial tension," she said, "we didn't experience that." 
She now attends a university with a much smaller minority population and says some white classmates "don't know what they're supposed to do. They com­pensate by being overly politically correct." 
Parents' views on integration often depend on how it affects their families. 
Robert Bivona, the white father of two elementary school children in Richardson, Texas, says attend­ing an integrated school is good for them because "all kinds of races are given the opportunity to learn as much as possible about each other." 
Cheryl Coffman, a black 41­year-old mother of six from Columbus, Ohio, said keeping chil­dren in their neighborhood is a top priority for her because send­ing them to a school far away cuts down on her school involvement. "I don't think it's worth it," she said. 
The level of racial separation in public schools dropped sharply between 1970 and 1990, but researchers say that trend has shifted in the last decade because of court decisions relaxing stan­dards and shifting authority back to school districts. 
"We've defmitely made progress since the late 1960s," said Chungmei Lee, a researcher at the Civil Rights Project at Harvard University. "But we're seeing a lot of the progress being reversed." 
Research has shown that as strict court supervision has waned, the level of integration has receded slightly. 
Schools are doing a better job of treating children equally now, even with the recent decline in desegregation, said Clotfelter, adding: 
"There is reason to see the glass half-full." 
The poll of 1,000 adults was conducted April 16-18 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. 



Beat the price increase! 
The price of the #1 LSAT course will go up $100 on May 1, 2004. 



1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.com; I sat 
Test Prep and Admissions 

*LSAT Is a registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council. 
.,




Do you enjoy ••• 
Writing Athletics Designing graphics 
'\

Photography ,. 
Getting paid? 
Then you should work for us! The Observer is looking for columnists, writers, graphic designers,production staff and photographers for the 2004-05 school year. No experience is needed. Contact Editor-inChief Matt Lazar at 1-4542 if you're interested. 
page 12 Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 

Ho11neless student giv€~n dorm room 
through this," reads an entry
Associated Press 
dated April15. 
NEW YORK -A New York Stanzak, who dubbed himself University soptomore who says "Bobst Boy" on the Web site, he spent eight months sleeping says he washed in the library's in a library basement because bathroom and took occasional he couldn't afford campus showers at friends' apartments housing has btJen moved to a and dorm rooms. free dormitory room, school He said security guards officials said. awakened him about five times 
Steve Stanzak, 20, said he in the library, twice telling him began spending six hours a he couldn't sleep there, other night in the sub-basement of times checking that he was OK Bobst Library at the beginning and was in fact an NYU stu­of the academ c year after he dent. was unable tc• pay a $1,000 "I wasn't afraid of being housing deposit. thrown out of the library," he 
He slept on four library told The New York Times for a chairs and carried vital belong­story in Tuesday's editions. "I ings -a laptop computer, could have slept in the park. books, clothes My worst fear -in his back-was getting pack. He kept kicked out of other items, "I wasn't afraid of NYU. I love this like toiletries school."
being thrown out of
and clothing, Although he
the library. I could 
in storage works four jobs, lockers. have slept in the park. receives a 
University officials dis­covered an  My worst fear was getting kicked out of  $15,000 NYU scholarship and has several stu­ 
online journal  NYU. I love this  dent  loans,  
Stanzak kept about his  school.,  Stanzak said, he received no  
experiences and relocated  Steve Stanzak  financial assis­tance from his  
him to a free  homeless NYU student  divorced parents  
dorm room last week. "Seventy  and had only enough money to cover tuition,  

percent of our !itudents are on about $31,000 a year for full­financial aid," NYU spokesman time undergraduates. Under­John Beckman said Tuesday. "If graduate housing costs any­they have a problem they where from $7,700 to $16,600 choose to com1~ to talk to us per year, depending on the and we find a. way to help room arrangement. them. This person chose a pret­Beckman said federal law ty unique so. ution to his prohibits university officials issues." from discussing a student's 
Scores of students read about financial aid package. Stanzak's daily adventures on In his Web log entry for his Web site, homeless­Tuesday, Stanzak said the room atnyu.com, and he became he was given was in the same something of a campus celebri­dorm he originally was ty. His site wasn't working assigned to at a cost of Tuesday night. $10,980, "which is a huge cry 
"I thank everyone who helps from the meager prices I spend me get through the day, and to stay sane." makes me realize that although Stanzak, a creative writing I'm poor and live in a library ... major, grew up in Waterloo, 
that I'm learning a lot about N.Y., a small town in the Finger life, and that I will make it Lakes region. 

ASIJ!~N SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANT COMPETITION 
The Center for Asian Studies is sponsoring a competition for undergraduates who wish to study an Asian language 1110t currently offered at Notre Dame. At present, th s means that students may not apply to study Mandarin Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, or Hebrew. It is expected that such study will contribute to the student's further education at Notre Dame. In most cases, language classes taken elsewhere will be counted for academic o·edit at I'Jotre Dame. 
The program selected can be either in the United States or a foreign country. The competition is not open to seniors or£ raduate students. 
Application!; are available at http://www.nd.edu/"' or 
from the C€,nter for Asian Studies (323 O'Shaughnessy); 
you may re:juest one by mail by calling 1-0487. 
The deadline is April 28, 2004. 

····~·············· 
Your parents have 
already converted 
your room into a 
wall<-in closet. 
Where will you go after graduation? Fortunately, you have MonsterTRAK to help you land your first job. It's the# I college recruitment solution for students and alumni. Search a wide range ofjob postings, get job hunting tips, check out employer information and more. So you can find the perfect job, and get an apartment with your own walk-in closet. 

monsterTRAK® 
today's the day-

Monster; the Monster logo, and the Trumpasaurus character are trademarks of Monster (California), Inc. 
Have You Seen Clover Ridge Apartments latelvil 

Tel: 514.212.1441 email: clover_r~~ge@ aspensquare.com 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
The Observer+ NEWS page 13 
To my big brother, Aldo Tesi 

TIJe University of Notre Dame's 
Science, Tech.nology & Values Prog.ram 
i.JJ the 

College of Arts & Letters 
l.ii ttl~a.v.ed to tm1WUIU"C the following !,.'rtttluating !itud.(c'nh.for the 
Class of" 2004 
Leah 11. Bertke Natalia A. .MtlZUr L.aurtl A. Chaco1a Set.:rn T. McCarthy Naomi S. Cordell George F. MclJont'lell Angelti I<. Crl1nboli Tamic L. McMullen Duna E. Cullen 1\·tic:/Jael D.. lvlcRry'lt·oltls DaJ'id H. Daniels fJeter D. Miller Pamela Biasbas de loti ltt"yes .Desttl.nie Milo Timutl~y J. l)ttcey Seth W. O'l)onnell Elizabeth A. Fallon lJavid P. Retchless ]onatha·n F. Feczk.o Ritint.t C. Rl1oden Kyle R. Gas.sncr Larlrie E. Ricsbeck .Blake E. Haan Pcrciliz L. 'J'an CtJrrie ll.. Hilliker /tusn R.. 'Willit:01iS R1•cnua R. I<etute~y 
Foreign applicant drop concerns U.S. schools 
Universities ask government to review visa process for international graduate students 
versities in the first place. 
Associated Press 
But administrators insist those 
BOSTON -A steep decline in slots are as important now as graduate school applications ever. from foreign students has uni­"This is one of America's most versity administrators pushing effective forms of diplomacy," the federal government to said Douglas Kincaid, vice reform the visa process. Their provost for international studies argument: The trend eould cost at Florida International 
U.S. schools University in much-needed rev­Miami, where for­
"We don't have
enue and research eign enrollment is help, and make domestic students down 10 percent. America seem iso­to take [foreign "We're edueating lated in the eyes of people who will
students'] place. 
the world. be in inl'luential 
International mostly in fields positions in sci­graduate student like science and ence and industry applications for and government
technology. " 
this fall are down around the 32 percent com­world." pared with a year Stephen Dunnett More than 90 ago, according to vice president for percent of gradu­a recent survey, ate schools
International education, 
and schools are reported their for­
University of Buffalo
extending applica­eign applications tion deadlines so for this fall they don't lose students still declined, according to a survey negotiating U.S. bureaucracy.· of 113 universities last month by 
Meanwhile, in public com­the Council of Graduate Schools. ments and private lobbying, uni­Undergraduate applications versities are urging federal olli­also are down, but not as much, cials to speed up visa applica­likely because fewer undergrad­tions, stressing that America's uates plan to work on sensitive role as a beacon to the world's technologies that require a more students could be in jeopardy. thorough background check. 
Officials from several Feeling the effects are big, California schools and the public universities and elite, pri­
Department of Homeland Security discussed foreign stu­dent matters Tuesday at a gath­ering in San Diego. 
And representatives from a handful of prominent schools, including the presidents of Yale and Princeton, met in New York recently to explore ways to use the influence of their trustees to help make their case. 
Universities acknowledge that the importance of foreign stu­dents is not obvious to the pub­lic, which has security concerns after one of the Sept. 11 hijack­ers entered the country on a stu­dent visa. Some may wonder why foreign students take up 600,000 slots in American uni­vate ones like Harvard. whose president, Lawrence Summers, reported a sharp drop in inter­national applications to each of Harvard's nine schools in a recent letter to federal ollicials. 
Many schools count on foreign students to teach classes and fill labs. 
"We don't have domestic stu­dents to take their place, mostly in fields like science and tech­nology," said Stephen Dunnett. vice president for international education at the University at Buffalo, part of New York's state university system. The school has 3,600 foreign students, with applications down one-third this year. 
TWO MEN ANDA 
TRUCK. 

"M: w·h: c· '' 
.. overs ··.··• · · o . are\~' 
• Residential •Lotal &Long Oislooce 
• (o.mme«:ial • BOX&s &Pocking SuppJiE~s 
• 
Pad:ing Ser;ice "lood1n:g & Unloading of 

• 
W!SUtsd &Booc!ed Rento! Trucks JwaUable 


(57'1) 675-9700 
www.twot~Wncn.dob·v·ck.<om 
Visit Out Box Stotel 
11590 McKinley. SuiteD • Osc:eolo. IN 46561 

-------·-------····---~----·----------~-----···-··--· ..... 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Supre:me Court :mulls 
Lawmakers debate economy 
Hill press conferences

operting secret records 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Supreme Co 1rt appeared trou­bled Tuesday by the prospect of letting he public have a look into pr 1vate White House policy meetilgs, a hopeful sign for the Bush administration's aggressive defense of secrecy in the case of Vice President Dick Cheney's energy task force. 
The court is 

Other justices also expressed concerns about a ruling that would disrupt behind-the-scenes work of government. 
At the same time, the court could disappoint the adminis­tration by deciding that the case is premature for a ruling because the lower court that ruled against the Bush admin­istration had not worked out exactly which documents 
center on trade rules, manufacturing 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -With an eye to the fall election, House Republican leaders on Tuesday outlined a spring and summer economic agenda centered on cutting taxes, slicing government red tape and reducing lawsuits. 
House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas, joined by 
Commerce Secretary Don Evans

the latest stop in "He has the power should be 
and others, said the package of

a nearly three­as an independent released. Several 
bills to be introduced over the

year fight over justices, includ­
branch to say 'No, 
next several months "marks the

access to ing Sandra Day 
broadest and most forward­

records of the this intrudes too O'Connor, hinted 
looking economic agenda

task force that much upon my at the possibility 
Congress has undertaken in a

prepared a of such an out­
powers. I will not 
generation."

national energy come.
do it.,, 
Rep. Todd Tiahrt, R-Kan., who

strategy. The The Bush 
helped craft the economic pro­

president put administration 
gram, said it was "about chang­

Cheney, a for­argues that pri­
Antonln Scalia 
ing the environment that we put

mer enorgy vacy is important
justice 
in place over generations."

industry execu­·for candid White 
tive, in charge and the group's recommenda­tions were friendly to indus­tries. Most s:;alled in Congress. 
Raising the gravest concerns about unnecessary snooping into the exe,~utive branch was Justice Antonin Scalia, who stayed in th£: case despite con­flict-of-int·~rest questions relating to t.is friendship with Cheney. He said a president has broad authority to keep matters priv:~.te. 
"He has 1he power as an independert branch to say, 'No, this intrudes too much upon my powers. I will not do it,"' Scalia said. 

House discus­sions on difficult issues. It was sued by watchdog and envi­ronmental groups under a federal open-government law. The groups accused the administration of letting ener­gy industry executives and lobbyists help write the task force policy. 
The administration has lost two rounds in federal court. If the Supreme Court makes it three, Cheney could have to reveal potentially embarrass­ing records just before the presidential election. A lower court would have to work out details. 
The Republicans did not go into specifics, although DeLay mentioned legislation to encour­age private sector research and development. GOP Whip Roy Blunt, R-Mo., said the House would take up a free trade agreement with Australia. 
On the other side of the Capitol, Democratic leaders accused the Bush administration of failing the economy by ignor­ing the loss of manufacturing jobs and not enforcing trade laws. 
Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm said states need fed­eral help to enforce internation­al trade laws, fund workforce training and reduce rising pen­sion and health care costs. 
"There's a myth out there that 
states are not doing enough," 
she said. "We need federal part-

Gurtman kills two at 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Two men were shot to death Tuesday inside a small office building where they worked, and police searched for a man who had threatened both victims. 
SWAT team officers and other P,Olice surrounded the building in northea~;t Phoenix after someone in an adjacent busi­ness reported hearing an argu­ment and several gunshots at about 7:25 a.m., authorities said. 
Officers encuated the build­ing and after a two-hour search, cone luded the gunman had fled, police said. Schools nearby were locked down dur­ing the search. 
Police were looking for 


AP Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm speaks during a news con­ference Tuesday on Increasing U.~. support for manufacturing. 
ners to prevent job losses." 
Already planned for the next several weeks are several attempts to make permanent the tax cuts Congress has passed in recent years, including one elim­inating the so-called marriage penalty and another maintaining the current 10 percent rate for the lowest income tax bracket. 
Overall, leaders named eight general areas: health care secu­rity, bureaucratic red tape, life­long learning, fair trade, tax relief, energy security, spurring innovation and ending lawsuit abuse. 
The Republican-dominated House has already addressed many of these issues, only to see legislation stall in the Senate, where Democrats have greater ability to block bills they don't like. 
The House has previously approved bills limiting medical liability and class action law­suits, and promoting associated health plans for small business­es. DeLay noted that enactment of an energy security bill passed by the House last year depended on Senate Democrats ending their resistance. 
Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle. House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi and three Democratic governors, mean­while, blamed the Bush adminis­tration's economic policies for what they called the hemorrhag­ing of U.S. manufacturing jobs. 
Pelosi, D-Calif., said 2.8 million manufacturing jobs have been lost since Bush took office and 1 million jobs have moved over­seas. 
The nation is experiencing the "longest job slump since the Great Depression," said Daschle, D-S.D. "The Republican response so far has been to do nothing." 
Evans, at the separate news conference, defended the admin­istration's trade enforcement policies, noting that the United States has filed twice as many anti-dumping cases against China as any other country. 

Phoenix brokerage 
CCTI&J1lmlEIID ITN ~JF@ffi'lf~o 
Howard Collin Fisk, 33, who knew both men and had threat­
NOTRE DAME SPORTS.
ened them over the past several days, Sgt. Randy Force said. He did not elaborate. 
The victims' identities were not immediately released. Both had been shot with a handgun, Force said. No ·other injuries were reported. 
No.. lin The Na ..... in Coverage of
Building owner Tom Bowman said the shooting occurred at a 
the Notre Dam~ Fighting Irish. 

trucking brokerage firm. "It's just unbelievable that it hap­
pened here," he said. 
Mike Theobald, who works at a carpet cleaning business in the same building, said he was arriving for work when some­one from the office where the attack took place asked him to call 911. "He was very upset," Theobald said. 

21 colorfulissuas. published ...-seekly during the season, monthly after the season for only $25.95. 
''.:·~·'· .:.··. 
,.<~~r. 
.·<·~· 
this summer! Dame \Vith port. 

Instant online access to daily updates expanded coverage and interactive features for only $25.95. 


Wednesday, April 28, 2004 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
"Talk about easy! With nine ATMs on cam~ pus, Notre Dame Federal Credit Unlol) is right where I need them." 

For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, April 29th 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal lunch and study break at the Co-Mo. 
Risks remain for waste storage sites 
Terrorism concerns prompt GAO review ofnuclear security 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Security upgrades ordered at nuclear weapons sites after the Sept. 11 attacks may not be fully in place for five more years, auditors say. 
The delay has led to the possi­bility that plutonium and weapons-grade uranium might have to be removed from some facilities. 
Investigators with the General Accounting Office said Tuesday the Energy Department's 2006 deadline for meeting its new security requirements at weapons labs and other facilities probably is not realistic, short by possibly as much as three years. 
At the same time even that program, based on assumptions nuclear complex defenses," said Shays, chairman of the House Government Reform subcommit­tee dealing with nuclear security. 
Energy Department officials acknowledged their latest securi­ty plans won't be fully in place everywhere the government has weapons-grade material until the end of 2006. They characterized the GAO assessment that another three years might be needed as overly pessimistic. 
"Today, no nuclear weapons, special nuclear material or clas­sified materials are at' risk any­where within the nuclear weapons complex," Linton Brooks, head of the DOE's National Nuclear Security Administration, told the subcom­mittee members. 
Brooks acknowledged risk always exists but assured the lawmakers, "People looking for a soft spot would be ill-advised" to target DOE facilities. "There are 
no soft spots." 
Shays said that 

developed last some of the sites 
"Today, no nuclear 
year about the should be kind of terrorist weapons, special closed, or at assault that nuclear material or least ·their might be expect­nuclear materi­
classified materials 
ed given the als transferred Sept. 11 attacks, are at risk anywhere elsewhere. It is being revised, within the nuclear "should have administration been immediate­
weapons complex. " 
and congres­ly obvious" that sional officials the government acknowledged. Linton Brooks "has too many 
For the first National Nuclear Security facilities housing time, the Energy nuclear materi­
Administration director 
Department is asking security planners to prepare for the pos­sibility that a terrorist would try to take over a facility holding nuclear material, barricade him­self inside and try to fashion a crude nuclear weapon and deto­nate it in a suicide attack, 
Security plans previously have been designed under an assump­tion that a terrorist would break in to steal the material and could be thwarted on the way out. 
Some lawmakers and private watchdog groups have said that some facilities would be impossi­ble to defend against a suicide assault and that plutonium and highly enriched uranium at those sites should be relocated. 
Rep. Christopher Shays, R­Conn., asked why it took nearly two years after the attacks in New York and at the Pentagon for the Energy Department to develop its revised May 2003 assessment of the kinds of terror attacks security forces probably would have to defend against. He also wanted to know why it will take another two to five years to deal with the increased risks, 
"We know the terrorists will not wait that long to try to exploit lingering vulnerabilities in our 
als" and that consolidation is needed. 
Plutonium and weapons-grade uranium are being kept at nearly a dozen facilities within the DOE weapons complex including five national laboratories. 
Brooks said the department is reviewing the weapons complex to determine where material can be consolidated, either in more secure areas within facilities or at other sites. Plans already are in place to move plutonium from I 
I 
. ' 

the Los Alamos National 
Laboratory in New Mexico to the Nevada Test Site. "But consolidation is not a panacea," Brooks said. 
He said he opposes moving the plutonium at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California to another location, for example, because scientists there need the material to assess the weapons stockpile properly. To move material from another DOE facility, the Y-12 complex near Oak Ridge, Tenn., could take decades, probably cost bil­lions of dollars and accomplish little in the short term, Brooks said. Current plans would con­solidate the material within the Y-12 complex. 

THE OBSER\'ER 


IEWPOINT
page 16 Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
Goodbye Eldred 

Seven years ago, Marilou Eldred came to Saint Mary's, to make a difference in the world and to foster the next bringing 18 years of experience and a vision for the generation of women leaders. The CWIL grant has also College. That vision involved advancements iii curricu­helped countless students take part in activities, work­lum, technology and diversity. shops and educational opportunities that were previously 
Eldred has done a wonderful job of keeping the College not available to them. on the right path, and directing it towards the future. In With these advancements over the past several years, her seven years, she has changed the Eldred has left her mark on Saint Mary's. College physically, academically and per­OJhe Now Carol Mooney enters as the 11th Saint sonally through her hard work and dedica­userver Mary's president. She is already closely tied tion to the students, staff and faculty. with the community. Having graduated from 
During her time, Eldred made an effort to the College, and working as Notre Dame's boost enrollment and to maintain the vice president and associate provost, she is
Editorial College's status as the nation's premier familiar with the community, and the steps Catholic women's academic institution. The college that have been taken to make Saint Mary's future received a No. 1 ranking from "U.S. News & World brighter. Report" for six of Eldred's seven years as president. It will be important for Mooney to continue on the path 
In 2000, she helped to unveil the College's Master Plan. that has been paved before her by Eldred. This plan called for a new coffee house, welcome center, It will also be important to continue to bridge the gap dining hall, student center and on campus apartments, all between Notre Dame, Holy Cross College, the greater of which are currently in progress. The plan also calls for South Bend community and Saint Mary's, as Eldred had updates in the residence halls, a refurbishment of already begun. Her history at Notre Dame should make O'Laughlin Auditorium, a renovation of the Angela this aspect of her job something of importance. Athletic Facility and a brand new academic building. When Mooney takes office on June 1, it will be impor­These plans are all on track to be completed successfully. tant that she continue to listen to and foster the Saint 
In 2001, Eldred helped to establish the Center for Mary's community and follow in the footsteps of Eldred. Women's Intercultural Leadership through a $12 million While the Saint Mary's community will miss the leader­grant received from the Lilly Endowment. The center ship of Eldred, Mooney has the potential to build upon her helps women currently in leadership roles to collaborate legacy and continue Saint Mary's tradition into the future. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Equality between dorms 
I want to applaud the University for its decision to eliminate The removal of security monitors from female dorms should the use of security monitors in female residence halls. The place no greater burden on female hall staff than currently objections that removing the officers will create a greater bur­exists for hall staff in' men's halls. An outdoor !3ecurity sysdmr · · den for hall staff only help to illustrate the need for their will better maintain a sense of equality between men and removal. The purpose of security officers should never have women on campus and, unlike the suggestion of one Resident been to serve as an extension of hall staff to deter parietals and Assistant to implement monitors in both men's and women's alcohol violations. The fact that they had become deterrents is halls, will show a greater respect for all students as adults. what made their presence in only female dorms problematic, not their alleged "security" functions. Using monitors to police Laura Geldermann the behavior of female students had the effect of perpetuating seniOr double standards and the antiquated notion that, while "boys Pangborn Hall will be boys,"women's characters are to be closely monitored. April27 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 

Should the Board of Trustees ask University President Father Malloy to return for another term? 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 686 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Teachers open the door, but you must enter by yourself." 
Chinese proverb 

THE ()BSER\'ER 
IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
A tough year to be Irish 
At last, we have temporarily put an end to those 50-minute daily intervals in which the portals of llell are temporarily flung open allowing raging professors to treat us like poverty-~tricken Americans under the Bush healthcare plan. So now, in my own symbolic way of pouring out a 40 for the 2003-2004 school year, the time has finally come to express my sophomoric opinions about my freshman experience at the University of Notre Dame. 
Let me be blunt. This certainly wasn't the easiest year to 
Joey Falco
become acclimatized to the Notre Dame lifestyle. After being bombarded by alumni with the heroic tales of the legendary Fighting Irish football team and about the raw excitement and adventure that pervades the atmosphere of an entire football Forty Ounces weekend, I obviously arrived on campus with the loftiest of for Falco expectations. Now, having lived through several of these fabled experiences, I can't help but feel a bit let down. 
Not that the games weren't memorable. Not that tailgating wasn't the orgy of beer and brats that upperclassmen and alumni had made it out to be. Not that it wasn't touching to watch thousands of green-shirted lunatics flailing their hands wildly in the shape of a 'W,' proudly showing Ty their drunken version of the Bat Signal. 
But looking back on the fall season, the majority of my most powerful memo­ries revolve around depressing numbers like 45-14, 38-0, 37-0, and 38-12. Not to mention the fact that the recollections of many friends and classmates being cordially introduced to football weekend festivities by being dragged away from the excitement and tradition by disgruntled police officers truly make me wonder if the fabled Stuhldreher, Crowley, Miller and Layden had been secretly replaced by John's Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. 
And Carson Daly? Let's just say that it was refreshing to see that our legendary pep rallies had enough popularity to draw one of the few whores of Hollywood with enough positive contributions to society to actually merit him a ranking right in between Herpes and IIitier. 
Then in December, after my less-than-tri­umphant freshman football season, I contin­ued to hold my head high and cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame straight onto Coach Brey's basketball court. Prior to the season, the same enthusiasm and expectation that surrounded the football team in August truly had me believing that I would soon be traveling to San Antonio to witness Chris Thomas lifting the national championship trophy over his shoulders ... at least until a circus midget from Central Michigan slapped us around and ended any real hope of us achieving basketball greatness in 2004. 
On top of these sub-par athletic achievements, my first year on campus has been rife with accu­sation, allegation and scandal. Take the Princeton Heview's frank portrayal of Notre Dame as a bastion for racists, bigots and homophobes in their annual rankings related to campus homogeneity and acceptance of alternative lifestyles. Now, you and I both know that this isn't completely the case here, but the ensuing "Gay? Fine by Me" tangerine rally certainly proved to be a bit disheartening. Yes, an impressive number of students showed their support for the gay community, but the cold-blooded reaction to the event expressed in private cam pus conversations and in several letters to the Observer made me wonder if the Princeton Review really was on to something. Sadly, the subsequent racist comments made by Hall of Shame alumnus Paul Hornung did little to restore my Notre Dame pride. 
It truly was a mysterious phenomenon to relax on a shaded bench nestled within the trees of God Quad and gaze at the two distinct faces of the University of Our Mother of the Lake. How could such a gorgeous, serene environment filled with such beautiful and loving elements as Grotto vigils, selfless blood drives and community service projects be simultaneously pervaded with such an ugly, disgusting and un-Christian infestation of hatred? 
Moving right along, as far as weekend enjoyment went, my fellow underclass­men and I had the luxury of witnessing many cherished campus traditions stomped out faster than open-minded opinions in the White House. Bars were busted, students arrested, impromptu St. Patrick's Day Parades repressively smothered and all the while juniors and seniors who had seen brighter days were there to taunt us with tales of how things used to be. 
Clearly, it's no secret that Notre Dame has changed. However, was this change a consequence of poor, insular decisions made internally or merely the inevitable result of an increasingly defunct society placing demands with which the values and traditions that form the foundation of Notre Dame simply cannot comply? That answer, unfortunately, lies far beyond the realm of this meager freshman intellect. 
So instead of pointing fingers, I can only offer my hope and prayers for next year, and the year after that, and all the years waiting in store for the greatest university in the world, that when new generations of Irish continue to send a volley cheer on high, there will still be some thunder left to shake down from the sky. 
Joey Falco is a freshman political science and spanish major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted atjfalco@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
page 17 

The Domestic Agenda 
Last week, I spelled out the Common Sense Party's foreign policy goals. This week, it's time to deliver the domestic agenda. Once again due to space restrictions, I can only cover a few issues in detail. 
One issue certainly to be on the minds of voters is the economy. In the aftermath of the Bush tax cuts, it has become popular among his detractors to say that this is responsible for the record federal deficit. To a certain extent -without getting into a complicated economic debate about 
Joe Licandro

the benefits of deficit spending-this argument carries some weight especially in the midst of an expensive war. But before jumping to any conclusions, let's stop and ask ourselves some­
The Licandro

thing here. Were the tax cuts responsible for the deficit or was it our legislators who increased spending to exorbitant levels Non-Factor to finance a ridiculous stream of pork-barrel projects? Like the true libertarians we strive to be, the best government is the one that governs least. Under this premise, the Common Sense Party will strive to reduce wasteful spending in an effort to reduce federal taxes across the board for all Americans regardless of their economic status. Restoration projects and build­ing initiatives should be handled at the local level. Pork-barrel is a dirty word in this party. The days of spending millions on researching the mating habits of bee­tles will be over. 
Immigration is a touchy subject that both parties exploit for political advan­tage in their rhetoric, but never actually do anything about with legisla­tion. As a nation of immigrants, the Common Sense Party recognizes the vitally important role immigrants play. A careful distinction, however, must be made between legal immigrants and illegal aliens. Thus, the Common Sense Party openly welcomes legal 
immigrants who come here for legitimate purposes and can 
contribute to this country. The same invitation will not be extended to illegal immigrants. For homeland security 
and economic reasons, the Common Sense Party will do everything in its power to stop illegal immigration now. This begins with deporting illegal aliens and visitors 
who overstay their visas and have no legal right to be here. This means harshly cracking down on compa­nies who hire and exploit illegal aliens. This means following the lead of Governor Schwarzenneger in California and not giving driver's licenses to illegal 
aliens. This means abolishing standing laws and stopping benefits that give instant U.S. citizenship to illegal immigrant mothers who have children in this country. This also calls for stationing the U.S. military along our borders and coastlines. Before we get accused of anything, there's nothing racist 
or radical about this idea. Protecting our sovereign borders is common sense. Most other countries do this. Why shouldn't we? Putting the military on our borders will not only stem the tide of illegal aliens, but also have the dual purpose of halting illegal drug 
trafficking. In a closely related topic, the renewal of the Patriot Act is another issue that will certainly be on the minds of voters this fall. With the ongoing threat of terrorism, the Common Sense Party supports this legislation in full. If you listened to the ACLU and other liberal bastions, the Patriot Act was supposed to transform this country into a 
totalitarian state not seen since the likes of Stalin and the Soviet Union. Pretty soon, we would start referring to the federal govern­ment as Big Brother. The FBI would make the KGB look like humani­
tarians, while our policemen would be confused for the gestapo. Guess 
what? None of this ever happened. No one's rights have been trampled on. No one has been oppressed. But what has happened is that the FBI now has broader authority to investigate potential terrorists. In its scope, the Patriot Act is similar to the RICO laws of the 70s which helped the FBI systematically dismantle the Malia to where it is now only a shadow of its former self. Here's the number one reason, though, why the Patriot Act should remain. If the Patriot Act were around three years ago, the 9-11 tragedies probably would have been prevented. This is why the Common Sense Party will never align itself with the ACLU, who is more hell-bent on defending criminals and terrorists than protecting the innocent victims of their crimes. 
For the party's stances on other pertinent political issues and social matters, here's a quick word association game. Gun restriction Jaws and stiffer background checks-yes. NRA-no. Gay marriage-yes. Gay pride parades and gay olympics-no. Abortion-no. Death Penalty-no. Life imprisonment really means spending the rest of your life in prison -yes. Life imprisonment for convict­ed murderers, rapists, child molesters, and other first-degree sex offenders-yes. Life imprisonment for terrorists -yes. Tougher sentences for drug dealers and other hardened criminals -yes. Tougher sentences for white-collar criminals from major corporations like Enron, Adelphia, Worldcom, Imclone and l'yco-yes. School vouchers-yes. Tort reform-yes. Caps on money awarded for class­action lawsuits-yes. Buying medical drugs from Canada-yes. Legalizing mari­juana-no. Prayer in school-no. Government funding for faith-based organiza­tions -yes. Developing alternative forms of energy-yes. Affrrmative action -no. Socioeconomic action-yes. Driving hybrids-yes. Relying less on oil-yes. Buying no oil from the Middle East-yes. Keeping the Clean Air Act-yes. Protecting our national parks from pollution -yes. Tougher pollution standards ­yes. Urban renewal -yes. Expanding welfare benefits -no. 
There you have it. For those many issues I didn't cover, just use a little common sense. 
Joe Licandro is a senior political science major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted atjlicandr@nd. edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 18 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
Con[lbs receives mixed reviews for 'Raisin' 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --"Can't Nobody Hold Me Down," chants P. Diddy in one of his hit wngs. Maybe not even a bag full o'mixed reviews. 
The hip-hop impresario, known on stage by his real name, Sean Combs, got a luke­warm reception from most New York critics for his portrayal of Walter Lee Younger, the angry, frustrated hero of "A Raisin in the Sun," Lorraine Hanberry's landmark drama now being revived on Broadway. 
Combs, who has acted in such movies as "Monster's Ball," is making his stage debut in the Broadway revival, which pre­miered Monda)' at the Royale Theatre. Also in the cast are Phylicia Rashad and Audra McDonald, who received better notices than thdr more-famous co-star. Set in the late 1950s in a rundown Soub Side Chicago apartment, "Raisin" deals with the hopes and disappointments of a black famil~r trying to find a better life. 
The show took in $133,000 Monday at the box office, according to spokesman Bob Fennell and expects to double that figure Thesday, despite sev­eral unenthusiru:tic notices. 
"People are really responding," producer David Binder said Tuesday. Binder has been work­ing since July 1999 to bring "A Raisin in the Sun" to Broadway. "It's a testament to the play and it's a testament to Sean Combs. 
"This is all happening because of him," he said, adding that Combs auditioned twice before he was hired. "Sean brings them in and that crosses a lot of differ­ent lines. So many different kinds of people can connect to him." 
"Our audience is not an audi­ence that needs to be validated by reviews," said Eric Schnall, marketing director for the show. "A lot of them don't read them." 
Writing in The New York Times, the most influential paper in terms of theater reviews, Ben Brantley said the revival "lacks the fully developed central per­formance from Mr. Combs that would hold the show together. This Walter Lee never appears to change, in big ways or small. ... [Combs] comes across as smaller than you might expect, as Madonna did when she made her Broadway debut in 'Speed the Plow."' 
While praising his "compelling physical presence," The Associated Press said, "Combs is not a nuanced performer who can bring to life the enormity of Walter Lee's resentment, much less his eventual redemption in the play's final scene." 
In Variety, Charles Isherwood said Combs "is simply not up to the role's considerable demands. 
... [His] conservative perform­ance may limit damage to the star's reputation -it is by no means an embarrassment, and certainly his many fans aren't likely to be disappointed -but it fails to do full justice to Hansberry's play." 
Combs, who was not immedi­ately available for comment, fared better with the New York tabloids. While saying that Combs does not measure up to Sidney Poitier (who played the role in the original 1959 produc­tion and reprised it in the 1961 movie version), Clive Barnes, in the New York Post, said Combs was, "believe it or not -pretty damn good." 
Writing in the Daily News, Howard Kissel said Combs "showed plenty of stage pres­ence," even if "he does not proj­ect the turmoil inside the charac­ter." And in Newsday, Linda Winer wrote, "Combs is better than OK. He has presence play­ing someone besides his formi­dable self." 
"A Raisin in the Sun," with a top ticket price of $91.25, has been doing respectable, if not sellout business. Last week, it grossed a solid $393,389, play­ing to 7 5 percent capacity, according to figures released Monday by the League of American Theatres and Producers. 
"Raisin" is seeking to reach beyond the largely white middle-and upper-class audi­ence that tradi­tionally goes to Broadway shows, although it has not neg­lected such regu­lar advertising outlets as daily newspapers and direct-mail cam­paigns. 

The production has been adver­tising on hip-hop and rhythm 'n' blues radio sta­tions, in hip-hop and black women's maga­zines and on New York sub­way platforms, according to Schnall. The pro­duction even has big posters at Amtrak stations in Washington, D.C., Philadelphia and New Haven, Conn., to greet travelers as they board trains to New York City. 
"For 'Raisin,' we are targeting every age group," Schnall said. "There really hasn't been an attempt to just get the traditional theatergoer, just get the 20-year­old hip-hop fan or just get that 35-year-old African-American woman." 

As of Monday's opening night, the production had a $2.5 mil­lion advance for its limited engagement, which is expected toendJulyUu :tg.n Ill IJJ:in 
"The miracle· of our audience is that it encompasses every race and every age group," Schnall said. 

Blo:ndie not going gray with recent albums 
have made two albums in the shades. Burke, also wearing plastic skirt" on stage. They are touring across the 
Associated Press 
past five years. dark sunglasses, is dressed in "He said she was shameless country this summer. 
NEW YORK--The members "Blondie's always been a a maroon suit a la Roy and all vile and all this stuff," "The inspiration, the sound of Blondie admit it's a bit concept piece," Burke said. Or bison. Stein said. "But look at what's of the band is from the city," weird to be on the music scene "We go do other things, and Harry's years of rock-star going on now!" Burke said. "It was the way we again when bands like the always come back to it." stage antics seem almost tame "Don't get me wrong, I dealt with things. I don't know Rapture are named for one of Their latest effort, "The in comparison to Janet approve of sex," Harry said if we could have done it any­their songs, and '80s fashion is Curse of Blondie," is a throw­Jackson's breast-baring or with a sly grin. "It's a great where else." so hip that girls shamelessly back to the good old days. Madonna and Britney Spears thing. And a lot of great Harry said she used to write wander the streets in hot-pink There's a Harry rap nestled in kissing on MTV. Harry and women use their sexuality. It is songs in a laundromat in New leg warmers. the song "Good Boys," and Stein refer to a scathing story not a big deal." York's Lower East Side. 
While they don't mind the "Hello Joe" is a tribute to fel­legendary rock journalist The band is optimistic about "All those rhythms going on, flattery, they :lo think musi­low punk Joey Ramone. Lester Bangs once wrote about their new CD, saying their fan it's a great place," she said. cians modeling their sound on Blondie's music was consid­their concert, when Harry base includes both veteran "But it was the city, too. Being '80s rock should be digging ered counterculture during the wore a "teeny-tiny little red Blondie lovers and teenagers. there in the city." deeper into music history. early '80s, when the band per­
Blondie put new wave punk formed at the seminal CBGBs on the radar as they skipped club in New York. Now, among many styles, from reg­Blondie argues, their brand of gae and rap to rock and disco. punk pop is mainstream. Their hit "Rapture" was one of "It's the way culture works," the first songs to blend rock Harry said. "What was alter­and hip-hop, and sultry lead native then is now a fabric of singer Deborah Harry was popular culture." among the first females to The band produced six front a rock band. albums before breaking up in 
"We were referencing a lot of 1982. Songs like "Heart of stuff when we first came out Glass," 'The Tide is High," and like Jimi Hendrix and the "Call Me" were huge hits, and Rolling Stones " said guitarist their album "Parallel Lines" Chris Stein. ":3ut young kids sold more than 20 million aren't going back far enough, copies worldwide. Five years they aren't getting to the real ago they got back together to meat of things by only using us record "No Exit." or someone else from that time During a recent interview, as a reference.' Harry, still looking like a sex­
Not that Blondie is history. pot at 58 with wild hair and After a 16-year hiatus, the four bedroom eyes, sits in a dimly founding members of the band lit Manhattan conference room -Harry, Stein drummer Clem with her cohorts. Stein wears Burke and kEyboard player faded jeans and shields his Jimmi Destri -reunited and eyes with a pair of black 

r-----------~----------~--~--·----------------------~------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
Page 19 
The Freshmen Four .. 
/ 

Up-and-cd~ing actors and directors from this year's freshmen class show promise that good things are in store for Notre Dame theater 
tially worried about his ability to Levy's costume works extraordinar­closest thing to a directing major
By MARIA SMITH direct a show on his own, but is more ily well to enhance her character. The here," Kealy said. "There are a cou­
Sc~nr Editor 
than satisl'ied with the results. Before freshman found a floral jaeknt in a ple of directing elasses-this depart­directing in the Freshmen Four, costume closet and home, and ment does a lot of preparing you for 
Every year as Notre Dame theater MeCarthy's directing experience was dressed it up with her mother's jew­everything." say:> goodbye to its seniors, the limited to a Spanish version of Snow elry from the 1980s. Four of the six The layers of the play present a Student Players are busy breaking in White in his junior year Spanish people involved in the skit ar~ from challenge for the actors, who have to the next generation of actors and elass. Texas, and Levy described the cos­portray actors both in and out of directors. "I was really concerned I wasn't tume as being based on the character. 
Thn Freshmnn going to be able to do wardrobes of tacky "It's a totally differ-Four plays give it, but the cast has Texas ladies. not style of acting ­som n of thn best been so eager and "At auditions she it's hard to makn pno­
"I see her as a mixture
actors of the fresh­ready to work," did the massage "I get to be this crazy lady ple aet like they're 
men elass a chance between Lucy from McCarthy said. "It's scene with Adam, not acting," Kealy
that says all the things we 
to showcase their gone amazingly well." who plays Jim," co­said.
Peanuts and Lady
talent for the older One of the most dis­director Conor wish we could and acts "English Made
MacBeth. two very
actors and directors tinctive characters in Woods said. "They out ofdecorum and think Simple" 
in University's vari­important literary the show is the valet's had such good awk­"English Made ...
that I'm fine." 

ous dramatic proverb-spouting wife ward chemistry that Simple" by David lves
characters for me." 
groups. Trudi, played by it really worked." provides an intro­The onn-act skits Nikkie Masciopinto. Co-director Kaila Mary Levy spective end to the Kevin McCarthy
are also directed by "1 see her as a mix­Crowley chose the actor show. The skit exam­froshmen, offering director ture between Lucy skit precisely ines tho seemingly students a chance from Peanuts and Lady because it is so out-endless layers of many of them never MacBeth, two very rageous. meaning that can lin had in high school ,., important literary "It's a crazy balance between being behind the simplnst phrases. lves or (,ther dram'a groups they might characters for me," MeCarthy said. ridiculously offensive and hilarious," especially examines what lies bohind have been part of in the past. Student "She commands the action whenever Crowley said. "It only took one read­the superficial small talk exchanged dirnctors choose their own skits and she's onstage." ing Ito choose]." at parties and in public where some­apply along with othnr directors for "Wanda's VIsit" "Impromptu" times it seems one face could instant­one of the four slots. "Wanda's Visit" by Christopher "Impromptu" by Tad Mosel takes a ly be changed for another. 
Making the eut isn't easy. This year Durang is the most entnrtaining of philosophical turn after the riot of Patrick Vassnl and Emily Sladek the producers chose the directors the four plays. "Wanda's Visit." portray Jack and .Jill, the couple ust1d from over 20 applicants, and over 50 The playwright The play fea-to expand on all the personal stories freshmnn auditioned for 16 roles in has a reputa­"Freshmen Four" tures four that might lie behind a simple hello. tlw show. For the freshmen who do tion for 
actors who Both play their roles with all the sin­make thn show, it's an exciting extreme char­have been cerity and emotion thn skit requires. ehance to explore the possibilities of acters and dark called in to give Drew McElligott helps nnhance the eollege drama. humor, and a performance meanings of the words as the profes­
This year's show features four uses both to without a script sorial Loudspeaker. The three actors sharply eontrasting scripts. The skits their full extent Directors: Kevin McCarthy, Kaila Crowley, and with very have sharp timing and stage interac­move from serious and dignified in this skit. Conor Woods, Molly Kealy, Sarah Loveland limited guide­tion, which is vital to the tightly eon­drama to bawdy off-the-wall humor. The play Writers: Tim Kelly, Christopher Durang, Tad lines. They are strueted script. Actors a.nd directors alike have done opens with a Mosel, David lves only instructed Director Sarah Loveland has an exeellent job developing the straight-laced Starring: Andre Valdivia, Mary Migliozzi, to perform a already been part of six campus pro­scripts and bringing out the particu­and predictable Michelle Lewis, Nikkie Masciopinto, Annie play that "is ductions this year, ineluding acting in lar charm of each one. The energy couple who Hollenbeck, Megan Ohlenforst, Adam Bonosky, lifo" and not to "God's Country" and "Spike lleels" and variety in tho show make it one probably own Mary Levy, Garrett Jost, Caret Koxlien, Even leave the stage and doing technical work for "The of the most entertaining performanc­tasteful dining Henley, Ashley Garber, Madison Liddy, Bob until they have. Glass Menagerie" and "One Flew es on campus this year. room sets and Monahan, Brad Jenkins, Brandon Colpitts, Patrick Under pres­Over the ·cuckoo's Nest." Loveland "The Tale that Wagged the Dog" e n t i r e Vassel, Emily Sladek, Drew McElligott sure the actors was forced to drop out of the Not So 
"The Tale that Wagged the Dog" by wardrobes from quickly begin to Royal Shakespearn's Company's pro­Tim Knlly is a somewhat ridiculous B a n a n a bicker. The duction of King Lear when she story about composer Johann Hepublic, but cannot capture the introspective Tony, jaded Winifred, became ill, and had not fully recov­Strauss's valnt, who contrives to spark of a happy marriage. Jim and sugary Lora and self-confident Ernest ered for the rehearsals of "English make extra cash selling supposed Marsha are on rocky ground before struggle to find common ground and Made Simple." Loveland relied on a souvnnirs of the composer to his Jim's ex-girlfriend from high school to try to construct dedicated east and legions of enamored comes to visit, and an impromptu crew to get her fans. Strauss, who when Wanda arrives drama that will through the show. lived in the mid-19th nothing gets better. indeed be life. "It's gone wondnr­
"It's a crazy balance 
century, was actually Wanda is, as Jim says, Although Winifred "The point is probably just fully well," Loveland considered a heart­between being "a magnet for trouble," initially assures said. "I havn one of
to break down the walls. 
throb by the fashion­and although her tales Tony that "soul­thn most talented
ridiculously offensive The actors obviously have 
able womnn of his of her life since she searching is the low­casts I could ask for, age, and the neeen­and hilarious. It only and Jim parted ways est form of enter­walls, but even the audi­and my stage manag­trk elitists who wern took one read /to leave serious doubt as tainment," this ulti­er knows every­
ence has walls." 

so impressed with the choose/." to her sanity, Jim finds mately seems to be thing." dashing eomposer himself intrigued by the point of the Losing thn seniors 
Molly Kealy

appear in all thnir her energy. exercise not only for of the drama scene is 
Kalla Crowley
glory in the Frnshmen Mary Levy's campus the actors but for director always sad, but if the Four plays. The fans director debut as Wanda is not the audience. actors in the rave, cry, beg for one that will be easy to "The point is prob­Freshmen Four stick loeks of hair and forget. Levy falls into ably just to break around through thnir 
-

parade around in an assortment of the over-the-top role completely nat­down thn walls," director Molly Kealy time at Notre Damn thn quality of dresses morn than ridiculous enough urally and makes the entire skit out­said. "The actors obviously have theater won't lag. to suit thnir characters. standing. walls, but even the audience has "There are a lot of fun freshmen," 
"It's fun hneausn you don't have to "I get to be this crazy lady that says walls." Crowley said. worry about lwing too over the top," all the things we wish we could and For Kealy the directing the play is "They've got a good group here," said Mielwlle Lewis, one of Strauss's aets out of decorum and think that not only a pastime, but also an exper­Woods said. groupies. "It's completely in charac­I'm finn," Levy said. "It's great to be irnnnt in a f'ield she might want to ter." able to do things and not worry about pursue. Contact Maria Smith at 
Din~etor Kevin McCarthy was ini-the eonsllqU<llH~eS." ''I'm a theater major, which is the msmith4@nd.cdu 
-

------------------------------------------------·---------------------------------------------------------~ page 20 Wednesday, April 28, 2004
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

Burrell's bat continues to drive Philly offense 
...  Slugger batted just .190 against St. Louis in last season's series  Diamondbacks. "Everything seems to be com­ing together," Webb said. "Our pitching's hot, we're hitting the ball, scoring a lot of runs, and  
our defense has been great."  
Associated Press  ·  Luis Gonzalez added a three­run homer and Steve Finley had  
ST. LOUIS  -­ Pat Burrell is  a two-run shot in Arizona's third  
quickly bouncing back from  an  straight victory and fifth in six  
awful season.  games.  
Burrell had four hits, three  "That's the way baseball is,"  
RBis and two nice defensive  Gonzalez said. "A couple of  
plays  in  the  Philadelphia  weeks ago everybody wanted to  
Phillies' 7-3 victory over the St.  trade guys, fire managers, and  
Louis Cardinals  on  Tuesday  we're playing good now. The key  
night.  for this whole homestand is  
Burrell slumped to  a  .209  we're getting big two-out hits,  
average  last  year  with  21  and the team's playing with a lot  
homers and 64 RBis, a big drop­ of confidence."  
off after he hit 37 homers and  The  Cubs,  beaten  9-0  by  
drove in 116 runs in 2002. So  Randy  Johnson  and  the  
far this year, he's hitting .339  Diamondbacks  on  Monday  
with two homers.and 14 RBis.  night, failed to score for 18 con­ 
"''ve never had a good start,  sllcutive innings before Todd  
not that I was anticipating a bad  Hollandsworth led off the ninth  
one," Burrell said. "But to come  with a homer off Jose Valverde.  
out and swing the bat well, it's a  "He goes out and throws  a  
great plus for rLe."  shutout, and I want to try to fol­ 
Mike Lieberthal hit a tiebreak­ low him, too," Webb said of  
ing, two-run homer in the sixth  APJohnson's example. "That defi­ 
for the Phillies, who are 3-1  Phillles outfielder Pat Burrell had four hits and three RBis In a 7-3 Philadelphia victory over thenitely motivates me to do things  
with two game:> to go on a six­ St. Louis Cardinals Tuesday night. Burrell's bat has come alive after a rough 2003 season.like he does."  
game trip. They lost five of their  Rockies 13, Marlins 10  
first six on the road, but have  Florida manager Jack McKeon  runners at the plate from the  focus today was really just get­ lighting a six-run rally in the  
averaged 5.5 runs on this trip  didn't want his players to be  outfield in the fifth inning.  ting  through  nine  innings  eighth inning that sent slumping  
and got to Matt Morris (3-2) for  fooled into thinking they were  "It seemed like  arena foot­ behind the plate somehow, some  New York  over the Oakland  
...  two homers and two doubles.  beaten by the long ball.  ball," Colorado manager Clint  way. It probably just helped me  Athletics 10-8 Tuesday night.  
Burrell,  who  batted  .190  Vinny Castilla hit a tiebreaking  Hurdle said. "That's vintage  out because I didn't think about  "For a minute, I thought the  
against the Ca:dinals last sea­ three-run double in the eighth  Coors Field right there where  anything except just three more  ball was going to hook outside,"  
son, went 4-for-4. He had RBI  inning, and Jeromy Burnitz  the last bucket wins."  outs, or six more outs.  Sierra said. "I saw the ball was  
doubles in the first and third,  homered  twice  to  lead  the  Royce Clayton tied the game  "If we would have gone extra  turning to the line."  
walked and scored in the sixth  Colorado  Rockies  over  the  at 10 with a two-out single off  (innings), it would have been a  Sierra paused for a moment to  
against Morrh;, added a  run­ Florida Marlins 13-10 Tuesday  Nate Bump after the Rockies  real battle for me. I don't know  watch, then took off after chalk  
scoring single in the seventh off  night.  loaded the bases on a double by  if  I  would  have  made  it  kicked up near the corner.. The  
Cal Eldred ancl singled in the  "I told our guys that it was  Johnson, a hit batsman and a  through," Moeller said.  go-ahead, two-run hit ·came  
ninth.  those other things, not the home  walk against Chad Fox (0-1).  Hall's home run made sure he  after a sloppy, frustrating game  
Bobby Abre ll had two hits  run  that  beats  you  here,"  Brewers 9, Reds 8  didn't have to. Hall was quick to  in  which  most  everything  
with a homer and two walks as  McKeon said. "They hit five  Chad Moeller felt awful - credit his sick teammate, how­ seemed go against the Yankees.  
the  Phillies'  3-4-5  batters  home runs, but it was the walks,  except at the plate.  ever.  Trailing 8-4 and in danger of  
reached base 11 times in their  singles and a double that got us  Fighting muscle aches and  "Those are the times when  their fifth straight defeat, the  
first 12 at-bat>. going 6-for-7  tonight."  chills  the  past  you have your best games," Hall  defending AL champions sud­ 
with five walks. Jim Thome,  Burnitz,  few  days,  the  said. "It means you are not try­ denly broke loose and handed  
who was 9-for-20 with five homers and 10 RBis against the Cardinals last s'3ason, walked in  Charles Johnson and Matt Holliday hit con­ "They hit five home runs, but it was the  Milwaukee Brewers catcher hit for the cycle  ing to do as much. "It's just like Michael.Jordan in the playoffs." Moeller homered in the sec­ Oakland its fourth loss in a row. Yankees starter Mike Mussina failed to hold an early lead and  
his first two plate appearances and was 2-for-3. Diamondbacks 10, Cubs 1 The Chicago Cubs have gone  secutive home runs to start the third inning, the second time in  walks, singles and a double that got us tonight."  Tuesday night in a 9-8 victory over the Cincinnati Reds.  ond inning, doubled in the fourth, tripled in the fifth and singled in the seventh, becoming the first Brewers player to com­ was looking at a clubhouse tele­vision when the comeback began with a couple of soft sin­gles and a pair of walks. He still  
from blowout winners to blown  franchise histo­ The  Brewers  plete  the  cycle  since  Paul  wasn't sure when the ball left  
out losers in a hurry. Brandon Webb allowed four hits in seven scoreless innings,  ry Colorado has hit three straight homers.  Jack McKeon Marlins manager  rallied from an 8-6 deficit in the ninth inning and  Molitor in 1991. Obtained from Arizona last offseason in the Richie Sexson  Sierra's bat. "Before that, it would've been a foot foul, the way we were  
Chad Tracy hit his first major  "We've  been  won  on  pinch­ trade,  Moeller  is  the  fifth  going," he said.  
league homer and the Arizona  taking  some  hitter Bill Hall's  Brewers player to accomplish  Bernie Williams started the  
Diamondbacks routed the Cubs  beatings in the last few days and  two-out, two-run homer off clos­ the feat.  rally with a single that ended his  
for the second night in a row,  to give up a lot of runs and to  er Danny Graves.  Yankees 10, Athletics 8  0-for-13 rut and capped it with  
10-1 on Tuesday.  battle back tonight. It's emotion­ Moeller was in the dugout tun­ Even Ruben Sierra figured his  an RBI grounder. Sierra, batting  
Chicago came to Phoenix on a  al," Burnitz said. "It's a good  nel near a heater when he saw  shot would go foul.  for  Miguel  Cairo,  put  the  
six-game win 11ing streak  - feeling to come back like that.  Hall's line drive leave the park  Yet in a twist of the Yankees'  Yankees ahead 9-8 with his  
beating oppon£:nts 39-5 in the  Especially when we were down  on television.  fortune, Sierra's drive smacked  bases-loaded double off Ricardo  
process  - hut  has  been  pretty much most of the game."  "I really do feel under the  down squarely on the left-field  Rincon that somehow stayed  
outscored  19-1  by  the  Burnitz also threw out two  weather," he said. "My whole  line for a pinch-hit double, high- fair.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLAS~SIFIEDS 

Wanted-Old paintings, especially  2003 Honda Civic EX. Four door, 5­ Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4  NEW LISTING 1 bed, 1 bath Oakhill  
Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­ speed, moon roof, ABS, CD player,  bdrms close to NO. Spring, summer  condo safe area within walking dis- 
NOTICES  9359  full and extended warranty. Silver metallic paint, tinted windows.  FoR RENT  or fall. 235-3655.  lance (really) to campus, security patrolled, immediate availability  
Excellent condition, 9000 miles.  Stay at Homestead Bed and  $750 to rent or $85K to buy  
Get the "bleep" out of the cold! Mexico/Caribeean on y $125 each  fOR SALE  $15,195, obo.Call Maura, 286-3236.  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM  Breakfast for football games. 574­277-9834  
way all taxes includec. Other world­wide destinations cheap. Book on­ Why pay a landlords mortgage?  Bike (Needs Work) $25 or BO Call Nicole.634-1447  mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525  VERY NICE 3bdrm home near  PERSONALS  
line www.airtech.com or (212) 219­ Duplex 4 sale. Live in one, let the  Corbys(East Bank area).  
- 7000.  other pay your  21 spd. Mongoose Red/White  DOMUS PROPERTIES...HAS A 8  Washer&Dryer-Aiarm-Basement- UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
mortgage. Close to ND and down- Mountain Bike. Paid 220 new, $60  BEDROOM HOUSE. ..  H20 soflner-large yard-off street  not go it alone. If you or someone  
town. Call Kim at 574-245-5040.  obo.Great shapel  2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BED- parking.Call Joe Crimmins:cell#514­ you love needs confidential support  
WANTED  Bike+Lock $25, Desk $30, Bed  Call Matt, 419-957-2154  ROOM DUPLEX... AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE  0643 home#273-0002.  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  
$100, Desk Chair $10, mini-PA  12' Black KLH Floor Speakers,  FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL  Rooms available in 2-bed apt this  more information, see our bi-weekly  
Part-Time Sales and !:lock person  $100. Call Dave  150W, great condition, sound per- YEAR....  summer. Great community, reason- ad in THE OBSERVER.  
needed at'the Futon F"actory for  234-5630  feet. $50 for pair!  WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO  able price. ghan@nd.edu  
2004 Summer.  Matt@ 419-957-2154  LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006  Goodbye, seniors. We will miss you  
5632 Grape Rd.  Moving to College Park? Furniture  SCHOOL YEAR. ..  3 Bdrm. house near NO. Alarm,  all.  
273-2660.  for sale: 3 beds, 2 desks, dining  21spd. Mongoose Bike, Red/White.  CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE  cable and internet. Large yard.  
Flexible hours, great 110rk  table, L couch and more. Call  Great Condition, Paid $220 new,  234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR  $1000/mo. Available 5/1/04. Call  Andrew, Scott and Sheila-thanks  
environment!  Aahren or Rob: 271-1637  $60 obo. Matt @419-957-2154  SHOWINGS  514-9999.  for an amazing year.  
- 


-----------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
Congratulations Graduates 
who completed the European Studies Minor! 
Lisa Bonkowski Ryan Brallier Katie Browning Kevin Busen Bonnie Leigh Cockerill Patrick Crotty Brian DeCenzo 
Brendan Hughes Ana Izaguirre Elizabeth Kearns Rose Lindgren Mainon Schwartz Kara Vey Lindsay Zika 
DO EUROPE! 

www.nd.edu(-nanovic 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Deng declares he is available for draft -· 

Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -Duke fresh­man Luol Deng has made him­self available for the NBA draft but is not ruling out a return to school. 
Deng, who led the Blue Devils to the Final Four, will not hire an agent for now, keeping open the option of returning for his sophomore season. He has until June 17 to remove his name from consideration and retain his college eligibility. 
The 6-foot-8 forward issued a statement Tuesday but was not available for comment. 
Duke sports information director Jon Jackson said Deng likely would not comment on the issue until after he has decided whether to return to Durham in the fall. Deng is tak­ing final exams this week, Jackson said. 
"The opportunity to pursue a career in professional basket­ball has been a dream of mine," Deng said in his statement. "With help from my family and coaches, I will continue to gath­er information to make the best possible decision regarding my future." 
Deng, a native of Sudan who came to the United States from England, had an impressive freshman season, averaging 15 points and seven rebounds. Deng was the MVP of the Atlanta Regional and led Duke in scoring in its final three games, inc! uding 16 points in the 79-78 loss to Connecticut in the national semifinals. 
Deng is a versatile forward who can play on the perimeter 
AP 

Luol Deng Issued a statement ... declaring himself for the draft. 
or inside, and he was widely regarded as the No. 2 recruit in his class behind LeBron James. Chris Monter, an analyst who publishes a draft newsletter live times a year, expects Deng will be at least a top 10 pick. 
"Undoubtedly he will be a very high pick," Monter said from Lakeville, Minn. "I think he's going to go high enough that I'd be surprised ... if he came back." 
Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said the school would help examine available draft infor­mation "to help Luol make a decision that is best for him and his family." 
"We're supportive of Luol's decision," Krzyzewski said. 
Deng's father. Aldo Dcng, said it was important to the family that Krzyzewski supported the decision. 

Upcoming Recitals in the Department ofMusic 
Lan Jiang, cello with Kui Min, piano 

Monday, April 26 6 pm, Annen berg Auditorium 
Daniel Bayless, organ 
Tuesday, April 27 8 pm, Sacred Heart Basilica 
Lecture/Recital 

"LeDonne Musical!: 17th Century Women and their Music" Danlelle Svonavec, soprano Darlene Catello,harpslchord Mary Anne Ballard, viola da gamba Wednesday, April 28 7 pm, Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center Saint Mary's College 
Logan Biles, saxophone with Yoko Yamada, piano 
Friday, April 30 5:30pm, Carey Auditorium Hesburgh Library 
Matthew Merten, trombone 
Saturday. May 1 3:30pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Leila Tascheck, violin with Paivi Ekroth, piano 
Sunday. May 2 3 pm, Annen berg Auditorium 
Ivana Sabanosovd, organ 
Sunday, May 2 8 pm, Sacred Heart Basilica 
Mary Waltner, mezzo-soprano with Paivi Ekroth, plano 
Thursday, May 6 1 pm. Annenberg Auditorium 
Rebecca Paul, soprano with Paivi Ekroth, piano 
Thursday, May 6 3 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 


Allevents FREE and open to the public/ For more information call the Department ofMusic at631-6201. 
-

r------­
~ =p=ag=e=2=2=========================================T.=b=e=O=b=~=r=w=r=+==S=P==O=R=T==S=============================~==ed=n=e=sd=a=~=A=p=ri=l=28=,=2=0=04= 
NFL 

Bledsoe renegotiates 
' ~ contract with Buffalo 
Bills quarterback 
signs deal to give 
team salary cap relief 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. -Drew Bledsoe renegotiated his con­tract with the Bills on Tuesday, giving Buffalo nearly $4 million in salary cap relief. 
The new three-year deal, which includes some incentive bonuses, will replace the old contract the Bills assumed when they acquired Bledsoe from New England in 2002. That original deal had seven years remaining 

... on it, including a $7 million bonus due Bledsoe in 
"Drew made some
November. rounder in last The Bills will no concessions for this weekend's draft longer have to pay to Dallas for the
year and the next
that bonus. Cowboys' No. 22
couple of years. " 
"Drew made overall pick. some concessions ''I'll do every­for this year and Tom Donahoe thing I can to the next couple of teach him and
Bills president 
years," Bills presi­dent Tom Donahoe said. "It's not just about shuffiing money." 
The 11-year veteran was scheduled to make a base salary of $5.9 million this season, a fig­ure that would balloon to $12 million in 2008. 
"This is something I'm really excited about," Bledsoe said on a conference c11.ll Tuesday. "At this point in my life, having a little extra money isn't going to make a big change in my life. This allows us to have stability, both personally and within the organ­ization." 
Bledsoe admitted he was hesi­tant to restructure the original deal, saying he was initially will­ing to risk being cut two months into the season if he wasn't per­forming. 

But after realizing the potential negativity of the $7 million bonus looming over the organization throughout the summer and into the fall, Bledsoe sought out Donahoe. 
"I know it would have been a distraction, one way or the other," Bledsoe said. "I've learned over my career that the more you can alleviate distrac­tions the better off you are." 
The renegotiation comes after Buffalo traded for a first-round pick in the NFL draft on Saturday to select Tulime quar­terback J.P. Losman . The team hopes to groom Losman as Bledsoe's successor. 
Besides dealing away their first-round pick next year, the 
Bills also sent a 
second-and fifth­
help him along 

and help him develop as a quarterbac.k," Bledsoe said about Losman. "There certainly won't be any information withheld from him byrne." 
Despite selecting Losman, the Bills maintained Bledsoe is their starter heading into next season. 
"We still have great confidence in Drew, and we've told Drew that," Donahoe said. "But we have to prepare for tomorrow." 
Bledsoe was supposed to be the team's quarterback for the long-term future when Buffalo acquired him from New England. He was strong in his first season in Buffalo, setting 10 franchise passing records and helping the Bills to an 8-8 finish -a big turnaround for a team that won only three games in 2001. 
Adam Wilson Congratulations d Happy21st 
Birthday! May 1st 2004: You were born to be Irish. 

ewlsHall 
wishes to sav 
THANK YOU 


to all of the generous participants and sponsors of the Chicken Run. over $500 was raised for breast cancer research. Special Thanks to our Sponsors Chili's &Papa Vino's 



Ifvou were aftrst, second, or third place Winner in the race and have not claimed vour prize, please email ikeegan@nd.edu 

Don't Dump it! 
!f

Donate it! 
Help save alife. 
Your used clothing, furniture and yes, even automobiles can give someone else a new start. 
Drop your donation off at The Salvation Army Thrift Store located at 2009 South Bend Ave. or call 288-2539. 
Register to win a $1 00 Best Buy Gift Card 


-
.. 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 page 23 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Lobos might use live wolf as team mascot 

Check Us Out ! ! ~~:..___ ~:r.!tt••www.homecityice.comHomeDilJIIoB HomeOttyloa ~y ~....SUMMERHElP q,r~~~!ts ~re,~ Ngf e~~~!~nu~!~~~ak~! Flexible Hours & GREAT PAY ! ! We offer 10-40+ hours I week Route Delivery Positions Right Here in South Bend $8.00 -$11.00 per hour 234-5309 Located just minutes from Campus! We Also Have Facilities in Other Cities, Call Us!  
Kentucky -Springfiled -Attica -Cleveland West Virginia -Lexington -Chicago -North Webster -Toledo -Milton -Bowling Green -Decatur -Ft. Wayne -Bucyrus -Parkersburg Tennessee -Bloomington -Crown Point -Columbus Pennsylvania -Nashville Indiana Ohio Michigan -Erie Illinois -South Bend -Cincinnati -Detroit -Pittsburg -Peoria -Indianapolis -Dayton -Kalamazoo  
No experience neessary. No special license required. Train in one facility during school and work during summer break. We offer Schedule Flexibility. Start training NOW. Schedule an interview A.S.A.P. www.homecityice.com  
The University ofNotre Dame's The John J. Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values Is pleased~to announce that the following students have been awarded the distinction of fohn f. Reilly Scholar In The Five Year Double Deg~·ee Program in Arts and Letters/Engineering Class of 2004 Thomas Summers Haight Caitlin Mary J(ilroy Daniel Bernard Masse  

Ass9ciated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE -The University of New Mexico's ath­letic department is considering using a live silver wolf as a mascot to rev up fans during next season's home football games. 
Joe Weiss, an assistant athlet­ic director, said the department will have to consider a number of issues, including safety, before a decision is made. 
"There are a lot of things we would need to look at, primari­ly safety -the animal's safety 
~ and the fans' safety," Weiss said. The 2-year-old silver wolf, which belongs to a UNM profes­sor, made its debut during the team's Cherry-Silver spring football scrimmage on April 10. "It's something we've talked about as a staff that would be neat for fan entertainment," 
Weiss said. "We brought it out for the spring game just to sec what would happen. It was on the (northeast) concourse, just kind of meeting and greeting people, if a wolf can actually meet and greet. And the trial run went very well." 
The Lobos experimented with a live mascot in the past, Weiss said. 
During an Oct. 28. 1989 home loss to Wyoming, All­American wide receiver Terance Mathis said he was nipped by the wolf after throw­ing a block and rolling out of bounds. 
Mathis wasn't hurt. but he was quoted as saying at the time, "He sure scared me. I've got tooth marks in my pants." 
Weiss said coach Hocky Long and athletic director Hudy Davalos would ultimately deter­mine this wolfs fate as a mas­cot. 

MLB 
Appier out with strained muscle 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Royals pitcher Kevin Appier will be out four to six weeks with a strained muscle that could be related to his elbow surgery. 
Appier, the only right-hander in Kansas City's rotation, came out in the second inning against Minnesota ~n Friday night. He had surgery in the offseason for a torn flexor tendon in his right elbow. 
He lasted only 15 pitches against the Twins before leaving with a strained muscle in his right forearm. 
"The muscle he strained works in conjunction with the muscle­tendon area that was surgically repaired," trainer Nick Swartz said. "The same muscle action that's used in throwing, this muscle works in conjunction with it." 
Appier, 36, was re-signed by the Hoyals last September after being released by Anaheim. A 15-year major league veteran, he has a 169-137 career record. ninth on the active wins list. He pitched for the Royals from 1989-99 and holds the club record with 1,456 strikeouts. 
Appier was 0-1 in one start this year with a 13.50 ERA. 
"It means we go backwards from where he was the other night with regard to where he is pitching-wise," Swartz said. "In the big picture, this will heal. It's a muscular strain, so these things do heal." 
Manager Tony Pena said he was unsure who would replace Appier in the rotation, although left-hander Dennys Heycs is a possibility. 
"It's very tough," Pena said. "Not only for him, but for every­body in this organization. Appier is one of those guys. he works so hard and he wants to do this so bad. He wants to show every­body in baseball that he still has some time left. 
"Now we just have to wait. He was starting to throw the ball real well." 
Also, first baseman Mike Sweeney was out of the starting lineup for the fifth straight game with a strained wrist. 

In town for the game? Why ~----.. 
not stay with family? Gramma's House B&B. Now taking reservations for the 2004 football season and 2005 Graduation. 
'lilll.t1ll; 
··~ 

2 miles north ofthe Notre Dame Toll Road exit (77). Group rates for parties of6. Phone 57 4-272-3999 



page 24 Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
... NBA 
Hornets sting Heat and tie series at two apiece 

74 on a 3-point play with 4:43 throws with 12 seconds remain­Lenard had 28 points and left that got the crowd on its ing at the other end. But Andre Miller 13 for Denver, but star feet. Miller missed a shot in the lane rookie Carmelo· Anthony had 
The Timberwolves pushed it and Lenard was nowhere close just two points on 1-for-16 back to a six-point lead, but on a turnaround at the buzzer. shooting against Hassell and Voshon Lenard hit a 3-pointer Game 5 is Friday in spent the final minutes of the and had a steal that led to Minnesota. fourth quarter waving a towel another 3 that made it 81-80 Minnesota played without from the bench. with 1:14left. sixth man Wally Szczerbiak, Anthony struggled from the 
Latrell Sprewell answered who broke three vertebrae in a start, missing all nine shots in with a 3-pointer !n the corner, nasty fall in Game 3, but got 14 the first half and had a runner then Nene scored on a dunk to points from defensive specialist from half~ourt waved off make it 84-82 with 18 seconds Trenton Hassell and 15 from because it came after the left. Sprewell missed two free Sam Cassell. buzzer. 
Summer is now in session. 
Welcome to Summer Session I at Holy Cross College. 
Holy Cross College offers a wide variety of transferable credit courses this summer for students who want a chance to complete additional course work. Courses in anthropology, biology, English composition, British literature, precalculus, philosophy, photography and many more are taught. 
You can easily plana schedule that meets your needs and interests. Courses are open to current stUdents an.<:l visiting students from .other colleges. Classes begin May 17. 
For mq:r:e information, .contact adt;tiissions@hcc-nd.edu or call 574~239-8400. 

. ...; 
HOLY CROSS 
COLLEGE~\ ,::< 
at Notre Dame, Indiana tf' ;.;1 
574-239-8400 • admissions@hcc-nd.edu 
www.ticc-nd.edu 

.. ,.::,,.•':·:.  .... ·..  ·: ., .::.. .  . .  ..  .•  .  ~·.  . .·.  .  .  ··.  : '  ·:..  . .:. ..,.  .' . . .....  : :  ..  
.. ... ..  ....  . . .  ~· ,:·  •'  ···:  
,•,  .... "• ~: . .  : . .  . . ·=·: .·:·:~;::_:::;··  :-: •' ···:..;:::.;...  .  . . . •. ....  .;.  .:  

1!161l•~·a·······,········r~fMllJ~mlti!l 
Don't miss it! 

Meet the author Mark Pearson 
Europe from a Backpack 
April 29th, 7:00pm 


HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.c:am 
Baron Davis leads Hornets with 23 points and 10 assists in 96-85 victory 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS-The New Orleans Hornets have stopped showing their age and started showing off their experience. 
Baron Davis had 23 points and 10 assists, while 13-year veteran Stacy Augmon came off the bench for 17 points, includ­ing two shot clock beaters in the final period. The Hornets evened their first-round playoff series with a 96-85 victory over the Miami Heat in Game 4 
.... Tuesday night. 
"Things are starting to come together," Davis said. "Tying it up 2-2 puts a little more pres­sure on them to hold serve on their home court. We're going in there with the utmost confi­dence. We just have to play to our experience." 
Miami was hurt by a late mis­take by rookie Dwyane Wade, who failed to inbound the ball before the requi­
... site five seconds 
Augrrion and another veteran role player, George Lynch, com­bined to shoot 11-for-16 as Lynch finished with 11 points. 
"Showing your age is a mis­conception. Those first two games we took a lot of bad shots on their floor," Lynch said. "We like to say the older you get, the smarter you become as a basketball player, and when you've got [opponents] that are more athletic and faster, you've got to find a way to slow it · down and keep them from play­
ing to their strengths." 
Miami coach Stan Van Gundy called small forwards Augmon and Lynch "the guys that really hurt us." 
"For them to get 28 points at that position ... they just domi­nated that spot today," Van Gundy said. 
Some of New Orleans' tougher shots fell, as well, such as two double-pump 3s by Davis. Tlmberwolves 84, Nuggets 82 
Kevin Garnett 's determina­tion has the Minnesota Timberwolves within a game of reaching the second round. 
Garnett had 27 points, 14 
rebounds  and  five  assists  
Tuesday  night,  
helping  the  

with 53.6 seconds "Tying it up 2-2 Timberwolves hold left and the off the Denver
puts a little more
Hornets leading Nuggets 84-82 for 
pressure on them
88-82. a 3-1 series lead. After that, to hold serve on Garnett had sev­Miami was forced eral heated
their home court" 
to foul. New exchanges with the Orleans hit the Nuggets after free throws to Baron Davis being pushed pull away. Hornets guard around in Game 3, 
The series resumes Friday night in Miami. The home team has won every game. 
New Orleans, which looked overwhelmed by a younger, more athletic Miami team after the Heat took Game 2 93-63, looked composed and rarely rushed or forced shots in hitting 50 percent from the floor. 
but kept his cool 

this time. He fin­ished 8-for-17 and was 11-for­15 on free throws to put Minnesota in position to reach the second round first time in eight tries. 
It almost wasn't enough. 
Minnesota led by eight mid­way through the fourth quarter, but Marcus Camby cut it to 76­

Wednesday, May 5th -Friday, May 7th 
-
$1.00 off Shipping PER BOX FREE PICK UP Pickup is free, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. PERMANENT LOCATION: Martin's Plaza-S.R. 23 Hours: M-F 9 am -7 pm Sat: 1 Oam-6pm 277-6245 
------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
Flyers prepare for a tough venue in Toronto 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO -Maple Leafs for­ward Alexander Mogilny has a new stick and renewed attitude. 
''I'm smiling. Heal happy," he said after practice Tuesday. "Everything's great." 
That's a significant change from what happened after Toronto's last game, a 2-1 loss at Philadelphia on Sunday. The loss put the Leafs down 2-0 in their b<~st-of-seven second-round play­ofT series, which resumes in Toronto on Wednesday. 
As the game ended, and after he squandered two scor-ing opportunities in the final five minutes. Mogilny was spotted snapping his stick. 
"No frustration," Mogilny said when reminded of what hap­pened. "The stick was already broken. There's no point of bringing dead weight back to Toronto." 
And that's an attitude that might go for the rest of the Maple Leafs, who need to forget the past and quickly regain their offensive touch. 
The Leafs, who had the NHL's fourth-best offense in the regular season, have rnanaged just two goals in two games against the Flyers. Mogilny banked in a shot off Philadelphia defenseman Mattias Timander 's skate to score in a 3-1 loss in Game 1, and tough guy Tie Domi scored on a deflection Sunday. 
"We've scored two goals in two games, you don't have to look too 
-<"' 
5I 
-a
:r 

Thu~doy~ April29, 2004 0 --1 
g pm -::::c 
Washington Hall ~ m A.dmi$5iQn i~ FREE -< 
featuring ~tudant z 
winneflo .of the 2003-2004 NO 
Oo 


.. --t 
Stravinsky --FirebinJ Suire ":::o Rathmaninov --Pia110 Conc:etto 113 
:rm 

Paivi Ekroth, piano 
Arutun~n --Trompet Conceno CD 
··········~ 
Ry(Jtl Berndt, ln.rmpet ~~tO 
..)>
..
lim ~ 


far for an answer," Mogilny said. "The bottom line is we've got to ­generate more offense. You can't win a lot of games scoring one goal a game." That's the challenge for the banged-up squad. Owen Nolan (leg) is out; leading playoff scorer Joe Nieuwendyk (back) probably won't play for a second straight game; and captain Mats Sundin is playing with an injured left leg. 
More troublesome is that Toronto's offensive woes haven't come just against Philadelphia. The Leafs managed just 14 goals in seven games to eliminate 
Ottawa in the opening round. 
AP


In an effort to rekindle the 
Simon Gagne, 12, of the Philadelphia Flyers scores on Maples
their offense, coach Pat Quinn 
Leafs goalie Ed Belfour on Thursday.
had Sundj.n, Mogilny and Gary Hoberts playing on the same line in practice. chances but not finishing them Francis and Chad Kilger . His 
"Obviously, our scoring hasn't off, and hopefully we'II find some hope is that Domi's presence and been a strong part of our playoffs scoring here someplace soon." ability to dig in the corners will series," Quinn is also considering put­clear room for Francis' play­
Quinn said. "We are generating ting Domi on a line with Ron making skills. 

·-----------------------------------------------------

Open Stud:)' Ho1u:r.s.:: 
""'-pril 30 S:a:1rn to .3:00a.nll J\.'Tidnigb·t Snacks! 
1''>"1.ay 1 8a.r.n t-o 3:OOam 1\>l:.idoi.ght: S.nac.ks! 
1\ila:'l'' :z 8am t:o 3:00am .i'<J.idnigbt Snacks! 
l<'ina.l.s '"''eek:: l'\il:ay' 3-6 S.ant: t.o 3:00:al'n 
*'1'\-"'ay 7 I>e.D:artollo closes 30 n:ainultcs a:f'l:cr .last 
scheduled exam ;through tl:~c RL"gist·rar"'s O·t"llcc_ 
36 No:n-t:echnology roo:ms.,. t"i.rs:t: come/ tl.rs't se,rve 
See Buildz,.-,g· S'I.'IJJ<porr .Perso,• if.J~oz<~ hat•e sp.ec~.c #Seeds: ..R.OOI#¥ .L 03~ 104. 
c:::·oJen•an-f\>'lorse:: l"'. 'l'""loor J.ounge '7:00:an1-4am daily_ sa..ne d.at.es as listed above• .Al~vays-·F:.-cc Sn:a.c.ks! 
0 
10Shaughne.ss,y:: R<.11o.~s ~n-'uilub.le.for open ~~.u.dy e ..:"'Cc:eps.· K'"he#6 sched.u.l.ed by L'II.e ReJi:isLrar":v office. Apr.il 2.9 Sam t:u 3:00a.m April 30 Sam t:o 3::00an:~. 1'\ot":ay 1 8al'n :•:o 3:00:ar:n 1.\.>fay 2 S:a.r.n :to 3 :OOa:n!t 
-

Finals '\<Ve<.~k:: l"\il.a)'· 3-6 Barn C:o 3:00ana Sunday I :00(>011: to 3:00am,. 1\tl'ond.a.y-Tbursday 5::00()rn-3:OOam~ R.cunns:: l 08.,. 1 09,. 204.~ 206~ :207~ 208, 209• 
..v~~u..c:T...N d~1rr:ing Sru~j•· D:a...1>•s cou.IT.es:y• .o_jf:: 
.8.usi'n<L•&.'f: £.i'.J'~<£·ra·l.i.:11'.n .;.· 
c~U'.trnpu·.')!l lfi:li.r.·~~$1':;J.I 
.sr~d'C#:U 'C)"tr~io.n. Board 

Wednesday, April 28, 2004 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 

Arguments continue in Bryant rape case 
Friends, ex-boyfriend testify as judge decides on admissibility of accuser's sexual history 
Associated Press 

EAGLE, Colo. -Kobe Bryant's sexual assault case returned to closed hearings Tuesday while a judge decides whether the sexu­al history of the NBA star's accuser can be used against her at trial. 
More than two dozen witness­es -including the 19-year-old woman's friends, former boyfriends and college room­mates -have testified in closed hearings this spring after being called by attorneys for the Los Angeles Lakers' guard. Nine defense witnesses testified in private Monday. 
Prosecutors were expected to call their own witnesses Tuesday. Witness lists are sealed, but in a court filing Monday prosecutors said they would present their side once the defense is finished. 
State District Judge Terry Ruckriegle also was expected to resume a hearing on another key issue: whether certain evi­dence should be thrown out because it was gathered illegally. 
Bryant's attorneys argue that investigators improperly ques­tioned him and improperly exe­cuted a search warrant. Prosecutors say he voluntarily spoke with investigators and handed over evidence, including a T-shirt stained with the woman's blood and a rape kit performed on Bryant. 

Among the witnesses who tes­tified Monday were Johnray Strickland, a former boyfriend who met the alleged victim last year at the University of Northern Colorado, and Eagle County sheriff's Detective Doug Winters. 
The defense says injuries found on the woman could have been caused by sex with multi­ple partners before and after her encounter with Bryant. The prosecution says the sexual his­tory is irrelevant in determining whether the woman was assaulted. 
"If they can put on credible evidence that she had sex after Kobe Bryant and before she went to the cops, I'm not sure we're even going to have a trial," said Craig Silverman, a former prosecutor who is follow­ing the case. "That one fact alone would cause reasonable doubt for one or more of the jurors." 
Cel.ebrate Chili'S'j:lNew Look ' May Jrd -7th 
You're inviTed fo experience our new confemporary decor inciudtne 

AII day. May 3rd -7+h. enjoy: ~11 Double Order of Classic Fajitas 19-99 Premium Fajifas Marg.arifa and Coronifa Specials 
Re9iafer fo WIN Jimmy BoffeH. Ozzfes4, Clu<:aeo Cubs ~ Incly 500 Ticke~f9.* 

.: ., 
Mishawaka 4810 Grape Rd.
liS® 
& BAR 574-271-1330 
~ vaiid &y :3'-? ocly :tf 'flm Mizlhawab. Cilil.i'a loarl:i.oa Ml2ri br. 2:1 wdh v~lid tJ"'.nTt:fil~e<n ~ ~DI!Uonm~ aJ~r 'W'h~rut~r. "W1 rr bit Ji-Jawn Qn• FrtJ.ay. l"l:.iiy 7 fr.ollm 5 7 p.m. .N-d llflrl' be ~ to 'Win. 

CONGRATULATIONS 
LONDON AND OXFORD PROGRAM STUDENTS 
in the 

-
Class of 2004 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 

The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
OLYMPICS 
Senate committee obtains documents 
It was not immediately clear
New secret BALCO 
whether the documents documents could include grand jury testimony. Dozens of elite athletes,deter drug cheaters including track star Marion Jones, were asked by the fed­
Associated Press 
eral grand jury in San 
SAN FHANCISCO -A Senate Francisco about steroids. committee obtained secret Since grand jury proceed­documents that could help U.S. ings are secret, it's unclear Olympic officials keep drug whether McCain's committee cheaters out of the Athens could give the USOC or the Games. USADA access to such materi­
The Justice Department's al. McCain has promised to deeision to turn over the mate­keep the material secret, but rials subpoenaed by the he also has vowed to use the Commerce Committee was documents to make sure the considered virtually unprece­U.S. team is drug-free for the dented during a federal inves­Athens Games. tigation. Legal scholars said Tuesday 
Still, it's unclear whether they were shocked the docu­anti-doping authorities will ments had been turned over have access to the documents, to McCain's committee in the obtained during the grand jury middle of an investigation, probe of an alleged steroid­and said the law is murky on distribution ring. whether such material can be 
The Commerce Committee, passed on to the USOC or the chaired by Sen. John McCain, anti-doping agency. H-Ariz., had sought "docu­Jones, who won five medals ments relating to U.S. amateur in the 2000 Olympics, and athletes' alleged purchase of Montgomery, the world banned performance-enhanc­record-holder at 100 meters, ing substances from the Bay repeatedly have denied Area Laboratory Co-Operative steroid use. An attorney for (known as BALCO) and their Jones said she never received possibl~ use of such sub­steroids from Conte. An attor­stances. ney for Conte said he never 
U.S. Olympic officials hope to provided steroids to Jones or use such documents to open Montgomery, and never gave their own cases against admit­such information to federal ted drug cheaters -invoking agents. a U.S. Anti-Doping Agency rule Jones' attorney, Joseph barring athletes who acknowl­Burton, said he welcomed the edge the use of steroids and release of the documents to other banned substances. McCain's committee. 
IOC gets insuranc~ for Athens· 

$170 million IOC policy guards against natural disasters, terrorism 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Guarding against terrorism and natural disasters in Athens, the IOC took the unprecedented step of buying insurance in case the Olympics are called off. 
The International Olympic Committee's $170 million policy guarantees that the organiza­tion and affiliated national com­mittees and sports federations have enough money to continue operations. The policy would not compensate individual vic­tims. 
The policy also doesn't cover corporate sponsors and TV net­works, which have billions of dollars riding on the Athens Games. Many have their own insurance, and city organizers underwrite their own liability coverage. 
IOC president Jacques Rogge said Tuesday insurance was "standard prudent judgment" and reflects no lack of confi­dence in the Aug. 13-29 games, which have been troubled by construction delays and security worries. 
The IOC would not be covered if the games are called off because of the delays, IOC finance chairman Richard Carrion said. 
The Athens Olympics, the tirst Summer Games since the Sept. 11 terror attacks, will be the most heavily guarded in history. The security budget is nearing $1 billion -more than three times the amount spent on pro­tecting the 2000 Sydney Games. 
Aside from terrorism, insur­ance experts say the main risk in Athens would be from earth­quakes. The city straddles a fault line, and 143 people died in a quake in 1999. 
Athens 2004 spokesman Stratos Safioleas said the organ­izing committee had no com­ment "on an IOC policy that concerns not just Athens, but the Olympic Games in general." 
The IOC is paying about $6.8 million for the policy, and the syndicate is led by New York­based insurance giant American International Group Inc., according to two Olympic sources who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Joe Norton, spokesman for AGI in New York, declined to comment, saying the company had a policy of not breaching clients' confidentiality. 
negotiate individual cancellation policies for future Olympics, including the 2006 Winter Games in Turin, Italy, 2008 Summer Games in Beijing and 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver. 
Rogge said security has long been the IOC's top priority and that Greece has done "every­thing humanly possible" to safe­guard the games. 
The Athens policy protects the bulk of the 28 international sports federations on the Olympic program and the 202 national Olympic committees represented at the games. Many of those organizations rely heavily on games-related rev­enue. 
"We will certainly have the required amount after the suc­cessful completion of the Athens Games," Carrion said. 
The policy covers full and par­Rogge said the IOC began tial cancellation for a "whole exploring insurance coverage in range of issues such as terror­2001, but the industry was ism, earthquake, flooding, land­reluctant to offer terrorism cov­slides, things like that," Rogge erage after the Sept. 11 attacks. told The Associated Press by The IOC had no coverage for the phone from Lausanne, 2002 Winter Games in Salt Lake Switzerland. City. 
Carrion said the IOC negotiat­Carrion said the IOC also con­ed the bulk of the coverage sidered taking out a credit line before the March 11 bombings to absorb the bulk of the risk, or in Madrid, Spain, that killed 191 a combined insurance-credit 
323 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
people. arrangement for Athens and 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Rogge said the IOC also will Beijing. 
(574) 631-0487 www.nd.edu/"'cas 
GTCR 
PAI.TNF.RS WlTH MANAGEMENT IN PRIVATE EQ.lJI1'Y
SPRING CELEBRATION 
Student International Business Council 
LBO Group 
Thu~day,April 29,2004 
Announcing Tender offer for 100% Buyout of 
2 to 4 p.m. 


Inspire, Inc. and Imagine, Inc. • 
320 1 323 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
The Center for Asian Studies invites the University 

..... 
of Notre Dame community to inaugurate our new home. Please join us for refreshments, music, and conversation about Asia . 
*This. is merrl)' an advcrtiscmcnl 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
NHL 

Richards goal all but eliminates Canadiens 
page 28 The Observer + SPORTS 

- Associated Press  he scored off a faceoff at 16:13. The Lightning have won two  at 12:24. Rydet, the league's rookie  
MONTREAL -Brad Richards  playoff series in their history,  scoring leader during the sea­ 
and the Tampa Bay Lightning  one in each of the last two  son, scored his first goal in 10  
stole the thunder from the  years, but have never advanced  playoff games 10:32 into third  
Montreal Canadiens and all but  with a sweep.  to tie it at 2.  
knocked them out of the play­ Lecavalier, who scored four  Brisebois gave the Canadiens'  
offs.  goals in the first two games of  hope of getting back into the  
Richards scored his second  the series, forced overtime  series when he beat Khabibulin  
goal of the game 1:05 into over­ when he stuck his stick through  with 2:4 7 left on a shot from  
time to give Tampa Bay a 4-3  his legs to redirect Dave  the right boards after Jim Dowd  
win Tuesday night over  Andreychuk's pass behind  won a faceoff in Tampa Bay's  
Montreal and lift the Lightning  Theodore at 19:43.  zone.  
to a 3-0 lead in the second­ The enthusiastic sellout  Calgary 3, Detroit 2  
round playoff series.  crowd let out a stunned gasp as  Jarome Iginla scored a  
With one more victory, the  Lecavalier banged his stick  power-play goal and Martin  
Lightning will reach the confer­ against the glass behind the net  Gelinas had two assists, leading  
ence finals for the first time in  while Richards joined him in  Calgary to a victory over the  
their 12-year NHL history. That  celebration.  Detroit Red Wings in Game 3 of  
could come as early as  NHL scoring champion Martin  the second-round playoff series.  
Thursday night with Game 4 in  St. Louis and Lecavalier, both  The Flames. feeding off the  
Montreal.  Montreal natives, had plenty of  energy from a raucous home  
Vincent Lecavalier scored his  family and friends in atten­ crowd, lead the best-of-seven  
fifth goal of the series with 16.5  dance, though they had little  Western Conference semifinal  
seconds remaining in regula­ chance being heard over the  2-1. Calgary, which won the  
tion to send the game to over­ partisan crowd.  series opener in Detroit, will  
time.  The Canadiens came out  host Game 4 on Thursday.  
Richards, who scored his sec­ aggressively in the first period  APStephane Yelle and Shean  
ond goal of the playoffs to put  when referees Paul Devorski  Tampa Bay Lightning forward Vincent Lecavaller gives a handDonovan also scored for the to the face of Montreal Canadien Andrei Markov In Game 3. 
Tampa Bay up 2-1 in the sec­ and Rob Shick handed out 34  Flames.  
ond, got his own rebound and  minutes in penalties including  Robert Lang and Jiri Fischer  
banked a shot from behind the goal line off the left skate of  nine minors against Montreal. Stillman scored on his second  scored for the Red Wings. A two-day rest between  The Red Wings played with­out veteran defenseman Chris  The Flames escaped from a wild, five-goal second period  
goalie Jose Theodore and into  straight breakaway chance 58  games seemed to help the  Chelios, who was injured  with a 3-2 lead.  
the net for the winner.  seconds into the Canadiens'  Flames, who beat the older Red  Saturday after a hit by  Lang silenced the roaring,  
Nikolai Khabibulin made 28  second power play of the game,  Wings to loose pucks and mixed  Calgary's Oleg Saprykin. Chelios  sellout crowd when he opened  
saves, and Cory Stillman scored  8:41 into the middle period.  in speed to complement their  returned to that game but was  the scoring at 1:17, catching  
a short-handed goal for Tampa  The Canadiens tied it on the  grit.  unable to play Tuesday.  Kiprusoff out of position.  
Bay. Montreal rookie Michael  same power play when Alex Kovalev scored his sixth goal of  Detroit, which had the NHL's best record in the regular sea­ Calgary defenseman Rhett Warrener also didn't play. He  Yelle tied it at 3:38 when his shot from the boards ticked  
Ryder scored his first goal of  the playoffs 52 seconds later.  son, outshot Calgary 12-5 in the  was hit in the eye and across  defenseman Mathieu  
the playoffs midway through the third, and Patrice Brisebois  Richards quieted the crowd again when he put a point shot  third period but couldn't get the tying goal past goalie Miikka  the bridge of the nose by he stick of Detroit captain Steve  Schneider's stick and deflected through the pads of Detroit's  
put the Canadiens up 3-2 when  past Theodore on a power play  Kiprusoff.  Yzerman in Game 2.  Curtis Joseph.  

-
The Notre Dame chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, Epsilon of Indiana, congratulates and welcomes its new members 
Elizabeth Anne Bax Lauren Beck Katherine Anna Belden Randi Nicole Belisomo Brian Philip Borchard Jennifer Marie Bradley Aidan Terence Brett Matthew Steven Brock Jodie Ann Bryk Brent Christopher Burish Lauren Chamblee Bonnie Leigh Cockerill Michael Joseph Conte Brendan David Crawford Matthew Spencer Currie 
Rebecca Danielle Curtin 
Mara Elizabeth Daiga 

David Henry Daniels II Lisa Marie Danzig Catherine A. DeCarlo Jeffrey Alfred Drocco Carolyn Anne Dunne 
Brendan Charles Dwyer 
Rachel Emma Endress Liam Joseph Healey Farrell 
Matthew James Farrell Erin Marie Fitzpatrick Jonathan Noel Frecceri 

Matthew Leslie Friedman Kaitlyn Elizabeth Gilles Shannon Lea Goebel 
Robert Edmund Goedert Justin Kavon Golbabai Elizabeth Mary Gorski 

of the class of 2004 
Brent D. Griffith Brigitte J. Gynther Matthew Sean Heibel David Hogan Heineman Leigh Kernan Hellrung Richard William Herbst Margaret Emily Hunter-Kilmer Christopher John Jankowski Lance Royal Johnson Kevin David Jordan Matthew Michael Killen Michael Ryan Klein Matthew James Kohley Mary Elizabeth Komperda Adam Joseph Krenn Michael Edward Kwiatt William Soran Leahy John Michael Leitner Christopher Joseph Letkewicz Lindsay A. Lutz Christine Griffith Maher Andrea Manka Michael Gregory Marino Timothy Michael Mazzocca Anne Elizabeth McCarley William Edward Mick IV Colin Ryan Monaghan Sarah Ann Moore Nathan Thomas Morrell Mary Loanne Mullen Mary Kathleen Gargan Murphy Andrew John Neiheisel Brendan Daniel O'Connor Katie Marie Olson 
Bwv 

Katherine Michelle Perry Caitlin Elizabeth Polley Brendan Michael Prendergast Diane Margaret Price Margaret Carroll Priest Chrisopher Edwin Ptak Michael Thomas Pykosz Christopher Mark Reilly David Pahl Retchless Michael Thomas Riess Elizabeth Claire Robert Michael J. Romano Gregory Arthur Ruehlmann, Jr. Megan Sue Sanders Gregory Scott Schober Justin Bertin Shaddock Brian Russell Sharp Lindsay Anne Slevinski Kelly Maureen Smith Nadia M. Stefko Sarah Streicher Joshua Mark Stuchlik Kimberly Marie Thompson Collin Michael Torok Elizabeth Grace Urda Gregory Luke Watson Jennifr Marie Wilding John Bernard Wojcik, Jr. Kathryn Angela Wolohan Allison Renee Y anos Norihiro Y ogo Katherine Grace Zakas Mark Andrew Zepf Joseph D. Zizzo 
······································ . -~Y~~py~;-~?.: ... 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 page 29 
The Observer + SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL
NFL 
Browns wait to sign Winslow 
NCAA considers a 
No. 6 overall pick still negotiating a long term contract 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Choosing Kellen Winslow Jr. was easy for the Cleveland Browns. Signing him may not be. 
The Browns traded a second­round pick, swapped first­rounders with Detroit and used the No. 6 overall selection in last weekend's NFL dral'l to select Winslow, a tight end with llall ol' Fame pedigree and potential. 
But before Winslow can begin living up to expectations, the Browns will have to negotiate a long-term contract with his agent, Kevin Poston, who in the hours after the draft began lay­ing down some parameters for talks. 
"A lot of teams had him !Winslow] No. 1 on their board," said Poston, who along with his brother, Carl, arc known for driving a hard bar­gain. 
The Postons also represent St. Louis tackle Orlando Pace, who was franchised by the Hams and is seeking more money. Other Poston clients include New England corner­back Ty Law, San Francisco linebacker Julian Peterson and Washington linebacker LaVar 

nevv BCS bovvl ga111e 
-

11 Division I-A commissioners will base final decision on game's market viability 
The fifth bowl is subject to final approval based on market viability, but all indications point to it being in place when the new BCS contract takes effect before the 2006 season. 
The idea of adding a game to be played after the current BCS bowls -Sugar, Orange, Hose and Fiesta -gained attention after last season's split national championship. 
LSU won the BCS champi­onship by beating Oklahoma in 
..

the Sugar Bowl, but Southern California, which beat Michigan in the Hose Bowl. was voted No. 1 in The Associated Press media poll. 
Had the so-called 'plus-one' model been used last season. LSU and USC would have played in January. 
Tranghese said this week's meetings are about gathering information and plannin&. 
"I don't think we're at a point where we are ready to make a decision," he said. 
Also taking part in the meet­ings are an athletic director from each Division 1-A confer­ence and Notre Dame. 
AP 

Kellen Winslow, a tight end from Miami, holds a Cleveland Browns jersey after being selected sixth In the NFL draft. 
Arrington. All have had con­the next class is 10 percent tract problems. over the previous year. 
The Redskins are currently in However, Poston has already a dispute with the Postons, who indicated Winslow may be an filed a grievance on Arrington's exception to that rule. behalf that claims the team "KelleR ::ould easily be the owes him more than $6.5 mil­LeBrcn James of the Browns," lion. Poston said, referring to the 
The usual starting point for Cavaliers' rookie of the year. 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -A proposal for adding another game that would match the top two tGams after the BCS bowls was discussed by the commission· ers of all 11 Division 1-A col­lege football conferences Tuesday. 
Big East Commissioner Mike Tranghese said the main emphasis of the meeting, wh.ich included representatives from the BCS bowls and ABC Sports, was how to implement a fifth BCS game, which was agreed to in March. 
"How to create it. How to manage it. Where it could be played. The impact a fifth game could have on the system economically," said Tranghese, the BCS coordinator. 
The possibility of a sixth game between the top teams after the BCS games are played was not the focus of the meeting, Tranghese said. 
The Bowl Championship Series agreed to add a fifth game, increasing access for schools not part of college foot­ball's most lucrative postsea­son system. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies Announces the Winners ofResearch and Travel Grants for 2004·2005 
Congratulations to undergraduates: 
Stephanie Aberger (Poland)  Hannah Gornik (Ireland)  
Bridget Brennan (France)  Maureen Hattrup (Ireland)  
Paul Cruickshank (Britain)  Elizabeth Melly (Britain)  

Scott Schaeffer (Britain) 
And to graduate stuaents.· 
Martin Beisswenger (France) Juan Luis Sanchez (Spain) Andrew Orr (Franee) Joseph Paul Vasquez (Britain) 

page 30 Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Maddox meets with Cowher to discuss Roethlisberger 
-
Steelers quarterback angry with draft pick 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -An angered Tommy Maddox met Tuesday with Steelers coach Bill Cowher. presumably to discuss the team's use of a first-round draft pick on quarterback Ben Roethlisberger. 
Maddox, Pittsburgh's starting quarterback for the past two seasons, left the Steelers' train­ing complex without talking to reporters and there was no word on what they discussed. 
The meeting came three days after the Steelers added Roethlisberger. the only quar­terback they have drafted on the first round since 1981. Roethlisberger is expected to become the starter by the 2005 season. 
Maddox initially planned to talk to Cowher on Monday, but told his agent he was too upset to meet then. He also wanted to talk to Steelers chairman Dan Rooney or president Art Rooney II about his contract situation, but it is believed Tuesday's meeting was only with Cowher. 
Maddox, the 2002 NFL come­back player of the year, is upset because the Steelers indicated to him before the draft they would choose a right tackle and not a quarterback. 
Maddox also expected the team would renegotiate his $750,000 salary -currently the lowest for an NFL veteran starting quarterback, but now realizes the addition of Roethlisberger may change that. 
With the Steelers already close to the NFL's salary cap and Roethlisberger all but cer­tain to get the richest rookie contract in their history, it is unlikely they can pay Maddox more money. 
For now, the Steelers plan to go into the season with Maddox as the starter. though Cowher has not ruled out Roethlisberger starting some­time this season. However, some scouts expect Roethlisberger may take longer to become a starter than either the Giants' Eli Manning or the Chargers' Philip Rivers, the quarterbacks drafted ahead of him. 
Despite Maddox's unhappi­ness. Cowher said he doesn't expect Roethlisberger's pres­ence to affect how Maddox plays or practices. Wide receiv­er Plaxico Burress also expects Maddox to respond to the com­petition. 
"''ve been playing with him for two years now and I pretty much know he'll step· up and defend his position," Burress said. 
The Steelers have not said what they would do if Maddox, who will be 33 in September. asks to be released to pursue a job with another team. With nearly every NFL team now set at quarterback in advance of training camp, Maddox may not be able to find a team that would let him compete to start. 
Even if the Maddox goes into the Steelers' training camp in late July as the starter, Cowher will not promise there won't be a training camp competition. 
"I can't tell you right now how that's going to unfold," Cowher said. "I just know that I'm not going to sit here· and say we're not going to do some­thing. I'd like to stay open­minded about it and let it play out. 
"He is our incumbent starter; I'm not saying things can't change." 
Maddox unexpectedly beat out Kordell Stewart to become the Steelers' starter three games into the 2002 season ­10 years after he was first drafted by Denver -and has held the job since. 
Maddox led the Steelers to a 10-5-1 record and the second round of the playoffs that sea­son, throwing for 2,836 yards, 20 touchdowns and 16 inter­ceptions in 13 games. Without the support of an effective run­ning game, Maddox's produc­tion dropped last season as the Steelers slumped to a 6-10 record, even though his 3,414 yards passing were the second most in team history. 
Summer Jobs I Career Lets Revolutionize our Energy Policy Non-profit sector Public Policy Jobs Protect our Environment while Making $400()..$6000 this Summer. Year round work available too Monday-Friday 2-10:30 
www.clta.etorg 
Rapid advancement Travel Opportunities 574-232-7905 South Bend 317-205-3535 Indianapolis 260-423-4492 Fort Wayne 


Introducing the Automation Alley Technology Center In today's globally competitive market, the appetite for new technologies and technology products is voracious. But conceiving great ideas is one thing; turning them quickly into useable, marketable technology solutions is another. Now, researchers, inventors and technology transfer offices have a vital new resource for rapid technology commercialization-the Automation Alley Technology Center. The Center is open for business in the heart of Automation Alley, Southeast Michigan's unique and nationally respected concentration of automotive, manufacturing and other high-tech companies and organizations. 
Technology Center services include: > A high-energy environment that facilitates collaboration with business, industry, government and academia > Expert mentoring and coaching in business, technology, marketing and manufacturing > An efficient, world-class acceleration process and tools for rapid commercialization > Access to seed capital and other resources for meeting development costs > Opportunities for post-development funding from investors and venture capitalists > A high-profile venue for showcasing new technologies and products > Ongoing educattonal forums, seminars and workshops > A multi-industry focus ranging from automotive, defense and advanced manufacturing to alternative energy and nan.otechnology 
m > Partnerships with the National Automotive Center (NAC), the Michigan Eco~om~c Development Corporation (MEDC) NA~ '''" and other key orgamzat1ons ~"""" .......... """ 
For the fastest route from concept to market, visit us at www.automational!eytechcenter.com 
·f=il~ECWN0'L0GvcENTER or caii 1-800-427-5100. 

team 
6o~ton 
Balllmore New York Tampa Bay Toronto 
ttllun 
Minnesota 
Chi~ago 
Detroit Cleveland Kansas City 
toam 
Anaheim Texas Oakland Seattle 
team 
Florida Atlanta 
New Vol'k Montreal 
team 
Chicago 

Cincinnati 
Houston St.louis Milwaukee Pittsburgh 
tent]} los Angeles San Diego Arizona Colorado 

team 
1 Princeton 
2 VIrginia 3 Loyola 4 Maryland 5 Duke 6 Northwustllrn 7 Georgetown a James Madison 9 Johns Hopklll$ 10 Dartmoutb 11 Vanderbilt 12 UHC 13 NOTRE DAME 
14 Yale 14 Syracusa 16 Towson 11 William &Mary 18 Penn State 19 New Hampshire 20 Genrgu Mason 

around the dial 
MLB 

Cleveland at Chicago (AL), 1 :05 p.m., Fox Sports Chicago (NL) at Arizona, 9:35p.m., Fox Sports 
NHL PLAYOFFS Philadelphia at Toronto, 6:00p.m., ESPN San Jose at Colorado, 9:00p.m., ESPN 
OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THr 0BsERVuts wuu SERVtCEs page 31 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

-
Associated Press 

AUBURN, Ala. Auburn's basketball pro­gram was put on two years' probation on Tuesday, with the NCAA cutting one scholarship but clearing the university of major rules violations. 
Auburn was exonerated of accusations involving large sums of money and expensive cars given to high school prospects Chadd Moore and Jackie Butler. But the NCAA found that an AAU coach, Mark Komara, was acting as a representative of Auburn when arranged to wire $3,125 for Butler and get a 1996 Dodge Stratus for Moore. 
Komara is believed to be the first summer league basketball coach designat­ed a representative of a school, said Thomas Yeager, chairman of the NCAA's Division I Committee on Infractions. 
The university, which denied the major accusa­tions, already had imposed its own penalties, includ­ing the loss of one scholar­ship for the 2004"05 sea­son. The NCAA cut that scholarship for 2005-06, too, but did not ban post­season play or televised games. 
"1 think it's always disap­pointing to be called to task by any organization in which you have violated established regulations," Auburn interim President Ed Richardson said. "But I think that it was clearly identified that the sanc­tions that were provided, we feel were justified." 
Hal Baird, athletics assistant to the president, said the sanctions were severe enough to invoke a clause that adds an eighth year to the contract of new coach Jeff Lebo. 
The NCAA cleared Auburn assistant coach Shannon Weaver of offer­ing $50,000 and a car to Moore's mother. Auburn also was found innocent on charges of offering Butler $70,000 and a car worth more than $40,000. 
"The committee found that much of the informa­
tion associated with these allegations was in conflict and thus was not sufficient to support findings," Yeager said. 
Neither player made offi­cial visits to Auburn, and the university had main­tained that neither was offered a scholarship. Both were sophomores at the time of the alleged oiTers. 
Coach Cliff Ellis, who was not implicated by the NCAA, was fired March 18 and replaced by former Chattanooga coach Jeff Lebo. 
Moore and Butler played summer ball for Komara. who the NCAA alleged was a representative of Auburn and was involved in improper recruitment. 
IN BRIEF 

James, Anthony and Wade lead NBA All-Rookie team 
NEW YORK -LeBron James, Carmela Anthony and Dwyane Wade were unanimous members of the NBA All-Rookie Team 
announced Tuesday. ­
Chris Bosh and Kirk Hinrich also made the first team in voting by the league's 29 head coaches. 
James won all six Hookie of the Month awards in the Eastern Conference this season; Anthony won all six in the West. 
James, taken No. 1 overall in last year's draft by the Cleveland Cavaliers , is just the third rookie to average at least 20 points, five rebounds and five assists (Oscar Robertson and Michael Jordan are the others). He won the Rookie of the Year award last week. 
Anthony led all rookies in scoring average at 21 points and helped the Denver· Nuggets reach the playoffs for the first time since 1995. 
Miami's Wade ranked among the top five rookies in five statistical categories, while Toronto's Bosh Jed first-year players in rebounding 
(7 .4 per game) and blocks (1.41). and Chicago's Hinrich led them in assists (6.8). 
The second team members were Dallas' Josh Howard and Marquis Daniels , Milwaukee's T.J. Ford , Miami's Udonis llaslem and Washington's Jarvis Hayes. 
No Williams verdict after 
first day of deliberations 
SOMERVILLE, N.J. -A jury began deliberating Tuesday in the case against Jayson Williams, the former NBA player accused of manslaugh­ter in the shotgun slaying of a lim­ousine driver. 
The jury got the case after three months of trial, 43 witnesses and widely divergent versions of what 
happened the night in 2002 when 
Costas "Gus" Christon was killed. 
Christofi, 55, was killed in Williams' bedroom while the former New Jersey Nets player was giving friends and members of the Harlem Globetrotters a tour of his mansion. Williams was playing with one of his shotguns when it went off. 
Williams, 36, faces eight charges, the most serious of which is aggra­vated manslaughter. To convict Williams on that charge, the jury must unanimously find that he recklessly caused Christofi's death "under circumstances manifesting extreme indifference to human ,.,.... life." 
He is also charged with trying to make the shooting look like a sui­cide by wiping down the shotgun and putting Christofi's hands on the gun. Prosecutors said he also instructed his guests to lie to authorities. 
r--~~ ------~------­
~ 
~ ~ 
Wednesday, April28, 2004 

' page 32 The Observer + SPORTS 
..: ChaiDps 
continued from page 36 
varsity four-race, taking first and fourth places in the Grand Final race. Notre Dame's "A" crew of Caitlin Rackish, cox, Sarah Keefer. stroke, Meredith 
-
Thornburgh, Kristin Henkel and Tricia David won the race in 7:35.74 ahead of the Orangewomen's 7:56.41. 
Meghan Chidsey and Jennifer Connolly finished fourth in 8:00.29. 
"We managed to win all of the varsity races, which is an incredible accomplishment and a tribute to the hard work and dedication of this team," Protasewich said. "I am so proud of all my teammates and their efforts, they are truly an inspiring group, and I know that we are thankful to our coaches for the great job they have done this year." 
Notes 
+ 
On May 15, the Irish will travel to Oak Ridge. Tenn. and compete in the Central Regions. The outcome of the regional competitions will determine whether Notre Dame will quali­fy for the NCAAs. 

"We are continuing to move closer to our goal of a team bid for NCAAs, and we plan to work very hard these next two weeks in preparation for the races in Tennessee," said Protasewich. 

+ 
The rowers' success has not been limited to their time on the water. Several rowers were honored for their scholas­tic achievements at Monday's Academic Excellence Awards Dinner. The dinner celebrated the work of 369 student-ath­letes who had a 3.2 cumulative grade point average or higher. 


Megan Sanders was named 
,;;·;~·~:·~~..·i·~~~·;~·~~·~~.. ;·~ ..~~;l 
iCOMEDY or TV WRITING-Readi ffrustin Howard's new book,l
t MY LIFE WITH REGIS ANIJ, 
!JOEY." The book reveals help-i !ful structuring of comedy fo~ !both stand-up and writing. 1 
!show-Biz stories about Jay Leno, Damoni j\Vayans, George Carlin, Lenny Bruce, Bobi iHope, Carol Burnette, Regis Philbin, andi :others, also provide helpful hints. l 
~ ...................................................................~ 

Notre Dame's top student-ath­
WOMEN'S lACROSSE
lete. Sanders. who is enrolled in the College of Science with a concentration in mathematics and life sciences, has a 3.997 overall grade index, has made 
Irish seek to repeat title 
Dean's List all seven semesters to date and has earned a 4.0 in six of those semesters. Rowers -By ANN LOUGHERY
Andrea Doud and Natalie 
Sports Writer 

Ladine were also honored for their 4.0 grade point indexes during the 2003-2004 season. 
The No. 28 Irish will settle "Academically, I 
for nothing less .than a repeat. thank God for 
Throughout the season, the 

team's Big East champion
Georgetown took "We are continuing -blessing me with third place in the intelligence aspirations have remained a
to move closer to 
constant. After winning the Notre Dame's our goal ofa team succeed here at 
7:56.76 while and motivation to 
tournament last season, Notre "B" boat of bid for NCAAs. " Notre Dame," said 
Dame has had its sights set on Shannon Lettieri, Sanders." I am far 
a repeat of last year's success. cox. Courtney from the smartest 
"This is a big meet for us,"

Danielle Protasewich 
coach Jay Louderback said.Quinn, Arin person on campus, 
rower 

"It's been our goal to win theMulligan, but I am willing to 
Big East all year. This isn't make academics a 
find the time to 

your normal, everyday match." priority. Athletically, I was not 
Top-seeded Notre Dame (10­blessed with much natural tal­
10, 3-0 in the Big East) ent, but I was given· a strong 
received a first-round bye and work ethic. I have to work 
will not see competition until harder than others, but I feel 
Saturday, when they meet the the rewards are greater when I 
winners of the No. 71 Virginia succeed because of all the time 
Tech versus Syracuse match. I put in." 
The winners of Saturday's match will square off with the Contact Christine Armstrong at 
winners of the No. 26 second­carmstro@nd.edu 
seeded Miami versus Boston 
College/Rutgers competition. Both teams present unique challenges to the Irish. 
"We'll get to watch them play on Thursday, which will be good for us because we haven't seen Syracuse all this year," Louderback said. "They're both good teams." 
Seeded fourth in the tourna­ment, Virginia Tech 13-12 (6­
2) has already seen competi­tion against the Irish this year. Notre Dame defeated the Hokies 5-2 in February. 
The last three years, Virginia Tech has walked away with a third-place finish. With nation­ally ranked sophomore No. 109 Anat Elazari of Israel leading the team, the Hokies hope to surprise a number of teams competing at the tour­nament. Elazari is 17-15 and has pulled upsets against No. 23 Alicia Salas and William and Mary's Megan Muth this season. 
Syracuse (6-11, 5-2). seeded fifth, will not be a pushover during the tournament, despite their seeding. Although Syracuse dropped matches to Boston College 5-2 and Virginia Tech 7-0, the team did defeat Rutgers earlier this sea­son 4-3. In addition, the Orangewomen have walked away with a fifth-place finish the last three years of the tour­nament. 
Louderback said the weather will provide the greatest chal­lenge for the Irish this week­end, as the competition will take place in Coral Gables, Fla. 
"The temperature can be in the nineties down there. With the weather we've been play­ing in up here, we won't have a chance to really adjust to the weather [in Florida]. Luckily we play both of our matches in the morning," Louderback said. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

The Office of lnforination Technologies presents a Data Center... 

Celebrating the Grand Opening of the newly renovated Notre Dame Data Center 
Tour the Data Center See the IT systems that power Notre Dame 
April 29, 2004 • 3:00p-5:00p For Notre Dame Students, Faculty and Staff • First Floor, IT Center Refreshments Provided 
\j 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA.M.E 
OJ>ffCE O:f' INFO.RMATlON TE<:HNOLOGJE.S 
.. 

r--------------~------------------------~----~----~-­
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 33 
ND TRACK 
Irish eager to win Big Easts 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Spom Wrirer 
One has done it before. The other has come close. Neither will b1~ con tent if they don't do it this weekend. 
The men's and women's track tnams are on a quest for a con­ference title. 
The Irish men enter this weekend's Big East Outdoor Championships at Rutgers as the defending champions, while the women are vying for their lirst outdoor title after finishing second the past two seasons. 
Godwin Mbagwu was the hero of last year's men's meet as he triple-jumped 15.32 111eters in the final event to give Notre Dame a 139-136.5 victo­ry over Connecticut. Mbagwu is one of two defending individual champions for the Irish as Selirn Nurudeen will try to defend his title in the 110­meter hurdlQ.S. 
lie ad coach Joe Piano feels this year's meet is wide open. Besides Notre Dame, Piane believes Hutgers, Connecticut,· Georgetown, Villanova and Pittsburgh all have a chance to win the title. 
"It should be a pretty good battle," he said. 
After a close loss to Connecticut at the Big East Indoor Championships earlier this year, the Irish men are hungry to win a title. 
"It will definitely be difficult to win, but since we have a lit­tle different lineup outdoors I think we have a better chance," said distance runner Austin . 
Weaver. 
The women's team will try to get a monkey off their back as they have finished second two years in a row to Miami. Molly Huddle is the only Irish defend­ing champion, winning the 5,000-meters in last year's meet. 
Huddle will spearhead the Irish efforts along with fellow distance runner Lauren King. King finished a close second in last year's conference 1,500 meters to Georgetown's Treniere Clement. 
Piane believes the women's title is also anybody's to win as Miami, Pittsburgh, Georgetown, Villanova and Notre Dame are all in the hunt. Though these teams have a chance, Miami is the favorite as the Hurricanes are vying for their fourth straight title and sixth in the past seven years. 
"It will be hard to beat Miami, but that is our goal," Piane said. "We might have a better overall team than they do but they are just loaded in the sprints and jumps." 
The Irish are willing to do whatever it takes to win the conference championship. Huddle is not only racing in the 5,000 meters but she will run in the 1,500 meters as well. 
"Our distance crew is smaller than usual this year so we have 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 

Dwight Elllck runs the 60-yard dash Indoors earlier In the year. 
to focus on getting quality out of all of us," Huddle said. 
Huddle admitted the 1,500 meters would not be an easy race to win as it includes national collegiate record hold­er Kim Smith of Princeton. When asked about what it would mean to finally beat Miami and win the school's first women's outdoor title, Huddle's voice perked up. 
"That would be awesome," she said. "We're always trying to beat them and it would be especially nice since they're leaving the Big East after this year." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles and Calvin to n1eet in postseason 
-

By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
The Belles' wishes have come true and the team now pre­pares to take on Calvin in the first round of the upcoming MIAA tournament. 
After Albion and Hope split a doubleheader Saturday, Saint Mary's locked up third place in the conference. 
The double elimination post­season tournament begins this Friday at 11 a.m. at Alma College. Earlier this year, the Belles won the first game of a doubleheader against Calvin, only to drop the second against the Knights. Calvin is 11-3 in the MIAA and 19-13 overall, but the Belles believe they have just as good of a chance in the tournament as anyone. 
"We are excited and pumped about achieving pne of our team goals of making it to the tournament," Erin Sullivan said. "We are very confident in our chances of winning because we split with both Calvin and Albion, and we know that we can beat anyone by playing our game." 
On the season, the Belles fin­ished with a conference record of 9-5, and two of the losses came at the hands of top-seed­ed Alma. The record was a great improvement to last year's 4-8 MIM record. 
Angie Ellison ended the sea­son leading the team in batting average and hits, with 36, while teammate Marnie Walsh drove in 16 runs. Pitcher Kate Sajewich finished with a 10-6 record, and Libby Wilhelmy recorded four shutout vietories. 
Following Friday's morning game, Saint Mary's will take the field again at 3:30 or 5:30 p.m., depending on the earlier outcome. If the Belles win that next game, their season will resume Saturday afternoon. 
The Belles are not looking that far ahead. But with almost a week layoff since playing Kalamazoo, the Belles have been focusing hard on their next game. A major part of practice has been concentrated on hitting, an area the Belles have improved in since the beginning of the season. An 11­2 run in early April reflects the hitting improvement. 
"(Practice) hasn't been too much different," Katrina Tebbe said. "We're working on doing the little things right and driv­ing the ball hard." 
Understanding that two loss­es means the end of the season, Saint Mary's will lay it all on the line against Calvin this Friday. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 
-

The Women's Resource Center presents the recipients of the 
2004 Distinguished Notre Dame Woman Award 
Ruthann K. Johansen is a writer; Associate Director of the Core Course, and concurrent Associate Professor in the Department of American Studies. Her literary scholarship examines the intersection of religion, myth, and literature. As a Fellow of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, she teaches a course entitled War; Peace, and the Literary Imagination. 

Kathleen Brannock has served as Rector of Howard Hall since the fall of 200 I. She is a "double Domer", having graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Government and Sociology from Notre Dame and with her law degree. As an undergraduate, she served as a resident assistant in Siegfried. Currently, Brannock also serves part-time in the General Counsel Office. 
Catherine Perry is an Associate Professor in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures and a Fellow of the Nanovic Institute for European Studies. She specializes in French literature of the 19th and early 20th centuries with a focus on poetry. She is currently serving as president of the international 
Francophone studies association, CIEEF. 
-

Catherine Pieronek is the Director of the Woman's Engineering Programs. In this position, she develops and coordinates a range of activities to recruit and retain woman undergraduate and graduate students in the College of Engineering. She has previously served Director and Associate Director of Law School Relations. 




page 34 Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Niese I 
continued from page 36 
Matt Macri hit into a fielder's choice for the first out. Second baseman Zach Sisko then. smacked a single, and both Macri and Sisko advanced a base on a passed ball. 
With first base open, Ball State elected to walk designated hitter Matt Bransfield to load the bases for catcher Javi Sanchez. The senior captain delivered for the Irish with his second sacrifice fly of the night to tie the game at six. 
Left fielder Steve Andres then hit a hot shot to first baseman Brad Miller, who misplayed the ball, but second baseman Kyle Dygert was there to gather in the ball and make the play at first to end the inning. 
The game would remain score­less until the bottom of the 15th inning, when Andres made good on his chance at redemption and smacked a leadoff triple to the gap in right center. Right fielder Craig Cooper followed with a sin­gle to right, and Andres scored easily to win the game. 

Miller provided most of the offense for Ball State Tuesday. The 6-foot-5 sophomore smacked a pair of home runs in his first two plate appearances against the Irish. Miller added a double in the 13th inning to fin­ish the night 3-for-6 with 4 RB!s and 2 runs scored. 
Following a difficult pair of losses at the hands of Pittsburgh Sunday, Mainieri feels that Tuesday night's win is the type of game that could really spur the Irish to great things. 
"I told the guys after the game, in every year that I have been here, there's always been a game that we can point at and 
. say, 'That game made our sea­son. It was the turning point in our season,"' he said. "And I really believe that that's what that game was today for us." The Irish will have little time to 
savor the big win, however, as they return to the diamond today to host Cleveland State (9-20) at 6 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. ­
Notes: 
+ Tuesday's 15-inning marathon tied the record for the longest game played at Eck Stadium. The previous mark was a 5-3 win over West Virginia in 1998, which also lasted 15 innings. 
+ 
Ball State set a new school record for strikeouts in a game Tuesday night by fanning 20 times against Irish pitchers. The previous mark of 18 was set in 1950 in a game against Taylor University. 

+ 
The Irish tied the school record for batters hit by a pitch Tuesday night in the 11th inning when reserve infielder Tim Murray was plunked. It marked the 75th time this season an Irish batter had been hit by a pitch. 


Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

DePaul 
continued from page 36 
run in the top of the fourth, but came back right away to tie it up again on an RBI single by Meghan Ruthrauff. Sloppy defense cost the Irish the game in the sixth. 
Starting pitcher Heather Booth made a throwing error that allowed DePaul's Sara Martz to score from third. The error also allowed Saskia Roberson to move to second on the play, where Ashley Parker replaced her as a pinch runner. Parker scored one batter later on Jessica Evans' RBI single. 
Booth pitched a complete game, allowing four hits and striking out six. 
The Irish found themselves down early in game two, as well, as Sarah Douglas hit a solo home run off Steffany Stenglein in the second inning. That would be the only damage against Stenglein, who allowed only five hits while striking out four. 

The Irish got all their runs in the third inning, as Carrie Wisen led off with a single. Sara Schoonaert attempted to bunt Wisen to second, but DePaul first baseman Roberson threw the ball wide of first base, which resulted in Irish runners at second and third. 
Stephanie Brown delivered a double in the next at-bat to score both runners, but the Irish would score three straight outs to end the threat, includ­ing a double play that was the result of poor baserunning. 
Notre Dame now stays at home this weekend to face two Big East opponents in double­headers, going against Virginia Tech Friday and Pittsburgh Sunday. Virginia Tech is cur­rently third place in the confer­ence, behind Notre Dame and Villanova. 
"I really believe that Virginia Tech is actually the second-best team in the Big East," Gumpf said. "They've had some tough losses. but they really have great pitching and we know they're going to be tough." 
With a 12-0 record, the Irish are all but guaranteed of a berth in the Big East tourna­ment. However, Gumpf doesn't want her players to get compla­cent. 
"We have to prepare our­selves for the postseason," Gumpfsaid. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 36 
was no point we thought we had it in the bag. It was really a team effort, since we were all in differ­ent draws, so we each needed to pull through and be successful. We had the support of our coach­es, our teammates, and all our great fans, like Rudy Nkinzingabo, all year long, and we wanted to come through." 
Knish got plenty of help from her teammates in clinching the victory. Kristen Palombo won the No. 2 singles title for the second consecutive year. For the third year in a row, Kaitlin Cutler won the No. 3 singles title and Kris Spriggle won the No. 4 singles title. Kate Bowler finished third in her first appearance in MIAA tournament play, and in the No. 
6 singles spot, Miranda Mikulyuk placed fourth, improving her showing in the tournament from a year ago. 
Knish made fir"st team All­MIAA for the third straight year. Cutler and Palombo were both selected as members of the sec­ond team All-MIAA. 
The big boost came from the No. 3 doubles team of Palombo and freshman Grace Gordon. who advanced all the way to the championship before taking sec­ond place. 
Despite winning both their con­ference title and tournament, the Belles were passed over for an NCAA Tournament selection. Instead, the NCAA committee chose Albion, who placed higher in the Midwest Invitational earli­er in the year. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffyl@nd.edu 


Commenc 
DVDs and videotapes 
are available! 
Commencement 

Commencement Mass 
ROTC Commissioning 
Law School Ceremony 
MBNEMBA Diploma 
Ceremony Architecture Graduation Latino Ceremony 
Order online at: 

http://www.nd.edu/-grad video 
Or contact: Academic Media Resources Office of Information Technologies B002 DeBartolo Hall Universitv of Notre Dame
. . 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
574.631.0961 
MMSCtr@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 28, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 35 
HENRI ARNOLD 
SCOTT ADAMS 

JUMBLEDILBERT 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
CATBER.T THE EVIL 


IF WE CAN GET OURDIRECTOR. OF H. R.. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one
EMPLOYEES TO MARRY 
letter to each square,
EACH OTHER, WE'LL 
to form four ordinary words. 
SAVE MONEY. 
..
GUPER 
( J I [] 
Cl2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights ReaeJVed. 
ATAGE 


I [ J 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
t· YIPLOC 
IJ I 


www.jumb~.com 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
I # 

Jumbles: CURVE DIZZY FRACAS GENDERYesterday's Answer: What the feuding workers did in the sugar fields­
"RAZED" CANE 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 35 Supermarket 63 Former Spanish 
Celebrities born on this day: Jay Leno, Ann-Margret, Harper Lee, Marcia
divisions queen1 Leaves may be 
Strassman 
put in it 36 _ Zeppelin 64 It may be grand 
Happy Birthday: You have a charming way of dealing with others. For this
7 Prohibits 37 First mate 65 More loved 
reason you will always win in the end, regardless of the competition or the 
11 Sass 66 Hideout 
setbacks you face along the way. You have the stamina to outlast the callous and 
38 Flourish 

ruthless individuals who try to stand in your way. You're a believer in truth and 
14 Like most 67 Soaks (up)
42 Deceive 

fair play. Your numbers: 3, 8, 17, 26, 35, 44 
plumbing nowa­68 One who might 46 "Paper Moon" days 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Someone close to you will get upset easily if
issue a chal­actor 
you are insensitive to his or her needs. Take the time to help those less fortunate. 
15 Mount SW of lenge Messina 48 Laundromat 
You must fulfill your needs and present your talenl~. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Opportunities for travel and socializing are
appliance16 Suffix with 

evident. Be careful how you disclose information. Someone around you may
DOWN 
Canton 50 Not fer 
not be trustworthy. Listen to others' problems and offer suggestions. *** 
1 Track officials 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be a real chatterbox today. Try to curb
17 Candice Bergen 51 Rowdy_, 
your tongue and give others a chance to get a word in. After all, they may have
2 Accustoming role Clint 
valuable information to pass on. ***
(to)Eastwood's role 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Limitations will set in if you haven't followed
19 Our sun in "Rawhide" 3 Kind of gland 
the rules. You will have difficulties with legal matters, government agencies and 
20 Before 
authority figures if you aren't precise in your dealings. ++•
4 Champagne­21 Kitchen wrap opening sound 
53 Ocean predator 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will meet some pretty interesting people if you 
attend promotional functions. Your ability to stand out in a crowd will bring you 
54 Ripple lovers 

22 Fisticuffs 5 Wonderment 
the recognition you desire. **** 
56 Bedding item cries 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have a problem with your boss if you
24 Boxing locale 
haven't done your job. Double-check your work and be sure that your boss is in
58 Brooch 6 Have a26 Bye-byes 
a good mood before you do your presentation. ••
(attempt-) ­59 Moon-landing 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Travel to that exotic destination you've been
28 Cheer (for) vehicle, for 7 Dressed down 
dreaming about. If you can't get away, make plans to do something special with 
29 Ginger cookies short 
friends or relatives. ***** 
aLacking a musi­
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can make money if you get involved in a
31 Morning TV 60 Stephen cal key 
conservative financial prospect that's presented to you. Consider making
co-host Sondheim title 9 Hurricane dir. 34 Wee 42 Marshall 49 Stopped flow-
changes in your home that will be beneficial to all involved. *** 
33 Felt smug character (Eminem's real ing, as a stream 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let your mate talk you in to going
10 Without 37 Ford of the Ford 
somewhere you'd rather not go. Try to find an alternative that would better suit 
name)Models agency 
11 Clorox company 52 Burpee's pack-
both your needs. *** 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
household 43 Mancinelli's etful 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You need to spend time sorting through your 
38 Fished with a 

work. Someone left a real mess for you. Don't be too critical. They didn't fully
cleaner e Leandro"
net 
55 Concordes 

understand what was e\J)ected. A second chance will result in good work. *** 
-=+-:-+.±:-! 12 Chemical rela-44 Many a taxi's 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You need to challenge yourself. Look into
39 Cleanliness

tive destination 57 Chinook salmon 
intellectual and physical games that will test your abilities. You can make new 
40 Dustin Hoffman 

friends if you get involved in group activities. *****
.-.-,.:-:+:-:+:-+:-f"!"!"! 13 Jai alai balls film 45 Judge 61 Go a-courting 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't press your luck with your loved ones. It is 
...t-~;;-t:;=-t 18 Put one's foot 
best not to nag or criticize. Be supportive and you will avoid confrontations. Do 
down? 41 time flat 47 Not be so hard 62 Light brown 
your own thing and you'll be much happier. ** 23 Muffs one 
Birthday Baby: You are a little lover right from day one. A child who cares
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
25 Address abbr. about everyone else, you're eager to please and love helping those around you 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 

Sensitive, generous and quick to take part in any team project that comes along,
-=+:+.7~ 27 Poles and 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday you'll be real contributor throughout life. 
Czechs 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. -;:;-+-;:+:::+.::.+::7~ 30 Discharge from Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenia/a.H. rom 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 the military 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -:-t-:-:+~::+:-1 32' Triangular road Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young sign solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
------------------------------------------------.-------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester ­
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

r-------~--~---------~~------~~-----------~-------~--------~~--------------~------~------------·----------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

< 
PORTS
Wednesday, April 28, 2004 
BASEBALL 

Niesel commands Irish to victory 

Relief pitcher strikes out twelve batters as Irish win in fifteen 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 

Tuesday night's matchup between No. 8 Notre Dame (33­
8) and Ball State (20-17) was brought to you by Chris Niese! and the letter "K." 
The Irish right-hander pitched eight and one-third scoreless innings in relief and recorded a career-high 12 strikeouts as the Irish topped the Cardinals 7-6 in 15 innings. 
"Niese! pitched the way that we've grown to love Chris Niese!," Irish coach Paul Mainhiri said. "He went out there and competed for all he's worth. He was such a bulldog. He hadn't pitched to his capabil­ities all year, but this was the best he has pitched all year." 
Niese! came into the game in the sixth inning with the Irish trailing 6-3, but he retired 10 straight batters to keep the Irish within striking distance as Notre Dame mounted a comeback. 
"[Niesel] competed so hard. 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

Perhaps Notre Dame should stop scheduling teams from Chicago. 
For the second time this sea­son, the Irish were knocked off at Ivy Field by a team from the Chicago area, as DePaul took 

HILLARY THORNTONfThe Observer Steffany Stenglein won her seventh straight start. 

-
NO TRACK

en 
Ill

1-u Big East Outdoor z Ctiampionships
a: :3 
Weekend
c:l 

He just wanted it bad, you could see it in his eyes," Mainieri said. "He wouldn't let me take him out of the game. He just wanted to win and compete, and that's what champions do. They have guys that want the ball in their hands at crunch time." 
Niese! finally yielded the mound to closer Ryan Doherty with one out in the 14th inning, but not after retiring 25 of 29 batters in pitching nearly a whole game in relief. 
"Pretty much all of my pitches I hit my spots with," Niese! said. "I used my curve ball to get some strikes early in the count and get ahead of batters. I did a great job of getting ahead of guys, which helped me use my fastball with two strikes to strike guys out." 
Doherty actually got the win for the Irish, pitching one and two-thirds innings of perfect baseball and striking out four Cardinal batters for his fifth win on the season. Doherty earned some redemption for blowing a save against Pittsburgh Sunday as the Irish blew a three-run lead in the ninth. 
"Ryan Doherty --after the tough outing the other day at Pittsburgh --showed a lot of fortitude by coming back the 
NO SOFTBALL 

Irish exercise Demons and split with DePaul 
care of Notre Dame 3-1 in game one of a doubleheader Tuesday night. Notre Dame was able to came back in the second game, 2-1, to salvage a split with the Blue Demons. 
The Irish lost a game at home earlier this season against Illinois'~Chicago, 4-3 in 10 innings March 15. Last season, the Irish were swept at Ivy Field by Northwestern. 
Despite her team's loss to DePaul Tuesday, Irish coach Deanna Gumpf was not all that upset with Notre Dame's per­formance. 
"We had such good opportu­nities in both games but we weren't quite able to make it happen," she said. "I think the girls know what we need to do, it's just a matter of doing it everytime. 
"We went against two very good pitchers today but I thought we still did a good job of hitting." 
Notre Dame (40-14) gave up a 
Rutgers hosts the 
the first round of MIAA 

c::::a 4 
championships this 
postseason play. 
year.

~ =: 
en page 33 
page 33 
see DEPAUL! page 34 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Saint Mary's vs. Calvin 
The three-seed Belles play in the Knights in 
CHUY BENITEZfThe Observer 

Tom Thornton, above, started the game against Ball State. Chris Niesel's stellar relief helped in the 15-inning victory. 
way he did [Tuesday]," Mainieri Dame used single runs in the said. " ... The thing is you want seventh and eighth innings to to get them right back on the narrow the lead to a run. horse as quickly as possible. He Shortstop Greg Lopez led off showed what a competitor he is. the ninth inning with a walk for He did the job for us, and he got the Irish, but third baseman some big outs." 
Mter falling behind 6-3, Notre see NIESEL/page 34 
ROWING 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG Sports Writer 
The women's rowing team has enjoyed a stellar week, col­lecting awards both on and off the water. 
The Irish swept their varsity races on Sunday to win their first Big East Women's Rowing Challenge title on Worcester's Lake Quinsigamond. Head coach Martin Stone was also named Big East Coach of the Year. 
On Monday, several rowers were honored for their work in the classroom, including Megan Sanders who received the Top Gun Award at the 12th Annual Academic Excellence Awards Dinner. 
The Irish, who lost to Syracuse in the last three BIG EAST competitions, triumphed in four out of five races for a team total of 116 points, outscoring Miami, Syracuse, Rutgers, Georgetown, Boston College, Connecticut, Villanova and West Virginia. With four individual race wins, Notre Dame tied Syracuse's 2002 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
NFL 
NCAA 
Big East 
Maddox furious at 
Lobos may use 
Ctiampionships 
live mascot
Steelers 
page 36 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles win league by one point 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
Mter a seas.Qn filled with plen­ty of close matches and inspiring play, Saint Mary's closed out its year on top Saturday winning the 2004 MIAA Tournament. The conference win reaffirmed the Belles dominance within the MIAA after a 2004 Team Title victory earlier in the year. 
The Belles captured their fourth straight MIAA Tournament Title by a single point, beating out runner-up Albion College 79.5 to 78.5. 
"It was incredible," said Jeannie Knish, who finished third in singles. "We won the conference and the tourney. It was so exciting to win the whole thing." 
The close call with Albion also made the championship more thrilling. 
"It was incredible to win by one point," Knish said. "There 
see BELLES/page 33 

Women crowned champions 
crew for the most number of years in the making," McCaffrey victories at one challenge. said. "What made this day spe­
Maureen Gibbons, cox, cial was that it was a complete Natalie Ladin, Alice Bartek, team effort with four golds and Meghan Boyle, Rachel Polinski, a team championship to show Melissa Felker, Katie in the end." Chenowith, Danielle Notre Dame's Kathryn Long, Protasewich and Jacqueline cox, Katie O'Hara, Kristen Hazen led the varsity eight­Mizzi, Pamela Jefson and 
crew to  a  time  Ashley St.  Pierre  
of 6:54.89. The Irish also  "We craved gold at  garnered another Irish win when their  
dominated in the second var­sity eight race as Kacy  the Big East as a team today because for the  varsity four-boat won the Grand Final race. With a 7:36.66 finish, the  
McCaffrey,  cox,  seniors it was four  Irish  easily  won,  
Kati Sedun, Kathleen Welsh, Jessica Guzik,  hard years in the making.,  nine seconds ahead of their closest com­petitors, the  
Jenna Redgate,  Hurricanes.  
Elizabeth Specht, Megan Sanders,  Kacy McCaffrey second varsity cox  "There are no individual victories in rowing. It really  
Danielle Stealy  has to be  a  group  

and Andrea Doud had a first­effort," Long said. "It felt amaz­place finish in 7:09.17, winning ing to win the Varsity Four, but the Grand Final more than four I was just as thrilled watching seconds ahead of the Hoya the other boats sprint for the boat. finish line to take first place." 
"We craved gold at the Big Finally, the Irish had equally East as a team today because an impressive showing in the 
for the seniors it was four hard see CHAMPS/page 32 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Dent declares he will est draft 

The Pittsburgh 
The University of 
The Duke freshman 

Saturday 
will test the NBA draft 

quarterback met with 
New Mexico is 
coach Bill Cowher to 
considering the use of a 
but will leave open the

The Irish meet the 
winner of Virginia Tech 
discuss the draft of Ben 
live silver wolf for its 
option to return to 

and Syracuse. 
Roethlisberger. 
mascot. 
college. 
page 30
page 32 

page 23 
page 21 










