
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Appleby sheds light on sexual abuse reports 
that detailed the nearly 11,000 reports as a step towards repentant, but we need to go changed attitude towards the vic­By CLAIRE HEININGER 
child sexual abuse allegations accountability and engagement. much further," he said. "Some tims ... listening to their stories Assistant News Editor made against priests since 1950. on the part of the hierarchy, he bishops still don't seem to get it, and allowing themselves to be As the weekend passed, the maintained the Church can't yet [because] they are still so behold­converted into sympathy." Bless us Father, for we have nation's Catholics and non­be forgiven -nor is it trying to en to a certain idea of the Church But while sympathy is one sinned. Catholics, clergy and laity alike forget. that it blinds them to the suffering thing, accountability is another. 
The phrase weighed in on what many have "Closure isn't a word I would of the victims." And although the bishops admit­drilled into labeled the bishops' own act of even think about using yet," Reaching out to these victims, ted their transgressions in the penitent contrition. Appleby said. Despite the cooper­Appleby said, should be the reports, Appleby said the several Catholics for Notre Dame history professor ation and apologies offered by Church's first priority-and will resignations that should be the generations and Kroc Institute director R. many bishops across the country, require a certain dose of humility next step are not likely to follow. took a grave Scott Appleby -who addressed he said that others are still too to be considered real penance. Citing a "required solidarity" turn Friday the bishops on June 13, 2002, rooted in their beliefs about "Repentance is manifested among U.S. bishops, Appleby said when the U.S. when they first convened in Church infallibility to see the peo­more than ritually," he said. "The he wouldn't be surprised if defer­Conference of response to the scandals -added ple behind the staggering figures. idea of nailing an apology to the ence to their "fraternity" was tak-Catholic his own voice to the debate "There are many bishops who wall of a cathedral, well that may 
Monday. And while he praised the have been contrite, who are be something. But repentance is a see APPLEBY/page 3 


Deparbnents analyze, debate grade inflation 
Class levels, size may Colleges, departments contribute'to rise in grades respond to higher grades 
Editor's Note: This is the second in a 

ByJOE TROMBELLO
two-part series exploring grade inflation 
Assistant News Editor 
at Notre Dame. 
Various departments and colleges said
By JOE TROMBELLO 
they are handling the presence of grade 
Assistant News Ediwr 
inflation differently at Notre Dame. Some said they take a more pro-activeDespite the presence of more highly qual­approach: while other faculty membersified students, Notre Dame faculty and stu­said their respective college has ~ot yetdents said that other factors may have rigorously addressed the inflation. 
caused grade inflation. Smaller classes, spe­University-wide, the calculations forcial teaching programs, greater contact Dean List awards and graduating withwith professors and a high importance on honors have been increasing along withTCEs scores all impact the way grades are average GPAs. Effective in 2005, theassessed. 
University will award summa cum laudeAs the level of courses increase, grades to students graduating in the top five per­follow -the average grade in an Arts & cent of their college, magna cum laude toLetters 1 00-level course in Fall 2002 was the top 10 percent, and cum laude to the3.470, as compared to the 3.582 average top thirty percent. This will replace thefor 400-level courses. As students become current 3.4, 3.6 and 3.8 cutoffs. respec­more specialized in their majors and inter­tively.
ested in the course material, they may natu­Within various colleges, however, therally achieve better grades. 
see INFlATION/page 4 see GRADES/page 4 
Students prepar~ for Spring break trips 
By lAURA VILIM News Writer 
Mter months of freezing tem­peratures and long hours study­ing, most students who have chosen to travel over Spring Break are turning south for an escape through warm weather and relaxation. 
Howe-...er, when compared to previous years, fewer students are using Notre Dame's Anthony Travel to make their plans, and an unusually small number of these students are using South Bend Regional Airport. 
Assistant Manager of Anthony Travel Kayleen Carr said that although there are fewer stu­dents using the travel agency, and that between 500 and 600 students have booked travel packages through the agency. 
This year, the most popular trav­el package has been for a week vacation in Acapulco, Mexico. 
"Acapulco is popular because it is relatively inexpensive and [offers] guaranteed warm weather," Carr said. "It is the least expensive [package] in Mexico." 
Sophomore Meghan Winger and her friends chose to use Anthony Travel to plan their last minute trip to another Mexican destination, Puerto Vallarta. 
"We made our plans through Anthony Travel after other plans fell through," Winger said. "[Puerto Vallarta] was the nicest place we could go for the most reasonable price." 
One of the greatest draws of Puerto Vallarta, besides its warm weather, is the fact that several 
see BREAK/page 6 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Poorman addresses group 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman addressed the Campus life Council during its meeting Monday, presenting members with an outline of his office's strategic plan and announcing actions to be taken in response to the CLC's recommen­dations. These include establish­ing a gender relations center and the renewal of transportation services for students with tempo­rary disabilities. 
"I appreciate the opportunity to come and update CLC on some projects of interest," Poorman' said. "This [report] has taken a lion's share of our time, especially during the last 15 months." 
The plan received provisional approval at the last Board of Trustees meeting and will receive fmal approval during the Board's meeting in May. It focuses on resi­dence hall life, campus program­ming and leadership development along with improving services like the Career Center, University Health Services and technology for 

graduate and undergraduate stu­dents. 
"[Generally] strategic plans are about buildings," Poorman said. "I think the focus of this report i'i on 
programming and staffing 
see COUNCIUpage 6 
Tuesday, March 2, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Texas Hold'em 

Once a week my friends and I partake in a little game called Texas Hold'em. Every Friday between 4 and 5 p.m. we gather in my room to test our luck and bluff­
ing skills.  
After classes  Paul Roncal  
end we gather  
around the table for a lit­tle fun.  Assistant Graphics Editor  
For those of,  
you that do  

not know, Texas Hold'em is one of many ways to play poker. In this variation two cards are dealt face down to each player. A round of betting takes place. Then three cards are dealt face up in the mid­dle -this is referred to as the flop. Another round of betting takes place. One more card is dealt in the middle, which is named the turn. Once again the players bet. After · the fifth and final card, the river, is dealt the final round of betting takes place. 
We have had some epic hands over the course of the last semes­ter. One of the more memorable hands was when I had a jack and a nine. My friend Spack had an ace and a king. The flop came up as ace, king and queen. The turn came up as no help to either of us. After the turn Spack decided to bet aggressively. I had no business staying in since the only card that could help me was a ten. Some people still have no idea what I was thinking, but I decided to test my luck and try for the straight. Hermes, the Greek god of luck, must like me because as the river revealed itself to be a ten, Spack's jaw fell to the floor in disbelief. That was not the only time the river has brought me luck. Spack had pocket sevens with another seven on the board after the flop. I called with pocket jacks. Once again Spack was out of luck for I picked up a third jack on the river. 
I am not the only one to make Spack wish he had better luck. My friend Burkhardt had a six and a nine. Spack had a king and a queen. After the flop Spack goes all in with a pair of queens. Burkhardt picks up not only a six but also a nine. We now commonly refer to the six and nine as the money hand. Burkhardt has made other people sorry they tried to beat him. Burkhardt had a queen and a five. My friend Harks went all in with pocket jacks. As Burkhardt shout­ed, "[Queens] come in pairs!" Two queens showed up on the table. 
So what is the moral of the story? Boys and girls, the thing to rerpem­ber is that ladies come in pairs, and if you have a six and an ine be aggressive, for it is the money hand. Spack may know a great deal about the game but could always use more luck. If you are looking to have a little fun, try your hand at a little game called Texas Hold'em. · 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Paul Ronca/ at proncal@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a rc:porting error, the name of a University of Michigan professor who gave a lec­ture in McKenna Hall, Simon Gikandi, was mis­spelled in the Feb. 26 edition ofThe Observc:r. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE RECENT SOUTH BEND WEATHER? 




Brian Hedges -Freshman Siegfried  Katie Manley Junior LeMans  Kevin Boyle ... Junior Off-Campus  
"Tell God to keep doing what he's doing.,  "Spring is here!''  "God is just teasing us.··  


OFFBEAT • 
'Lost' town changes Its 
name 

LONDON -Lost: several road signs and one village's identity. Exasperated at los­ing its name signs to sou­venir hunters, the Scottish hamlet of Lost (population: less than two dozen) has changed its name to Lost Farm, which it hopes will prove less appealing. 
At least five of the signs have disappeared in recent years; the longest any sign lasted was three months, and one disappeared after just a day, said Mark Skilling, principal engineer for Aberdeenshire Council. 
"It's infuriating," 'he said 
TODAY 
a: 
Molly Welton 
Senior LeMans 
../like playing football outside., 

Friday. "The hamlet is very popular because of its name and we suspect souvenir hunters of taking the signs." 
Skilling said it costs around 100 pounds (U.S. $185) to replace the sign. "Apart from making it, we have to take it to Lost, which is quite far away," he said. "We hope that the name change means in future the sign will last." 
666 appears on some 'Passion' tickets 
ROME, Ga. -Tickets at one movie theater screening Mel Gibson's "The Passion of the Christ" are being deemed decidedly unholy. 
The number 666, which many Christians recognize as the "mark of the beast," is appearing on movie tickets for Gibson's film at a Georgia theater, drawing complaints from some moviegoers, 
The machine that prints tickets assigned the number 666 as a prefix on all the tickets for the film, said Gary Smith, owner of the Movies at Berry Square in north­west Georgia. The 666 begins a series of numbers that are listed below the name of the movie, the date, time and price. 
"It's from our computer and it's absolutely a coinci­dence," Smith said. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

Pat Manning 
Freshman Siegfried 
"'All I know is that the squirrels that live outside my window keep getting louder. ·• 

Will Knight 
Junior Off-Campus 
..Bring back the snow!" 

IN BRIEF 
A panel of professors will hold a discussion entitled "Iraq One Year Later, What Have We Learned?" today at 
4:15 p.m. in the Kroc Institute Auditorium of the Hesburgh Center. Come hear a diverse set of perspectives from pro­fessors Keir Lieber, Dan Lind ley, George Lopez and Martha Merritt. 
Nik Nikas, a pro-life advoca­cy lawyer, will give a lecture entitled "The Partial Birth Abortion Act: What It Is and Will It Save Lives?" today from noon to 1 p.m. in room 121 of the Law School. 
A panel discussion of the Mel Gibson film "The Passion of the Christ" entitled "Why All the Passion?" will be held today from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in room 141 of DeBartolo. The event is co-sponsored by Campus Ministry, the Department of Film, Television and Theatre. the Notre Dame Holocaust Project and the Department of Theology. 
The film "Dr. Strangelove" will be shown Wednesday in the Kroc Institute Auditorium in the Hesburgh Center at 7 
p.m. There will be a brief introduction by Professor Dan Lindley highlighting how the film's lessons about nuclear proliferation and nuclear acci­dents remain timely. This Stanley Kubrick film is the American Film Institute's third best U.S. comedy ever and the American Film Institute's 26th best U.S. film. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY .SATURDAY 

39 
28 

HIGH LOW 
U.l 
:::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
c:t 
(.) 


0 

HIGH 50
....1 LOW 32 

33 21 

47 37 

53 34 


·1 uesday, March 2, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group discusses tickets 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Members of the Council of 
Representatives, student gov­
ernment's highest body, assem­
bled Monday in LaFortune to 
discuss issues ranging from 
basketball ticket distribution to 
ofT-campus representation. 
Student body president Jeremy Lao circulated a draft of a letter he will send to assistant athletic director Jim Fraleigh, The letter will call for short­and long-term improvements to allow more students to attend Irish men's basketball games. The draft asks the athletic department to consider creating a secondary market for tickets, allowing them to be freely trad­ed by students. In addition, stu­dent leaders want to decrease the number of student season tickets, freeing those seats to be sold to students on a game-by­game basis. 
The letter also encourages the development of a program like North Carolina's "Carolina Fever," in which students who attend less popular sporting events can earn points, which may be redeemed for early pur­chase of basketball tickets. 
Lao said the letter reflects the views of leaders from across student government, while put­ting forth a unified stance. 
"This is the letter I'm going to send to Mr. Fraleigh as the voice of the student union," Lao said. 
Sophomore class president 
James Leito suggested getting 
input from leaders of the 
Leprechaun Legion. 

The council also addressed 
two resolutions dealing with off­
campus representation. The 
first, proposed by off-campus 
president Sarah Blake, would 
have changed the student union 
constitution to put four ofT-cam­
pus senators in the Student 
Senate. The ofT-campus popula­
tion is currently represented by 
one senator, as is each resi­
dence hall on campus. 
Blake said off-campus stu­dents' interests are frequently ignored by the Senate. "A lot of the issues we have are distinct, but they get swept under the table," she said. 
"This is something most peo­ple [on the council] agreed with from the beginning of the restructuring," she said. 
However, other council mem­bers blasted the idea, saying each constituency should have one vote. 
"The point of a Senate is not necessarily to be proportionate­ly representative," Judicial Board president Elliot Poindexter said. 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni echoed the senti­ment. 
"Dillon is twice the size of Carroll, but we don't have two Dillon senators and one Carroll senator," Bongiovanni said. 
Some members proposed dividing the South Bend area 
into quadrants, each represent­
ed by an off-campus senator. 
"The residential area around 
Castle Point is different from the 
residential area around Turtle 
Creek or Lafayette," Leito said. 
In the end, the resolution failed overwhelmingly. Only Blake and off-campus senator Amy Chambers voted in favor. 
Another resolution, mandat­ing that off-campus president, senator and programming rep­resentative run on separate tickets passed unanimously, after little debate. 
In other COR news: 
+ The council considered an appeal for funds from Best Buddies, a club that promotes awareness of autism and other mental disabilities. The club requested funds in order to bring a speaker to campus dur­ing Disability Awareness Week in late March. The issue was twice brought up for debate, after which the council unani­mously approved an outlay of 
$2,000. 
+ Senior class president Jazmin Garcia said her class council will sponsor a kickoff event for the "Rock the Vote" program on the evening of March 18 at Legends. She said several cam­pus organizations have con­tributed funding, and she encouraged the other class councils to do the same. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbrarnant@nd.edu 
Appleby 
continued from page 1 
ing precedence over individual 
morality. 
"I think many of the bishops 
probably have their own opinions 
-which I would share-that 
there should be resignations of 
bishops who repeatedly reas­
signed predator priests, that that 
should be the way the Church 
repents," he said. "But their 
sense of obedience to the Pope is 
so profound that if he tells them 
to resign, they're going to resign." 
"They're going to be respectful 
of that vertical relationship," 
Appleby continued. "I can't imag­
ine them commenting publicly 
that 'We think Bishop X should 
resign.'" 
The clerical silence that Church structure can impose should stand as an incentive for lay Catholics to take on more author­ity and responsibility, he said. Though Friday's reports were sponsored by the Council, the verdict delivered was entirely determined by a lay review board -a step Appleby called "absolutely necessary." 
"The bishops needed to take authority to clean up their own house and they recognized that they would not be credible by themselves," he said. "While [the members of the review board] are Catholic, they are independ­ent, and they are very critical of the bishops in that report." 
Appleby believes that such cru­cial lay authority should not be confined to uncovering and assessing the abuse scandal. And just like the road to repentance, achieving lay involvement will be a grueling but vital process. 
"I hope that one of the results 
of this sad and tragic episode 
would be for the laity to take 
responsibility ... to take co-own­
ership of the church with the 
priests and religious," Appleby 
said. He listed parish and dioce­
san councils as structures that 
are already in place to increase 
lay power in personnel, manage­
ment and finance areas, but said 
that motivating Catholics to give 
up their free time and their 
resources to help a struggling 
Church would be difficult. 
The challenge to do both -to be professional and to be Catholic, and to let the Church reap the benefits of the two -is one that falls squarely on the shoulders of current Notre Dame students, Appleby said. 
"We're at the crux of a genera­tional change where the millenni­als, as you're now called, could really make the church an after­thought -and a lot of people have -or could revitalize it," he said. "And if Notre Dame stu­dents don't work to revitalize it, then who else would?" 
Appleby stressed that despite the alternate sorrow and finger pointing that have characterized the scandals' -and now the reports' -aftermath, neither the Church's role in helping the poor and marginalized nor its sacred identity should not be forgotten. And students today, he added, must demand a large part of that identity for themselves. 
''I'm hoping that Notre Dame students will recognize that how­ever flawed and imperfect the church is ... it is worthy of their most zealous reform," he said. "The church is going to rise and fall on your generation in a way that hasn't been true before." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 2, 2004

page4 The Observer + NEWS 
Inflation 
continued from page I 
"There is a modest correlation between students liking classes and students doing well in those classes," said Mark Roche, dean of the College ofArts & Letters. 
Students like Sarah Greene said that increased concern about grades does not impact what classes students take but can influence the extent to which they are intellectually stimulated in learning for its own sake. 
"I do not feel that students at Notre Dame avoid classes that challenge them to preserve their GPAs, but I do think that students' consciousness of their GPA [can] hinder the engagement of the material," she said. 
Greene said numerous factors have contributed to a heightened grade concern in comparison with past generations, including a greater number of students attending college and the increas­ing competition that students face with respect to job offers and graduate school acceptances. 
In addition, faculty members said that the smaller class size associated with high-er-level courses 
../ don 't think 

could also contribute tenure and pro­to the rise in grades. grades have motion," said 
Joseph Walter.. increased." Sunny Boyd, asso­chair of the depart­ciate professor of ment of pre-profes­biological sci­
Joseph Walter 

sional studies, said ences. "So much that he believes the department chair weight is based 
inflation in science ­a department with some large, required courses ­does not occur in the more rigor­ous science classes. Walter attrib­utes the inflation to be primarily due to the 1 00-level courses that allow non-science majors to fulfill the science requirement, general chemistry -a course that many first-year students take regardless of major-and calculus courses intended for arts and letters and business students. 
Walter said of the the more solid science courses like organic chemistry or physics, "I don't think grades have increased." 
Roche said that different depart­ments and colleges also treat grades differently -quantitative courses such as science or engi­neering, according to him, rely more on right-or-wrong answers than a discipline like English or history does. 
"There are different grading cultures and grading environ­ments within colleges," he said. 

Roche commented that particu­lar features about the College of Arts & Letters may predispose students to have a more personal­ized and nurturing learning envi­ronment. Roche noted that the presence of small, University sem­inar courses in the first year and classes such as First Year Composition that focus heavily on the writing and editing process provide students with better access to their professors and a more personalized learning expe­rience. 
"I think it's an environment where students should do well because ofthe nurturing," he said. 
In spite of individual differences with respect to departments of colleges, some faculty said that the universal importance of TCE scores on untenured faculty may also influence grades. Although the data suggests otherwise ­junior faculty actually give slightly lower marks than tenured faculty -professors said that the impor­tance placed on TCE scores for tenure and promotions could encourage some faculty to inflate grades in hopes of receiving high­er TCE scores. 
"If there is anything driving grade inflation, it's the critical 
importance of 
TCEs to retention, 
on that one meas­
urement." 
Boyd also said that she and other colleagues in the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning, where she serves this year as a Kaneb Scholar, have discussed better standardizing the process by which departments evaluate their professors' teaching quality and ways to reduce the weight placed on TCE scores. 
Roche said that his college makes a special point to focus on teaching. Departments such as theology provide brief lectures on teaching skills during faculty meetings, encourage job candi­dates to teach a class as part of their visit and conduct regular peer visits to monitor teaching quality. 
"There is a very strong and pos­itive culture in Arts & Letters regarding thinking about teach­ing," he said. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 

This week learn how to: CHA CHAI (no partners or experience needed) Tuesdays, 7:30·8:45 pm 301 Rockne
·:·· :'~;· 

Advanced class: East Coast Swing 8:45-10:00pm Sponsored by the ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club 

Grades 
continued from page 1 
rigor with which grade inflation 
is examined and pursued varies. 
Sam Gaglio, assistant dean of 
the Mendoza College nf 
Business, said that the college 
evaluates grades each semester 
and rigorously monitors the 
grading system and course con­
tent. 

"[Grade inflation] is being 
evaluated on a regular basis by 
department chairs, both in the 
department as a whole and 
especially in classes with multi­
ple sections," he said. 
Gaglio said it is not unusual, however, especially in classes with numerous sections, for there to be some discrepancy in grades from year to year. He ·noted that one section could contain a group of very high­performing students, while another section could have stu­
dents that perform less well. 
Charles Kulpa, chair of the 
department of biological sci­
ences, said he monitors grades 
within his department on a 
yearly basis. He notes that infla­tion has been relatively small in his department and depends somewhat on the instructor of a given course. 
Kulpa said that if he were to note grade discrepancies or a pattern of out-of-line grading among a particular faculty member, he would approach that faculty member on an indi­vidual basis. 
''I'd ask why," he said. "But I wouldn't necessarily tell them that it's wrong. I don't want to legislate how grades are given." 
Mark Roche, dean of the College of Arts & Letters, said that although his coUege has some procedures in place, they have not yet rigorously addressed grade inflation. 
"We've done a lot of things, [such as] discussions with indi­vidual faculty members, but we haven't really tackled it as a col­lege. I think it's about time." 
On the student side, Jeremy Staley, former chair of the aca­demic committee of the Office of the Student Body President, said that his committee had not addressed the issue of grade inflation before he left to study abroad in Rome this semester. 
This issue was not discussed much in the academic commit­tee," he said. "However. last year, during my term on student Senate, the issue was brought up a few times, especially from our student representatives on the Academic Council." 

Both Roche and Staley said that faculty had expressed con­cern regarding various recent proposals to either publish TCE results or to include an average course grade on a student's transcript. Roche said that a proposal to include both a stu­dent's grade in a course as well as the average grade for that particular course on transcripts was proposed but later rejected by the Executive Committee. 
Roche also said that his col­lege regularly shares TCE scores with each department every semester and takes both these scores and the quality of teaching very seriously. 
"We weigh teaching even at the level for promotion from associate to full professor [seri­ously)," he said. "I don't think all universities have a culture like that." 
Contact Joe TrombeUo at jtrombel@nd.edu 
Burst water pipe floods Dillon 
Observer Staff Report 
A water pipe burst under­neath the 24-hour lounge in Dillon Hall Monday afternoon, flooding part of the first floor and causing water to also leak into the basement. 
The leak began around 4 p.m., spreading into the area between the £irst floor 24-hour lounge and the main hallway. 
The water also flowed from a crack in the ceiling into the main hallway of the basement near the stairway. The base­ment leak was contained by garbage cans soon after it was discovered. 
On the first floor, the water grew to about an inch in height between the lounge and in the hallway spanning about six rooms. Residents in rooms near-the 24-hour space placed tovv­els outside their doors to block the water as it began to spread from the lounge into the hall­way. About 20 minutes later, the water was shut ofT and the puddles were vacuumed up. 
The flood did not significantly damage the furnitu rc or belongings in the lounge. The cause of the burst pipe was unknown. 
Georgetown University 2004 Summer School 

Take advantage of a unique opportunity to study at Georgetown University next sun1mer at special sumn1er tuition rates. Choose fron1 n1ore than 300 undergraduate and graduate day and evening credit courses during three sessions. 
Pre...session:  May 24-June 18  
First Session:  June 7 ...July 9  
Second Session:  July 12-August 13  

For Information atJout programs for t-ugr-~ sct-,oo1 students, please v1s1t http//surnrnerschool georgetown.edu or call 202-687-5719/5832. 
Call 202-687-5942 for a 2004 Summer School Catalogue or visit ()Ur ,..vebsite On­campus housing Is available. 1nqu1re about our partial tuition s~jx:iarsh!ps. 
~ft.(~~~\ Georgetown Utli\rersit)'
,z~"\tl~r:~lr< ­
~~.!t.~7~.Ji Sch~ol for Summer &Continuing Education ·-~~;;~~ webstte: htlp://summerschool.georgetown.edu Jl·:-~¥~~~,~ email: summer@georgetown.edu 
Affirmative Ac(/On/Equaf Opportunty tnsrituuon 

Tuesday, March 2, 2004 Cotv\PllED FROl·A.TH E 0HSERVER'S \.Yl RE SERVICES page 5 
-
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Gunman kills Arafat advisor 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -Gunmen shot 
and killed a well-known adviser to 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat in Gaza City 
early Tuesday, security officials said. 
Khalil al-Zaben, 59, was hit by 12 bullets 
as he left his office in the Sabra neighbor­
hood, hospital and security ofTicials said. 
Al-Zaben published a weekly magazine devoted to Palestinian affairs and human rights. He joined forces with Arafat in the 1960s and served in a number of capacities, including media adviser and personal secre­tary. 
Palestinian police rushed to the scene of the murder and began investigating. Security officials said they did not know who killed al­Zaben. 
Amnesty details rights violations 
THIPOLI, Libya -Amnesty International, given its ·f1rst access to Libya in 15 years, has detailed a number of serious human rights violations, including the disappearance of prisoners and intolerance of political activity. 
The four-member team shared its report with Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, who promised to consider Amnesty's recommen­dations, team leader Claudio Cordone told The Associated Press early Monday. 
The visit is part of Gadhafi's continuing efforts to improve the image of his country, long seen as a rogue state. Libya has recent­ly renounced its nuclear weapons program and accepted responsibility for the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Church must change health plan 
SAN FHANCISCO -In a precedent-setting decision, the California Supreme Court ruled Monday that a Roman Catholic charity must offer birth-control coverage to· its employees even though the church considers contra­ception a sin. The 6-1 decision marked the first such ruling by a state's highest court. 
Experts said the ruling could affect thou­sands of workers at Catholic hospitals and other church-backed institutions in California and prompt other states to fashion similar laws. California is one of 20 states to require that all company-provided health plans must include contraception coverage if the plans have prescription drug benefits. 
Nichols trial steps up intensity 
McALESTER, Okla. -Jury selection began Monday in the murder trial of Oklahoma City bombing conspirator Terry Nichols after the judge refused to postpone proceedings while the FBI reviews whether investigators suppressed evidence of a wider conspiracy. 
Nichols, already serving a life sentence on federal charges for his role in the bombing, could get the death penalty if convicted of the state charges. It was expected to take two weeks to select 12 jurors and six alter­nates. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Eastern time zone will remain 
INDIANAPOLIS -A proposal that sought to move most of Indiana to the Central time zone and have it observe daylight-saving time appears dead this legislative session. 
Democratic Rep. Chet Dobis of Merrillville said Monday he would not offer his resolu­tion for consideration by the House this week. 
That all but dooms its chances since law­makers are scheduled to end the session by midnight Thursday. 
Democrats vie for primary wins 
Kerry eyes sweep in Super Tuesday election; Edwards vows to continue campaign 
Associated Press 
John Kerry vowed that he 
would not be another 
"wishy-washy, mealy­
mouthed" Democrat, pledg­
ing Monday to wage a 
bare-knuckled campaign 
against President Bush as 
he sought a Super Tuesday 
sweep to lay claim to the 
party's nomination. 
On the eve of their 10­
state showdown, John 
Edwards faced signs of 
political distress as Kerry's 
last major Democratic rival 
-meager polling, paltry 
crowds and a growing real­
ization inside his own 
ranks that the end may be 
near.. 
"At some point. I've got to 
start getting more dele­
gates or I'm not going to be 
the nominee," Edwards 
said at a Toledo, Ohio, 
news conference. 
Regardless of Tuesday's results, Bush plans to begin a multimillion-dollar TV ad campaign this week to reverse his :downward trend. Kerry's campaign is considering a modest response designed to put the White House on the defensive, said two senior advisers who spoke on con­dition of anonymity. Democratic allies may move sooner. . 
Edwards drew 300 peo­ple to his University of Toledo rally, three times fewer than a crowd that welcomed Kerry recently to the same venue. Drawing even smaller crowds in Dayton. Ohio, and Cleveland later Monday, the freshman senator seemed listless and indifferent, stumbling over sigooture lines in his stump speech. 
It seemed prophetic when aides at the Cleveland rally played Fleetwood Mac's "You Can Go Your Own Way." 
The North Carolina sena­tor pledged to stay in the race "until I'm nominated," but he declined to predict victory in Ohio, virtually a must-win state for him, as he acknowledged Kerry's ·dominance. 
"There's no question that 
national momentum has an 
impact on these races," 
Edwards said. 
He held out hope for an 
election surprise, noting 
that he defied polls by fin­
ishing just 6 percentage 
points behind Kerry in New 
Hampshire and Wisconsin. 
But the senator had more 
time to court voters in 
those states than he did for 
Tuesday's races. 
Edwards' only victory 
came in his birth state of 
South Carolina, but that 
was four weeks and 11 
defeats ago. 
Kerry has won 18 of 20 
primaries or caucuses, and 
led in pre-election polls in 
every competitive Super 
Tuesday venue. Ten states 

before squaring off at a debate sponsored by CBS Sunday.
. 
with nearly 50 million reg­istered voters award 1,151 delegates on the biggest day of the nomination fight. 
A sweep Tuesday could give Kerry more than 1,500 delegates -a virtually insurmountable lead, though still short of the 2,162 needed to claim the nomination. 
Edwards, with just 205 delegates as of Monday, will come under pressure to quit the race unless he wins two or more contests Tuesday, said strategists in both campaigns as well as several party leaders. 
"I think it's wrapped up already," said Democratic strategist James Carville, who helped Bill Clinton become president. 
Edwards virtually ceded· four New England states holding Super Tuesday elections: Connecticut, Rhode Island, Vermont and the front-runner's home state of Massachusetts. 

He has campaigned in New York and California, the day's biggest prizes with a combined 606 dele­gates, but polls show Edwards trailing badly. One survey showed the race close in Maryland, but even Edwards' advisers dis­counted the survey. 
His advisers privately held out hope for victories in Georgia and Minnesota's hard-to-predict caucuses, but they said Ohio looked out of reach, with long-shot candidate Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio cutting into Edwards' base. 
HAITI 
Rebels take police headquarters 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -Rebels occupied the national police head­quarters but kept away from the U.S.-guarded presidential palace after their convoy entered the capital Monday to the cheers of thousands celebrating the ouster of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
Dozens of insurgents packing an eclectic array of weapons dating to World War II swaggered around a posh hotel where rebel leader Guy Philippe met with members of the political coalition that opposed Aristide. He was joined by rebel commander Louis-Jodel Chamblain, who is a former army death squad leader and a convicted assassin. 
With U.S. military forces on the ground and more on the way, Aristide claimed they forced him to leave Haiti and told him they would "start shooting and killing" if he refused, according to a telephone interview with the exiled president after he was flown aboard a con­tracted U .S.-government plane to the The Associated Press by the Rev. Jesse Jackson on Monday following a news conference in Atlanta, where the civil rights leader called on Congress to investigate Aristide's ouster. 
impoverished  Central  African  
Republic.  
Aristide was  put in contact with  

U.S. officials called the allegation -repeated earlier by other U.S. critics who said they were c_alled by Aristide-"nonsense" and "absurd." 
Philippe said he planned to make preparations for the new president, former Supreme Court Chief Justice Boniface Alexandre, to assume office, as called for in the constitu­tion. 
page 6 Tuesday, March 2, 2004 
The Observer • NEWS 
Council 
continued from page 1 
changes." 
Poorman spent the majority of 

his presentation outlining goals 
of Student Affairs regarding on­
campus housing and dorm life, 
among them the construction of 
four new residence facilities, the 
reduction of occupancy of exist­
ing dorms by 10 percent to 
relieve overcrowding, the demo­
lition of University Village and its 
replacement with new housing 
for married students and the 
implementation of new on-cam­
pus livip.g arrangements for sen­
iors. 
Poorman said that he would 

like to see the percentage of on­
campus seniors increase from 
the current 46 percent to 52 to 
54 percent in the coming years 
and raise the percentage of stu­
dents who live on campus from 
79 to 82 percent. 
"It's a modest and doable 

goal." he said. 
The report also proposes the replacement of Stepan Center with a new facility to accommo­date 3,500-4,000 people, the construction of a retreat center and the expansion of the LaFortune Student Center to include Washington and Crowley Halls. 
"The goals for campus life are the product ofadministrative, student, alumni, parent and fac­ulty and staff input through the formation of an ad hoc commit­tee and the use of surveys and focus groups." Poorman said. ''I'm grateful to the committee for a thorough job." 
Poorman also updated CLC on changes that were the result of their efforts, most notably the establishment of a gender rela­tions center. The idea, he said, was first proposed in 2002 by then student body president Brooke Norton. 
"I was very receptive to it at the time ... and the slow wheels of progress have finally yielded something," he said. ''I'm pleased to announce that we are indeed going to create this cen­ter." 
Poorman said that the new center will be housed in LaFortune and he named Pangborn Hall rector Heather Rakoczy as the founding director. The center will be funded through the Office of Student 
Affairs. 
"It's humbling," Rakoczy said of being named the center's director. ''I'm excited about the opportunity." 
Poorman also addressed con­cerns raised by the CLC regard­ing transportation options for students suffering from tempo­rary disabilities. Previously, golf carts had been available but the service was eliminated amid budget cuts last year. Next year, he said, temporarily disabled students will have access to motorized scooters stored in the Notre Dame Security and Police building. This year, students can contact the Office for Students with Disabilities for information on obtaining a scooter. He praised the Provost's Office for providing the funding for next year's project. 
In other CLC news: 
• 
Members unanimously app­roved the drafting of a letter to Poorman regarding campus beautification. The letter will include what members perceive to be problem areas on campus and will be accompanied with photos. 

• 
The CLC approved a request passed by Student Senate to form a task force to address social awareness issues. includ­


ing diversity on campus and the possibility of implementing the concept into a required course for undergraduate students. Charlie Ebersol, director of the Student Union Board, requested to chair the committee. 
• Members voiced their frustra­tions on the lack of activity of the CLC task forces this semester. Some of the task forces. includ­ing RA Training, have yet to meet since December, members said. 
"If don't know if this is just my experience ... but with the exception of CLC meetings, I haven't gotten instructions to do anything else this semester," Rakoczy said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
Break 
continued from page 1 
other groups of Notre Dame stu­dents will also be vacationing there, Winger said. 
Senior Eric Bilinski is also trav­eling south with friends to Costa Rica for spring break. However, his group chose not to make its plans through Anthony Travel. 
"We wanted an unconventional spring break trip, something out of the ordinary. It is our senior year, and we wanted a vacation we would remember for a lifetime," Bilinski said. 
He and his friends started plan­ning their trip during the middle of fall semester, but Carr says that students who have not yet made plans to get away can still book packages with Anthony Travel. The generally smaller number of people traveling this year forces airlines and hotels to discount their fares, even for week long trips to hotels on the beach. 
"There are always last-minute deals," Carr said. · 
While students have countless options for where to travel, the· majority of them will fly out of one of the two Chicago airports instead of South Bend Regional Airport. 
Representatives from South Bend Airport's travel agency Travelmore said they have booked reservations for fewer college stu­dents than usual this year. 
Part of the reason why so few students are making plans to trav­el through South Bend Airport may be because the majority of travel packages utilize charter planes that only. fly between major airports such as Chicago's O'Hare and Midway. Carr said all Anthony Travel trips to Acapulco fly out of O'Hare because it is much less expensive than flying out of South Bend. 
Bilinski said that while it may be somewhat more complicated to fly from Chicago, a few more hours of traveling did not discourage any members of his group from going to Costa Rica. 
"We're driving to Chicago and then flying to San Jose. I don't think it discouraged anyone [because] we're going to have a good time no matter how we get there," Bilinski said. 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 

Contracts 
Monthly Bills TalkTracker. 
• PA.PAID WtR•L•aa SEPIVICE
Credit Checks 
• 
Unlimited Nlqhts & Vtf..;:.. tdt.~'o,.\"" 

• 
Includes NahrH1v~·ide tnng DL~L~~, 

• 
500 !~n~:[bme Minuh;·:; 


• $50 p~~ rn~) nth ·~s .d ~I ~ i· ·';!::-:~t::.. 
Ptus get a NOKIA 3SSS color phone for just $25 
~US. Cellu1ar 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 

Tuesday, March 2, 2004 page? 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 678.14 +94.22
}ones ' 
-*~··~~ 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) + 1.68 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.64 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) + 1.63 SEPRACOR INC (SEPR) +56.48 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +2.04 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.02 10-YEAR NOTE +0.20 5-YEAR NOTE +0.54 3-MONTH BILL +0.97 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 
+0.49  29.69  
+0.17  26.70  
+0.21  13.08  
+ 15.99  44.30  
+0/06  3.00  
+0.0 I  48.58  
+0.08  39.92  
+0.16  29.61  
+0.09  9.36  
+0.70  36.86  
+2.80  399.60  


PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.275 97.30 
Excho Rates 

YEN 109 EURO 0.8031 POUND 0.5352 
CANADIAN$ 1.337 
IN BRIEF 
Rise in U.S. stocks lifts dollar 
LONDON -The U.S. dollar rose against other major currencies in European trading Wednesday. Gold prices fell. 
The euro was quoted at $1.2501 in late European trading, down from $1.2658 Tuesday. Later, in midday trading in New York, the euro traded at $1.2495. 
Other dollar rates in Europe, compared to late Tuesday, included 108.95 Japanese yen, up from 108.13; 1.2570 Swiss francs, up from 1.2435; and 1.3370 Canadian dollars, up from 1.3307. The British pound was quoted at $1.8750, down from $0.1.8850. 
Indiana's NICBCO lays off workers 
· ELKHART, Ind. -Sixty toolroom workers at a company that makes plumbing fittings have been told they are being laid off over the next ten months. The announcement Wednesday • was not a complete surprise. 
"They've been evaluating us for two years," Rick Cawley, president of United Steelworkers Local 14810, which represents the toolroom workers, told The Truth. 
The toolroom workers, the remnant of a plant workforce that once exceeded 400 peo­ple, make plastic injection molds and tooling for stamping out brass and copper plumbing fittings for other NIBCO plants. 
Grocery workers end their strike 
LOS ANGELES -Long-idled Southern California grocery workers will soon be back stocking produce and manning checkouts after union members approved a new contract, end­ing a strike that inconvenienced millions of cus­tomers and cost millions more in lost sales. 
After a two-day vote,. 86 percent of grocery workers who cast ballots approved a three-year contract negotiated by the ·United Food and Commercial Workers union, concluding :1-:.eir five-month strike and lockout. The contract cm'­
'rs 70,C;;O \'-'Orkcrs. a majorio_'. cf ·h·-;n Pm;-:oy<'d hy -\'b;'rt·.;··;., ll'r.; Kr·;~!er C>: . V'·hid1 np:'i''l:;'~ JL, :1 1'" .;t,:r••·; il -•. d :· ·fc:'-.. " 11-.~·., \'~-·J·-i::·i-·:~~~' dL0 :f~ (tT'~j}--·~~--i]i;-71-S,
c 

CORPORATE SCANDAL 
Stewart defense receives attack 
~ 

Prosecutor tells jury "Martha Stewart thought she would never get caught" 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Martha 
Stewart and her stockbro­
ker concocted a flimsy 
cover story about why the 
homemaking icon sold her 
ImClone Systems stock and 
left a "trail of evidence" 
exposing their lies, a feder­
al prosecutor said Monday 
in closing arguments. 
In a methodical three­
hour closing argument, 
prosecutor Michael 
Schachter told jurors that 
Stewart and broker Peter 
Bacanovic believed they 
would never get caught. 
"But Martha Stewart and 
Peter Bacanovic were 
wrong," Schachter said, 
"They left behind a trail of 
evidence exposing the 
truth about Martha 
Stewart's sale and exposing 
the lies they would tell." 
Stewart and Bacanovic 
face nine federal counts 
related to the sale of about 
$225,000 worth of stock on 
before the stock tanked on 
news that the government 
declined to review an 
ImClone cancer drug. 
Prosecutors say Bacanovic sent word to Stewart that ImClone CEO Sam Waksal and his family were frantically dumping their own shares. 
On Monday, Schachter tried to dismantle the cen­terpiece of the pair's defense -that they had struck a deal before Dec. 27 to sell Stewart's shares when lmClone stock dropped below $60. The prosecutor called the story "phony," "silly" and "sim­ply an after-the-fact cover story," 
Baconovic's lawyer fired back by attacking the cred­ibility of the government's star witness and compar­ing the government's case with a house of cards. 
"When you push on it, when you look at it closely, it collapses," Richard 

Reuters 

Martha Stewart arrives at a federal court In New York Friday for a hearing related 
to her securities fraud and obstruction of justice trial 
Strassberg said. "Because · it has no substance. It has no foundation." 
Stewart took notes dur­ing the arguments and, as she has done throughout the trial, maintained a grim poker face. Her lead attorney was to make his case Tuesday, with the jury to begin deliberating as early as Wednesday. 
The prosecutor listed seven reasons jurors would know the $60 agreement is a lie. Among them: The pair has no record of hav­ing made the plan, other than a worksheet produced by Bacanovic with the notation "(at)60" next to ImClone stock -in a dif­ferent ink from other marks on the page. 
Schachter also listed inconsistencies -mis­takes, he called them-in the stories Stewart and Bacanovic told federal investigators looking into the ImClone trade in early 2002. 
For example, Bacanovic claimed they had the $60 conversation on Dec. 20, 2001. But Stewart placed it in late 0ctober or early November. 
And Schachter said that Stewart's attempt to change the log of a mes­sage Bacanovic left her was evidence of a guilty conscience. Stewart quickly ordered her assistant to restore the message to its original wording, accord­ing to the assistant's testi­mony. 
"This event is devastating evidence that she commit­ted the crimes that she's charged with," he said. 
Last week, U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum dismissed the top count of securities fraud, which accused Stewart of misleading investors in her own com­pany when she claimed publicly. that she sold 1mClone because of the $60 deal. The judge said the government had failed to provide enough evidence of criminal intent by Stewart. 
The dismissal left jurors to grapple with one central question whether Stewart and the broker lied to the government about the stock sale. 
The remaining counts against Stewart carry up to 20 years in prison, although federal sentenc­ing guidelines could mean a sentence of just a year or so if she is convicted on all counts. 

WALL STREET 
Manufacturing stocks post gains 
Associated Press 
· NEW YORK -The Dow Jones industrial average and Nasdaq com­posite index posted their strongest gains since early February on Monday on news that the improving manufacturing sector has managed to create jobs -a key pi::,:e of the /Onomk recoverv th:~t, to date, has b"f'fl lacking. • 
~' tf:J·'tJ·-ing f:: :.1 "r :·-:p;:Ld.< ;,; F .. l: i:li,:. <<·· u~h :1 H slih'~ :J_. ·· ' .,. ~':!:"C ·1-.a; f'VI:.C, '• :J, :l: •'::•···· 
r >-; f--· 1 .. I :' !'., 
Management. Analysts said the sec­tor was consolidating its gains and preparing for stronger growth in the future. 
Although the ISM's main business index fell to 61.4 in February com­pared with a revised 63.6 in January, analysts noted that the group's subindex for employment was surprisingly highf'r. 
..ThL; helps support thP fpeJing : r :~ • i , . · "mp L yn(' n t p i ~ t u r c i s 'n•.·; ~:· :n!!" .-;:lid F: ·.. r I~lin"': : :·,jpf
... :_ -­
.. ··I.;:·: ~. t r, · . ! ""t ~~ '~ \ · ,d ·:, r: 1·; ··---~;:,_ ~~ v~--; 't~~!=-:q v~_-~ ~ •. · ~-~--~\·; 
ing is that employment is getting better; but it's not where everyone wants it to be." 
The Do\v jumped 94.22, or 0.9 percent, to 10:678.14, its biggest one-day point gain since Feb. 11. The technology-focused Nasdaq rose 27.98, or 1.4 percent, to 2.057.80, posting its biggest gains since Feb. 6 despite concerns about the stn~ng; h of semiconductor stu:K.s . 
'T'he S ··1Hiard & Poor's ~:10 index 
,.:J <"_ U"" '1 ()2 •:r 1 ., ~,'I'·; I :•;
--' -, ~~ .a • t -. I . 1 -­
' 

-.. :)-=. ;b, .'Ds::,!,j '•;;; 'ig::<:' · · tt ' -. ir·' Ff' b_., I. 
THE OBSER\'ER 
p
page 8 


' Tuesday, March 2,.2004 
THE OBSERVER 
tNt....,_..,..~ ,.._,.,_s-...sNt.t.E~ -~M'"'Y~ 
~0. &x Q.N~ Dar!t~:,JN 46556 024 SOuth Dining Halt, Notte D::Une,JN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEf Matt Lozar 


MANAGING EDIToR BOSlNESS MANAGER s,ort Btodfuehr~ Lori Lewalski 
M.\NAGING Eonua Sheila Flynn 
Nm EorroJU Meghanne Downes VJEWP(}JNT EDrroR.: Sarah Vahuw 

. SC£NE EDlT()lt: Matia Smith · · SAJNTM.ARv's Eorro& Anneliese Woolford PHOTO EDITOR: Tiro: Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER.: Maura Cene~ella 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: To~ Haight .. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR.: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nicto CoNTROll.ER: Paula Garcia 


CONTACT Us· 0FRCE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631~7471
Fu ''> . 
(574)631~6927 
ADVfRTISING . 
(574)631~6900 . obse(Vad@nd.edu 
. . . . EDITOR IN CHIEf 
{574)631-45-41' MAHAGIKG EDIToA & AsSISTANt MANAGING EDITOR 
•(574) 631•4541 . obsme@nd.edu · BuSINESS 0FACE' 
{574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 cbsnews.l@nd.edu ... .·. VIEWPOINT DeSK> . . 
· (5:71)63 t~53f)3 vi~poi~t:l@nd.edu · . · 

·.·.·.··. . .. :•=-:/': /_·,: ... SPORTS DESK:::,.··::··:':·:·:'. ·. . : :·:,::·: • , (5>04} u31;~5;~NE r:~tsJ~n~.edu > ! 
::;:::::::::::..:. :.·..·:_.:,'_:·.·:•:·.·:•.•·(514_:·_)6_·:_.3_·_··.1...~_4_.·_540_. >., seen.e_.l@_n.J.:l.•cdu: ·_-=···:·..·.: ..·:····.:.·..·· 
·::~:f:::::·· 
:•:::..·.· ••.••.•••••.. >_•_····(····5·7·4·······)6···3····~_.~:_3_/l:nhWi@.$K.8.edu·' ?_••••.•••••••••••••••••..••••.••.••.••..:_•••.••• 
.··:·:-.:::: 
'::::·.·. .· (SJ;~s~.!$3l~n x;:i~~:<: ......·.:.:····· .... 
){:) ·.....·. (574} 63h88j9 
:::;:;:::::::-·-·;· :.-:-.-:-:-·-·_ ·--.::: ·.--: ·-..·.·. ::·:·-:-:-·_ ·-:·:-.·-...... ·. ''' 
{( <·.••.'.·.······,········.•,·-•.·•.·.·····,···,···,·•.·,o·.>>.. ·. TBHSEEri~.···· ~···.···-=-=.R •••.•_., •. ·.. E.-:} . · ...
U:.~~-~~-~~.?i/(; 1'\:.V'£ n_L:!J<V~•. 1·"···-··,···.··.l···L..,··lN·., >-: 
-·-:-·­

[:1.1!!< www.adsmcobser~er.com.·..,. . . < .,,:,,,,,,,,., •::.::. ··. ·. · · PouctEs · · .·.·.·.._._,,_, __ ,,_,:,-:::::::: 
·i·'j.·.: Th~ Observer is the independent, daily~~~ • [':{ puJ,Iisltedjn prj~t and olliine by1he ~tu<fcnts ofthe }\Univetsio/Ofl'J&t'ebame~J..#a6d&Un~Maijs •..... ·,_._ 
\{:f:oUege.· Editorial «>nrent.indUding advertisement!, ill ••••,•• 
{).riotgovernedby:policics:{)fth,e:·.a<ilnin~trati~:m.ofeither.······ .· IC institution, J1W ~r iesefV($ tikiight,t() ~~ ; }::adver~tS b:iS.ed onc6nt~~. . .··•·• .·.··..·.······ .. :fH The ~--15. reported as kcuratdy and ol>jectively as ':':':' 'j)cissible, Ur@gned cditoriab represent ·the opin.ioo of 
•. . . the majOtity Ofthe Editot in Chi~ Managing Edirw, .• · Assisrailr Managing Editor and department editors. < Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
•·•···•·· of the authors and not necessarilr clmse -ofThe 
· ·Observer. .. . . VIeWpoint space is availableto all readers.The free ·•···•· •expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters ro the Editor must be signed and mUSt include contaGr inform:ttion. 
Qr«nions rrgarding ObsirWipoliciN 1houklbr dirwed to Erlitor i, C/MfMatt:I~ 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

< : < '11>< oe-(l;ISl>S 5!19 HOOI)J ~ p<!l>Lsh.cl Mon4aY tb~~;h fri<lay ~-~....~ . ·. · · om. ....l ~~"'~~A ~rip<l.>t. Rl n~~ds $IlK! r<M"-~" ,_:s~HPr~~-.:. > · 
The ~«i:o: p~IDh«< ~: l'OST.w.siEA 
~~~~ So"•h pj,i;QII Hoi~ ·· ~ ~~"""""' w. No<A: Dani<i: £N <16>~ T~~r .. l'triodi<al l""'._. ,..;cl" Nottt o-oo.~~o~ Q .ad .dditlaaal m;dlio~ l>llka. &24 s<,c,di Diniaj. Hall .. ; 
· Nox~OO....:, IN 46554-0779 

TODAY'S STAFF\: . 
·.-.... ' . 
)News
.. . Sports 

Maureen Heather Van ........ Reynolds Hoegarden Amanda Michaels DanTapetillo 
Laura Vilini Bobby Griffin Viewpoint Scene Cheryl-Barker Julie Bender Graphics Illustrator Graham Ebetsch Pat Quill 


Mr. President, where is the love? 
Dear President George W. Bush, 
Four years ago, I was apathetic when you beat Al Gore to become President of the United States. Four 
-years ago, I cared more about Paul Pierce joining the Celtics, the movie 
"Gladiator" and Peter Quaranto 
the new song 
"Country Grammar" by A Call to Nelly than your Action slim victory for the 
White House. Little did I know at the time that your election would prove the catalyst for my political awakening and engage­ment. And therefore, Mr. President, I want to begin by saying this: Thank you. 
Sept. 11, 2001 was certainly the most important global event of my generation. I will never forget Mr. Donovan in calculus class telling us that two planes had flown into the World Trade Center towers. I will never forget sitting in Mr. Scanlan's history class when he told us, "Boys, the world will never be the same after today." I will never forget sitting at home with my brother and watching you address the nation. I remember being filled with pride, confidence and hope as you stood before me and told the nation that we would get through this traumatic day. I was proud, on that day, to be an American. 
It was on that day, Mr. President, when you faced a choice. You faced a choice of using international law to mobilize the international community to combat terrorism or employing a unilateral approach of fighting terror~ ism. You faced a choice between bringing justice to these crimes against humanity through a military police force or using traditional war tactics to invade rogue states that could potentially harbor terrorists. Mr. President, you chose the latter, and I fear this may have been the most deadly decision of your adminis~ 
OBSERVER POLL 
tration. 

Since that decision, the United States has engaged in two wars, resulting in the deaths of at least 10,000 Iraqi and Afghani civilians and at least 750 U.S. troops. In the case of Iraq, it has recently been discovered that your claims about weapons of mass destruction were false. The United States has become occupier and parent to two troubled and unsta­ble countries, which are soaking in 
_ tens of billions of U.S. taxpayer dol­lars and could easily become breeding grounds for terrorism. Osama bin Laden has not been caught, al~Qaeda remains relatively strong and the War on Terror has no end in sight. Mr. President, on Sept. 11, the United States received the sympathy and support of the entire internation­al community, giving us the highest international approval rating in U.S. history. Two years later, we have the lowest approval rating in U.S. history. Mr. President, I find myself hard~ pressed to argue that you capitalized on the unique opportunities that the United States had post-Sept. 11 to work for a more safe, just and peace­ful world . Unfortunately, Mr. President, your foreign policy is not the only problem~ atic element of your agenda. Under your watch, about three million Americans have lost their jobs, 2.5 million have lost their healthcare and two million have slipped into poverty.. That is not to mention the other 35 million Americans who live daily in poverty, the more than 41 million Americans who live without health­care and the 30 million Americans who suffer from hunger. Mr. President, where is the love? Mr. President, the two most discon­certing policies that I am still trying to grapple with are veterans' benefits cuts, especially healthcare, and cuts in programs for civil servants, such as police officers and firefighters. I find it hard to reconcile your "support the troops" patriotic rhetoric with your 
current policies that are cutting the legs from undern·eath the very defenders of American liberty and freedom. M.r. President, this sort of hypocrisy tears at the social threads that hold our country together. 
I will not even begin to go into the problems of your current education system, your harmful environmental policies, your unrestrained support for the FTAA or your massive slashing of social programs for the poor and disabled. Mr. President, I will not even begin to address the fiscally irrespon­sible federal deficit that is projected to reach $2.4 trillion over the next 10 years. Mr. President, where is the love? 
Now, as we drive forward into this election year, you will most likely, with the help of Karl Rove, use your usual fear~tactics, "religious right" rhetoric and big business support to avoid addressing these real problem­atic elements of current U.S. society. Will the American public stand for this? We will find out in November. 
Mr. President, I want to encourage you to use these next nine months to bring back the love that is so missing in our country right now. I want to encourage you to stop the cuts on social service programs, to work more closely with the international commu­nity on global issues and to empower the American people to rebuild com­munities committed to justice and equality. 
Mr. President, where is the love? It's time that we get serious about build­ing a country where the love is not so hidden. 
Peter Quaranta is a sophomore political science and international peace studies major. 1/e encourages everyone to tune in to the best WVFI radio show. the Jim Madden Show. Saturdays from 4 to 5 p.m. Contact him at pquarant@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"In three words I can sum up everything I've 
How many midterms do you have? 
learned about life: it goes on., 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
Robert Frost 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
poet 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student elections are comparatively good 
So you say that student government elections are ineffective. Well, we beg to differ. Who are we, you ask? Well, we are those very same candidates you know and love from last year's election, the realistic ticket of the Triumvirate. Let's take a step back, shall we? 
In order to get one's name on the bal­lot, it is required that one get 700 sig­natures. These signatures are required" in order to show that the candidate has popular support from the student body. Before the Triumvirate, 300 signatures were required to prove student sup­port. This is progress from apathy. Go figure. Anyhoo, try and remember that even at 300, though just about anyone and his cat could run for office. it's required that the students have popu­lar support. This was not always the case. Let us look to this development throughout history. 
Before Andrew Jackson in 1828, the electoral college in the United States~ worked poorly at best. The president was really chosen by the elites. In this system, Notre Dame's student body president would be elected by select administrators and student athletes. 
Before declaring our independence, we were under the rule of England, and so in comparison, the student body president would be chosen by the Board of Trustees. Not to mention that then we would be, like England, the root of all that is evil. · 
The Founding Fathers were well aware of the Athenian Democratic phe­nomenon from the 6th to the 4th centu­
ry B.C.E. and wanted to make sure that we were as democratic as possible without being psychotic like those crazy Mediterranean lake dwellers. Hence the representative democracy (more of a republic). rather than actual democracy, under which (if we applied the Athenian sys­tem) the stu­dent body president would be chosen at random from a lottery every day to head the Student Senate, which would have actual control. The senate, by the way, would also be chosen by lottery. This could lead to some­one from the hellhole of Zahm leading, again leading us to be the root of all that is evil. 
So why did those crazy Hellas come up with their system? Well, the whole aristocracy thing wasn't really working for them, and with the importance of private property (the oikos, or Greek 
household) a democracy made sense. Before that, the Greek world was in the control of Basileis, these head honcho type guys who had more than everybody 
else and were supposed to share the wealth. 
This 
worked as long as the 
Basileis didn't get greedy. The 

Basile is were the ones get­ting together making deci­sions, so again, the stu­dent athletes would be the ones calling the shots. However, the problem 
with that is, when some uppi­
ty young stud comes and steals your 
woman, the rest of the Basileis have to 
come to your aid and a giant war 
Give Zahm Hall a chance 
Zahm Hall, or "Zaam House" as its residents would prefer, is a very special place on campus. Being ever so conscious of the environment, Zahm is doing their part with the unparalleled number of beer cans it recycles in any given week. They provide a quiet haven for both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's girls who, because of the cold, just could not make it all . the ·way to Turtle Creek. They look out for their fellow students by testing dining hall cups to assure they will not break if tossed down the stairs at NOH. Zahm is just looking out for our community here at Notre Dame. 
Let us be blunt about this. Zahm is disliked. They are disliked by other male dorms and especially by the administration. I must admit, many of the displays Zahm makes are crude, even offensive. But I challenge you now to look past those for a minute, and try to imagine the spirit and community that is Zaam House. 
The Zahm interhall hockey team "Fear" recently lost the championship game to Morrissey. An employee of RecSports came to the Zahm section during the game, and threat­ened to throw out the next person who picked up a parking cone to lead a cheer. He came back many times to check on the Zahm crowd. As the score grew in favor of Morrissey, the Morrissey crowd became increasingly rowdy, shaki~ag the glass and yelling at the Zahm crowd, yes, through parking cones. RecSports was nowhere to be found. The fact is, Zahm residents accept the fact that they are as a unit disliked, and they indeed feed on it. The men of Zahm walked out of the JACC after losing the game chanting, "We're number two! We're number two!" Nowhere but Zahm have I seen such dorm unity and spirit, no mattf~r the cir­cumstances. They pack the stands at interhall games, stocked with cowbells, props and cheers galore. 
The men of Zahm feel family ties to their dorm. They regard each other as brothers, and continually give each other unwavering sup­port. At the preliminary rounds of Bengal Bouts, it seemed as if all of Zahm came out to see each Zahmbie fight. Every member of the Zahm crowd stood for the duration of each Zahmbie's fight. Win or lose, each fighter received never-ending cheers, yells and support from his dorm. 
But Zahm does not revolve around sports and parties. They participate in many service proj­ects, most of which go overlooked. Zahm has donated the most coats for Project Warmth two years in a row. This Thursday, Zahm residents will cook dinner for ex-convicts who are trying to reenter society at Dismus House, a service project the dorm is active in. Zahm is also active with the Robinson Community Learning Center and "There are Children Here," two · after-school programs for local children. 
The residence conditions at Notre Dame are truly unique from almost every major university in the United States, and many students have objections to Notre Dame's policies. Many peo­ple would like to see the University develop co­ed dorms or change the parietals policy. Whether or not this will happen in the future is beyond me. But the fact is, administrators have held strong with their policies because they believe they are essential to the University's current mission, both as a Catholic institution and an academic and social community. The University wants each dorm to become a com­munity in itself, a place for each student to . regard as their both their home and neighbor­hood. Dorm spirit is encouraged, and the University takes great pride in the spirit the students show for both their dorm and school. And yet the administration seems to have it out for Zahm. The fact is, Zahm is exactly what the administration claims it wants. They have unparalleled dorm spirit, they are not only a community but a family, and they are active in numerous charities and service projects. 
No amount of dissent or Res Life letters can change the spirit and essence that is Zaam House. The administration and a wealth of stu­dents will continue to dislike Zahm. But it will only add fuel to the fire. Zahm will only cheer louder, party longer and work harder. Go ahead and dislike Zahm, just do not write them ofT. 
Kim Fortelka freshman Lyons Hall Feb. 28 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
erupts (see Trojan War). Basically, if an athlete from Indiana University were to come and steal a Notre Dame athlete's girl, Notre Dame would go to war with IU. In large wooden horses. Of course, this begs the question of why you would try to steal a good Catholic girl as your sex slave when you could have a morally casual one without the expense of war from IU. 
In conclusion, instead of focusing on how bad the electoral system is at Notre Dame. think of how good it is in comparison, and think about how bad it could be. Granted, we all want to start a war with IU and ride around in wooden horses, but it's one of those things we should all do willingly and for the right reasons, like IU being the root of all that is evil. 
So next time you want to talk about the ineffectiveness of student govern­ment, think about the little changes that occur because of our marvelous system. Because of the magnificent success of the helper-monkey. chunnel­building ticket of the Triumvirate, you are now guaranteed to have more peo­ple run who are truly interested in making a difference, a difference that, thanks to our system, they can actually make. 
Ryan Gagnet Stanford Hall John McCarthy Keough Hall semors Feb. 29 



page 10 Tuesday, March 2, 2004 

By JULIE BENDER Assistam Scene Editor 
He's not the typical rock icon. In fact, he might more aptly be called the antithesis of rock 'n' roll. He's only 5­foot-6. He's a scrawny, pale-looking thing who w a l k s slightly hunched. His nose is hook­ed, his mouth sneering. He wears a har­monica s t r a p around his neck and his 
r i g h t 
thumbnail is eerily long for the pur­pose of guitar strum­ming. And then there is the matter of his voice. 
B o b D y l a n certainly doesn't look the part of the rock 'n' roll star, but his influence in the music industry is one that has had more power and sway than anyone could have predicted from a skinny kid out of Minnesota. 
Starting Friday, that same skinny kid will be playing four dates in Chicago at different venues -the Aragon Ballroom, the Riviera Theatre, the Vic Theatre and Park West. These are just a few more stops on Dylan's so-called "Never Ending Tour" that he has been on since 1988. Following in the foot­steps of country and blues artists before him, Dylan lives on stage doing one-night stands in various citi e s throughout the world. Such constant 
1970s 

touring is not to promote new albums, but rather to reshape and reinvigorate the art of live songwriting. 
Although Dylan does not actually write new songs on stage, he reworks songs in his repertoire, changing lyrics, rhythms and instruments until the songs become almost unrecogniz­able from their orig­inal form. Some fans dislike this and w o u I d rather the songs be played with strict adherence to their alb u m versions. But the majority of Dylan fans love the game of trying to guess what he is playing. Often it isn't until the sec­ond or t h i r d verse that a familiar lyric or guitar hook can be distin­
guished. It's all part of the strangeness 
that is Bob Dylan. Born in 1941 in Duluth, Minn., Robert Allen Zimmerman had a rather uneventful childhood -one that cer­tainly didn't reveal any clues about what his future held. He was the son of Jewish parents who owned a small fur­niture shop, and at the age of six he moved to the town Hibbing, near the Canadian border. By nine or 10, Zimmerman was teaching himself piano and was learning to blow on a 
·cheap harmonica he had obtained. His interest in music took off from there. Zimmerman learned guitar and began forming bands with schoolmates throughout junior high and high school. His heroes were Little Richard, Elvis Presley and James Dean. 
From leather jackets and motorcycles, Zimmerman entered the University of Minnesota and began to expand his interest in music to folk from the Great Depression era. He changed his name officially from Robert Zimmerman to Bob Dylan, and Woody Guthrie became a huge influence. \Vhen Dvlan heard that Guth.rie, whom he'd never met, was on his deathbed in New York City, Dylan packed up. left school and headed east to make the acquaintance of his folk hero. 
With only his guitar in tow, Dylan hit the 

Bob Dylan has been a hugely Influential force In music throughout the decades. Often labeled as the spokesperson for his generation, Dylan's lyrics remain a timeless articulation of humanity, society, politics and emotion. 


Greenwich Village iolk circuit that was 
fast becoming popular in early 1960s. 
Despite his odd looks and even odder, 
nasal voice, Dylan gained a devoted 
following. playing folk stan­dards and original songs that boasted a style all of his own. Irregular strum­ming, dis­tinctive harmonica, and words jammed a n d 
stretched into pre­carious phrases became Dylan's trade­marks. By the age of 20 he had · a record 
deal and 
had released his self-titled debut album. Pegged as the next Guthrie in the 
early quaking of Vietnam and the civil rights move­me n t , Dylan's word s a n d s o n g s became t h e guide­posts of a slightly lost and chaotic genera­t i o n . S o n g s l i k e "Blowin' in the Wind," " T h e T i me s They Are A Changin"' and "It Ain't Me Babe." 

THE OBSERVER 
page 11
Tuesday, March 2, 2004 



Essential Dylan 
Five necessary albums for any music fan 

The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan 
1963 

The first of Dylan's albums to receive widespread attention, Freewheelin' includes songs "Biowin' in the Wind" and "Don't Think Twice, It's Alright." 



Highway61 Revisited 
1965 

Named after the highway running through Dylan's home state of Minnesota, this album includes "Like 
a Rolling Stone," "Just Like Tom Thumb's Blues" and "Desolation Row." 
Blonde on Blonde 1966 
In the words of Jack Black from the movie High Fidelity, don't tell anyone if you don't own this album. Key 
tracks include "Rainy Day Woman #12 and 35," "Visions of Johanna" and "Just Like a Woman." 
Blood on the Tracks 
1975 

Written during the divorce process with his wife, Dylan made this album a 
melange of heartbreak, confusion, revenge and hope with songs like "Tangled Up in Blue" and "Shelter From the Storm." 
"Love and Theft" 2001 
On his most recent album, Dylan is loose and bluesy, singing with the aged 
voice of a man who has seen it all. Songs include "Honest With Me" and "Mississippi." 

next ven­
Dylan into tured into the world the realm of drugs, of rock 'n' the history roll, which of the had been Beatles inhabited might be a by the little dif­Beatles up ferent. to this Dylan's point. At influence the 1965 didn't just Newport remain in F o l k the 1960s Festival, either. He D y l a n has con­traded his tinued to acoustic release six-string albums fur a full­through­
bodied out all electric decades guitar. He including strutted Blood on on stage t h e in leather, Photo courtesy of www.bobdylanimages.Bk.com T r a c k s ' plugged Desire,
1960s 

gained him popularity and fame at an incredible speed, and folk music gained a new loyal following. Soon a host of other folk artists followed the route Dylan had paved including Joa.n Baez, Donovan and Gordon Lightfoot. But none of them would have quite the impact or prestige that Dylan embod­ied.· 
With so much success, Dylan pressed on. He ·· 
in his gui­tar and launched into the raunchy "Maggie's Farm." Folk purists were shocked, but this electrifying event forever changed the history of rock 'n' roll. From now on rock lyrics could be forceful and politi· cal. No longer did they have to have the simplistic boy-loves-girl themes. They could have power and become a dominant cultural force. 
The relea·se of Dylan's neyt albums Bringing It All Back Home, Highway 61 Revisited and Blonde on Blonde, revo­1utionized rock 'n' roll. His songs were not typical. They lacked melody, keen instrumentation, and good singing voice. None of this mattered, however, when it came to 
cal reach into psychedelia. In 1964, Dylan heard the song "I Want to Hold Your Hand" on the radio. He misheard the lyrics "I can't hide, I can't hide, I can't hide," thinking the Beatles were singing, "I get high, I get high, I get high." Dylan approached the Beatles at a hotel during one of their tours and pulled out marijuana, an unfamiliar substance to the band. Without this ini­tiati-on by 
Dylan's lyrics. It is no small feat to be the spokesman of genera­tion, and that is the name often attributed to Dylan by those who were alive during his popular reign. 
Many successful artists today credit Dylan with developing the importance of lyrics in songwriting. Bruce Springsteen, Tom Petty, the Dave Matthews Band and Ani DiFranco are just a small sample of musicians who claim Dylan as a hero. The Rolling Stones, the Byrds and even the Beatles owe debt to Dylan. 
In fact, if it weren't 
and more 
recently 
Time Out of Mind and Love and Theft. He has played the role of folk artist, rock 'n' roller, cowboy, recluse and gospel singer. 
In his career Dylan has release over 40 albums, and is showing no sign of slowing down despite being 63. His songs continue to make their way into unsuspecting places and his words continue to inspire and articulate feel­ings thought inexpressible. Dylan is the bard of the modern era, the original Mr. Bojangles-song and dance man. 
Contact Julie Ben4er at jbender@nd.edu 

for him, the Beatles Photo courtesy of www.bobdylammages.8k.com 
might never have 
1990s -2000s
expanded their musi­
Tuesday, March 2, 2004 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
in the third round. It would not be enough for the judges


Bouts 
who awarded Hofman a victo­ry by split decision. 
continued from page 20 
145 pounds 

Dillon sophomore Tim The title of intra-dorm Jaeger and senior Pedro Alves supremacy was on the line 
\ fought the night's second bout. when fellow Zahm residents and both fighters -came out senior Luke Dillon and fresh­swinging. However. it was man James Russell took to the Alves who made the decisive ring. Russell landed a few connections. A right hook to jabs. even sending Dillon to Jaeger's head in the first his corner with a bloody nose. round led to an eight count But in the end, Dillon proved and in the second round, too tough for Russell, securing Alves picked up where he left a unanimous victory. off. Alves landed another right The next bout had the first 
hook, but this time the blow significant height difference of would be decisive. After the the night when tall, lanky sen­eight count, Jaeger went to his ior Mark Pfizenmayer took to corner, but the trainer could the canvas against shorter 
IC• • 
not stop his bloody nose. The Dillon sophomore Ed Liva. 
referee stopped the contest at The difference did not initially 
1:06 into the second round bother Liva as the two and declared Alves the victor. exchanged blows during a 
In a battle of North Quad, close first round. Stanford sophomore Michael Pfizenmayer, however, began "Soldier" Schmitt fought to exploit his height and reach against Andrew McGi.ll, a as Liva began to tire. Landing 
Mark Basola, left, blocks a punch from Sean Tucker Monday night during the quarterfinals of
freshman from Zahm. These several second-round combi­
Bengal Bouts. Basola emerged with a split decision victory. 
boxers fought with much more nations, Pfizenmayer secured technical skill than the previ­all the separation he would ous two and it was reflected in need. He kept Liva at arm's sion in the closest bout of the up to his nickname as Lougee Pribaz and St. Edward's fresh­the closeness of the bout. length for the rest of the third night. struggled to connect against man Jon Brewis. Brewis was Schmitt started the first round round and the judges awarded Off-campus senior Joe "The the dancing, weaving and unable to do much as Pribaz very aggressively, but McGill Pfizenmayer a unanimous Iron Cher· Schmidlin hoped to blocking D'Agostino. Though chased him around the ring. fought back, twice backing his decision. cook up a win in his bout D'Agostino's elusiveness But neither boxer was espe­opponent against the ropes in Two evenly matched fighters against Zahm senior Paul began to wear down in the cially dominating until Pribaz the second round. However, clashed when off-campus sen­Robinson. Schmidlin went on third round, he had built uncorked a thunderous left Schmitt adjusted and landed ior Chip Marks met O'Neill attack first, but was not able enough of a cushion to hook that immediately toppled enough punches early in the sophomore Todd Strobel. The to sustain it. Robinson's rally advance in a unanimously Brewis to the mat. The referee third round to earn a split bout started with each boxer carried from the end of the decided win. stopped the fight, and as a decision. landing heavy punches. first round into the second but The experience of senior wobbly Brewis composed him­
After his preliminary round Strobel used a jab-hook com­the see-saw battle continued David Harmon met all it could self, Pribaz was declared the victory. off-campus senior bination while Marks coun­when Schmidlin put together a handle against freshman winner Lawrence Hofman looked to tered with a sharp series of quick combination to end Jordan Runge. Runge O'Neill freshman Brian keep his winning ways alive jabs. In round two, the two round · two. However, attacked the senior right out Tyrrell and Dillon junior Galen against Alumni junior Michael adopted different strategies as Robinson would have the last of the gate with a combination Loughrey were the next into Feduska. His chances got a Marks attacked both the head word, and his jab-hook combi­of body shots and a big right the ring. Neither boxer sus­big boost when he landed two and body while Strobel used nations were enough to earn hook. Harmon fought back in tained an attack but Loughrey big right hooks during the his reach to strike with jabs to him a victory by unanimous the second round and heavy managed to connect on first round. Feduska found the head. Both fighters were decision. blows were traded up through enough punches in the final 
< enough room to sneak in a visibly exhausted by the third 150 pounds the third round. In a split round to secure his place in few combinations but mostly round and Strobel whiffed on Keough freshman Clayton decision, the freshman Runge the semi-finals by a unani­remained on defense. an uppercut that may have Lougee could not hit what he prevailed. mous victory. However, Feduska made the sealed a victory. But Strobel could not see against off-cam­While the previous bout was bout close when he sent held on nonetheless and pus senior T.J. "Twinkle Toes" close, there was no mistake in Contact Matt Mooney at Hofman to a late eight-count defeated Marks by split deci-D'Agostino. The senior lived the bout between senior Jon mmooney@nd.edu 

BENGAL BOUTS 180-POUNDS-HEAVYWEIGHT 
Christoforetti defeats Frisch in unanimous decision 
In a split decision, senior Finally, senior Larry Rooney Bylica followed the fight by sophomore Johnny Griffin and By ANN LOUGHERY Denis Sullivan edged out sen­outlasted Siegfried junior Chris overcoming senior Padraic Stanford freshman Eric Retter 
Sports Writer 
ior Brent Burish. Despite a Henschen in a split decision, McDermott in a unanimous ended at 1:20 in the second 
slow start, Sullivan picked up as Rooney landed a right hook decision. Bylica gained control round in favor of Griffin. ,.-To begin the 180-pound the pace of the fight with a to end the intense fight. of the match's tempo and Heavyweight 1 quarterfinals, Alumni junior round of headshots to win. Light heavyweight McDermott couldn't come Rounding out the quarterfi­
Jim Christoforetti earned a The third fight of the division Senior William Zizic emerged back. nals, Zahm soplWmore Nathan unanimous win over Keough saw senior Eric Callahan tri­with a win over Stanford jun­Morrissey sophomore Chris Schroeder defeated Knott jun­freshman Adam Frisch. umph in a unanimous decision ior Mike Abel when the match Cavanaugh's match against ior Mika Tennant in a unani­Though Frisch delivered some against graduate student Josh was stopped at 1:20 in the first Alumni sophomore Jeff Golen mous decision. using a mix of key shots, Christoforetti dis­Noem. Callahan brushed off round after Zizic administered resulted in a split decision in head and body shots. played his boxing prowess Noem's shots and dealt a mix a series of headshots, leaving Cavanaugh's favor after he with several potent hits in the of uppercuts and headshots to Abel dazed. dominated the second round. Contact Ann Loughery at third round. win. Keough sophomore Bryan The match between O'Neill alougher@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r-m-at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8 E. Washington area, Last 4 BR BEDROOM HOUSE ..2 BEDROOM House avail. for 04/05. WID, NOTICES Make a difference in the life of a FOR SALE HOUSE... 2 BEDROOM Furnished, B-Ball, V-Ball, Sec.Sys., PERSONAL child! DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED-11 mo. lease, 109 N. St. Peter. 233­
ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR 9947 Get the "bleep' out of the cold! Located on the shore of Lake FOR SALE-Like new weights set THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Mexico/Caribeean only $125 each Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions with incline bench, leg lift. Will deliv-YEAR. .. WE ARE ALSO STARTING 2 bdrm apt tor rent A/C, WID, dish-not go it alone. If you or someone way all taxes included. Other world-available tor Counselors, er. TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 wasrer, spacious, close to campus. you love needs confidential support wide destinations cheap. Book on-Waterfront, Instructors for SCHOOL YEAR. .. CONTACT New appliances. $650/mo. Available or assistance, please call Sr. Mary line www.airtech.com or Nature/Arts & $150 2n-1345 KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR 4/1 but flexible. Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For 
I (212) 219-7000. Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing, CELL315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS more information, see our bi-weekly
'I 
I 
Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, 1995 Red Chevy Camaro V6. Call Paul514-3188. ad in THE OBSERVER. and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, 33,290 actual miles. Original owner, New 3/4 bdrm homes close to ND, 3 WANTED responsible, and love children. June excellent condition. full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky-COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR How are your four girlfriends? 
13 through August 8. Salary, room & lights. $1640/mo Call574-232-LEASE 2004-2005 Academic year ­Wanted· Old paintings, especially board, and experience of a lifetime 654-7439. 4527 or 269-683-5038. Available June 1. 2 bdrm-2 bath -Ducks are what make up ND Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286-provided. Fully Furnished -Security System. Wildlife 9359 VERY NICE 3bdrm home in (626)441-1275 or salvaty@earth­---------··--·----------------------·------Call or write for application and EastBank area wlwasher·dryer & link. net It was a rough weekend 
FoR RENT
Summer Camp counselor for chi I-information. alarm system incl. Nice yard for vol­dren w/disabilities. $7-$11 hr., 35 Bay leyball etc-full bsmtWalk to Niles, 5 bed, 2 bath home, 15 min to Holidae Inn hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in Cliff Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO Corbys&StJoe Church. Notre Dame, tranquil wooded set-Summit County, Ohio. Visit Big Bay, Ml 49809, (906) 345-9314, CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM ting, avail now, $1150/month Cailin beats me up wwwakroncyo.org-download an e-mail BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit mmmrentals@ aol.com Call Joe Crimmins@574-514 application. EOE us at www.baycliff.org 272-1525 0643( cell)or57 4-273-0002( home) 269-349-7334 Dash... his face 
1 
~ 
I • 
OUNDTHE ATION 
i ~ 
Tuesday, March 2, 2004 CoJ\!\PtLED rRorv\ ·rHE Qgsr:RVER's \VIRE SERVICES page 13 



around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Wisconsin at Michigan State 7 p.m., ESPN Wake Forest at Virginia 7 p.m., ESPN2 Auburn at Mississippi State 9 p.m., ESPN St. Bonaventure at Saint Joseph's 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Two House Democrats pressed for congressional inquiries into allegations of sexual misconduct and recruiting tactics in the Colorado foot­ball program and in college sports nationwide. 
Michigan Rep. John Conyers, the senior Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, said Monday that recruiting practices at Colorado and elsewhere are "spiraling dangerously out of control." He requested that the committee conduct a hearing on the matter. 
"The concept of women as a reward for male ath­letes is a rampant attitude throughout both college and pro football," Conyers wrote in a letter to commit­tee chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis. "This committee should take the opportunity amidst all this scandal to examine whether or not our laws are adequately protecting both the safety and equality of women on campus." 
Likewise, Colorado Rep: Diana DeGette said Monday that she is working with leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee to mount an investigation into recruiting in college sports across the country. 
"I am very concerned that the recruiting prob­lems alleged to have taken place in the University of Colorado's football program are not isolated to either CU or college football," she said. "These allegations may reflect a much wider problem." 
A spokesman for Sensenbrenner, who is in Wisconsin, could not imme­diately say if the congress­man had seen Conyers' request. 
A month ago, three women filed federal law­suits alleging they were raped by football players or recruits in 2001. The women say the school failed to control its athletes and fostered an environ­ment that contributed to the assaults. 

In all, seven women have accused football athletes of sexual assault since 1997. though no charges have been filed. 
In a deposition released last month, Boulder prose­cutor Mary Keenan said she put the school "on notice" in 1998 to stop using women and alcohol to lure recruits, a practice the university denies. Reports have cited instances where escorts and strippers were used to lure recruits. 
IN BRIEF 

Bettis takes biJl pay cut to Panthers agree to 5-year after the Michigan High School stay with Steerers extension with Smitll Athletic Association ruled he should CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Steve Smith not have been allowed to play because 
PITTSBUHGH -Jerome Bettis, the 
of his relationship with a former
sixth-leading rusher in NFL history, agreed to a five-year contract exten­
Michigan booster. 
agreed Monday to take a significant sion with the Carolina Panthers on pay cut to return to the Pittsburgh Monday after leading the NFC champi­The Sacramento Kings star violated 
ons in receiving last season. his amateur standing and was ineligi­
Steelers. 

ble during the time he played at
Contract details were not disclosed,
· Bettis and the Steelers worked out a 
but Smith's agent Derrick Fox said the Detroit Country Day, the governing
one-year contract that will pay him $1 
deal includes a team option for a sixth body said Sunday. The association had 
million, with the chance to earn an 
left it up to the school to decide
season.

additional $1 million in incentives. 
He made the Pro Bowl as a return whether to forfeit games in which
Bettis was to have made $3,757,000, 
man as a rookie, but wouldn't settle Webber played. 
plus a $750,000 roster bonus, as part 
Country Day Headmaster Gerald
for being pigeonholed in that role sim­
of the $30 million, six-year contract he 
ply because at 5-foot-9 and 185 Hansen said there was no trustworthy
signed in 2001. That deal included a 
pounds he was considered too small to basis to support the MHSAA's claim
$6 million signing bonus, but there is 
play receiver. that Webber was ineligible. 
no signing bonus in his newest agree­
Smith led the Panthers last season "The assertion is based upon
ment. 

with 88 catches and 1,110 yards unproven innuendo, suspicion and 
Bettis and agent Lamont Smith receiving. speculation," said Hansen. 
spent the last several weeks trying to 
"Because Country Day has been 
work out a restructured deal that Webber's hiJlh school refuses given no credible evidence that Mr. 
would keep the 32-year-old Bettis in to forfeit titles Webber violated his amateur status 
Pittsburgh. BEVERLY HILLS, Mich. -Chris while a student here, the school felt 
"I still think I can get it done. I stil! Webber's high school refused Monday obligated to fight to retain the champi­
think I can play this game," Bettis to forfeit three state championship onships and to protect the school's 
said. basketball titles he helped win, a day interests." 
I I 
' 
'i 
:< 
\ 
II 
~ 
!I 
~ ~ 
~ 
II 
~ 
\ 
~­
\ 
I I 
; 
' 
page 14 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
teristically struggled for singles

-
wins. The No. 1 matchup was closer than the score reflected, 
with Scott losing in a 6-4, 5-7, 
6-2 match to Wurtzman, the 
nation's No. 2 singles player. 
At No. 2 singles, D'Amico defeated Atas -ranked No. 50 in the nation -in straight sets 7-6 (7-5), 6-2. Stephen Bass beat Chris Klingemann in a No. 3 match where the Irish fresh­man played tough. 
But things turned difficult for the Irish as Dennis Mullings defeated King in straight sets at No. 4 and Wilson came back to beat Keckley 2-6, 6-4, 6-4. 
The score stood tied at three as the No. 6 doubles match between Mertens and Eric Langenkamp continued well after the conclusion of the rest of the singles. Langen·kamp battled back from a one-set deficit in a thrilling tiebreaker, but eventually lost in the third set. The loss clinched the match for Ohio State. 
"The match against Ohio State was our best match all year," Bayliss said. "It's unfor­tunate when you play your best, and it's just not good enough." 
The script was much the same Sunday, as the Irish took the doubles point, but lost 5-2 to Big East rival Miami. 
"This was the best we played in all three double'S all year," said Bayliss. "Things are look­
. ing up there." 
The D'Amico-Keckley duo beat Tim Krebs and Colin Purcell in the closest of the matches, winning 8-5. Haddock and Scott defeated Josh Hoyes and Jeremiah Fuller 8-3, and Bass and Langekamp defeated Josh Cohen and Eric Hechtman at No.3. 
"I felt great after doubles," Bayliss said. "You have to give Miami credit, they really stepped it up a level in singles play and just took it to us." 
Bass proved to be the team's most consistent singles player this weekend, taking Hoyes in straight sets with a score of 7­5, 6-2. Bass improved to 8-3 in dual matches this season, earn­ing a 3-2 record playing up a spot at No. 3. 
However, No. 2 D'Amico and No. 4 King quickly left the courts with losses, and No. 1 Scott dropped a difficult match to Cohen. Pressure then moved to Keckely at No. 5, who kept Notre Dame's hopes alive by battling into a third set against Purcell. But the Miami player prevailed I clinching the match for the Hurricanes. 
Attention was again focused on Langenkamp, who won a second-set tiebreaker to take the match against Fuller into a third set. The Hurricanes were again victorious, however, with Fuller defeating Langekamp in a third-set match tiebreaker. 
"In every loss, you have to find a way to make it positive," Bayliss -said. "Sometimes you have to bend a· little before you toughen up -hopefully we respond to this in the-right way." 
The Irish have their last scheduled home match against Michigan State at 4 p.m. today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
OHIO STATE 4, NOTRE DAME 3 at the ECK PAVILLION 
SI:\Gl.ES ~o. 1: JerPmv WurL·man iUSL'i d .\1atthP\", ~C<'!! t~D: (,..f, 5-7. 6-2 . ­

:\o. 2: Brent U'Amiro :~Di  d.  r,:f·y Ata.-.  
!OSrl 7-6 (7-5:. u-2  
:\o. 3: StrphPn B:us  : \•~;  d  t:hris  

1\lin)!l'lll<lflfl :: •':L: -,.1. " :. 1 

No. 4: Devin Mullings (OSU) d. Barry King (ND) 6-2. 7-5 No. 5: Ross Wilson (OSU) d. Ryan Keckley (ND) 2-6, 6-4, 6-4 No. 6: Dennis Mertens (OSU) d. Eric Langenkamp (ND) 6-4, 6-7 (4-7). 6-2 
DOUBLES No. 1: D'Amico/Keckley (ND) d. Atas/Wurtzman (OSU} 8-6 No. 2: Haddock/Scott (ND) d. #19 Scott Green/Wilson (OSU) 9-7 No. 3: Brenton Contini!Mertens (OSU) d. King/Paul Hidaka (ND) 8-2 
MIAMI 5, NOTRE DAME 2 at the ECK PAVILLION 
SINGLES No. 1: Josh Cohen (UM) d. Matthew Scott (ND) 6-2,6-3 No. 2: Eric Hechtman (UM) d. Brent D'Amico (ND) 6-3, 6-3 No. 3: Stephen Bass (ND) d. Josh Hayes 
(UM) 7-5, 6-2 No. 4: Tim Krebs (UM) d. Barry King (ND) 6-2,6-3 
No. 5: Colin Purcell (UM) d. Ryan Keckley (ND) 6-4, 4-6, 6-1 No. 6: Jeremiah Fuller (UM) d. Eric Langenkamp (ND) 3-6, 7-6 (7-4), 1-0 (10­7) 
DOUBLES No. 1: D'Amico/Keckley (ND) d. Krebs/Purcell (UM) 8-5 No. 2: Haddock/Scott (ND) d. Hoyes/Fuller 
(UM) 8-3 

No. 3: S. Bass/Langenkamp (NO) d. Cohen!Hechtman (UM) 8-4 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Tuesday, March 2, 2004 

The Observer + SPORTS 
CLUB SPORTS 
Women's hockey sweeps Michigan 
who again played great in goal. With 1:45 remaining in the game, Nell Ryan found Blainey with a pin point pass and Blainey found the back of the net for the deciding goal. 
The momentum carried over to Sunday as the Irish jumped out to a 1-0 first peri­od lead on an unassisted goal by LaPointe. LaPointe scored the only goal for either team in the second period as well, assisted by Kehler and Kate Abowd. The Irish jumped out 3-0 i-ii the third period as Kehler scored the eventual game winner, assisted by LaPointe and Holly Law. 
Men's volleyball 
A resilient men's volleyball squad bounced back to claim the consolation title at the Hoosier-Illini Classic. After a dismal 1-4 start on Saturday, the Irish stormed back to win, five consecutive matches on Sunday and claim the Silver Bracket championship. 
In Saturday's pool play, the Irish opened with losses to Indiana, 25-16, 25-20 and Virginia Tech, 25-22, 25-19. A 25-13, 25-17 victory over South Carolina was the only opening day highlight, as the Irish followed with two close losses to Vanderbilt, 25-22 and Illinois State, 20-25, 25­17,15-9. 




But the sun rose on Sunday and so did the Irish as they wasted no time in polishing off Morehead State, 25-8, 25­
10. The Irish then edged Missouri in a back and forth match, 25-22, 17-25, 16-14 and cruised to a 25-18,25-21 win over Delaware. This set the stage for a semifinal showdown with top seeded Eckerd. Behind the impene­trable blocking of Ryan Goes and Mike Giampa, the Irish fought their way to a 25-23, 25-21 upset and a berth in the finals where they would meet Wisconsin-Milwaukee. The dynamic duo of setter Dan Zenker and outside hitter Brian Michalek set the tempo in a 14-25, 25-21, 15-13 comeback to claim the brack­et championship. 

Special to The Observer 
Season long frustration and disappointment was swept away this weekend as the women's ice hockey club enjoyed the finest moment in the three-year history of the club. Entering this weekend, the club had only registered two league victories since the formation of the club, and faced the daunting task of playing two games with Michigan. Injuries and obsta­cles forged a resilient attitude and the resolve was rewarded as the Irish· swept Michigan 4­3 and 3-2. 
The Irish found themselves down 2-0 just eight minutes into the first period of the opener. But freshman Julia LaPointe, on assists from Tori Blainey, Emmy Venechuk and Jacky Kehler, registered a second period hat trick to tie the score at three heading into the final period. In a taut defensive third period, the Irish were disciplined in assisting goalie Becca Frigy, 
CJ'o support the Jllmerican Cancer Societg... $7 per 6undi, $3 per vase 
On safe tfuring tfinner at g{prtli arufSoutli flJining 
:Jla{[s on Morufag arufTUf!!tfag, Marcli 1st aruf.zrnl or at 
9{ecSports unti[:Jritfag, Marcli 5th 
I.. 
~

,._,_l!ll!llr:w:'IW._.l'Wt...____________...__IIIII..:I..-YU..-Z1111miiK:-II'JIDm..-..~._.............-~_._._,__......""' ·" 
Tuesday, March 2, 2004 page 15
The Observer+ SPORTS 

Love to talk about Notre Dan1e? 1-"'(><lking f<lr ajob for next year? 
1'hc ()fficc ofUndcrgraduate1-\dn1issions is no\v hiring (male and fen1alc) tour guides. 
Find the application online at http://admissions.nd.(·du/tourguidc.pdf or pick one up in Room 220 ofthe rvlain Building. 
Please rcntrn the completed application to 220 ~Jain Building by ~larch 5th. 
Training will take place the week of lVIarch 29th, but work will not begin until Fall 2004. 
A few summer tour guide }X>Sitions arc available. 
Ifyou have any questions, please ccmtact JiH or Gabc at 1-7505. 
Lat·ayette Square Town.hon1es 
"All the fun of college, without the education" New Three Person Rates -$298.00 Per Person, Per Month 
• 
Proudly Severing the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community
• The LARGEST Student Housing Apartments Available View photos and 4 & 5 Bedroom Units
• 

floor plans at WASHER and DRYER in Each Unit
• 

www.REMCl.com Dishwasher
• 

24-Hour Emergency Maintenance
• 
ADT Alarm Systems 
• 
Clost: to Campus
• 

For More Infonnation: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box 540 South Bend, IN 46624 . Telephone: 574-234-9923 V1ew photos and ~ Facsimile: 574-234--9925 floor plans at Jblad@cbrcsJl.com 
www.REMC1.com ou've tried the rest now live at the
' 

SPECIAL Free Month's Rent 
Starting at just $120.00 per person, per month! 
• Just 4 Blocks "Scuth ofthe Notre Drune Campus • Spacious 2·Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue • Current 1-year & 10-month leases Available • On-Site Laundry Facility• 2 Closets arid 1 Desk in Each Bedroom • Private Parking Lots • 24 ·hour Emergency Maintenance • Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment 
For More Informlltion; Real Estate Management Corporation 
P.O. Box 540 South Bend. IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574·234·9925 Jblad(.:4cbrcsb.com 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Competitive Irish excel this weekend 
By ANN LOUGHERY 
Sports Writer 
Ask coach Jay Louderback to describe the Irish, and he will be quick to emphasize their competitive spirit. 
"They like to compete," Louderback said. "A competitor is someone that plays for every point. They're not afraid to take a chance. When it's a tight match, they're not afraid to be aggressive and come into the net. If they're in trouble, they play defensively to get the ball back and make their competi­tors work." 
No. 20 Notre Dame (7-1) proved they were deserving of Louderback's description Sunday afternoon, outlasting Indiana 5-2. They claimed the doubles point -something that has been critical this season ­and four of the six singles points against the No. 26 Hoosiers. 
"All of our kids played very well this meet; they were very poised, even under pressure," Louderback said. "Our two dou­bles teams started off a little slow, but fought their way back into it." 
No. 42 Catrina Thompson and Christian Thompson delivered the first win for the Irish 8-4 versus No. 45 Karie Schlukebir and Linda Tran at the No. 1 spot. The Thompsons are 6-2 this season in doubles matches and have won three of the last four matches against ranked opponents. 
At No. 3, junior Sarah Jane Connelly and sophomore Kristina Stastny clinched the doubles point after defeating Laura McGaffigan and Dora Vastag 8-6. 
"We played well early on," Louderback said. "Our No. 3 doubles came through and 
played well when we needed it. We've always gotten the dou­bles win at No. 2. but we had some trouble there· this week. It was good to see the other two doubles teams step up and real­ly come through." 
The Irish also fared well in singles with wins at the Nos. 1, 3, 5 and 6. At No. 1 singles, No. 17 Salas bested No. 30 Dora Vastag 6-0, 6-2. Salas now has an 11-5 record against ranked opponents this season. At No. 6, Stastny defeated Grimm 6-3, 6­0, while Catrina Thompson secured the win for the Irish with a clinching 6-3, 6-2 defeat of Batty at No. 3. Sarah Jane Connelly rounded out the sin­gles wins with a 7-5, 6-3 victory over Schlukebir. 
Last week, Louderback pre­dicted that the Irish would face tough matches at every position and he was right. 
The last two matches were settled in match tiebreakers. Tran edged out Christian Thompson at No. 2 and Lauren Connelly suffered her first loss of the season in a 5-7, 6-4, 1-0 (10-8) decision to McGaffigan. 
"This meet was a boost of confidence for us," Stastny said. "Every time we play, we grow closer and closer as a team." 
NOTRE DAME 5, INDIANA 2 at the ECK PAVILLION 
SINGLES No. 1: Alicia Salas (ND) d. Dora Vastag 
{IU) 6-0, 6-2 No. 2: Linda Tran (IU) d. Christian Thompson (NO) 7-5. 4-6. 1-0 (10-8) No. 3: Catrina Thompson (ND) d. Sarah Batty (IU) 6-3, 6-2 No. 4: Laura McGaffigan (IU) d. Lauren Connellv (NO) 5-7, 6-4. 1-0 (10-8) No. 5: Sarah Jane Connelly (ND) d. Karie Schlukebir {IU) 7-5, 6-3 No. 6: Kristina Stastny (ND) d. Martina Grimm (IU) 6-3, 6-0 
DOUBLES No. 1: Thompsonffhompson (NO) d. Schlukebir!fran (IU) 8-4 No. 2: Batty/Grimm (IU) d. L. Connelly/Salas (NO) 8-6 No. 3: S.J. Connelly/Stastny (NO) d . McGaffiganNastag (IU) 8·6 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

""'"',,,,,,,,,...__.oldshmied *Blue Cult,.,,·;:;:,,,,,!,,,,,~, ople * Herve-Chapeli"".~.:::u::::m:m:m:~: ':t *Seven Jeans* Fre11 
312 ·-vv. Cleveland Ave. Granger, IN 46530 (574) 277 -669] 
528 E. Colfax Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 232-1822 

page 16 Tuesday, March 2, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
:. . 
\'· -;,---· .. .. ..-,J.._,._.:-'" .. 
,. ......-..~':.':';''_~:. 1-'~~:~:--:·--. 
~~--­
I 
I 
I. 
I I 
I 
I 

l 
,: 
l
! I 
!J i ~ 
ll 
r 
r 
I.l 
I ; 
I·' 
\i
'·.
J; 
H 
!. i • 
i 
.· ~ 
. i 
};: ; :'. •I 
~ . ;,.. 


• • A 'liNe iu 1... IS,aaa.....~••• • A lMUIHn spukerpho~M ~ ...-.-...-..VGA-,..• .,••_. • Photo caUer-ao• 
• ~c....,1t••ullin.........& and gqpNc:s* 
.ktMWt tiM,.

..s••_... $MiGst1nt..._..._..$SO.......rebalte.. 
. ' 
.-~tw....-·s._.._,.••wattroaCI-...-.Wk.a.ss). Plica be,_..... -.-..s. . ...._IN'umtlrttecllda;h.IU.~.~Mit..t.._.._ 
} ' 
~~~-~~~--~~~ 
~~~,Clv.~~~-~-~­.w~~Ma*~-~~-d~ 
' .·-·· .;_ ... 

____ ..._ 
:·_,· 
·.... 
_ 
·. •, 


-:, ·.' 

cingular· 
• 

' 
.. 
Tuesday, March 2, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

BENGAL Boors 153-PoUNDS -170-PouNDs 
No. 1 Duffey lands · quarterfinal win 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
The 153-pound quarterfinals 

started with a win for senior J. 
Ryan Duffey. The.No. 1 seed 
Duffey defeated Dillon sopho­
more Michael Dolan. St. 
Edward's junior Bobby Gorynski 
also collected a win over O'Neill 
senior Nathan Schomas. 
The next fight resulted in a 

unanimous decision in favor of 
off-campus junior Tim Huml, 
who defeated off-campus senior 
Don Zimmer after delivering 
several headshots. · 
Dillon sophomore Joe Rehmann then faced Alumni senior Corey Harkins. Harkins took over in the second round to earn a unanimous decision. 155 pounds 
O'Neill junior Nathan Lohmeyer defeated Zahm soph­omore Paul Hagan in a unani­mous decision. Lohmeyer deliv· ered a battery of hits in all three rounds. 
In a split decision, Keough soph.omore Mark Basola was victorious over Keenan senior Sean Tucker. Basola returned with renewed energy and doled out a series of quick hits in the third round. 
Junior Mike Panzica earned a split decision over Siegfried sen­ior Ted Volz. Panzica threw a jarring shot to Volz at the end of the fight to sway the decision in his favor. 
Zahm freshman Adam Burns started off strong against off­campus senior Brandon Gasser, swarming Gasser with several shots to the head during the first round. Gasser gained con­trol of the bout in the second round and earned the win. 
160 pounds 

Fisher junior Colin Kerrigan 
received a unanimous decision 
over Morrissey freshman 
Christopher Calderone. What 
seemed at first to be an evenly 
matched fight turned into just 
the opposite, as Kerrigan domi­
nated the last two rounds. 
Senior Alex Roodhouse fol­
lowed with a win over Siegfried 
freshman Nathan Dyer. The 
match ended at 1 :05 in the sec­
ond round when Roodhouse 
overwhelemed Dyer. 
O'Neill junior Justin Alanis won his match against Alumni sophomore Charlie Gough at 
1:29 in the first round after he hit him in the nose. 
Senior William Phillip over­powered Sarin sophomore Patrick Flaherty to end the match at 1 :07 in the second round. 
170 pounds 

In a unanimous decision, sen­ior Tommy Demko won the first match of the 170-pound weight division over Keough freshman · Brian Sefton, with a number of forceful headshots. 
Law school grad student Matthew Smith took the upper hand during the third round to defeat Zahm senior Patrick McGarry by a split decision. 
The next fight resulted in a unanimous win for senior James Ward over senior John Wahoske. 
Law student Brian Nicholson and senior Matt Knust were the last to fight. Knust was slow to get up from the mat in the third round, and Nicholson claimed the win in a split decision, fin­ishing with three ·right hooks. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
----=---­
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish defeat No. 14 Stanford 16-5 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
Nearly 11 months after No. 14 
Stanford handed No. 17 Notre 
Dame a heart-breaking 14-13 
double-overtime loss at Moose 
Krause Stadium, the Irish roared 
to a 16-5 triumph over the 
Cardinal. 

The vengeful victory concluded 
an undefeated weekend in 
California for the Irish (2-0) who 
squeaked by California in an 
overtime thriller, 12-11 Friday 
afternoon before crushing the 
Cardinal (3-2) Sunday. 
"Every single aspect of our game was clicking," coach Tracy Coyne said. "Any win is a good one, but we executed our game plan perfectly and we just played really well." 
Senior midfielders Abby Owen and Meredith Simon each tallied four goals as the Irish jumped out to a 6-0 lead in the contest's first 18 minutes. 
"It was huge [to take an early lead]." Coyne said. "To come out and dominate early really put Stanford in a position where they were playing catch-up, and it's hard to play your best in that situation." 
Heading into halftime with an 8-3 advantage, the Irish allowed a Cardinal goal before rattling off six additional goals to put the game away. 
Senior attackers Lauren Fischer and Kristen Gaudreau each recorded a pair of goals and junior goalie Carol Dixon 
Hoops 
continued fro!fl page 20 
games this season. "I am thrilled Lfor Senior Night]." Weese said. "It's amaz­
~ISPS Fll\.1£ ART'S LECTURE SERIES Presents 
lre11eo Bo11g Miquiabas "Light the Spirit, Light the Fire" 

Foreign Service Officer -U.S. State Department's Bureau of Democracy} Human Rights and Labor 
Double Domer -BA 1994J J.D. 1997 
. 


Date: Tuesday., Mar. 2 Time: 7=00 P.M. Where: Eck Visitor's 
Center Auditorium Cost: FREE FREE 

Co-Sponsored by Kellogg Institute for International Studies, Asian Law Student Association, MSPS 
made nine saves to pick up her second victory in as many career starts. 
·In Friday's game against California (1-2), the Irish jumped out to 5-1 and 8-2 advantages before allowing seven consecu­tive goals to fall behind the Golden Bears 9-8 with only 8:39 remaining in the second half. 
"[The Bears] are very athletic and very fast," Coyne said. "They have a lot of determina­tion and heart. They've been down before and rallied back, so they had the confidence that they could do it." 
The Irish quickly rebounded as Owen and Simon both found the back of the net on free position shots to give Notre Dame a one­goal lead with 4:21 left. Simon's go-ahead goal was the senior's third of the game. 
ing to hear people yelling your name and getting support from people in arena. Every chance I get to play, I love it." 
While the Irish want to win for the seniors, they also need the victory to improve their Big East standings. 
A Notre Dame victory would clinch second place in the Big East conference regular season standings and give the team the No. 2 seed in next weekend's conference tournament. The Irish are tied for second with Villanova but have the tiebreak­er over the Wildcats because of a head-to-head win earlier this season. 
Notre Dame defeated Syracuse 
Undergraduate members ofthe gay, lesbian, and bisexual com.munity are invited_ to apply for n1cmbcrship on the 
Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
. APPLICATIONS arc no\v available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 rviain Building) or on the Standing CotnnliH.ee web site http:/hN\v\V.nd.cdu/"'scgIsn/ 

Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Friday, ~1arch 5) 2004, and can be submitted at the Office of Student Affairs. 
TN~ .. " ¢:cu<¥l.. TU: o.,. 
6al .... I.I:SA\.11 
liY'IlKlfT lterO£ 

But the Golden Bears refused to give up. Leanne Zilioli netted the game-tying score on a free position shot with 'only five sec­onds left to knot the score at 10 and send the game to overtime. 
Owen took the game into her own hands in the extra period. The middle scored both Irish goals to complete the hat trick and secure a 12-11 opening day victory for Notre Dame. 
"Overall, it was just a very good trip," Coyne said. . 
The Irish return to action Sunday when they welcome No. 15 Cornell in their home opener before heading to Orlando, Fla., to take on No. 4 Duke and No. 8 James Madison during spring break. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
64-35 on the road Jan. 21 and the Orangewomen have lost 11 straight games since that defeat. McGraw said the key to stopping the Orangewomen is shutting down Julie McBride. McBride averages 16.8 points per game this season. 
"Julie McBride is one of the best players in the league," McGraw said. "She is really important to their team and we can't let her get good looks." 
The Irish will open up Big East Tournament play Sunday at either 6 p.m. or 8 p.m., depend­ing on outcomes of other games. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

~-· 
l 
I 
Tuesday, March 2, 2004 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
.... 
Tourney 
continued from page 20 
The lone Irish hit and run came from Stephanie Brown's solo blast in the fifth inning. The home run inter­rupted a stretch in which Green had struck out 1 0-of­15 Notre Dame hitters. Irish pitcher Steffany Stenglein held the Bulldogs at bay in the first two innings, but sur­

I 
rendered seven runs on nine ~ hits, including two home runs.
l 
l 
Notre Dame 5, No. 24 Cal­State Fullerton 4 
Despite Friday's late loss,

\
• 
Notre Dame rebounded

l 
Saturday, beating No. 24 Cal­

1 ..._ 
State Fullerton. With the vic­tory, the Irish jumped into

\: 
the Silver Bracket, finishing

r
: l 
pool play at 2-1.

n 
I 
The eight-inning battle was \ ~ highlighted by Booth's com­{ plete game victory. She ~ struck out 11 en
I route to winning 

run in eight innings. 
After the Titans (4-8) jumped out to a 1-0 lead, the Irish responded in the third inning with a solo home run from Nicole Wicks. The homer was her first hit at Notre Dame. Stephanie Brown followed Wicks with her own solo home run put­

) 
I ting the Irish up 2-1. Brown later scored the run that put the Irish up 4-3. But the Titans responded with a run, sending the game into extra innings.
I 
In international softball

i i 
. I I } rules, a runner can be placed 
ll
I! 
I 
at second base to start each inning in order to speed up the game. 
In the extra frame, Sara Schoonaert was put on sec­ond and then sacrificed to third by Megan Ciolli. Schoonaert then scored on a passed ball and the Irish had the lead for good. Notre Dame 10, Princeton 1 
The Irish offense finally awoke in Saturday's second game. The Tigers were blown out in six innings after Ruthrauff drove in four runs while going 2­for-3. 
out at second when Schoonaert attempted a sac­rifice bunt. But Schoonaert moved to second when Ciolli grounded out, and scored when a pick off throw sailed into centerfield. 
"We just played really well as a whole unit, and that is something that we haven't done consistently this year," Gumpf said. Notre Dame 2, Georgia Tech 1 
In the final game of the tournament, Notre Dame came away with yet another close victory. Stenglein 
"I think we shut down 
..we·re a very good 
were very solid the Yellow 
defensively. We team right now, but Jackets (15­hit in situations we have a lot of 3). allowing and our pitching only a first-
work to do. ,,
got us the ball­.inning run. game," Gumpf She also said. "Those are Deanna Gumpf struck out things that we Irish coach eight. 
have to have 
every game, and 
they 
all happened." 
her fourth game of the season. "[Booth] really  "You have to play the best to  Stenglein took the mound for Notre Dame, and  
stepped  up,"  be the best ...  she was effective,  
Gumpf said  of  giving  up just  
her starter that surrendered only one earned  Deanna Gumpf Irish coach  one run in four innings. Nicole DeFau  

was 3-for-3 with 
a double and two singles at the plate. Notre Dame 1, No. 14 Nebraska 0 
In yet another Irish upset, Notre Dame was able to hold off the No. 14 Huskers (8-7) for the second time this sea­son. Booth led the Irish, scat­tering four hits, striking out five and walking only two to pick up her second straight complete game and her third victory of the tournament. 
The only l.rish run was scored in the top of the first when Brown led off with a bunt single. She was forced 
"Now she 
knows what 
she is capa­ble of doing," Gumpf said of Stenglein. 
The Irish scored on solo home runs by Wicks in the third inning and by Ruthrauff in the sixth inning. It was Ruthrauff's third home run of the tournament and ninth RBI. 
Overall the Irish were happy to win the Silver Bracket, as they finished with four straight wins, two of them over ranked oppo­nents. 
"You have to play the best to be the best -we played some really good teams this weekend," Gumpf said. "By no means are we there yet, as we still have a lot of work to do. We have a long way to go to be great. We're a very good team right now, but we have a lot of work to do." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 



.. 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for whicl1 Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 

For a nomination f0I111, please visit our website 
at: 

http://osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by March 16, 2004. 
MEN'S GOLF 
Gustafson in hunt for championship 
By ANNIE BRUSKY Sports Writer 
One-and-a-half rounds of intense competition at the Cleveland Golf Collegiate Invitational Monday allowed the Irish to see how they compare with some of the best teams in the nation . 
Sophomore Scott Gustafson stands only six strokes behind the leader after shooting a career-low 68 in the second round of the tournament. 
The tournament was stopped because of darkness midway through the second round with 27 golfers, including two from Notre Dame, still on the course, Mark Baldwin and Eric Deutsch. They will resume play early this morning before the third and final round begins. 
Notre Dame currently stands in 15th place in the 17-team field, following its13-over-par 297 in the first round. 
The tournament, held in Westlake Village, Calif., is host­ed by USC and includes eight of the top 2 5 collegiate teams, including No. 2 UCLA, No. 6 Arizona State, No. 8 TCU and No. 10 Texas. Tennessee is the surprising first-round leader, leading Alabama by one stroke at ~79. 
"We're really excited to play against some of the top teams," Gustafson said before the tour­nament. "It's really good to test ourselves." 
Gustafson holds a 36-hole 

score of 141, 1-under par. He kicked off his personal-best 3­under par round with two con­secutive birdies, and finished with five birdies overall. adding to an already solid opening round. His 2-over par 73 in the morning included an eagle on the par-5 eighth hole. 
Gustafson leads the Irish, and he is joined by freshman Cole lsban and sophomore Tommy Balderston. 
lsban sits at 11-over, shooting 153 (74-79). while Balderston is 12-over with a154 (73-81). Both of the Irish golfers came out strong but struggled with bogies as the day progressed. 
Sophomores Balwin and Deutsch have several more holes to finish in the second round, after both recorded a 6­over par 77 in the opening cir­cuit. 
"We really have to focus and bring our best game because we know all the other teams will," Gustafson said. 
After one of the most success­ful fall seasons in school history and a second place finish at the Rice Intercollegiate nearly a month ago, this is the first real test of the spring season for the young Irish team. 
"We always have high expec­tations," Gustafson said. "We have the talent to compete with anybody, it's just a matter of bringing our best game." 
Contact Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 2, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 

FIVES 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
THOOP 
j 
1 
ri 
C2004 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
CAROK 
j
I I r (]
tENTAUB I
J [] I I 


www.jumble.com

tATTARR I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. IJ I I 1 
Answer A
(I I IJ "[I I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: HOBBY SORRY DEFINE GROUCH
Yesterday's Answer: When the steelworker dropped the water bottle, he 
was left-HIGH AND DRY 

CROSSWORD 
WILL SHORTZ 
Note: The circled letters will show a "change in the weather." 
ACROSS 39 Basin accompa-67 Former New nier York City mayor 

1 Punching tool Beame
40 Coeur d' _,4 Minus Idaho 68 Admits, with8 Purity units "up"42 Feminine suffix 

14 "Quiet down!" 
69 Not very much 43 Arnaz and Ball's 

15 Lie next to 
studio 70 Part of CBS: 16 Supreme Abbr.
45 Eat quickly Egyptian god 47 Pick up 17 Summer weath-DOWN49 Bering, e.g.: 

er phenomenon 

Abbr. 1 Hibachi residue 19 Dreadlocks 
50 Dark, heavy 2 Toast choice wearers 
type 3 Tibet's capital 20 With little effort 

53 A black key 4 Like the Wild 21 Itinerary word 
West

58 Colombian city 23 Nervous twitch­5 Popular site for 59 Bruised item, collectors
es maybe 24 Like an old cigar 6 Ford Explorer,
so·Automat, e.g. 25 Repel, as an e.g.: Abbr. 
61 Ersatz gold 

attack 7 Martin of 
63 Winter weather "Roxanne"27 25-Down, e.g. 

phenomenon 8 Martial arts wear29 Within view 65 Launderer, at 9 "I Rock"

30 Marina event times PuZZle by Eric Berlin 
(1966 hit)35 Drum majors' 66 Sheriff Taylor's 34 A browser 46 Like most tires 56 Sheikdom of 
10 Went back to 

props son browses it, with song
the top 48 Baseball put-out 
"the" 

57 Pounds on an
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Bit of silliness 50 Ballet rail 
36 Lennon's lady Underwood


~"!'""'~""~~ 12 CD segment 

51 "Stand and 37 Compass head­
...,...+=+,,-+,,...f 13 Get snippy with Deliver'' star 58 Salon creation 
ing -=+-~~ 18 Up to, briefly 38 Six-yr. term 52 Apres-ski drink 60 Director Kazan 
....,.....=+~-t 22 Actor Holm 

holder 54 McHenry and 62 Jackie Onassis' 25 High school Sumter: Abbr. sister
41 ll.smells 
subj. 

44 Topper 55 Olin and Horne 64 Make a choice26 Ovina utterance 28 Some prom · For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with anight drivers credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
30 Hospital unit 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday -=+-:-+,-+,,...f 31 Have markers crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. out Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -=+-:-:+-:-+::-:+=+:=-t 32 Loser to D.D. E. past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ~-=+=+=+:=+::~ 33 Lots and lots Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, and lots nytimes.com/learning/xwords. · 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BOR..l\1 ON THIS DAY: Jon Bon Jovi, Lou Reed, Laraine Newman, Mikhail Gorbachev 
Happy Birthday: You'll have the best of both worlds this year. You can make career moves and enjoy the benefits that come along with them. You can do hatever you want and be successful if you put your mind to it. Your outlook and ideas will attract the kinds of people that will help you achieve your dreams. Your numbers: 2, 7, 16, 27, 34,43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can pick up some overtime today. Channel your energy and you will score points with your boss. You will not be able to depend on others. Be prepared to do things by yourself. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make your arrangements carefully. Be sure to include the one you love. Insecurities will cause discord in your relationship if you aren't careful. Travel will bring excellent results. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be indecisive regarding your romantic partner. Too many choices will lead to confusion. You can expand your circle of friends if you join groups. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may try to impress others by making donations that you can't afford. Opposition is likely if you decide to take an obvious course of action. Don't try to push your beliefs on others. * * LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try not to exaggerate or promise unrealistic things. You may need to do some research. Don't take action until you are satisfied that you have all the facts. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be disheartened by your romantic partner. New potential mates are just around the corner. Be receptive to those you meet while in transit or attending educational pursuits. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Relationships will develop through group activity. Beware of individuals who may want to take advantage of your good nature. You can't always get along with everyone. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): New romantic encounters will develop through travel or friends. You may experience difficulties with older family members if they decide that they don't like the choices you're making. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Do your own thing. Don't be concerned about the work you left behind. You should be focusing on your personal life and building a solid emotional base with that special person. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your competitive nature will lead you to the winner's circle. You will enjoy sports events with friends but you should consider doing something special with the one you love. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Include the whole family in your redecorating plans. They may not want to help but onct: they get into the swing of things they will feel the same satisfaction that you do.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your social attributes with people will result in new romantic possibilities. You can get ready to celebrate your decision to take 
a new direction in life. Travel should be considered. **** 
Birthday Baby: You were born with enough get-up-and-go to run your parents ragged. Your bright eyes and imaginative nature will certainly win the hearts of all those you encounter. You have a zest for life and a sense of adventure. Your intuitive abilities will help you land on your feet throughout life. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: .. P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ____________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Tinte to shine 
Four Irish seniors start in their last regular season home game tonight 

Seniors Monique Hernandez, Jeneka Joyce, Le'Tania Severe and Anne Weese, along with junior Jacqueline Batteast will all start against the Orangemen. 

----------~~--~ 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSER\'ER 
p

Tuesday, March 2, 2004 

page 20 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 

.. 
Strangely enough, Senior Night should not be the final home game for four Irish sen­iors. 
Notre Dame faces Syracuse tonight in the final regular sea­son home game, but in the likely event the Irish make the NCAA Tournament. they will host the first two rounds at the Joyce Center. Still, for coach Muffet McGraw, tonight will be special. 
"It's a really emotional night, especially with this class," McGraw said. "This has been a group that is just tremendous to work with, They've had great tremendous dedication, great work ethic, positive attitude ­everything you can ask for in a player, they've got it." 

: ; 
McGraw traditionally starts all 

') her seniors on Senior Night. Hernandez, after playing on the national championship team as a freshman, and missing most of her sophomore and junior seasons after leaving the team for personal reasons, returned to the squad this year to start in 13 games. She has been a solid defensive player and has shown scoring potential on several 
occasions. 

Joyce has battled through injuries throughout her career and missed all of last season because of various ailments. She has been a dangerous 3-point shooting threat during her time on the Irish and has made 43 percent of her 3-pointers this season. Joyce said Tuesday will be an emotional day 
"It will be... kind of exciting and sad at the same time because I will be transitioning into other things, but this has been a part of my life for so long time," Joyce said. 
Severe has started 59 games in the past two seasons after playing in every Irish game dur­ing her sophomore year. This season, Severe became the 15th player in Notre Dame women's basketball history to be named a two-time captain. . 
'Tm trying to not be emotion­al. [on Senior Night]," Severe said. "I want to finish out the season with a win and emotions can get in the way of that. ... It's been a great career." 
Walk-on and fan favorite Anne Weese will get her first career start. Weese made the Irish squad last season, joining the team Jan. 7. She transferred from Seward County Community College where she helped her team to a 71-1 record in two years. She has played in nine 
see HOOPS/page 17 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish drop two home matches 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
The locker room was quiet Sunday afternoon. 
The tennis team had just dropped two close matches ­one Saturday against No. 12 Ohio State and a crucial Big East conference decision to No. 33 Miami. 
There wasn't much to say to the frustrated players. 
"We lost two matches we really needed," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said after Sunday's loss. "We certainly really wanted to win them." 
On Saturday, the Irish took the doubles point from the Buckeyes,· winning at doubles for the third time this season. Although Barry King and Paul Hidaka dropped an 8-2 decision to Ohio State's Brenton Contini and Dennis Mertens at No. 3, Luis Haddock and Matthew Scott defeated the Scott Green and Ross Wilson duo at No. 2 and Brent D'Amico and Rvan Keckley clinched the point with an 8-6 win over Joey Atas and Jeremy Wurtzman at No. 1. 
Ohio State's doubles teams were ranked No. 26 and No. 19, respectively. 
But then the Irish uncharac­
see TENNIS/page 14 


I 
l 
t i 
( BENGAL BOUTS 140-POUNDS -150-POUNDS 
I~~ 

Valenzuela dominates in quarters
I 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 


The ring lit up and the stands were filled as the 74th annual Bengal Bouts resumed for the quarterfinal round Monday night at the Joyce Center. 
Boxers from the 140-pound ! -weight class began the night / when tested experience met 
~ 
exuberant youth. In the first bout of the evening, off-.cam­

,, 
! pus fifth-year senior Jon Valenzuela squared off
!{ . 
against St. Edward's fresh­man George Hay. Valenzuela set the tone immediately,

[1:1 
swinging early and often. He

(j 
repeatedly backed Hay into ! 't the corners with various 
I ~! 
II. } ~ combinations. Hay managedd to land a few defensive blows I'r),I amidst the onslaught, but llf struggled to keep himself off
,i! 
~ \ . 
the ropes. In the third round,

~: { 
"' 

Valenzuela landed a vicious uppercut that sent Hay to an eight-count. The punch all but sealed Valenzuela's victo­ry and he eventually won the bout by unanimous decision. 
see BOUTS/ page 12 
IriSh knock off two ranked opponents 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
In their best performance at the National Fastpitch Coaches Association (NCFA) Leadoff Classic, unranked Notre Dame (10-4) knocked off two ranked teams en route to the Silver Bracket Championship. 
"As a whole team, we played better," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "I think that car­ried us through some tough outings." Notre Dame 2, Northwestern State 1 
In the first game of pool play, the Irish escaped an early loss at the hands of the Demons {9-6). Sophomore 
Meagan Ruthrauff's hit a two­run homer in the first inning, and that proved to be enough for pitcher Heather Booth. Booth was outstanding, hold­ing the Demons to six hits in a complete game victory. The Irish needed Booth's effort. as they couldn't take advantage of every scoring chance they had after the Ruthrauff home run. 

. No. 6 Georgia 7, Notre Dame 
1 
In the nightcap, the Irish 
were blown out by a strong 
Georgia team, who was 
ranked No. 6 in the country 
heading into the tournament. 
Bulldog pitcher Michelle 
Green tossed a complete game 
one hitter with 11 strikeouts. 
see TOURNEY/page 18 

~~ 
~­
r, 
~~·· 
U)

I 
1.1.1

I 
1-u z 

f!' 
a: ::5 

l I : C) m 
cz: 
D. ~ 
U) 

~ -~------------------------------____. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
CLUB SPORTS 
BENGAl BOUTS
MEN'S GOLF 
Scott Gustafson is six 

The women's ice 
No.1 seed J. Ryan Duffey defeats Michael Dolan in 
Notre Dame 16 
Notre Dame 5 
shots behind the leader 

a 153-pound quarterfinal match. Junior Jim
hockey team sweeps
Stanford 5 
Indiana 2 
Christoforetti defeats freshman Adam Frisch in the
at the Cleveland Golf 

Michigan 4-3 and 4-2
The Irish begin the sea-
Freshman Catrina 
180-pound devision. 
Collegiate Invitational 

over weekend. 
son 2-0 after a latest vic-
Thompson leads the 
The winners of Monday's fights move on to
after shooting a career 

tory over Stanford. 
Irish after defeating 
Wednesday night's semifinals.
low 68 in the second 

both her doubles and 
round. 

singles opponents. 
page 17 

page 15 
page 17, 12
page 14
page 18 




