

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
NCA reevaluates University accreditation 
Committee visits campus, conducts 10-year evaluation 
By JOE TROMBELLO Asmtant News Editor 
Sixteen representatives from the North Central Association have descended on-campus this week to re-accredit the University -a process that occurs once every 10 years ­and members have been meet­ing with numerous on-campus constituencies at McKenna llall to gather information and pro-

COUNCIL OF REPS Constitution deadline approaching 
By MATT BRAMANTI Senior Staff Writer 
With the March 31 deadline for student government's new consti­tution rapidly approaching, stu­dent union leaders said they arc optimistic that the changes will be finalized in lime. 

"We'll get it done," student body president Jermny Lao said. "We've be1m working day and night." 
l.ao commended the progress of mmnbers of the Council of lkprns1mtatives, the body that is charged with revamping the 10­YI~ltr-old constitution. 
"The committee has come a long way," Lao said. "We know what we want to create and we're just coming to an agrce­nwnt about it." 
lie said that agreement has been w;sembled more rapidly as of late, due to frequent con working sessions. 
Vie!~ president Emily Chin likc­wbe prai'ied the council's work. "Even though COH h<L'i been a 
sec COR/page 4 

vide feedback. 
Any university that wishes to receive federal funding for stu­dent financial aid or faculty grants must be formally accred­ited. The NCA, an organization which accredits over 800 institu­tions in the North-Central United States, conducts the accredita­tion process on five criteria, including such stipulations that the university must have a 
sec NCA/page 9 


STUDENT SENATE 



Mentbers discuss GSA resolution 

By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
The student government term may be winding down towards the April 1st tran­sition, but the Student Senate is showing no indi­cation of it, as was wit­nessed by Wednesday's one hour and fifteen-minute meeting that dealt with. among other issues, a reso­lution ·concerning Senate support of the Gay/Straight Alliance. 
Senior Joe Dickmann took the open podium represent­ing the Gay/Straight Alliance (GSA). an organiza­tion representing students of all sexual orientations that was denied club status under the name of United in Diversity by the Office of Student Activities on March 4th. Dickmann presented an open letter addressed to the administration and mem­bers of the Office of Student Activities and endorsed by the Senate Committees on Diversity Affairs and Gender Issues that detailed concerns about the status denial and its implications. 
Dickmann said the only 
see SENATE/page 11 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

RIAA 
continues 

file-sharing 

law-suits 

Notre Dame OIT officials say they are recezvzng more take-down notices 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Senior Staff Writer 

The Hccording Industry Association of America announced it is filing a new wave of lawsuits against computer users illegally sharing copyrighted music, including 89 individuals at 21 universities. While none of the individuals sued attend Notre Dame, officials here are concerned the HIAA could sue a student in the future. 
HIAA president Cary Sherman said in an online press conference that college campuses are an attractive place for illegal file sharing because of free and unlimit­ed bandwidth. 
"Obviously. college students arc a big part of the prob­lem, and therefore it was only a question of time before university users would be named as defen­dants," Sherman said. "And we hope that it will send a message to students across the country that this activity is illegal and that engaging linl it can have conse­quences." 
Sherman said the HIAA filed lawsuits against 532 illegal file sharers and the average number of files shared by each was 837. Universities with users bning sued include Georgetown, Indiana. Michigan, Stanford, USC and Villanova, among others. The HIAA has sued a 
sec OIT/pagc 10 






ND professors note unique nature of Iraq War 
Editor's Note: This the fourth era! lasts. The crossroads in a five-part series examining reached in military technology issues in the Iraq War. marks the Iraq War as differ­ent not only from wars before 2003, but also proves that it
By KATE GALES 
will be unique from future
News Wrirer 
conflicts. 

Notre Dame political science 
Smart missiles have professors offered a variety of replaced muskets and atomic analyses on the Iraq War but bombs and a "coalition of the agreed on one thing -the willing" has taken the place of battle that began one year ago a truly global battle. Connict in the Middle East was truly in Iraq has been full of firsts and, according to experts, sev-see IRAQ/page 11 

Thursday, March 25, 2004 
page 2 --The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Coming home 
I'm home -but don't tell my mom I said that. 
A couple of weeks ago, I let it slip; I explained to my mom that I had to make a quick run back to my house 
because I forgot Ann Loughery my coat. It took me a second to Sports realize why she Production 
sounded so dis­appointed after I had recounted such a minor detail of my day. 
All mothers like to believe they provide their children with the one and only home they'll ever know. But when I arrived on cam­pus this fall and moved into my dorm, I really felt as if I was returning to my second home. 

\ Call me the classic Legacy. Yes, I was a Notre Dame cheer­leader for Halloween. Our family visited campus at least once a year if not more. The only kind of football in our house was Irish football. My dad featured great Notre Dame legends in my bed­time stories. I was raised Notre Dame. Over break, I explained to my friends that I couldn't understand why anyone would choose to apply anywhere else. They, of course, smiled and agreed, knowing that I had always dreamt of attending Notre Dame. The last week in March marks the time that Notre Dame-hope­fuls receive news of their accept­ance. Each of them brings dreams for the future and a genuine love for the school. Little time has passed since we were in the same position. About this time, we each found our day­dreams centering around Notre Dame and acceptance. We had heard of the overwhelming masses of prospective students who had applied and also of those who had been waitlisted or rejected. At that time, many would have given anything for a spot in the fresh­men class. Too often this year, I've found myself stuck in a rut. I forget that I'm not just going to school -I'm going to Notre Dame. But all it takes is a walk past the Dome or a quick Grotto run to remind me how lucky I really am. Each time I look up at the Dome, I still get the chills. Remember how fortunate we are to call Notre Dame home, as much as our parents might be surprised with that description. There's no place like it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
A Scene article in the March 24 edition ofThe Observer incorrectly said the Clayton Miller Blues Band would be performing on Saturday. The Band will play Friday, March 26 at Legends at 10 p.m. 
Due to a production error, the byline ofa fencing column in the March 24 edition ofThe Observer was omitted .The writer was Matt Mooney. 
A headline in the March 24 edition ofThe Observer incorrectly 'said that a report was delivered on the Kashmir trip. No such report was delivered. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT HAS BEEN YOUR LEAST FAVORITE CLASS AT NO AND WHY? 

Bonnie Gonzalez Chris Henschen Matt Dvorsky Meredith Sweeney Tim Chlon Tlng Nl 
Sophomore Junior Sophomore Junior Freshman Freshman Pangborn Off-Campus Stanford Lewis Siegfried Farley 
"Physics. All I "Penmanship, "Freshmen "Physics. It is "Spanish. Que "Calculus. It's remember is because I hate chemistry. Bring just torture. ,, ridiculor math, need I 




penguins. pens, men and another laser ships.,, pointer for a good time. ,, 

Restaurant employee spits In cop's burger 

RIO RANCHO, N.M-A Rio Rancho fast food restaurant worker is accused of spitting into a police officer's hamburger. 
Marcus Calderon, 19, of Rio Rancho, was arrested and charged Saturday with assaulting a police officer and altering food, both misdemeanors. 
He remained jailed Monday on a $2,000 bond. 
The officer noticed there was something wrong Saturday after he took two or three bites of his ham­burger, said Rio Rancho Department of Public 
TODAY a:: 

Safety spokesman John Francis. After inspecting his food, the officer found someone had spit in his burger. 
Francis said Calderon told police he was sick and may have accidentally coughed or spit on the burger. 
Women offers wedding ring for hit on husband 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -A suburban Kansas City woman was so eager to have her husband killed that she offered her wed­ding ring in payment, authorities said. 
Amanda Booker, 23, of Blue Springs, was being held on $100,000 bond Tuesday after being charged with attempted first-degree murder. 
Kansas City police said Booker began contacting people earlier this year to find someone to kill Zachary Booker. 
The Bookers have a 5­week-old baby, but they have been separated since December, police said. 
Zachary Booker said he had kept in touch with his wife and daughter after moving out. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

say more?, 
IN BRIEF 

Join the Knights of Columbus in commemorating the Day of the Unborn Child on the feast of the Annunciation with a rosary following today's 5 p.m. mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Irish Inquisition is sponsoring an informational meeting tonight in the Foster Room on the third floor of LaFortune. The meeting will take place from 5 to 6 p.m. 
The film 21 Grams will be shown in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library tonight from 7 to 9 
p.m. The event is free. 

Author Patricia Stacey will present a lecture on Autism entitled "Opening the Heart and Mind of a Child Threatened with Autism." The event will take place tonight from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall 101. 
Theology professor Bill Matthison will present a lec­ture tonight entitled "Sexuality and Your Faith" from 8 to 9 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall room 102. 
Visionary Carolyn Kwiecinski will visit Notre Dame Sunday. On Oct. 1, 1997, the Blessed Mother and St. Therese appeared in a vision to her while a fresh­man college student. She will speak on-campus this Sunday from 7 to 8:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium room 107. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an. event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
HIGH 70 LOW 45 

HIGH LOW 
LLI ::z::: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
~ 

..... (,) 0 HIGH 62 

LOW 54 


HIGH LOW 

63 52 

65 50 

Atlanta 67 I 50 Boston 55 I 44 Chicago 56 I 37 Denver 74 I 44 Houston 80 I 60 Los Angeles 69 I 57 Minneapolis 56 1 40 New York 58 I 44 Philadelphia 60 I 46 Phoenix 89 I 62 Seattle 53 I 43 St. Louis 66 I 42 Tampa 801 60 Washington 68 1 48 

Thursday, March 25, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
33 organizations show-up at Non-Profit Career Fair 
exposure."
By K. AARON VANOOSTERHOUT 
Poulsen said the majority of the 250 News Writer 
employees at the Chicago-based health 
center found their job by word of mouth, 
At the Past minute, six additional non­and that is what she hopes will happen as profit organizations signed up for the frrst a result of her presence at the fair. annual Non-Profit Career Fair, bringing "It's not easy working there, it's way representatives from 33 organizations to more than a job," she said. "It's a calling, campus Wednesday speak with students kind of." and drum up interest for their programs. Victor !Ieard, another representative for 
Around 150 students attended the fair, Lawndale, seemed more optimistic. according to Alexandria Lewis, Law "(Students] need to venture out, [and] School Career Center administrator, which we figure that Chicago would be a good took place from 5 to 8 p.m. place for people to venture out to," he 
Anita Hccs, associate director of the said. "There are a lot of job openings, Career Center, said she was expecting a because we're busy growing." higher attendance Approximately 60 of the 85 jobs and 
"It was a little slower than I had thought internships offered at the fair were full­it would be," she said. time, paid positions, catering to those 
Despite the low turnout, however, Rccs graduating seniors and post-graduate stu­said she docs not expect representatives dents looking for an alternative to the for­to ignore future non-profit fairs. profit sector. 
"Employers ... liked this opportunity to "I need a job, and I'm not the 9 to 5 talk to students who were specifically type," Saint Mary's senior and philosophy interested in them," she said. major Natalie Hock said. 
Those employers included the Alliance With her particular field of study, Hock for Catholic Education, Teach for America, worried that jobs might be scarce. Last Lawndale Christian Health Center and the night's fair brought hope, however, she Crotona Center. said. 
Hepresentatives from New York-based "I think that these organizations are Crotona, an institution "working to interested in someone that's a little bit of improve the lives of boys in the Bronx," everything, instead of so focused on one according to their brochure, spoke with aspect of study," Hock said. 15 to 20 students last night. On the other hand, Dan Lavrisha, an 
Tlwy also accepted resumes for two undeclared sophomore at Notre Dame, nt~w directorial positions. Heprcsentative did not attend the fair to find a future John Sengenberger, a Notre Dame senior career, but rather said he was only look­said the company was "looking to ing for an internship. expand," from their current six employees lie said he "wanted to make a differ­to night. ence" during his four years at school, "to 
Karen Poulsen, human resources coor­have that rah-rah spirit out of college." dinator at Lawndale, explained she did not nxpoct to find potential employees Contact K. Aaron VanOosterhout at at thP fair. was " for kvanoost@nd.edu
-· 


Misca111ble speaks at first 'Breaking Bread' event 
pervades most aspects of human life. lieBy MATT BRAMANTI cited "the big ones"-fears about relation­
Senior SraffWrirer 

ships, careers and growing old and dying, but he said fear is aL'io present in smaller 
Fear isn't a topic people generally like to matters. talk about, but a talk by Father Bill "There arc fears at every stage along the Miscamble, a history professor and superi­journey of life," Miscamble said. "I suspect or at Moreau Seminar, entitled "Fear and that each of you have your own special the Christian Life" drew more than 100 fears. attendees Tuesday. "It seems a part of the human condition." 
The event, held in the press box at Notre Miscamble said the antidote to fear is a Dame Stadium. brought students and fac­life of Christian faith. ulty together for the address. followed by "As our trust and hope in the Lord candid discussion over a catered meal. increases. our fears will decrease," he said. 
Senior Jennie Bradley, who organized the "When we have resolved to follow the Lord, event, said it was the first in a "Breaking we have fewer things to worry about." Bread" series, to be held once per semes­However, he said a certain amount of ter. fear is healthy -but often absent -in 
The title of the series was inspired by a modern society. passage from Luke's gospel: "They recog­"In the age of Enron and WorldCom, we nized [Jesus] in the breaking of the bread." should be afraid to lie, to cheat, to slander 
Bradley said the dinner was an opportu­and so on, because of the damage it does to nity to engage students and professors in a others, to ourselves and to our community," setting outside the classroom. he said. "We may fear things but we have 
"We wanted to create a forum for infor­lost the fear of Satan, the fear of hell." mal student-faculty interactiort, particularly Bradley praised Miscamble as a person­on faith issues," she said. "Talking over a able, caring professor who enjoys interact­meal is a very natural setting. and it makes ing with Notre Dame students. people very comfortable." "He really connects with students well 
Each attendee was given a copy of because he's so on point but he's not over­"Following Jesus: Biblical Reflections on bearing," she said. "His manner is just per­Discipleship" and a collection of short fect." vignettes by theologian N.T. Wright, the Following the 30-miunte talk. 14 faculty Anglican bishop of Durham, in northeast members from the philosophy, theology England. and history departments, as well as from 
Bradley said a particular reflection in the the Law School and the College of book inspired her choice of the evening's Engineering, dined with studenl'i and dis­topic. cussed the topic of fear. 
"I just happened to read the reflection on The event was sponsored by the Center fear, and I thought it was so powerful," she for Ethics and Culture. said. "'Do not be afraid' is the most repeat­ed commandment in the Scriptures." 
During his speech, Miscamble said fear 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March 25, 2004 


Mezzo Methods to hold social -work fair 
By TERESA NOWAKAWSKJ 
News Writer 

In order to better educate students about the major and field of social work, Saint Mary's Mezzo Methods social work class will hold a social work fair today to both inform underclassmen about the major and to integrate the information that current stu­dents have learned in the course. 
Students said that many peers remain uninformed about what the field entails, and they said they hope to change this attitude. 
"A lot of people don't know what [social work) is about," said Erin lleidkamp, a junior social work major. 
Students said that the fair, which will be held in the LeMans Lobby from 7 to 9 p.m. today, has also helped to edu­cate them. 
"It's a learning experience for us too," junior social work major Theresa Ulrich said. 
In the field of social work, the "mezzo" level works with small groups and families, and is an intermediate level between the fields of micro social work, which works one-on-one, and macro social work, which deals with larger groups and organi­zations. In demonstrating that they have understood the mate­rial that has been learned, stu­dents planned the social work fair by diving the planning responsibilities amongst differ­ent small groups in accordance with the field of mezzo social work. 
The social work fair will be comprised of six different 
:ERAsM_u_s-"Efoo-K:-s1 
I I 
:• Used Books bought and sold 1• 25 Categories of Books :• 25,000 l-Iard back and 1 Paperback books in stock :. Out-of-Print search service 
1 Appraisals large and small 
• 
OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

tables in which all of the areas of social work will be repre­sented. These areas include both more well-known areas such as public welfare and school social work, as well as research, international social work and policy and planning. The tables will also allow stu­dents to see which organiza­tions deal with the areas of social work they prefer, and information on local agencies that deal with these different areas will be available. 
"We can say that these places deal with this issue," said Michelle Powell, a junior social work major. Powell said that this information will provide students interested in social work with the chance to net­work and see where they may gain experience in the field. 
Social work majors will be available, along with course professor JoAnn Burke, to answer any questions students may have. Students who attend the fair will have the opportunity to fill out a ques­tionnaire to inform the social work majors if the fair was a good idea, if it helped them to acquaint themselves better with the social work major and to suggest what can be done in the future to improve the event. 
As an extra initiative. stu­dents will participate in a raffie of $100 worth of different gift certificates. Breadsticks and soda will be available for refreshment, and all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross interested students are invited and encouraged to attend. 
Contact Teresa Nowakawski at nowa9294@saintmarys.edu 
1 0 cyo 0 ff 

of every purchase 
•.• over$10 Open Daiy 9am-3pm ¥Sun. N~m 1813 South Bend Ave. 
;Located ntt-e sa-rc p..::c <~'> Bctv-ro1 tt-e iJum.l .. 574.993.0310•574234.8730 
COR 
continued from page I 
dynamic group of people, the pas­sion behind everyone's motives will get it done," she said. 
Chin said the once the new structure of student government is implemented, students will see benefits. 
"We'll have more efficiency and more communication," she said. 
The new system will split stu­dent government into two major divisions the Campus Programming Council and the Campus Affairs Council. The CPC will coordinate events at the cam­pus and dorm levels and will have representatives from each resi­dence hall. Members will effective­ly take over SUB duties. 
The CAC, which will likewise be compromised of representatives from each dorm, will constitute the other side of student government. 
Members of the CAC, which is analogous to the current Student Senate, will tackle policy issues. 
Lao said he expects the new con­stitution will fulfill the needs of the student union in the years to come. 
"My plan is to have it stick around for a while," he said. "We foresee this to be a constitution for the future." 
President-elect Adam Istvan. whose term begins April 1, will likely have challenges in adapting to the new structure, but Lao said his successor will handle them well. 
"Judging from the commitment . he's shown, and the individuals he has around him, I have confidence in the whole team," Lao said. "Transition is all part of the process." 
Chief of staff Pat Corker agreed, saying Istvan has been actively working to prepare for the new constitution. 
"He's been at all the meetings, trying to familiarize himself with the new system." 
Istvan said he and vice presi­dent-elect Karla Bell are enthusi­astic about the prospects for the revamped system. 
"Karla and I are really excited to get going on our new projects," Istvan said. "Now we can move on to getting some things for the stu­dents." 
He said his administration will focus on diversity projects, particu­larly those dealing with ethnicity and sexual orientation. 
"The new system sets itself up for educational initiatives Hke Martin Luther King awareness week and GLBT [gay, lesbian. bisexual and transgender) issues," he said. 
Istvan said the overhauled con­stitution will encourage communi­cation among leaders from across student government and lead to a more effective student union. 
"You get all the best people working together," he said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


Now~s tJJe time to yet aheadJ catciJ upJ orjust take a class for enjoyment -do it for you! 




UmitedTime! 

MISHAWAKA 514 W. McKinley Corner McKinley & Grape 574.252.5820 
SOUTH BEND 117 North Main 1 blk. south of Colfax 574.288.9450 
4615 Miami Road Miami & Ireland 574.299.2860 

'Airt111e offe1 valid ootwo yea coosune~ serv1ce agreements ri $39.!li <r1d h1ghe1 Promotrooal (1Jone SLtJjectto ch<r1ge. flrooe pricirg includes a$30 mail· in rebate. CustCil11I is respmsible for all sales taxes. RetiJced access fee valid for frst 3mooths of 24-mooth Sa-vice Agreement free lncommg Minutes available in local callirg area oo~. N~ht and wOO<end minutes are valid M-f 9rm to 5:59am and all day Saturday and Smday Night <r1d weekffid mirutes are available in local calling area ooly. Opt1on ri 3000 Nights and Weekend Minutes, with a 7 rm stilt time, is ONLY good oo the p!Cil1otional rate ptarr ri $39.95 fti 1tnlminutes. Ro<rnllg charges, lees, surchages and taxes may apply Actrvatim fee $30 All serv­
~PREMIER
*US.Cellular. 
ICe a!1eemenls SLtJjectto <r1 early termiralion fee. Othe1 restriclims may apply. Soo store for details. Limited lime offe~.
* LOCATIONS'
AUTHORIZED AGENT OFFER EXPIRES MARCH 31. 2004 
r-----------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------­

ORLD & NATION 


Thursday, March 25, 2004 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.N.: Malnutrition hurts world IQ 
UNITED NATIONS -The brainpower of entire nations has diminished because of a shortage of the right vitamins, and slipping nutrients into people's food seems to be the only solution, a new U.N. survey says. 
To fight the problem, the United Nations is prescribing a whole pantry of artificially for­tified foods: soy sauce laced with zinc, "super salt": spiked with iron, cooking oil fortified with vitamin A. 
Ddiciencies in these vitamins are having alarming effects in developing countries, even ones where people generally have enough to eat, said the study, released Wednesday. 
A laek of iron lowers children's IQs by an average five to seven points, the report said. 
EU levies $613M fine on Microsoft 
BHUSSELS, Belgium -The European Union slapped Microsoft Corp. with a $613 million fine Wednesday for abusively wield­ing its Windows software monopoly and ordered sanctions that go well beyond the 
U.S. antitrust settlement -setting up what could be another lengthy court battle. 
Mierosoft called the EU's decision "unwar­ranted and ill-considered," and said it would ask a judge to suspend the order pending appeal. 
The EU antitrust office said it sought to alter Mierosoft's behavior because its five­year investigation found that the software giant tried to squeeze competitors out of Windows-related markets and "the illegal b(~havior is still ongoing." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Scientists find evolution gene 
Touching o!T a scientific furor, researchers say they may have discovered the mutation that caused the earliest humans to branch off from their apelike ancestors -a gene that led to smaller, weaker jaws and, ulti­mately. bigger brains. 
Smaller jaws would have fundamentally changed the structure of the skull, they con­tend, by eliminating thick muscles that worked like bungee cords to anchor a huge jaw to the crown of the head. The change would have allowed the cranium to grow larger and led to the development of a bigger brain capable of tool-making and language. 
The mutation is reported in the latest issue of the journal Nature, not by anthropologists, but by a team of biologists and plastic sur­geons at the University of Pennsylvania and the Children's llospital of Philadelphia. 


Deadly riptides threaten bathers 
PALM BEM:t I, Fla. -Treacherous rip cur­rents along the Florida coast in the past week have killed at least four beachgoers, led to dozens of rescues and forced life­guards to issue an unpopular warning in the middle of spring break: Stay out of the water. 
This week's deaths were all blamed on rip currents, which are rushing channels of water that can carry away even the best swimmers. Although the currents do not drag swimmers under water, many people panic, become tired and drown as they try to swim back to shore. 
STATE NEWS 
O'Bannon will not cut gas tax 
INDIANAPOLIS -When gas prices were this high in Indiana four years ago, the late Gov. Frank O'Bannon made big news by sus­pending the state sales tax on gasoline. 
Do not look for a repeat by O'Bannon's friend, political partner and successor ­Gov. Joe Kernan -any time soon. 
"Governor Kernan shares the nationwide concern about rising gas prices, and sus­pending the sales tax will always be on the list of options in terms of what the state can do to assist Hoosiers with this added finan­cial burden," Kernan press secretary Tina Noel said Tuesday. 
"However, the governor is not considering a suspension at this time." 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


Ex-adviser: Bush weak on terror 
Former terrorism aide testifies Clinton had 'no higher priority' than al-Qaida 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The Bush White House scaled back the struggle against al-Qaida after taking office in 2001 and spurned sug­gestions that it retaliate for the bombing of a U.S. war­ship because "it happened on the Clinton administra­tion's watch," a former top terrorism adviser testified Wednesday. 
The Clinton administra­tion had "no higher priori­ty" than combatting terror­ists while the Bush adminis­tration made it "an impor­tant issue but not an urgent issue" in the months before Sept. 11, 2001, said Richard Clarke, who advised both presidents. He testified before the commission investigating the worst ter­rorist attacks in U.S. histo­ry. 
Clarke's turn in the wit­ness chair transformed what has been a painstak­ing, bipartisan probe of pre-Sept. 11 intelligence failures and bureaucratic missteps into a nationally televised criticism of President Bush on the ter­rorism issue at the core of his campaign for re-elec­tion. 
The White House redou­bled efforts to undermine Clarke, the author of a recent book critical of the president. 
Officials also took the unusual step of identifying him as the senior official who had praised the president's 
Former Illinois Gov. Jim Thompson, a Republican, took up the president's cause inside the commis­sion hearing. "We have your book and we have your press briefing of August 2002. Which is true?" he challenged the witness. 
Despite the flare-up, com­mission members worked later to distance themselves from the sort of partisan­ship that could undermine the credibility of the final report they are expected to release this summer. 
"Nobody has clean hands in this one," said former New Jersey Gov. Thomas Kean, a Republican and the commission chairman, referring to the Bush and Clinton administrations. "It was a failure of individuals. The question now is whether or not we learned from our mistakes." 
Clarke began his appear­ance with an apology to "the loved ones of the vic­tims of 9-11. ... Your gov­ernment failed you. Those entrusted with protecting you failed you and I failed you," he. added, as some relatives of those killed in the attacks dabbed at their eyes with handkerchieves. 
The appearance of the white-haired former official overshadowed the release of a commission staff report that said bureaucratic dis­agreements about the extent of the CIA's authority to kill Osama bin Laden hampered efforts to eliminate al­

anti-terrorism efforts in an anonymous  "Your government failed you. "  Qaida's leader during the Clinton  
briefing  for  era.  The  
reporters the  Richard Clarke  result was a  
year following  former Bush adviser  continued  
the attacks.  reliance  on  
"He  needs  local forces in  
to  get  his  Afghanistan  

story straight," said that all sides recognized Condoleezza Rice, Bush's reduced the chance of suc­national security adviser cess, both before and after and Clarke's boss while he Bush took office, the report served in the administra­added. tion. "If officers at all levels questioned the effectiveness of the most active strategy 

·the policy-makers were employing to defeat the ter­rorist enemy, the commis­sion needs to ask why that strategy remained largely un-changed throughout the period leading up to 9-11," it concluded. Officials from Clinton's National Security Council told investigators the CIA had sufficient authority to assassinate ai-Qaida, the report said, but Director George Tenet and other spy agency officials "believed the only acceptable context for killing bin Laden was a credible capture operation." Sandy Berger, Clinton's 
national security adviser, testified that the former president gave the CIA "every inch of authorization that it asked for" to kill bin Laden. 
"There could have not been any doubt about what President Clinton's intent was after he fired 60 Tomahawk cruise missiles at bin Laden in August 1998," Berger said, refer­ring to strikes at a camp in Afghanistan where the al­Qaida leader was believed present. Bin Laden escaped. 
Tenet, who preceded Berger in the witness chair, also was asked about the issue of authorization to kill bin Laden. 

GAZA STRIP 

Hamas vows to assassinate Sharon 
defense minister. 

Associated Press 
Despite l-lamas' threats, militants 
GAZA CITY -The militant group appear to have trouble carrying out l-lamas backed off its initial threats immediate revenge attacks. Israel against the United States, saying has been on the highest possible Wednesday that it would focus on alert since the killing of l-lamas attacking Israel -and try to kill founder Ahmed Yassin on Monday. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon -in l-lamas has killed hundreds of retaliation for the assassination of its Israelis in suicide bombings and founder in an Israeli missile strike. other attacks in recent years. 
The Syrian-based leader of l-lamas, Altogether, since violence erupted in Khaled Mashaal, addressed mourn­2000, more than 2,700 people have ers in a Gaza City soccer stadium by been killed on the Palestinian side telephone hookup Wednesday, prom­and more than 950 on the Israeli ising victory over Israel and appeal­side. ing for Palestinian unity. "Who is Late Wednesday, several Israeli America and who is this ugly world tanks moved back into an area of the and who is Sharon and who is Khan Younis refugee camp in south­Mofaz?" Mashaal said in a show of ern Gaza where some structures contempt. Shaul Mofaz is Israel's were razed a day earlier, residents said. A policeman was wounded by Israeli fire, they said. Palestinians said 15 buildings were wholly or partly demolished. 
Early Thursday, Palestinian securi­ty sources said Israeli forces had withdrawn from the area. The Israeli army said it was checking the report. 
In the West Bank, a· 16-year-old Palestinian was caught at an Israeli roadblock with a bomb vest strapped to his body. Soldiers jumped behind barricades, and a dramatic standoff ensued. After persuading the youth to take off the vest, troops sent a yel­low robot to deliver scissors and he cut off the vest. The teen's brother said the boy is gullible and easily manipulated. 
page 6 

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March25, 2004 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-78oo ministry.t@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu


Campus Ministry C-M 

Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups. mass schedules and special campus events at campusministry.nd.edu 
prayer for peace in Iraq 
Campus Ministry, in collaboration with the Center for Social Concerns has been offering the Friday 5:15 
p.m mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart for peace in Iraq. 
On the 1st Friday of each month, the mass will be followed by a reception at the esc which will include a discussion of a topic relating to seeking peace in the conflict in Iraq. 
Also on those Fridays (next Friday April 2), Campus Ministry will publish in the Observer the names of friends and family of the Notre Dame community serving in Iraq for whom we are praying. If you would like to have somone included on that list, email fsantoni@nd.edu. (subject: "peace"). 

mass schedule 

Apply online at campusministry.nd.edu 
April 2-3 April 2-4 Sign up deadline: Sign up deadline: March 26 March 30 


considerations ... 
No Greater Love 
Hey God: Long Time, No Pray 
by Keara Coughlin Intern. Campus Ministry 
So it happened again last week: I found myself completely drained-trying to figure out what was bothering me and how I could fix it immediately. It was the kind of day when my own feeling ofemptiness is like a black-hole: draining all of the smiles, all of the laughter, and all of the energy from the people around me. You will have to excuse my exaggeration here, but in some respect, I think that these kinds offeelings may be more common among people our age than we may first think. \Xfithout the sense of a driving force, then, we are left feeling 'dry' inside, wondering what the point ofit all is. 
• It is for this very reason that I believe God gives me days like I experienced last Monday. Just coming off a busy and productive Spring Break, I had a full schedule with lots of things to 
get accomplished in the days ahead of me.  Yet what I didn't realize right away was that I was  
missing the very source of the energy  
and passion from which I am able to do what I need to do and be who I  No Greater Love  
need to be.  I am slowly learning that  This Saturday  
the emptiness that we can feel in our  1:oo p.m.  -6:oo p.m.  
heans, no matter how minor or how deep it runs, is something that can be remedied with the help of the patient  Coleman -Morse lounge Featuring: Taize Prayer • Lectio Divina  
kindness of friends and the compas­ gnatian Meditation  
sion and support of loved ones.  But  
most ofall, we are made whole by the  

peace that we receive when we finally turn ourselves to God in prayer. 
Now we all know that relationships take work, and when we don't put enough time and effort into building and deepening them, they tend to fall apan or slowly fade away. It is always a wonder to me, then, why even when we know this, so many of us still tend neglect the one relationship that can be the most life-giving of all. Our faith tells us that a relationship with God is a gift-but like all things that are worthy of our love, they are ones that take some effort: ones in which we are called and challenged to take active roles. 
What does an 'active' prayer life look like though, and is it even possible for people like us? "I am not that good of a person. Prayer is for the 'holy' people like Mother Teresa -she could pray because she was like a living saint." Does this sound familiar to anyone? This is the kind ofresponse that far too many of us give when our own prayer lives (or lack thereof) are chal­lenged. Our defense mechanism is to deny the ability to converse with God because we fear that we don't live up to what God asks of us. 
Christ himself, though, gives us hope. In telling his apostles the parable of rhe Pharisee and the tax collector, Jesus assured them and us that the most perfect prayer is the one from rhe heart -like the tax collector who comes before God acknowledging simply, "0 God, be merci­ful to me, a sinner." Humility (not self-deprecation) is the foundation of true prayer. Ifwe can just get ourselves to keep inviting God into our mistake-ridden, tar-from-perfect lives, and ask for the Peace chat will help fill thac spot in our hearts that we can't seem to keep from drying up on our own ... we will be pretty astonished by the transformation that can take place. Our tradition teaches us so many ways beautiful forms of prayer which can help us find different avenues by which we can converse with God. The "right" way to come to prayer, though, begins with a humble and open heart, asking God to fill us up with His spirit. 
",.
)jj:)
today_ (' ., 
RCIA Community and Study Hour 
Mass @ Basilica 5=15 followed by dinner; Back to CoMo 330 until 7:00 p.m. 
Hindu Prayer 
Prayers From Around the World Series 
7:00 p.m. -8:oo p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse 
fridG.Y.~OJ=.z~o___ 
Mass for Peace 5=15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Executive MBA Retreat Mendoza College of Business 

IInterfaith Christian Night Prayer 
sa~urday o3.27 

Too Busy for God No Greater Love 
1o:oo p.m. 
Coleman-Morse Lounge
A Notre Dame day of prayer, music 
and renewal 

Theology on Tap Coleman-Morse Lounge 
1:oo p.m. • 6:oo p.m. 

Discussing The Passion of the Christ 10:oo p.m. · 11:30 p.m. Legends 
stJnday o1.28 
RCIA Session 1o:oo a.m. · 11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
RCIA Rite of Reception into Full Communion 
11:45 a.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

tuesda}l. 0:1. 10 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 
Confirmation Session #13 7:oo-8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
wednesday D3.J'f 
Fifth Sunday of lent 
around campus (every Sunday) 
basilica of the sacred heart 

1o:oo p.m.
Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 1:30 p.m. 7:oo p.m. 
Rejoice! Mass
s:oo p.m. 1o:oo a.m. Spanish Mass MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB
Rev.Tom Eckert, c.s.c Rev.Tom Eckert, c.s.c St Edward's Hall Chapel Mendoza COB 
11:45 p.m. s:oo p.m. Faculty Lounge Faculty Lounge 
Rev. Peter Rocca, c.s.c Law School Mass 
Law School Commons 
1st:lsaiah 43:16-21 2nd: Philippians 3:S-14 Gospel: John 8:1-11· 

Thursday, March 25, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 

10,048.23 -15.41

.}ones ,.,, 
,, Up: Some: ~ Composite Volume: 1,148 190 ,... 1,500,999,680 

AMEX 1,222.65 ·12.52 NASDAQ 1,909.48 +7.68 NYSE 6,375.67 -42.65 s&PSOO 1,091.32 -2.63 NIKJ<fi(Tokyo) 11,364.99 0.00 mE IOO(London) 4,309.40 -9.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -LOB +0,26 24.41 INTEL CORP (INTC) +I AI +0,37 26,53 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) + 1.39 +0.31 22-67 JDS UNIPHASE QDSU) +0.25 +0.01 3.97 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) +2.01 +0.41 20.77 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.06 -0.03 46.64 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.08 +0.03 37.14 5-YEAR NOTE -0.34 -0.09 26.65 3-MONTH BILL +0.54 -0,05 9. I 8 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbL) -0.44 37,01 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.60 417.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +LIS I 04.05 
Exchan e Rates 

YEN I 06.3 EURO 0.8251 POUND 0,5483 CANADIAN$ 1.342 
COMPANY BRIEFS 
Health worries sink Dasani launch 
ATLANTA -The Coca-Cola Co.'s effort to 
sell Europe on its Dasani bottled water is in 
limbo, following its decision Wednesday to 
delay the launch of the drink in France and 
Germany -a move prompted in part by pub­
licity over quality concerns about its product 
in Great Hritain. 
The world's largest beverage maker with­drew the beverage in Britain a week ago because it found samples contained higher than permitted levels of the chemical bromate. 
Coke also said Wednesday it has decided not to reintroduce Dasani in Great Britain at this time. 
Dial shareholders clean up in deal 
SCOTI'SDALE, Ariz. -Dial Corp. sharehold­ers on Wednesday approved the company's sale to the Henkel Group, a German deter­gr.nls, cosmetics and adhesives maker. 
Dial, which makes Purex detergents, Dial bath soap and Henuzit air fresheners, is being purchased for roughly $2.9 billion cash by !Ienke!. 
The deal gives Duesseldorf-based Henkel a stronger foothold in North America and allows Dial to become part of a larger, global opera­tion that can better compete with consumer products giants like Procter & Gamble Co. and Unilever PLC. 
Dial's corporate headquarters are expected to remain in Scottsdale, along with top man­agement. 
Execs to testify in Scrushy trial 
BIHMINGIIAM, Ala. -At least 14 former IlealthSouth executives could testify against fired CEO Hichard Scrushy at his August fraud trial, prosecutors revealed in court documents made public Wednesday. 
The list of likely witnesses includes all but three of the 17 former HealthSouth workers who havr. reached plea deals in a wide-rang­ing federal probe of the rehabilitation giant. 
Among those the government expects to tes­tify arc all live of HealthSouth 's chief financial officers and Emery Harris, who is already serving a live-month term in federal prison for his role in the scam. 

THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

Bill Kirk lays down the law 
NO's discipline czar dodges 'bad reputation' in popular business law course 
Editor's note: This is the third in a Thursday series focusing on interesting classes in the Mendoza College ofBusiness. 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
Senior Staff Writer 
In some ways, Bill Kirk is a walking contradiction. lie is at once loved and hated, feared and admired. 
As associate vice presi­dent for residence life, Kirk plays the stern role of the University's chief discipli­narian. Kirk freely admits he has an unpleasant stand­ing among many Notre Dame students, but says that it comes with his role in the administration. 
"My bad reputation has been around for years," Kirk said. 
But to his business law students. he's a thoughtful, caring professor who works to break the preconceived ideas his students often bring. 
"I think my enjoyment of the material gets across to the students," he said. "They learn that there are real people behind the administration's decisions." 
In the Mendoza College of Business, all students are required to take a business law course, entitled "Contracts and Agency." Kirk said the course's mate­rial -which covers con­tractual obligations, the principal-agent relationship and business-related litiga­tion -is highly relevant for future busi­ness leaders. 
school, and was hired by 
the University soon after 
being admitted to the 
Indiana bar. 
Kirk said his legal back­
ground frequently comes 
into play in dealing with 
duLac violators. 
"The work that I do now 
is involved quite a bit with 
the understanding of legal . principles," he said. 
But his demeanor in the 
classroom stems from his 
experience in dorm life at 
Notre Dame. While a law 
student, Kirk served as an 
assistant rector in Sorin 
Hall, then as the rector of 
Stanford Hall. 
"I've got a unique per­
spective on students' lives 
here," he said. "It allows me 
to connect with the students 
in a really pleasant way." 
That connection helps 
engage students in the 
classroom. Kirk said he fre­
quently fields "hypothetical" 
questions fro[Il students 
about disciplinary processes 
or police run-ins. 
"I try to make the exam­
ples I use in class relevant 
to the students," he said. "I 
try to give them some good 
advice about staying out of 
trouble, and we have fun 
with it." 

Kirk said he walks 
throughout the classroom, 
threading his way among 
students as he answers 
questions. 

"Students have said they 
get dizzy following me 
around," Kirk laughed. "It 
makes it that much more 
fun to teach when students 
are really 
en gaging 
"So much of life is liti­gious," Kirk said. "Most  ''I've got a unique perspective on students' lives  themselves." He said he u s e s instances of  
students  here."  personal legal  
come  away  troubles  to  
happy to have taken [the course]."  Bill Kirk professor  i n t r o d u c e legal princi­pies relevant  
After grad­ in the  busi­ 
uating  from  ness world.  

Notre Dame in 1984, Kirk "We mix the concepts .. . worked for a major we talk about Enron and accounting firm in New WorldCom," he said. "The York as a consultant and nice thing is we're able to auditor. He then returned to inject a whole lot of ethical Notre Dame to attend law decision-making. 

Photo courtesy of the Mendoza College of Business 
Business law professor Bill Kirk, who also serves as associate vice president for residence life, uses his dual roles to make his class Interesting for students. 
"The things that make Kirk was modest., praising someone a good business­the other professors who man or [business]woman teach the course. 
' are the same things that "Everyone that teaches it help a person in life." gets pretty good student Junior Megan McGinty, reviews," he said. "It's a who is in the class, said she real meat-and-potatoes was apprehensive about course." registering for the course. But a stimulating discus­"Before I took B-Law, I sion of business law might was under the assumption not be the only thing that that Bill Kirk was a mon­draws students to the ster, purely based on the course. Kirk -who is things I had heard about engaged -blushed at sug­him," McGinty said. gestions that female stu­However, her perception dents flock to the class to soon changed. see the professor one stu­"He is a good person who dent described as "really truly. cares about the well-handsome." being of his students," she ''I'm happy to hear that," said. ·~He is hands-down Kirk laughed. "But I'm spo­one of the best professors ken for." I've had at Notre Dame." Despite uniformly positive Contact Matt Bramanti at reviews on NDToday.com, mbramant@nd.edu 
U.S. ECONOMY 
Durable-goods orders surged in Feb. 
than economists were expecting. They that Microsoft Corp. received a record
Associated Press 
were calling for a 1.2 percent rise in antitrust line from the European Union 
WASHINGTON -Factories saw durable-goods orders. weighed on investors. demand for big-ticket goods rebound In other economic news, sales of new The rebound in durable-goods in February, good news for the coun­homes also bounced back in February, orders in February was led by stronger try's economic health and for manufac­rising by a strong 5.8 percent, the demand for transportation equipment, turers who have struggled to get their department said in a second report. including cars and airplanes. Orders piece of the business recovery. The increase -the largest since June for those goods jumped by 9.9 percent 
The Commerce Department reported -came after home sales declined by in February, compared with a 10.5 Wednesday that or.ders for "durable" 1.1 percent in January as bad weather percent decline in January. Last goods-costly manufactured products kept house hunters indoors. month's rise was the largest since July that are expected to last at leas.t three Powered by low mortgage rates, 2002. years -rose by 2. 5 percent last home sales reached record highs in David Huether, chief economist at month. That was an improvement 2003 and are expected to be brisk this the National Association of from the 2.7 percent drop registered in year as well. Manufacturers, said the report shows January and represented the largest But on Wall Street, the Dow Jones that "the manufacturing sector is con­increase since October. industrials lost 15.41 points to close at tinuing to gain ground and emerge 
February's performance was better 10,048.23. Terrorism fears and news from its three-year-long slump." 
page 8 Thursday, March25, 2004
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Spcttuord by the C111tcr for Stcl•l Ctt~e.r"' Call CS74.J Sf1-SlU· hr ~t~tn l"h,....atlt" Ct-tput~IOrd lty: 
Allr.,., Chair ot Jcwlah Thought" Culture. rheology Jcwlah Fcdcratltn tf St. Jo11ph Valley Joa" '· Knc b•atltut1 for lftt&rftational Fcact Ctv4iu 
Otflcetf Ca~~tpua Mlftlltry AIMcrlu" Stullka Pcpt. Cet~tcr for lrhlu J. Culturt Childrc" 1 Pcfet~at Fun41 Cathellt Pcau Fclltwahlp lytftl Hall 

Join fikkun ~t~agazine editor Michael Lerner as he explores a new holistic politics that ai~t~s to transfor~t~ the political vision beyond left-right divisions and the cynical realis~t~ that guides A~t~erican political discourse. 
5:00 p.t11 <0> 101 Uegartolo HaiL Notre Uat11e

fhursday, 
7:go p.t\1 ® Cot\1t~tUt1ity Cet~ter Jewish Federatlot~ of St. Joseph ValleyMarch 25 g202 Shalot\1 Way, South get1d 





It'$ a darn shame. FortUnately. you have MonsterTRAI<' to help you land yoor first job. It's the #I online career site dedicated to helping students find jobs and internships. Search a huge range of job postings targeted specifically to your school, get job hunting tip$, check oot employer Information and more. So 
you can find the per·fect fob, and start your own trust fund Visit www.ndsm ccbserver.com/career today. 


monster~ 
today's the day'" 



r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, March 25, 2004 page 9
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
"We are not in danger of losing tor of the NCA self-study and fel­have gone smoothly from the University has made great our accreditation," Ryan said. low of the institute for educa­point of view of both parties. strides in women's issues, such
NCA 


continued from page 1 
"clear, appropriate institutional statement of mission and pur­pose" and the University must be "accomplishing its educational and other purposes." 
According to associate provost [14aura Hyan, the .re-accredita­tion process serves as an excel­lent opportunity for Notre Dame to gain feedback from committee members, many of whom are from institutions that Notre Dame considers its peers or aspi­rational peers. Members this year include the president of Saint Louis University, a profes­sor in Duke University's Fuque School of Business and the sen­ior associate vice provost at Stanford, among others. 
Hatch to focus on the process of the academic reviews of depart­

THE UNIVERSITY CLUB 
ments. She said that depart­ments were asked to more clear­
ly articulate their goals for stu­dent learning. 
She also noted that the institu­tion of programs such as. the scholarship of teaching and 
PRIVATE DINING CLUB ON THE CAMPUS OF NOTRE DAME 

CONGRATULATIONS 
learning program or the series of annual grants provided by the Provost have better enabled fac­ulty to study how students learn in their classroom. 
EN'S BAS.KETBALL ON YOUR NCAA BID!!!! 
"Just this year, a new Core Curriculum Committee [was formed] whose charge is to
SEE YOU AT THE JOYCE!!! GO IRISH!!!! 
review all core courses and state 
the kind of student learning that 
we expect."
CLUB OPEN MONDAY-FRIDAY 11:00AM-9:00PM (STEIN ROOM TIL 10 AFTER B-BALL) 
A number of faculty and 
administrators who attended portions of the committee meet­ings said they found the process helpful. 
Preacher said that she attend­ed discussions on numerous top­ics ranging from women's issues to the structure of faculty gover­nance and the University's sexu­al harassment policy. 
"For the most part, everybody in the room knows where the discontents are, but l don't think there's a sense that the institu­tion is on the wrong track," she said. 
She said that she believes the "This visit is . . . really a chance for them [the committee] to help us look objectively at how we're doing ... and how we may do it [better)," she said. 
As part of the preparation process, the University has writ­ten a thorough self-study that provides the committee with information on its departments and programs, among other information. Because the accred­itation process has traditionally occurred around the University's own 1 0-year strategic plan, .the plan plays a vital role in the cre­ation of the self-study. 
"The strategic planning process is a good base for the self-study," Ryan said. "The processes are distinct but not separate ... [we an~l not doing this in isolation." 
Barbara Walvoord, coordina­as women faculty hiring, promo­tion and retention, but said she also believes more work needs to be done. 
"We've gotten a whole lot bet­ter.... but we've still got a long way to go. The University has made a good faith eiTort to hire, promote and retain women, but we still have some things to do," she said. 
Robert Norton, chair of the department of German and Russian languages and litera­tures, said he attended a discus­sion with selected chairs of humanity departments. lie said that discussion focused primarily on issues that the University may face as it "continues its efl'orts to enhance its reputation as a research institution." 
"I found them [the two mem­bers of the committee] to be eager to listen carefully to what rweJ had to say ... engaged and very well-informed about the university and concerned to help us to improve," he said. 
Norton said his department has taken steps to improve the quality of student education and assessment of knowledge learned. lie said his department remains one among a "minority of departments" within the College of Arts & Letters to offer a senior capstone project option to its majors and is currently in the process of considering whether to administer an exit survey to graduating seniors to gauge their satisfaction with the major and their education, as well as assessing what students have learned. 
"The process itself [accredita­tion! is also part of a larger question of accountability -the University needs to be held accountable, and the process of the NCA is an example of how that works," he said. "The very process of examining practices and asking questions ... in and of itself is salutary." 
The committee's findings and recommendations will be pub­lished in the Notre Dame Heview later this year. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
Tr1e l'lotre Dame DE:pa;tment of Music and tl1e Notre Dame Opera Prc>sent 
THE 
tional initiatives, said that the creation of the self-study, an over 400-page document, came about through the help of numerous people. Walvoord said 176 faculty, staff, administrators and students either directly sent text or responded with sugges­tions. 
"A number of other people provided other information and answered queries," she said. 
As part of their fact-finding process, over 50 meetings have been conducted this week with various groups on-campus. Some meetings have been open and have encouraged students or faculty members to provide feed­back, while others have been more specifically targeted toward groups such as depart­ment chairs or administrators. Walvoord said that meetings 
"The team has been very appreciative; they are gulping in information about Notre Dame as fast as possible," she said. "Our own people have been very cooperative in meeting ... and being candid." 
Of particular concern to the committee during the 1994 report was the process of the assessment of learning and teaching. 
"Assessment is really difficult to approach," said Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts & Letters. "No institution has a really good handle on it." 
In order to address the con­cerns of the 1994 committee, · Walvoord said that the University has taken a number of measures to improve. Walvoord noted that an assess­ment advisory committee was appointed by Provost Nathan 
7:30pm University of Notre Dame Performed in English 
$10 reseNed seating, $5 seniors/students Call the LaFortune Box Office: 631-8128 
Thursday, March 25, 2004 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS 
sends take down notices when its crawler finds infringing
OIT 
activity, with more egregious legal online music services called a Packeteer is used to without trying to police the instead, such as iTunes, limit the amount of bandwidth activities of students on the Napster 2.0 and Rhapsody. that peer to peer software can network, except where it is 
At Notre Dame, Wishon said use, but Wishon said it is not obviously in violation of policy that OIT is not taking any addi­the right solution to stop illegal or law," Wishon said. tional action to seek out users downloads in the long term. who are illegally downloading "The OIT is not the police. Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at music. Currently, an application We've got enough work to do sbrodfue@nd.edu 
DON'T DELAY... COME LIVE WHERE YOU PLAY! 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 

THIS 2 BEDROOM 1 ~BATH TOWNHOME CAN BE YOUR NEW HOME FOR ONLY $280 PER MONTH PER PERSON!! 
CALL US AT 272-8124 FOR DETAILS! WWW.TURTLECREEKND.COM 
CHECK OUT THESE LEASE OPTIONS 
(May 21 •1-Aug 81h)
>-Summer 2004 only (June 2004-May 2005)
>-1 year (July 2004-June 2005)
>-1 year (August 2004-July 2005)
>-1 year (August 201h-May 191h)
>-"Student 10" 
**FLEXABLE MOVE-IN DATES-CALL FOR DETAILS** 
CHECK OUT THESE EXTRAS 
>-Swimming pool is open EARLY MAY until LATE SEPTEMBER >-WALKING distance to NOTRE DAME campus };> On-site maintenance and management >-Sand volleyball court >-24 hour lock out service >-NEWLY REMODELED units available >-LARGE STUDENT POPULATION-NOTRE DAME & SAINT 
MARY'S 
OPTIONS AND EXTRAS... THAT IS WHAT YOU'LL GET WHEN YOU CHOOSE TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS. 
CALL US OR STOP BY OUR LEASING CENTER TODAY FOR A TOUR! 
574-272-8124 www.turtlecreekND.com 
-:~:~:::~~::~:~~~~~=-~='~~~'!'~.,.~~'P'!"~~ == ~~ ~ =:::.:.:: !t: ~~::it~:~-::"!"~'!'~ .. -•.• -... -••• -~ 
continued from page 1 
total of 1, 977 individuals and has settled with over 400 who paid fines averaging $3,000. No suits have gone to trial and Sherman said that the RIAA was likely to continue issuing lawsuits in the future. 
infringers more likely to be tar­geted for litigation. 
Wishon cautioned that while public statements from the RIAA indicate they are only tar­geting egregious violators, he has seen action taken against students sharing a small num­
ber of copy­
righted files. 
"This is an ongoing pro­gram. It won't end with the settlement of these cases," he said. 
Notre Dame has seen an increase in the number of take down notices from the RIAA, which require the user to stop sharing copyrighted 
"People who rely on promises ofanonymity from P2P providers are likely to get just what they paidfor. These people are in business to make money, not to protect you. " 
Cary Sherman RIAA president 
material but, unlike a lawsuit, do not seek financial damages. Chief Information Officer Gordon Wishon estimated that before January, OIT received four or five take down notices a month, but since the start of this year, they are seeing four or five notices each week. 
"So far the RIAA has been, I think, pretty accommodating in allowing us to, rather than issuing a subpoena and taking the kid to court or suing the kid, allowing us to notify the student and to voluntarily take care of the 
"I know I have seen notices issued, or subpoenas issued, where the student was responsi­ble for files in the tens rather than in the hundreds or thou­sands," Wishon said. 
Wishon urged stu­
dents not to download or share illegal copyrighted material and to be aware that they could be sued if they continue. 
"We are urging students to be aware of the risks that they incur when they engage in this activity and know that it is a violation not only of University policy but of law," he said. "There is no shelter here at the University for those who are subject of lawsuits or other actions." 
Sherman said users also should not count on peer to peer file shar­
issue," Wishon ing services to 
said. "The 0/T is not the mask their When OIT police. We've got enough identity. 
receives a take "People who
to do without trying to 
down notice, it rely on prom­is forwarded to ises of
police the activities of 
General students on the net­anonymity Counsel and from P2P
work."
the student is providers are notified that likely to get there has been Gordon Wishon just what they an allegation Chief Information Officer paid for," he made. The said. "These matter is also people are in forwarded to the Office of business to make money, not to Residence Life for possible dis­protect you." ciplinary action. Sherman said the goal of the 
"Typically the student takes lawsuits is not to generate rev­the infringing material off and enue, but to deter users from the student promises to [never] illegally downloading copy­do it again and that's all that's righted material. He said that ever said and done about it," the music industry lost one­Wishon said. third of its sales in three years 
Sherman said that the take to illegal downloads and was down process is separate from being "downloaded to death." litigations and that the RIAA He encouraged students to use 

Save 20% on your frame, glass, matting, mounting and installation when you have your custom and/or ready-made framing order completed by our creative associates. 
Offer good on orders placed now to 4125/04. Not valid with other discounts. Pluse ptesent this •d when ,mclng your order. 

Frames Unlimited 
Wilshire Plaza· 5634 N Grape Rd, next tc Burlington Coat Factory· (574) 277-6617 lambskin diploma framln1 • complete restoration services Leaders In fine framlnJsince 1971 • www.framesunlimited.com 
~-l 
Thursday, March 25, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
Iraq 

continued from page 1 
distinctive. "The revolution in military affairs has advanced a lot," 
said Dan Lindley, a political science professor. "Communications integrated with targets are more effective than ever before. However, the classic problem remains ... the classic problem of battlefield intentions." 
Keir Lieber, another political science professor, agreed that while it is only natural to see war evolve as military educa­tion improves and technology advances, the differences in intentions and goals of the two Iraqi conflicts were especially significant. an open threat in the area, 



"There was a major differ­and the postwar rebuilding ence in objectives," said period in the aftermath of the Leiber of the distinction Iraq War is another aspect in between the first and second which this war has been com­Gulf Wars. "The first was sim­pletely unique. Many have ply to move the Iraqis out of argued that the rebuilding Kuwait -the second was process in Iraq has been per­regime change.... The result haps more exhausting than was the same, a quick and the war itself. decisive victory in convention­"The idea of an old war was al war." that you'd go in, you'd win, 
Lieber said that despite the [and] the people are standing speed of the United States' vic­on the sidewalks waving nags tory in Iraq, he or hiding didn't anticipate under their the use of similar beds." Lopez
"In some ways this was
tactics in the said. "There future. was no resist­
the last war of "In some ways, the 2oth century." ance." this was the last He added war of the 20th that over $87
Kler Lieber 
century," he said. billion in aid 
professor of
"No one else is had gone to going to fight [a political science 22 million 
conventional war]." 
'Lieber ex-plained a conven­tional war as "total conflict," such as World Wars I and II, with "two sides fighting in tra­ditional combat ways, with a military victory through defeat of military forces." 
Indeed, war has changed in the last half-century -both in its technology and its intensity. 
Since 70 to 80 percent of the missiles used in the Iraq War were "smart munitions," Lieber said, the death toll in the conflict was far lower than in the past. 
"Many predicted a huge number of U.S. military and Iraqi civilian casualties," he said. "Neither of these things came to pass." 
However, George Lopez, a professor with the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies, pointed out that although many war supporters called today's weapons technology more humane, the collateral damage number could be mis­leading. 
"You go from high-intensity war to low-intensity war," he said, noting that the already weak Iraqi infrastructure suf­fered -a trial that has taken a toll on civilians. 
The toll on civilians remains 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
support structures the University provides for homo­sexual students are the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, Campus Ministry and the counseling center, and he said that these were not able to suit the needs of the stu­dent population. 
"There is no point at which [the three support structures] can say 'your friends are here to help you'," said Dickmann. "We need a way for students to get more involved, because the Standing Committee only allows for six students. none of which are straight. This is where the GSA comes in." 
The letter elaborates on Dickmann's statement. 
"The letter of denial rea­soned that a student-run club is unnecessary due to the presence of University sup­port-structures ... Underlying this argument is the disturb­ing premise that University organizations rightfully supersede student ones in terms of supporting students. This premise shows an inher­ent lack of trust in student abilities and a blindness to students' own yearnings to deal with these issues as a 
Iraqis -and the end is not in sight. 
But the end is in sight on the home front. Twenty-four hour access to press coverage about the war has changed the pub­lic perspective on fighting. 
"The pliability and availabil­ity of the media gives military and political people a [public relations) potential they haven't had before," Lopez said. "Since Gulf War I, we live in a media-frenzied environ­ment about war.... This is 24 hours a day." 
That is strikingly different from the newspapers of World War I and the newsreels of World War II. progress that has made the public more informed but less sensitive, Lopez said. 
"It has dulled the sense of most populations to the nature of war," he said. "More Americans know more things, but feel them less intensely." 
In a time of change in public knowledge, military weaponry and tactics, history has been made ip the Iraq War -a war unlike any fought before, and that is sure to be unique from future conflicts. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
community," reads the letter, obtained by The Observer at the meeting. 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni questioned whether the senators should sign the letter without first discussing the issue with their dorm constituencies. 
"Events have happened since January [when Dickmann first addressed the Senate]. and I have a very strong feeling about having my dorm's backing before I sign something specific on paper," Bongiovanni said. 
The Senate moved to table the resolution until next Wednesday's meeting in a vote of 14 for tabling, seven against and one abstaining. 
In other Senate news: 
+ The Senate passed a reso­lution expanding the Pharos Student Printing Account System to the printers on the first floor of the Ilesburgh Library that do not currently charge students for their usc. The reasoning behind the change is that toner takes up 80 percent of the library's budget, and many students abuse the privilege when printing is not charged to their account. O'Neill senator David Osburn said. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichac:l@nd.edu 

' 

CM 
------~---~----~---------~-~--~-~~---~~---, page 12 Thursday, March 25, 2004
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
This Srmdrn· at thf• 1 I <·4.5am Moss in thr BasHiru t.~l thr s{}.('l'f.'d !lcolt, H'C will (•r/rbnne ll.rc Rirc ol R(•n:rru.HI into Fttll CtHmmwit)JL · 
Ar rhh tirwg~·. Ctmdrdorr.w.for f'ull Cmwmmr·un ~~-ill ('ONi"{tlt·t.(· tlu·it inititHion imt1 drr Cathol/c Cluudt b~: n.'cch·ins rhc .wuwncms .~;·f Cm!{hHwtiou t.md rhc 
E.'IC/Jc··'HV'.
~ A ,. ' ~ ~· • 

Plf.'Ost' lt·t{' tht•w /n nil prove.• .r fHJd hdt'~ us to n·dcmur !hnn inN} oar (i:;-;ho/ic· r'·onwomil'l' 




I.'>tl ··tt.. ·1~2 e --kr In\· .. ., , r · ·:I I., 1: • 11
... .s n .J c 'C· ... . ar ot J ft) Ji,..... Katie Burns Joe [)osch 

Bernard [)uHrav Chris C~erben B.rvan KreHer Ivlallorie Lcnn 
•' ~· 

Jennifer Luff Joanna iv1angcney T'ara Pio Ke11v Shaffer 
~· 


J\..lary 'Tirnler Nina VVhittaker ~Andre\v \tVillhuns Ed \Volfe 


tvton.ic.a Y(~Rtng 

Thursday, March 25, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 13 

WTO rules against U.S. on gatnbling 
will argue vigorously that this betting at offshore casinos
Associated Press 
deeply flawed panel report were harming Antigua's 
WASIIINGTON -The Bush must be corrected by the efforts to diversify its econo­administration said Wednes­appellate body," said Richard my. The country has been pro­day it would vigorously fight a Mills, a spokesman for U.S. moting electronic commerce preliminary ruling by the Trade Representative Robert as away to end the twin-island World Trade Organization that Zoellick. nation's reliance on tourism, a cot4d open the United States Mills said the preliminary sector hurt by a series of hur­to offshore Internet gambling. ruling by the ricanes in the late 
The preliminary decision WTO hearing 1990s. came in a trade dispute with panel had not "We intend to The current legal Antigua and Barbuda. The taken into status of Internet
appeal and will

tiny Caribbean nation had account the gambling in the contended that U.S. restric­negotiating argue vigorously. " United States is in tions on Internet gambling vio­record in the dispute. Some site lated trade commitments the Uruguay operators have been 
Richard Mills 

United States has made as a Round of glob­prosecuted under
U.S. Trade

member of the WTO. al trade talks, the 1961 Wire

Representative

Antigua and Barbuda which created Communications brought the case before the the WTO in spokeman Act, which was WTO last year, contending that 1995. written to cover 
U.S. prohibitions on "We believe sports betting by Americans placing bets in off­that the language on U.S. serv­telephone. shore Internet casinos repre­ices commitments used by the The General Accounting sented an unfair trade barrier. Clinton administration clearly Office has estimated there are 
The losing side in any WTO intended to exclude gambling 1,800 Internet gambling oper­case has the right to appeal when the United States joined ations. Virtually all of them the decision to the WTO's the WTO in 1995," Mills said. are based outside of the seven-member appellate body Antiguan authorities had United States, posing an of trade judges. argued that restrictions that enforcement problem for U.S. 
"We intend to appeal and barred U.S. residents from authorities. 





SCIENCE 
Appeals court allo"Ws Interior Dept. online 
Associated Press Interior Secretary Gale Norton said she was pleased
WASHINGTON The with the appeals court deci­
Interior Department will go 
sion and will continue pushingback online after an appeals 
for a permanent reversal ofcourt Wednesday blocked a 
the Internet shutdown. 
judge's ruling that ordered 
"Meanwhile, tonight we havemost of the department's com­begun to restore our Internetputers disconnected from the connections across all impact­Internet. 
ed agencies of the department
It took the U.S. Court of and will work quickly toAppeals for the District of 
restore them to pre-March 15Columbia Circuit just three levels," she said. 
hours to grant the govern­
U.S. District Judge Roycement's request to restore the 
Lamberth ordered the shut­Interior's Internet access. It 
down after the Interiorhad been shut down since 
Department failed to show it
March 15 to protect money 
had fixed security problemsowed to American Indians 
that left vulnerable to Internetfrom computer hackers. 
security breaches millions of
The shutdown disrupted 
dollars in royalties from oil,
public's access to Interior 
gas, timber and grazing activi­Department Web pages, land ties on American Indian lands. 
managers' communications, 
Law enforcement, firefight­disbursement of mineral royal­ing and other emergency sys.
ties to states, and education of terns and those that had fixedchildren in Bureau of Indian 
Affairs schools. 
CAREERS AS VOCATIONS 
A pane! ofalumni a no a!wnnae reflect on the inte._qration offaith and docia! concernd into Life beyono Notre Danze. 
Sunday, March 28 4:00-5:30pm Center for Social Concerns Pizza will be served. 
SpeakerJ 

Thomas Nowak 
Professor, Chemistry and Biochemistry University of Notre Dan1e 

Kristin Tepas '93 
Illinois-Indiana Sea Grant College Program Lake Michigan Biological Station, Zion, IL 

Allison Potempa Villinski '97 
Manager, Regulatory Affairs Operations TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Lake Forest, IL 





ndvi 
NOTRE DAME VOCATION INITIATIVE 

the security problems were 
allowed to remain online. 
On Monday, the Minerals 
Management Service sent let­
ters to the governors of 36 
states, informing them they 
would not receive roughly $90 
million in monthly royalty pay­
ments until the computers 
were reconnected. 
The order also had prevent­ed American Indian landown­ers and Indian tribes from receiving their monthly royalty payments for oil, gas, timber and livestock activity on their land. It had left 50,000 chil­dren attending 184 Bureau of Indian Affairs schools in 23 states without Web access, and environmental groups had complained they were unable to collect key information on department policy proposals. 
It was the third time the Internet connections had been axed since 2001, when a court monitor, Alan Balaran, found security holes could allow even a novice hacker to pene­trate the system. To prove the point, Balaran repeatedly hacked into the system and created a bogus account in his name. 
Lamberth is presiding in a class-action lawsuit, filed on behalf of more than 300,000 American Indians, alleging that since 1887, the depart­ment lost, stole or never col­lected tens of billions of dol­lars in royalties that should have been paid to Indian landowners. 
Attorneys for the Indian plaintiffs could not be reached Wednesday evening. 
"I am pleased today's deci­sion restores badly needed Internet access to BIA schools," Sen. Tom Daschle, D­S.D., said Wednesday. However, he said: "The Interior Department has not met its responsibility to secure Indian Trust Accounts.... I urge Secretary Norton to act quickly to ensure that trust account holders' interests are protected so that no judge finds it necessary to shut down the Department's Internet service a fourth time." 
The government told the 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit that the judge had overstepped his authority and the shut­down was making it difficult for the department to function. 
An Interior Department spokesman said officials were trying to determine how long it will take to get the systems back online. 
-------------------------------------------., THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 14 Thursday, March 25, 2004 
THE 0BSERVE.R 
rw~~H.:Z:w~~~~w~,;;;r­
i::i::;r•r+·•• P.o. ~Q,~o~ ~rW·~~~·· .)::i:::i·· ­
South Dinint Hllll. Nom Dame, IN 46$~ ••• ­
.. .... . ·.·;:,-.·=.;.: 
Et>IM~~~~!· •-:·---•-•><_ 
. """.. ··== ;=-=======r= =========·=·-"=·===·==::...·. -===============·==········ 
MANAGING £Dm>R --8o~M::~ 
Meghann<: D<lwnes 
AssT. MANAGING EOltoa Joe Hertler 
NEWS EDJTOJU Claire Heininger ViEWPOINT Eorm11: SarahVahul.u SJIOIO'S Enlto.ll: Heather Van Hueg:~tden SCI!N£ Emtol\: Maria Smith 
SA!Nr MAltY's I!DrmR: Angela Saoud PHOTO £ormRJ Chuy B~ni= GRAPHICS EDrroJU Mik~ Harkins 
AovElmSING MANACEJU Carrie Franklin AD D£SIGN MANAG£1U Kdly Nel$on 
WEB ADMINISTRATOJU Todd Nieto 
CoNTROJJ..ERI Paula Garcia 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obsemd@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 .-. MANAGING f:DITOR &AsSISTANT MANAGING fDITOR (S74) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu BUSINESS 0FRCE (574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnc;Ws,l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 vicwpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'$ DESK (574) 631-4324 smc.l@nd.edu PIIOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATOIIS (574) 631·8839 
O~~tRVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspap~r published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du J..a( and Saint Maty's College. Editorial content, including advertiscmencs, is not govern~d by policies of the administration of either institution. The Ob=Yer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on coMeor. 
The news is reported as accurately IUld objectively as possible. Unsigned editorial~; represent the opinion of the majodty ofthe FAitM in Chief. Managing Edirot, A'<Sislanr Managing Editor and dep=t editors. Commentaries, lett~rs and columns present the vieWli of the authors and Mt n«;essa.tily those ofThe Observer. 
V'rewpoint space is awilable to llll read~rs. The li:ee expression ofall opinions through lette~ is encouraged. Letters ro the Editot must be signed and must indude conracr information. 
~tions regarding Obsnwrp(JiicUr siJQu/d br dirtcttJIii Edito~ in ChiefMait /.-()(41'. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
n., (l~ <t!Sl'S ~ l••OQO) ~..,WoW M<W<ior '""""'" l'<W.r '""'''' ~•<ill~< ..... ...t '"''""" "'""'"" ~ ..b.air<io• .. n.~. ;,1wu r.,.. ..... ,...,~""'.,
Yffi'~$s5ti:n~t:smac."m"t, · 
'rhf(~c-rA. J'""~·~ ~: I'OSTMIIStf.R 
lll4 S.otb O;.unl H.UI 6c:nd ~~,:,:t:(~j:UI$ W,. 
""'"" ().,.,, lN <i6S~I7'/'J 1'bt <>b....... lbio<IJ.;all">"'ll"l"id .. No.... p .... l~>.llotQ_-• "'d >ddi&o~ .,~lio~ ofll:to, · o24 s,,.,. nio.,. f1,u 
N<xm (:t...,;dN 46~~(.C07'/'> 
'J1,c ~' 4 • "'""\«<oft~>< AHoU....l I'm>. Nl "l'fo<h><tW. riJI>u"" """'.-.!. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Joe ltombello Chris Federico Mike Chambliss Dan Tapetillo Matt Bramanti Mike Gilloon Viewpoint Scene Lauren Galgano Emily Tumbrink Graphics Illustrator Mike Harkins Pat Quill 


British politics matter 
During a morning run through Hyde Park, I couldn't help but step in the warm and steaming anti-Blair propa­ganda commemorating the one-year anniversary of the war with Iraq. 
As I continued through the paper Dolores Dlaz jungles of various 
signs displaying, 
"Biiar"-com­

plete with mock The warm gun 
blood strewn about in the shape of bullet wounds -I couldn't help but wonder if the prime minister deserved this much crit­icism. 
I had just survived a hard night and I realized that the decision whether or not to support another Blair election was like one I had just made. Indeed, it was like the decision many of us make at least once. 
In one way or another, we all know a Tony Blair. And who is he'! I'll tdl you. Tony is the friend that proposed that bad night out. For you, it may be the weird kid sitting next to you; here in London it's my optimistic friend that lives in the nat 22. 
Now, you trust this friend and you think that everything is going to run smoothly if you just take his advice on where to go for a fabulous night out, but sometimps he just lets you down. Let's recap the last disappointing night out. 
The proposaL Your friend declares a state of emergency. lie alerts you that apparently the quintessential hang out spot has acquired weapons of mass seduction. You and all your friends rec­ognize the threat and sec the need for immediate disarmament. 
The decision. After painstaking delib­eration, your good friend convinces you that the threat is real and delaying action another night could prove detri­mental to your future. You feel you have no logical choice but to proceed and enter dangerous territory. 
The preparation. This requires fore­sight. Funds must be acquired and budgets adjusted as you prepare to embark on your mission and search for weapons of mass seduction. The proper equipment is needed and the closet must be ransacked for the proper gear; there's no telling what you may encounter along the way. 
The arrivaL Boom. Boom. Boom. It's a hopping dance floor and you're feeling just as electric as those lights swirling overhead. The feeling is disorienting and strange and you can hardly recog­nize your friends in all the smoke, but you're prepared-this is what you've been training for. 
The investigation into weapons of mass seduction. Your search is intense and painstaking. Dismissing one area and then the other, until finally you're sure you've found what you've been looking for. You have captured a 
The inquiry into weapons of mass destruction and the questioning of the prime minister is serious stuff and I'm not oversimplifying-just livening things up from the mock blood strewn over the anti-Blair signs in Hyde Park. Mistakes happen. The absence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq was a particularly terrible one; howev­er, let us not make matters worse by retracting support from a friend who has proved himself in the past. 
Ultimately, we must learn to forgive and re-invest our faith in Prime Minister Blair in the same way that we 
remain friends with "that kid" 

prisoner who you arc sure is 
that screwed up. Just as our in possession of weapons friend was acting to the 
of mass seduction. They lead you to a small corridor towards the back of the club or to a remote corner. The tension mounts ... 
The tragedy. What just hap­pened? You recount the previous moments and can't seem to remember the exact point where every­thing went wrong. There arc no weapons of mass seduction to be found, no 
matter how hard you look. You realize you've been duped. The inquiry. You may approach your friend 
• 
~ 

immediately or the next day. 
tance for you. You're more 
best of his own personal knowledge, so was the prime minister unaware of any "sexing up" of the dossier in ques­tion. We may be 
a little wary the next time our friend suggests 
a night spot, but then again. that's nothing more than the caution we 
· should have initially invest­ed in sueh an 
ambitious ven­ture. Show your sup­port for Prime Minister Blair. 
Moreover. let no one tell you what happens over the Atlantic isn't a matter of personal impor­

But eventually, there is always an inquiry. So much has been invest­ed and much has been lost; someone 
must be held accountable. You were assured weapons of mass seduction; their absence is inexcusable. 
The whitewash. And your weird friend inevitably denies everything. "I swear X told me such and such ... " We all know the routine. In the end, you find no one to hang, despite your desire to ensure that this never happens again. 
than emotionally invested in the issue. You live it. 
Dolores /Jiaz is a junior h'nglish major and journalism and theology minor She enjoys thinkir:zg. Iler column appears every other Thursday. Contact her at ddiaz@nd. edu. · 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of the Observer 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Love does not negate right and wrong 
I grow weary of opening to the Viewpoint section every day and finding another article defending practicing homo­sexuality through the misuse of biblical passages. 
Inevitably the Bible will lind its way into a debate such as this, but the reckless usc of random citations docs not acknowledge the message of the Bible as a whole. Yes, it is true Scripture calls us to love all people regardless of fault or virtue-Christ perfectly embodied this in his human existence while on earth. 
But even though the greatest of all things is love, this does not discount the existence of moral rights and wrongs. Despite the variations in human ideas and cultural changes, God, outside our own time. remains unchanging and His truths constant. Love docs not translate into moral 
OBSERVER POLL 

Should the United States withdraw from Iraq by the June 30 deadline? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
relativism. 

Jesus forgave and loved Mary Magdalene but did not support her continuing a lifestyle as a prostitute. I encour­age those engaged in a spiritual debate of any kind not to lind biblical loopholes and quotations that express incom­plete ideas, but rather to embrace the Will of God in these matters. To know and practice His truth is the best possi­ble way to love Him and those around us, no matter how inconvenient, difficult or controversiaL 
Barbie Sloan 
freshman 
Pas<jucrilla West 
March 24 
~ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you mad." 
Aldous Huxley author 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 25, 2004 page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Finding 'Passion' in the real world 
This is the true story of fifteen Notre Dame students picked to travel to Cuba for a Church, four lingers were pointing right back at me. I realized that while we are week to find out what happens when people stop being silent and start act-talking about "The Passion" over here, Cubans are living it. ing Christian. 
Americans often say they are thankful that they have the freedom to 
For my theology class, I traveled to Cuba over Spring Break to do and say what they wish. However, when I think about it. we don't study the Catholic Church. While staying one night at a retreat 
Those religious people that do speak against the government have 
junior their phones tapped and their lives threatened. This is suffering for Pasq uerilla Easr love's sake. I realized that while I was pointing my finger at the Cuban March 24 

Realizing Catholic view on homosexuality 
center, we saw some people watching a movie-"The Passion." Those fifteen seconds that I watched Jesus' feet being nailed to the cross stuck with me for the rest of the week as we trav­llied around listening to the stories of religious and lay peo­ple both on and off the island talk about life and the Church. 
Before going to Cuba and for the first couple of days I was there, I had the opinion that the Church in Cuba was not doing enough. I was disappointed by the lack of public protest and anti-Castro sermons from the pulpit. However, I now think diiTerently. The Church is the only body in Cuba outside of the government that is recognized; this is both amazing and dangerous. 
On one side of the fence, the Church is allowed little freedom to work, and on the other the freedom can be taken away in a heartbeat by the government. The Church today in Cuba is able to provide social services for people that arc not politically threatening like the elderly and AIDS victims. It also provides educational and social services to other groups in secret. The Church is working to restore fami­lies separated by 90 miles and 45 years. It works in a country that just arrested 75 political prisoners, where workers make $8 a month, where people don't have free speech, press or assembly. 

exercise these rights. Freedom of speech: how many of us, religious and lay people, fail to speak up about Iraq, homosexuality, women's rights, 
migration and homelessness? Freedom of press: when was the last time you wrote an editorial article or contacted your senator or university president? Freedom of assembly: have you ever attended a protest or a city council meeting? 
I have not; I have failed. I think the Church has failed too. Rarely have I heard a controversial homily or seen a television advertisement promoting social justice from the Catholic Church. We have all of the resources we need­all of the resources Cubans would die for. Why are we afraid to be radical? Jesus is radical. It's time the Church 
in the U.S. picked up its cross and started walking the road to Calvary with Cuba and other countries like it. One of the priests we spoke with in Cuba said, "On Judgment Day the bishops in Cuba will have a lot less ques­
tions to answer than those in the United States."  I think he's  
right.  
Jessica Brock  


Seeking truth 

While the March 23 letters by Michael Yaksich, Hristo Hristov and Brittany Sajbel arc each commendable and well-written, each contains untenable assertions that must be rejected by members of our truth-seeking Notre Dame community. 
Mr. Yaksich and Ms. Sajbel's appeals to Christianity to justify homosexuali­ty are unfortunately off base: Christ calls us to Himself and His truth-His truth is that we are sexual beings, called to live our lives as male and female. This sexuality has tremendous implications for our spiritual lives. See John Paul II's "Theology of the Body." 
I thank Ms. Sajbel. furthermore, for directing us to John 8 -but unfortu­nately she is overly selective in her quotation. Jesus, in verse 11, states, "Neither do I condemn you. Go, [and) from now on do not sin any more." Christ loves her too much to let her go back to her old life. 
I respond to Mr. Hristov's "scientific defense" with a philosophical proposi­tion. Homo sapiens have the unique position on this earth as being the only organisms with free will. Unlike the other animals, we have the capacity to trump pure instinct with our rational capacity and free will. We choose how we act. llunger strikes, for example, are possible for us, while inconceivable for our pets. Regarding Mr. Hristov's letter specifically: it seems that much is speculative, as no one truly understands the causation principles between genes and human characteristics -as admitted by Mr. Hristov-yet worth our attention nonetheless. 
Even if we grant Mr. Hristov's proposition that an orientation favoring homosexual activity is as "natural" to some people as gripping with the right hand instead of the left at age one, that does not mean that homosexu­al actions are to be embraced as natural or good. Unlike the hand example, not all "natural" inclinations are harmless or lead humankind toward our rightful end. It is undisputed that some people are born with inclinations toward activity harmful to themselves or to others. Instead of allowing these inclinations to dominate the person, though, society has determined that it is preferable to help these individuals: to work with them, in love, to over­come harmful inclinations. 
This is possible because, again, we all have the freedom to choose ration­ally. Free will is a great gift and a great burden, because we have responsi­bility for our actions -see "The Grand Inquisitor" in Dostoevsky's "The Brothers Karamazov." 
Here comes the fun part: through our natural reason, even without appeals to Church teaching, we can all reach the conclusion that the homo­sexual act is not in accord with mankind's rightful end. It's the natural law, shaping our worldview since time began, and it's not going away. 
All of this said, our emphasis must be on loving and supporting each and every member of our community. I have my own struggles. I have difficulty living my own life as I should, and I need to tend to the plank in my own eye. Official "recognition" of a GLBT-endorsing club, however, amounts to endorsement of the activity itself, and, for the benefit of this community itself, Notre Dame cannot comply. 
Dan Hess first year Law School March 24 

Evaluating the facts 
In following the debates over the last couple of days, I have become quite perturbed by the reoccurring implications that one cannot be both loving and truthful towards homo­sexuals, truth changes over time and that choice is actually a factor in determining the appropriateness of homosexuality. What is even more disturbing however, is the faulty reporting on the part of The Observer. 
From The Observer reports on the wearing of the orange T-shirts last Friday, to The Observer's choice of headlines for the Viewpoint section this week, the staff has distorted facts and has presented information in a biased manner. A close exami­nation exposes the biases of the Observer staff. 
Andrew Thagard reported in his article, "Solidarity Debate Sweeps Campus," that the Gay-Straight Alliance estimated the sale of 1,600 T-shirts. According to the Notre Dame Web site, total student enroll­ment in fall 2002 was 11,311 stu­dents. Thus, 14 percent of students actually wore shirts. This statistic does not take faculty members into account although some purchased T­shirts as well. Thagard did state that, "A majority of students, howev­er, did not participate in the proj­ect," but is this fair rhetoric? Does this line lead the reader to believe that over 86 percent of the student body did not participate in the event? 
On Tuesday, the headline in the Viewpoint section mentioned a "Sea of Orange." Clearly, this is a refer­ence to the "Sea of Green" which consists of over 80,000 members of the Notre Dame community. How is this analogous? A more accurate description fit for a fair and unbi­ased newspaper might report on an exceptionally small group of extrem­ists attempting to change University 
policy based on either a rejection or fundamental misunderstanding of Catholicism. Remember, there is a word for Catholics who self-inter­pret Church teachings: Protestants. 
The Observer's use of the word "solidarity" is quite puzzling. How can the news editors allow a head­line that equates the demands of less than 14 percent of the student body with a call for solidarity even be published by any allegedly intel­lectual publication? I am shocked that The Observer can take a pre­cious idea such as solidarity and debase it by equating it with an ambiguously defined notion of toler­ance. 
Furthermore, how does publishing over 10 quotations in support of the T-shirts as opposed to one in opposi­tion constitute a debate? 
Finally, a letter to the editor on Monday was titled, "Wearing of Shirts is Sinful." Never in that beau­tifully written letter was this claim made -although there have been two ensuing letters claiming the opposite. Those who continually defend the homosexual lifestyle under the guise of Christian love must understand that love involves more than just shallow tolerance, but also looking after each other and preventing members of the com­munity from sinning. 
On a positive note, I must com­mend the administration for making clear their reluctance to make any changes in light of the T-shirt wear­in-g. Indeed, the administration is beginning to emerge as a Good Samaritan in the midst of confused thieves by recognizing that being untruthful is being uncompassion­ate. 
Christopher Brophy sophomore Keenan Hall March 24 


-------------------------------. 


THE 0BSER\'ER 



CENE 
Thursday, March 25, 2004 
page 16 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Simpson goes beyond chicken and tuna 
invited to the Grammy's without the "Newlyweds" camera in tow, Simpson seems to be on her way towards legitimate recognition. In This Skin has been re­released with three new tracks and for the first time in awhile, Simpson is seeing some musical success. 
In This Skin is an album that allows the listener to hear Simpson's true voice-for the most part. Although there are a few attempts at Britney Spears-esque songs, 
overall the album is very good. 
In a recent Rolling Stone inter­view, Simpson admitted, "My dream is to be like Jewel, to sit on a chair in my blue jeans and sing my heart out." 
Simpson knows where she stands, but could somebody please tell her producers? In This Skin is basically a good album, but the bad songs are blatant. The enjoyable songs that will get stuck in a listener's head and let one appreciate the sheer talent that Simpson holds are the tracks where she is allowed to maximize her vocal talent. Tracks like "My Way Hom()," "Forbidden Fruit" and "Loving You" sound like Simpson is trying to sound like Spears, when there is no need for that emulation. Simpson will wow audiences with her voice alone -if only they could hearBy REBECCA SAUNDERS 

Scene Music Critic 
Everyone knows that Jessica Simpson is a musician, not just a star of the hit reality show "Newlyweds." However, how many "Newlyweds" fans could name one song she actually sings? The chance to learn comes in Simpson's third album, In This Skin. While the album will not get her 

Simpson has re-released her 2003 album with it through the,over-produced the addition of three new tracks and a DVD. tracks. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

El-P succeeds in fusion of jazz and hip-hop 
By KENYATTA STORIN 
Scene Music Critic 
In the past few years, rapper/pro­ducer El-P and his crew at Def Jux have slowly established themselves as one of the premier underground rap labels of the new millennium. They are best known for their intellectual, nonconforming brand of hip-hop, often going where other artists have not gone before. El-P and fellow Def Jux artists such as Aesop Rock, Mr. Lif and RJD2 may not be well known by the general public, but they have been embraced by many members of the underground rap community for their critically-acclaimed albums of the past few years. El-P, himself, is best known for his groundbreaking, gritty and dis­torted production style and his techni-cal rhymes. 


But High Water: Mark is a complete­ly different entity, unlike anything El-P has ever done before. In it, EI-P teams up with the Blue Series Continuum, a group of six jazz musicians managed by pianist Matthew Skinner, to create a fusion of jazz and hip-hop. This is not an entirely new idea by any means, since famous hip-hop artists including A Tribe Called Quest, De La Soul and Gang Starr have all done various forms of jazz/rap, and Guru's "Jazzmatazz" series even implements live jazz with rap. But unlike these artists, El-P does not rap at all on High Water: Mark, and instead focuses on combining his hip-hop producing skills with live jazz instrumentation. In essence, it is more of a jazz album 
than a hip-hop album. El-P is essentially a 

composer on 
High Water: M a r k . arranging the parts of the six musi­cians, while throwing in some produc­tion of his own. The B I u e Continuum itself consists of Skinner on piano, Guillermo Brown on drums, Roy Campbell on trumpet, 
There are -some terrific songs on In This Skin. A 
cover of 
Robbie 
Williams' 
"Angels" is 
beautiful when 
sung in 
Simpson's 
impressively 
powerful voice. 
The other 
cover, and one 
of the addition­
al tracks on the re-released album, is "Take My Breath Away," which is good, but not quite as suc­cessful. If a person loved "Take My Breath Away" in its original form, there is not much chance of liking this cover. However, a listener who is more interested in pop music will love this new version. 
The large question looming in every "Newlyweds" fan's mind is "Where is Nick?" Both Lachey and Simpson were shown recording this album on the show, yet it is only and all Simpson. The major theme of the album is not just love, romance or sex -it is Nick. The majority of the songs on In This Skin are easily related to Simpson and Lachey's relation­ship. Cute or pathetic? Fans must judge that for themselves. 
Simpson co-wrote many of the songs, which have mediocre lyrics for the most part, but are not altogether without imagery and substance. Her voice is beau­tiful and powerful and that comes through on the album more than anything else. Songs like "Sweetest Sin," the hit "With You," "I Have Loved You," "Everyday I See You," "Underneath" and "Be" arc all well sung and memorable. 

In This Skin is an album worth getting if you are a Simpson fan, or even just a "Newlyweds" fan. It is generally a good album with a few misguided tracks, and it also includes a bonus DVD with footage from Lachey and Simpson's wedding as well as the best scenes from the first sea­son of"Newlyweds." 
Is Jessica Simpson as dumb as she comes across as? If she were judged by the caliber of her voice, not even close. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
Daniel Carter on reeds and flutes, William Parker on bass and Steve Swell on trombone. The combi­nation of these six with El­P's production results in a trippy sound that resem­bles something like a laid back jazz jam session thrust into the middle of a sci-fi flick. It is also rather dark and mysterious due to sinister piano melodies and ambiguous, alien samples that are main­tained throughout. Those that are familiar with El-P will recognize his unique production style through the disjointed, often chaot­ic sound of the jazz musi­cians along with El-P's own trademark space age effects and samples. However, El-P does not overload the album too much with his effects, allowing the Blue Continuum to have their moments to shine as well. 
With just eight tracks, High Water: Mark does not suffer from having any filler, which allows listeners to forget that there is a fast forward button on the remote control. El-P does a good job of switching things up, occasional­ly even implementing hip-hop drum­beats on tracks like "Get Your Hand Off My Shoulder, Pig" and "Intrigue in the House of India." Even "Sunrise over Bklyn," by far the longest track at over 10 minutes, maintains a high 
.level of energy by gradually building up to a satisfying climax. 

El-P maintains his excellent track record with another impressive outing in High Water: Mark. Trip-hop fans with a liking for jazz, and jah fans with an appreciation for the uncon­ventional will both take much pleas­ure in it. High Water: Mark is perfect chill music when hanging out with friends, or for those weeknights when you have nothing to do and just want to lounge on the coach for a while. El­p is already established as a fine pro­ducer, but this latest work demon­strates just how versatile he is as a musician. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, March 25, 2004 
Page 17 
COLUMN 

A soundtrack of the year 
The school year is winding down and we can now begin looking back at all the fond memories we have accu­mulated from the previous year. Whnther it was "Hally in the Alley" wlwrn we saw Guster and Black Eyed Peas Brian Foy at Turtle Creek, the Spring Break road 
Scene

trip with all of our 
Columnist

roommates, or one of 
the two top-40 bands 
to grace the UnivP-rsity with its pres­
once. music has no doubt played a 
huge role in how we will remember 
this "academic" year. 
Wlwn the school year started, we Wflrt1 all happy to see our old chums, but who can forget the catchy collabo­ration of Allen Jackson and Jimmy Buffet on "It's Five O'Clock Sonwwhere." I remember it as though it were yesterday-the first time I heard the chorus as I made my way to a popcorn machine. As I look back at August, I could never have predicted that such a modest track would go on to become a staple at establishments such as Linebacker Lounge. 
As the football season began, our expectations were as great as our love for "Shake Ya Taill'eather" by Nelly, P. I>iddy and Murphy Lee. There were two certainties about Heartland on a Thursday night in September: you could expect way too mueh artil1cial fog and you could expect to hear "Shake Ya Tailfeather" about 10 times throughout the course of the night. So. when you got home after a late night out you might have forgotten the per­son's name you were dancing with, but 1'. Diddy's hook could never be forgot­ten. 
During Fall Break. many people took road trips throughout the country. My roommates and I decided to head to a warmer climate and that meant Boston. We must have listened to a hundred songs during that trip. but one song made its mark. When stu­dents first hear "I Believe in a Thing Called Love" by The Darkness the 
Big Bol and Andre 3000 of Outkast had two of the year's biggest hits with "The Way You Move" Although these songs were released last semester, they continue to be a staple of every good party. 
reaction is usually one of shock. The 
falsetto of the chorus makes this the 
perfect karaoke song and one that we still sing today. 
The month of turkey and stuffing brought us the expectant mother's anthem "Baby Boy" by Beyonce and Sean Paul. Beyonce proved that she was bigger than Destiny's Child and we responded with "You no stop shock ­girl" in a Jamaican accent of course. This song proved to be a big hit all across campus and this time you could expect two certainties from dorm dances: sweaty underclassmen and a Beyonce mix that included "Baby Boy." 
The end of the first semester and beginning of the second semester saw two songs by one group that captured our hearts. Andre's "Hey Ya" and Big Boi's "The Way You Move" were a sta­ple of the first semester. but they reached their peak near its end. 
Whether you were tailgating, lifting at the Rock or chillin' with the homies, the boys of Outkast were everywhere first semester. 
During the month of lovers, one man dominated music with his appearance on a collection of love songs. No mat­ter where you turned Lil' John was all over "da" club as he leant his vocals to "Yeah" by Usher and "Salt Shaker" by the Ying Yang Twins However, his greatest triumph might have been "Get Low" with the Eastside Boyz as it added the phrase "skeet skeet" into the hearts and minds of club goers from Notre Dame to Nicaragua. 
The start of the spring season gave us midterms and Spring Break. There were a myriad of songs that were in the running for "Spring Break Anthem." but the clear winner would have to be "Toxic" by Britney Spears. It would take the greatest poets years to describe the appeal of this song, but the bottom line is that the music is catchy and the undeniable fact that Britney Spears is hot. 
The remainder of the school year will bring songs that we will listen to if the weather ever gets warm or if we decide to study for finals. Those songs will remind us of the different events during this school year and perhaps school years of yore. Years from now' we will hear a song on the radio and it will jog memories of our friends and good times we spent with them while in school. The time we have left during this school year is precious and that means time is running out to make a mix for the power hour for graduation. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd. edu 

Thursday, March 25; 2004 

page 18 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
.::. 
MEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT 

Martelli sees future in freshman guard 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-If Chris Paul wants to see his future he needs only to look across the court at Jameer Nelson on Thursday night. 
Paul, the skinny freshman point guard with the quick first step, innate passing sense and solid jump shot, will be running the offense for fourth-seeded Wake Forest, as he has from his first game. 
Nelson, the muscular senior point guard with very similar offensive skills and the benefit of 123 college starts, will handle the ball for top-seeded Saint Joseph's, as he has for the last four years. 
All eyes will be on the two stars when they meet in the East Rutherford Regional. 
''I'm hoping experience and a little bit of size pays off," Saint Joseph's coach Phil Martelli said. 
The 5-foot-11, 190-pound Nelson is an inch shorter but 20 pounds heavier than Paul. 
"You can't make it all about them. We all have to guard Paul and they all have to guard Jameer," Martelli said. 
Nelson, a unanimous selection for the All-America team, aver­aged 20.6 points, 4.6 rebounds and 5.2 assists while shooting 49 percent from the field and 80 percent from the free-throw line. 
Paul was the Atlantic Coast Conference rookie of the year and was selected to the league's all-defensive team after leading it with 2.7 steals a game. He aver­aged 14.9 points, 3.4 rebounds and 5.8 assists while shooting 50 percent from the field and 84 percent from the free-throw line. 
Paul's most recent games ­one in the ACC tournament and the first two rounds of the NCAA tournament -have been his most impressive. He has 81 points, 22 assists and just three turnovers in those games. 
"He's done a great job," Nelson said, referring to Paul. "He seems to be a natural point guard. He's so calm out there and that's what a team needs a point guard to do." 
Paul, 18, has spent the last few days getting ready for the 22­year-old Nelson. 
"You can't just watch one film on Jameer and understand what he wants to do. You have to watch tons and tons of film because he's such a great player and he's so versatile," Paul said. "I know he's a senior and one thing Coach always says about seniors is they play with a sense of urgency because it could be their last game." 
Last season was almost Nelson's last in college, but he 

Defending cham.ps are a surprise 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -The defending 
champs were chumps six 
weeks ago. 
Syracuse lost four of five Big East games -by an aver­age of 17 points. Then start­.ing point guard Billy Edelin left the team for personal 
reasons. 
The Orangemen were in 
danger of not even making 
the NCAA tournament, let 
alone defending their title. 
"At one point in the season, 
we were staring at the NIT," 
Syracuse point guard Gerry 
McNamara said. "It really set 
in that we had to flip things 
around. The season that felt 
great the year before didn't 
mean anything at that point." 
Somehow, coach Jim 
Boeheim's team, seeded fifth, 
has scrapped its way to the 
semifinals of the Phoenix 
regional, facing upstart No. 8 
seed Alabama (19-12) on 
Thursday night. No. 2 seed 
Connecticut (29-6), every­
body's favorite to advance to 
the Final Four, plays another defense that kind of got it athletic guys on our team, 
surprise team, No. 6 seed going. Our offense was noth­and I think Hakim Warrick is 
Vanderbilt (23-9), in ing special during that time." at another level athletically. 
Thursday's first game at Syracuse had another set­He is just so long and so 
America West Arena. back in the Big East tourna­bouncy. He can go right over 
The Orangemen (23-7) had ment, losing to Boston you." 
seemed unlikely candidates to College in the first round After going on a late run to 
repeat from the start because after leading for all but the stun No. 1 Stanford, Alabama 
they had lost the best player final three minutes of the feels no intimidation against 
in college basketball, Carmelo game. the defending champs. 
Anthony, to the NBA. The Orangemen had earned "We approach both games 
A season-opening loss to a spot in the tournament, but the same," Crimson Tide 
Charlotte seemed to verify only as a No. 5 seed, and they point guard Antoine Pettway 
that notion. The Orangemen didn't look like a team that said. "They are an opponent 
won their next 13, but fell would survive for long. that we have to get by to 
apart in late January. They "Jimmy is here with reach our goal. We respect 
lost at Seton Hall by seven, Syracuse. I wouldn't have everyone, but fear no one." 
then were beaten by 19 at told you that two or three Alabama and Vanderbilt ­
home by Pittsburgh. After a weeks ago," Connecticut not exactly league power­
home victory over Virginia coach Jim Calhoun said. "I houses -are the last teams 
Tech, they lost by 28 at wouldn't have told you that in standing from the 
Connecticut and by 13 at the Big East tournament. I Southeastern Conference. 
Providence. didn't think they were playing Vanderbilt will try to slow 
When Edelin walked away very well." the tempo against the more 
on Feb. 10, Boehiem faced a But McNamara scored 43 athletic Huskies. 
midseason rebuilding job. points, including a school­"We are an extreme under­
McNamara was moved to the record nine 3-pointers, in an dog and there's not much 
point, Josh Pace went from opening victory over Brigham belief or thought out there 
forward to guard. Freshman Young. No Syracuse player that we can win," 
Demetris Nichols was insert­had scored that many points Commodores coach Kevin 
ed at small forward. in an NCAA tournament Stallings said. "Connecticut is 
"This team has really been game, not even Anthony. a great basketball team, 
together for about 12 games," In round two, Syracuse probably the most talented 
Boeheim said. "Most teams built a 16-point lead over team in the tournament. 
have been together for 30 Maryland, then barely held That's been the label of 
games." on for a 72-70 victory. · UConn all season, a team 
The new-look team "They're a team that just loaded with talimt but mad­
clamped down with finds ways to win," Alabama deningly inconsistent. Center 
Boeheim's trademark 2-3 coach Mark Gottfried said. Emeka Okafor said his sore 
zone. "McNamara is every bit as back no longer bothers him. 
"We wpn five straight good as advertised. He shoots He's healthy and the Huskies 
games holding people to 54 them from deep. He shoots are expected to roll. But they 
points a game," Boeheim them from everywhere. I insist they are not taking any­
said. "It was really our think we have some pretty thing for granted. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NO alums looking for summer live-Computer: 400MHZ, Monitor, Win VERY NICE 3bdrm home in Oakhill Condo, 2-3 bedroom, 2 Walk to campus. Nice house. 1007
"' 
in help. Will provide competitive XP, CO-Burner, $200/offer 287-EastBank area w/washer-dryer & bath, one block from ND, N. Frances (between ND Ave. and 
WANTED salary, separate bedroom, week-6459 alarm system incl. Nice yard for vol-$425.00/person times 3 Eddy). Move in cond. $750/month ends off & training in applied behav-leyball etc-full bsmtWalk to people, utilities included, available plus utilities. 850-3347. ior analysis to work with autistic Corbys&StJoe Church.Call Joe June, 231-8823 after 4:00. 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially daughter. Responsibilities include FoR RENT Crimmins@574-5140643 Indiana and Nolre Dame (574) 286-childcare but no cleaning. Must be (cell)or57 4-2730002(home) 2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments near PERSONAL 9359 energetic, able to drive & swim. 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO campus. Only a few left for next 
Located in Mt. Kisco (40 mi from CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF school year. Call Justine, 234-9923. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Flexible Summer PT position. NYC). mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 ND GREAT FOR 3-6 STUDENTS not go it alone. If you or someone Teach for Kaplan or Work in our Call914-241-9238 2773097 6-8 Person house on Notre Dame you love needs confidential support study center. Call 272-4135 to DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8 Ave.. perfect location across from or assistance, please call Sr. Mary apply. Need car driver from Naples Fl. To BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 BEDROOM LARGE 3 BEDROOM HOUSE for soccer fields, 2 min. walk to cam-Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For 
South Bend between April-June HOUSE...2 BEDROOM rent. Beautifully redone, 2 bath-pus. Completely rennovated with all more information, see our bi-weekly Catholic family offering fulltime Call2395977438 OUPLEX...ANO THREE 3 BED-rooms, 2-car garage, w/d, base-new appliances, 3 full baths. ad in THE OBSERVER. summer childcare opportunity to ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR men!, short walk to campus. Available for 2004-2005 school care for 4 school age children, ages THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL Available 5/1, $1,050. Call574-876-year. Enroll in a Kaplan Test Prep Class 5 to 11, Scottsdale Mall area, FOR SALE YEAR. .. WE ARE ALSO STARTING 1456. Email ndhouses@yahoo.com in March and get $100 back! Call 7:30AM to 5:00PM, wages nego-TO LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 1-800-KAP-TEST for info. liable, non-smoker preferred, own Home by owner. 18827 Darden Rd. SCHOOL YEAR. ..CONTACT Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 Edwardsburg lake cottage com-transportation a plus, contact 3BR 2BA W/BSMNT. 100x360 lot. 5 KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer pletely furnished. $750/month plus Who has two thumbs and works Maureen@ (574) 231-8126. Mins to ND. 623-826-8819 CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS or fall. 235-3655. utilities.850-3347. five nights a week? The new AME! 
' ••• I t .......... w ••, •• , • r •• "',.,,,,. _.,, t/1.,----#)-. , ..... I •••••••• I • ' • ~ ~ • ,., ....... & ........... ft. ........... &. ..... 4 .......... .oi.::.. ...... "' ~ ·. . .................. r-T 
-j 

Thursday, March 25, 2004 The Obser~er + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 



No Greater Love: 
..

A Notre Dame day of prayer, musJ.c, & renewal. 
No Greater Love is a half-day retreat open to the entire Notre Darne cornrnunity. It is designed for those who hunger for ne\v ways to deepen their relationship with God by exploring a variety of prayer styles and traditions. join us in this opportunity to reflect on the unconditional love God offers us through his son, jesus. 
This year, No Greater Love will explore prayer through: 
Taize Lectio Divina Ignation Meditation 
Saturday, March 27th 1:00 p.m. -6:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge No Sign-up Necessary! 
For more information contact Keara Coughlin at 631-3389 or kcoughli®nd.adu
C-M 
Campu~ Mini$-lr)' 

~~~------­
Thursday, March 25, 2004 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Georgia coach pursues elusive nationals title 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Ga. -Andy Landers leans back in his chair, managing a defiant smile as he ponders the ques­tion that always seems to pop up this time of year. 
Sure, he'd like to win a national title. No, he's not con­sumed by the quest. 
"That's the one thing in bas­ketball that I want to do the most," said Landers, the women's coach at Georgia for a quarter-century. "That desire and fire is still there. But will I feel unfulfilled if I don't do it? No. I don't think I'm a failure." 
No one else does, either. 
Landers has 609 career wins. He's guided the Lady Bulldogs to seven Southeastern Conference championships. He's been to the Final Four five times. He's nurtured some of the sport's greatest players, including five-time Olympian Teresa Edwards, Katrina McClain, Saudia Roundtree and Kelly Miller. 
But one thing -and one thing only -is missing from Landers' resume. A national championship. 
This is his 21st trip to the NCAA tournament. He's 0-for­
20. No coach has been to that many tourneys without win­ning. 
Is he bothered by that statis­tic? 
He's ready for that query. 
"Does it bother me that I've played in 21 tournaments, which is the third-most in the country," Landers said. "No, none of that stuff bothers me. The better question might be: Would you rather have played in one tournament and won it or gone to 21 tournaments, five Final Fours, 14 Sweet 16s?" 
Landers is four wins away from adding a national title to the list. Once again, he's taken the Lady Bulldogs (24-9) deep into the tournament, one of just 16 teams with a chance to win it all. They'll meet Purdue on Saturday in the West Regional semifinals. 
Will Landers finally break through? Or will he remain linked the teams such as the Buffalo Bills (four straight Super Bowl losses) and the Atlanta Braves (12 straight division titles, only one World Series championship}. 
The Georgia players know Landers is always passionate about winning, whether it's a December game against some overmatched team or a March showdown with the season on the line. 
Then again, they all know he would appreciate a champi­onship more than anyone else in the program. 
"The national championship is definitely something he's got his eyes set on," senior center Christi Thomas said. "That's what it's all about -champi­onships. He's imbedded that in us. He holds that dear to his heart. I know it's an important thing for him." 
Landers literally built the Georgia program from scratch. He arrived in 1979, only 26 years old when he took over as the first -and still only ­full-time women's basketball coach in school history. 
Before Landers, the Lady Bulldogs had spent six pitiful seasons as a varsity program, compiling a record of 37-85. By his fourth year, they had reached the Final Four. 
In 1985, Georgia lost to Old Dominion 70-65 in the final game. Eleven years later, the Lady Bulldogs made it back to the cusp of a championship, only to get routed by SEC rival Tennessee 83-65. 
"I think we were very unfor­tunate with a couple of our teams," Landers said. "I don't want to cop out on anything, but everyone in this business says you've got to have a little luck sometimes. Just being good isn't enough. I know we_ were good enough two oi· three times." 


AU interested in working as a computer cluster consultant are invited to co:me to 
Cluster Consultant Job Fair
. . . . 
on Sunday, March 28 in the Coleman .Morse Cluster from 1pm...spm 



Attention Class ot2006 
Now Accepting Applications for 
.JPW 2005 Chairperson 
Help select the committee, theme, decorations, speakers, food and everything else for your Junior Parents Weekend! 
We are looking for hard-working, dedicated, responsible, visionary student leaders to work with a team of your peers on the biggest event of the year. 
Fill out an application this week in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, or call631-7308 for more det~ils. 
Applications Due FRIDAY, MARCH 26th at 5:00 pm. 
----~----------~ 
Thursday, March 25, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
want to work at the coolest place on campus~ 
legends is now accepting applications for the 2004~2005 year. 

, 

for more information and the oppHcation1 visit! .·· 

Jh,e. e,tf\,1f'tt7n Mitter J!>tues l!>f\,ni{ 
Friday, March 26, 2004 

brought to you by the student union board. nd.edu/-sub 
-
f ,-,~-(! 
. -.j. -'if 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 25, 2004 
NHL 
Sabres continue push for playoffs w-ith w-in 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Buffalo coach Lindy Ruff thinks the Sabres can win their final six games of the season. They might just have to in order to make the playoffs. 
J.P. Dumont and Adam Mair both scored in the second period to lift the Sabres to a 2-1 victory over the Montreal Canadiens. 
Buffalo closed the gap to six points on the New York Islanders in the race for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
"I liked every aspect of our game," Ruff said. "We want to play each game very well and get points." 
But the Sabres' postseason hopes continue to be slim at best. If the Islanders play .500 hockey in their final six games, the Sabres have to win their last six contests to quali­fy for the postseason. 
Still, Wednesday's victory gave the Sabres plenty of hope. 
"Absolutely," said Mair when asked if his team has enough in the tank to over­take the Islanders. "Right now we're focused on a game-by­game basis rather than lump­ing all the games together." 
The Sabres were helped by a strong effort in goal by Martin Biron, who missed out on his second shutout of the season when Michael Ryder scored his 24th goal with a backhander from the left cir­cle with under six minutes to go. Thrashers 3, Capitals 2 
Daniel Tjarnqvist was just trying to get the puck near the net. It wound up going in. 
The Atlanta defenseman scored on a 55-foot shot with 
7:24 remaining and the Thrashers kept alive their slim playoff hopes with a vic­tory over Washington Capitals. 
"We'll have to check the radar on that one," Thrashers coach Bob Hartley quipped. "I believe it was clocked around 38 mph." 
Tjarnqvist flipped a shot from just inside the blue line that got by Matthew Yeats, making his first NHL start. The rookie goaltender was screened by Ilya Kovalchuk, and the puck also appeared to slightly deflect off a Washington player in front. 
''I'd rather see a 38 mph shot that's on net than a 110 mph shot that's on the glass," Hartley said. "It was a shot on net and there was traffic in front. That's the way you score goals." 
The winning goal came just three minutes after Brian Willsie tied it for the Capitals, knocking a rebound past Kari Lehtonen. 
Atlanta's rookie goalie won his second straight start since getting called up from the minors the night off in the second of back-to-hack games. 
Blue Jackets 2, Wild 0 
No one is running away with the NHL goal-scoring title, but it isn't for lack of effort. 
"Jeez, we're all trying," Rick Nash cracked after scoring his 39th goal in the Columbus Blue Jackets' win over the Minnesota Wild. "It's one of those things where I'm here, I might as well go for it." 
Nash moved into a tie for the goals lead with Atlanta's Ilya Kovalchuk -a fact that surprised the 19-year-old, second-year star. 
"I didn't really expect it. I didn't really think I would be this close this far in the sea­son," he said. "Obviously, guys are going on streaks where they score two or three and then they go three or four games without. It's kind of nice that Kovalchuk hasn't run away with it and hasn't scored in a while." 
Marc Denis stopped 20 shots in his fifth shutout of the sea­son -tying the franchise record -and the 14th of his career. He was seldom tested by the Wild, who have lost three games in a row. 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
(l.t~UH.It:T~t: ··ON ~.."ilil>· i.r<lat.sio liY.VIIfa>~l' 'f'i:l!!)a 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contr~et: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31 @nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our website: b ttp:llwww. nd.ed u/-scvlsn/ 

r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·,

lN''!& Ca'f.!!.~'~f!!.w . 
Apply for a job or internship NOW! ImmediateApplication DeadlinesforTop Notch Companies! 
Apply via Golrish by logging on to http://careercenter.nd.edu Questions? Call the Career Center 631-5200 
Application Deadlines 
Wells Fargo (FIT) 3/26 BUS 
Orden Bunka Center (FIT) 3/27 A&L, SCI, BUS, ENG 
Owens Corning-Res Drop (lnt) 3/30 BUS 
Egon Zehnder (F/T) 3/31 BUS 
Goldman Sachs-Res Drop (FIT) 3/31 BUS 
IBM (F/T) 4/1 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG, BS,MS 
Morgan Stanley-Res Drop (FIT) 4/1 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG 
Yahoo.Com (FIT) 4/2 A&L, BUS 
United Conveyor (FIT & Summer Job) 4/8 ENG 
Harper Collins-Res Drop 
.{!n!} 
4/9 A&L, BUS 
Fox News-Res Drop (lnt) 4/10 A&L, BUS 
Canopy Films-Res Drop 
.{!n!} 
4/12 A&L 
Crist Associates-Res Drop 
.{!n!} 
4/15 A&L, BUS 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
"All the fun of college, without the education" New Three Person Rates -$298.00 Per Person, Per Month 

+ Proudly Severing the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community 
+ The LARGEST Student Housing Apartments 
A 
+ 
4 & 5 Bedroom Units 


+ 
WASHER and DRYER in Each Unit 

+ 
Dishwasher 


+ 
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 

+ 
ADT Alarm Systems 

+ 
Close to Campus 



For More Information: Real Estate Management P.O. Box 540 
South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Jblad@cbresb.com 
You've tried the rest, now live at the best! 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Starting at just $120.00 per person, per month! 
Just 4 Blocks South of the Notre Dame Campus Spacious 2-Bedroom Apartments on Notre Dame Avenue Current !-year & 10-month Leases Available On-Site Laundry Facility 2 Closets and !Desk in Each Bedroom Private Parking Lots 24 -hour Emergency Maintenance Up to 4 Persons Per Apartment 

For More Information: Real Estate Management Corporation P.O. Box 540 
South Bend, IN 46624 Telephone: 574-234-9923 Facsimile: 574-234-9925 Jblad@cbresb.com 

Thursday, March 25, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
MLB 
Chicago Cubs, Houston Astros set for a heated ar111s race 
l 
• 
• ~ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 


Houston's Roger Clemens jokes with teammate Andy Pettltte during a spring training game against the St. Louis Cardinals. 





PILOTING 
Associated Press 
It's easy to envision the mar­quee matchups: Roger Clemens vs. Greg Maddux, with first place on the line. 
Or Andy Pettitte against Kerry Wood for a trip to the World Series. 
Maybe Mark Prior and Hoy Oswalt in Game 7 of the play­offs. 
Packed with pitching, the Chicago Cubs and Houston Astros appear headed for a heated race in the NL Central this season -and their budding rivalry could carry into October. 
"We're hoping to do some great things," said Clemens, who came out of retirement in January to join his good pal Pettitte with their hometown Astros. 
The Cubs won the division by one game over Houston last year and came within five outs of their first pennant since 1945. Looking to get over the hump, they signed Maddux, 11 wins shy of 300 and destined for the Hall of Fame. 


The former Atlanta ace began his career with the Cubs and won the first of his four straight NL Cy Young Awards with them in 1992. A crafty control artist. he slides into a hard-throwing rotation that already featured Wood, Prior, Carlos Zambrano and Matt Clement. 
"What makes it so good is it's so deep," Maddux said. "It's five solid pitchers. When you can go that deep, you have a chancn to win every day. That's something special." 
They hope it's enough to hold off Houston, which addPd a clutch performer in Pettitte when he left the New York Yankees as a free agent. 
He'll be the No. 2 starter behind Oswalt in an imposing rotation that includes Clemens, Wade Miller and Tim Hedding. 
"1 sec five aces," Oswalt said. "I know in a card deck you only get four, but I see five right now." 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Barkley: Hire black coach 
Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. Auburn's best-known name in basketball, Charles Barkley, said the Tigers should hire a black coach to replace Cliff Ellis, a move the interim presi­dent said was under considera­tion. 
"It's time for Auburn to step up to the plate. It would do so much for the state of Alabama," Barkley, a black native of Leeds, said in an interview published Wednesday in The Birmingham News. 
Auburn interim President Ed Richardson said the university is "looking heavily" at hiring a minority coach. 
Hichardson confirmed that the preliminary list of candi­dates to replace Ellis includes UAB coach Mike Anderson; Indiana's Mike Davis, who played at Alabama; Jeff Capel of Virginia Commonwealth; Gonzaga coach Mark Few, and Tennessee-Chattanooga coach JeiT Lebo. 
Anderson, Davis and Capel are black. 
Barkley, a retired NBA star­turned-TV commentator, likes Davis, who is under pressure at Indiana after a 14-15 sea­son. 
"It's not often you get a chance to hire a guy of his character and coaching abili­ty," Barkley said. "If you can coach at Indiana, you can coach at Auburn. I don't think Mike's ever going to get a fair chance at Indiana. lie's not Bob ,Knight. That's his only flaw. 
Davis declined on Monday to comment on the Auburn job. Calls to his cell phone on Wednesday went unanswered. 
Anderson said he was flat­tered to be mentioned but was concentrating on the Blazers' game against Kansas in the 
NCAASweet16. 
page 24 Thursday, March 25, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
PGA 
Players-Cham.pionship to decide front runner 
Associated Press 
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. -Twelve tournaments. Twelve winners. 
The first three months on the PGA Tour were similar to last year, when the biggest names were on top of their games, but no one -not even Tiger Woods -dominated golf. 
"It just gets exponentially harder to win," Davis Love III said Wednesday. 
It doesn't get any easier this 
week. 
All the best players are assembled at The Players Championship to face the first major test of the year, and per­haps to sort out who the top contenders are with the Masters just around the corner. 
Woods seems like a logical choice, except that his only vic­tory was the Match Play Championship, and he is com­ing off his worst finish on the PGA Tour in five years. 
Vijay Singh was closing in on No. 1 until he missed the cut at Torrey Pines, then went two more tournaments without fin­ishing in the top 10. 
Phil Mickelson started his year with five straight finishes in the top 10, including a victo­ry in the Bob Hope Classic. Masters champion Mike Weir repeated at Riviera. Ernie Els won another playoff at Waialae. 
Seven of the top 10 players in the world have won. 
None has dominated. 
"There's a lot of guys playing great golf out here," Love said. "And it's hard to separate your­self." 
The Players Championship, which starts Thursday, has its strongest field ever with 80 of the top 100 in the world. 
The Stadium Course on the TPC at Sawgrass looks as tough as ever, especially given the firm greens during practice rounds and dry conditions that are expected to last through the week. 
"I can only imagine what they're going to be like on Sunday," Chad Campbell said. 
"It's going to be a hard test." 
Adding to the luster is the 
announcement Tuesday night 
at a players-only meeting that 
the richest purse in golf got 
even richer -$8 million, with 
$1.44 million going to the win­
ner. 
"There was a gasp in the room," Love recalled. "I don't think we were expecting that number." 
Love achieved rare separa­tion last year, when he had a superb closing round of 8­under 64 in cold, blustery con­ditions to win by five shots. 
But he has been reminded that no winner in the 30-year history of The Players Championship has ever repeat­ed. 
''I'm just trying to get lost in the process of golf and not think about results, not think about what I've heard for the last three weeks -that no one has ever won the championship back-to-hack," Love said. "I've won twice. I just have to put the years together." 
Told that 12 players-wo IJ. the first 12 tournaments of the year, Love replied, "I llope there's 13 different winners after this week." 
Love is among the top 10 players without a victory this year, although he is No. 4 on the money list. The others are Retief Goosen and Jim Furyk, who showed up Wednesday with a plastic brace on his left wrist from surgery Monday. Furyk will be out for at least three months. 
Of the dozen winners this year, only Woods has to answer questions about what's wrong with his game, although his performance last week at Bay Hill was peculiar -after four straight years of winning, he went three straight rounds over par and tied for 46th, 18 shots behind Campbell. 
The strongest and deepest field in golf tees off Thursday on a course that was reviled when it opened in 1982, but since has commanded the utmost respect. 
Unplanned Pregnancy~~ Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or sonzeone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
}> Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 }> Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 )-Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 )-John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 > Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, I-7336 > Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 
South Bend Comnzunity Resources: 
? Women's Care Center: 234-0363 >-Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


Thursday, March 25, 2004 page 25
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

( 
A SPECIAL OPPORTUNITY FOR PRAYER 
for faculty, staff and students 
DURING THE THREE REMAINING FRIDAYS OF LENT 
Reflections o n 



FORGIVENESS 
The Format 

A 2 5 minute presentation on the Sunday Scripture by distinguished Notre Dame teachers, followed by 20 n1inutes of private prayer based on points for reflection on the Scripture. Optional attendance at the Stations of the Cross at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Scripture 
March 19 

An invitation to trust in God's love for you as the 
first step 

The Prodigal (Luke 1 5, 1-3, 11-32) Professor John Cavadini 
March 26 

An invitation to be freed from the past to live a 
new life 

The Woman Caught in Adultery (John 8, 1-11) Father Bill Simmons, C.S.C. 
April 2 _ 
An invitation to understand the depth of God's love 
and the call to discipleship 
The Passion According to Luke (Luke 22,14-23, 56) Professor Robin Darling Young 
The Time and Place 

The Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
6:15pm to7:15pm 

Cap .off your Lenten preparation 
C-M

with this special prayer experience 
Campus Ministry 
~ 
. 
·> 
' 
. 
l.... 





OUND THE NATION 
page 26 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BsERVHts WIRE sErzvrc.ts Thursday, March 25, 2004 



I• 
I 
' 
l 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
' 
' 
I 

around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Connecticut vs. Vanderbilt, 7 p.m., CBS Oklahoma State vs. Pittsburgh, 7:30p.m., CBS Syracuse vs. Alabama, 9:30 p.m., CBS St. Joe's vs. Wake Forest, 10 p.m., CBS 
NHL 
NFL 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA Bobby Taylor agreed to a four-year deal with the Seattle Seahawks, reunit­ing with former Eagles coach Ray Rhodes. 
The cornerback, who spent all nine of his NFL seasons with the Philadelphia Eagles, replaces Shawn Springs, who signed with the Washington Redskins this month. Taylor should bolster a pass defense that finished 27th in the NFL. 
His agent, Jason Medlock, said Wednesday the deal is a four-year contract worth $11.8 mil­lion with a $3 million signing bonus. With per­formance incentives, Taylor could earn up to $15.75 million. 
Also Wednesday, the Green Bay Packers were granted permission by Cleveland to talk with quarterback Tim Couch, whose days with the Browns appear to be dwindling. 
Browns spokesman Todd Stewart said the Packers called requesting a chance to speak with Couch and Cleveland gave its approval. Packers spokesman Aaron Popkey said the team had no comment. 
Couch's five-year stint with the Browns effec­tively ended earlier this month when the club signed free-agent quar­terback Jeff Garcia to a four-year deal. 
Medlock said one rea­son Taylor signed with Seattle was Rhodes, now the Seahawks' defensive coordinator. Rhodes was coach of the Eagles from 1995-98. 
Taylor is the fourth starter to leave the Eagles in free agency, joining five-time Pro Bowl cornerback Troy Vincent (Buffalo), run­ning back Duce Staley (Pittsburgh) and line­backer Carlos Emmons (New York Giants). 
Taylor missed nine games with a foot injury last season, but played in Philadelphia's two playoff games. He finished with 28 tackles and one inter­ception. Taylor's best season was in 2002, when he had five inter­ceptions, 49 tackles and earned his first trip to the Pro Bowl. 
Taylor has 19 career interceptions and two more in 12 playoff games.The Browns told Couch's agent, Tom Condon, he could discuss a deal outside the AFC North for his client. Stewart said the Packers were the first team to call. 
IN BRIEF 

Yankees' Rodrif,lnez hurt 
in game againsfRed Sox 
TAMPA. Fla. -Alex Rodriguez left the New York .Yankees' exhibi­tion game against Boston on Wednesday night after being hit in the face by a deflected ball at third base. 
And it was against the Red Sox, the team that tried and failed to land him this winter before the Yankees managed to work out a deal to land the reigning AL MVP and move him to third base from shortstop, his natural position. 
Brian Daubach was on first base when Kevin Millar doubled to left field. Hideki Matsui fielded the ball and threw to third, but the ball hit 
The team said Rodriguez had a bruised left cheekbone and was taken for precautionary X-rays. 
The Yankees were scheduled to leave Thursday for a series in Tokyo. They will play the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in two exhibition games March 28-29 and two regu­lar-season games March 30-31. 
Davis expected to stay at 
Indiana 
INDIANAPOUS -Indiana ath­letic director Terry Clapacs expects coach Mike Davis to still be in Bloomington next season. 
Even though Auburn interim president Ed Richardson-con­firmed that Davis was on his list of candidates for the Tigers' head coaching job, Clapacs said that all the time." 

Davis, 43, just completed his fourth season as the Hoosiers coach. He has an 81-53 career record and led the Hoosiers to a share of the Big Ten regular-season title and into the NCAA championship game in 2002.But Indiana went 14-15 this season, posting its first losing season since 1969-70 and missing the post­season for the first time since 1976­
77. Davis declined on Monday to comment on the Auburn job.Calls to his cell phone on Wednesday went unanswered. Davis still has four ~ars left on his contract at Indiana. 
Pacers _place Bender on 
injured list 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Pacers placed guard/forward 
Colorado vs. Detroit, 8 p.m., ESPN Daubach on the leg as he slid and Wednesday he had not been con­Jonathan Bender on the injured list ricocheted into Rodriguez's face tacted by the school and believed Wednesday because of a strained below his left eye. Davis would remain with the right shoulder. 
fiGURE SKATING 

Yankees trainer Gene Monahan Hoosiers. Bender, injured Friday nightWorld Championships, 9 p.m., ABC ran out to tend to Rodriguez and "This is where he wants to be,' against Sacramento, has played in lead him off the field. Clapacs said of Davis. "He tells me just 18 games this season. 
---------~----------------­
Thursday, March 25, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 
G~~Mestud~~tu~~n·~J;dA~~~~-Heanh-&weunessFatr---~ 

PromotingHeatthylives : 

Who: Graduate Students and their families: 
When: Saturday, Mardi 27, 2004 Time: 11 :OOAM to 2:00PM Where: Stepan Center 
Time  Informational  
Presentations  
Stress Management!  
11:00  Relaxation Training  
·Dr. Leonard Hickman  
11:30  Aikido Demo • Wendy Arons  
12:30  Eurogym Demo • Alexandra lmre  
·t:OO  Diet Fads & Eating Disorders • Valerie Staples  

Time  Recreational  
Activities  
11:45  Warm Up & Stretching  
12:00  Run/Walk Around Lake  
12:30  Votleybalt ­ 
Ping Pong­ 
12:30  BasketbaH  


. 
Children's Events 
Time 

NO Fire Department
11:00 

-Chief Antonucci Crafts, Coloring 
11:00 

Kens Balloons &Magic
to 1:00 

NO Poli~e/
11:30 

Security Officer 
1:00 

Sack races, Jump rope, Games 
.FREE Lunch will be available to graduate students and their families 
I
•throughout the event. 
Booths with information: OBGYN Options, Alternative Medicine, HealthWorks Museum, Community Health Care Options 
Event sponsored by the Graduate Student Union and co· sponsored by the Alumni Association -International Student Services & Activities and Student Activities 
Anyone interested in running for Off-Campus President, Off­Campus Senator, or Off-Campus Programmer needs to inform the Judicial Council immediately. Contact: 
Judicial Council jcouncil@nd.edu or call 631-7 668 asap. 
I 
: 
I 
I
I 
~ 
NBA 

Yao leads Houston 
t 
0 a 90-89 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Yao Ming scored 27 points and had 17 rebounds, leading the Houston Rockets to a overtime victory over the Toronto Raptors. 
Steve Francis had a follow-up 
slam dunk to give the Rockets 
an 88-86 lead with 1:04 left, 
and Bostjan Nochbar hit two 
free throws with 51 seconds to 
play for a 90-86 advantage in 
overtime. 
Francis and Cuttino Mobley each had 17 points as Houston won its fifth straight from Toronto. 
Toronto, which has played more overtimes and won more than any team in the league this season. slipped to 6-4 in overtimes when Donyell Marshall missed a driving layup at the buzzer. A three-pointer from Chris Bosh with 33 sec­onds to play had closed it to 90­89. 
Vince Carter scored 26 points and Jalen Rose had 20 for the Raptors, who have won only once in nine games in Houston. 
Houston led 64-59 after three quarters, but an 8-0 run gave Toronto a 75-74 lead with 6:16 to play in regulation. A three­pointer by Marshall then put the Raptors up 82-80 with 1 :43 to go, but Mobley's layup tied it with 1:27 to play. 
Nuggets 101, Tlmberwolves 
92 
Carmelo Anthony had 25 points and a key steal in the closing seconds, and reserve Earl Boykins added 21 points to lift the Denver Nuggets to a vic­tory over the Minnesota Timberwolves. 
Denver shot just 30 percent in a 21-point loss to Minnesota on Sunday, and wasn't much better this time. The Nuggets spent a good portion of the game standing around offense and shot just 36 percent. 
They made up for it with just five turnovers -none in the first half-to stay within reach of Utah for the final playoff spot in the Western Conference. 
Minnesota closed to 95-92 on Kevin Garnett's 3-pointer with 23 seconds left, but couldn't get any closer. Andre Miller hit two free throws to put Denver up 97-92, then Anthony stole an inbounds pass and called time­out before falling out of bounds with 14 seconds left. 
Garnett finished with 24 points and 14 rebounds, but was clearly frustrated by the Nuggets' physical play. Denver fronted him in the post with plenty of help on the weakside, then knocked him around when he did get the ball. 
Pacers 103, Mavericks 99 
The Indiana Pacers were just fine without Jermaine O'Neal. 
Ron Artest had 20 points, eight steals and eight rebounds and Jeff Foster added 12 points and 12 rebounds to lead the Pacers to a win over the Dallas Mavericks. 
The Pacers outrebounded Dallas 29-16 in the second half and kept their composure while the Mavericks came unglued to improve to 3-0 in games with­out O'Neal this season. 
O'Neal bruised his left knee in Monday's win over Chicago. The team's leading scorer and rebounder said he expects to miss at least two games, but he 

QT .
VICtory 

hopes to be back for Sunday's game against Miami. 
Dallas was missing a star of its own. Michael Finley, the team's second-leading scorer. did not dress because of a strained right calf. 
The Pacers used their superi­or depth to their advantage, getting solid contributions from Austin Croshere and AI Harrington to fill O'Neal's void. 
Grizzlies 111, Knlcks 97 
Stromile Swift picked off Stephon Marbury's pass. hand­ed the ball to Jason Williams and watched him take off downcourt. 
A no-look bounce pass landed right in the hands of the trailer, Pau Gasol, who dunked the ball forcefully to give the Grizzlies their first double-digit lead. 
That play came late in the first quarter, and Memphis never let up. Demonstrating their league-leading proficiency in forcing turnovers, blocking shots and coming up with steals, the Grizzlies defeated the Knicks. 
"That~ been our bread and butter all year long," Grizzlies forward Shane Battier said. "We had very good pressure in the first quarter which led to our break. and it was working well_ for us tonight. It was good for us to start quickly. The last couple games we've started down in the first quarter." 
Memphis scored 27 points ofT 16 first-half turnovers. taking control early against an injury· ravaged Knicks team that was without Allan Houston (bruised quadriceps) and Tim Thomas (strained groin). 
76ers 99, Suns 94 
Samuel Dalembert was so physically dominant that even his teammates were complain­ing. 
Dalembert had 23 points and 14 rebounds to lead the Philadelphia 76ers to a victory over the Phoenix Suns. 
"You elbowed me like four times tonight," Sixers forward Kenny Thomas told Dalembert. 
Dalembert threw plenty of elbows while patrolling the paint, blocking three shots and grabbing a career-high 10 offensive rebounds. 
"·How big was Sammy tonight? Sammy was outstand­ing," interim coach Chris Ford said. "I don't know how many blocked shots he had, but he certainly changed a lot of shots and was just relentless on the boards." 
Eric Snow had 19 points and three key free throws with 20.6 seconds remaining for the Sixers, who were without injured All-Star Allen Iverson for the second straight game. 
Iverson was out because of a sore right knee and was not on the bench during the game. Philadelphia moved to 6-1 in its last seven games without Iverson. When second-leading scorer Glenn Robinson also is out, Philadelphia is 8-2. 
"Our mind-set is that we have to play every game like it's our last," Dalembert said. "That's what we did tonight. Everybody stepped up, so I was really excited." 
Joe Johnson scored 27 points for the Suns, who had won two in a row. Shawn Marion and Amare Stoudamirc had 24 apiece. 

Thursday, March 25, 2004 

page 28 The Observer + SPORTS

NIT 
continued from page 32 
"For us, if we are able to get back to New York, there are only eight teams playing college basketball that week, all on national TV," Notre Dame coach and for my career to culmi­nate," Jones said. ''I'm looking forward to getting that 20th win, going back to New York and trying to win a champi­onship with this team." 
A lot has been said in the past few days about the Joyce Center crowd taking notes from the fans in Fort Wayne and being 
Mike Brey said. 'Tm looking more energetic. "That will make a Brey joked before
forward to getting
lasting impression practice
that 2oth win ... ,
on a lot of people, Wednesday that your fans, your­he is sending self, recruiting, all Torrlan Jones buses for those of those things. Fort Wayne fans
Irish guard 
"Every day I've come in, I've made a comment that a couple of more teams aren't playing, but we are still playing. You want to keep the focus on your program for as long as possible." 
Getting that win tonight would allow seniors Torrian Jones and Tom Timmermans to complete their career with four 20-win seasons while wearing an Irish uniform. In those four years, winning has become more of a habit than a surprise, but Jones still appreciates each victory. 
"''m spoiled, every year I've been here I've gotten 20 wins. I'm really looking forward to getting a win tomorrow night 
to get to South 
Bend and even said his wife would drive a cou­ple ofvans. 
Whether or not any fans make the short trip to Notre Dame, Brey feels the hometown fans are ready. 
"I think our Joyce Center fans have accepted the challenge the Fort Wayne fans put down the other night," Brey said. "I antic­ipate a great atmosphere. It's the last time to see this team, and I think people have appre­ciated what this group has done." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
One last challenge for Jones 
Irish senior will have his hands full in­defending Oregon guard Luke Jackson 
By MATT LOZAR 
Sports Writer 
It's appropriate in his last game at the Joyce Center, Notre Dame guard and defensive spe­cialist Torrian Jones will be called on for his biggest assign­ment of the season -somehow trying to contain Oregon's Luke Jackson. 
"I don't think there is a better way for me to go out at home but to go up against a guy like Luke Jackson, really testing myself on the court against a player of his caliber," Jones said. "To me, this is an honor to play against a great player. I love doing it, and it's been my role since I've been here." 
Jackson doesn't get the major publicity nationwide being on the west coast, but his numbers are impressive. The second­team All-American averages 
21.6 points in just less than 35 minutes per game. He also pulls down 7.2 rebounds, dish­es out 4.6 assists and shoots 
43.8 percent on 3-pointers. 
The Irish have seen some great offensive players this year, but they consider Jackson to be the best. 
"We know he is a great play­er, and he is probably the best player we have played against all season," Notre Dame guard Chris Thomas said. "He may not be the most talented player, but as a complete player, he is the best." 
Thomas has a personal con­nection to Jackson, as the two have attended summer camps together and even coached 8­Thomas doesn't have any secrets to stopping Jackson ­just good defense. 

year  olds  at  one  of these  
camps.  
Despite  the  friendship,  

"If you pressure him, he will look over the top of you and make the passes. I think the key is to get a hand up on his shot," Thomas said. "He's a great scorer, a great player. He can rebound. He can pass. It's going to be a team type aware­ness on him that we are going to have to do." 
Being 6-foot-7, Jackson may draw some defensive matchups with Notre Dame forward Jordan Cornette. 
But Jones knows, on what will certainly be an emotional night for him, his teammates are looking to him to contain one of the best players in the country. Not surprisingly, Jones is ready. 
"That's something I always look forward to every game ­a challenge defensively. This is my biggest challenge of the year. He's a great player. I'm really looking forward to it," Jones said. "Knowing this is the last time I will be playing on this floor as a Notre Dame play­er, I think emotions will be run­ning, but I will really be ready to do the things I've done since I've been here to help my team win." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

POST PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES
PLAYERS PLAYERS 
Part of the reason 
In what will be their
It's no secret that the 

In Timmermans and 
How will Thomas fol­

the Irish want to keep 
final game in the
Irish rely on the 3­
w 
Brey has the Irish 

Cornette, the Irish have 
low up his career-high, 
Joyce Center this year,
pointer to win games, 

playing is so Falls and
~ 
playin.g some of their 

a unique tandem of big 
39-point performance 
the Irish won't want to
and as long as they're 

Cornett can keep
best basketball of the 

men that are both 
from Monday? When
hitting it, they have a 

improving. While they 
end their season at
~ 
year. His laid-back 

unusualy agile and both 
he's on, he keys the
good chance at win­

were reliable during 
home. The biggest
w 
approach has the Irish 

can shoot from long 
Irish success. Quinn 
question is will the fan 
ning. But the emer­

the season, they are
cc: 
just one game away 

range. Their weakness 
has also proven to be a
1­
gence of Cornett has 

effective enough now 
support from Fort
from Madison Square 

is that they aren't as 
viable scoring option, 
0 
given the Irish a late­

that Brey can seem­
Wayne keep NIT fever
Garden. 

reliable scoring from 
and Jones is the team's
z 
season low-post option 

lessly insert them into 
going in the Joyce

the low post. 
defensive stopper. 
to replace Francis. 
the lineup. 
Center? 

Crosswhite is the
Kent, the 2002 Pac-
The offense centers 
Jackson, a 6-foot-7

team's most reliable 
After Oregon beat
1 0 conference Coach of 
heavily around 
guard, leads the team 

None of the members 
low-post presence. He 
George Mason at 1:30
the Year, has turned a 
Jackson, who scores 
in points (21.6), 

of the Ducks' eight­
z 

averages 12 points and 
a.m. Wednesday, they 
terrible Oregon pro­
nearly a third of the 
rebounds (7 .2), and 

man rotation figure
0 

five rebounds a game. 
had to board a plan for
gram into one that won 
Ducks' 76 points-per­
CJ 
assists. On a guard-ori­

heavily into their scor­
And while the Ducks 
a cross-country flight to
w 
a conference title. The 
game average. Like the 
ented offense, he is the 

ing. Instead, they come
cc: 

are primarily a guard­
South Bend. It's reason­
job he has done at 
Irish, they shoot a lot of 

into the game mostly to 
sparkplug who controls
0 

oriented team, the 6­
able to conclude that
Oregon is akin to the 
3-pointers -and shoot 
how his team plays. 

give the starters a
foot-10, 270 pound 
fatigue may hamper the 
one Brey did at Notre 
39 percent from behind 
Joseph is a good com­

short breather. 
Platt is an imposing 
Ducks' effort. 
Dame. 
the arc as ateam. 
pliment.
force. 


As much of an offen­
U) 
Neither coach has a 
sive presence Jackson 

SiSlSi
i~lit' 
ties will be one of the 
c:C 
respectable ones. 
best matchups tonight. 


Thursday, March 25, 2004 
page 29 

Lose it all at Casino Night last weekend? 
Here is your chance to regain your pride (and pants). Cotne to the Knights ofColumbus Poker Smoker open house 
TONIGHT 

7:OOpm in the Knights ofColumbus building. 

Notre Dame Disability Awareness Week March 22-26, 2004 


Thursday, 3/25 7pm at DeBartolo 1 01, Autism Lecture, Patricia Stacey is a Creative Writing Professor and former editoral staff mem ber of the Atlantic Monthly and author of the book, The Boy Who Love Windows. Through intensive play therapy sessions, she taught her son with autism how to communicate. 
www.nd.edu/-bbuddies 



Irish 
continued from page 32 
tive out there on the field and especially at the plate," Mainieri said. "We've just been kind of in a little bit of a rut right now swinging the bats. We manufactured a few runs here and there." 
The Irish got out to an early lead with a three-run first as both center fielder Danny Dressman and second base­man Steve Sollmann drew walks. An error on a ball hit by Matt Edwards allowed Dressman to score. After a walk by left fielder Steve Andres loaded the bases, Cody Rizzo and Macri hit sacrifice flies to score a pair of runs. 
The Irish matched a third­inning run from Detroit in the bottom half of the frame when Bransfield smacked an RBI single to left to score Andres for the 4-1 lead. 
Notre Dame would blow the game open, however, with three runs in the fifth and four more in the sixth for the 11-1 lead. 
With the game in hand, Mainieri began to clear his bench and bullpen as several 

Irish position players and six pitchers saw action. 
"It was good to see so many guys get out there on the mound," Mainieri said. "I thought a couple of the guys threw very well. That was good to see. But it was just good to get that one in the win column." 
The Titans would make a lit­tle bit of a run, however, with. four runs in the seventh off righty side-armer Tyler Jones. 
In the eighth inning, Detroit narrowed the Irish lead to 11­6 with an RBI ground ball from left fielder Mark Moehlig. 
But with every starter but Edwards and Macri out of the game, the Irish put five runs on the board in the bottom of the inning to put the game out of reach. In the inning, three Irish batters drew walks, cen­ter fielder Alex Netty had a two-run double off the wall in right center and let fielder Brennan Grogan closed out the scoring with a two-run triple. 
Freshman Jess Stewart would get the win on the hill for the Irish, working three innings and allowing one run in a planned rotation. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Stenglein is perfect in win over Valpo 
pitches they don't want to hit." 
By HEATHER 

The Irish got on the board 
VAN HOEGARDEN 

early, scoring three runs on a Sports Editor 
Ruthrauff home run after 
Nicole deFau reached on a Perfect. walk and Megan Ciolli singled. That is the only way to Wicks added another solo 
describe Steffany Stenglein's home run in the third to put performance Tuesday night. the Irish ahead 4-0. Stenglein struck out 14 of 18 In the fourth, deFau was batters in six innings, good for doubled in by Ruthrauff after a perfect game in a 9-0 Irish reaching on a single, and win at Valparaiso (3-8). Ruthrauff scored on the two­
"It was one of those days run homer by Lenn. when everything was work­More insurance came in the ing," Stenglein top of the sixth said. "I had confi­when deFau
"It was one of
dence in all my doubled to lead pitches and stayed those days when off the inning focused on the and scored on a
everything was 
next batter while Ruthrauff sin­
working."
trying not to think gle. Hartmann about the situation doubled in too much." Steffany Stenglein Ruthrauff to put With the win, the the Irish up 9·0. 
Irish pitcher 
Irish improved to 20-9 on the season after a tough early season schedule. 
"We are preparing ourselves for the Big East and for our home season," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. 
Offensively, Notre Dame was led by Meagan Ruthrauff, who was 3-for-4 with five RBis, and Liz Hartmann, who was also 3­for-4. Ruthrauff, Mallorie Lenn and Nicole Wicks all homered against the Crusaders. 
But while the Irish offense was on fire, Stenglein was the story. It was her second career perfect game, and her third career no-hitter. 
"She has had her ups and downs this season, but she was outstanding," Gumpf said. "She needed that game." 
So what was the difference for Stenglein in the win? 
"She got ahead," Gumpf said. "When she gets ahead, she can use her best pitches and throw some out of the zone. This makes the hitters fish for 
• 
Notre Dame 

returns home today as they face Loyola at Ivy Field, in weather that should be warmer than the home opener last weekend. 
"Just being home I think pro· vides a huge advantage to our team," Gumpf said. "There's nothing like being home." 
Loyola (1 0-13) comes off a split of a doubleheader at Northern Illinois, where they beat the Huskies 7-1 before losing 5-0 in the nightcap. 
Meanwhile, the Irish hope to find their stride early this sea· son. 
"Consistency is the key," Gumpf said. "We've played very well, and we've not played well. The bottom line is we're capable of playing well everyday. They just need to come out and do the little things." 
Game time is set for 5 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

,­
: pge 30 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 25, 2004 
====================================================================~ 


Laxers 
continued from page 32 
on its home field and snaps the Pride's five-game winning streak over Notre Dame. 
The Irish rank No. 8 in the nation in scoring with an average of 12 goals per game, though in recent games an explosive 

sTUDENT 
VALUE MENU 
One large, 1-topping pizza. 

One medium, 1-topping pizza &one order of Bread Sticks or Cinna Stix®. 
One small, 1-topping 
pizza &a 20 oz. Coke®. 
offense has not meant a victory. 
"One of the biggest things about being an offensive team is it's a lot tougher to play from behind," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "The team can hold the ball and slow the game down. But we played hard tonight. We played hard enough to win and as hard as we need to play to be a top 10 team." 
Giordano's fifth goal with 5:30 remaining in the game put him one goal short of tying the record for most goals scored in an Irish home game, a record held by three different players in Notre Dame history. The most recent player to score six goals at home was Jon Harvey in a 2000 game versus Villanova. 

The Irish led 11-5 at halftime due to three first half goals from the junior Giordano and a goal 
~ 
-


f;~-1"'
,:· ·.~· ·..... 
,../ :··---:~ ~ . . ­
·-. / --..... -~. 
and an assist from preseason All­American Pat Walsh. The Pride were down 14-8 at the end of the third quarter and traded goals with the Irish at the beginning of the final period, but four consec­utive goals -two from Giordano and two from Hubschmann ­put the game away. 
Dan Berger added two goals and an assist, and a slew of Irish players tallied a single goal. 
Hubschmann, midfielder Steve Clagett, Giordano. midfielder Matt Ryan and senior defense­man Mickey Blum put the Irish up 7-0 in the first quarter, and the team never looked back. 
"I think we're learning it takes more than ability to win games," Corrigan said. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

or Domino's Dots™. 
Two Small Cheese Pizzas. 
Five Buffalo Wings & an order of Bread Sticks 
or Cina Stix®. 
'fitle 
continued from page 32 
and head coach Janusz Bednarski feels the team may have been dealt a crippling blow. 
"It's a very, very hard loss because Derek was in very good form," he said. "We have very talented kids but not experi­f:nced, and it's not the same level like Derek. Our chances to defend our national title are much lower. We have a weaker position for sure." 
Freshman alternate Frankie Bontempo will fill Snyder's place to maintain the allotted 11 fencers. 
Additionally, the fencing team will face much stiffer competi­tion at this year's champi­onships. In previous years, the Irish have had to contend with t.he traditionally strong squads J'rom Penn State and St. John's. But this year, a new contender has risen in Ohio State. 
Notre Dame has been a first­hand witness to the increasing 1:hreat from the Buckeyes. Earlier this year, the Buckeyes mlocked the Irish stranglehold 

on the Midwest Fencing defending national champion Conference Championship and Ament has finished right crown when they took both the behind her with second and 
men's  and  third-place finish­ 
women's titles from the Irish for the first time since  "The toughest {opponents are] our  es. Michal Sobieraj will attempt to win an individual title  
1984.  traditional rivals  this  year  after  
Ohio State also made a strong bid for its first nation­ Ohio State, Penn State."  narrowly losing in the last year's epee final. Kerry  
al fencing  crown  Walton  won  the  
by qualifying the maximum 12  Janusz Bednarski Irish coach  epee champi­onship in 2002.  

fencers at the Midwest Regional. Penn State and Columbia­Barnard qualified 12 and 11, respectively. 
"The toughest [opponents are] our traditional rivals Ohio State, Penn State," Bednarski said. "But now without Derek, we have to watch attack of others. Columbia is very strong this year, and [so is] St. John's." 
But Notre Dame still possesses an incredible wealth of talented post-season veterans to help lead the way. 
The women's foil "A-Team" of Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament are attempting to medal for the third time in as many years. Krycazlo is the two-time 

However, 
Bednarski knows that these individuals will not be able to carry the load by them­selves. 
"They have to perform well, but the problem is that it's not unlimited help," he said. "The rules of the competition are not allowing Alicja, for example, or Ament to make up his points. They have a limited [number] of bouts. Even if they win every­thing, we will still be short." 
Over the next four days, the Irish will find out just how long their stretch for a repeat will have to be. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 


t-------------i Q2 ... AND THAT'S WHY @) YOU SHOULD HAVE A ~ PRE-MEETING BEFORE I EVERY MEETING. ~  HOW LONG WILL MY GENERATION NEED TO WORK? A MONTH?  it j:s ~ j  I SEE THAT YOU'VE CONNECTED ALL THE DOTS.  
ANY  
QUES­ 
TIONS?  
fiVES  BRET T CAM PBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI  

Thursday, March 25, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
~---C-A_R_E_E_R_D_A_Y_____,er-:===~~~~~~,~~----------------~ 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
~~I! 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
PYLAP 
1 
rJ 
02004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
UNAFA 
j
rJ r 
HIRDBY ± 
WHE:N THE: BUC.Kt=T BRIGADE: FOUGHT THE BLAZ£, THE:Y
www.jumble.com 


WEI<!f:--­DELIJA 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

ALL "[ I I I xJ' rn 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: JOLLY BASIC SQUIRM IMMUNE Answer: What the shoemaker listened to while he worked -"SOLE" MUSIC 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  34 Dial-up  58 Interactive part  
1 Sidepiece 5 Sockeroo 10 Some noncoms: Abbr.  36 10¢ picture 37 Actress Sorvino 38 Title character of TV's "The  of some Web pages 60 Have some fancy provi­sions?  
14 "Gewehr I" (German mili­tary order) 15 Befuddled 16 "American Pie" actress Reid 17 Michael Jordan or Dr. J 19 "Ohhhh .. ."  Pretender" 39 Female singer who was Grammy's 1985 Best New Artist 40 Wash out to sea 41 Clubs, say 42 Steps over a  61 Edit 62 Cousin of an org. 63 Stops: Abbr. 64 Opera that cli­maxes with a fir­ing squad 65 "Toodles!"  
20 Big Twelve pow­erhouse 21 Former beau or belle 23 Type spec: Abbr. 25 Opera_ 26 Workshop fix­ture 30 Opposite of whole 33 Film director Resnais  fence 43 Tiara 45 Metric measures of area 47 Dance from Cuba 49 "Phooey!" 50 Person with a figure like Olive Oyl 53 "Uh-uh" 57 Apple variety  DOWN 1 Attic buildup 2 "Take a Chance on Me" group 3 Lowdown 4 Capital on the Parana• 5 Dances to "Cali Pachanguero," e.g. 6 Parts of a range: Abbr. 7 Regarding 8 Barkers  28 Title girl of a 1966 pop hit 29 Goodness  42 Barber's acces­sory 44 Knuckleheads  52 Abbr. after some talephone numbers  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  9 Set  31 Confuse  46 Home of six  54 "Casablanca"  
~..,..,;.;+;,.+.;;,.t  10 Leader born in Georgia  32 Ashes, e.g. 35 Administered,  N.H.L. teams 48 Memorable mis- role 55"- Ia vie"  
.....::::+:=+::+:::+:::-t:::-1  11 Soiree 12 Disneyland  as medicine 38 Big flier  sion 50 Sellers' solicita­ 56 Peak near the Gulf of Catania  
sight  39 Not change  tions  59 Mandala's one­ 
_...-::-t:;::t;::-1  13 Convenience for an ed.  41 Burlap material  51 Send out  time org.  
-:::+::::+::':+.::-1 18 Grow dark 


For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a22 Born in 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 24 Truman's 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundayMissouri birth-crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. place 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -:7.+.::+:+:::+.:-f 26 Docile, now past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). -=+-:-:+::::+.::+.::':'1 27 Suspect elimi-Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young nator solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State _______ Zip___________ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY:Elton John, Aretha Franklin. Sarah Jessica Parker, Hoyt Axton 
Happy Birthday: Leadership is something that you may become quite familiar with this year. You will take an active role in social and sports events that can provide you with the competition you require. You'll be dctc~mined to do your own thing and you'll excel along the way. Your numbers arc 4, 15. 17, 19. 23,41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is a great day for love and romance. Be quick to make your move and to tell someone special exactly how you feel. The partner of your choice will be very accommodating if you are affectionate. 
***** 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't let your emotions stand in the way of your judgment. Being stubborn will only hold you back. If you refuse to see the bigger picture you will probably fall short of your expectations. •• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Call upon friends and relatives to help you make the changes that you feel are necessary. Something worth reading will come via snail mail or e-mail. •••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may feel as if the whole world is against you but that just isn't true. Open your eyes to all the opportunities around you and take the positive road that leads to your own personal success. • • • LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Romantic development is in the stars. Your vibrant presence and entertaining manner will make you very appealing. You are now sitting in a position that will allow you to pick and choose so be discriminating. • • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may have some health concerns hut keep in mind that worrying could be at the root of your problem. Take time out to relax a little and to determine what it is that is constantly nagging away at your psyche. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't overreact to things going on at work. Put yourself in a position that is valuable and you won't have to worry about your future. •••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take it nice and slow today and don't let life's little hazards hold you back or send you off on a tangent. Stick to what you know and do best. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put on your best duds and prepare to face the world. Let your worldly outlook lead the way and you'll be sure to discover all sorts of intriguing people. • ••• • CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If something has gone awry in your financial picture you'd better start going over your investments with a fine-tooth comb. You can save yourself some cash and some disappointment if you make a couple of changes now. • • • AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make sure that you've made arrangements to spend time with someone you care about or engage in events that will introduce you to a number of possible partners. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-MARCH 20): This is your day to achieve. Set out early and get the day off to a good start. Your astute way of doing things will certainly help you grab the attention of your colleagues. ••• 
Birthday Baby:You are optimistic, ambitious and outgoing. You are friendly. interested, and love to interact with others. Freedom is important to you. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 
. . -.......... ""IIi,~, 


THE 0BSERVIR 
.. 
PORTS
Thursday, March 25, 2004 
page 32 
fENCING 

In search of a repeat 
Irish have a steep road to climb in defending their title 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
Every fencer on the Irish ros­ter has gone through the sea­son with one word in the back of his or her mind-"repeat." 
After winning the 2003 NCAA Championships, the next big test was to defend it the fol­lowing year. Today the Irish begin their quest to do just that. 
Notre Dame brings 11 fencers to participate in the 2004 national championships held at the Gosman Center on the campus of Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass. The Championships will take place over a four-day span from March 25-28. 
The women will fence for the first two days, and then men will conduct their bouts over the remaining two. The nation­al championship is awarded based on the best combined score of both the men's and women's teams. Each fencer will compete in 23 round-robin bouts to determine the team score. 
Defending the title this year poses many challenges which the team did not face a year ago. Aside from the wearing the target of "defending national champion" this year, every fencer competing in last year's NCAA Championships had at least one year of colle­giate fencing under their belts. This year, over half of the Irish competitors will· be freshmen, including both saber squads, which are composed entirely of freshmen. 
Notre Dame also lost top foilist Derek Snyder for the season when he broke his hand March 17. Snyder had just won a regional championship, 
see TITLE/page 30 


MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish take Pride, top Hofstra by 8 goals 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
The problem was obvious. The Irish gave up early goals in recent games and could not erase the deficits. 
The solution was simple ­score the first seven goals of the next game. 
Brian Giordano tallied five goals and Brian Hubschmann added four more and an assist as No. 15 Notre Dame (2-3) jumped on top of No. 13 llofstra (3-3) early and often, winning 19-11 in its final non-conference game of the season at the Loftus Sports Center Wednesday. 
The win moves the Irish to 2-1 
see LAXERS/page 30 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
BASEBALL 

Ducks fly into Joyce 
Irish get 1st home victory 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
The Irish bats woke up a lit­tle bit Wednesday night, but Detroit gave Notre Dame a lot of help too. 
The Titans walked 12 Irish batters, hit three others and committed four errors as No. 6 Notre Dame (14-3) knocked off Detroit (1-10) 16-6 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
For the Irish, who had scored just 10 runs over their last three games, the free passes issued by the Titan pitchers stimulated the Notre Dame offense to score 16 runs, the most since a 19-6 win over Winthrop Feb. 27. 
"When you're not getting a lot of hits, it helps when the other team does some things for you, like walking batters and throwing a lot of wild pitches, but that's not some­thing you count on going into games," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "We need to swing the bats a lot better than we did these last two days." 
Designated hitter Matt Bransfield was 2-for-3 with three RBis and hit his second solo home run in as many days. Shortstop Matt Macri had a homer, three RBis and three runs scored, as he went 1-for-1 on the night with 


for last home game 
By MATT LOZAR 
.. 
Sports Writer 

Another NIT game and anoth­er game with major implications for the Irish. 
Notre Dame doesn't have any geographic connections to tonight's oppo-See Also 
nent Oregon, "One last but coming out victorious challenge for 
over the Jones" Ducks gets the Irish two page 28 
things -20 wins for the fourth year in a row and a trip back to Madison Square Garden. 
Add in the fact this game is undoubtedly the last at the Joyce Center this season, and once again, it's not a boring game in "that other postseason tourna­ment." 
"It's definitely been fun, that's because we are playing against 
three walks and a sacrifice great teams and players who 
fly. 

don't want their season to end,""We just seemed very tenta-Notre Dame guard Chris Thomas said. "It's great because see IRISH/page 29 we are one of the few teams still playing right now, and we are fighting to play another day." 
After the frenzied atmosphere in Fort Wayne, Ind., Thomas feels the Irish are now ready to appreciate playing at home on a new level. Six losses at the Joyce Center this year lost the home­court advantage. 
"It was wonderful to have 12,000 fans in ND shirts. We were in awe of the whole atmos­phere," Thomas said. "Maybe we take our fans for granted, and sometimes they take us for granted because we don't come out and perform like it's a home-court all the time. 
"Playing at Fort Wayne inspired us to give our fans our all." 
Since this game is being played opposite the NCAA tour­nament, it won't be on national television and will keep these two teams in the shadows of the NCAA Sweet 16 games. 
That's a major reason why the Irish want a win so badly. A win gets them two more games in front of the country for everyone to watch. 
see NIT/page 28 
en 
NO SOFTBAll 
NBA 

MlB 
NHL 

NCAA BASKETBAll 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
11.1 
A wrapup of 

The Cubs and Astros 
Georgia women's bas-
A wrapup of 
Defending national
u Notre Dame 9, 
Wednesday night's of 

appear to be in good 
Wednesday night's 

ketball coach Andy 
champions Syracuse,
t-z Valparaiso 0 
games from around the 

position heading into 
action from games 

Lauders is in pursuit of 
once in danger of not
1:1: :3 Irish pitcher Steffany 
NBA. 

the 2004 season as both 
around the NHL. 

his first national title. 
making the NCAA
=c:J Stenglein had a perfect 

teams have solid start-
He and the Bulldogs 
Tournament, now finds
game as the Irish
4 

ing rotations. 
stand only four wins 
itself in the Sweet 16
blanked the Crusaders 
away. 
facing Alabama. 
Tuesday.
~ =: 

page 20 
page 18
page 29 
page 27 

page 23 
page 22
en 




