

----~-~-­
Second-annual Relay for Life raises cancer research funds 
Organizers say high participation, enthusiasm helped achieve $80,000 goal 
the American Cancer Society. fundraising efforts of the various small way that I can help others how much energy people would By MARY KATE MALONE Last year organizers were pleas­teams on campus. who are battling this disease," said put into this." 
News Writer 
antly surprised by the outpouring The biology team, which is the Michele Taets, a Notre Dame stu­Luminaries were distributed to of donations and participation, and largest team fielding over 300 par­dent and campus-wide coordinator participants earlier this week. With 
For 16 hours this weekend, the raised over $65,000 -$35,000 ticipants, held the "Pie in Your of the event. a donation of $5, participants can Notre Dame community will come over the initial goal. Face" contest last Friday night. Teams consist of Notre Dame fac­decorate the lwninaries in honor of together to honor and remember The campaign has only gained With a donation of $1 students ulty staff and students. Notre Dame someone who has faced cancer. victims of cancer under the banner momentum this year, and with 51 could throw a pie at the top six organizations fielding teams range They will line the perimeter of the of Relay for teams totaling over 1,400 partici­money makers from Biological from PILlARS club to Notre Dame Stepan Center. Life: "Fighting See Also pants, the event promises to make Science. Other teams sold apple firefighters. The diversity of the Event organizers have filled the Irish Fighting a significant contribution to cancer pies, mums, and cardboard trash clubs reflects the unifying effect of night with activities to encourage Cancer". "Darners run in research. According to Relay for bins for tailgaters on Saturday. Relay for Life. participants to stay for the full 16 
For the sec-honor of deceased Life faculty co-chair Jessica Many of the students involved "It is the only event I know of hours. Most teams coordinate ond year, the Brookshire, this year's goal of rais­with Relay for Life participate where faculty and students come schedules for the evening so that at 
alumna"
nationwide ing $80,000 has already been met because cancer has affected some­together for a common cause" said least one member of their team is fundraiser page3 and exceeded. one close to them. Brookshire. "It is amazing to see walking at all times. This allows comes to the Organizers have attributed this "Cancer has deeply affected my how small teams can come togeth­Stepan Center to raise money for year's success to the creative family and I feel that this is one er and do so well. We had no idea see RELAY/page 4 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Truck hits goHers' van on Toll Road 
No. 1 player injured, ND vehicle totaled as freshman tries U-turn 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
A University-issued van driven by a freshman on the Irish men's golf team was hit and totaled by a semi truck on Interstate 80 Thursday afternoon, injuring one of the six team members present in the vehicle. 
Scott Gustafson, the team's top-ranked golfer, was the sole passenger injured in the crash. He was transported to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center with lacerations to the elbow caused by broken glass. Indiana State Police said. 
Gustafson, a junior, was in sta­ble condition at the hospital Thursday night, nursing supervi­sor Stella Ford confirmed. Though University athletic offi-



Rising football ticket prices don't hurt sales 
cials declined to offer details about Gustafson's treatment, golfer Eric Deutsch said his teammate underwent surgery. 
The van was traveling to a team practice session at Lost Dunes Golf Club in Bridgman, Mich., the site of Friday's open­ing round of the Notre Dame Invitational and approximately a 45-minute drive from South Bend. 
Police said the crash occurred at the 69.9 westbound mile marker of I-80 at approximately 
2:20 p.m. The van's driver, fresh­man golfer Gregory Rodgers, reduced his speed in the free­way's left lane as he prepared to make an illegal U-turn, said State Trooper Tim McCormick. 
To avoid plowing into the back of the van as it approached from behind, the semi "had to take 
File Photo Students line up for the August football ticket lottery number dis­tribution. Tickets prices have increased 20 percent in four years. 
evasive action to avoid collision," McCormick said. He added that several witness accounts con­firmed Rodgers was "driving extremely slow" and therefore was at fault. Rodgers was ticket­ed at the scene for attempting a U-turn on the interstate. 
As the semi sideswiped the van, both vehicles veered into the left median, McCormick said. 
"It was pretty much a blur to me. I'm still kind of shaken up," said Deutsch, a junior who was one of the van's passengers. "We actually got pretty lucky because the semi was empty -if it's full we're not walking." 
Head coach John Jasinski, who was waiting for his team in Bridgman at the time of the crash, said he was unable to visit 
see VAN/page 4 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Associate News Editor 
Though the time-honored rit­uals of football Saturdays stand out as a special part of the Notre Dame experience, some students seem to be opting out of that tradition -by simply not purchasing football tickets. 
"Defmitely there's the money issue," said Saint Mary's soph­omore Courtney Rusnak, who did not purchase tickets last year. "I understand why the tickets are more expensive, but I also understand why Saint Mary's girls are upset about the prices being so high." 
Notre Dame junior Anna Nussbaum won't be attending football games this year either. 
"It was a combination of fac­tors," said Nussbaum. who bought tickets her freshman 
Top golfer Scott Gustafson was hospitalized Thursday. 

and sophomore years. "For me personally it wasn't a good investment." 
This year, a Notre Dame stu­dent season ticket cost $159 while Saint Mary's students paid $212 for each season tick­et -a 20 percent increase compared to four years ago, when season tickets were $114 and $173 respectively. 
"Quite a few of my friends didn't get tickets," said Saint Mary's sophomore Lindsey Anderson. 
Last year, Anderson split a season ticket with her sister but chose not to purchase a season ticket this fall. Though she hopes to purchase a single ticket for one of the home games, Anderson cited the high cost of the ticket com­bined with low interest in the 
see TICKETS/page 4 

-~-----.. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Driver tests positive for alcohol 
SMC sophomore cited for underage drinking 
Observer Staff Report 
The Saint Mary's sophomore whose car struck a Notre Dame alumnus early Sunday morning has been ticketed for an alco­hol-related offense. 
According to the South Bend Tribune, St. Joseph County Deputy Prosecutor Ken Cotter said Jackie Miltenberger, 19, was ticketed on a misdemeanor count of consuming alcohol as a minor and for the violation of being under 21 with a blood­alcohol level of 0.02 percent or higher. Cotter declined to release her exact blood-alcohol level. stating only that it was under 0.08 -the legal level in Indiana at which a driver over 21 years of age is considered to be intoxicated. 
Cotter did not return phone 
calls  Thursday  from  The  
Observer.  
Ryan O'Connor, 24.  a  2002  

Notre Dame graduate and Naval officer, was running across South Bend Avenue near Vaness Street when he was struck by a car driven by Miltenberger after leaving a nearby bar with friends, police said. St. Joseph County Deputy Coroner Rex Rakow said O'Connor died of severe head trauma at St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center and that his death was ruled an accident. 
The South Bend Police declined to disclose how fast Miltenberger's car was traveling at the time of the accident and to release the accident report, citing that the investigation was ongoing. 
Police said Miltenberger, the driver of the vehicle, was 
see ACCIDENT/page 4 

.----------------~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Movin' on up 
Three years ago, my family upgraded from a 100-year old house to a brand-new townhouse complex. 
This fall I moved from one of the oldest dorms on 
campus, Lyons Eileen Duffy Hall to, as my former rectress News Production called it, "the Editor 
first world"­the sparkling 
new Welsh Family Hall. 
Guess what? This time it didn't 
cost a thing. 
My old house contained two bed­rooms and one bathroom. Do all of you out there know what it feels like to pull the shower curtain shut when you are taking a bath so another member of your family can go to the bathroom, or to "call" the bathroom on the way home from family outings, like you might call shotgun, or to hold your toothpaste spit for abnormally long amounts of time and finally run downstairs and spit it in the kitchen sink? 
Well, I do. That's why moving to a new house with three bedrooms, four bathrooms and the third floor all to myself is so much more rewarding. 
That's not to say I don't love and miss my old house. After all, it had so much character-my new house looks the same as the other 29 con­nected to it. And my sisters and I will never fall asleep in such close proximity to each other again. 
Living in an old dorm last year was oddly reminiscent of being in my old house. 
In our basement quad I would get out of my top bunk by leaning over and grabbing my roommate's wardrobe, which was on the oppo­site wall. We would change by announcing, "Don't turn around". When I hadn't done my laundry in awhile, it would take up approxi­mately one-fourth of our room. We were in such close quarters that I thank God neither of us broke pari­etals-it could have been a bit awkward. 
Moving into Welsh Family was truly like going from Motel 6 to The Hitz Carlton. I danced around the first day as we set up our futon, which actually fit in the room, loft­ed our beds in two minutes flat and strained to cover that very top inch of our massive wall space. 
Heck, I think Michael Jordan could stand in our room and jump without touching the ceiling. 
Again, that's not to say I don't 
Jove Lyons. I still reminisce about curling up with three of my room­mates in one twin bed to watch "Sex and the City" on a rainy after­noon, and I feel a pang in my heart when I walk under that arch. 
But then I remember that they and I are paying the same fee for two strikingly different living situa­tions. The same rate does not apply at a Motel 6 and a Ritz Carlton. 
I'm not suggesting we tear down the Motel 6 -just charge its patrons less. I speak from experi­ence, and I'm telling you, it's only fair: 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffyl@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can 
correc[ our error. 
Friday, September 17, 2004 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 







Amy Houghton  Brent Locey  Ellen Becker  
senior McGlinn  Freshman Alumni  freshman Cavanaugh  
"Parachuters will fall out of the sky and beat up MSU's team."  "Notre Dame completes the sweep of Michigan. ND 30, MSU I4. "  "Irish all the way!"  


TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer 
Senior Danlelle Noujalm, left, speaks to representatives from News Marketing America at the Business Career Fair held Thursday night from 3 to 8 p.m. In the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Students were Invited to drop their resume off and pick up applications for companies that sparked their Interest. 
OFFBEAT 

Hairpiece theft comes off all wrong 
HARRISBURG, Pa. -A man has been fined and sen­tenced to probation for a hair-raising stunt that left a man bald. 
Paul Goudy, 25, of Lemoyne, pleaded guilty to snatching the hairpiece off the head of another man at a restaurant as part of a dare. 
He was sentenced to 23 months' probation, fined $500 and ordered to write a letter of apology. 
The victim, Edward Floyd, was sitting in the Fisaga restaurant in Harrisburg on Jan. 1 when Goudy ripped the hairpiece off his head, taking with it a gold chain that hung from his neck. 


Ge Wang  Nicole Lapka  Thomas Garcia  
freshman St. Ed's  freshman Cavanaugh  junior Dillon  
"ND by I4."  "State sucks. ND24-2I. "  "ND wins by more than I I."  

"Don't these guys have anything better to do than to rob and humiliate someone for absolutely no reason in the world? It's just outra­geous," said Floyd, 60, of Harrisburg. ''I'm a nice guy. I don't bother anybody." 
Talk about racing to the altar 
GREENWOOD, Neb. ­Matt Simmons was one of the stars Sunday at Nebraska Raceway Park, but not for his driving. 
Simmons, 29, got the attention of the crowd dur­ing intermission of the Outlaw Vintage Lites Racing Series, when he and fiancee Shannon Fulmer, 24, got married at the track. 
The Davey couple had set two earlier wedding dates, but the traditional nuptials never happened, Simmons said. So about two months ago, they decided they should just get married at the track. 
That solution made sense, Simmons said, since most of his Sundays are spent racing his five-eighths scale replica of a 1932 Chevrolet coupe. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 


67 
52 



78 60 
IN BRIEF 
SUB presents 'Troy' starring Brad Pitt and Orlando Bloom tonight and Saturday at 8 and 
10:30 p.m. Tickets are $3 at 101 DeBartolo. 
Barbara Newman of Northwestern University presents a lecture on "The Artifice of Eternity: Three Versions of Celestial Poetics" today from 8 to 
9:30 p.m. in the McKenna llall Auditorium. The lecture L'i [art of the "Names and the Unnameable: Literary Art and Spiritual Vision" conference. 
The Relay for Life: "Fighting Irish Fighting Cancer" is taking place from 6 p.m. tonight until 10 a.m. Saturday. The event includes luminaries, contests and entertainment. All proceeds go to the American Cancer Society. 
Saint Mary's will be sponsoring a trip to Chicago Saturday. The bus leaves from the LcMans bus stop at 8:00 a.m. Tickets can be picked up at the Haggar front desk. 
The Domer Run and Walk takes place Saturday from 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m. There arc 3-mile and 6-mile runs and a 2-mile fun walk, followed by a pancake breakfast for participants. Proceeds go to ovarian cancer research and education. 
The Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra with Wynton Marsalis will play the opening concert in the Leighton Concert Hall of the Debartolo Performing Arts Center on Sunday from 8 to 10 p.m. For tickets call the DeBartolo box office at 1-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 
HIGH 83 HIGH 85 LOW 65 LOW 70 


Friday, September 17, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

By JEANNINE PRIVAT News Writer 
For the first time in 22 years. students. faculty and members of the community will partici­pate in the traditional Domer Run and Walk in honor of a specific individual. 
This year the event is being held in memory of Barbara Ann Link, who battled ovarian can­cer before ·passing away last November. 
Link was one of the first female graduates of Notre Dame and the wife of David Link, dean emeritus of the Notre Dame Law School. 
"[The Domer Hun] is a more traditional event that started as a campus run for students," Bill Heagan, RecSports' assis­tant director of instruction, special event and family pro­gramming said. The event originated as an activity for students to participate in dur­ing one away-game weekend during football season. When RecSports began to sponsor the event in partnership with the Alumni Association in 1997. however, it evolved into a fundraiser for cancer aware­ness and aid programs. 
This year. all proceeds will go to organizations that deal with ovarian cancer in Link's honor. 
All three races that comprise the run -the three and six mile runs and the two mile walk -begin at the north end 
of the stadium and end at Library Quad. 
Over its 22-year evolution, a breakfast for the runners has been added. After completing the course, participants are invited to a pancake breakfast under a tent on Library Quad, where awards will be distrib­uted to the winners of the cate­gories each race. 
There are awards for male and female divisions in each race, and in each gender sub­set there is an award for the undergraduate, graduate stu­dent and faculty and staff win­ners. 
The money raised from the registration fees of the partici­pants and donations by local organizations is collected and distributed by the Alumni Association to local organiza­tions, like the Women's Cancer Task Force. 
A $6 pre-registration is avail­able until 5 p.m. today. Participants can also register for $10 fee at 10 a.m. Saturday before the race begins, under the tent located on Library Quad. 
These fees include the pan­cake breakfast and t-shirt that participants are awarded for completing the course. 
Participants can begin arriv­ing at the tent on Library Quad at 10 a.m .. with the races starting promptly at 11.a.m. 
Contact Jeannine Privat at jprivat@nd.edu 
Malloy's book recounts travels 
Special to The Observer 

Father Edward Malloy has circumnavigated the globe for the past 17 years as the University of Notre Dame's president -from th.e Holy Land to Ireland, Chile to Iceland, Tibet to Ground Zero. 
In "Monk's Travels: People, Places, and Events," a new book published by Andrews McMeel, Father Malloy recounts his impressions of the places he has visited and the people he has met in more than two dozen nations and locations world­wide. The book is the prod­uct of the diaries he has pro­duced in the aftermath of his many presidential journeys. 
In the preface, Father 

Professor named ASME fello-w 
Special to The Observer 
Patrick Dunn, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been named a fellow of the American Society of Engineers. 
Fellow is the highest elected grade of membership in ASME and is conferred upon a mem­ber with at least 10 years of active engineering practice who has made significant con­tributions in the field. Dunn is the seventh member of Notre Malloy writes: "Ann Tyler wrote a novel entitled 'The Accidental Tourist' that is about a .man who is forced to travel but does not want to have any new experi­ences. He wants to guaran­tee his safety and security by making sure that everything is predictable and familiar. My goal on my trips was just the opposite: not to do any­thing too foolish, but to be open to an endless round of new experiences and possi­bilities." 
Father Malloy begins the book with memories of what he calls the most significant event of his more than 40 years at Notre Dame: a Mass on the afternoon of Sept. 11, 2001, on the South Quad in remembrance of the victims 
Dame's aerospace and mechanical engineering facul­ty to be named a fellow. The others are: Hafiz Atassi, Frank Incropera, Thomas Mueller, John Renaud, Albin Szewczyk and Kwang-Tzu Yang. 
Dunn is a graduate of Purdue University, where he also earned his doctorate in aerospace engineering and fluid mechanics in 1974. After receiving his degrees, he taught at both Purdue and Duke Universities and in 197,8 joined the engineering division of that morning's terrorist attacks on America. He goes on to describe his first visit to Ground Zero a month later, writing: "I felt the same way at the World Trade Center as I have felt 

at  the  battlefields  of  
Gettysburg  or  
Chancellorsville  or  

Manassas/Bull Run: This is indeed sacred ground, and we honor the dead by being present at the place where they lost their lives." 
The book continues with Father Malloy's recollections and observations from his travels through Europe, the Mediterranean region, Eastern Europe, Latin America, South America, Africa. Australia and New Zealand, and the Far East. 
of the Argonne National Library. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1985, Dunn served from 1998 to 2002 as director of the University's Hessert Laboratory for Aerospace Research, and in 1999 served as director of the College of Engineering's London Program.' His research at Notre Dame has focused on the dynamics of aerosol forma­tion, transportation and depo­sition. 

Friday, September 17, 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
lows and go to "Dance around Nevala said prices hikes have 
enue expected by the University, the Track" at 2 am. 
Accident

Relay
Tickets 

The money raised for Relay for continued from page 1 for scholarship sports. 
directly correlated to full funding continued from page 1 life goes directly to the American 
continued from page 1 "That would certainly be a big 
Cancer Society. From there, it is factor over the last four years," 
other participants to enjoy the distributed to various research football team for why she didn't he said. 
breathalyzed at the scene of go for the full set. Currently, the athletic depart­
various activities planned for the institutions like Notre Dame. 
the accident and taken to ''I'm not much of a football ment funds 320 full tuition schol­
evening. A dunk tank will be on "It will come full circle because 
·the St. Joseph County Jail fan," she said. arships in the various sports pro­
site, and hayrides will be given the money funds research that 
for an additional blood-alco­The University's general policy grams. 
throughout the campus from 10 takes place right perc on cam­
p.m. to 12 a.m. In addition, the pus. That really helps explain 
hol level test as has always discounted Notre "This is the first year we're 
Science Observatory will be open why Relay for life is such a won­
law. Dame student tickets 50 percent fully funding all of our sports," 
from 8 p.m. until12 a.m. to view derful part of Notre Dame," 
Both the South ofT the general admission price, Nevala said. 
the stars. The Mr. Relay Pageant Brookshire said. "The power of 
.Police and St. Joseph County and Saint Mary's students Ticket office manager Josh 
will begin at 11 p.m. Relay for Life is so hard to 
Prosecutor's office declined receive a 33 percent discount, Berlo said specific statistics 
Even if students have not regis­describe. You really have to be 
to release the blood-alcohol said Tom Nevala, assistant ath­aren't compiled each year on 
levels of both the driver and letic director for business opera­exactly what percentage of stu­
tered they are encouraged to there to understand how special 
attend. Registration tables will be it is." 
the victim and to elaborate tions. dents purchase tickets, but said 
open during the night and stu­
specifically on who was Notre Dame students who generally 10.000 are sold each 
dents arc invited to stop by after Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
drinking, stating only that have trouble affording tickets year, plus or minus 100-200 tick­
their SYRs to roast marshmal-mmalone3@nd.edu 
the investigation is ongoing can appeal to the Rector Fund ets. 
and that alcohol appeared for assistance with the cost. Nevala said the athletic 
to be a factor. Saint Mary's has no comparable department was mindful of the 
Police said the accident program. price increases, but didn't expect 
sites. One coach was at one 
remains under investigation For its part, the University the upward trend to change. 
[site,] one coach was at the 
pending reconstruction of claims such ticket price hikes "We know we're at a pretty 
Van 

other.... There's no rule against 
the accident. At that time are necessarily to support the critical juncture for football tick­
the prosecutor's office may mission of the athletic depart­ets," he said. 
continued from page 1 it per se." 
Students in general can also 
decide to file additional ment and contribute funds The University hopes to find 
Gustafson in the hospital. drive their peers after taking a 
charges against Miltenberg­· toward other University priori­alternative sources to generate 
"He's recovering, he should be training course, Storin said. lie 
er. ties. revenue, but won't participate in 
okay tomorrow," Jasinski said. said he did not know if Rodgers 
Rakow said that the coro­"Most of the decisions that widespread licensing like many 
The van, a 2000 blue Chevy, had completed such a session. 
ner's office ruling of involve revenue-generating other universities. 
was towed after suffering nearly All golfers but Gustafson will 
O'Connor's death as an acci­come back to tickets," said "We don't do blatant corporate 
$10,000 worth of damage, still participate in the tourna­
dent is independent of both Nevala. sponsorships. That's just not 
McCormick said. Damages to ment, Jasinski said. 
the police investigation and According to Nevala, the Notre Dame," Nevala said. "We 
the semi were estimated at "Absolutely, the tournament 
the prosecutor's decision of University administration have to be very creative to find 
$1,000. will continue," said Chris 
whether to bring further expects the athletic department, other revenue sources." 
University spokesman Matt Masters, assistant director for 
charges against Miltenberg­and specifically football, to gen­Nonetheless, Nevala noted that 
Storin and Associate Athletic Sports Information. "We're real­
er. erate about $12 million per year, demand for general admission 
Director John Heisler both ly looking forward to it." 
O'Connor's funeral was which becomes included in Notre tickets remained very high given 
declined to comment on The last major accident 
Thursday in his hometown Dame's overall budget. the sellout crowds in attendance 
whether the University will involving a Notre Dame sports 
of West Chester, Penn. Though Nevala said this level week after week at Notre Dame 
cover the vehicular damage or team occurred in January 1992, has remained relatively constant Stadium. 
Gustafson's hospital fees. when a United Limo bus carry­over the past four years, he "Some marketing professors 
Heisler said it was not unusu­ing the women's swim team expects it to remain high as the would say, if your building is sold 
al for athletes to drive vehicles overturned on the Indiana Toll University continues its push to out then you should raise ticket 
carrying teammates. Road, killing two swimmers and increase financial aid. prices," he said. 
"There are circumstances injuring 32. 
.
I Iowever, the athletic directors 

under which that's routine," he set the actual ticket price yearly. said. "Today was a typical Contact Claire Heininger at But in addition to the net rev-example -16 teams, multiple cheining@nd.edu 
PARTY AT THE PAC 
Notre Dame Open House 
i. Friday, September 17 Step off from the Main Building with the Band of the Fighting Irish at 4 p.m. Join the parade with costumed actors from FTT and the Irish Guard. See the fanfare that is the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Doors open at 4:30 p.m. and stay open until 10 p.m. Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross Faculty, Staff, Students and Families Welcome 
Come and celebrate the opening of your performing arts center! Enjoy a self-directed tour through the facility. Maps will be available. Notre Dame and regional performers will showcase their considerable talents in all five venues. 

BAGHDAD 





Insurgents take three hostages 
Gunmen kidnap two Americans, one Briton in morning raid ofIraqi capital 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -A team of kidnappers grabbed two Americans and a Briton in a dawn raid on their home on a leafy Baghdad street Thursday _ a bold abduc­tion that underlines the increasing danger for for­eigners in the embattled capital as violence soars ahead of national elections planned for early next year. 
West of the capital, U.S. forces launched attacks Thursday in the Sunni insurgent strongholds of Fallujah and Ramadi, killing up to 60 insurgents in strikes against allies of terror mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a mili­tary statement said. The military said that the "for­eign fighters" were killed near Fallujah, but hospital officials there said the city was calm and that they had not received any casu­alties. 
The military launched what it called a "precision strike" against a house in Fallujah and followed it with a second strike in a nearby town. The second strike destroyed three buildings allegedly used by Zarqawi's network. 
Also Thursday, three U.S. Marines assigned to 1st Marine Expeditionary 
Force were killed by hostile Department spokesman black, his face covered eigners because they had fire in separate incidents in Richard Boucher said. with a red Arab headdress, allowed them to use their the western Anbar The abduction took place dragging one of the generator for electricity province while conducting in the al-Mansour neigh­Westerners by the collar during Baghdad's swelter­security operations, the borhood, one of the most and pushing him into a car ing summer. military said. One Marine affluent in Baghdad. parked outside the house. One resident, who would died at the scene and the Foreign embassies and A neighbor, who identi­give his name only as Majid two others died later of prominent Iraqi politicians fied herself only as Urn for fear of reprisal. said he their wounds. No other are based in the neighbor­Ibrahim, said she was left his house about 6 a.m. details were released. hood. awakened by the voices of during a power outage to 
The U.S. Embassy identi­The team of about 10 men giving orders. "Walk. turn on the communal gen­fied the kidnapped attackers drove to the head Get in," she said she heard erator. Americans as Jack Hensley of the tree-lined street in a men say in Arabic. "I "I noticed unusual move­and Eugene Armstrong, minivan, walked up to the thought they were stealing ment in the garage. I heard but the identity of the house, circumvented a con­a car and I was scared, but voices that sounded like British man was not dis­crete wall and snatched the my mother told me that someone was trying to closed. Westerners without a gun­they might be some people drag somebody else," he 
The three worked for fight, said Col. Adnan fixing the generator," she said. "I was frightened and Gulf Services Co., a United Abdul-Rahman, an Interior said. left the area, but when I Arab Emirates-based con­Ministry official. "These are kind people came back to the foreign­struction company. "They Nineteen-year-old Ziad who have come to rebuild ers' house, I saw that the were doing work under Tareq said he was walking Iraq," she added. "Why did outer gate was open and contracts with them in down the street when he this happen to them?" the foreigners' car had Baghdad," · State saw a man dressed in Neighbors knew the for-gone." 

Hurricane Ivan slams Gulf Coast 
Fla. "There was nothing we could do a 300-mile stretch of the Gulf Coast 
Associated Press 

about it. I put all my guests in their cleared out as Ivan. a former 165-mph 
PENSACOlA, Fla. -Hurricane Ivan rooms and told them to get in the monster that killed 70 people in the drilled the Gulf Coast early Thursday bathtubs." Caribbean, closed in on an unsteady with 130-mph winds that inflicted far Ivan quickly deteriorated to a tropi­path. less damage than feared everywhere cal storm after coming ashore. But Ivan came ashore near Gulf Shores except Florida's Panhandle, where forecasters warned it was not done Beach, Ala., around 3 a.m., but it was residents were left with surge-ravaged yet: It threatened up to 15 inches of the Panhandle -squarely in the beachfronts, flooded streets and rain and flooding across the South, northwest quadrant of the storm, homes ripped apart by deadly torna­already soggy after Hurricanes where the winds are most violent ­does. Charley and Frances over the past that took the brunt. 
The storm was blamed for at least month. Ivan spun off at least a dozen torna­18 U.S. deaths, most of them in And more danger could be on the does in Florida, while creating a storm Florida. horizon: Hurricane Jeanne is tearing surge of 10 to 16 feet, topped by large 
"We were prepared for the hurri­through the Caribbean on a path that battering waves. A portion of a bridge cane, but the tornadoes were bam, could take it into Florida early next on Interstate 10, the major east-west bam, bam," said Glenda Nichols, man­week. highway through the Panhandle, was ager of the Microtel Inn in Marianna, More than 2 million residents along washed away. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
TSA announces security tightening 
WASHINGTON -Starting next week, all air­line passengers must take off their jackets before passing through metal detectors and more will be subjected to pat-down searches and checks for explosives, the Transportation Security Administration announced Thursday. 
Screeners will advise passengers of the new procedures when they put their carryon bags on the conveyor belt, TSA spokeswoman Yolanda Clark said. 
The goal is "to fortifY our screening proce­dures to detect the presence of explosives car­ried on a person or in carryon luggage," she said. 
Bags checked onto planes must pass through machines that can detect various kinds of explosives. 

Twin dies after surgical separation 
BALTIMORE -A little girl born with her head fused to that of her twin sister died Thursday, shortly after surgeons separated them. 
The surviving 1-year-old twin, Lea Block, lay in critical but stable condition. 
Lea and her sister, Tabea, from Lemgo, Germany, were separated shortly after mid­night, after more than 18 hours of surgery. 
Tabea died "of major complications asso­ciated with the separation surgery," accord­ing to a statement released Thursday by the Johns Hopkins Children's Center. 
Doctors had performed "an exhaustive resuscitative effort." hospital spokeswoman Staci Vernick Goldberg said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Student fires handgun at school 
GARY -A student who police say fired a handgun inside a high school during a lunch period fight remained at large on Thursday even though he returned to the school with his mother. 
A surveillance tape showed that a fight broke out Wednesday in the Wirt High School commons area, with the student who shot three bullets into the ceiling then fleeing the school. police said. No injuries were reported. 
page 6 Friday, September 17, 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 


Lethal injections tnay be banned 
Lawsuits seek to nix means of capital punishment 


Missing evidence Marine resurfaces 
Attorney says Iraqi man's larynx is found in freezer in Germany 

Associated Pres• 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Lethal injection, when used for the first time in Texas nearly 22 years ago, was touted as a more humane way to execute prison­ers than the firing squad, hang­ing, the gas chamber or even the electric chair. 
Today, though, death penalty opponents are challenging that notion based on the Constitution's Eighth Amendment. which prohibits "cruel and unusual punish­ments inflicted." 
Attorneys in at least a dozen of the 37 states that use lethal injection have filed lawsuits seeking to ban the procedure, which they say puts inmates through excruciating pain because the anesthetic wears off before the two other drugs are injected. 

Prosecutors and victims rights advocates call the lawsuits "the appeal du jour." 
"It is clear that no method would be acceptable to those who oppose capital punishment in principle," said Pete Adams, executive director of the Louisiana District Attorney's Association. "It should be remembered that anti-death penalty advocates see their cause as a long-term campaign to be waged on many fronts." 
The most recent anti-death penalty action was brought in civil court in Kentucky. Earlier this year, New Jersey stopped lethal injections after an appeals court found insufficient medical knowledge to support the procedure. 
The Kentucky case involves two convicted murderers, 
Thomas Clyde Bowling and Ralph Baze. Their lawyers argue that Bowling and Baze "will ... be tortured to death" if the state executes them by lethal injection. 
A lethal injection is comprised of an anesthetic, a paralytic drug and potassium chloride, which causes cardiac arrest. 
Pennsylvania state Rep. Daylin Leach has proposed eliminating the paralytic drug from that state's lethal injec­tion. Not using it may show whether inmates are uncon­scious when receiving potassi­um chloride or if they are awake and just unable to speak, Leach said. Someone squirming and screaming in pain as the lethal dose is administered could be enough to prompt states to refine the procedure, he said. 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -Missing med­ical evidence taken from the body of an Iraqi man beaten by Marine prison guards resurfaced this week, a defense attorney for an officer charged in connection with the man's death said Thursday. For months, the military had insisted the evidence was lost. 
An Army medical examiner found the larynx of Nagem Hatab in a freezer in Germany, said Keith Higgins, a civilian defense attorney. The examin­er, Col. Kathleen Ingwersen, conducted Hatab's autopsy in Iraq and concluded he died from a broken bone in his neck. 
Higgins represents Marine Maj. Clarke Paulus, who ran the jail at the prison camp and is accused of ordering one of his men to drag Hatab by his neck after the Iraqi suffered a severe bout of diarrhea and collapsed while in custody. 
Paulus, 35, faces up to 4 1/2 years in prison if convicted of aggravated assault, dereliction of duty and maltreatment of prisoners. Court-martial is scheduled to begin in November at Camp Pendleton, the Marine base north of San Diego. 
Last week, a military judge delayed the start of the court­martial because of the missing evidence and ordered prosecu­tors to redouble their efforts to find the items. The judge, Col. Robert Chester, threatened "some extreme measures" to correct what he viewed as serious problems interfering the case. 
Biggins said it was "dis­heartening and extremely troubling" that military doc­tors would act so carelessly with evidence that he deemed crucial to clearing his client's name. 
!Iiggins also said an Army criminal investigator found a rib cage that may belong to !latah in a refrigerator at the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology in Washington, D.C. Ingwersen's autopsy found that !latah had six broken ribs. Hesults from a DNA test to determine whether the ribs were from !Iatab's body are expected Friday, Higgins said. 
Christopher Kelly. a spokesman for the institute. said he was unaware of the specifics of the case and could not comment. 
Marine guards have testified Hatab was targeted for rough treatment because they believed he had a role in the ambush of a U.S. Army convoy that killed 11 soldiers and led to the capture of Pfc. Jessica Lynch and others. 
The missing bones are just one of several errors in the investigation that became known at a hearing last week. !latah's organs, removed dur­ing the autopsy. were destroyed when they were left for hours in the blazing heat on an Iraqi airstrip. 
Marine Sgt. Gary Pittman was convicted earlier this month of dereliction of duty and abuse of prisoners at the prison camp, but was cleared of assaulting Hatab. Pittman was sentenced to 60 days of hard labor and demoted to private. 
CBS fights for reputation in National Guard scandal 
it has promised a stepped-up since. physical. Several document Rather repeated on "60
Associated Pres. effort to get at the truth. An editorial cartoon in the experts say they look suspi­Minutes" Wednesday -that NEW YORK -CBS News is "They could have saved Birmingham News pictured a ciously like they, were written no one has disputed the sub­trying to restore its credibility themselves a good deal of dour-looking Rather saying on on computer, not a 1970s-era stance of the story: Bush after a week of questions negative publicity and attacks camera, "There is not an anti­typewriter. received preferential treat­about its report on President if they had said that from the Bush media bias. And here's a CBS flew the late Killian's ment to get into the National Bush's National Guard service beginning," said Charlotte memo to prove it." former secretary, Marian Carr Guard and didn't fulfill his -yet it may never conclu­Grimes, a Syracuse University The memos, purportedly Knox, from Texas to New York requirements. sively know whether it was professor with a specialty in written by Bush's late Wednesday for an interview, But CBS News President duped by fake documents. political reporting. squadron commander, Lt. Col. in which she said she believed Andrew Heyward said "there The news division has Internet watchdogs were Jerry B. Killian, indicated he the documents were fake but obviously remain questions acknowledged for the first the first to raise questions had been pressured to sugar their content accurate. surrounding the documents time questions about the about last week's report, and coat Bush's performance and While backing away slightly and we're going to redouble authenticity of documents CBS anchor Dan Rather's crit­that the future president from the documents, CBS has our effort to get to the bottom used to support the story, and ics have been buzzing ever ignored an order to take a always maintained -and of them." 
Men's ND Invitational  
Warren Golf Course  
vs Georgetown  Gold Game  
At Alumni Field  Presented by South Bend  
**First 250 fans  Orthopaedics  
will receive an NO  **First 100 fans wiJI receive  
Soccer travel mug  a gold gamest-shirt at !2:30PM*  
sponsored by Drive and Shine**  *Free admission wf.th a valid  
Notre Dame  

aturaay, September 18th at, 7:30pm . . , student ID* 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Friday, September 17, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 10 244.49 +13.13

jones ' 
·•-· Same: ~ c.omposne Volume:
2,459 144 • I, 113,288,064 
AMEX 1,245.91 +6.67 NASDAQ 1,904.08 +7.56 NYSE 6,574.61 +28;29. s&PSOO 1,123.50 -3.13 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,139.36 m;L ;.;r9:z~zTJ; FTSE IOO(London) 4,556.50 +8.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.88 -0.10 11.23 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.15 +0.03 19.59 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.52 -0.31 20.11 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.26 +0.07 27.26 TASER INTL (TASR) -7.45 -3.21 39.88 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -1.75 -0.87 48.76 10-YEAR NOTE -1.01 -1.01 40.69 5-YEARNOTE -1.06 -1.06 32.76 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0,00 16.32 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.41 43.92 GOLD ($ffroy oz.) -0.30 406.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.35 96.075 
Exchon Rates 
YEN 109.54 EURO 0.8204 POUND 0.5576 CANADIAN$ 1.2902 
IN BRIEF 
Martha Stewart to report to prison 
NEW YORK-Martha Stewart said she would miss her many pets and hoped to be free in time for her cherished spring gardening. 
Otherwise. she seemed determined to get her ordeal over with when she announced Wednesday she would surrender within weeks to begin serving her five-month prison sen­tence. 
Speaking at a choreographed news confer­ence before a brilliant array of color swatches, Stewart said she will continue to appeal her conviction -but will head for prison anyway to end what she called a personal nightmare. 
"I must reclaim my good life," the 63-year­old millionaire businesswoman declared. "I must return to my good works and allow those around me who work with me to do the same." 
Stewart was convicted March 5 of lying about why she sold 3,928 shares of ImClone Systems Inc. stock on Dec. 27. 2001. the day before a negative announcement about the company that sent the price plunging. 
She was sentenced in July to five months in prison and five months of house arrest. The judge allowed her to remain free pending appeal ,.--but defense lawyers have now asked the judge to lift that order. 
Infineon pleads guilty to price fixing 
WASHINGTON -German computer chip­maker Infineon Technologies AG has agreed to plead guilty to price fixing and will pay a $160 million fine, the Justice Department announced Wednesday. 
In a plea agreement filed in U.S. District Court in San Francisco, Infineon acknowl­edged conspiring with other companies to fix prices of computer memory products between July 1999 and June 2002. 
The victims included some of the world's largest computer companies -Dell. Hewlett-Packard. IBM and Gateway. 
Infineon's "dynamic random access memo­ry" is used in digital recorders, personal computers. printers. video recorders. mobile phones and other electronics. 
The agreement calls for Infineon to plead guilty to one felony count of price fixing and to cooperate with the investigation of other producers of computer memory products. 

NEW YORK 
Stocks show signs of promise 
Though volatile oil prices loom, Wall Street begins to gain momentum 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Stocks regained some momentum Thursday as fresh economic data suggested inflation remains well under control. but volatile oil prices gave investors some pause late in the session. 
Analysts are closely watching stocks for signs that the market will stabi­lize in the second half of the year, but choppy trading has made it difficult to build confidence among investors. particularly given recent fluctuations in oil prices. Some traders ques­tioned the durability of the day's advance on the heels of several lowered corpo­rate forecasts and mixed economic data. 
"Once again, we've pulled oil into the headlines. It seems we always find our­selves with that staring us down anytime we're start­ing a rally." said Bill Groenveld, head trader for vFinance Investments. "We've had a strong move. but it would be healthy for the market to consolidate. It could give us a pedestal to move higher, solidly, in the fourth quarter. as long as economic numbers don't change and oil stays in line." 
The Dow Jones industrial average finished up 13.13, session as traders covered mer made it harder for focused on economic data or 0.1 percent. at their shorts. Ught crude for some companies to raise ahead of next week's meet­10,244.49. October delivery settled up prices. ing of the Federal Reserve; 
The broader gauges· also 30 cents at $43.88 per bar­Following a weaker ses­when policy-makers are closed in positive range. rel on the New York sion Wednesday, which ana­expected to raise the feder­The Nasdaq composite Mercantile Exchange. lysts said was overdue after al funds rate by a quarter index added 7 .56, or 0.4 rebounding from below four weeks of solid gains, point to 1. 7 5 percent. As percent, to 1,904.08. The $43. the inflation data was a long as inflation remains in Standard & Poor's 500 The Labor Department welcome buying incentive. check. analysts say the Fed index gained 3.13, or 0.3 reported a 0.1 percent and more than offset nega­is unlikely to adopt a more percent, to 1,123.50. increase in the Consumer tive earnings warnings from aggressive policy on rates. 
Oil production facilities in Price Index. the govern­several companies, includ­With oil prices. the jobs pic­the Gulf of Mexico were ment's most closely ing Norte! Networks Corp. ture and the presidential restaffing and assessing watched inflation gauge. It Volume was light due to race all coming into play, damage after Hurricane was a better reading than Rosh Hashanah -the however. a great deal of Ivan threatened rigs, tossed the 0.2 percent rise forecast Jewish New Year-and uncertainty remains. tankers off course and dent­by economists, and indi­ahead of the usually volatile Market watcher say this ed production earlier in the cates inflation poses no "triple witching" on Friday. shouldn't scare investors to week. Crude prices were immediate risk. Analysts when options and futures the sidelines, but it under­down most of the day. but said the economic lull in contracts expire. scores the need to keep inched higher late in the late spring and early sum-Much attention has been expectations in check. 


OPEC set to increase oil production 
prices," Algerian Oil Minister Chakib morning, U.S. crude futures were up
Associated Press 
Khelil said. 61 cents at $45 a barrel on the New But Leo Drollas, chief economist at York Mercantile Exchange, moved VIENNA, Austria '--OPEC will the London-based Center for Global largely by government data showing increase its oil production target by Energy Studies, said the decision a decline in inventories. The all-time 
1 million barrels a day later this was irrelevant. high reached Aug. 19 was $48.70 a year in a move widely viewed as "It's a PR exercise to prove to the barrel. October Brent crude was up more symbolic than significant. consumer that OPEC actually likes 32 cents at $42.05 in trading on given that the cartel has been them. " he said. "It's not going to London's International Petroleum exceeding the new output limit since 'help the market at all." Exchange. 
the beginning of the year. The move will increase OPEC's A proposal by the cartel's board of 
Kuwaiti Oil Minister Sheik Ahmad self-imposed output limit for all its governors to increase the price band Fahad al-Ahmad al-Sabah said members, except Iraq, from 26 mil­for its basket of crudes. currently at Wednesday the cartel agreed to the lion barrels a day to 27 million bar­$22 to $28, will be made at a meet­decision to raise output by nearly 4 rels, but the cartel is already pro­ing Dec. 10 in Cairo. Egypt. Prices percent, adding it would take effect ducing 27.4 million barrels and have long been well above the upper Nov. 1. 
accounts for one-third of the world's end of the band. which is the cartel's 
"We will give a signal to the mar­· oil supply. preferred selling range. OPEC's bas­ket that we are working hard for the Crude prices in New York and ket price, currently in' the $39 a bar­stability of the market," he said. London climbed to record highs ear­rel range. is lower than prices in the 
"It's a gesture of goodwill to the lier this summer. but have eased in United States because that market consumers that we want lower recent weeks. In trading Wednesday requires a higher grade of product. 
Friday, September 17, 2004
page 8 The Observer + ELECTION NEWS 

Bush visits South on fundraising trip 
Incumbent seeks women's votes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush is dusting off his fund­raiser-in-chief hat and resum­ing the task of collecting cam­paign cash for himself and other Republican candidates. 
lie was raising money Friday in Washington and North Carolina and, while down south, was holding an event designed to boost his standing among women vot­ers. 
Bush last appeared at a fund-raiser Aug. 13 in Seattle, and has spent far less time raising money in recent months than campaigning. 
Both he and Democratic challenger John Kerry have accepted $75 million in tax­payer money for the general campaign, but the GOP and Democratic parties will spend tens of millions more and the candidates continue to help raise that cash. The parties can spend roughly $16 million each in coordination with their presidential nominees, and unlimited amounts inde­pendent of them. 
Bush was to attend a Republican Party fund-raiser at a Washington hotel before another at the Charlotte, N.C., home of C.D. Spangler Jr., a retired banker and former president of the University of North Carolina system. The Charlotte fund-raiser also will benefit the campaign of GOP Hep. Richard Burr, who is run­ning for an open Senate seat against Democrat Erskine Bowles, a former chief of staff to President Clinton. 

In between, Bush was to talk up the benefits to women of his policies on comp time, job training, welfare-to-work, medical malpractice lawsuits and other issues. 
The event has Bush cam­paigning in the home state of Democratic vice presidential nominee John Edwards, a sen­ator from North Carolina. The Kerry-Edwards ticket has been campaigning aggressive­ly there in hopes of putting the state's 15 electoral votes in play, though it was last car­ried by a Democrat in 1976 and Bush easily won there in 2000. 
Polls last month showed Bush with a narrow lead in the state. 
Bush, who aims to put North Carolina out of contention before Kerry boosts his adver­tising spending there, was last in the state in July, for anoth­er fund-raiser. 
From North Carolina, Bush was traveling to his family's compound in Kennebunkport, Maine, where he was spending the weekend. He leaves Sunday to visit hurricane-rav­aged Alabama and FLorida before returning to Washington. 
The hastily arranged Gulf Coast visit forced aides to 
shelve  plans  for  Bush  to  
attend  a  NASCAR  race  and  
campaign  event  in  New  

Hampshire on Sunday. The campaign event in Derry, N.H., is now scheduled for Monday. 
Kerry strikes back at Cheney 

Associated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -John Kerry counts on loud applause at campaign stops when he strik.es against Dick Cheney and Halliburton. The Democratic presidential candidate seeks to tap into that vein of combative­ness with a new attack and tele­vision ad aimed at the vice pres­ident and the multinational cor­poration he headed. 
The new ad seeks to paint Cheney with a conflict of inter­est for collecting deferred bene­fits from the time was Halliburton's chiefexecutive and the work the company has done during the war and reconstruc­tion oflraq. 
It says the administration's 
decision to award contracts to said in remarks prepared for Halliburton without competitive delivery Friday. bidding wasted taxpayer money "As commander in chief, I will that could have been used to have two words for companies create jobs and provide health who cheat the U.S. military ­care. Several .investigations into you're fired." Halliburton's work in Iraq have The Bush-Cheney campaign shown evidence of overcharging said the links aren't there. or raised questions about the "John Kerry's latest personal corporation's performance. attack has as much accuracy as 
The campaign also seeks to a Kitty Kelly novel," said link Cheney and Halliburton to spokesman Steve Schmidt, the president's management of referring to the expose author military and security operations who recently released a book on in Iraq, and Kerry's frequent the Bush family. "It's a breath­charge that the Bush adminis-takingly dishonest attack by tration works hardest for special John Kerry." interests. Schmidt said deferred com­
"We need a commander in pensation packages have been chief and a vice president who accepted by other business lead­puts the interests of our troops ers who move to the private sec­and our taxpayers ahead of tor, including some in President their big money friends,"__Kerry Clinton's administration. 
..:.____ 


''You Killed My Son'' shirt disrupts rally 
New Jersey woman protesting son's death in Iraq war is escorted from First Lady's speech 
Associated Press event, handcuffed her and put her in the back of a police 
IIAMILTON, N.J. A van. woman wearing a T-shirt Niederer was later charged with the words "President with defiant trespass and Bush You Killed My Son" and released. a picture of a soldier killed in The first lady continued Iraq was detained Thursday speaking, touting her hus­after she interrupted a cam­band's record on the econo­
paign speech by first lady my, health care and the war Laura Bush. on terror to those 
Police escort-attending the
"Too many people

ed Sue rally in this sub­Niederer, of here had a loved urban community Hopewell, N.J., of 90,000 people
one that went to 

from a rally at near Trenton.
work in New York 

a l'irehouse She made sever­after she that day. ft'sfor al references to demanded to the Sept. 11 ter­
our country ... that 

know why her rorist attacks, and 
we do the hard 

son, Army 1st said that many in Lt. Seth Dvorin, work of New Jersey, 24, was killed confronting terror." including some in in Iraq. Dvorin neighborhoods died in near the fire­
Laura Bush

February while house, lost family trying to disarm First Lady members that day. a bomb. "Too many peo-
As shouts of ple here had a "Four More Years" subsided, loved one that went to work Niederer, standing in the mid­in New York that day," Bush 
dle of a crowd of some 700, said. "It's for our country, it's 
continued to shout about the for our children, our grand­killing of her son. Local children that we do the hard police escorted her from the work of confronting terror." 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 



INNSBRUCK 
Information Meeting 
With Professor Gernot Gurtler, Director ofthe Innsbruck Program 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 311 DEBARTOLO 
4:30-6:00 pm 

Applications A vailab/e wwwlnd.edul-int/stud 
Questions?-Weber.15@nd.edu Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------­
page 9 

The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 


AP John Wilhelm, left, president of Hospitality Industry Unite Here, appears before demonstrators on the beach In Atlantic City, N.J. 
Associated Press 
ATLANTIC CITY. N.J. ­Waving signs that read "No Contract. No Peace" and "Contract Now," an estimat­ed 5,000 casino-hotel work­ers Thursday marched along the Boardwalk and onto the beach in a boisterous show of union solidarity. 
There were no arrests or reports of violence, police said. 
Most of the marchers were members of the 17.000­member Local 54 of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees union, which has been working without a contract since mid­night Tuesday. Union mem­bers have voted to authorize a strike. but one has not been called. 
"We don't want to strike, but we will if we have to," said Mary Walsh. 43, a buffet server at Resorts· Atlantic City. "Here, we're trying to show we're all together." 
The union, which repre­sents bartenders, cooks, cocktail servers, housekeep­ers and other rank-and-file casino employees, is embroiled in a bitter dispute with the casinos over the use of nonunion subcontractors in casino restaurants and bars. 
They were joined by mem­bers of the union's interna­tional affiliate, and by con­struction trades workers and other union supporters from neighboring states. 
Starting at opposite ends of the Boardwalk, two groups waved signs and chanted slo­gans, squeezing bystanders to the storefronts and rail­ings that line the Boardwalk. 
The union last struck in 1999 with a three-day walk­out that forced casinos to curtail some services and put executives and managers to work in the vacated union jobs. 

Iraq inspector to find no WMDs 
Report draft concludes Hussein did not stockpile 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Drafts of a report from the top U.S. inspector in Iraq conclude there were no stockpiles of weapons of mass destruc­tion, but say there are signs the fallen Iraqi President Saddam Hussein had dor­mant programs he hoped to revive at a later time, according to people familiar with the findings. 
In a 1, 500-page report, the head of the Iraq Survey Group, Charles Duelfer, will find Saddam was importing banned materials, working on unmanned aerial vehicles in violation of U.N. agree­ments and maintaining a dual-use industrial sector that could produce weapons. 
Duelfer also says Iraq only had small research and development programs for chemical and biological weapons. 
As Duelfer puts the finish­ing touches on his report, he concludes Saddam had intentions of restarting weapons programs at some point, after suspicion and inspections from the inter­national community waned. 
After a year and a half in Iraq. however, the United States has found no weapons of mass destruction -its chief argument for overthrowing the regime. 
An intelligence official said Duelfer could wrap up the report as soon as this month, but noted it may take time to declassify it. 
Those who discussed the report inside and outside the government did so on the condition of anonymity 
because it contains classi­fied material and is not yet completed. 
If the report is released publicly before the Nov. 2 election, Democrats are likely to seize on the docu­ment as another opportunity to criticize the Bush admin­istration's leading argument for war in Iraq and the dete­riorating security situation there. 
Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry has criticized the president's handling of the war in Iraq, but has also said he still would have voted to author­ize the war even if he had known no weapons of mass destruction would be found there. 
Duelfer's report is expect­ed to be similar to findings reported by his predecessor, David Kay, who presented an interim report to Congress in October. Kay left the post in January, say­ing, "We were almost all wrong" about Saddam's weapons programs. 
The new analysis, howev­er, is expected to fall between the position of the Bush administration before the war portraying Saddam as a grave threat ­and the declarative state­ments Kay made after he resigned. 
It will also add more evi­dence and flesh out Kay's October findings. 
Then, Kay said the Iraq Survey Group had only uncovered limited evidence of secret chemical and bio­logical weapons programs, but he found substantial evi­dence of an Iraqi push to 


Nickel gets make-over 
Jefferson head bigger, bolder on coin 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Thomas Jefferson appears bolder and bigger on new five-cent pieces, marking his first makeover since he landed on the nickel in 1938. 
The maker of the nation's coins, the U.S. Mint, revealed designs for two new nickels to be issued in 2005. The unveil­ing Thursday was the latest in a series of design changes for the coins. 
A new likeness of Jefferson will be on the front of the two revamped coins, giving the third president a "fresh, con­temporary look," Mint Director Henrietta Holsman Fore said. The "tails" side also gets updat­ed. 
With the makeover, Jefferson will move from the center of the coin to the side, where he gazes in a close-up profile that shows more detailed features of his face. 
"I wanted an image that was large enough so that you could see the determination and intel­ligence in his eyes. The kind­ness of his mouth. His sense of humor. The main thing that was guiding me ... I wanted you to get a sense of the character of the person," said artist Joe Fitzgerald, who created the design for the front of the new nickel. 

boost the range of its ballis­tic missiles beyond prohibit­ed ranges. 
He also said there was almost no sign that a signifi­cant nuclear weapons proj­ect was under way. 
Duelfer's report doesn't reach firm conclusions in all areas. 
For instance, U.S. officials are still investigating whether Sad dam's fallen regime may have sent chem­ical weapons equipment and several billion dollars over the border to Syria. That has not been confirmed, but remains an area of interest to the U.S. government. 
The Duelfer report will co me months after the Senate Intelligence Committee released a scathing assessment of the prewar intelligence on Iraq. 
After a yearlong inquiry. the Republican-led commit­tee said in July the CIA kept key information from its own and other agencies' analysts, engaged in "group think" by failing to chal­lenge the assumption that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction and allowed President Bush and Secretary of State Colin Powell to make false state­ments. 
The Iraq Survey Group has been working since the sum­mer of 2003 to find Saddam's weapons and bet­ter understand his prohibit­ed programs. 
More than a thousand civilian and military weapons specialists, trans­lators and other experts have been devoted to the effort. 
Also on the front of both new coins: The word "liberty" will appear in script -as Jefferson once had written in his own hand. The phrase "In God We Trust" remains as well as the year. 
Daniel Jordan, president of the Thomas Jefferson Foundation, which owns and administers Jefferson's Virginia home, Monticello, described the new likeness as "truly impres­sive and it is entirely appropri­ate." Besides being a founding father of the nation, Jefferson was an avid coin collector, he said. 
The back of one of the new nickels -which will be released early next year -fea­tures an American bison on a grassy patch, a design that is reminiscent of the buffalo nick­el first issued in 1913. The words "United States of America" wrap around the top of the coin, above the bison's image. The phrase "E Pluribus Unum" is below the bison as is "Five Cents." 
The tails side of the second new nickel features a view of the water from a rocky coast­line dotted with trees. There's the phrase "Ocean in view! 0! The joy!" That's a quote from explorer William Clark's jour­nal, a reference to the Lewis and Clark expedition's quest to reach the Pacific Ocean. 
page 10 Friday, September 17, 
The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 


Purpose of 
E:m:mys 


questioned 
Change of air date for mua rd show considered 
Associ a ted Press 
LOS ANGELES -Each year, 
January and February bring an 
escalating rush of red-carpet 
exciwment with the Golden 
Clotws, Screen Actors Guild 
Awards and Oscars. 
Tlwn comes September and 
litth~ orphan Emmy. 
lntPnded to serve as the stan­
dard-bearer for the opening of 
the fall TV season, the 
Academy of Television Arts & 
SciPnces awards are far 
rPmoved from the convergent 
frenzy of other Hollywood self­
love pageants. 
But what if Emmy's isolation 
e1Hkd? After all, the traditional 
fall-to-spring TV season has 
bPen declared passe by at least 
o1w broadcast network and is 
little observed by cable chan­
lwls. 
Could an earlier Emmy cere­
mony juice viewership, which 
last year measured just under 
18 million? That's compared to 
nearly 27 million viewers for 
this year's Golden Globes and 
43 million-plus for the Oscars. 
For actors, the shift from Los 
Angeles' typically sizzling 
September to a cooler month 
amounts to a health and safety 
iSS LIP. 
"At that time of year, it's 4 in 
the afternoon in Los Angeles 
and it's 98 degrees and they're 
sweating in their tuxedoes," 
observed analyst Bill Carroll of 
Katz Television Group. 
Most importantly, a spring­time awards show could benefit worthy but ratings-challenged shows that need a boost. 
"Emmys have a noble history of saving shows," said Tom O'Neil. author of "The Emmys" and host of GoldDerby.com. an awards prediction Web site. 
"All in the Family" was mired in the ratings cellar after it debuted in January 1971. The Emmys were held in the spring that year and the sitcom received the best comedy series award as well as the best new series trophy [no longer given] and went on to become an invaluable part of America's culture. 
This Sunday, when the 56th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards are held [airing 8 p.m. EDT on ABC]. the critically lauded yet low-rated Fox sit­com "Arrested Development" could be the beneficiary of Emmy largesse. 
After evading cancellation, its best comedy series bid could draw audience attention to its charms. 
Emmy's impact on endan­gered programs would be even greater if the awards came early in the year when they have a chance to affect viewer­ship for struggling shows. 
More than a few series can­celed in May, when the fall schedules are announced. have enjoyed the empty honor of an Emmy nomination in July. 
Those wary of change should consider the evidence: Until 1976 the awards were usually held no later than May, at the TV season's conclusion. They moved to September in 1977 after a split between East and West Coast factions of the TV academy. 
20,1999. 

The grand jury said it didn't hand up any indictments because all the witnesses claimed to know nothing about the missing sher­iffs records. The records involved a draft search warrant for Harris' house a year before the attack. 
Salazar took the case to the grand jury after the sherifl' asked him to investigate last fall. 
The grand jury report said the draft affidavit, never submitted to a judge. was the subject of "a pri­vate meeting of high-ranking Jefferson County ofTicials and law enforcement officials" called a few days after the attack to dis­cuss the document and its "potential liabilities." 
As a result of that meeting, sheriff's office decided agai discussing the affidavit in an 30, 1999, news conferenc state district judge ordered affidavit's rnlease in 2001. 
Jefferson County Attorney Dave Thomas, who at the post-attack meeting, Thursday that was the first ti he saw the affidavit and that it didn't provide enough evidence to warrant asearch of the (farris home. lfis spokeswoman. Pam Bussell, also said prosecutors weren't asked during the meeting whether investigators should publicly disclose the document. 




NO UNE)(PECTED COSTS 
(TH,AT'S, WHAT YOUR FIRST CAR IS FOR) 
Associated Press 
DENVEH-Authorities decided soon after the Columbine High School massacre to withhold a document showing deputies knew one of the killers had been accused two years earlier of mak­ing death threats and building pipe bombs, according to a grand jury report released Thursday. 
The grand jury also said it was "troubled" by still-missing docu­ments in what remains the dead­liest school attack in U.S. history. But it did not hand up any indict­ments, closing at least the third investigation that has elected not to place any blame for the slaughter of 13 people by suicidal teens Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold. 
Victims' families said the report confirmed their suspicions that the Jefferson County Sheriff's Office covered up mistakes that could have led authorities to the killers as much as two years before the attack. 
"Clearly Columbine never should have happened and they don't want the public to know that," said Brian Hohrbough, one of several family members who met Thursday with Attorney General Ken Salazar. Rohrbough's son. Daniel, was among the students slain on April 

$20ft~t~e first 6 months, 
$39.95 thereafter) Call and Text Plan 
• 1000 Anytime Minutes 
• 
Unlimited Call Me Minutes 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
250 Text Messages a month FREE for 2 months 


C.more 
Pilon• 

Ask about Nights & Weekends starting at 7 p.m. 

f< US. Cellular 
Limited time offer. 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.CO M 
Airtime and text messaging offer valid on two-year consumer serv1ce agreements of $39.95 or higher. 50% access discount valid for tile first 6 months of a 2 year contract. Unlimited call Me Minutes are only available In the local calling area and are nol deducted from packaged minutes, 3000 Nights and Weekends are available In the local calling area for $4.95 per month, "Text messaging 250 package Is $5.95 thereafter. $0.10 per outgoing message beyond 250. Must call to cancet Offers may expore if you change your calling plan, Ail serv1ce agreements subject to an early termination fee. Customer Is responsible for all sales taxes. Other restrictions may apply, See store for details. Umlte<J time offer. Roaming charges. fees. surcharges and taxes may apply.lnCiudmg a Federal and other Regulatory Fee charge of $.55, Customer Is responsible for all sales taxes, <Cl2004 U.S. Cellular COrl)lratlon 

Friday, September 17, 2004 


The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 



Officer accuses panelists of bias 
Hurricane Jeanne 
Dismissals suggested in Guantanamo Bay hearings 

ravages Caribbean 
Associated Press 

SAN JUAN -The presiding officer in charge of U.S. mili­tary commissions in Guantanamo Bay has recom­mended that two panel mem­bers be dismissed from hear­ing cases of suspected terror­ists because they could be con­sidered biased. 
t\rmy Col. Peter Brownback made the recommendations in a letter to commissions' appointing authority and obtained by The Associated Press on Thursday. The recom­mendation for their dismissal came after defense challenges last month at preliminary hearings for four Guantanamo prisoners charged with war crimes. 
The two men Brownback said should step aside were Air Force Lt. Col. Timothy Toomey, an intelligence officer who was involved in capture of suspects in Afghanistan, and alternate panel member, Army Lt. Col. Curt Cooper, who admitted calling Guantanamo prisoners "terrorists." 
"Specifically, his comments that the detainees in Cuba were terrorists. or words to that effect, might cause some to believe that he has pre­judged the cases," Brownback wrote in the letter dated Sept. 15, 2004. and made in response to a series of chal­lr.nges. 
·Toomey's activities in Afghanistan could be seen as problematic, wrote Brownback, who recommend­ed keeping panel members Marine Col.· Jack Sparks Jr. 
and Marine Col. Thomas Bright -two members indi­vidually challenged because of their links with the war on ter­ror. 
Sparks lost a reservist work­ing as a firefighter in the Sept. 11 attack on New York City, and Bright assembled lists of detainees bound for Guantanamo. 
Brownback's recommenda­tions came after an unexpect­ed challenge from the govern­Brownback to evaluate his suitability. 
Brownback worked with the commission's appointing authority, John Altenburg, in Fort Bragg, N.C. He also spoke at a retirement roast for Altenburg and attended the wedding of Altenburg's son. Brownback's wife also worked in Altenburg's office. 
"We request that he [Brownback] closely evaluate his own suitability to serve as 

the presiding officer ... with particular attention focused on whether his impartiality might reason­ably be ques­tioned," Swann said in his filing. 
Associated Press 
Altenburg is expected to SAMANA Hurricane 

decide on chal­

Jeanne plowed into the 
lenges to the 

Dominican Republic Thursday, panel members, killing a baby and forcing thou­
including 

sands of people to flee their Brownback, by homes. The storm unleashed 
the first week of floods and left two dead a dayNovember. Only earlier in Puerto Rico. 

ment's top prose­cutor who joined defense attorneys in their assertion 
that Brownback's 
close relationship with the commis­sion's appointing authority could be viewed as a con­flict. 
Brownback said it was inappropri­ate for him to com­ment on challenges made to his impar­tiality but said he had evaluated whether he could do the job. He is 

"Specifically, his comments that 
detainees in Cuba were terrorists, or words to that effect, might cause some to believe that he has prejudged the cases. 
Peter Brownback Army colonel 
the only person on the five  three members are needed to  Jeanne made landfall at the  
member panel with law expe­rience. "To the best of my knowl­ hold commissions. or trials, the first set to begin in December. Meanwhile, two alleged al­ island's evacuated eastern tip and weakened to a tropical storm as it raked the north  
edge, there was not any item brought forth in voir dire [challenging of members] which might cause a reason­able person to believe that I  Qaida fighters on Thursday boycotted U.S. military hear­ings meant to decide whether they are being properly held as enemy combatants.  coast. But it was expected to regain hurricane strength and likely head for the Bahamas and then Florida, Georgia or the Carolinas.  
could not provide a full or fair trial or to show that my impar­tiality might reasonably be  Both prisoners, ages 26 and 28, allegedly fought against U.S. forces in Afghanistan, said  "We can't really say for sure whether it's going to ease up to the north on the Florida coast  
questioned," Brownback said.  Navy Cmdr. Daryl Borgquist, a  or continue more westward  
Chief prosecutor Army Col. Robert Swann asked  spokesman for the review tri­bunals.  over Florida," said Max Mayfield, director of the U.S.  

National Hurricane Center in Miami. "People need to monitor it very carefully." 
Jeanne's heavy rains reached to the Dominican capital, Santo Domingo, where a 4-month-old child died when a landslide crushed part of her family's house, said Jose Luis German, spokesman for the National Emergency Committee. 
At least eight people were injured as trees toppled and floods struck parts of the east and northeast, officials said. Crashing waves pounded the north coast, along with high winds that knocked over palm trees. 
Telephone service and elec­tricity were out in some areas. Some airline flights were can­celed. 
"We're all afraid," said Julie Acosta, 17, helping her father tie down their tin roof with rope as winds and rain intensi­fied around Samana, a coastal town popular with European tourists about 60 miles north­east of Santo Domingo. 
More than 8,200 Dominicans were evacuated and took refuge in shelters set up in schools and churches, officials
l~fo~&,o"" Meet~""9S 
said. 
"I had to come here because at night this becomes scary," said Mario Vasquez, a 40-year­old farmer crowded with 150 people into a school in blacked­out Samana. "People could die out here." 
Beachside hotels and restau­rants closed along the north coast, while authorities ordered boats into port. 
Jeanne hit the Dominican Republic with 80 mph winds before dropping 70 mph, just shy of hurricane strength. 
The storm raged across Puerto Rico on Wednesday, dumping up to two feet of rain. flooding hundreds of homes, snapping trees and downing power lines. 
"It left a wake of destruction that we now have to face," Puerto Rico's Gov. Sila Calderon said Thursday. She asked President Bush to declare a disaster to speed the release of federal aid. 
About 3,600 Puerto Ricans remained in shelters Thursday, dozens of roads were blocked, most of the 4 million islanders were without power and some 600,000 without running water for a second day. Calderon said. 
One Puerto Rican woman was kille·d Wednesday when winds flung her from a hammock and smashed her into a neighbor's house, and a man putting up storm shutters died when he fell from a roof, police said. 
At 8 p.m., Jeanne's eye was over the northeast Dominican Republic, about 65 miles north­east of Santo Domingo. The storm was drifting, with storm­force winds stretched out 70 miles, and expected to remain near the Dominican coast through Friday. A slow west­northwest turn was expected in 12-24 hours. 
In the U.S. Virgin Islands, debris littered streets and some residents shoveled mud from homes. Two prisoners escaped from a St. Croix jail during the storm, though it was unclear how, police said. 

SPM 1.2~ H-Ayes-t 16ALY 

Italian BakerY. & Restaurant 
• The authentic fine Italian dining

T'Vl6Sl:>Ay, S6PI 6M~6R-21. 
• 
Downtown South Bend 

• 
Across from the Marriott


OR. 
• Chef:Adele De Rosa Ciao 
123 N. Mich"igan St. South Bend, IN 4660 I Phone: 574-289-CIAO (2426) • Fax: 574-232-0043 



THE ()BSER\'ER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, September 17, 2004 

THE OBSERVER 
Performing arts center overdue 
PO. !lox Q. Nmre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining I fall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 The departments of Music and Film. Television and Theater single large performance space, the University has commit­
EDITOR IN Ct-llllf 

have been waiting a long time for this. ted itself to students first and foremost, providing them with
Matt wur 

Students and professors have waited patiently for much diverse opportunities in different opportunities in different 
MANAGING EDITOR "' 8tJSINliSS MANAGER 
longer than just the 20 years of planning and construction genres of the arts. Underwriting student ticket prices will Meghannc Downes Mike Flanag-o~n 
that went into the new project. They have waited while near­also allow students to see legendary performing artists at Assr. MANAGING EDil'OR ly every other department on campus has been given appro­prices that could not be found elsewhere. Joe Hertler priate space. They have waited and worked with what was The PAC will not just change the face of Notre Dame arts available-buildings that could not meet the full needs of education. The building is not only the best performing arts
Nt:ws EDITOR! Claire Heininger 
the FTT center in South Bend but one of the best in all 
VU:.WI'OINT EDITOR• Sarah Vabulas 
But now the wait is finally over. The end may of Northern Indiana. Any membPr of the com­
SPORTS EDITOR: Hcarh<'r Van Hoegntden 
have been a long time coming-but it is a O The· munity interested in the arts will experience
SCENE EmroR: Maria Smith oserver
spectacular end. the difference almost as much as students in 
lN Focus EorroRr Meghan Marrin 
The Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the music and FTT programs. The chance to see SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud 
Performing Atts is not just an improvement musicians like Wynton Marsalis or watch a film
Editorial

I'HOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
over Washington HalL The center is designed to in a TIIX-certificd theater is something that GRAPHICS E1>1TOR1 Mike Harkins fit the needs of the performing arts departments in a way no benefits both the campus and surrounding communities. ADVERTISIN<; MANAGER! Carrie F111nklin building on campus has ever been able to do. Every student Notre Dame has always been known for sports and aca­AD DESIGN MANAGt:R: Kelly Nelson of the arts on campus -from the film classes that can now demics, but the University has never been known for stn~ngth SYSTF.MS AOMINISTKATORI Mary Allen see their clips perfectly projected to the theater classes that in the arts. With the opening of the PAC. this may be possible CO!HROll.I!R: Paula Garcia can build their sets in a real scenery shop -will benefit for the first time. enormously from the new facility. Reputation aside, the PAC is a benefit to the community 0FAC£ MANAGER & GENERAL INFO The University has not just provided a phenomenal per­and a long-overdue boost to arts education on campus. The 
(574) 631-7471 formance facility, but a phenom·enal performance facility that University has made up for its longstanding inattention to the
FAX 

will benefit students as much as possible. By choosing to con­artistic education of its students over the last century with 
(574) 631-6927 

struct a center with a variety of smaller venues instead of a the construction of a world-class performing facility.
ADvERTISING (574) 631-6900 ob$cad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 63J.4542 
MANAGING fOITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
Debates, Iraq will determ_ine election 
(574) 631-4324 BUSINESS 0FACE (574) 631-5313 

You read it here first. The presidential everything he needed to launch his cam­Kerry sits today in the polls, nationally 
NEWS'OESK 

election will not be as close as any poll has paign in earnest in the closing two neck and neck with the incumbent but 
(574) 631-5323 obsn<:ws.l@nd.edu 
indicated to date. In fact, the electoral col­months. Yet polls reveal lurking shadows leading within the margin of statistical 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 
631-5.30.3 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu lege total will be lopsided as welL The feel for him. Bush still has a net negative job error in most swing states. It was a time of SPORTS DESK of this year's race, backed by internal performance rating (52-48 percent). a high gasoline prices at the pump, hostility 

(574) 
631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu polling data that has negative re-elect of more voters thinking it in the Middle East, low respect for this 


SCENE DESK 

remained constant Gary Caruso is time for someone new than feel he nation abroad and declining morale ht~rr
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.cdu 
throughout the year, is deserves re-election (49-46 percent) and a at home. The stage is set this year for his­
SAINT MARY'S DESK 

smc.I@nd.cdu similar to the one run in Capitol net negative wrong direction !'or the collll­tory to n~peat itself. PHOTO DESK 1980. Only an extreme Comments try (48-46 percent). A problem the Bush team faces is that 
(574) 6.31-8767 photo@nd.edu "October surprise" or Some independent daily tracking polL<> polls show that 14 of the 16 battleground SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
devastating attacks show Bush with a point or two lead as of states this year oppose the Iraqi invasion 
(574) 6.31-8839 

either in Iraq or on U.S. soil can reverse Labor Day with nine percent undecided. by an average of 55 percent. Bush has a the trend. That said, the debates will sell (The undecided number is important, numbers problem that will be diflicult to THE the winning candidate to the American because typically 85 percent of the unde­overcome should he lose just a couple of 0BSERVERONL/Nf electorate and close the books on this cided vote goes against the incumbent.) his previously won states. Bush risks los­
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
year's contest. But even assuming Bush emerged from ing six of the following states he previously POLICIES The dynamics of this year's presidential his convention with a ten-point lead that won -Arkansas, Florida. Missouri. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper election became apparent at the height of other polls showed, his lead does not Nevada, New Hampshire. Ohio, Tennessee published in prmt and online by the studenrs of the the summer, well before either the approach the average lead of sixteen per­and West Virginia. Conventional wisdom Uniwrsity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Democratic or Republican conventions centage points for the elected incumbent suggests that if incumbent Bush traib in 
College. Editorial content, lnduding advenisc:ments, is 
performed their pageantry for the following a convention. Even with his most now, chances arc that voters who 
not governed by policies ofthe adminisrration of eirh<'t 
American electorate. About 45 percent of bounce, Bush's numbers arc historically have abandoned him will not return in
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
the electorate is rabidly pro-Bush, and 45 weak. November.
advertisement~ based on cont~ot. 

percent is rabidly anti-Bush. Therefore, it The reason is obvious. The 45 percent This year's election, like 1980, is a rcf()r­
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of doesn't matter what a candidate's "nega­who think Bush is a great wartime leader. endum on the incumbent's performance. the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, tives" are until it surpasses 45 percent. and the 45 percent who think he is a reck­With Bush's approval rating steadily hov­Assismnr Managing Ediwr and department editors. The election is fought in the middle ten less and dangerous man, are not going to ering in the low to mid-40 percent range, Commentaries, letters and columns present the views percent. change their minds. The Republicans his task is to win back support that has of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe A recent leadership gauge shows among knew that their chance to bash Kerry for abandoned him. In 1980, Jimmy Carter Observer. 
independents. Kerry leads Bush by 10 four days over terrorism was a one-shot held a similar approval rating until tlw 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
points, 48 percent to 38 percent. His lead deal, and that the biggest issue among last week of the campaign when those
expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. 
is 12 points-51 percent to 39 percent­swing voters is the economy. That is, of who had abandoned Cartnr were con­
Lerters to the Editor must be: signed and must indude 
in battleground states. These middle­course. unless things go terribly bad in vinced that they could live with Heagan in
contact information. ground voters are by nature less ideologi­Iraq or on the terrorism front. The worse the White I louse. ~JtiiJnt ~arding Oburvt'rpolid~ rhould bt' caL They tend to be concerned with pock­the world, the more effective Republican During the debates, Kerry needs to closP dirrct~ to Editor in Chi~JMatt Lomr. etbook issues, which is why Kerry has fear-mongering. the same sale to the American voters by emphasized the economy. However, they I lowever, Kerry's 45 percent may want shedding on· the BPnublican charges that POST OFFICE INFORMATION can be swayed by cultural issues, by him to rant about Iraq, to be "more have distorted Ke1 y's character and serv­
11M! Ob~(Wt rus.rs $992-~0) it: puhlbhad MotMl.&y tbruuJb flt~y (lk:Ef>l dwc~ 
appeals to patriotism and national securi· aggressive," to motivate them, but that's ice. If Kerry can successfully lay Bush's
OlCIIn an.J •.catiut!. prriot.k. Asubsulp«ion ruThcOlucno•(, $100 rorancraa.:adanP: )'t'Q; U:~ fo, onco ~ 
ty. or by how much they personally like a not a formula for winning Ohio. In the gold retirement watch on the table, Kerry 
11~ ObM:TYN i:J a rnmtkr ~;~(~ ~i.K'e:l ~..~.. All ~prt;Jd~,J<:t,ion rigttt• .-n' 
f*'W:d, candidate, which is why the Republican debates Kerry will show that he is empa­will sweep to a large and dramatic win. "t!M'Ohf"""""" p\lbtube-1 .u 1\().llo.. Q convention emphasized fear of terror and thetic. He will need to articulate a straight 
ot~ Sou<h D""•a H.U 024 Soucll Oiomg H.U 
N.:.ttt O.m~. 'N 46~~ ridicule of Kerry. answer about Iraq. and attack Bush on Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, served as
None u..... 1N ~~56-0m . ~no4teaiJKWttl,C! paid -u Nom:: IJ.tmt 
At present, the Republican Convention making the country weaker and more vul­a legislative and public affairs director in 
tUld uidi[ioR..lltl.iUns, olf'IC(II:. 

has given Bush a slight lead in acontest nerable instead of stronger. Kerry must President Clinton sadministration. /lis 
that Kerry has usually led (very slightly) also dispel any doubts that he can protect column appears every other Friday. lie
Se-nd .ddrm cttc:~«fiMf: nl! 
The()!...,.,. 

for six months. Bush energized his base the nation. can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. 
1'h(' Ob.M:~vrc:r b • mcm\sft' 9r theAI~:md ~.AU .rrpr~~~qn riJ):l11' IU'C:' 
more than Kerry, not the swing middle. During the summer of 1980, challenger The views expressed in this column are
""""'"· 

Bush milked his party's convention for Ronald Heagan sat approximately where those ofthe author and not necessarily 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Amanda Michaels Heather Van OBSERVER POLL Caire Heininger Hoe garden 
For what will you use the DeBartolo
Kate Antonacci Mike Gilloon 
Performing Arts Center? a. Concerts 7%
Viewpoint Maggie Oldham 
b. Movies 2% 
Maureen Scene c. Symphony 4% 
d. Lecture 3%
Reynolds Mollly Griffin 
e. 2 of the above 20% Alyssa Brauweiler Illustrator f. 3 of the above 12% 
g. 4 of the above 8%
Graphics Graham Ebetsch h. All of the above 25% *Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com
Graham Ebetsch 

and is based on 164 responses, 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Suppose you were an idiot, and suppose you were a member ofCongress: but I repeat myself" 
Mark Twain author 




the most productive Americans will fund the swarm of costly social programs he proposes. How often is Bush asked to elab­orate on his plans to revamp the tax code? I try not to hold my breath when I turn on CNN. 
Instead of policy debate and positive campaigning, Bush and Kerry are locked in a prisoner's dilemma that neither serves the electorate nor gives either candidate the upper hand. lifted from the tradi­tional game theory appli­cation, a prisoner's dilemma occurs when both sides would bene­fit from cooperating, but a defection allows one side to gain an advantage until the other follows suit, ending in an "equilib­rium" with a payoff inferior to the possibili­ty of mutual coopera­tion for both players. 
In the election game, each side faces the option of strictly positive campaign­ing or allowing and engaging in cheap partisan attacks, and four possible states can ensue. One, Bush and Kerry scarcely discuss each other's shortcomings while focusing on chiefly on how to achieve their vision for the future, and independent attack groups keep their dogs in the pen. Two, Bush takes hit after hit from Kerry. Edwards, Gore, Moore and Whoopi Goldberg, while no one fires back in Kerry's direction. Three, Kerry somehow halts the seething rage against Bush from fomenting and spilling over as Republicans and angry swift boat veterans target the Kerry punching bag. Or four, both sides clash in juvenile name-calling and fear-mongering that overshadows the most crucial issues facing the country. 
In a perfect world, the hand-holding love­fest scenario would be ideal for voters to form an informed opinion, but the unaffiliated 527s, diminutive 
Vermont governors, and angry documentary filmmakers are an unchecked force 
that make that equilibri­um unattainable. Both 
of the lopsided scenar­ios are possible for a brief period, but the 
moment one side gains the upper hand in attacks, the opposi­tion will strike back with equal or greater 
vigor. Events from the last 
month and a half sup­port the idea of a political prisoner's dilemma, though 
the candidates themselves have played little role in the proceedings. liberal-leaning 527 
groups and political action committees had already spent tens of millions on televi­sion ads trying to depict the president as a blundering idiot or diabolical madman. but their messages rarely swayed the inde­pendent and moderate voters who view over-the-top portrayals as misleading. 
Conservative or anti-Kerry groups were scarce, until the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth crashed the Massachusetts Senator's convention salute with allegations of duplicity, forcing him to revise his "Christmas in Cambodia" claims and admit that his first Purple Heart may not have come from combat. Suddenly. members of Kerry's naval division who disapproved of him outnumbered his supporters 154-12. Most claims remain unsubstantiated, but their unwavering case certainly hurt Kerry in the month of August. 

Sensing that the traction gained by anti­Kerry forces has not been matched, Kerry's campaign staff is now in turmoil as insiders have questioned campaign manager Bob Shrum's effectiveness. Clinton-era advisers Paul Begala and Jim Carville have stepped up their consulting as Democrats urge Kerry and Democrats everywhere to attack. 
Already the angle of choice is Bush's national guard service, which was seem­ingly exhausted in the 2000 cycle but strikes a contrast between Bush's service at home and Kerry's service in Vietnam. As Democrats vamp up the negative cam­paigning to reach a stable equilibrium, they may succeed in tarnishing Bush's image beyond that which their partisan allies have attained in the past four years. Nevertheless. as both sides scrape the bot­tom of the character defamation barrel. the clear loser is the American voter who may only be left choosing between the lesser of two evils. 
Bill Rinner is a senior economics major. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached at wrinner@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Defining true community 
This letter is in response to Brian Moy's Sept. 15 letter, "ND lacks true community." We are not denying that Notre Dame should have a strong community atmosphere, but community should never be a force directed against outsiders. 
First, let us discuss Moy's reaction to the "pompous" alumnus. We are not sure why it is inappropriate for this man to have proceeded with his transaction with the Michigan fan after Moy had already rejected his offer. Asserting that the alumnus should have backed out of an agreement merely because Moy is a Notre Dame student seems worthier of the label "pompous." Following through with the transaction shows a level of maturity that Moy clearly has not reached. 
Furthermore, everyone remembers the way Michigan fans treat­ed Notre Dame fans last year at Ann Arbor. We are proud that Notre Dame fans had the dignity to treat Michigan fans with humanity and respect when they visited South Bend last weekend. No one likes to see people wearing "Rudy Sucks" T-shirts in front of them. but ignoring the slogan and focusing our attention on the game exhibits the tolerance of which we, as educated adults, should be capable. Moy spoke of Sept. 11 in his letter; tolerance is one of the most important lessons that day should have taught us. No one would argue against strengthening the sense of Notre Dame com­munity, but unity can be dangerous when it is used as a tool of dis­crimination. That is yet another lesson from the Sept. 11 attacks on our country, freedom and beliefs that apparently has eluded Moy. 
Finally, it is important to note that the two Michigan students attacked by Moy and his fellow Dillonites did nothing other than wear semi-offensive T-shirts, to provoke the onslaught they received. In fact, after Moy began to taunt the students, he encour­aged his band of Dillonites to join in. Since two Notre Dame students had sacrificed their tickets so their visiting friends could watch the game, why Moy felt his personal space was invaded is unclear. The two "troublemakers" simply defended the visiting students' right to be there. How better to spread the sense of Notre Dame community than to invite outsiders in? Moy needs to learn the true definition of the Notre Dame community and realize that ours is not one of arro­gance and exclusivity. 
Amylarek 
McGlinn Hall OJ Driscoll Dillon Hall juniors Sepr. 16 

U-WIRE 
Policy cripples tnilitary 
In my last few columns, I refrained from using Sept. 11 to convince anyone that Kerry is the right man for the job of president. 
However, this week the partisan gloves are coming off, and attacks on President Bush's claim of being more capable of making M tth America safer will be made. ew
;k

First, let me defend the sitting uya president on a particular issue. It Iowa State is true that during the Sept. 11 Daily attacks, Bush showed exemplary leadership. From the evacuation of the vice presi­dent and congressional leaders to Air Force One fly­ing to the North American Aerospace Defense Command in Nebraska, Americans knew that our government was still in charge. 
Second, Michael Moore attacks the fact Bush sat in a classroom for seven minutes before taking action. All I can say is that I would be worried ifhe had not shown any human reaction to what was a tragic day in our nation's history. No one attacks Rudy Giuliani for shedding tears; some could call that a sign of weakness. So for me, Bush demonstrating a seven­minute period where his body exhibited the fight-or­flight response to danger is not a concern. 
In my view, Bush was a powerful rallying point for our country during that time, and it's clear that at the end of the seven-minute period he chose to fight. Having said some nice things about Bush. I will not hold back on my criticisms of his policies and values. 
In Nov. 2002, CBS News reported on the military's desperate need for interpreters during a time of a tragic shortage of skilled linguists. Yet, despite this fact, the military saw it necessary to discharge nine qualified linguists, six of whom were capable of translating Arabic, due to the military's "don't ask, don't tell" policy. 
In the latest issue of The Advocate, a report shows that 3,000 gay and lesbian military personnel have been discharged since 1998 under this policy. In 2001, there were 1,273 discharges, and in 2003 there were 787. Do the math, and it's easy to see that more than two-thirds of the discharges since 1998 occurred on Bush's watch. 
I'm sure someone out there might find it amusing to claim that those service members are cowards unwilling to fight the war on terror, but that would be a disservice to the estimated 50,000 service mem­bers who hide and lie about their sexuality on a daily basis in order to continue fighting for our country. 
How can we as an electorate claim that Bush will be a stronger leader more capable of protecting America from terrorists when he so willingly casts aside qualified and patriotic soldiers? How can we claim a better capability to fmd and root out terror­ists when the vital challenge of the language barrier is more difficult to overcome due to a shortage of interpreters only made worse by casting aside quali­fied gays and lesbians? 
The true measure ofleadership is doing what is in the best interest of the country. When John Kerry testified against the "don't ask, don't tell" policy. something he did during an apparently "nonexist­ent" Senate career, he knew that it would weaken our military. 
Republicans like to hold up distorted interpreta­tions of Senate votes to say John Kerry has consis­tently voted to weaken our military, but in this case, who is really weakening our defenses? 
Why then would Bush not use the bipartisan sup­port after Sept. 11 to repeal this unwise Clinton poli­cy? The Republican platform passed during their convention gives insight into their agenda by stating that homosexuality is incompatible with military service, in addition to stating opposition to discrimi­nation laws. same-sex marriage and civil unions. 
It's easier to make an argument that homosexuals don't deserve equal rights when there are no gay heroes in the public eye. IfAmericans knew the number of gays who died protecting them from ter­rorists, it would be harder to hold the divisive posi­tions the Bush administration apparently supports. 
This is why John Kerry. who welcomes the gay community into the American mainstream, is more qualified than Bush to protect our country. He passes the test ofleadership. 
This column originally appeared on Sept. 16 in the Iowa State Daily. the daily publication at Iowa State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


page 14 




By Patrick Vassel 

F 
or those of us not luc:ky nnough to win tickets to the Michigan State game this Saturday night, the Student Union Board is kicking ofT their concert year with a students-only show at Legends featuring The Clarks. Longtime favorites of the college circuit, the Pittsburgh-based band has been touring and playing their unique but classie mix of rock, pop. punk, coun­try and a littln bit of everything else for years. Its blend of styles fits well with the vision of SUB. "We would like to see a wider variety of talent this year that will appeal to a greater number of students, rather than a select few," concerts programmer Hich Fox said. Coming off a successful summer of tour­ing. The Clarks has had an exciting past few weeks. With the release of its tenth album, "Fast Moving Cars." and a recent appearance on "The Late Show with David Lnttennan." the band is riding high and happy to have the opportunity to play for more people and continue to gnt t1111ir music out 
tlwre. 

"Wn love playing colleges and univer­silios," tour manager John Williams said. "That's what it's all about. stu­dents who !war us and tldl their friends at other schools. Beforo you know it you have people all ovnr the place lis­tl'ning to thP albums. It's great to play somewhere completely n11w and have a lm o s t tlw w h o I e c r o w d k n ow tlHl lyri1:s." 
While it is The Clarks' first show at Notn~ Dame. Pittsburgh-arna students are wnll awar11 of' the talented group. which routinely sell out 13,000 seat vnntws in its hometown. Many other studnnts might recognize the band l'rom various tours over the years. The Clarks averagl' 150 shows a year and has play11d with John Mayer and O.A.H .. as well as two artists who played at Legends last year. Gavin J>p,Graw and Ari I Jest. 
"Fast Moving Cars" features the songwriting and musical talents of all mHmbers of the band: Scott Blasey on lead vocals and guitar, Robert James on guitar and vocals, Greg Joseph on bass and vocals, and Dave Minarik on drums and vocals. 
"It's bHfm a really good thing," Blasey said on the band's Website (www.elark­sonline.com). "It's allowed us to put out a new album every two years." 
The Clarks has built a strong follow­ing nationwide without necessarily becoming mainstream or basking in the limelight. 
Famous or not, with the new CD and continued exposure on national tours, The Clarks is definitely one of the most talented and most notable bands around. 
"SUB is excited to bring a well­known, up-and-coming band to kick ofT our season at Legends," Fox said. 
The next big event for tlw band is perhaps Ollfl of the most fun concerts any band could play. Boarding a Caribbean cruise ship with almost a dozen other performers, including Cowboy Mouth, Gavin DeGraw, and Hello Dave, 'The Hock Boat' will take passengers and music fans from Miami to the Cayman Islands and back,while featuring some of the best new music performed live. 
While they are excited about the cruise, tour manager Williams said coming to Notre Dame would be a 

great opportunity for the group to reach a new audience in a great venue. Now in it's second year. Legends had alrnady featun~d Chicago band Lucky Boys Confusion and hostnd thn first "Best Of Acousticafe" last night. SUB hopes to continue using tlw Legends stagn for exciting young bands, as well as to feature campus talnnt with A co usticafe. 
Thn show begins at 10:30 PM aftPr the game watch sponsored by the Classes of 2006 and 2007 at Legends. 
The Clarks brings a little bit of every­thing and pulls from songs written over the last several years, as well as new ones from "Fast Moving Cars." 
Contact Patrick Vassel at pvassel@nd.edu 





Performing Arts Center opens with a bang 
By MARIA SMITH 
Scene Editor 

The opening of the Debartolo Center l'or the Performing Arts is a momen­tous occasion for the Film, Television and ThHatre departments, as well as l'or the campus as a whole. In celebra­tion of this major move l'rom Washington Hall to the new centPr, the faculty l'rom the FTT departments will stag11 a costumed parade in celebra­tion of' thnir move from their old l'aeili­ty to the new building. 
Th11 Campus Open House for the PAC will kick ofT at 4:00 p.m. on the steps of Washington Hall, where the Notre Dame marching band and the faculty of FTT in costume will start a proces­sion to the new building. 
The procession, which will include banners bearing the messages "FTT On the Move" and "Farewell Washington Hall, Hello PAC," is meant as a theatrical representation of the theater department's move to a new home. 
"We're moving from a 19th century building to a 20th century building," said FTT chair Peter Holland. "Washington Hall was much loved, but it doesn't meet our needs." 
Continuous entertainment in the five performing spaces of the PAC from 
4:00 to 10:00 p.m. will give the com­munity a chance to see the spaces in use. Maps will be provided for self-guided tours, and faculty and staff members will be available to answer questions about the building. 
The Leighton Concert Hall will host performances by the Notre Dame glee club, liturgical choir, folk choir, chorale, symphony orchestra, jazz band, and other campus musical groups. Student dramatic performanc­es and monologues will be hosted in the Decio Mainstage Theater and the Philbin Studio Theater. Performances by faculty members and graduate stu­dents will give people a chance to hear the new Fritts organ in the Reyes Organ and Choral Ilall. The Browning Cinema will be used to give sound demonstrations and show student lilms from past years. 

The PAC has been open on a limited basis for concerts and lilm screenings in the Browning Cinema. The open house is the first opportunity for the general public to tour all the main performing spaces in the building and has caused great excitement in the university community. 
"The arts have been kind of an odd stepchild. and have often have been leapfrogged in terms of priority for buildings," said glee dub and sympho­ny orchestra director Dan Stowe. "But now !the University hasl made up for it in a spectacular fashion." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE 


per­formances at the new Debartolo Performing Arts Center culminates with one of the most celeb1~ated members of the modern jaz2 era, legendary trumpeter Wynton and the Lincoln Center Orchestra give the inaugural ce in the PAC's 
Hall onS.urtday; was born on Oc:. 18, in New Orleans. He began 
g trumpet seriously when 12, and six years later in the Juilliard School of in New York City. In 1980 joined Art Blakely's Jazz and also signed a contract with Columbia which led to his self­album in 1982. :)ince 

recordings have · over five People Concerts" and won a milion albums worldwide· while Peabody Award. Marsalis empha­alsd creating a discdgraphy of sized jazz in New York by co­more than.30 recordings and founding the Jazz at th(lJlncoln winning eightGtammy Awards. Center program in 1~87. He In 1997 he was awarded the presently serves as ~~~ctor. Pulitzet PriZ'tfin music for his While Marsalis' 'bxperience in oratorio "Blood in the Fields," a jazz .Qas receiv~ h,igh praise, he compOSition'that centered on the · ·is aJSQ acclaimed for his work in lives oftwo slaves. He became the botlt ' ·cal atid baroque truro­first ja±z musician to win the ·pet· .. . and composition. · prize. since his he 
The importance of music edu-ues to re ·· rele cation has been another preroga-baroque and vut.::.~l.v<ll tive for Marsalis. In the late '90s concertos, and has utn:rlu•n he released a four-part TV series cally with such stars entitled "Marsalis on Music," m Battle. He has also which he worked alongside inter~ positions for dance nationally-acclaimed arti<;ts such phers such as Peter as cellist Yo-Yo Ma and conductor Twyla Tharp, including Seiji Ozawa in teaching younger Start," which received ra audiences about the fundamen-reviews from such publications tals of musical technique. The the New York Times series drew comparisons to Newsweek. Some of the hnY""''"'"'' 
~----.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
page 16 Friday, September 17, 2004
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 


Rogers finally loses at Coliseum, A's win 

Infante each hit two-run 
homers off Sabathia (11-1 0) 
and Detroit's bullpen stayed 
busy all night to help the Tigers 
take their second of three in the 
series. 
Sabathia, who as recently as 
Sept. 6 shut out Seattle on five 
hits, failed in key spots to put 
away Tigers hitters and paid 
for it. He allowed five runs and 
six hits in five innings -a 
respectable line but not the one 
he or the Indians need from 
him. 
Boston 11, Tampa Bay 4 
Curt Schilling got his 20th 
win on the eve of Boston's big 
series with the New York 
Yankees. Now he wants much 
more. 
"In a couple of weeks, hope­fully, it will get a lot better," he said after becoming the first 20-game winner in the major leagues with a win over the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. 
By that time, he hopes, the Red Sox will have clinched the AL East title. They trail the Yankees by 3 1/2 games, but the teams have six meetings left -three in New York this week­end and three in Boston begin­ning next Friday. 
"This is a great warmup," Johnny Damon said, referring to Boston's 24th victory in 29 games. "This is the time to shine. I think this is the best assembled team in the league and it's time to show it." 
The Red Sox have slashed a deficit of 10 1/2 games on Aug. 15, but the Yankees are coming off back-to-hack shutouts in Kansas City. 
"It's not like it's the first time we've played them," Jason Varitek said. "We have to con­centrate each day on each game. Whatever happens the first day, put it aside." 
Boston leads the season series 8-5, but New York has the best home record in base­ball, 50-21. 
Tampa Bay manager Lou Piniella was too concerned about his own problems to dis­cuss what advantage Schilling (20-6) and Pedro Martinez (16­
6) might give Boston in the playoffs. 
"The Yankees and Red Sox can settle their own affairs," Piniella said. "Good luck to whoever comes out on top." 
On Thursday, Damon and Kevin Millar each homered and drove in four runs, and Boston scored at least nine runs for the fifth time in Schilling's last six 

starts. The right-hander has 
won seven straight starts for 
the first time in his career. He 
has 20 wins in three of the last 
four years and is 11-1 at home 
this season. 

"He has not let us down one 
bit" since being traded by 
Arizona last November, Boston 
manager Terry Francona said. 
"He's been tremendous and he 
will continue to be." 
Baltimore 9, Toronto 5 

Rodrigo Lopez is still trying to 
figure out how to handle 
Vernon Wells. At least he finally 
beat the Toronto Blue Jays. 

Lopez won for the first time 
in seven career starts against 
Toronto and Rafael Palmeiro 
homered, lifting the Baltimore 
Orioles to a victory over the 
Blue Jays. 

Wells hit two home runs off 
Lopez, including a two-run 
homer in the third that landed 
two rows into the fifth deck of 
SkyDome -just the 13th time 
a ball has reached the upper­
most tier. 

"I've never seen somebody 
hit one in the upperdeck. Today 
was my turn," Lopez said. 

"He's a good hitter. I've always had a problem with him. I made a mistake and it landed almost in the hotel." 
Palmeiro's homer in the ninth did not reach the upper deck, but was equally impressive for different reasons. His shot over the right field wall was his 547th homer, leaving him one behind Mike Schmidt for lOth place on the career list. 
Wells is hitting .391 (9-for-23) in his career against Lopez, who is 1-4 with a 8.27 ERA in eight career games against Toronto. 
"They get pretty comfortable against me, but today I got good movement on my fast­ball," Lopez said. 
Minnesota 10, Chicago 1 

Kyle Lohse is making the most of his last chance to sal­vage his season. 
Lohse pitched seven sharp innings, Michael Cuddyer went 3-for-4 with a homer and the Minnesota Twins beat the Chicago White Sox for their ninth straight victory. 
The streaking Twins are quickly closing in on their third consecutive AL Central title. 
They reduced their magic number for clinching the divi­sion to four. 
Lohse (8-11) once appeared to be the odd man out in the Twins' postseason rotation, but 
he's finishing strong with a 3-1 
record in his last six starts. On 
Thursday, he gave up one run, 
four hits and one walk, lasting 
seven innings for only the third 
time since the All-Star break. 

''I've just been putting things 
together, and today I felt like I 
had a pretty good fastball and 
slider," Lohse said. "That's my 
style. It's just been one of those 
years, where one start I'll have 
it, and the next I won't. 
Hopefully, I can put together a 
strong finish and people can 
forget about the rest of the 
year." 

Lohse, competing with Carlos Silva for the third spot in the rotation behind Johan Santana and Brad Hadke, had three 1-2­3 innings and got help from his defense throughout the game. Catcher Pat Borders threw out Willie Harris on a pitchout in the first after Harris led off with a single, and second base­man Augie Ojeda turned a nice double play to end the inning. 
Anaheim 6, Seattle 1 

The way things have gone for the Seattle Mariners this sea­son, perhaps something like this was bound to happen. 
Still, it was simply beyond belief. 
The Anaheim Angels took advantage of two errors by Gold Glove second baseman Bret Boone, scoring four times in the eighth inning en route to a 6-1 win over Seattle on Thursday night. 
"You never know what's going to happen," Seattle starter Jamie Moyer said. "We're find­ing ways to have things happen that no one's ever seen before. We',;e bringing them full cir­cle. 
The Angels remained within 5 1/2 games behind Boston in the AL wild-card race. They trail Oakland by two games in the AL West. 
Anaheim led 2-1 in the eighth and had runners at second and third with one out when Darin Erstad grounded to Boone, who tried to get Adam Kennedy coming home. Kennedy thought he was about to get nabbed. 
Incredibly. the throw hit Erstad's bat -just in front of catcher Dan Wilson. 
"I told Bret we're going to get 100 balls tomorrow and lay a bat at home plate," said Moyer (6-12), who lost his 10th straight decision despite 7 1-3 solid innings. "I told him I'll bet he can't hit it once. He just laughed." 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Rich Harden and Bobby Crosby had­n't even started high school the last time Kenny Rogers lost at the Coliseum. 
The Athletics' youngest regu­lars were the biggest contribu­tors to Oakland's 5-4 victory over the Texas Rangers on Thursday, with Harden pitching into the seventh inning and Crosby hitting a three-run dou­ble. 
Neither Hogers nor the A's cared much about the left-ban­der's streak of 18 victories and 35 appearances in Oakland without a loss stretching back to Aug. 7, 1994. The playoff race is a bigger concern for both teams-and with a much­needed win, the A's maintained their slim AL West lead. 
"You try to put it aside, but it's always in the back of your mind." said Harden, who had seven strikeouts while becom­ing Oakland's fifth 10-game winner. "It's coming down to the last few series here, and everything is magnified." 
Crosby, who was 14 when Hogers last lost in Oakland, provided a clutch fifth-inning hit that allowed the Athletics to salvage a split of the four-game set. He and Harden (10-6) were teammates at Triple-A Sacramento last summer, but they're thriving in a major league race this fall. 
"It's incredible for a rookie to be in this type of situation," Crosby said. "I'm not even thinking about it. I'm just tak­ing it like it's the middle of the season, a regular old (at-bat)." 

Crosby was unaware of Rogers' decade of dominance at the Coliseum. 
"Sometimes it's better not to be aware of that stuff," he said with a grin. "That can put bad thoughts in your mind." 
The Rangers had several dis­appointments in the finale of the four-game set. In addition to the end of Rogers' streak and a wasted chance to move within three games of the division lead, Texas might have lost Alfonso Soriano with an injury to his left leg. 
Soriano was hurt in an awk­ward headfirst slide while stealing third base in the eighth inning. His left foot got caught under his right leg, and he left the game after consulting with trainers. He'll undergo tests Friday. 
Detroit 6, Cleveland 4 

Slumping in his recliner, C.C. Sabathia had a pained look of disbelief. He struggled for the right words to explain what went wrong. 
None ever came. 

Another bad night and anoth­er bad loss had Cleveland's pitcher searching for answers. 
"I don't know what I'm going to do," Sabathia said. ''I'm lost right now." 
Sabathia's up-and-down sea­son hit a new low point when the left-bander lasted just five innings in a loss to the Detroit Tigers. 
Eric Munson and Omar 
AP 


Oakland pitcher Mark Redman delivers a pitch against the Rangers In a 54 A's victory at home. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day cl'!il~ifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Nanny Needed From 9/27-10/1  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  Spring Break 2005 with STS,  
WANTED  7 am to 5:30 pm in Granger for 2 kids,  TICKETS  NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND FOOTBALL GAME.  FOR RENT  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps.  

 ages 4 and 7.  CALL 674-6593.  Call for group discounts.  
Now hiring Kitchen help & hostess.  One person all day or split part time.  BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX  Info/Reservations  
Apply Between the Buns Sports  Non-smoker,  PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES  Need BC GA tix.  ND FOOTBALL HOUSING  1·800-648-4849  
Bar, South Bend Ave.  willing to transport kids a must.  273·3911  Will be used not resold.  www.ststravel.com.  
ContactJen  269·684-61 02.  Beautiful Historic Home  
Kaplan needs PT student advisors.  674-9876.  For Sale: NO footballtix.  One mile from campus  Shoutoutto Mr. Shannon.  
Flexible times. $7/hr.  Good prices.  Need BC GA tix.  3 double bedrooms available  
By Turtle Creek Apts.  Will trade 4 Purdue footballtix for  232-0964.  Will be used not resold.  $80 per person/per night  Shrek,  
Call272-4135 for info.  4 Washington tix.  269-684-61 02.  $150 per couple/per night  Not fine by me.  
Call Larry collect:  For Sale: ND footballtix.  
LOVEKIOSII  603-434-6910  Good prices.  NeedWAtix  CALL 574-532-4628  Donkey?  
Professional Mom needs help  232-0964.  
picking up children from  Will trade PU or BC.  You're killin' me Smalls.  
two area Catholic schools close to NO & SMC Mon-Fri.  FoR SALE  Wanted: ND football tix. Top$$$  57 4-634-3082.  PERSONAL  Go Cubs.  
Wonderful girls and  251-1570.  Buy/Sell ND football tix.  
good money for very little  90 Honda Civic DX  HAPPY BIRTHDAY LINDA TALLEY  Go Irish.  
time involvecll  40R, 94K, great condition,  NO ftballtix bought & sold  Home & away games,  
We would love to hear from youl  $1700 OBO  a.m. 232·2378  including Mich.St.& Tenn.  FROM YOUR OBSERVER  Go Home  
Call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013.  (574)289..()811  p.m 288·2726  57 4·289-8048.  FAMILY!I!!!!!!!!I  Please.  



The Observer + SPORTS 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -The San Francisco 49ers were almost as relieved as the home team when New Orleans got nothing more than a bit of rain from Hurricane Ivan. 
While the Saints spent the week working out and worrying in San Antonio, where they moved on Tuesday to escape the approaching storm, Niners coach Dennis Erickson and his players were grateful Sunday's game will be safe and dry. 
"It reminds you how impor­tant football is-not very," said Erickson, whose Miami home was destroyed by Hurricane Andrew in 1992. 
Ivan left New Orleans largely unscathed, so the game will go on despite early fears it might be moved to Texas or even post­poned. 
That means the Superdome should be as inhospitable as ever for the 49ers, a favorite target of derision for New Orleans' loyal fans in the long­standing NFC West rivalry. 
"It's always tough for us down there," said 49ers cornerback Jimmy Williams, a Louisiana native who got most of his fami­ly out of town before Ivan approached, "They love the Saints, and they don't love the 49ers. Whether there's a storm or not, there will be fans who don't fike us there." 
The Saints spent the early part of the week tending to fam­ily concerns, sending their loved ones north to Shreveport or west to Texas. But the trip to San Antonio seemed to help the players focus on business after last Sunday's 21-7 home loss to Seattle. 
Even coach Jim Haslett, a notorious control freak, seemed 
AP Saints quarterback Todd Bouman Is tackled by Dolphins defen­sive end David Bowensshould In a preseason game Sept. 3rd. 
~· 

Just one of our many free products 
and services. 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bonk on us 

to be better 
574/631·8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
more relaxed than normal while living in a comfortable hotel. 
'0­
page 17 

"I think all of our guys are defense's strength, and they'll pretty much mature enough to be tested by Brooks and understand that they still have McAllister. to get themselves. their mind "They run basically the same and their body ready to play," scheme," McAllister said. "They Saints running back Deuce are still the same guys, even McAllister said. "Regardless of 'though Coach Mora has left." the obstacles that you have to But the 49ers will play with­overcome, you still have to get out two defensive starters: ready to play." Cornerback Mike Rumph is out 
San Francisco's young lineup with a groin injury, and defen­could have a rough sive end Andre afternoon against Carter is very the Saints, who "Regardless ofthe doubtful after his expect their veter­troublesome
obstacles that you
an defense to be lower back flared
have to overcome,
among the NFL's up again. best. New Orleans you still have to Haslett coached was stung in its with new Niners
get ready to play."
opener, allowing defensive coordi­415 yards to the nator Willy
Deuce McAllister
powerful Robinson in Seahawks. Saints running back Pittsburgh, so he 
So the Saints will do everything pos­sible to harass Ken Dorsey, the 49ers' promising second-year quarterback. He's expected to make his first NFL start unless Tim Rattay's separated shoulder heals much more quickly than expected. 
Haslett knows all about Dorsey: Haslett's son, a big fan of the University of Miami's championship-winning quarter­back, has an autographed ball from Dorsey on a shelf at home. 
"I get an earful all the time about how good he is," Haslett said. "He's got a good offensive mind. He's got a good release." 
The 49ers also have a healthy respect for Aaron Brooks, who excelled against San Francisco in past meetings. After facing Atlanta's Michael Vick in their season opener, the 49ers hope they've got a bit of insight into mobile quarterbacks. 
San Francisco limited former defensive coordinator Jim Mora's Falcons to 227 total yards in an encouraging start for its talented defense. The 49ers' linebackers are the 


"Feeling at home while away" 
Ill' SCOTTISH "-' 
2180 Miami Hwy BED II. BREAKFAST Bremen, IN 46506 
574-220-6672 

-~ ~~~~ ~-~() ~~ 0: »~ ~~ . 
:. ·:·:::<·•..:·: ··:·::· :·.:·:<· ·=·:·:·:· ··::·:·:· ((.... ·:······· 
. '•. '' '•,. '•. :~· ·=··· : •'' ·: •'• ' ' ,• •,•, ·~·:·. ,. 
1

• n oor u -s1ze poo ~·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-· 
• 
Free continental-plus breakfast 

• 
Park-like country setting for relaxation 

• 
King & Queen Select Comfort Mattresses 

• 
Indoor smoke-free • Washer & dryer access 

• 
TV/DVD in every room • Putting Green 

• 
Com uter co fax &mail service 



recognizes some 

of the 49ers' schemes. The former star line­backer is a big fan of All-Pro Julian Peterson, who lined up everywhere from the secondary to the defensive line against Atlanta. 
"He's 100 miles per hour," Haslett said. "He's full speed. He's a heck of a pass-rusher. He's tough and physical. To me, that is a guy on defense you have to account for all of the time." 
After watching the Falcons' success with numerous blitzes against San Francisco's mediocre offensive line, the Saints are expected to do the same. Haslett and his staff for­mulated the game plan in a marathon 17-hour workday before heading to San Antonio. 
The Texas trip could have been a big distraction. but McAllister believes it provided a breather after the opening loss and several days of worry over Ivan. In fact, once McAllister got his loved ones out of town, he had no concerns about his house and belongings. 


page 18 
team record New England 1-tl NY Jel1 H Buffalo 0·1 Miami 0·1 
team .. record 
.... 
Cleveialtd 1•0 PIUsburgh 1·6 Balllmora 0·1 Clnelnltati 0·1 
team record Tennessee 1-0 Jacksonville 1-0 Houston 0.1 lndla11apolls 1)-1 
team< .. ·.record Denver 1.() San Diego 1-0 Kansas City G-1 0111tland 0·1 
tf,Jam record Philadelphia 1·0 Washington 1-Q 
Dalla$ Q-1 
NY GI<Uil$ 0·1 
team .. ~ecotd Oelrott.. 1-0 areen811y 1·0 Minnesota 1-0 Chicago 0~1 
team record Atlanta 1.0 New Orleans 0•1 Tampa Bay 0-t carollna 0·1 
team:.. •· 
St.louis 
seattle Arizona·· San Francisco 

BYOatOSC :..:·..:.·:•.... ··... ·.·. MICHIGAtht Sa~ Qfego sfijte NOTRE DAME at MICHIGAN STAtE ·.· WASHINGTO~ tfUCLA / .. .. 
Tulsa al NAVY ·· 

BOSTON COllEG~JlC~nnacllcul TENNESSEE at florida PITISBURGH al Nebraska 
ld/4( 
PURD!Jl: 
STANFORD 


around the dial 
MLB 

Red Sox at Yankees 6 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Connecticut at Boston College 7 p.m., ESPN2 
SATURDAY COLLEGE FOOTBALL Maryland at West VIrginia 11 a.m., ESPN2 Ohio State at North Carolina State 
2:30 p.m., ABC Oregon at Oklahoma 2:30 p.m., ABC 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK -No shots, no saves, no goals. The National Hockey League locked out its players Thursday, threatening to keep the sport off the ice for the entire 2004-05 sea­son and perhaps beyond in an effort by management to gain massive economic change. 
After the long-expected decision was approved unanimously Wednesday by NHL owners, commis­sioner Gary Bettman repeatedly belittled the union's bargaining posi­tion, talked about the pos.­
sibility the confrontation could extend into the 2005­06 season and said the conflict has jeopardized the NHL's participation in the 2006 Winter Olympics. 
"When we ultimately make the deal that has to be made, we will then see whether or not there is time for a season or some semblance of a season," he said. "If there is, great, and if there isn't, then we'll deal with the next season when it comes along." 
Bettman claimed teams had combined to lose more than $1.8 billion over 10 years, and said manage­ment will not agree to a labor deal that doesn't include a defined relation­ship between revenue and salaries. 

"Until he gets off the salary-cap issue, there's not a chance for us to get an agreement," union head Bob Goodenow said in Toronto, adding that play­ers "are not prepared to entertain a salary cap in any way, shape, measure or form." 
Far apart on both philos­ophy and finances, the sides haven't bargained since last Thursday and say they are entrenched for the long run, echoing words of baseball players and owners at the start of their disastrous 7 112 ­month labor war of 1994­95. 
There is almost no chance the season will start as scheduled on Oct. 13, and Bettman told teams to release their are­nas for other events· for the next 30 days. Bettman said the season can't extend past June, and the lockout threatens to wipe out the Stanley Cup final for the first time since 1919, when the series between Montreal and Seattle was stopped after five games due a Spanish influenza epidemic. 
IN BRIEF 'Monday Night Football' to 
use five-second delay 
NEW YORK -"Monday Night Football" will be broadcast on a five­second delay for the rest of the sea­son, a reaction to the furor caused by last season's Super Bowl halftime show. 
The move is just a precaution, an ABC spokesman said. 
At halftime of New England's win over Carolina in the Super Bowl on Feb. 3, Justin Timberlake ripped off part of Janet Jackson's brassiere, a wardrobe "malfunction" that exposed her right breast to a TV audience of some 90 million. The Super Bowl was broadcast on CBS. 
A pre-game concert before the sea­son opener between New England on Indianapolis was broadcast with a 1 0-second delay on ABC to prevent a repeat of the Super Bowl embarrass­ment. 
After the Super Bowl, the Federal Communications Commission received more than 500,000 com­plaints about the broadcast. 
The commission is reportedly con­sidering a fine of $550,000 against CBS for violating broadcast decency standards. Oakland rookie Gall~ry starts first game at right tackle 
ALAMEDA, Calif. Robert Gallery's future is certain to be at left tackle, but for the time being he'll have to settle for playing the right side for the Oakland Raiders. 
Gallery, the second overall pick in the NFL draft, will make his first start Sunday against Buffalo. 
He replaces third-year player Langston Walker, the right tackle in Oakland's season-opening loss to Pittsburgh. 
"It's what I came here to do," Gallery said. ''I'm glad they decided what they're going to do. Now I'm ready to play. I was going to be ready to play if I was starting or not, but now I know I can go out and play." 
The decision to start Gallery at right tackle ends, at least temporari­ly, the Raiders' experiment with the rookie. Drafted to play left tackle, Gallery worked at both tackle and guard during the preseason but failed to supplant starters Barry Sims and Frank Middleton. Soriano hurts leg in headfirst 

slide 
OAKLAND. Calif. -Texas Rangers star Alfonso Soriano left Thursday's game against Oakland in the eighth 
·inning after injuring his left leg on a headfirst slide, putting the rest of his season in doubt. 
The All-Star second baseman will have an MRI exam Friday. 
"It doesn't look very good," manag­er Buck Showalter said after Texas' 5-4 loss to the Athletics. "But we won't comment until the MRI." 
Soriano was hurt while stealing third base. He easily beat the throw, but appeared to get his left foot caught under his right leg as he reached out for the bag. 
Soriano felt pain behind his left knee. "I don't know what happened," he said. "Right now, I can't feel the ten­
. don behind the knee. About three or four feet before I got to the base, I started my slide, and I felt some­thing." 


-------------------------------------~---~--~-----~ 
Friday, September 17,2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
~~~~~~~~~==========~~~~~~~~~~~~~== 
RYDER CuP 


Woods, Mickelson set to take back Ryder Cup 
Associated Press two players were paired was in new driver. fairway metals and the second set of matches at golf ball at Oakland Hills. Brookline five years ago, and it Plus, he put a bulls-eye on his
BLOOMFIELD TOWNSHIP. 

gave Europe a huge lift when back by not practicing with theMich. -Always rivals, barely Darren Clarke and Lee team the last two days. He tookfriends, finally partners. 
Westwood beat Woods and Wednesday off and played
U.S. captain Hal Sutton made 

David DuvaL Thursday on the adjacent North sure this Ryder Cup gets off to a "If we do win that game, it course.
dynamic start by pairing Tiger will have a dramatic effect on Woods is in the midst of his Woods and Phil Mickelson ­

the day." Montgomerie said. "It least productive year. His onlyAmerica's best two players ­would be huge for the European victory came in February at thefor the first time in the opening team -and everybody here -Match Play Championship, andmatch at Oakland Hills. 
to see that we can cope with his five-year reign at No. 1 in
"We came here to win," 

their top two." the world ranking ended twoSutton said Thursday, deter­Sutton sees it a differently. weeks ago. 
mined as ever. 

He had this pairing in mind Still, Sutton figures that TigerSo did Europe, which has cap­when he was appointed captain is Tiger and Mickelson is thetured the Hyder Cup ~:ix of the 
two years ago, not kind of guy wholast nine times and showed that 
sure why other likes to show he
it wasn't about to back down. 

captains never can get it done. 
Sensing a Woods-M.ickelson 

bothered to match "/think I've sent In other better­pairing was inE:vitable. 
golf's two most ball matches
European captain Bernhard out some very
exciting players. Friday morning,
Langer decided to send out strong pairings." 
"I felt like histo­Darren ClarkeColin Montgomerie and Padraig 
ry needed it. I felt and Miguel Angel Harrington to stop them. 
like the fans need­Bernhard Langer Jimenez of"We can beat them " Monty ed it," Sutton said
declared. "We will go to bed European captain Europe will play with that view, and we will at opening cere­Davis Love III and 
monies."And most Chad Campbell;
wake up tomorrow morning with that view. And it will be of all. I felt like Paul McGinley 
Phil Mickelson and Tiger Woods and Luke Donald of Europe willdramatic." 
Not even the glitzy opening needed it." play Chris Riley and Stewart ceremony that featured plenty Is it a risk if they lose? Cink; and Sergio Garcia and Lee of star power -from Olympic "There's a risk every day in Westwoodwill take on David swimming champion Michael life," Sutton said, losing Toms and Jim Furyk. 
Phelps to Detroit Pisto.1s coach patience with anyone who does­Sutton purposely kept his 
Larry Brown to Donald Trump n't see his side. "You cross the players guessing on their part­
-could set the stage a 1y better street and it's a risk; someone ners. for the three most intense days may run over you. This is a risk Langer started pairing his in golf. Hal Sutton is taking. I'm not guys up the last two days, hav­
Woods and Mickelson, who afraid of this risk. And I chal­ing them play better-ball 
said."They have 12 very strong requiring the highest-ranked
have combined to win 53 times lenged them not to be afraid of matches the front nine, and 
this risk." players. and they're going to players to represent the U.S.
on the PGA Tour, sat side-by­alternate-shot matches on the have strong pairings no matter team. With Mickelson the next­
side at opening ceremonies as No one is sure what to expect back. 
-not now. who they send out together." ranked player, Woods chose not
the leading points-earners on The only change he made was 
the U.S. team. Mickelson is coming off a to swap McGinley for Paul Still, the focus is squarely on to play that year. the opening match. Even so, Sutton said the pair­
For the first time in seven stunning year in the biggest Casey, simply because McGinley 
events, winning the Masters The rivalry between Woods ing sends a strong message
team events -four Ryder Cups. has been hot in the last two 
and Mickelson intensified early about U.S. unity.
three Presidents Cups -they and coming within a combined months and continued to show last year when Lefty joked in a Mickelson gave Woods a gen­will be side-by-side on the tee five shots of winning the other good form during practice magazine interview that Woods tle tap on the back as they were ­box Friday morning for the first three majors. But he changed rounds. 
used"inferior equipment." introduced at opening cere­of four better-ball matches. his equipment companies last "I think I've sent out some They have never been partic­monies, and they returned toThe last time America's best week and will be playing with a very strong pairings," Langer 
ularly close off the course. their seats with a firm hand­Woods played in the World Cup shake. three straight years until the "We're fine with it," Woods rules were changed in 2002 said."
SNITI: MUSEUM OF ART 
Purdy is hot in Texas 
faced by PGA Tour players this
Shoots course-record  year, with temperatures reach­ 
61 at Texas Open  ing 95 degrees and with the humidity, it felt like 102.  
Friday's forecast is for condi­ 
Associated Press  tions to be even hotter.  
The  heat certainly didn't  
SAN ANTONIO -Ted Purdy  seem to bother Purdy.  
closed his course-record 9­ He said his coach made a  
under 61 with an eagle and a  slight correction in his swing  
birdie Thursday and held a  earlier this week, and he could  
three-shot lead over four play­ feel the difference right away at  
ers after the first round of the  La Cantera.  
Texas Open.  "I knew I could shoot a low  
Purdy hit all 14 fairways on a  number today," he said."After I  
Bessie Smith, 1999, 1\ichartl Serra, The Tetons ond the Snoke ~GcttndTet.Ofl Notionol American, b. 1939, etch~: on tan Park. Wyoming, 1942, 1970s print. Ansel Adams, Somerset Satin Paper, o44 lt 36 American, 1902-1984, silver gelatin print, inches 16 x 20 inches, Copyright ofThe Ansel Adams Publishing Rights Trust  Our Knowledge, Experience, and Skills to the Ulmmunist Party and the Motherland!, 1981,A. Dobrov, Russian, lithograph, 36.15 x 24 inches  windless but extremely hot day at the La Cantera Golf Club course. He reached all but one green in regulation, and needed only 26 putts in his best round as a pro.  got it to 6-under, I'm going, 'Oh man, I can shoot 59 on this golf course." Starting his round on the back nine, Purdy opened with a par and then four straight  
Gallery ta.lks at 3 pm by Chuck Loving, museum director, and Steve Moriarty, Milly and Fritz Kaeser curator of photography.  "I hit the ball better today than I have maybe ever in my life," said Purdy, who missed  birdies. His longest putt of the bogey-free day was a 15-footer for birdie on the 427 -yard 11th.  
Richard SE~rro: Large Scale Prints  the cut in five of his last seven events since finishing second at  He got to 6 under with six holes to play and made four  
Ansel Ado1ns: Photographs from the Collection ofthe  the B.C. Open in July. The 61 tied the course mark  straight pars. On the 361-yard 8th, he holed his second shot  ~  
john and Barbara Glynn Family  set in 2002's second round by Garrett Willis. It was the fourth  from 71 yards for an eagle and finished on No. 9 with a 10-foot  "  
Darker Shcrdes of Red: Official Soviet Propaganda  6l on the Tour this year. At 64 were Jim McGovern,  putt for birdie. McGovern, whose best finish  
from the Cold War 1946-/990  Tim Clark, Dean Wilson and J.J. Henry, while five players had a  this year was a tie for 20th in the John Deere Classic, shot a  
65, including two-time champi­ season-low 64.  
on Justin Leonard.  McGovern started on No. 10  
Defending champion Tommy  with his only bogey when he  
Reception Is free nd open to the public. Call 63 1-5466 for furthe1· information.  , :'\ s~,!2:,7ART  Armour III, who set a 72-hole scoring record last year with a 26-under 254, shot a 67.  two-putted from 12 feet. He got that stroke back on the next hole, and then had four birdies  - 
The round was the hottest  in a five-hole stretch.  




Friday, September 17, 2004 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Bonds stuck on 699, Giants shutout Brewers 

Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Not in the city where Aaron played, he won't. But get ready, kayakers: Barry Bonds will get the chance to hit another historic homer at home. 
The San Francisco slugger remained one shot shy of join­ing Babe Huth and Hank Aaron in the 700-homer club Thursday. but did go 3-for-3 with a walk in the Giants' 4-0 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
"I still have a lot of baseball left," Bonds said. "It will come eventually." 
And chances are it will come at SBC Park. where the Giants begin a nine-game homestand Friday night against the San Diego Padres. his favorite long­ball victims. 
lie has 78 homers off the Padres. more than any other opponent. including two off right-hander Jake Peavy. whom he'll face first. 
Bonds' three line-drive hits Thursday backed rookie Brad Hennessey (2-2). who allowed two hits over seven spectacular innings as the Giants remained a half-game ahead of the Chicago Cubs in the NL wild­card race. 
Bonds certainly got his chance to reach the milestone in Milwaukee, where Aaron started and ended his career on the way to a record 755 home runs. 
Bonds took 21 swings in the three-game sweep during the Giants' only trip to Miller Park this season, going 3-for-9 with four walks -one intentional. lie hit an RBI double and two singles in the final game. 
"They pitched to him," Giants manager Felipe Alou said. "He hit the ball hard, but they kept the ball down. He can do it at home now." 
Bonds has long saved his most historic homers for home. where they often splash into McCovey Cove in San Francisco Bay. 
He hit career homer No. 660 -to tie godfather Willie Mays -and No. 661 at home off the Brewers earlier this season. He also hit his SOOth in San Francisco in 2001, and later that season broke Mark McGwire's season record by hit­ting Nos. 71-73 at home the final weekend of the season. 
After hitting his 699th homer Sunday in Arizona, Bonds was challenged by the Brewers, who didn't groove many pitches. He saw 56 pitches in Milwaukee, 23 of them strikes. including two called. 
"I swung at more pitches. I took more chances," Bonds said. "Today it was hits. hits, hits and that's it." 
Bonds called it a successful series despite not homering. 
"That's all that matters," Bonds said after the Giants won their fifth straight. "That's the key. We've got to keep winning. We're not playing for 700 home runs. We're playing to win." 
Arizona 8, Colorado 5 
PIIOENIX -The Arizona Diamondbacks won their third straight game Thursday, their first such streak in over three months. 
Danny Bautista drove in a run with his second double of the game in the seventh inning and scored on Alex Cintron's sacri­fice fly. lifting the Diamondbacks to an 8-5 victory over the Colorado Rockies. 

Rookie Chad Tracy added a two-run homer in the eighth off Chin-Hui Tsao to help the Diamondbacks rally from an early 4-0 deficit and win three straight for the first time since sweeping San Francisco from June 1-3. 
"That shows the character of the guys on the team," Tracy said. "None of these guys have ever given up during a game, and that's why they're here ­because we've always been competitors." 
Chad Durbin earned the win despite walking three in his only inning of work. With the game tied at 4, Durbin (1-0) walked Todd Helton and Jeromy Burnitz before giving up a two­out RBI single to Garrett Atkins, who drove in three runs. 
Mike Koplove worked a score­less eighth, and Mike Fetters earned his first save of the sea­son. the lOOth of his career. New York 9, Atlanta 4 
NEW YORK-The New York Mets heard all about highly touted Jose Capellan and his hard fastballs, so they expected to see some right away. 
They made sure the Atlanta Braves' rookie wasn't around to throw any more of them after the first inning. 
Richard Hidalgo and Todd Zeile hit back-to-hack homers in New York's seven-run open­ing inning against Capellan. leading the Mets to a 9-4 victory Thursday night. 
"It was a good feeling," Hidalgo said. "He threw a lot of fastballs and threw them hard. but everybody hit them." 
Mike Cameron had three hits and drove in two runs for the Mets, who took three of five against the Braves. A day after manager Art Howe was fired, effective at the end of the sea­son. New York won its first series since taking two of three at Colorado on Aug. 17-19. 
"That was a great first inning and we won a series. so that's good," Howe said. 
Steve Trachsel (11-13) allowed four runs -two earned -and eight hits in six­plus innings to win for the first time since beating Houston on Aug. 10. He had lost five straight decisions and was win­less in his last six starts. 
"It was very nice because I had runs to work with," Trachsel said. "It gives you room to just trust in your pitch­es." 
The Braves knocked Trachsel out in the seventh when Eddie Perez, Charles Thomas and Mark DeRosa all singled to load the bases. 
"When you play the Braves, I don't care if you have a 15-run lead -they're going to find a way to get the tying run to the plate." Howe said. 
Heath Bell came in and got Wilson Betemit to ground to first for the first out, but Perez scored to make it 8-4. Bell struck out Marcus Giles before 

· .. /~~ 


walking Wise to load the bases. Pinch-hitter Julio Franco struck out swinging to end the inning. 
Florida 4, Montreal 3 
MIAMI -Dontrelle Willis knew there wasn't much room for error against Livan Hernandez. 
The Montreal right-hander came into Thursday night's game with an 8-3 record against the Marlins and had wins in his last two starts. 
This time Florida finally got to Hernandez, overcoming a 3-0 deficit and defeating the Expos 4-3. Willis won for the first time in five starts. 
"I knew going against Livan that he isn't going to give up a lot," Willis said. "I kept us in the game and put the pressure back on him. We need every single game we can win." 
Juan Encarnacion hit a two­run triple to tie the game in the fifth, and Jeff Conine drove in the go-ahead run with a sixth­inning single. The Marlins earned their 25th comeback victory and remained 3 1/2 games behind San Francisco in the NL wild-card race. 
Hernandez (1 0-14) took the loss despite pitching his major league-leading eighth complete game. He gave up eight hits and five walks. striking out three. Tony Batista hit his 28th homer for the Expos. 
Willis (10-9) allowed three runs and five hits in seven innings. He was lifted for a pinch-runner after his leadoff single in the seventh. 
Guillermo Mota worked a scoreless eighth, and Armando Benitez got three outs for his 42nd save in 45 opportunities. 
"This game showed what this team is made of," Marlins man­ager Jack McKeon said. "We were down 3-0 but we didn't quit and bounced back." 
Florida took a 4-3 lead in the sixth when Conine's one-out single drove in Paul Lo Duca from second. Lo Duca stumbled slightly rounding third but evaded catcher Brian Schneider's tag and touched home plate with his left hand. 
The Marlins tied the score at 3 in the fifth. Hernandez walked Conine to open the inning, then gave up a single to Damion Easley. Encarnacion followed with a two-run triple and scored on a sacrifice fly by Alex Gonzalez. 
"Encarnacion has come through with some clutch hits for us the last three weeks" McKeon said. "He's also done a great job with his glove." Chicago 5, Cincinnati 4 
CINCINNATI-The Cubs were hardly concerned when Kerry Wood let the lead slip away in one wild inning. 
Why fret when Aramis Ramirez was going to bat again? 
The third baseman homered three times for all of Chicago's runs Thursday, and the Cubs kept pace in the playoff race with a 5-4 victory over the Cincinnati Reds. 



Barry Bonds flies out Wednesday night against the Brewers. He Is currently third all-time with 699llome runs. 
Without Ramirez, Chicago would have lost precious ground in the wild-card chase. The homer binge kept the Cubs a half-game back of San Francisco and revived them at the start of their final regular­season road trip -four cities, 12 games. 
"One-man wrecking crew," Reds starter Josh Hancock mar­veled. 'If I had the kitchen sink in my back pocket, I would have thrown it up there and he prob­ably would have hit it." 
That's how helpless he made them feel. 
Ramirez hit a two-run homer and a solo shot off Hancock, then put the Cubs ahead in the seventh with a two-out. two-run drive off Ryan Wagner (3-2) for his second three-homer game of the season. Ramirez also hit three against Philadelphia on July 30. 
He is the first player to have two three-homer games in a season since 2001, when Sammy Sosa had three. Barry Bonds, Jeromy Burnitz and Carlos Delgado also did it twice that year. 
Twelve major leaguers have hit three homers in a game this season. 
"We know what he can do," Cubs manager Dusty Baker said. "We got six hits and he got four of them, dr-ove in all the runs. This is what you need. You need somebody like that ­or somebodies -in different games to put the whole team on his back and carry it. which he did." 
Houston 8, St. Louis 3 · 
ST. LOUIS -Suddenly. the St. Louis Cardinals can't do any­thing right. 
Jeff Kent had two doubles and four RBis. and the slumping Cardinals committed a season­high four errors to help the Houston Astros snap Jason Marquis' 11-game winning streak with an 8-3 victory on Thursday night. 
"You don't want to sugarcoat it," manager Tony La Russ a said. "Bad ballgame. Good for them, bad for us." 
The Astros took two of three from the NL Central leaders. staying two games behind the Giants in the wild-card race and keeping the Cardinals' magic number for clinching the divi­sion at four. 
"The bottom line is we still have to win," Astros manager Phil Garner said. "They've made a mockery of the division race and to take two of three is very important." 
LaRussa said he wouldn't use this game as a motivational tool. 
"This is not TV or the movies," LaRussa said. 

, September 17,2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
=============================================================== 
rish retu.rn hoine for first big race this fall 

Invite to prepare NO runners for Big East and NCAAS 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 
In their first large race of the year, the men's and women's cross country teams will com­pete today in the 25th annllal National Catholic Invitatio1al held at Notre Dame. 
The Irish runners ha.ve enjoyed great success at 1.he invitational over the years with a total of 20 individual titles and 26 team victories. In 20J3, both Notre Dame squa.ds walked away with team titles. 
The Catholic Invitational includes schools from across the nation with 34 teams com­peting in the women's field a.nd 32 on the men's side. However, only 10 of the teams have Division I status. 
"We will not face the type of competition we expect do·Nn the road," women's head coHch 
Tim Connelly said. "We still want to use this race as a chance to improve the more inexperi­enced run­ners." 
After a con­vincing sweep at the 
"We will not face the type of competition we expect down the road." 
Tim Gonnelly Irish women's coach 
Valparaiso Invitational J~:,st week, the Irish men will bring even more depth to their squc.d. 
Junior Kaleb Van Ort and S{:n­ior Sean O'Donnell will return to the men's lineup for thnir first invitational this seasc n. Van Ort finished second overall at the 2003 Catholic Invitational while O'Donnell took third. 
Senior Ryan Johnson and sophomore Austin Weaver also will compete after strong races at Valparaiso. 
The Irish women will enter all top five runners from last week including Elizabeth Webster 
CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 

Junior Jean Marlnangell runs In last year's National Catholic Invitational. 
and Katie DeRusso who placed in the top ten at Valparaiso. 
In her first race this season, Senior Kerry Meagher looks to defend her 2003 individual title at the Catholic Invitational. However, the women's team has 
yet to field all their runners. 
"We will proba­bly be at full strength by next week for the Notre Dame Invitational," Connelly said. "This meet is another step along the way towards the Big East and 

NCAA championship meets." 
Although the Irish have more important meets on their upcoming schedule, the team will put forth a complete effort. 
"With our schedule we don't race that often," Connelly said. "So when we have a meet we're going to compete." 
The National Catholic Invitational will be held today on the Burke Memorial .Golf Course route at 5 p.m. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles go to ND·for race 
Additionally, freshman Megan "We are going to work on

Saint Mary's to 

Gray and sophomore transfer our pack running and nar­participate in Irish Meghan rowing our 
Murphy have s p I i t s
National Invitational the ability to between our bring-in top "We are going to work on first and performanc­seventh run­
our pack running and
By ANNA FRICANO 

es for the n e r s , " 
Sports Writer narrowing our splits
team. Barstis said. Coach Dave between our first and The team The Belles will remain close Barstis says is also tak­
seventh runners." 
to home this weekend as they that the race ing advan­travel across the street to today is tage of the compete in the National being treated Dave Barstis fact that Catholic Invitational at Notre primarily as Belles coach their routine 
Dame. a workout, as Coming off of a fourth place the women 
finish last week at Aquinas are concen-
College, the Belles are using trating on improving their 
this week's competition primarily to prepare for· their first con­ference meet, which they will run in next week. Last year the Belles finished 16th out of twenty-two teams at the invitational, but this year's 
overall team performance. "We are getting "We are get­
ting ready for
ready for our first 
our first confer-conference meet. We ence meet," 
want lo come out of 
Barstis said. "We want to
the National Catholic 
come out of the 
meet injury free. " National Catholic meet injury free." 
Dave Barstls 
Barsits said he
Belles coach 
doesn't want to count on any one person to be 
team certainly has the poten­the star of the team, but is tial to improve its perform­looking for team progress as ance, returning four of its top far as helping each other on five runners to the course. the course. 
will remain 
unchanged 

and they do not have to travel to the meet. To capitalize on the opportu­nity, the girls are running through this race rather than taking time to rest up for it. 
Though the schedule can be a challenge for the runners, Barstis believes it will pay off next week when they are get­ting ready for their first con­ference run. 
But for now, the cross coun­try team is prepared to take full advantage of the opportu­nity that they have to improve on their team performance before conference standing is at risk. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO I @saintmarys.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 



MIAA matchup to test Belles 
Saint Mary's faces Adrian today in a conference game 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
This Saturday the Belles will play their first confer­ence game against Adrian College, which is currently in fourth place in the MIAA. 
The Bulldogs come to Saint Mary's with a record of 2-1 in the conference and 6-7 overall. The Belles are 1-4 in the league and 1-6 on the year. 
A win could help them gain some ground in the confer­ence where they sit third 

from the bottom. have their hands full against "We still need to focus on another difficult opponent. winning," Michelle Gary said. So far this year, the Belles "If we have fun and continue have had a number of play­to put everything together ers contribute key roles on then we will play our game both the offensive and defen­and give ourselves a chance sive sides of the court. to win this year." Michelle Turley has played 
Last year, Saint Mary's split remarkably well both offen­
with  Adrian,  sively  and  
falling  in  the  defensively. She  
first match of the season, but winning the  "We still need to focus on winning."  is first on team with total digs  the 92 and  
second. In the  has recorded 71  
first meeting, the Belles lost  Michelle Gary Belles  k i I I s Meanwhile,  


in three straight games. However, they were able to pull out the sec­ond contest by winning the fourth game by a score of 34­
32. Once again, the girls will 


Observer file photo 
Michelle Gary passes the ball In a game last season. The Belles face MIAA riyal Adrian tomorrow at 4 p.m. 
teammate Ann 
Cusack has also 

been a force on defense, recording 92 digs. Elise Rupright along with Shelly Bender have consis­tently performed well on offense, leading the way for the Belles' scoring attack. 
The Belles schedule is com­prised of mostly conference opponents now that it is just about halfway complete. Even with the slow start, Saint Mary's still has the ability to gain ground and secure a berth in the league tournament, which begins in early November. 
After Saint Mary's faces the Bulldogs, the Belles next game will be played at the University of Chicago on Wednesday evening. Saint Mary's dropped its first scrimmage of the year to the Maroons. This time around, the Belles will be looking to avenge the loss now that it is the regular season. 
The Adrian game is set for 4 p.m. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 
Friday, September 17, 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Stonn awaits LSU, Auburn 
Associated Press 

AUBURN, Ala. -Aubu'nl and LSU have played several nickname games in recent years: The Fire Game. The Interception Game. The Cigar Game. 
The latest entry might be The Hurricane Game. 
Saturday's high-stakes matchup between No. 14 Auburn and No. 5 LSU is in limbo because of Hurricane Ivan. The storm plowed into Alabama and Louisiana and left concerns about safety, travel plans and available sup­port personnel. 
Auburn officials will likely decide Friday morning whether to reschedule the afternoon game. 
Hurricane Ivan already has forced the postponement of two Top 25 games. No. 10 California was scheduled to play at Southern Mississippi on Thursday night and No. 24 Louisville was slated to play Tulane at the Superdome in New Orleans on Saturday. 
Auburn-LSU is one of two heavyweight contests in the Southeastern Conference on Saturday. No. 11 Florida is at No. 13 Tennessee, with the winner clearing a major hur­dle toward an Eastern division title. 
In other Top 25 action on Saturday. No. 1 Southern California is at BYU: No. 2 Oklahoma plays host to Oregon; and No. 3 Georgia faces Marshall, which gave Ohio State a scare last week. The ninth-ranked Buckeyes are at North Carolina State. 
No. 4 Miami gets a bit of a break after its big win over Florida State by hosting Louisiana Tech. while the eighth-ranked Seminoles also step down in competition with a home game against UAB. 
No. 7 West Virginia looks to break a four-game losing streak to No. 21 Maryland in a Big East vs. Atlantic Coast Conference matchup. 
Elsewhere, No. 12 Virginia hosts Akron; No. 15 Utah is at Utah State; No. 16 Iowa visits Arizona State; No. 17 Michigan plays host to San Diego State; and No. 19 Fresno State, com­ing off an impressive win, plays Portland State. 
Two ranked Big Ten teams face potentially tricky road games with No. 20 Wisconsin at Arizona and No. 22 Minnesota visiting Colorado State. 
No. 23 Boise State is at UTEP and No. 25 Memphis, playing its first game as a ranked team, is at Arkansas State. 
As usual, the Auburn-LSU rivalry combines a dramatic story line with SEC title impli­cations. The two Tigers are the favorites to win the West. 
"They compete hard against us and that's what makes a rivalry great," LSU defensive end Marcus Spears said. "No matter what the situation is when we play each other we want to play our best game. 


NORTH QUAD GAME WATCH 
september 18 

BBQ at 4:30 p.m. KICKOFF at 6:00 p.m. Come watch Notre Dame play Michigan State on North Quad! 
Sponsored by North Quad Dorms 

It's just. important for us to play well. "It's a great game, a great atmosphere to be a part of." 
In 1994, Auburn returned three of its five fourth-quarter interceptions for touchdowns to rally for a 30-26 win. 
In 1996, the Auburn Sports Arena burned just outside Jordan-Hare Stadium, smoke billowing above the bleachers. LSU won 19-15 as Auburn missed three field goals and an extra point. 
In 1999, Auburn punctuated a 41-7 win at Baton Rouge with coach Tommy Tuberville and his players firing up victo­ry cigars on the game. Before the game, they danced on the eye of the tiger at midfield. 
Since 1998, the average margin of victory has been 
20.5 points. 
OLYMPICS 



No har111 for officials 

Two men convicted in bribery scandal get neither jail, fine 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY -The only two men convicted in the Salt Lake City Olympic bribery scandal were let off without penalty at their sentencings Thursday. Both cooperated with prosecutors in an unsuc­cessful attempt to bust two key officials in the city's bid for the 2002 Winter Games. 
Salt Lake businessman David Simmons and former 
U.S. Olympic official Alfredo La Mont _ who have been on probation since pleading guilty in 1999 received no jail time, no fines and no proba­tion. · 
The two had been expected to receive leniency in return for their testimony against the two key figures in the case, who ended up being acquitted last December by a judge halfway through their trial. 
Tom Welch and Dave Johnson had been accused of plying International Olympic Committee members with $1 million in cash, gifts. medical care and other favors to help bring the 2002 Olympics to Salt Lake City. 
Simmons, a telecommunica­tions executive, hired the son of a former IOC member from South Korea and was secretly reimbursed by Salt Lake City Olympic boosters. He pleaded guilty to tax fraud for disguis­ing those payments. 
"I received no personal ben­efit from my actions, but was motivated by my desire to assist the bid committee," he said. "What I did was wrong." 
Outside court, Simmons said he wasn't complaining that he got a misdemeanor conviction while the bid leaders were convicted of nothing. 
"No regrets," Simmons said. "I tried to take full responsi­bility from day one haven't deviated from that." 
La Mont was an internation­al relations director for the 
U.S. Olympic Committee who moonlighted as a Salt Lake bid consultant when the city was trying to persuade the IOC to select the city for the games. lie pleaded guilty to tax evasion and conspiracy to evade taxes. 
La Mont made "two really stupid decisions" _ taking a consulting job that conflicted with his USOC duties and not paying taxes on the income. said Lee Forman, his lawyer. 
"The first decision cost him his job; the second made him a felon." he said. 
Both men have since paid the evaded taxes, Justice Department attorney Richard Wiedis said Thursday. 
Wiedis said the Justice Department was unable to convict the main players in the scandal because "there were many forces that wanted to bury the facts of Olympic corruption." 
lie said the Salt Lake Organizing Committee was too willing to pay Welch and Johnson's legal defense, and 
· that its trustees offered testi­mony at trial that undermined the federal case. La Mont had faced up to a year in prison. 
Magistrate David Nuffer said he had no choice but to assess Simmons $25 in court fees. La Mont was assessed $200. 








MAKE IT PERSONAL 
Many on the Notre Drone campus have probably been affected in some ·way by cancer's wrath. Maybe it was a loved one or a friend who had to battle or is battling the disease. Regardless. the toll cancer takes can be painful both physically and emotionally. But we can fight back. We can take action by participating in this weekend's events to help raise money for cancer research and education. On Friday night. 9/17. the Relay for Life will be taking place at Stepan Center. On Saturday. 9/18 @ 1 1 am. the annual RecSports Domer Run begins. Make it personal and take a walk or go for a run Saturday to support those who have been affected by this disease. Either way, you will be doing your part in the fight against cancer! 
' 

i\e rttttS DOMER RUN 3 ~ 6 ~e ~o,'tVw Saturday, September 18, 11am l -rrtt Hesburgh Library quad (just north ofthe stadium). 
This year's proceeds will benefit ovarian ca~r research and education. 



Pancake breakfast to follow. All finisherS will receive a Domer Run T-shirt. Awards will be presented in the following categories: 
3 Mile Run -Men & Women 
*unaergrad, grad, faculty/staff, off-campus, youth 6 Mile Run* Men & Women * undergrad, grad, faculty/staff, off-campus. youth
. 

Register now until Spm, September 17 in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center for $6 or $10 day ofthe race. 
The 2004 Domer Run is in memory of Barbara Link. deceased wife of Dave Link. Dean Emeritus of the Notre Dame Law School. 
------~ ---~----------------~-----------------------­
Friday, September 17 , ~:004 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
~~~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~ 
WOMEN'S INTERiiALL FOOTBALL 

Cavanaugh, Walsh begin journey to stadium 
Pangborn plays Welsh Fam, Lewis faces Badin, Howard battles Lyons, Farley tangles with BP in season openers 
playoffs early last year and ership of the seniors, the board early, giving its
By DAN TAPETILLO, BRAD 

Perry has his heart set on the Whirlwind captain Mary defense a cushion.
WALLACE, MIKE TEN:'I"ANT, 

stadium Pendergast said. "We had a lot "We have a really good core
KYLE CASSILY and KATE 

"We don't particularly want of people return this year from of receivers returning this
SERYAK 

revenge on any one team -we studying abroad, and I think year," Heath said. "Hopefully
Sports Writers 

dislike them all that will add a lot to our suc­we can move forward." equally," he said. cess." Although inexperienced, Cavanaugh vs. Walsh With an apparent rivalry Pendergast also feels that her Badin's defense does have some 
Cavanaugh coach Lou Perry is between the two teams, it is team will benefit immensely strong leadership. Senior Rita hoping to create order out of sure to guarantee an intense from returning players from Morgan will be playing multiple the Chaos when the team faces match-up. last season's semifinal team. positions on the defensive side the Wild Women of Walsh this "We want to show that we "We had a really surprising again this year, while sopho­Sunday at 2 p.m. have matured and that we are season last year; no one expect­more Colleen Mallahan will lead 
Walsh is recollecting the going to be a team to watch ed us to do as well as we did," the defensive line. images from last sea~:on and throughout the season," Pendergast said. "The entire The Bullfrogs are not are not believes its team exudes enough Campbell said. defense from that team is back overly confident, even after last 
confidence that will prove to be Pangborn vs. Welsh Family this year, and that is definitely year's championship. unstoppable in this Sunday's For captain Katie Murray and going to be our anchor for this "It's always a new season," match-up. the Pangborn Phoxes, this foot­season." Heath said. "I think it will be 
"Our experience and .1ew tal­Both teams have worked hard an intense game." 
ball season will be a test not of 
ent is one of our biggest selling muscles, but of the mind. The thus far to prepare for the kick­The Chicks' captain agreed. points," Walsh captair, Carrie "It will come down to who's
Phoxes will examine this theory off this season and are excited Campbell said. "We are more Sunday as they face the Welsh to finally get the ball rolling. going to come ready to play," confident on the field this year." "We scrimmaged PW last Dawes said. 
Family Whirlwinds at 5 p.m. on Last season, Cavanaugh came West Quad. week, and I thought we looked Howard vs. Lyons out victorious against Walsh as "We've got a great core group really good," Murray said. "We If anyone spotted the rector of 
the referees implemented the of athletes coming back from can't wait to get into a real Howard Hall dressed as a lion 'mercy' rule. Fortunately, the last year, do not expect to see it
last year's team, so our biggest game and see how we adjust as 
Wild Women are using the loss a team." again this year if the Ducks
challenge is goingto its advantage to to be staying confi­The Whirlwinds are also have their way. 
weeks, and we've shown suffi­avenge last sea­excited to start the much-antici­Every year Howard and Lyons
dent, trusting our­

cient improvement to give
son's loss. "Our experience pated season. Halls wager on their flag foot­
selves, and keep­Howard a good game this week­"We want to rmd new talent is ing disciplined. If ''I've been waiting for this all ball game. The bet is not mone­end," she said.

leave the impres­we can do that, I year. We've been practicing for tary or even in the form of a Farley vs. Breen-Philllpssion that we are a one ofour biggest three weeks, and our coaches gift. It's all about dorm pride.
think we're going Sunday afternoon, two north

team to be reck­selling points. We have worked us really hard," The rector of the losing team
to have a great 

quad neighbors will battle for
oned with," 

Pendergast said. "Everyone must dress in the costume of
are more season," Murray 
dominance on the football field.
Campbell said. seems to have picked up the the winning dorm. Howard was
said.

The Wild Women ~~onfident on the The Babes of Breen Phillips will 
offense really well, and I'm defeated in this matchup of sis­
Pangborn is 

take on Farley's Finest in theare depending field this year. , coming off its best looking forward to seeing how ter dorms last year, but that season opener.
upon its seasoned 

we do in a game situation." game was only one loss of a
season in half a 

Although Breen Phillips won
veterans to lead 

Lewis vs. Badin winless season. The DucksCarrie Campbell decade, and has 
last year's matchup, Farley
the team to victory After eleven months of wait­hope to reverse that this year
high hopes for this

in its season open­Walsh captain plans to combine skilled leader­
ing, the Lewis Chicks finally and it starts with this key rival­year.
er. Walsh returns ship and freshman enthusiasm
have their chance for revenge ry game. 
"We had a really

seniors Amanda to bring home a win.
against Badin at 4 The Lyons Lions 
Borys, Katie Hesmond and good season last year. Before "We've got a very promising­
p.m. on Sunday are coming off of athat, we hadn't scored a touch­
Karla Bell on defense. offense and defense this year,
afternoon. "We've been .500 season last 
"A lot of players loo{ up to down in five years, so winning they show ambition, energy and
After coming year and are hop­
Karla on and off the field," two games was a really big con­working really skill at every practice," coach
out on the short ing to improve
fidence booster for us," Murray
Campbell said. "She i~; really hard on the upon this Nicole Rapagnani said. "I'm
end of a hard­that

said. "This year, we're hoping to 
emotional and passionat~~ and is looking forward to a great sea­
fought 7-6 cham­practice field and year. The Lions
improve our record even more.
great at getting the team fired son."
pionship game have started off
up." We were in the Blue League last we've had a great Aside from all of the hard
last fall against strong in the pre­
year, so this time season we will
The team is hoping 1;hat its turnout at all of work, the team has also
the Bullfrogs, the season, holding
trio can stop the Chaos, who are get play a whole new group of improved fundamentally. 
Chicks are ready the practices. We're many practices
teams, which should make it
led by quarterback Lisa Retter "Our team is a lot faster this 
pretty fun." for another run at ready for the leading up to the
and team captain Sara Gilloon. year and I think the addition of
the stadium. first game. This
"We've watched some film The Welsh Family Whirlwinds stadium this year. " a good play book will really
"We're going to commitment ties
from last season and i;;olated hope to blow Pangborn off help us out," Farley captain
have to play really in with one of the
several of our weakness,~s from course, however, with its stingy Angelina Zehrbach said.
well to get there," Jalmle Feltault team's goals for
last year," Perry said. •· I think defense and the experience of Breen Phillips, however, won't 
Lewis captain Breen-Phllllps captain the season -to
this team is very motivated and its older players. be coming down without a fight.
Sheila Dawes take football more
has the talent to go all the way." "I think the biggest key to our Last year they tied for second
said. "[It's] totally seriously and
Cavanaugh bowed out of the success is going to be the lead-with Badin in the fmal interhall
on our shoul­work on team 
rankings.

ders." togetherness. The Lions are 
Breen Phillips has dedicatedDawes will lead the Lewis led by captain Traci Kazmerski itself during the preseason as
defense along with sophomore and upperclassmen Meghan 
well, hoping to make it to the
LSAT GIIIIAT GRE MCAT' 
linebacker Mia De La Rosa. On Regan, Meghan Hassel and finals in the stadium later this
the other side of the ball, Lewis Michelle Celli. 
fall.

will use a balanced offensive The Ducks hope to capitalize "We've been working reallyattack, led by junior wide on a more experienced core of hard on the practice field andreceiver Kara Bailey. upperclassmen that can lead an
Ho,vwould 
we've had a great turnout at all
Bailey will lead a relatively athletically talented crop of 
of the practices," captain Jaimie ­
new group of receivers for incoming freshman. Captain 

Feltault said. "We're ready forLewis, but that does not appear Callie Whelan hopes the fresh­the stadium this year"to be a concern for the Chicks. men's speed combined with
YOLISCOre? 
Instead of a new crop of
"We have a lot of returning senior leadership can gain the 

freshman, Breen Phillips has
players, but we also have a ton Ducks some victories. 

the advantage of a veteran
of freshman filling in key rolls Key players this year for

Take a practice test at 
team. "Our whole defensive
for us," Dawes said. Howard are Renee Alessi, Brin 

line is returning this year and
Kaplan's Test Drive and find out. 
For the defending champi­Anderson and Laura Nilan. 

we've got a core of great
ons, their stellar defense of last Howard knows of the great receivers who are coming backseason was hit hard by gradua­amount of preparation Lyons as well," Feltault said. 
tion, leaving a few question has put in for the game, but is The game should prove to bemarks behind. not worried. Preparation for the 

a battle between an experi­
"Hopefully our offense can Ducks has consisted of what enced team and an energizedcarry our defense a little this Whelan describes as "carbo­



year," Badin senior captain loading". one. 
"We're hoping to take Farley
Stephanie Heath said. With dorm pride and a wager 
by storm," Feltault said. 
Heath will lead the Bullfrogs' on the line, both teams are

To register, call or visit us online today! 
"We want to play and fight."
experienced offense as the ready to bring their A-game to 


starting quarterback after split­the field on Sunday. ting time under center last year. "Howard is ready mentally

1·800-KAP·TEST 
Badin will also look for big and physically to take it to Contact Dan Tapetillo at games from senior receiver Lyons and get revenge for last jtapetill@nd.edu, Brad Wallace at 
kaptest.com 
Erin Diminick and sophomore year," Whelan said. bwallace@nd.edu, Mike Tennant Meg Charlebois. Kazmerski is ready to put the at mtennant@nd.edu, Kyle Test Prep and Admissions The Bullfrogs will look to air Lion back into Howard. Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu and 
the ball out and put points on "We've been preparing Kate Seryak at kseryak@nd.edu.
'Test names are re~lstered trademarks of their respective owners. 
page 24 Friday, September 17, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 


Interhall 
continued from page 28 
on the defensive line are some Sigfried players to watch. Offensive lineman Kevin Phipps will provide bulk upfront for the Hamblers. 
"lie is a force to be reck­oned with," Hughes said. 
On the Juggs side, Joe McCarthy, Jesse Greenwood and Mike Peters will lead the way. Along with those three, are two third-year returnees who have been called "unsung heroes" by their captain. They arc offensive line members Patrick Varley and Jason Creek. 
Both halls arc pumped and prepared for the game this Sunday. It should be a great battle between these two rivals. 
St. Edward's vs. Zahm 
Both St. Edwards and Zahm would like to get their season off to a good start, as last year they were looking up at Siegfried and Knott at the top of the Blue League standings. St. Edward's and Zahm both feel as if they have improved immensely this year, and are ready to give the Ramblers and Juggernauts a run for their money this season. 
Defense should be the strength of the Stedsmcn this year. 
"We have a good overall team defense," Stedsmen Matt Webber said. 
Nick Stober and Mike Giampa, both returning four­year starters, will be playing on both sides of the ball this Sunday. 

"Those two guys are the anchor of our team," Webber _said. 
Also be on the lookout for captain Joe Pomeranke, who is a leader for the Stedsmcn. 
As for Zahm, captain Kyle Jones feels that the Habid Bats will be much improved this year. "We seem to have a lot of freshmen and seniors on the team this year, but we still expect to be a lot better than before," Jones said. The Habid Bats have been knocked out of the playoffs in the first round three years in a row. 
"Be on the lookout for our fullback. Eric Tarnowski," Jones said. 

offensive line, which is espe­favorite targets should cially strong this season," include senior tight end Dave Jones said. Purcell and wide receiver Tim 
Looking around the league Kenney. it seems as if most of the Sprietzer will also be helped other dorms have small, but o u t by s tar h a I fb a c k N i c k quick, offensive lines this sea­Klein. a four year starter. son. so Zahm will have to wait "We expect [Klein] to be our to see if its strength prevails. workhorse," Ronsheim said. 
The two teams open up Lead blocking for Klein will their respective seasons this be his brother Steve. The all­Sunday at 3 p.m. The game Klein backfield has already will be played at Riehle field. impacted the game plan of Morlssey vs. O'Neill one opponent. 
Aaron Honsheim expects "We're planning on using a success. 5-3 defense to stop the run," 
The Morrissey captain has Milligan said. "Morrissey will seen his team defeated in the give us a big test, so we'll find playoffs by eventual champion out how good our defense Siegfried each of the past two really is." seasons. This year, the The young Angry Mob Manorites want to build on defense is expected to substi­past accomplish-tute liberally due ments, and their to its inexperi­quest begins this ence and the
"Our defense 
Sunday at 3 pm reputation of
carries us.
against the Morrissey's O'Neill Angry offense. Mob at Biehle Aaron Ronshelm "We're going to Field South. get a good rota­
Morrissey captain 
"llopefully we tion of guys in can get over the there, because h u m p . " we don't know 
Remen believes that the offensive and defensive lines are the strengths of his team. The Dawgs return six key starters along the lines. including senior standouts Dan O'Connor and Pat Higgins. 
Outside of excellent line play, Alumni will rely on the leadership and expe­rience of several seasoned veterans. Remen, a senior cornerback, and sopho­more linebacker Matt Augustine will anchor a stingy Alumni defensive unit. 
On the other side of the ball, the Dawgs will rely on several fresh faces at key skill positions. Freshman quarterback Brent Locey will lead Alumni's attack. 
"Locey is a real big kid with great potential," Remen said. 
Freshman wideout 
Willie D. Williams and freshman running back Bret Shapot will join forces with Locey to form a potent offensive threat for the Dawgs. 
Slowing down this Alumni offense will be a focal point for Keough. 
"The big key to the game is going to be our defense," Kusper said. "If we can make them throw the ball1 we feel we will have a real good chance." 
Kusper is not as concerned with Keough's offense. and for good reason. Kusper, Degen. and returning wide receiver Nick Dobbertin lead an expe­rienced and talented Kangaroo attack that could provide problems for the Alumni defense. 
As the season rapidly approaches, both squads are concentrating on one goal ­the chance to play for the championship in Notre Dame Stadium. 
"We are looking to make the playoffs and hopefully get a game in the stadium," Degen said. Remen also cited a sin­gle objective for Alumni this season -to get to the cham­pionship. 
With both teams clearly focused and confident. the meeting between Alumni and Keough should make for quite a battle. Fisher vs. Sorln 
A new year of Notre Dame interhall football kicks off this Sunday. with Fisher taking on Sorin at 1 p.m. at Riehle field. 


The Green Wave will look to avenge last year's loss to the Otters in a closely contested game that came down to one kick -a game winning field goal as time expired. The 3-0 final score truly reflected the struggles that each offense had against two very tough defenses. 
Statistically speaking, Fisher dominated last year's game, but untimely intercep­tions essentially led to Sorin's final and decisive possession. 
Several Sorin freshmen stepped up then, and they will look to do so again after a year's experience under their belts. 
Both teams will likely try and get the offenses going early. while trying to avoid the mistakes and m isscd opportunities that plagued each during the last meeting. 
Fisher captain Jerremy Moreno and returning Sorin captain Collin O'Keefe will try to lead his respective team to victory in this opener. 
Contact Abigail Richardson at arichaO I @saintmarys.edu, Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu, Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu, Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu and Tom Stiles at tstiles@nd.edu 
Another Habid Bats to watch this week should be star wideout Mike Hussell. 
"The strength of our team this year is going to be our 

Honsheim. whose team went 3-0-1 and beat Zahm in the opening round of the playoffs last year. said. "We want to make a statement this year." 
As for the Mob, they come into this fall looking to improve on last season's 1-3 record. 
"Our goal this year is to win at least two games and get into the playoffs, which O'Neill's never done before," Mob captain Michael Milligan said. 
In order to start their resur­gence, however. O'Neill will have to deal with a Morrissey squad that is expected to be as potent offensively as it is stingy defensively. 
The Manorites return seven starters from a defense that didn't allow a point until their eIeventh quarter of football last year, although they did lose middle linebacker Brian Dinsmore to graduation. 
Nevertheless, Ronsheim is optimistic. 
"Our defense has been the strongest part of the team since I've been here," he said. "Our defense carries us. We hope it can cause turnovers and put our offense in a strong position." 
Offensively, last year's start­ing quarterback, Marty Mooney now plays for the 
Notre Dame football team, but 2002 starter Pete Sprietzer returns from a semester studying in France to lead the Manorite offense. Sprietzer's who can play where yet," Milligan said. 
Offensively, O'Neill is expected to be conservative and try to control the clock with halfback Bradon Turner and fullback Brian Stein. 
"We're going to try to estab­lish the run," Milligan said, "If that works. we'll open things up and try a few pass­
es." Keough vs. Alumni 
A huge loss is never easy to forget. Keough learned this the hard way last season after being crushed by Alumni 27-0 last year. 
With the teams set to butt heads again in Sunday after­noon's 2 p.m. season opener. the Kangaroos will take the field with one thing on their mind -revenge. 
"We brought [last year's loss] up to our players," Keough captain and quarter­back Brian Kusper said. "They know that that can't happen again. We had more intense practices this week because of that. It's our turn this year." 
The Kangaroos feel that the key to securing this revenge on Sunday will lie in the trenches. Keough wants to dominate the line of scrim­mage on both ends of the ball. 
"If we can control the line, 
we can control the game," senior fullback Dan Degen said. 
This might be easier said than done. Alumni captain AJ 


THAI RE''sTAURANT 

NOW HIRING EXPERIENCED WAIT STAFF 
211 N. Main Downtown South Bend 

A Dillon running back fends off a Siegfried defender In last year's championship game at Notre Dame Stadium. lnterhall football kicks off this Sunday with both men's and women's games. 




232-4445 

Friday, September 17, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish return home, but lose Gustafson 
No. 1 golfer injured in team car crash Thursday afternoon 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will be back in action this weekend despite a car accident Thursday that left Scott Gustafson, one of the team's best players, injured. The team was head­ed to Bridgman, Mich. to practice on the Lost D u n e s 



Country Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information c l u b Eric Deutsch putts In a course for 
match last season. 

the Notre Dame Invitational, the first regular season tour­"Last season was the first nament hos.ted by the squad postseason [for us] since the in 17 years this weekend. inid 1960s," he said. "If we 
The field of competitors could finish top 5, that 
will attempt to serve as a would be a huge victory." preview of the NCAA Leading the team towards Regionals, with all teams that goal will be sophomore anticipated to Cole Isban, who qualify for qualified as the that event team's No. 1 for playing this "Everyone is this event. 
weekend, working on the Joining him will including No. be junior Eric
right things." 
24 Texas A&M Deutsch, sopho­
and No. 25 more Shane Southern Chris Witten Sigsbee, and Methodist freshmen Greg
Irish assistant coach 
CLEMENT SUHENDRA/The ObseNer Freshman Adrlanna Stasluk blocks against Nebraska Sept. 4. The Irish face off against Michigan State tonight at 7 p.m. in the Gamecock Invitational at the University of South Carolina. Notre 
Dame then faces South <:arollna on Sunday In the tournament. 
Tourney 
continued from page 28 
ed two consecutive national championships. 
Traditionally, the Spartans have notched wins again >t the Irish. holding the advantage in the series record 7-3. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame was scheduled to face 1'1/o. 2 USC. University officials announced Thursday th~.t the Trojans were withdrawing from this weekend's invita­tional due to "safety i1:sues and travel difficulties as a result of the severe weather conditions in the Southeast caused by Hurricane Ivan and the upcoming Hurricane Jeanne." 
Host South Carolina (5-2) will bring a great presence to the court on Sunday when they meet the Irish. Competing in front of a home crowd, the Gamecocks are playing for pride and are expected to impress. Wake Forest (3-1) and Duke (3-0) were the only teams to beat the Gamecocks this season. Last year, South Carolina bested No. 15 Notre Dame last season in four close matches, 30-26, 30-27, 24-30, 31-29. 

This whirlwind weekend should be an opportunity for Notre Dame to prove what a solid and capable team they are. 
At the Cal Poly Invitational last weekend, the Irish cap­tured the championship title over Fresno State, Cal Poly, and Sacramento State. Statistically, the Irish were at their best this season, record­ing 59 kills -almost 20 per game -and registering a .311 hitting percentage. 
Junior middle blocker Lauren Brewster earned the title of tournament MVP after registering 3.82 kills per game and recording a 3.72 hitting percentage. She also con­tributed 28 digs, 18 blocks, and four aces during the two matches. 
Her efforts in the invitation­al also demonstrated to Big East officials that she was deserving of her fourth Big East player of the week honor. Last week, Brewster tallied three double-doubles in four matches last week, totaling 60 kills on a .336 hitting percent­age. She also averaged 1.62 blocks and 2.56 digs per game. 
Junior outside hitter Lauren Kelbley was also named to the Cal Poly All-Tournament team after notching 4.00 kills per game and seven service aces. 
With talented individuals like Brewster and Kelbley leading the team, the Irish should be a formidable force this weekend. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
University. The three-day event will kick off Friday at the Lost Dunes Country Club in Bridgman, Mich., before returning to the Warren Golf course on campus for the 36 holes Saturday and Sunday. 
Serving a-s host should serve as a great advantage for the Irish. Surprisingly, Notre Dame will likely have a much more pronounced advantage at Lost Dunes, where they have played a few times, than at Warren, where they play every day. 
"At Lost Dunes, the diffi­culty lies in the greens, and it takes a lot of time to figure out the greens," Irish assis­tant coach Chris Whitten said. "Our advantage at Warren should be minimal." 
Whitten hopes for good things to come from going up against such strong com­petition this early in the sea­son, especially coming off N6tre Dame's trip to the NCAA Regionals last season. 
Rodgers and Mike King. King and Sigsbee will be competing in their first tournament as part of the Irish scoring lineup this sea­son, after competing as indi­viduals at an event hosted by Bowling Green last weekend. 
Whitten is excited about the progress the team has already shown this season. 
"Everyone is working on the right things," he said. 
Also, five more members of the Irish squad will com­pete in the tournament as individuals. Seniors Steve Colinitis and KC Wiseman will lead the group, joined by juniors Tommy Balderston, Mark Baldwin and Daniel Klauer. 
Irish coach John Jasinski said Thursday night that it was too early to tell if Gustafson will be out for the season. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 



~1 Sports Jar itt South Jettd 204-6 South Jettd Ave -Across frot~t Martitts Plaza 
272-1766 
NP Football Headquarters Ottlitte sports ittfo 
"(}realt Food, (}reat Futf Mott: Monday Night Football 6-Specials startit1g at $1, foes: College Night -LJ,f e. Specials Wed: TRIVIA Night -Jrit1g your teatMs -Prizes Thurs: PJ -First Thursday every tMottth: Jazzy (}rass Fri: live EntertaitttMettt Sat: NP gatMes 

HOPE YOU HAVE AHAPee 
21st ~lltfHUAY! 
Love, Your Slushies 

ll -------~ ----------~ -~ -~ ~ ~ ~ "!" .,. -":' ":" = = ':' ::-= = :: = : ; .; -:; ""' 
page 26 
Hoyas 
continued from page 28 
the I loyas lightly. 

"You aim to win every game, and then after that. you've just got to get on with in," Clark said. "Once you start talking a score ­what you think it's going to be ­that's when you start getting into problems." 
Part of that approach encom­passes a focus more on the Irish style of play than what the I Ioyas will be trying to do Saturday night. 
"We've got to concentrate and play our game," Clark said. "You've got to be aware of the other tnam -that's key -but at the same time you've got to make sure you don't forget to play your game. That's going to be very important." 
The Irish suffered their first loss of the young season Wednesday night in Bloomington, dropping a 2-0 decision to soccer powerhouse No. 1 Indiana (5-0-0). 
"I was disappointed with the final outcome, but there were a lot of positives," Clark said. "It was a tough game [with] both tnams working very hard." 
Notre Dame hung tough with the nation's top squad, nearly matching the Hoosiers in total shots -Indiana registered ten while the Irish drilled nine­and out-cornering them six to one. 
However, shots and corner kicks don't factor into the final score. 
"Soccer is a funny game­there's really only one statistic that counts and that's goals," Clark said. "It's disappointing, but we've actually scored more goals at this point in the season than we did last year." 
Clark points to the youth up front and undefined roles as pos­sible explanations for N.otre Dame's inability to capitalize on quality scoring changes thus far this year. 
"We made a decent amount of chances that we didn't convert," Clark said. "It's a young team and guys are still just fighting out exactly where they all fit in." 
After the Irish nearly took an early lead on a ninth minute run by defender Jack Stewart, Indiana forward Jacob Peterson put the Hoosiers on the board eight minutes, fifteen seconds into the second half. 
Uncorking a shot just inside the box, Peterson's ball deflected off Stewart's foot and into the net, staking Indiana to a 1-0 lead. 
The Irish refused to give in, nearly converting a pair of scor­ing opportunities before Indiana took advantage of Notre Dame's aggressive play and effectively put the game out of reach on a fast-break goal by midfielder Brian Plotkin. 
The 2-0 Hoosier shutout marked the fifth consecutive time that a Notre Dame/Indiana con-. test has ended with at least one team faj}jng to score. 
The Irish downed tile I Ioosiers 1-0 at Alumni Field last season on an overtime goal by defender Kevin Goldthwaite. 
Following the Georgetown con­test, the Irish travel to Morgantown, W. Va., next Thursday to face West Virginia. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Huskies 
continued from p~ge 28 
for those teams that we take for granted a little bit," she said. "A big team like UConn is always a great team against us ... [but) we haven't played [Syracuse] in a long time so you tend to forget about teams like that." 
This will be the first game Notre Dame has played with the distinction as the top­ranked team in the country. Tancredi feels that now opposing teams have even more motivation when they play the Irish. 
"It doesn't matter what number we are, we always seem to have good competi­tion against us," Tancredi said, "[But] it's always going to be a hard game, each game we play [ranked No. 
1]." . 
Despite the challenges of playing for a targeted team, Tancredi was named the Big East Defensive Player of the Week for the second consecu­tive week. However, she attributes her own accolades to a tougher mentality of team's defense as a whole. 
"Our [team has] dedication to not allowing teams to hav­ing any shots on goal, taking that seriously, taking it to heart when we actually get scored on," she said. 
The Irish have more good news as well. After a rash of injuries, slowly but surely, the team is getting healthier. Irish forward Candace Chapman, who missed all of the 2003 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 
Irish forward Candace Chapman has been a force this season after being Injured In 2003. 
I can. You just have to work harder every minute that you get." 
Notre Dame will also see the return of a promising freshman, Jannica Tjeder, who has also been sidelined with an injury for the better part of this season. Waldrum, for one, is anxious to have her back on the field. 
"We're going to try and get her some time this weekend. She looked good in training this week," he said. "I don't think she's completely healthy, but she's close." 
Goalkeeper Erika Bohn will likely return to the Irish net this weekend as well. Waldrum started freshman Lauren Karas in last week's game against Arizona State. and is leaving his options open for the coming weekend. 

"We'll probably start Erika on Friday and then just see how it goes," Waldrum said. "It's really easy to put young players in games that don't mean a lot, but we wanted to see her in a meaningful game. I think the competition has been very close. I don't know if we'll split games or split halves but the games will dictate that." 
Tonight's game is set for 7 
p.m. and Sunday's is slated to start at 1 p.m. · 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 
season with a knee injury, has returned with a vengeance. Chapman is tied for the team lead in goals with five, and has done so, not as a starter, but providing the spark off the bench. 
"You get on the field, you work as hard as you can, and then you switch it up and new peo­ple go," Chapman said. "In the time that I have I try to do as much as 


Why celebrate your Irish heritage only on St. Patrick's Day? Join us tonight for Halfway to St. Patrick's Day, featuring lots of live Irish music, dancing and festivities throughout the evening! 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 17, 2004 

Spartans game a crossroads for ND 
Think back to the Mic.higan State game dur­ing the 2002 snason. 
Tho No. 12 Irish worn 3­0 and coming o!T a 25-23 stale­nwnt win over No. 7 Mich­igan. Tho Spartans had lild'natnd tlw Irish in the previous l'iVIl match­ups bntwnen tJwse 
tt~ams. 
And it looknd like that st.rnak would nxlnnd to six. 
Michigan Stall~ rncniver Charles Hog11rs rnad11 a eir­cus catch in the hack of tho 11nd zone to put the Spartans alwad 17-14 late in the fourth quart11r. 
It lurrwd out the Irish, for once in this series, had a big play of their own. 
Pal Dillingham, filling in for an injured Carlyln Holiday, hit an open Arnaz Battin who got a block from (iary Ciodsey and sprinted down tlw left sid11line to giv11 the Irish a rn inu~ ul o us 2 1-I 7 win. 
That play, that win, knpt that team believing some­thing special was brewing 

Matt Lazar 
.','ports Writer 

in Tyrone Willingham's Brady Quinn relieved l'irst season in South Bend. Holiday, couldn't complete 
"Two years ago was the comeback and became ·exciting with the big play the eventual starter next Arnaz made, because it week at Purdue en route changed our season," to a disappointing 5-7 Holiday said. "It was the campaign. start of big things to come "I think this team in 2002." remembers the game last 
Now think back to last year, t know I do," Quinn year's game against said. "I feel that was the Michigan StatfL game we really felt slip 
The Irish wen~ 1-1 and through our fingm·s. coming orr "That's a 3S-O sonwthing embarrass­we are going
F'or some unexplainable
mont at to be looking Michigan. reason, the Spartans at this week-Mnanwhile, always seem to play end." the So what
their best game against
Spartans does all this were 2-1 mean?
the Irish. 
and coming o!T an embarrassing loss of their own -a 20-19 defeat at the hands of WAC "power­house" Louisiana Tech. The Spartans had a plus­l'ive turnover margin, but Louisiana Tech scored 13 points in the !'ina! 69 sec­onds or the game to pull orr the upset. 
The Spartans appeared to be the perfect medicine for a beaten-down Irish tnarn. 
But holding true to recent history, the Irish couldn't solve the Michigan State mystery, losing 22-16 at home in a game no one thought the Irish should lose. 
for some 

unexplain­able reason, the Spartans always seem to play their best game against the Irish. 
Holiday said the close­ness of the games stays in the back or your mind. Kyle Budinscak can't put his l'inger on it. 
But Brandon Hoyte "couldn't care less" about the past-whether it's the losses to the Spartans or last week's win over Michigan. 
Derek Curry said nothing in the past will affect this game. 
Willingham's job is try­ing to find a place some­where in the middle to get his team ready for a piv­
otal game. 
"You want a balance. 
You want an awareness of 
what happened in the 
past, but you don't ever 
want to linger on it," he 
said Tuesday. 
"If those players from the past were going to play for Michigan State, then I would p,ut more emphasis on it. But I don't think any of them are in the lineup. 
"It's going to be their 2004 team against our 2004 team. It simply will eome down to this: the team that plays the best will win." 
That's the attitude this team needs to take. 
The Irish did it last week against the Wolverines. They were the best team on the field and didn't focus too much on the opening-week loss. 
Now they have the chance to continue their season turnaround. 
Once again, that game comes against Michigan State. 
Once again, the Spartans will have a major impact on which way this season heads. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sa~ily those of The Obser­ver. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd. edu. 

game hype 

Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
"lND-M.'·;l!J is one ofthose games where you have t.o pull it out in the endfor the win." 

Kyle Budinscak Irish defensive lineman 
"Notre Dame has some good talent like Darius /Walker]. He's really been a spark for them." 
"You want an awareness of what has happened in the past, but you don't want to linger on it. " 

Carlyle Holiday Irish wide receiverI punt returner 

"We have to come ready to play because they will be." 



----~--~~----------­
Friday, September 17, 200i The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
================================================================= 
Broad shoulders 
Darius Walker wears the number 3 and lifts the hopes of the Irish faithful 

By PAT LEONARD 
Associate Sporrs Editor 
lie did not request the hype. lie didn't <wen want it. But when Darim; Walker got to Notre Dame, he received a jersey with the number three -and, some would say, the expectations that r;une with it. 
"I guess it worked out for me," Walker said. 
The situation is too much of<L coin­cidence. The true freshman from Georgia jumped from promising nuuit to cdebrity status after ignit­ing the Irish running game n last week's 28-20 upset of No. 8 Michigan, wa'>ting no time in display­ing tho big-game potential of former number three wearers Joe Montana 1u1d Hkk Mimr. 
"It was a big spark," tight end Anthony J<w;ano said. "lie ac dod a dim~nmce maker and a person to see tho hoiPS we were creating." 
Fans rngarded the son of brmer Arkansas defensive tackle Jimmy Wa.Iker <L'> one of the lew bright spot'> in an overall disappointing rec "lliting d<L'>S i<l'it winter, but nobody ex:>ected I><uiu'i Walker to get 31.earries in tho smL'ion's second game -agair st onn of' Notre Damn's biggest riva.ls. 
"I li~lt all along at some poi 11t this year he would have some impact on a f(KJtball g<Uille," head mach 'l'yrone Willingham said. 
Wa.lknr put 12 points on the se,ore­board and totaled 115 net mshing yards. doing it all with the weight of Notrn Dame tradition labeled ·:!early on hi'i back. 
The number three 
Even sub-par Notre Dame CUllS­the ones who think Rocket Ismail W<l'> the name of a NASA spar~~ shut­tle -know the significance of the number three. Montana, Mirur and Hon Pow!us are only some of thn leg­rmdary Irish alums to sport tim sym­bol. l'laymaker Arnaz Battle graduat­ed in the spring of 2003 and no one stepped up to CNry the torch. 
Then Walker arrived in :'iouth Bend. obliviou<; to the number'~ avail­ability. but it did not matter. l11e jer­sey found him. 
"I actually wanted a singlE~ digit number," Walker said. "I was 1\o. 7 in high sch(KJI and that was some bing I W<l'> pushing to get. Carlyle lloliday decided to keep the number and thrne W<l'> tho only single digit num­ber loll." 
Walker wore the number three proudly Saturday, whether h::J was spending into the right eomer of the nndzonc or still~arming tacklors on hi'> way to the left comer. Ilis ar.com­plishmmll'i <wnc as no surpri'i! to hi'> head coach. 
"I had the opportunity lin pr.J.etice] to watch hi'> style, watch his ability to see things, and just make yardage out ofthings that didn't seem tu have much yardage," Willingham said. 
Walker's skill'> would exic.,t whetl1er he W<L'> wearing the number tllree or the number 33. 
But tl1e parallels between W. ~ker's timely Saturday performance and those of p<l'it great number three's are eerily similar. 
'lhn most notable moment e<:me in 1980. when kieker Harry Oli•ter ­numb!~r three -put a 51-yar:llield goal through the upright<; w th no timn on the clock to beat -that's right-Michigan. 
No one expected the wind 1.1 1 sub­side <l'> Oliver booted the clinch< ,r, and no one expected Walker to carry such a load in his first outing ·-not even the freshman himself. 

game during his freshman year of high school. Walker's Buford High School went on to win the Georgia M state title in his final three sea­son'>, dominating opponents by wide margin<;. And though Walker was an integral part of the offense, the team didn't need to heap all of the respon­sibility oniheir star back's shoulders. 
"It was very seldom Ito carry the ball 30 times in high school]," Walker said. "So the [Michigan] game was very rough." 
Walker carried the ball 31 times again<;t tl1e Wolverines. He hit open holes and gained solid yardage. solid especially for a team that had rushed 22 times for just 11 yards in the pre­vious weekend's 20-17loss to BYU. 
"He loves playing the big game," running backs coach Buzz Preston said. "He's hungry to do great things." 
Walker was able to score a remrd 46 touchdowns in high school, break­ing the Georgia state rushing remrd of 45 held by former NFL running back Herschel Walker-no relation. 
But Darius Walker's familiarity with the endzone did not show when he commented on the two he put past the Michigan defense Saturday. 
"It was my first [two] college touch­down[sl, so it was a little sentimental for me," he said. "I couldn't believe that I wa<; out there at first, and then to score a touchdown made it a little crazy for me." 
Walker became the first freshman to rush for two touchdowns since quarterback Matt LoVecchio did in a November 2000 win over Southern California. He was also the first fresh­man running back to notch a pair of scores since Autry Denson scored twice in a 44-14 Notre Dame win over Air Force on Nov. 18, 1995. 
All of the statistics, all of the prai'i!l, and what does Walker's coach have to say? 
"It was just about what I expected to see from hinll," Willingham said. 
Willingham saw Walker in practice and felt eonfident in the ability of hi'i recruit, but even some of the players dosest to Walker on the field had lit­tle due about what impact he muld have. 
"I wasn't sure what to expect," quarterback Brady Quinn said. "Obviously I give him the ball and [wei ran the ... plays for him [to] see what he [muld] do with it." 

I try to do the best I can in every­thing." 
Handling the spotlight 
Walker's early season accomplish­ments have brought unprecedented m.edia attention to the wide-eyed freshman. But that attention -and sharing the weight of a program's expectations -is no strange concept to one ofWalker's teanlffiates. 
"You have to [handle yourself well]," said Quinn, who threw 59 ·passes in his first start as a freshman last season. "No matter who it is [talking about you], this is Notre Dame. Every time you have a good game, the [media] are going to be saying stuff. You got to stay level­headed, grounded and working hard." 
Walker's performance does not establish hinl1 as the only threat for Notre Dame, either. Grant wa<; still remvering from his hamstring injury during the Michigan game and could get the start Saturday at Michigan State. 
Walker welcomes Grant as the 
Behind an offensive line that showed improvement from the weekend before, Walker jumpstarted a rushing attack that keyed a Notre Dame victory. 
The sweeping effect 
Ask offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick if he has reached a point where he is comfortable with the in<;tallment of the West Co<ist offense and he will reply in a blunt state­ment. 
"Definitely not," he said after beat­ing Michigan. If the offense isn't there yet, Walker ha'i del,initely brought it closer. 
The struggling Irish could get notll­ing going against the five-defensive back set of BYU in the first game of the season, and the play-calling resorted to unsuccessful short pa'iSes and runs. 
Notre Dame maches started soph­omore Travis Thomas (six carries, two yards) at tailback. They used senior Marcus Wilson (nine r,arries, 22 yards). They even inserted junior Jeff Jenkins to block on passing downs. With Ryan Grant out with a sore hamstring, coaches were scranililing for options. 
Walker traveled, but he never saw the field. Part of the reason muld be coaches' concern about Walker's pass blocking abilities. 
"The most difficult thing, when you talk about a passing offense -and this is everyone involved -is the word 'protections,"' Willingham said. "I don't have any idea what Darius had to pass protect against in high school, but I know it wasn't a 246­pound middle linebacker." 
Walker may have to work on his pass protection, but Diedrick believes the advantage an improved running game gives to the entire rest of the team is indisputable. 
"There's a tremendous advantage in having and maintaining good field position both for the offense and the defense," Diedrick said. "You can start all the way back on your own goal line and get into single digits of percent of teams who are able to drive the length of the field." 
Wearing a single digit on his chest and back, Walker's rushing prowess muld make Notre Dame one of those statistical single digits. 
"I try to be a back that can do it all," Walker said. "I want to be a back that has the power to run over you, but I also want the speed to outrun you. I want to be an all-p1,1rpose back. 
senior back. 
"Ryan and I talk all the time," the freshman said. "We are very dose. He tells me to keep working hard and is just a great person and a great back. It is unfortunate tlllat he has his ha.Jru.tring problem, and I hope that he comes back and does well." 
The maturity and intelligence Walker displays during interviews indicates the type of player Willingham has professed recruiting since he signed his five-year mntract. 
"He's a good young man," Prn!>ion said. ''[He's] very intelligent. sharp; as folks can tell he can articulate. He really has a bright future if he can keep it going in the right direction." 
Walker will try hi'> hardest to keep it going as Michigan State approach­es with its eyes focused nowhere else but on the source of Notre Dame's offense. 
"I am a used to [being a target] from high school," he said. "I guess I have a bit of a target on my back after that last game." 
Walker now wears a target along with his number three, both symbol'> of what he has meant to the Irish thLL'ifar. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edn 


by the numbers 
number of quarterbacks Michigan State has used so far in its first two games. 
3

None of the three were ever injured. 
60 
yards of Arnaz Battle's touchdown reception in Notre Dame's come-from-behind 21-17 win in its last visit to East Lansing. 
number of touchdown runs lor Darius Walker in his Irish debut Saturday 
2 

6 
ranking in the country for the Notre Dame rushing defense 
ranking in the country lor the Michigan State rushing defense 
96 

19 
number of points Michigan State allowed in a loss to Rutgers to open the Spartans' season 
points Rutgers then allowed in its next game, a 
35 

loss to Division 1-AA New Hampshire 

The workload CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 
Walker has not lost a game he has Irish running back Darius Walker runs through a hole during Notre Dame's 28-20 118 number of wins in Michigan State coach played in since losing the sta1e title win over Michigan Saturday. Walker has provided a spark to the Irish offense. John l. Smith's 15-year career 


..---------------------------~-------­
page 4 Friday, September 17, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 


Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 1-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Tyrone Willingham third season at Notre Dame career record: H0-47-I at Notre Dame: I (>-I I against
Tyrone Willingham 


Matt Lozar 
Editor in Chief 

HEADT 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 
2004 Schedule 
Sept. 4 Sept. 11 Sept. 18 Sept. 25 
Oct. 2 Oct. 9 Oct. 16 Oct. 23 Nov.6 Nov. 13 Nov. 27 
LLI 
~ 
<( Q 
LLI 
c:: 
1­0 
z 



at BYU-L MICHIGAN -W at Michigan State WASHINGTON PURDUE .STANFORD 
..:i·~ 

af'NAVV :BOSTON COLLEGE at Tennessee PITTSBURGH at USC 
COACHING 
QUARTERBACKS 
{)uinn didn't win many style points during his start against Michigan (10-for-20 with three INTs), but he did pick up the win. Currently in his second year as the signal­caller for the Irish. he has shown flashes of bril­liance but still needs to work on consistency. 
The Spartans are in a mess at quarterback. Dowdell started the opener against Hutgers, but stayed on the bench as Heaves and Stanton played against Central Michigan. Smith has tentatively named Heav­es the starter for Saturday's game. 
{)uinnwill bema. first' start in a ·. road venue Lansing, but ''h'i'f'f nod here. The Sp triQ of.; quart,e have all' app~aj:~ 
·1h¥;~~:~r.~nt!i~ 
rig~Jm!UY~; 


IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
Walker had an impres­sive debut against Michigan Saturday, rushing for 115 yards and two touchdowns. Grant will probably see playing time as well, and both Powers-Neal and Wilson are other options in the running back rotation. 
The Spartans have the worst rushing defense in the Big Ten, having allowed 410 yards on the ground so far this season. Smith and Harmon rank second and third on the team in tackles-consid­ering both are safeties, that's not a good thing for a rushing defense. 
The lri(;lh went a the"second-wors.t ..... ing defense in the.:. ig Ten in Walker:s; deQut;.: and now they ge~}.(f h:.,·•,'. 
w~rst in his eg;l}:ll:~;(,. presentation.The;:~.:;~ut:;: 
look appears sunny ,;:'
"{' • • . •:,;;,)ii•''
c.:e.•ve·n l .• :It-· .. l!l a lll,-,,1 game -for the }fish ground-"&ttack. 'iiiiillii/A 
{)uinn didn't have to throw as often in Notre Dame's win over the Wolverines. lin thrllW three interceptions, but· two wen L ofT his reo~ivers' hands before being picked oil'. lin com­pleted several long balls, but missed on some plays that eould havn bnnn TDs.  
Michigan State has the 29th best passing defense in the nation, allowing opponents just 167 yards per game. Harmon has one inter­ception so far this year, after being named an honorable-mention all­Big Ten selection in 2003.  
The Irish passing game is still trying to work out its kinks, with {)uinn needing to espe­cially improve on short throws. Michigan State bas one of the better pass defenses in the Big Ten, but, aga.in, they have yet to play a quali­ty opponent.  

No. I 2 .1 4 5 
h 
7 
~ 
Ill II 12 13 15 In It> 17 17 IK JH 14 21 22 21 24 25 26 26 27 27 28 28 10 11 .II .12 13 .14 17 17 
.lH 
w 
~I) 
41 
-~2 
.n 
·14 .J5 
~5 
.j(, 
47 .JH .j<J 
50 51 52 53 53 'i4 55 
5(, 
58 5'1 
~~ 
hil 61 62 h4 h5 66 67 68 I>Y 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 
77 
78 79 80 81 82 H3 84 ll4 85 H7 88 89 YO 91 92 
~3 
94 95 % 97 
~8 
Y9 

Willingham's team showed tremendous improvement in its win against Michigan, while his staff demonstrated innovation in the offen­sive playcalling. As a graduate of Michigan State, the Irish coach will be hoping uj get a win over his alma mater.  
Smith is in just his sec­ond year at the helm of the Spartans, going 8-4 in the regular season last year including a win at Notre Dame. He had considerable suc­cess at Louisville before corning to East Lansing.  
Smith engineered an upset over then-No. 4 Florida State while at Louisville in 2002. His team did lose at Rutgers to open thjs season, how· ever. Willingham has shown he too can upset teams (Michigan), but his Irish also had an opening letdown.  

Michigan State: 2-1
head coach 
Roster 

Nanw Pus. Ill. Wt. Yl! liln•dCJc~rj.. n: 6-4 250 SR Fn•ddit• i'Mn!-.h J)Jl 6-1 202 so Dariu!'l W,dkl'r KB 5-11 200 FR Rvan Cr.mt IW I>· I 21K SR ldlt'rn.l MrKni~ht WK h-1 215 )K Carlos(. ·.tmpbt•fl Cll 5-11 1~5 SK C,ulylt• llolid.ty WK!(..lll 1\-3 215 SK Mc1rty MuonL'Y QH h-2 210 JR (Jw.•ntin Burrl'll FS 1\-0 1~5 SR Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 203 so Pc1t I lillingh.tm QB 6-2 205 SR Brady (.)uinn Qll 1\-4 22.J so M.m.:us Wll~on Rll 5-11 202 SR Josh St·hmidt fll 1\-l 232 SK {),wid Wul~t· QB h-4 205 FR Prt•stun J.tr:kson CB 5-~ 1KO SR R.t!-.htln PtlWt'r~-Ne.tl Fll 1\-2 243 SR Stan Rl'Vt•llt• QB 5-11 195 SR (;t•offrl'y Prict.' I' h-3 1~0 SR 
J.J. w.un•n Qll 6-1 lll4 so DMn·n Br,1gg QB o-2 IRS FR Chint•dum NduJ..we DB o-2 223 so D.). Fitzp.ttrick K/P n-1 200 SR Mcturirl' Stov,lll WR h-5 227 JR AmbroM' Woodt•n Cll 5-11 186 so Ch.tSt' An.t~t.tsin WR 6·1 202 so Dwif~hl Ellirk CB 'i-10 185 SR Nclh.• Srhiccatant) FR 1\-2 242 JR W,\llt•f,tms DB 5-8 170 FR ·rrovis 'J'h''"'''!'l Rll o-O 212 so l.iond Bolt..•n [)Jl 6-0 210 SR John I{:nn~ RB h-1 192 so Tn•AA >ut•rson DR 5-10 170 FR Cole l.aux I'll 5-10 240 SR Mikt• Rich.ud:-.tm [)I! 5-11 \YO JR )ilkt·Cum•y FS h-0 192 JR A.). Ced<•nu Dll 6-0 IYI so kft )lonkin!-1 RB h-0 216 jl{ Justin I Iuskin!'! RB o-o 195 FR Tt•rr.till.,lmbt•rt JJB 5-lll !YO FR Junior J.tbbil' on 5-11 1~0 FR M.tttMitch<•ll CB 5-Y !YO )R I .c.~' h•rnn(• DB /HI IRO FR Br,mdt111 llnvtt• J.ll 5-11 231 SR M<turin• Cnim, Jr. 1.11 0-\ 215 FR Mikl• Ctn1hoby J.H 0-4 242 SR Anthony Vt•rn,l~lia J.ll h-4 220 FR Anthony Sdlvodor l.ll h-2 232 JR Justin rw:k DE h-5 261 SR Carl Giu1" K/1' 5-10 185 so Rich Whitn<'Y l>ll 6·3 205 JR Con·~ Mavs LB 6-1 243 SR Mite wll lhom•s 1.11 1\-3 230 so )toronw Collins TE 6-4 258 SR ller<•kCurry J.B 1\-3 235 SR IJ,m Silntucd OJ. 1\-4 292 )R ),tmit•Ry,m OJ. h-5 310 )R /m• Brorkingtnn l.JI o-1 225 so llon llick<•y 01. 1\-3 224 JR )oSt•ph Boland 1.11 6-3 224 )R n.wid Fitzft'•rald (ll. 1\-4 285 JR h1chc1ry (;1 e~ c o-3 28\ Sl< Nk·k Bor.-.t•ti l.B o-4 238 so Abdcl Jl.md.t LB 1\-2 215 FR James Bt·nt 01. 1\-1 271 JR Dan Cht•rvankk DT/NG 6-2 265 )R Casey Culll'!l LB 1\-2 212 so ).). J•ns<•n L~ 6-3 215 FR Sc,,tt Rdridon OT 1\-o 310 )R Casct l>unn OL {,-4 25o SR Tim ~ritLman DF. 1\-3 210 FR D};l'k Ltndri NG 1\-2 278 JR Jo n K!ldnu!4 01. f>-7 3\0 FR Ry,ln llc1rris 01. 1\-5 289 so Darin Mih.:hcll OG 1\-3 2YO SR Chi:lunn•y lnl'clrnatu 01. 6-6 280 FR )clmt•s Bonelli ()[. o-4 290 JR 
01. 0-4 285 SR~~~r~<.:~~m OT 1\-7 310 SR Dan .Stt•vt_•n~m OG 1\-5 293 SR Chri~ Froml' Dl: 6-5 271 JR Bob Morton OG/C o-4 300 )I{ Grt.•g P.tuly DT 0-6 2Y5 SR John Sullivan c f>-3 295 so Brian Mattt•s ()[. 6-5 292 JR 
WR 1\-4 205 FR~~:~~t~~ti~~~ris WR 1\-1 190 JR M.tttSh,•lton WR frO 175 SR Jeff S..m.rdlija WR 1\-5 215 so Mike O'llar• WR 5-9 175 JR Rob Woods WR 1\-2 205 JR llillyl'.tlm<•r n: 1\-3 256 SR Man:us Frt•t•mcln TE o-2 248 Jl~ Anthony Fasano TE 0-4 256 )R john Carlson TE f>-5 248 so Brian Bt•idatsl'h DL f>-2 295 SR Craig Cardillu K 6-0 \69 JR Kyle Budinscak DE 0-4 275 SR Brandon Nicolas DL f>-5 275 FR justin Brown DL/1.8 0-4 225 FR Victor Abiamiri DE f>-5 269 so Bobby R<•nk<•s K/P 6-0 !YO so Travis L.l'itko DE 6-6 275 JR Trevor Laws Dl. 1\-0 285 so Ronald Talley DL 6-4 245 FR 


Throw out the history for this one. It doesn't lor the Irish, which is enough reason f(>r them 
This game has all of the potential to be scary 
matter what Michigan State's done to Notre not to overlook a bad Spartans team. The 
Dame in the par.;t, these teams arn dnarly mis­
Irish 

matched. The Irish should run the football all a flow and blow this one open in the second day on a weak Spartan front sevnn and tlw half against a Michigan State defense that can't 
defense gives the oll'ense enough time to get in Notre Dame delimsn will bn licking its chops to
experts face a vulnerable, inexpt~rienend Michigan State ofl'ense.
stop the run or the pass. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34,FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Joe Hettler Michigan State 10Michigan State 7 
AME 


MICHIGAN STATE 2004 Schedule 
Sept. 4 at Rutgers -L Sept. 11 CENTRAL MICH.-W Sept. 18 NOTRE DAME Sept. 25 Indiana Oct. 2 at Iowa 


Nov. 6 OHIO STATE Nov. 13 WISCONSIN 'Nov. 20 at Penn State Dec.4 at Hawaii 
SPARTANS RUSHING 
The Irish stuffed Michigan's rushing attack, even while focusing on covering the Wolverines' wide receivers. Notre Dame's defensive line caused chaos in the Michigan backfield, stop­ping the running backs bnlore they could even get going. 
Teague has rushed for 160 yards on 33 Carries, and the Spartans have averaged 4.8 yards per carry. However, they have yet. to face a defen­sive unit that is the cal­iber of Notre Dame's sixth-ranked rushing defense. 

SPARTANS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 


INTANGIBLES 
The Irish seem to have all the momentum on their side, facing a team that lost to Rutgers in its opening game. But the fact remains that Michigan State has been a thorn in Notre Dame's side for years. 
The Spartans have won six of the last seven against the Irish, and the lone Notre Dame win required a last-second miracle from Arnaz Battle. Smith's team has been preparing for this game for a while, and should come ready to play. ; 
z 
0 
..... 
::a 
ITI 
c 
l> 
3: 
ITI 
-
(") 
:::a::::
-
G) 
l> 
z 
en 
~ 
~ 
ITI 

page 5 

Michigan State Spartans Record: 1-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
I 
I 
I
I 
Michigan State -I I career record: I I 
I
87-26 ~ 
I 
I
at Michigan State: 
9-6 against Notre John L. Smith Dame: 1-0 head coach 

Roster 

John L. Smith I second season at I 

No.  Name  Pos.  HI.  Wt.  YR  
2  Agim Shabaj  WR  5-10  195  )R  
3  Kyle Brown  WR  6-1  208  )R  
4  Eric.Knott  TE  6-3  249  SR  
5  Drew Stanton  QB  6-3  225  so  
.  5 6  Anthony Belasco Matt Trannon  s• WR  5-10 6-6  198 217  so )R  
7  Damon Dowdell  QB  6-1  222  SR  
8  Brandon Fields  p  6-6  234  so  
9  Stephen Reaves  QB  6-1  206  FR  
10  Aaron Alexander  WR  6-5  209  JR  
11  johnGoss  K  6-3  215  JR  
11  Carl Grimes  WR  5-9  180  FR  
12  Ashton Watson  CB  5-11  180  JR  
13  Chad Simon  RB  5-8  194  SR  
14  Todd Acchione  WR  6-0  181  SR  
16  Dave Rayner  K  6-2  209  SR  
16  Travis Key  CB  5-10  175  FR  
17  Roderick Maples  CB  5-10  190  SR  
17  Brian Hoyer  QB  6-2  199  FR  
18  Mike Bell  CB  5-11  187  FR  
18  John VanDam  QB  6-3  212  FR  
19  Irving Campbell  WR  5-11  185  FR  
20  jason Teague  RB  5-9  193  )R  
20  Ashley Beaudoin  DB  6-0  200  FR  
21  D~Andra Cobb  RB  5-10  197  SR  
21  Kelvin Doyle  •  CB  5-10  168  SR  
22  Darren Barnett  CB  6-0  184  JR  
23  Bryan Brighton  DB  5-10  187  FR  
24  Eric Hines  DB  5-9  187  •  FR  
24  Kevin Hall  p  6-4  218  FR  
25  Jason Harmon  s  5-11  202  SR  
26  Tom Dance  DB  6-1  189  FR  
26  Kyle Mayer  K  6-1  207  so  
27  Sir Darean Adams  WR/DB  6-0  223  FR  
28  Ron Stoops, Jr.  DB  6-3  195  FR  
29  Greg Cooper  s  5-11  184  so  
30  jehuu Caulcrick  RB  6-0  235  FR  
31  JarenHayes  CB  5-9  186  )R  
32  JeramyScott  WR  5-10  188  so  
33  Leon Pennington, Jr.  RB  6-0  228  FR  
34  Tyrell Dortch  DB  5-10  208  SR  
35  -Kjel Beltinck  DB  5-9  200  so  
36  Eric Smith  s  6-1  193  JR  
37  Tony Howard  DB  5-10  193  FR  
38  Cole Corey  s  5-10  190  FR  
39  Nick Thompson  DE  6-3  238  SR  
40  Michael Bazemore  DE  6-3  256  JR  
41  David Herron, Jr.  LB  6-1  251  so  
43  Kaleb Thornhill  LB  6-1  232  FR  
44  Ronald Stanley  LB  6-0  234  SR  
47  Tyrone McKenzie  LB  6-1  225  FR  
48  Seth Mitchell  LB  6-2  255  JR  
49  Maurice Smith-Davis  DE  6-1  238  FR  
50  Steve Kelp  DE  6-6  238  so  
51  Chris Morris  c  6-4  298  )R  
51  Derrick Johnson  LB  5-9  226  FR  
52  Eric Andino  LB  6-4  212  FR  
53  Marshall Campbell  LB  6-2  221  SR  
54  john Masters  c  6-4  274  FR  
55  Dwayne Holmes  LB  6-0  255  FR  
56  Brian Bury  SN  6-0  240  so  
56  jim Young  LB  6-2  230  SR  
58  Eze Ejelonu  LB  6-1  232  SR  
59  Clifford Dukes  DE  6-3  258  SR  
60  Luls Fonseca  OG  6-4  298  FR  
61  Tramonte Pointe!  DT  5-10  299  FR  
62  Charlie Rewoldt  DT  6-2  283  FR  
63  Devin Pritchett  LB  6-2  234  FR  
64  Brian Davies  DT  6-5  264  SR  
65. jesse Miller  OL  6-6  304  FR  
66  Mike Gyetvai  OT  6-7  298  FR  
67  john Mulroy  OT  6-5  240  FR  
68  Tom Kacmarek  OT  6-5  292  FR  
70  joeToth  DT  6-2  281  FR  
71  Gordon Niebylski  OG  6-3  308  )R  
72  Stefan Wheeler  OT  6-5  330  JR  
73  Roland Martin  OL  6-5  335  FR  
74  Kyle Cook  OG  6-3  292  so  
75  Pete Clifford  OT  6-7  295  FR  
76  William Whitticker  OG  6-5  329  SR  
77  DanielZynn  DL  6-2  305  so  
79  Sean Poole  OT  6-7  290  SR  
80  Kellen Davis  TE  6-6  230  FR  
81  Jason Randall  TE  6-5  269  SR  
82  DeonCurry  WR  6-1  205  FR  
83  Jamar Jones  WR  6-3  207  FR  
84  Miles Williams  WR  6-1  199  FR  
85  Matt Walters  TE  6-2  249  SR  
86  Terry Love  WR  5-11  174  FR  
87  Kyle Sackrider  TE  6-2  224  FR  
88  Craig McGovern  TE  6-3  231  FR  
89  Ryan Woods  TE  6-4  250  )R  
91  Kevin Vickerson  DT  6-4  295  SR  
92  Clifton Ryan  DE  6-2  288  so  
93  Nick Smith  DL  6-6  273  FR  
94  Hugh D'Imperio  LB  6-4  229  FR  
95  Justin Kershaw  DL  6-4  232  FR  
96  DomataPeko  DL  6-2  297  JR  
97  Dan McGarry  DL  6-6  230  FR  
98  Daryl Melvin  DE  6-5  258  JR  
99  Brandon McKinney  DT  6-3  327  )R  






Notre Dame will struggle on the 
Notre Dame put its foot in the crit­In many ways, this game is more
road c.gainst a team that always 
ics' mouths -including mine -important for Willingham than
plays them tough. In the end, the 
last weekend by beating a top-10 the Michigan game. Howwill
Irish line will get the best of a 
Michigan team. Michigan State Notre Dame respond against a
Spartan front seven that strug­
has the night game and the home team that doesn't look to be very 
gled last week and Notre Dame 
field advantage, qut the Irish will good on paper? This one has the 
will run the ball successfully. 
pull it out as Brady Quinn has his potential to be close, but the Irish 
Quinn will step up to the task 
first solid game of the season. have something to prove.
and ccme ready to play. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 
23, Michigan State 13 31, Michigan State 16
Sports Editor 20, Michigan State 13 

Heather Van Hoegarden 

Pat Leonard · Associate Sports Editor 
Justin Schuver 
Associate Sports Editor 


page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the Irish and the Spartans 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE MICHIGAN STATE's OFFENSE vs vsAVERAGE PER GAME MICHIGAN STATE'S DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 
total yards gained 
total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 


passing yards gained 
passing yards allowed 


~I 
kick return yards gained ~ kick return yards allowed-


punt return yards gained punt return yards allowed 



yards per punt ·······~9.61 punts blocked 0 

turnovers lost turnovers recovered 

total points scored total points allowed Notre Dame yards penalized 

Michigan State yards penalized 
NOTRE DAME 
RuNNING BAcKs 
The Irish running attack came alive Saturday with the suc­cessful debut of true freshman Darius Walker (above). Walker's 115 yards on 31 carries added an extra dimension to Notre. Dame's offense that seemed to catch Miehigan ofT guard. 
With Hyan Grant hopefully returning from an injury this week, the Irish could have a tandem of speed and power in Walker and Grant. 
Going up against one of the poorer rushing defenses in the country Saturday, the Irish need to show they can move the ball on the ground. 
MICHIGAN STATE 
RUSHING DEFENSE 
The Spartans' rushing defense will have to show that it is better than its current 96th overall national ranking if Michigan State L'i to have any hopn of beating the lrL'ih. 
Ronald Stanley (above) lnads the team's line­backer corps with 27 total tackles, and the sen­ior will have to provide leadership to a unit that has allowed 410 total rushing yards to Rutgers and Central Michigan. 
l,;tst year, the Spartans held .Julius .Jones to just 32 yards on 14 carries. They'll need similar sue­cess against Walker and the other baeks Saturday if' they want to beat the Irish. 


PAPA PREDICTS: Notre Dame 30, Michigan State 17 
Notre Dame Papa John's St. Mary's Papa John's 
fkt(c:r lngrcdit'tlt:·, 

1823 South Bend Avenue North Village Mall
Betta Pi 1.1.a. 

271-1177 271-7272 

lkttl'r Ingredients. lkttn Piua. 

Papa John's Pizza is proud to be a Promotional Partner of Notre Dame Athletics and the Official Delivery Pizza of NCAA Athletics. 
r-----.. 
1 IRISH SPECIAL 1 
large 1-topping, I Breadsticks & Coke 4-to-go I 
1 $14.11 1 
I Coupon ~Wjulrod. Expires )0 doys. ----I Offer good for 1 limited time It participating Papa John"• rest1ur1nts only. -'ddltion1i toppings extra. II Not valid with any other coupom or discounts. limited delivery area, chorges m1y apply.
.. 
Customer responsible _____for 111 applicable taxes. .. r-----.. 
1FAMILY SPECIAL 1 
large Works andI 1 large 2-topping I 
1 $18.11 1 
I 
I Coupon ~Wjulrod. bplrws 10 days. --I Offer good for I limited lime at participating Papa John'• reot1ur1nU only. -'ddltion1l toppings extr1. Not •t~~lld with any other coupons or discounts. limited delivery arel, charges may apply. 
1 

.. 
Customer r01pon•lble _____for oil applicable taxe•. .. 
r PHD iiiEiaAY .. I Any Specialty pizza & I I bre·adsticks I 
$14.11
Iadd a Cinnapie $2.99 I 
I Coupon Roquii'Od. Expires )0 days. d6.t. I 
Offer good for a limited time at participating Papa John's restaurants only. Addltion1ltopplngs e•tra. II Not valid with any other coupons or discounts. limited delivery area, charges may apply
.. 
Customer responsible for _____all appllcablt taxes. .. r ..
PARTY PAll
I 2 large 1-topping, 2 I Breadsticks, & Coke 4 to I Go for only I 
I S24.11 I 
I Coupon Requlrrd. Elplres )0 days. ~ I Offer good for a limited time at participating Papa John's restaurants only. Additional toppings extra .• Not valid with any other coupons or discounts.
• 

Limited delivery area, charges may apply.
.. 
Customer_____responsible for all applicable taxes. .. 
r-----------~r----------~
DVD Coca-Cola 4-to-Go 
I Buy any large of Ex-Large Pizza at regular II*Coca-Cola 4-to-Go is 4 20-oz bottlesl 1menu price and get FREE your choice of any llfor the price of 3 including 4 FREE 1 of our 3 DVDs. Titles change every two IIMusic Match downloads I 
I months. Through December 2004. 
~-----------~~----------~ 
If your group is having a meeting or We NOW offer Grilled Chicken and fresh sliced Roma Tomatoes
planning a get-together, 
Try our Chicken Barbeque Bacon
call for information on our large 
on our thin crust pizza dough Order Discount. Try our Spinach Alfredo Chicken Tomato 
~ TiiiN-THiiiai'Y1 r LUNCH sPii:lii. .. 
large Thin .crust Cheese II P1zza 
I Sl.ll I 
I 
I Coupon Rtqulred. Expires 10 doys. ~ I Offer good for • limited time at participating Papa John's restaurants only. Additional toppings extra .• Not valid with any other coupons or discounts. limited delivery area, charges may apply. · Customer responsible for all applicable to•es. ..
.. _____ 
r ..
-·---­
CHEESE IT!
I large Cheese and your I choice of breadsticks orI cheesesticks I 
.I $12.19 I 
I Coupon Requlrrd. Expires 10 doys. ·~ I Offer good for a limited time at participating Papa John's restaurants only. Additional toppings extra. II Not valid with any other coupons or discounts. limited delivery area, charges may apply.
.. ____ _
Customer reSponsible for all applicable taxes. .. 
SCHOOL HOURS Monday -Thursday 
11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 
Friday -Saturday 
11:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m. 
Sunday 
Noon to 1:00 a.m. 
DELIVERY NOTRE DAME PAPA JOHN'S 
271-1177 

I Small 1-t~ing & 2 20-oz I I cokes ;a8.99 I Iopen til 4:00 p.m. 
I 

I Coupon Roqulrnl. Expires 10 day•. !'li(,h' I Offer good for o limited time at partklpatlng Papa John's restaurants only. Additional toppings extra. I Not valid with any other coupons or dl1counts. 
• 

limited delivery are•, charges may apply
.. 
Customer responsible for all applicable tues. .. 
..

r -LiTfNRE ­
I SPECIAL I 
Ex-large 1-topping for 

I I
the price of a large only 
I $11.91. I 
I Coupon Roqulrni. Expire• 10 days. ..I Offer good for • limited time at participating Papa John's restaurants only. Additional toppings extra. Not valid with any other coupons or discounts.
• 
1

limited delivery area, charges may apply 
_____ ..

Customer responsible for all applicable tiXes . 
.. 

SUMMER/HOLIDAY HOURS Monday -Thursday 
11:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. 
Friday -Saturday 
11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 
Sunday 
Noon to 12:00 a.m. 

DELIVERY ST. MARY'S PAPA JOHN'S 271-PAPA 

Friday, September 17, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Irish confident after big win last Saturday 

By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Th11 Irish have regainud some swagger after last week's convincing win against Michigan. 
"1 think conlidPnce is bu It over time, over repetitive play­making," Notre Dame lin,1­backer Brandon lloyte said. "J think last week we had that. (In dnfens(1 and on offense, we establislwd that. 
"You nend to build on that as a tPam. It's not just going fro 11 play to play. but it's going fro 11 ganw to game." 
Last season's devastating home loss to Michigan State 

Wolverines' offense. 
Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham said he and the coaching staff made no signifi­cant changes between the BYU and Michigan games. 
"We stayed the course more than anything else," the third­year coach said. "We have always bf1lieved in our football team. We believe in their ability to do things. I've been on record as saying that at some poin.t our offense will start to step up and will start to play better. 
"We're still not there. We still have a long way to go before we can beat a team that I would hope and expect we 
can." 
Iloyte said 

-tlw team's the players
"/ think last week we
sixth dnfeat in never doubted its last seven had /confidence/. On themselves, gamns against defense and on even after the thn Spartans -BYU defeat.
oj}'ense, we .
crumbled Notrn "With all
established that. " 
Danw's confi­due respect, dnnce and had aU of the peo­a lasting effm:t Brandon Hoyte . pie in [the for tlw rest of press room],
Irish linebacker 
thn 20<U sea­son. 
This season. the Irish began the year with a disappointing loss to Brigham Young. Many said the tfmm was finished. 
But Notre Dame bouneed back in convincing fashion, upnnding No. 8 Michigan ~.t horne last weekend. In that game. Notre Dame overcame a 9-0 first-half deficit and scorej 21 poinl<> in the fimrth quarte •. The ofl'ense moved the ball an j the defense suffocated the not the play­
ers, are sur­

prised," he said. "Everyone talks, everyone has their own opinion about what the Irish is all about. 
"But the fact is what goes on in that locker room as far as the focus and the mentality and the understanding of what needs to be done, we don't doubt ourselves. We under­stand what needs to be done day in and day out, especially on Saturdays." 
Now the Irish hope to carry 
that confidence into East 
Lansing when they battle 
Michigan State Saturday 
evening. 
1-Ioyte said to do that, the team hasn't wasted time enjoy­ing the Michigan win. They ,turned their focus to this week's opponent Sunday morn­
ing. 

'To bP honest with you, to be 
really blunt, I could care less 
what happened in tlw past," 
lloyte said. "It doesn't matter 
last week, it doesn't matter 
what happened in the past 
against Miehigan State. We just 
need to stay focused and focus 
on what we need to do as a 
team to build and get better 
every day." 
Irish quarterback Brady 
Quinn agreed that the team 
isn't wasting effort thinking 
about crushing the Wolverines. 
"We're not trying to stay too 
high after [the Michigan win)," 
he said. "We know what 
Michigan State's capable oC' 
Offensive linem an Dan 
Stevenson said the offense felt 
more confident -against the 
Wolverines and the unit's per­
formance indicated that. 
"I think [swagger] just comes 
with moving the ball on 
offense," he said. "It starts with 
leadership. As long as a couple 
guys start to have that swag, 
other guys start to feed off of it. 
I think we did a good job with 
that last week against Michigan 
I think its one of our important 
keys [against Michigan State]." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
The big play has historically decided these games. 
The· last five contests between Michigan State and Notre Dame have been decided by game-winning touchdowns coming from 40 or more yards out late in the fourth quarter. 
The Irish will face a Michigan State (1-1) team who is coming off a 24-7 win over Central Michigan. 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, faces the Spartans after a big win at home over then­No. 8 Michigan. But the Irish are not wor­ried about a letdown. 
"The win against Michigan was great but it means nothing right now," defensive end Justin Tuck said. "We have to go up there and if we are not focused they can easily embarrass you. So that's our focus right now. 
"That's what our·leaders are preaching and that is what our coaches were preach­ing yesterday during our meetings. I don't think we are going to let this one slip by mentally. We are going to be geared in and ready to go." 
The Irish must prepare for Spartans quarterback Steven Heaves, a redshirt freshman, who will get the start according to coach John L. Smith. 
Heaves started last week against Central Michigan, going 9-for-19 for 183 yards and one touchdown. However, he was replaced in the fourth quarter by Drew Stanton, who went 1-for-3 and ran for 43 yards on two carries. 
Jason Teague and Jehuu Caulerick, who rushed for 7 4 yards and 68 yards, respec­tively, against the Chippewas, lead the Spartans in the rushing gamP. Receiver Kyle Brown ~;aught six passes for 123 yards and a touchdown. 
But the story of the game was the Spartans' rushing defense -they gave up 236 yards on the ground, including 170 

Fantastic finishes mark lrish-Spartans rivalry 
yards to Jerry Seymour. 
Despite the numbers, the Irish know Michigan State will play them tough, espe­cially when looking back to the history of the rivalry. 
Last season, the Irish were ousted at home, 22-16, when Greg Taplin returned an interception 40 yards with 6 minutes, 55 seconds left in the game. 
Notre Dame linebacker Mike Goolsby said he knows the Spartans always come to play against the Irish. 
"I think just talking about it [Sunday) it's just one of those cases where they just play their hearts out against us and they give us everything they got year in and year out," he said. 
Michigan State defensive back Tyrell Dortch called this game a "must-win" for the Spartans. 
"It is a big game for us," Dortch said of the matchup against the Irish. "We need to win the game." 
And the Irish know what they will be in for when they travel to East Lansing, Mich., to face the Spartans Saturday evening. 
"It seems like the whole time I've been here they've been great games coming down to the wire," said Goolsby, a fifth­year senior. "Hopefully that won't be the case this year but we're preparing for another tough game." 
For Willingham, it is special to play against his alma mater for the third straight year, but that doesn't mean he will show his fondness for the school during the game. 
"It's not just another team," Willingham said. ''I've got some pretty good memories from my days at Michigan State. You have a fondness for that, you have a fondness for the University and you have great n~spect for it. 
"But, once again, when the official blows that whistle, there will be no thoughts about the fondness of Michigan State." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, Sept~mber 17, 2004 
;·_ .. ·· 
. ---~-. ·---~ ~ ..... . .... 


-------------------, Friday, September 17, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT 
SOMETHING'S BEEN BUGGING ME. 
PEANUTS 
IVE BEEN AN EXEC­UTIVE ASSISTANT FOR FIVE YEARS. WHEN DO I GET PROMOTED TO EXECUTIVE"? 

HI, SNOON, HOW DID IT GO? HOW ARE L(OU FEEUNG ? 
-9'. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'VE GOT LEADERSHIP COMING OUT OF MY EARS! 
THAT'S LJAX. 
CHARLES SCHULTZ 
JUMBLE 
JJ~JJJll1IR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TINFE 
± 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Rights Reserved. 
ICCOL 
j
rJ r 
ISCOMAT j
rI I 
www.jumble.com 
ISHAMON± 
rJ r J 
1 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

A"( I I I I JT 1111 I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: CRAWL AXIOM NEPHEW BEYONDYesterday's I 
Answer: When he took too many long lunches, he became -"EXPANDABLE" 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

llJ~~.twlork ~!inte~ 
Crossword Edited by Will Shortz No.0806 
ACROSS 31 Quintil ionth: Prefix
1 Holder of a lot of hidden dirt 32 Implant deeply B Cajun 34 One and only condiment 
36 Efficiency option 15 Basement 
38 Available from,
feature, 
as a product
sometimes 
41 Winter weather
16 Not quite direct 
wear with 17 Took some of adjustc:tble straps
18 Bass offering 45 Eliminc1tes as
19 Shellback 
unnece,ssary
20 Swear 
46 Old Te:;tament 
22 By and by 
figure 23 Big name in 
48 lnsinuc:ting
home 
49 Year in St.
furnishings 
Gregory l's 
25 Accommodate, 
papac~
in a way 
50 Old World 
26 "The 5,000 
grazen;
Fingers of _" 
52 Formerly, once
(1953 film musical) 53 Duffer'~; obstacle 27 Emulates a wolf 55 Isn't Uf: 29 Roller coaster 57 Bird of the feature genus t::;orvus 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

58 Approach in a hurry 
60 Sure shot 62 Wearing 
63 Get behind 
64 Sports physicians' concerns 
65 Coty fragrance 
DOWN 1 Like some egos 2 Indicate 3 Molson product 
4 Something to thank God for: Abbr. 
5 Historic Hebrides monastery site 
6 Mississippi senator's family 
7 Gushed 8 News leader 
9 Makeup course?: Abbr. 
10 "Up the Down Staircase" novelist Kaufman 
11 Like some salts 
12 Keep at steadily 
13 Development of the 1950's 
14 Like some mules 
21 It's not too bright 24 Baking by-products 
28 Essential element 30 18-Across offerers 

31 Renaissance edition of a classic 
33 Every family has one 
35 Cries of alarm 
37 Optimist in "Candide" 
38 Masters 51 Knackered, as a Brit would say
39 Good-for-nothin' 54 Long-lasting, in
40 Record player 
commercial 42 Ones who pay names attention to bills 
55 Cold-cock 43 "Sounds about 
56 "Vic and "of 
right to me" 
oldtime radio 44 Linking 59 Samoan staple 47 They have naps 61 Point of "view" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Prince Harry, Tommy Lee Jones, Oliver Stone, Merlin Olsen 
Happy Birthday: An opportunity should arise this year that will allow you a little more freedom to follow your own path. If you don't do what suits you best, you will have regrets. Your intuition will not lead you astray. Your numbers are 4, 8, 16, 26, 34, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take advantage of the opportunities that are available to you. Stop holding yourself back --if you believe in yourself you will find success. Be bold in your relationships. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is the perfect day to go after a better position or find a way to make some extra cash. You will have a much better idea what you need to do in order to feel, look and do better. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You have more going for you than you realize, so start moving in a direction that will benefit you. You have been doing too much for others and forgetting about doing for yourself. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't be too quick to make a decision; chances are someone is feeding you false information. Emotional matters will surface, so stay composed. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get involved so you can meet new people or develop a relationship you are already in. Talks will lead to beneficial results. Your persuasive personality will also charm someone. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Question your earning ability and you will discover that there are other ways to make money. You have the talent and the skills that will bring in more cash. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't bring about change today. Deal with matters as they arise and refrain from letting things get blown out of proportion. Emotions will be running high. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take care of any matters that have to do with institutions such as banks, hospitals or the judicial system. You should be able to clear up any questions that you have. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Love and romance may be on your mind. If you want to impress someone, you should do something selfless and offer your help to a worthy cause. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a good look at anything you have to sign or that could be binding before you move forward. Someone is trying to get you to do something that may not be what's best for you. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You are being recognized for your talent, so don't be shy --lay everything you've got to offer on the table and reap the rewards. Love is evident. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Refrain from letting anyone talk you into spending money. You can make some changes to your living arrangements, but be careful if it involves someone else. Consider making a change of career. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are creative, intelligent and very aware of your abilities. You will work hard to reach your goals and you will have a practical outlook. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 


For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE ()BSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
.. ... -· ..._ ••••'*&M•••c••t«••••titJa••••••••••••••••••••"••·t§f.ttfli-ff 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Friday, September 17, 2004 
page 28 
ND SOCCER 

Big (East) weekend 
No. 14 men meet Georgetown at home, No. 1 women face UConn 
By MATT PUGLISI 
Spons Writer 
The No. 14 Irish hope to rebound from Wednesday night's 2-0 loss to in-state rival No. 1 Indiana when they welcome Big East rival Georgetown to Alumni Field Saturday night at 7:30p.m. 
The contest marks the first of a limr-game stretch against con­femnce opponents for Notre Dame ( 3-1-1). 
Last season, the Irish edged the Iloyas 2-1 at Alumni Field on a cold Snptember afternoon behind a pair of goals from graduated seniors .Justin I>ntter and Devon Prnseod. The c:ontest turned U!{ly late in the second half. 
Two Iloyas wen~ sent on· with injuries less than a minute apart, fiwdng the squad to play two men down for the rnmain­dnr of thn game. 
While Geor!{etown (3-3-0) stumblml to an 11 th-plaee finish of H Big East teams last season (8-9-2 overall, 3-7 in eonferenee) and failed to qualify for the Hi!{ East tournament -Notre Dame took horne the tournament crown -mach Bobby Clark and the Irish certainly aren't taking 
see HOY AS/page 26 


By MATT MOONEY Spons Writer 

Notre Dame begins a new chapter of the season this weekend as they debut in both Big East conference play and as the No. 1 team in the nation according to Soccer America magazine. 
The Irish (6-0-0) travel to the East Coast this weekend to begin their conference sched­ule at Connecticut on Friday and then at Syracuse on Sunday. Notre Dame defeated Connecticut 2-0 last year and did not play against Syracuse. 
Irish coach Handy Waldrum said that conference play means that his team is now playing for more than just a ranking, but for positioning in the conference. 
"You look at the season in phases," he said. "This is the second phase of the season and it takes on a little bit high­er level of interest." 
Defender Melissa Tancredi sees the elevated play as rais­ing the stakes for Irish oppo­nents. 
"The Big East competition is really tough for us, especially 
see HUSKIES/page 26 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Challenges await Irish 
Spikers travel to Gamecock Invitational 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 

The Irish aren't ones to shy away from a chal­lenge. 
Already this year, the team held its ground versus preseason No. 2 Nebraska (3-0, 3-2), nearly upsetting the team in the second game. The Irish (4-3) will take on rival Michigan State Friday and host South Carolina Sunday. 
Neither team looks to be a pushover. 
Michigan State (5-1) started the season !law­lessly, winning its Coca-Cola/MSU Volleyball Invitational and sweeping opponents Ohio, St. John's and Florida A&M. No. 6 Washington handed the Spartans their only loss of the sea­son 3-0. 
The team earned a bid to the NCAA Championships last year before losing to Dayton in the opening round. Coach Chuck Erbe Jed the Spartans to a sixth-place finish in the Big Ten Conference and posted a 19-12 record. Ironically, he coached Irish coach Debbie Brown at USC, when the Trojans collect-
see TOURNEY/page 25 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Rivalries heat up Sunday 
"We're focusing on ourselves,"
By ABIGAIL RICHARDSON, Siegfried captain John llughes said. 

JORDAN BELTZ, CHRIS KHOREY, "The biggest challenge is getting in KEVIN BRENNAN AND the !low of the game."

TOM STILES While Siegfried tries to defend its 

Sports Writers 

title, they must overcome the loss of many seniors, including star quar­terback Bill Bingle. But they, likeIt's the time of year again. 
many teams, are rebuilding andBlood, guts and glory running 
concentrating on what is in front ofwithin the halls of the Notre Dame them this weekend.
men. It is time for interhall football. 

Knott, on the other hand, is trying
On Sunday at 2 p.m. on Biehle 

to build on last year's success in the
North Field, Siegfried and Knott 

regular season. They suffered a losswill come face to face for the first to Kennan in the first round of play­event of the Planner Cup, the annu­offs in 2003, ending their season.
al competition between the rival 

Donovan said his team is driven todorms. 
overcome that early playoff exit and
The teams have prepared with 

play great Saturday.
practices, scrimmages and review­For both teams, unity and work­

ing strategies. Both squads are ing together are helping their

ready for a win. 

strength and spirit.
"Beyond [a win], we are hoping to "We have a new coach," Donovanrun the ball efficiently and to have said. "Our coach is helping us focus

good defense," Knott Hall captain and come together as a team."

Drew Donovan said. "We want to Marques Bolden and Pat Manning

look sharp." Siegfried hopes to establish itself as a team. see INTERHALL/page 24 
en 
MEN'S GOLF 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
INSIDER

SMC VOLLEYBALL
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

..r lie u 
w 
National Catholic 

Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame at
Notre Dame 

Michigan State, 7
z Invitational 
Invitational 
vs.Adrian
Women's interhall 
The Belles travel 
p.m.
games kick off Sunday 
across the street to the
4:15p.m. 

4 p.m., Saturday 
at Riehle and West 
National Catholic

=::3 Sunday, 8 a.m. 
The Irish travel to
Quad fields. 
Invitational at Notre

The Irish try to 
Burke Memorial 

The Belles face the 
East Lansing to face
Dame for a tuneup

regroup after a 
Golf Course 
before MIAA play. 

Bulldogs in MIAA play. 
their bitter rivals. 

Thursday car accident. 
A.t;

en 
page 21 
page 21
page 25 
page 23 
page 21 

Insider 







