

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 4 FRIDAY, AUGUST 27,2004 
Ramadan controversy continues 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
As the University grabs headlines in his defense and the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies grapples with his loss, Tariq Ramadan still donsn 't know why a revoked visa stands between his fami­ly and Notre Dame. 

Ticketing systelll criticized 
By TERESA FRALISH A•sociate News EJi tor 
As if purehasing football tickets wasn't already eon­fusing enough, several students standing in line this WIH~k at Notre Dame Stadium said officials largely failed to follow the policies established for the ticket lottery and sales. 
"It seems kind of ran­dom. The whole lottery is just a sham," said senior Katie Drayeott, whose lot­tery number was in the 1 ,200s. "We got there at 8 o' clock, and they gave us tickets." 
The undergraduate lot­tery number drawn Monday night was 199. Draycott said her group of about 45 was originally placed in the sophomore section. After realizing the error, Draycott said her group headed back to the stadium at 1:30 p.m. to get new tickets. Ultimately. her friends ended up with seats in section 30, row 26. 
Senior Rachel Kelley, whose group of 55 stu­
see TICKETS/page 9 
ND Democrats back Kerry in Boston 
By BETH ERICKSON News Writer 
After traveling to Boston in August to attend the College 

The Show features artists K weli, Mraz 
By JANICE FLYNN 
News Writer 
In a major collaboration of student organizations, the Notre Dame Office of Student Affairs and Student Activities presents The Show 3.0 tonight at the JACC, featuring the music of Jason Mraz and Talib Kweli. 
Mraz has consistently 

graced the Top 40 pop charts since releasing his debut single "The Remedy" in 2002. 
A San Diego coffee-house performer turned national pop star, Mraz released his second album Tuesday. Mraz will continue touring for another month and a half after his South Bend performance. 
see SHOW/page 6 
THE 
"It's very difficult for the kids. We are here in Geneva [Switzerland I waiting for a decision. without knowing why we were denied the right of entering the United States," said Ramadan, in comments provided by Julie Titone, director of communi­cations at the Institute. 
Ramadan, an eminent Muslim scholar who had 
been scheduled to teach at the Kroc this fall, unexpect­edly lost his work visa July 28 when the State Department banned him under immigration restric­tions mandated by the Patriot Act. The Department of Homeland Security, which requested the State Department's action, cited suggested Ramadan could be a national security risk. 
Notre Dame immediately rebuffed all allegations against Ramadan, who con­tested any extremist associa­tions. 
"I don't understand why this decision was taken," he said. "I have been trying to 

parts of the legislation that see RAMADAN/page 9 
/CA_MPft.JG:t'f 2tvJ4/ 


Taking sides 
ND Republicans gear up for election 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 
This summer, while incumbent President Bush and Democratic chal­lenger John Kerry were hot on their respective campaign trails, several of Notre Dame's College Republicans were arming themselves with political experience for their upcoming campus cam­paign. 
Tom Rippinger, co-presi­dent of the College Republicans, spent his summer volunteering for 
U.S. Rep. Chris Chocola. 
"What we do is basic, old-fashioned ·grassroots' organizing," he said. 
see REPS/page 8 

convention, honing their campaign strategies and gaining inspiration from a wide array of distinguished speakers. 
They joined 1,000 other collegiate delegates for four days, attending political 
see DEMS/page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND tops anti-gay Revievv ranking 

Obse/Ver File Photo 

Students distribute "Gay? Fine By Me" shirts in March. 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Though its actual impact on 
student mentality is impossi­
ble to measure, last spring's 
"Gay? Fine by Me" campaign 
apparently did little to sway 
Notre Dame's national repu­
tation for homophobia, as the 
University topped the 
Princeton Review's 
"Alternative Lifestyles Not An 
Alternative" category for the . second straight year. 
Despite two demonstrations 
and 2,000 orange T-shirts 
specifically targeting that cat­
egory last spring, the 300 
Notre Dame students asked to 
participate in the annual sur­
vey still revealed the highest 
anti-gay sentiment among the 
357 ranked colleges, accord­
ing to the Review's evaluation 
methods. 
The ranking is based on a 
single multiple-choice que!;)­
tion in the survey, said Erik 
Olsen, senior editor of the 
Princeton Review's Best 357 
Colleges book. The question 
see RANKINGS/page 9 


Democrats of America con­vention, the College Democrats are ready to· boost their presence on cam­pus. 
Nicola Bunick and Colin Taylor, co-presidents of the College Democrats, and member Helen Adeosun rep­resented Notre Dame at the 

SMC revises student parking 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 

If students thought class schedules and homework were going to be the biggest challenges when coming back to Saint Mary's, unfortunately they were wrong. 
Students returned to campus last week­end only to find major changes to their parking options. 
Even though Saint Mary's Security sent a letter home over the summer informing them of the new setup, many were still surprised to see that the LeMans parking lot, used for student parking after business 
see PARKING/page 8 

Friday, August 27, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Intolerance 111ust perish 
A year after the terrorist attacks on 
September 11, I was sitting in a college 
classroom where a discussion about the 
aftermath was taking place. Sitting in a 
circle, many stu­
dents were sharing 
their thoughts and 
ideas about terror­
ism. Although I 
was listening and 
adding my opinion, 
I mostly remained 
quiet. Finally, one 
girl spoke up. 
"I think we 
should send all the 
Arabic people back 
to where they 
came from," she 
said without blink-
ing. 
I was stunned. I am Arabic. 
This was the first time in my life that I had ever been discriminated against because of my ethnicity. I am a white woman with brown hair and light skin. Up to this point. I had avoided being stereotyped by such things as blonde jokes or dumb men jokes. I lived a quiet existence where discrimination had never touched my life. 
I had no idea what to say. In fact. I did­
n't say anything for the rest of the class 
period. Someone had just made me feel 
something that I had never felt before. 
When I got home. I called my mother 
and shared my upsetting news with her. 
She assured me that the student had not 
meant it as a personal attack on me. 
But that is what it felt like. Uke some-. 
one had judged me before knowing me, 
or even realizing I am Arabic. Without 
any knowledge of doing so, this student 
had put me down because of my ethnici­
ty. Suddenly. I found myself victim to a 
swreotypc. And I hated it. 
I low many times a day do we hear someone use a stereotype? I low many times have we heard friends or family refer to an entire ethnicity as lazy or stu­pid? !low many times have we listened to someone complain about how a cer­tain race has come here to steal all of our jobs and send us to the unemploy­ment lines? One time is one too many. 
It is unjust to blame an entire ethnicity or race for something a few people have done. Blaming a whole group of people for a terrorist attack is like blaming an entire nation for a problem like pollution or poverty. It is unfair to hold an entire group of innocent people accountable for the actions of a guilty few. 
If the United States is going to survive as a country striving for freedom and lib­erty, we must learn to be accepting and understanding of all people, regardless of race, shape or ethnicity. There must be a conscious effort made to be fair to all people no matter who they are, or what their origins may be 
This change has to start in each one of us. Future generations should not have to deal with the prejudices of others. By simply being more careful about the terms used in daily conversation, and making more of an effort to treat others equally, we can start to foster an envi­ronment where love and acceptance replace bigotry and intolerance. 
Isn't that what we all really want? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu. 


CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, the "ND cancds Taco Bdl Contract" article in Thursday's edition ofThe Observer did not make clear the details ofTaco Bell's remaining privileges with the athletic department. Taco Bdl is free to purchase advertising in any advertising option, including radio air time and game programs the athletic department offers. However, it is no longer an official partner of Notre Dame athletics. The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU GOING TO THE SCRIMMAGE OR THE SHOW? 


Kurt Knoblauch Freshman Keough  Scott Deeney Freshman Keough  Anne Spyhaskl Sophomore LeMans  Ben Gilfillan Grad Student Of! Campus  Tae Andrews Freshman Stanford  Chrissy Maher Grad Student Off Campus  
"The Show. We have Dis-0 beforehand, then I think I'm going to try to go to Rally afterwards. "  "The Show. I actually won my ticket from a drawing at LaFortune. "  "What Show?"  "Going to the scrimmage to watch my boys [Brian] Beidatsch and {Corey] Mays."  "/plan on attending both. I anticipate a strong football season. and I eagerly await performances by Talib Kweli and JasonMraz. "  "Neither. $10 for who?"  


OFFBEAT 
Housing Crunch Finds president's house are sen­Dudek, 17. both of Grand Unique Solution iors. Rapids, logged 52 consecu­
HANNIBAL, Mo.-The "I think it's neat how Dr. tive hours of viewing time president of Hannibal­Burt puts the needs of the by the time they ended their LaGrange College has students above his own," feat at 7 p.m. Wednesday. turned his home over to a said senior resident Nicole The teens, who are dozen female students due Phillips.. incoming high school sen­to a housing crunch. About 470 students are iors, surpassed the 
Woodrow Burt and his expected to live on campus, Guinness World Records wife, have opted for tempo­up from 440 residential stu­mark of 50 hours and seven rary housing, and said they dents at the college last minutes by nearly two will look soon for something year. hours giving new meaning 
more permanent. to must-see TV. 
Burt said the school is Teens set TV Record Confirmation of the blessed with strong resi­GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. -record could take anywhere dential enrollment this year. A pair of teenagers who from a few weeks to several 
"After exploring numer­spent more than two months because accurate ous avenues to meet the straight days publicly glued documentation must be growing need, we have to a television set say they sent directly to Guinness. offered to make our house have set a new world Dean said. available," Burt wrote to record for uninterrupted faculty in an e-mail. TV viewing. Information compiled 
The students living in the Chris Dean, 16, and Mike from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
a:: 
1.11 

s % 
:: 
_, 
<C 
(.) 


.9 HIGH 87 
LOW 68 

IN BRIEF 

Reserve your place for "Twilight in the Press Box," a limited-seating event to benefit the Fischoff National Chamber Music Association. Open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross faculty, tonight's schedule includes a cash bar at 
6:00 p.m., dinner at sunset, and a jazz performance by Triplicity. For reservations, call (574) 631-0984. 
Get ready for the first-ever football scrimmage, to be held in the Stadium from 7:30 to 
8:45 p.m. tonight. The scrim­mage will be free and open to all students. faculty and staff members of the Notre Dame community. 
Talib Kweli and Jason Mraz will perform tonight at The Show 3.0. taking place at the Joyce Center. Doors open at 
8:30 p.m. and the performers take the stage at 9 p.m. Tickets are $10 and are available at LaFortune or at Joyce Center Gate 10. The Show is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students and you must have a valid student ID to enter. 
Come see Lucky Boys Confusion, a Chicago-based, self-described "ground-run­ning, unapologetic melodic rock" band in concert at Legends Saturday night at 10 
p.m. Admission is free. 

President Mooney invites all members of the Saint Mary's community to the All Campus Mass Sunday at 4:15 p.m. at the Church of Loretto. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 


73 68 


78 60 

75 55 


75 57 

HIGH LOW 

Friday, August 27, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Board votes for Boat Club sanction 
Observer Staff Report 
A local alcohol board has recommended that the state of Indiana revoke the liquor license of The Boat Club, where 213 patrons were cited for underage drinking in Jan. 2003, according to an Aug. 26 report by The South Bend Tribune. 
The Alcoholic Beverage Board of St. Joseph County voted 2-1 Wednesday to deny the annual renewal of its liquor license to the bar. A final decision on the mat­
ter  will  come  in  early  
September  when  the  
Indiana  Alcohol  and  

Tobacco Commission votes on the recommendation. Typically. the state agency follows the local board's rec­ommendation. IATC chair­man Bart Harriman told The Tribune. 
In making its recommen­dation, the board said that The Boat Club had a reputa­tion for catering to underage drinkers and must have known minors were enter­ing on a regular basis. 
This summer The Boat Club finalized a settlement with ATC prosecutor Fred Bauer. The agreement requires the bar pay a $5.000 fine and serve a one­week license suspension. Bauer will waive the suspen­sion if the bar goes one year without further violations. 


U.S. News keeps Saint Mary's No.1 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 

Saint Mary's found itself in familiar territory this week topping the rankings of the annual U.S. News and World Report's "America's Best Colleges" in the category of Midwest comprehensive col­leges. It is the 1Oth time in 11 years Saint Mary's has finished first. 
The guidebook organizes col­leges based on size, location and courses of study. The schools are then judged in a variety of categories such as admission selectivity and teacher to student ratios. 
The Midwest comprehensive category consists of institu­tions focused on undergradu­ate education and those that offer a wide range of liberal arts and professional degrees. 
In a competitive field of 108 schools, Saint Mary's was awarded an overall rating of 100, the highest score possi­ble. The college ranked first for faculty resources, second for freshman retention rate and third for financial resources. 
Director of marketing com­munications Nick Farmer said he is proud Saint Mary's was again ranked No. 1. 
"The ranking helps validate the excellence the College strives for every year," Farmer said. "Given the College's track record with the survey and its continued per­formance, we were hopeful that we would continue the streak." 
College President Carol 
Mooney also described her sat­isfaction in a statement on the College web site. 
"In my first year as president of Saint Mary's, I am proud to look back on the College's con­sistent recognition as one of America's best," Mooney said. "I am excited to work with the faculty to achieve even greater success in educating young women." 
However, the ranking is more than just a mark of pres­tige. It can also be a valuable tool for the school. The success streak Saint Mary's has enjoyed in the U.S. News and World Report rankings is included as an endorsement in recruiting materials. 
"We realize that parents and prospective students use the 
U.S. News rankings as a tool in their college search, so a strong ranking can be helpful in getting recognition, espe­cially for smaller schools like Saint Mary's," Farmer said. 

Despite the welcomed atten­tion and affirmation the top ranking brings to the College, Farmer said it describes only a part of the experience of Saint Mary's. With a new president and a renewed focus on aca­demic excellence, the College has no intention of growing complacent with its position. 
"While the U.S. News rank­ings are well-recognized by parents and prospective stu­dents, the College ultimately measures its success based on the academic, professional and personal success of its gradu­ates," Farmer said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Scrimmage evokes mixed response 
By KATE GALES News Writer 

With all the on-and off-cam­pus social options this weekend, many students are left wonder­ing whether or not they will attend tonight's full-team foot­ball scrimmage scheduled for 
7:35 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Aside from the Blue-Gold Game, which takes place each spring, the football team has never had an open scrimmage at the beginning of the season. 
A sneak preview of the team is an incentive for freshman Eric Himmelsbach. 
"I think I'd probably go," 
Himmelsbach said. "I guess [I'm interested in] just seeing how the team looks. I'm hoping they'll get back to being as good as they were a couple years ago rather than how they were last year." 
April's Blue-Gold Game fea­tured the Irish offense scrim­maging the defense, a well­attended contest that is always a major campus event. 
Sophomore Kevin Braun thinks this scrimmage will far surpass the Blue-Gold Game in April. 
"I think it will be better [than the Blue-Gold Game] because you get to see the improvement and adjustments that [the team] madl' over the summer," Braun 
said. "Everyone's had three more months of playing time together." 
The scrimmage did not receive much attention around campus this week, as students bought tickets for the Student Union Board's Jason Mrazlfalib Kweli concert or made other social plans for tonight. 
"I was unaware that there was a football scrimmage," sophomore Megan Davenport said. "If I had known, I might have changed plans so I could have gone out and supported the team." 
Although professing an inter­est in football, sophomore Andy Astuno did not plan on attend­ing the game. 

"I don't plan on going," he said. "I suppose Friday night might not be ideal, given Rally." 
Freshman Bridget Keating hoped to be able to see both events tonight. 
"[The game is] a preview and a great look at this football sea­son," she said. "It should be fun and a great opportunity to show support this year in the season." 
Keating mentioned that she is a fan of Jason Mraz and looked forward to seeing him in concert as well. 
"I love music. I would never pass up the chance to see a live show," she said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Buy your textbooks on eBay 
and save up to ~Gill* the list price. 
PREVENT OVERSPENDING 
.......-...~---.-......-....-.... -..........--......--...... --.. --.. ---.. --................-..........-.. -............--.. --.. -...-.. 
College tor lea&. More tor you. 
Play online for a chance to WIN!** 
-1< $2,500 eBayShopplng Spree!·~··· 
1;< SoBe cooler and drinks for.,,.,a year! 
........ ···.· ·...··.·.·•,•.·.·.·.-........... ····.···· .
*Mo~ile phone and $Sf) . .......... .. .. ,.,...,..,...,,.,,,,. 
Veriz()l1 Wi~eless...Q~~ .. c~·~············ -A TIJolls-.nds of other prizesl 
i 
...·..·..·.··.·.·.·..·.........·.·.··.·.···....·::::·· 

Prizes provided by: 
Friday, August 27, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

ITuesdav. August3151 ••• 1:00 PM -9:00 PM ••• JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE I 

GENERAL CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
Academic Competition Club Accounting Association, Notre Dame Actuarial Science Club Adworks Advertising Agency American Cancer Society Club American Chemical Society American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics American Institute of Chemical Engineers American Society of Civil Engineers American Society of Mechanical Engineers Amnesty International Anime Club, Notre Dame Arnold Air Society Asian American Association Asian International Society Association of Art History Students Bagpipe Band, Notre Dame Ballet Folklorico Azul Y Oro Ballroom Dance Club Baptist Collegiate Ministry Best Buddies Big Brothers/Big Sisters Biology Club Black Cultural Arts Council Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination Campus Fellowship of the Holy Spirit Campus Girt Scouts, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Caribbean Student Organization Celebration Choir Children of Mary 
Children's Defense Fund 
Chinese Culture Society Chorale, Notre Dame Circle K Class of 2005 
Class of 2006 Class of 2007 College Democrats College Republicans 
Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics Computer Club, Notre Dame 
Coro Primavera De Nuestra Senora Dance Company Debate Team Detachment 225 Flyin' Irish (AFROTC) Dome Designs Dome Yearbook Economics Club Entrepreneur Club Farley Hail Players Feminist Voice Filipino American Student Organization 
Financial Management Board First Aid Services Team First Class Steppers 
Flip Side Fly-Fishing Club, Notre Dame Folk Choir, Notre Dame Foodshare 
Forum on Biomedical Ethics Free Burma Coalition 
Gaelic Society, Notre Dame German Club Guitar Players' Association Habitat for Humanity 
Handball Choir, Notre Dame 
Harmonia Hawaii Club 
Health Occupations Students of America Helpful Undergraduate Students 
Hispanic Business Student Association History Club 
Hugh O'Brien Youth Foundation Alumni Association Humor Artists of Notre Dame Indian Association of Notre Dame Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers Investment Club Irish Dance Club Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids Iron Sharpens Iron Italian Club Japan Club Jewish Club of Notre Dame Joint Engineering Council Juggler, The Juggling Club, Notre Dame Junior Parents Weekend Knights of Columbus Knights of the Immaculata Korean Student Association LaAiianza Le Circle Francais LEAD-nd Leprechaun Legion Life Uncommon, A Liturgical Choir, Women's Logan Recreation Club Management Club Marketing Club, Notre Dame Mexican-American Engineers and Scientists 
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Minority Pre-med Society Mock Trial Association Ms. Wizard Day Mu Alpha Theta Muslim Student Association Mystery Science Theater 3000 Club NAACP National Society of Black Engineers Native American Student Association of Notre Dame ND for Animals Neighborhood Study Help Program Operation Smile Orestes Brownson Council Othodox Christian Fellowship Pakistan Student Association Pasquerilla East Musical Company Peace Fellowship, Notre Dame Philosophy Club, Notre Dame Polish Club Pre-Dental Society Pre-Law Society Pre-Professional Society Pre-Vet Club Progressive Student Alliance Project Fresh Psychology Club Ranger Challenge Team (AROTC) Real Estate Club Right to Life Scholastic Magazine Science-Business Club Shades of Ebony Shirt Project, The Silver Wing Society Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Physics Students Society of Women Engineers Sociology Club Sorin Rifle Team Spanish Club Special Friends Club of Notre Dame St. Edward's Hall Players Student Alumni Relations Group Student Broadcasting -NDTV Student Government Student International Business Council Student Players, Notre Dame Student Union Board Students for Environmental Action Super Sibs Swing Club Teamwork for Tomorrow Texas Club Toastmasters International Trident Naval SQciety Troop Notre Dame Unchained Melodies Undergraduate Women in Business Vietnamese Student Organization Voices of Faith Gospel Choir Women's Resource Center WSND-FM WVFI 
LOCAL SERVICE AGENCIES 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist American Red Cross Big Brothers/Big Sisters Boys and Girts Clubs of St. Joseph County Center for Basic Learning Center for the Homeless Children's Dispensary Dismas House Food Bank of Northern Indiana I Believe I Can, Inc. Indiana Legal Services La Casa de Amistad LaSalle Council Boy Scouts of America Life Treatment Centers 
CLUB SPORTS TEAMS 
Bowling Club, Notre Dame Boxing Club, Men's Boxing Club, Women's Climbing Club Cycling Club, Notre Dame Equestrian Club Field Hockey Club Figure Skating Club, Notre Dame Gymnastics Club, ND/SMC Hurling and Camogie Club Ice Hockey, Women's Japanese Martial Arts Club Martial Arts Institute, Notre Dame 

SPECIAL GUESTS 
ACE Admissions Office Athletics Department 
Campus Ministry Career Center Center for Social Concerns Club Coordination Council Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross Educational Talent Search 
Logan Center Reins of Life Robinson Community Learning Center Salvation Army of St. Joseph County 
Youth Programs S-0-S of Madison Center South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility Southern Care Hospice 51 Vincent de Paul Society Tolson Center Twenty-first Century Scholars West Side Neighborhood Partnership Center· Women's Care Center 
Porn Pon Squad Rodeo Team, Notre Dame Rowing Club, Notre Dame Running Club, Men's Running Club, Women's Sailing Club Ski Team Squash Club Swimming Club Ultimate Club Volleyball Club, Men's Water Polo Club, Men's Water Polo Club, Women's World Taekwondo Federation Club 
Holy Cross Priests and Brothers Institute for Educational initiatives Legends of Notre Dame RecSports Red Cross/First Aid Services Team 
Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs Student Activities Office 




GET INVOlVED 
GET ACTIVE 
All current Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are invited to join us for our annual Notre Dame Activities Night. Hundreds of clubs and organizations will be represented to meet and sign-up new members, distribute information and share their plans for the year. Don't miss it. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT ClUB OFFICERS: 
If your club does not appear on this list and you would like to participate in Activities Night, please contact the Student Activities Office as soon as possible at 631.7308 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT IS COORDINATED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AND COSPONSORED BY RECSPORTS IN COLLABORATION WITH THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS AND CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL 



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, August 27, 2004 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Al-Sistani brings peace to Najaf 
NAJAF, IRAQ -Rebel cleric Muqtada al­Sadr agreed Thursday to a peace deal pre­sented by Iraq's top Shiite cleric, who brought his enormous authority to bear in an attempt to end three weeks of fighting in the holy city of Najaf, a top al-Sistani aide said. 
Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the most influential cleric among Iraq's Shiite major­ity, reached the deal in direct talks with al­Sadr in the evening, only hours after mak­ing a dramatic return to Najaf. 
Aides have said that al-Sistani's peace plan calls for Najaf and Kufa to be declared weapons-free cities, for all foreign forces to withdraw from Najaf and leave security to the police, and for the government to com­pensate those harmed by the fighting. 
'Mr. Muqtada al-Sadr agreed to the initia­tive of his eminence al-Sistani,' said Hamed al-Khafaf. a top al-Sistani aide. "You will hear good news soon from the government and Mr. Muqtada al-Sadr." 
Italian journalist killed in Iraq 
BAGHDAD -An Arab television station said Friday it received a video showing the killing of Italian journalist Enzo Baldoni, who was kidnapped by militants who threatened to execute him if Italy did not withdraw troops from Iraq. 
The video received by Al-Jazeera appeared to show Baldoni's killing, but the station declined to broadcast the footage out of sensitivity to its viewers, said station spokesman Jihad Bailout. 
"To the best of our knowledge, it indi­cates that the hostage-takers carried out their threat," Bailout said. He declined to say how the journalist was killed. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Firefighters tame flames in Nevada 
RENO, Nev. -Gusting wind that whipped a small wildfire into an inferno that con­sumed six homes let up on Thursday, help­ing hundreds of firefighters beat back the flames. 
The nearly 2,700-acre blaze, unstoppable in Wednesday's erratic wind south of Reno, was 75 percent contained in a light breeze Thursday. 
"Cooler temperatures and higher humidity really helped us out last night," fire spokesman Franklin Pemberton said. "It let us lay down more [containment] line. We're making some good progress." 
More than 500 firefighters, 14 tankers and seven helicopters were fighting the blaze. 

Airport screening tightened 
WASHINGTON -The government announced Thursday it is taking over the task of checking the names of airline passen­gers against terrorism watch lists, saying it can do a more comprehensive a:nd secure job than carriers. 
The new system is intended to verify the identity of domestic travelers by amassing information that passengers have given air­lines and comparing it with records in gov­ernment databases. The goal is to better screen travelers by using a larger pool of sus­pected terrorists than airlines had access to. 
LOCAL NEWS 

No charges filed against Randolph 
ANDERSON -No formal charges were filed Thursday against Portland Trail Blazers forward Zach Randolph or his brother in the shooting of three men on a nightclub dance floor, a court administrator said. 
Madison County Prosecutor Rodney Cummings said Tuesday that he would file formal charges on Thursday against Roger Randolph, 22, in the shooting last Sunday at an Anderson night club. 

Russia releases details of plane crashes 
Official announces Russian double plane crash likely the work of terrorists 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW A top Russian official acknowl­edged Thursday what many citizens already suspected -that terrorism was the most likely cause of two jet­liners crashing minutes apart, a feeling reflected in a newspaper headline warning that "Russia now has a Sept. 11." 
A day after officials stressed there were many possibilities besides terror­ism, presidential envoy Vladimir Yakovlev told Russia's ITAR-Tass news agency that the main theory "all the same remains ter­rorism." 
Yakovlev said the planes' flight recorders provide no clues to the disaster. He said both boxes had shut off abruptly without any indi­cation of trouble, a sign U.S. aviation experts said was strong evidence of explo­sions. 
Also, Transport Minister Igor Levitin confirmed Sibir airlines' report that its crew activated an emergency sig­nal shortly before the plane disappeared from radar. VIsiting the crash site, how­ever, he said that details were slim because "no ver­bal confirmation from the crew was received" saying what the problem was. 
Officials previously said there was no indication of trouble from a Volga­Aviaexpress airliner that also crashed late Tuesday, although people on the ground reported hearing a series of explosions. 
Russian media also raised questions about a possible link between the crashes and an explosion a few hours earlier at a bus stop on a road leading to Domodedovo airport, where the two doomed planes took off. Without citing evidence, the reports suggested the blast, which wounded four people, might have been an effort to distract attention. 
Suspicions of terrorism came after warnings from officials that separatists might plan attacks before an election this Sunday in Chechnya to replace the war-torn region's assassi: nated pro-Kremlin presi­dent. The rebels have made attacks in Moscow and other cities, hijacked planes outside Russia and allegedly staged suicide bombings. 


"I am inclined to think that it is a terrorist act, because there are too many coincidences," said Ruben Suryaninov, an elderly retiree. "What needs to happen so that two planes going from the same airport would bang at the same moment?" 
"It's too suspicious," agreed Natalia Kozhelupova, a physicist who was out on a national day of mourning for the 89 people killed in the crashes. Russia's tricol­or flag flew at half-staff and television canceled enter­tainment programs. 

Despite Yakovlev's state­ment about terrorism, the government was still offi­cially investigating all possi­bilities -bombs, hijackers, mechanical failure, bad fuel and human error. Officials said no evidence had been found pointing to terrorism, and no one has claimed to have caused the crashes. 
The government had hoped the jetliners' flight data recorders would shed some light, but Yakovlev told state-run First Channel that experts found the boxes in both planes shut off before indicating any problems. 
Yakovlev, the president's envoy for southern Russia, where one of the planes crashed, said the recorders "turned off immediately" ­an indication "that some­thing happened very fast." 
Bill Waldock, aviation safety professor at Embry­Riddle Aeronautical University in Arizona, said a sudden stoppage of a plane's two recorders indi­cates that its electrical sys­tem was cut. "An explosion could interrupt electrical power," he said, adding that it was extremely unlikely that another problem would cause four boxes in two planes to quit abruptly. 
If something went wrong with a plane's mechanical or electrical systems, "more protracted data would show up," Waldock said. The cockpit voice recorder would pick up pilots' con­versations as they dealt with the problem, while the flight data recorder would note such information as altitude, air speed, heading and vertical acceleration. 

Texas death ro-w inlllate executed 
Associated Press 
HUNTSVILLE, Texas -A death row inmate whose case attracted the attention of celebrity capital punishment opponent Susan Sarandon was executed Thursday evening for killing a convenience store clerk. 
Speaking slowly and quietly, his voice halting at times. James ABridge thanked his family and friends for loving him and expressed remorse. 
"I am sorry, I really am," he said in a brief final statement. "I am sorry I destroyed y'all's life," he said looking at the family of his vic­tim. "Thank you for forgiving me. To the moon and back, I love you all. I leave you all as I came-in love." Nine minutes after the lethal injection, he was pronounced dead. 
Allridge, 41, was the 12th Texas inmate executed this year and the second in as many nights. He was convicted of killing Fort Worth store clerk Brian Clendennen, 21, who was robbed of $300. 
Also Thursday, Oklahoma death row inmate Windel Ray Workman was executed by injection for the 1987 beating death of his live-in girlfriend's 2-year-old daughter. He was the sixth person executed in Oklahoma this year. 

Sarandon visited ABridge last month, has purchased so::ne of his prison-made artwork and for years corresponded with him. The 57­year-old actress won an Academy Award in 1996 for her portrayal of death penalty opponent Helen Prejean in the movie version of the New Orleans-based nun's book "Dead Man Walking." Prejean was among those who witnessed the execution. 
Allridge's brother, Ronald, was also put to death, in 1995, for killing a woman during the robbery of a fast-food restaurant. 1\vo other brothers were at Thursday's execu­tion. 

r-----·----~-----­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 27, 2004 
Jurassic 5. and hip-hop genres all fared build upon the success of class councils. The concert's committee well. last year's event. The per­To encourage participa­


Show 

found the two artists to be a  "Both [Mraz and Kweli] are  formance of the Black Eyed  tion, the committee members  
continued from page 1  logical choice for the student  unbelievable major market  Peas and Guster attracted a record 4,000 people in  teamed up with the Athletic Department to create a cam­ 
Though not yet a headline artist, Talib Kweli is slowly  body, said J i m m y Flaherty,  "Both [Mraz and Kweli] are  artists," Flaherty said. "They are a  attendance. The 35-person committee has been working since  pus wide campaign advertis­ing both the football scrim­mage and concert.  
but surely making his way into national prominence in the music industry.  chairman of The Show 3.0. An electronic  unbelievable major market artists. "  great ment other."  compli­to each  February to bring a major, top-quality production to the student community.  "It has been an eye-open­ing experience because it is a campus-wide collabora­ 
He  has  recorded  and  survey  was  Besides,  said  This  year's  committee  tion,"  Flaherty said. "It is  
toured with  big  name  rap  offered  to  all  Jimmy Flaherty  Flaherty,  for  made  a  concerted effort to  symbolic  of  what  Notre  
and  H&B  artists  Mary  J.  students this  The Show chairman  only $10,  "It's  reach out to the Saint Mary's  Dame student activities are."  
Blige and  Kanye West, and  past spring in  the  best  deal  and Holy Cross student bod­ 
his music has been likened  order to gauge  going."  ies, and increased publicity  Contact Janice Flynn at  
to  that of The  Hoots  and  student interests.  Pop, rap  The committee hopes  to  through  the  Notre  Dame  jflynn@nd.edu  

0

0 OA 


0 Q LANCOME 
0 NEW! AQUA FUS1dt>J 
0 

P •Fuses lnsta~tiY for deep h~ration altx:lay 
•Ultra-charged mo1sture G'bmplex delivers 16 skin-esserft.ihl elemen~ Q o•OII-free, water-smooth, fresh moisture 
•Akitable In Sl-eam or Lotion 1.7-oz., $34 each.
0 
0 

DON'T MISS OUR FALL INTO COL~R EVENT
0 

Vr&lt any Ldi· Ayres f4mcome counter August 25·29, for a new fall look. ,,, Plus, take home an Aqua Fusion sample. __... Stop by to book your appointment today! 
One sample to • cuetomer. pleaM. While supplies last. 
LANCOMEP 
0 v
0 
0
0 
Q 
0
Q 0 
0 
u() 

0 Q 
0 

LS. AYRES GIFT CARDS ORDER ANYTIME AVAILABLE AT ALL STORES CALL TOLL"FREE AND LSAYRES.com 1-800-528-2345 
alw somethin exciti 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS

Friday, August 27, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow

Jones 10,173.41 -8.33 
..~.eo;:==-­

AMEX 
NASDAQ  1,852.92  -7.80  
NYSE  6.4~~~~0 ~:;~~;fi'S!tlf\!1  
S&PSOO NIKKEJ(Tol<yo)  1,105.09 11 ,129.~3  +0.13o.oo1  

FTSE IOO(london) 4,453.90 +4.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) .0.82 -0.18 21.77 ADCTELECOMM (ADCl) -1.78 -0.04 2.21 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.40 -0.11 27.44 CISCO SYffiMS (CSCO) -0.78 -0.15 19.17 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) -1.72 -0.28 15.98 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.57 -0.29 50.21 10-YEAR NOTE -0.80 -0.34 42.27 5-YEARNOTE -0.87 -0.30 34.22 3-MONTH BILL +0.26 +0.04 15. 16 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.37 43.10 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +6.60 409.60 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +0.425 93.075 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 109.69 EURO 0.8266 POUND 0.5569 
IN BRIEF 
Anthen Inc. wants suit dismissed 
INDIANAPOLIS-California's insurance com­missioner has asked a judge to throw out the Anthem Inc. lawsuit seeking to overturn his blockage of the company's merger with WellPoint Health Networks Inc. 
John Garamendi filed the dismissal request Wednesday with Judge Dzintra Janavs of Los Angeles County Superior Court. A hearing is scheduled for Oct. 5. 
Indianapolis-based Anthem has sued Garamendi, saying he exceeded his authority under California's Insurance Code by disap­proving the deal on July 23. 
The proposed $16.4 billion deal, which would create the nation's largest health bene­fits company, is on hold until the impasse in California is resolved. 
Garamendi, the only insurance regulator in 10 states to withhold approval of the merger, has said it would hurt WellPoint policyholders. 

Bridgestone replaces faulty tires 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Bridgestone Firestone offered Thursday to replace 27,000 tires sold in North America over concerns that a belt in the tires may detach, possibly causing wrecks. 
The company said less than 15 injuries have been substantiated that involved vehicles equipped with the tires. 
The offer involves Bridgestone's Dueler A!f tires in size LT285/75R16 LR D that were man­ufactured in Japan between 1998 and 2002 and sold in the United States and Canada. 
The Nashville-based company said internal data suggest "that a small percentage of these tires may experience belt detachment," espe­cially if the tires were inflated above or below recommended pressures. 
Such a problem could cause loss of vehicle control and possibly a crash, the company said. 
The voluntary replacement campaign comes six months after Bridgestone Firestone recalled about 490,000 Steeltex tires linked to sports utility vehicle crashes that killed five people. 



Tech stocks fall as trading remains thin 
New York Stock Exchange lacks conviction during end of summer slump 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A broker­age firm's negative outlook for the semiconductor industry pressured tech shares Thursday, while the broader market was little changed as a jump in jobless claims offset investors' relief over declining oil prices. 
Late summer trading is known for being thin, but with the Republican National Convention set for New York next week, Wall Street is even less crowded than usual for late August. And as many traders prepared to take the week off and some money managers planned to reduce staff levels, the market's lack of conviction was reflected in low trad­ing volumes. The drop in oil prices was a bright spot, however, even though analysts weren't sure it would hold. 

"A week ago, people were asking where the top in crude is and now they're asking where the bottom is," said Todd Clark, head of listed equity trading at Wells Fargo Securities. "It's a sea change that's welcome for equities, but against the backdrop of a big event next week that will keep players away from the of Hurricane Charley, the trading. Investors were take the spotlight. And market, it's tough to get Labor Department said. awaiting revisions to the that will cause us to stay too excited." Oil prices, which set a government's second in a very tight, narrow 
The Dow Jones industri­new record by topping $49 quarter gross domestic trading range." al average closed down per barrel last week, have product report, due Krispy Kreme 8.33, or 0.1 percent, at declined over the last five Friday, and remarks from Doughnuts Inc. sank 10 10,173.41. sessions as anxieties about Federal Reserve chief Alan percent, or $1.59, to 
The broader gauges global supply have eased. Greenspan at a banking $13.77, after its earnings were mixed. The Nasdaq On Thursday, the conference in Jackson missed expectations by a composite index shed Organization of Petroleum Hole, Wyo. The Republican wide margin. The compa­7.80, or 0.4 percent, to Exporting Countries indi­convention, which starts ny said it expects slower 1,852.92. The Standard & cated it would discuss Monday, also loomed sales for the remainder of Poor's 500 index wiggled ways to push prices down large.· the year, and cut the num­up 0.13, or 0.01 percent, faster, perhaps through "The fear index might ber of new stores it plans to 1.105.09. increased production, at begin to rise over the next to open next year. 
In economic news. the its meeting next month. one or two trading days as Brown-Forman Corp., number of people who Light crude for October the convention begins in the maker of Jack Daniel's signed up for jobless bene­delivery settled 3 7 cents New York," said Peter and Finlandia vodka, fits rose last week by a lower at $43.10 a barrel Cardillo, chief strategist at gained 38 cents to $46.75 seasonally adjusted 10,000 on the New York S.W. Bach & Co. "Unless after its quarterly earn­to 343,000; economists Mercantile Exchange. the price of oil moves dra­ings beat expectations on had expected an increase While the market has matically either way, I robust growth in its liquor of just 4,000. At least half been fixated on energy kind of think Greenspan, business, offsetting weak­of those filing new claims costs lately, there were the GDP revision and the er sales in its Lenox china were out of work because other concerns influencing Republican convention will division. 



GlaxoSmithKline to release findings 
spread suspicions that drug compa­"We're actually pleased they seem
Associated Press 

nies suppress negative information to think it will provide useful informa­
ALBANY, N.Y. -GlaxoSmithKline about their products. tion to the medical community," agreed Thursday to release all find­The company also will pay $2.5 mil­Pekarek said. "We are choosing to ings about its drugs to settle a lawsuit lion to the state as part of the settle­settle this basically to avoid the high that accused the pharmaceutical ment. cost and time of protracted litigation." giant of hiding negative studies on GlaxoSmithKline spokeswoman Pekarek said the company will try Paxil, an antidepressant suspected of Nancy Pekarek said that the company to post data by Dec. 31, 2005, on clin­causing suicidal tendencies in chil­still believes Spitzer's civil charge of ical trials conducted since December dren. fraud is unfounded and that the com­2000. 
GlaxoSmithKline will put sum­pany was developing its new disclo­Spitzer said GlaxoSmithKline's new maries on its Web site of all its studies sure policy even before he sued. standard will affect the entire indus­since December 2000. The London­She said the data Spitzer accused try. based company is the first major drug the company of withholding had "The immediate impact is sending a maker to make such a move. already been released in various signal to the other pharmaceutical 
New York Attorney General Eliot forms. In addition, after Spitzer sued manufacturers that this is the new Spitzer sued the company in June, in June, Glaxo posted on its Web site standard with regard to disclosure of accusing it of misrepresenting data on the Paxil studies that Spitzer had clinical studies," said Joe Baker, Paxil. The lawsuit came amid wide-accused the company of hiding. Spitzer's health care bureau chief. 
Friday, August 27, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
DeIns 
continued from page 1 
training workshops led by 
several high-profile politi­
cians, such as AI Sharpton, 
Senator Joseph Biden, and 
former Democratic presi­
dential candidate and 
Massachusetts Gov. 
Michael Dukakis. 
"The campaign training 

seminars showed us how 
to improve our club's 
strategies," Bunick said. 
"There is a lot of opportu­
nity for us to restructure 
the club, make the College 
Democrats more promi­
nent on campus and get 
more students involved." 
Enthused by her fellow 

delegates, she said the 
best advice they received 
was from other clubs. 
While the speakers and workshops were their pri­mary reason for attending the event, the most excit­ing part was being part of the environment Bunick said. 
"For me it was really amazing to see people so energized about the issues that I care about," she said. 
Because the student con­vention was held concur­rently with the Democratic N a tiona! Convention, they were able to acquire tick­ets for the first night and saw President Carter, President Clinton and Vice President Gore speak. 
"The speeches, especial­ly Clinton's, were obvious­ly very good and extremely well received by the dele­gates," Taylor said. 
Taylor and Bunick felt the convention's warm reception for Kerry's speech was well-deserved. 
"I thought it was as good as it could have been," Taylor said. "He showed a lot of emotion, which some people think is rare for him, and showed the audi­ence how much passion he has for America." 
Andrew Yi will be run­ning the John Kerry for President campaign for the College Democrats this semester. In collaboration with the National Kerry Headquarters, he has set up three weekend voter registration campaigns in Ohio, where members of the club will run voter reg­istration drives and phone banks. 
Yi also plans to organize debates with the College Republicans and several informal colloquia with faculty members from the political science depart­ment. 
Contact Beth Erickson at ecrickso@nd.cdu 

Reps 
continued from page 1 
Rippinger participated in weekly phone banks to recruit party support across the district, dis­tributing free promotional materials and soliciting volunteers. 
In addition to canvass­ing Notre Dame's campus and registering Republican students for absentee bal­lots this semester, the 
gressional office in Washington, D.C. 
While there, she attend­ed speeches and gather­ings on Capitol Hill with prominent members of congress, committee chairmen and officials in the Bush administration. 
"One of my best memo­ries was seeing President Bush address a gathering of thousands at a fundraiser put on by the National Republican Congressional Committee at the Washing­ton Convention 
club will also "Political activism Center." she 
focus on the said. 
... will be a
battleground Her various state of turning point in duties for the Michigan, speaker inc­
this milestone 
which is luded conduct­
election year. " 
divided ing research, between a attending com­strong union Jalmle Feltault mittee hear­labor force VP of College ings and draft­and a rural ing letters
Republicans
conservative the 
base Ripp­inger said. 
"Our club will follow the (Republican National Convention] closely, and use it as a springboard to launch republican grass­roots support to keep our Congressional majority and the White House," he said. "We come to the table with Washington experience, dedication and the will to fight this battle to the last punch." 
Jaimie Feltault, vice president of College Republicans, worked for the Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert in his con-
detailing 
speaker's 
views or actions on various policy issues. 
"The next 10 weeks will be a crucial time in our nation's history, with much riding on the out­come of November's elec­tion," she said. "Political activism, whether it's in local contests, national campaigns, or with sena­tors and congressmen in D.C., will be a turning point in this milestone election year." 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 

THAI RESTAURANT 
NOW HIRING EXPERIENCED WAIT STAFF 
211 N. Main Downtown South Bend 




232-4445 

Parking 
continued from page 1 

hours and on weekends, replaced with an area of green space. 
Dave Chapman, director of securi­ty, said the administration based the decision to remove the parking lot on a variety offactors. 
"We decided it would be nice to 
have green space for students to 
gather," he said. "Plus, we have stu­
dents who live in Regina [Hall] who 
walked across the parking lot, so it 
was really a safety issue." 

In addition to the removal of the LeMans lot, other parking changes occurred. The area formerly known as the Dining Hall lot was expanded and is now called the Staff, FacuJty and Special Events parking lot. Students are no longer allowed to park there at any time, and after the third ticket in this lot, students will be towed. 
The Bertrand parking lot, once open to students and visitors from 
5:30 p.m. to 2 a.m., is now off-limits after 5:30 p.m. because of a policy shift by the convent that owns it. Unauthorized cars parked in this lot will be towed immediately. 
The newly created Opus Apartments parking lot is for Opus residents only. If Opus residents have visitors, the visitor will need to pick up a free parking pass from security, and park in the Angela parking lot. 
Chapman said the biggest change this year is the decision to tow vehi­cles, when past policy had been to put a boot on the vehicles. The tow­ing fee will be $75, plus a $15 a day storage fee -amounts which can add up quickly. 
"We don't want to tow vehicles, but it's unfair for some students to follow the rules, and not others," Chapman said. "This will hopefully make everything equal. This is a learning experience for us all. Things may change if we fmd that this isn't working." 
But some are concerned there will not be enough student parking, especially on the weekends. 
LeMans Hall resident Erica Rangel said she believes the changes are an unnecessary hassle. 
"I just think it's an inconvenience because parking in various spots of campus is scarce as it is," she said. "We depended on that lot for unloading groceries and things from our cars and for visitor parking on the weekend. and now it's not an option." 
Others are in favor of the new green space . 
"I like that we have a place where we can sit outside now," senior Michelle Cooper said. 
Chapman said there will be enough parking, and emphasized that the security escort from the Angela parking lot to the residence halls will still be in effect seven nights a week. 
Although the new parking rules seem to be causing some controver­sy on campus, Chapman said he has not gotten negative feedback. 
"We haven't received complaints yet, just a lot of questions," he said. "A lot of students and parents just wanted to make sure they knew where to park, what the procedure was." 
He added that towing is a last resort. 
"I don't want to cost people money, and really it's only 5 to 10 percent of people who don't follow the rules," Chapman said. "But if 90 to 95 percent do, everyone should be able to." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
SAY... 


''Cheesecak·e'' 
COFFEE & WINE 
Proudly Serve 
Domestic & Imported Wine Cheesecake from The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee & The Republic of Tea Joseph Schmidt's Chocolate from San Francisco 
Mon-Fri 7am-1 Opm/Sat I Oam-1 Opm 
(Special Hours to Accommodate Events at Morris Performing Arts Center) 
213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend (Behind Morris Performing Arts Center) 
233-CAFE NOW Hiring 

Friday, August 27, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Tickets 
continued from page 1 
dents started with lottery number 1870, said she had a similar experience to Draycott's. 
"We went at 9 and got through at 9:30," Kelley said. 
According to official rules established by the Notre Dame ticketing office, one student can purchase tickets for a maximum of six student IDs. But Kelley said the ushers did not seem concerned about that standard and allowed her group to pass through without counting IDs. 
For their part, the ushers in charge of selling tickets said they aimed to oversee a process that would best bene­fit students. 
"We're just trying to accom-


Rankings 
continued from page 1 
asks students to use a sliding scale to rank their agreement with the statement, "Students, faculty and administrators treat all persons equally regardless of sexual orienta­tion." 
While the survey also pro­vides a chance for students to expand on their opinions through open-ended questions, these written responses are solely for the guide's descrip­tion purposes and are not taken into account in the rank­ings, Olsen said. 
He stressed there is no dif­ference between how the Review calculates a seemingly straightforward ranking such as "Everyone Plays Intramural Sports" -in which Notre Dame also ranked first -and a more ambiguous one like "Alternative." 
"There's no opinion of ours that affects the rankings," Olsen said. "We just report what is essential to the guide, which is student opinion." 
Reforming these opinions is therefore the only way a cam­paign like "Gay? Fine by Me" can affect the rankings, he said. 
"I think it's great to see stu­dent activism take up an issue 
modate students," said Josh Berlo, director of ticketing. 
The lottery ticket system was implemented in the fall of 2001 at the direction of the Student Activities Office, where the lottery idea origi­nated, said Berlo. Previously, students camped outside the stadium to get the best tickets. 
Head usher Cappy Gagnon, who is in charge of running the sales, said he was largely pleased with the results of this week. 
"We do it by feel, really, so everyone can get tickets with people who want to. It's not an exact science," Gagnon said. "We want it go smoothly, quickly, efficiently, and have a heart to it too." 
As for whether officials adhered to the six tickets per person rule, Gagnon said the rule served only as a general guideline this year. 
in favor of or in opposition to a policy," said Olsen, adding that he is familiar with the ideas behind the T-shirt demonstra­tions. "But unless it's changing widely held opinion on cam­pus, it won't affect our sur­vey." 
Even when student opinion does change, the University's reputation does not necessarily change with it, said Father David Burrell, a professor of philosophy and theology who sits on the Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
"I think the Princeton [Review] category may have applied to us once, and proba­bly not now," he said. "But there is a pretty formidable time lag between the reputa­tion an institution gets and the time it takes to change it." 
Burrell said he has observed genuine strides towards acceptance during the Standing Committee's eight­year existence. He credited parents of gay and lesbian stu­dents with providing an exam­ple of how easily long-har­bored stereotypes can be reversed. 
"They have no ideological axes to grind," he said. "They just want to learn to love their children." 
However, no amount of wel­come can change what Burrell calls "the thing that rankles 
"I've ignored the six if I thought there was a good rea­son to ignore it," he said. 
In regard to the rule itself, Gagnon said it would likely not even be used next year. 
Berlo said ultimately the University says it will imple­ment an online system for both student ticketing and the alumni ticket lottery. This will save students the two trips out to the stadium. 
However, both Gagnon and Berlo said it would be one to three years before such a sys­tem is in· place, and the University will wait until both student and alumni systems are in place before making the change. 
Claire Heininger contributed to this report. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
people the most" -the University's legal non-discrimi­nation clause, which does not include sexual orientation. 
"Rhetorically, that's going to be one of the things that puts us behind the eight ball," he said. "But how that actually affects gay and lesbian stu­dents, I don't know." 
Notre Dame's homophobic reputation actually has a dou­ble effect, said senior Day Zimlich, another member of the Standing Committee. 
"It is part of the Catholic perception that the Church just doesn't give much of an option on this issue, which is not true but it is definitely seen that way," Zimlich said. "It's not so much discouraging as disap­pointing, because it's based on student perception of the University ... but it is definitely more motivation to continue to reach out to Notre Dame stu­dents who are gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender, and to reach out to straight stu­dents who might have ques­tions." 
In addition to "Alternative" and "Intramural Sports," Notre Dame also ranked first in "Students Pack the Stadiums." It earned fourth in "Jock Schools" and sixth in "Students 
Pray on a Regular Basis." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
We have an exciting opportunity for YOU to help prevent youth violence in South Bendl Learn ways to help reduce violence while 

TALK IT OUT... 
having fun interacting with children 
WALK IT OUT..• 

in area schools. 
WAIT IT OUT..• 
-BECOME A MEMBER OF A TAKE TEN TEAM AND
Please Contact: Kim Overdyck at SPEND AN HOUR A WEEK IN AN AREA SCHOOL taketen@ nd.edu 
-VARIOUS SCHOOLS, AGE GROUPS, AND MEETING 
Or 631-9424 TIMES TO FIT YOUR SCHEDULE 
Visit us on the web: -MULTIPLE TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES TO LEARN 
www.nd.edurtaketen MORE ABOUT VIOLENCE AND HOW TO WORK WITH 
CHILDREN

11( Come visit our table at activities 
ROBINSON 
COMMUNITY night., Tuesday August 31st! 
LEARNING CENTER 



Raina dan 
continued from page 1 
promote freedom and more democracy. All of my work has involved writing and speaking out against all kinds of violence, extremism and literalism. 
"We applied for a visa three months ago," he con­tinued. "Everything was transparent. We were preparing ourselves to come to the States and to settle." 
Instead, Ramadan and the University find their plans on hold, their defenses up and their names in the news as speculation continues about the scholar, whose controversial writings and lectures -as 
temporary replacement in his Islamic ethics course. 
Omar, who was unavail­able for comment due to travel in Florida, has already promised his stu­dents he will "keep the spirit of Ramadan alive," said Anne Kroeger, a soph­omore in the course who learned her professor's fate Tuesday when Kroc director Scott Appleby spoke to the class. 
Kroger said her class­mates were surprised and upset by the news. but understood that "it's not the University's fault." 
"I really wish the gov­ernment would let us know what's going on," she said. 
The government hasn't told the University either, 
according to 
Notre Dame 
spokesman 

well as his Matt Storin.
"It's a real pity for 
grandfather's After speak­
the United States 
alleged terror­ing Thursday ist ties -have to be afraid of with Carol led to charges Kaesebier,
alternative
of anti­the Univers­
voices."
Semitism and ity's General militant Islam. Counsel who The Kroc Cynthia Mahmood has handled Institute rem­communica­
Kroc Institute
ained firmly planted behind its hire, praising Ramadan as a luminary intellectual and a distinct, essential voice. 
"It's a real pity for the United States to be afraid of alternative voices," said Cynthia Mahmood, direc­tor of graduate studies at the Kroc. "Unless we engage in discussion with them, it becomes an echo chamber where we talk to each other constantly.... Places like the Kroc Institute have to push the envelope a bit." 
Although the Institute experienced a lesser uproar immediately after Ramadan was hired, Mahmood and Titone agreed that the irate phone calls and question­ing e-mails were out­weighed by the anticipa­tion of such a prominent arrival. 
"He's a star in that way," Mahmood said. 
Titone also offered "a special note of praise" for Rashied Omar, Ramadan's 
HELP MAKE OUR SCHOOLS VIOLENCE FREE ZONES 

tion with 
Washington, 
Storin could provide no updates for Ramadan's status. 
While they waited for the specifics, members of the campus community voiced their concerns about the implications. 
"Parts of the Patriot Act passed up quickly that were suspicious with regards to human rights made it much more diffi­cult for lots of immigration issues," said Terriss Conterato, former co-pres­ident of the Notre Dame chapter of Amnesty International. "The fact that [the visa] was revoked so late creates much more suspicion." 
The Notre Dame chapter plans to contact the regional office of the organization for its official position before taking any action on behalf of Ramadan, Conterato said, but added the group "would like to do some­thing to help out." 
Disappointment circulat­ed in the classics depart­ment, which -in addition to his chaired, tenured position at the Kroc -had also given Ramadan a par­tial appointment. 
Classics chair Keith Bradley said the Arabic branch of the department particularly questioned the government's actions. 
"It's generally been regarded as an unfortu­nate and unexpected development," he said, adding that his depart­ment fully supported the Kroc's initial efforts to pursue and hire Ramadan. "As far as we know, every­thing was above the board and uncontroversial." 
When ambiguity and controversy arrived, how­ever, the Kroc made its stance -and its sympathy -clear. 
"It's a major point of concern," Titone said. "We're sending support to the Ramadan family and hoping that this will be resolved very soon." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
Friday, August 27, 2004 

page 10 The Observer + NEWS 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 

Group encourages women to fight 
Associated Press 
DUBAI -An Islamist 

women's group has 
launched an Internet maga­
zine aimed at recruiting 
Arab women to fight holy 
wars against non-Muslims. 
The Al-Khansaa maga­zine, launched about a week ago and expected to appear monthly, also pro­vides fitness tips for female "jihadis," or holy warriors, information on treating injuries and advice on rais­ing children to fight nonbe­lievers. 
The magazine, appearing on several extremist Islamic Web sites, claims to have been started "at the initia­tive" of two slain al-Qaida militants in Saudi Arabia, Abdulaziz al-Moqrin and Issa Saad Mohammed bin Oushan. 
In June, security forces killed al-Moqrin, who was believed to be al-Qaida's chief in the Arab peninsula. Oushan, who was killed in July, and al-Moqrin were among Saudi Arabia's 26 most-wanted militants. 
The magazine said it was produced by the "women's media center" in Saudi Arabia, an Islamic nation where al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden was born and Islam's two holiest shrines are located. 
Cairo-based Islamic expert Mohamed Salah poured scorn on the 22­page magazine, describing it as a "media stunt 
to God." 
Women raismg children, 
it says, must understand 
their "main mission is to 
present lions to the battle­
field." 
Saudi journalist Saeed al­Sereihy condemned the magazine in an article pub­lished in the daily Okaz, saying its "rhetoric takes a very dangerous turn when it addresses women in light · of their educational role and capacity to influence children's upbringing." 
Evan Kohlmann, a Washington-based countert­errorism expert, said the magazine appeared linked to Islamic extremists who "know about religion and fighting, but [they are] not necessarily people who have an effect over al­Qaida." 
Its first issue includes tales of famous women fighters and criticism of calls for improved women's rights in Saudi Arabia, a conservative kingdom where women enjoy far fewer freedoms and rights than men. 
The magazine says even though jihad, in terms of actual fighting, is primarily a man's duty, "women can fight without the permission of their husband or guardian since it would be a duty, and duties do not require consent." 
The notion is shocking in hard-line Saudi Arabia, where women are obliged to be accompa­nied by a male 

(by militants) "Using women does guardian at to show their most times,
not really fit the

enemies that particularly in
[militant} model ...

they can public. mobilize which makes "Theoretically everyone, this sounds so
carrying out 

including interesting, but
operations easier for 

women, on the ground it against them . ., is unrealistic'' them." for female mili­"What is tants to be able
Evan Kohlman 

new here is to endure the 

counter-terrorism expert

the use of same rigors as 
the medium of the Internet to recruit women," he added. 
Al-Khansaa, the periodi­cal's title, was the name of a revered Arab poet who converted to Islam during the time of the 7th century Prophet Muhammad. 
She later became associ­ated with Muhammad's close acquaintances and was known for eulogies written for her brother, a sturdy fighter in pre­Islamic days. Al-Khansaa also encouraged her four sons to take part in jihad to spread Islam. Her sons died in battle. 
An unsigned magazine editorial says female Islamists "have set our lines next to our men to support them ... raise their children and be prepared. May God elevate us to martyrs." 
"We will stand covered in our veils and abayas [ankle­length cloaks]. with our weapons in our hands and our children in our arms," it added. "The blood of our husbands and the limbs of our children are an offering 
males, said Salah, the Egyptian expert. 
Women did take part in the Egyptian Islamic Group's 1990s anti-govern­ment insurgency, Salah noted, and at least four were tried for involvement in violence. Palestinian, Uzbek and Chechen women also have carried out mili­tant acts, including suicide bombings. 
The Tamil Tigers group fighting for independence in Sri Lanka used a woman, who detonated explosives strapped to her body, to assassinate former Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi during a 1991 campaign rally. 
Kohlmann, the U.S. expert, did not rule out the effectiveness of female mili­tants. who he believes can benefit from an element of surprise, as many people don't expect women to carry out terror attacks. 
"Using women does not really fit the [militant] model ... which makes car­rying out operations easier for them," he said. 
PANAMA 


Cuba severs ties with Panama 

Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY -Cuba sev­ered diplomatic ties with Panama on Thursday. retaliat­ing within hours for the presi­dent's pardoning four Cuban migrs accused of trying to assassinate Cuban President Fidel Castro. 
Announcing the pardons just days before she was to leave office, President Mireya Moscoso said she wanted to prevent a future government from extraditing the four when they finish their terms. She pardoned Luis Posada Carriles, Gaspar Jimenez, Guillermo Novo and Pedro Remon. 
Cuban officials say Posada led a plan to kill Castro at a summit in Panama in November 2000. 
"We know that if they stay, they would face the possibility of being extradited to Venezuela or Cuba where I am sure they would have been killed," she told a news confer­ence. Posada, a 76-year-old former CIA operative, faces criminal charges in Venezuela as well as Cuba. 
Almost immediately Havana made good on its threat to cut diplomatic relations with Panama, calling the pardons a violation of Panamanian and international law that made 

Moscoso "an accomplice and 
protector of terrorism." 
"The Revolutionary Government announces that as of this minute, 4:15 p.m., diplomatic relations between the Republic of Cuba and the Republic of Panama are bro­ken for an indefinite time," Cuba said in an official state­ment delivered to international journalists. 
"The president of Panama ... will carry the historic respon­sibility of this repugnant and treacherous action, and will also be responsible for the new crimes these assassins could commit in the future," the statement said. 
Cuba had threatened Sunday to immediately break off rela­tions with Panama if Moscoso pardoned the four exiles. Expressing anger at the tone of the Cuban complaints, Moscoso withdrew her coun­try's ambassador from the island this week and ordered the Cuban ambassador here to leave. 
Cuba's state-run television announced Thursday that a special program would air later about Posada -whom Castro has called "the worst terrorist in the hemisphere." 
The diplomatic clash erupted just days before Moscoso was to hand over the presidency on Sept. 1 to Martin Torrijos. 
Panama and Cuba have had relatively friendly relations since restoring ties in the early 1970s. The incoming president is son of populist military strongman Omar Torrijos, who had friendly relations with Castro. Cuba also has used Panama's Colon free zone as a transit point to skirt the U.S. economic embargo of the island. 
The four exiles were taken to the city's airport earlier, Moscoso said, but she did not reveal where they were going. 
In the alleged plot against Castro, Panamanian courts sentenced Posada and Jimenez to eight years for endangering public safety and falsifying documents, while Novo and Remon got seven years for endangering public safety. 
Cuba had protested the sen­tences, saying they were not tough enough. But Panamanian courts ruled there was not enough evidence to accuse the men of attempt­ed murder or other serious charges such as possession of explosives, which were found near Panama City's airport on the day the men were arrest­ed. 
The defendants maintained they were in Panama to help a Cuban general who supposedly had planned to seek political asylum. 
Judge seconds abortion act ruling 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A federal judge declared the Partial­Birth Abortion Ban Act uncon­stitutional because it does not contain an exception to protect a woman's health, something the Supreme Court said is required in laws prohibiting types of abortion. 
U.S. District Judge Richard C. Casey issued his ruling Thursday -the second such ruling in three months -even as he called the procedure "gruesome, brutal, barbaric and uncivilized." 
The law, signed last November, banned a procedure known to doctors as intact dila­tion and extraction and called partial-birth abortion by abor­tion foes. The fetus is partially removed from the womb, and the skull is punctured or crushed. 

Louise Melling, director of the ACLU's Reproductive Freedom Project. said her group was thrilled by the rul­ing. 
"We can only hope as we have decision after decision after decision striking these bans, saying they endanger women's health, that the legis­latures will finally stop." she said. 
On June 1, U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in San Francisco also found the law unconstitutional, saying it vio­lates a woman's right to choose an abortion. A judge in Lincoln, Neb., has yet to rule. The three judges suspended the ban while they held the trials. 
The three verdicts are almost certain to be appealed to the Supreme Court. 
"We are in the process of the appeal of these issues now," Attorney General John Ashcroft said Thursday. 
The government has already appealed the San Francisco ruling, said Monica Goodling, a Justice Department spokes­woman. 
The ban, which President Clinton twice vetoed, was seen by abortion rights activists as a fundamental departure from the Supreme Court's 1973 precedent in Roe v. Wade. But the Bush administration has argued that the procedure is cruel and unnecessary and causes pain to the fetus. 
At trials earlier this year, doctors testified that of 1.3 mil­lion abortions performed annu­ally, the law would affect about 130,000, almost all in the sec­ond trimester. Some observers suggest the number would be much lower-2,200 to 5,000. 
Friday, August 27, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
SMC welcomes new directors 

By APRIL THOMAS 
NewsWrirer 
After all but one of the Saint Mary's hall directors left the College at the end of last year, three new faces were on hand to greet students as they settled into their dorms. 
Kirsten Mannion, Nicole Clery and Sarah Allard took on the positions left vacant by women with years of experi­ence at the helm of the resi­dence halls. 
Mannion, now at the helm of LeMans Hall, is a New York native and a 2001 graduate of Trinity College, a small women's school in Vermont. Mannion fell in love with Saint Mary's after she posted her resume on the resident life website and began correspon­ding with Saint Mary's ResLife director Michelle Russell. 
Ready for the new year, Mannion said she hopes to get to know her residents, promote greater hall spirit and instill a sense of community among the women of LeMans Hall. 
"Move-in weekend was excit­ing. I could put names to faces," she said. "The Saint Mary's women have been open and eager to help and made me feel right at home." 
Clery's journey was a mere puddle-jump, as she shifted from a veteran resident advisor in LeMans Hall to the director of Holy Cross. 
"It was a natural progres­sion," Clery said. 
The 2004 Saint Mary's gradu­ate and current Florida resi­dent served as a resident assis­tant in LeMans for three years while she pursued a bachelor's degree in communications. After toying with the idea of becoming an admissions coun­selor, Clery decided the hall director position more her call­ing. Clery enters this school year with optimism and plans to inspire hall spirit. 
"I want Holy Cross residents to get involved in their hall and college," she said. 
This year, along with the usual dozens of freshmen McCandless Hall welcomed its new director Allard. 
A Northern Illinois University graduate from outside Peoria, Ill., Allard stumbled upon the position over the Internet. 
"I chose Saint Mary's because it was so different than NIU," she said. "I wanted a different experience." 
Allard said she found the summer-to-school year transi­tion surprisingly smooth because the resident move-ins were sporadic and manage­able. She added that she wants the women of McCandless to enjoy their time at Saint Mary's and take advantage of all the opportunities the College offers. 
"I hope they will have fun but maintain focus on their stud­ies," she said. 
Hall director duties include supporting and directing the resident advisors of each hall, coordinating hall programs and events, distributing Residence Life-issued information and overseeing the front desk work­ers of the hall. 
The women are replacing former hall directors Christine Artz, Melissa Peters and Natissa Kultan. 
Contact April Thomas at thom3549@saintmarys.edu 

Have you thought about teaching Religion and becoming a Catechist? 
Campus Ministry 
Ifyou can answe.rYES to any or all ofthese que$;ti9ll.~~ CQU.e fjnd out more about being a l!eligion Teacher. 
ImportantInformation Meeting:· Wednesday, September 1, 2004 5:00-6:00p.m. Room 330 Coleman~Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 

Kissinger con1.1nents green lighted abuses 
Associared Press 

WASHINGTON While 
Argentina's military junta was 
suppressing dissidents in 1976, 
Secretary of State Henry 
Kissinger told the country's for­
eign minister, "If there are things 
that have to be done, you should 
do them quickly," according to a 
newly declassified document. 
The conversation left 
Argentine generals with the 
belief that Kissinger gave them 
"a carte blanche for the dirty 
war," said Carlos Osorio of the 
National Security Archives. The 
foreign policy research center 
obtained the documents that 
were being released Friday. 
But a former State Department official who attended Kissinger's meeting in June 1976 with Argentina's foreign minister, Adm. Cesar Augusto Guzzetti, . said that view was "a distortion 
of hist·Jry." 

"It's a canard," said William D. 
Rogers, vice chair of Kissinger's 
lobbying firm, Kissinger 
Associates. "The idea that he 
would tell another country to 
violate human rights quickly or 
slowly or under any circum­
stances is preposterous." 

Kissinger's office did not 
respond to a request for com­
ment. He has denied condoning 
abuses. 

The documents revive the 
debate about Kissinger's rela­
tionship with military dictators in 
Latin America when he was sec­
retary of state in the Nixon and 
Ford administrations. It was an 
era when military officers fre­
quently toppled elected govern­
ments and brutalized dissidents, 
but were accepted by U.S. lead­
ers as anti-communist allies. 
Argentina's military rulers 
seized power in a March 1976, 
beginning six years of rule in 
which they kidnapped, tortured 
and killed dissidents. The gov­
ernment says 8,900 people dis­
appeared over that period; 
human rights groups put the fig­
ure around 30,000. 

Three months after the coup, 
Kissinger met Guzzetti while in 
Santiago, Chile, to attend an 
Organization of American States 
meeting. Detailed notes of the 
meeting were taken by Luigi Einaudi, a member of the State Department policy planning staff. Einaudi now is assistant secretary-general at the OAS. 
In an interview, Einaudi said his recollections of the meeting are vague after 28 years, but he doubts Kissinger would have said anything to condone abuses. Because of congressional pres­sure and public opinion, "the political reality was the United States could not put up with those kinds of abuses," he said. 
Kissinger told Guzzetti he wished his government well. "We wish it will succeed. We will do what we can to help it succeed," Kissinger said, according to Einaudi's account. 
Kissinger spoke of Argentina's problem in which "political, criminal and terrorist activities tend to merge without any clear separation." He said he under­stood the government's need to establish authority, "but it is also clear that the absence of normal procedures will be used against you." 
Kissinger said the United States could not help Argentina fight terrorism, but may be able to help economically. 
Guzzetti spoke of the need to "create disincentives to potential terrorist activities" and com­plained that outsiders did not understand Argentina's prob­lems, Einaudi's notes show. Kissinger responded "as a friend," that "military govern­ments are not the most effective in dealing with these problems." He noted problems in Chile. then led by Gen. Augusto Pinochet. 
"You will have to make an international effort to have your problems understood," Kissinger said. "Otherwise you too will come under increasing attack. If there are things that have to be done, you should do them quick­ly. But you must get back quickly to normal procedures." 
Previously declassified docu­ments suggest that Argentine leaders took heart from the exchange. President Jorge Videla told U.S. Ambassador Robert Hill in that September that "Kissinger understood their problem and had said he hoped they could get terrorism under control as quickly as possible." 






WAL*MART 
ALWAYS LOW PRICES



·· .. 
A
'l*i 
... ~~····· 
Welcome Back Students! 
Mishawaka Wai-Mart is offering FREE RIDES via Transpo this Saturday, August 28 from 12-5pm. 
Pick up every hour and a half from: 
• 
Library Circle @ NO 

• 
Guard shack @ HCC 

• 
Dallaway's parking lot @ SMC. ***Free goodie bags while supplies last.*** 


THE 0BSER\l£R 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, August 27, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
n.I...,_,,IJ.nly~~Nom ~•.,.,IS.WMM?I 
P.O. llqx Q, Notre Dame, IN 4(;~~ 024 South Dining Hall, Nom: Dame; IN 46~56 
EPilOR IN CHIJlf Mart Lazar 
MANAGING EDtTOR 8UstNllSS MANAG£11. Meghannc {)<)woe$ Mike Flanagan 
Am: MANA<ltNG Eorroa Joe Herder 
Nt:ws EDITOR: Claire Heininger V!1WPOJNT EorroJU Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Hearher Van Hoegarden SCFNE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
IN Focus EorroRI Meghan Martin SAJN'I' MARY's EonoR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAJ>HIC'.S EDITOR• Mike Harkins ADvERTISING MANAGER• Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kdly Nel~on 
SvsTF.MS ADMINISTRATOR• Mary Allen 
CONTROUJ!R: Paula Garcia 
0FRCE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obmvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (S74) 631·4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631·4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 63!-43.24 BUSINESS 0FACE (574) 631-5313 
NEWs DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DES~ . (574) 631•5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. I ®nd.ed11 
SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scrne.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'$ DESK 
()74) 631-4324 smc.l@nd.edu PHOTO DESK (574) 6,31.8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATOIIS (574) 631-8839 

Prove ranking wrong 
Rankings carry great weight at a school like Notre Dame. Students, administrators and faculty are rightfully proud of the University's consistent status as a top school in academics, sports, spirituality and other distinctions that make the school famous. 
Now we're No. 1 -again -as the most homophobic universi­ty in America, as thousands of high school seniors will learn when they scour the Princeton Review rankings in search of the perfect college fit. But how much stock should they. and the University. place in the Review's choice? 
Of course. these seniors also know that Notre O tJhe 
userver

Dame is one of the premier Catholic universities in ing is unfair. the country, where many students follow the But this does not excuse the fact that Notre Church's teachings to the letter of the law. But that Dame is still on the list. Hather, it should remind
Editorial
Catholic identity should never give the impression that the University actively discriminates against any individuals -regardless of what doctrine says about their sexual orientation -who choose to enter the Notre Dame com­munity. 
It is clear the Notre Dame student body doesn't want to be on the most homophobic list, much less atop it. Last year, the "Gay? Fine By Me" campaign blanketed campus on two separate occa­sions, when nearly 2,000 people donned the bright orange shirts. 
While this kind of demonstration is intended to prove the Review's rankings are inaccurate, it cannot affect change when the evaluation procedure itself is skewed. 
To compile its homophobic rankings, the Review simply asked 300 students at random to agree or disagree with one statement: "Students, faculty and administrators treat all persons equally regardless of sexual orientation." The answers, based on a one­to-five sliding scale. were then compiled and posted in the publi­cation. 

The Princeton Review's generalizations about colleges across the country based on such an unreliable method of research are simply irresponsible. To stereotype any school for any issue ­
from the biggest party school to the worst food to 
the most homophobic-on such limited question­
students that prejudice against homosexuals is 
still a very real issue on this campus. Even though the survey sought opinions from a very small constituent of Notre Dame students, the results have teeth. Three hundred students who perceive such a large problem on this campus are 300 too many. 
The student body should take offense at how outsiders -espe­cially those thousands of high school seniors -perceive its atti­tudes. The Princeton Review's assessment of Notre Dame should motivate all students, faculty and administrators to act in a man­ner fair to all individuals, regardless of differences in race, gen­der or sexual orientation. Changing just 300 minds could change far more. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Revocation of visa a bad omen 
I was very disturbed to read in the Aug. 25 Observer that the Department of Homeland Security has withdrawn the visa of Professor Tariq Ramadan, a distinguished Muslim scholar scheduled to begin teaching at Notre Dame this fall. 
In a recent story in the Chicago Tribune. Professor Scott Appleby was reported as saying that anyone who has evi­dence that Professor Hamadan has links to terrorist groups or activities should produce it; otherwise, it looks very much as if Professor Ramadan is being kept out of the country because his views are challenging and may be unpopular. If so. the government's decision is bad news­bad for democracy and bad for the ideals of open inquiry that Notre Dame cherishes. 

I am sure I join many of my colleagues in supporting the University in its efforts to obtain an explanation, and hope­fully a reversal of this troubling decision. 
I 
Jean Porter O'Brien Profossor ofTheological Ethics Aug. 26 
o8stRVERONL/Nf www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper publi.hed in print =d online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding ad~t~ 4 
nat governed by policies ofthe admini.m'llrion of either institution. The Ob.sctVer reserves the right to refuse adl'l:rtis4'ments based on (;(Intent. 
The nt:Ws l$ reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent thti opinion of the llllljority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A.ssisranr Managing Editor and depanrn<nt edirou. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nc:ccssarily those ofThe 
Observ~r. 
Viewpoint space is avaiLable ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and m\J$1 include <;Oilll\Ct information. 
Qt«stions rrgarding Obmv~rpolicitf should b~ dirrcted tu Editur in Chi<tfMattuzar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
1'!.> Obocrwr rum. )'>92-400<)). f'<'hlbl.ool Mond>y "'"'"P ~ri<by '""~>' dwr~ cnaun .n:J 'f:y.:itiQQ ptriodi. A whlu:ipclon: •Tttto Ohi;u'fcl; i1 $-)00 fotaht K'Oidanb: 
~: U5fortmco~. "J.'h,: Ob~Cf .. ~ fJlm'lkt ,fd.e-~~11!111 Prot AU ~=tp""q~cH>" riPe' -~ ~'V('d, 
·OK-~'crv"" it puMU~ .-c~ P.O. a.. Q <l.l4 S..•<h J:)intns H~l Ql~ S.•<l> Oini»g Holl Net~< 1;..,,, IN 46SI6-07?9 Nom: O.....lN ~l&.On<J 
l'l:ttK'dit.al ~.tt<~ ~.d.:t ~t N1nn1 UltiAC' 
.u~d addir•o••~ tn..Unt oiJi«W. 
$ton!] ~t.lqlt'l, (.'fH~C'WIJ.J Cl:l~ Th<(JI>om<t 
n~ Obm:w:r j~. m:cm~.» ~ Moci~ J~ ~ sqm>d~tiQn r!lhtt t.N: 
....,.:J, 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Angela Saoud Heather Amanda Michaels Van Hoegarden Kate Antonacci Dan Tapetillo 
Viewpoint Eric Retter Maureen Scene Reynolds Maria Smith 

Alyssa Brauweiler Molly Griffin Graphics Illustrator Mike Harkins Graham Ebetsch 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing this Friday night? 
a. 
Going to "The Show" 9% 

b. 
Rally in the Alley 40% 

c. 
ND Football Srimmage 19% 

d. 
Two of the above 21% 

e. 
All of the above II% 


*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 191 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Don't ask for a light load, but rather ask for a strong back. " 
Unknown 
---------------~----------------------------­
Friday, August 27, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
OLYMPICS 
Hamm, Foudy and Fawcett end with gold 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Greece -When the final whistle blew, an exhausted Mia Jlamm was quickly swarmed by 17 thrilled team­mates. 
A few minutes later, an Olympic gold medal was hang­ing around her neck, too. 
Jlamm and the rest of the Fab Five had just enough left in their thirtysomething legs for one more title, beating Brazil 2­1 Thursday in overtime in their final tournament together. 
"I can't think of a better group of players that I'd want to stand out there and compete with," I-lamm said. "They car­ried me tonight, that's for sure." 
Abby Wambach, the player who might break Hamm's records one day, scored in the 112th minute with a powerful 10-yard header off a corner kick from Kristine Lilly. It was Wambach's fourth goal of the Athens Games and 18th in her last 20 games. 
The game marked the final competitive appearance togeth­er for the remaining players from the first World Cup cham­pionship team in 1991. The five helped bring their sport to national prominence and cap­tured the country's imagination by winning the World Cup in 1999, and together they have played in 1,230 international matches. 
Hamm, Julie Foudy and Joy Fawcett are retiring from the national team -although they might play in some farewell exhibitions this fall -leaving Lilly and Brandi Chastain as the last of the old guard. I-lamm plans to start a family with her husband, Chicago Cubs short­stop Nomar Garciaparra. 
"I talked about feeling good about where I was in my life, and this is a great way to end it," Hamm said. 
The retiring players left happy with the final result, but they might not want to watch a replay of a game that showed it was perhaps time for them to hang it up. 
Maybe they were trying too hard, but the Americans were slower, less organized, less cre­ative and lost the chase to most of the loose balls against the young Brazilians, who weren't afraid to shove the U.S. stars around. 
Pretinha scored for Brazil in the 73rd off of a rebound, and the Brazilians twice hit the post later in regulation, coming within inches of what would have been the winning goal. 
"We were bending, but we weren't breaking," goalkeeper Briana Scurry said. "They were throwing the kitchen sink at us, but I knew we had the heart to win it." 
Hamm especially was a non­factor, unable to find space to make the kind of runs that made her famous. She had no legs left in the overtime of the 266th game of a 17 -year career that included a world-record. 153 goals. 
The U.S. team was rescued by Wambach, some great saves from Scurry and a goal from Lindsay Tarpley, one of two col­lege players on the team, in the 39th minute. 
"Tarp and I. it's the least we can do for the women who have meant so much to us," Wambach said. 
After the game, the team took a victory lap, waving flags to the crowd of 10,416 at Karaiskaki Stadium. 
Hamm clenched her fists under her chin and looked to the sky with teary eyes after arriving behind the podium for the medal ceremony. Foudy, Fawcett, Hamm, Lilly and Chastain stood together at the far left -making them first on their team to receive medals. I-lamm blew a kiss to the crowd when her name was announced. Foudy smiled and helped lead the fans in a chant of "U-S-A." 
Brazil received its first women's soccer medal after fin­ishing fourth at the last two Olympics. Germany, which beat Sweden 1-0 in the third-place game, took the bronze. 


The win helped erase the sting of the loss to Norway in the gold-medal game in Sydney four years ago and a third-place finish at last year's World Cup. In the 1990s, the United States ruled women's soccer, but the other teams have caught up over the last five years. 
The victory also offers a 
measure of vindication for coach April Heinrichs, who took over after the 1999 World Cup triumph and failed to win the top prize in 2000 or 2003. 
The team was captained for the last .time by Foudy, who played the entire 120 minutes just three days after spraining her right ankle in the semifinal victory over Germany. 
Marbury's 31 points leads U.S. past Spain 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Greece -Written off after their opener and branded failures back home, Stephan Marbury and the Americans are showing signs that they just might be the team to beat after all. 
For a change, the face of frus­tration belonged to someone other than an American after Marbury's performance. He set a 
U.S. men's Olympic record with 31 points and broke the team mark with six 3-pointers, leading the suddenly accurate Americans into the semifinals with a 102-94 victory over Spain on Thursday. 
In a game that ended with the opposing coaches swearing and pointing at one another, the United States finally started hit­ting jump shots -just as Larry Brown predicted. 
"They were very good on 3s. That was something new in this tournament," Spain's Pau Gasol said. "They looked motivated, and it'll be hard to beat them if they keep playing like that." 
After spending 90 minutes practicing jumpers in an empty gym on a day off, Marbury made half of his team's 12 3-pointers and was a big reason why the previously undefeated Spaniards are now out of medal contention. 
As the teams left the court, Spanish coach Mario Pesquera and Brown had to be separated by their assistants in an argu­ment over a timeout Brown took with 23 seconds left and his team up by 11 points. 
"I had -and I stress the word 'had' -a lot of respect for Larry Brown," said Pesquera, who smirked and shook his head when he heard Brown explain that he tried to rescind the time­out. "Dean Smith would have never done anything like that." 
Marbury scored just 21 points in his team's first five games, missing 24 of 30 shots. The Americans lost two of them, to Puerto Rico and Lithuania. 
But those struggles are in the past, and the Americans now have a chance to win the gold medal. Next up is a semifinal Friday against Argentina, which in 2002 became the first team to defeat a U.S. squad comprised of NBA players. 
Argentina defeated Greece 69­64 in Thursday's final quarterfi­nal. The other semifinal pits Lithuania, which defeated China 95-75. against Italy, which downed Puerto Rico 83-70. 
Marbury's six 3s broke the record of five set by Reggie Miller against China in 1996, and his scoring total passed the mark of 30 points shared by Charles Barkley (1992 vs. Brazil) and Adrian Dantley (1976 vs. Yugoslavia). The Olympic record is 55 points by Oscar Schmidt of Brazil against Spain in 1988. The record for any U.S. player is 35 by Lisa Leslie against Japan in 1996. 

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF Come see what off-campus living is like with the #1 apartment community for off-campus housing. Apartments ready for IMMEDIATE OCCUPI.NCY. We are now pre-leasing for the 2005 SPRING SEMESTER. Please call us, visit outeasing center, or browse our website at www.turtlecreeknd.com for more information about our community. &.~ "~ TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 1710 Turtle Creek Dr South Bend, IN 4663 7 574-272-8124  

Allen Iverson added 16 points, making three 3-pointers, and the Americans fmally resembled U.S. teams from the past three Olympics. They didn't get rattled by a large disparity in fouls (27­1 8). they knocked down their free throws to maintain the lead in the final two minutes, and they topped 100 points for the first time in the tournament. 
The Americans fmished 12-for­22 on 3-pointers after shooting a tournament-low 24 percent in their first five games. 
"We've been playing against so much zone, it doesn't really mat­ter anymore," Marbury said. "We're starting to like playing against zones." 
Marbury had struggled the most in the team's first five games, uncomfortable with Brown's insistence that a point guard should run the offense rather than score. Historically a shoot-first, pass-second player, Marbury's mind-set was funda­mentally at odds with his coach's. 
"Playing under coach Brown is not easy," Marbury said. "It's tough because he demands so much from you -to try to play your game and try to do what he wants, and have that all combine in one has been a challenge to me. But it's been a great chal­lenge." 
Gasol led Spain with 29 points but was held to just four in the fourth quarter by a tenacious American defensive effort which quieted a crowd of 14,500 that included Spain's King Juan Carlos. 
"It was said that the public supports the weaker team. I think in this case the public was solidly behind the stronger team because we were the stronger team," said Pesquera, who also complained that the officials allowed the Americans to get away with traveling violations. 
"I think this game was played under NBA rules, not FIBA rules," he said. 
Several Spanish players threw their hands up and stared at the American bench in disgust when Brown called his late timeout. Pesquera wasn't buying Brown's explanation. 
"I tried to apologize, I tried to explain, and he kept saying something about the NBA. I would never try to embarrass anybody," Brown said. 
-


page 18 
GoLF 
Pavin leads w-ay at Buick Championship 

Associated Press 
CROMWELL, Conn. -Corey Pavin started strong and fin­ished with a flourish for one of the best rounds of his career and a three-stroke lead at the inaugural Buick Championship on Thursday. 
Pavin matched his career low with an 8-under-par 62 at TPC at River Highlands. It was also a season low for 44-year-old Pavin and the best round in his 12 appearances at the tourna­ment formerly called the Greater Hartford Open. 
Pavin has contended in this event several times. especially in the mid-1990s when he fin­ished with a second and third. 
"I've had good success in the past and for some reason. I play OK," Pavin said. "Anytime 

I you get to a golf course you feel I I comfortable on, you just feel I I good that you might shoot a I I good score or things are going I to come together. And todayI was a day that everything I I seemed to come together."
I 
I Bob Burns and Matt Weibring are second at S­under 65. Bunched together
! four strokes behind the leader 
with 66s were Fred Funk.I David Peoples, Jerry Kelly,I Jason Dufner and Craig
I 
Bowden.

I I Pavin's round was one stroke
I I off the tournament record of I 61 held by three players ­I two-time champ Phil I I Mickelson, Scott Verplank and I Kirk Triplett. It also matched
I I 
the event's best first-round I score, set in 2001 by Jonathan
I 
I I Kaye. Pavin's only other 62 
I 
I came in the 1990 Texas Open, I where he finished third. 
I 
He took advantage of ideal scoring conditions in his morn­ing round after heavy fog lifted and softened the greens at TPC at River Highlands. Pavin holed a 120-yard wedge shot on the 341-yard second hole for an eagle. His seven-birdie round included a 45-foot chip-in at No. 18 that brought a roar from the gallery. 
His only stumble was a bogey at No. 12, when he missed a 10-footer for par. 
The 24-year-old Weibring is playing on a sponsor's exemp­tion and is competing in just his third PGA Tour event. His father, D.A. Weibring, won this event in 1996 with his then 16­year-old son in the gallery. 
Matt Weibring is making his first return to Hartford since that win. but remembers vivid­ly his father's shotmaking in the final round and his one­stroke win over Tom Kite. 
''I've got real good memories of my dad hitting those shots, so kind of in my head, I had an idea what to do and what kind of shots to play," the younger Weibring said. "If I can stay and not get caught up in what is actually happening, I think I'll be able to be all right." 
Burns has made just nine cuts in 21 events this season and has one top-1 0 finish. His only win on tour came at the Disney Classic in 2002. 
Pavin. the 1995 U.S. Open champ, has just one top-1 0 fin­ish this season and is looking for his first win since 1996. He's been working with swing coach Butch Harmon the past year and likes the direction his game is heading. 
"Certainly it's important where I end up on Sunday, but right now the journey is really important for me and what I go through and how I get to that point where I'm playing to the best of my ability," Pavin said. "If I happen to win great ... But as long as I'm going in the right direction, that's all I'm after right now." 

The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, August 27, 2004 
MLB 

Royals' Berroa struggles at plate 
2003 AL Rookie of the Year falters after solid season 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.-At this point in a lost season, the Kansas City Royals can only hope that Angel Berroa turns 
out  better  than  "The  
Hammer."  
Bob Hamelin  was  the AL  

Rookie of the Year in 1994 with the Royals, a big slugger with a colorful nickname. Five years later, he was out of the big leagues. 
The Royals believe Berroa can avoid that fate. 
Berroa was the AL's top rookie last year, winning the award and sparking the Royals into a playoff race. 
8 ut this year, the 26-year­old shortstop stumbled so badly at the plate and in the field that he wound up at Double-A Wichita earlier this month. 
"He knows why we sent him down," Kansas City manager Tony Pena said Monday after Berroa was recalled from his two-week stint in the minors. 
"This ballclub had not played well the whole year and he wanted to do more than what he was capable of doing. He started pressing and tried to carry the ballclub all by himself. so we sent him down just to get him to relax and come back playing the way he's capable of playing," he said. 
Berroa was hitting under .250 as the weekend approached and striking out four times as much as he walked. He also was among 

the league leaders in errors. 
It's a far cry from last sea­son, when he hit .287 with 17 homers and 73 RB!s. After fin­ishing with their first winning season in almost a decade, the Royals rewarded him in May with a four-year, $11 million contract extension. 
Berroa is not the only Kansas City player struggling this summer. The Hoyals already are out of playoff con­tention. a disappointing per­formance for a young team that hoped to build on its 2003 surge. 
Whatever Berroa is going through and 
Wichita manager Frank White, who played 18 years at second base with the Royals and won eight Gold Gloves over that span, recently said Berroa seemed to be learning from his demotion. 
"Basically what you're try­ing to do is just keep him focused." White said. "When you have the kind of success he had last year -and then this year he's not making the routine plays -then basical­ly. you have to go back and ask. 'Is he ready for them?' Is he going out there before every pitch and saying, 'I 
want the ball hit to 
whether he's still me?'" bothered by the "/ don't want In one game at migraine headaches to talk. Nothing Wichita, Berroa that put him on the showed off his
to say." 
15-day disabled list skills in the field in April -he's with six assists. keeping it to him­Angel Berroa "When you watch self. Royals shortstop him play shortstop, 
There's no chance things just come so even to ask. easily for him." 
"I don't want to talk," White said. "He's got a quick Berroa said last week in arm, and he's got a lot of Wichita after the Wranglers strength in that arm. Every beat San Antonio 4-3 in 10 night, he's made two or three innings. "Nothing to say." outstanding plays." 
While 'the Royals are not But on the basepaths, giving up on Berroa by any Berroa showed a lapse in con­means, there's certainly a centration that could have worry around town that he cost Wichita the game. could end up like others stel­With the score tied at 3 in lar rookies, such as Hamelin, the bottom of the ninth, he led whose careers tailed off off with a single and advanced sharply. to second on a sacrifice bunt. 
Joe Charboneau was the Then he took off for third ­AL's top rookie in 1980 with on his own, White said -and the Cleveland Indians. He was thrown out. The next bat­played only two more seasons. ter up singled. Pat Listach, the AL Rookie of "The good thing is, he was the Year for the Milwaukee hustling and being aggres­Brewers 1992, lasted only six sive," White said. "You don't years in the majors before ever want to take that away retiring with a career .251 from a guy-you just want to average. explain the situation." 


Free Checkingl 



Just one of our many free products and services. 

0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Friday, August 27, 2004 page 13 
Is living in South Bend dangerous? 
Do your allergies or asthma get worse when you return to South Bend in the fall? The problem may be more serious than pollens. 
Industry-reported Toxic Release 
Inventories (TR!s). .reqmred by the U.S. Environmental  K 1 t r senSh d ra er- 
Protection Agency,  Frechette  
show that St. Joseph  
County's cancer risk, from air releases of  Science Watch  
known carcinogens,  
makes it dirtier than  

90 percent of all counties in the United States. Living in an air pollu­tion "non-attainment area," South Bend residents face a cancer risk 100 times higher than that mandated by the U.S. Clean Air Act. The county's emissions of volatile organic com­pounds, for example, place it among the dirtiest counties in the entire United States. 
And things are getting worse. During the last reported year (2002). toxic chemical releases in South Bend increased 84 percent, while toxic releases for the whole state increased only 4.7 percent. 
Indiana ranks third. behind Texas and Pennsylvania, in volumes of car­cinogens released annually. Most of those releases are here in northwest Indiana. 
Yet the South Bend situation is worse in at least seven respects than these TRI data indicate. 
For one thing. TRis are based only on what local polluting industries claim they release. Most TRis are never audited. When they are, they show companies greatly underreport toxic releases. After all, would every industry report its illegal releases, if doing so might bring fines and law­suits? 
Second, the South-Bend situation is worse than TRI data indicate because TRI county reports cover only releases in a single county. South Bend's real (aggregate) pollution, including both local and upwind sources, is much higher than TRI data show. South Bend is downwind of heavy polluters Gary and East Chicago (in Lake and Porter Counties). Lake County is in the worst 10 percent of all U.S. counties for land releases of hazardous wastes, for example. Porter County is in the worst 10 percent of all U.S. counties for air releases of reproductive toxi­cants. These two counties, between Chicago and South Bend, release at least as many carcino­gens as does South Bend. And although South Bend resi­dents face pollu­tion from all three counties, our TRis include only the St. Joseph County contribu­tions to South­Bend 
pollu­tion. They ignore the tox­ins we receive down­wind 
from the other two counties. As a result, we South Bend residents often breathe air that is worse than that in the poorest South Chicago slums. 
Third, industry-report­ed TRI data are likely under-reports of pollution because they are company estimates. They are not based on measured releases. 
Fourth, the EPA requires only the largest industries to report TRI data. Other releases are ignored. 
Fifth, TRis cover only about 650 of more than 80,000 U.S. industrial chemicals. Ninety-eight percent of these chemicals have never been sys­tematically tested. 

Sixth, companies are required to report neither the quantities of toxic chemicals they use, nor the amounts remaining in products -both of 
which might provide clues for estimating actual toxic 

releases. Finally, TRI data underestimate local 
pollution, espe­cially carcino­gens, because they do not provide 
information about resi­dents or 
total toxic 
chemical expo­sures, in 
addition to doses from selected local indus­tries. 
What are the main 
locally­released pollu­tants? TRI 
data for 2001, the latest year 

for which individual data are available, show the top 12 
pollutants, in pounds per year released in St. Joseph 
County, are styrene 

(263,945), toluene (68,718). methyl isobutyl ketone (50,688). xylene (49, 049), n-hexane (20,998), chlorine (14,800), hydrochloric acid (11,869), ethylene (10,472). man­ganese (9,013), Glycol ethers (5,364). aluminum (4,895) and zinc compounds (3,697). Who are some of the local companies, like AM General, releasing these chemicals? 
TRI data show major styrene and 

zinc-compound polluters include Interplastic Corporation. Major ben­zene. toluene, ethylene and methyl­isobutyl-ketone polluters include Honeywell. Toro Products and Lock Joint Tube are among those releasing xylene and hydrochloric acid. Major hydrochloric acid polluters include Kokoku Wire Industries. Federal Mogul is a major lead, manganese, aluminum, nickel, copper and zinc­compound polluter. Major methyl ethyl ketone and sulfuric acid polluters include Nimet. Koontz-Wagner Electric is a major 1,1,1-Trichloro­ethane polluter. And among other chemicals, Steel Warehouse releases nickel, chromium, manganese and hydrochloric acid. 
All these TRI chemicals are extreme­ly hazardous. Most are both carcino­genic and developmental or reproduc­tive toxicants that affect children and women disproportionately. Styrene, toluene, xylene and benzene, for example, also are suspected neurotox­icants, cardiovascular toxicants, liver toxicants, gastrointestinal toxicants, immunotoxicants, kidney toxicants, respiratory toxicants and skin toxi­cants. 
But South Bend companies, like Interplastic and Nimet, have more in common than industry-reported TRI data. They also are major polluters who receive annual city-tax breaks. South Bend literally pays these indus­tries, even though they make some of us sick. 
Do the added jobs created by pollut­ing companies ethically justify their tax breaks? And do these local pol­luters actually create jobs? Should the most vulnerable among us, our chil­dren and members of minority groups, bear the heaviest burdens for South Bend economic development? 
See later columns. The answers may surprise you. 
Kristen Shrader-Frechette teaches in the department of philosophy and in the department of biological sciences at Notre Dame. She can be contacted at kshrader@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 

Kerry gets last word on Swift Boat ad 
Presidential hopeful John Kerry has at least one thing going for him that AI Gore didn't: His shrewd and savvy campaign advisers. 
In the last several weeks a public advocacy group calling itself Swift Boat Veterans for Truth pro­duced and paid for a commercial 
accusing the presidential hopeful  GJeoffrfyey  
of lying about his military service  ose  
in Vietnam. In the ad, 13 veterans  
who served with or near Kerryspoke out on the incidents that  Daily Cougar  
surrounded his five medals ­ 

including his third Purple Heart, which precipitated his transfer back to the U.S. after only four months in Vietnam. 
Much to Kerry's dismay. the allegations made an impression on voters. 
The University of Pennsylvania's National Annenberg Election Survey found that more than half the respondents had seen or heard of the ad and 44 percent of self-described independent voters found the ad very or somewhat believable. 
Separately, a CBS poll found that since the end of the Democratic National Convention, Kerry's sup­port among veterans has dropped sharply. 
A key focus of the convention was to highlight Kerry's war record and portray him as a battle­tested veteran ready to assume command in an era of terrorism. Polls immediately following the con­vention showed the campaign had made consider­able progress towards that goal. Now, much of that progress seems to have been eroded by this single ad. 
In response to the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth ad, the MoveOn.org political action committee (a liberal interest group) launched a rebuttal ad accusing President Bush of using family connec­tions to avoid the Vietnam War. Actually, while his unit was not called up, President George W. Bush served his country as a pilot in the Texas Air National Guard during the Vietnam War, accumu­lating over two years of active duty service. 
Many will undoubtedly view the MoveOn.org ad as a tit-for-tat response to the Swift Boat ad, an attempt to counter the damage done to Kerry by damaging President Bush on the same front. However, most will not see the true reason for the release of the MoveOn.org ad. 
Shortly after the MoveOn.org ad was released, presidential hopeful John Kerry publicly con­demned this ad, which criticized Bush, saying, "This should be a campaign of issues, not insults." 
At first glance, Kerry is apparently taking the "high road" when it comes to negative campaign­ing, but his true reasoning behind denouncing the MoveOn.org ad does not stop there. 
By denouncing what has so far been an ineffective ad against Bush, p~~ssure on the President to do the same with the Swift Boat ad has been constant and heavy. For weeks, the White House has declined to do so, yet finally yielded recently. During the prolonged silence from the White House, John Kerry stepped up his calls for the President to have the courage to "stand up and stop" the attacks on his combat record. In doing so, he deflected some of the criticism leveled at him toward Bush's refusal to stop the personal attacks for so long. 

From a campaign standpoint, this is nothing short of sheer genius. John Kerry's campaign advisers have taken a damaging situation and spun it in their favor. By placing Kerry as the first to denounce what they've defined as personal attacks on the other candidate, Kerry's advisers have posi­tioned their man as the candidate who wishes to walk the "high road" and simultaneously forced President Bush to slam what many have seen as the most effective ad of his campaign. 
If the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth gave Kerry some lemons. right now he must be drinking some mighty sweet lemonade. 
This article originally appeared on Aug. 26, 2004 in the Daily Cougar. the daily publication at the University ofHouston. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 







CENE

page 14 
Friday, August 27, 2004 
Albu 

from 


Talib Kweli 
Tr-ain of Thought/ 
Reflection Eternal 
To ~ 
Ad:tJall_Lj, nothiazrs new under the sun So when likbestressingme ~ remed_y ts •bnn.gingback sweet memones' Like the faa:s thatare woven in the fc-.bric atmy consc.i!:msnc::.s" 

-from "Me..mories Live" 
Mas Detand lalib Kweli 
at-e 

Black Star 

((Consider me the enb1y within the industr!j without a history ot spittin' the epitome, of stupidit_y --livin' m!J life expressln' m~J ~ib_ert,y, itgotta be done properi!JMtJ name IS 1n tfie m1Cidle of e-Kwdi-ty People follow me and other cats the.Y hear nim flow And assume I'm the real one with ~rics like I'm c,LJrano" 
-from "Definition'' 

Quality 

"My heart e,o out to ever!Jlx->dy at Ground Zero Red, black, ~yellow, whtte and brown heroes It's more complica~ed than black and white To gjve ~our own life is thegreate.-;t sacrifice 5ut it's-hard for me to-walk down the block Se~tng rats and ro.ache.."), a:ack vtle..o; and 40 ounce posters 11-:ople brok~ down from.Years ofoppression 5ccome patnot.:5::when the.y-wa.y..of life i~ threatened It's a:k..'1rd wn~rsdt:icm to have We loot-ktds, mortLo; ancl daqs, pcopl~ r-eady to hght for the Rag.~ 
·· -from «The Proud" 

The Show-prese and Jas 


Emcee continues to stand tall for his beliefs in new album 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
Anyone who thinks hip-hop is all about cars, 
money and using women has obviously never 
heard Talib Kweli. 
Since "Black Star," his first album with Mos 
Defwas released in 1998, the emcee has gained 
a reputation for conscientious rap about real life 
and real problems. In contrast to many popular 
hip-hop artists, Kweli talks about politics, pover­
ty and family intelligently and poetically. 
Kweli may not have earned the radio time and bigger contracts of some of his more famous peers, but the difference is hardly due to a dif­ference in quality of music. Like much of the best music of any genre, Kweli's tracks have gained more respect than radio play. 
The artist hardly shuns the work of more pop­ular rappers. "Get By," one of his most famous tracks, uses a beat from Kanye West, a producer,. who has also worked with big name artists like Ludacris, Jay-Z and Alicia Keys. Besides his album produced with Mos Def, Kweli has also worked with Jay-Z and Busta Rhymes. But for Kweli himself, saying what he wants to say seems to come a long way before making it onto 
99.1 FM. 
In anticipation of tonight's visit to the Notre Dame campus, Kweli spoke about his new release, coming out on Sept. 28, his past work and his opinion on current popular music. 
What made you want to perform at a place like Notre Dame? They offered me money to come. I do colleges all the time, usually two or three a month. How does your new album compare with what you've done in the past? 
This album is a lot more focused on where the music took me. In the past I was more focused on making a complete album, and this time I was more focused on complete produc­tion. 
What are some of your favorite tracks from your past albums? 
"Memories Live" off of "Reflection Eternal" is one of them ... "Get By" off "Quality" is one of my favorites. I like it because the same energy I put into making an album in the past, 1 put into mak­ing that song, and I've put into songs in the future. 
What are some of your favorites to watch for on your new album? 
"I Try" with Mary J. Blige, it's produced by Kanye West. There's another track called "Broken Glass" that I really like. "Beautiful Struggle" is the title track of the album. Those are my favorites. 
How do the themes on your new album compare with your old work? 
The themes are pretty much the same. The album is called "Beautiful Struggle," and I stick pretty much to that. I mention my kids specifically on a song called "Black Pain." I focus on people's struggles instead of criticism. I'm trying to tell a story. 
A lot of hip-hop fans are part of' a younger fan base, and hip-hop sometimes gets a bad rap for the 

kinds of messages some artists Photo courtesy of www.lree·albums.net convey. Do you feel like some Emcee Talib Kweli has earned respect throughout the hlp­emcees cross the line in the kinds hop community for his politically conscious lyrics. 
of' things they say? 
I feel like an artist's responsibility is to be hon­est with themselves, and if you're doing that there is no line to cross. Sometimes your respon­sibility as a human being and as an artists cross, in that case we have to make sure that adults lis­ten to something and !give it some context!. That's the responsibility of the parents and edu­cators, not the artists. We live in a society that is very vulgar, and hip-hop talks about these things. 
So as your own kids get older, will you feel like you need to limit what they listen to? 
If it's something that's relevant to them, I'll let them listen to it, even if it's violent or vulgar. But I'll give them a context for how to listen to it, not just drop it on them cold. 
What do you want to do through the kind of music you produce? 
I'm just trying to be myself and show that hip­hop is beautiful. You don't have to try to be someone else. You can just be yourself and con­tribute to it. 
Who are some of the artists out there record­ing now who you like to listen to? 
Jill Scott has a new album out that's beautiful. and Jadakis.... As far as what I've been listening to lately, some Anthony Hamilton and Ghostface. Ceelo just put out an incredible album. 
Are there any other projects you're planning for the near future? 
I'm getting ready to do something with the Beastie Boys, and after that I'll be working with Mos Def. 
Will this be another Black Star album? 
Eventually, yes. 
Talib Kweli will perform tonight as co-headlin­er of The Show version 3.0. Tickets are available for $10 to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students only. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

v 
i.. 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE

Friday, August 27, 2004 page 15 
ts Talib Kw-eli 
nMraz 
Coffeeshop rocker brings his San Diego sound to the JACC 
By SARAH VABULAS and MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Writers 
Another school year has begun, and yet again, students must contemplate how to spend their pre­cious first weekend hours. 
If you're a music fan, The Show version 3.0, spon­sored by the Student Union Board, scheduled for tonight is an event not to be missed. This year's con­cert will bring co-headliner Jason Mraz, one of the biggest up-and-coming artists on the popular music semw, to the Joyce Center for a price that is impos­sible to beat. I lis album "Waiting for My Rocket to Comn" debutnd in November 2002 and rose quickly in the charts. You'll most likely remember Mraz for his song, "Thn Hemedy," which constantly played on top 40 radio stations across the country during the summer of 2003. 
Mraz grew up in Mechanicsville, Va. listening to thn Dave Matthews Band and local roots musicians. lie began his career with an interest and participa­tion in musical theatre. After graduating high school he moved to New York to attend the American Musical and Dramatic Academy. but dropped out after only a year to take up the guitar and focus on songwriting. 
Aftnr living and working in New York, Mraz returned to Virginia, but only for a short time. In 1999 he headed west to San Diego, known across the country for its coffeehouse scene and large sup­port of upcoming singers and songwriters. One of the most famous artists to emerge from this unique music scene prior to Mraz is Jewel. Mraz began playing local shops and found a weekly gig at a pop­ular, local coffee shop called Java Joe's. Around the same time, Mraz met drummer Toea Rivera. Soon afterward, the two were playing together with Mraz on acoustic guitar and Rivera on djembe. They ere­ated a live performance that showcased as much comedy between the two as it did music. 
Mraz's popularity traveled to Los Angeles over the course of the next two years, earning the attention of record labels. In early 2002, Mraz signed a con­tract with Elektra Records. He returned to Virginia, where he wrote and recorded his debut album. Mraz worked with producer John Alagia, famous for producing for the Dave Matthews Band, John Mayer and OAR. He was backed by another Alagia­produced band, the Agents of Good Roots. 
Since his move to California, Mraz has shared venues with wide range of artists including Bob Dylan, Paula Cole, Jewel and David Gray. 
The fruits of their labors came to be "Waiting for My Rocket to Come," an album which hit the top 40 charts thanks in a large part to the success of the single "The Remedy." The heavy radio rotation of the single, coupled with word-of-mouth buzz, helped the album find its way into the CD collec­tions of music fans across the country. 
"Waiting for My Rocket to Come" blends Mraz's early influences and coming-of-age by combining country and roots rock with the poeticism of coffee­house folk, elements of jazz and the rhythmic charge of hip-hop. His wide-ranging and unusual blend of musical influences reveals itself in it in his singles like the upbeat hit "The Remedy," the romantic ballad "You and I Both" and the hip-hop tinged "Curbside Prophet." 
Like many coffeehouse artists, Mraz writes emo­tional songs about a variety of subjects, but rela­tionships, both good and bad, remain the central focus of much of his music. 
Mraz's training as a vocalist shows itself on his debut album, which is marked by the pure clarity and range of his vocals. True to the hip-hop style he admires, Mraz also scats and raps on some of his songs, which adds a different spin to the usual 
acoustic singer/songwriter sound. 
On Tuesday, Mraz released a live CD/DVD combination set. "Tonight, Not Again: Jason Mraz Live at the Eagles Ballroom was record­ed and filmed last October at Milwaukee's Eagles Ballroom. Jason is joined onstage by his band and a number of special guests, including Blues Traveler's John Popper. The set list includes four new Mraz­penned songs. In addition to the full-length concert, the DVD includes an array of bonus footage, including exclusive behind-the-scenes segments. 
Jason Mraz is not simply just another coffeehouse singer/songwriter. The artist has great potential for longevity. His creative lyrics, inspired delivery and ability to write high-energy music will keep fans looking for more as his career continues to grow. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu and Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 


-


··. . . . ··... 

Jason Mraz 
...... ·::·-: . -~= .... : :. 
·-.-~ .. 
_, .. 
•:.·· 

"The remedy is the experience. It is a dangerous liaison Isaytp~ c;:prnedtJi~th~t it's serious. WhichJs a strange enoug, new play on words Isa.Y the traged_y is h_ow _yo~' regon_na spend the rest 01-your mghts w1th tne lidtt on So shine the light on all of_your friends because itall amounts to nothing in the end." 
,--from ~The Remedy(! Won't Worry)" 




Over numbers, unencumbered numbered words Hundreds ot pages, pages, pages forwards More words then I had ever heard and I feel so alive" 
-from "You and I Both12 
Friday, August 27, 2004 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Sosa, Ramirez go long to power Cubs past Astros 


the lead to five. won eight straight series since starts, allowing three runs and Braves 6, Rockies 4 dropping two of three games five hits in six innings and hit­July 23-25 at home against ting a two-run single _in a
ATLANTA -Mike Hampton 

helped himself with an RBI sin­San Francisco. It was only the seven-run sixth. He is 9-2 in 16 gle and the Atlanta Braves second series they've lost since starts since June 1. June. Steve Finley had three hits
pushed their NL East lead to a 

Harang (8-6) had lost three and four RBis for the Dodgers,
season-high 9 1/2 games 

Thursday night with a 6-4 win straight starts, including a 10-who split the four-game series, 5 defeat at St. Louis on Aug. the start of a season-high 13­
over the Colorado Rockies. 

The Braves completed a 16. He struck out six and game trip. walked one. Beltre, who homered three
three-game sweep and won their fourth in a row overall. Dodgers 10, Expos 3 times in the series, connected 
on a 3-2 pitch from Livan
Colorado has lost four straight. MONTREAL -Eric Gagne Hernandez (9-12) lead off the 
Rookie Charles Thomas got a farewell from Montreal second inning and singled in
drove in two runs, and every baseball fans, who might soon Atlanta starter collected at be bidding adieu to their the seventh. least one hit. The Braves fin­Expos. Giants 5, Marlins 0 ished with 11 hits -they've Adrian Beltre hit his major MIAMI -Most of the San 
reached double digits in hits in league-high 41st homer and Francisco Giants have bad six straight games. Gagne was cheered wildly in memories about playing in In 56 games since June 23, what was likely his final game Florida. when the Braves were six in his hometown, a rout by the Not Brett Tomko. He likes the games under .500 at 32-38, Los Angeles Dodgers of the muggy weather, and he likes Atlanta is 41-15. Now 20 Expos. pitching against the Marlins. games over .500, they contin­Despite a seven-run lead. the Tomko threw a four-hitter 
ued to expand their lead over . Dodgers used their closer in for his first career shutout to Florida. the ninth inning. The Montreal help San Francisco to a 5-0 Hampton (10-9) moved to 9-3 native, pitching at home for victory.in his career against Colorado, the first time since winning Wrapping up their first visit where he played in 2001-02. last year's NL Cy Young Award, to South Florida since beingHe allowed six hits and four drew attention when he start­eliminated in the playoffs last walks in six innings, but gave ed warming up and the crowd October, the Giants took the up only two runs. of 18,520, the Expos' third­finale of the three-game series. John Smoltz pitched the highest at home this season, Tomko, acquired last offsea­ninth for his 34th save in 37 gave him a standing ovation son, improved to 5-0 in seven chances. when he pitched. He retired career starts against the the seventh. Beltran has 33 Reds 1, Cardinals 0 three in a row after a leadoff Marlins with a 2.65 ERA.
Associated Press 

homers, 18 since the Astros CINCINNATI -A computer walk. "I've always done well acquired him from Kansas City glitch left Aaron Harang slight­"It's real special to get a against them," he said. "I like 
CHICAGO -Sammy Sosa on June 24. ly disoriented. He had the St. warm ovation like that," Gagne it when it's sticky and nasty and Aramis Ramirez hit con­Brandon Backe (1-2), who Louis Cardinals baffled, too. said. "I wanted to get in, out there. I like the heat." secutive homers in a five-run five days earlier shut out the Harang threw a three-hitter because it means a win for us, On an 87 -degree night, third inning, and the Chicago Cubs for seven innings in his for his first career complete and a little bit for the fans. It Tomko (7-6) threw 120 pitches Cubs beat the Houston Astros first major league start, gave game and Sean Casey homered might be the last chance, so I for his first complete game this 8-3 for their fifth straight win. up seven runs and nine hits in to lead the Cincinnati Reds was trying to give a good show season and the eighth of his 
Mark Prior (4-3) needed 116 three-plus innings. over St. Louis. out there. It's a big family career. pitches to get through six Sosa's 568th career homer A computer virus prevented here, and they're really proud "Too bad we didn't have him innings, but got his first win in was a three-run shot that land­scoreboard displays of rosters, of their athletes, and they in the playoffs last year," man­three weeks. He gave up seven ed just inside the right-field linescores and individual sta­showed it tonight." ager Felipe Alou said. hits, including Jeff Bagwell's foul pole to give the Cubs a 4-2 tistics at Great American Ball The Expos, who joined the San Francisco remained one 19th homer, and escaped a lead. Sosa was in a 14-for-75 Park. major leagues in 1969, are game behind NL wild-card second-and-third, no-outs jam slump when he connected. He "Without the scoreboard on, expected to move next year. leader Chicago and four games in the sixth. needs one homer to reach 30 I didn't even realize what "This might be the last time behind NL West leader Los 
Leading the NL wild-card for a lOth straight season. inning we were in," Harang and we didn't see him for the Angeles. race, the Cubs won for the Ramirez followed with a said. "Maybe I'll have them last three games, and he had­The defending World Series ninth time in 12 games. The home run and added a sacri­turn it off next time." n't pitched in a while so it was champion Marlins fell seven loss was just the third in 11 fice fly in the seventh. Chris Carpenter (13-5) also time for them to give him some back and show no sign of games for the Astros, who fell Bagwell's two-run homer in pitched a three-hitter and work on the mound," said mounting another late-season seven games behind the Cubs. the first put the Astros ahead struck out 11 for the Cardinals, Expos roving coach Claude surge. 
Nomar Garciaparra went 2-before Backe got in trouble in but he wound up with a tough Raymond, a Quebec native who "We're in an almost must­for-5 with an RBI while wife the third. After loading the loss. Casey hit the first pitch got a similar rousing ovation win situation from here on Mia Hamm played for the U.S. bases with one out, Backe sur­from Carpenter into the right­when he made his Jarry Park out," center fielder Juan Pierre women's soccer team in its 2-1 rendered a sacrifice fly to field bullpen with two outs in debut with Atlanta during said. "If you don't win, there's win over Brazil in the gold­Moises Alou, then gave up the sixth inning for his 21st Montreal's inaugural season. no way you can make up medal game of the Athens home runs to Sosa and homer. "I know way down deep he ground." Olympics. Ramirez. "He pitched just as good a must have had some butter­Tomko gave the crowd of 
"Nomar, we have one for the Michael Barrett's double, a game as Harang," Cardinals flies, even if it was 10-3," he 29,638 little to cheer about, family," Hamm said on the live single by Prior and an RBI sin­manager Tony La Russa said. added. "He's a heck of a pitch­and the Marlins were blanked telecast after the gam~. gle by Corey Patterson made it "He'd like to have that one er and I'm sure he appreciated for the fourth time in their past 
Carlos Beltran homered for 6-2 in the fourth and chased pitch back." this tonight." 23 games. They managed just the fourth straight game, a Backe. Garciaparra's RBI sin­Cincinnati took two of three Jeff Weaver (12-10) four singles and never reached solo shot off Jon Leicester in gle off Chad Harville increased from the Cardinals, who had improved to 5-0 in his last six third base. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day' from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Church Yard Sale 1 836 Portage Ave South Bend Sat.Aug.28th Ba.m.-noon Fumiture,appliances, Misc. Items 
Got Highspeed? Want WIRELESS? Networks installed & secured. Dan 243-1515 NDDan03@yahoo.com 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES -needed lor south side elementary school local­ed near Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. $30 per soccer game. Call574-291-4200. 
Need 4 GAs to Purdue (313)886-41 89 
FoR SALE 
RELIABLE AIDE 96 Honda Accord EX sedan AIC, moonrool, airbags, cruise, 85,000 miles. Power windows and locks. Very good condition. $6,2500BO. 277-6910. 
1988 Eagle Premier. $500. 232-1985. 
APARTMENT FOR RENT IN MISHAWAKA Furnish and all utilities included. No smoking, No pets. Call 255-1738 lor information. 
Single person, no children. $400 mo. 4 bed 2 bath 925 No. Lawrence 876-7339 or 288-3613 
1 bedroom Topsfield Condo lor rent, 1 0 minutes from Campus, $550/mo + utilities, modem, hardwood floors, washer & dryer and community pool. Available immediately. Will comoider lease/purchase option. Call 255-5365. 
2NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF ND.CLOSE. IDEAL FOR 2-4 PEOPLE. VERY REASONABLE RENT 277-3097. 
3 bedroom house lor rent. 1203 E. LaSalle. $600/mo + deposit. Appliances incl. Call 243-5870. 
ND FOOTBALL HOUSING Beautiful Historic Home O'le mile from campus 3 double bedrooms available $80 per person/per night $150 per couple/per night CALL 574-532-4628 
3 unit house. $550 per unit/mo. lncl water & elec. Each unit has lull kitchen,bath & 2 bdrms. Off street parking. Can walk to campus. Property Management Services, 233-4590 
2-bdrm house wlliving room, dining room, lull bath. $575/ma+utilities. Cute country house. Lincolnway (Osceola). Property Management Services 233-4590. 
.. .-·. :-. .: ...... .. 

TICKETS 
A businessman needs season tick­ets lor clients. 277-1659 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX. 
PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES. 
273-3911 

For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: NO football tix. Top$$$ 251-1570. 
ND ltball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 
Wanted: Football season tix or Michigan tix. 233-3618 
PERSONAL 

Young NO alums need TURTLE­CREEK APT lor MICHIGAN wknd.Will pay top $$$ and finance party tor you and friends. Will accept best proposal. Contact CPO­EMD@AOL.COM 
Sister Locks by Phyllis 269-683­4426 
We survived a week. 

Happy Belated Birthday Nancy. Hooray lor the "sweet, sweet loving" 
30 rows is all that separates ... 
The Cubs are back in business. 
Wanna date? 

Friday, August 27, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 





featuring co-headliners: 
. .
. . _·· 

...: : . : . _ .. ··. .·.: : ... ·· . ·. . . ,· 
-------J··--a· s·o· -·-az·-------------__
,n··-_ . . ·· . 
. ......... .
mr
... ... ... ... .· .............. . 
. . . ·. ··.· ..·····•· .· ·. ...... ' ·.. 
I I I I I I I I I -, I I I I I I I 

frida--_au,--ust 27th 2004 doors o ··en at 8:30 m .show beg1ins at 9 ·-m I 
y g_ ...... f ........ .. p ......... p 1·-· .................. p ~ 
l 

live at the Joyce Center ,Gate 10 ~ $1 0 tickets available at LaFortune 
I 
-1
I 
l

ND,. SMC, and Holy Cross Students Only-Must have a vaUd ID to I I 
I

purchase tickets and to enter I I 
www.nd.edu/-thes.how 
page 20 Friday, August 27, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
OLYMPICS 
U.S. takes gold and silver in long jump 

Auociated Press 
ATHENS, Greece -The biggest smile in track and field got a little bigger Thursday night, and the long jump is solidly back in American hands. 
Dwight Phillips -the world's best jumper by leaps and bounds, and maybe the happi­est guy in the sport -lived up to his billing with a 28-foot, 2 114-inch effort to win the gold medal. 
The United States made it an unexpected 1-2 finish when John Moffitt. the NCAA champi­on at LSU this year. went a per­sonal-best 27-9 112 for the sil­ver. 
It was a comeback for the Americans, who four years ago in Sydney failed to medal in the event for the first time since the boycotted games in Moscow in 1980. 
"The long jump is back," Moffitt said. "Watch out." 
Phillips put the competition away with his first jump, falling just a half-inch shy of the per­sonal best he set three weeks ago in Linz, Austria. Not bad for a guy who doctors said might not walk again when he was hit by a motorcycle and broke both legs as a 14-year-old. 
"But my parents and myself, we always believed that I would." said Phillips, 26. "I mean, I didn't think that story was that big of a deal. I over­came that. Now I'm Olympic champion and happy and filled with joy." 
His two big jumps this month are the best in the event since 2000. His winning mark Friday night was the Olympic best since Carl Lewis went 28-5 112 in 1992 for the third of his four long jump golds. 
The event has been in the dol­
drums for years, and Phillips 
aims to bring it back, not just in 
the United States but every­
where. 
"It feels good to go beyond the limits I dreamed of as a kid," he said. "Now I have new goals." 
Phillips attended the University of Kentucky, then transferred after his sophomore year to Arizona State and began long jumping. He still lives and trains in Tempe, Ariz. 
He said he was thinking world record when he fouled on his second and third jumps. An awkward landing on the second foul was a bit embarrassing. 
"I fell flat on my face," Phillips said. "I think more than any­thing my pride was hurt." 
But it was quickly restored when the victory was assured and he realized a fellow American had taken second. Phillips grabbed Moffit in a bear hug, then the two paraded the American flag around the track in celebration, just before the United States completed its big night with a sweep in the 200. 
The United States has now won the long jump gold medal in all but four Olympic Games. 
"To go 1-2 in the Olympic Games, and follow in the foot­steps of those great jumpers ­such as Mike Powell, Carl Lewis, Bob Beamon, Ralph Boston -now you've got Dwight Phillips and John Moffitt," Phillips said. 
"I would like to be known as a patriotic guy," Phillips said, "a guy that was raised well by my mom and dad, a guy who's always smiling, and a guy who's always going to give his all, in everything he does, not only in track and field but in every part of my life." 

Field dominated by U.S. 
Crawford, Williams and Gatling go 1-2­3 in the 200 meters 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Greece -Shawn Crawford stood silently amid the Greek chorus of whistles and boos delaying his race. For four minutes, he fought to stay composed while rowdy fans chanted the name of their country and their dis­graced sprinting star. 
It made little difference to Crawford and his teammates. They finished 1-2-3 in the 200 meters Thursday in a big night for U.S. athletes before a restive crowd that wanted to see defending champion Kostas Kenteris and got an American sweep instead. 
Crawford took the lead off the turn and finished in 19.79 seconds, the fastest time in the world this year and a per­sonal best. Bernard Williams tied his personal best of 20.01 seconds for silver. Justin Gatlin, the 100 champion, won bronze in 20.03. 
"We're here at the birth­place of the Olympics, the defending Olympic champion is from Greece and there were certain situations that didn't allow him to compete," Crawford said. "I can under­stand their feelings, I know they're disappointed, I know they're upset." 
The crowd still cheered at the finish. It was the sixth time the United States has taken all three 200 medals ­the last sweep was led by Carl Lewis in 1984. 
And it gave the United 


Enjoy the excitement of football season at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE Select your hours from the following schedule Thursday Evenings 5:00 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Friday 11:00 a.m.-6:00p.m. 

States a total of 18 track and and chanted "Kenteris" and field medals, just two behind "Hellas, Hellas" -the Greek the total from Sydney, with word for Greece. They booed the relays and several other loudest when the Americans events still to come. Russia is were introduced. next with nine medals. Crawford, a flamboyant per­
Crawford was asked sonality who had showboated whether he felt mercilessly in cheated earlier heats,
"I didn't worry 
because his vic­was unusually
about [being 
tory lap was subdued after cut short. cheated out ofa the finish. "I didn't 
victory lap]. I got a His victory 
worry about gave controver­
full gold medal. " 
that," he said. sial coach Trevor "I got a full Graham a sweep gold medal." Shawn Crawford of the men's 
Olympic short sprints.
gold medalist 
Stadium was Crawford and packed, largely Gatlin are train­because Greeks thought they ing partners under Graham, would be watching Kenteris, who acknowledged on the who withdrew from the night of Gatlin's 100-meter Athens Games after missing a victory that he was the coach drug test. who sent a syringe of a mys­
The start of the 200 was tery steroid to authorities last delayed four minutes while year -fueling the drug scan­spectators whistled in derision dal that has swept the sport. 
~~~ 
c•aadaadillTmiiS 
Freshmen Men &Women 
AU6UST 31, 2004 -tn'M 2OF JOYCE CENT£R 06:30P.M. 
Schedule your mandatory Interview with Coach Minton 631-9126. Cheerleading office is located above Gate 3of the Joyce Center. 
come seeWhat Notre Dame Cheedeading ts all about 

Friday Evenings  5:00p.m.-11:00 p.m.  
Saturday  7:30 a.m. ­ 1 :00 p.m.  
Saturday Evenings  5:00 p.m. -11 :oo p.m.  

Work with us during the 2004 football season and receive 10% re-imbursement on your textbooks 

APPLY IN PERSON AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Friday, August 27, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
FOOTBALL 
Phillips named 
From walk-ons to full-rides 
new AD at NIU 
Fitzpatrick, Gioia and Schmidt receive scholarships for 2004 
Special to The Observer Senior placekicker/punter 
D.J. Fitzpatrick, sophomore placekicker/punter Carl Gioia and senior fullback Josh Schmidt all have been awarded scholarships for the 2004-05 school year at Notre Dame after serving the team as non­scholarship players, Irish head football coach Tyrone Willingham announced Thursday. 
Fitzpatrick enters the 2004 season battling for the starting position at both placekicker and punter after serving in both roles in 2003. The senior played in all 11 games last sea­son, starting eight as the place­kicker and punter, and made 12 of 17 field-goal attempts 
(70.6 percent), including a long of 50 yards against Navy. Also against the Midshipmen, Fitzpatrick kicked the game­winning field goal on the game's final play in a 27-24 Notre Dame victory. Fitzpatrick also averaged 36.8 yards per punt on 44 attempts, downing seven punts inside the oppo­nent's 20-yard line and posting a season-long punt of 50 yards. 
Gioia is competing for a role in placements and as a punter this fall. He did not see game action as a freshman in 2003 Schmidt is a veteran fullback after choosing to attend Notre who emerged as a receiving Dame following an outstanding threat out of the backfield in prep career in which he was a 2003. The recipient of the three-time all-state selection 2003 Knute Rockne Student­by the Indiana Football Athlete Award as the team's Coaches Association at top academic performer, Valparaiso High School. Schmidt caught 13 passes for 125 yards last season while playing in all 12 games, includ­ing a starting assignment against Brigham Young. In addition to his duties at full­back, Schmidt has been a spe­cial-teams stalwart the last two seasons. 

Special to The Observer 

Jim Phillips, senior associ­ate athletic director at Notre Dame for the past year and a member of the athletic department staff for the last four years, Monday was named the director of inter­collegiate athletics at Northern Illinois University. He succeeds Cary Roth who left the NIU in the spring to become the athletic director at the University of Nevada. 
Phillips served as the sen­ior associate athletic director for external affairs during the 2003-04 school year after a three-year stint as the associate athletic director for community relations. His duties included the creation, coordination, management and implementation of all annual, endowment and cap­ital development activities on behalf of the athletics depart­ment in alignment with the Central Development Office. 
During 2002-03, Phillips, along with Central Development, helped launch the Rockne Heritage Fund ­the first-ever athletics annual fund -that directly benefits student-athlete grant-in-aid scholarships. 
Additionally, Phillips was an integral part of the cam­paign to underwrite the building of a new 96,000­square foot athletics facility. This complex, currently under construction, will house all facets of the foot­ball program, as well as offer strength and conditioning areas and a sports medicine and rehabilitation center for the University's 26 varsity sports programs. 
Phillips also directed all phases of the planning, implementation and execu­tion of the entire athletics community relations pro­gram. This includes VIP events and recognition pro­grams. His responsibilities also included development of new institutional and depart­mental advancement pro­grams as identified by uni­versity relations and athlet­ics. 
Phillips also oversaw all aspects of the athletics ticket office including ticketing, parking, staffing, systems, and customer relations. He also coordinated corporate sponsorship for the Kevin White Radio Show, and was the liaison between these sponsors and the radio net­work. 
His sport administration duties included providing supervision for the .men's soccer, women's rowing and women's golf program, as well as assisting White with men's basketball. He played an organizational role in the plans for football bowl atten­dance and serves as the con­tact person for bowl repre­sentatives as they visit the Notre Dame campus. 
Prior to arriving at Notre Dame, Phillips served as assistant athletic director at the University of Tennessee from 1998-2000. Phillips oversaw a $12.4 million ath­letic annual giving program and was directly responsible for identifying, cultivating and soliciting all major gifts and donations for the Tennessee athletic depart­ment. In addition, he assisted in starting the first-ever capi­tal campaign for athletics at Tennessee that raised over $50 million for endowments, facilities and programs. 
Before arriving at Tennessee, he worked with Athletic Director Kevin White at Arizona State as an athlet­ic development officer in 1997-98, assisting with the annual giving program, as well as its $35 million capital campaign for facilities. 
Phillips' career in athletic administration began at the University of Illinois where he served as an administra­tive assistant in the athletic department from 1988-90. 
A native of Chicago, he is a 1990 graduate of Illinois with a bachelors of science degree in kinesiology. He received a master's of education degree in administration from Arizona State in 1992 and is currently pursuing a doctor­ate in educational adminis­tration and policy studies from Tennessee. 
"Jim will bring a lot of 'juice' to NIU's program," White said. "He's highly energetic, always enthusias­tic, and terribly passionate. Without question, Jim will exceed expectations and seri­ously overachieve." 

~t Sports Jar it1 South Jet1d 2046 South Jet1d Ave ~ Across frotM Martitis Plaza 272~1766 
NP Football Headquarters Ot~litle sports it~fo 
"G-reat Food, G-reat Futf Mot1: Mot~day Night FootballS. Specials startiHg at $J.Q Tues: College Night ~ PJ 6-Specials Wed: T~IVIA Night ~ Jritlg your teatMs ~ Prizes Thurs: PJ ~ First Thursday every tMOtlth: Jazzy G-rass Fri: Live Et1tertait1tMet1t Sat: NP gatMes 


page 22 
OlliOCState 
West VIrginia 11 F!Otlda 1t Kaasas Stare 13 Cllllfatala 14 Tennessee 15 Clemson 16 Vlrglrtla 17 Auburn 1B Mluouri 19 Iowa 20 Ulab 21 Wi5CIIMIJI 22 Maryland 23 Orugon 24 Purdue 25 Minnesota 

I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 

I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE sERVlCES Friday, August 27, 2004 
NCAA 

TIM KACMARfThe Observer Mike Williams catches a pass against Notre Dame last season. The NCAA ruled Thursday to deny him eligibility for the upcoming season. 
NCAA bars Williams from USC team 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The 
NCAA refused to reinstate 
Southern California All­
American Mike Williams on 
Thursday, leaving the star 
wide receiver unable to 
rejoin the top-ranked 
Trojans after being shut out 
of the NFL draft by the 
courts. 
''I'm glad it's over. Now the team can move forward and I can move forward," Williams said in a tele­phone interview. ''I'm dis­appointed. l did everything asked of me. I don't know yet what I'm going to do. I'll just relax for the week­end and watch the game and root for my team." 
The ruling came down shortly before the Trojans boarded an airplane for Baltimore. They open defense of their national championship Saturday night against VIrginia Tech at FedEx Field in Landover, Md. 
USC vice president and legal counsel Todd Dickey said while the ruling could be appealed, the matter was closed. 
"At this point, we don't believe it would be useful to go through those process­es," he said. "We think the NCAA has firmly made up its mind." 
Williams agreed, saying: ''I'm kind of done with it 
around the dial 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL USC vs. VIrginia Tech 6:40p.m. Sat., ESPN 
OLYMPICS Olympic Coverage 12:30 p.m., NBC Olympic Coverage 7 p.m. daily, NBC Olympic Coverage 10 a.m. daily, CNBC 
NFL PRESEASON Redsklns at Rams 7 p.m., FOX Saints at Bears 7 p.m., CBS Patriots at Panthers 7 p.m. Sat., CBS 
MLB White Sox at Indians 6 p.m., FSN Giants at Braves 6 p.m., TBS Cardinals at Pirates noon Sat., FOX Astros at Cubs 4 p.m., WGN 
IN BRIEF 
Judge chastises Bryant's 
prosecutors 
EAGLE, Colo. -On the eve of Kobe Bryant's rape trial, a frustrat­ed judge chastised prosecutors Thursday for waiting until the last minute to challenge DNA evidence the defense says shows the accuser had sex with someone else hours after her encounter with the NBA star. 
In an often-testy exchange, Judge Terry Ruckriegle told prosecutors he should deny their request for a hear­ing because it was likely to delay the trial, which begins Friday with jury selection. But he gave them until Tuesday to provide more informa­tion to help him make his decision. 
Later Thursday, the judge held a closed-door session with prosecutors and defense attorneys to discuss the 82-item questionnaire that prospec­tive jurors will fill out. About 500 prospective jurors are expected to arrive at the Eagle County court-right now." 

USC coach Pete Carroll reacted angrily to the rul­ing and its timing. 
"It's very cold and insen­sitive for them to deny him this opportunity," Carroll said. 'Tm not surprised by it, but I'm disappointed for Mike and his family. You'll have to go and ask the NCAA for answers, how they can turn someone down who is otherwise aca­demically eligible." 
The school had applied to the NCAA for a progress­toward-degree waiver and reinstatement of Williams' eligibility. 
Williams caught 95 pass­es for 1,314 yards and a school-record 16 touch­downs as a sophomore last season to help the Trojans (12-1) win the national championship. The 20­year-old Williams, a sure­handed 6-foot-5, 230­pounder, finished eighth in the Heisman Trophy ballot­ing. 
After a court ruled that last winter that Ohio State's Maurice Clarett was eligi­ble to play in the NFL, Williams left USC, hired an agent and said he was turning pro. That made him ineligible to play for the Trojans. 
Williams was projected as a high first-round draft pick. 
house Friday; opening statements are not expected before Sept. 7. 
Bryant has pleaded not guilty to felony sexual assault, saying he had consensual sex with the then-19­year-old employee of a Vail-area resort where he stayed last summer. If convicted, the Los Angeles Lakers star faces four years to life in prison or 20 years to life on_pJobation. HeWitt crushes Uodra 
COMMACK,N.Y-Former Wimbledon and U.S. Open winner Lleyton Hewitt cruised to a 6-1, 6-4 victory over Michael Llodra on Thursday to advance to the quarter­finals of the TD Waterhouse Cup. 
The win was the 13th in the last 14 matches for the 23-year old Australian, who is now 50-13 this year. He has recorded 50 or more wins in three of the last four years. 
Llodra, who reached the fourth round at Roland Garros in June, trailed 0-1 and held a 30-15 advan­tage in the second set when a lines­man called his serve out. Replays showed the ball was in. Raymond moves to semis 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. -Wild card Lisa Raymond powered into the semifinals of the Pilot Pen tourna­ment, beating Daniela Hantuchova 6-4, 6-3 Thursday. 
Russians Elena Bovina and Elena Dementieva also advanced. Thursday night's match between Jennifer Capriati. and Nathalie Dechy will complete the semifinal pairings. 
Bovina, seeded seventh, defeated wild card Mashona Washington 6-3, 6-2. and Dementieva, seeded sec­ond, ousted Jelena Jankovic 6-1, 6­4. 
The 31-year-old Raymond lost just two points in her service game in the second set, and broke the 21-year­old Hantuchova to win the match. 
"Age is just a state of mind," Raymond said. "It's like you turn 30 ... and your career is over. As long as I'm fit, healthy, and still enjoying this, why not?" 
Friday, August 27, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 

Preseason 
continued from page 28 
appearance, the Irish kicked off their 2004 campaign in impres­sive fashion Monday night, shut­ting out a visiting Northwestern squad, 2-0. 
Forward Justin McGeeney drew first blood for Notre Dame at the 10:52 mark, tapping home a cross from midfielder Greg Dalby and staking the Irish to an early 1-0 lead. 
Less than 10 minutes later, the Irish found the back of the net 

Junior midfield John Stephens goes for a header against Northwestern Monday. 
once again. said. "It's nice to get a game on 
Beating several Wildcat your home turf, but it's also good defenders, midfielder Nate to take the team on the road Norman pushed into the right before you actually play a league corner of the box and fed for­game." ward Tony Megna in front of the As the young season progress-goal. es, Clark, enter­
Controlling the ing his fourth pass, Megna turned season on the
"Massachusetts is 
and fired past the Notre Dame side­
a very solid team." 
outstretched right lines, expects the hand of Irish to continue Northwestern goal­Bobby Clark to elevate their keeper Justin Pines, play.
Irish coach 
extending the Irish "You just hope advantage to 2-0. that every game 
The vaunted Notre you play the team Dame defense, home to a pair of starts to grow and get a little bit 2004 Hermann Trophy Watch stronger," Clark said. "We try to List members in goalkeeper take something from every game Chris Sawyer and and add a little defender Jack bit to the next Stewart, protected " . h h game."
You JUSt ope t at w i n g
the 2-0 lead with F 0 11 0 relative ease, yield­every game you Saturday's con­ing nine shots, only test, the Irish
play the team 
three of which were venture south to
starts to get a bit 
on net and all of Bloomington to 
stronger. ,,
which were smoth­open the regular ered by Sawyer. season at After shutting out Indiana's
Bobby Clark 
the Wildcats in front Adidas/IU Credit
Irish coach 
of a large, lively Union Classic. home crowd After taking on Monday night, the Irish will Oregon State Sept. 3, the Irish attempt to duplicate the feat kick off against Boston University away from the friendly confines Sept. 5 before heading home to of Alumni Field. host Evansville Sept. 10. 
"I always try to get both a home game and a road game Contact Matt Puglisi at during these exhibitions," Clark mpuglisi@nd.edu 
CLAIRE KELLEY /The Observer 

Junior Tony Megna dribbles the ball during practice. Megna scored a goal against Northwestern Monday. 

TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 

Sophomore midfielder Kim Lorenzen dribbles the ball up the field during a match against Oklahoma last season. 
*DESIGN CUt&.. StYL€ *ADVANCED COLO~TNG &.. CO~JI...iCtTON * P~OF€HIONAL MA£K·VP ~ 
* M€N'S STYLTNC *AVEDA SPA MANICUJI...H &.. P£01CU~ES *BODY&.. FACIAL WAXING* 
Illusions :> 
A~­
CONCBP'I'SALON 

OPEN MONTHRU SAT 574-272-0312 GIFT CERTIFICATES 
Desi~ers Trained in London, Toronto, Los Angeles, Atlanta & chicago 
THE CO~Ntl!... OF STA.TE RD. 23 &. li!...ONWOOO BEHIND SUSWA.Y 
I

a 8 CoupanV..Id 
a. lftotf
At Any Goodwill lncluatrla of lllctdar.• Inc. · 
-E"'-•ALL ITEMSr 
hiahstor. 
.-· Mon.-Tbura • 0..Coupon ....Customer "etc.pt fw....Good•
ca 0 ••.m.-7 p.m. 
IMCIUic*"
Sat.-0 a.m.-a p.m. 
He Dllpllcatllft of Cotqaon
lun.-12 p.m.-5 p.m. 
No OtMrDl-ttApJir 
Opener 
continued from page 28 

"It has been two years since we have won the Big East and we want to reclaim that title," Waldrum said. "But we cannot afford to look past Baylor con­sidering it is the season open­er." 
Although the team is highly ranked in preseason polls, Waldrum does not want these great expectations to influence the way the team performs throughout the season. 
"We have 

named to the preseason watch list for the Hermann Trophy national player-of-the-year award. 
This marks the first time since 1997 the Irish will be returning two All-American defenders. 
In addition to these players, there are several new freshmen who contributed to the team during preseason play in Brazil. Jannica Tjeder, Ashley Jones, Lauren Karas and Amanda Cinalli add a newfound energy to the Irish roster. 
The key to success this season 
will be in 
adjusting team 
dynamics 

been at this Waldrum said. 
"We understand that 
long enough, "Integrating
the team that wins the 
and it is nice to the new play­
have the recog­national title is the ers will con­nition this team that gets it done tribute to the 
early." Waldrum team's rhythm
at the end of the day. ,
said. "But we and will help us understand that against the the team that Randy Waldrum tremendously wins the nation­Irish coach difficult sched­
al title is the team that gets it done at the end of the day." 

Waldrum looks to the sea­soned veterans to get the job done. By adding several new players, the Irish have added depth to the team and hope to best their 2003 record of 20-3­1. 
Among those veterans is fifth­year All-American defender Melissa Tancredi and defender Candace Chapman. 
Tancredi and Chapman recently received honors of being named to the Soccer Buzz preseason All-American squad, and are among the 25 players 
~ouvenir Magnets 2004 Football Schedules 3 Styles. Stadium before expansion. Magnets are Photographic, laminaated, Die­Cut Measuring fxs" & 4"x6" Postcards also Available. LaFortune Student Center Information Desk & Box Office Located off main TV loung_e 
ule that we 
h a v e , " 

Waldrum said. "It must be made quickly." 
The Irish have been working to put those words into action at practice, quickly trying to find a balance in the midst of a fast paced and often hectic sea­son. 
The game against Baylor offers the team an opportunity to find that balance. 
"We tend to play so much bet­ter uninhibited," Waldrum said. "This is when our kids show what they have to offer." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo jtapetil@nd.edu 



~-------------------------~ 
page 24 Friday, August 27, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Campus Ministry 
friday o8.27 
African American Student Ministry the Plunge Retreat Friday-Saturday Fatima Retreat Center 
saturday o8.28 
Mass 5:15pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
sunday 08.29 
Mass 1O:OOam & 11 :45am Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
special event 
Student Activities Night 7:00pm-9:00pm Joyce Center Stop by the Campus Ministry table for good conversation and a special gift! 
Find the latest on upcoming retreat signups, Mass schedules 

I 
and special campus ministry events at

I I I 
campusministry.nd. edu 

I I 
I I 
I prayer (or the beginning of
I I 
I I 
I a new school year
I I 
I I 
I May the Lord wake me each morning I with energy and joy. I I May the Lord bless my preparations, 
I 
I I giving me an organized mind and enthusiastic heart. I May the Lord strengthen me each day 
I 
I with focus and perseverance. 
May the Lord bless my classes, making me hungry to learn and eager to understand and remember. 
May the Lord calm me each evening 

with peace and gentleness, I blessing my studies with renewed motivation, I my activities with joy and friendship, 
I 
I 
I my conversations and relationships with untiring love. 
I 
I May the Lord refresh me each night with health and rest, 
! I 
blessing my sleep with freedom from worry. May my semester be fruitful, 

t 
I with my efforts bringing glory to the Lord, 
I 
I and may I always know the joy and love of the Lord. 
I 
I Amen.
I 
: -Sheila Payne, Cavanaugh Hall 
~ ~ 
mass schedule 
Twenty-second Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Around Campus (every Sunday) 

I Saturday Vigil Mass Sunday 1:30 p.m. 5:00p.m. 10:00 a.m. Spanish Mass 
I 
I Rev. Peter A. Jarret, esc Rev. Peter A. Jarret, esc St. Edward's 
~ 
11:45 p.m. Hal/Chapel

• 
•I • 
Rev. Paul F. Doyle, esc 

I• 
• Sunday's Scripture Readjngs 1st:Sirach 3:17-18,20,28-29 • 
• 
tuesday as 11 
Student Activities Night 7:00pm-9:00pm Joyce Center 
wednesday o9.o1 
Catechist Information Session 5:00pm 330 Coleman-Morse 
/Four:7/Praise & Worship Service 10:00pm Coleman-Morse Student Lounge (1st floor) 

Coleman-Morse Center 574-631-7800 ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 
Main Office (CoMo 319) & Retreats Office (CoMo 114), Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 
considerations... 

HOME IS WHERE THE HEART IS 
by Fr. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. Director of Campus Ministry 
Our new academic year is underway! With the re:turn of the students, the Notre Dame campus is once again what is has always meant to be-a place where talented young people have once again returned "home" and are delighted to be with each other. Whenever I am away from campus for any period of time, as soon as I see the steeple of the Basilica with its glimmering cross, the Golden Dome with the Lady of the House exactly where she belongs, the Grotto just a few yards from the lake shore, and the Notre Dame students -it is almost as if I have never been away. It is home. And it will always be home. 
If you are a first year student, you probably have realized a life long dream (or, at least, the life long dream of one or both of your parents and countless other relatives). You are now a Domer. Your life long dream will be with you all the days of your life. This is where you will always be at home. 
If this is your last year here, you already know that the thrill of driving down Notre 
Dame Avenue will always bring goose bumps to your arms and a catch to your 
throat. 

For all of us, a new year holds new and old experiences that, in fact, never grow old. The beauty of the Campus no matter what season; the way the tones of the Victory March is ever so old and ever so new; the way singing at least the last four words of our Alma Mater, "love thee Notre Dame," locked arm in arm and shoulder to shoulder while gently swaying; the honor of studying at a Catholic University where "Catholic" is not just an adjective and "University" heralds an outstanding academic institution with a world-class faculty with time for students who are smarter than anyone should possibly be; disciplined and dedicated young men and women in ROTC units preparing to serve their country as commissioned officers after graduation; worshipping in the Basilica and in the residence halls; friendships in and outside our residence halls, that we know will last a lifetime; talented varsity and interhall athletes; young men and women who, through their service, will never permit the poor to take second place in their view of our society; and a place where Church takes on the flesh and blood of the One whose Body and Blood we can share as often as we wish. 
This is Notre Dame. 
This is the home where our hearts are. 

Every new year is another opportunity for personal growth which will exceed our expectations. After all, as Paul reminds us, God sees and loves in us what he sees and loves in His Son, Jesus Christ! 
Develop as fully as you can who you are or can be intellectually, spiritually, and as individual people p~rsonally loved by a God who will always be faithful to you regardless of the circumstances. 
Take advantage of this new academic year, this new opportunity, to become more fully alive in Christ. Take full advantage of our Campus Ministry programs as often as you can. And become amazed as you gradually but surely become the person you have always meant to be as a result of God's grace, your personal relationship to Jesus Christ, and the specific role which is yours, within the Church, in service of God's people, and within the community of believers. Become fully alive in Christ! 
In the name of my brother priests in the Congregation of Holy Cross, welcome home! 
5:00 p.m. 
Law School Mass 
Law School Commons 

2nd:Hebrews 12:18-19,22-24a Gospel:Luke 14:1,7-14 
7:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass Rejoice! Mass Mendoza COB Coleman-Morse Faculty Lounge Chapel 

--~~----------------------~------------------­
Friday, August 27, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
are 


friday august 27th 2004 live at the Joyce Center 
www.nd.edu/rvtheshow 
$1 0 tickets onalnllldiRIIIDIUII..Ial'llbiDI~II ODICB 
musthave valid ND, SMC, HCC to purchase Ucellts and to enter the event 
~ 'j 
I 
j I 
' 
' I 
I I

-: I' 
l 
l 
1 
l 
I 

page 26 Friday, August 27, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
"It's such an inexact sci­year with a 14-7-3 record with ence, he said. a . 925 save percentage and a
NHL 
"[Representatives from] a 2.42 GAA while playing what 
number of teams told me even was considered one of the 
on the day of the draft that most difficult schedules in the because of his draft status, Wes would go in the first or nation. though. second round. ''I'm familiar with a lot of the 
"It's still going to come down "He's handled it extremely goalies who were taken ahead to the way that he performs well because he knows that [a of David this year," Poulin during the regular season." college career] is a long jour­said. "And frankly, I wouldn't 
There were some surprises ney." take any of them over David." in the order that the three Brown's selection was also Oreskovich was a bit of a players were perhaps a bit sur­surprise as well, but in a dif­taken. O'Neill. prising, but colle­ferent way. The forward, who who played on giate goalies have turned 18 on Aug. 15, was one 
continued from page 28 
"It's still going to 
the top pairing long had to over­of the youngest overall players
come down to the
of defense on come the stigma of in the draft this year and came last year's way that he being seen as infe-in ranked as the 72nd overall team. was rior to their North American skater. 
performs during the 
widely predict­European and Oreskovich's low ranking on
regular season. " 
ed to be taken North American Central Scouting's list didn't in one of the counterparts who dissuade the Avalanche from early rounds, Dave Poulin play in professional making him just the second and it was a bit leagues. and this Irish player to be selected in
Irish coach 
of a shock year was no excep-the secood round -recently­when the tion. graduated Rob Globke was the defenseman was not selected After Michigan's Alvaro first. until the 115th pick overall, by Montoya was selected No. 10 "I think that Central the New York Islanders. overall, not a single additional Scouting is sometimes looked 
Central Scouting, a private collegiate goalie was selected at as more than what it really organization that ranks until Brown, who went with is," Poulin said. "When you get prospects in each year's draft. the 228th pick to the down to it, it's just a guy who ranked O'Neill as the ninth­Pittsburgh Penguins. scouts -it's just that guy's best North American defense­Brown was a big part of opinion. man in the draft this year. and Notre Dame's success last "Someone within the Avs' the third-best collegiate year, as the team advanced to system saw something he real­defenseman behind Grant the NCAA Tournament for the ly liked in Victor, and when a Lewis of Dartmouth and A.J. first time in the program's his­player fits into your system Thelen of Michigan State. tory. Along with senior Morgan that's often more important 
Poulin was among those who Cey, Brown helped the Irish than how they're ranked." would have predicted O'Neill have one of the best defenses would be selected in the earli­in the nation. Contact Justin Schuver er rounds of the draft. The sophomore finished the jschuver@nd.edu 

' 
I I I 
I computer ranking total -to onship game. Both the AP and title. That's what this simpli­troversial outcome. We're try­I get a team's computer aver­coaches' polls ranked the fied formula is designed to ing to use the tools that we 
I I BCS
I I age. Trojans No. 1 at the end of the prevent. have available to us to get the
I I continued from page 28 The two poll scores along regular season. but the BCS "We want to have as much best possible outcome." 
I I with the computer score will standings had the Trojans consensus around the teams The first BCS rankings will I 
I a calculation of how many be averaged to get a team's ranked No. 3. participating in the national be announced Oct. 18 with the points a team receives in the BCS average.Another way to In 2000 and 2001, the championship game as we top two teams in the BCS
I 
I 
poll divided by the total num­understand the percentage human polls had Miami and possibly can," Weiberg said. standings playing Jan. 4 in ber of possible points. For system is to look at a school's Oregon ranked No. 2 but "But, you know, our intent the Orange Bowl. example in the AP poll last polls and computer scores as other components in the BCS here was not to try to produce year, a team receiving 1,500 batting averages. formula kept those two teams a formula that somehow Contact Matt Lozar I points -out of a possible "The purpose of the BCS is from playing for the national would continue to have a con-mlozar@nd.edu
I 
I 
I 1,625 -would have an AP to match the nation's top two I score of .923. college football teams in an ~ Six computer rankings are end-of-season bowl game for 
I 
I being used in 2004. The high­the national championship," I 
I est and lowest computer rank­Weiberg said. "This formula I ings for each team are thrown goes a long way to eliminateI out in determining a team's some of the controversy sur­
~ 
I computer average. 25 points rounding previous matchupsI will be given to a team ranked as we continue to improve the I No. 1 in each computer poll, system."I I 24 for second and so on. The U,nder the revised system, I sum of the four computer co-national champions USCI rankings will be divided by and LSU would have played in I last season's BCS champi-
I 100 -the largest possible
I I 

I 
I 
' I 


I 
none ofAmerica's top salons" -Salon Today magazine 
-Would like to invite you to try one of our New 
Talents for the latest in Hair fashions for men & 
women. 
-We have several Hair Designers eager to show 
this season's hair styles and complementing high­
lighting and hair colors. 
-When you call for an appointment request the 
Student Discountspecial and 
receive 2 0% offwhen you present your gujen LD*

.­
*Valid only with participating designers 
South Bend Mishawaka Elkhart 521 E. Jefferson Blvd. 236 W. Edison 1900 Berry 
233-1554 256-5600 57 4 262-2702 
2041 E. Ireland 

-
291-1001 



Friday, August 27, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
ACROSS 28 Wars of the 59 Using big Roses battle site 

words? 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Even though everything is going a bit nuts now1 Not blocked because of Mercury retrograde, keep in mind that the area you will continually 31 Coupe comple-60 Lively be able to improve on an ongoing basis (are you watching my lips?) is your job 
5 Knocked com­
ment and your employment scene.
pletely off one's 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Because of this heavy concentration of planets feet 34 Permanently DOWN in Virgo right now, you have a wonderful opportunity for love, romance,undecided flirtations, fun sex, financial speculation, and success in the entertainment
15 What a card 
1 Moore verse world and the hospitality industry. You can also make great strides educating
reader may do? 35 Gallery item opener children. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your real estate scene has never looked better.
16 For love or 36 1969 target 2 Counseling, e.g. 
At least, not for over a decade. You can really clean up now. Similarly, you
money 
37 Head up North? conunit lovely improvements to home, family and your domestic scene. Mend
3 Bring up 

broken fences either naturally or metaphorically between family members.
17 Dejection inter-38 Noted 2003 
4 Expanding CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you really want to get existential about it, our
jection 
Eton graduate world is our mind. Mind you, in one way we share one big mind, and in
5 Punch with 

another way, there's a limitless number of minds. (Television, however, can
18 It's used to 42 Pan, e.g. 
punch change this.) The bottom line is you have a happy mind now.
make carbon 
43 Peak LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Increased earnings, assets and perhaps even debts
6 Aviator black 

come to you now. That's because you're swinging in the world in a big way.44 Application after Balbo Unfortunately, since you're attracting so much to you, many of you have
19 Pool opening 
a break gained weight, as well. Except for those rare beanpoles who gobble hamburgers. 
7 "Princess 

21 Like some VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's important that you call them as you see them.
47 Reason to put Caraboo" star, 

You're so on top of your game. Sure, life is crazy because retrograde Mercury 
hands 
on a collar 1994 is in your sign. (That's why you're running into ex-partners and people from 22 It's nice when your past, to say nothing of the confusion you suffer on an ongoing basis.) But
49 Sash accompa-8 Currency unit in 

prize winnings aside from that --cheers!
nier, maybe Harry Potter 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Nobody can party all the time. Nobody can work
come with lots tales 
all the time. Nobody can even eat ice cream all the time. We all need a break
50 War gameof these 

from whatever we do. Sometimes a change is as good as a rest. (Or a
9 Strathclyde port 

54 Line of sight? semiquaver, if you're so inclined.) You need solitude, peace and quiet, and
23 Meddle man­
10 Some earth rest now.

agers? 56 Inter 
movers SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It's been over a decade since partnerships and friendships have helped you so much. Don't go it alone. Work in conjunction 
24 Town near 57 Events for 
11 Francis of old with others. The supportive give-and-take you encounter will help boost you
Perugia potential bidders 
TV 32 Sported 41 Pressure 50 Fear, to toward your inuninent career success. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): One reason you can promote your good 
27 Blazed 58 Artery Franc;:ois
12 Probe 33 Black 42 Activity on a name so well now is important people (bosses, parents and YIPs) are in your range corner. Why else do you think you can't get a seat? Accept their help. Let
13 Florida's

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 36 Nougat-filled 51 Cockeyed others boost you and brag about your accomplishments. (You can look falsely 
National Forest 44 Milker's aid

treats modest.) CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Even though you like to play it safe (it's the 
14 Exploits 45 Browning title 

38 Dash 52 lago, e.g. cautious side of you), lately you're willing to take a chance. In fact, you're
character

20 Make a home surprisingly bold. This is because you're keen to expand your world through
39 Progress pre­

education, and travel. (The best way to learn a foreign language is to take a
23 Thither 46 "Ciao!" ­
venter 53 Disney dog lover.) 24 Contemporary 47 Persian AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's been said it's harder to receive than to
40 Superlatively 

give. And until you're on the receiving end of something, you might not fully
of Emerson 

smooth 48 Rouse 55 Letter lineup appreciate this. Actually, since many of you are on the receiving end of the 25 Bellow in a universe right now, you know what I'm talking about. Swallow your pride. library PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your people skills have really jumped in a For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a major way this year. Have you noticed? Your ability to do with friends,26 Send down credit card, 1-800-814-5554. partners and members of the general public is very smooth and schmoozey. Naturally, you have an edge because you are empathetic and perceptive.
27 Barber's supply Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
(Plus you're cute.) 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

29 Cut off the back IF AUG. 27 IS YOUR BIRTHDAY: Saxophonist Branford Marsalis (1960) Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 shares your birthday. You work behind the scenes, sometimes alone. You're 30 Crib past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). modest and cooperative because you see the value of getting along with others. Many of you have an unusually significant partnership in your life. This year,
-=+:+.,.,.._,...! 31 Reason to press Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 

you must work very hard for changes and rewards in 2005-06.
a suit, perhaps solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
r--------------------------,Er-------------------------~~r-------------------------~
CATBERT: EVIL DIRECTOR ~ 8! 
MAYBE YOU COULDOF HUMAN RESOURCES i ... AN EMPLOYEE = 
USE MATH TO

1-----------1i WELL NESS PROGRAM TO 1i 
FIGURE IT OUT... REDUCE SICK DAYS OR li 
I CANT DECIDE 
I i
INCENTIVIZING THEWHAT'S CHEAPER ... 
• OLDER. HIGHLY PAID • WHEN I SAID
i 
CHEAPER, I MEANT MOREJ FUN. 
c( 
~ 
(I 
6 
~ 

CHARLES SCHULTZ 

PEANUTS 
S~E SAID SHE'D WRITE MA'fBE TO HER IT WAS JUST TO ME EVERI{ DAV, BUT I ANOTI-IER SUMMER ROMANCE.. 
~ 

j:.!AVEN'T HEARD A WORD.. 1 SI-tE'S PR06ABLV FOUND ANomER 
~ 
____...,~ 80VFRIEND 8'( NOW... 
l 
0 ((_ 
j
... 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GOUBS 
I I I 

Cl2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TOMIF 


I I rj [)
tZEFRYN 

IJ I I I 
www.jumble.com 

RAUBUE 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.

[ I ] I I ~rhere:[ I I I )AND rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: BUMPY CREEL JERSEY COUGARYesterday's Answer: 
When the ring sold tor a premium price, the jeweler said it was a -"GEM" OF A SALE 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________________________ _ 
City ______________ State _______ Zip________ 
-

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Friday, August 27, 2004 
page 28 
FOOTBALL 

Revised BCS format simplifies ranking system 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Kicking things off 
Led by All-American Tancredi, the No. 3 Irish open the season against Baylor 
coach Handy Waldrum said. 
By DAN TAPETILLO "Wn are 
that big game on Sport' Writt•r 
everybody's sehPdule." Ironically, the first c.hallnnge 
Thn No. :~ Irish are lml by a of tho season will eomn from lifth-ynar All-Anwriran, a eoaeh national rival Baylor, a program with o1w of the best eamnr win-fornwrly led by Notre Dame's ning pnn~nntagns own Waldrum. in thn NCAA and Baylor entors
"We are that big 
nxplosivo nPw tal­the season with a nnt craving a game on 2-0 record in national title. everybody's exhibition play, They an~ the and its preseason
schedule." 
envy of soeenr efforts have made programs around them serious con­the nation. Randy Waldrum tenders in the Big "Our kids rmLlize 12. Needless to
Irish coach 
that being Notre say, Baylor's team Dame makes you has all the ineen­a target on the field especially tive it needs for a win tonight. because of the suecess that we "They are going to have a lot have had with this program," of motivation to win because I used to eoach there," Waldrum said. "But we are more eon­cerned with what wo are trying to prepare with what we want to." 
Notre Dame is not rattled, however Waldrum says his players are hoping to get otr to a relaxed start, f'oeusing on their season goals. Among the feats on the Irish wish list is a Big East Tournament Championship. 
In order to attain this goal, Waldrum knows the team des­perately needs to focus on the present. Concentrating on one game at a time makes a Big East Championship seem all the more doable. First up is Baylor. 
see OPENER/page 23 

'"'""<:fTho Observer 
Senior Katie Thorlakson dribbles the ball past two defenders last season in the NCAA Tournament. 
-
MEN's SoccER 
Minutemen will be final preseason test 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The No. 9 Irish look to iron out any remaining wrinkles when they travel to Chicopee, Mass. Saturday to challenge the Minutemen in their pre­season final tune-up. 
"[Massachusetts] is a very solid team," eoach Bobby Clark said. "It's a fundraiser for them so we know it's going to be a good atmosphere. and that there will be a lot of peo­ple there." 
Eager to match, if not bet­ter, last season's Sweet 16 
see PRESEASON/page 23 


CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer Senior Kevin Goldthwaite gets his shirt pulled battling for the ball against Northwestern Monday. 

----~~--­ 
U) w1-c.,) a: z ::5 c::a c::s cc  FOOTBALL Walk-ons D.J. Fitzpatrick, Carl Gioia, and Josh Schmidt receive scholarships for the 2004-05 year.  FOOTBALL Jim Phillips joins Northern Illinois University as the school's new athletic director.  
a. =: U)  page 21  page 21  

OLYMPICS 
Dwight Phillips and John Moffitt of the United States took the gold and silver medals in the long jump. 
page 20 

GOLF
OLYMPICS 
Shawn Crawford, 

Corey Pavin main-Bernard Williams and 
tains a three-stroke lead Justin Gatlin of the 
at the Buick Champion-United States swept the 
ship. medals in the 200 meters. 
page 20 page 18 

HOCKEY 

Three Irish players chosen in NHL Draft 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Though they've only recently started fall semester classes, some Notre Dame hockey players already have their plans set for professional careers. 
Three members of the 2004­05 Irish were seleeted in the NHL Entry Draft this summer in Raleigh, N.C. Sophomores Wes O'Neill and David Brown were selected in the fourth and eight rounds, respectively, while freshman Victor Oreskovieh was seleeted in the second round by the Colorado Avalanehe a ringing endorsement for a player who hasn't even skated a single shift yet for the Irish. 
"We've always liked Victor as a player," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin, who suc­cessfully recruited Oreskovich away from such big-name pro­grams as Boston College. "He doesn't come to the team with 
any 

more expectations 
see NHL/page 26 
MLB 
AL 2003 Rookie of the year Angel Berroa con­tinues to struggle at the plate. 
page 18 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Al"tnr a split national cham­pionship in 2003, the Bowl Championship Snrins formula was due for a major change. 
In past ynars artnr eontro­vnrsial BCS championship game participants. more eom­ponnnts were added to tlw formula like strnngth of schedule, quality wins and 
team lossos. 
This time thn BCS is going back to the basics. 
The revised 

X 1564 
y 
1593
formula 
z 1482
announend July 15 for thn 2004 sea­son will have only three parts -the Associated Press poll, the USA Today/ESPN coaches poll and a 'eomputnr average. 


and BCS coordinator Kevin Weiberg said in a July 15 tele­conference. "In analyzing the BCS standings, we wanted to develop a ranking formula that would be simpler and morn precise," 
The precise part of the for­mula comes from how the results from the polls and eomputers are ealeulated. Each team's poll seore will be 
see BCS/page 26 
CHANGES IN BCS FORMAT 
.962 !440 .944 94 .940 .949 .980 1386 .909 91 .910 .933 .912 1413 .926 89 .890 .909 

"As opposed to past years where we tried to go in 
and  take  a  
look  at previ­ 
ous  years'  

results and make minor adjustments, 
Each portion will bear equal add elements or tweaks to the weight counting for one-third poll, this was really a com­of a team's overall BCS rank­plete re-evaluation of the for­ing. mula," Big 12 commissioner 
-

. . 
---·'i; 'e~iX~i/'i/;4,~~-W.;'fc' 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 27, 2004 
Potential is there for 9-3 or 4-7 record this year 

Joe Hettler 
Sports Writer 
The alumni have griped with another losing spason fwsh in memory, the stu­dent body has complained about the llurry of losses and the critics have left the Notre Dame football program for dead. 
It's safe to say, in the historically-piv­otal third year for Notrn Dame football coadws, Tyrone Willingham has his work eut out for him. 
But, as any college football follower will tell you. in August. 1w1~ryorw is unde­featml and optimism is at its pinnaele. 
So. with a 5-7 record in 2003 in mind. exactly what can Notre Dame fans expeet from Willingham's third team? 
On papnr, nirw wins is attainable. So are another s1wen losses. 
The 2004 opponents arc less daunting than those in 2003, when Notre Dame played a schedule that would make the Arizona Cardinals shiver. Three top five teams, induding the eo-national cham­pion USC, eight bowl teams and "p,asy" games against Boston Colh~ge and Purdue. 
Ask a team to win with that schedule and an I H-year-old first-year quarter­back, along with an inexperienced offen­sive'line, and it's understandable why Notre Dame struggled to a 5-7 mark. 
Hut this year's sdwdule, it appears, gives Notre Dame a chanen to win many morn than five games. Tlwre are only three games Notre Dame shouldn't win -on paper, that is. 
Besides Miehigan, Tennessee and USC, the Irish have as much talent if not more than the other eight opponents. 
You could even argue the Irish have a reasonable shot at knocking off the Wolverines and Volunteers. 
Michigan has the best receiving corps 

Congregation of Holy Cross 
in the country and a huge offensive line. But remember, the Wolverines are replacing their starting quarterback and running back from last season. Matt Gutierrez was 37-0 at De La Salle High School, but never played in front of a crowd like the one he will experience at Notre Dame Stadium Sept. 11. A rookie quarterback's first road start and Notre Dame's home opener is a definite advan­tage for the Irish. The key for Notre Dame will be pressuring Gutierrez and not allowing him time to find all those outstanding receivers. 
Tennessee also has an inexperienced quarterback at the helm this season. They do return Cedric Houston, who led the Volunteers in rushing during the last two seasons. Notre Dame has the advan­tage of a bye week to prepare for that road game, while Tennessee faces South Carolina the week before. 
As for USC, Irish fans should worry about that game when it arrives near Thanksgiving. 
But realistically, Notre Dame has the talent to win eight regular season games and a bowl, not only because of the schedule, but alsi> because the 2004 Irish are vastly different than the 2003 version. 
Quarterback Brady Quinn has bulked up and returns with some very valuable experience he gained last season. The offensive line, which received the most criticism a year ago, should be an asset now and give Quinn and the running game more time and room to make plays. 
The running backs are underrated. People are quick to forget Ryan Grant rushed for over 1,000 yards as a sopho­more, becoming just the seventh player in school history to do so. Redshirt freshman Travis Thomas looks good in preseason drills and should get his share of touches. Those two should see the bulk of the carries, with Marcus Wilson spelling them. 
Rhema McKnight was the most consis­tent receiver last season. The Irish will 


need players like Maurice Stovall and Jeff Samaradzija to step up in 2004. The tight ends are talented and aplen­ty. 
The defense may not be quite the same without Courtney Watson and Vontez Duff, but the unit will still be for­midable. 
The defensive line will be led by a downright nasty duo of ends in Justin Tuck and Victor Abiamiri. Tuck may be the best defensive end in the nation and Abiamiri could be the same in another year or two. 
The linebackers get Mike Goolsby back after an injury-filled 2003. Corey Mays has also stepped up in preseason prac­tice and should see more playing time. 
Then there are the defensive backs, a unit that has many Notre Dame fans nervous to say the least. New defensive backs coach Steven Wilks has his hands full, but he does have talented, albeit young, players to work with. 
The kicking game could be iffy, espe­cially on punts. But ILJ. Fitzpatrick showed improvement filling in for the injured Nicholas Setta during the second part of' last season. 
All in all, this team is significantly bet­ter than last year's. Does that mean Notre Dame fans can bank on eight or nine wins and a respeetable bowl appearance? No. 
As Willingham will tell you, lining teams up on paper is only worth so much. It's the execution during games which matters the most. 
But one certainty is that the team Willingham and the coaching staff puts on the field this year will have much more potential than the 2003 squad. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joe Hettler atjhettler@nd.edu 
Mr. George Piggford, C.S.C.  Join us as our brothers in Holy Cross celebrate their perpetual profession of vows and consecrate themselves to Christ forever: ANSWER~ THECALLW  

Friday, August 27, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Questions galore 
Rebounding from a disappointing 2003 hinges on these nine factors 
year he needs to regain his 

By MATT LOZAR 
2002 form for the Irish Sporrs Writer 
offense to be balanced. Of the four running backs 

After the Heturn to Glory in behind Grant, only Marcus 2002 and a disappointing Wilson has seen the playing 2003, Tyrone Willingham is field, and he hasn't been very standing at a very important successful --averaging just rrossroads. 2.6 yards per carry. Travis 
The third year in South Thomas has raised some eye­Bend has been legendary for brows in fall camp, and many with Frank Leahy, Ara Darius Walker has all the Parseghian, Dan Devine and expectations of being nothing Lou Holtz all winning consen­Jess than a star. sus national titles in their third year and Knute Receivers reaching their Hoekne's 1920 team tying for potential the top ranking in one of the Hhema McKnight is looked many lesser polls at that at as the playmaker of the time. receiving corps. He has the 
The seven other coaches in speed to make a big play and, Irish history went a combined most importantly, wants to be 35-33-2 in their third years, the playmaker on offense. with no national titles and There is a Jot of additional thrnn losing seasons. talent at receiver. Fellow jun­
Needless to say, this year ior Maurice Stovall has the should set the tone for physical gifts to become a Willingham's tenure at Notre star but has had major prob­Dame. The following nine fac­lems catching passes consis­tors will have a major bearing tently. Sophomore Jeff on the direction of this pro­Samardzija had a good camp gram. and is as versatile as anyone ter after red-shirting last sea­of Victor Abiamiri. cern especially with the wide 
on this team. Former quarter­son. Bob Morton will move The sophomore flashed an receivers from Michigan in Brady Quinn's progression back Holiday had an entire from center to left guard. unending wealth of potential week two. If the Irish can't 
Thrown into the fire as a off-season to Jearn the receiv­Ryan Harris changes sides as a true freshman and get a pass rush, the second­true freshman. Brady Quinn er position after making the from right tackle to protect­should be ready to take the ary needs people to step up or made 59 pass attempts in his switch mid-season in 2003. If ing Quinn's blind side at left next step toward being one of results like the Florida State first start, just four games he can find his role in the tackle. On the right side, the best defensive ends in the game in 2003, where in to his collegiate career. offense as the No. 3 or 4 Mark Levoir is at right tackle country this year. Craphonso Thorpe set a With Carlyle Holiday proving receiver option, the receiving and a slimmed-down Dan Fifth-year senior Greg Pauly record for most receiving unsuccessful in Willingham's corps will be deep and dan­Stevenson is at right guard. has never attained the expec­yards by a single player pro-style offense, the coach­gerous. The most exciting aspect of tations coming with being a against Notre Dame, could ing staff decided to go with this year's line might not even USA Today first-team All­happen again. Quinn. In many critics~ eyes, Offensive line's be this season. All five of American. Pauly is projected Quinn became the future experience those projected starters have as a starter along with Trevor Managing the schedule quarterback of the program When Sean Milligan went eligibility to return in 2005. Laws, who should receive a It's tough, but not as brutal from the day he committed. down with an early-season push from Derek Landri. The as last year. 
After making nine starts in injury, the offensive line basi­Justin Tuck and Kyle depth at defensive tackle isn't The Irish still face eight 2003. Quinn enters this sea­cally had five different Budinscak returning from overwhelming, so this posi­teams that reached bowls last son much more acclimated to starters from the prior sea­ACL injuries tion remains a question mark. season and have two top-10 the speed of the college game. son. That inexperience If these two defensive line teams in USC and Michigan, He has had a whole year to showed in inconsistent play. players can get back to being Health of linebackers along with a difficult road work with his receivers on The quarterbacks had to as healthy as one could hope The preseason injury that game at Tennessee. timing, and the offensive line move around in the pocket to Jess than a year removed appears to be the scariest for This team has to take returns with an invaluable avoid the never-ending from ACL surgery, the Irish the Irish is seeing Brandon advantage of winning at year of experience. blitzes, something Quinn did defensive line will fall into Hoyte in a sling. home. The only game at home 
Quinn needs that experi­better than Holiday, which place. Tuck set the school Linebacker probably has where the Irish shouldn't be ence to carry over from the partially explains why he record for sacks in 2003 and the least depth of any position favored is Michigan. The road practice field to actual game replaced him so early in the has his eyes on the NCAA on the team and with Hoyle's games at BYU and Navy are conditions. Last season, season. record in 2004. Budinscak is return unknown, winnable while the night Holiday looked especially This year, the offensive line a solid and consistent player. Corey Mays slides into the game at Michigan State looms sharp in a two-minute drill only graduated one starter. Along with Tuck and starting lineup. After Mays, as a dangerous trap. open to the media during fall John Sullivan looks like he is Budinscak on the outside is only one of the four backup Willingham and the players practice. By the end of the going to be the starting cen-the continued rise to stardom linebackers saw the field in know the schedule isn't get­Michigan State game, he was 2003. ting any easier in the near watching from the sidelines Mike Goolsby returns to future, so just about every and making a position middle linebacker after miss­week the Irish are facing a change. ing last season due to a big-time opponent. It's hard 
If Quinn gets hurt, the sea­Bookstore Basketball injury. for them to take a week off son could go downhill in a Derek Curry always seems to when a "down" opponent is hurry with Pat Dillingham as be around the ball and look­someone like Washington or the primary backup. Two true ing to make a big play. Boston College. freshmen --Darren Bragg Any other injuries would be and David Wolke --are devastating to this position. Getting the swagger back behind Dillingham and those Willingham started to men­freshmen aren't at the same Finding playmakers in the tion this toward the end of point Quinn was last year at secondary last year, but from the 2002 this time. Over the past two seasons, team the one thing that was 
the secondary has lost four missing was the swagger of a Ryan Grant finding his 2002 starters to the NFL and the team that believes they can­form depth hasn't been in place to not be beaten. The Irish lost 
In 2002, Ryan Grant replace that loss of talent. that swagger when Shane became the seventh player in Cornerback Dwight Ellick Walton graduated. With the Notre Dame history to record probably has the firmest grip rough end to 2002 and four a 1,000-yard season, but he on a starting position but he blowout losses in 2003, this had a difficult 2003 and hasn't used his speed to make team was beaten physically rededicated himself in the off­big plays yet. and mentally. season. Grant looked faster Safety Quentin Burrell has That's where someone and quicker in the Blue-Gold been injured through camp needs to step up. game, making cuts and find­and is being challenged by Winning in the early season ing holes he dido 't find in Tom Zbikowski for a starting and not getting blown out will 2003. spot. give this team confidence to 
A rejuvenated Julius Jones Mike Richardson is listed have a chance in every game eventually earned the starting opposite Ellick at cornerback this season. job last season and went on and Preston Jackson will After 2003, that's about all to record three 200-yard probably be the nickel back. fans can realistically ask. games en route to amassing And Lionel Bolen is currently 



1,268 yards on the year. Irish running back Julius Jones runs for a touchdown against listed at the other safety spot. Grant became the second­Pittsburgh last season. Replacing Jones' offensive output will be None of those names jump Contact Matt Lozar at string running back, but this one of Notre Dame's biggest questions to answer this season. out and that is a major con-mlozar@nd.edu 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
. 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 27, 2004 
sco 
lNG 
CORNERBACK 
Dwight FJ!ick­Sr. 
A veteran eor­rwrbaek who W<L<; also an all­Big Eao.;t runner on NotrP Dame's track and field team in 2003, l~llick is one of the fastest players on the ll~am and should be able to usn his spcNI to makn some plays. I~lliek will probably also sen time returning kiekofls. 

WIDE RECEIVER 
Maurice Stovall ­Jr. 
As a sptwdy widnout in 2003, Stovall battiPd prob­
lems with eon­sistnncy. lin enters 2004 as a 

potential big-play guy and his !wight (6-5) should makP him diff'ieult to dnft~nd. Stovall 
made 22 catclws for 421 yards and throe touchdowns in 2003. 
FREE SAFETY 
Quentin Burrell -Sr. 
Burrell fin­ished fourth on the 2003 Irish with 58 tack­les, including 

., 

SEPTEMBER 4 SEPTEMBER 11 SEPTEMBER 18 SEPTEMBER 25 OCTOBER 2
.... 
z 

w 
••
z :·~....(/',;' 
0 

L ~Ufi·r·· 
•0 ~~i·
L -, 
Head coach: Lloyd Carr Head coach: John L. Smith Head coach: Keith Gilbertson Head coach: Joe Tiller 
0 
0 

Last year's record: I 0-3 Last year's record: 8-5 Last year's record: 6-6 Last year's record: 9-4 
N 

Last game vs. NO: Last game vs. ND: Last game vs. ND: Last game vs. ND: .,::c Sept. 13, 2003 Sept. 20, 2003 Oct. 12, I 996 Sept. 27, 2003 Michigan 38, Notre Dame 0 Michigan St. 22, Notte Dame 16 Notre Dame 54, Washington 20 Purdue 23, Notre Dame I 0 Norrel
-
all:-

cepting four passes and caus­ing two fumbles on last year's team, Burrell is expected to be one of the team's defensive leaders this season. 
RIGHT END 


Kyle Budinscak -Sr. Greg Pauly -Sr. Trevor Laws -Soph. 
Budinscak started Pauly is a fifth-year Laws was injured last the first eight games of defensive lineman who year and did not see any 2003, before missing played in 11 games in action on the field, but the remainder of the 2003, starting against he is loaded with poten­season with an injury. Pittsburgh and Boston tial for 2004. As a prep 
College. He rotated playing time with star at Apple Valley (Min and picked up three sacks for 16 Cedrie Hilliard and Darrell Campbell, but Laws was named a USA yards. both those players have graduated. All-America defensive li 
LEFT TACKLE CENTER 
RIGHT GUARD 
Ryan Harris -John Sullivan -Dan Stevenson -
Soph. Sop h. Sr. Harris made Sullivan has S t ~~ v e n s o n an immediate emerged as started 2003 at impact in one of the right guard, 200:~. starting stars of' this but missnd the eight games as year's line Navy and BYU a freshman. lie could become r position over to start this sea-after an impressive pnrl'orm­games with an injury. 
ance in 2004 ~pri".!?-~ractice. lnetnd an interception
llill~!~l~th~.nati?~:~t..;'~;,,..•. '""'"'"··""·'""·,..,!ifiJ son;$ 

QUARTERBACK 
Brady Quinn -Soph. 

Quinn stepped in as a starter in 2003 against Purdue and hasn't looked back since. lie a ed 59 passes in that game, the second-most pass attempts in Irish history, ineluding an 8 touchdown to Mauriee Stovall. He fought inconsistency all year as a freshman, finishing the with 15 interceptions and nine touchdowns. 
FULLBACK 
Rashon Powers-Neal-Sr. 

Powers-Neal caught a 59-yard touchdown in tho 2004 Blue-Gold game and figures to be a satile offensive option at the fullback position this year. As a converted tailback. he proved cult to tackle and should provide the Irish with depth in the baeklield this season. He did not a touchdown in 2003, but scored two as a sophomore in 2002. 
RUNNING BACK 
Ryan Grant -Sr. 

After rushing for over 1,000 yards in 2002, Grant was relegated to a backup role to Julius Jor in 2003. With Jones in the NFL, the starting job this year should return to Grant, who key part of Notre Dame's 10-3 season in 2002. Last year, he colleeted 510 yards on 143 and seored three touchdowns . 
INTERIOR LINEBACKER 
INTERIOR LINEBACKER 
OU' 
Mike Goolsby -Sr. Corey Mays -Sr. 
Goolsby missed all of Mays played in all 12 2003 with an injury, games for the Irish last and will return to the year, primarily on spneial inside linebacker posi­teams, but saw aetion at tion he manned in linebacker in the 2002. On that team, Goolsby finished Washington State game. Mays will likely third in tackles with 75 and also colleet­start this year against BYU, after 2003 ed four sacks. starter Brandon lloyte injured his right arm. 
NOSE GUARD DEFENSIVE TACKLE 



Friday, August 27, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
THE IRISH 
STRONG 

used in a much larger role 

DE LINEBACKER this year. He had one start last season, against Florida State, and saw action in 10 other
Curry-Sr. 
games during 2003, collecting

rry is expected to 
12 tackles.

JOe of the team's ers this year, after ng 24 of 25 games CORNERBACK last two seasons. 
Mike Richardson 

lccted 66 tackles and 4.5 sacks 
-Jr.

year. while also collecting two 
After playingptions. 

most of 2003 at 
:. y , .----..:..~t".J~:::.-.;:-;;:~-:1!·,·~~-:-:.;...~-h-~-; '.'-~ :"'"" -~~=~ :;,=·· special teams 

t--------, 
and as a back­
LEFT END 
up to starters Dwight Ellick and Jason Justin Tuck-Sr. 
Beckstrom, Richardson is 

After sitting out 2004 expected to compete for a start spring practice with an at cornerback this season. He injury, Tuck is ready to finished the 2003 season with once again contribute on 16 tackles, including 10 solo the Notre Dame pass tackles. rush. His 13.5 sacks last season was a new , Irish single-season sack record, and he also led the team in tackles for a loss with 19. 
RIGHT TACKLE 
TIGHT END WIDE RECEIVER 
Mark LeVoir­Billy Palmer ­Sr. Sr. 
Rhema 
LeVoir has Served as the McKnight-Jr. thf' most expe­primary starter McKnight was rience of the at tight end in the top receiver 2004 linemen, 2003, rotating for the Irish in and started all 2003, leading 12 games of 2003 at left ~:>~e s;~\~/eJ~red Clark and ~ the team in guard. sophomore Anthony Fasano. ::. catches (47), yards (600) and tied 

.,.o. ;··.·;.*·'··;:-:', .;f!!~'<;~'•\•ifi!ft?!!fi!iig!!fjijij!§#\\'. 
with Stovall for the most receiv-z ing touchdowns (three). He enters the season as Quinn's ,­number-one receiver and should 
f' 

tt­
be poised for a breakout year. ' rd ar 
lllultratlon by MIKE HARKINS and JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Depth chart provided by Notre Dame Sporta Information 

Predictions 
The third year makes or breaks you at Notre Dame, and it's the same for Tyrone Willingham.This team has as much talent as almost anyone in the country, the schedule is manageable and the hunger should be there. Gone are the days of expecting a 10-1 or 11-0 season every year -at least for right now. But 2004 will be a step in the right direction. 
Prediction: 9-3 with a bowl win 
This year's team has the talent and potential to do good things. Brady Quinn has a year under his belt. The offensive line is back with more experience as well. The Irish offense can put points on the board if everyone stays healthy. This team has a lot to prove, and in Tyrone Willingham's third season, there is no better time to start. 
Prediction: 8-4 with a bowl win 
Notre Dame has the talent to improve over a dismal 2003 cam­paign. The offense is better, the 
~ 

defense has potential and the 
I~ ~1 

schedule is somewhat easier. But, like any year, Notre Dame must execute to win and do so consis­tently. By season's end, this team should do enough to quiet critics for at least another year. 
Joe Hettler Sports Writer

Prediction: 8-4 with a bowl loss 
A lighter schedule means more wins. The loss of Julius Jones means more losses. But the record of this team depends on how the Irish fare in their biggest games: Michigan, Tennessee and USC. Victories against the Wolverines and Trojans could cause a quick turnaround. The secondary is a huge question mark, and teams will throw against them.with relentless air attacks. 
Prediction: 7-4, no bowl 
It's probably safe to say that Notre Dame was better than a 5-7 team last year. Poor execution in the Michigan State and Boston College games cost Notre Dame potential victories, and it would have been interesting to see what would have happened if Julius Jones had been used earlier and more often. The team should be better this year. 
Prediction: 8-4 with a bowl loss 






Head coach: Paul Johnson  Head coach: Tom O'Brien  Head coach: Phillip Fulmer  Head coach: Walt Harris  Head coach: Pete Carroll  
Last year's record: 8-5  Last year's record: 8-5  Last year's record: I 0-3  Last year's record: 8-5  Last year's record: 12-1  
game vs. ND:  Last game vs. ND:  Last game vs. ND:  Last game vs. ND:  Last game vs. ND:  Last game vs. ND:  
29,2003  Nov. 8, 2003  Oct. 25, 2003  Nov. 3, 2001  Ocr. 11, 2003  Oct. 18, 2003  
c 57, Stanford 7  Notre Dame 27, Navy 24  Boston Coil. 27, Notre Dame 25  Tennessee 28, Notre Dame 18  Notre Dame 20, Pittsburgh 14  USC 45, Notre Dame 14  


PLAYERS TO WATCH RYAN GRANT VICTOR ABIAMIRI RUNNING BACK DEFENSIVE END 
In 2002, Grant became just the seventh player in Notre Dame history to rush for over 1,000 yards. After being pushed to the backup role last year during the re-emergence or Julius Jones, Grant will need to return to 2002 form if Notre Dame is to have a balanced offense. 
As a true freshman, Abiamiri steppe.d in and proved a force on the Irish pass rush. Although he only recorded one sack in 2003, he helped cause chaos in the opponent's backfield all year. 
by the numbers 
Brady Quinn's completion percentage last year (157 completions in 332 attempts). He 
47.3
will look to be more consistent this year. 
8 
number of teams that Notre Dame plays this season who participated in a bowl game in 
2003. 
Notre Dame's wins in its last 14 games. Those losses included a 45-14 loss to USC and a38-0 shutout by Michigan in 2003. 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 27, 2004 
Sizing up last year's performance 
total yards gained 
total yards allowed 
=--------' 
rushing TDs scored rushing TDs allowed 
= 
rushing yards gained 
rushing yards allowed 

passing TDs scored passing TDs allowed 
= 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
first downs 
first downs allowed 
field goals scored 

=-n-2___.1field goals against 
Irish time of possession Opponents' T.O.P. 
yards penalized Opponents' yards penalized 



Welcome New and Returning Notre Dame -St. Mary's Students*Faculty*Staff 
Notre Dame Papa John's  St. Mary's Papa John's  
1823 South Bend Avenue  North Village Mall  
271-1177  271-7272  

&DOD LUCK COACH TY WILLINGHAM AND THE ENTIRE ND COACHING STAFF and PLAYERS!! &D IRISH!! 
Papa John's Pizza is proud to be a Promotional Partner of Notre Dame Athletics and the Official Delivery Pizza of NCAA Athletics. 
r-----• 
r LUNCHSPEciM •
1 IRISH SPECIAl. I ~iii••-THURSDAY~ 

large 1-topplng, I Small 1-toi lng &: 2 20-oz I 
large Thin Crust Cheese I

I Breadstlcks &: Coke 4-to-go I I Pizza I cokes 8.!1!1 I
• S14..BB 1 Iopen til 4:00 p.m. 1
1 S!I.B!I 1
lc__._....,....,.,_aAa I 
I c-,_, ~~cqu~,..,. .,.,._ ~o ...,._...,....,_

eA71 I c ..... ,_. llcqul.-..1. ......... lO day•.cAtI
ott.., good fOf' • Uml.tfil ltmtr ..t pMtklp•.tlng r..,._ 

I 
Johft"s N'll-.nll onl)r AddiUon•l lopptny~ •xtr•. I Ofier good tor a llmfted lime M partklp.atlng Pap~~ Off«>r yood tor • UmU.-d tlrt\C' at IUlrtklpaliAfJ PaJW Not v.-lkt wftt\ .ny ott..r couporn Of dhc:ount1 I fohn'i rest•ur•nU onty. Addllkmal topping" eJrtra. I I John's ~st..luritntt only. Additional lopplngt enr•. I llmlt•d del~ ,.,.... <h•rQ•'~~ "'•Y •PP'Y Nqt v•ltd with _.y other coupon\ or diKOunU. Not v.alkl wtth ..-.y othet-<oupor\' or diM:DLU'tb . Umlt•d delivery area, ct·u•rg•• m•y •pply. limited deltve-1')' area. c;hcuy•\ m•y apply.• c~ ,.=..,._:,:••=':.;;. .. 
• Cu: r~l*;;,;; •r:lr:;. .. •Cus=~=btt-:.:1•~~~ • 
PARTY PAR
·-----· ·-----· 

r -CHEESEii1-.. r-----•
1 FAMILY SPECIAl 1 LATE NITE
I 2 large 1-topping, 2 I
large Works and 

I Breadstlcks, &: Coke 4 to I I large Cheese and your I I SPECIAl I
I 1 large 2-topplng I Go for only choice of breadsticks or I 1 Ex-large 1-topping for II cheesesticks
1 SIB.BB 1 the price of a large only
I S24.!1B I 
I S12.!1!1

I c_,_. ,_,.._, • ..,..._ H ....,... e4'ihI I~ ........, E&fi'W..30d•:r• erAs I I S11.BBfiililllrla I 
I 
Off• QOOd ,_. • lltntt.d UnM .. partki(Wdk\t;l Papa Offer good for • N..ut.d time> •t p..ntkt!Htfng Papa tohn'~ ,.,..•ur-'t only. Addttlon•f topptnqto •Jrtr•. I I &ohn't: ren.urantto ooty. Addition.I topplnljp extr• I I Cou~ IW(pllnnl. E.aptr.u 30 ~-.....I I I CtNifiii"'rJ .....,..,. E....... 30 days I 
Not vMfd wtth MIY ot!Mr ca.tpon1 or dJw:ounu Not vaUd wtth any othcf-coupon~ Of' dfKOUnf1. Olf.,. flood tor • hmfted Unw at p•rtJdp41Unq P•p.a Oftet' good fOf' • ltrntted tim• at p•rlklp.aUng Papa Umtted d•l.....,. •rea. ch•flte' m•y •PP'Y· Umll11d CS.IIv.ry .,..... chfllrge1 m•)' .ppty. I tohn'.~o re11t.ur.-nt11 onfy. Ac:ldlt1on•l toppings e.ua. I I fohn's rest•ur...,U Qtlfy, AddJtk.Nul toppings ,...ld.ra. I Not v11Ud wtth .any other cuupon1o or dbcounts. Not valkl wtth any other <.GUpon!l or dlscountl..
•Cu•=r.-:;.~ :.:'~Jt t;;. • ..Cu=~s:;:~ :.;:~ t=. • LtmU~d delfv..-y •r4!fll, c:h•rges may •pply. llmlt'"t c:H-Uvery area, ch-n-gf:\s m•y •J)ply.
.. _____ ..
Cus.tomer ~spon~ble for aM appllc•btf-U1J1:e:.;. 

.Cus=n!=hM:,:••p::.bfet;:. • 
•-----DVo----• •---C=•~oi:' 4-:t.o~o--• SCHOOL HOURS SUMMER/HOLIDAY HOURS 
I Buy any large of Ex-large Pizza at regular I I*Coca-Cola 4-to-Go is 4 20-oz bottlesl Monday-Thursday Monday-Thursday 1menu price and get FREE your choice of any llfor the price of 3 Including 4 FREE 1 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. of our 3 OVOs. Titles change every two Music Match downloads Friday -Saturday Friday -SaturdayI months. Through December 2004. I I I 
11 :00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m. 11 :00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 
Sunday Sunday 
If your group is having a meeting or planning a get-together, call for information on our large Order Discount. 

·-----------~·----------· 
Noon to 1:00 a.m. Noon to 12:00 a.m. We NOW offer Grilled Chicken and fresh sliced Roma Tomatoes 
DELIVERY DELIVERY 
Try our Chicken Barbeque Bacon on our thin crust pizza dough 

NOTRE DAME PAPA JOHN'S ST. MARY'S PAPA JOHN'S 
Try our Spinach Alfredo Chicken Tomato 

271-1177 271-PAPA 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Dillingham ready to step up as backup QB 
Former wa:lk-on and MSU 2002 game hero will be second-string signalcaller 
Fitzpatrick leads the way for special teams ·­
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
After a game-winning field goal by a walk-on place kick­er with a walk-on holder beat Navy in 2003, this year's kicking game should be improved. 
Leading the way will be walk-on place kicker and punter D.J. Fitzpatrick. In 2003, he took over the start­ing jobs after Nicholas Setta went down against Pittsburgh with an injury. Fitzpatrick started the final eight games of the season and converted 12-of-17 field goal attempts, including the game-winner against Navy. But this year will be different for the senior, as he knows he is the starting place kick­er, and maybe punter. 
"Last year I was just kind of thrown into the mix, so this year I got that good year under my belt, I'm a lot more comfortable, and I don't have to worry about fighting off the nerves," Fitzpatrick said. "I can just go in there and do what I know how to do and relax." 
Fitzpartick said he is more prepared this year for the expectations. 
"Last year, I didn't even have time to think about it, I was just kind of thrown into the mix and whatever hap­pened, happened," he said. "This year, the expectations are higher from others and from myself. So I'm definitely more confident, and want to get out there and see what I can do and help the team as much as I can." 
At the punting position, the battle is still underway for the starting spot. Redshirt freshman Geoffrey Price is competing with Fitzpatrick, despite having no collegiate experience. Price shined in the spring Blue-Gold game, booting six punts for an aver­age of 45.8 yards, including punts of 64 and 55 yards. He handled the kicking duties throughout that game. 
"The spring game was good," Price said. "I enjoyed that. The beginning of camp, I think I was doing pretty well. I've had a couple of off days lately. Now I just have to get focused and get back on track, hopefully." 
Coach Tyrone Willingham said he is still waiting to see who will emerge as the team's punter. 
"We're still very much in a competition there with Geoff Price and D.J. Fitzpatrick, so we don't know how that one is going to shake out or when it will shake out," Willingham said. "But hopefully we'll know something by the time we start this ballgame Lagainst BYU]." 
Willingham also said he is looking for consistency, but would prefer a kicker who can be "spectacular." 
"When you start to work your way backwards, I say, that's the issue of being con-sistent," Willingham said. "What you would love to have is spectacular. If we get spectacular now, I'll probably be very happy. But if you can't get spectacular, then what you want is consisten­cy." 
Fitzpatrick worked on his punting game over the sum­mer after averaging 36.8 yards per punt in 2003. 
"I worked all spring, sum­mer, earlier this fall," the senior said. "I really worked hard on my punting game because that was the down­side of my experience last year. My kicking's coming along great, so I'm excited to get this year going. 

"It's great having a guy like Geoff pushing me, knowing that someone is nipping right at your heels wanting your job, so everything's up in the air. These positions are 'What-have -you-done -for­me-lately' type positions, so I'm just trying to do the best I can. So whatever coach ... decides, whoever ends up out there is going to do a good job." 
Although the kicking game is not set in stone, the return game has the potential to be exciting. 
Junior Rhema McKnight will be the primary return man, and senior Carlyle Holiday could also see action. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Ediror 
He threw 59 passes in his first start. lie took his blows against the likes of USC, Florida State and even Syracuse. And he's back on his feet. Now, all indications point to a healthy Brady Quinn leading the charge of a resurrected offense with a year of experience. 

"Probably the biggest thing is you've got a quarterback that has got a year under his belt, understands the system, and I think that helps tremendously in your overall production and execution," offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "[Brady has] stepped up and become more of a leader and that's some­thing that we really lacked quite a bit last year." 
Senior running back Ryan Grant has more experience on the offensive side of the ball, but Quinn receives the major responsibility of lead­ership because of his posi­tion. And so do the backup quarterbacks. 
Senior Pat Dillingham, the most likely to backup Quinn to start the season, has his name sealed in Notre Dame football history after complet­ing a simple slant pattern to Arnaz Battle in 2002 that turned into a game-winning, 60-yard touchdown against Michigan State. 
Dillingham, however, has never received the call to consistently contribute to the Irish offense. Since even Quinn is not invincible at the targeted quarterback posi­tion, Dillingham has had to 
prepare  as  if he  were  the  
starter.  
''I'm  preparing  like  I'm  

going to back up [Quinn]," 

CLEMENT SUHENDRA!The Observer 
Darren Bragg is one of two freshman quarterbacks on the Irish squad this season. 
Dillingham said. "There has­n't been any official announcement. [Butl I'm get­ting most of the backup reps and preparing like I'm going to play, and that's the only way you can be ready." 
Coaches are pleased with Dillingham's progress, since the next backup after Dillingham would be one of two true freshmen, Darren Bragg and David Wolke. 
"I issued a challenge to Pat at the end of spring ball that if he was going continue to improve, there were things that he had to do," Diedrick said. "And I think that Pat did a great job over the summer, prepared himself both physi­cally and mentally ... we're quite pleased with where he has come from spring ball." 

The freshmen have begun learning the offensive system. Still, much like young run­ning back Darius Walker has spoken of adjusting to a more complicated offense, Bragg and Wolke have unofficially become secondary to Dillingham in the backup role of Quinn. 
"I think that both [fresh­men] have progressed in camp, probably not as far as I would like," Diedrick said. "I think the combination of sore arms and mental overload kind of hit them at a number of spots. But I think they've both worked through it, and they're still getting reps." 
Dillingham has been in the system for three years and said he understands the offense enough to be a serv­iceable backup. 
"It's just ·a matter of going out there and executing," Dillingham said. 
The offense under Quinn has progressed throughout the fall. 
"You're probably never as consistent as you'd like to be [on offense] and that's the thing we coaches harp on," Willingham said. "That's the thing you're always striving for." 
Dillingham hopes he has improved to that point, to where if Quinn cannot play for one reason or another, the offense will not miss a beat. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

--------~--------------------~ 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, August 27, 2004 
[pfj~ QDCP Yr®~ @X2~~C2 B[l OO®m @X2 m~\D~ w~a~ 11® tr®Q!JC2 ~0 
Yr®~ ~~ITJ B~ ®~ CS®[i]liJtillJ®o 


o 
Shop the largest selection of used textbooks 

o 
Search for books by course number a One-stop for all your course books and materials a No hassle returns and exchanges 


------····-~-­
/ 
( The best place for books is closer than you think 


HAMMES 


.. 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631..6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

I ~ I 










