
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students attend March for Life in Washington 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 

Over 30 years ago, the Supreme Court legalized abortion, but for several Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, the matter is far from settled. 
About 200 students will attend the 31st annual March for Life in Washington today. Janel Daufenbach, president of Notre Dame Hight to Life, said the march oll'crs a valuable opportu­nity to express the pro-life mes­sage. 
"We're going to protest the 31st anniversary of Hoe v. Wade," Daufenbach said, referring to the 1973 Supreme Court decision that legalized abortion on demand. "It's very powerful to see so many people protesting this horrible law. 
Chartered buses carrying the students left Wednesday evening to travel to the nation's capital. 
Later today, the students will join about 200,000 other pro-life advocates in a march from the Washington Monument to the Supreme Court. 
"It's heartening to see so many college students," she said. 
Daufenbach went on to say the marchers hope to change public perceptions surrounding the abortion debate. 
"If we really want to change the world, we have to change how people view the beginning of a child's life," she said. 
Some members of the Notre Dame delegation will also partici­pate in a student leadership con­ference sponsored by American Collegiates for Life, a student pro­life organization. The conference, to. be held Friday and Saturday at Catholic University, will feature an address by Bernard Nathanson, a former pro-choice activist who is now against abortion. 
see MARCH/page 4 

·Diocese complies with sex abuse policy 
Critics: church not doing enough to help victims 


Pro-life demonstrators pray In front of the Supreme Court In Washington, D.C. during last year's March for Life, which Is an annual march against the Roe v. Wade decision that legalized abortion. 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group updated on elections 
The Student Senate received 

reports concerning other fac­
tions of the Student Union at 
Wednesday's meeting. 
Judicial board president 

Elliot Poindexter updated 
Senators on the student body 
presidential election, which 
has already begun in its pre­
liminary stages. 
Poindexter reported that the 

petitions, which must be sub­
mitted before any candidate 
can be approved to run for 
office, are due Friday by 5 
p.m. He also confirmed that "elections will be held on the internet. 
"We will have elections online this year as we did last year ... We will be running a test first to make sure the process works," he said. 
He said that after presiden­tial elections, the student union will hold elections for class councils. 
Poindexter informed sena­tors that petitions for those positions will be available on Feb. 2. 
In addition to Poindexter's report, senators heard from Lewis senator Claire Berezowitz, one of the Senate's four representatives on the Council of Representatives. 
Berezowitz said that the Council is working on a struc­ture for the Student Union and progress has been made. 
"We voted on the major structures, but we haven't hammered out the details yet," she said. 
So far, the Council has pro­vided for two main bodies ­programming and policy ­designed to make running the Student Union more efficient. 
"We created two cabinets on the programming side and the policy side so they can coordi­nate events and not overlap," Berezowitz told senators. 
In other Senate news: 
+Pangborn Senator and chair of the Senate's commit­tee on gender issues Kaitlyn 
see SENATE/page 4 

Kennedy daughter to speak at SMC 
This article is part one of a two-part news series by C. Spencer Beggs. 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
News Writer 
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops has published the findings of an audit meant to gauge how well each of its 195 dioceses and eparchies in the country is complying with new guidelines to reduce sexual abuse by priests and lay church workers and reach out to victims. 
The report was part of the USCCB"s response· to the sex scan­dal that has rocked the Catholic Church for the past two years. When reports that former Boston Cardinal Bernard Law moved a priest, John Geoghan. from parish to parish despite evidence that he sexually abused children, the church was faced with one of its biggest public scandals in history. 
Faced with mounting criticism and negative press, the USCCB adopted the "Charter for the Protection of Children and Young People" in June 2002. The charter established the USCCB Office of Child and Youth Protection, which is monitored by a national review board composed of lay Catholics. The OCYP was required to create an auditing system to monitor the progress of each diocese and eparchy toward compliance with the charter. The results of the audit are published in a public annual report. 
The audit process consisted of an onsite review of each diocese and eparchy by investigator selected by the USCCB. The Gavin Group, Inc. of Boston. a corporate 
see CHURCH/page 4 By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer· 
Human rights activist Kerry Kennedy will speak as the Keynote Address Speaker in Saint Mary's annual Play of the Mind conference tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. She is the daughter of Robert F. Kennedy, and has led over 40 human rights delegations in 30 different countries. 
Kennedy has worked on a variety of human rights issues from child labor and ethnic vio­lence to the environment and women's rights. It is hoped that her interaction with students, faculty and administrators from different schools and back­grounds will lead to a greater understanding of others and themselves. 
"Kerry Kennedy was selected because she herself represents the impact that one individual can have on the world," event coordinator Marcia Rickard said. 
Kennedy is also the author of "Speak Truth to Power: Human Rights Defenders who are Changing our World," which fea­tures interviews from human rights activists from around the world. A theater production based on this book will be pre­sented in April. 
The Play of the Mind confer­ence invites Saint Mary's. stu­dents. along with students from other colleges, to interact cre­atively and intellectually to fig­ure out how to meet the chal­lenges that are facing women in our society. 
Ten other colleges have been invited to this year's event. These schools are from all over the country; some from as close as Holy Cross College to as far away as Bennett College in Greensboro, N.C. 

"The theme, Examining Identity, was chosen for the Play of the Mind Conference to link with the first-year theme of the College because it is one which is so important for all of us," said Rickard. 
The Play of the Mind confer­ence began in 1991 and has been held every January since then. The goal of this year's con­ference is to vigorously explore the responsibilities an intellect h8lds in today's world to make a difference in the world. Students, faculty and administrators will 
see KENNEDY/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, January 22, 2004 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Chinese food here 
Happy 4 701! That's right, it's the Chinese New Year. 
This week marks the beginning of the Year of the Monkey in the Chinese lunar calendar. And what better way to 
celebrate than by ordering some Chinese food, delivered right to your dorm by the friendly people at Golden Dragon? 
Let me start by 


saying that Knott Matt Bramantl Hall loves South Bend's finest Chinese delivery Wire Editor shop. When I say "loves," I don't just mean we enjoy their food. We love them like mothers Jove their babies, like hip­pies love their Birkenstocks, like Howard Dean loves screaming like a maniac. 
I hardly know where to begin, as 
I extol the virtues of the Juggs' 
favorite supplier of Eastern 
delights. 
The variety is simply astonishing. The Dragon's minions serve six­count 'em, six-varieties of lo mein. My personal favorite is roast pork, but beef, chicken, veggie, shrimp, and "house special" can all be had, and they're all pretty good. At under eight bucks a quart, it's the best deal this side of the Great Wall. 
And the General Tso's chicken is some of the best I've had. What would a Chinese menu be without. the contributions of the Szechuan Army's best-fed commander? 
Even better, the menu is not only extensive, but entertaining. Until recently, the cover of the menu proclaimed, "We Delivery!" 
And they do. 
Just pick up the phone, dial 243­8800, and a half hour later you're the proud recipient of a hot, nonde­script paper bag. You open the bag to find not only your order, but a treasure trove of goodies: free soy sauce, free fortune cookies, and enough free sweet-and-sour sauce to float an aircraft carrier. 
If you're really lucky, the delivery guy will even bring you a calendar, featuring either serene Chinese landscapes or lovely Asian ladies. 
As the smell of hot, fresh Chinese food wafts through the corridors, guys in your section start peeking out their doors. And you hear the same question over and over: "Did you get Golden Dragon?" 
Of course I did, and so should you. After all, 1.1 billion Chinese can't be wrong. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU THINK THE UNIVERSITY SHOULD CLOSE JUNIPER? 









"I think they "Why do they "Yes. And by No. "Sure, after "Yes." 
don't need to want to do that I mean no. " 
close [it], they that?" 
just need to add more stoplights. " 

Big trucker couldn't fit 
Into little rig 

ST. LOUIS -A 412­pound trucker who says he was fired for being unable to fit into a smaller tractor assigned to him got an apology and a right-sized rig from the company Wednesday, resolving a flap both sides passed off as a big misunderstanding. 
Walter Geter, 49, also got back pay to cover his wages since his firing last Thursday, offered up by USF Holland Inc. during a brief hearing over the grievance he filed last week with Teamsters Local 600. 
"They were so apolo­getic, told me it was a mis­take and told me this would never happen again, that I'd always have a truck that I could fit it," 6­foot-2 Geter said from his home in Berkeley, a St. Louis suburb. "They were just the nicest people you would ever want to meet." 
Judge: cookie gesture Is not considered electioneering 
LOS ANGELES Carson's cookie case crum­bled. 
Councilwoman Julie Ruiz Raber was sued by an opponent for alleged elec­tioneering after she deliv­
ered cookies to nearly 
every poll worker in 
Carson on election day last 
March. 
But Superior Court Judge Alexander Williams III ruled Tuesday that the gesture -delivery of snickerdoodles to 24 of 30 polling places -didn't constitute electioneering. The decision allows Ruiz Raber to keep her council post. 
"I was fighting for democracy," Ruiz Raber said, calling it a sour grapes "frivolous lawsuit." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

May." 
IN BRIEF 

Ticket distribution for the Keenan Revue takes place today from 2 to 3 p.m. at gate 10 of the Joyce Center. Student ID's are required to obtain a ticket. 
The College Bowl is the world's longest running general knowledge quiz competition. The tournament will be held today from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. Come watch teams from cam­puses across the country com­pete in a question-and-answer game that tests knowledge in a wide variety of subjects. 
Notre Dame's own bagpipers showcase their skills at the Irish New Year. Come hear the NO Bagpipe Band tonight from 10 
p.m. to midnight at Legends. 

The Late Night Olympics, an all night sports extravaganza and fund raiser for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics will be held tomorrow from 7 
p.m. to 4 a.m. in the Joyce Center. Come participate and support Special Olympics. 
Come enjoy one of the nations's top comics, Kevin McPeek, Friday. McPeek will perform from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m. at Legends. 
Welsh Fmaily Hall will hold its Dance Show this Saturday at 7 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free, and seating is first come first serve. Doors open at 6:30 p.m. 
Come enjoy nightclub dancing at Legends Saturday night from midnight to 4 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
The views expressed in the Inside 

a::
Column are those of the author and 1.&.1 not necessarily those of The Observer. :c Contact Matt Bramanti at mba­!c;: mant@nd. edu 1.&.1 
3: 
..... 
c(
CORRECTIONS (,) 







HIGH LOW 
20 12 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­....0 HIGH 18 14 HIGH 32 32 27 tion and strives for the highest standard~ ofjournal­LOW 12 8 LOW 25 
15 

14
ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 54! so we can Atlanta 51 I 26 Boston 34 I 16 Chicago 16 I 5 Denver 43 I 20 Houston 57 I 44 Los Angeles 72 I 48 Minneapolis 80 1 62 correct our error. New York 37 I 19 Philadelphia 38 I 18 Phoenix 63 I 46 Seattle 48 I 40 St. Louis 34 I 20 Tampa 65 I 44 Washington 44 120 

Thursday, January 22, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Seniors graduate early, reflect trend 
By WILL PUCKETT 
News Writer 
Heflecting a growing trend of more and more seniors receiving diplomas in January, 115 seniors graduated on Jan. 4. 
According to information provided by the Registrar's Office, 63 seniors, or just more than half of the 115 January graduates, were graduating in seven semes­ters. 
The remainder had taken at least nine semesters, although the data does not account for circumstances such as leaves of absence or deferral of graduation, said Nancy Osth, commencement coordinator. 
The total number of under­graduate diplomas granted in January has risen in the past few years. In 2003, there were 122 graduates in January, although it is not certain how many of those were early graduates. 
Prior to· that, in 2002, January graduates totaled 83, although it is again unclear how many of that number graduated early. Before 2002, the number is believed to have been relatively consis­tent. 
The most recently publi­cized January graduation was former student body president Pat Hallahan. 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 
Army boots memorialize soldiers 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -More than 500 pairs of empty Army boots were placed side-by-side in downtown Chicago Wednesday to serve as a reminder of U.S. soldiers killed in Iraq. 
The black boots, some dusty and dirty from use, were placed on Federal Plaza in front of a posterboard display that listed the names, ages and states of all soldiers killed in the war. 
"These young men and women will not have died in vain if truth triumphs," said Michael McConnell. regional director of the American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker peace and social justice group that sponsored the memorial. 
He referred to President Bush's State of the Union address a day earlier in which the president urged the nation to stay the course. "We say reverse the course," McConnell said. "Admit that this war was fought under false pretenses." 
The United States has not been able to find any banned weapons in Iraq, which in large part was Bush's justification for going to war. 
White House spokesman Jim Morrell said Bush "appreciates that we live in a free society where people are free to express their views. But as the president said ... the world is a safer place witho.ut Saddam Hussein's regime." 
The memorial served as a powerful symbol for visitor Becky Schillo. 
"You hear about one or two soldiers being killed, then 500," the 24-year-old said. "It kind of hits home." 
As of Wednesday, 503 U.S. service members have died since the beginning of military operations in Iraq, both from hostile and non-hostile causes. according to the military. 

Conunittee votes on terrorislll bill 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A House committee recommended legis­lation Wednesday that would provide for fast special elections if a terrorist attack killed or incapacitated many House members. 
The measure would require expedited elections under "extraordinary circumstances" when the speaker of the House announces that vacancies in the 435-member chamber exceed, 100. 
The bill, approved 18-10, stip­ulates that parties choose candi­dates within 10 days of that announcement and that state elections be held within 45 days. 
The legislation has also been approved by the House Administration Committee and now goes to the full House for consideration. 
Lawmakers have been consid­ering the ramifications of mass casualties in Congress since the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001. The Senate would be less of a prob­lem because governors can appoint senators when vacan­cies arise prior to an election. Vacancies in the House are filled by special elections. 
Some lawmakers, and an 

independent commission creat­ed after the 2001 attacks, have backed the idea of a constitu­tional amendment that would give the states the flexibility to fill House vacancies either by special elections or appoint­ment. 
But House Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner, H-Wis., the main sponsor of the legislation considered on Wednesday, has opposed the amendment route, saying the House should main­tain its status as a popularly elected body. His bill, he said. would "protect the people's right to chosen representation." 



THE OBSERVER 
IS CURRENTLY ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 
2003--2004 EDITOR-IN--CHIEF 
APPLICANTS MUST SUBMIT BOTH A RESUME AND A lO~PAGE PROPOSAL EXPLAINING THEIR INTEREST IN THE POSITION AND THEIR PLANS FOR RUNNING THE NEWSPAPEil 
APPLICATIONS ARE DUE FRIDAY, JANUARY 23. 
COMPLETED APPLICATIONS CAN BE SUBMITTED TO THE OBSERVER'S OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL. 
CONTACT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ANDREW SOUKUP AT 1-4542 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------~
-

Thursday, January 22, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
March 
continued from page 1 
Nathanson founded the National Association for the Repeal of the Abortion Laws, a major pro-choice organization in 1968. Before renouncing his sup­port of mP.dical abortion, Nathanson personally performed more than 5,000 abortions. 
Students will also have time for sightseeing tours of the monu­ments and memorials in the Washington area, Daufenbach said. 
Daufenbach said the march has traditionally been a peaceful affair. She downplayed the role of pro-choice protesters at the 

Kennedy 
continued from page 1 
be encouraged to do work on their own campuses to under­stand and act wisely in the mod­ern world. 
"I hope that students walk away 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
Redfield reported to Senators that her committee's resolution on creating a Women's Resource Center on campus, which was subsequently passed by the Campus Life Council, has received a response from Father Mark Poorman, University Vice President for Student Affairs. In a letter to former student body president Pat Hallahan, Poorman wrote, "[The resolu­tion] is a positive step towards the ultimate creation of such a 
"»ti· :,::>t« ~t~U::J:A.;t. 
lol Q T a E ,..D,.Is;.M t 
STUDENT 




FILM 

FESTIVAL 

'"'lot· . ):..~ ... ·.,)~·:idea • ...... " '1·":<-Jw,. t:!'H.·.NUl1 .:.s..,~~'?., l<"-!~· :. .,!.. ~..•... ~.mol::i.l'~ '"' ·P".,i;.,.:ft~'=-... _.Q:r........:-:·:: . 
event, and said the media distorts the nature of the clashes. 
"The 200,000 pro-life marchers dominate the tiny, tiny handful of counter-demonstrators," she said. "But the counter-demonstrators get the media time." 
Daufenbach distanced her organization from militant pro­life groups, who often use violent and graphic images of aborted fetuses in their literature and on placards. She emphasized her organization's compassion. 
"It's important to remember that there are two victims in every abortion: the child and the mother," she said. "We need to love them both." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
with new and innovative ideas to make our campus better, as well as the energy and stamina to work hard at making those changes actually occur," said jun­ior Play of the Mind committee member Gillian Short. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
center. I look forward to fur­ther conversations about the center ... " 
+The Senate unanimously approved sophomore Michael Marshall as the new assistant student union treasurer. In his letter of nomination for Marshall, student union treas­urer Don Norton said, "This candidate is well qualified, dedicated and hard working ... I feel that this candidate has the ability to deal with all departments within the Student Union ... " 
Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 


Church 
continued from page 1 
consulting and auditing firm, was hired to serve as an independent agency to verify the results. The Gavin Group sent teams of two to six auditors to 191 sites to inter­view administrators, review doc­uments and policies and issue instructions to dioceses and eparchies found to not be in com­pliance. 
·The Diocese of Fort Wayne­South Bend, which incorporates Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, was audited last August and was found to be compliant with the charter. The audit indicated that the diocese had established an effective prevention policy and a well-publicized code of conduct for priests, deacons and other church personnel who have con­tact with children; no allegations of se~ual misconduct have been reported to the diocese since June 2002 when the auditing system began monitoring, though a statement by Bishop John D'Arcy has indicated the diocese has found credible claims of sex­ual misconduct involving minors against 16 different priests (12 with boys, four with girls). None of these claims involved physical sexual abuse since 1987, he said. The diocese was commended for its early establishment of a sexu­al abuse policy involving minors, which was implemented in 1990. 
The Diocese of Fort Wayne­South Bend includes 14 counties in northeastern Indiana and serves a population of 167,000 registered Catholics with 22 dea­cons and 64 diocesan priests. 
But critics say that the audit can be misleading and does not go far enough in dealing with the sex abuse scandal by allowing the church to keep too much information private. Lois Myers, the Indiana coordinator of the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests, said that the auditing process has not made the church publicly accountable. 
"They're not any more forth­coming then they have to be," Myers said. "They're forthcoming now because they're backed into a corner, but they're not being as compliant as they could be. I want to see names. I want to see records." 
Myers said that the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend has not allowed victims and survivors of abuse to be involved in the process of reviewing claims of sexual misconduct by priests ­input that she thinks is essential to correcting a system that turned a blind eye and, in some cases, covered up such abuse. And Myers knows the frustration. She brought a claim of sexual abuse by a priest to court in 1991, but it was dismissed in 1993 as not being credible, sounding "more like something out of a horror movie" than a parochial school. 
"My claim was not found 'cred­ible,' but I can tell you that I was raped and molested for three years,'' Myers said. 
Myers thinks that her case might have been more successful if it had been filed today than a decade ago, but said that dioce­ses are still able to brush victims of abuse under the rug by set­tling cases out of court for cash payouts in exchange for confi­dentiality agreements like the one she said her sister signed. 
"There's still too much secrecy here; still to much cover-up," Myers said. "You're seen as a potential lawsuit and they are just trying to see what they can do to make sure it doesn't get out of hand. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
~B!~:8t~n~}~: i..Bs:~.t::~r·( )::f~~:P~ ,.,~t..~:>;:!:Qn:::5)M 
7;.a0 & 9;45l'M U APM!SSION 

TKIJftS•FRI•SAT•MON JANU.Af:ty 22*23"'2:4•26 
'H.(,;.K.'f;s. U'4 1i;l't.:a..fr: .P.:f k.A.ON"f·"U81J 1iTUI>flf.U: -.: ..IH"T5W. fWMn» "fJK¥¥ ~A~T) r'~~-5~~-:l":'"~D 5:Y na: i:l"f."f')l.n·n•Aii·2>n· >QP:: :KH..M, ":'"f"i.EV~:S~ON. ~N-D "":"Hi.ACF;.E. 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 22, 2004 CoMPILED FROM Tt-IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Falun Gong leader accuses Beijing 
IlONG KONG -In a rare televised appear­ance, Falun Gong founder Li 1-longzhi said Wednesday that Beijing cracked down on the meditation group because government lead­<ws envied its popularity. 
China replied by calling Li a dangerous criminal whose Falun Gong "cult" must be stopped. 
Mainland China outlawed Falun Gong in 1'JIJ<J as a threat to communist rule, but Li said the group -which has attracted mil­lions of followers -has never been interest­ed in challenging the government. 
"The Chinese leaders couldn't tolerate so many pe.oplc practicing Falun Gong," Li said in an interview with a New York-based tele­vision station that apparently has close tics to Falun Gong. "It's a form of jealousy. This jealousy led to the oppression." 
UN to approve Iraq request 
UNITED NATIONS-The United Nations is close to backing an American and Iraqi rr.quest to deploy experts who would assess whether Iraq could hold elections by May for a transitional government, U.N. diplomats told The Associated Press. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan received the request during a Monday meet­ing with leaders of the U.S.-picked Iraqi Governing Council and the U.S.-led Coalition Provisional Authority. lie said he supported the idea but reiterated that security for such a team was a key concern. 
On Tuesday, one U.N. diplomat said approval for an election team could come by week's end. Another agreed that was a possi­bility, but said the decision might not be announced until a few days later. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Derus adapt to New Hampshire 
MANCIIESTEH, N.II.-This isn't Iowa any­more. As fast as you can say "Kerry wins," the Democratic presidential candidates are retooling their campaigns in an appeal to New Hampshire's independent voters. 
The White I louse hopefuls also are making decisions on the fly about the vital next stage of the campaign-a spate of February elec­tions in 17 states and the District of Columbia, starting Feb. 3. 
And they're doing all this without the pres­ence of Dick Gephardt, bounced from the field after an Iowa caucus contest that has candidates thinking twice about going nega­tive in the fast-shifting race headed toward the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday. 
Court: EPA can override states 
WASIIINGTON -Federal regulators can trump more permissive state officials in some disputes over costly measures to limit air pollution, the Supreme Court said Wednesday in a ruling that departed from the court's trend toward granting state gov­ernments more power. 
Alaska's governor wanted to allow the world's largest zinc mine to use cheaper, less effective anti-pollution equipment, but the federal Environmental Protection Agency said no. The Supreme Court's 5-4 ruling upholds EPA's veto power in such cases. 

LOCAL NEWS 

IUSB raises $5.3M in campaign 
SOUTH BEND -Indiana University South Bend has raised nearly $5.3 million in its first-ever capital fund-raising drive and is preparing for a second campaign. 
The recently completed drive topped the $5 million goal established when the cam­paign began in 2000, said Ilene Sheffer, vice · chancellor for public affairs and university advancement at the 7 ,500-student campus. 
The largest gift of the campaign was a $1 million. donation from a donor who asked to remain anonymous, Sheffer said. 
The campaign also raised $1.5 million for student financial aid and more than $1 mil­lion for the school's academic units. 

Bush touts job training proposal 
President addresses high unemployment in key manufacturing, electoral states 
Associated Press 
TOLEDO, Ohio President Bush, on the defensive about jobs as he campaigns for re-election, said Wednesday "there are still troubled times" in states like Ohio as he touted his plan for retraining laid-off work­ers for new careers. 
Democrats derided the 
approach as meager in an 
economy that has shed 
2.3 million jobs during the Bush presidency. 
A day after his State of the Union address, Bush began an overnight trip to -three states important to his re-election strategy ­Ohio, Arizona and New Mexico. He highlighted the economy as well as argument at Mesa tern which is able to be still doesn't understand the war on terrorism, Community College out­flexible en'ough to help what's happening in living which polls say is his side Phoenix, the largest people who want to work rooms across this coun­strongest suit with voters. city in a state that handed find a job, to match will­try," Kerry said. 
Since Bush took office, its 10 electoral votes to ing worker with willing And local protesters Ohio's unemployment rate Bush by a very narrow employer," Bush said. braved temperatures that has jumped from 3.9 per­margin in 2000. "The key is to train people dipped into the single dig­cent to 5.7 percent, with Bush proposes spending for the work that actually its to register their dissat­heavy losses in manufac­an additional $500 million exists." isfaction with the presi­turing. on a slew of job-training Still, there was little dent's leadership on the 
"Nationwide this econo­and education programs: explanation from either · economy. Set up·outside my is strong," Bush said $250 million in grants to Bush or his aides to the community college, at Owens Community community colleges that address the question of the demonstrators College near Toledo. "I partner with employers how education initiatives brought along an over­fully recognize in Ohio looking for higher-skilled and retraining programs sized, inflatable rat bear­there are still troubled workers; an extra $33 would produce the large ing the sign, "Where arc times. The manufacturing million in the approxi­number of new jobs need­the jobs?" sector here is sluggish at mately $12 billion Pell ed to ease the malaise On Thursday, the presi­best, and therefore people Grant program to give that still exists in many dent was off to New are looking for work." $1,000 more per year to communities. Last month, Mexico, which went to 
No Republican has ever low-income students who for instance, businesses Democrat AI Gore in 2000 won the White House complete a rigorous high added just 1,000 new jobs by 366 votes, for a stop without Ohio. and Bush's school curriculum; $100 nationwide. focused on the war on ter­trip marked his 14th visit million to teach middle Democratic presidential rorism. to the state. In the last and high school students candidate John Kerry, Back in Washington, the election, he carried Ohio to read; $120 million in campaigning in New White House tried to by 3.5 percentage points. grants to increase math Hampshire, said that spread Bush's message by 
Bush said his "Jobs for achievement; and a $28 means Bush failed to allowing talk radio hosts the 21st Century" plan million increase in fund­deliver on a promise to to broadcast from the would spur employment. ing for Advanced create 250,000 jobs last front lawn, complete wit~ From Ohio, Bush flew to Placement. month. "After four years all-day access to various Arizona to make the same "We better have a sys-in office, this president top-level Bush officials. 

ISRAEL 

Man charged with bribing Sharon 
Case could lead to corruption charges against embattled Israeli prime minister 
Associated Press  ter. Appel's lawyer, Moshe Israel, denied  Gilad agreed to this arrangement despite the fact that the defendant  
TEL AVIV-An Israeli court charged  the charges. "There is no doubt he is  knew that Gilad had no relevant pro­ 
a real-estate developer Wednesday  innocent," he said.  fessional qualifications," it said.  
with paying more than a half-million·  The indictment over the scandal ­ It said Appel sent a total of $690,000  
dollars in bribes to Ariel Sharon -a  widely known as the "Greek Island  to Sharon's family ranch in the Negev  
case that could force the prime minis­ Affair" -centers on allegations that  desert. Appel also promised to support  
ter to step aside.  Sharon's son Gilad received large sums  Sharon in party primary elections, the  
While Sharon has not been charged,  in his father's behalf from Appel, an  indictment said.  
Justice Ministry officials say they are  activist in Sharon's Likud Party who  The indictment against Appel threat­ 
considering whether to indict the  was trying to promote the project in  ens not only Sharon's political career  
Israeli leader. The officials say the deci­ Greece during 1999. Sharon was then  but also complicates the daunting task  
sion is expected in the coming weeks  foreign minister and allegedly was  of negotiating peace in the Middle East.  
or months.  asked to use his influence to push both  Sharon and Palestinian counterpart  
Sharon's spokesman Asaf Shariv  projects, although neither came to  Ahmed Qureia say they support the  
would not comment on the case except  pass.  U.S.-backed "road map" peace plan to  
to say, "I can guarantee there will not  Specifically, the indictment said that  end 40 months of violence but remain  
be an indictment."  during 1998-99 Appel "gave Ariel  deadlocked over details.  
David Appel was indicted in the Tel  Sharon a bribe in recognition of activi­ In the meantime, Sharon has threat­ 
Aviv Magistrates Court for allegedly  ties connected to the fulfillment of his  ened to unilaterally redraw Israel's  
giving Sharon hundreds of thousands  public positions."  border with the Palestinians ­a move  
of dollars to promote a tourism project  The indictment said Gilad Sharon,  the Palestinians oppose as a land grab,  
in Greece and also to help rezone  while ostensibly a consultant in the  but which could also mean a historic  
urban land near Tel Aviv before and  Greek project, served as a middleman  dismantling of some Jewish settle­ 
during Sharon's term as prime minis- in accepting the bribes. "[Appel] and  ments deep in Palestinian areas.  
....  

Thursday, January 22, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Crime database contains personal info 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A federally funded crime database run by seven states is looking increas­ingly to privacy advocates like a potent substitute for the data-mining program the Pentagon scrapped after public rebuke. 
Law enforcement officials and the private company that manages the database, known as Matrix, say it merely streamlines police access to information about suspects that authorities have long been able to get from disparate sources. 
But newly emerging facts about the program, including documents obtained by the American Civil Liberties Union, indicate it could also be made to sift through vast stores of Americans' personal data ­some 20 billion records -and proactively finger crime and terrorism suspects. 
Combining state records with databases owned by Seisint Inc., Matrix details -among other things -the property, boats and Internet domains people own, their address his­tory, utility connections, bank­ruptcies, liens and business fil­ings, according to an August report by the Georgia state Office of Homeland Security. 
The report, which was once posted on a state Web site, offers a broader glimpse of Matrix -short for the Multistate Anti-Terrorism Information Exchange -than its guardians are generally willing to make public. 
"This is a major program 
. with very large ambitions, and it needs to be publicly exam­ined. We shouldn't be forced to read tea leaves," said Barry Steinhardt, who heads the ACLU's technology and liberty program. 
The August report touts Matrix's ability to display infor­mation quickly, along with pic­tures of some people on file, and perform analysis: "The user can easily see relation­ships between people, places and things that were previously impossible to discern." 
"With minimal input and the push of a button, witnesses, associates, relatives and sus­pects can be identified and located," adds the report, which was cited in a December Supreme Court filing by the Electronic Privacy Information Center. 
References to Matrix's analy­sis capabilities also emerged in documents obtained by the ACLU under the open-records law in Pennsylvania, one of the participating states. 
Among the files were two 2003 memorandums of under­standing between Pennsylvania officials and Florida police that discussed how Matrix would be used for both criminal investi­gations and "intelligence pur­poses." 
Also, the minutes of an October 2002 planning meeting attended by representatives of 12 states, the FBI and Seisint reveal new details about the involvement of the federal gov­ernment, which seeded Matrix with $12 million and has access to it through the FBI and Department of Homeland Security. 
Those minutes note that the FBI, Secret Service and two agencies now under Homeland Security -the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Drug Enforcement Agency -helped Florida officials craft data-mining software for Matrix. 
In another link with the gov­ernment, Seisint has former federal and state law enforce­ment officials on staff. includ­ing managing director Brian Stafford, former head of the Secret Service. 

"This is the state version of TIA," Steinhardt said. referring to the Pentagon's Terrorism Information Awareness pro­gram, which was. shelved last year after a public uproar and a Congressional inquiry. 
The TIA and its original leader, Adm. John Poindexter, aimed to spot patterns in a much bigger pool of data than Matrix possesses, and people involved in Matrix reject any comparison. They say Matrix essentially is a revved-up search engine, not a surveil­lance tool. 
Launched in response to Sept. 11, Matrix lets states share criminal, prison and vehicle information and cross­reference it with databases held by Seisint, including civil court records, voter registra­tions and address histories going back as long as 30 years. 
Officials at the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, which oversees the program, say the files do not include phone records, financial transactions or other material that would require a court order for law enforce­ment to see. 
For now the project involves Connecticut, Florida, Mich­igan, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Utah. About 450 law enforcement agents are using the system, according to Clay Jester, Matrix coordina­tor for the Institute for Intergovernmental Research, the nonprofit group helping to expand the project from its original implementation in Florida. 

Modified bollworms could combat disease 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Some high-tech insect experiments soon may be flitting out of the laboratory: Mosquitos geneti­cally modified to eliminate malaria. Silkworms engineered to produce bulletproof vests. Bollworm moths designed to self-destruct before they can wipe out cotton crops. 
Genetically engineered insects hold the promise of benefiting millions, eradicating diseases and plagues that cause famine in the developing world. 
But despite such good inten­tions, many scientists are alarmed that few safeguards exist to keep unintended conse­quences from harming humans or the environment. 
Fast-producing insects anchor food chains around the globe. Yet the impact that genetically engineered bugs could have on ecosystems is only now being explored, even as researchers push to release biotech insect experiments into the wild. 
Such questions could be vital­ly important, particularly since many researchers are engi­neering insects designed to change the genetic makeup of their very species. 
Unlike with biotech crops or livestock, which are at least designed to be controlled, the goal of much of this insect research is to introduce geneti­cally engineered traits into nat­ural insect populations -for example, rendering tsetse flies incapable of carrying deadly sleeping sickness, a disease that afflicts millions in Africa. 
No biotech insect experiment 
They '"~ould've been there. I 
······=··········'1,•11•·1·~ 







!IIAN'S 
I 
il·····' 7 1·•··~ ••1.••Jf(l~..
I •._... ·..·. ~~ . __;.t_ .. ·. ·.· __.. _;.t_ . . ... ·.···.········ . . . . 
.-...................., 
has been conducted outside a laboratory yet, but a few proj­ects are getting close -a prospect that prompted the Pew Initiative on Food and Biotechnology, in a report being released Thursday, to call on the federal government to adopt strict regulations. 
"Usually, biotechnology seems to move more quickly than the regulations," said Michael Fernandez, Pew's sci­ence director. "But in this case, we have the time." 
No U.S. law specifically addresses biotech bugs. The 
U.S. Department of Agriculture's written policy on engineered insects asserts reg­ulatory authority only over "plant pests," requiring"'lhat any outdoor experiment get prior federal approval. 
Bob Rose, a USDA scientist, said federal agencies can and probably will assert authority over many of these projects ­with some creative categoriz­ing. For instance, Rose said the USDA has authority to regulate insects that cause disease in animals. Mosquitoes are live­stock pests and Rose said genetically engineered malaria fighters could be brought under USDA's authority in that way. 
Rose also says biotech insect research is still in its infancy. Still, he concedes more explicit regulations as called for by Pew would eliminate many of the regulatory loopholes being exploited by biotech compa­nies. For example, no regulator stepped in to monitor the Glofish, a fluorescent zebra fish recently put on the market, because no federal agency was specifically tasked with over­seeing biotech house pets. 
I 
I
Jan 30-Feb 1 I 
hog roast 1 game ·'''at.eh 1 feats of strength f prayer I brotherhood 
Deadline Oet~ 8th. Applit~ations atTailable at: 
www.nd.edu/'""krusseau C-M 
I I I I I I I I I 

Hewill • definitely I 1 be there. •• 
I I I

N.l) 1 I 
I 

------~--------------------------.1 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Thursday, January 22, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Martha jury faces questions 
Court transcripts reveal diverse spectrum of potential jurors in Stewart case
' 
J.P. Morgan posts huge 4Q profit 
NEW YOHK-J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. on Wednesday reported a fourth-quarter profit of $1.86 billion, a turnaround from a loss a year 
Ban~ earnings propel industrials
ago and well above Wall Street's expectations. 
jones


·1tr·
Same: OQwn: Composite Volume: 
Associated Press 
2,07 I I 65 • 1,757,654,400 
NEW YORK-Lawyers in the Martha Stewart trial
AMEX 1,222.55 +12.30 
are making their way
NASDAQ 2,142.45 -5.53 
through a diverse jury pool, NYSE 6,658.32 +58.84 
from a man who said the style expert could not be
S&PSOO 1,147.62 +8.85 
trusted to a woman who
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,002.39 0.00 
told her: "I am a huge fan mE IOO(London) 4,511.20 +11.90 
of yours. Good luck." A transcript released 
Wednesday of the first day of jury questioning offered 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE QDSU) -6.14 -0.35 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) + 1.31 +0.07 RF MICRO DEV (RFMD) -19.66 -2.41 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.26 -0.41 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.90 -0.26 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.20 -0.10 10-YEAR NOTE -0.49 -0.20 5-YEAR NOTE -0.82 -0.25 3-MONTH BILL +1.17 +0.10 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.29 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.20 410.70 
sible to totally not hear about the case," one poten­
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.025 82.475 tial juror told the judge. "It
Exchan Rates 
has been everywhere." 
YEN 106.8 
Stewart, 62, is accused of lying to the government and her own shareholders 
EURO 0.7898 
POUND 0.5453 
about why she sold 
CANADIAN$· 1.302 
ImClone Systems stock in 2001, just before it plum­meted on a negative gov­ernment decision on an
IN BRIEF 
lmClone cancer drug. Hundreds of people have Housing starts highest since 1978 
filled out jury question­WASHINGTON -Residential construction 
naires. But the judge has activity picked up in December, helping to 
barred reporters from make all of 2003 the best year for home 
watching follow-up inter­builders in a quarter-century and underscor­
views with those people, ing the critical role the sector played in the 
instead releasing a tran­economy's resurgence. 
script the following day, The Commerce Department reported 
with names deleted. Wednesday that housing construction 
U.S. District Judge increased by 1. 7 percent last month from 
Miriam Goldman November -ending 2003 on a high note. For 
Cedarbaum approved 14 all of last year, the number of housing units 
jurors after.questioning that builders broke ground on totaled 1.85 
Tuesday, and a lawyer for million, up from 1.70 million-in 2002. 
Stewart's co-defendant, The total for 2003 marked the strongest per­
Peter Bacanovic, charac­formance since 1978, when housing construc­
terized Wednesday as a tion came to 2.02 million. December's per­
"similar day." formance, meanwhile, was a lot better than 
The judge is said to want analysts expected. They were forecasting a 
50 available for the next nearly 6 percent drop in activity. 
round, when lawyers oar-
row the pool to 12 jurors 
and six alternates. 
In the questionnaires and 
the follow-up interviews, 
the prospective jurors have 
been asked their feelings 
about the rich and whether 
people in law enforcement 
and the stock industry can 
be trusted. 
One potential juror answered in the question­naire that he did not trust Stewart. In a follow-up interview, he told the judge: "Sometimes people that are -that are power­ful are not so trustworthy." He was disqualified from the jury. 
A woman reported that she worked on a trading desk at a securities firm where the Stewart case is talked about "very regular­ly" and said she would have trouble ignoring news reports about the trial. She was disqualified. 
But before she left the judge's private robing room, according to the transcript, she told Stewart: "I am a huge fan of yours. Good luck." 
Other potential jurors were cleared by the judge despite coming from lines of work, or expressing cer­tain feelings, that lawyers found troubling -a sign of the difficulty in picking a jury in such a highly publi­cized case. 
One woman was allowed to stay after saying she did not believe the government was doing enough to prose­cute corporate scandals. And a man was cleared after saying he believed money, in some cases, could buy justice. 
Stewart arrived at the courthouse Wednesday morning to watch the sec­ond day of juror question­ing.. Stepping out of a Mercedes and wearing a wraparound coat and high­heeled boots, she smiled at reporters but did not answer any questions. She ascended the courthouse 
especially for tech stocks, said John Caldwell, chief investment strategist for McDonald Financial Group, part of Cleveland-based KeyCorp. 
"Folks are getting away from their infatuation with tech stocks," Caldwell said. "They're looking more toward companies like J.P. Morgan & Chase. And why not? Not only did they just announce a big merger, but their earnings were substantially bet­ter than anticipated." 
The Dow closed up 94.96, or 0.9 percent, at 10,623.62. It was the highest close for the index stocks since March 19, 2002, when it ended the day at 10,635.25. 
The broader gauges were mixed. The Nasdaq composite index closed down 5.53, or 0.3 percent, at 2,142.45. The S&P 500 gained 8.85, or 0.8 percent, to 1,147.62-its highest close since March 22, 2002, when it finished at 1,148.70. 

Domestic maven Martha Stewart and lawyer John Tigue arrive at federal court In New York on Wednesday for the second day of jury selection In her trial. Stewart Is accused of obstruction of justice and securities fraud In connection with the sale of her 
Much of the advance came late in the day. Earlier, earnings reports appeared to be motivating some investors to sell, said Todd Clark, head of listed equity trading at Wells Fargo Securities. 
"Even some of the stocks that have had great results, like Merrill Lynch are down on profit taking," Clark said. "Others are falling because of concerns about outlook." 
Overall, fourth-quarter earnings are expected to rise 20 percent, but that may not be enough to match investors' heightened expectations. Still, most analysts remain bullish about equities over the long term. 
"The market is sorting out a num­ber of things," said Kevin Caron, mar­ket strategist with Ryan, Beck & Co., 
LLC. "There's a clear improvement in fundamentals. there's clear improve­ment in valuations ... the market will find its own natural level." 
Like other major banks that have been reporting earnings in recent days. J.P. Morgan's profits were boosted by improve­ments in both corporate and consumer credit as well as the rebounding stock market. 
On Tuesday, Citigroup reported fourth-quar­ter earnings that were up 96 percent from a year ago despite the write-off of millions of dollars in loans to the troubled Italian dairy Parmalat. Wells Fargo & Co. earnings were in line with estimates, but U.S. Bancorp missed by a penny. 
Wyeth to donate FluMist vaccine 
COLLEGE PAHK, Md. -After disappointing sales in the first season of their needle-free flu vaccine, the sellers of FluMist said Wednesday that they plan to donate 250,000 doses to pub­lic health agencies. 
A spokesman for Wyeth, which co-markets the drug with Gaithersburg-based manufac­turer Medlmmune Inc., said the move was a goodwill gesture meant to shore up supplies of vaccine during the current shortage of the tra­ditional flu shot. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Strong bank earn­ings pushed the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500 index to new 22-month highs Wednesday, but technology stocks lagged on disappointing news from Lucent Technologies and Motorola. 
With little market-moving news coming out of President Bush's State of the Union address Tuesday night, analysts attributed the gains to upbeat quarterly profit reports, led by 
J.P. Morgan Chase. However. six weeks of advances in tech and telecommunications stocks prompted many investors to collect profits in those sectors. 
The run-up in anticipation of good earnings reports has excited investors, but some are skeptical about whether the outlook for 2004 is robust enough to justify valuations, 
5.38 5.66 9.85 32.20 28.60 
49.16 40.3 7 30.22 8.67 
34.58 
a glimpse at the painstak­ing process by which lawyers for the government and Stewart are trying to detect whether jurors might favor one side or the other. 
No one involved in the case appears to believe it is possible to seat a jury of 12 people who have never heard of Stewart. Instead, the judge in the case is try­ing to make sure they can try the case fairly. 
"I mean, it's been impos­
shares of lmCione stock. 
steps on the arm of one of her lawyers. 
Across the street -from the courthouse, a man in a hooded parka jumped up and down and shouted: "Save Martha! Save Martha! Save Martha!" 
Stewart again did not answer reporters' ques­tions as she left, but her attorney, Robert Morvillo said, "Everything went fine today. We'll be back tomor­row." 
Stewart claims she and Bacanovic, her ex-stock­broker, had a standing order to sell Stewart's 3,928 shares of ImClone stock when its price fell below $60 per share. 
But the governm·ent claims Stewart sold after she was tipped that her friend Sam Waksal, the founder of lmClone, was trying to sell his shares. Waksal had advance word of the government decision on the drug. 
Opening statements are expected early next week. 
News organizations, including The Associated Press. have asked a federal appeals court to let reporters watch jury selec­tion. But the court will not hear the case until Monday. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, January 22, 2004 
The power of e·ngineering 

Students in engineering here can feel torn. Answering Notre Dame's call to service is challenging. I considered dropping engineering as a freshman because I couldn't connect engineer­ing to Notre Dame's social Andrew causes. I know 
DeBerry 
now that leaving engineering would have been ND Changing 
a terrible waste. Times 
Ideas on this conviction come through six people interviewed in the College of Engineering, ranging from an undergraduate student to Engineering Dean Frank Incropera. The central message I want to get out to students in our college is that engi­neers have a tremendous power to improve society in ways the world desperately needs. 
Professor Stephen Silliman, Associate Dean and 2003 College of Engineering Professor of the Year, fre­quently takes students to Haiti to work on water pumps. He is firm in saying "engineers are by definition in serv­ice." 
Geoscience graduate student Pamela Crane emphasizes immersion with people in a holistic approach to apply­ing technology. She mostly grew up in developing countries since her father worked for the U.S. Agency for International Development. Without having a personal connection, techni­cal solutions may not be accepted by those most needing them. Effective engineering requires both technical and social understanding. 
One senior mechanical engineer who started a summer camp for children of parents with cancer and who taught at AIDS seminars in Ghana through the Center for Social Concerns holds that engineers have great power in addressing non-technical problems. We have a different approach to prob­lem solving thatcan be a key asset. 
It can be difficult to act on these high ideals as a student, so here are four ideas that may help: 
+ 
Local schools need engineering stu­dents to tutor. The CSC has a board with tutor requests for students to fill. 

+ 
NO's Habitat for Humanity is one of the larger chapters in the country and can expose engineering students to community needs and the needed real-world coordination skills. 

+ 
The Student International Business Club has divisions that can allow engi­neering students to put their technical skills to use while gaining professional business experience. 


+The CSC also provides opportunities to study infrastructure and develop­ment over any break, whether in cities nationwide through the 48-hour Urban Plunge the Summer Service Learning Project. 
If free time is lacking, this second set of suggestions can help students 


for society 
integrate service into the curriculum: 
+ 
Research Experience for Undergraduates has diverse projects allowing students to pursue their interest while gaining early research experience. 

+ 
Silliman brings students to Haiti to work on and teach about water pumps. 

+ 
Professors have research projects that help local communities which need student support. For example, Professor Jeffrey Talley is pursuing a project that would have engineering students develop sensors to monitor pollution and other environmental health issues as part of an environ­mental justice project in a local eco­nomically and disadvantaged commu­nity. 

+ 
Engineering Projects in Community Service links students with local busi­nesses and government groups so they can have a local impact. Next year, 


this program will be execut­ed through the depart­mental levels where projects will have a more direct link to one's major. 
If an upper­
_classmen takes three credits in any of these opportu· nities, it will countas a tech­nical elec­tive. Contact profes­sors, your depart-
me~ 
chair, and the Dean's office to learn more. 
In the Strategic Review posted on its homepage, the College of Engineering notes that students have a lacking understanding of engineering and its impact_on society. Accordingly, the College is seeking to develop courses involving economic, ethical and political issues. Incropera has an inspired vision for his graduates: "I want our engineering students to go out there and really make a differ­ence." 
We will swear to make that differ­ence in May. At graduation we will receive a ring and take the Obligation of the Engineer, wherein we will avow that our "skill and knowledge shall be given without reservation for the pub-lie good." 
How exactly can we help the com­mon good as professionals? The six people interviewed had the same answer: be a good engineer. Do well, gain respect in the profession, and pursue positions of influence. A solid education will reduce insufficient solutions to complex problems. Here are some other specific ideas for our profession: 
1. 
Starting professionals in any corpo­ration can join boards that work on developmental projects locally or abroad. We can join those boards and push organizations to do more. 

2. 
If we manage our finances and lifestyle well, we can pursue philan­thropy and donate funds to groups needing the financial mobility to do their work. 

3. 
Many undeveloped areas, whether domestically or abroad, need only 


need very basic .engineering solutions we can provide to halt far-reaching problems in areas such as telecom­munications, sewage man­agement, water sup­ply and construe­tion. 
4. No matter 
~~ 
our involve­ments, we can always make space to 
volun­teerour technical 
shllls~ 
local organiza­tions and schools. In 20 years, Notre Dame can graduate over 50,000 people. Each in this group has unique strengths. Engineers in particular 
have a remarkable ability to make a difference in ways no one else can. The world needs our skills. If we put them to use in even the smallest way, we will begin to realize the tremendous power of engineering. 
Andrew DeBerry is a fifth-year sen­ior studying aerospace engineering and the Hesburgh Program in Public Policy. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Government is not reason, it is not
Which cartoon would you rather see on 
eloquence, it is force; like fire, a troublesome
the Today page: Dilbert or Classic 
servant and a fearful master. Never for a
Peanuts? 
moment should it be left to irresponsible action." 
Vote by 5 p.m. today at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
George Washington president 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 22, 2004 
page 9 
• 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame 
supports Bush? 
In an otherwise regrettable article, Jacqueline Cuisinier noted that her conversations with students have convinced her that the NO community largely supports President Bush and will do so in the coming election. 
As someone who spent time at NO, this does not surprise me-nor should it; indeed, ND is known as a rather con­servative school. mainly because it is Catholic. 
Yet this level of support for Bush would be a total surprise to me if alii knew about NO were based on what I read in The Observer. Just look at the recent Viewpoint articles. For every five arguing that Bush is a racist, homophobic. skin­head, Nazi who wants to starve the poor, exterminate the old and eliminate all our freedoms, there are maybe one or 
.two suggesting he might be a somewhat decent human 
being, whose policies might perhaps be understood in a 
more favorable light-sort of. 
These attack pieces come not only from the regular columnists but from others who submit articles. Nor is the bias limited to the opinion pieces. Consider the article on Jan. 21 about professors responding to the State of the Union. Try to find a positive reaction to the speech in that article. The author suggests "varied opinions," but they are varied only in the way in which they see Bush as evil. One sees Bush as a warmonger; another as a totalitarian; anoth­er as a bigot. 
What is the cause of this tone? When I was an undergrad­uate. there was nowhere near this level of ferocity and venom toward President Clinton in campus media-not even close. 
Go ahead and look back through old issuel!. you will see. I recall no opposition to the war in the Balkans, for instance. Nor do I remember much criticism of him for other deci­sions. Yet if you ask students, I guarantee most will tell you they prefer Bush to Clinton. Why is this not reflected in a paper which represents the NO community? 
Joseph Muldoon Alumni '00 Jan. 21 
Despite David Tagler's and Jason Arnoult's valiant efforts, their argu­ments do little to clear away my ambivalence with respect to how Catholics can support the Republican Party. 
By immediately dismissing Ms. Cuisinier's idealism and all of the ideas that come with it as defunct by stating that "Unfortunately, we live in the real world," Mr. Tagler loses his credibility in light ofthe achievements of idealists such as Martin Luther King Jr., Mahatma Gandhi and even the Founding Fathers . 
Furthermore, before he begins making any more course recom­mendations, Mr. Tagler should probably review his notes from whatever political science course he took last semester and acknowl­edge that the realpolitik he espous­es under which, "all nations do what is in their best interest," is only one of many different main­stream currents in international relations theory. 
Other theories suggest that nations cooperate with one anoth­er through international institu­tions and use diplomacy and dis­cussion to resolve their differences instead of relating with one anoth­er solely through brute power or force (although in Mr. Tagler's defense, recent actions by the United States might suggest other­wise). 
Our resident political scientist also affrrrns that "there is no doubt everyone on this campus wants the most comfortable life possible" and 

Defending Carroll Hall 
Emily Pike's response to yesterday's "Question of the Day" was a well-inten­tioned attempt at humor, but it remains a glaring example of the blatant dormism all too common at Notre Dame today. 
For those unfamiliar with the sit­uation, Ms. Pike suggested that Notre Dame should settle with the tribe suing over western campus land by giving it Carroll Hall. There has been no worse idea in the his­tory of the University. 
First and foremost, during our current war on terrorism, Carroll Hall plays a vital role in secur­ing the western front of the University. Without Carroll, invaders from highway 31 could storm campus unchecked by resist­ance until they had already taken the Grotto. Moreover, cars in the 06 lot closest to Carroll are rarely van­dalized, thanks to Carroll's vigilant watch and by virtue of their relative dis­tance from the rest of every­thing. 
For incoming freshmen, Carroll serves as a bastion of hope. Thanks to Carroll's small size, men can hope that they will not find themselves living in the most remote location on campus. For others, Carroll serves as inspiration: how amazing that 100 men can commute back and forth to class tirelessly, day in and day out. For more still, Carroll is an ideal, a goal. All students can dream that, perhaps one day, they too can find the strength, energy, and will to make the trek to the House On The 
Lake. Yes, I agree with Ms. Pike: Carroll would be a most gener­ous settlement gift. No recipi­ent could help but to be impressed with our lake­front property and stun­ning view of the Dome, Basilica and Grotto. Our spacious hall­
ways, vaulted ceil­ings, volleyball court and precious Golden 
Tee ar<;:ade machine say, "We want to settle this lawsuit in a manner that is more than fair and charitable." 
Convenient park­ing lot access and our nearby personal 
helicopter pad cour­tesy of WNDU are just icing on the cake. But 
that's neither here nor there. Emily, I am sure you 
thought your words would float like a butterfly through the minds of those who read 
them. But please understand that for 100 Carroll· Hall Vermin, they sting like a bee. 
Ryan Greenberg junior Carroll Hall Jan. 21 

'Look beyond the bubble' 
asks if people "are realistically pre­pared to make the sacrifices ofnot living in luxury for the people of Tajikistan." 
Well, allow me to cast some doubt into your mind. I know that there are many people here on campus, myself included, who are perfectly willing to make sacrifices, especially small ones, for people in other parts of the world. 
When I learned Coca-Cola was complicit in the murder and tor­ture of union organizers in Colombia, I joined an international boycott of their products. Students here at Notre Dame are actively boycotting Taco Bell for their refusal to meet the very basic demands of their workers and con­demning goods produced in sweat­shops. 
Although these sacrifices are small, they still show that plenty of people here on campus do not "want the most comfortable life possible" ll,it comes at the expense of other human beings. 
Before Mr. Tagler has the audaci­ty to make any more outrageous claims, perhaps he should read a few more books and "look beyond the bubble" of his limited perspec­tive. 
While Catholic doctrine may con­demn socialism, it by no means champions the sort of dogmatic, nco-liberal capitalism Mr. Arnoult seems to advocate in his article. Catholic social teaching supports both workers' rights and environ­mental protections; the Republican Party's record on these is shoddy at best, especially under the Bush 
Administration. 
With respect to the abortion issue. all I can say is that many Republicans may respect the sanc­tity of life while still inside the womb. But once outside, the holi­ness ofthat life is cast aside in favor of priorities more important than education, health care, good food, clean water and basic human rights. 
Not to downplay the benevolence of Bush's AIDS relief package to Africa, but a significant portion of the funds for that proposal were shuflled from existing foreign aid programs so the figures are inflat­ed. Also, if one were to take into the account the amount of damage in terms of lives and property lost in Africa during the 20th Century alone as a result ofthe actions of the United States and its allies, $15 billion is merely a drop in the bucket, but nevertheless an impor­tant start. ,. 
To say the very least. the Republican agenda for the country falls well short of the ideals put for­ward by both the Catholic Church and the United States. Props to Jacqueline Cuisinier for her article -without people who think like her, I would fear even more for the future of the people of this country and for the rest of the world. 
Ryan Abrams sophomore Morrissey Manor Jan. 20 

Keeping the sanctity of 
• 
marr1~ge 
President George W. Bush is clearly against the civil union of homosexuals. President Bush stated in the State of the Union address "our nation must defend the sanctity of marriage." He agrees with the Defense of Marriage Act of 1996 which was a response to Hawaii's court ruling which allowed same-sex marriage. 
As a person who is pretty lax concerning restrictions placed on honest citizens, I found Bush's stance on gay marriage ridiculous. Bush argues that gay marriage destroys the sanctity of traditional marriage. 
My question is, then, if one is so upset about the sacredness of marriage being jeopardized, why didn't anyone get offended when Britney had her fling with her high school friend? 
Britney's MARRIAGE was taken as a world-wide joke. KDWB's Morning radio show host Dave Ryan thought it would be funny to send one of his interns and a listen­er to Las Vegas so they could get married on the radio, broadcast to Minnesota at the same chapel as Mrs. Spears, only to later have it annulled much like "not that innocent" Britney. 
Despite the view of marriage as portrayed by modern popular culture, marriage is sacred. If you are con­cerned with preserving the meaning of marriage, don't get upset with gays who love each other as much as any married couple and want the same sacred bond (not to mention economic benefits) that married cou­ples have. 
Instead, take arms against people that truly do make marriage seem like a joke-Britney Spears and mod­ern pop culture. 
Nicholas Coleman frrshman Alumni Hall Jan. 21 

THE OBSER\'ER 





'CENE
page 10 Thursday, January 22, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEW 
c 
Jet rediscovers rock and roll 
By REBECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Music Critic 
All great bands have at one time been inspired by, or at least maintain, a deep respect for either The Rolling Stones or The Beatles. The four mem­bers in the Melbourne-based band Jet grew up on both. The influence is obvi­ous in their music, which succeeds in being not only an album heavy with rock, but an album immersed iri the music that is rock and roll. In the faster and heavier rock songs of the albums, Jet sounds a great deal like The Rolling Stones; it is at times almost 

ALBUM REVIEW 

~yan Adams changes genres 
ing to a straightforward rock sound with the aptly titled Rock N Roll. 
On the 15 songs that make up the two Love Is Hell EPs, Adams' sound is barely recognizable. Far from guitar­laden, staunch rock, the EPs are works of soft, sparse, sad songs. Melancholy piano and gentle guitar fill the tracks on each EP, but most striking are the hauntingly beautiful lyrics. 
On Pt. 1, "The Shadowlands" is a song of painful hopelessness with lyrics reminiscent of Bob Dylan's "Just Like a Woman: "With a father on amphetamines I Her mother hides the pearls I Reach out into darkness I And find my little girl." 
Adam's poignant cover of Oasis' "Wonderwall" adds a new dimension to the song with its slowed-down gait that gives new emphasis and agony to the beautiful song. 
"Avalanche" finds Adams in a Jackson Browne state of mind. Piano and tapping drums accompany his words, "I found your photograph in a cardboard box in a magazine I I can't remember you, remember us or anything I I taught you how to feel, but you just feel numb." 
Although a bit more full sounding than Pt. 1, Pt. 2 continues with the same melancholy themes and sounds as its sister EP. 
Opening the disc is "My Blue Manhattan," a song that feels as though it is a dusted off remnant of a 1920s piano bar. Jazzy piano pro­gressions and Adams' interchange of bluesy croons and soft vocals con­tribute a distinctive flavor to this song. 
The broken-hearted desolation of 
"Please Do Not 
Let Me Go," car­
ries the slight 
country feel 
Adams is noted for 
ByJULIE BENDER 
Scene Music Critic 
In an effort to diversify a musical discography, many artists try to transform their sound from one album to the next. Such transitions tend to have limited success and more than often fail miserably. (See Madonna's shift from '80s pop god­dess to her recent attempts at techno and rap ... ) 
With his November release Love is Hell Pt. 1 and the January release of Pt. 2, however, singer/songwriter Ryan Adams has managed the transi­tion gracefully. The former front man of Whiskeytown, Adams has become a notable force in the alt-country genre with albums like Heartbreaker and Gold and, as of late, has been hedg­
love is Hell 
Pt.1 &2 Ryan Adams 
Lost Highway Records 

difficult not to get up and dance along with the beat. Using instruments like tambourines and harmonicas through­out the album, an older and deeper level of rock and roll is explored. The overall experience of Jet's first album, Get Born, is incredible, one that you makes you want to move with the music and fixates all your attention. 
The name Jet itself was taken from Paul McCartney's "frazzled post­Beatles peak from 1973." Jet has the spark of the early Beatles albums that leaves "girls weak at the knees," but in no way can Jet's album be called "pop." It is a mixing of the world of rock and pop under a scratchy garage 
rock sound and all that comes through is terrif­ic. 
The band itself is composed of four members: two brothers, Nic and Chris Cester, Nic on guitar and vocals and Chris on drums and vocals. Cameron Muncey covers guitar and vocals and Mark Wilson completes the group with his unique bass sound. 
Jet grew up on the greats like The Beatles and The Rolling Stones, but when writing Get Born, they were looking farther into music history than those two famous bands·, look­ing instead into the sound that inspired 
them. It worked. Get Born is a terrifically diverse album put together by great musicians making an impressive and memorable sound. 
The band's current single, "Are You Gonna Be My Girl," is everything a great rock song should be. Starting with a tambourine, mixing in a funky bass line, adding in some strong drums, the singer clears his throat, the guitar picks up and then the singer jumps into the unique lyrics: "1, 2, 3 take my hand and come with me because you look so fine and I-really want to make you mine." There is not much more that needs to be said. 
Each song is clearly thought through and Get Born takes the listener on a musical ride that they have not been on before. "Last Chance," "Get What You Need" and "Get Me Outta Here" are similar rock climaxes on the album. Furthermore, Get Born is a great mix of the fast and slow. The softer songs such as "Look What You've Done," "Move On" and "Radio Song" are terrific as well. The music is continually interesting and varied throughout the album. There are a lot of sounds of throat clearing, talking and the like, but none of that technique is overdone at all. The music builds throughout each song and the album as a whole is extremely impressive. 

Jet is unquestionably one of the best new bands this year. With a familiar yet unique sound, it would be hard to believe that any rock and roll fan could do anything but love Get Born. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

with the whine and twang of a background guitar. Adams pleads, "Please do not let me go" in vain as he remembers a "Red suitcase full of clothes I Washed up on a shore of memo­ries." 
"I See Monsters," has lovely guitar working that 

Photo courtesy of mtv.com 
Ryan Adams has distanced himself from the alt-country style. 
grounds the song from the dream-like elevation of its lyrics. "Colors inside you head go spinning round I Like a ferris wheel I Exploding and falling to the ground," sings Adams with ghost­ly phantasmagoria. 
The collection of songs on these two EPs gives new depth and credibility to Adams as an artist. It is ironic that they were originally shelved by the record company as "not his best work" in favor of the hard sound of Rock N Roll. Adams has the last laugh, however, proving he can twang, he can rock and, with Love Is Hell, he can mope with the best of them. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, January 22, 2004 
Page II 
INTERVIEW 
15 minutes with Brian from Brand New 
Brian Lane plays drums for the band Brand New whose latest album Deja Entendu was named one ofthe top 40 albums ofthe year by Spin Magazine 
because we have off for a month. WeBy BRIAN FOY 
didn't talk to each other for three 
Scono Music Critic 
weeks and then went in for two days. 
When we came into the studio finally, llow'd you guys come up with the everyone came in with different ideas, name "Brand New"? learned the songs and jammed. We 
It was no real weird thing, my friend thrive on panicking and don't write and I were writing songs for a band and lyrics until ten minutes before record­he named the band "Brand New" after a ing, the same thing with all of us and Beastie Boys song. lie left and I took the our instruments. name, there is no real story behind it. If you could have dinner with anyone You are known for touring like mad­dead or alive, who would it be? men. Is there a reason you tour so It's not that elegant or anything, but much'! Dave Grohl. I love Dave Grohl and I 
Wn love touring in a lot of ways. think anything he touches turns into Touring sucks in a lot of ways too, but gold. I like to ask him a lot of questions at the same time that is how we all met about playing drums, about playing gui­each other in the Long Island scene in tar, about doing it right. He did every-general. We grew up lis-thing right. tening to music and that's Who would you consider the only way to do it. That your influences? is the only way to get your "The main goal We all had different 
core fans and build a big­that we have mak-influences growing up ger fan base and get big­which is weird, but I guess 
ing records or
ger gradually instead of is a good thing. I grew up being on TV and shooting music in general is on Fatwreck bands like to the top. If that hap­to write a good NOFX and Diesel Boy and pens, you shoot straight all that crap. I don't know What was your favorite video game far surpassed anything we thought
song. In 10 years I 
back down to the bottom. why. growing up? would be going on. If it all ended tomor­What's the best part want to be able to Would say that has Tetris. Always Tetris row, we'd all be so happy. Where do we about playing on the listen to all the shaped your style? In RollingStone's "Hot Issue" you were see ourselves? Hopefully doing the same road'! I think that definitely did named "Hot Band." Do you feel any we're doing now.
records we did and
The best part is seeing in a lot of ways. Then pressure considering the last band If you weren't in Brand New, what shows get better and bet­play them all the when we started touring with that distinction was Coldplay? would you be doing now? ter. The best part is hav­way through. " together and living in a van There's a lot of pressure, but at the Probably producing, hopefully produc­ing kids sing along. The it worked out where we same time you really dwell on it ing, but probably still taking out the best part is seeing you ·were all integrated parts of because you're going to want to kill garbage at the studio if I couldn't pro­
Brian Lane
have real fans. That's our influences growing up. yourself and we're going to go in the duce. 
Musician
such great satisfaction What's your favorite studio and not do anything. Just make Any words of wisdom or things you've knowing you finally episode of The Simpsons? music that you want to make and that learned? accomplished something. I've been slacking on it you have fun playing and hopefully It's not going to be that deep, but it's What's the song writing process like because I got The Family Guy DVDs and everything will work out from there. what I was saying before: never dwell for you guys? haven't been watching The Simpsons as The main goal that we have making on anything you do. I don't regret any­
The song writing process is weird much since I bought that. records or music in general is to write a thing we've done. None of us do because we don't have a song writing What's your favorite episode of The good record not to write a good song. In because there is no point in regretting process. It's more like we have a lot of Family Guy? ten years I want to be able to listen to anything you've done because you've ideas and we go in the studio. For this There is a really good one where all the records we did and play them all far surpassed anything you should have record, we went to the studio and had Brian has a coke problem and moves to the way through. done. Live by the day and that's all we three songs written. We didn't have any L.A. That's a really good one because Where do you want to be as a band do. real pre-production or anything like it's a two-part episode too and he has to five years from now? that we just threw together ideas. It's get clean. It's good because he tries to I don't look to tomorrow. I don't even how it worked. We rented out a space make it as an actor and lies to his fami­know what's going to happen tonight. for a month and we're going to write ly. Everything that we've been doing has Contact Brian Foy at bfoy@nd.cdu 



Thursday, January 22, 2004 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

No. 6 Louisville cruises by No. 5 Cincinnati 93-66 
halftime or in the second half
Bearcats suffer first 
of any game this season. Cincinnati committed seven
loss of2003-04 season 
turnovers and nine fouls in the first 9:25 of the second half,
Associated Press 
enabling Louisville to open an 
11-point lead. The Cardinals, 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Taquan shooting 72 percent from the Dean scored 21 points and free throw line this season, hit Francisco Garcia added 19 for seven of their first 12 free No. 5 Louisville in a 93-66 vic­throws in the second half and tory over sixth-ranked and led 63-52 after Kendall Dartez previously unbeaten Cincinnati made two with 10:35 left. on Wednesday night, the No.3 St. Joseph's 92, Cardinals' 14th straight victo­Massachusetts 67 ry. The television cameras 
Luke Whitehead had 18 swarmed on Hawk Hill this 
points and eight rebounds as week, and Saint Joseph's stu­the Cardinals (14-1, 5-0 dents returned from a winter Conference USA) beat the break all wanting a piece of Bearcats for the fourth time in their undefeated team. 
the last six meetings. The Hawks weren't going to 
Dean went 7 -of-14 from the let the hoopla affect their play field, including 5-of-10 from 3-with a team record in sight. point range despite playing "This team is pretty level­with a pulled groin. headed," coach Phil Martelli 
Louisville's victory margin said. "They're calm about matched the worst in things. They haven't let a lot of Cincinnati coach this get to Bob Huggins' 15 them." seasons there. The Pat Carroll Bearcats lost to <This team is scored a sea­North Carolina 90-son-high 20
pretty
63 in 1993. points, helping 
Jason Maxiell levelheaded. , No. 3 Saint scored 14 to lead Joseph's match Cincinnati (13-1, 4-Phil Martelli the longest win­1), one of three ning streak in
St. Joseph's coach
undefeated teams school history in Division I coming with a victory into the game, against which scored only 26 points in Massachusetts. the second half. Massachusetts Delonte West 
The Cardinals went 29-of-42 added 19 points and Jameer 
from the free throw line, while Nelson had 13 for the Hawks, 
Cincinnati was 12-of-26. who are 16-0 (6-0 Atlantic 10) 
Louisville outrebounded for the first time ever and 
Cincinnati 42-38 and generat­matched the winning streak set 
ed 19 points off the Bearcats' by the 1964-65 team coached 
season-high 19 turnovers. by Jack Ramsay. 
Both teams speeded up the The Hawks, who have their game from the start with their highest ranking in the polls trademark fullcourt pressure. since they were No. 3 in 1966, But neither defense was effec­can break the record Saturday tive early as the Bearcats start­with a victory at St. ed 4-of-6 from the field and the Bonaventure. Cardinals were 4-of-7. "The 16 wins is significant 
Tony Bobbitt's 3-pointer with when we think of the people 
15:42 left in the first half start­that have played here and ed a 9-0 Bearcats' run that coached here," Martelli said. "I gave Cincinnati a 19-12 lead. will reinforce it tomorrow 
Garcia, held without a field when we begin our prepara­goal in the first 8 minutes, tion for Bonaventure that it's scored nine points during OK in this sense to be selfish, Louisville's 13-2 run to answer. to want this record for your­
The Cardinals pushed the self." 
lead to five, but the Bearcats . Only the Hawks and No. 2 
retook the lead at 33-31 on Stanford (14-0) remain unde­
Bobbitt's 3-pointer in front of feated in Division I. 
the Louisville bench with 5:41 "This team is mature enough 
left in the half. to stay focused," Nelson said. 
The Cardinals held Cincinnati While the Hawks kept their to two field goals the rest of perfect streak alive. West lost the half in taking a 44-40 lead. his. The Bearcats hadn't trailed at West was coming off a 12­for-12, 3-for-3 from 3-point range and 6-for-6 from the free throw line effort in a win Saturday at Xavier. Against Massachusetts, West made his first seven shots from the field -including two 3s -before missing a 3-point attempt 6 1/2 minutes into the second half. 
It was his first miss since his final shot against Fordham on Jan. 13. 
West said after the Xavier game he wasn't aware of the streak. He said he was too aware against the Minutemen. "I think a couple of times I got gun-shy in the first half," West said. "Obviously, I let it go. You're not always going to be perfect. I was actually relieved when I missed a shot." 
West said it was hard not to think of an undefeated regular season and a No. 1 seed in the NCAA tournament. 
"Those thoughts are always on your mind when you're on a roll like we are," he said. "What's important for us to continue to do what we've been doing all season and look at the next challenge." 
The Hawks celebrated their 
No. 3 ranking with -what 
else? -3s. They hit five 
straight to open the game, get­
ting three from Carroll, and 
one each from West and 
Nelson. 
Carroll added two more 3s 
for 17 points in the half and 
the Hawks went 9-for-18 from 
3-point range in taking a 50-23 
lead. 
Carroll has struggled with his 
shot and his confidence this 
season, but making his last two 
3-pointers against Xavier game 
him a needed boost. 
No. 19 Mississippi State 79, 

No. 16 Florida 68 
If it's still a secret, it won't be 
for long. Mississippi State is 
good -very good -and its 
star player, Lawrence Roberts, 
is right up there with the best 
in the nation. 
Roberts was as dominating 
as his team, finishing with 21 
points and 14 rebounds to lead 
the 19th-ranked Bulldogs to a 
victory over No. 17-Florida. 
"He's a great, great player," 
Florida coach Billy Donovan 
said. "As good as there is in 
this league, as good as there is 
in the country." 
Roberts, the 6-foot-9 forward 
who transferred from Baylor 
after the scandal there last 
season, recorded his 11th dou­
ble-double of the season and 
helped the Bulldogs (15-1, 4-1 Southeastern Conference) to the most impressive win yet in what is shaping up to be a spe­cial season. 

Their only loss so far was a one-point heartbreaker to Kentucky last Wednesday on a last-second shot. The Bulldogs briefly led that game after trailing by 16 in the second half. 
"We just go out there and play, and know we can com­pete with any team," Roberts said. 
Mississippi State posted its first win in Gainesville since its Final Four season, 1995-96, and handed Florida (11-4, 2-2) its first double-digit loss at home since 1999, the year before the Gators made it to the national finals. 
Anthony Roberson had 20 points to lead the Gators, who trailed by as many as 22 and lost their second straight ­this coming four days after an 86-7 2 loss at Vanderbilt. 
"It was pretty much a frus­trating game from start to fin­ish," Florida forward Matt Walsh said. 
The Gators didn't have any­one who could come close to shutting down Roberts, a two­time all-conference player in the Big 12 who is making a bid to win the same honors in the SEC this year. 
The Bulldogs went ahead by double digits midway through the first half and never saw the lead fall below 10. 
Not counting his handful of thundering dunks, Roberts' signature play came with 7:19 left, when he made a spinning, twisting, underhanded shot off the glass for a 68-50 lead. The shot silenced the crowd. 
On the next possession, Roberson threw a sloppy pass that Timmy Bowers stole in stride for a dunk. It brought a smattering of boos from the fans and sent some of the sell­out crowd toward the exits. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business ·day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! Search 24 bookstores with 1 clickl S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com 
FREE MONEY Between the Buns restaurant is offering clubs and organizations the opportunity to earn free money. Hold a "Kickback' night at the 'Buns' and receive a 15% donation .from what is spent that evening. Call Phil for more details. 247-9293 

WANTED 
Avon/Mark 50/40% Earnings Call Karen 1-866-780-2866 Independent Sales Rep. 
Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches is now accepting applications for third shift drivers and inshoppers. JJs offers competitive pay in a fun fast-paced working environment Drivers must have dependable transportation, insurance, and a clean driving record. Call Andy or Mike between 2-5 p.m. at 277-8500 with any questions. 
FoR SALE 
LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS.GILLIS REALTY 272-6306 
FOR SALE Mercury Grand Marquis 1988 GS Mii71,000EngV8Aut MAKE AN OFFER 631-5224/ 631-0259 Garcia.1 06@ nd.edu SEE IT (in front of) HESBURGH RESI­DENCES here on campus. 


FOR RENT 
3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON MO.,FURN.272-6306 
BULLARD HOME.$650.M0.272­6306 
4 bedroom house. AC, garage, great location, ample space, nego­liable ren\. Contact Mike 216-408-0780 or Matt 216-408-4744 if interested 
LIVE IN A GOOD NOT QUESTION­ABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF ND IDEAL FOR 3-7 STUDENTS 2773097 
New luxurious 3-4 bdrm 3 bath, 2-car garage, fireplace, sky lights, close to campus $1640 monthly, call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 B&B for JPW/gradlfootball for up to 12 people, 1/2 mile to ND, email domercondo @yahoo.com 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmm­rentals@ aol.com 272-1525 

TICKETS 
Need 2 Pitt Bball GAs. Will pay or trade 2 UK or UConn student tx. Call Jenny 
634-4507. 
PERSONAL 
I,JNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, esc. at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Bryan, Jim wants to know when you are going to visit. 
Good Time Charlie's is the place to host a poker tourney 
Thursday, January 22, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 13 

NBA 



Cavs trade Miles to Blazers 
Mcinnis will take over point for James 
A&Sociated Pre55 
CLEVELAND -Darius Miles received another wake-up call: lie got traded to Portland. 
Miles, who was fined by the Cavaliers for oversleeping and skipping a practice earlier this week, was dealt Wednesday to the Trail Blazers for point guard Jeff Mcinnis and cente'r Huben Boumtje-Boumtje. 
Miles has been a disappoint­ment in his 1 1/2 seasons with Cleveland. which acquired him before last season in a deal that sent guard Andre Miller to the Los Angeles Clippers. 
The 22-year-old Miles, who jumped straight from high school to the NBA in 2000, was averaging 8.9 points in 24 
minutes per game. lie has shown breath­taking flashes of skill, but has betHl plagued by in cons is ten ey, and first-year Cleveland coach Paul Silas was reluctant to play him. 
Miles will get a 
fresh start with the disap­pointing Blazers, who might not be done turning over their roster. 
Portland general manager John Nash said the trade had been in the works for about a week. but talks had been on and ofT between the teams for the past year. 
"We knew that Cleveland was interested in a point guard, and we knew they'd been interested in Jeff for sev­eral months," said Nash, who may still trade Hasheed Wallace. 
After playing just eight min­
utes Saturday in Utah in the final game of Cleveland's road trip and with trade rumors .about him circulating, Miles missed practice on Monday, 
saying he had for­
gotten to set his 
alarm clock. '1Miles is] a very Paxson said The club was so athletic player. He the main reason 
concerned about to get Mcinnis
can get up and
Miles' unex­was to make plained absence down the floor. " things easier for that they sent the the 6-foot-8 police to his Maurice Cheeks James, who has house to make had to play
Portland coach 
sure he was safe. 
Miles was fined by the Cavs, but the lanky 6­foot-9 swingman played 17 minutes in Monday's win over Seattle. Miles, who will be a free agent after this season, is making $4.1 million in the final year of his contract. 
The Blazers like Miles' ver­satility and think a change of scenery may bring out his 
best. 
"We have a few 
"We feel he is as options with 
him," Portland
good a point guard 
coach Maurice 
as we were going Cheeks said. to get." "He's a very ath­letic player. He can get up and
Jim Paxson 
down the floor. 
Cavs general manager There's been 
times this season 
where we have had a hard time doing that. Coming here, he has a new look, where he can start all over. We all see the potential in him." 
Mcinnis, 29, will give Cleveland some depth at point guard and another veteran to surround rookie star LeBron James. 
Mcinnis is averaging 11.9 points and 5.0 assists in 32.5 minutes per game, but had his playing time reduced recently when Derek Anderson returned from the injured list. 
"Jeff is one of those guys 



Turtle Creek 
For a limited time take advantage ofour down payment special. 
All you need is $200 to secure your spot at Turtle Creek for 2004-2005! 
Here are some reasons to choose TC! 
• We're close to campus 
+ FULLY STUDENT OCCUPIED! 
• 
We have remodeled units available 

• 
We have short term smnmer leases available 


+ We have special lease terms for students-We won't make you sign a 12 month lease when vou'll onlv be here for 10! 
+\ve let yo~ choose your apartment location 
+24 hour-LOCK OU'f service, along with an on-site maintenance tech ifyou have any problems in the middle of the night 
+ WE NOW HAY£ 24 hour patrolled security. 
You can have all ofthis and more...all it takes is $200 from you and each or your roommates to secure your spot. Call for details...272-8124. 
Or visit us at www.Turtlt~CreekNn.(~Om © 
who will step in and do a good job for us," said Cavs general manager Jim Paxson, who doesn't expect Mcinnis and Boumtje-Boumtje to be avail­able for Thursday's game against 
Sacramento. 
Bryant hearing will be closed to public 
point guard dur­ing stretches . this season. 
Mcinnis will split time with Kevin Ollie at point, leaving James to play off-guard and small forward. 
"We've asked LeBron to do a heck of a lot," Paxson said. "But for him to be most effec­tive, we don't need him bring­ing the ball up, initiating our offense and having to score points. That's going to take its toll. We needed to get him back to his more natural posi­tion." 
Paxson said the Cavs didn't want to wait until the offsea­son to try and add a point guard. They were afraid if they had waited, they wouldn't have been able to get a player of Mcinnis' quality. 
"We feel he is as good a point guard as we were going to get," said Paxson, who had been interested in signing Mcinnis two years ago as a free agent. 
Mcinnis is making $3.3 mil­lion this season, and Paxson said the guard's contract is partially protected for next season and would be guaran­teed if he's on Cleveland's ros­ter on July 1. 
Boumtje-Boumtje, 25, has been playing less than three minutes per game. He was on the injured list most of last season. 

Case will continue on Friday afternoon 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Courtroom arguments over whether· Kobe Bryant's accuser has given up her medical privacy rights will be closed to the public, the judge ruled Wednesday. 
A hearing is scheduled for Friday to determine whether Bryant's attorneys can prove the 19-year-old woman has given up her privacy rights by talking about her medical condition and treatment with others. 
Judge Terry Ruckriegle said evidence and testimony likely to be presented during the hearing would bring up embarrassing information that would be disseminated around the world due to the intense media interest in the case against the Los Angeles Lakers star. 
Chris Beall, an attorney rep­resenting several media 
James will likeIy miss Kings game 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -LeBron James shot baskets during practice Wednesday, but coach Paul Silas said the Cavaliers' rookie isn't ready to play and will likely miss his second straight game due to a sprained right ankle. 
"Chances are slim," Silas said when asked if he expects James to be available for organizations including The Associated Press, said his clients had not yet determined whether to file a petition with the state Supreme Court to review the ruling. 
Bryant faces four years to life in prison or 20 years to life on probation if convicted of sexual assault. He has said he had consensual sex with the woman, a former employ­ee of a mountain resort where he stayed June 30. 
Other parts of Friday's hearing are expected to remain open. 
The judge is expected to hear arguments on whether the records of a rape crisis center should remain private. An employee with the center sat in during a police inter­view of the woman. 
The judge also is expected to hear arguments over the defense's role in evidence testing and a report from prosecutors about who ordered or received T-shirts mocking Bryant as a "cheater." 
Cleveland's game against Sacramento on Thursday. "But I wouldn't put it past him." 
James, who sat out Tuesday's win over Seattle, was favoring his right ankle Wednesday. Cleveland's lead­ing scorer has not run on the ankle since injuring it in a game at Utah on Jan. 17. 
James was not available for comment. 
Before Tuesday's game, James said he was going to be cautious with the injury and not come back until it was 100 percent. 
James rolled his ankle when he stepped on the foot of Utah forward Andrei .... Kirilenko late in regulation, but the Cavs won in overtime without him and Zydrunas Ilgauskas, who was ejected for fighting. 
PANAMA CllY BEACH, FL ++SPRING BREAK++ 
Book early and save~~! uites up to 12 people, 3 pools, uge beachfront hot-tub, lazy river ride, water slide, jet skis, parasail. Sandpiper-Beacon Beach Resort 
800·488-8828 
www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
·­


-~-~-~---~~-~ 
-~~-~--------~ 
~\ 
page 1'*' The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 22, 2004 Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.1@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu

Campus Ministry C-M 
Notre Dame 
Man's
Freshman 
Senior 
Women's
siQn uos now 
Get involved, go on a retreat 

Encounter #So 
Weekend 
Retreat 
Retreat
Retreat #51 
More info ft aPP lications in Room114 
February 27-29 January 30-31 Jan. 30 -Feb. 1 February 6-7 February 27-28
Apply online at campusministry.nd.edu 
Sign up deadline: Sign up deadline: Sign up deadline: Sign up Deadline: Sign up Deadline: January 23 January 23 January 27 February 2 February 9 
Main Office ((;'oMo 319) & Retreats~~..{CoMo 114), Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to s p.m.
. .. . '' •,•,·.··· .

wh t' h · 
CM Welcome Center (room ·. Sunday through Thursday 4 P-m. to Midnight. 
~~·· ~ ...... -.._ ....___ ~'· .. ····-~-; ..---~-·-------~---"--,___.f_,..:.. .-.t........._......~--.....••111...--..·---··-• ·--• 
today 01.22 
Dinner to support the Pere Laval Catholic -Orphanage in Mauritius 
s:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. Coleman-Morse Hammes Student Lounge, $s/person. 

friday ot.n 
Mass for Peace s:1S p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
LTR Retreat 
NDE Retreat #79 Fatima Retreat Center 

sunday o1.2s 
RCIA Session 1o:oo a.m. -11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
HandbeU Choir plays for Pop Farley Mass 4:oopm 
Farley Hall Chapel Fr. Ted Hesburgh, c.s.c., presiding 
Rejoice! Mass 1o:oo p.m. Coleman-Morse Chapel 
monday o1.26 
JPW Reader Auditions 4:00pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
tuesday 01.21 
JPW Reader Auditions 4:00pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Campus Bible Study 7:oo p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse, 
Halaqa (Conversation Circle) & Qur'an Reading 
Introduction Session 
Meditation Room 102 Coleman-Morse Center 7:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 
wednesday o1.2s 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 1o:oo p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Theology on Tap 1o:oo p.m. -11:30 p.m. Legends 


auditions •for JPW mass 
JPW Reader Auditions will take place in the 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart on each of the following dates:· 
Monday, january 26th at 4:00 p.m. Tuesday, january 27th at 4:00 p.m. 
Please attend one of the two auditions. 
For further information, please contact 

Harv Humphrey, hhumphre@nd.edu or phone 271-7289. 

mass schedule 
Third Sunday in Ordinary Time 
basilica of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass  Sunday  
s:oo p.m.  to:oo a.m.  
Rev. John Pearson, c.s.c  Rev. John Pearson, c.s.c  
11:45 p.m.  
Rev. Paul Doyle, c.s.c  

around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. 7:oo p.m. 
Spanish Mass MBA Mass 
St. Edward's Hall Chapel Mendoza COB s:oo p.m. Faculty Lounge 
Law School Mass 
Law School Commons 

considerations... 
Christian Unity 
Hear the words Heed the message 
by Frank Santoni Director, Peer Ministry & Ecumenical Initiatives 
This Sunday, those of us who are Roman Catholic will sit in church and listen to the first few lines from the Gospel of Luke. We'll hear about how Jesus went to the synagogue to read from the Torah and by doing so fulfilled the very words he proclaimed. Those of us who are Lutheran will hear the same story. So will the Methodists. Episcopalians. And Presbyterians, too. And although this week happens to be the one observed worldwide as a Week of Prayer for Christian Unity, what will happen on Sunday is not a choreographed event designed to celebrate that fact. In fact, what will happen this Sunday is nothing out of the ordinary. It happens every Sunday. In the majority ofChristian churches around the world, on most Sundays of the year, Christians of mainline protestailt denominations along with Roman Catholics read 
and hear the same exact texts from the Bible. 
What I did not realize until recently is that it's been that way for more than 20 years thanks to what's known as the Common Lectionary, a series of books containing a cycle of readings from the bible. It was developed after the reforms called for by the Second Vatican Council for use in worship services and adopted by dozens of Protestant denominations as well as the Roman Catholic Church. I find it fascinating to 
imagine most of the world's Christians worshipping in churches of all shapes and sizes, with music both contemporary or ancient, somewhere around the 
world and all of them, at various points through out 
the mass or service, taking in the same words pro­claimed from the Holy scriptures. 
As I reflect on this reality in the light of this week's observation of Christian Unity Week, it becomes clear that, whether we are aware of it or not on a daily basis, most Christians in the world share that which is most fundamental to practicing our faith: the Word of God. As Christians, we believe that God desires to be in relationship with each of us and together as a people. We believe that God communicates that message to us through the Word who took human form in the person ofJesus Christ. So if God has a message for us and the majorio/ of Christians are hearing this message each week from our pews around the globe, then only one question remains: Aie we heeding the message? 
The scripture that serves as the basis of reflection for Christian Unity Week this year is John 14: 23-31. In this reading, Jesus, preparing his disciples for his imminent departure, speaks these familiar words to them, "Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you." With those words, Jesus sums up for us his message to us then and now. Was it possible for the disciples who heard Jesus' words to fully grasp the message he was giving to the them-to understand the promise he 
Prayer for Christian Unity 
0 God, holy and eternal Trinity, we pray for your Church in the world. Sanctify its life; renew its worship; 
empower its witness; heal its. divisions; make visible its unity. Lead us, with all our brothers and sisters, toward communion in faith, life and witness so that, united in one body by the ONE Spirit, we may together witness to the perfect unity of your love. Amen 
The Prayer of the Fifth World Conference on Faith and Order World Council of Churches 
made them and act on it? Maybe even more important to our world now, Jesus delivers that same message to his disciples today. But like his followers then, are we only able to hear the words without heeding the message? Is the Christian Church living like a people promised the gift of peace by God? 
Peace is a prerequisite to the work of unity. The issues debated today by Christian scholars working toward unity are important ones that require continued dialogue and study. The list of joint statements issued by churches from around Christendom declaring agreement on wide-ranging topics is long and detailed. But ~that's where we are today. It's certainly not where we started. The causes of disunion in the Church most often trace back to conflicts having little to do with theology. Many of the original divisions in the Christian Church have more to do with politics and power than with practices in the pews. 
So where does that leave us? Back at the beginning, with the gift of peace Jesus made to his disciples. The peace Jesus promises doesn't only have to do with an end to war, although we certainly need that. The peace Jesus gives us is a peace that comes from broken hearts healed, from families preserved and from people of faith united. Unity and the peace that fosters it is ours to accept. God has spoken his word. God's message is clear. What remains uncertain is our commitment to reach out and receive the gift. In the first verses ofJohn 14:23-31, Jesus tells the disciples, ""Those who love me will keep my word, and my Father will love them, and we will come to them and make our home with them. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words; and the word that you hear is ·not mine, but is from the Father who sent me." Do we hear the words? Do we heed the message? 
.~ -• ..,._, •••• -& 
Sunday's Scripture Readings · -!i~':!:' ··· . 1st: Neh 8:2-4a, s-6, 8-10 2nd: 1 Corinthians 12:4-11 Gospel: Luke 1:1-4; 4:14-21 
----------------------------------------, 

•




OUND THE NATION 
rhursday, January 22, 2004 
CoMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEltS WIRE SERVICES Page 15 
NFL 

team 
1 Hope 
2 Calvin 3 Albion 
4 Alma 5 Kalamazoo 6 Adrian 7 SAINT MARY'S 
8 Oliver 
NCAA Men•s Basketball 

AP 
ieam 
1 Duke (61) 2 Maryland (6) 3 Illinois (2) 4 Kentucky (3) 5 UCLA 
6 Florida 7 Kansas 8 Missouri 9 Iowa 10 Saint Joseph's 11 Virginia 12 Memphis 13 Stanlord 
14 Georgetown 15 Michigan State 16 Temple 11 Boston College 18 Oklahoma State 19 North Carolina 20 usc 21 Syracuse 22 Indiana 23 Texas 24 Alabama 25 Oklahoma 
Men's 

team 
1 Illinois 2 Baylor 3 Florida 4 Vanderbilt 5 Stanford 6 Mlulsslppl 7 UCLA 8 Duke 9 Texas A&M 10 Kentucky 11 Washington 12 California 13 Texas 14 VIrginia 
Commonwealth 
15 Minnesota 16 Tulane 17 Ohio State 18 TCU 19 lSU 
20 Alabama 21 Southern California 22 Oklahoma State 23 Georgia 24 Rice 26 South Carolina 
.... . . 
.•• ififun ,<·········.······ Dull$(~) ·1•· 
Stanfor~J~[ 2 
Saint Joseph~#nf 3 
c~~~:~~~~ Y~ 
louIsville 6 Wat<e ForeSt 7 Kentucky 8 
Plll$burgh ·· ·~··· 
Kansas 10 North carolina 11 .. Arizona Jt. 
GenrglaT~~ 1~ \ ·· )fex;~s 14 i
aoniaoa ts / 
svracu$8 16 · · .. Floticti 11 .. 
Texallrel;ti ·•t~i•·•••·· 
.. Wisconsin 19>> Misstuippi$tllbf toJ.····
Oklalioma n· 
vanlftirbilt 22 Purdull 23 C!1igllt00. ~4i Oklahoma Slate 25 
··Gellrgi1i · · 5 
Soutber~~:~~~~~J~ ~ > 
William and Mary .It North Carolina< 9 TenneSieif 1ff ... 
;.>ucLA 11 
vanderbilt 12 ·.· ••· 
Harvard 13 Northwestern 14 .. JCenll!~~i 15, ••. .. Cl~~~iiij t~ ••• V!rglnta H. 
Colllmonwea!Uf >•···· soutll Alabama 1a Arilooa state 19 
fresntfState> z(l·. ·•. NOTREilAME t1· 
Mlamf•·•tz·· 
Illinois 23 
Taxa$ P,&M t4>.• 
·.· JQiai\ij ~< 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -Sean Payton is staying with the Dallas Cowboys, making him the second high-rank­ing assistant to remain with the team after look­ing into a head-coaching job elsewhere. 
The Cowboys said on their Web site Wednesday that Payton has decided to stay with the team rather than become coach of the Oakland Raiders. In California, Raiders owner AI Davis said the job was never offered, despite widespread reports Tuesday that Payton had agreed to a deal. 
"I don't think Sean Payton turned down the job because Sean Payton was never offered the job," Davis said in a rare inter­view. "Sean Payton has a lot of good credentials, but I don't know if that's the direction we're going." 
Regardless, it means Bill Parcf)lls will retain a key member of his offensive coaching staff. He'd already gotten defensive coordinator Mike Zimmer to stay after he received more money and added years to remain in Dallas rather than continue pur­suing the coaching job at the University of Nebraska. 
It wasn't immediately known whether Payton, Parcells' assistant head coach and quarterbacks coach, received a raise or an extension. Cowboys owner Jerry Jones was traveling back from the Senior Bowl in Mobile, Ala., and did not immedi­ately return a telephone message. 
Payton and Cowboys offensive coordinator Maurice Carthon were among the candidates to replace fired Raiders coach Bill Callahan, who eventually took the Nebraska job. Payton was the first person invited back to Oakland for a sec-
IN BRIEF 
Diamondbacks' Orosco retires after 24 seasons Jesse Orosco had enough. 
After a record-setting career, the 46-year-old left-hander told the Arizona Diamondbacks on Wednesday that he had decided to retire after 24 major league sea­sons. 
"To take it a quarter-century -I never imagined that," Orosco said during a telephone interview with The Associated Press. "It's a sad day that I have to call it quits. But it's a great day, too, for the fact I fulfilled my dream." 
Orosco, who turns 4 7 on April 21, was the oldest player in the major leagues last season. He began his career with the New York Mets in 1979 -some current major lea­guers weren't even born yet-and set big league records with 1,252 games pitched and 1,248 relief appearances. 
lie went 87-80 with 144 saves and a career EHA of 3.16 with nine teams. His greatest moment was when he struck out Boston's Marty Barrett to end Game 7 of the 1986 World Series. 
Roddick advances in Open 
His powerful serve was working so well, Andy Roddick dispensed with the fancy stuff. 
Forget the crazy spins, the careful location. 
Just bring it. 
Smacking a total of 20 aces. including one at a tournament-high 140 mph, Hoddick simply over­whelmed Bohdan Ulihrach 6-2, 6-2, 6-3 Wednesday in 73 minutes to reach the Australian Open's third round. 
"My serve felt great today," said the top-seeded Roddick, who led the tour in aces last season. "So obvi­ously I didn't use so many of the kicks, too many of the slices, because I felt like I was hitting my big one very well." 
He won 93 percent of points on his 
. -~ 
ond interview. 
The 40-year-old Payton, who would have become the league's youngest head coach. lit Davis' profile of hiring coordinators with offensive minds who don't have previous head-coach­ing experience. llis last two hires were Callahan and Jon Gruden, two of Payton's mentors. 
Payton made his mark during four years with the New York Giants. especial­ly while calling plays dur­ing their Super Bowl sea­son in 2000. lie had no 
...
ties to Parcells until being hired last January. lie and Carthon help Parcells with the play calling. 

round the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL UCLA at Stanford 8:30 p.m., ESPN Richmond at Kansas 9 p.m., ESPN2 .. Oregon State at Arizona 8:30p.m., ESPN USC at California 10 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
Philadelphia at New York 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
first serve and set up a third-round match against friend and country­man Taylor Dent, who lost his serve 10 times but toughed out a 3-6, 6-4, 4-6, 7-6 (4), 7-5 victory over Juan Ignacio Chela. 
Dent, who compiled 83 winners and 77 unforced errors, screamed "Yeah!" when Chela's backhand vol­ley hit the net on match point. 
"I got by with smoke and mirrors. somehow." Dent said. "I guess tomorrow I'll be happy about it. I'm just hoping that I get better as the tournament goes on." 
One player who always seems to be at his best at the year's first major is Andre Agassi. 
He extended his Australian Open winning streak to 23 matches ­including titles in 2000, 2001 and last year -by beating Czech teen Tomas Berdych 6-0, 6-2, 6-4. 
"Today felt really good. I think there was a lot of quality ball-strik­ing going on, from both sides," the fourth-seeded Agassi said. 
page 16 
.. 
O'Neill 
continued from page 20 
resentatives for the evening's event. 
Kim Carpenter of the women's soccer team, Devon Prescod and Greg Martin of the men's soccer team, Aaron Gill and Bob Globke of the hockey team, Bob Morton of the football team, Kristin Kinder of the volleyball team and Liz Doyle of the cheer­leading squad participated in the event, which Vater hopes will become an annual tradi­tion. The athletes answered questions about becoming involved in their sports, choos­ing to attend Notre Dame, their activities outside of ath­letics and their plans for the future. They also discussed applying the lessons learned on the field to situations in everyday life. 
"You get a chance to go to Notre Dame, it's an opportuni­ty you can't pass up," Martin said. "Getting to put on an Irish jersey is just another aspect of it." 
"I've been a Notre Dame fan in general and in football since I was about four years old," Morton said. "I For seniors like Marti-n, the 

Notre Dame experience is 
almost over and some senior 
captains are unsure of what 
they will do after graduation. 
"It's a tough decision," 
Martin said when asked about 
future plans. Martin and 
Prescod are considering trav­
eling to Africa to play soccer 
and work as AIDS/HIV educa­
tors. They hope to "find a way 
to stay active and stay 
involved in the community," 
said Martin. 
Carpenter plans to attend 
medical school -her lifelong 
goal-after graduation. 
''I'll. be taking a lot from my experience here," she said. "You can't let individual desires get in the way when you've got a team to look out for -the same is true in med­icine." 
Kinder said that the most important goal of a captain is "to get the most out of every individual on a team." She said she is considering playing professional beach volleyball and is looking into making an Olympic appearance, but hopes to go into the field of public health. 
Each athlete had a memory of beginning what would be a lifelong passion -why he or 
she began play­
ing the sport that
"We wanted to 
remember 
became a way of 
watching showcase the life. games with 
captains and "I started play­
Pop and my ing football dur­
[illustrate] that they 
grandfather, ing freshman
the gold hats don't just play sports, year [of highand the tradi­
but do stuffoutside, school] because Ition -it's not 
was too big to
in the
just the ath­
play soccer," said 
letics and the community. " 
Morton. "I stuck
academics 
with H. and nowbut the tradi­it's a big part of
Michael Vater 
tion that goes my life." 
along with it." O'Neill hall president 
" w h 0 
knows about 
hockey in Indiana?" Gill asked 
rhetorically. "Turns out, not 
too many people." 
"We saw it as the opportuni­
ty to build a program," his 
teammate Globke said. Globke 
was selected in the second 
round of the draft, and the 
team is ranked in the nation's 
top 15. 
The captains have proven themselves to be leaders out­side of athletics as well.• 
"Our captains are responsi­ble for the creative aspect of cheerleading -our practices are run by the creative minds behind the team," Doyle said. 
The cheerleaders also schedule appearances in Catholic grade schools, chil­dren's hospitals and day-care centers to coincide with road trips. 
Others, such as Martin, said that being a recognizable face in the South Bend community has led to opportunities to help a variety of people. 
"My  old  man  
put  me  on  
skates,"  said  

Globke, who initially disliked skating and the cold weather. "But I kind of started to like it and with four little brothers, I had fun shooting pucks at them." 
Kinder had the unique expe­rience of co-captaining the volleyball team with her twin sister. 
"Debbie [Brown], our coach, is a big name in [our home state ofl California," Kinder said. "She played there, her jerseys are retired ... having the opportunity to play with her and my sister was amaz­ing." 
Prescod, Martin and Carpenter were able to share simnar stories about learning to play soccer, with Prescod and Carpenter following ­and excelling -in the foot­steps of older siblings. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu. 
At~~ ~ Announces the following introductory offers of... 
r----••---••----~·----••----~ 
I $IS I I I I $69 I I . $ 1 I $79 I
$26 79
I I I I 1 Color, Cut & I 1 1 I H' hi' h I I Mens Cut I .Cut & Srylel I Style I I r .. m, Cut & Style I I c~~ &I~ tl~ I One Process ty 
~----··---··----··----··----· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Offer Good With KJ-Kelly-Elena-Chrissy-Desiree-Stefanie-Jennifer 
Nor~id fOr spir..l.l penns. Long or rimed ha.i.r add $10. No othcrdis­
ATRIA SALON 
couna apply. Open some evenings. ATRIA Salon n::savcs the right m n::fusc service ro any d~t whose hair rondirion is unm:::acabl.e. 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
Corner of Edison 
OFFER EXPIRES 3-1-04 
289-5080 
Thursday, January 22, 2004 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 

Student Airfne$ Everywlter~
.C::• StudentUniverse.com 
Applications now a·vailablci~ 114 Coleman-MorseCentcr and also online at campusministrv..nd.cp~ 


TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 
Irish guard Megan Duffy drives past a Wisconsin defender during a key 82-64 victory earlier In the season. Duffy had a 'ame-hlgh six assists In Wednesday's contest against 
·racuse. 
; win for us." 
.:~yracuse Syracuse coach Keith Cieplicki was impressed with the way Notre Dame per­
continued from page 20 
formed. rebounds in 28 minutes. It "Notre Dame played welL was Batteast's fourth straight Obviously they came on in the double-double and seventh of second half," Cieplicki said. the year. Ten of Notre Dame's "We just didn't make shots." 12 players that dressed scored Notre Dame played a man-
points against  to-man defense  
Syracuse,  for most of the  
including 10 off the bench from Courtney LaVere.  "It was good because {Syracuse] just beat Ruters and  game and con­tained reigning Big East Player of the Week Julie  
Le'Tania Severe  they were playing  McBride  to  a  
added points, rebounds  six six and  well. It's just a great win for us. "  horrendous 2-of­15 shooting, including miss­ 
five assists  ing all six of her  
Notre  Dame  Muffet McGraw  3-point attempts.  
jumped out to  Irish coach  She finished with  

an 18-8 lead, but was up only six with less than three minutes left in the first half. But the Irish fin­ished the half strong by dou­bling that lead to 28-16 at the intermission. 
Notre Dame's lead reached 17 at 38-21 four minutes into the second half and kept 
· growing from there. The Irish Jed by 20 points with 11 min­utes remaining and 26 at the four minute mark before scor­ing six points in the last 2:30 to win by 29. 
The large margin of victory may have been a bit surpris­ing considering Syracuse was coming off a win over Big East power Rutgers a few days ear­lier. 
"It was good because [Syracuse] just beat Rutgers and they were playing well," McGraw said. "It's just a great 
Walker 
continued from page 20 
backs, three spots behind cur­rent Irish verbal commitment Justin Hoskins. Still, Lemming believes coaches would like to secure the commitment of a player that, even if it takes time, could contribute. 
"Walker could make an impact right away and so could Hoskins," Lemming said. 
only eight points 
and had five 
turnovers her­self. 
Chineze Nwagbo led the Orangewomen with 13 points on 6-of-11 shooting and added six rebounds. 
"We worked on [man-to­man defense] a lot during the last couple of days' and we played a very smart game defensively," McGraw said. "We really talked well and guarded the 3-point shooting well and forced them to take contested 3s." 
The Irish won't have much time to enjoy this win as they face No. 23 Villanova (13-3) (3-2) Saturday at the Joyce Center at noon. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
"Hoskins definitely couldn't carry the whole load, but they both have to get bigger. Coaches could get a lot out of either of them as spot run­ners." 
If Walker commits, he will join the likes of Hoskins, Hyan Grant and Travis Thomas in a backfield that coaches have indicated could be open for com petition. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu. 

~~~--~-----­
page 18 Thursday, January 22, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 


Hockey 
continued from page 20 
coach Dave Poulin can go shop­ping at Martin's on the week­ends in relative anonymity. 
True, the Irish currently only sit in seventh-place in the CCHA, with 18 points in 16 games. Their 8-6-2 conference record and 12-7-3 records overall are good, yet not great. But despite what looks like mediocrity, the Irish have been anything but. 
Quick, name three members of the Notre Dame hockey team. Can't do it? Well, don't worry, fans in Chestnut Hill, Mass., Orono, Maine and Madison, Wise. probably couldn't either. 
They should be able to now, though, as the Irish have already beaten hockey power­houses Boston College, Maine and Wisconsin this season. Each team was ranked in the top five at the time, and each win came on the road, with two of those three wins ending in shutouts. 
Not bad for a team that wasn't even picked to finish in the top six in their conference's preseason poll. 
Despite playing in the Joyce Center. an arena better suited to host Senior Citizens' Bingo Night than a hockey game, the Irish have quietly crept up on the rest of the CCHA elite over the past few years. 
Notre Dame has advanced to the Super Six three of the past four years. twice beating high­er-ranked opponents on the road in the first round to do so. True, the Irish have never won a game at the Joe Louis Arena in Detroit during the CCHA Championships, but they have still made the rest of the con­ference take notice that they are no longer a pushover. 
Despite having to compete . with powerhouses like 

--.,-~
-.__-..• _ •..-_.--__ ··---.-·••-•··--..
Do 


·RILL 
~.-----u! ___ -._-_ -·-_D~--_._-·-···-----!lP­

~--.. __-_-_1]] c__~ 
~ : . . . . . . s . ---·------··--_.;;;; ---­
FRIDAY,.. JANUARY 30 tWII1·-vAti:IY 
THo NOTR< DAM< DoPARTMWT OF MUSIC PH!tNH 
A GUHT ARTIST CONC<RT 
AMES HIGDON, ORGAN PROFESSOR OF MUSIC KANSAS UNIVERSITY 
WORK! BY BACH, ALAIN, MOBBtRLY, PAULUS, Mts!IAtN 
SUNDAY, JANUARY 25 
8:00PM BASIllCA OF THE SACRED HEART FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
CALL 631-6201 FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Michigan and Michigan State for recruits, the Irish have con­tinued to put together competi­tive squads year after year. and this year hit paydirt with one of their best freshman classes ever. 
Goaltender David Brown and defenseman Wes O'Neill are both listed among the top three collegians at their position in the NHL Central Scouting List for the 2004 NHL Draft. And a whole slew of freshman for­wards -Michael Bartlett, Jason Paige and Josh Sciba among them -have come through with pivotal goals at pivotal times for the Irish this year. 
Despite a tradition of goal­tending mediocrity (the school's record holder in save percent­age is an anemic .888), Notre Dame has put together one of the best tandems in the coun­try, which is a big reason for their great start this year. 
Brown and junior Morgan Cey are each in the top three overall for both save percent­age and goals against average in the CCHA, and Brown is tied for the lead in shutouts with four. Brown and Cey continue to compete with each other for starts, and that can only be a good thing for the Irish down the stretch. 
No matter what happens the rest of the season. the Irish have made believers out of col­lege hockey fans nationwide, from Massachusetts to Florida (where the Irish beat then-No. 3 Maine in a Christmas tourna­ment). No longer can teams simply schedule Notre Dame in hopes of getting an easy win. 
Despite all the odds this sea­son, the Irish time and time again have shown they can win over all. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and do not represent those of the Observer. Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd. edu . 
Bellina was her team's and hope to put together a inability to get to the free­respectable record.
Belles 
throw line. Coach Bellina talked about 
continued from page 20 "The main consistency when thing is, we asked about what
"The main thing
pretty darn good game," didn't get to the her team was
is, we didn't get to
Bellina said. "We have a free throw line taking from solid group of people [play­as much as the free throw line Wednesday's·loss ing] well. It's coming togeth­Kalamazoo," into the week­
as much as 
er." said Bellina. end's game
Kalamazoo."
Katie Boyce played impres­E m i l y against Tri-State. sively for the Belles, scoring Pernotto led the "[Our team 10 points on 4 of 8 shooting, Belles with 15 Suzanne Bellina needs to] keep grabbed five rebounds, points on 6 of playing at the
Belles coach
dished out four assists and 10 from the swiped five steals. field. She con-
Despiffi playing well in nected on 60 percent of her recent losses, the Belles still three-point attempts. finish-struggle to ing 3 of 5 on find a way to the night.
"We really did play a
win. E m i I y They played pretty darn good Creachbaum Alma tough had 13 points
game. We have a 
on Jan. 17, on 6-of-12
solid group ofpeople
and tonight shooting, and was no differ­[playing] well. It's added four ent in their rebounds for
coming together." 
match up with Saint Mary's. Kalamazoo. With a 4-12 The Belles Suzanne Bellina record the 
forced 22 Belles coach Belles still turnovers, 10 have their of which came heads up off steals created by aggres­going into this weekend. sive play. They have nine games The only thing concerning remaining on their schedule, 
-.~University Club~ 
&~/.> d6· r.t:twpr/-& ¥.-/~;'de ~SZh...-7.?& 
Wedding Receptions Rehearsal Dinner Graduation Parties Anniversaries Birthdays 
.Meetings 
Seminar 
Lunch or Dinner Reservations 631-4678 
Meetings and Private Parties 631-4679 
University ofNotre Dame InternatJonal Study Programs
l Information Session 
Volunteer Opportunities in Spanish through l\llemorial Hospital, South Bend 

Specificallyfor: Returnees ofSpanish Langllage Study Abroad Programs Participants ofMedical Spanish Courses Interested Students with a .High .Level ofSpanish 
Thursday, January 22, 2004 5:00-6:00 pm 138 DeBartolo Hall 
level we are playing at," said Bellina. 
The Belles are anxious for another opportunity to gain a win and face Tri-State at 3:30p.m. Saturday. 
"We are ready to get on and get after it," said Bellina. 
On the other side of the ban: Mary Brown played well for Kalamazoo, with 16 points, eight rebounds and four assists. Kalamazoo moves to 11-6 and 4-3 in the MIAA, and will host Olivet this weekend at 3 p.m. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffiS@nd.edu. 
Thursday, January 22, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
l 
! 
l I 
I 
DILBERT 
SCOIT ADAMS 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
Celebrities born on this day: Steve Perry, Linda Blair, John Hurt, Bill Bixby, Sam Cooke, Olivia D'Abo, Diane Lane, Graham Kerr, Piper Laurie 
Happy Birthday: Don't let your emotional life interfere with your professional advancement this year. If you really want to get ahead, you're going to have to focus on your work. Letting frustrations stand in your way will be detrimental to your advancement. You must deal with issues quickly in order to spare yourself long drawn-out setbacks. This is not the year to vacillate. Your numbers: 6, II, 24, 35, 39, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You will be unpredictable today. Try to stick to yourself so as to avoid confrontations with others. Losses will be likely if you are too eager to risk your hard-earned cash. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Deception is likely. Don't let someone who wants to make you look bad bait you. Stay calm and don't overindulge. Socialize with friends, not co-workers. *** GEMINI (M3y 21-June 20): Unusual circumstances will arise if you are taking care of other people's affairs. Read the fine print before making decisions. Difficulties will result if you have more than one love interest. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be taken for granted if you are too willing to give of your own time. Do not take on proble~;~~s that don't concern you. Lending money to friends or relatives will result in ill feelings. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Pleasure trips will be better than expected. You can meet exciting individuals who spark a major interest. Be sure to experience all that is being offered by those around you. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Watch out for untrustworthy individuals. Do not consider joint financial ventures. Approach contracts and agreements with caution. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Romantic opportunities will develop at social functions. Your intuitive intelligence and harmonious nature will attract others. You will do well at games that require mental skill. ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Secret affairs will get out of hand, causing personal problems. Put your efforts into bettering your family situation and surroundings rather than jeopardizing your position. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Property investments will be lucrative. You can entertain in your home or make changes to your living quarters. Acceptance will be necessary in order to avoid emotional upset. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You must take care of all your domestic concerns before you decide to go out and entertain yourself. Social events will cost more than you expect. Be careful not to make unreal promises. •• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't confide in others. Your personal secrets are far too revealing. You may find that someone you thought to be your friend is spreading rumors behind your back. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't put off what you can accomplish today. You will have difficulty putting your financial picture into perspective. Be careful while traveling. *** 
Jlirthday Baby: You live in a bit of a dream world and that's OK as long as you remember to get the things done that are necessary in order for you to live a good life. 
Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
I Q.~ru wHn OCM'.s ~+-~~e. on wo"M~...·.s f'i~k+sl bv+ #le ~vses .s..ili.Sult'l +oo 
Gfl..AA.III WHY DO YOU KEEP RUINING MY 
Yes, r dortl Kfl~W i+ i-l "deq"'".tely 

w~h h4 ha hG\ 
JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PIERG 
± 
Cl2:004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Rlghta Reserved. 
LOGON  
1 rJ YIPRAC 1 rx  j  rJ I I  

www.jumbte.com
tFADGYL j 
I Jumbles:
Yesterday's 
Answer: 
HITCH 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
TH15 C.AN BE: HARDE:R THAN A DIAMOND. 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
TRAIT GAMBIT FORGET 
What the barflies resorted to when they had an argument-A "TIGHT' FIGHT 
CROSSWORD 
Dashed 32 Thus 5 Religious com­
35 Depend
munity 36 Hall of Fame
11 Flap 
sportscaster14 Film director Curt Reitman 
38 Dull-witted one 
15 Once did 39 "But I heard him
16 Impose 
exclaim,_ he
.
17 Part of an old sock, maybe 40 Kelly of "Live 18 Start of a quote With Regis and by John Lennon 
Kelly" 20 Work unit 
41 Any port in a 21 Heart of Dixie: storm Abbr. 
42 Quote, part 3 
22 French rococo painter Watteau 45 Raise in relief 
23 "Get it?" 48 Honored guest's site
24 Novelist Jaffe 49 Ike's command
26 Bridge support inW.W.II
27 Quote, part 2 50 Son of Polonius
30 Site of Greek excavations 52 Alphabet trio 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Note: ®= heads, (f)= tails 
53 Tammy Wynette hit" I Get It Right" 
54 End of the quote 56 Hoof it 57 Kind of patch 58 Orbital point 59 Israeli weapons 60 Long time 61 Outcasts 62 Parcel 
DOWN 1 Vacation pur­
chase 2 Rarin' to go 3 Surveyor's rod 4 One may be 
dead 5 Fisherman's boot, e.g. 6 They occupy 
30% of the earth's land 7 Ring figure, • 
familiarly 8 It has a germ 9 In a closefisted 
manner 10 Fighting 11 Greenfly, for one 12 Rock pioneer 
_Eddy 13 Musk secreter 19 Disappeared,
with "off" 21 Field 25 Lubberly 
28 Peep 29 Was down with 32 Convert to 
Stalinism 
WILL SHORT 

33 It makes faces 34 Brazzaville resi­dents  40 Of a speaker's platform 41 Biblical verb  45 Run away 46 San  
36 Garibaldi, the Liberator of Italy  with "thou" 42 Days of_  47 "Borstal Boy" autobiographer  
37 W. W. II ration board agcy. 38 U.S. terr., 1861· 89  43 Employee 44 Department store depart-men!  51 Spill 55 Long time 56 Be busy  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are avaiiC:tble for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The· Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City ____________ State _______ Zip__________ 
,_ 
... 
PORTS 
Thursday, January 22, 2004 
fOOTBALL 


Promising running back to announce decision today 
Walker will decide between Irish and three other teams 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Georgia running back D·arius Walker is Notre Dame's top 
recruiting priority after the loss of B r i a n Brohm to Louisville 
o n 

T u e s d a Y , Walker 
according to ESPN recruiting analyst Tom Lemming. 
Coach Tyrone Willingham and his staff have received verbal commitments from ten recruits thus far. At 2:45 p.m. today, Willingham will find out if Walker has become the eleventh. 
The high school senior from Lawrenceville, Ga. will announce his decision this afternoon from Buford High School in his home state. 
Walker, who stands at 5­foot-11, 195 pounds, rushed for 1,986 yards and 26 touch­downs· as the feature running back for the state champion Buford Wolves. 
He has already taken visits to Stanford (Jan. 9), Ohio State (Jan. 16) and Alabama (Jan. 19). Walker has also sched­uled a visit to Notre Dame for Jan. 23 and Arkansas for Jan. 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
., 


Women win big on road against Syracuse 
road. We couldn't afford By JOE HETTLER to." Sports Editor The 35 points was the lowest point output Notre So much for struggling on Dame has allowed to an the road. opponent this season. The After starting the season Orangewomen shot a sea­with a 1-7 record on their son-low 23.1 percent (12­
opponent's  of-52). including  
home court, the Irish destroyed  "We really  a dismal 4 of 24 (16. 7 percent)  
Syracuse 64-35 Wednesday night at the Manley Field  played with a lot of confidence.''  from beyond the 3-point arc. Notre Dame shot 46.4 per­ 
House  to  cent  from  the  
improve to 10-7 overall and 3-2 in the Big East  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  field on 26-of-56 field goals. The Irish turned the  
conference.  ball over only 11  

"We really played with a times and outrebounded lot of confidence," Irish Syracuse 47-26. coach Muffet McGraw said. Notre Dame forward "I thought we came in with Jacqueline Batteast contin­a lot of focus and intensity ued her consistent play, tal­and we didn't let up lying 12 points and 10 because of the way things have been going on the see SYRACUSE/page 17 

HOCKEY 
Irish stay below radar 
There's no doubt about it. Notre Dame is a football school first and foremost. 
Not that there's anything wrong with that, mind you. Over a cen­tury of Heisman 
Justin Schuver 
Trophy win­ners, a history of some of the Associate top coaches in Sports Editor college foot­ball history and more national championships than any other school is certainly reason enough to put football at the pinnacle of the Irish athletic totem pole. 
Perhaps it's better that the Irish hockey team isn't on the national radar like their football counter­parts. The media has to know what Tyrone Willingham eats for breakfast every day, while hockey 
see HOCKEY/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 
-
Belles fall short in road loss 
Saint Mary's loses 
65-61 to Kalamazoo 
in close contest 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's lost 65-61 at Kalamazoo Wednesday night despite playing one of its best games of the sea­son. A losing streak that started off being the result of sloppy play now has coach Suzanne Bellina searching for answers. 
"We really did play a 
see BELLES/page 18 

30, though his decision could affect the status of those visits. 
ESPN reported that Walker's father, former Arkansas play­er Jimmy Walker, called Notre Dame an early favorite at the beginning of the recruiting process. 
RivalslOO.com has Walker ranked 18th among running 
see WALKER/ page 17 
ATHLETICS 

O'Neill holds showcase for athletic tealll captains 
By KATE GALES 
Sports Writer 
Bringing together talented athletes and interested ·stu­dents, O'Neill Family Hall invited the captains of Notre Dame athletic teams to speak with students and hall resi­dents for the first annual "Night of Captains." 
Drawing inspiration from a TV show where former lead­ers in fields like politics and business as well as sports were interviewed, hall presi­dents Michael Vater and Ruben Pena organized an event where students could learn more about the life of a student-athlete. 
"We wanted to showcase the captains and [illustrate] that they don't just play sports," said Vater, "but do stuff out­side, in the community." 
With the help of Academic Cabinet Head Chris Tarnacki, the hall staff e-mailed invita­tions to the teams, asking them to send captains or rep-
see O'NEILL page 16 

NBA  MBA  NCAA MEN~S BASKETBALL  NFL  
Cavs trade Miles to Portland Cleveland acquires  James will likelysit out Thursday's game  No. 6 Louisville hands No. 5 Cincinnati its first loss of the season Cardinals win 93-66 at Freedom Hall in front of  Payton surprises Raiders, declines head coaching position Dallas offensive cordinator will remain on Bill  
Mcinnis to play point guard.  Cavs forward sit nurs­ing ankle injury.  their second largest home crowd ever.  Parcell's coaching staff for next season.  
page 13  page 13  page 12  page 15  












