

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Taylor discusses perspectives on war·on terrorism 
received his Air Force commis­lecture entitled "Perspectives on likely be passed down to the said that "the threat persists."
By SHELIA FLYNN and sion from the Notre Dame ROTC the Global War on Terrorism," next generation. "No terrorist grpup has ever 
MERYL GUYER program in 1970. Taylor's other sponsored by the department of "I don't think this is something been defeated sol-ely by military 
News Writers positions included director of the political science and Air Force that's going to be solved within action," he said, adding, "al­
Office of Foreign Missions, with ROTC. the next 10 years," Taylor said. Qaeda is everywhere." 
Francis Taylor, the assistant the rank of ambassador, and he Taylor offered his personal He said the war on terror is a To cap this widespread disper­secretary of state for diplomatic has served as the U.S. reflections and memories about changing, prolonged process sion, Taylor said, the radical ide­security, focused on the future Department of State's Sept. 11 and the subsequent because victory will not come ologies and cultural misunder­when he revisited his past Coordinator for beginnings of the war on terror. with actions of the military and standing which propel it must be Tuesday by returning to Notre Counterterrorism since July 13, Throughout the presentation, he law enforcement officials. While quelled. Dame. 2001. focused on the war as a continu­he cited major gains, such as the "The challenge !s to get people 
"It's always good to be back He first spoke yesterday at ing process and said that the apprehension of more than home," said Taylor, who 12:30 p.m. in DeBartolo, giving a battle to end terrorism will most 4,000 al-Qaeda soldiers, Taylor see TAYLOR/page' 4 

Controversial film on Jesus' final hours opens 


By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Controversy and accusations of anti­Semitism have been swirling around 
"The Passion of the  
Christ" nationwide  See Also  
since March, when a New York Times  "The Passion of  
Magazine  article  the Christ"  
interviewed director Mel Gibson about  pages 14 and 15  
the project. While  

today's 2,800-theater release of the film will allow Americans to finally see the 
movie, it won't put to rest the con­tentious issues it addresses. 
Some reviewers have criticized the film's graphic depictions of the scourg­ing, crucifixion and death of Jesus, say­ing they're unnecessary and emotionally draining. In an interview with Diane Sawyer for ABC's "Primetime" -which aired last week -Gibson acknowledged the R-rated film contained lifelike, bru­tal violence, but said it must be viewed in the context of the broader story. 
"I think it pushes one over the edge so that they see the enormity. the enormity 
see CRITICISM/page 6 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 

After months of charges of anti­Semitism, sectarian bickering and media coverage, Mel Gibson's film "The Passion of the Christ" opens today, Ash Wednesday, in about 2,800 theaters nationwide, including several across Michiana. 
Religious groups on campus and in the South Bend area reported varying levels of interest in the controversial film, which offers a graphic and violent portrayal of the last 12 hours of Jesus' life. 
Campus Fellowship for the Holy Spirit officer junior Dave Salmon said he has heard a limited amount of enthusiasm among members of his nondenominational Christian organiza­tion. "There hasn't been a whole lot of talk," Salmon said. "But I guess there's a mild buzz of excitement about it." 
Senior Lee DeLeon, an officer in the interdenominational Christian group Iron Sharpens Iron, said his organiza­tion has planned a trip to see the film this weekend. ' 
see INTEREST/page 6 

Network connection upgrade fails again 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
For the second time in three days, the Office of Information Technologies failed to suc­cessfully install a new campus Internet connection and dis­rupted service to thousands of users. 
Tom Klimek, manager of network engineering for OIT, said a hardware failure quickly crippled the new fiber optic connection which is designed to link the Notre Dame campus with Internet backbone connections in Chicago. 
"The installation failed approximately two hours after cutover," Klimek said. "There was a short outage at around 8:30 a.m." 
"Cutover" refers to the process in which all Internet traffic was switched to the new connection. 
Klimek said OIT personnel encountered the same prob­lem that disabled the new connection when it was first activated last weekend. About three hours after the first installation Sunday morning, a piece of optical networking equipment failed. This failure 
see UPGRADE/page 4 

Students react to Lenten season 
gious topic, Sifuentes said. 
"We hope to turn this into a 
more frequent thing [occurring 
outside of Lent]." he said. 
· In addition to its regularly scheduled daily Mass. Sunday Mass and Vespers, the Basilica of the Sacred Heart will offer Stations of the Cross every Friday at 7:15p.m. 
Junior Tanisa Johnson said that as of now, she has no specific plans for the weeks leading up to Easter. 
''I'm not Catholic, but [Lent is aboutJ reflection, I guess," she said. "It usually means giving up something." 
Other students acknowledge that Lent is a time for reflection, yet also see it as a marker for the end of the year. 
see LENT/page 4 


By DUSTIN VONHANDORF News Writer 
Today, many Catholics will attend Mass and receive ashes to symbolize humility in their faith. Not only does Ash Wednesday denote Catholic modesty, it also marks the beginning of the Lenten holiday leading to Easter. The University offers numerous activities that allow students to become more involved in the Church during the holy season. 
Alumni President Paul Sifuentes said his hall will host the "Last Homily" series. The series will be held Mondays at 9 p.m. and will include Mass, with a homily writ­ten in a similar fashion to the "Last Lecture" series. The homi­lies will focus on the readings for the day as opposed to any reli­
. .
-

~· . .. . ' . = 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
It's about that time 

Does anyone have as difficult a time as I do? Finding something to sacrifice for Lent. that is. 
To be honest, I completely forgot about it -not Lent, just about having to give something up. It seemed like Christmas was barely yesterday and now here we are at Ash Wednesday already. 
The only way that I did remember was thanks to a frantic Instant Message Monday from my friend laughing hysterical­ly at what one of our guy friends has, apparently, decided to do. Just think "40 Days, 40 Nights"­that Josh Hartnett flick that came out a couple ofyears ago to demonstrate how religiously flippant some Catholics can be. 
It's not the idea itselfthat sent me into hysterics along with my friend -after all, I'm sure more than a few of us have considered it as well at some point. It's just amusing knowing this person and thinking that he'll actually try to be seri­ous about this. I give it a week-tops. 
Really though, why am I the one left struggling each year over, what seems to be, a relatively easy decision? 
I remember back in grade school when my classmates and I didn't quite under­stand what the purpose was in having to give up something we liked. Everyone decided chocolate would be suitable; it was the old standby. Our parents rarely gave it to us on a regular basis anyway, so it wasn't like there was too much to miss, right? Then there were those, like me, who didn't like chocolate much, but followed the crowd and took the easy way out. How I saw it, I could have all the vanilla pudding I wanted -and I did. 
As I got older, I somehow fell into the mentality that Lenten sacrifice could tie in with a New Year's resolution. IfI decided to give up candy in attempt to maintain a better diet, I just figured that it was a year-round sacrifice that includ­ed Lent, but more importantly killed two birds with one stone. 0always look for the practicality in things.) 
The real problem came when I started making New Year's resolutions, such as to exercise more or to stop biting my nails. My mom finally caught on that extending these over Lent didn't meet the definition -at least her definition -ofa sacrifice. I didn't enjoy biting my nails, it was just habit, so I wasn't really missing out on anything. 
This year, I think I'm going to go with something tougher: pop, or should I say, "soda." I drink a glass ofCoke or Pepsi at least twice a day, sometimes in immedi­ate succession and sometimes at 7 a.m. I'd say giving that up qualifies as a sacri­fice. 
I realize that I'm certainly not a model Catholic. I could do more to become involved in my religion, and I'm sure I will at some point. But, for now, this is one aspect I try to take seriously although I haven't always in the past. Just hide the Coke and I'll be fine -at least I know I can hold out for more than a week. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool833 8@saintmarys. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­
tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­
ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we 
will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, 
please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can 
correct our error. ' 


Wednesday, February 25, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU GIVING UP FOR LENT? 


Claudia Ramirez  Grant Kleiber  Matt Dowling  Sarah Ernst  Sayo Belli  Veronica Rivero ·  
Senior  Senior  Senior  Senior  Senior  Senior  
Off-Campus  Off-Campus  Off-Campus  Lyons  Off-Campus  Off-Campus  








"Sunday ..Non-alcoholic classes. •• drinks.·· 
IN BRIEF 
Learn about the Student Union Board, talk with current SUB staff and eat free food at the SUB Open House tonight from 6 to 8 p.m. in 
201LaFo~e. 
The Student Union Board pres­ent<; the 46th Annual CoUegiate Jazz Festival Preview tonight from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Admission is free to studentSand the public. 
The Working Group on the Americas and the Department of English present "Caribbean Inventions, Part 2," a component of the Ward-Phillip Lectures. "Colonialism in Reverse: Englishness and the Politics of Culture" will be presented tonight at 6 p.m. in rooms 100-104 McKenna Hall. 
"States of Limbo: Engaging 'Creole' Modernism" will be held tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will present their winter concert Thursday in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. The program will feature the winners of tlie 2003­2004 Concerto Competition, Ricky Leal on oboe and soprano Rebecca Paul and the works of German composers Brahms, Mozart and Wagner. The concert is free and open to the public. 
Minneaopolis' acclaimed Guthrie Theatre present Shakespeare's "OtheUo" Thursday through Satul"day at 7 p.m. in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. For tickets, contact the Saint Mary's box office at 284­4626. 
To submit information to be· included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
"Studying. ,, "Being Jewish.·· ..Binge drinking ..Believing in 
t ,,

... no. God.·· 

ANDY KENNAfThe Observer 

Notre Dame students play frisbee on South Quad Tuesday afternoon. The recent span of warm weather has caused snow to melt and provides a chance for students to enjoy outdoor activities typically associated with the spring season. 
OFFBEAT 

Polar bears at Singapore Zoo turn green 
SINGAPORE -Life in the balmy tropics has made polar bears Inuka and Sheba go green with algae. 
The usually white coats of Sheba and her 13-year­old son Inuka, Singapore Zoo's two polar bears, turned green a few weeks ago from algae growing in their hollow hair shafts, said Vincent Tan, a spokesman for the zoo. 
"The harmless algae is the result of Singapore's warm and humid tropical conditions," Tan said. 
Polar bears have clear hair shafts which appear white because they reflect light. 
Suspects claim organs Instead of pot 
BUFFALO, N.Y.-A pair of drug suspects mistak­enly claimed two pack­ages of human organs instead of the 140 pounds of marijuana that had brought them to the air­port, federal authorities said Tuesday. 
Tabatha Bracken, 27, of Canada, and Dalvan Robinson, 43, of Lockport, N.Y., were arrested about midnight after attempting to exchange the medical packages for the ones containing the drugs, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. 

Agents were alerted to the mix-up about 5:30 
p.m. Monday when airport police notified the DEA of a marijuana seizure at Buffalo Niagara International Airport. 
Investigators deter­mined that a woman showing a fake identifica­tion tag at the Delta Airlines ticket counter had mistakenly been given two packages shipped from an Atlanta medical agency, DEA said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY ·TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
1.1.1 
:::c 
~ 
1.1.1 
3: 
.... 
c( 
(.) 





0 

...I HIGH 37 HIGH HIGH HIGH LOW 31 LOW LOW LOW 
28 20 

40 24 
49 
33 

Atlanta 47 1 38 Boston 35 I 21 Chicago 39 I 26 Denver 50 I 26 Houston 54 I 36 Los Angeles 57 I 51 Minneapolis 35 I 23 New York 37 1 26 Philadelphia 40 I 30 Phoenix 67 I 49 Seattle 51 I 40 St. Louis 47 I 28 Tampa 74 ~58 Washington 41 I 27 

Wednesday, February 25, 2004 page 3 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Vatican releases report on child abuse policy 
Non-Catholic scientists criticize izera tolerance' policy for sex abusers 
Associated Press Prospectives," is a compendi­the dragon; if all you do is cut um of scientific papers and off its head, it will grow 
VATICAN CITY -The discussions presented by the another." Vatican issued a report experts during a Vatican con­Another conference partici­Monday by non-Catholic sex ference convened last April to pant, Dr. William Marshall of abuse experts who .criti-cized give the church hierarchy Canada, a former president of the policy adopted by U.S. advice on how to handle the the Association for the bishops of removing abusive crisis. Treatment of Sexual Abusers, priests from the ministry, say­Neither the Vatican nor the said such a policy sends the ing it was overly harsh and experts drew final conclu­message the church doesn't would not protect the young. sions. but there were areas of care about the offender or 
The report was released agreement. As the Associated believes he can't be r"ehabili­days before U.S. bishops issue Press reported last week, one tated -"neither of which are their own national survey on was in the widespread criti­good messages for the church sex abuse by clergy, which is cism by the experts of the to communicate." expected to find more than 2002 U.S. zero-tolerance poli­He cautioned such a severe 4,000 American priests have cy that says an offending penalty may even discourage been accused of molesting priest can be permanently victims from coming forward. minors since 1950 -far removed from ministry -and The experts all agreed that more than previously estimat­possibly from the priesthood offenders need treatment, as 
Picture Desk Photos 

ed. -for a single act of abuse. well as possible criminal 
Bishop Wilton Gregory, president of the U.S. Conference of
Still, the U.S. study may Many American dioceses penalties. 
Catholic Bishops, speaks at a press conference. 
also show the number of say they are aggressively pur­Monsignor Elio Sgreccia, cases has declined dramati­suing zero-tolerance policies vice president of the Academy ca1ly since the 1990s, and vic­after being stung by charges for Life, told the conference survey due out Friday. may will work out a plan to review tims fear it could lead U.S. the church hierarchy was try­he thought that after punish­fuel momentum toward eas­it, Bishop Wilton Gregory, bishops to ease off on disci­ing to protect abusive priests, ing and treating an offender. ing the U..S. zero-tolerance president of the U.S. pline. often by shuffling them from it was necessary "not to policy. Conference of Catholic 
The president of the U.S. parish to parish. abandon him or consider him David Clohessy, U.S. nation­Bishops, said last week in a Conference of Catholic The experts said a zero-tol­useless to the church, but al director of the Survivors conference call with religion Bishops said last week the erance policy was mistaken rather for the common good Network of those Abused by writers. American church remains and even dangerous. Most of society,. return him to a Priests, said ·the bishops' his­Gregory said he hadn't read committed to keeping offend­agreed that such a policy can meaningful role in the tory of sheltering molesters the Academy for Life's report. ers out of ministry. actually increase the chances church." would make it impossible for but said it would be wrong to 
Monday's report, published that offenders might strike The report will be sent to Catholics to trust them with a view it as a criticism of the by the Vatican's Pontifical again because it removes bishops' conferences and weaker discipline plan. American policy. Academy for Life. may fuel them from supervision and · Vatican offices and be used by "The Vatican report pro­Prelates in the United States victims' concerns because it the only jobs they have known the Vatican as a "scientific vides cover for every shrewd remain committed to barring compiles assessments by for decades. base for information" for perpetrator and backsliding all offenders from church independent, non-Catholic Zero-tolerance ··does not developing guidelines, the bishop," Clohessy said...It , work, he said. psychiatrists and psycholo­function to prevent these Rev. Ciro Benedettini, the makes already very depressed "I don't see the body of gists, who say the U.S. "zero­crimes," Dr. Hans-Ludwig deputy Vatican spokesman, victims feel even more hope­bishops lessening in that tolerance" policy is. mistaken. Kroeber, head of the Institute told reporters Monday. less." resolve because I think that 
The 220-page report, of Forensic Psychiatry in Some victims fear such a The U.S. policy is due to was the pastorally prudent "Sexual Abuse in the Catholic Berlin, told the conference. report coming from Rome, expire in June, and church action that we all agreed to," Church: Scientific and Legal "It is better to domesticate coupled with the U.S. bishops' leaders in the coming weeks Gregory said. 
www.legendsofnotredame.org IM: NDLegends 
E 

tflie o/ery c.Best of 
)fcQustic 
~ CajC ~ 
... !~~GARITAVIL_t ~· I t 
ND's best showcase ' Jimmy Buffett Cover THE their Skilzzz! Band and Drink Specials! STONE PUPPET 
SENIOR NIGHT Change your attituder change your latitude. This Chicago band plays an Bring the fun and the sun to Legends. infectious mix of alt. &mod. $2 Margaritas 
rock. Don't miss this show!
Siberian Huskies, Long Islands,
24oz. Coronas for $4 $2 Mixed Drinks 
or 25oz. Fosters for $3, $2 Margaritas
THURSDAY SATURDAY
FRIDAY

tOpm lOpm 
......,_,----..__ _,_..--:::-............. 
/ 







Wednesday, February 25, 2004
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Lent 
continued from page 1 
"[Lent is] time to relax and get ready for the end of the school year," said freshman Rudolph Nkinzingabo. 
"It's also about my religious life and return to God," he added. "Personally, I want to concentrate on my religious life because I've fallen away from God." 
A significant number of Notre Dame students, however, still take advantage of the Lenten sea­son. 
"To me, Lent is a time to pre­pare for Easter, and think about the sacrifice that Jesus Christ 
Upgrade 
continued from page 1 
sent all Internet traffic to a 
lower-capacity backup link, 
which slowed Internet access 
across campus. 
Optical gear converts elec­
tronic pulses into beams of 
light, allowing for very high­
speed Internet connections. 
Klimek said network engi­
neers worked with equipment 
suppliers to trace the defect to 
a particular piece of faulty 
hardware. 
"Our managed network ven­
dor has isolated the problem to ·a specific device," he said. "However, the vendor is still investigating the exact cause." 
Klimek said OIT is working to 

redesign the installation 
process. with the aim of 
improving the network's relia­
bility. 
"We will define a different 
cutover process that mitigates 
impact on the University's 
Taylor 
continued from page 1 
to understand what is happen­ing under the guise of a religion -a great religion," he said, explaining that radical Islamic beliefs do not truly reflect the religion's tenets. 
The key to meeting this chal­lenge, he said, is cross-cultural education and explanation. 
"Our public persona, particu­larly in the Muslim world, is not positive." Taylor said of the United States. "We are working -trying -to turn that persona around." 
He said, for example, that Fulbright scholars are working with Islamic scholars. "It's that discussion of values that's really going to change minds." 
When questioned about whether strong-fisted actions only provide further anti­Western sentiment, however, Taylor said certain protective or preventative measures are nec­essary. 
"Our actions create a reaction, but we can't be concerned about how they react to it if what we're doing is the right thing," he said. 
Taylor also spoke on more tan­gible and logistical changes. He said intelligence must be honed and altered, ensuring that the lines of communication are kept open amongst ail intelligence agencies and that officers are operating to their full potential. 
"Our intelligence services have to reflect the societies in which we are asking them to operate," Taylor said, using the example of a blond, blue-~yed agent try-made for us and His great love." said freshman Julia Jenkins. "Instead of giving up anything specific, I want to do things instead, like going to the Grotto more often and going to Mass and the rosary through the week." 
Jenkins said she plans to go to Stations of the Cross. Freshman Elizabeth Ludemann agrees. 
"This year, I think I am going to give up ice cream and frozen yogurt, and go to the Grotto, and take more time for prayer," she said. "[Lent is] a time to think about the sacrifice of Jesus and make sacrifices ourselves, and reflect on their meaning." 
Contact Dustin VonHandorf at dvonhand@nd.edu 
Internet bandwidth," he said. 
In addition, Klimek said the University's chief technology officer, Dewitt Latimer, will meet with the vendor's repre­sentatives Wednesday morning to address the problem. 
Klimek acknowledged that the back-to-hack breakdowns have raised eyebrows among weary users. 
"This implementation is sub­ject to very close scrutiny," he said. "What we've experienced over the past few days is no doubt aggravating to campus Internet users." 
However, Klimek says he expects the connection, when successfully installed, will improve Internet service for the Notre Dame campus. 
"Once switching mechanisms ... [are] running smoothly, we expect a high level of reliability along with the significant increase in bandwidth," Klimek said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mhramant@nd.edu 
ing to blend into the Middle Eastern crowds. 
And Taylor said that foreign governments will -and already are beginning to -realize that support of terrorist networks can only be detrimental. 
"Terrorism, as a political tool, helps no government," Taylor said. "Terrorists know no loyal­ty." 
He continued with this theme during his second lecture, at 
5:30 p.m. in DeBartolo, during which he mainly answered ques­tions of ROTC cadets. 
"We will continue to see pres-. sure put on countries that sup­port terrorism," Taylor said, also reiterating the continual nature of the war. 
In addition to informing the cadets of his experience and his perspectives on the current global situation, however, Taylor also offered them advice for their careers in the military. He urged the students to gather as many differing perspectives as possible in order to better understand their role as leaders within the military. 
"Every one of you should have 100 people [with whom] you correspond regularly who have nothing to do with the military," Taylor said, parroting the advice of a former superior. 
"Some people don't like what you do, and sometimes you have to hear that," Taylor said. "It doesn't mean they're right and you're wrong, but you at least have to know what's put there. How can you expect to be a competent leader if all you know is the military?" 
Contact Shelia Flynn· and Meryl Guyer at sflynn2@nd.edu and mguyer@nd.edu 
Honoring Women of Notre-Dam,e 
The Women•s Resource Center is currently accepti·ng nomination forms for female facul:ty a:nd staff members in the Notre :o-ame -community who make exceptional contributions to the ~university.. All nominations should include: 
Nomine-es name and department as well as a. description of her jiOb. 
How she c:ontributes to the University. 
H,ow she is active in her field of stud·y. 
And a description o·f the rapport sh·e has with stu­dents and/or the Notre D.ame community.. 
Nominati·ons. c:a.n be-sent to the Wom:enas Resource Center at 3,Q.Q Lafortune via campus mail or emailed to nd.. wrc.1 @nd:.edu. The deadline for nominations h.as been exten,ded to Friday, March 5. 

Wednesday, February 25, 2l>04 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

N. Korea begins nuclear talks 
BEIJING -North Korea and five other nations convened delicate talks Wednesday to resolve a persistent dispute over Pyongyang's nuclear program, with diplo­mats from all sides expressing hope for progress in the 15-month old stalemate. 
Delegates put their hands together for a photo as they entered China's state guest­house for the meetings. Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Wang Yi opened the meeting. 
"The recent flurry of diplomacy is good preparation for these talks and helps in understanding," he said. 
The talks, months in the making, are the second round to include both Koreas, the United States, China, Russia and Japan. 
Revelers enjoy Carnival events 
PORT-OF-SPAIN, Trinidad-Trinidad's famed Carnival heated up to a climax Tuesday, with thousands of bleary-eyed and barely dressed revelers bouncing to festive music while parading through the streets of the capital. 
The annual festivities officially began Monday, but locals have flocked to raucous parties and concerts for the past week. Besides the tens of thousands of Trinidadians. officials said about 47,000 tourists attended, 8,000 more than last year. 
"It's the best thing in the whole entire world. You have a good time and don't worry about anything," said Marsha Simpson, 24, one of thousands of bikini-clad revelers fol­lowing competing troupes of masqueraders. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Pentagon charges terror suspects 
WASHINGTON -The Pentagon brought war crimes conspiracy charges Tuesday against two men alleged to be associates of terror leader Osama bin Laden and said they will face the first U.S. military tribunals con­vened since World War II. 
Government prosecutors ruled out seeking the death penalty against the two. 
Ibrahim Ahmed Mahmoud al Qosi, of Sudan, was a paymaster for bin Laden's al­Qaida network, and Ali Hamza Ahmed Sulayman al Bahlul, of Yemen, was a propa­gandist for bin Laden, according to an offi­cial list of charges released by the Pentagon. 
High court rules in age case 
WASHINGTON -Age has its benefits, the Supreme Court said Tuesday, ruling that younger workers can't sue their employers when older colleagues get preferential treat­ment. 
In a 6-3 decision that affects tens of mil­lions of workers, the justices said the law that protects older employees from age dis­crimination doesn 't.apply in reverse. 
Groups such as the AARP, the largest advo­cacy group for people 50 and over, praised the decision as one that will protect the most vulnerable in the work force. 
"If the court had decided the other way, it would have ignored that older workers face very significant problems in this country and always have," said Laurie McCann, a lawyer for the AARP. 
STATE NEWS 

Residents sniffing for dognapper 
SPENCER -Some Owen County residents suspect their missing pets may have been dognapped. 
As many as four Labrador retrievers and five German shepherds have been reported missing in recent weeks. Distraught pet own­ers in the county northwest of Bloomington have been phoning the Owen County Humane Society seeking the dogs, but they haven't turned up at the animal shelter. 
The disappearances have not been report­ed to the sheriff's department, said Sheriff Harley Melton. 
The fact that the missing animals haven't been found is suspicious, but the Humane Society can't do anything because there is no evidence that the dogs were stolen, said president Ken Ure. 
Bush pushes gay ntarriage ban 
President says he supports constitutional amendment, blasts 'activist judges' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush urged 
approval of a constitution­
al amendment banning 
gay marriages on Tuesday, 
pushing a divisive social 
issue to the center of the 
election campaign and 
setting a clear policy con­
trast with Democratic 
challengers John Kerry 
and John Edwards. 
Bush said "activist 
judges and local officials" 
from Massachusetts to San 
Francisco to New Mexico 
were attempting to rede­
fine marriage and "change 
the most fundamental 
institution of civilization" 
by allowing same-sex 
weddings. "On a matter of 
such importance, the voice 
of the people must be 
heard," he said. 
Democrats accused Bush 
of pandering to right-wing 
supporters and tinkering 
with the Constitution to 
divert attention from his 
record on jobs, health 
care and foreign policy. 
"He is looking for a wedge 
issue to divide the 
American people," Kerry 
said. 

Both Kerry and Edwards said they oppose gay mar­riages but would not sup­port a constitutional amendment. 
Banning gay marriage is a top priority for Bush's conservative supporters, particularly those among religious and family-ori­ented groups. But while a majority of Americans ­sometimes by as much as a 2-1 margin -oppose legalizing gay marriages, Bush's move could hold political risks, particularly if voters see him as intol­erant or question his self­description as a "compas­sionate conservative." 
"The president needs to worry about fair-minded swing voters in America, not a Republican base that 
he has locked up," said 
Patrick Guerriero, execu­
tive director of Log Cabin 
Republicans, a gay GOP 
group. 

Mindful of the high emo­
tions and clear differences 
on the issue, Bush said, 
"We should also conduct 
this difficult debate in a 
manner worthy of our 
country, without bitterness 
or anger." 

Conservatives were 
delighted Bush had 
plunged in. "There is no 
more important issue for 
our nation than the 
preservation of the institu­
tion of marriage," said 
Kelly Shackelford, presi­
dent of the Texas-based 
Free Market Foundation, 
a family advocacy group. 
Momentum for a consti­
tutional amendment has 
grown as San Francisco 
officials have performed 
thousands of same-sex 
marriages and have chal­
lenged their state law bar­
ring such unions. In 
Massachusetts, the state's 
highest court has ruled 
that a state law falling 
short of allowing full­
fledged marriage for gays 
would be unconstitutional. 
Bush softened his announcement by· leaving the door open for states to legalize civil unions, which gay rights groups say is an insufficient alter­native to marriage. "The amendment should fully protect marriage while leaving the state legisla­tures free to make their own choices in defining legal arrangements other than marriage," said Bush, who had opposed legalizing civil unions when he was governor of Texas. 
Republican officials said there was no rush to bring an amendment to the floor in the House. Some con­servatives want a broader approach than Bush sup­ports, and others oppose federalizing the issue, at least for now. 
"The groups that are for a constitutional amend­ment are split over what it should be," said House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas. "We are trying to bring them all together and unify them." 
California Republican Reps. David Dreier and Jerry Lewis said a consti­tutional amendment might not be necessary. 
"I will say that I'm not supportive of amending the Constitution on this issue," said Dreier, a co­chairman of Bush's cam-paign in California in 2000. "I believe that this should go through the courts, and I think that we're at a point where it's not necessary." Lewis said changing the Constitution should be a last resort on almost any issue. 

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat from San Francisco, said she would fight any amendment. "Never before has a constitutional amendment been used to discriminate against a group of people, and we must not start now," she said. 

MOROCCO 
Early quake rocks villages, 560 die 
Associated Press 

AL HOCEIMA-A powerful earth­quake devastated an isolated, pictur­esque region of northern Morocco on Thesday, killing more than 560 people as they slept, injuring hundreds more and laying ruin to villages that suf­fered for decades under government neglect. 
Rescuers with pick axes and sniffer dogs were searching for survivors trapped under the rubble of their fragile mud-and-stone homes, which crumbled easily in the 6.5-magnitude temblor. Victims were most likely women, children and the elderly because men in the region tend to emigrate to the Netherlands and Germany in search of work, said Mohammed Ziane, a former human rights minister. 
The quake, which rattled apart-: ment buildings as far away as south­ern Spain, destroyed rural communi­ties near the coastal city of AI Hoceima, a hideaway tucked between the Rif Mountains and the Mediterranean Sea that draws European tourists with its sandy beaches. 
The death toll climbed steadily throughout the day as rescuers began reaching the hard-hit areas and find­ing corpses, officials said. The official MAP news agency said late Tuesday at least 564 people were dead and 300 injured. Of those, 80 people were hospitalized, the agency said. Officials earlier had put the injury toll at 600. 
Selaam Bennaissa, a farmer who lives in Ait Daoud, 12 miles from AI Hoceima, said he was home when the quake struck at 2:27 a.m., and barely escaped before his house came crash­ing down. 
"Fortunately it didn't fall on me," he said. He estimated about 90 percent of the houses in his village collapsed. 
Authorities were scrambling to reach about a half-dozen remote vil­lages, including Ait Kamara, Tamassint and Imzourn, where 36,000 people live. 
Josephine Shields of the International Committee of the Red Cross, citing civil defense officials in AI Hoceima, said she heard reports that Ait Kamara -a village of 6,000 -was destroyed. 
Rescuers reported difficulties get­ting to the stricken area in mountain foothills and served by narrow, poor roads. As they arrived, they found corpses; some families already had buried their dead. 
Wednesday, l'ebruary L), LUU4
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Telemarketing companies employ inmates 
Associated Press 
ONTARIO, Ore. -Chris Harry is a model employee for the U.S. call center industry. The 25-year-old arrives promptly at his cubicle, speaks courteously on the phone and is never late or absent. 
He plans to stick with his job for three years, a boon in an industry plagued by high turnover. And he gladly works for money many Americans would scoff at-$130 or so a month. 
Interest 
continued from page 1 
"People are definitely excit­ed," DeLeon said. "It's cool to see someone like Mel Gfbson make such a public profession of his faith." DeLeon estimated that about 50 lSI members will attend the screening. 
Alumni rector Father George Rozum said he has heard "quite a bit" of 
After all, he could be back swabbing cell block floors for a third of that. 
"I can't complain about fair," said Harry. who was sen­tenced to 10 years and eight months for robbery. "I did a crime and I'm in prison. At least I'm not wearing a ball and chain." 
Prison inmates like Harry are the reason Perry Johnson Inc.·, a Southfield, Mich.-based consulting company, chose to remain in the U.S. rather than join a host of telemarketing companies moving offshore. 
dents have not mentioned the contentious movie. 
"I haven't heard any buzz among students about it," Davidson said. 
At least one group in South Bend was deeply concerned about the film's release. Marilyn Gardner, the executive vice president of the Jewish Foundation of St. Joseph Valley, said area Jews are skeptical ofthe film's content. 
"I can't say the [Jewish] 
community is 

discussion sur­looking forward to
"Tve heard people
rounding the the movie," film in recent in Campus Gardner said. days. ·Several Ministry talking "We're very con­Alumni resi­cerned that it may
about getting a
dents are organ­undo all the inter­
group together to
izing a group faith work that trip to see the go and see it, but it has happened in film later this the community
hasn't been a
week, he said. between [Jews]
major topic in my
However, in and Christians." most of the hall.·· The movie has dorms, it's a also drawn criti­very different cism from national
Paul Doyle 
story. Rectors in Jewish groups,
Dillon rector
men's and like the Anti-
women's resi­dence halls said there has been almost no debate about the film. Dillon rector Father Paul Doyle said there has been more interest among Campus Ministry staffers than among the Dillon residents. 
"I've heard people in Campus Ministry talking about getting a group together to go and see it, but it hasn't been a major topic in my hall," Doyle said. 
Becca Davidson, the rector of Breen-Phillips Hall, echoed the sentiment, saying her resi-
Defamation League, which fear the emo­tionally-charged film could stoke anti-Semitic feelings. 
A manager at the Kerasotes Showplace theatre in South Bend, who declined to give her name, said advance ticket sales "have been high." She declined to give specific num­bers, citing company policy. However, several of the the­ater's 12 shows scheduled for today have already sold out. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Undergraduate mernbers ofthe gay, lesbian, and bisexual community are invited to apply for tncn1bcrship on the 
Standing Committee 
for Gay and Lesbian 
Student Needs. 
APPLICATIONS arc now available in the Office of Student Affairs (3J6 Main Building) or on the Standing Committee web site http://"'1<V\V.nd.edu/~scglsn/ 

Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Friday, .March 51 2004, and can be submittedat the Office ofSmdent Affairs. 
~'OMH<1"1"U OH IIIIIU -'lfll Uil\u I'I'VHttT ~!(ceo& 

Perry Johnson had intended to move to India. But the com­pany chose instead to open inside the Snake River Correctional Institution, a sprawling razor wire and cin­der block state penitentiary a few miles west of the Idaho line. 
The center's opening fol­lowed a yearlong effort by the Oregon Department of Corrections to recruit busi­nesses that would otherwise move offshore, and echoes a national trend among state and federal prisons to recruit 
Criticism 
continued from page 1 
ofthat sacrifice," Gibson said. 
Gibson, a traditionalist Catholic, has come under fire from Jewish groups, who say the movie could fuel anti­Semitic sentiment. Gibson is a member of the Catholic Church's "Holy Family" sect, whose followers still attend Mass in Latin and reject many of the reforms instituted by the Second Vatican Council in 1962. One of the documents issued by that council said the Jews should not be held cul­pable for Christ's death. 
The Anti-Defamation League, a prominent national Jewish organization, released the results of a survey indicat­ing that one in four Americans thinks Jews were responsible for Jesus' death. Abraham Foxman, national director of the ADL, said "The Passion" could inflame that view. 
"It is troubling that so many Americans already accept the notion of Jewish guilt," such companies. 
"This is a niche where the prison industry could really help the U.S. economy," said Robert Killgore, director of Inside Oregon Enterprises, the quasi-state agency that recruits for-profit business to prisons. 
''I'm really excited about this," he said. "We keep the benefits here in the United States with companies where it's fruitless to compete on the outside." 
Prison officials have long praised work programs for 
Foxman said Monday in a statement. "We are con­cerned that Mr. Gibson's film -with its unambiguous blaming of the Jews -will not only reinforce those views, but could exacer­bate the problem 
by convincing even more people  ..To be certain, neither I nor my  Gibson refused to address his  
that his version of the story of the Crucifixion is  film are anti­Semitic.,,  father's remarks. "He's my father," Mel  
Gospel truth."·  Gibson  said.  
Gibson defend- Mel Gibson  "Gotta leave it"  
ed the movie, saying such criti­cism is unwar­ director of uThe Passion of the Christ".  alone, Diane." · He went on to describe the  
ranted.  .  Holocaust  as  

"To be certain, neither I nor "an atrocity of monumental my film are anti-Semitic," proportion." Gibson said in a statement After failing to secure a last year. "Nor do I hate any­major studio's financial back­one, certainly not the Jews." ing, Mel Gibson invested more 
But statements made by than $20 million of his own Gibson's father Hutton intensi­money in the venture. The fied the debate by downplay­film marks his first venture ing the significance of the into directing since 1995's Holocaust. Last week, Hutton "Braveheart," which earned Gibson told New York talk him Academy Awards for best radio host Steve Feuerstein picture and best director. that the Holocaust is "maybe not all fiction -but most of it Contact Matt Bramanti at is." Hutton Gibson also mbramant@nd.edu 
lowering recidivism and teaching inmates skills and self-respect, yet have been criticized by unions for taking jobs from the private sector. 
Those concerns are moot if a company planned to leave the country anyway. Killgore said. National prison labor trade groups support the idea. 
Ten states including Oregon employ inmates in for-profit call centers. Oregon and many others also make garments and furniture -industries that have largely moved off­shore, other than in prisons. 
claimed Jewish banking exec­utives, the Vatican and the 
U.S. Federal Reserve System are part of a conspiracy to create "one world govern­ment." 
In the ABC interview, Mel 


Love to talk about N()tre Dame? Looking for a job for next year? 
'l'he Office ofU ndergraduatc 1\chnissions 
'-­
is no\v hiring (n1ale and female) tour guide..,. 
Find the application online at http://admissions.nd.edu/tourguidc.pdf or pick one up in Room 220 of the ~lain Building. 
Plem;c return the completed application to 220 l\'lain Building by lVbrchsth. 
Training \Viii take place the week of.\1arch 29th. but work will not 
begin until Fall 1004­

A few summer tour guide positions arc available. Ifyou-have any questions, please contact Jill or Gabc at 1-7505. 

Wednesday, February 25, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 10 566.37 -43.25
jones ' 
-~·~59~ 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) + 1.32 +0.30 23.05 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.69 +0.20 29.20 JDS UNIPHASE ODSU) -4.00 -0.20 4.80 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) -3.23 -0.09 2.70 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.53 -0.08 5.16 
, Treosuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.3 7 -0.18 48.99 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.52 -0.21 40.29 5-YEAR NOTE -0.89 -0.27 29.91 3-MONTH BILL +1.19 +0.11 9.38 
Commodities 

LJGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.23 34.58 GOLD ($ffroy oz.) +5.50 404.80 PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) -0.05 96.15 
Excha Rates 

YEN 108.2 EURO 0.7885 POUND 0.529 CANADIAN$ 1.33 
COMPANY BRIEFS 
Fed chlef warns on Fannie Mae 
WASHINGTON -Mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could pose a threat to the country's financial system if their ability to take on new debt is not restrained, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Tuesday. 
Greenspan lent his influential voice to calls for reforms in the operations of the two gov­ernment-chartered companies which domi­nate the multitrillion-dollar mortgage indus­try. 
Speaking to the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday, Greenspan said he supports cre­ation of a tough new government regulatory agency to supervise the two corporations, say­ing the new regulator should have similar powers to federal banking regulators, includ­ing the authority to set minimum capital stan­dards. 
Parmalat USA files for Chapter II THENTON, N.J.-Parmalat USA Corp., the 
U.S. subsidiary of fraud-ridden dairy giant Parmalat Finanziaria, on Tuesday filed for bankruptcy reorganization protection, saying it needs to obtain financing quickly but will continue operating normally. 
During the Chapter 11 reorganization, Parmalat USA managers will work with a financial adviser on long-term solutions, which include the possible sale of its U.S. dairy business, the company said in a state­ment. 
Goldman to pay $45.5M in probe 
NEW YORK -Investment and brokerage giant Goldman Sachs & Co. will pay $45.5 mil­lion to settle charges in the New York Stock Exchange specialist investigation and is coop­erating with state and federal investigations into improper mutual fund activities, accord­ing to the company's annual report. 
Goldman Sachs subsidiary Spear, Leeds & Kellogg Specialists LLC was one of five special­ist firms that settled with the Securities and Exchange Commission last week for $240 mil­lion. The firms were accused of placing their own trades ahead of customers' business on the floor of the NYSE, skimming profits at the expense of other trades. 
CORPORATE SCANDAL 
SteWart will not testify in trial 
Domestic maven's lawyer says he will call one or two witnesses in her defense 
reasonable doubt.
Associated Press 

Legal experts say putting 
NEW YORK -Martha Stewart on the stand would 
Stewart will not take the have raised a host of con­
stand in her own defense, cerns for her defense 
her lawyer said Tuesday, team, including having her 
gambling that jurors will explain inconsistencies in 
not need her testimony to her statement.•;; and expos­
acquit the homemaking ing her to risky cross­
icon of lying about a stock examination by the gov­
sale. ernment. 
Lawyer Robert Morvillo Stewart and Bacanovic said Stewart's defense have told investigators team would call no more slightly different versions than two witnesses -a of what happened after the former lawyer who repre­stock sale, although they sented Stewart when she both maintain the central first met with government element -that they had a investigators and, if the plan to sell the stock at judge allows it, a memory $60 a share. expert. Bacanovic's lawyers 
In either case, the called just five witnesses, Stewart defense is expect­and expect to rest their ed to start and end its case case Wednesday morning. Wednesday. Closing argu­Lawyers for the broker ments could begin as early decided he would not take as Thursday, although the the stand because "the judge said she might delay government hasn't made them until next week. its case," spokesman Lou 
Morvillo made his Colasuonno said. "It's a cir­announcement after jurors cumstantial case, with a lot were excused from the of inference." 16th day of testimony at The star witness for the the trial. Stewart and bro­government was Douglas ker Peter Bacanovic are Faneuil, a young Merrill accused of lying about why Lynch assistant who claims Stewart sold ImClone he passed the tip about Systems stock on Dec. 27, Waksal's selling from 2001. Bacanovic to Stewart. 
Stewart and Bacanovic The day after Stewart say they had earlier sold.. ImClone announced arranged to sell her shares the government had when the price fell to $60. declined to review its But the government claims application for an experi­Stewart was tipped that mental cancer drug. The dies finances for Martha say whether the company ImClone founder Sam stock declined sharply the Stewart Living Omnimedia approved the reimburse­Waksal was frantically try­next trading day. and for Stewart personally, ment for Stewart's vaca­ing to sell his shares that In front of the jury testified she was instructed tion. day. Tuesday, a business man­to submit the $17,000 Prosecutors aggressively 
Rather than asking ager for Stewart testified vacation at a lush resort in attacked the credibility of jurors to decide between that Stewart billed her Mexico for reimbursement DeLuca, who helped the the government's version company for a luxurious as a business expense. defense Monday when she of the story and Stewart's, vacation she took just after Stewart is not charged said Stewart's broker had Morvillo will simply argue selling her ImClone stock with any crime in connec­mentioned a· desire to prosecutors have failed to in 2001. tion with her expense unload Stewart's ImClone prove their case beyond a Heidi DeLuca, who han-practices. DeLuca did not shares at $60 or $61. 

INTERNATIONAL TRADE 
.WTO allows EU to sanction U.S. 
Associated Press 

GENEVA -The European Union received the go-ahead Tuesday to start imposing trade sanctions against the United States in a dispute over an 88­year-old law that U.S. steel producers and other companies have used to fend ofT low-priced imports. 
A panel of arbitrators for the World Trade Organization ruled that the 15­nation bloc can start the sanctions in retaliation for the U.S. failure to repeal the Anti-Dumping Act that was ruled illegal by the WTO almost four years ago. 
"The decision of the arbitrators is a welcome reaffirmation that the wro is a rule-based system and members may not ignore their obligations with impunity," EU Trade Commissioner Pascal Lamy said in a statement issued in Brussels. 
"I hope that rapid action from Congress will make sanctions unnec­essary." 
The 1916 law, which armed the 
United States to fight foreign competi­tion after the end of World War I, had been considered obsolete until Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. brought a lawsuit against importers of Russian and Japanese hot-rolled steel in 1998. 
The company, based in Wheeling, W.Va., claimed that the companies were guilty of dumping-selling steel at below-cost prices to unfairly gain market share. Some of the defendants settled with Wheeling-Pitt while other cases arc still outstanding. 
Last December, a federal jury awarded Illinois-based Goss International $31.5 million in a case against a Japanese company accused of dumping newspaper printing press­es on the U.S. market. Three European companies are still facing action, according to the EU. 
The WTO, acting on an EU com­plaint supported by Japan, ruled the law illegal in March 2000. It found it unacceptable because it allowed for fines and imprisonment of individuals and fines for companies found guilty of dumping, as well as the payment of damages. Under WTO rules, import tariffs are the only remedies allowed to combat dumping. 
That decision was upheld by an appeals panel later the same year. 
The United States was given until July 2001 -later extended until December 2001 -to repeal the law. When it failed to do so, the European Union asked the WTO for permission to start imposing retaliatory trade sanctions. An arbitrator was appoint­ed to rule on the correct level of sanc­tions, but the EU agreed to suspend the hearing to give Washington more time to repeal. 
In September, however, it demanded the restarting of the arbitratipn, citing "persisting inaction" by the United States. 
The arbitrators ruled that the EU could base its sanctions on the amount European companies were fined under the law, or the amount they paid in out-of-court settlements. 
Wednesday, February 25, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Lifting of Libya travel ban delayed
Windows steps 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A Bush
up virus defense 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates, whose company's soft­ware is often derided for being buggy and vulnerable to 
hackers, showed "The people who system than 
said the United States had 
off planned fea­simple user 
demanded retraction of the
attack these 
tures on Tuesday names and 
minister's remarks, carried
systems are getting 
for shoring up its passwords to 
in a British Broadcasting Co. 
programs and more and more log into 
radio interview. 

heading off cyber­sophisticated. " Windows com­
Libya last August acknowl­
attacks. puters. 
edged in a letter to the U.N. 
Progress is being In addition to 
Security Council its responsi­
made against Bill Gates providing a 
bility for the 1988 bombing of 
viruses, network Microsoft chairman password, users 
the jetliner over Lockerbie, 
attacks and sloppy 
code that make 

systems vulnerable, but a lot 
more work remains, Gates 
said. 

"The people who attack these systems are getting more and more sophisticated," he said. "For every time we take a type of attack and elim­inate that as an opportunity, they move up to a whole new level. 
Still, Gates said: "That's not 
an unending process -we 
can make it dramatically diffi­
cult." 

Speaking to thousands of security experts at the RSA Conference, Gates said Microsoft's Trustworthy Computing Initiative unveiled two years ago after several embarrassing Win­dows flaws were exploited by viruses and hackers -is pay­ing off. 
In the first 300 days after the launch of the Windows 2000 Server operating system, 38 security bulletins were issued. 
The first major product released after the initiative, Windows Server 2003, has had just nine bulletins in the first 300 days. 
Gates showed off an upcom­ing Windows XP update that focuses on security improve­ments. 
Service Pack 2 includes a centralized control center where users can automatically check their computer's securi­ty status, such as whether all critical updates have been applied or whether antivirus software is running. 
Unlike earlier Windows releases, Microsoft's firewall software will be turned on as part of the default installation. A firewall blocks intruders from entering a system. 
In the new service pack, the Internet Explorer browser will have a pop-up ad blocker as well. 
Gates also showed off "active protection technolo­gies" that will gird Windows computers against attacks by sensing changes in the net­work that indicate virus activi­ty. 
If a problem is detected, the computer's firewall will ratch­et up defenses. 
A number of companies at the conference were showing products similarly geared toward detecting unusual activity in networks. 
Gates also said e-mail spam -which often contains virus­es or is sent from infected computers -is being target­ed. 
He proposed technology that would confirm the sender of an e-mail is authentic. "Caller ID for E-Mail" could be tested 

administration plan to let Americans travel to Libya as early as this summer in the 
was thrown off track Tuesday company's Hotmail service, he 
when Moammar Gadhafi's said. 
prime minister said his gov­Gates also announced a deal 
ernment had not accepted with RSA Security Inc. to 
responsibility for blowing up make it possible for compa­
Pan Am flight 103. nies to use a 
State Department more secure 
spokesman Richard Boucher 
of the RSA sys-
Scotland, that killed 270 peo­
tem must enter 
ple, including 181 
a random number that 
Americans. 

appears on a keychain or plas­
Prime Minister Shokri 
tic card they carry with them. 

Ghanem told the BBC that 
The number changes every 
Libya's government agreed in 
minute, generated by an algo­
December to pay $2.7 billion 
rithm that also resides on a 
in compensation to the vic­
server inside a company's 
tims' families to improve 
computing center. 

relations with the West and 

to secure the lifting of U.N. sanctions against Libya. 
Asked in the interview if the payment did not mean Libya had accepted guilt for the bombing, Ghanem replied: "I agree with that, and this is why I say we bought peace." 
"After the sanctions and after the problems we have [been] facing because of the sanctions, the loss of money, we thought that it was easier for us to buy peace and this is why we agreed to compen­sation," the prime minister said in the interview, which was recorded in Libya. 
The White House was expected to remove on Tuesday a 23-year-old ban on the use of U.S. passports for travel to Libya in response to Libyan leader Gadhafi 's promise to end his country's nuclear weapons program. 
U.S. officials said the admin­istration also had planned to expand diplomatic contacts with Libya,-but not to remove U.S. economic sanc­tions. 
Presidential spokesman Scott McClellan said: "Libya made it very clear in their letter to the U.N. that it 'accepts responsibility for the actions of its officials' on that very matter.... We would expect Libya to make clear that that remains their posi­tion." 
At the same time, McClellan said Libya "is making impor­tant progress in their efforts to dismantle their WMD [weapons of mass destruc­tion] programs. We have said that their good faith will be returned with the good faith of the United States." 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson announced Tuesday that he will lead a delegation of U.S. religious leaders to Libya this week to meet with Gadhafi and other African presidents at an African Union summit in Tripoli. Jackson said the flap over Ghanem's remarks would not affect his travel plans, noting that the assess­ment did not come from Gadhafi himself or the official Libyan news agency. 

YcnJ. d"ff'ed ~bur l:D af\d it 9()t pf.()wed 
iflt"b f'l,e Jn()t.tf\bill ()f\ N()tfl,·. ~uad af\d 
~()t.t' \'e 9()t t() 9() spel·uf\kif\9 t() ftf\d it. 

One of three valid excuses for missing the BP Meal Auction. 
Thursday February 26th 8:00-11:00 Lafortune 
SIT Program •1n Uganda 
• 
I nterestecfinYlfrica? 

• 
Interestedin Clia[(enges e:Z Issues o_fCDeve(oping Nations? 

• 
Interestedin :Jfo[y Cross Wor~ in CEast /lfrica? 


<Don't miss a stucfy a6roadopportunity tlirougli tfie Scfioo[for Intemationa[Training. Information :.M.eetine on: %urstfay, Pe6roary 26, 2004 f.R..pom 125:Kayes -:Jfea[y )f.t 5:30pm 
Wednesday, February 25, 2004 page 9 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Intelligence heads fear Al-Qaida 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Al-Qaida is damaged seriously, but it has spread its radical agenda to other groups that now pose the leading threat to the United States, CIA Director George Tenet and other intelligence chiefs said Tuesday. 
Tenet described a terrorist organization lacking central leadership and squeezed finan­cially. Al-Qaida remains deter­mined to attack U.S. interests, however, and still is capable of carrying out assaults on the scale of Sept. 11, 2001, he said. 
In addition, dozens of smaller Islamic extremist organizations with ties to al-Qaida have emerged, in places like Libya, Iraq and Uzbekistan, to consti­tute the next wave of terrorist threats, Tenet told the Senate Intelligence Committee in an annual public session on national security threats. 
"The steady growth of Osama bin Laden's anti-American sen­timeni through the wider Sunni extremist movement and the broad dissemination of al­Qaida's destructive expertise ensure that a serious threat will remain for the foreseeable future, with or without al-Qaida in the picture," Tenet said. 
At Tuesday's politically charged hearing, given recent debate over the intelligence community's prewar assess­ments on Iraq's weapons, Tenet and other officials walked gin­gerly through questions on the intelligence agencies' coopera­tion and effectiveness. They touched on instability in coun­tries from Haiti to Afghanistan, although Iraq dominated much of the discussion. 
On Iraq, Vice Adm. Lowell Jacoby, director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, said allies of deposed Iraqi President Saddam Hussein are thought to be responsible for most anti­
U.S. attacks. Foreign fighters, including th_ose from al-Qaida, have carried out some of the most significant attacks and may be behind the high-casual­ty suicide bombings largely against Iraqi targets, he said. 
"Left unchecked," Jacoby said, "Iraq has the potential to serve as a training ground for the next generation of terror­ists." 
Further, many in the country's Sunni minority, which pros­pered during Saddam's Baath party control, have yet to decide whether to support the U.S. coalition or the resistance, Jacoby said. 
"The key factors in this deci­sion are stability and a future that presents viable alternatives to the Baathists or Islamists," he said. 

Largely ignoring an appeal from the committee chairman, Pat Roberts, R-Kan., to focus on current threats, Republican and Democratic lawmakers ques­tioned the intelligence chiefs about intelligence mistakes before the Sept. 11 attacks and the war in Iraq. The agencies' performance in those crises has called into question the reliabil­ity of intelligence and the Bush administration's pre-emptive strike doctrine. 
Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-

Maine, asked Tenet how, since a National Security Strategy promulgated in September 2002 set up a strategy of pre­emption, Bush and other administration officials used words like ''grave and gathering threat" to describe the level of Sad dam's danger to the United States. International law tradi­tionally requires that a threat be "imminent" before a nation can defend against it. 
"If it wasn't an imminent threat in your mind, how would you have characterized or assessed the threat?" Snowe asked. 
Tenet said intelligence ana­lysts were "quite worried " about surprise attacks and what they didn't know, given Saddam's history of deception. Estimates also indicated he had biological and chemical weapons, and other programs. "Whether it stands up or it doesn't stand up over the course of time is something we're going to look at quite carefully," he said. 
"People voted to authorize the use of force based on what we read in these reports," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif. "It's a pretty bitter pill to swallow, particularly with a pre-emptive war." 
After the hearing, Roberts told reporters that "everybody would have some second thoughts" about the rationaliza­tion for war, but he believes that Saddam posed a national security threat, "in some ways even more dangerous" than expected, due to the deteriora­tion of his leadership. 
Teacher's firing for racial remark upheld 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -A Missouri appeals court upheld the fir­ing of a teacher who told her eighth-grade class she opposed interracial marriage and believed such couples should be "fixed" to prevent them from having children. 
The attorney for teacher Jendra Loeffelman pledged to appeal the unanimous rul­ing by the three-judge Missouri Court of Appeals panel. Her attorney, Chuck Ford, said he would ask the entire court to hear the case or seek a state Supreme Court review. 
Tuesday's rul­
ing affirms one 

7Loeffelman ·s
last summer by "reflect a per­a Jefferson Cou­comments] can verse, private point of view
nty judge, who only be described 
found that the that had no
as egregious. ,,
Crystal City Sch­legal protection ool Board was in school." within its rights Maurice Watson Loeffel man, in ousting Loeff­school district attorney 5 3 . toI d stu­
elman. 
Her attorneys argued her reported class­room comments were consti­tutionally protected free speech. The appellate court rejected that Tuesday, declaring that the First Amendment right applied only to public concerns ­not Loeffelman's discussing a private matter that was not part of the lesson plan. 
Loeffelman, the ruling sug­
gested, also should have understood her comments could be harmful to the pupils, who included two biracial students. 
Linda Schilly, the school board's president, welcomed the ruling as affirmation that Loeffelman 's firing was just, though "very unfortunate." 
Ford countered that "This was not about a racist teacher discriminating; it's about a teacher giving an opinion to a student who asked a question about an assignment in another class." Maurice Watson, the school district's attorney, said Loeff­elman's comments "can only be described as egregious" and 
dents in Oct­
ober 2002·that she was "totally against" interracial marriage, that interracial couples shouldn't have children because they often get teased, and that mixed-race children were "racially confused." 
Parents and students said Loeffelman also said mixed­race students came to school dirty and are never accepted by society. 


ARE YOU CONCERNED ABOUT YOUR DRINKING OR DRUG USE? 
Would You Like To Talk To Other s·tudents Who Have Had Problems With Their Use? Come To A Confidential STUDENT SUPPORT GROUP Ask Questions and Talk With Other Students That Struggle with Substance Abuse This group is student run,.PEER to PEER 
This is an ongoing meeting, .every Wednesday evening, 6:30-7:30 in room 303 LaFortune. 
page 10 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT Wednesday, February 25, 2004 




Music 
:: 
1{ . 
. . . 

~ Fun • 

Student U:nio:n Board Open Hous.e 
Wednesday 2/25, 6·8pm. 201: Lafo:rtune 
All programming
Learn obou·t SUB 
and exec·utive
lalk wi·th c:urrent SUB staff 
pos.ltions open for
Eat free food 
20·04-2005.. 

brought to you by the student union board www.nd.edu/-tub 
• CENTER FOR SOCIAL a enzn s CONCERNS February 11, 2004 centerforsocialconerns.nd.edu February 25 Panel discusses History, Politics and the Stuggle for Peace in Columbia Colombia has experienced A panel of Colombian guests Franco, member of Redepaz, a over 50 years ofcivil war apd will be speaking on the his­Colombian NGO for recon­political conflict. tory, politics and current ciliation and care ofvictims. struggle for peace from their ofviolence. See http://www. From an outsider's view­own experiences and perspec­nd.edu/.... ndlaw/colombia_ point, Colombia is best tives. poster.htm for more informa­known for cocaine arid tion. kidnappings, however, the Guest speakers include underlying conflict and its Keynote speakers from the When: Wednesday, February effects on an entire nation Association of the Family of 25 at 7:00pm bring a different perspective Members of the Detained to Colombia's state ofwar. and Disappeared and Joanna Where: 102 DeBartolo February 29Volunteer Ministry as Vocations Opportunities All students are welcome to Amy Zajakowski-Uhll Tutors are needed to work come to this panel presenta­'87-Therapist, Cathedral with Washington High School tion by Notre Dame gradu­Counseling Center and the students Monday through ates who will reflect on how Kovler Center for survivors of Thursday from 3-4 p.m. in they have integrated faith and torture, Chicago, IL February26 the school's library. social concerns into their pro­Jim Zajakowski-Uhll '85fessions. Pizza will be served. Reflections from Returned Daytime tutoring times are -Theology Teacher, Loyola Sponsored by the CSC andalso available. Academy and former Cam­NDVI. · Missioners pus Minister, Loyola Univer­Please contact Ann Power Renee LaReau '96 -Parish sity, Chicago, IL All are welcome to find out serving their respective coun­for more information Minister and Author, Colum­about two overseas volunteer tries. Pizza will be served. When: Sunday, February 29,bus, OH possibilities through the eyes4:00-5:30p.m. When: Thursday, February of five returned missioners Erica Dahl-Bredine '87 26 at 6:00pmWhere: Center for Social (four HCA Chile Associates -Mexico Country Program Concerns, Multi-purpose and one returned Nicaragua Where: Center for Social Manager , Catholic Relief Cap Corps member) who Concerns, Lounge Services, Tuscon, AZ have each spent over two years  

Wednesday, February 25, 2004 page 11
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Peterson accused of having an affair 
Prosecutors allege affair prompted murder 
Associated Press he told Judge Alfred Delucchi. 
REDWOOD CITY, Calif. -Prosecutors detailed a Outlining a motive in the Laci series of allegedly conflictingPeterson case for the first s tatemen ts Scott Peterson time, prosecutors alleged in made in TV interviews. court documents that Scott The documents said he 
Peterson's affair with another tried to deflect suspicion from woman drove him to murder himself but ended up cominghis pregnant wife. across "quite strongly, as Defense attorneys insisted someone who is lying about 
Tuesday the documents con­his involvement in Laci's dis­tained "out-and-out false­appearance."hoods." Among other things, prose­
In papers filed Monday, cutors said, Peterson admit­prosecutors sketched the ted the affair to detectives broad outlines of what they and later denied it after Frey believe led Scott Peterson to approached police. kill his wife, Laci, citing Peterson also claimed that Peterson's affair with mas­he admitted the affair to his sage therapist Amber Frey wife and that she was "at and his conflicting statements peace" with it. about it to police. But prosecutors said wit­
"The· defendant's state­nesses will testify that Laci ments concerning Amber Peterson never mentioned the Frey support motive for the affair. murder," prosecutors said. Investigators also noted 
Jury selection is scheduled that Peterson used the past to start next week. Peterson, tense when referring to his 31, could get the death penal­wife and unborn son before ty if convicted. their bodies were found, 
The documents cite abruptly correcting himself. Peterson's "romancing" of Attorneys later turned their Frey in the period before Laci focus to dog trainer Cindee Peterson disappeared on Dec. Valentin, who tried to track 24, 2002. Her body and that Laci Peterson's scent with a of her unborn son later bloodhound .in the days after washed up along the San she vanished. Francisco Bay. Valentin said the dog's 
During a heated exchange behavior suggested Peterson's in court Tuesday, defense body was driven from her attorney Mark Geragos called Modesto home where authori­the filing "scurrilous" and ties believe she was killed to "replete with what I consider a rented warehouse where to be out-and-out falsehoods" Scott Peterson told police he designed to grab headlines. stopped the morning of Dec. 
"It looked like it was right 24 before going fishing on out of the National Enquirer," San Francisco Bay. 
J~giate .,~~· z·-Festival 
·---.-.. 
··---..... 

Teen body piercings increase 
Medical Association. standards than states or cities,
Associated Press 
Meanwhile, the Texas requiring a parent to be pres­
MINNEAPOLIS Erik Department of Health library ent or, in some cases, setting Hansen rolls up his left sleeve offers a video for teens and their own age limits for certain to reveal a roughly drawn young adults titled ''Tattooing procedures. skull-and-crossbones-tattoo. A and Body Piercing: Thinking Some youth think that ban­friend did it for him a few Smart About Body Art." And ning them from having work weeks ago, using a needle and Connecticut is among states done, or requiring parental ink at what Hansen calls a with a brochure that has simi­permission, is only causing "poke and stick party" -a lar information. more minors to do the piercing growing trend among young The biggest concerns include themselves or seek out unli­people as tattoos and piercings the potential spread of tetanus censed amateurs, known in the have surged in popularity. and hepatitis B or C if people industry as "scratchers." . 
Body art between friends can share tattooing needles or "You can't just outlaw be a rite of passage, a back­whatever sharp objects -pins things," says Hansen, who says room ritual often done on the and nails included -they use he could not have afforded a sly. to do their piercing. professional tattoo even if he'd 
Teens talk about school ath­"It's just not something you wanted one. "It's like prohibi­letes doing tattoos or piercings can do in your garage," says tion; it doesn't work." for one another as an initia­Shahn Anderson, a licensed Gail Dorfman -the Henne­tion. "It's more fun to have a tattooist and president of the pin County commissioner friend do it -and it was free," Alliance of Professional whose age-limits ordinance says Hansen, a 20-year-old Tattooists, who helped design prompted the safety campaign from Minneapolis. the Hennepin County cam­-disagrees. 
But officials where he lives­paign. "We're not telling kids they and in other places nationwide Eighteen-year-old Katie Kla­shouldn't get tattoos or pierc­-. are worried. In Hennepin ren thinks posting the informa­ings," says Dorfman, who's also County, which includes tion is a good idea. the mother of five teenagers. Minneapolis, they've started a "Anything but ears, I would "We're just saying, 'Be smart poster campaign in schools and want a professional to do," the about it."' neighborhood hangouts to high school senior from She says doctors and nurses encourage young people to Roseville, Minn., says as she at the county's hospital have have their tattoos and pierc­waits· at a licensed piercing seen a spike in young people ings done by licensed profes­studio in Minneapolis with her with infections caused by ama­sionals. friend, Leslie Barker. The teur work, sometimes done by 
"Get the good design, not a fresh-faced teens were there to friends or unlicensed opera­bad disease!" says one poster have their nipples pierced -a tors. She also notes the case of about tattooing. Another fea­procedure that's become a 19-year-old woman who tures a photo of an upper lip trendy since Janet Jackson's pleaded guilty to a misde­piercing with warnings about Super Bowl flash. meanor for doing piercings in a the risk of infections, blood­"It's an on-the-edge kind of vehicle near a Minneapolis borne diseases and nerve dam­thing," Barker says, adding high school and another in age. that both waited until they did­suburban Wayzata last year. 
The Oregon Health Licensing n't have to have written Jesika Bornsen, a profession­Office has a similar Web-based parental permission -req­al piercer at a shop called Saint campaign, begun after several uired in Hennepin County since Sabrina's in Minneapolis, young people from the town of last summer. agrees that the campaign can Klamath Falls got serious Several states have laws that only help educate teens and upper ear infections from prohibit minors from getting parents. piercings done at a jewelry tattoos or "body art" regardless "It's saying, 'Talk to your par­kiosk with lax sterilization pro­of who's holding the needle. ents about it,"' says Bornsen, a cedures. The cases -and And others, such as Wyoming, member of Association of resulting disfiguration -were are considering bans. Professional Piercers who's documented in Wednesday's Often, licensed piercers and worked in the field for eight Journal of the American tattooists have even stricter years. 

EVIEW NIGHT 
ECDC Registration
V){f;cDNESDAY,....PEBRUARY 25TH 
The Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) is currently
f.) •.. ''/ 


registering child.ten.Jor the .2004-05 School Year and the .2004
.Laa~~brtune 
.. ····,·.·.·.·.·.·. 

·Summer Day <:;amp. ECDC•ar Saint Maryls College enrolls children
Ballroom 
ages 3 thtoogh 5during·the school·yearand 3_through 9·during.the summers, ECDC at Notre Darrte enrolls children ages 2 throughUNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
kindergartenduring the school yearand -2.5 through 9 during the suiruner..For rnore infonruition and ECDC ParentTours, please call
JAZZ BAND II AND COMBO all events are free 
.................. 
......................_............ 
Earlv 
···-...

···"""""''............,.................................... -..._.......... 
Childhood 

...................................................... ........................ ··.....,_ ····--.,,.'· ···~. ·~ .... ···~ ·....~~ .........~..............~~~-·--·-··--~· 
Development 
-..... 
.. ............................._..._... 

............................... 
Center, Inc.

......
....................... 

................. 
.............__ 
•-. ............,"""""................, ... _...,.,.......,. ••.,.••w·--.1'''' 
........ 


574..284-4693
"•-.,,,"~ ....-~. '"-"·-~·-·-..-...._.,,,.••._ ..._,.,,~.....w 
• .-.-........,,•. ,·•· 
(ECDC-SMC) 
www. nd.~d u/-su b/cjf/ 
574-631-3344 
(ECDC-ND) 




p 
THE 0BSER\'ER" 
page 12 
Wednesday, February 25, 2004 
THE·.. OBSERVEit:·.. ·. 
. 'lfwl.......t.Aiilr~~ioiMiii<~-w.tlltiij~ ...... 
It's only life we're talking about.. 
~o..lfuli• Q.No~ .~~m 46~~ 

0.24 Soiith: D.litirtg H&, N~ Diilile.lN 46~$6 .. With all the media attention focused adult caretaker? Does this mean they distribution methods? Guns should not
Eorroa IN CJJ1EF ·· 

on the Presidential election, it's easy to are not life. either? be in the hands of madmen like Malva 
Andrew So~lwp 

forget that Congress is still in session While we're on the subject of life, the and Muhammad or people like the 
MANAGING £t>rroa BUSINEss MANAGllll 
this year. Here's a little reminder. Over Senate also has a chance to do what alleged murderer of Chicago Police 
s,Qtt B~odfuehrer Loti Lewalski 
the next few weeks. Congress will be the House recently failed to do -pro­Officer Michael Ceriale, who was kilJed As$l'. M»>A.G!NG EOttolt voting on two very tect innocent Americans from gun vio~ by a trafficked handgun in yet another Sheila flynn important bills that lence by voting "no" to the controver~ case likely to be dismissed by the pas­
Joe Licandro 
will have serious sial NRA~backed Gun Industry sage of this bill. No wonder the Major
. . . . . . . NEWS Emroru M~hanne Downes 
ramifications for a Immunity Bill designed to eliminate so­Cities Police Chiefs Association, led by long time to come. called frivolous lawsuits. Under its current Los Angeles Police Chief
The Licandro 
First on the plate terms, licensed gun makers and dis­William Bratton, has vehemently
Non-Factor
is the House's tributors would be totally immune opposed the passage of this legislation, 
expected vote on from any lawsuit filed against them by even taking out a full-page ad in The 
The Unborn victims of gun violence. In other words, Washington Post. If that name sounds 
Victims Violence Act, a bill that would negligent gun makers and distributors familiar. it should. Bratton is the for­
make it separate federal crimes to would suffer no consequences for sell­mer Police Chief of New York City, the 
An DESIGN MANAGER! Tom Haigbt injure or kill both a woman and her ing or passing large quantities of arms man, along with Mayor Rudolph .~MS Aor.(INtSTRATOIU Ttd Bangert fetus. If passed as expected, this bill under the table to known black market Guiliani, responsible for rolling back would effectively re-define the term dealers intending to re~sell them crime in the Big Apple. Maybe, just
W£8 A.DMINISTII.ATOJt: Todd Nieto : "life" in this country. In turn, this could to individuals prohibited by ----maybe, the Senate should lis-
CoNTROLWU Pauta Garda. · 

provide the legal pretense for partial law from purchasing a ten to him, instead of the 
CONTACT Us· 

birth abortion foes to win their fight to gun. NRA. 
0FRCE MANAGER & GENERAL lNFO 

criminalize such a heinous "medical" If passed, this bill As it stands now, the
(574) 6~hH71 

. FAll procedure once and for alL The would most likely bill has 59 senators 
(574) 6;!>.6927 • Unborn Victims Violence Act would dismiss standing on board, only one 
..·. ..•. .•· ·.:· AoVERSTISING .. • ·. . bring federal law in line with 28 states lawsuits against away from defeat­(574lG~l-69QO . ®set"f.i<l@ti(f.;~ll· that have laws covering the unborn. A irresponsible ing any filibuster . . . ·. . EDITtliHN CHIEF . . similar federal proposal has already gun dealers Hopefully, some

. • . . . . . •..·..·.· .. {)'7:~16~1-~542 .· . . ..· ..••.•• •.. . 
twice passed the House in 1999 and across the of these
bAGJNGEDttOR &AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
2001, but the U.S. Senate has refused country Senators will 

• . . .. SPORTS DESk ···< •• ·• •:· ••·•·· · ·. · ·.• · • (~74) 93l~~54o spor!SJ@nd.edu 
It would be impossible for any Shooter, et

.······ ·•••••···•·••··••····•· (Si~Js~~~~EaA:~~~;.••. >•.···•·•· her fetus but not the woman herself. state dealer. iceberg. Two 
<574J 6;u~ssJ9 the gunman could only be tried for The 238 more crucial THE .... ·.... ·.···· attempted murder. Under this arrange­guns that gun-control ment, the fetus is reduced to nothing, inexplicably laws are waiting
0BSERVERCJNLJNE .·. · 
as if it never existed in the first place. disappeared in the wings: the
www.ndsm,observer.com · 

According to an Associated Press arti­from the Tacoma Omnibus POLICIES· cle published Monday, a recent poll gun dealership, Appropriations Bill 
. . The Observer iS the Independent; daily newspaper · conducted by the National Right to Life without any record proposed by represen~ . published in print arid online by the 5tudents ofthe Committee cites that 80 percent of the of them being sold, 
tative Todd Tiahrt (R­University ofNotte Dame du. Lat a.t~d Saint Mary's American public believes there should included a Bushmaster Kan.) that would effective­.· Coll~e. Editorial conrerit.iriduding adveri:isenients, iS ! · be a law recognizing the killing of a XM-15 rifle that ended up ly eliminate crucial parts of not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither · 
fetus as a homici~e. Following basic in the hands ofthe snipers John · the current Brady Bill by drastical· 
institution.TJW Obsenret~t:s the rigbuo r¢fu$e. 
logic, the following question must be Muhammad and his 17 -year-old ly reducing the amount of time to con­
• a<lverrisen:ief}~ b~ on eontent; ·. .· . .·... . . • . . ··.·• .·. . . ·.. 
asked: If shooting a fetus becomes a accomplice Lee Boyd Malva, neither of duct criminal background checks for
•• •..•..·The neWs is rep<>rtcd ~ 3ccuratdy~d obJectively as ·. .· 
federal crime, then should not killing it whom could have legally purchased a prospective gun purchasers, and the
•··• .po5slble. UmigJKd c:ditoriah rep~nt the opinion of 
through abortion be considered the gun (Muhammad because he was Assault Weapons Ban, which is up for 
.•.. :.· th.e majQtity Ofwe F.diw.t in:Chie£ M~g Eclifot, 
same thing? The final result is the under domestic restraining order, and renewal after 10 years of prohibiting 
··•· ·•. Assis1:2nr Managing &liror ~·deparunenr edi[(us. · · ··. Commentaries, lcittcn and columns ~rCS::nrthe views same: The human fetus is dead in the Malvo because he was a juvenile). In the sale of certain military~style, semi~ ·•• 9fd~ li-Qtlwts and oo~ n~ily ilitm•QtThe end. his testimony, Malvo has claimed that automatic assault weapons, including .. O~r. ·· ··.· ··••·· ·· .· ····· ·.·.· "Human" is the operative word, he shoplifted the gun. Even if this is AK-47s and Kalishnakov rifles . ............ . V'!eWpoint sp;ce JS aVailable to all rmdc!rs; Thefree . . 
because abortion rights activists and the truth, should not Bull's-Eye still be In the wake of Columbine, the D.C. 
•. expression ofaU opitliom through letters·is enwuraged. 
the judges who side with them conve­held responsible for not providing Snipers and the yet-to-be-caught
•.· · l..ettel'$ to the Edit(tt mU$r bt signed Md mil$! inclu4c: 
•· · conr.acdrifoinlllti.On. · · · · · · · · · · · · · niently leave that out of their political proper security measures to prevent Columbus highway shooter, I am hope­and legal arguments. No matter how shoplifting, especially after this hap­ful our leaders will practice common they want to define the term, the fol~ pens 238 times, as the dealership is sense and support much-needed gun 
· .QrmtWm ttptding Oils~pt~licitt tht;ultlbe . JMaet~ to /iriit¢t i,CbufAiz.JiiW SOiiltup. ··· · · lowing is indisputable: Without any claiming? Bars are held liable for serv­control laws in this country. I am unnatural or outside interference, the ing the underage and the heavily intox­equally as optimistic that they will vote human fetus would have matured into icated who later sit behind the wheel, in favor of The Unborn Victims 
PosT .OFfiCE INFOfiMATiON · 

a human baby the exact same way a so why do gun distributors deserve Violence Act. human baby will mature into a child immunity? Life is at stake. and later into an adult. It's called the The immunity bill would not only cycle of life. Abortion rights supporters prevent victims from seeking monetary Joe Licandro is a senior political sci­like to argue that the fetus is not an damage but also from seeking shut~ ence major. His column appears every entity that can exist independently by downs of corrupt dealers. Without other Wednesday. He can be contacted 
:·.. . . ·. . . ·.·.. . . 
itself and therefore cannot be catego­forcing the gun industry to be account­at jlicandr@nd. edu. 
:.. w~---~~~*~~J>;.;o..NJ~~~iiR•-..·····
......~.· .. ······ ... ·.··.··•··· rized as life. Well, has it ever occurred able for negligence, what incentiye The views expressed in this column to them that babies and children can­does it have to take stronger safety are those ofthe author and not neces~ not survive without their parents or an precautions in its manufacturing and sarily those of The Observer. 
($?:~) 
6;7k~54J 9P~rr\e@ild.edu 

to touch it, afraid of the potentially including :(5'7;4) ~3h53l3 .••... stormy political aftermath. That is the sniper ·•. <Nm DESK .. about to change as new Senate case (514) 6lhM23.. ··•• Qhsri~.l@nd.e9u · Majority leader and licensed physician "Conrad . . . VI£WPOtHT DESif .·. . 
Bill Frist (R~Tenn.) has promised to Johnson v.
(574) 6~l~M03> vi~point.l@nd~edu . 
take the bill up in the near future. Bull's~Eye 
. . • StolE DESK 

Senator-even for the most vehement al" and the (~74) 631~4540 . scen~.l@nd.edu of abortion rights supporters -to jus~ half~dozen 
· SAINT MARv'sDE$K 

tify voting against this bill, for a vote in others filed
(574) 631~4324 ....smc..J@nd.edll·.. 

this direction would effectively mean against the
· ··· ···· Ptrom om·... 

that if a gunman shot a woman, killing Washington 
ToDAY's StAFF ·•··· ·. ·· 
News SportS OBSERVER POLL Annellese Heather Woolford , . VanHoegarden . Will Puckett Anne Loughery 

·Matt Bramanti Kevin O'Neill 
Viewpoint Scene Where do you go to Mass? Alyssa ·Ra.ma· Brauweiler Gottumukkala 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at
Graphics illustrator 
www.ndsmcobserver.com
Paul Roncal Katie Knorr 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"If they can make penicillin out of moldy bread. they can sure make something out ofyou.,, 
Muhammad Ali boxer 
see the error in their ways and join the 
minority. It's the only way justice can be delivered to the vic~ tims of gun violence. This 
vote is just the tip of the 



Archbishop Burke deserves the Laetare Medal 
Notre Dame should give the 2004 Laetare Medal to Archbishop Raymond Burke of St. Louis. The medal is given to men and women whose lives have "illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the her­itage of humani­
Charles Rice
ty." Archbishop 
Burke is a profile in courage who 
Right or

fits that descrip­
Wrong?

tion. 
In Nov. 2003, when he was Bishop of La Crosse, Wis., Burke decreed that Catholic legislators in his diocese who "support procured abor­tion or euthanasia may not present themselves to receive Holy Communion. They are not to be admitted to Holy Communion, should they present them­selves,-until ... they publicly renounce their support of these most unjust prac­tices." 
Burke had privately appealed to the three legislators involved but they essentially told him to get lost. "The duty of Catholic legislators to respect human life," said Burke, "is not [a] per­sonal opinion I have arbitrarily decided to impose. It is not ... Burke's law, but God's law which Burke, as a shepherd of God's flock, is bound to teach and uphold, also by admonishing ... those who violate it. As bishop, I am a guardian of the faith and its practice. If I ... remain silent while the faith, in one of its most fundamental tenets, is ... openly disobeyed by those who present themselves as sincere adherents of the faith, then I have failed most seriously and should be removed from office." Whether other bishops will take the same position is a matter for the pas­· toral judgment of each bishop. But Burke is a bishop who knows how to lead. 
Burke's stand is politically incorrect, which may be the only sin in the "Church of Where It's At." But his action is in line with sound reason and the Constitution. He imposed no legal sanction on the legislators. They are free to continue their support for the legalized execution of the innocent by abortion and euthanasia. Burke is sim­ply invoking the principle of truth-in­labeling. If you are going to present yourself to the voters as a Catholic you should act like one. And you should not give the public a scandal. 
Abortion and euthanasia are not wrong merely because the Church says so. Rather, the Church so teaches because the international killing of the innocent is always a grave violation of the natural law and of the Command­ments. Nor is Burke's action an infringement on conscience. Conscience and freedom have an obligation to the truth. The bishop is obliged to teach that truth in order to assist Catholics of his diocese in the formation of their 
consciences. 

A legislator takes an oath to uphold the Constitution. But that oath cannot override his obligation, under the natu­ral law and divine law, not to cooperate in the murder of the innocent. Indeed, when the Constitution has been per­verted to authorize the execution of the innocent, fidelity to the Constitution requires the effort to restore the right to life. Similarly, Abraham Lincoln insisted on his moral duty to fight to reverse the Dred Scott decision, which had decreed that slaves were property and not persons. 
Legalized abortion is the epitome of an unjust law which, as Thomas Aquinas said, is "no longer a law but a perversion of a law." Every legislator, .Catholic or not, is morally obliged under the natural law to oppose, and to try to change, a law that authorizes the execution of the innocent. A Catholic legislator who openly and persistently favors legalized abortion and euthana­sia not only fails in that duty, he also makes himself liable to denial of his right to receive the Eucharist which is the sign of unity in the faith. 
Canon Law requires that "those ... who obstinately persist in manifestly grave sin are not to be admitted to the Holy Communion" (Canon 915). Burke did not excommunicate the politicians. Rather, he applied Canon 915 as an explicit regulation of the administration of the sacraments. Burke's action, how­ever, was not merely disciplinary. It was pastoral, born of concern for the spiri­tual welfare of the Catholic legislator as well as of the Catholic people who could be misled or scandalized if the legisla­tor's pro-death position went unchal­lenged. 
ln 1962, Archbishop Joseph Rummel of New Orleans announced that he was going to desegregate New Orleans Catholic schools. Segregationist activists Judge Leander Perez, State Senator E. W. Gravolet and B. J. Gaillot, all Catholics, opposed him. Gravolet threatened to cut off state support to Catholic schools and Perez urged 
·catholics to withhold financial support from the Church. After reminding them of the danger to their souls in rejecting the Church teaching, the archbishop excommunicated all three. Perez was an icon o( the legal and cultural main­stream. Rummel was counter-cultural. But he was right. And so is Burke. He would honor Notre Dame by accepting the Laetare Medal. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column ·appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at plawecki.l@nd.edu. 
·The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Because you're worth it, too 
Feb. 22 to 28 is National Eating Disorders 
Awareness Week (EDAW), and a time to celebrate 
every body. It's a time to depart from calorie-count­
ing and dieting and to thank your body for all the 
wonderful things that it lets you do each and every 
day. "You are beautiful the way you are." Now, 
there's a message you rarely, if ever see on TV. In 
today's world of mass media and advertising, we are 
constantly bombarded by images of ultra-thin 
women like Calista Flockhart and muscular men like 
Arnold Schwarzenegger. 
"So what?" you may be thinking, "That's life!" 
Well, unfortunately, there is a well-documented con­
nection between TV and fitness/fashion magazine 
consumption and body dissatisfaction/disturbed eat­
ing. Many men and women gaze upon those bronze, 
muscled Adonises and skinny, busty beauties and .naturally feel inadequate by comparison. Nowhere 
in a disclaimer is all the suffering, starvation, hours 
of make-up and computer retouching that's involved 
in creating these seemingly "perfect" images. We 
are not only guilted into believing that we shovld 
each want to become fitness gurus and aerobic 
queens, but also that looking like TV models is an 
obtainable goal if we only work hard enough. 
Why would the advertisers want us to feel badly about our bodies? So we'll buy their products (of course), which are lauded as "the" answer to our body-esteem woes. That's why Americans spend 30 to 50 billion dollars a year on weight loss products and 51 billion a year on cosmetics. One study showed that people were spending $180 per pound lost. Considering that 90 percent of those who lose 25 or more pounds regain the weight that they lose -and usually more-within two years, and 98 percent regain the weight within five years, it seems that an awful lot of people are being scammed. The reason: the body has an internal weight that it strives to maintain (a set point), and your metabo­lism actually slows down when you diet in order to conserve energy and stores up more fat to protect against future restrictive eating. 
Unfortunately, most women living in the United States feel badly about their bodies. Did you know that u_p to two thirds of women feel dissatisfied with some part of their bodies and that 80 to 90 percent of dieters are women? This trend has sadly infiltrat­ed our youth. Several researchers have found that about 70 to 80 percent of 10-year-old girls are cur­rently dieting. The irony is that most women view their bodies unrealistically and believe that they are larger than they actually are. In fact, one study showed that 70 percent of young women in the United States and England thought that they were overweight even though they were within their nor­mal weight range. 
Here's a newsflash -dieting, especially yo-yo dieting and restrictive eating, is associated 
with hypertension, increased serum cholesterol. kidney and heart prob­lems, gastrointestinal problems and even death. People who are on very-low-calorie diets have a death rate 40 times higher than the normal popula­tion. 
One study by the American Cancer Society that followed 800,000 men and women for six years found no connec­tion between weight gain and mortality rates. In fact, only weight loss was asso­ciated with higher death rates. 
But aside from the 
health risks, think 
about how much time 
you actually spend 
every day thinking or 
talking about calories, 
fat, weight and exercise. 
That's a lot of time each 
week wasted. And the 
inevitable outcome is feeling 
more inadequate and dissatis­
fied with your body. What if, 
instead, you funneled all of that 
energy into discovering your talents, 
dreams and unique qualities that make 
you special for who you are, not what you look like? Are you an artist, writer, designer, pho­tographer, director, musician or healer at heart? Want to find out? There are so many wonderful things inside you that have absolutely nothing to do with how you look, what you weigh or what other people see on the outside. You are like a precious gift-the wrapping isn't the important part; it's what inside that is valued. Wouldn't it feel better to focus all that energy on shaping the internal you rather than the external you? 
So, what can you do? Well, for starters, believe in your power to make a difference. If you see an ad that negatively portrays men or women and perpet­
uates unrealistic body types, e-mail the company. 
The companies keep incident reports of 
all e-mails they receive and if they get enough of them, they will change their ads. Also, don't buy products that are spon­sored by companies that use thin-ideal or sexist advertising. If there's one motivator to "big business," it's money. Invest time in exploring your strengths. Take a leisure course on 
something that you've always wanted to try. Make a list of all your great qualities that have nothing to do 
with appearance 

and remind yourself about them often. Take up yoga or meditation. In other words -participate in activities that make you feel good about yourself and your body. When you find yourself or others talking about calo­ries, fat or weight, stop your­self, and refocus the conversa­tion on something that is self-nur­turing, not self-critical. And, if you 
find that you are becoming obsessed with food and exercise so much that it is interfering with your life and well-being, get help. Remember, you are so much more than a number on a scale. 
Helen Bowden, M.S. Notre Dame Counseling Center Feb. 14 

~-----------~ 

page 14 Wednesday, February 25, 2004 
i ~ 
A CATHOLIC PERSPECTIVE 
Displaying true passion 
The Passion of the Christ, Mel Gibson's epic and controver­sial portrayal of the last 12 hours of the life of Jesus Christ, is the most emotionally powerful cinematic experience since Schindler's List. There are moments when even the strongest-willed will wince or look away and moments when the hardest heart will tremble. This is a movie that cannot help but affect all 
Jack Watkins 

who see it. 
It is not, however, a movie to be seen by all. Some critics have decried The Passion as the most violent film ever Scene made. These critics have a point-the Columnist film is almost a Dante's "Inferno" of Roman-style torture. To take one example, the Roman whip-with its sharp tips that imbed in the flesh and tear skin on their way out-is accurately reproduced in sickening detail. Anyone who cannot handle such portrayals of human torture need not purchase a tick­et. 
That proviso aside, this is a beautiful film -a film made with love and true religious feeling. Gibson draws upon the Gospels, tradition, the Stations of the Cross, Christian mysti­cism and, drawing it all together, the basic principles of the Spiritual Exercises on St. Ignatius ofLoyola. Intercutting scenes of torment with flashbacks to the Last Supper, the Sermon on the Mount and Jesus' childhood, Gibson accentu­ates and deepens the story. In the most beautiful of these moments, Christ stumbles for the second time while carry­ing the Cross, and, as He falls, Mary (Maia Morgenstern, who deserves an Academy Award for her role) sees, for a moment, the young Jesus stumbling. When Mary reaches her Son, she murmurs "I am here", and He replies, "See, mother, I make all things new." 
There are many, many moments like this. Gibson does his best to underscore the connection between Christ's suffering and our salvation. In the movie Christ is the suffering and redeeming Son of God, first and foremost, not the "nice man who taught good values" Buddy Christ of much modern presentation. Lest all balance be lost, however, other scenes involve the Eucharist, baptism, love for our enemies and the ethic of serving, all of which Gibson ties directly to the Passion. Gibson is largely true to the Gospels, presenting familiar figures like Judas, Peter and John in their tradition­al roles. The critics who have complained that the film is unforgiving, apparently didn't see the same movie I did, as Gibson is careful to include Christ praying for his enemies both before and during His passion. 
Critics' other primary target is the film's alleged anti­Semitism. Anti-Semitism is a form of racism and is con­demned by the Roman Catholic Church, especially in the context of the death of Christ, which is not a crime that can be attributed to any one historical person or group of people. To call this film anti-Semitic is to ignore the image that appears in the movie. The conclave of the Sanhedrin that condemns Jesus is portrayed as a secret conclave, called without knowledge of more moderate Pharisees, and even so some present speak up for Jesus. Others grow disgusted with the actions of Caiaphas and leave his side while Christ is being tortured. Other Jews, including large groups of Jewish women, protest the condemna­tion, and a Jewish hero, Simon of Cyrene, tem­porarily steals the spotlight as an Everyman forced to come to terms with the awful fact of the Passion. The worst villains are not the Jewish high priests, but the sadistic Roman soldiers in the scourging sequence. 
Despite being cleared of these charges, the film is not perfect. In the scourging scene, Gibson goes far beyond the scriptural 39 lashes (I lost count at 63), and three particular scenes seem like mere excess -a raven pecks out the eyes of the bad thief immediately after he mocks Jesus, a tear falls from Heaven at Christ's death and the earthquake following the death is overplayed. While these missteps are irritating, only the first is troubling. Gibson's other curious decisions tend to work out, especially the creepy, serpentine androg­ynous Satan, who parallels Mary. Satan carries a strange, undead spawn that appears to be a deliber­ate mockery of the Renaissance tradition of painting the Christ Child as if He were already dead. 
Though imperfect, The Passion ofthe Christ is a masterpiece. It is the most important film from a Catholic perspective in ages, and it is a powerful state­ment of the core of Christian belief. No one who has seen this film will think about their faith in quite the same way. By allowing us to all the more clearly visualize the suffer­ing and death that Christ endured for our sake and our sal­vation, Gibson has given the world a great gift. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Jack Watkins at jwatkin 1 @nd. edu. 


By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Movie Critic 

people. 
The strength The Passion of Christ is without a doubt a of the actors in the 
controversial film, and Hollywood usually film emerges as one of adores any buzz surrounding a project -the most powerful elements of both negative and positive. Religion, though, 
the movie. Jesus, Mary and Mary Magdalene remains a taboo topic, however rife with 
exude complicated emotions with their facial juicy controversy thought it may be. expressions and intonations, even while 
Hollywood doesn't like the fact that it arous­
speaking other tongues. James Caviezel, who es more than mere outcry -it causes moral plays Jesus, gives the spiritual leader an 
outrage and financial backlash. Nevertheless aura of serenity and peace amidst chaotic Mel Gibson, through his vast monetary surroundings. Maia Morgenstern's portrayal 
resources and celebrity clout, has finally of Mary evokes the pulled off the religious film that Hollywood speechless pain of a has been looking for. It is a controversial, mother losing her "The Passion moving, artistic and spiritual film that can be 
only son in a grue­
Jack's rating:

appreciated by believers and nonbelievers 
some way, but she 
alike. 

also exudes serenity
The film follows Jesus from his condemna­
-~­
'
and strength despite
tion to his death by crucifixion, and it is the crippling sense of interspersed with moments from his life and 
helplessness that 
ministry. The story blends the Passion 
overwhelms her. Molly's rating: ' accounts of the four New Testament gospels, Another woman and thus adheres to Biblical and not histori­reeling from Jesus' cal accounts, making the film more con­death is Marycerned with spirituality than accuracy. Magdalene, playedControversy has arisen from the film's by Monica Bellucci,apparent blaming of the Jews for Jesus' cru­

who adds another Rama's rating:
cifixion and the sympathetic portrayal of layer to the sense of Pontius Pilate. But in the film, no one is 
absolute helpless­
explicitly blamed for the death of Christ. The ness and sorrow that 
film reveals the tension between the Roman envelops those who government, the Jewish people and the radi­-followed Jesus. 

cal religion that Jesus has begun. Mob men­Gibson takes some Director: Mel Gibson tality and Pilate's wish to avoid rebellion artistic license with Writer: Benedict Frtzgen seem more at the heart of the events that his direction of the Starring: James CavieDI lead to Jesus' crucifixion than the fault of an film, but most of his Mala Morgenstern and Hrl 


Wednesday, February 25, 2004 page 15 
A NON-CATHOLIC PERSPECTIVE 
A passionate eye-opener 
a deeper spiritual and emotional layer to the basic narrative of the film. During key moments of Jesus' suffering, the film flashes to parallel moments from his life and ministry. While Jesus carries the cross to Golgotha, the film flashes to his welcome reception into Jerusalem (Palm Sunday) only a short while before being sentenced to death by the same crowd, and when Mary runs to Jesus' side after he stumbles, it flashes to her helping 1 of Christ" her son as a toddler when he falls. Another unusual use of paral­lels comes from

~... ) 
'· :-* Gibson's choice to
:,,) 

actually personify evil. At key moments, evil appears in the form of small children, a vaguely serpentine Mary-figure and a deathly perversion of the Madonna and Child. The choice to make evil a palpable force in the film cer­tainly evokes contro­versy, but it adds to the sense that the inherent evil of humanity is at aid and Mel Gibson the root of the story 


•, Monica Bellucci, that we are watching. lsto Jlvkov The word "crucifix­ion" will hold new meaning for those who see the film, for simply hearing the word fails to encompass the true graphic horror that this form of capital punishment stands for. The film does not flinch while showing, in vivid detail, all that Jesus endured on his slow path to death. He first receives a scourging at the hands of Roman soldiers, and he is beaten and lashed until his entire body is nothing but raw, bloody shreds. He then must carry the wooden cross upon which he will die, and he must hang on the cross by the nails in his hands until death finally comes. The crucifixion scenes are horrifically graphic, but they are also tremendously moving because they reveal the suffering that Jesus endures and the grace with which he bears it. 
The film's ending remains the least fulfill­ing part of the film, which is an extremely brief scene telling of Jesus' resurrection. It is ironic that this is the least fulfJ.lling element of the film, because it is supposed to be the most fulfilling aspect of Christian doctrine. But this scene feels tacked on and offers no insight into the significance this event has or its relation to the Passion. Cinematically speaking, it would have been better to leave this idea out or explicate it further instead of just leaving a brief teaser at the end. 
The Passion of Christ is not easy to watch -it is in Latin, Hebrew and Aramaic with subtitles, it contains a graphic crucifixion and deals with deep and difficult spiritual ideas. But it is also a powerful film that tran­scends the controversy it creates. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

When people find out that I'm not a Catholic but have attended a Jesuit high school and that I am now enrolled in. the nation's most notable Catholic university, they often ask me how I feel about the Catholic faith. After answering this question countless times, I've settled into the groove of 
explaining that I try to live by the Golden Rule and I usually leave it at Rama that. And why not? The Golden Rule 
Gottumukkala 

appears in some form or another in almost every major world religion, if only slightly altered in terms of Scene 
wording in each of its many ver­Columnist sions. 
The question I usually have a more difficult time fielding is what I think about Jesus Christ. Having been only versed in the very basics of Catholic doctrine through a few short years of 
required theology courses, I usually settle on the answer that I think he was a compassionate, good man and that is good enough for me. To put it light­ly, Mel Gibon's new film The Passion ofthe Christ was an eye-opener. 
It's hard to ignore an extended scene of an inno­cent man being scourged to within an inch of his life, especially when each whiplash is beaten into your subconscious as the camera cuts to Jesus' muted gri­
mace after each crack of the whip. And just when you think you've seen enough, the weapon of punishment is changed to a sinister cat-o-nine-tails with inch-long 
metal spikes running along its outer edges and the tor­ture continues. The film was both unsettling and unpleasant to watch for much of its duration and I'm sure a good number of people will use its depiction ofgraphic violence as one more reason to denounce it as the work of the devil. But 
how, exactly, can you accurately depict the last 12 hours of Jesus' life without the version presented in Gibson's endeavor? You can't show scourging and a crucifixion in gentle terms akin to a playful slap on the wrist. 
The visual power of much of the film rests in its directing style. Although nearly a decade has passed since Gibson's last directorial effort, Braveheart. Gibson still possesses the same artistic touch that won him an Academy Award. He seamlessly splices in the more pleasant and notable events of Jesus' life, such as the Last Supper and the Sermon on the Mount, intermittently between the events of Jesus' tor­tuous ordeal. This effect is quite jarring, and it paints a 
stark contrast between the way Jesus lived his life and the 
way he was forced to die. . 
Although a sizable chunk of the film is devoted to recre­ating the more well-known scenes of Jesus' suffering, I found some of the most profound moments to be those hid­den among the chaos. There is one scene where Jesus drops his cross in exhaustion on the way to Golgotha amidst a brawl between the peasants and soldiers that envelops him. Seemingly all alone within the bedlam, the scene shifts into a slow-motion shot of the approaching feet of a kind woman who offers Jesus a cup of water and a clean white towel to wipe his bloody, mangled brow. These fleeting scenes are sprinkled throughout the film and they add a deeper meaning to the film that can be interpreted in innumerable ways. They paint a portrait of a good man who touched many with his continuing kindness and who, at the very least, continued to live a noble life when most of us could have easily turned to bitterness and a swift retri­bution. 
Given that the brunt of the story is told by the facial expressions of a tortured Jesus and the reactions of his tor­mentors, friends and followers, the power of the film is a testament to the acting abilities of its stars. The film would have been just as effective if Gibson had decided to distrib­ute it without subtitles, as was originally planned. The per­formances speak for themselves, with not a single weak link in the chain. 
As important as the film Gandhi is for Hindus, The Passion ofthe Christ is just as significant for both believers and nonbelievers. It is not a film that can be lightly tossed aside. It is a monumental achievement and for all its unpleasantries, I can honestly say that I have a greater appreciation for the devout faith that many of my friends and colleagues place in the central figure of Christian doc­trine. I saw a noble, just man punished for no good reason and when that punishment is presented as vividly and as painstakingly as it is in this particular film, it is not easily forgotten. So the next time someone asks me my thoughts on Jesus Christ, you have my assurance that it will not be the same light, airy response that I have been giving enquiring friends for years. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd. edu. 
----~------~ 

Wednesday, February 25, 2004 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Trail Blazers outlast Magic in 94-91 overtime victory 
Associated Press victory over the Golden State The New Jersey Nets won their Warriors. 14th straight game TuesdayORLANDO, Fla. -Zach Jonathan Bender again gave night -the longest streak in Randolph had 24 points and 12 a strong performance to help the NBA this season -by hold­
rebounds, and Derek Anderson fill the void left by injured for­ing off the injury-plagued
scored 11 of his 18 points in the ward Ron Artest, and the Toronto Raptors 86-7 4 behind fourth quarter and overtime to Pacers shot 52 percent from the Kenyon Martin's 25 points and lead the Portland Trail Blazers field to win their third in a row. 15 rebounds. to a 94-91 victory over the Bender's minutes off the The victory was the 13th Orlando Magic on Tuesday bench have increased since straight for boy-wonder coach night. Artest went on the injured list Lawrence Frank, and it set up 
Damon Stoudamire scored 17 after having surgery to repair probably his toughest test since -his 3-pointer to start over­torn ligaments in his left thumb. replacing Byron Scott as coach 
time gave Portland a lead it of the two-time defending
The oft-injured Bender pro­would never relinquish -with vided an offensive spark in the Eastern Conference champions 
nine rebounds and seven on Jan. 26. 
second and third quarters and assists. finished with 12 points on 5-of-New Jersey travels to 
The Blazers won their season­6 shooting. Minnesota for a gamebest fifth straight game to con­
O'Neal and the Pacers took Wednesday against Kevin 
tinue their playoff push. Since 

control in the third quarter. Garnett and the Midwest bottoming out to seven games O'Neal had 12 points, and Division-leading Timberwolves, under . 500 (17 -24) exactly one who have lost only seven times
Tinsley added five points and
month ago -the furthest below in 28 home games. 
three assists. The Pacers fin­
c. .500 the Blazers have been ished the quarter with a 10-.2 Only four of the Nets' wins in 
' since the 1975-76 season-they their franchise-record streak
run to take an 80-74 lead into 
are 12-4 since. At 29-28, they have come against teams with
the final period. 

are over .500 for the first time winning records. Toronto
The game was a complete
since Dec. 29. played without J alen Rose,
turnaround from the Pacers'
Shareef Abdur-Rahim added Vince Carter and Alvin Williams 
plodding, foul-laden win over
14 points and Theo Ratliff tied in losing its season-high sixth
Utah on Sunday. Indiana shot
his career high with nine straight.
54 percent in the first half, led
blocks, including a huge rejec­This latest Nets' win wasn't
by O'Neal's 12 points on 5-of-7
tion of Steven Hunter's dunk much of a game, even though
shooting, to take a 52-51 lead.

attempt that would've brought the Raptors got the 33-year-old
Atlanta 86, Philadelphia 75

Orlando to 88-87 with 1:11 Frank a little miffed in the sec­
ATLANTA-Stephen Jackson 
remaining. ond half, cutting a 19-point lead 
scored 24 points, Chris
The Magic, down seven with late in the third quarter to 73­
Crawford added 19 and the
less than four minutes left in 68 with 8:34 to go.
Atlanta Hawks ended a three­
regulation, sent the game into Frank called two timeouts
game losing streak a victory
overtime tied at 83 on Rod during the 14-0 run and picked
over the depleted Philadelphia 
Strickland's 3-pointer with 14.3 up a technical foul for seeming­
76ers.

seconds to go. ly mocking the officials for mak­
The Sixers, losers of three
But Orlando missed nine of 13 ing a call for the Nets. 
straight and four of five, were
shots in the extra period to fall Martin hit a set shot to ignite
without leading scorer Allen
short of winning four straight a 10-3 spurt that secured Roger Mason Jr. led the Joe Smith last summer, sank six
Iverson, who remained in
for the first time this season. It another record for Frank, best Raptors with a career-high 18 free throws in the final 19 sec­
Philadelphia with an injured
also was the Magic's first loss in start to a coaching career in a points in his first NBA start. onds to seal the Timberwolves'
right shoulder. Glenn Robinson,
four overtime games. major sport in North America. Milt Palacio and Donyell 10th straight victory over the
the team's second-leading scor­
The Magic had a slim chance Joe Morgan of the Boston Red Marshall added 13 points Bucks.
er, missed the second half with
of sending the game into a sec­Sox won 12 straight in 1988 apiece for Toronto, which shot He hit two foul shots after
a sore elbow.

ond overtime, but Keith Bogans' after taking over for John 39.1 percent from the field. Michael Redd's 3-pointer made
Kenny Thomas, Philadelphia's 
heave from the right baseline McNamara, and Jim Price won Minnesota 108, Milwaukee it 101-97; and he sank two
third-leading scorer, wasn't in
after a full-court pass didn't hit that many with the National 102 more after Keith Van Horn's 3
uniform because of a sprained
the rim. League team in New York in MILWAUKEE -Sam Cassell pulled Milwaukee to 103-100
right thumb. 

Tracy McGrady led the Magic 1884. The team was known as scored 29 points in his return with 16 seconds left. 
Atlanta played the second half 
with 31 points despite another both the Gothams and the to Milwaukee and the Cassell's two foul shots with 9
with only eight players after
subpar shooting night -11-for-Giants that season, according to Minnesota Timberwolves seconds left capped the scoring. 
guard Dion Glover left with a
32, including 2-for-14 on 3-the Elias Sports Bureau. became the first NBA team to Latrell Sprewell, a Milwaukee
groin pull and center Zeljko
pointers. Jason Kidd added 17 points win 20 road games with a vic­native, added 23 points, and
Rebraca hurt his back. Guard
Indiana 107, Golden State 96 and seven assists. Kerry Kittles tory over the Bucks on Tuesday Kevin Garnett had his NBA­
Wesley Person did not suit up
INDIANAPOLIS -Jermaine had 15 points, and Rodney night. leading 51st double-double
because of a sprained right
O'Neal scored a season-high 34 Rogers scored all 12 of his in Cassell, who played 4 1/2 sea­with 16 points and 18
knee.

points, and Jamaal Tinsley the second quarter as the Nets sons with the Bucks before rebounds. He tied his own club
New Jersey 86, Toronto 7 4 

added 13 points and 11 assists opened a 15-point halftime being traded to Minnesota record with his 19th consecu­
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­

to lead the Indiana Pacers to a lead. along with Ervin Johnson for tive double-double. 
/ 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Summer Camp counselor for chil­ FOR SALE-Like new weights set  New 3/4 bdrm homes  E. Washington area, Last 4 BR  I love Observer  
NOTICES  dren w/disabilities. $7·$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in  with incline bench, leg lift. Will deliver. $150  close to NO, 3 full baths,  House avail. for 04/05. WID, Furnished, B-Ball,  'My grandpa reads the observer  
Summit County, Ohio. Visit  2n-1345  2-car garage,  V-Ball, Sec.Sys.,  every day.  
www.akroncyo.org-download an  frpl, skylights.  11  mo. lease, 109 N. St. Peter. 233·  
COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES!  application. EOE  1995 Red Chevy Camara V6.  $1640/mo.  9947  like woah, there's like a mirror in our  
Search 24 bookstores with 1 click!  33,290 actual miles.  Call574-232-4527  room  
S&H calculated. www.bookhq.com  Tired of no money?  Original owner,  or 269·683·5038.  920 Oak Ridge Drive Rental  •  
Looking for part-time work for full­ excellent condition.  3Bdrm/1 B Ranch,  like this guy named gizarro called  
time pay? Champion, the nations #1  654-7439.  NICE HOMES  great area close to NO  
LOST & FOUND  Home Improvement Company is looking for energetic, self-motivated  JUST NORTH OF NO GREAT AREA  includes stove, new refrig. washer/dryer. $960/mo.  Yeah Scrabble!  
students for our Marketing Dept. Work Mon-Thur; 4hrs a day in the  FoR RENT  FOR 5-6 STUDENT s 2773097  273-1717  i think everyone should own a bal­loon launcher  
FOUND: Part of a necklace in  early evening; will not interfere with  
Hayes-Healy Friday morning 2120.  school work; earn up to $20/hr.  VERY NICE 3bdrm home  i hate anthony ...just kidding!  
Call 631-6375 to identify.  No experience necessary.  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES  in EastBank area  PERSONAL  
Will train right person.  WALK TO CAMPUS  w/washer-dryer  when irish eyes are smiling, they're  
Apply at 715 W. Edison Rd.,  MMMRENTALS.COM  & alarm system incl.  usually up to something.  
WANTED  Mishawaka  mmmrentals@aol.com 272·1525  Nice yard for volleyball etc· full bsmt.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone.  Did you say "Yeah, sure" or "Yes  
DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HAS A 8  Walk to Corbys&StJoe Church.  If you or someone you love needs  sir." I think he said "Yeah, sure."  
Wanted· Old paintings, especially  FoR SALE  BEDROOM HOUSE. ..2 BEDROOM HOUSE ... 2 BEDROOM  Call Joe Crimmins @574-514-0643(cell)  confidential support or assistance, please call  What'd you say man?" Well, what I literally said was "Yeah, sure, sir."  
Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­ DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED- or 574-273-0002(home)  Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC,  So you are OK then? Yes sir."  
9359  ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR  at 1·7819.  
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR  THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL  1 006 White Oak Dr. Rental:  For more information,  Brett and Dan are going to hell  
HIRING AT BOOKMAKERS PUB,  LEASE 2004·2005 Academic year­ YEAR. ...  3 BRi1B,  see our bi-weekly ad in  
SERVERS AND BARTENDERS.  Available June 1, 2 Bdrm ­ WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO  1 mile NO,  THE OBSERVER.  You promised no LeVar Burton  
EXP. GOOD BUT WILL TRAIN.  2 Bath -Fully Furnished -Security  LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006  great area. incl Stove,  jokes  
APPLY IN PERSON 2046 SOUTH  System.  SCHOOL YEAR ... CONTACT  refrig,  Happy Birthday Neal!  
BEND AVE. SHELLY, MISSY, OR  (626) 441-1275 or  KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR  washer/dryer  I wish I could celebrate with you!  Cavanaugh is the BEST dorm on  
PAT.•  satvaty@earthlink.net  CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS  $850/mo. 273-1717  Have fun!  campus!  

···-·..•..•.•..·-·... •..·-·.·..• •.• .............._............. •.•..•..·-·-· •••...•-... -.--...~~...-.-..~.-.-..... 4~4.:•:4:..t:.l:4.:"."'.•-• ..•...:•:·~·:• ...j ........ -~~·--·~· ·-~~·-· .. _._._,_ ......... •.•.. •.•.•-·-· 4' .... 4.. 
Wednesday, February 25, 2004 page 17
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

-
------~---­
-~~~ -~--~--­
Wednesday, February 25, 2004 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Pro Bowl linebacker 
signs with Broncos 
' 
Al Wilson agrees to multi-year $42 million contract 
Associated Press 
DENVER-Three-time Pro Bowl linebacker Al Wilson agreed Tuesday to a seven­year, $42 million contract with the Denver Broncos. 
The deal also includes a signing bonus in excess of $10 million. 
By agreeing to terms, Wilson avoided the Broncos' franchise designation, which would have paid him $5.834 million on a one-year con­tract, based on the averages of the top-1 0 salaries at his position last season. 
The agreement also could clear the way for the Broncos to continue negotiations with the Washington Redskins on a proposed trade of running back Clinton Portis to the Redskins for cornerback Champ Bailey. Because of salary cap concerns, Denver had hoped to finalize Wilson's contract before dealing with the Redskins. 
Wilson earned $1.095 mil­lion last season in the final year of his original 1999 rookie contract. A first-round draft choice out of Tennessee, he has led Denver in tackles for the last two seasons. He had 128 tackles (99 solo) in 2003, and a career-high 199 tackles (158 solo) in 2002. 
''AI is happy with this deal," Wilson's agent, Norm Nixon, said. "He has played with these guys for five years, has a great relationship with his coaches and knows the sys­tem. There's something about having a comfort level." 
"Everybody wanted to avoid the franchise tag. AI played for five years unjer his original contract and never complained. This was his time to be rewarded." 
Last season Wilson was voted defensive captain by his teammates and played in his third straight Pro Bowl. 
Broncos general manager Ted Sundquist said the sides were "very, very, very close" to an agreement before the Pro Bowl on Feb. 8. Wilson rejected that offer, however. 
When talks reached a stale­mate, it appeared likely the Broncos would apply the franchise tag to Wilson. 
Nixon called Sundquist on Friday to try to re-open the lines of communication in hopes of resurrecting a long­term deal. 
Bucs consider Johnson trade 
Associated Press 
TAMPA. Fla. -Keyshawn Johnson could be headed for the Dallas Cowboys and a reunion with coach Bill Parcells. 
The Tampa Bay receiver said Tuesday that his agent has been granted permission by the Bucs to talk to the Cowboys about a possible trade that more than likely would bring receiver Joey Galloway to Tampa Bay. 
Jobnson, who played three seasons under Parcells with the New York Jets. declined to elab­orate. The Bucs had little to say, either. 
"We won't comment on rumor and speculation," club spokes­man Jeff Kamis said. 
Johnson, who has four seasons remaining on an eight-year, $56 million contract he signed in 2000, was deactivated for the last six games of 2003 because of differences with Tampa Bay coach Jon Gruden. 
Bucs general manager Bruce Allen informed Johnson's agent, Jerome Stanley, at the Pro Bowl that he would seek to trade the three-time Pro Bowl selection rather than release him -a move that would not help Tampa Bay's tight salary-cap sit­uation. 
Johnson, who earned $5.1 mil­lion last season, is due a $1 mil­
lion roster bonus on April 1, 
meaning any trade involving the wide receiver likely would be completed before then. 
-. ·. 
······•·· ····· 


Like Johnson, Galloway is a highly paid receiver who cost his team a great deal to obtain four years ago. 
Dallas sent two first-round draft picks to the Seattle Seahawks in exchange for Galloway, who has three years left on a seven-year, $42 million contract that he may have to restructure before a deal can be made. 
Johnson played three seasons in New York under Parcells, who traded the receiver to the Bucs for a pair of first-rounds picks in the 2000 draft. He has main­tained a close relationship with the coach, and Dallas is one of five teams he has said he would­n't mind playing for next season. 
Galloway has been a disap­pointment in four seasons with the Cowboys, but would give Tampa Bay the speed receiver the Bucs have lacked for years. He had 34 catches for 672 yards and two touchdowns last season. 
W.~ 0 N e:: s CA.y. F E: El R WA"F::lY. 2..~1 H 
a: c>o,··PM·. P-R._.,.,J:.'WV NI<aH'T'-~~ fir'-oRT·U-. 

---····· ······· LJ N I"'VE RS lTV "e>F. -~,.?T R E D.A..,.,., e:: J .A.:Z::Z: EI.A..N 0 I 1 .A.N 0 C: 0,.,.., E1 0 
F"R: I D.A.Y • F' E:EI R LJA.R:Y :27TH E'Ve: N X-G1 C:: Clo-c=.e: _,.-B L. 0<=-1<-W ..a..s: H XN GI"T'Cio N H A. L. L. 6:4~ F'IV1 I'V'IIC::HIG.A..N ST.A..TE LJNI"'VERSITV J.A..ZZ. EI.A..NCJ I ROONEY WH ITA.KER. C>l RECTOR 7:::90 F'rv1 WESTERN rv1 I C:: HI G..A.N LJ N I"'VE RSI TY .A.F Q.LJ I NT ET T R: E NT t<:Y N.A.SIO N • C>l RECTOR 
B: 1 5 F'rv1 IV1 I C:: HI G..A.N S-r!t.-r E ClC::T ET I 
ROONEY WHII.A.KERr 01 RECTOR '9:00 F'IVI WESTERN rv1 ICH I.A..O N ...t.A.ZZ c::;.R:C::H ESIRA. 
'6C::OTI C. OW.A.N • Dl R EC::TO R '9:4!!1 FIVI Juooe::s• .... ........_....., .J E F F C:::. L...<"o..YT0 N ( S..PU<.O P H 0 N E ) .JOHN FA.DOIS (TRW....., PET) 
A. LAN F'A.SQ UA. (PI .A.N C>) DA.'VE C.A.RF'ENTER (EI.A.SS) 
F' ET E R E: RS Kl N E '( P E R:C WSS I ON) 
'6A..TU RDA.V. FE:EIRW.A.RY 28TH :z: 00 PM ..J u cG•sr C::LI...,.I<=--BA.N c B UIL.CING 
&:ve: N X-G C:: 0-C::.B ....-r' S L. OC::.II< --,.,v ----IN GI"T'O N H .a.. L L 6.: 4·5.F....., UN I"'VE RS ITY C> F N C>T RE D.A......., E ...t.A..Z.:Z: E3.A..N 0 
I L.A..RRY -~X"..ER, Dl REc:TC>R ··7.:::30 FM M.A..R::SH.A..L..L.. UN""t--.re:::R.~ITY J.A..:Z::Z: ENSE......,EIL..E 
8: 1 ~ FM IEX.A..S 
ST..A"rE-LJ NI"'VER:SITY J.A..Z:Z E3..A.N 0. 
F"RECJCJI EM ENDOZ.;;.,_~ .OIRECTC>R 'B:C>C) F·;..,.,·· ·,·N "Dt.A.N~... U N I "'VE RS ITY JC> E·~ ·K.E L..SEY C-0 1\d.aQ.. 
'9:45 Frv1 IEX.A.S ~.A..T··e: ·LJ~t"V"ERSITV S.A..L:S.A.. DEL. ""'10 JOHN LOP E:Z:, C> I R EC::T.OF<: 
··•...... ­


BR<>U<;:t-t:T T<> "V<>"U :EJV" SUEI 
vvvvvv.nd.edu/~sub/cjf/ 
Wednesday, February 25, 2004 page 19
The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 
Critical hearing date set in Bryant's case 
Attorneys get chance to present case for using sexual history 
Associated Press 
DENVER ·-Kobe Bryant's attorneys will get a chance next week to tell a judge why they should be able to use the accuser's sexual history against her at the basketball star's sexual assault trial. 
State Judge Terry Ruckriegle said Tuesday that attorneys should be prepared during the two-day hearing that begins Monday to discuss whether the information is relevant to the case. 
The defense has argued the 19-year-old woman had sex with two other men in the days before her June 30 encounter with Bryant at the hotel near Vail where she 
worked. They say those men may have caused injuries found by a nurse who exam­ined the woman the next day. 
Under Colorado's rape-shield law, Bryant's attorneys would be able to present evidence about the alleged victim's sex­ual past only if the judge determines it is relevant. 
Bryant, 25, faces four years to life in prison or 20 years to life on probation if convicted of felony sexual assault. The Los Angeles Lakers star has said the woman consented to have sex with him. 
The judge said he has reviewed information submit­ted by Bryant's attorneys and believes it is enough to justify a hearing. To determine whether the information is relevant, he said, he will need to hear specific evidence about the woman's sexual activity. 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Chambers banned for life 
Association rules, he is barred of a career," said Nick Davies,
Sprinter excluded 
from ever competing in the spokesman for the from all future Olympics. International 
"It's an Association ofAthleticsOlympic games exception­"It's an Federations. ally sad exceptionally sad The 25-year-old 
Associated Press day for 
sprinter has main­
day for Dwain and 

LONDON -British sprinter D wain tained he never know­
and an an exceptionally
Dwain Chambers was suspend­ingly took a banned ed Tuesday for two years and exception­painful day for the substance and blamed banned for life from the a I l y his positive THG test
sport."

Olympics, the first athlete pun­painful on nutritional supple­ished for testing positive for the day for 
ments. designer steroidTHG. the sport," David Moorcroft The four other track 
THG, which was unde­U K UK Athletics chief 
and field competitorstectable until last year, is at the Athletics executive center of the scandal surround­c h i e f ing a San Francisco-area lab executive accused of supplying dozens of David Moorcroft said. "But it is professional athletes with absolutely a price worth pay­banned substances. Chambers' ing." coach, Barry Bonds' personal Chambers, who finished trainer and two others were fourth in the 100 at the 2000 indicted this month. Sydney Games, had been con­

Chambers, the European sidered a potential gold medal· 100-meter champion, tested contender at the Athens positive in an out-of-competi­Olympics in August. His sus­
tion drug test in August. UK pension will end Nov. 7, 2005. Athletics suspended him, and "I think two years is pretty und(>r British Olympic emphatic. It's basically the end 

Want to convince high school students to apply? Share your experience with Undergraduate Admlssionsl From service to academics, community life to athletics, you choose the topicI 
Submit a 500 word article and relevant digital photos to eflynn1@nd.edu. Writers of selected articles will be paid and given the opportunHy to continue writing for 
e-Jrish 
the Office of Undergraduate Admissions' online newsteffer. Deadline for submissions is March 1 9, 2004. hftp:Uwww .admissions. nd.edu/eirishl_ 
who tested positive for 
THG, or tetrahydro­
gestrinone, were 

Americans: shot putter Kevin 
Toth, 1,500-meter runner 
Regina Jacobs and hammer 
throwers Melissa Price and 
John McEwen. Their hearings 
haven't been held yet. 
Chambers' California-based 
coach, Remi Korchemny, was 
one of four men indicted Feb. 
12 on federal charges of sup­
plying THG and other banned 
drugs to dozens of athletes. 
The UK Athletics panel con­
cluded that THG was "chemi­
cally and pharmacologically 
related" to the banned steroid 
gestrinone. It also said it had 
no evidence to prove Chambers 
intentionally took the banned 
drug. 

"This is a test case for THG 
generally, and we were at the 
forefront of a worldwide issue," 
Moorcroft said. ''I'm relieved 
the verdict has been reached. I 
believe it is the right verdict." 
Under international rules of 
strict liability, athletes are 
responsible for any banned 
substances found in their bod­
ies regardless of the circum­
stances. 
Chambers' lawyer, Graham 
Shear, said the sprinter contin­
ued to assert he never know­
ingly took a performance­
enhancing substance. He said 
an appeal was being consid­
ered. 

"Dwain has been given the 
minimum ban available in the 
circumstances and he contin­
ues to assert his innocence," 
Shear said in a statement. 
Shear said the tribunal noted 
there was "no clinical evi­
dence" of a performance­
enhancing effect of THG in the 
human body. 
Chambers has 60 days to appeal to the international Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne, Switzerland. 
The ban was widely applaud­ed by international sports and doping bodies. 
International Olympic Com­mittee spokeswoman Giselle Davies said the ban "serves as a warning to athletes that the world of sport takes the fight against doping very seriously." 
Dick Pound, head of the World Anti-Doping Agency, said the case shows that "those who cheat will be caught and will face the consequences." 
U.S. Anti-Doping Agency chief executive Terry Madden said he looked forward to THG hearings in the American cases. 
Chambers. who has a best 100 time of 9.87 seconds, is considering a switch to American football as a wide receiver. He recently had a pri­vate tryout in London and was . scheduled to fly to Miami this week for an NFL Europe train­ing camp. 
~----------------------------------------------------------· 

IT­
\\ 
\)
\, 
~ i 
Wednesday, February 25, 2004 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
•..\ NFL 
Tennessee defensive end not franchised 
Titans allow Pro Bowler Kearse to test the free market 
Associated Press 

NASHVILLE, Tenn. -The Tennessee Titans decided their best chance to keep Pro Bowl defensive end Jevon Kearse is by letting him test the free agent market and refused to tag him as their franchise player. 
"It's almost going to serve as an arbitrator if you will," gener­al manager Floyd Reese said Tuesday. "Let the market decide what's out there, then go from there. 
''I'm not sure 'Tm not sure what and I will work very what the mar­the market holds. diligently to make a ket holds, I'm quick resoluti.on
I'm really not ... 
really not. I here once J evon know there's a gets into free number of Floyd Reese agency, so the defensive ends Titans Titans are still very that have been much in the pic­
general manager 
franchised, and that will only escalate his value. Now, where does that put him? ... We'll let the market seek its own level." 
Reese has been talking for months with agent Drew Rosenhaus about a long-term contract for Kearse, who led the Titans in sacks four of his five seasons. But Reese said the two sides were never really close to an agreement. 
"They weren't budging much, and we had what we felt was a very strong deal and didn't feel we had to budge much, so that's kind of where we got stuck. It just wouldn't change," Reese said. 
Both sides agreed that using the franchise tag would be unproductive. Reese said that would have been a disruptive force for a team working to reach the Super Bowl, and they want to keep negotiations mov­ing. 
"The fact they've not fran­chised Jevon is a good move for both sides in terms of eventually 
Seafood Celebration 
Featuring the new Seafood Trio 
Seafood Trio* -
Uno, Due, Tre! 

Crab Cake Ravioli, Sauteed Tilapia and Scampi Aglio ... all for just $12.95 
• Umited time only 

Accepted • 
Unmistakably Italian ·:tt. Unbe.lievably Good 
getting a long-term deal done," Rosenhaus said. 
Now Kearse probably will test the free agent market starting March 3 to gauge the price for a player who had 36 sacks and was a Pro Bowler in his first three seasons. 
But the defensive end had just 11 1/2 sacks in the past two injury-plagued seasons. He missed 12 games with a broken bone in his left foot in 2002, sprained the same foot in 2003 and missed nearly three games. 
Rosenhaus anticipates several teams looking at Kearse, but he said there's mutual interest in keeping the defensive end in 
Tennessee. 

"I'll certainly keep 
them in the loop, 
ture," Rosenhaus 
said. 

The Titans know it takes only one team with plen­ty of salary cap space to offer Kearse a contract they can't match. With Kearse's injury his­tory, Reese said they felt it was a risk they couldn't run for a team with no space under the cap. 
"Somebody can come in and throw down a deal we can't or won't match? Absolutely. That's why they call it free agency," Reese said. 
The franchise tag would have guaranteed Kearse a one-year salary of $6.5 million but creat­ed more problems than it solved for the Titans, including forcing the team to cut another $4.5 million under the cap. 
Reese said they could have handled the cap figure but didn't want the distraction that would have followed by ·angering Kearse. Now the veteran can erase any questions about his value. 
Kearse finished 2003 with 67 tackles, third among defensive linemen. 
NHL 

Coyotes' Francis fired 
Associated Press 

GLENDALE, Ariz. -Bob Francis was the only coach in Phoenix Coyotes' history to hold the job for four full sea­sons. He won't get a chance for a fifth. 
The Coyotes fired Francis on Tuesday; and replaced him with assistant Rick Bowness ­a former head coach with four NHL teams, including the Coyotes when they were the Winnipeg Jets. 
"Bob is a good coach and we wish him all the best in the future," general manager Michael Barnett said. "It's really a combination of our record the last three years." 
The Coyotes have won two of their last 14 (2-9-2-1)-a skid that has them in jeopardy of missing the playoffs for a sec­ond straight year. They are last in the Pacific Division and 13th in the Western Conference with 58 points and a record of 20-24-15-3. 
"We hope Rick Bowness goes on to lead us to the playoffs," Coyotes managing partner Wayne Gretzky said. "We hope Rick Bowness is going to be here for a while." 
Francis wasn't the only coach to find himself out of a job Tuesday. The St. Louis Blues fired Joel Quenneville and replaced him with assis­tant Mike Kitchen. 
Bowness, a fifth-year assis­tant with Phoenix, is taking over a team during a season for the third time. 
He replaced Dan Maloney for the Jets' final 28 games of the 1988-89 season, and 

-·-:-­
....~·-····:----····-~ 
. . . . I . 
i 
. I 
i 
Announcing the Year I 
2004 Annual Awards of I 
the Albert Ravarino 
Italian Studies Travel 
Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous giftfrotl1 the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program 
is pleased to announce the year 2004 annual competition: for travel in support ofsummer 
research and foreign studyinitaly. Grantswill be :made in amounts not to exceed 
$3,000. and will not nonnallycover<a.ll expenses~ Notre Dame graduate and 
undergraduate students·who are planning to pursue research ora fon:tlal program of 
summer study inltalyare invited to apply, ...·Students mUsthave completed at least one 
year ofItalian language. Thecou:rse work Will noniully be inltalian; will involve the 
study ofItalian language. literatUre. and culture; and must be applicable to a student's 
degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston Uriivel-sity ju Padua. UCLA in Pisa. Miami University in Urbino, Columbia Vniversityin Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to I consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages. 
i
343 o•shaughnessy Hall. . 
····.:·...·.:.. ·· 
Students are invited to subniita letter which should include: ..... 
!
1) an explanation ofh<:>w the proposed research or foreign studywilferihance their 
I 
degree program at Notre Dame . · I' 2) a personal statement indicating their background. intere.sts, and long-tenn goals ! 3) a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow j 4) a budget indicating the costs i,nvolved · 
S) the names oftwo references.· · 
Application Deadline: Thursday. March 411\2004 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in ·Italian Studies 343 OtSbaugbnessy Han University of Notre Dame 
in victories and games coached -in just under "[Francis] is a good
five seasons. He 

coach and we wish
got a four-year 

contract exten­him all the best in sion two years the future. " ago, and is 
owed about 

Michael Barnett
$1.7 million for the remainder Coyotes' of the contract. general manager 
He won the NHL's coach of 

didn't do our job." 
Francis, 44, may have been hurt by not being part of managing part­ner Wayne Gretzky's inner circle. He was hired by former general manag­er Bobby Smith on June 16, stepped in for Mike Milbury with the New York Islanders on Jan. 24, 1997, beginning a stint that lasted until he was fired on March 11, 1998. 
Bowness also led the Boston Bruins to a 36-32-12 regular­season record and an 8-7 playoff record in 1991-92 ­his best season. His overall coaching record is 120-277­4.5, including the first three full seasons with the expan­sion Ottawa Senators (1992­95). 
Francis had a record of 165­144-60-21 -franchise bests 
playoff hopes faded during their current skid. 
But goaltender Brian Boucher said the players were still listening to Francis. 
"I felt Bobby did a good job," Boucher said. "He treated us all very well. I don't know why anybody would shut him off. I mean, it's not like he came in here and ranted and raved every two minutes. He gave us distance. He let us sort things out as professionals." 
"It's disappointing," captain Shane Doan said. "The way the team has been playing, we 
the year award in 2002 after leading a team projected to finish last in the West by some to a 40-27-9-6 record, 95 points and a playoff berth. 
But Francis, who also coached the Coyotes into the playoffs in 2000, never got them past the first round, where the Jets-Coyotes have stalled 10 times since 1987, and last season's 31-35-11-5 record was the franchise's worst since the final season in Winnipeg. 
Speculation that the players were tuning out their coach sprang up again as the team's 1999, and was in place before Gretzky arrived. 
After Gretzky and his part­ners acquired the team in Feb. 2001, he hired friends and for­mer associates or teammates, including Barnett; assistant coach Pat Conacher; special­teams consultant Paul Coffey, and Marty McSorley, coach of the Coyotes' top minor league affiliate in Springfield, Mass. 
But Francis clung to the job by coaxing 90 points out of the team in each of his first two seasons, making the playoffs in 2000 and missing on a tiebreaker in 2001. 

Wednesday, February 25, 2004 page 21 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
MLB 
• 

Sosa shifts focus to World Series, not steriods 
Associated Press 
MESA, Ariz. -Sammy Sosa brushed aside questions about steroid use in baseball, saying he doesn't know what other players are doing and can't control anyone but himself. 
His only concern is getting the Chicago Cubs to the World Series. 
"I really don't want to make a comment about that because we've got a beautiful team here," he said 
a comment because I don't have anything to talk about." 
Baseball has been under a cloud of suspicion for steroid use for years as players got bigger and offensive numbers skyrocketed, and doubts grew during the offseason. Anonymous survey testing last season showed 5-7 percent of the tests were positive, and a California supplements lab was accused of illegally dis­tributing steroids to dozens of athletes. 
Barry Bonds' personal train­er, Greg Anderson, was among four men charged this month in an alleged steroid-distribu­tion ring. All the men have pleaded innocent and no ath­letes have been charged. 
Bonds and Jason Giambi appeared in December before the grand jury investigating the case. The two repeatedly have denied using drugs and did so again on Monday when they reported to spring train­ing, but that hasn't stopped the questions. 
Players' physiques are scru­

when asked "We've got something about steroids 
else in mind. to come
following his 
first spring here and play baseball. I 
training work­don't want to make a out Tuesday. 
comment because I don't 
"We've got 
something have anything to talk else i.n mind, about., to come here and play base­
Sammy Sosa 
ball. I don't 
Cubs rlghflelder
want to make 
tinized, and any weight loss or gain raises eye­brows. Cubs manager Dusty Baker likened the suspicions to McCarthyism, and said all players are being tainted. Asked if he understood why the questions remain, par­

ticularly for Bonds, Sosa dis­tanced himself. 
"That's something that Barry Bonds has to deal with himself. I don't want to even think about it," said Sosa, who does­n't look any different than he has in recent years. "I don't really know and I don't want to know. I know myself, I know who I am and that's it." 
The Cubs came within five outs of the World Series last year, and Sosa said it was one of the most "unbelievable" experiences of his career. It was only his second trip to the playoffs, and it left him want­ing more. 
Bonds can chase Hank Aaron's career home run record, Sosa said. He wants a ring. 
"My goal right now is to win the World Series," he said. "We've got an awesome team. I think what we didn't finish last year. we're going to finish this year." 
The Cubs made several improvements to last year's squad, which won the NL Central. They acquired Gold Glove first baseman Derrek Lee and bolstered their bench by signing Todd Walker and Todd Hollandsworth. 
They took what was already one of the best rotations in the NL and added Greg Maddux to the foursome of Kerry Wood, Mark Prior, Matt Clement and Carlos Zambrano. And they plugged the holes in their bullpen, signing LaTroy Hawkins and Kent Mercker. 
"I feel that we have a better team this year than we had last year, and we played great last year," Sosa said. "We have a chance not only to go to the playoffs but to win the World Series." 
Baker and the rest of the Cubs have gone out of their way in recent days to say this is still Sosa's team. This is his 13th season in Chicago, a tenure that dwarfs anyone else's. And with 539 career homers, he's one of the great­est hitters ever. 
But after so many years of being the only show in town when the Cubs were losing, Sosa is happy to share his spotlight. For a second straight year he joined the rest of the position players for the team's first full-squad workout rather was because everybody was than coming in a few days together. There wasn't finger­later and causing a scene. pointing from anybody. Dusty 

"This is not about my team. Baker was doing an unbeliev­No way. This is about win­able job. We were together like ning," Sosa said. "One of the a family and we want to keep reasons why we won last year it this way. " 
our Shortcut 
toSpringBreak 
Gary Chicago Airport to St. Petersburg/Tampa 
• $69 seas II'& hmted F~oo~ts a-o f\.Cltc (;t'Qiters (PC.jl:!-201) CNI\e< ope<lirt/arCQ'T1W IS Solhea>t Alrlres Pnce doeSJ1 rdude ~ to$10 00 ~faally c!Bges. 9-11 ~ "'"' cA $2 50 a1d a$310 -aloiDsa Ia< per~ A"'gn<>rt tl:lf&St.s ofore tal< eoI an:l 
a19191<lrg Fil'es il'&rm<~leDlt rMfboOlll:lllrged f<J Q $2500 fllo Fae~s s:.qooto clm;je. oo <iher a!COJis ~ www gay!hcagoorport cern 
tttch * Michael Stars * 
Juicy Couture * Rock 
Johnson * AI1na Sui * 
ple * Herve-Chapeli_.._,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, .t * Seven Jeans * Fren 
312 \V. Cleveland Ave. Granger, IN 46530 (574) 277-6693 
528 E. Colfax Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (574) 232-] 822 

---~~-~~ 
Wednesday, February 25, 2004
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
BIG EAST MEN'S BASKETBALL 
~, 
Panthers overcome first half turnovers to beat Hoyas 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -From dou­ble-dribbling to bad passes, Pittsburgh found plenty of ways to turn over the ball in the first half. 
In the second half, they found 19 ways to win-as in a 19-0 run that rallied the third­ranked Panthers to Tuesday night's 68-58 victory over Georgetown. 
"I think sometimes with our record, everybody expects the perfect game," said coach Jamie Dixon, whose team over­came 23 turnovers and a 10­point second-half deficit. "The good teams are the ones that respond and adjust to things throughout the game." 
Carl Krauser scored 19 of his career-high 26 points in the second half, including the first 
·...._. nine in the decisive run as Pittsburgh (25-2, 11-2 Big East) got its Division !-leading 25th win. 
t The Panthers trailed 39-31
\ 
with 12:50 to play and seemed to have no solution for Georgetown's mix of man and zone, but the Krauser-led run gave Pittsburgh its first lead. Even Krauser's airball from the baseline was tipped in by Chevon Troutman to put the Panthers ahead. 
"I just felt we were down, and I needed to get some points," said Krauser, who also had nine rebounds and nine turnovers. "I was just trying to go out there and make plays. We were just trying to change the momen­tum." 
Gerald Riley scored 25 points to lead Georgetown (13-11, 4­9), which lost its fifth straight and stayed on pace to hold the last seed in the Big East tourna­ment. The Hoyas, who have struggled from the field in recent games, lost their lead with a 7:48 scoring drought. 
The Hoyas were outrebound­ed 40-20 for the game and did­n't get a single point from their bench. Twenty of their 23 fouls were committed in the second half. 
'I "I thought we got tired," 
!I :,: coach Craig Esherick said. "And 
/1 
When we got tired, I thought
I 
our shot selection starting get­ting tired. And I thought because we got tired, we stopped rebounding the way we had in the first part of the game. I thought we played well. I think defensively we caused them a lot of problems. 
''I'm not saying it's a moral victory, but I can't say we played poorly. We played well." 
No. 8 Connecticut 71, St. John's 53 
NEW YORK -Connecticut did what the nation's No. 8 team should do against an undermanned opponent. St. John's still gave its home crowd something to cheer about. 
Emeka Okafor had a double­double in the first half and Rashad Anderson scored 11 points during a big run to open the second, helping the Huskies beat St. John's at Madison Square Garden. 
"We came to do a job and we did the job," Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said. "We were supposed to dominate and we did, but it just took a little time." 
Okafor, who finished with 22 points and 18 rebounds, had 11 of each at halftime for his 18th double-double of the season and the 47th of his career. 
"Overall I think we did a decent job," Okafor said. 
The Huskies (22-5, 10-3 Big East) closed the first half with a 19-6 run to take a 33-16 lead. 
The Red Storm (6-18, 1-12) were just 3-for-32 from the field in the half (9.4 percent). 
"I don't know if I've ever been involved in a game where a team was held to nine percent in a half, and we held them," Calhoun said. 
Anderson also credited the Huskies' defense. 
"That was definitely our defense and us being a better team," he said. 
Despite a second-half run that got the building energized, the Red Storm still set a school record for losses in a season. 
"I have never been involved in a game where we shot nine percent and were still some­what in the game," St. John's coach Kevin Clark said. "But I am very proud of the effort of my guys." 
Anderson scored 11 points, including three 3-pointers, as 

Aaav&IUVU uv~u~v--·~u JS Interested in Business... 
MaKe Yoursell Stand Out! 
)> 
I/' ~ Here's an opportmrity for you to learn about tlte /,· 
li aceonnting !!!ystem l\'illle gaining valuable experience /(
il Student Union Treasurer. 
)i
il 
li il As an Assistant Treasurer you \\ill: 
~ ~ 
University,s as Assistant : 

.> ) • Become an integral part of the Student U1Iion Treasurer's Office, the 
i 

primary controlling body of student activities ftmds. 
I i 
1/ (( • Be responsible for managing, consulting, and maintaining various !{ i! sntdent orgrurization aceotmts. 
) ; 
...., 
• Sit on the Financial Management Board, which is responsible for allor.ating over $700,000 in student activity fees runon~ var1ous orgrurizatiom as well as controlling "The Shirt!' Charity Fwtd. 
Tltis commitment requires approximately 5-6 hours per week and is a pos!iible two-year commitment, as one 3)sistant shall take over the role of Student Union Treasurer the follo"ing year. 
A pplicatious are now available outside the Treasurer's Office (314C LaFortw1e Student Center) and are due no later than 5pm on Wednesday, March 3n1. IntervieM>-s "ill be held Wednesday, .March l7th.(Piease sign up for an inteniew upon submitting your application) 
4 

Que5tion&? Contact Q.auf! Fadel at cfadel@nd.edu or Office of the Treasurer at631.4557 
the Huskies opened the second half with 17-4 run to go up 50­20 with 14:53 to play. "I got into a rhythm and they found me," said Anderson, who finished with 17 points. "I was rushing my shot early against their zone. I'm not used to being that wide open." 
Daryll Hill scored 21 points for St. John's, which had five scholarship players and nine total available for the game. Five players were punished for breaking curfew to visit a Pittsburgh-area strip club. 
Still, the Red Storm had a run left in them that kept the game from being a major blowout. 
Hill scored nine points in a 17-2 spurt that pulled St. John's to 52-37 with 11:39 left. The Red Storm were wearing throwback jerseys like those worn by the 1985 team that went to the Final Four with stars Chris Mullin, Walter Berry and Mark Jackson. 
"In the second half we decid­ed we were going to attack," Clark said. 
But Ben Gordon, with two 3s, and Okafor scored all the UConn points in a 10-2 run that restored the margin to 62-39 with 8:12 to go. St. John's got within 15 points one more time, but the Huskies warded off any­thing more to win for the sev­enth time in nine games. 
"When we got up by 30 we played the scoreboard and that happens. It's a long season," Calhoun said. "I think we did a good job in the first half. We didn't want to bury St. John's, that was not the idea. The idea was to maintain the lead." 
Gordon scored 13 points and Taliek Brown had 12 assists for the Huskies, who reached 10 Big East wins for the 14th time in Calhoun's 18 seasons. 
Kyle Cuffe had 16 points and 13 rebounds for the Red Storm, who shot 30 percent (21-for­70). St. John's has lost four of five since the trouble in Pittsburgh and is 4-14 since Clark took over on an interim basis for the fired Mike Jarvis in December. 
Seton Hall 76, Miami 66 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. Andre Barrett scored 23 points to help Seton Hall beat Miami, handing the Hurricanes their 1Oth consecutive loss. 
Kelly Whitney added 20 points, seven rebounds and three blocked shots for the Pirates. The Hurricanes could­n't find an answer for the inside-outside combination of Whitney (center) and Barrett (guard). 
Seton Hall (18-7, 8-5 in Big East) trailed 11-5 early, but used a 14-5 run to take the lead for good on Barrett's 3-pointer midway through the first half. 
Barrett hit his first eight shots, including three 3-point­ers, and Whitney scored 18 points on dunks and lay-ups. 
Miami (13-15, 3-11) pulled to within 66-61 on a pair of Darius Rice free throws with 3:20 to play. 
But Rice missed a long 3­pointer about a minute later. Barrett then sank two free throws to make it 68-61 with 
1:13 remaining. 
Rice, who missed the previous two games with a sprained right foot, led the Hurricanes with 19 points. 
The Hurricanes have two games remaining and might need to win both to make the Big East Tournament, which begins March 10. 

y 
OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Wednesday, February 25, 2004 CoMPrLED FROM. THE ()ssERVEKs vviRE SERVJCES Page 23 


NHL 


.... 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS -In danger of missing the playoffs for the firsr time in 25 years, the St. Louis Blues on Tuesday fired coach Joel Quenneville. 
The Blues have not missed the postseason since 1979 and are one point behind the Calgary Flames in the race for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Western Conference. But they are just two points behind Nashville for sixth place. 
St. Louis' current run of postseason appearances is the longest in professional sports. It also is second­longest streak in NHL his­tory behind the Boston Bruins, who made the playoffs in 29 straight sea­sons from 1968-96. 
Quenneville had served as Blues coach since January 1997 and guided them to five seasons of 90­plus points. He seemed on his way to a sixth straigh playoff trip when St. Louis stormed to a 20 win sin its first 30 games. 
"We need to recharge and redirect our team," St. Louis general manager Larr.y Pleau said. "Our cur­rent roster is the same team that went 20-6-3-1 through our first 30 games. Our expectations for this team remain high." 

The Blues are 9-14-4-1 over the last two months, including a 3-2 overtime loss at last-place Chicago on Sunday. They are in third place in the Central Division with a 29-23-7-2 record. 
Assistant Mike Kitchen was given a multi-year contract to replace Quenneville. 
"Mike Kitchen has the familiarity with our cur­rent roster and our prospects that we believe will make a difference and ease in the transition as we push forward toward the playoffs," Pleau said. 
"He's a solid hockey coach, one who has the respect of everyone in our locker room, organization, and around the NHL. The Blues are his team." 
Quenneville, 45, leaves the Blues as the fran­chise's all-time leader in wins (307) and games coached (593). He was the second-longest tenured coach in the NHL behind Jacques Martin of Ottawa. 
In 1999-2000, Quenneville captured Coach of the Year honors, guiding the Blues to a franchise-record 114 points. But they were upset in the conference quarterfinals by San Jose. 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

N.C. State at Georgia Tech, 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Milwaukee at Bo~6~n, 7 p.m., FSN Detroit at Chicago, 8:30p.m., FSN Cleveland at Houston, 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL Chicago at Columbus, 7p.m., FSN Los Angeles at Dallas, 9 p.m., ESPN2 
IN BRIEF 

Cuban to host reality show 
on ABC . 

DALLAS -Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban will give away $1 mil­lion of his own money this summer as host of a reality TV show called "The Benefactor." 
About 30 contestants will compete on the six-episode series for the bil­lionaire's cash on ABC-TV. 
"Everyone has dreamed of getting rich, and I want to help one lucky person get there," Cuban said Tuesday. 
He said the show won't be a tradi­tional contest. 
"You don't need special talents," he said. ''I'm not looking to find out who is the grossest, funniest. prettiest, smartest or able to go without food or water the longest. 
"The right person is going to get on my good side at the right time, and whoever that is, is going to walk away with a check from me for $1 million." 
Cuban has grown accustomed to giving away his money in recent years: He's been fined repeatedly by the NBA since buying the Mavericks in January 2000, mostly for criticiz­ing refere~s. The penalties totaled more than $1 million. 
Nolan R_yf!.D re-joins Astros 
as an advisor 
HOUSTON-Fifteen years after he left, Nolan Ryan returned to the Houston Astros on Tuesday. 
The Hall of Farner, who holds the record for no-hitters (seven) and strikeouts (5,714}, signed a five-year personal services contract. 
He pitched for Houston from 1980­88, then spent his last five seasons with the Texas Rangers. His 10-year personal services contract with the Rangers ended earlier this month. 
"In my mind, I hoped to be involved with the organization after my playing days were over," he said. "It's kind of special to be standing here today. I just had kind of a 15­year detour there that I hadn't antic­ipated." 
Astros owner Drayton McLane said Ryan will work in all phases of the organization, including on-field instruction. 
Canseco gets another shot 
VERO BEACH, Fla.-Jose Canseco plans to try out for the Los Angeles Dodgers, 2 1/2 years after his last appearance in the major leagues. 
The six-time All-Star will attend the Los Angeles Dodgers' open tryout on March 1. 
"Canseco's people called us," Matt Slater, the Dodgers' director of pro­fessional scouting, said Tuesday. "He's welcome to come." 
Canseco last played in the majors in 2001, when he hit .258 with 16 homers for the Chicago White Sox. ­
He and Mark McGwire teamed in Oakland as the "Bash Brothers," leading the team to three straight World Series appearances from 1988-90. including the 1989 title. Canseco won the 1988 AL MVP award and has 462 homers, 26th on the career list. 
-----·~---~~~---~~----------­
\ 
\ 
\ 
~ page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS
' 
' 
Loss 
continued from page 28 
guides,. Providence's needle had popped Notre Dame's bubble. In what was arguably their biggest game of the season, Notre Dame suffered their worst home loss in Irislr coach Mike Brey's four years at the helm of the Irish. 
And now, Notre Dame's road to the NCAA Tournament runs through Madison Square Garden. where the Irish have won exactly two games in the Big East Tournament in the eight years they've been a conference mem­ber. 
"It's pretty much pointless," a disappointed Jordan Cornette muttered, "to talk about how important this game was now." 
What made the Irish fade away in their most important game of the season? A team that remained resilient enough to weather a 2-6 stretch in January and early February and knock off three teams ranked in the RPI top 30 uncharacteristkally fell apart in a game where a victory might have punched their dance card. 
Of course, credit is due to Providence's ferocious, aggres­sive zone defense that forced Chris Thomas and Chris Quinn to hoist 3-points from five feet behind the arc. And the lack of an inside scoring presence and Notre Dame's inability to drive meant that if the Irish missed a shot, they missed their chance. Depth problems caused by the loss of Torin Francis combined with a whistle-happy officiating crew fostered over to the point that, when Jones became the third Irish player to foul out, anexasperated Brey barked at the official, "I got nobody left!" 

While Brey had praised his team's ability to keep their com­posure all season long, even he wondered if the intense pressure placed on his team before Tuesday's game contributed to Notre Dame's fiSh-out-of-water performance. 
To understand the Irish mood after the game, one only had to approach the normally jovial Cornette. Instead of firing off witty one-liners and clever analy­sis of Notre Dame's play, the jun­ior forward could only stammer out bland, one-sentence respons­es in a barely intelligible voice. 
"We had big hopes coming into this game," Jones said, summing up the collective attitude running through the Irish locker room. "It's tough to put so much into it and fall short." 
Now, Notre Dame's players say they must stop thinking about postseason tournaments (some­thing that must be really tough to do, given that they've the Irish have said all along they aren't thinking about the NCAA Tournament). But for a team that was the basketball equivalent of dead money in early February, the fact that the Irish managed to claw their way back onto the bubble in the first place is an accomplishment in itself. "Quite frankly," Brey said, "it's amazing we even got to the bubble." 
Now, the Irish turn their atten­tion to their last three regular season games against UClA, Georgetown and St. John's before the Big East Tournament likely determines their postsea­son destiny. As Notre Dame showed with a three-game stretch in February, they have a chance to get hot if they need to. 

RACHEL BROWNffhe Observer 

Chris Thomas passes the ball Tuesday against Providence. 
But for whatever reason, the Irish didn't get hot Tuesday in a game they desperately needed to. 
"The Big East Tournament is our NCAA Tournament," Thomas said. "We're going to go at that like it's our last games of the sea­son. 
"And who knows, it very well may be." 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd. edu. 
Wednesday, February 25, 2004 
BASEBALL 

Thornton earns Big East award 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame sophomore lefthander Tom Thornton has received Big East pitch­er-of-the-week honors in recognition of his primetime performance versus 20th­ranked USC on Feb. 21. Thornton totaled four strikeouts while allowing an unearned runs on four hits and two walks in six innings in the 3-1 win over the homestanding Trojans. 
Thornton allowed 2-of-6 leadoff batters to reach base but held USC to 1-for-6 batting with runners on base. The USC lefthanded hitters combined to his just 1-for-5 versus the southpaw. Thornton located 46 of his 81 pitches for strikes, with three of his four strikeouts coming on called third strikes. 
The outing vs. USC ranks among the top opening­week performaces in the 10-year tenure of Irish head coach Paul Mainieri. Former righthander Scott Cavey is the only other Mainieri-era pitcher to not allow an earned run in six­plus innings of work during the first week of action. Others of note include soph­omore Alex Shilliday's five shutout innings vs. Florida State and three others who tossed four innings without allowing an earned run. 
Thornton becomes the 1Oth different Irish player (and first lefthander) to receive a Big East pitcher­of-the-week honor, since Notre Dame joined the Big East in the 1996 season. The Notre Dame program now has produced 24 Big East pitcher-of-the-week recipients in the last eight years, the most from any of the league's schools during that stretch (Rutgers is next with 21, followed by West Virginia's 1.6 and 10 from St. John's). 
Notre Dame's previous Big East pitcher-of-the-week recipients include 10-time honoree Aaron Heilman, from 1998-2001 (no other Big East pitcher ever has totaled more than four). Two other ND pitchers -Cavey ('97-'00) and Danny Tamayo ('98, '00-'01)-are tied for fourth on the Big East list with three career Big East pitcher-of-the­week awards while current junior Chris Niesel and recent starter/closer J.P. Gagne ('00-'03) each own two Big East weekly awards. 


Wednesday, February 25, 2004 page 25
The Observer + SPORTS 

left-handed sophomore from a hard battle to 2003 champi­the No. 2 seed, senior Paul Dolan and senior Matt Jensen. Morrissey, fought a number of on Tony Hollowell in the quar­Robinson. This will be both Dolan is fighting is his first
Bouts 
opponents from varying weight terfinals. Marks continued to boxers' first fight in the Bengal Bengal Bouts and has experi­classes during sparring ses­build his experience by spar­Bouts tournament. Robinson ence similar to that of Jensen. 
continued from page 28 
sions. Russell is a freshman ring eight times in the last trained with the club last year, Alumni freshman Brad Amiri and final bout of the 135-from Zahm. This fight will be month. Marks faces Keenan but was unable to fight in his and senior Nathan Schomas pound division. Michael both boxers' first in the Bengal freshman Will McCauliffe in first match of the tournament fight in the next 153-pound 
a

Feduska, a junior from Alumni Bouts. the fourth fight of the· 145-due to medical reasons and bout. Schomas is former who lost in last year's quarter­Alumni freshman Kevin pound division. McCauliffe will was forced to forfeit to law stu­Notre Dame football player finals to Brian Faist, is the No. Martin will have to overcome have to be aggressive to over­dent Paul Harris. This year a who joined the Boxing Club 2 seed in the weight class and the experience of senior Mark come Marks tonight. healthy Robinson brings the after his senior season with the awaits the winner of the Pfizenmeyer in order to O'Neill sophomore Todd experience of six sparring ses­team. Both are new to the Hofman-Villano match-up. advance to Monday's quarterfi­Strobel faces Zahm junior Matt sions with him into his fight Bengal Bouts, but each has a 
The remaining two boxers of nals. Pfizenmayer fought in McConnell in the next fight of tonight. full five sparring sessions of the 135-pound. class, Pedro last year's Bengal Bouts, the night. Neither boxer has 150 pounds experience, including one Alves and Tim Jaeger, both where he lost a close match in previous Bengal Bouts experi­The first fight in the 150-match against each other. The 
received first round byes and the quarterfinals to Chris ence and the fight should be pound division pairs two fresh­winner of this fight will move but will meet each other in the Hoffman.· evenly matched. man, Clayton Lougee, from on to face St. Edward's junior quarterfinals on Monday. Senior Matt Welsh fights Ed Senior Joe Schmidlin faces Keough, and Matt Cavo, from Bobby Gorynski on Monday. 
145 pounds Liva, a Dillion sophomore, in Phil McNicholas tonight. Alum·ni. Though this is both Another group of first time The 145-pound. class is the the next 145-pound division McNicholas is a sophomore fighters' first experience fight­boxers will match. up in the 
largest field of boxers in this match. While this is Welsh's . from Stanford. Schmidlin ing in the tournament, Lougee next 153-pound bout. Sorin year's tournament with 15 par­first time fighting under the fought in last year's bouts and has already laid a solid foun­sophomore Brian Garcia and ticipants. Luke Dillon, a senior lights in the Joyce Center, Liva advanced to the semifinals dation in sparring sessions, senior Don Zimmer will battle from Zahm with several years fought in last year's Bengal where he lost to last year's amassing 14 rounds of experi­for a spot against Tim Huml in of experience under his belt, Bouts, losing in the quarterfi­140-pound champion Tony ence in the last month. The Monday's quarterfinals. has received the lone bye for nals to 2003 finalist Bill Wuest. Hollowell. winner of this bout will move Zimmer has a few more 
the weight class and awaits the Senior Chip Marks gained The final match-up of the on to face senior TJ D'Agostino rounds of sparring experience winner of the James Russell priceless ring experience in 145-pound division pits Dillon on Monday night. D'Agostino, than the speedier Garcia. and Richard Cea bout. Cea, a last year's Bengal Bouts, losing freshman Mike Burke against who returns to the Bengal Morrissey freshman Brian 
Bouts after studying abroad in Grissinger and Dillon sopho­London last spring, has moved more Joe Rehmann are the up several weight classes to final fight in the 153-pound fight in the 150-pound division. class. 
.As a sophomore D'Agostino 155 pounds won two impressive battles Kevin Loria and Paul Hagan against Hollowell and Matt comprise the lead fight in the Fumagali to become the 13 5 -155-pound division. Loria is a pound champion and he is junior from Alumni and Hagan arguably one of the toughest is a sophomore from Zahm. and most experienced fighters Both are first year boxers. in the tournament. Junior captain Nathan 
Senior David Harmon meets Lohmeyer of O'Neill awaits the sophomore Nick Weiler from winner of this bout in Alumni in the second fight of Monday's quarterfinals. the 150-pound division. With Knott sophomore Mike Peters 
six spars, Harmon has a bit drew senior Sean Tucker. Both more ring experience than are first year boxers with simi­Weiler, but this fight is the first lar sparring experience. in the tournament for both Keenan sophomore Mark boxers. Basola, the division's No. 4 
Keough freshman Jordan seed, will fight the winner of Runge drew Alumni junior this bout. Kevin Rycyna in tonight's Alumni sophomore Mike '.> bouts. This is the first fight for Rooney will meet senior Ted 
both in the tournament and Volz in the ring tonight. Both they have comparable sparring boxers have looked strong in experience. sparring sessions, despite a bit St. Edward's freshman Jon of blood occasionally drawn Brewis will meet senior No. 3 from Rooney. The winner of 
seed Jon Pribaz on Monday this match will fight Mike I after Drew Shula withdrew Panzica, an experienced junior from the tournament. on Monday.I The final fight of the 150-The final fight of the night is pound division pairs up Dillon between Adam Burns and Mike 
I

C)S P U B 417 N. Michigan Street sophomore Will Bezouska and Gigante. Burns is a sophomore,I O'Neill freshman Brian Tyrell. and Gigante is a sophomore While neither fighter has a from Stanford. Both boxers areI great deal of experience both first timers in the Bengal Bouts received good reviews from with similar sparring records.
WEDNESDAY'S 
I 

coaches during sparring ses­The winner of this fight willI sions. The winner of this fight move on to face the No. 2 of
UPPER CLASS NITE I 
moves on to face junior captain the 155-pound division, Galen Loughrey on Monday. Brandon Gasser. Gasser was a
MUST BE 21 WITH A VALID ID 
I Loughrey, a Dillon resident, Bengal Bouts finalist last year, made an impressive run in last losing a very close match to
ALL DRINKS, PITCHERS 1 year's Bengal Bouts, but was Juan Diego Vargas. 
stopped short of the finals by The Bouts are set to begin at last year's 155-pound champi­6:30 p.m. and 23 fights are on, Colin Kerrigan. scheduled. 
153 pounds 
11 HALF PRICE'' ! 
Fifth-year architecture stu­dent Ryan Duffey is the No. 1
1 OPM -CLOSE I 
seed in this year's newly creat­Karaoke -Pool -Golf -Video • Shuffle Board • Darts I ed 153-pound division and he 
awaits the winner of the bout
I Contact Luke Bwam at
between sophomore Mike 
lbwam@nd.edu
0 P E N____S____U~N~D~A....;;...Y~S_1.=........~D~m::..:..:. I 
Buckets and Shooter SpecI a Is -Food 1 p m -9 p m I I WED FRI LENT SPECIALS I 
I 

popcorn shrimp n' fries • fried clam strips n' fries 
I

fish n' chips • fish sand n' fries 
AUTHENTIC SUF;5 5fNCE 1956
MON TUES THURS I I 
I FREE WRAP OR SUB!
Pint draft and Pitcher Specials Spm • Close I 
PURCH.qE ANY •u• OR WRAP WITH A FOUNTAJH DRINK. AND GET ANOTHER SUS OR WRAJ!, _Qf_~P.8.9~.J..:'~-'-~~-V.~.~~f'l.~~
FRI N' SAT I I 
VALID UNTIL MARCH 31. 2004AT MICHANA LOCATIONS USTED. NOT VAUO WITH AHf OTHER OFFER. 
• 
j 

I 
COLf'ON OR SPECIAL
Buckets and Drink Pint Specials Spm -Close 
I 
~·MISHAWAKA-5718 N. MAIN ST. ACROSS FR06ot SAMS CUJB W THE FAMILY VIOEO SUII..DING. 247~ • •SOt.JrH SEN(). SR 933 lc AUTEfol RO. IN THE FAMILV VVEO BUILDING. 277-8920
lVIUST BE 21 WITH A VALID ID TO DRINK 
••DOWNTOWN-IN THE LOBBY OF THE cou.a;e FOOTBAlL HAUOF FAME. 24&0136
...

NO AGE LIMIT TO EAT I 
--------------------------· 

-·--·------------------------------~---------------..,. 
..... 
~· 
I ) 
)· 
I 
!'
,. 
! '· l 
t 
page 26 

Wednesday, February 25, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Miami 
continued from page 28 

going to be a mental challenge for us to get back in that mindset that we have to get our intensity back on defense." 
The Hurricanes offense explod­ed in the team's last game -an 81-43 victory over Seton Hall. By comparison Notre Dame lost to Seton Hall 51-45 earlier this sea­son. 
"That's kind of scary," McGraw said. "To see our Seton Hall score and their Seton Hall score, I'm sure they were talking about that too." 
McGraw plans to use Monique Hernandez· and Breona Gray more in the game to give the Irish a quicker defensive squad. 
While the Hurricanes have many weapons, Notre Dame first needs to contain James. The sophomore guard is the reigning Big East Player of the Week. She averaged 24.0 points and 5.5 rebounds in Miami's wins over Syracuse and Seton Hall. Along with James, Chanivia Broussard, Yalonda McCormick and Shaquana Wilkins all average at least 11.5 points per game. 
This game has significant con­sequences for the Big East stand­ings. Notre Dame sits 17-8 and 10-3 in the Big East conference, while Miami is 20-4 and 9-4 in conference play. The Hurricanes lost three straight games, start­ing with their lost to Notre Dame a month ago, but have recovered to win their last four decisions. 
liven though Notre Dame has­n't lost at home this season, and the Irish need the win to stay in sole position of second place in the conference, McGraw said the pressure isn't on her team. 
"I think there's a lot less pres­sure on us," McGraw said. "We had to beat St. John's and Pittsburgh and Providence. We absolutely had to win those games because they're at the bottom of the standings." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


Friars 
continued from page 28 

Friars quickly rotated around the perimeter and kept pres­sure on Notre Dame's outside shooters. 
Combine that speed with Notre Dame's lack of points from its inside game, and the zone could be extended toward half court forcing the outside shots to come from way behind the 3-point line. 
"We have to get a couple of buckets around the basket. Then they're not as aggressive. You have to make a couple of those so they respect the inside guys," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "You have to make a few more 3-point shots. Probably not all of those 29 shots were good shots. But they almost forced us to live out there." 
The Irish was able to over­come its anemic offensive pro­duction in the first half with . playing solid defense and cleaning up on the boards. Despite shooting 46.3 percent in the first half, the Friars only led 24-23 thanks to the nine Notre Dame offensive rebounds. 
But in the second half, Notre Dame's defensive effort was inconsistent, and the offense stayed unproductive. In both halves, the Irish had a nine­minute stretch where they did­n't make a field goal. And that didn't include a four-minute period without a field goal to end of the first half, 
On the night, the Irish shot 
31.5 percent overall and went 7 -for-29 from 3-point range. 
"When you play against a zone and you can't get some stuff to go, then you start to wonder a little bit and I think that affected us defensively a little bit at times even though," Brey said. "I give them credit since they are a good offensive team." 
Tuesday's game was Notre Dame's last chance in the regu­lar season to get a good "RPI win." All that's left for this team is three games to rebuild momentum heading to Madison Square Garden in two weeks. 
"That was a huge opportunity for us," Brey said. "I told our guys we should use the last few games to get ready for the Big East Tournament. 
"That's the only tournament we should be talking about." 
No. 13 PROVIDENCE 73, NOTRE DAME 59 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (13-11, 7-7) 

Cornette 4-7 2-2 12, Timmermans 0-2 3­6 3, Thomas 6-18 7-8 23, Quinn 4-9 4-6 
12. Jones 3-9 0-1 7. Cornett 0-3 2-4 2, Falls 0-5 0-0 0, Carter 0-1 0-0 0. 
PROVIDENCE (19-5, 10-3) 

Gomes 8-18 9-10 25, Douthit 2-8 0-0 4. Sanders 5-8 5-6 17. McGrath 6-10 0-0 16, ~abba 2-5 2-2 o, Brown 0-0 0-0 0. Anrin 0-1 0-1 0, Brewington 2-4 0-0 4, 
Kotti 0-0 1-2 1.  
1st  2nd  Total  
NOTRE DAME  23  .36  59  
PROVIDENCE  24  49  73  
3-point  goals:  Notre  Dame  7-29  

(Thomas 4-13, Cornette 2-4. Quinn 1-5. Falls 0-4, Timmermans 0-1. Jones 0-1, Carter 0-1), Providence 7-14 (McGrath 4-6, Sanders 2-3, Gomes 1-3. Anrin 0-1. Brewington 0-1). Fouled out: Cornette. Timmermans, Jones (NO). Rebounds: Notre Dame 38 (Thomas 11). Providence 37 (Gomes 11). Assists: Notre Dame 13 (Thomas, Quinn 4), Providence 17 (Sanders 4). Total fouls: Notre Dame 18, Providence 21. Technical<;: Cornette (ND), Douthit (Prov). 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


Poulin 
continued from page 28 

came with the Flyers, for whom Poulin played 467 regu­lar season games over eight seasons (1982-83 to 1989-90). 
Poulin collected 394 points (161 goals, 233 assists) for Philadelphia over that time span, which ranks him 17th on the Flyers all-time scoring list. From 1984 to 1990, Poulin served as the team's captain. 
While he was .captain, Philadelphia captured three Patrick Division champi­onships and two Wales Conference titles. Poulin was also named to the NHL All-Star Team twice in that span, once in 1986 and again in 1988. 
Following the 1986-87 sea­son, Poulin became the second Flyers player in history to win the Frank J. Selke Trophy as the "forward who best excels at the defensive aspects of the game." 
ln 1993, as a member of the Boston Bruins, Poulin won the King Clancy Memorial Trophy • as "the player who best exudes leadership qualities on and off the ice and has made a note­worthy humanitarian contribu­tion in his community." 
Despite coming into the league as an undrafted free agent, Poulin's work ethic and drive allowed him to succeed at the highest level. 
"When I received my first rookie card, it came out and I flipped it over," he said. "I had had a very good year, and I turned it over and it said 'hard worker.' I wanted to laugh, because I wanted it to say 'fast skater' or 'great playmaker' or something. 
"Eventually I came to realize that was the reason I was there in the NHL. I was blessed with the ability to work hard and develop the tal­ent I did have because I wasn't the most talented player in the league." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 


Bottoms up! 
Happy 22nd, Kathy! 
Love, 
Erin &Amy 

The Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra Daniel Stowe, director 
Featuring winners of the 2003-2004 ND Concerto Competition Ricky Leal, oboe Rebecca Paul, soprano Works by Wagner, Brahms, and Mozart 
Thursday, February 26, 2004 
8:00 pm, Washington Hall FREE and open to the public 

Wednesday, February 25, 2004 page 27 
The Observer+ TODAY 
DILBERT 
EVER'( TIME OUR POINTY-HAIRED BOSS LEAVES HIS OFFICE, I SNEAK IN AND SEAL AN AIR HOLE. 
FIVES 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'M TRYING TO SEE IF HE'LL SUFFOCATE WHEN HE CLOSES HIS DOOR. 
I'VE NEVER HAD A HOBBY BEFORE. I CAN SEE WHY PEOPLE LIKE THEM. 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
A Fives guide to celebrity-Inspired Lenten resolutions: I pram1i( t'lot to
I P'"..nise.. +c
I p\4~ Df\ ~tVl~ 
~ IAf' Cl14dic. Mvrplsy·
reo.d o. book (\ wttk
vp c.he'"\~te.. 



t~j 
"The Rick James" 
~The Rosie GDonnell" 
"The Levar BurtonH 
I sweAt' +o tell +he 
hvl\-t \ tl1e vJ.tole trvHt , Md \1otWr"~ bvt +l.te irv...~~ SD 
htlp me 
Goa, 

"The Martha Stewartlf 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NUMOR 
[J I [) 
Cl2004 Tribune Media S...vices, Inc. All Righlll Aes81Ved. 
CHOAR 
tMODDEO 
I
IIJ I I 
-.jumble.com
tSUCLEM ± 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.
J I ( J I 
ms: 

A "[ I I I I I ]" rI I~ J 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday's  I Jumbles: Answer:  'MILKY CAPON DAINTY BOTHER When he couldn't fix the VCR clock, he said it was  
-ON THE "BLINK"  

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD ­HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: George Harrison, Sally Jessy
ACROSS 32 Point after 66 Come to mind 
Raphael, Adelle Davis, Christopher George, Tommy Newsom, Sean Astin
deuce

1 Like a 67 Arboretum sight Thanksgiving 34 Intensified, as 
Happy Birthday: Be sure you are getting a clear picture of the circumstances 
68 Ornamental 
turkey sound 
that surround you this year. You will find it difficult to clarify what other people are thinking, and this could have a great impact on the outcome of your 
vessel 
39 On the outs

6 Some of this 69 Title role for 
own ventures. Your added discipline will help you stick to the projects that you
with a relative?

and some of Streisand 
feel are most important. Your success will come from your diligence and hard 
that 42 tube 
work. Your numbers: 2, 15, 23, 29, 37; 48 

10 Met star 43 Tallow source DOWN 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Use your energy to start those changes that 
14 Boarding areas 44 Nut job 1 Links org. 
you've been planning for your home. Focus on pleasing those you love. Be sure to ask for their help. Invite friends over to socialize. ** 
15 Commotion 45 Cool treats 2 Souvlaki meat 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): You will be restless. Make plans to get up and go. Visiting friends will bring you a feeling of satisfaction. You will win the hearts of those you love through your unselfish actions. **** 
16 Lena of 47 Leaving no 3 Gas, e.g.: Abbr. 
"Chocolat" remainder 4 Intra to physics? 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Unrealistic financial expectations may be the 
cause of an emotional setback. Don't promise to donate to a cause if you really
17 Friendship 49 Caterer's 5 It contains the id 
heater 

can't afford to. Lending money to a friend will end in disaster. *** 
18 Descartes's 6 Tough to climb, 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can expect to be excessively emotional. 
"therefore" 53 Dundee denial perhaps 
Try not to start arguments. You may find yourself sitting all alone if you don't control your nagging. You will have a tendency to overeat. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Changes regarding your position may not be as you 
19 Hurl an insult at 54 Genetic engi-7 Whig's rival 
neer's observa-Add f ·
8 

expected. Accept the changes and continue on with your work . .Problems with
20 Truce after a tion about his a nnge to 
parking or speeding tickets should not be ignored. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Help children with projects they don't understand. 
fistfight? pet? 9 Suggestive of a 
forest23 Short flight 
Look into groups that will allow you to spend more time with your off-spring. 
60 Designer Gucci E h
10 gg pure ase 
Consider a family membership to your community center. **** 
24 Smoothing tool 61 Villain's work 11 Tale of Troy 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put any ideas of romantic interludes with the boss out of your mind. It will only ensure that you won't have a job in the near
25 Court cutup 62 Islamic holy war 12 Coacl=l 
future. Infatuations appear to be preoccupying your mind. ** 
29 Terrier type 64 Pull (in) Lombardi 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll have a greater interest in travel and foreign cultures. Sign up for a philosophy course that will offer you the mental 
Puzzle by Fred Plscop 

31 Site for cyber-65 Boring way to 13 Rile up 37 Tree hugger's 50 Tippecanoe's 56 Place to build 
stimulation and the additional knowledge you desire. ***** 
bidders learn 21 Imam's book 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will have problems with your
subj. mate 57 Home for the 
stomach if you don't stay away from spicy foods. Curb your eating habits and 
22 Song of 38 Declare untrue 51 Vaudeville's Murphys and 
start working at getting yourself in shape. ***
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE praise 
Fay and the O'Connors 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your emotional partner will be affectionate 
40 Circular gasket 

"Star Wars" war-Seven Little 
unless you're neglectful. In that case, you can expect the cold shoulder 
rior 41 Super bargain Fays 58 Gossip 
followed by a whole lot of nagging. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can expand on your ingenious ideas at
46 Stick together 52 TV exec Arledge 59 Biblical star 
work. Make your presentation; don't be afraid to put yourself on the line.
locale, with "the" 48 MTV figure 53 N.Y. Jet or 

Travel will lead to opportunities that will be hard to turn down. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Exhaustion is evident. You need a break. Look
Phila. Eagle
49 Like some 63 Actor Benicia 
into a vacation that is conducive to rest and relaxation. You will enjoy trips 
bombs 55 Admit openly Taro 
that allow you to sit back and contemplate your future plans. ***** 
For answers, caii1-900-289-CLUE (289-2583), $1.20 a 
Birthday Baby: You have an inner ability to sense what others are feeling and 
minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5550. 
thinking. Use your talents properly, and you will find yourself moving in a 
positive direction 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, Working stiff nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Ob.server in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City ____________ State ____ Zip______ 
' 'I 
,'
' 
' 
' 
\ 
THE OBSERVER 

p
Wednesday, February 25, 2004 

page 28 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
' Stopped dead 

TIM KACMAA!The Observer 

Irish coach Mike Brey hangs his head and the rest of the Irish watch In the final seconds of their loss to Providence Tuesday. 
l 
By MATT LOZAR
~~...·. 
.. ' Associate Sports Editor 
.l~ 
With NCAA T{)urnament hopes 

~; 
on the line, five frantic minutes at the end couldn't make up for the previous 35. 
In arguably the biggest game of Notre Dame's season, the Irish turned in one of their worst efforts on the year and lost 73-59 to Providence Tuesday night at the Joyce Center. 
The loss sends the Irish from \ the bubble to 13-11 overall and 
I. 7-7 in conference play with three games remaining before the Big East Tournament. 
"Yeah, it was a must win.. We didn't get it," Notre Dame guard Chris Thomas said. "We're not even worried about any tourna­ment right now." · . 
With star player Ryan Gomes being held to two points in the first half, the Friars made a con­certed effort to run their offense through Gomes in the second half. Gomes finished with game­highs in points {25) and rebounds {12), showing why many consider him to be one of the top players in the Big East. 
"Gomes is the best player in the league right now," Thomas said. "That's why they won, because they have him." 
While the production from Gomes wasn't unexpected, the intensity of Providence's zone was a surprise to the Irish. The 
see FRIARS/page 26 

Irish miss out on golden opportunity to make case for NCAA Tournament 
Torrian Jones stood with his his teammates, wondering how 
arms out at his side, a stunned in the heck the Irish had been 
look on his face. beaten to that rebound. 
Providence's Tuukka Kotti's With the flat-line perform­
free-throw ance Notre Dame turned in 
shot had 
Tuesday night, Jones didn't 
rolled off have to wonder very long. 
the right Gomes made the free-throw 
side of the to give the Friars a 16-point 
rim, but lead and to encourage Irish 
teammate fans to trudge to the exits. If 
Ryan Gomes the Irish were in a hospital, a 
grabbed the doctor would have looked at 
ball and the clock and said, "Time of 
banked in a Andrew death-5:31 in the second 
lay-up, Soukup half." 
pumping his By the time Donnie McGrath 
fists as the drained a 3-pointer with 14 
Sports Writer 

referee sig­seconds left in the game, etch­naled he ing a 73-59 win in the media had been fouled. All Jones could do was stare blankly at see LOSS/page 24 
HocKEY 

Poulin indu.cted to Flyers' ·Hall 
By JUSTIN SCHWER Associate Sports Editor 
Irish coach Dave Poulin is just the 18th member to join the Philadelphia Flyers Hall of Fame, a list that includes such greats as current Flyers general manger Bobby Clarke and former NHL superstar goalie Bernie Parent. 
He will be named to the hall in an on-ice ceremony at Philadelphia's Wachovia Center, prior to the Flyers' 7 p.m. game against the Nashville Predators March 
3. 
"It really caught me off . guard," Poulin said. "When I was first contacted, it came as a big surprise. ·It's not something you really think about or prepare for. Certainly it's a great honor." 
Following his graduation from Notre Dame in 1982, Poulin spent a combined 13 seasons in the NHL with the Philadelphia Flyers, Boston Bruins and Washington Capitals. The bulk of his playing career 
see POULIN/page 26 

'' 
I ' 
~ 
1' 
r 
.. 
t 
·~ 
{( 
. 
~ 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish face tough home test 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
They did it once. Tonight they'll try to do it again. 
Notre Dame's defense shut down the high-octane offense of No. 21 Miami when the teams first met Jan. 28 in a 59-50 Irish win in Coral Gables, Fla. The Irish hope for a repeat perform­ance when the Hurricanes visit the Joyce Center at 8 p.m. for a conference matchup. 
"They're a great team," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I think the key is transition defense. That's what we really worked hard on, taking away their transition game, and we were very successful at it last time and that limited their points." 
Miami has four starters aver-

en 
t: u IU s 
z 

C) c.:s 
c:c 

a. = 
en 

TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer 

Megan Duffy dribbles In a victory against Connecticut Jan. 13. The Irish face Big East opponent Miami tonight at home. 
aging double figures and a fifth that well the last couple of that averages 9.5 points per games," McGraw said. "Miami is game. Tamara James leads the just a powerhouse offensive team with 16.9 points a contest. team. They really can score. It's 
BASEBALL 

Irish lefty Tom Thorton was named Big East Pitcher of the Week after a strong outing against USC. 
page 24 
NCAA BASKETBAll 
Pittsburgh 68 Georgetown 58 

''I'm little concerned because, defensively, we haven't played 
see MIAMI/page 26 
MLB 

BENGAL BOUTS 
Preliminary rounds of bouts set to start 
By LUKE BUSAM Sports Writer 
The 2004 Bengal Bouts Tournament will begin tonight with a quick touch of gloves between George Hay and Marty Curinka. Hay and Curinka are the first fight of the 135-pound weight class, the lightest group of boxers in this year's tournament. Hay, a freshman from St. Edward's meets another first time boxer in Curinka, a sopho­more from Zahm. The winner' of this fight will move on to face Fisher's Jon Valenzuela, who went the distance in a tough loss last year to three­time champion Shawn 
NFL 
Chicago Cubs right-
Tennesse Titans' Jevon 
fielder Sammy Sosa is 
Kearse is testing the free 
less focused on steriods 
agent market. 
Pittsburgh holds off a 

and is determined to
persistent Georgetown 

win a World Series. 
team in Big East play. 
page 22 

page 20
page 21 
NHL 

Bob Francis was fired Tuesday after four sea­sons with the Phoenix Coyotes. 
page 20 
Newb11rg in the finals of the 125-pound class. 
Another pair of first timers squares off in tonight's second bout, which matches sopho­mores James Larew and Michael Schmitt. Schmitt is a PLS major from Stanford and Larew is from· Sorin. Andrew McGill, a freshman from Zahm, awaits the winner of this fight in Monday's quar­terfinals. Schmitt fought a number of good fighters in sparring sessions and he will need that experience to move on to Monday's quarterfinals. 
Senior Lawrence Hofman will meet Keenan freshman Kenton Villano in the third 
see BOUTS/page 25 
NBA 
Portland 94 Orlando 91 
The Blazers defeat the Magic in overtime behind Zack Randolph's 24 points and 12 rebounds. 
page 19 

~ 
' 


