
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 52 FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 12,2004 
E-mail warns students of cab driver threat 
By ANGELA SAOUD Saint Mary's Editor 
Students at Saint Mary's received an e-mail Thursday warning them of a cab driver or cab drivers soliciting students to pose for pictures in hotel rooms. 
According to the e-mail, sent by Vice President of Student Affairs Linda Timm, the driver or drivers solicits Saint Mary's students to pose for pictures by offering them various amounts of money. The e­mail noted there "have also been requests for other sex acts with groups of individuals so that encounters can be videotaped." 

The e-mail stated that one spe­cific driver has been identified and was issued a no trespass order, forbidding the driver to come onto the Saint Mary's campus. 
Saint Mary's Security is monitor­ing the situation, as are other appropriate authorities in the sur­rounding communities, the e-mail said. 
The e-mail also noted the amounts of money offered for sex­ual acts have been "significant and intentionally enticing." 
In her e-mail, Timm warned the campus of the dangers of an activ­ity like this. 
"The technology that exists today will allow pictures and video such as is being requested to be sent out over the Internet. It is hard to know just how far such pictures will travel and in whose hands they may arrive," Timm wrote. "Pictures such as these often have a way of surfacing later in one's life when it is least expect­ed. Do not place yourself in this type of situation. The money may sound attractive, but the conse­quences can be dangerous, some­times fatal." 
The e-mail said any student who feels uncomfortable with anything a cab driver says or does should have the driver bring her to Saint Mary's and call security immedi­ately. 
Saiut Mary's Spokesperson Melanie McDonald said all the information Saint Mary's has was released to students in the e-mail. 
"Everything she [Linda Timm] 
see DRIVER/ page 8 

Seniors bid farewell to football 
Band, cheerleaders cherish memories 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writer 
One hundred two marching band members will play their last notes and 13 cheerleaders will veil their last cheer in Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday afternoon. 
"It's really hard to believe that Saturday will be my last time marching out of the tunnel and onto the field," Sarah Paulson. president and four­year member of the band, said. "The marching band has been a huge part of my experience here at Notre Dame, and I don't think that I've realized yet that after Saturday it's going to be ending." 
Assistant drum major Dan Ferretti recalled some memo­rable experiences made possi­ble by being in the band. 
"I have had the opportunity to perform in some of the greatest venues in college football ­Doak-Campbell Stadium at Florida State, Neyland Stadium in Tenne.ssee, Michigan Stadium and of course Notre Dame Stadium," he said. 

Top, an exuberant student section cheers during the Michigan see BAND/page 4 game. Bottom, the band makes its traditional formation. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Legion shirts at bookstore 
Profits from first­time sales will go to Coaches vs. Cancer 

A student sports this year's 
Leprechaun Legion T-shirt. 
By PETER LEAHY News Writer 
Taking a cue from the famed Shirt, the Leprechaun Legion shirts declaring "No shirt No shoes No tie No prob­lem" are on sale at the book­store for the first time, with profits from the $15 purchase going to charity. 
According to Leprechaun Legion president and Knott senior Brian Tracy, the T-shirt used to promote Notre Dame basketball was not always student designed or sold to the general public. 
"Sports promotions always made a student T-shirt," Tracy said .. 
After the Leprechaun Legion was founded in 2001, however, this practice changed. I 
"My freshman year and sophomore year [Sports pro­~ motions] made their shirt, and we made ours," Tracy 
I

said. "Starting two years ago 
I 
see LEGION/page 4 1 
I 
! 


Class of 2005 looks back at game traditions 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 
Three years ago, the Class of 2005 sat together in the far reaches of the student section, looking forward to what then seemed like endless Saturdays of gridiron and tailgates. But this Saturday, these students will be rooting on the Irish from the stu­dent section for the last time. 
As the final home game draws near, the seniors are anxious for a win. 
"I just really hope we win, and I hope it's a memorable game," senior Erin Phillips said. "I can't believe it's our last game." 
Some come for the thrill of the athletics, others for the atmos­phere. 
"There's nothing better than actually looking forward to wak­ing up at 7 a.m.," senior Joe Swiderski said. "I'll miss the ran­domness of it all. The unexpected is always the best, like when we came back and beat Michigan this year." 
Others come for the Stadium experience. "I will miss the Stadium hot 
see SENIORS/page 4 




Notre Dame students restricted from spring travel to Cuba 
Theology class nixes trip due to new law 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Due to tightened U.S. govern­ment restrictions on travel to Cuba, a group of Notre Dame students will no longer be able to make Cuba their spring break destination in March. 
University General Counsel Carol Kaesebier informed the­ology professor Father Robert Pelton Oct. 27 that his "From 

.Power to Communion" theolo­gy class could not proceed with their third-annual Cuba trip, scheduled for March 5-13, 2005. 
"Am I surprised and unhappy with this development? The answer is yes," Pelton said. 
The new law, announced June 30, permits student travel to Cuba only if the trip lasts a minimum of 10 weeks and entails a structured education­al program, formal courses of study or teaching at a Cuban academic institution, said Kaesebier. 
Students may travel to Cuba for less than 10 weeks, but must be either conducting graduate research specifically related to Cuba, sponsoring a Cuban national to teach in the 
U.S or organizing and prepar­ing licensed educational activi­ties. The Cuba service trip will be one of the main University programs affected by the poli­cy change. 
Despite these allowances, Kaesebier said travel to Cuba WOIJld be strongly curtailed. 
"Our ability to take trips with students is going to be severely limited," she said. "It [the trip] has to meet the new guide­lines, which is very difficult to do. Most trips aren't 10 weeks." 
·Also, Kaesebier said only Notre Dame students or faculty could be authorized to use the University's travel, a change from the past when students from other institutions were free to participate in any Notre Dame programs that involved travel to Cuba. 
Despite the strict restric­tions, Pelton said. he was confi­dent the travel situation would improve at some point. 
"My personal opinion is that there will be a change that will take place in the near future, next year or so, since there is so much pressure ag~inst it [the new restrictions]." Pelton said. 
According to Pelton, the class will be taught as usual with a new focus on bringing Cubans to Notre Dame. Lecturers will visit throughout the spring semester. 
Even though undergraduates will no longer be able to travel to Cuba, students have still shown strong interest in the class, said Pelton. 
see CUBA/ page 6 

Friday, November 12, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
.INSIDE COLUMN 


One last chance 
It's all over Saturday. 
The Notre Dame Stadium lights will be shining down on our cold bodins as wn look out onto the field for our last time as students. 
The team will 
have already saluted us with thnir gold hnlmets and the rest of the fans will have left thn Stadium, but some of' us will just be sitting there in thn frenz­

ing Novnmber Matt Lozar 
1wening, .with 
tears rolling 
down our cheeks, Editor-in-Chief 
not wanting it to 
end. 
Unfortunately, it will have to. 
Notre Dame football did have an 
impaet on my college decision. I 
could have stayed at home and got­
ten a scholarship to a very good 
school. Knowing I would have 
passed up the opportunity to spend 
four y1~ars at the University I had 
watched on TV sinen I was 5 years 
old would have haunted me forever. 
The nwmories aren't overf'lowing 
in my mind about Notre Dame games 
from our youth. I rmnnmher wearing 
my I CJSS national championship T­
shirt and watching Shawn Woodnn 
knock down Charlio Ward's pass in 
thn Came of the CPntury. 
That's why this wnnkend will be so 
dil"ficult. That's why I avoided talk­
ing, thinking and writing about it for 
wonks. · 
It took me IS years to get to Notre 
Damn Stadium and nJJw in what 
sun~ly didn't snmn like three and a 
half y1mrs, it's almost over. 
My first Notre Dame homn football 
game was Sept. 22, 2001 against 
Michigan State, 11 days after tho 
9/11 tnrrorist attacks. Combining the 
emotions of that first gamo along 
with SO.OOO people holding 
American !lags chanting "U-S-A" is 
something I didn't appreciate at the 
time, but do so now. 
Our four years weren't storybook. 
The team didn't win a national title. 
We'll remember Boston College as 
that team we never beat and always 
hate. The only thing that was consis­
tent was the inconsistency. 
The two field-storming wins over 
Miehigan, the road trips to see state­
ment victories at Florida State and 
Tennessee and the Heturn to Glory 
are just some of the good memories 
that will be brought up years from 
now. 
The ushers will give us extra time, 
but at one point it must be over 
because, as painful as it is for me to 
write this, we do have to move on. 
The next time we watch a Notre 
Dame game in the Stadium, we will 
be alumni. We'll be the ones hosting 
the tailgates, inviting students and 
trying to feel young again. We won't 
be standing for four hours, tailgating 
like champions or doing push-ups. . As students, Saturday's our last chance. Take your time leaving the Stadium. I know I will. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comac! us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 

Jennl Fong  Jonathan Klingler  Mike Randolph  Morgan Dill  Ryan Retartha  Will Marra  
freshman  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  
Pangborn  Keenan  Fisher  Pasquerilla East  Dillon  Zahm  
"3 1-24, Notre  "Irish 3 I, Pitt  "/ am literally  "Vanno  "Whoever Lee  "Notre Dame,  
Dame."  Ij. Ifwe lose at  and morally  Irlandesef"  Corso picks  it's time for  




least we'll  obligated to say  
probably beat  our defense is  
USC."  nationwide.  
Notre Dame  
takes it 100 to  
15.  




Judge says squirrel can live with couple 
HARRISBURG, Pa. -Nutkin the Squirrel can live out her later years hunting nuts indoors with a Pennsylvania couple, a court has ruled. 
The gray squirrel, which was born in South Carolina where there are no rules against domesti­cating wild squirrels, may be kept by a Schuylkill County couple despite state laws that prohibit keeping wild animals as pets, a Superior Court panel ruled Friday. 
Senior Judge Joseph Hudock, in an 11-page 
opinion, had fun recount­ing Nutkin's early years ["Then one day tragedy struck: Nutkin fell from her tree nest!"] and relo­cation from South Carolina to Pennsylvania in 1994 ["Dark clouds began to gather."] 
Charges slapped on alleged spanker 
RED BANK, Tenn. ­The owner of a shaved ice business was arrested after two employees claimed he spanked them for making mistakes at work. 
Paul Eugene Levengood, 57, was charged with two 
counts of sexual battery after the 19-year-old women complained. 
Levengood was freed on $2,000 bail pending a Nov. 16 court hearing. His franchise in this Chattanooga suburb was closed Tuesday. 
At the company head­quarters in Minneapolis, sales manager Tom Novetzke described Levengood as a "very Christian person," adding that "We've never had a com plaint." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


against." another Pitt loss. 27-13 Irish." 
IN BRIEF 

Tom Bancholl', associate pro­fessor from the Department of Government and School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, will lecturn on "How the Embryo Became Political." A NANOVIC Ethies Seminar, the lecture will take place today from 12:30 to 2 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy. 
Ambassador Thomas E. McNamara lectures on "Terrorist Hogue no More: Understanding the Libyan Case." The career diplomat will speak in the llesburgh Center Auditorium today from 12:30 to 
1:30 p.m. 
"The International Coffee House: Songs of Protest" is an evening of protest songs and sing-alongs in Spanish and English in the CSC Cafe from 8 to 9 p.m. tonight. A special col­leetion will be taken for the Catholic Worker Team headed to Darfur, Sudan 
The Student Union Board presents "The Manchurian Candidate" in two showings tonight and Saturday at 8 and 
10:30 p.m. in DeBartolo 101. Tickets are $3. 
"The Lion King" will be showing at Washington Hall from 9 to 11 p.m. Lyons pro­vides free food, and the chance to win gifts like DVDs and Best Buy gift certificates. 
Flipside brings Playground Night to the Rolf's Fitness Center, with basketball, volley­ball, badminton, football and other' games from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 52 HIGH 52 LOW 35 LOW 40 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY a: 
LLI 
:::z::: 
!;;: 
LLI 

3: 

~
..... 
~ 
ct 
(.) 

_,0 HIGH 48 HIGH 33 HIGH 41 HIGH ,47 LOW 23 LOW 23 LOW 22 LOW 30 
Atlanta 59 I 45 Boston 44 I 28 Chicago 44 I 24 Denver 40 I 22 Houston 58 I 46 Los Angeles 69 I 52 Minneapolis 40 1 22 New York 47 I 34 Philadelphia 48 I 33 Phoenix 72 I 52 Seattle 52 I 42 St. Louis 48 I 29 Tampa 82 I 62 Washington 48 1 35 
Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SMC virtualtnagazine "Welcotnes prospects 
By APRIL THOMAS News Writer~ 
Prospective Saint Mary's stu­dents ean now experience the col­lege's campus without leaving home. 
Saint Mary's free virtual maga­zine-V-Mag-has been added to the College's homepage, inviting prospective student..<; to go on a vir­tual tour of the building~ and grounds. 
According to Nick Farmer, Saint Mary's director of marketing and communications, V-Mag was ini­tially ollercd only to accepted stu­dents and not publidy display~d on the college's homepage. 
"This year the program is offen~d to prospective students, before the application process even begins," Farmer said. 
The first issue features the guid­ance of two current student host­esses and seeks to give an accu­rate portrayal of the school's aca­demic, spiritual and social atmos­phere. 
Junior Anna Bauer, one of the hostesses, _got involved with V-Mag through student government. 
"I think the best part about the process was the student involve­ment from the very beginning," Bauer said. "The producers made it a point to use real student inter­views. stories and perceptions in writing the scripts." 
NewGame Communications cre­ated the V-Mag to appeal to today's teenagers. In V-Mag's first year, the company employed both Saint Mary's College and Georgetown University as initial test subjects. 
Mary Pat Nolan, Saint Mary's director of admissions, saw poten­tial in the idea. 
'The admissions staff was look­ing for 'a cutting-edge, technologi­cally savvy way to communicate with accepted student<;, a way that would present the benefits of a Saint Mary's education from our most credible sources -Current students, faculty and alumnae," Nolan said. 
Now in its third year, the newly enhanced virtual magazine has been helping differentiate Saint Mary's from other colleges and reduce traditional marketing costs. 
Despite its success, the virtuaL tour is not meant to be a final step in decision-making. 
"The V-Mag is not intended to be a replacement for the campus visit ... rather, it is an exciting invita­tion to learn more," Nolan said. 
Bauer said producing the Saint Mary's V-Mag gave her the oppor­tunity to share her enthusiasm for her school. 
"This was one of the best experi­ences during my college career thus far," Bauer said. "It was so much fun to get to share this place with prospective students and hope that my story can help therri come here and love it as much as I do." 
Contact April Thomas at thom3549@saintmarys.edu 


Law students help immigrants 
By PAUL SPADAFORA 
News Writer 
In an effort to help citizens of foreign countries apply for res­idency in the United States, law students are volunteering ~to help those in need file their applications to the Diversity Immigrant Visa Program. 
The Diversity Program is a government lottery that selects 55,000 of the applicants for legal permanent resident visas. Law students are helping pre­pare the applications of any willing participant that wishes to apply. 
Anne Egan, a third-year law student, said the services the . law students provide help those with no access to a com­puter fill out the exclusively online application. 
"Since the program stopped using paper applications two years ago, we've been running this program," Egan said. 
The law students set up com­puter kiosks at the local Robinson Community Center and guide applicants through the process. 
"There are really specific requirements necessary, so we take the applicants picture and go through [their application] step-by-step," Egan said. "It's especially helpful if there are language barriers that would make applying difficult." · 
Volunteers at the program take the required digital photo of the applicant, and then help the applicant complete their application. 
"We go through the basic forms, country of origin, etc," Egan said. 
Volunteers also aid those who are filling out applications for their entire family. 
"We also try to file applica­tions for their spouse and chil­dren, but it's more difficult because they need to bring dig­ital photos of all the members who are applying," Egan said. 
Egan said that the pro­

options for immigrants 
"One of the purposes of the immigration law is to help pro­mote diversity, by helping countries that are traditionally underrepresented by immigra­tion in the United States." 
· Hosty said. Egan explained who the law applies to. "There are two main caps for eligibility," Egan said. "The !irst is that immi­grants from 
gram has "... People find it to countries that received a good have sent more
be a great help, 
response from than 50,000 the community. especially if they immigrants to the "It's not just don't have a United States in students look­the last five years
computer oftheir
ing up the cannot apply. The 
own.
information. second is that no Even people more than 7 per­working on cent of all visas
Anne Egan 
campus have may go to a par­

law student 
stopped and looked at the fliers," Egan said. "No fees are charged . . . people find it to be a great help, especially if they don't have a computer of their 

own." 
According to Katie Hosty, a third-year law student, the program is an extension of a class on immigration law. 
"It's part of the class that you do [an immigration] project within the community, because throughout the semester you're learning how the immigration laws in the United States work, along with the various pro­grams that people can use to ticular country." 

Despite the lim­itations, Egan said the program is an excellent stepping-stone to full citizenship. 
"As a legal permanent resi­dent, you can apply for citizen­ship after five years of resi­dence." Egan said. "This would almost always be the first step that an immigrant to the U.S. takes ... it's their first step on the road to full citizenship." 
This year, law students will be running the Robinson Community Center kiosks on Nov. 18, from 6 to 8 p.m. and Nov. 20, from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. 
enter the country," Hosty said. 

Hosty said the Diversity Contact Paul Spadafora at Lottery is designed to provide pspadafo@nd.edu 



Fall 2004 Schedule -£/ 

· ce an Intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging "" . speakers on some of the most prt~ssing is.s1ws of our times. · 1(\
"Children and Marital 
~ \(' 
··,C 
~

Cont1icf' >~~ 9/U -Miehigau ~ ~ 
rJ,,. 

. J::nne-> \imderKant Ret']olm A OBrien Professor t~{lheulogv '"The De:Jd Sea Scrolls and Christian Origins" ~ z. 
9/25 -Washington <U
E. Mark Cummings Rev. Richard ?llcBrien. Omrh~v·(Yfkien Professor qf :;J Notre-Dame Chair in Psyclwlogy Rrmum fafbolic Tlwo!ogy ~ 
~ 

Vakrk Sayer::;, Pn~fh;sor of Hng!ish Hobert Coknwn, ilsSodate PnJj·es~<;or t!{Art Histoty < "1be Da Hnd Chde: An Assessment" !"'\ 
~ 
~ ,.-1
;,.W

10/2-Purdue 
Donald r:uJron. Pm{t:>ssor of Film_, Ji?icuiskm, and Theatre ;::: "Children and Marital Conflict," with E. Mark Cummings, Notre Dame 'The Movie !1-loguL Joseph P. Kennedy's Film Career'' r-Chair in Psychology. In this lecture, Cummings will explore the impact "" r·,
...,
~

.10/9-Stanford
of marital conflict on children's emotional security and discuss factors .... 
(:t·orge M;.1rsden. h·and:uL Afuhum<:l· P!Xdessor t~{ Histmy z
that affect the emotional relationship between parents and children. 
~

"Another Kind of Founding Falher: Jonadun Edwards and the A.merktH1 llerlwge'' •
As director of"The Happy Couples and Happy Kids Project," Cummings "( has conducted extensive research on how marital conflict negatively 
,. l0/23 -Uoston College >­
influences a child's development. He was instrumental in the 

:vkmreen lbllinan, William R& Hirzel B. White :1':. 
establishment of Notre Dame's Center for Children and Families, a 
Pn!frssor 1!{ Sodo!og_}: Director o{ tbe CenterJiw Research 011 
community resource for families in Northern Indiana where parents can ':f~
Hdumtfonnl Opportuni(r , 1lJ learn strategies for constructive conflict resolution. "AnK-rk:t's Largest Priv;tre Sdl(){>\ Svstt•nt A Look Inside () z Catho!k Scho<;ls' ' 
I: 
r~·

U/13 -Pittsburgh fij v : V!·,..r·l·' ('"> ,~· .. ; '"~ ·. \' ·t ~· J.)'l ' • ('Jwi« 1'11 pv' ··J~· ·i ~a-H
1.., ' ..!~ ' .,dl.dl !.U.li:"~ ·' 1.{ -1.: .~ I~ t.H ~' ·**' .·')( .JIJ .O,,r 1-i 
"Chiklren and Marital GonJlict" t:f)< ..,... 
~ ,...,

11:00 a.m. 3-1/2 hours before kickoff at rhe auditorium in 1he Hesburgh 
'-/J

Cenwr kw lntem:uional Slthlit:·s. For more lnfonn:tti<:m. visit
Saturday, November 13 

lmp:!/satun:laysdmlar.nd.edn ~ 
~ 0
Auditorium of the Hesburgh Center 

UNIVERSITY OF
for International Studies 
.......

N TRE AME ~ 0 
\J ,...,... 
For more information, visit the Saturday Scholar Series website at bttp:l!saturdaysebolar.nd.cdu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 12, 2004 


Band 
continued from page 1 
llownvnr. tlwn~ was orw aspnr.t that trumped all thn othnrs-the studnnts' rnac­tions. 
:·wlwn we havn a great show. a good dancn, neat l"orms and I !war thn erowd ' respond to that. it nnatns just an almost indPsrribable l"nnling," Fnrn1tti said. "It is the pnopiP at Notre l>anw 
that make this "It is the people at band," Paulson placn mnaning­Notre-Dame that said. "The band l"ul. When it is loves playing
make this place 
a II ·s aid an d for the team 
donn. that is meaningful. When and fans, and 
what I will miss it is all said and we'd love to do most aftnr this so at every
done, that is
Saturday." away game. We
what I will miss
Dave Binz, like to think chenrlnading most ajter this that Wfl bring co-captain. the intensity
Saturday."
nxprnssnd simi­and enthusiasm lar sentimnnts. of a Notre Dame "It's benn Dan Ferretti home football !'our great assistant drum major weekend to any 
the seniors on her squad. "It's a big job to pass down all the traditions. but they did it well." 
Williford also pointed out that the team is losing 1:~ of its 28 eheerl£mders. 
"That's a major loss." she said. 
Members of both the band and the cheerleading squad mentioned the trip to Tennessee as a highlight of their earners. 
"The trip to Tennessee was 
a gn~at experi­
Pnce for the 
years, going through the ups and downs of' the foot­ball team. The best part was definitely doing step-ofT, leading the band around campus and through the tunnel," Binz said. 'Til never f'orget that feeling of' walking through the tunnel, hearing those drumbeats get louder and louder." 
In the eyes of the younger teammates, the seniors will certainly leave a legacy and a void. 
"They're great leaders," cheerleader Chrissy Willil'ord, a junior, said of' 
stadium we 
enter." 
"Going to Tennessee was unbelievable," Binz said. "It was so loud, such an intimi­dating atmosphere. There's nothing like going in and silencing a crowd of 107,000 people." 
Ultimately, Binz said he will embrace the change coming in his life. 
"I think it's time for us to move on, start our lives, and come back as the alumni," he said. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffyl@nd.edu 


Seniors 
continued from page 1 
dogs more than anything," senior Caroline Menhan said. "Nothing warms you up on a cold South Bend afternoon quite like an ND hot dog. And, whether the Irish win or lose, you can count on your hot dog to be just as tasty." 
Despite the ups and downs of the team's record during the past four years, students have faithfully descended upon the stadium dressed for the Sea of' Green for every home game. 
''I just remember the four years of' games as being really fun, I don't re<!IIY remember which games we won and which ones we lost," Phillips said. "I just have an overall feeling of pride at all thfl games." 
Although there have been sever­al memorable games in recent his-

Legion 
continued from page 1 
they just took our shirts which is good because students can get them for free." 
The Leprechaun Legion has already become a popular organi­zation on campus, and is on pro­bationary club status right now, with expectations to achieve offi­cial club status next year. 
As with football's 'Sea of Green', the Leprechaun Legion s.hirt serves as a symbol of unity for fans and support for the team, Tracy said. 
Student opinion on the shirt is mixed. Pasquerilla East freshman tory, most seniors agree that rush­ing the field after the two home match-ups against Michigan made for the best football experiences during their time at Notre Dame. 
"My favorite home game memo­ry is either the Michigan game from sophomore year or the Michigan game from this year," Meehan said. "I think it's the Michigan game from this year because it was so unexpected and provided a great start to senior. 
year~· 
Although the Class of 2005 faced many troubles with ushers this season, most feel that the tradition­al senior marshmallow tight will go on undeterred this year. 
"[fhe seniors] better do it," sen­ior Jenna Linder said .. "It's going to be wild, it's going to redefine all my moments at Notre Dame." 
In the past, the ushers haven't been as strict at the last game as they were earlier in the season when enforcing the rules concern-
Tamara Buretz said the shirt is acceptable. 
"I like it. It's kind of plain but it's nice," she said. "I don't get Ithe back of the shirt], and I think it's dumb." 
On the other hand, Steve Przywara, a Keough freshman, said he really liked the shirt. 
"The textile manufacturer who created this fabric, I believe there is no word to describe this genius," Przwara said. 
In years past, the Leprechaun Legion used to make money off its own shirt sales, while students who bought tickets received the shirt designed by Sports promo­tions. As a result the Legion has enough money in the treasury to support itself until it receives Notre Dame funding as an official 
ing the halrtime marshmallow throwing. 
Humors are that the ushers usu­ally give seniors the go-ahead for their traditional marslmmllow war, though that stands unconfirmed. 

''I've heard that the uslwrs haw said they understand that it's a spe­cial smlior tradition and they have no problem with the seniors stay­ing longer," senior .Joanna Cornwell said. 
Seniors will most likely be the first to arrive and the last to leave the stadium Saturday, but when the day comes to an ond the nostal­gia will begin. 

'Til miss looking across tlw stu­dent section and seeing our school all there together, and seeing how loud we ean bn," Phillips said. "And I'll miss when tho football players come over and raise their hnlmets up, that's my favorite part." 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
club. 
With this in mind, Tracy and other Legion members decided this year that all profits from the sales of the Leprechaun Legion shirts would go to charity. 
"All proceeds go to Coaches Versus Cancer," Tracy said. "That's !Irish eoach Mike Brey'sl darling." He added that Brey has always been a supporter of the LeJ,rion. 
The Legion does not have a goal in mind for profits, but Tracy is optimistic about the sales. 
"Every purchase helps cancer research and support.<; the team," Tracy said. "No matter how many we sell it is a success." 
Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy@nd.edu. 



,r)
·:,.., ~·' 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Fighters try to escape U.S. cordon 
FALLUJAII, Iraq -Insurgents tried to break through the U.S. cordon surrounding Fallujah on Thursday as American forces launched an offensive against concentrations of militants in the south of the city. Some 600 insurgents, 18 U.S. troops and five Iraqi sol­diers have been killed in the four-day assault, the U.S. military said. 
In an apparent bid to relieve pressure on their trapped allies, insurgents mounted major attacks in Mosui, Iraq's third-largest city 220 miles to the north. Guerrillas assaulted nine police stations, overwhelming several, and battled U.S. and Iraqi troops around bridges across the Tigris Hiver in the city, where a curfew was imposed a day ear­lier. 
And in Baghdad, a car bomb exploded Thursday moments after·a U.S. patrol passed on Saadoun Street. killing 17 bystanders and wounding 30. There were no U.S. casualties. 
The four-day Fallujah offensive has wound­ed an additional 178 Americans along with 34 Iraqi soldiers, the military said. 
U.N. reports nuclear experiments 
VIENNA, Austria -South Korean nuclear experiments revealed ea.rlier this year pro­duced minute amounts of plutonium and near-weapons grade uranium but there was no evidence linking them to an attempt to make nuclear arms. the U.N. atomic watch­dog agency said Thursday. 
The report. drawn up by the International Atomic Energy Agency and made available to The Associated Press, followed up on revela­ticms that South Korea sporadically dabbled in uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing from the early 1 980s to 2000. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush honors fallen soldiers 
ARLINGTON. Va. -President Bush paused on Veterans Day to honor the "hidden heroes" in America's military who haye fought in Iraq and Afghanistan during his presidency and in wars past. He also paid tribute to soldiers he said are waging a win­ning battle against insurgents west of Baghdad. 
"Some of tomorrow's veterans are in com­bat in Iraq at this hour," Bush said Thursday at Arlington National Cemetery, where he laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns. 
"They have a clear mission: to defeat the terrorists and aid the rise of a free govern­ment that can defend itself. They are making us proud," Bush added. "They are wiiming." 
Civil rights group faces turmoil 
ATLANTA -The Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the civil rights group that helped lead the fight against seg­regation, is beset by financial turmoil and infighting that led to the resignation this week of its president, the Rev. Fred Shuttlesworth. 
Shuttlesworth, 82, stepped down Wednesday from the organization he and other black preachers helped found along with the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1957. 
"For years, deceit, mistrust and a lack of spiritual discipline and truth have eaten away at the core of this once-hallowed organization," he said in his resignation let­ter. 

Senior CIA officer quits to speak freely 
LOCAL NEWS 
Glitch found in ballot counting 
BHOOKVILLE -A computer glitch in opti­cal-scan voting systems that recorded straight-party votes for Democratic candi­dates as Libertarian votes has prompted offi­cials in one Indiana county to mount a recount of ballots. 
Democrats discovered the error in south­eastern Indiana's Franklin County, where ballots were scheduled to be counted again Thursday night. The county's election equip­ment vendor, Fidlar Election Co., notified officials Wednesday of the error. 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 12, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssERVER'S wmr SERVICES page 5 
WEST BANK 
Palestinians grieve for Arafat 
Successors quickly named, but questions remain unanswered after leader's death 
Associated Press 

HAMALLAH Palestinians at home and abroad wept, waved flags and burned tires Thursday in an eruption of grief at the death of Yasser Arafat, the man they consider the father of their nation. The quick appointment of suc­cessors did little to dispel the huge question marks now hanging over Mideast peace efforts. 
Although Arafat's death at 75 led some world leaders to talk about the possibility of a new era, the outlook was also shadowed by fears of a chaotic transition and a strengthening of Islamic militants. 
The burial arrangements in themselves showed how disrupted the region is. The international funeral was to be held in Egypt, because few Arab l(;laders would travel to Israeli-controlled Palestinian land; Arafat was to be buried in the West Bank town of Ramallah because Israel refused to approve interment in .Jerusalem; and most mourners from the Gaza Strip would be barred from traveling across lsrae!i ter­ritory to Hamallah, a securi­ty official said. 
Workers in Cairo scram­bled to lay new carpet and mow the lawn at a small official French airplane Authority, the self-ruling proud that the name of mosque near the airport heading to Egypt. power in the West Bank and Yasser Arafat will be in my where dozens of foreign Though it had been Gaza Strip, though that house every day, just as the dignitaries will honor the expected for several days as position will likely have far name of Yasser Arafat will Palestinian leader in a mod­he fell into a coma, Arafat's less power than when be in every Palestinian est ceremony Friday morn­death stunned Palestinians Arafat held it. Fattouh is to house forever," she said. ing, before Arafat's body is and left them wondering serve for 60 days until elec­Black smoke from burn­flown to Ramallah for a who could possibly replace tions can be held, though ing tires rose across the burial service. their leader of the last four the law may be amended to Gaza Strip and gunmen 
In France, where Arafat decades. allow parliament to choose fired symbolic volleys into died before dawn Thursday Arafat had not anointed a the new president. the air. At Arafat's battered after 13 nights in a Paris successor, but within hours Thousands of Palestinians Ramallah compound where military hospital, eight pall­the Palestine Liberation flooded the streets, many he will be buried, flags flew bearers carried his flag­Organization elected former weeping and clutching at half staff. The radio draped coffin past an honor Prime Minister Mahmoud Arafat's photo. Even mem­played somber music, guard Thursday evening as Abbas to replace him as its bers of the Hamas and church bells in the partly a military band played the new chief, virtually ensur­Islamic Jihad militant Christian city rang out, and French and Palestinian ing he takes over as groups, often critical of Quranic verses were played national anthems and a Palestinian leader, at least Arafat, mourned his death. for hours over mosque Chopin funeral march. for now. Safra Hassan gave birth loudspeakers. 
Arafat's widow, Suha, sti­The Palestinian legisla­to twin boys in Gaza a few By Thursday evening, fled sobs as the coffin was ture also swore in Speaker hours after Arafat died and though, the mourning had transferred from a French Rauhi Fattouh as caretaker said she was naming them given way to subdued can­military helicopter to the president of the Palestinian Yasser and Arafat. ''I'm so dlelight vigils. 

I I 
. 'I 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A senior CIA offi­cer who has become an outspoken critic of the fight on terrorism turned in his resignation this week, citing a desire to speak more freely about problems in the hunt for Osama bin Laden and the debate over intelligence reform. 
Current government officials are rarely as vocal as Mike Scheuer, who wrote "Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror." But he called the decision to leave the agency after 22 years "entirely my own." 
"I have concluded that there has not been adequate national debate over the nature of the threat posed by Osama bin Laden and the forces he leads and inspires, and the nature and dimensions of intelli­gence reform needed to address that threat," Scheuer said in a statement sent to reporters Thursday via elec­tronic mail. 
Scheuer's CIA assignments includ­ed running the bin Laden unit from January 1996 to June 1999. He hopes his experience and views will produce a more substantive debate. 
This week, Scheuer ignored agency orders and began granting interviews about shortfalls in the hunt for bin Laden, the findings and recommendations of the Sept. 11 and the intelligence community overall. 
During a wide-ranging interview Sunday evening, Scheuer was highly critical of the Sept. 11 Commission's "refusal" to point fingers at senior government officials whose actions contributed to the attacks. Rather than changing the structure of gov­ernment, as Congress is considering, he said a signal must be sent that people will be held accountable for their actions. 
"No one seems to be capable or inclined to find anyone responsible for 9/11," he said. 

page 6 The Observer+ NEWS Friday, November 12, 2004 
Cuba 
continued from page 1 
"I'm still going to take the dass because I'm a Latin Amnrican studios minor. and I think 
lie said visiting Cuba last year gave him a new perspec­
tive  on  life  in  the  United  
States.  
"You learn  to  appreciate  

democracy, to get a glimpse of 
what lies outside our bubble, not just the Notre Dame bubble," he 
it's a worthwhiln said. "And it's so
"You learn to 
efass," said ju11ior elose -only 90
appreciate
Ann Marie miles away." Warmenhaven. who democracy, According to plans to enroll in Licon, the travel
to get a glimpse
the class. "But it's restrictions were
ofwhat lies 
disappointing that politically motivat­
U.S. policy can outside our ed. Wealthy, educat­aiTect Notre Dame bubble. notjust ed hard-line Cuban studnnts on such a nationals who fled
the Notre Dame 
personal levnl." the country from 
Pelton said the bubble., 1960-80 entrenched embargo would themselves in the negatively affect Miami. region and
Fred Licon
the United States as became a
graduate student
well as Cuba. Republican strong­
"The most effec-hold. tive way to open "They feel that relationships is through com­travel to Cuba is condoning merce and educational, cultur­Castro," Licon said. "Would 
al exchange," "Hnlations like this are not pro­ductive for Cuba or the U.S." 
fred Licon, a political seiencn graduate student who went on the Cuban trip last year, said the nnw law would limit thn intellec­tual pursuits or Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"I would be 
he said. you have sent people to Iraq 
"The most effective way to open relationships is through commerce and educational, cultural exchange., 
Father Robert Pelton Theology professor 
during .Saddam Hussein's reign?" 
Consequently, the new restric­tions s·erved largely as "cam­paign fodder," he said. 
"Especially given the tight race this year, the Bush Admin­istration felt that we needed to take our policy to a higher level," 

angry lif my trip was can­. 1:nll1~d I. because it truly is a I-nice glimpse into a different 
governing systmn," Licon said. "It would be healthy, an intel­ll~dual excursion." 
Licon said. "florida was a swing state, and the Latino votn was up for grabs." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Prist calls for end to filibusters 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist on Thursday urged Democrats to stop blocking President Bush's federal court nomi­nees and hinted that he may try to change Senate rules to thwart their delaying taetics. 
"One way or another, the filibuster of judicial nomi­nees must end," Frist, H­Tenn., said in a speech to the Federalist Society, a conser­vative legal group. 
The Democrats' ability to stall White House picks for the federal bench was one of the most contentious issues of Bush's first term. Despite the GOP majority in the Senate, Democrats used the threat of a filibuster to block 10 of Bush's nominees to federal appeals courts. The Senate did confirm more than 200 of the president's choices. 
Hepublicans hope their gain of four seats on Election Day will discourage Democrats from using fili­busters again. But in a Senate next year with 55 Hepublicans, 44 Democrats and a Democrat-leaning independent, Democrats still will have the 40 votes neces­sary to uphold a filibuster. 
Frist said filibustering judi­cial nominees is "radical. It is dangerous and it must be overcome. The Senate must be allowed to confirm judges who fairly, justly and inde­pendently interpret the law." 
"The Senate cannot allow 

the filibuster of circuit court nominees to continue." Frist said. "Nor can we allow the filibuster to extend to poten­tial Supreme Court nomi­nees." 
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, 80, is seriously ill with thyroid cancer, and three other justices have had cance~ The average age of the nine court members is 
70. Speculation on a Supreme Court retirement has grown in part because there has been no vacancy in more than 10 years. 
The Bush's administra­tion's former chief lawyer at t h e h i g h c ou-r t to I d t h e organization earlier Thursday that "any attempt­ed new appointment to the court, especially that of a chief justice, will set off a 
"The Senate cannot

political side with firestorm." allow the filibuster Hepublicans. Theodore Olson remind­
ofcircuit court 

Olson added, ed the group or
nominees to

"The presiden­what he called tial election continue." malicious was merely attacks on prll­about the next vious conserva­
Bill Frlst 

four years. A tive nominees 
Supreme Court Senate Majority Leader 
Clarence 
cated changing Senate rules to make it more difficult to continue a filibuster. While the idea went nowhere in-the current Congress, Frist raised it again in his speech, saying that judicial fili­busters were "nothing less than a formula for tyranny by the minority." 
"The Senate now faces a choice: Either we accept a new and destructive practice or we act to restore constitu­tional balance," he said. 
To block some of Bush's nominees, Democrats have used procedures that required Hepublicans to come up with 60 votes to advance the president's choices. It takes 60 votes in the 100-member Senate to break a filibuster, meaning some Democrats would have to 


justice is for life. It will not be pretty." Olson, who represented Bush before the Supreme Court in 
Bush v. Gore four years ago and then became solicitor general after Bush took office, predicted that the president would get to name as many as three j'ustices during his second term. 
Frist previously has advo-
Thomas and Robert Bork. Thomas, named by Bush's father, was nar­rowly approved. Bork, a Reagan choice, was rejected. 
"It could easily be worse next time around," Olson said. 
Olson has been mentioned as a possible high court pick, but his confirmation for solicitor general was rocky. 

Colin FarrellJasJcsscJamc'si in 'American Outlaw' 'Bloody Sunda}', Derry, 30January 1972. _ 



Keough Institute for Irish Studies, University of Notre Dame Undergraduate Courses, Spring 2005 
Irish 

Irish 101. A fun and entertaining introduction to the modern Irish language. This course introduces the basic principles of grammar and sentence structure, as well as core vocabulary. Emphasis is placed on the application of these principles in every-day situations. IRIL IOI:Ol T H II :00-12:15 Sarah McKibben. IRLL 101:02, MWF 10:40-11:30, Peter McQuillan. IRLL 101:03, T H 12:30­
1:45. Brian 6 Conchubhair IRLL 102. A continuation of IRLL 101. Emphasis is placed on reading simple texts in Irish and the student's linguistic, grammatical and cultural knowledge is expanded. Building on IRLL 101, the students grow in confidence and linguistic ability. IRLL 102:01, T H 2:00-3:15, Sarah McKibben, IRLL 102:02, MWF 9:30-10:25. Peter McQuillan. IRLL 103. A continuation of IRLL 102. This course develops the student's existing language skills. Emphasis is on expanding fluency, competency and translation. IRLL 103:01, T H 11:00-12:15. Brian 6 Conchubhair 
English 

Introduction to Irish Writers. IRST 371 A:O 1. MWF, II :45-12:3. Christopher Fox. The small island of Ireland has produced a disproportionate number of great writers, including jonathan Swift, Maria Edgeworth, Oscar Wilde, James Joyce, William Butler Yeats, Elizabeth Bowen, Brien Friel andJohn McGahern. This class will introduce the student to a broad range of Irish writers in English from 18th century to the present. Anglo-Irish Literature: Cultured Misrule, Dissolute Lords and Rebel Countesses. IRST 372E:Ol. MWF, 1:55-2:45. This course will examine the role of the Anglo-Irish in the political and literary life of Ireland from the Act of Union ( 1800) to the last decades of the 20th Century. Irish Gothic from the Union to 'The Troubles'. IRST 379C:Ol. MWF, II:45-12:35.James Wurtz. 1l1is class will examines how Irish literature uses ghosts, vampires, demons, and rebels to grapple with threats facing society, and engages with the historical unrest in 19th and 20th century Ireland. Swift and the Arts. IRST 499. T H 3:30-4:45.Joseph McMinn. This course looks at how Jonathan Swift regarded non-literary arts in 18th century Ireland and England-gardening, music, archi­tecture and painting -and how his views on those art forms are reflected in his poetry and prose. Reading "Ulysses" IRST 475B:O]. T H 12:30-1 :45. Maud EHmann. This course aims to make Ulysses, the greatest novel of the 20th century, understandable by reading it slowly chapter-by­chapter in the light of Homer's Odyssey andjoyce's Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. Irish Fihn and Culture. IRST 476 T H 11:00-12:15. Course Req. IRST 476L. Luke Gibbons. This course will examine some of the dominant images of Ireland in film and literature, and will place their development in a wider cultural and historical context. Particular attention will be paid to such key figures as Yeats, Synge, andjoyce, and contemporary writers such asjohn McGahern, William Trevor, Patrick McCabe, and Roddy Doyle will be discussed. 
Graduate Courses 

Irish Dranta and Revolutionary Politics. ENGL 571 T H, 2:00-3:15. Susan Harris. This course investigates the relationship between the drama produced by the Abbey 1l1eater movement during the first decades of the 20th century and the political struggle for Irish Independence that was taking place at the same time. Modernism and the Four Nations: England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. ENGL 573 H, 6:30-9:00. Mary Burgess. This seminar examines the geographies and locations of British and Irish Literary Modernism. Gender and Writing. ENGL 575:01. T H, 12:30-1:45. Maud EHmann. Graduate Course. This course focuses on the seventy years between 1871 (the publication of George Eliot's Middlemarch) and 1941 (the publication of Virginia Woolrs Between the Acts), a period of upheaval in gender relations that also witnessed the emergence of the modern professional woman writer. Rethinking Race: Irishness, Whiteness and Post-colonialism. ENGL 577. W 7:30-9:00. Luke Gibbons. This seminar will discuss issues of race and representation in relation to Irish Literature and Culture. The threat presented by the Irish to colonial civility had less to do with visibility than with other components of racial theory, as the Celt, provided an ominous template for the concept of doomed races, and c;>ther modes of cultural contagion. 
History 

The Bandit and Outlaw in History IRST 322A:OI T H 3:30-4:45. Eamonn 6 Ciardha. This course examines the role-of the bandit and outlaw in Irish history, literature and popular culture between the 16th and the 20th centuries. It will also seek to discover why the bandit has remained the focus of recent popular histories, Hollywood films and historical documentaries. Irish History II. IRST 327B:OI. MWF, 9:35-10:25.James Smyth. This course consists of lectures and readings examining Irish (mainly) political history and Anglo-Irish relations from the Act of Union (1801) up to and including 'The Troubles' and the Peace Process. Medieval Ireland. IRST 435:0 I, T H II :00-12:15. Aideen O'Leary. This course c.overs the history and culture of Ireland from the pre-Christian era to approximately AD 800, discussing the achievement of St. Patrick, Irish monasticism and the Vikings. 
Anthropology/Culture 

Irish and American Dance. IRST 228:0 l. MWF, 4:30-4:45. James McKenna. This cotirse will teach a range of fundamental tap steps in addition to at least. two finished tap dance pieces set to CD music. Several hard show tap dances will be taught, depending on the ability of the students. 
Friday, November 12, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10,469.84 +84.36

}ones 
Composite Volume: 2,426 125 1,394,924,544

'" Same: 

AMEX 1,340.93 +5.70 NASDAQ 2,061.27 +26.71 NYSf 6,950.97 +59.75 S&PSOO 1,173.48 +10.57 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,936.48 +89.56 FTSE IOO(London) 4,776.90 +42.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
+0.84 +0.25 29.98 INTEL CORP (INTC) + 1.36 +0.31 23.17 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.63 +0.30 18.74 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -0.26 -0.0 I 3.85 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.79 -0.24 13.14 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 

Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.22 -0.11 49.65 10-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 42.54 5-YEARNOTE -0.31 -0.1 I 35.60 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 20.29 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.44 48.86 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +0.90 436.20 PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) +0.58 I 02.05 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 06.1200 EURO 0.7739 POl,JND 0.5415 CANADIAN$ 1.1937 
IN BRIEF 

Board rejects $9.2 billion takeover 
SAN FRANCISCO -PeopleSoft Inc.'s board of directors rejected Oracle Corp.'s $9.2 billion takeover bid Wednesday and vowed to contin­ue its staunch resistance even if a majority of the business software maker's shareholders decide to accept the ofl'er. 
After more than a week of deliberation, PeopleSoft's board unanimously concluded Oracle latest $24-per-share bid is inadequate. It marked the fifth time the Pleasanton-based company has snubbed its bitter rival since the takeover battle began more than 17 months ago. 
"We absolutely believe PeopleSoft is worth far more today than at any point since this process began," said George "Skip" Battle, the lead director on PeopleSoft's transaction com­mittee. 
Many analysts disagree, saying PeopleSoft's market value has been propped up by Oracle's takeover bid. If Oracle withdraws its bid, some analysts fear PeopleSoft's stock will plunge by more than 30 percent. 
PeopleSoft's shareholders theoretically could override the board's recommendation by offer­ing their shares to Oracle by a Nov. 19 dead­line. 
Should a shareholder majority side with Oracle, Battle and other board members said the directors still intend to use whatever measures necessary to force the issue to a final vote at PeopleSoft's annual meeting next spring. 

Fox to provide TV series for phones 
NEW YORK -The Twentieth Century Fox studio, a veteran of the big screen and the TV screen, is about to break into an entirely new realm: the really little screen, the kind that comes on a cell phone. 
In what appeared to be the first arrange­ment of its kind, Twentieth Century Fox said Wednesday it would create a unique series of one-minute dramas based on its hit show "24" exclusively for a new high-speed wireless service being offered by Vodafone PLC, the world's biggest cell phone company. 
Vodafone will begin ofiering the one-minute episodes in January in the United Kingdom, coinciding with the start of the fourth season of the show on a satellite TV service. 

THE 0HSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Blockbuster offers to buy rival 
Biggest retailer. in movie-rental industry wants Hollywood Video for $700 million 
Associated Press 

DALLAS -Blockbuster Inc., facing new attacks from big retailers and online operators, has offered $700 million for rival Hollywood Entertain­ment Corp. in a bid to com­bine the two biggest players in the movie-rental indus­try. 
Blockbuster, the biggest in movie rentals, said Thursday that it had com­municated its interest to No. 2 Hollywood Entertainment but that there have been no substantive talks on terms of a deal. 
Hollywood Entertainment is already in a deal to let its chairman and chief execu­tive and a buyout firm take the company private. The agreement, however, allowed Hollywood to solicit other bids, and the CEO said he welcomed Blockbuster's offer. 
The deal would give Blockbuster, which already has 9,000 outlets world­wide, more than 1,920 Hollywood Video stores and 600 Game Crazy specialty stores. But it could also raise antitrust questions. 
In 1999, a plan by the two companies to rename Hollywood stores under the Blockbuster banner was stopped by the Federal Trade Commission, but ana­ment's closing price petition from subscription Marla Backer, an analyst lysts say a merger of the Wednesday of $9.80 per online rental operators such for Research Associates, two largest movie-rental share, and would assume as Netflix Inc. said Hollywood Entertain­firms stands a better about $350 million in The new nature of the ment shareholders should chance now. Hollywood Entertainment competition was reflected in "take the money and run" 
Stacey Widlitz, an analyst debt. recent price cuts by leading but that Blockbuster would for Fulcrum Global The deal would trump the providers of Internet movie inherit a company facing Partners, said regulators pending bid of $1{).25 per rentals. Netflix and the same competitive pres­would probably block share for Hollywood Blockbuster knocked more sures that it does. She said Blockbuster's plans if they Entertainment by a Los than 10 percent off their Blockbuster would be wiser considered the movie-rental Angeles buyout firm. monthly online subscription to invest in electronic deliv­business as a distinct indus­In afternoon trading, rates, and Wal-Mart jumped ery of movies. try, but not if they lumped Blockbuster shares were tip into the fray by undercut­John Antioco, Block­rentals with retail sales of 58 cents, or 7.9 percent, to ting both. The price war buster's chairman and chief DVDs and games. Widlitz $7.96 on the New York was triggered by Netflix's executive, said in a state­said the combined company Stock Exchange, and fear that Amazon.com Inc. ment that the proposed deal would control about half Hollywood Entertainment would muscle into the busi­"better positions Block­the U.S. rental business but shares rose $1.15, or 11.3 ness. buster to compete in the only about 20 percent of percent, to $10.95 on the "The four companies are rapidly changing home rentals plus retail sales. Nasdaq Stock Market. going to beat each other to entertainment marketplace, 
Dallas-based Blockbuster Retailers such as Wal­death," said the analyst while simultaneously bene­said it offered $11.50 per Mart Stores Inc. sell DVDs Widlitz. She was lukewarm fiting consumers as well as share, a 17 percent premi­so cheaply that they tempt on Blockbuster's bid: "It's Blockbuster and Ilollywood um over Wilsonville, Ore.­movie renters. In addition, one company in a declining Entertainment sharehold­based Hollywood Entertain-Blockbuster now faces com-business buying another." ers." 

Microsoft pushes to challenge Google 
Adam Sohn, a director with the com­Microsoft also plans to. offer by
Associated Press 

pany's online division. But a full roll­year's end a test version of its hotly 
SEATTLE -Microsoft Corp. finally out, perhaps with new features, isn't anticipated technology for quickly debuted its own Web search technolo­expected until early next year. locating e~mail, Web pages and other gy on Thursday, hoping to challenge Redmond-based Microsoft has long files on desktop computers. Google Google Inc.'s long dominance of the offered· a search engine on its MSN launched a similar product last field with results tailored to a user's Web site, but the technology behind month. location and answers from its Encarta was powered by subsidiaries of Yahoo Hoping to steal some of Microsoft's encyclopedia. Inc. thunder, Google nearly doubled the 
Google signaled that it is ready for a Earlier this year, company execu­size of its search engine index to more fight, announcing Wednesday that it tives conceded that they had erred by than 8 billion Web pages Wednesday would nearly double the amount of not developing their own search tech­evening. A Google spokesman down­Web pages available to search nology and said they had devoted played the Microsoft connection, say­through its site. $100 million in an aggressive catch-up ing the Mountain View-based compa­
The Microsoft search engine, offered effort. The company also pledged to ny had been working on the expansion in 11 languages, will initially be avail­clearly separate paid search results for months. Google last expanded its able on a special "test" site. Gradually, from those based purely on the rele­Web index to 4.3 billion pages in some users visiting Microsoft's MSN vancy. That's something its previous February when another rival,' Yahoo site may find that the existing search search engine hadn't done but that the Inc., unveiled a search engine pow­bar uses the new search engine, said new technology will do. ered by its own in-house technology. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 12, 2004 
Aguilar addresses i111111igration 

By JEN ROWLING News Writer · 
Alfonso Aguilar, Chinf' of' the Oflko of' Citizenship and Notre Dame graduate, lncturnd Thursday on "Building a Common Civie Identity." 
In the past threo years, one million green cards worn dis­tributPd and at least a half' mil­lion naturalizations conducted, Aguilar nxplainnd. Largo num­bers havo migratod from Asia, Latin Amnrica and Africa to tho United States. 
Aguilar said that his position as Chief of' Citizenship within the Department of Homeland Security involvns promoting eivic principles and increasing awarnnoss of tho privileges and responsibilities of boing an American eitizon. 
"Wo aro a nation ol' immi­grants," Aguilar said. 
llo said that America must lllarn how to successfully incorporate immigrants into socinty. "Wo are a nation not based on religion, culture, but civic principles, we need to integrate immigrants into our civic culture, what unites us are civic principles," Aguilar said. 
According to Aguilar, immi­grants should be invited to par­ticipate in the larger communi­ty to avoid marginalization. 
Aguilar admittnd biases exist, but said that the situation has improved over the past centu­ry. 
"We have experience of incorporating people into of our nation," Aguilar said. 
The Office of Citizenship initi­ated new programs to assist immigrants in their transitions to American citizenship. Immigrants now receive a "Welcome to U.S." guide, which contains information pertaining to healthcare, edu­cation and laws. Also, new seminars provide U.S. history and language assistance. 
Aguilar called all citizens to weleome new immigrants and assist them in the transition to the American lifestyle. 
"The federal government can 

&ood Luck 

Irish! 
Visit the restaurant voted Best Breakfast and Best Lunch by the readers of the South Bend Tribune in either of our two locations: 
•Downtown South Bend across from the Hall of Fame 288-PEEP 
•Mishawaka off Main St. next to Super Target 
271-PEEP. 
6:30am -2:00pm· Mon-Fri 7:00am -2:00pm Sat & Sun 
·-----------------------------------------~ 
~uy one entree get asecond half off 
(valid anytime but not with any other offer) Ohservereoupon • expires 12/15/2004 
Driver 
continued from page 1 
was able to obtain was in the e­mail," McDonald said. "We want­ed to give the community as much information as possible so this didn't happen to anyone." 
Senior Kendall Krische said she has never had any problems with cab drivers, but will now be more cautious when using cabs for transportation. 
"I usually take a cab somewhere at least once a week," Krische said. :.I guess from now on, if I have to go anywhere, I'll try to go with a lot of people." 
And while others agree with Krische, some students said they wouldn't be afraid to take a cab in the future. 
Junior Jessica Landgraf she would immediately report a cab driver if she were ever proposi­tioned. 
"Yes, I'd feel uncomfortable, but I would still take a cab if I needed one," she said. "I don't think this should deter people from taking a taxi, espedally when they're doing it for safety masons like getting transportation to and from bars." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu. 


NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect 

for winter. Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 

CUTPCST Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:00pm
~ 
Sat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm 
Cold Weather Experts 
Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oopm 
NOW HIRING ALL POSITIONS! 
marco~s Pizza. 
Variety • Fun • Rewarding 
•Flexible hours-day & evening shifts available 
•Management positions1 delivery drivers1 pizza makers 
•No experience necessary 
•Job advancement opportunities 
INTERVIEWS & ON THE SPOT HIRING 

APPLY IN PERSON 
Marco•s Pizza 52750 IN933 (North of Cleveland Rd.) 574-243-1122 

326 N. Ironwood (corner of Ironwood and McKinley) 574-243-1111 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!fhe Observer Aguilar, Chief of the Office of Citizenship, speaks Thursday. 
not be solely responsible, we need to coordinate with the local, state, faith groups and colleges," Aguilar said. 
Contact }en Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 



Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
JAPAN 
Officials try to identify n1ystery subn1arine 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -Japan's military on Thursday shadowed an unidentified submarine that entered its territorial waters the day before, but officials said they had not yet figured out which country the intruder was from. 
Tokyo put its navy on alert Wednesday after spotting the submarine off the southern island of Okinawa and sent a reconnaissance plane and destroyer to follow its move­ments. 
The submarine, which spent two hours in Japanese waters before leaving, was heading north Thursday, Chief Cabinet Secretary Iliroyuki Ilosoda said: 
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi said the govern­ment was trying to confirm the vessel's identify, but he added that sometimes it helped to be vague. 
"There are security issues involved. Sometimes it is better to not say things very clearly," Koizumi said. 
Asked if Japan's navy was having trouble identifying the vessel, Koizumi said: "No. It's good to have advanced abilities, but sometimes it's better not to know how advanced those abilities are." 
He added Japan would take "appropriate action" when it confirmed the 1fiYS­tery sub's identity. 
Hosoda refused to confirm media reports that defense officials believe the vessel is from China, saying: "We don't have enough conclu­sive evidence to make a determination." 
He said it would take time to identify the submarine because it had not yet sur­faced and did not appear to be heading toward a specific country. Hosoda said Tokyo has not confronted any countries about the incident. 
Japanese public broadcast­er NHK said defense officials suspected it was a Chinese Han-class nuclear subma­rine, based on an analysis of the sounds it was making. 
In Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said she did not know if the vessel was Chinese. 
"The Chinese side is now paying close attention to this issue and I do not approve or encourage any random suppositions on this ques­tion," Zhang told reporters at a regular briefing. "As to whether this is a Chinese submarine, I do not know and I cannot provide you any information on this." 

MEXICO 
City residents debate art exhibit 
Shack perceived as too similar to real poverty 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY -A squatter "shack" that bulges like a tumor off the outside wall of a Mexico City museum is an experiment in living -or an eyesore, a waste of money, an affront to the country's millions of real squatters, depending on whom you ask. 
Whatever it is, Hector Zamora's work of art is hard to ignore. It crawls down the side of the Carrillo Gil art museum about 30 feet above street level, reachable from the sidewalk only by a rickety wooden stair­way. 
Zamora, 29, says the red cocoon-like shack is a three­month experiment in living in a public space, a technical explo­ration of lightweight buildings and an opportunity to "spark a discussion." 
"People have left me angry notes in my mailbox saying, 'I hope someday you live in real poverty,' and 'Now I know where the arts budget is going,"' said Zamora, a design­er who builds canopies and pavilions. 
Residents of San Angel, the colonial-era suburb of man­sions around the museum, hated it so much they forced Zamora to do what nornial squatters don't do -battle for months to get construction per­mits. 
It's not just the insults. Passers-by have barged unin­vited into the red, tarpaper shack. One real squatter stopped by and offered tips for imi?rovement. 
Zamora says his wood­floored dwellingplace -a par­abolic steel frame supported by cables strung from the muse­um's roof-mimics the precar­iousness and lack of privacy that real squatters suffer. 
He often has to sleep with earplugs as trucks roar by out­side his plastic-sheeted win­dows. The conclusions from the experiment? "This is a livable space," he says, but he gets out on Nov. 28 and is quick to add that when he builds his dream house, "it will not be in the city." 
Zamora says the work, titled "Revolucion 1608, bis," is meant to reflect the inventive­ness of real squatters, who often build shacks in swamps or 45-degree hillsides. He is proud of the lightweight, inex­pensive materials like corrugat­ed cardboard insulation, and 
also used some  "I had no intention  800 square  feet,  
"real squatter" materials like tar paper, old oil tins and dis­ ofimitating poverty or ofshowing disrespect for it. "  reflects the true plight of the city's hundreds of thou­sands of squatters.  
carded wooden  "I had no intention  
scaffolding. Zamora's grandparents  Hector Zamora artist  of imitating pover­ty," Zamora said, "or of showing dis­ 
came  to  the  respect for it."  
city as squat- Zamora acknowl­ 

ters, but later achieved lower edges the shack is fairly luxuri­middle-class respectability. In ous and pricey by crowded college, Zamora became fasci­squatter standards. Its $40,000 nated with architectural geom­cost -paid for mostly by the etry, and cites Buckminster government and a private Fuller as an influence. So when donor -would have bought the museum approached him to one of the tiny, cookie-cutter a0 the exhibition' it didn't apartments in the cheap hous­expect any ordinary shack. ing complexes sprouting across 
He hooked up to the muse-the broad Mexico Valley. 
urn's water, electricity and sewer lines, just as real squat­ters tap into the infrastructure around them, sometimes over­loading circuits and causing blackouts. 
Some, however, think Zamora didn't go far enough. 
"It's a magnificent effort, but I don't think it's provocative enough," said Graciela Schmilchuk, a contemporary arts researcher for Mexico's National Fine Arts Institute. "Perhaps it would have been more effective if he had invad­ed part of the sidewalk, or the street." 
That's what real squatters often do -turn parks, nature reserves and vacant lots into shanty towns. The city's main bike trail is blocked at three points by squatters' camps. 
One question being debated is 
whether the shack, 
a relatively spacious 


Dept. of Irish Language & Literature Roinn Theanga agus Litriocht na Gaeilge 

Eire 

"'lrish-Not just forT-Shirts" 
Irish is the oldest vernacular literature in Europe and the living language of An Ghaeltacht in Ireland. Widely spoken by Irish emigrants to the United States in the 18th, 19th and 20th century, it is spoken in U.S. cities such as Boston, New York, Chicago and San Francisco. The Department of Irish Language & Literature/Roinn Theanga agus Litriocht na Gaeilgc offers courses for absolute beginners, intermediate and advanced students next tenn. 
*Discover your heritage *Learn about Ireland 
* Satisfy the Irish Studies Minor *Satisfy the Foreign Language Requirement 
"'lrish has been taught at Notre Dame since 1868. lsn't it time you took a course?" 
IRLL 101 A fun and entertaining introduction to the modem Irish language. This course introduces the basic principles of granunar and sentence structure, as well as core vocabulary. Emphasis is placed on the application ofthese principles in every-day situations. 
IRLL 102 A continuation of lRLL 101. Emphasis is placed on reading simple texts in lrish and expanding the student's linguistic, grammatical and cultural knowledge. The students grows in confidence and linguistic ability. 
IRLL 103 A continuation of lRLL i02. Develops the student's existing language skills. Emphasis is on expanding fluency, competency and reading literature in translation. 
Spring 2005 

lRLL 101:01  T H 11:00-12:15  Prof. Sarah l\lcKibben  
IRLL 101:02  .MWF 10:40-11:30  Prof. Peter l\'lcQuillan  
IRLL 101:03  T H 12:30-1:45  Prof. Brian 6 Conchubhair  
IRLL 102:01  T H 2:00-3:15  Prof. Sarah l\1cKibhen  
IRLL 102:02  MWF 9:30~.1 0:25  Prof. Peter McQuillan  
lRLL I 03:0 I.  T H 11:00-12:15  Prof. Brian 6 Conchubhair  



10/8 This End Up 
. lQi22 Red Alert l1/l2 Special Guest to be Announced 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------·~ 
page 10 
OxyContin operation busted 
Associated Press 
NEWAHK. N.J. -Morn than a doznn rnputed street gang mnmbnrs. organiznd crime associates. pharmacists and eollegn students have bonn arrnstnd f'or their parts in an allngnd ring that sold the pow­nrf'ul painkillnr OxyContin in tlw Boston area. authorities said Thursday. 
Tho ring moved tens of thou­sands of' pills. whieh sold f'or $SO to $100 apincn. authori­ties said. It took in about $150.000 a wnnk. and had bonn opnrating f'or over a ynar. 
"No onn nxpncts thorn to bn a eonnnelion bntwenn organ­iznd crimn llgurns, strnnt gang mnmbnrs and collngn stu­dnnts," Union County Pros­ncutor Thnodorn Homankow said. "They do make strange bod f'nllows." 
Authorities arrested 14 sus­poets in Nnw Jersey. two in Massael1 usetts and onn in Arizona on Wednesday and Thursday. Additional arrests worn nxpnel1Hl. 
Thn allngnd ringleador, Louis (;alliechio. 64. of' Nt~wark -dnscribnd by dotoe­livns as a Lucchnsn crimn fam­ily associate -befriended strnet gang members and rtHTtiitnd tlwm to be runnnrs, dnlivnring shipments of pills bought illngally from two phannacins in Newark. offi­cials said. 
Buyers in Massael1 usnt ts allngndly included throe col­lege studnnts. two of' whom had bonn taken into custody. 
Clear Coat



F F · 
Friday, November 12, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS 
SWITZERLAND 

WHO recotntnends stnallpox ·virus alteration 
Associated Press 

GENEVA -A World lleaHh Organization committee has recommnnded approval for genetically altering the small­pox virus to make it easier to determine whether drugs to tackle the disease are ef'fec­tivn, the U.N. agency said Thursday. 
The alteration involvos 
· adding a marker gene to tho virus that would glow green under a fluorescent light if' the smallpox virus was still alive that the purpose of the experi­but would not react if it was ments would be to try to dead. WHO spokesman Dick improve smallpox treatment. Thompson told The Associated In the United States. howev­P-ress. er, a senior smallpox expert 
"They recommended that said he was wary. experiments be done that "I think that it is unwise f'or would speed the screening of us to be continuing research drugs for anti-smallpox activi­with a smallpox virus," NPH ty," Thompson said. quoted Dr. Donald Henderson, 
Thompson confirmed this President Bush's former would constitute genetic bioterrorism czar, as saying. manipulation -as reported Henderson ran the suecess­earlier Thursday by National ful WHO campaign to wipe out Public Radio -but stressed smallpox in the developing 
Irish Sports Report is your inside guide to all there is 
to know about Notre Dame sports. With exclusive photos, award­winning national writers and unmatched "on-the-ground" resources, Irish Sports Report provides insight you can't get anywhere else. For only $45.95 receive 21 comprehensive issues, published weekly during the football season, monthly after the season. In addition, our annual Notre Dame Football Preview is included. Irish Sports Report is a must-have subscription for all true Irish sports 

fans. 
i i I 

ye~ 
• 
lll the 

life~

o±J 

otre 
countries of Africa. Asia and Latin America from 196CJ to 1977. 
The WIIO committee, whieh met in Geneva Nov. 4-5, said further resoarch should be earried out on the marker gene that would be inserted into the smallpox virus. Thompson said. 
The World llealth Assembly -the ruling body of' the 192­nation WIIO -would make a final decision on whethnr to approve the experiments. 

Notre Datne Folk Choir Concert for the Missions 
Novetnbcr 13, 2004 8:30 pn1 

The Universi(v qjNotre Dame F'olk Choir Basilica o(the Sacred Heart Universi(v f~lNotre Dame 


----------1 
' 
' 
' 
' 
•I I

Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 I I 
I 



Day by Day 25th Anniversary Edition Fr. Tom McNally and William Storey 
2:00 pm -4:00 pm 
I Play For Notre Dame Ted Mandell 
3:00 pm -5:00 pm 
Bill Miller: Do You Know Me Libby Miller Fitzgerald 
2:00 pm -4:00 pm 

Saturday, November 13 
What it Means to be Fighting Irish Johnny Lattner and Bobby Brown 9:00am -11:00 am 
For Who For What a Warrior's Journey Ricky Watters 9:00am -11:00 pm 
Tales from the Notre Dame Hardwood Digger Phelps 11:00 am-1:00pm 
Green Thumb A Notre Dame Mystery Ralph Mcinerny 9:00am -11:00 pm Where the Birds Never Sing Jack Sacco 

4:00 pm -6:00 pm 
Monk's Travels Fr. "Monk" Malloy 2:00pm-4:00pm 
Go Irish Connie McNamara 11:00 am-1:00pm 
The Heisman: Great American Stories of the Men Who Won. Bill Pennington 11:00 am-1:00pm 
HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT·
page 12 Friday, Novemer 12, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
PO. llox Q, Notre Dame. IN 46)56 024 South [lining I !all, Notre D.lmc, IN 46156 EDITOR IN 0111'.1' Mau l~>zar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Dnwnt'>  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGIN<; EIIIT<lll  
Joe llt·ltler  

NEWs Enrnm: Claire Heining<'r Vlf.WPOINT Emnm: Sarah Vabula; SPORTS EDITOR: I !rather Van Hoegarden SCENE Enrnlll: Maria Smi1h SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud 1'1101"0 EDITOR: Claire Kdk')' GIIIIPIIICS ElliTOil: Mike I Iarkins AIWEilTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin An DESIGN MANAGFR: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTllAI"Oil: Mary Allen CONTROLLER: !'aula ( ;arcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO ('i74) (jj 1-7471 FAX {'\74) (,j 1-6927 ADVERTISING 
('i71t) 631-h'JOO nh>ead~i•nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF 
1574) G:il-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
('i74) (,.)I .lj)41 ulNnt·@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR ('i74) (,JI-It32·t BUSINESS OFFICE ('\74) 631-'i.'\ 13 NEWS DESK 
('i74) (,) 1-5.~23 obsncws.l @nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK (571) (>31-'i303 vicwpoint.l@nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK ('i74) (>31-4'i43 'pons.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
('i74) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESk smc. I ~hHl.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-H767 phoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (S74) 631-8839 
OBsERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Nurre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contem, including advertisement~, is nm governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements b;L'ed on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdicorials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chic!; Managing Editor, A'sist;UH Man:l:ging Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present rhe views of the author., and not necessarily those ofThe ( )bscrvrr. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through leuers is encouraged. l.c·tlers to tlw Editor must be signed and nm'r include contact inf(mnation. 
Qtmtiom rey,rtrdinx Observer policies should be directed to F.ditor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

11u: Oll\cl vel tll~t-S 'S'J•) 2:.-Jt()tJO) b puhlt~<hcd Muml•y dnuuith Frld11.)' c:xcept ,Jt,rinM cx.1m .lnd vJ~Ariun petiud~. A \Hhlo(ripdon ro The Ohscrvcr t.\ $1110 {{,r ont' ar.:ademic: yew.$';'; /I})'JJllc<icma.l('t 
·n1e {)l~wrvet illfl mcml,,·r ttfrhe Av•• ><.tJI~ !'ttl!o. All 1eprudu•rmn ri~lu~o ,m: 
IC:.\l'IVcd. 
llu: 0\J~iVCI \.~ puh[i.tu:,[ ,1\. r:o.n,,.Q ll..!'l Snuth Dillllll( 11~11 rJ.Z'\ Suwh Din in~ ll.tll Nuu~ D.uue, IN ·iMijfl.07'J'J Nunc Dame, IN 46S%-0771J l't•rtotlu.. RI f!0\\,1.\t'Jl•ltti>u Notre Po~mc .tnd ~ddiuott.tl tu~dmK iJOkc~> 
POSTMASTER Sc!nd 11ddn·u ..:urtl!l.:rinn.\ rn: 
'[1u:.•OlJ~JH'I 
The l lh~l·rvcr i5 .t IIWinll\·r ~~r rhc i\\MJI,.Iol!Cd rn:a. Alltcprudm.tmn rtght~ .,lr~ n~t.'rvq\, 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Pat Leonard Eileen Duffy Kate Gales Maddie Hanna Maggie Oldham Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Molly Griffin Brauweiler Illustrator Graphics Graham Ebetsch Graham Ebetsch 
Staff, NDSP inaction fosters apathy 
Compamd to other colleges, Notre Dame is a relatively safe · But the issue remains that the incident was rnportnd at :~:45 place. Hamly does anyone hnar of crimfl or security problems on p.m. Sunday to NDSP and more than 19 hours elapsed bnliml tho campus. But tllis week, then~ was a security problem-and not first alert was issued. The Pasquerilla West resident<; desorved to many people seemed to notice. know what happmmd. They deserved to know right away, so they 
Sunday morning, a man was reportedly seen in the Pasquerilla could be aware of' what was going on and take the appropriate Wnst showers betwflen the hours or 7 and 8:30 a.m.-a clear Du precautions. The Notre Dame campus also needed to know what Lac violation. This man is suspncted of' committing vandalism acts happened so they too could be a warn. within this I(~ male dorm, consisting of sexually But what happenod wa..'i too little, too latn. explicit phrases written on whitP boards, doors and The msidents of Pasqunrilla Wnst wern already
01Jhe

shower stalls throughout the building. apathetic. They weren't concerned about what 
userver 

This situation appnars to bn rather serious, espe­happennd, but insti~ad considnred it a lluke, or just cially at Notro Dame. However, both the Pasquerilla a onP-time occurnmce. The l'aet orthe mattnr is a West hall stall' and NDSP failed to inform the earn­man was in the dorm, in the shower areas, and 
Editorial 
pus community of this seven~ safety and security during that time, the dorm was vandaliznd. Maybe breach in a timely fa..">hion. residents anm't concerned because by the time tlwy found out, the 
Rnsident'i of the dorm were not inlilrmed about the ineident incident was over in their minds. until II ::~o a.m. Monday morning when they received a silent Perhaps Pasquerilla West's [lall stall' didn't haw the nntirn story message, more than 24 hours after the actual ineident took place. by Sunday night. However, the safety of the Pasquerilla West rnsi­Monday <WPning, the resident<; of Pasquerilla West receivnd an e­dent'i should trump an ongoing investigation when tlwrn is ovi­mail detailing the events and steps they should take to ensure di.mcn of' an apparent seeurity broach. Evon if the story was their sali~ty as well as a mpy of that email in their rooms. The incomplete, residents needed to know about this incident so thny sanw night, NDSP issued a campus-wide security alert. could be inlimm~d and aware. 
These methods of informing people were eflf~ctive. By using dil~ Perhaps hall stall' and NDSP didn't want to scare studonts li~rnnt mediums to reach people-e-mail. phone messages. signs unnecessarily. But somntimes bdng just a little on ndgn, just a lit­-tlw hall stall' of Pasquerilla West made sure every resident tle more aware, can mako a big dill'erencP in one's sali~ty. knew. NDSP also made surn signs wen~ distributed across cam­Tim hall stall' and NDSP gave them the impression that this pus. All of'these ell'orts were completed by Monday night. sncurity breach wa..'in't important nnough to toll them right away, 
But v.·hat about Sunday night? The hall stall' could make· the and as a result, apathy appnars to pervade at least portions of argument that the girls who saw the intruder did not report the both Pasquerilla Wnst and the campus community. incident right away. And yos. these resident<; should have told the But it was a big deal, and it still is. So why donsn't everybody hall stall' inunediatnly when they saw the man. care. 
' ? 

Democrats: celebrate diversity 
The most compelling yet unsurprising Bush a hefty lead among those who cited short of its goal. While they position them­lesson to be learned from the 2004 moral values as their primary voting con­selves on the moral seale so their unifying Presidential election is that the wave of' cern, offered fodder for bashing social con­value is merely value-neutrality, any strong alarmingly hateful anti-Bush rhetoric servatives as the standard buzzwords system of beliefs that diverges lrom the backfirnd in Middle America, where voters "ignorant ... intolerant ... homophobic ... mean immediately earns their condescen­are more likely to gun-crazy" surfaced on the editorial pages sion and thinly-veiled contempt. trust the advice of Bill Rinner of the nation's most respected newspapers. Politically speaking, striving for greater their neighbors than A personal favorite, the New York Times moral and religious inclusion may stand to pampered A Voice ofReason columnist Maureen Dowd cited "fear, intol­revitalize the party that increasingly suf­Hollywood elitist<; erance, ignorance and religious rule" as fers defeat at the polling booth. Perhaps and condescending Northeastern liberals the culprits behind Bush's unspeakable blinded by their own partisan rage against who act in the "best interest<;" of the heart­reelection. Her counterpart Paul Krugman, the president, who happens to be openly land. whose columns have demonstrated the religious, the liberal intelligentsia openly 
Glancing at the Barnes and Noble revolting danger of professorial partisan­mocks Bush's invocations of God and faith. "Current Events" bookshelf last weekend, I ship, whined about Bush's "radicl)l agen­During the 1990s, President Clinton dis­couldn't help but marvel at the now-out­da" that a majority of voters endorsed for cussed religion in a combination of person­dated sereeds accusing President George the next four years. al belief' and political utility, and voters 
W. Bush of every ill facing American socie­Down the ranks, ifone discusses the flocked to his down-to-earth vision for ty today. Though my initial reaction was election results with a strong Kerry sup­America's future. Bush's religious ref(Jr­one of pity, I took solace knowing the finan­porter, a slam towards the sheltered ences occur as frequently as Clinton's, yet cial success of-these authors utilizing their Middle America or religious bigots is virtu­the contempt leveled at him by intolerant God-!-,riven talents speaks volumes for the ally inevitable. At this point, they are still liberals only pushed away voters who inclusive power of free-market capitalism. searching for any comforting notion to appreciated his heartfelt conviction. 
For months I feared the literati's wave of assure them Kerry truly was the candidate Democrats have the opportunity to seize disdain directed at the prosident would America should have chosen were it not the moment and prove their version of overcome the calm-headed rationale ol'the for Karl Rove's devious campaign strategy. diversity and tolerance is not simply a American voters and propel Sen. John In an effort to extend the olive branch means of positioning themselves higher on Kerry's intentionally ambiguous platform towards those who found Bush's reelection the scale of elitist delusion. Unchecked to success.·! feared George Soros and his unspeakable and now consider moving to arrogance drowned out the voices of the ilk would declare victory and fuel even Canada an attractive option, I implore my silent majority of Americans who approved greater funding towards "independent" friends on the left to consider their most of Bush's presidency or at least found him 527 -groups and political action commit­favored values-diversity and tolerance. I superior to the challenger, and Democrats tees. I feared the increasingly partisan speak not of the superficial concept of must now look themselves in the mirror mainstream media would feel vindicated racial diversity, but the deeper and more and realize that hubris does not win elec­{(Jr their glaring~y preferential treatment or substantive diversity of thoughts and val­tions. The best hope for shifting America the challenger, and I feared that misguided ues that transcend the standard definition. away from Republican dominance is lor European animus would overpower the America contains the most diverse set of Democrats to prove to the voters that the will of American exceptionalism. robust religious values in the world, values of diversity and tolerance they so 
The electoral and popular vote result'i heightened by the fact that religion in frpquently invoke are more than skin­allayed my longstanding fears, but the America has not declined as noticeably as deep. election's aftermath indicates that Kerry in Europe, the other bastion ofWestern to~­supporters are far from learning their les­erance. Bill Rinner is a senior economics major. son. The results hit anti-Bush circles with Democrats, liberals, progressives (liber­His column appears every other friday. He shock and awe, and critics have latched als who don't like being called liberal) and can be reached at hottline@aol.com. onto anything that lends an air of intellec­every other shade of blue champion the The views expressed in this column are tual or moral superiority. value of tolerance foremost, but far too those ofthe author and not necessarily 
Notably, the exit poll results, which gave often their righteous inclusion falls far those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 

Do you think that academic cheating is a problem on campus? 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 150 responses. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Fall seven times, stand up eight." 
Japanese proverb 



THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, November 12, 2004 page 13 
Who's right? 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Democratic Party must become pro-life 
Two questions should be asked before, during, and after every election: 1) those voters backing Bush, the pro-life electoral equivalent of an ace-in-the-hole What hopes do we have for the future, and 2) How do we get there from here? pushed Bush to victory. It seems that many Democrats do not fully comprehend Those questions should be asked by both the general population and also by the weight the abortion issue carries, especially in rural areas. I come from individual political parties and movements. 
a small farm in southern Indiana and have seen abortion single hand­
As a moderate Democrat I hope for more jobs, better schools, safe edly negate the progressive beliefs of many good men and women. 
I have to chuckle a bit when I think of those Republican voters who expect the next four years will lead to an overturning of Roe v. Wade. You would think that after 16 years of Hepublican presi­
·John lnfranca
dents since 1980, reality would have set in. It has not. 
Dissident Poetry 
When former President Clinton entered office, eight of nine Swpreme Court justices were Republican appointees, but Roe was still the law of the land. What a high-stakes wager it was this year, reelecting a president responsible for the largest budget deficit in history and a fiasco in the Middle East. Pro-life Republicans bet the house. I wager they lost. 
A recent study indicates President George W. Bush's first term brought an increase in abortions. Economic problems arid rising health costs ren­der it likely we can expect the same in years to come. Meanwhile, abor­tions dropped by nearly 200,000 annually under Clinton. Such statis­tics make little difference to those who prefer ineffective absolutist moral posturing to actual change. One can be so tied to a cause he forgets the effect. 
I took a somewhat perverse pleas­ure in the firestorm that resulted when Sen. Arlen Spector, the likely new Republican Chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee, warned Bush of the obstacles a court nominee who might overturn Roe would face in the Senate. Religious conservatives, aware of the major role they played in reelecting Bush, were up in arms. Some declared Spector unfit for the post. 
This controversy between a socially moderate Northeasterner and the religious right reveals a growing ten­sion in the GOP. The famously-unified Hepublicans might soon develop the kind of in-fighting Democrats have made famous. 

For the past few decades, Republicans have succeeded by bran­dishing a clear vision while Democrats remain mired in what strategist James Carville calls "lita­nies, not a narrative." The Republican vision in this election was of tax cuts, privatization and a more bellicose international presence. Democrats failed to ade­quately convey an alter­native. To paraphrase "The Big Lebowski:" "say what you will about the tenets of the Republican Party, as least it has an ethos." This ethos is, however, undergoing a perhaps divisive transforma­tion. 
Bush (really Karl Rove) has recast the Republican Party, much as Clinton shifted the New Democra..tp to the center. Bush moved to the right, the reli­gious right in particu­lar. He has abandoned traditional Republican posi­tions -fiscal responsibility, gov­ernment accountability, concern for the middle class and a reliable, cau­tious foreign policy. The assertion that he is the heir apparent to President Reagan did not convince the many conservative individuals and publications that chose not to support his reelection or endorsed Sen. John Kerry. They saw an administration that is soci<dly conservative and eco­nomically indecipherable, and whose neo-conservative foreign ·policy has hindered America's ability to lead on the global stage. ·The American con­servative denounced the influence of the Christian Right on foreign policy and their unqualified support for Israel. Interestingly, Evangelical 
Christian leader Pat Robertson's major cri­tiques of Bush have centered on the presi­dent's support for the road map for peace in the Middle East, which "could put the United 
States at cross-pur­poses with 
God." 
Robertson, along with Jerry Falwell and James Dobson, 
represent an element of the 
Republican Party that has received much 

attention since the election. On the other end of the spectrum are the key speakers during the recent Republican Convention: Governors Mitt 
Romney (Massachusetts).. Arnold Schwarzenegger (California) and George Pataki (New York), as weP as current and former New York City Mayors Michael Bloomberg and Rudolph Giuliani. Some of these men ate potential 2008 presidential candi­dates. All are pro-choice and socially moderate to liberal. Their major roles in the convention compelled more than half the Republicans in the House to send a formal letter of com­plaint to Bush in July. They ques­tioned why pro-life speakers were not given a more public role during the convention. Makes you wonder, does­n't it? 
The most prominent pro-life speak­er was a Democrat (at least in theo­ry), Zell Miller of Georgia. Sen. John McCain, another speaker, is also pro­life, but for many the renegade seH'a­tor has always appeared more fiscally than socially conservative. He faced strong opposition from religious con­servatives during the 2000 primaries. What to make of a party with a pro­life platform headlining its most prominent pro-choice politicians? Perhaps one should question their commitment to the cause. One must admit the Republicans are at least more receptive than Democrats to the minority view in their party on abor­tion. Fortunately, pro-life Democrats, often ostracized, might find some hope in their new Senate minority leader, pro-lifer Harry Reid of Nevada. 
Republican supporters like the Center for Reclaiming America (for Christ) would likely actively oppose Giuliani or Pataki should they seek the 2008 nomination. A fault line might develop over the next decade or two between the religious right and the "Traditional Conservative" (main­ly Northeastern) wing of the party. This is good, not for Democrats, they still need to get their act together, but for our political process. Who thought a viable third party might come from the right? Unfortunately, unless he makes a few changes, Ralph Nader is not likely to receive their nomination. 
John Jnfranca is a theology gradu­ate student. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached at jinfran1@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
communities and an increased availability of healthcare for all Americans. In the wake of President George W. Bush's clear vic­tory I, like many Democrats, have trouble seeing a definitive path towards my hopes for this nation. 
However, there is a bold and clear move the Democratic Party must make sooner rather than later -move the party's platform from a pro-choice to a pro-life stance on abortion. 
It is politically impossible to take a middle of the road position on abortion. The Democratic Party should cre­ate a platform opposing abortion except in cases of rape, incest and the mother's health. The Democratic Party should continue to welcome pro-choice members but insist on pro-life leadership. Roe v. Wade is now destined to be overturned, leaving abortion up to the states. At that point, if the Democrats are still the "abor­tion party," Republicans will sweep to power in at least 30 state legislatures and governor's offices in order to outlaw abortion at the state level. Sen. John Kerry was not the only loser. On Nov. 2, the pro-life movement struck a fatal blow to the pro-choice position. The sooner the Demoeratic Party realizes this, the better. 

Abortion is a unique issue which is not central to the basic principles of the Democratic Party. Contrary to the opinion of many, abortion is not a critieal component in the ongoing fight for I remember one time discussing politics with a friend, I noticed 
her views were very decidedly left of center. However, when I asked her for whom she was going to vote she instantly , replied, "George Bush" and then, automatically acknowledg­
ing the inconsistency in her position said, "Bryan, I just can't vote for someone who won't end abortion." People 
like the ones from my hometown are the lower-middle class~ economically progressive voters who provided Bush with a wide margin of victory in rural areas due to 
Bush's pro-life stance. Although I firmly believe single­issue voting threatens our democracy by allowing a small part of the electorate to decide policy, there is no feasible way to end the practice. 
I realize distancing ourselves from the pro-choice position will not instantly create droves of converts to the Democratic Party. However, by supporting the pro­
life movement we will open the minds of millions of Americans to the Democratic arguments on various issues. I look forward to the debate about Democratic 
principles, we are the party of civil rights, economic and 

educational opportunity for all and, albeit cliche, we are indeed the party of hope. I believe we can win a debate in this country about core Democratic values. Let it be known to all who wish to look to the future that while the pro-choice 
movement has been defeated, Democratic ideals have not. They 
women's rights. Abortion as a political issu~ has actually threatened 
are not one and the same. the future advancement of core women's rights issues such as equal pay Bryan Hambley for equal work legislation. Bush was not the only clear victor Nov. 2; the pro-life sophomore movement also scored a resounding victory. With more than 20 percent of voters Zahm Hall saying "moral issues" were the most important issues to them, and 80 percent of Nov. 11 

Photo courtesy of Patrick Ryan 

S T 0 R Y B y MAR I A S M I T H 
W 
hen you look at Moses Pendleton's work, you wouldn't think it all started showing dairy cows at the Celdonian County Fair. 
The internationally famous choreographer has come a long way from his family farm in northern Vermont. Since he first started touring with danen company Pilobolus after graduating with a degree in English from Dartmouth College, Pendleton's work has benn featured all over the world, from Paris to Munich to New York. He has created choreography for ballets, operas and music videos among other projects. 
Dance enthusiasts have another rare opportunity following on the heels of "Swan Lake" performed by the renowned Moscow Ballet at the Morris Performing Arts Center on Thursday night. On Saturday MOMIX, Pendleton's famous danee company, will take the same stage with a performance that is unlike anything else in the world of dance. 
The performance was arranged by tlw staff' at thn i>PBartolo Center for tlw Performing Arts. University-spon­son~d diseounts havP lowered student tit·kd priens to $7, f'ar below what would normally be eharged f'or a MOMIX pnrf'ormancn. 
Tlw group eharaetnrizes the unique styln f'or which Pnndlnton has become famous. lnventivn costumes and ere­alive usn of' choreography combirw to crnatn thn niTnrt that has brought the nwmbnrs of' MOMIX the label of darH:nr-illusionists. MOMIX uses the full capacity of' the human body in its 
dancing, but does not stop there. The group uses hammoeks, trapezes, poles and other indescribable props to nxpand the possibilities of dance. Incorporated elements of gymnastics make the group one of the most ath­lntic in the business. The inventrve and technically excellent dance troupe has earned the praise of professional dancers and amateur fans alike. 
"Opus Cactus," the group's newest touring performance, was inspired by the great saguaro cactus of the American southwest. The choreogra­phy is based on the unique 11ora and 
fauna of the desert. Dances pieces reflect tumbleweeds, lizards, rat­tlesnakes and desert blooms. 
MOMIX was created in 1981, a year after Pendleton choreographed the closing ceremonies for the 1980 Winter Olympics. The group is named after Pendleton's solo piece "Momix" which he also performed for the games. 
Ovnr the past 2.0 years the group has performed in more than 20 countries. The group's more famous performanc­es inelude "Bad Habits," a show creat­ed to celebrate the opening of the San Franeisco Giants' new training park in 1992, and a performance featured in the 3-D IMAX l'ilm "Imagine." "Bad llabits" was a forerunrwr for the full­length performance "Baseball," onn of the group's famous touring perform­ances. 
"Opus Cactus" will he performed at the Morris Center for thn Performing Arts at 8:00 p.m. on Saturday. Ti!:kets range from $22-$30. $7 rush seats arn available for Notre Damn students. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 



~----------------------~-------------­
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 2004 
MEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 

No.1 Keenan to meet No.7 Knott in championship 
been our best weapon in eachBy CHRIS KHOREY game. We can run the ball with 
Sports Writer 
the bflst of tlwm. and we can throw whnn we need to." 
All tho hard work, taunting · Contnnders for the honor of and hypn arn ovnr. On Sunday, Keenan's "weapon of the game" tho blun-elad Knenan Knights inelude quarterback Eric takn on the orangn-jnrseynd Laumann, halfback Alex .luggs from Knott at Notm Dame StaiTieri, wide receiver Danny Stadium for tho men's interhall Zenker and fullback Heed football d~ampionship this Langton. Each individual has Sunday at 1:30 p.m. at tlw stadi­had big games statistically in the Lllll. past such as Zenker's two touch­
Tho Knights come into the downs last week against gamn with an impressive 6-0 Siegfried. n~conl and several lopsided vie­Notably, each of the stars torins. Additionally, they have credits the offensive line for not allowed a point in the play-· their potent attack. oiTs. Thn .Juggs, on the other "The real stars of the game hand, snuek into the playoffs are on the line," Laumann said with a 2-2 record but have last week. shown dramatic improvement· Because of their oll'ensive suc­since, routing Alumni in the cess, the Knights do not expect semifinals 24-0. to change their game plan for 

"We think we've always been the title game. a good team, we just got some "We feel we can run the ball bad breaks," Knott captain successfully against any front, Drew Donovan said of his team's and that opens the passing improvement. "We just prac­game," Downey said. "We're "Our secondary has been "We have confidence, and I quarterback Justin Gillett and ticed hard and tried to decrease going to stay with our basic great for us all year," Donovan don't think our quarterback has wide receiver Trey Patrick. the mental mistakes." package. said. "We put them in a lot of thrown four interceptions all Patrick caught a 30-yard touch­
Both teams have been impres­Hopefully we don't have to situations where they have to go year," he said. "That said, we down pass and last week Gillett sive in the playoffs, employing delve into our bag of tricks." one on one and they've been have to respect their secondary. threw another one for 25 yards balanced attacks and stifling On the other side of the field, aggressive all season in terms of We're going to have to concen­to Lyons. defense. the Juggs will rely on their going for interceptions and get­trate on running the ball." The Juggs also boast kicker 
"This year we have fantastic stingy defense, which has spe­ting the ball back to the On offense, Knott will try to Eric Wooldridge, who kicked a balance on offense. We're not cialized in causing turnovers offense." pound the ball with halfback 37 -yard field goal last week. reliant on any one guy," Keenan this season. Last week, Knott Downey, however, downplayed John Lyons, who carried for 120 captain Pat Downey said. "A dif­had four interceptions on only the influence of the Knott defen­yards against Si.egfried and Contact Chris Khorey at ferent guy has stepped up and seven Alumni passes. sive backs. attack through the air with ckhorey@nd.edu 

Keenan's Laumann leads team with' his experience'' 

By TOM STILES Sports Wri rer 

Keenan's sophomore quar­terback Eric Laumann is not your average football player. 
Laumann will be playing in the biggest game of the inter­hall season on the biggest stage Sunday when his Keenan Knights take on the Jugger" knotts from Knott. 
The pressure and excitement surrounding this game is unlike any other considering famHies of players will be fly­ing in to see the championship, including Laumann's. 
With friends and foes attend­ing the game, they will almost certainly make up the largest crowd either team has played in front of all year. 
Although anxiety will be an issue for most of the players, Laumann is not "most play­ers." He has been playing foot­ball since the fifth grade up to his senior year at Kettering Alter High School in Dayton, Ohio. After becoming the· start­ing quarterback his sophomore year, he took his team all the way to the state semifinals both his junior and senior year. 
"We played in front of about 15,000 people, which is one of the largest crowds for a high school game in Ohio's history. So, I really don't get nervous," Laumann said. "Before games I take it easy and let the defense get pumped up. I just get in my own frame of mind and try to stay focused." 
Laumann has remained one of the most versatile players in interhall based upon statistics alone. 
Laumann has already had three games in which he has 
thrown and rushed for over 200 yards this season. This is in addition to throwing and rushing for at least three touchdowns in each of the con­tests. 
"We like to run a balanced offense, and Eric is a huge part of it because he is versatile enough to execute on running plays designed for him and he can really tuck it and run on the broken ones," Keenan cap­tain Patrick Downey said. "As any good quarterback, you have to have leadership quali­ties, and Eric does. He just has that knack for making big plays, especially on third downs. We are very confident when the ball is in his hands." 
Laumann attributes this con­fidence to his many years of experience. 
"I think the biggest thing that I bring to the offense is experience. I can read routes well, and I'm better at pro­gressions than most quarter­backs in this league," Laumann said. ''I'm athletic enough to be able to make something happen if people bust through the line. Plus, I have a great receiver to throw to in Dan Zenker." 
In addition to the Keenan receivers, its defonse has been a dominant presence all sea­son long. 
The Knights defense has recorded three shutouts and hasn't allowed an opponent to score more than seven points all season. 
"The key for a win on Sunday will be the line. It all starts with the offensive line," Laumann said. "Then the run­ning game will open up the passing game." 
A successful passing game 
and making few mistakes is a pressure Laumann places upon himself. 
"For me, the big thing is no turnovers and just making the plays that are called. We are good enough where I don't have to be spectacular," Laumann said. "I know they have a good running back, but our defense hasn't given up a touchdown in the playoffs. It'll be a hard fought game." 
Despite being confident in the team's abilities, Laumann knows what is at stake. lie also knows what a great achievement it is to get all the way to the Stadium. Last sea­son, the Knights reached the semifinals, only to lose to Dillon 13-6. Laumann and the rest of the players from last year's team haven't forgotten how close they came to reach­ing the Stadium. This time around though, Keenan looks to relish the experience. 
"Last year was a giant tease," Laumann said. "We were so close and we got a taste. But the loss fueled the lire, so we really got to work early this year." 
Laumann is also hoping last year's mistakes will help the team to be successful on Sunday. 
"I would like to treat this like any other game, but I know the feeling of being on that field will be unbelievable," Laumann said. "But we as a team want to be remembered by everyone there watching. My whole family is coming, so I really hope it will be an expe­rience that they will remember as well." 
Contact Tom Stiles at tstiles@nd.edu 


Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Chaos and Wild Women set to face off in final 
. By BRAD WALLACE Sports Writer 
Before the leaves changed 
and one could still go outside 
without a parka, Cavanaugh 
and Walsh met in the first 
game of the 2004 interhall sea­
son. They played to a 0-0 tie. 
Eight weeks later and 30 
degrees cooler, the Wild 
Women will butt heads with 
the Chaos once more, but this 
time, there will be no tie. 
The scenery will likely be the 
biggest change Sunday when 
the teams make their way to 
the Stadium for the 12 p.m. 
game; it will be a battle of pro­
lific offenses and smothering 
defenses as this season's best 
will put it all out there in hopes 
of being the 2004 women's 
interhall football champion. 
After winning close semifinal games, neither team will need much pumping up before Sunday. For senior-Walsh cap­tain Carrie Campbell, the idea of playing in the Stadium is more than enough to get her juices flowing. 
"Our last game against Welsh 
Family was really exciting, and 
it definitely got us pumped up 
for the championship," she 
said. "This is our first time in 
the Stadium -we got beat in 
the semis my freshman and 
sophomore years, so we're 
really excited to get the chance 
to play in there." 
Feeling the same rush after 
defeating Pangborn in her 
semifinal game, Cavanaugh 
Caf!taftl'\,Smlft..r6iUoon is, r-eady 
for Sunday's game but is going 
into it looking for one thing. 
"We had a really tough game 
against Pangborn, and the win 
really gave us a lot of momen­tum," Gilloon said. "We were in the Stadium two years ago and got beat by PE, so the juniors and seniors on the team know what this game is all about. Getting there isn't enough for us this time. We're better pre­pared than we were then, and we're here to win." 
But Gilloon and the Chaus know how difficult that goal will be to realize, as it was the Wild Women who handed them the only blemish on a near­perfect record. 
"I think the tie can be attrib­uted to their tough defense, but at the same time, our offense wasn't up and running the way it is now," she explained. 
Campbell agrees the first game was well-fought on both sides, but feels Walsh has made a lot of progress since then. 
"We felt like we morally won the first game. Cavanaugh was ranked first, and we did a good job of shutting them down," Campbell said. "I think both teams have improved a lot since the beginning of the sea­son. I know we feel a lot more confident, and our offense has really begun to click in the sec­ond half of the season." 
Over the last eight weeks, both Walsh and Cavanaugh have developed what they con­sider strengths, but both are extremely well-rounded teams exhibiting impressive skills on both sides of the ball. 
"As far as our play goes, defense has been our greatest strength,'!. Campbell sai~ "Qur corners have been solid, and we've held all of our opponents to few or no points. We've also got a very athletic offense that makes big plays." 


Walsh quarterback Mary Sullivan feels that her team's biggest asset comes off the field. 
"One of our biggest strengths is our unity," Sullivan said. "It doesn't matter who is on the field. When we play, it's always about the team." 
The indiscriminate talent of the Wild Women will be evenly matched Sunday by the far­reaching abilities of the women of Cavanaugh. 
"We've got a really strong offense that makes big plays," Gilloon said. "We've got a lot of great receivers, and our quar­terback, Lisa Ruffer, is getting more accurate every week. Our defense has also come up with several interceptions at crucial times, and they've made a lot of key stops." 
Each team is aware of the other's strengths and will go to ·great lengths to make sure that it comes out on the winning end. 
"Cavanaugh is a great team. They have a very talented offense, and their quarterback is very athletic," Sullivan said. "But I have a lot more confi­dence in our defense than I have in her, and I know they can shut her down." 
As Walsh and Cavanaugh are so evenly matched, it is likely this game will come down to who wants it more. 
"It's going to take the combi­nation of momentum and play­ing our hearts out to win this game, but I know we're going to do it," Gilloon said.. 
Sullivan feels representing her dorm will add the neces­sary motivation to take the Wild Women to the top. 
"We just want to take advan­tage of the opportunity and bring a little glory back to Walsh Hall," Sullivan said. 
Contact Brad Wallace at bwallac2@nd.edu 

Walsh family connection propels team to championship 
has returned to the team on son long. In Walsh's semifinal 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
defense, playing safety and game against Welsh Family, Sports Writer 
linebacker. Even with her on­Molly caught the game-win­field contributions limited by ning touchdown pass. 
On the Walsh interhall foot­injury, Carrie's leadership and Just like her cousin, Julie ball team, the involvement of passion have been vital to Campbell has jumped in as a several members of one family Walsh's success. freshman and contributed has resulted in excellence on "Carrie always brings so from the beginning. Julie has the field. much energy and so much provided the team with some 
The Wild Women of Walsh love for Walsh football," much needed versatility, play­finished an undefeated regu­Carrie's sister Julie said. ing several different positions lar season with a record of 4-Along with Carrie, Dave has throughout the year. 0-2 and have advanced provided excellent leadership "Julie's strongest contribu­through the playoffs to face and inspiration for the team. tion has been her flexibility," Cavanaugh in Sunday's cham­Having played in high school, .Dave said. "She has played pionship game. Interestingly Dave brings a vast amount of three different positions on enough. a great deal of the football knowledge and an offense and two different posi­team's success can be attrib­understanding of the game. tions on defense, and she has uted to one family. However, Dave, in his sec­started at all of those posi­
Senior Carrie Campbell ond year as Walsh's head tions." serves as Walsh's captain and coach, does more than simply Furthermore, like Molly, leader on the field. Carrie's call the plays. He acts as a Julie has a knack for coming first cousin, Dave Brenner, is friend and mentor to the up with big plays. Her inter­the team's head coach. Carrie entire team. ception in the semifinals and Dave's mothers are identi­"All the girls really like and helped seal the victory for cal twins who attended Notre look up to him," Carrie said Walsh. Dame and lived in Walsh as about Dave. Carrie, Dave, Molly and Julie freshmen. Dave's sister, Molly Walsh junior cornerback have each individually helped Brenner, and Carrie's sister, Patty Rose agreed with Carrie. Walsh reach the championship Julie Campbell, are two of the "Dave really cares about the game. freshmen members of the team and watches out for all However, the cousins' great­Walsh squad. The four cousins of us," Rose said. "He's almost est contribution might lie in have each played a significant like a big brother." their strong relationships and out for the players. Having football and keeps the winning role in the Wild Women's run Dave's sister Molly has made the effect this closeness has those family connections on streak going," Dave said. for the title. an immediate impact on the had on the team as a whole. the team has just made this Carrie, Dave, Molly, Julie 
Carrie is on the Walsh team team in her freshman year. Rose cites these family ties as natural." and the entire Walsh team for the fourth straight season. Dave describes his sister as, a great source of unity for the_ Dave sees team unity as one hope their family bonds can The captain began the year "a raw athlete who is fast and Wild Women. of the leading factor's in help achieve one final victory playing quarterback, but an has great hands." "Walsh football is very much Walsh's success this season. on Sunday. early-season injury ended her Playing wide receiver, Molly like a family," Rose said. "The "Being close like that keeps role as the signal caller. After has demonstrated a penchant players watch out for each everyone coming to practice, Contact Kevin Brennan at sitting out a few games, Carrie for making big plays all sea-other, and the coaches watch keeps people serious about bwallac2@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, November 12, 2004 
page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'The Grudge' is standard but scary 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 
Haunted house movies are a staple of 
the horror genre, and "The Grudge" 
proves to be an interesting and decent­
ly scary addition 
to this elassic vein 
of films. The pic­
ture is a remake of 
a Japanese l'ilm, 
"Ju-on: The 
Grudge," and 
whiln it isn't 
extrmnnly original, 
it dons provide a 
good number of 
scares and main­
tains an aura of 
suspense for a 
good part of the 
movie. Thn movie fol­lows a non-linear plot structure, so it jumps back and forth bntween var­ious characters and timelines. It focuses primarily on Karen Davis (Sarah MicheHe Gellar), a young exchange student who moves to Japan in order to be with her boyfriend, Doug (Jason Behr). Shn works for a nursing care center, 
and she is called to a house after the priJ!tary oaregiver mysteriously disap­pears while she is working. Karen slowly begins to discover the eerie hauntings of the house, as well as the reasons behind why they exist. She quickly l'inds that death awaits all those who enter the house, and that the agel)ts of the curse will track down 
all those who have stepped foot within its doors regard­less of where they are. 
Through the use of flashbacks, cut­backs and some other narrative devices, the film manages to pro­vide scares and a story without giv­ing away too much too soon. The fact that it is based on a Japanese film is evident in how the story is told, as well as how it is resolved, and in this way it .does offer a slightly dif­ferent perspective on what constitutes a scary movie. 
The film's use of 
sound is perhaps the most effective means of creating suspense and startling the audience. The creak of doors, the swell of music, the howl of a cat and especially the eerie, guttural creaking noise that pre-
THEATRE REVIEW 
'Our Town' shows at Saint Mary's 
tell where reality stops and the acting
ByJONATHAN RETARTHA 
begins.

Scene Writer The Stage Manager (Ashleigh Stochel) is the ringleader of this, existing at the The production of Thornton Wilder's same time in the world of the play and "Our Town" at Saint Mary's College this in the real world. She serves as a narra­weekend provides a slice of early 20th tor of the action, but more in the sense century Americana to 21st century col­of a Greek chorus or a Japanese benshi lege students. A play in the vein of who philosophizes and muses about life "Fiddler on the Roof," "Our Town" tells and offers insight into the broader pic­the story of the town of Grover's ture through her following of the citi­Corners, N.H. at the turn of the century. zens of Grover's Corners. Her role by far By placing a spotlight on a particular, is the biggest role in the play since she isolated town, Wilder reveals both truths comments on almost every scene. about early 20th century and universal The set design for the performance is truths about human existence that are very plain, mostly with a few simple applicable today. The play has three tables and chairs and some wooden acts-Daily Life, Love and Marriage and platforms. The· one set serves as the Death. Gibbs and Webb households, the The action in the three acts revolves Congregational church, a soda shop and -around two families in Grover's Corners the cemetery. Props are also rare, but -the Gibbs and the Webbs. Mr. Gibbs with good purpose. The actors are con­(Greg Melton) is the town doctor, and stantly reacting with invisible items and lives with his wife Julia (Monica invisible buildings, which serves io Mastrocco). They have a daughter emphasize the timelessness of the issues Rebecca (Maria Corso), and their son being dealt with. George (Terry Dana Jachimiak II) is one In all, "Our Town" offers solid per­of the main characters in the play and a _formances in what is generally a weakly prominent figure in the town, being both written play character-wise. The most captain of the baseball team and presi­developed and depthful characters, the dent of his senior class. Stage Manager and Emily are played The Webb family consists of newspa­almost perfectly, and the strong efforts per editor Charles Webb (Michael from the rest of the cast bring the other Kramer), his wife Myrtle (Betsy Brown) characters up to an equal level. "Our and their children Wally (Steve Town" is a play about life, and the Shlakman) and Emily (Diane Pisani), the actors truly are the driving force in latter of whom becomes George Gibbs's breathing life into the production. love interest. Our Town performs in the Little The play is unique in that every action Theatre at the Moreau Center for the that takes place on stage is choreo­Performing Arts at Saint Mary's College graphed and scripted. Before the play at 7:30 p.m. tonight and Saturday, with begins the actors are seen warming up a Sunday matinee at 2:30. Tickets are on stage and conversing amongst them­$8 for adults, $7 for seniors and $5 for selves, and the directors are seen going students. Tickets can be purchased at over things with people and fixing props. the box office. In between acts, the same applies. This creates the effect of making it hard to Contact Jonathan Retartha jretarth@nd.edu 
cedes most of the attacks all help to create an overall mood of antiCipation and terror. Watching the film with the mute button on would seriously detract from the overall experience, and it would definitely make many of the piv­otal moments much less frightening. 
The house in the movie is another major source of scares, and it actually ends up being one of the most important 'characters' in the film. The claustro­phobic atmosphere created by the Japanese home immediately cre­ates a sense of tension before any major aetion has taken place, and the eamera makes use of the cramped quarters to great effect. 

As the film pro­gresses, the doors begin to open on their own, myste­rious shadows appear in mirrors and windows, and a sinister sensation is evoked whenever a character merely enters a room. When mysterious shapes begin to apparate out of corners, closets and bathtubs, the audience begins to feel . 
tense when a character does nothing 
more than enter the building. The film doesn't exactly revolutionize the horror movie genre, but it does uti­lize manyof the major tropes of classic movies, such as hands popping out of dark corners and grabbing someone, to 
create a good scary atmosphere. Although the movie does rely heavily on the "Don't go in there" moments that are frequent in scary movies, a few of which will really have you wondering about the character's IQ, it does manage to usually make you ignore implausibil­ity with some kind of shock or scare. 
Like so many other horror movies, it "leaves the door wide open for a sequel, and with four films in the Japanese "Grudge" series and a number one box office opening for the film in the 
United States, it is· highly likely that 
American audiences will be seeing 
more of the series. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 



DANCE REVIEW 

'Swan Lake' is beautiful but flawed 
that it was almost disappointing to seeBy CHRISTIE 130LSEN him lying prostrate on the stage after
Assistant Scene Editor 
his showdown with Prince Siegfried in 
this happy-ending version of the 

The Moscow Ballet Company trans­tragedy. 
formed tragedy into beauty on Vladimir Statni and Andrei Litvinov 
Thursday with its presentation of as the prince were much less impres­
Tchaikovsky's famed masterpiece sive. Siegfried's first appearances fea­
"Swan Lake" at the Morris Performing tured minimal dancing, and mainly 
Arts Center. The performance was consisted of him gazing off into the dis­filled with the composer's gorgeous tance wistfully. These dull and extend­imagery and emotion, thanks to lavish ed sequences made it difficult for the staging and the dancers' superb mas­audience to sympathize with his 
tery of their art. anguish after he fails to recognize 
The Moscow Ballet is a self-pro­Octile as Rothbart's daughter disguised 
claimed "pure classical ballet compa­as his true love, but he proves .his 
ny" that consists of all Russian dancers worth as the lead male role with 
who are graduates of the Moscow impressive solos in Act II. 
Choreographic Institute and the Unfortunately for the entire perform­
Vaganova Institute. The performers ance, the orchestra pit sat empty as 
begin the intense training regimen as Tchaikovsky's brilliant music played 
early as eight years old. through speakers. The consequently 
The result is a cast of 50 artists who canned quality of the score was espe­
bring magic to the timeless love story, cially noticeable with the woodwinds ­
although it is the magnificent Tatiana · a piccolo quickly becomes unpleasantly 
Predeina as both Odette and Octile who abrasive when blared at high volume. 
owns the vibrant production. Set This ballet company was too talented 
against a luminous pastel backdrop, not to have live musicians, which are 
bright costumes adorned with feathers an essential part of the ballet. 
and sparkles decorate the stage for two "The choreography was entertaining, 
hours. Even the colorful peasant but the lack of an orchestra really took 
dresses are glamorous on the talented away from the experience," said senior 
corps de ballet. Nick Moller. 
While the ensemble had occasional Despite the disappointing pre-record­synchronization problems, the corps ed score, the Moscow Ballet Company was spectacular as the swan maidens. charged the modest stage visually with They filled the stage like white tulle its lovely rendition of "Swan Lake." flowers and performed some of the The expressive nature of the story best dancing of the night as the allowed Predeina and Domashev to enchanted birds. Predeina in particu­shine theatrically as well, conveying lar captured swan-like grace and intense emotions through their move­sharpness perfectly, with her fluttefing ments. Audience members can expect arm movements and airy footwork. wonderful dancing from the company. 
Anton Domashev, as the evil sorcerer and a warm-fuzzy conclusion where 
Rothbart, also commanded the stage good ultimately triumphs over evil. 
each time he ominously appeared, 
dancing with such a powerful presence· Contact Christie Boisen cbolsen@nd.edu 
Friday, November 12, 2004

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Curry's ag.ents request trade from GM Paxson 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Dissenters: Joe must go 
Is Paterno's time running out as coach at Penn State? 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -The 
coaching legaey and goodwill 
that Joe Paterno proudly built 
for live decades at Penn State 
an1 slowly unraveling with each 
humbling loss. 
The days of scanning the 
schedule for gimme victories 
are over-just ask Big Ten 
foes Purdue and Northwestern, 
which this season got their first 
wins in Happy Valley. 
Paterno hardly needs his thick, smoky glasses to see he's losing more than games: Thtlusands of seats at Beaver Stadium have been empty at recent home games, and Paterno is no longer impervious to the criticisms routinely reserved for coaches with less­er pedigrees or without mputa­tions as community patridans. 
The message is dear -and getting louder -from the grumbling dissenters: Joe must go. 
Paterno, whose 341-116-3 record puts him second in earner victories in Division 1-A behind only Florida State's Bobby Bowden, is listening. .Just dof!'t expnct him to deeide his future basnd on the whims of lickle fans. 
"If' you think that I am going to back out of it because I am intimidated, you are wrong. If' you think I am going to stay when I think I am not doing a good job, you're wrong," he said. "Those things have to develop, they havp, to evolve. Hight now, I think we can get this thing done and do a good job." 
The numbers give little rea­son for hope. 
The Nittany Lions (2-7, 0-6) are the only Big 10 team with­out a conference victory enter­ing Saturday's game at Indiana. They havn lost six consecutive games, ineluding a school­record tying three straight at home. 
Penn Statn has four losing seasons in the last five years and the senior class will leave having played in only one bowl game. When asked about his f'uturn, the 77 -year-old Paterno often turns cantankerous, using his 55 years on the staff as a sensn of entitlement to dismiss his critics. 
llis dntnrrnination (or stub-bornness'?), his unyielding belief (or hope?), and his four­year contract that will keep him on the school's payroll past his 80th birthday give little rea­son to expect anyone but the coaeh affectionately known as JoePa will be on the sideline next year. 


"I am looking to get this pro­gram back to where it belongs and if I can't get it done in a certain amount of time, I have to sit baek and say, 'IIey, turn it over to some other guy and ean I help'?' That is the way it will be," he said. 
And that time is'? 

"I haven't got the slightest idea," he said. "I don't see any reason to say, Tm going to get out of here this year, next year or what year.~ I don't mean that to be coeky, stubborn or any­thing like that. I am just trying to do what is right." 
What to do with the fading legend seems to be tearing at the conscience of the Penn State community. Has Paterno, who's donated millions to the school in addition to his football success, earned the right to decide his own fate'? Or should university officials give him a nudge out the door? 
"I think he'll never step down," said f!>rmer Penn State defensive end Miehael Haynes, now with the Chicago Bears. "Right now we're having some issues, but it's still all fixable." 
A bronze statue of Paterno greets visitors to Beaver Stadium. There he is, looking spry, pointing toward the sky with his jacket flown open and tie whipped around as if hit with the wind of another brisk football Saturday. 
Engraved near a wall of plaques to the left of the statue is a Paterno quote: "They asked me what I'd like written about me when I'm gone. I hope they write I've made Penn State a better place, not just that I was a good football coach." 
Those stories will eertainly be written one day. But JoePa most certainly ean 't like what's being written now. 
One alumnus paid $350 to take out a half-page ad in the student newspaper's gameday edition which read: "The tal­ent's there. The coaching is an abomination. TIME FOH JOE TOGO." 
"All I was trying to do was focus some of the dissent I'm hearing all over the place in a way people can see it and read it readily," said Joseph Korsak, who said he's been to every home game since 196 7 except for a three-year stint in Ohio. "A few have said it was too harsh, but the vast majority think it's time for a ehange. A lot of people have been more forgiving and say he should go out on his own terms. Whatever goodwill he's gener­ated ran out at the end of the '02 season." 
Associated Press 
DEERFIELD, Ill. -The corner­stone of the Chicago Bulls' next dynasty appears to have some structural problems. 
Eddy Curry's agents said Thursday they are seeking a trade for the 7 -footer, who is flli­gible to become a restricted free agent next summer. That came as a surprisfl to general manager John Paxson, who learned of the request not from Darren White and Lamont Carter, Curry's agents, but in a story in the 
"Eddy's in a no-win situation," White said. "The media in Chicago ·have really beaten this young man up, but statistics show he's gotten better. The city is tired of losing, and Eddy has bPcome the pin cushion. 
'Tm asking for a trade now so we can get the most out of this season for this young man," White added. ''I'm looking at his 
. futurn." The Bulls gambled big three summers ago, entrusting the future of the franchise to Curry and fellow prep-to-pro project 
Chicago Sun-· Times. "Eddy hasn't 
''I'm not going to be
said anything to me yet," Paxson intimidated or said. "And I'm not persuaded by anygoing to be intimi­
agent that goes public 
dated or persuad­
and tries to do what
ed by any agent that goes public he thinks is right for and tries to do 
his client." 
what he thinks is right for his client. I think it only John Paxson hurts him and it Bulls general manager doesn't do us any good, either." 
Tyson Chandler. The 7-footers have tantalizing physical gifts: Curry is wide­bodied with a daunting wing­span while Chandler is long and lean. 
But neither has lived up to his hype yet. Chandler has been injury­prone, missing 43 games with a 
Curry went to a doctor after banging his right knee and was­n't available for comment. 
But White told The Associated Press he will continue to explore possible trade scenarios for the Chicago-native Curry and "will operate on the assumption of getting Eddy a trade." 
back injury last year. Curry has flashes of brilliance -he led the league in field goal percentage two years ago -and then disap­pears. Neither was offered a long-term extension before the Oct. 31 deadline, so they must prove this year that they're deserving of big bucks. 
NCAA BASKETBALL RouND-UP 
The 'CUse cruise 
Associated Press 
SYHACUSE, N.Y. -Syracuse had lost its last two season openers. The Orange weren't about to make it three in a row. 
Led by Hakim Warrick and Gerry MeNamara, No. 6 Syracuse scored the first 24 points of the game and eruised to a 104-54 victory over Northern Colorado on Thursday night in the first round of the Coaches vs. Cancer Classie. 
Syraeuse {1-0) will play Princeton {1-0) in the seeond round Friday night. No. 12 Mississippi St. 53, Fairfield 49 
BIHMINGHAM, Ala. Ontario Harper scored a career-high 17 points and No. 12 Mississippi State, playing with­out preseason All-America L_awrence Roberts, beat Fairfield 53-49 Thursday night in the first round of the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. 
Roberts, a senior forward, sat out because of a one-game sus­pension from the NCAA over his expenses to attend a tryout before the NBA draft. 
No. 24 Memphis 102, Savannah St. 40 
MEMPIIIS, Tenn. -Hodney Carney seored 21 points and No. 24 Memphis had six players finish in double figures in a 102-40 victory over Savannah State on Thursday night in the Coaehes vs. Cancer Classic. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. · 
The charge is·3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

DO MUS PROPERTIES ­ 6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO NO.  MISHAWAKA 2-3 bedroom,2.5  NEED TICKETS Nov. 13 Pitt. Call  Spring Break 2005 with STS,  
NOTICES  NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006  WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL.  bath, 1,200 sq.ft +lull basement+ 2-car garage, $875/mo. 574-273­ Amy 219·872-5932  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator.  
SCHOOL YEARS.  AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM.  9000.  Hiring campus reps.  
Moving to Chicago? Sublease in 4br  ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT. WELL  HOME,W/D,  PERSONAL  Call lor group discounts.  
Lincoln Park apt. w/3 ND grads. $575/mo, open Dec. 1. Call Andy @  MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS.  NEAR CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH.  TICKETS  Help us complete our family, baby  Info/Reservations  
312-371-4415  AVAIL. NOW.  wanted.  1·800-648·4849  
2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STU­ CALL JOE CRIMMINS:  BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX  Jeanie & Dan  www.ststravel.com  
DENT NEIGHBORHOODS,SECU­ 574-229-3659 OR 679-2010.  PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES  877-895-9790 Toll Free  
FoR RENT  RITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRY­ 6-7 bdrm house on S.B.Ave across  273-3911  Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity  TALK IS CHEAP  
ERS. VISIT OUR WEBSITE  from radio tower available lor 06-07.  Party Cruise! 5 Days $299!  
2-6 Bedroom homes  Completely renovated,large  For Sale: ND football tix. Good  Includes Meals, Parties!  
lor 05-06  WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM  rooms,31ull baths. ND Ave house  prices. 232-0964.  
w/5bdrms available lor 05-06.  Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau,  There is no "walsh" in  
Walking distance from ND  OR CONTACT:  Wanted: ND football tix. Top $$$  Jamaica From $459!  CHAmpiOnShip  
.-:  Will lease to as lew as 3  251-1570 .  Panama City & Daytona $1591  
MMMRenlals.com  KRAMER  students, good location & competi­ 
(574)234-2436 OR  live rent.  ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232­ www.SpringBreakTravel.com  Next time I promise I will bring a  
532-1408  (574)315-5032.  Email ndhouses@yahoo.com  2378 p.m. 288-2726  1-800-678-6386  Dustbuster.  


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, November 12, 2004 CoMrruo FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 17 
NCAA Men's Cross Country 
Top25  
team  region  paints  
1  Wisconsin  GL  417  
2  Stanford  w  400  
3  Arkansas  sc  399  
4  Colorado  M  377  
5  NOTRE DAME  GL  365  
6  Cal Poly  w  343  
7  Georgetown  MA  342  
B  Arizona Stale  w  316  
9  BYU  M  303  
10  Indiana  GL  276  
11  North Carolina Stale  SE  273  
12  Florida State  s  247  
13  Butler  GL  245'  
14  Air Force  M  241  
15 16  lona College Providence  NE NE  227 219  
17  Iowa  MW  155  
18  Villanova  MA  151  
19  Texas  sc  145  
20  New Mexico  M  133  
21  Florida  s  127  
22  Minnesota  MW  126  
23  Michigan  GL  123  
24  Colorado State  M  102  
25  Oklahoma State  MW  91  
NCAA Women's Cro ss  
Country Top 25  
team  region  points  
1  Stanford  w  390  
2  Providence  NE  373  
3  Colorado  MT  366  
4  Michigan  GL  348  
5  Duke  SE  338  
6  NOTRE DAME  GL  327  
7  Arizona Slate  w  308  
B  North Carolina  SE  303  
9  Missouri  MW  283  
10  North Carolina Slate  SE  256  
11  BYU  MT  252  
12  Southern Methodist  234  
13  Michigan Stale  GL  226.5  
14  Villanova  MA  219  
15  Tennessee  s  216  
16  Illinois  GL  186.5  
17  UC Santa Barbara  w  180  
18  Arkansas  sc  167  
19  Columbia  NE  156  
20  Princeton  MA  137  
21  Wake Forest  SE  127  
22  Georgia  s  116  
23  Colorado Slate  MT  92  

24. Georgetown MA 76 25 Washington w 60 
Women's Basketball AP Preseason Top 25 
team points 

1 Tennessee (20) 1,085 2 Texas (7) 1,056 3 LSU (12) 1,053 4 Connecticut (6) 1,017 5 Georgia 887 6 Duke 838 7 Stanford 827 8 Baylor 794 9 North Carolina 696 101 NOTRE DAME 635 101 Ohio State 635 12 Texas Tech 633 13 Vanderbilt 525 14 Minnesota 489 15 Michigan State 428 16 Purdue 423 11 Rutgers 407 18 Boston College 376 19 Kansas State 358 20 DePaul 248 21 Penn Stale 217 
22  Oklahoma  182  
23.  Maryland  166  
24  Arizona  156  
25  louisiana Tech  137  



around the dial 
NBA 

Pacers at 76ers 7 p.m., WTTV4 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -As joyous fans celebrated by honking car horns in Caracas, Johan Santana sounded overwhelmed. He became the first Venezuelan to win a Cy Young Award, and not only that, he was a unani­mous choice. 
"This is like a dream come true," he said after earning the American League honor Thursday. ''I'm a little surprised that I ended up the season where I ended up the sea­son." 
The Minnesota Twins' left-bander received all 28 first-place votes in ballot­
ing by the Baseball Writers' Association of America, 
Santana, who went 20-6 and led the AL with a 2.61 ERA and 265 strikeouts, became the first unani­mous Cy Young winner since Arizona's Randy Johnson two years ago and the first in the AL since Boston's Pedro Martinez in 2000. He is the 18th unan­imous winner overall, the seventh in the AL. 
Curt Schilling, 21-6 with a 3.26 ERA in his first sea­son with the Red Sox, received 27 second-place votes and one third for 82 points. Mariano Rivera of the New York Yankees, 
IN BRIEF 

Arizona State set to honor 
Tillman Saturday 
TEMPE, Ariz. -Pat Tillman used to climb the light towers over Sun Devil Stadium to meditate. He was a fierce Arizona State football player and an honor student who graduated in 3 1/2 years. 
The school will honor the fallen hero, killed in combat in Afghanistan last April, and retire his No. 42 in a halftime ceremony of Saturday night's game against Washington State. 
Jake Plummer is scheduled to be among the former teammates who gather on the field for the ceremony, the second one at the stadium this season. 
The Arizona Cardinals retired Tillman's number at their home opener on Sept. 19. 
Tillman was the Pac-10 defensive player of the year as a senior in 1997, when he and Plummer led the Sun Devils to an 11-0 regular season and the Rose Bowl. Tillman, an academic who led the major leagues with a career-high 53 saves, received the other second-place vote and 24 thirds for 27 points. 
''I'm surprised this has been a unanimous deci­sion," Santana said. "I thought this was going to be a real tough race." 
Santana traveled Thursday morning from his hometown of Tovar Merida to Caracas. President Hugo Chavez planned to congratulate him Friday. 
"It's on national TV," Santana said. "Hopefully, in a couple of hours I'll be addressing the country and letting them know how 
All-American, graduated summa cum laude with a bachelor's degree in business. B__Tid and McCUne meet for 
IBF heavyweight title 
NEW YORK -Chris Byrd and Jameel McCline are good friends who both happen to make a living hitting people in the ring. 
They go to dinner together and hang out at each other's houses. Their wives talk constantly on the phone. 
On Saturday night, they'll fight for the IBF heavyweight title. For a few rounds, at least, friendships will have to be put aside. 
"We tried to avoid this for a long time," Byrd said. "But McCline is the mandatory for me. I had no other choice." 
Byrd defends his IBF title against McCline as part of a heavyweight extravaganza at Madison Square Garden that features a full ton of fighters. Among them are WBA heavyweight champion John Ruiz, 
-
I feel." Santana was 13-0 with a 
1.21 ERA in 15 starts after the All-Star break, master­ing his changeup. 
"I expected it, with the numbers he had he could­n't fail," said Luis Aparicio, a Venezuelan voted to the Hall of Fame in 1984. "He's going to continue winning." 
Voting was conducted before the start of the postseason, when Schilling beat the Yankees in Game 6 of the AL championship series and St. Louis in Game 2 of the World Series despite pitching with a dis­located ankle tendon held together by sutures. 
who defends against Andrew Golota, and former champions Evander Holyfield and Hasim Rahman. 
Promoter Don King put them all on display at Thursday's weigh-in, where the eight fighters stood with King on a truck axle scale to weigh in at a combined 2,130 pounds. tylavs place Finley on injuredbst 
MIAMI -Dallas Mavericks guard Michael Finley was placed on the injured list Thursday with a sprained right ankle. . 
The two-time All-Star was injured in the third quarter of the 94-84 loss at Orlando on Tuesday. He'll miss at least five games, starting with Thursday's at Miami. 
X-rays were negative, but team officials believe Finley, who has missed 36 games over the past three seasons with an array of leg and back problems, will need at least two weeks before return­ing. 

.• 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 12, 2004 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 


Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish face conference challengers Pitt and WVU 

By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Their hopes of an undefeated conference season were swept away by Boston College last week. Notre Dame (14-7, 7-1 in the Big East) now looks to regroup with home matches_ today and Sunday against Pittsburgh and West Virginia. 
With Pittsburgh (19-6, 7-1), Notre Dame and Syracuse all tied atop the Big East stand­ings, these matches should help breakup the conference. 
"We were down after [the loss to Boston College]," Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown said. "But we're eager to play again. The team is determined to get a win." 
Today's match against Pittsburgh will begin at 4 p.m. in the Joyce Center. With the football pep rally set for 6 p.m. Brown expects a lot of Irish fans in attendance. 
"We [played before a pep 
N 

rally I last year against Virginia conference tournament. Tech," Brown said. "We had a Setter Azadeh Boroumand tough five-game match but I and libero Megan McGrane think it was really important combine with Miller to make ­for us to have our crowd there Pittsburgh a tough team to in that fourth and 11fth game. It beat. was exciting "They take for the team to good swings be able to play "We [played before a pep when they in front of a have good
rally] last year against 

crowd like sets and
Virginia Tech. We had a

that. I think when they [today's atmos­tough five-game match don't they do phere] will be a good job of
but I think it was really

good." mixing up
important for us to have

The bite in their shots this year's our crowd there in that and keeping 
Panthers fourth and fifth game. " the ball in 
attack comes play," Brown from senior said. "They
Debbie Brown 

Megan Miller. play very The preseason Irish coach smart, and Big East player they're very of the year is patient. They averaging 4.6 kills per game have a lot of good individual this season along with a .364 players including [McGrane] hitting percentage. She aver­who digs extremely well. I aged 3. 9 kills per game last think we'll see a very balanced year and was also named the game from them, and I think it most outstanding player of the will help bring out the best in 

us." 
Despite all the talent Pittsburgh brings to the match, Brown is most concerned with the Irish executing and playing a complete match. 
"We have to be smart in how we're trying to defend them and things like that," Brown said. "But I do think the bulk of it is taking care of our side of the net." 
Sunday's match against West Virginia will begin at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
The Mountaineers are 18-11 overall and 4-4 iri the Big East. Despite not being particularly strong offensively, they make up for it with a stout defense that ranks second in the con­ference ·by limiting opponents to a .157 hitting percentage and leads the league in digs per game with 18.35. Senior Alison Zemanski is the main reason for the success as the middle blocker leads the Big East in blocks per game with 1. 50. Outside hitter Aurora Ebert­Santos is averaging 4.64 digs per game, third in the league. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 



1213 Lincolnway West-Mishawaka Corner of Logan & Lincolnway 

(574) 256-1444 Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for 2.5 years! 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
'\\VJEJLCOMUE lFOOTl~tA.lLlL lFR.l[JEND§ 
AND lFAM[J[JLYY 

Tuesday-Thursday  Full bar available  
s:oo-9~oo  
Friday & Saturday  Free bruschetta with ad  
s:oo-1o:oo  Francese~ needs servers  

Friday, November I 2, 2004 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
-
.c: 
SMC CROSS-COUNTRY 

Belles to compete in championships 
Ten runners will compete for team 
By ANNA FRICANO Spons Wrircr 
Ten of Saint Mary's top run­ners will represent the College on Saturday at the NCAA Division-III Hegional Cross-Country Competition, hosted by Alma College. The Belles, who finished the regu­lar season in sixth place in the MIAA standings, will face the majority of its conference including llope, Calvin and Albion -teams that finished first through third, respec­tively. 
Saint Mary's will return four runners to the regional race from the 2003 roster. .Junior Becky Feauto and sophomores Erin Nolan, Sara Otto and Katie White all ran in the race, then hosted by Hanover College . .Joining thn 
~r~~~ 
only at--=--~ 
Smir1ute~ 
{!om DUTPDS'T Campus :1•J.Jii: 
Cold Weather Experts 

Col1259·1ooo for more details 

ladies this year will be fresh­man Megan Gray, along with sophomores Allison Beyer, Meaghan Herbst, Meghan Murphy and Ashley Oberst. Hisa Zander will be the lone senior competing for the Belles. 
The 2004 season hasn't exactly been an easy road for the team. After an injury hurt the team's position in the MIAA Jamboree, Saint Mary's was put in a difficult position for the conference champi­onship. The fourth-place spot that the Belles had hoped for eluded the team as more ail­ments and injuries prevented a few of the top runners from achieving their highest per­formance at the meet. Since the Saint Mary's Cross Country team has primarily b~en focused on improving its conference standings -the Belles finished in sixth-place -the regional race is not a principal concern for the team. Coach Dave Barstis has said in the past that the regional meet is mainly a cool down for the training that the team does for the critical con­ference competition. 
For the majority of the team, Saturday will be one last opportunity to improve as a group and look ahead to prepare for next year. Zander, who will wear her Saint Mary's uniform for the final time, looks at her last race as an opportunity to have a strong finish to a memorable experience with the team. 


ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cui5ine 
_____.,._,.t;i:e.----------"-------~ 
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (5)un. and Mon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
--------·"j..~.... ----­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
Get This Great New CD 
"May I Have Your ·on Please'' 
As the Notre Dame Band plays 1812 Ovel'ture, Tim McCarthy poses in the Stadium p_resshox announcer's booth, getting c«dy to sikn<;e the c_ro.wd with his legendary wQ.-<4, 
"May I have your attention pk:ase." 
It's all here on this new CD from the NQtre Dame Band: Great ND school songs and Game-day musk, plus Tim McCanhy's all-time best 
· safety announcements. 
CD available NOW from the ND Band Office 33 ND Band Songs and 15 McCarthy Classics Orders: Call 631-7136 or Online at ndband.com 
"Personally,.I would like to finish on a strong note ... that I can look back on with pride, just knowing that I didn't leave anything behind," Zander said. 
A total of 32 schools will be represented at the Regional !\:feet on Saturday, held at the Pine Hiver Country Club in Alma, Mich. 
The women's race will begin at noon. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Schedule 
continued from page 28 
tory on the f'ootball field," Pittsburgh athletic director Jell' Long said Thursday in a relea<;ed statement. "We are very pleased to continue a traditional series with roots that date back to the early 1990s. It's a rivalry both Pittsburgh and Notre Dame fans, as well as college football fans in general, will be excited about for years to come." 
Notre Dame is Pittsburgh's third-most common opponent of all-time, with the teams playing for the 62nd time Saturday. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
TAKE INDY BY STORM 
Please Visit: W\VW.S unlakeApartment H omes.com 888-414-9225 www.SunblestApts.com 866-390-3823 
EC~C ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: November 12-22, 2004 Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from O'Hara Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) 
What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide selection of quality children'§ books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter 
books. Cookbooks and other books great for families are also available for purchase. How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. Why: SUPPORT ECDCI Great holiday gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials 


Friday, November 12, 2Q04 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish increase intensity for crucial dual meet 
Irish 

continued from page 28 
several players throughout the preseason, although just 
returning  starter  J aci  
McCormick  will miss to night's  
contest.  

The Redbirds had their first winning season in seven years during the 2003-04 campaign. They return three starters from last season's squad as coach Robin Pingeton tries to rebuild a program that has struggled in recent years. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame hopes to begin its season bet­ter than a year ago, when the Irish were just 7-6 in their first 13 games before finishing the season at 21-11 with a Sweet 16 berth. 
"It's critical for us to get off to a good start," McGraw said. "We played a lot of tough teams on the road [last year]. Obviously it was tough, this year I think we have a few more home games, so hopeful­ly that will prepare us a little bit more." 
McGraw knows her team should have an easier time getting into the flow of the 
game at the Joyce Center-a place Notre Dame didn't lose at last season. 
"We have great fans," McGraw said. "We love our fans because they're so into the game and they're so knowl­edgeable about the game. They just seem to have a sense of when we need them~" 
The Irish will start the same five players as they have dur­ing their two exhibition game victories -Megan Duffy and Breona Gray at the guards, Jacqueline Batteast and Courtney LaVere at forwards and Teresa Borton at center. 
Batteast has already received all kinds of national acclaim and preseason awards. The returning all-American aver­aged 16 points and 8.6 rebounds per game last sea­son. She will be a leading can­didate for Big East Player of the Year and is being men­tioned by many as the best all­around player in the country. 
McGraw doesn't downplay Batteast's abilities, but is emphasizing other scoring options from her team. 
"[Batteast is] probably going to see a lot of double teams," McGraw said. "We're just expecting her to play like she did last year, same kind of game. We hope to help her more. The rest of our players, I think, need to step up and give her a little more help." 

Notre Dame will not only rely on Batteast and the other returning players, but also on 
. a talented and athletic fresh­man class. Guard Tulyah Gaines averaged over 20 points a game as a high school senior in Nevada. Fellow guard Charel Allen also had an impressive high school career and averaged 26 points her final season. Center Melissa D'Amico was a New York all­state selection her senior sea­son. All three should see play­ing time early on this season. Whether freshman or senior, Notre Dame's players should be ready for opening night, although McGraw knows with that added anticipation comes more mistakes. "I think the first game you're always a little bit excited and a little bit nervous," McGraw said. "It's certainly not going to be fundamentally the best game we're going to play this year." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
The Irish (3-1) are gearing up for what has been dubbed their most crucial dual meet of the season against No. 17 Pittsburgh and Michigan State. 
In anticipation of today's meet, coach Tim Welsh said the swim­mers have intensified their workouts and are looking race­ready. 
"If you ask the guys how prac­tices have been this week, they'll tell you they've been really hard," Welsh said. "We need to outwork people who have beat­en us so we can outrace them." 
Welsh said he expects close races in each event, especially in diving and distance freestyle events -traditionally competi­tive areas for the Irish. 
"These teams are strong where we're strong," Welsh said. "We'll have to be at our best in all events to win. I think we'll see the fastest times of the fall from all three teams." 
Notre Dame showcased its tal­ent last weekend, upending Iowa 176-118. Sophomore Ted Brown led the Irish with victories in the 200-and 500-yard freestyle races, finishing with times of 1 minute, 42.30 seconds and 
4:35.46 respectively. 
The 500-yard freestyle race featured a 1-2-3 finish, with Brown finishing first, junior Patrick Davis following up with a 
4:36.63 and freshman Jay Vanden Berg close behind at 4:37.73. 
Vanden Berg and sophomore Louis Cavadini each collected 
- 
first-place finishes as well, with  
Vanden Berg clocking a 9:27.84  
in the 1,000-yard freestyle and  
Cavadini registering a 46.68 in  
the 100-yard freestyle race.  
Additionally, sophomore Tim  
Kegelman won the 200-yard  
butterfly wHh a 1:52.42 while  
freshman Andrew MacKay fin­ 
ished in first in the 200 individ­ 
ual medley with 1:53.83. The  
200-free relay, which consisted  
of senior Frank Krakowski, jun­ 
ior Tim Randolph, Kegelman  
and Cavadini, added to the list of  
first-place Irish finishes.  
The Irish swept the diving por­ 
tion of the competition, as Iowa  
chose not to enter divers in the  
meet. Sophomore Scott Coyle  
claimed first place in the· 3­ 
meter competition with a career­best score of 321.45 and fresh­ - 
man Sam Stoner won the·1­ 
meter competition with 307.65  
points.  
Michigan State (1-1) is looking  
to build on the momentum it  
gained after last weekend's meet  
against Iowa. The Spartans  
defeated Iowa 164-125, claiming  
victories across the board.  
Pittsburgh (2-0) also c;lBters  
today's meet fresh off a win over  
Syracuse 177-66. The undefeat­ 
ed Panthers garnered 12 first­ 
place fmishes against Syracuse.  
The team is looking for a Big  
East Championship again this  
season, after establishing itself  
as an annual champion in more  
recent years.  
Although the Panthers' repu­ 
tation precedes them, the Irish  
aren't intimidated.  
"This is the strongest team  
we've ever had," captain Matt  
Burtke said. "We might surprise  
some people this weekend."  


ERASMUS BOOKS 
o 
Used Books bought and sold 

o 
25 Categories of Books 

o 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

o 
Out-of-Print search service 

o 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
Welsh agreed. 
"We have to keep out ultimate goals in sight and not get lost along the way," Welsh said. "Swimming against Pitt is moti­vating-not intimidating. 
"Bring ii on. Let's strap on our goggles and see who's fastest." 
The Irish are set to host the meet today at 4:30 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
-

Cracker Barrel... 
party! 


¢.0~~ the I.rish"s 
nip a:n.d a J:an:-"1 band ~th jazz and r&b ro<.>ts 
Sat1...1.r<....-lay, N'ov--13 9-midnight @ Riv-er£ro:n.t Cafe 
219 ~-Fron.t St. 
N"ilcs., 1'vii 
1 5 r:nin.. from car:n.. pt..1.s 

f>layin.g Friday rught Rich DeJonge $3 ccY\rcr cl-1.argc 

Friday, November 12, 2004

page 22 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 

HEADT


-

Tyrone Willingham third season at Notre Dame career record: 
66-49-1 
at Notre Dame: 
21-13 
against
Tyrone Willingham 
Pittsburgh: 2-0
head coach 

Roster  
No.  Nanw  Pos.  HI.  WI.  YR  
I  ]ar<•d Cl.1rk  TE  h-4  250  SR  
2  1:rcddit.•l\1rrish  DB  h-1  202  so  
:l  Dariu~ Walkl'r  RB  5-11  200  FR  
4  R~1111 Grant  RB  6-1  2!R  Sf<  
5  R L'l11<1 McKni~ht  WR  ~-I  215  JR  
h  Cilrlo~ C~:lmpbl'll  CB  5-11  1%  SR  
7  l'arlyk•llnlidny  WR/(.lll  h-3  • 215  SR  
- H H  Marty Moorll'y Qul'ntin Burrell  ()B FS  6-2 h-0  210 1Y5  JR SR  
y  Tom Zbikow:-;ki  DB  5-11  203  so  
y  P.1t Dillingham  ()B  6-2  205  SR  
10  Br.lliy Quinn  ()B  6-4  224  so  
11  M.ucus Wilson  RB  5-11  202  SR  
12  Josh Schmidt  FB  6-1  232  SR  
1J  David Wolkt.•  ()B  o-4  205  FR  
15  l'n.•ston J<lCkson  CB  5-Y  IHO  SR  
In  Rc1shon p,)Wl'rs-Nt.•al  FB  6-2  243  SR  
I~  Stan [{l'vl'llc  ()B  5-ll  1Y5  SR  
17  (;t.•offn•y Jlrin•  I'  6-3  JYO  SR  
17  ].]. W.~rn•n  ()A  6-1  JH4  so  
!R  Darn.•n Bragg  (.lB  ~-2  IH5  FR  
IH  Chitwdum Ndukwt.•  DB  6-2  223  so  
19  ll.J. Fitzp.11rick  K/1'  6-1  200  SR  
21  M.mrict' Stovall  WR  6-5  227  JR  
22  1\.mbrm;(_• Wtmdt.•n  CB  5-11  IH6  so  
2.1  CIMSL' An.u;tasio  WR  6-1  202  so  
24  Dwi~;ht lillick  CB  5-10  IH5  SR  
2.'i  Natt.• Schiccatano  FB  6-2  242  JR  
26  Wadt.·lams  DB  5-H  170  FR  
26  Travis ThnmclS  RB  6-0  212  so  
27  Liont>l Boll'n  DB  6-0  210  SR  
27  John l(;ons  RB  6-l  192  so  
28  TrPgg )ut'rson  DB  5-10  170  FR  
2H  Coil• l.aux  FB  5-10  240  SR  
J(J  Mike Richardson  DB  5-J I  JYO  )R  
J1  Jttkt• Camt•y  FS  6-0  192  JR  
"  A.J.l'<•dl'llo  DB  6-0  191  so  
32  ]l<ff J<•nkins  RB  6-0  216  JR  
33  justin lloskins  RB  6-IJ  195  FR  
J4  ]l·rraill..ambt•rt  DB  5-10  190  FR  
37  Junior lclhbll•  DB  5-11  190  f'R  
37  MatiMil<'ht•ll  Cll  5-9  190  JR  
JH  l.t•o Ft•rrint•  DB  h-0  180  FR  
JY  Br,mdon I toytt•  LB  5-ll  231  SR  
40  Maurice Crum, Jr.  I.B  ~-1  215  FR  
41  Mikt• Gotllsby  LB  6-4  242  SR  
42  A nth<my Vt·rn~lia  I.B  6-4  220  FR  
4:1  Anthony Salva or  I.B  6-2  232  )R  
44  Justin Tuck  DE  6-5  261  SR  
45  CMIGioid  K/P  5-10  IRS  so  
45  Rich Whitney  DB  6-3  205  JR  
41i 47  ~:~~'hl'~~~~:nnas  LB l.B  6-l 6-3  243 230  SR so  
48  Jt•rome C<lllins  TE  h-4  25H  SR  
4Y  Dt•r<•k Curry  l.B  6-3  2.15  SR  
50  Dtm Sunturci  01.  -6-4  292  JR  
51  ]ctmk Ryan  01.  6-5  310  JR  
52  Jot• Brockin~ton  LB  6-1  225  so  
53  Dan llick<•y  01.  6-3  224  JR  
53  Jm•t•ph Bolc1nd  l.B  h-3  224  JR  
54  David Fitzgt•rald  01.  6-4  285  JR  
55  Zachary (;ik•s  c  6-3  281  SR  
56  Nick Bon:it'ti  LB  6-4  238  so  
5H  Abdt•l B.md,,  l.B  h-2  215  FR  
59  jamt•s Bfmt  OL  6-1  271  JR  
5Y  Dan (.'lwrvanick  DT INC  6-2  265  JR  
~ll  Cnst•y Cullt•n  I.B  6-2  212  so  
61  ].).jansen  LS  6-3  215  FR  
62  Scott R.tridon  OT  6-6  310  JR  
64  Casey Dunn  01.  6-4  256  SR  
65  Ttm Critzm.1n  OE  6-3  210  FR  
hh  Dt·n•k Landri  NC  6-2  278  JR  
67  john K,1dous  01.  h-7  310  FR  
nH  Ry.miiMris  OL  ~-5  2HY  so  
hY  DnrinMitdwll  ex~  6-3  2YO  SR  
70  ChrtliiKL'Y fiKcln'lc1t<l  OL  ~-6  2HO  FR  
71  jam\'S Bniwlli  (lJ.  6-4  2YO  JR  
72  Jeff Thmnr!-ion  OL  6-4  2H5  SR  
73  MarkLl'Voir  OT  6-7  310  SR  
74  D<m Stt'VL'nson  lX;  11-5  293  SR  
75  Chris Fronw  DE  6-5  271  JR  
7h  Bob Morton  <x;;c  6-4  300  JR  
77•  Crq.~ Pauly  DT  6-6  295  SH  
7H  fohn Sulliv.m  c  6-3  2Y5  so  
7Y  Bri.m Mflttcs  OJ.  1>-5  292  JR  
Mil  Chris V.Highn  WR  6-4  205  I'R  
HI  Br,mdon ll.~rris  WR  6-1  190  JR  
H2  M.1ttSill'lton  WR  6-0  175  SR  
H3  kffS,,m.trrlzijcl  WR  h-5  215  so  
H4  Mikp()'f!M.l  WR  5-Y  175  JR  
H4  Rob Woods  WR  6-2  205  JR  
H5  Billy 1'.1lnwr  rl'  6-3  256  SR  
H7  M.1rcus l:n•pm,m  n  6-2  24M  JR  
HH  Anthony l:c1~1no  TE  h-4  2.'i6  JR  
H'l  John CMison  Tt  6-5  24M  so  
YO  Bri,m Bl'id.tt!-ich  IJI  1>-2  295  SR  
Yl  Cn1ig Cilnlilln  K  h-0  l6Y  JR  
Y2  Ky!t-Budin"·"•  DE  o-4  275  SR  
Y3  Br.mdon Nirnl.t.,  IlL  ~-5  275  rR  
94  Ju!-itin Brnwn  . IJL/LB  h-4  225  FR  
Y.'i  Vkhlr Abi,Jmiri  Ill'  h-5  26Y  so  
46  Jlobby l<<·nk<••  K/1'  6-0  1lJO  so  
Y7  Tr.wi~ I A•itko  Dl'  6-1>  275  JR  
YH  Tn•vor 1.,\ws  DL  6-0  285  so  
Y<J  Ron.1ld l~Jiley  [)[.  h-4  245  FR  

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 

NOTRE DAME 2004 Schedule  
Sept. 4 at BYU-L Sept. 11 MICHIGAN -W Sept. 18 at Michigan St. -W Sept. 25 WASHINGTON-W Oct. 2 PURDUE-L Oct.9 STANFORD-W ·:if?' .,,,"';;;l:,;l\j,, at NAVY ­WOct. 16 Nov.6 at Tennessee -W Nov. 13 PITISBURGH Nov. 27 at USC  

LLI 
::E
cr: 
0 
LLI
c:: 
..... 
0 
z 



COACHING 
Willingham and staff found a way to beat another top-1 0 team last week, this time on the road. The offense contin­ues to struggle, but the defense has been as solid as ever. This team has been inconsistent all sea­son, and that could be attributed to coaching. 
Harris has been known for his great receivers in the past. IIe has coached Larry Fitzgerald at Pittsburgh, David Boston at Ohio State and Antonio Bryant at Pitt. Harris has a so-so record at Pitt (49-43). but is highly regarded around college football.-
Willingham has the better career record, and has not lost to Pittsburgh while at Notre Dame. Harris is 1-4 against the Irish, includ· ing last year's loss at home, 20-14. Harris is a solid coach. but Willingham get the edge because of his record against the Panthers. 
QUARTERBACKS 
Quinn struggled against Tennesee, throwing for just 118 yards on 12­for-23 passing. How­ever, he didn't throw an interception. Quinn is still young, but his tal­ent has shone through in a few games. He just needs to find consisten­cy. 
Palko has put up impressive numbers in the past two games, throwing for 660 yards and completing 67 per­cent of his passes in that period. Sure, the oppo­nents were Syracuse and Rutgers, but those are still impressive num­bers. 

IRISH RUSHING 
Last week, the Irish ran the ball eflectively and scored as a result. Walker was solid off the bench, and Grant was effective as usual. The offensive line is corrring into its own toward. The Irish must run the ball for the offense to be effec­tive, and they are starting to sojustthat. 
Pittsburgh gives up 125.6 yards per game on the ground, a solid run defense. However, they have not faced a solid run team just yet, with the likes of Furman and Boston College. The Panthers have held three teams to under 100 yards rushing this season. 
Notre Dame has been able to run the ball enough to win lately. Pittsburgh has a tough run defense, but don't count on them to com· pletely stop the Irish attack. It is Grant's last game at Notre Dam.e Stadium. Look for him to have asolid game. 
IRISH PASSING 
Quinn didn't throw li1r a extraordinary amount of yards, but he got the job done, not turning the ball over. The Irish pass­ing game has been solid for the most part, but it isn't the key to-the offense. When the Irish pass a lot, they usually lose. 
The Panthers give up 256 yards per game in the air. They have been able, however, to create interceptions, picking ofT four passes two weeks ago against Hutgers. The secondary is solid, going up against good wide receivers every day in praetice. 
Quinn and the lr.ish average just over 225 yards per game in the air. They should be able to pick apart the Panther secondary, provided that Quinn makes good dHcisions and the Irish receivers come through . 


This senior class won't Jose on Senior Day. 
Notre Dame isn't losing the final home game to Pittsburgh has improved a lot since barely 
a Pittsburgh team that needed overtime to beat defeating Division 1-AA Furman earlier in the Furman earlier this season. The Irish have
Irish 

season. In the Saturday afternoon cold, the overlooked opponents in the past, but won't Irish get back to running the ball and get 
against the Panthers. The Irish piek up a win enough big plays to open this one up in the and momentum heading into a showdown with
experts second half. Southern California in two weeks. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27,
Matt Lozar Joe Hettler
Pittsburgh 10

Editor in Chief AME 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame, 31 Pittsburgh 13 


Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 23 
Pittsburgh
Panthers
HEAD 
Record: 5-3 
AP: NR 

Pittsburgh Panthers Coaches: NR 
Walt Harris 8th season at Pittsburgh 

PITISBURGH 
2004 Schedule 
career record: 



PANTHERS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame's rush defense is the strength of the Irish unit. The Irish gave up just 56 yards on the ground last week against Tennessee and Cedric Houston. The Irish also had nine tack­les for a loss and domi­nated the big Tennessee offensive line.  The Irish secondary con­tinues to struggle. They gave up 269 yards in the air at Tennessee, includ­ing 120 yards to the third-string quarterback Clausen. Missed tackles have plagued this unit all season, and they must play well for the Irish to win.  Fitzpatrick is the best spe­cial teams player for Notre Dame. He averages 42.3 yards per punt, good for 32nd in the country. Last week, with Hoskins out on kick returns, Shelton and Anastasio struggled to fig­ure things out. Holiday con­tinues to be solid as a punt returner.  It's the seniors last game in their home, Notre Dame Stadium. If they don't get excited for this game, some­thing must be wrong. Grant, Holiday, Goolsby, Curry and Budinscak are just a few key seniors on this team.  
Kirkley is not as good as  Palko has been forced  Cummings leads the Big  With a win, Pittsburgh  
the Irish have faced this  to lead the Panthers  East in PAT percentage,  becomes bowl-eligible.  
season, in Houston and  offense with his arm,  making all 24 of his  For the Panthers, a win  
Navy's Eckel. He has just  and he has responded.  attempts. He is second in  against Notre Dame  
two 100-yard rushing  With Lee having a  field goal percentage, hit­ would make an incon­ 
games this season, and is  great season and  ting 12-of-17. Graessle  sistent season much  
not as much as a threat  numerous other  rankes ninth in the coun­ better. They are not  
on the ground as Palko is  receivers stepping up,  try with a 44.7 yards per  expected to win, so  
in the air. His two triple­ the Panthers have  punt average. He has  there is no pressure on  
digit games came against  established a solid  booted 16 punts inside  this team. They can  
Furman and Ohio.  passing attack.  the 20-yard line.  just go out and play.  

Fitzpatrick is solid as a punter and kicker for the Irish, but Graessle is a better punter, and 
returns aU year. Although they have got­ten better, Notre Dame still isn't quite that good. 
PANTHERS RUSHING 
This matchup may be t.Q.e most unfair of all. Notte Dame's rushing defense wins games fQr tile Irish. 
Pit1sburgh's rushing offense. is the reason Palko ·can+: 
throw for 300-plus yards. The Irish allow just 95 yards per game on the ground, and the Panthers average just 105 yards per game~ 
Sept. 11 Sept. 18 Sept. 25 Sept. 30 Oct.9 Oct. 16 Oct/23· Nov.6 Nov. 13 Nov. 25 Dec.4 
60-67
OHIO-W 

at Pittsburgh: NEBRASKA-L 
49-43 against Notre Walt Harris FURMAN-W 
Dame: 1-4 head coach 

at Connecticut-L dtTemple-W 
BOSIO LL.-W 
·:···::;;: 

i RUT~ERS·-W at Syracuse -L at Notre Dome WEST VIRGINIA 
at South Florida 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  
2  Marcus Furman  RB  
3  Tyler Palko  QB  
4  joe DelSardo  WR  
4  Adam Gunn  DB  
5  Kennard Cox  DB  
6  Malcom Postell  LB  
7  Tom Kail  WR  
7  Allen Richardson  DB  
8  Prince!! Brockenbrough WR  
8  Nick Krut  P  
9  J.j. Horne  LB  
9  justin Latore  WR  
10  Mike Phillips  DB  
12  Bernard Lay  DB  
14  Darnell Strong  QB  
15  joe Flacco  QB  
16  David Abdul  PK  
17  Clint Session  LB  
18  Adam Graessle  P/K  
19  Larry Moore  WR  
20  Tez Morris  DB  
21  Reggie Carter  DB  

Ht. 5-9  Wt. 185  YR SR  
6-2  220  )R  
5-8  200  so  
6-1  200  Fr  
6-1 6-1  195 235  so SR  
6-4 5-11  220 185  so FR  
6-3 5-10  205 180  SR FR  
6-3 5-10  235 185  SR FR  
5-11 6-2  190 195  DB )R  
6-5 6-6  245 220  FR so  
5-10 5-11  190 235  JR so  
6-4 5-9 5-10  '220 180 190  so )R SR  
6-0 5-11  190 180  )R )R  
5-9 5-10  175 180  FR SR  
5-10  235  SR  
6-0  200  so  
6-0  180  FR  
5-9  200  SR  
6-1 6-2  205 180  FR )R  - 
5-9 5-9  185 175  FR SR  
6-0 6-2  225 230  SR FR  
5-11 5-11  205 225  SR FR  
6-0 5-10  240 215  so )R  
5-11  195  FR ·  
5-10  195  FR  
6-2  260  FR  
6-2  240  so  
6-0 5-10  235 250  SR so  
6-1  235  LB  
6-2  220  FR  
6-1 5-10  245 225  )R SR  
6-2  220  FR  
6-0  235  JR  
6-5 6-4  270 270  SR FR  
6-0  220  )R  
6-2  225  FR  
6-1  200  FR  
6-1  235  SR  
6-1  240  so  
6-3 6-1  300 300  JR FR  
6-0 6-2  245 265  so )R  
6-0 6-4 6-5 6-2  225 285 330 245  JR SR SR so  
6-2 6-2  290 235  so FR  
6-4  315  )R  
6-3 6-3 6-6 6-2  305 295 340 300  JR SR FR so  -­ 
6-8  315  FR  
6-3  290  so  
6-3 6-4 6-3  285 300 345  SR FR FR  
6-4  305  SR  
6-6  295  SR  
6-5 6-3 6-5 6-6  315 295 285 335  so so SR SR  
6-0 6-0  190 190  so SR  
6-2 6-3  170 185  FR )R  
6-4  250  )R  
6-5 6-2 6-1 6-5 6-2  225 200 180 255 185  FR so FR so FR  
6-1  315  JR  
6-5 6-1  265 290  so SR  
6-2  295  SR  
6-3  260  SR  
6-4  290  SR  
6-4  260  )R  

:z 
0 
-1 
::u
., 
c 
l> 
3:
., 


22 22 23 23 24 25 26 27 28 28 30 30 30 31 31 32 34 35 36 36 37 38 38 39 40 41 43 43 44 45 45 46 47 48 49 49 50 50 51 52 54 55 56 58 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 66 67 68 70 71 72 74 75 76 77 
78 
80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 88 91 92 93 94 95 96 98 
josh Cummings PK 
Steve Walker DB 
Tuazama Edwards DB 
Tim Murphy FB 
jemeel Brady DB 
Darrelle Revis DB 
Darren McCray RB 
Brandon Mason RB 
Matt Flaus QB 
Eric Thatcher DB 
).B. Gibboney PK 
Doug Roseberry LB 
Tyler Tipton FB 
Tyrone Gilliard DB 
David Dado FB 
Mark Yezovich FB 
jawan Walker RB 
Steffan Brinson DB 
Conor Lee PK 
Rashad jenningss RB 
Chris McKillop LB 
Kellen Campbell FB 
Mike Hull FB 
Derron Thomas LB 
Scott McKillop LB 
Azzie Beaggnyam LB 
Raymond Kirkley RB 
Chris Herting LB 
Brian Bennett LB 
ErikGill TE 
Damien Matuschek DL 
Sam Bryant DB 
Nick Williams DI 
Derek Kinder WR 
justin Acierno FB Lance Asbee FB joe Villani OL . Corey Davis DL 
H.B. Blades LB Ron ldoko DL Charles Salle! LB Thomas Smith DL Charles Spencer OL joe Clermond LB joe Perri OL Mark Estennyer LS john Simonitis · OL Eric Fritz OL justin Belarski C Chase Clowser OL Chris Vangas C jerald Robinson OL Mike DeLuca OL Matt Maiers OL Dominic Williams 01 Dave Weber OL Rob Frederick C Dale Williams OL Mike McGlynn OL Neal Tracey OL Kevin Harris OL Rob Petitti 01 Terrell Allen WR joe Stephens WR Kelvin Chandler WR jason Gaffney WR Steve Buches TE Robbie Agnone TE Greg Lee WR Marcel Pestano WR Kyle Smith DL Andre Broussard WR Phil Tillman DL Michael Hearn DL Jake Holthaus DL Dan Stephens DL Keith Hill DL Vmce Crochunis DL Vernon Botts DL 





Grant will not be stopped much To establish themselves as con­Pittsburgh is perhaps the worst like Jones wasn't last year sistent, Notre Dame has to beat team on Notre Dame's schedule against Pittsburgh. The Irish sen­USC and lose to Pittsburgh this this season, going to overtime to 
iors will step it up in their last weekend. But the Irish will erase beat Division 1-M Furman. That 
home game, and Pittsburgh's bid its unfortunate trend -losing to said, the Irish have had several let­

for a bowl will have to wait until underdogs -by taking care of the downs against below-par teams. next week. There is no reason Panthers Saturday. Pittsburgh 
Willingham doesn't let it happenfor this team to have a letdown, scores a late, meaningless TD. 

again-see Stanford 2003. 
so don't expect them to. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre DameFINAL SCORE: Notre Dame FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45, Pittsburgh 10Sports Editor 31, Pittsburgh 17 24, Pittsburgh 17 

Heather Van Hoegarden Pat Leonard 

Associate Sports Editor 
Justin Schuver 
Associate Sports Editor 
Runners 
continued from page 24 

will take on No. 1 ranked 
Wiseonsin along with No. 10 
Indiana. 

"Wisconsin is No. 1 and have .been there all year and they 
deserve it," Piane said. "We 
arn healthy, and the guys think 
we can run well and run with 
anyone in the country." 

Molly Huddle captured the 2003 individual title at the Great Lakes Hegional but will sit out this year to rest a sore foot. Despite the critical loss, Connelly feels confident the n~maining squad will perform well. 
"We still expect to have a vnry strong group running on Saturday evnn without Molly llluddlel," Connelly said. "Our goal is to qualify for the NCAAs." 
With a 15th-place finish at last year's regional and sixth place at the Big East, Tim Moore looks to be the top run­ner for the Irish men. Kurt Bnnninger, Kaleb Van Ort, Sean O'Donnell and Vincent Ambrico make up the rest of the team's top live. 
Without Huddle, the Irish women will rely on strong efforts from Lauren King, Stf~phanie Madia and Kerry Meagher. Madia came in lOth place at the Big East behind Huddle. 
The Great Lakes Regional will take place Saturday in Ypsilanti, Mich. starting at 11 a.m. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 



Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
FENCING 
Irish to face rival Nittany Lions 
Penn State, last year's No. 2, will host tournament 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The Irish look to obtain a first-hand scouting report of a key rival while concurrently testing their own preseason form when they travel to State College, Penn. to participate in the Penn State Max Garret Open Saturday and Sunday morning. 
In the NCAA Championships in March, Penn State (160) edged Notre Dame (153) for second place. Both squads fin­ished behind national champion Ohio State (193). 
"We are going to the place of a big rival [in Penn State]," coach Janusz Bednarski said. "We would like to make a good recognition of their new roster, and additionally, we would like to show them that we are strong. This is a bit of a psycho-· logical trip." 
Like last weekend's World Cup Event that saw five Irish fencers place in the top 10 ­Olympic gold medalist fresh­man Marie! Zagunis took first in women's saber, sophomore Amy Orlando finished eighth in women's epee, freshman Greg Howard placed ninth in men's foil and sophomores Matt 
Stearns and Valerie Providenza 
took tenth in men's and 
women's saber, respectively­
this tournament is also individ­
ual in nature dual meets don't 
begin until the Irish challenge 
New York in late January. 
While the level of competition 
isn't likely to match that of the 
NCAA tournament at the end of 
the season, the Open neverthe­
less figures to boast top-notch 
fencers from around the coun­
try. 
"The tournament is open to 
everybody from the whole nation," Bednarski said. "It's not a team [competition] -it's individual -but individuals are from almost all universities. I believe that it will be very strong, maybe not so high-class . like the NCAA final in March, but it will be very close to that level, especially because Penn State is close to New York and in New York there are a lot of 
good colleges. 
I know people from the West 
are coming because they like 
this competition -this is the 
only competition to check out 
the form after the preseason 
work. So it's like midterm 
exams." 
Although some of the nation's 
top collegiate talent will be on 
display at the Open, one notable 
Notre Dame fencer who will not 
making the trip to Penn State 
this weekend is Zagunis. 
Exhausted from a number of 
international tournaments and 
requiring no additional work, Zagunis will instead take a few days off and be acknowledged for her Olympic achievements this past summer during half­time of the Notre Dame­Pittsburgh game Saturday afternoon. 

"The reason for [Zagunis not competing] is that she's loaded by international starts," Bednarski said. "She's really engaging in too many competi­tions -higher caliber than col­legiate competition, and there is no need to check her form~ We are .giving her more free time, and in addition, she will be honored on the field during the Pittsburgh game as an Olympian." 
Given that the World Cup 
Event marked the first time 
Notre Dame has fenced this 
season, the Irish wiU presum­
ably have some rust to shake 
off this weekend. Bednarski, 
however, isn't concerned. . "We are not yet in full form 
except those fencers who com­
peted in the World Cup -they 
started already, a little bit earli­
er than others," Bednarski said. 
"Always at the beginning of the 
season, we are not in the best 
form, but I think that [other 
fencers] have the same prob­
lem." 
The men take the strips . 
Saturday morning at 8:00 a.m., 
while the women bout at the 
same time Sunday. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles look to keep the success coming 
By JUSTIN STETZ 
Spans Writer 
The Belles look to extend their success this weekend at the University of Chicago Maroon InvitationaL Saint Mary's is com­ing off its first victory of the sea­son as it defeated Rose-Hulman by a score of 155-117. 
Last year, the Belles beat the Maroons 124-77. In the meet, Kelly Nelis placed third in the 200-yard freestyle and 500-yard freestyle, while Sarah Nowak fin­ished first in the 1 00-yard breast­stroke. She was also second in the 50-yard freestyle as well as the 100-yard freestyle. 
Bridg~t Lebiedz will look to improve upon her fourth-place finish in the 1 00-yard butterfly. In the 1 00-yard backstroke, Katie Dingman who finished first last year, will be a key swimmer for Saint Mary's once again. Lebiedz and Nelis, the only two players left from the 2003 squad, which won the 200-yard freestyle relay, will aim for another successful finish. 
The University of Chicago is currently 2-1-1 this year over its first four meets. In the second competition of the season, they defeated Rose-Hulman 112-97. If this final score gives any indica­tion to this year's match against the Maroons, Saint Mary's should 
have a pretty good idea where ­they stand following the event. After hitting her head on the ·board in her first dive last meet, 
Megan Medlock came back to 
earn Saint Mary's some valuable 
points in both diving events 
against Rose-l-lulman. 
The first-years have made 
quite an impression so far this 
year. They have meshed very 
well and haven't had too many 
problems adjusting to the college 
level. Coach Gregg Petcoff has 
stressed the importance of the 
freshman swimmers for the con­
tinued success of the Belles. 
"They are essential to Saint 
Mary's chances for victory," 
Petcoff said. 
The swim meet will consist of 
the 100 and 200-yard back­
strokes and breaststrokes, as 
well as the 200-yard freestyle 
and 200-yard butterfly. Three­
meter diving will follow the 1­
meter, and the match will con­
clude with a 400-yard freestyle 
relay. 
The meet begins Saturday at 
10 a.m. at the University of 
Chicago. Following the event, 
Saint Mary's will have more than 
three weeks to rest and improve 
upon their times. They will not 
take the water again until the 
Wisconsin -Oshkosh Invitational 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 


Friday, November 12, 2004 

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Iced 
continued from page 28 
CCHA) squares .off against Western Michigan (4-4-0, 2-4­
0) in a two-game road series this weekend. 

The Irish have not won a con­-ference game this season. They jumped out to a 3-0 lead against Bowling Green on Nov. 5, only to watch that lead dis­appear and the team barely survive with a 4-4 tie. The four Irish goals in that game were a season-high, as Notre Dame's offense has been anemic to start the season. The team averages just 1.67 goals per g<}me. The Irish are off to their worst start since opening the 1995-96 season with a 1-8-0 reeord. After losing six seniors from last year's class, the team expected to struggle out of the gate, but this kind of start was not what coach Dave Poulin had in mind. Even so, the coach has seen things in recent prac­tice and game situations that excite him. "I think that our offense will improve because we've been having better practices," Poulin said. "Confidence grows in practice, and then transfers usually onto the ice; I think we're really starting to come up with some line com bina­tions, as well. "After losing so many guys, we weren't sure what our lines would be coming into this sea­son, and now five weeks in I think we're starting to see some combinations really develop." The team's strength coming on Friday, because he thought centage lead the tnam. the rest of the team played well Erie Marvin, a veteran who enough to win and he couldn't was in nnt when Paige scornd give him the kind of goaltend­his decisive goal the last tinw ing they've been used to with the Broncos and Irish met, is him. David will go [tonight!, the backup with a 4.15 GAA and we're fully expecting him and .855 save percentage. to bounce back and 'have thn Like the Irish, the Broncos kind of good performances he's have had difficulty scoring had in the past." goals as a team. Unlike the 

ders team,  on and  his the  "Confidence improvs  goalie Daniel Bnllisimo  
coach is equally willing to start either one.  in practice and then transfers usually onto  picknd up both Broncos victo­ries. Bellisimo  
"I  think  lthe  the ice."  has  been  the  
goalies'[ confi­ team's primary  
dence is all right," Poulin said. "Morgan  Dave Poulin Irish coach  starter in net so far. His 3.47 goals-against  
was very upset  average  and  
about his play  .H94 save  per­ 

This weekend's games will Irish, Western Miehigan has a also be a homecoming of sorts dnfinite go-to guy in forward for Irish forward Evan Hankin, Brett Walton, who leads the a freshman off to a terrific team with 17 points (ninn start. The native of Portage, goals, night assists) and is tied Mich. a suburb of for the lead in the CCIIA in Kalamazoo, the home of scoring. Western Michigan -has "!Walton] sees the icn really already endeared himself to his well and controls the speed of coach and teammates with a the game through his puck pos­style of play that relies on both session," Poulin said. "Plus, hustle and skill. he's essentially the one who 
Hankin has two goals so far shoots the puck most often on this year, tying him for second the power play, and he's done a on the team. lie has also picked great job on capitalizing on up one assist. those chances." 
"Evan's been talking about this series ever since he· got on Contact Justin Schuver at campus," Poulin said. "He's jschuver@nd.edu 
into the season -goaltcnding -has been inconsistent, as well. Sophomore Dave Brown has struggled, while senior Morgan Cey had been nearly unbeatable in net until the 4-4 tie, when he allowed four goals on just 19 shots. 
But Poulin knows he has two proven net-min­
really looking forward to going back to see his honw again .." 
Western Miehigan is eoming ofT a sweep of NCAA tourna­ment tnam Niagara last week­end. The Broncos knocked ofT the Purple Eagles '4-3 on Nov. 5 and completnd the sweep with a 4-1 vietory on Nov. 6. 
Freshman 




Friday, November 12, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
' 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 

CHARLES SCHULZ

PEANUTS 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS"P'U-:-Zr:Z::-rl-:-;ET-:-'1 

meet for lunch For answers, calf 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
28 Enthralled Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday30 Olympic racer 

crosswords from the fast 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 31 Poet Samuel Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 who wrote past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). "Hudibras" 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzfeforum. Crosswords for young 33 Take out solvers: nytimes.com/fearning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
57 Thanksgiving serving 58 Letter container 60 Madonna or Britney Spears 62 Start, as a process 63 Answer sources 64 Little biter 65 Paltry amount 
DOWN 1 Half-of-Fame Boston Celtic from the 1950's­60's 2 Iranian president 

Mohammed b..-4---1-­3 Entered 4 Gardens 5 Principal river of IE:I-+..._,1-+--+-+--+­
Armenia  
6 Tips  
7 Country cousins  
a"Yum!"  35 Mountain  40 Toy of paper,  54 Turn on an  
9 Mars: Prefix  climber's equip- sticks and string  axis  
~~ ~~~:bp~~~:~~ 12 Racing legend 13 Mortgage sub­ ment 37 Singer with the 1980 #1 album "Against the Wind"  42 Stacked 43 Exerted oneself 44 China, Japan, etc.  55 Clip 56 W. W. I plane  
sidy 14 Some candy bar ingredients 21 Auction info  38 Some Nissans 39 Closet appurte­nance  47 Daze 51 Looooong, bor­ing speech  59 Hit maker? 61 Century year  
24 When some.  

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame; IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ___________ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRJ ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRJON 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
Let me It's expensive try the but worth it
EGGAU 
blush 
I .... 
1 ±
rJ rJ 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
VARBE 
II 
il 
A GOOD WAY TO BUY C.O'SME:TlC.'S. 
www.jumble.com
tEEFELC t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
..,._..£J~..£J.--;;:::::::;;::!:;:=:;:!:;::::;:!.,.~ suggested by the above cartoon. 
I ] I ] I 
ffis: AT 
"( I I I ]" [ I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
I Jumbles: ABOVE PUTTY DISMAY LIMBERYesterday's 
Answer: What the defense did when the judge addressed the jury-RESTED . 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Leonardo DiCaprio. !'eta Wilson. Calista Flockhart, Demi Moore • 
Happy Birthday: Your world will turn upside down this year and, although you will be faced with challenges, you will rise to the occasion. You will surprise everyone with your strength and courage. Nothing will stop you from following through with what you know you must do. Your numbers are 10, 13, 27, 30, 39, 42 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Financial changes will ease your stress. Put a little time and effort into your surroundings. Patience may be required but, if you can master that, you will excel. *** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Think about love and getting together with someone .you like to spend time with. Today is all about making plans and stabilizing your personal life. A promotion is possible. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Changes at work will lead to a better position. Social activities will lead to a chance meeting or hearing about someone from your past. *'** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Friends will brighten your day. A hobby you enjoy will spark enthusiasm to turn it into a profitable pastime. Love and romance should be penciled in. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You have to listen and discuss if you want to filter through some of the problems that are stressing you out. You will see both sides of the situation today. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can count on a friend to come through for you. Favors will be granted and relationships will develop. This is a good time to start something new or to finish what you've already begun. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Work should be your concern. Changes may not appear to be going your way but, if you are patient, everything will tum out in your favor. Acceptance is the key. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let anxiety get the better of you Things aren't as bad as they seem. Develop and promote your true talents --you have more going for you than you realize. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Focus on what you can do to make your family life better. You can help an older relative accomplish what he or she needs to do. For this, you will be rewarded. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): The more involved you get in something that interests you, the better you will do. Take any help being offered. You will form a strong bond with someone who will complement you. **** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): There is so much happening that it is difficult for you to keep things straight. You may be enticed by someone who really isn't good for you. You may have to say no. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Nothing will stop you today if you are serious about getting something done. Someone will be there for you regardless of what it is you need. Romance should be on your mind. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are a responsive individual. You are not likely to let anyone take advantage of you. You are determined to do things your own way. You know how to take control. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
• 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 1918 hit song about "a maid with hair of gold" 8 Instrument whose name is 
of Bantu origin 15 "Ta-ta" 16 Big name in 
frozen foods 17 Make an illegal crossing 18 Example or attribute of something used to represent the whole, as "sword" for "mifi­
tary power" 19 Native: Suffix 20 Namesake of a 
renowned Naples castle 22 Lamebrain 23 Big zero 25 Move slowly 26 Korean currency 
27 Shoots off 29 Adaptable air­
craft, for short 31 House runner 32 Strayed 34 Freeway prohi­
bitions 36 With limited 
funds 38 Basically 41 Take the king's 
shilling, as Brits 
once said 
45 Northern con­stellation, with "the" 
46 Drops 48 Mahler's unfin­ished symphony 49 Cowhand's 
moniker 50 Starts (out) 52 Reddish pink 53 Rubs the wrong 
way 55 Much late-night TV fare 



THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, November 12, 2004 
page 28 
MEN'S GOLF 

Athletic Department: Jasinski on administrative leave 
Fourth-year head coach led team to up­and-down fall season 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
llalfway into his fourth year, Irish head coach John Jasinski is on administrative leave, according to John lleisler, assoeiatn athletic director. 

"Coach Jasinski is on admin­istrative 
I e a v e , " 
Heisler said, declining to make further comment on the issue. 
Jasinski, assistant coach Chris 


Jasinski

Whitten, and several team players also declined to comment on the situation. 
The news comes just a week after the Irish wrapped up their fall schedule, in which Jasinski piloted them in an up­and-down season. 
During Jasinski's more than three-year tenure, the Irish had already made major steps to becoming a force in the col­legiate golf world. During the 2003-04 season, Jasinski coached the Irish to the Big East Championship and their first NCAA Regional berth since 1966. They where they finished 12th and just missed a chance to compete in the NCAA Finals. 

Jasinski greatly improved the strength of both the Irish schedule as well as its lineup. He recruited strong classes and his incoming freshmen have routinely made an impact on the team. 
Jasinski, who is the fifth head coach in the 75-year his­
tory of the program, has been committed to Notre Dame for the long haul. In June, he signed a contract extension to continue coaching at the University, and he founded the Irish Golf School, where he, along with Whitten, provided teaching sessions to Irish friends, family, alumni and supporters. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish begin trip into Preseason NIT 
Team will start regular season with non­conference opponent Illinois State tonight 
By JOE HETTLER 
Spons Writer 
Notre Damn can only imagine what challenges Illinois State will present tonight in the opening round of tlw Presnason National Invitation Tourn­anwnt at the Joyce Cnntnr. 
Tlw Hmlbirds, like the Irish, have not playPd a game this season. Since Illinois State is from a difTnrPnt conference. No. I0/11 Notrn Damn couldn't acquire any tape of' their home­opening opporwnt, nitlwr. 
"It's rnally hard. We can't even get anything from the end of' last year so it's a little bit morn difficult Ito prepare!," Notre Dame coach Muf'fet M!:Graw said. "It makes it hard because you don't have the scouting, and you don't know exactly what to takn away 
!from f'ilm study] until the game." 
McGraw said the best Notre Dame could do in scouting Illinois Slate was looking at f'ilm from Southwest Missouri State last season. The Irish beat the Lady Bears in the first round of' the NCAA tournament (J!J-65 at the Joyce Center in Mard1. 
"They're the same kind of' team Ias Southwest Missouri State!. They have great shoot­ers, great 3-pointer shooters, and they're an up-tempo team that plays great defense," said McGraw, who is entering her 19th season as Notre Dame's head coach. "It's really going to bn a ehallenge for us." 
The Lady Bears enter their season-opening game a little beat up. Injuries have plagued 
see IRISH/page 21 
ND CROSS-COUNTRY 
Irish hope to clinch berth for NCAA Tournament 
By STEVE COYER Sports Writer 
After strong performanees all season, the Notre Dame cross country teams will set out to solidify a bid for the NCAA championship this weekend. 
At the Great Lakes Hegional Saturday, the Irish can auto­matically qualify for the NCAA meet with a first-or second­place finish. BMh teams already stand among the top in the country with the men and women nationally-ranked fifth and sixth respectively. 

The men's team comes off a very close first-place finish in the Big ·East Championship and hopes to carry the momentum through the remainder of the season. 
"If we run like we did. at the Big East we should have no problem qualifying for the NCAAs but we just need to reproduce that effort," men's 
see RUNNERS/page 24 


HOCKEY 
leers want to get back on track 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The last time the Irish and· Western Michigan squar<~d ofl', Jason Paige scored a game­winning goal 12:35 into over­time. and Notre Dame took game three of' the best-of-three CCIIA first-round playoff' series on Mar. 14. 
Paige's goal put the Irish into the Super Six. Morn important­ly, the goal played a major role in helping Notre Dame reach the NCAA tournament for the first time in the program's his­tory. 
Now, the Irish would just like to get back on the wining track against the Broncos.. 
Notre Dame (1-~-3. 0-4-2 
see ICED/page 26 

Team sets 2005 schedule 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
For the second consecutive season, the Irish have moved an October road game to Labor Day weekend. 
The Oct. 8, 2005 game between Notre Dame and Pittsburgh was moved to Sept. 3 in a mutual agreement between the schools announced in a press release Thursday. 
The game was rescheduled to ensure the teams would play in a nationally-televised contest on a network to be determined. 
That game also allows the Irish to play before traveling to Ann Arbor, Mich. to take on the Wolverines, who play Eastern Michigan on Sept. 3. 

Notre Dame also announced Thursday the signing of an eight­year contract with Pittsburgh to resume their series in 2008 after a two-year layoff in 2006-07. 
The game in 2008 will be at Notre Dame Stadium with the teams alternating as host of the games until2015. 
"The University of Pittsburgh and Notre Dame have a rich his-
see SCHEDULE/page 20 
Notre Dame Football Updated 2005 Schedule 
Sept 3  .  atPmsburgh  
Sept.10  atMk:higan  
Sept. 17  MICHIGAN STATE  
.~24  at Washington  
Ocl1  at Purdue  
.Ocl15  usc  
Oct.22  BYU  
Nov.5  TENNESSEE  
Nov. 12  NAVY  
:Nov_ 19  SYRACUSE  
Nov.26  at Stanford  

MIKE HARKINS/Observer graphic 
en 
SMC SWIMMING 
NO SWIMMING
FENCING 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
NO SWIMMING

SMC CROSS-COUNTRY 
1;: u :3 LLI 

Men face crucial 
NCAA Division-Ill 
WVU, Pitt travel 
Women host
Penn State Max 
UniversitMof 

opponents 
triangular meet
z Garret Open 

Regionals 
to Notre Dame 
Chica;.o aroon 
lnvita 1onal 
Spartans, Panthers
Last year's No. 2 fin-
Men host No. 17 

Ten of the team's top 
Irish look to rebound
C) c:J 
will challenge defend­
ishers will host the Irish 
The Belles come off 

Panthers and Spartans 
runners. will race at 
from BC loss in week-
a. =: ~ 
ing Big East champi­
in this preseason event. 
their first victory of the 

in a meet with high 
Alma College this week­
end matches. 

expectations. 
end. 
ons
season. 

~ page 25 
page 21 
page 18
page 19
page 25 
page 20
en

t 
~ 
-------------~----------------:-------------
DuNN • DwiGIIT ELLicK • ZACH GILES • MIKE GooLSBY • RYAN GRANT • MATT HAsBROOK • CARLYLE HoLIDAY 
~ 
.




page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 2004 

table of contents 

ll 
• 
Fourth-year seniors pages 22-23 
Kyle Budinscak page 8 
Quentin Burrell page 10 
Carlos Campbell page 19 
Jared Clark page 15 
Jerome Collins page 20 
Derek Curry page 6 
Casey Dunn page 4 
Dwight Ellick page 18 
Mike Goolsby page 5 
Ryan Grant page 7 
Matt Hasbrook page 9 
Carlyle Holiday page 3 
Preston Jackson page 12 
Cole Laux page 14 
Billy Palmer page 16 
Greg Pauly page 13 
Stan Revelle page 17 

Numbers don't tell entire story 
Looking at the numbers during the 
past four or five years, Notre Dame's sen­
iors didn't rewrite Fighting Irish history 
by any means. 

They had two losing seasons. 
They went 1-4 
against Boston 
College. 

They never won 
a bowl game. 

• But, sometimes, the numbers lie. What the Notre Dame seniors did­n't get done on the field in terms of wins and losses, they certainly made up for in how they played the game and carried themselves on and off the field. 
Some Irish fans, alumni and outsiders 
will look at this class now -and in years 
to come -as never achieving greatness. 
They never won a national title. They 
never returned Notre Dame to a consis­
tent football powerhouse. 
But those people make a grave over­
sight. This group of seniors has shown an 
uncommonly high degree of character, 
resilience and toughness that anyone 
associated with Notre Dame should be 
proud of-and all qualities head eoach 
Tyrone Willingham preaches and teaches 
to his team each day in practice. 
Derek Curry described the senior class 
best during interviews earlier this week. 
"We have a group of seniors that are 
just phenomenal," Curry said. "Our fifth­
year seniors, I love those guys with 
e'verything because they give it their all, 
week in and wm~k out. summer in and 
summer out. ... You arn playing for Notre 
Dame, you arn playing fbr tim family, you 
arn playing f(Jr those p1~ople who came 
bdbrn, you'rn playing fbr pride and [the 
seniors have I tried to instill that, and I 
think that's one thing that's helped 
bneause the guys that arn stepping in for 
guys that go down, tlwy have to step up 
and eome in. they I have "to I understand 
what they arn playing for." 
Perhaps thn bnst example of Curry's 
description is Carlyle lloliday. 
lie was thrown in the lire during his first season at quarterback, then bounend back to have an ouL<>tanding 2002 campai).,'ll, leading the Irish to an 8­0 start and a Gator Bowl appearance. 

Joe Hettler 
Sports Writer 

QUOTING THE IRISH 
''I'm certainly glad I came to this place and played for this University. I'm happy to have gone here and I don't have any regrets." 
Kyle Budinscak offensive lineman 

But the very next season, Holiday and the offense struggled. As the losses mounted, the criticism rained down on Holiday. Rather than blame the inexperi­enced offensive line that never gave him time to throw, or ch<lstise the ineffective running game that forced him into unde­sirable passing situations, or rant about the inconsistent wide receiver play, Holiday said nothing-and meanwhile, put all the blame on his own shoulders. 
He never complained, never pouted. When students made tasteless T-shirts saying, "The Holiday is Over, Quinn to Win," the quarterback said nothing. Instead, he carried himself as a true champion by doing all he could to help the team, while at the same time sacrific­ing his own personal gain. 
Holiday had played quarterback since he was six, yet he never flinched when asked to change positions last season. When he came back in 2004 as a fifth­year senior, Holiday hoped and expected to play significant minutes. Instead, he's been stuck returning punts and playing sparingly on offense. 
But, through it all, Holiday has never wavered. 
"I think when you look at Carlyle's character and what he has gone through in the tenure that he's been here, through both the ups and the downs ­to go through that and be the man that he has, I think says a great deal for him, and it's helped the program through some tough times," Irish offensive coordi­nator Bill Diedrick said. 
Then there are guys like Jared Clark. 
Another quarterback, Clark asked the eoaches ifhe eould change positions in 2002. A<>suming he would bn on defense, Clark was surprised when the Irish coaching sL:1.fT penciled him in as tight end, a position already full or talented players. 
But Clark did not complain. lie just worked harder, moving up the depth chart to eventually become the team's fifth-leading rnceiver in 2003. 
Then at the beginning of the 2004 sea­son. Clark was pass1~d up by players that had played the tight end position their whole lives. Instead of seeing the field as a fifth-year, Clark now sees the b!'nch. But Clark does his best to hnlp the younger players and keep thn locker room atmosphere light. lie's the guy that makes his teammates laugh, even when times get tough. 
"lie did a lot fi11· me. especially early in 
"7b go out with these guys andfight every week has been great: I've seen a lot ofgreat things. " 
Ryan Grant running back 
my career," fellow tight end Anthony 
Fasano said. "He helped me along and 
showed me the ropes along the way." 
Players like Holiday, Clark and defen­
sive end Kyle Budinscak have made the 
Notre Dame program better during the 
past few seasons, even irthe number or 
wins say otherwise. 
Budinscak has set an example for 
other players, compiling a 3.6 GPA while 
also keeping an upbeat and positive atti­
tude. 
Asked at practice this week what he remembers during his five years as a Notre Dame football player, Budinscak talked of many experiences. A reporter then asked him, "Is there anything you'd really want to forget?" Budinscak paused for a moment, then said, "There's plenty of those too, but they only make you stronger." 
When Notre Dame lost to Brigham Young to open the season, it was Budinscak who was a leader in not allowing the Irish to give up. This team had worked too hard, Budinscak said, to let it all slip away because of one bad performance. 
Notre Dame's seniors have taken excessive amounts of criticism at times throughout their careers. Some ofitjusti­tied, some not. But through it all emerged a group or 36 guys that have defined what a Notre Dame athlete should be. They've been through so much together-two coaching changes, numerous blowout losses and many peaks and valleys-yet thny have bond­ed tognther and battled through it all. 
The Notre Dame team. lnd by il'i Slm­iors, will run out (If the tunnel for the final time this season on Saturday. They won't run out ranked No. 1 in the nation, they won't run out with hopes or a BCS bowl berth and they won't run out with a chance to accomplish all of their presea­son goals. 
But the seniors nonetheless have left a positive mark on this fhotball program. They've laid the f(JUndation for future successes and shown the younger play­(:lrs how to !mid. 
Character, resilience and toughness can't bn measured in wins and losses­you have to see it to understand it. .Just look on thn liPid Saturday to sen a perfect example. 
71w opinions and tJiews expressed in this column are t.hose (!flhe author and not necessarily those (d"The Observer. 
Contact Joe 1/ettlpr at jhettler0)nd. edu. 
"Just coming here and being part of this environment -it was incredible." 
Casey Dunn long snapper 

---------------------------------------------------·---------------:~ 
Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER page 3 
CARLYLE HOLIDAY 
Taking one for the teant 
Holiday has put Notre Dame's success ahead of his personal glory 
attitude. me overall, just getting adjusted to By JOE HETTLER 
Learning on the job playing college football," Holiday Sports Writer 
Holiday came to Notre Dame as said. "Playing with some of the big a freshman in 2000 after a suc­time guys that left this program Carlyle lloliday will do anything cessful high school career where and learning from them, it helped to help his team -1wen if' that's a the 6-foot-3, 215-pounder threw for next season. It wac; a big learn­ba..'inball t!•am. for 719 yards and rushed for ing experience. There were ups 
As a senior at Hoosevelt lligh another 87(> as a senior out of a and downs and it made me Sehool in San Antonio. Texas. makeshift option-style offense. stronger." I loliday was "They cai!Pd it option but really Tasting success ... for a short asked by the it was just having me drop back time baseball and run," Holiday said. "We had a Then-first year head coach eoach to play couple options plays in there." Tyrone Willingham stuck with in tlw final When he signed with Notre Holiday to start the 2002 season night games Dame, over Nebraska and Texas and the move paid off. Holiday of' the sea­A&M, Holiday knew there would took the Irish to an 8-0 start, son. lloliday, be much competition for playing including an upset win against who had time. The Irish already had fresh­Florida State in Tallahassee in late never played man quarterbacks Matt LoVecchio October. high school and Jared Clark. Rather than fear­In that game Holiday, threw for baseball up ing the competition, Holiday 185 yards on 13-of-21 passing and to that time or swung a bat in embraced it. two touchdowns, including a 65­years, accepted the offer. He "It was fun for me," he said. yard score to receiver Arnaz Battle homered in his first at-bat and fin­"Those !other quarterbacks] I had on the game's first play. ished the season with tive round­met before when they visited. We Holiday finjshed the 2002 season trippers while also helping his all visited together and we became throwing for 1788 yards, 10 touch­team with good defensive play in real close. Other people may look downs and just five interceptions. ennter!ield. at it as a competition land] we did, The Irish, however, couldn't finjsh 
In 2003, the Cincinnati Heds but at the same time it was a their magical season undefeated, selected lloliday in the 44th round friendship." losing to Boston College at home of the Major League Baseball Even after seeing LoVecchio win after Holiday left that game draft. the starting job and lead Notre injured. Notre Dame would be 
"I was a big hitter," Holiday says Dame to a 9-3 season in 2000 and blown out by Southern California with a smile. a Fiesta Bowl berth, Holiday con­on the road to end the regular sea­
Putting the team first has always tinued working on his game, wait­son, before Holiday again went been one of Holiday's best traits. ing for an opportunity. down, this time against North The fifth-year wide receiver has Sure enough, in 2001 with Notre Carolina State in the Gator Bowl. seen his shares of ups and downs Dame off to a shaky 0-2 start, The Irish couldn't recover without 
during his career at Notre Dame Holiday earned his first start their starting quarterback and 
-from struggling as a starter in against Texas A&M. Holiday would again lost in blowout fashion, this 2001 to leading the Irish to an 8-0 start the remaining eight games of time 28-6 to the Wolfpack. to start in 2002 to losing the quar­the team's 5~6·season. While he Still, for Holiday and the Irish, a question at every press confer­Holiday, who had played quarter­terback job last season to changing was disappointed the Irish didn't 10-3 season with a first-year head ence, no matter how difficult that back since the age of 6. "So [the positions heading into the 2004 have more success, Holiday knows coach was a giant step from the may have been. coaches] said, 'Do you want to go campaign. the playing time was valuable in dreadful 2001 season. "You realize whenever you lose to receiver?' and towards the last 
But through all that change, the terms of learning and game expe­"I don't think people realize how its going to come down to the couple games I decided to switch." one constant has always been rience. hard it is to go 8-0, especially at a quarterback and the coach and I The switch was anything but Iloliday's team first, 'me' second "It was just a great season for place like this," Holiday said. "That realized that," Holiday said. "My easy for Holiday. He had to learn 
was one of the more positives thought was just to keep every­how to block, run routes and catch things that I've been through since thing positive and try not to tear the football. The change didn't pay I've been here at Notre Dame. It this team apart and do something huge dividends for Notre Dame or was remarkable. [We were] sorry that would hurt your reputation. I Holiday as the new receiver it didn't end up the way we wanted realized certain things were hap­caught just two passes for 13 to, but starting 8-0 was a big thing pening. . .. We weren't playing ac; yards. for this whole program." well as we wanted to. But [I Despite his best efforts, the tran­Handling the hardships learnPd] to just let it ride because sition was a slow one for the for­
There was every reason to there are others things besides mer quarterback. believe Notre Dame would have lbotball that are important." "It was hard. I didn't rPally get another successful season in 2003, Holiday took the bulk of the criti­adjusted to it until this fall." after the 2002 year. But things cism for the inept offense, when Holiday said. "It really took me went wrong in a hurry for the other factors were also at work. awhile." Irish, especially the offense. The young offensive line struggled With a year remaining, Holiday 
Al'tnr a eomeback victory against to give him time in the pocket. The decided to apply for a fifth-year Washington State in the season running backs couldn't find any and contribute to the Irish in 2004. opener. Notre Dame traveled to yardage on the ground, which put After seeing another quarterback­Michigan and got spanked 38-0, more pressure on the passing converted-to-reeeiver i\.rnaz Battle the most one-sided loss in series game. But Holiday never placed have success in 2002, Holiday history. blame anywhere but on himself, hoped to follow suit. 
Holiday, pressured by Michigan even if he knew the criticism was This season, I Ioliday has been defenders the entire game thanks unfair. the primary punt returner and has to an inexperienced offensive line, "It was definitely a combination seen some action as a wide receiv­finished just 5-for-14 for 55 yards of things," Holiday said. "We were er. Heading into the Pittsburgh and an interception. He was pulled young in areas. There are just so game, he ha'i two receptions for 21 for freshman Brady Quinn in the many other areas that go into los­yards. Despite not putting up the lrmrth quarter. ing a football game than just a sin­numbers he would have liked, 
Things didn't get any better thfl gle player." Holiday has tried to help the team next week against Michigan State, Willingham said he's been more in other ways. when Holiday struggled in a than impressed with the manner "The season has been great," Spartan victory. The quarterback in which Holiday handled the Holiday said with his usual opti­ended the game just 1 0-for-25 for heavy criticism from others. mism. "I have not played as much 99 yards and two interceptions. "[Hie has really handled this sit­as I wanted to or caught as many 
The Michigan State game was uation with the most character of balls, but I still have those opportu­the last straw for lloliday. Quinn any young man that I've seen in a nities to get on the fip,ld and help wac; named the starter for the next while," Willingham said. "lie's thn team out. Even though I'm not game and would remain in that stood tall, he's never backed away playing a lot and I'm a fifth year role lbr the final eight games of'the from any situation that he's been and that's what I came back to do. season.· pressed into. With that, I have gen­other players can see that and stay 
Through those three weeks. uine respect for him." strong when they're not playing as I Ioliday took all kinds of criticism Making the switch and returning much as they want." !rom media mportnrs to alumni to for another season No one should be surprised by fans and even students. Shirts After losing the starting job to that attitude. Holiday has been poppnd up that said "The Holiday Quinn, Holiday was asked late in putting Notre Dame's ((JOtball team is over" on the front and "Quinn to the 2003 season whether he was first for the past live years. Win" on the back. interested in switching positions. 
Yet through all the hard times, "I was on the sideline and they 




Irish wide receiver Carlyle Holiday works for yardage after Holiday kept a positive attitude just wanted to find a way to get me Contact Joe Hettler at receiving the ball on a reverse against Washington. and patiently answered every into the football game," said jhettler@nd.edu 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~---~---­
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 2004 
CASEY DUNN 

Long snapper gets thrill of his life against Michigan 
By KATE GALES Spons Wrirer 
l.ifc doesn't always go according to plan, and no one knows that b•~tter than Casey Dunn. 
Once a diehard Miami fan who yearned to play on an Ivy Lnague
0
ofrensive  
line, he hasthrived as  
the long ~:l·~~t:Ja~~  · '· ~···:,";'!  
this season.  
"I was just  
a  freshman  
deer-in-the­ 
headlights  Dunn  
. type  deal,"  

Dunn said of his days as a pre­ferred walk-on in August of 2001. "II tried! to li~-,rure out what was going tm around me -it was def­initely a learning experience." 
The Miami resident grew up rooting for the Hurricanes and wanting to attend an Ivy League college. llownver, the combination of academics and Division-! ath­letics tipped the scales in favor of Notre Dame -that balance, and an emotional family connection to the University. 
"I honestly didn't know any­thing about Notrn Dame football bnlim~ I got here." said Dunn. "It was just a whole new experience for me and that's probably been tho best part of this experience fiw me. eoming in horn not know­ing much about tlw history of Notre Dame football." 

lin did know that his grandfa­ther grew up a diehard Notre Dame fan, watching the games on television throughout hi<> lifetime. 
"I never met my grandfather but it was a place my dad always held in high esteem because [my] grandfather loved it," said Dunn. "I applied there just on a whim." 
Dunn saw some reps and limit­ed action at practice team for offensive guard and offensive tackle. His opportunity to take the field came after his sophomore year, whp,n the long snapper posi­tion opened up. 
Since Dunn took over at long snapper during his junior season, the Irish have been grateful for that whim. lie has yet to be cred­ited with a bad snap, going over 140 consecutive plays without a missed ball. For someone who snapped in just one game in high school, it has been a road of tran­sitions. 
"I basically picked (long-snap­ping] up in the off season, through spring practice, then two-a-days my junior year I was able to win the long-snapping job," Dunn said. "That was my opportunity to get on the field and play and I took the opportunity and ran with 
it... 

The change from offensive line­man to long snapper involved los­ing weight, gaining speed, learn­ing to block immediately after the 
punt and learning a new mental attitude. "It's physically somewhat chat­
lenging, snapping the ball and blocking at the same time is tough to do," Dunn recalled. "[But] I'd say it's more mentally challenging in terms of always wanting a per­fect snap and get the ball back there to the punter so he can get the ball off. I remember when I first got the job everyone was like 'You picked that job? If you screw up everybody's going to know.' You can't screw up, ever." 
But Dunn has done more than just snap well and execute blocks. This September, he catapulted into the public eye when he recov­ered a fumble in the home-opener against rival Michigan. 
"Recovering that fumble was. incredible -for sure one of the best experiences of my life so far," he said. 'There's nothing that can describe standing up with the ball raised above your head and 80,000 people going crazy espe­cially against a team like Michigan ... at Notre Dame Stadium, a stadium filled with his­tory, it's surreal." 
This season will mark the last time Dunn steps on a football field as an athlete, as he moves on to medical school after graduating with a degree in the College of Science's Pre-Professional Studies. As he moves on, the for­mer Zahm resident will take with him the storied Notre Dame expe­rience from academics, football and life on the Notre Dame cam­pus. 
"As much as everybody hates Zahm, I love Zahm to death," he recalled. "It's the closest brother­was just one of those things hood I know aside from the foot­where I decided to piek myself up ball team." and put myself in a whole new 

He earned high grades in the environment, and it's worked out challenging College of Science and pretty well." is looking to interview at medical The Irish special teams would schools in order to purs~e a agree, as Dunn has become an career as a doctor "who works essential component to every suc­with people." cessful punt. 
"Just coming here and being part of this whole environment ­it was incredible. I'd never seen Contact Kate Gales at snow before," Dunn recalled. "It kgales@nd.edu 


Ot=t=-Ca 
pus Housing 
orrered by Dornus Properties 
No\N leasing for 2005-2006 and 2006-2007 school years 
• 
Close to campus 


• 
Student neighborhoods 

• 
Security systems 


• 
24-hour maintenance staff 


To v1e\N all of our houses, visit \NVV\N.domuskramer.com 
Call today properties rent quicl<ly. Contact l<ramer at 
(574) 315-5032 (574) 234-2436 

• 
\X/ashers & dryers 

• 
Dish\Nashers 

• 
Internet ready 


Our "Painted Lady", at 1022 E. Madison Street, isjust one of the many houses offered by Domus Properties. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------·--------------------------~ 
Friday, November 12; 2004 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
MIKE GOOLSBY 
Bouncing back 
Goolsby has overcome injury to play his best season yet in an Irish un~form 
chance to reach his full poten­By JOE HETTLER 

tial. Sports Writer 
A 'special' player 
The day Notre Dame offered 

Justin Tuck can't help but Goolsby a scholarship to play laugh when thinking about football, the Joliet, Ill. native Mike Goolsby on the football knew his college choice. field. "Going into recruiting, I 
"Man, Cools', he's funny at really didn't have a clear plan times," of how I was going to do it. I Tuck said. was just taking offms as they "llis pas­came in .... I really knew I sion for the was headed Ito Notre Dame I game -it not for any particular reason explodes on but just because it felt right. I the f'ield. took a couple unofficial visits You can tell and I took my only official because he visit here and committed on just zones my official. As soon as [Notre
Goolsby

out. lle'll Darnel came into the picture, I be in the knew I was headed here." huddle, just zoned out." Once at Notre Dame, 
Goolsby says he's simply try­Goolsby wanted to find any­ing to prepare for each play. way to be on the field. Wlien 
''I'm always more worried the coaches asked him to be about making mistakes so I'm on special teams, the then­always constantly !saying in] freshman was thrilled. my head, 'What do I have to "[Special teams] definitely do? What do I have to do?' still holds a special place in There's so much emotion in my heart." Goolsby said. this game. I mean, this year, I This season, Goolsby asked 
CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 

get a knot in my throat almost to play on the special teams 
Irish linebacker Mike Goolsby tackles Washington's James Sims during Notre Dame's 38-3 victo­
every single game because I unit once again -this time he 
ry over the Huskies this season.
want to win so bad. wasn't trying to get additional 
''I'm not a big 'rah-rah' guy playing time. Rather, Goolsby in the locker room, but I've thought the Irish needed to during the 2002 football sea­does to some extent," Goolsby Goolsby lias had the luxury learned how to get myself improve. son and excelled for the Irish. ·said. "During spring ball there of focusing solely on football jacked up for games and sus­"I didn't think our special lie recorded 7 5 were a lot of this season, since he already tain that throughout the teams played up to par," tackles, includ­sleepless earned his degree in game, which is the most Goolsby said. "Kickoff returns ing four sacks "[Goolsby] really nights, just American Studies. important part." was my forte my freshman and a forced appears to be getting driving myself "Football is such a huge 
But there was a time when year. So I asked to be on that fumble. He led nuts worrying part of my life," Goolsby said.
even better as he

Goolsby didn't know whether and they put me on punt as the team with about getting "It's pretty much a full plate
finishes out this last 
he'd play football at a high well. Early on in the season I 13 tackles for a back with that of football for me. There isn't level again. An injury nearly did it more than I do now." loss and added stretch ofgames.,, one year left any excuse not to excel. It's ended Goolsby's career before Injured and out an interception. and trying to put up or ~hut up for me. In the fifth-year senior had a Goolsby started all 13 games But the season accomplish life I try to work hard at dif­
Tyrone Willingham 

ended on a sour what I wanted ferent things and I think I 
Irish head coach 

note for the to accomplish. have a pretty hard work ethic. linebacker when "It was a big I came back for a fifth year he broke his left worry of mine for a reason and that's to be collarbone in the Gator Bowl for a long time until camp successful on the foo.tball field against North Carolina State. whe~ I got it out of my sys­and that's my main goal in life In the offseason, Goolsby also tem. right now." had cartilage problems with Goolsby's worry seems to be Goolsby admits that he's his right shoulder at the time. for naught, as the fifth-year hoping for a. career in the NFL 
To make matters worse, senior has played exceptional after his final season at Notre Goolsby re-injured his left col­for much of the season. Notre Dame ends. But for now, he larbone playing Bookstore Dame head coach Tyrone wants to focus on the final Basketball in the offseason. Willingham feels Goolsby is two games of the regular sea­That injury cost the line­just now starting to hit his son and help Notre Dame fin-backer the 2003 season. stride. ish strong. 
While the Irish struggled to "Mike has ''I'm prou'a of a 5-7 record, Goolsby could had a fine 
"]think that would be the way the 

only watch, helpless. year. the team's handled 
"It was extremely frustrat­third-year great just to be a part the adversity ing," Goolsby said. "The coach said. ofthat history [at and bounced toughest part was seeing the "[He] really Notre Dame]. ,, back time and guys every day in practice, appears to be time again," working there butts off and even getting Goolsby said. not getting a 'W' on Saturday. better as he Mike Goolsby "Sometimes That was the toughest part finishes out this Irish linebacker wish we didn't because I felt partially last stretch of have to bounce responsible because I should­games:" back the way n't have been out there screw­Goolsby has ·we do. But you ing around at Bookstore." tallied a team-high 84 tackles, can't changB the past. We're 
Yet, Goolsby says he's 24 more than the next closest going to try .md get these next learned a lot about himself player and also has two sacks two games and win a bowl during the time away from and two interceptions. game.... then I'll look back football on the sidelines. The latest interception was and say I was proud of what 
"What I've learned from it is returned for a game-winning we accompli·:;hed." just how much I love the game touchdown against No. 9 Personally, Goolsby has high and how much I miss the Tennessee at Neyland Stadium goals for h;mself before he game and how much I took on Nov. 6. leaves this soason. being healthy for granted and Tuck said Goolsby's return "I'd also like to leave some everything that goes into foot­this season has been critical kind of lega.,3y here," Goolsby ball," Goolsby said. "I took it for the Irish defense. said. You don't want to be one all for granted and then I had "He brings great leader­of those guys who's forgotten. an opportunity to come back ship," Tuck said. "He had an "You hear people talking for a fifth year and I didn't injury last year that was just about past players all the time want to let the slip by." devastating but his passion and I think that'd be great Returning with a vengeance for the game came back and just to be a part of that histo­
Goolsby came back this sea­he didn't make no complaints ry." 
CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer son scared to death. about anything. He worked Irish linebacker Mike Goolsby returns an interception for a "[Failing to reach my poten­his butt off to get back to touchdown against Tennessee on Nov. 6. Goolsby's touchdown tial] consumed me for the where he is. I'm just happy Contact Joe Hettler at proved to be the game-winning score. longest time and I think it still for him." jhettler@nd.edu 




~----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 
DEREK CURRY 

Dickerson's mother, CurryBy MATT LOZAR learned something from the Spons Writrr future Hall of Farner he never  
wanted to let happen again.  
Do you. Diekerson never came back  
Two words, l'ive letters, a to Sealy to talk with the  
lif1~ motto for Derek Curry. young kids and provide them  
For one of Notre Dame's with inspiration to achieve  
fifth-year snniors, to 'do you' their dreams.  
is about "The main reason I do stuff  
morn than like that is beeause I was in a  
just playing position at my life that no one  
football. reaily eame back," Curry  
W h n n said. "I never wanted to put  
lw's not on anyone else in that situation.  
thn prac­I know what it's like to be  
tice finld. there and know someone  
watehing from where you're from or  
l"ilm or hit­the area ncar you not to eome 
Curryting oppos­back and tell you that you can  
ing play-make it, do the things you  
nrs, Curry is out in the com­want to do in your heart and  
munity sprnading that mes­fulf"ill the dreams you have,  
sage. and I try to tell people that.  
"It's basically be yoursnll". While Curry nnly gets baek  
Everybody has individual gifts to his hometown maybe once  
and nvnrybody is spneial and or twiee a year right now  
unique," thn starting outside because or commitments to  
lirwhacknr said. "Don't try to tho foo~ball team, when he  
play like you spe mn on TV. does go back, he doesn't  
don't play like~ NFI. players make the mistake he feels  
play, play the way you play. J)iekeTSOn did.  
"You bn the pnrson you are, "Every time I do go home I  
in the 1~nd. the only thing you try to spend time at the mid­ 
can bn is happy because you dle school, junior high or ath­ 
an~ hning true to yourself." letic department," Curry said.  
That's why Curry is at Notre "I try to hang around some  
Damn. kids and let them talk to me.  
Foundation for life I'm an open guy.  
Crowing up in a Christian "Yeah, I went to Notre·  
family in Snaly, Texas, Curry Dame, but I'm just like any­ 
wont to Shepherd's Way body olse. I'm from the same  
Church. During his snnior side of town as most of those  
ynar of high school. tlw mes­guys, tho same city. So l try to  
sagn prnaehed nach week leave that option open that if  
b1~gan sinking in. they want to learn anything  
"Wiwn I bneanw a snnior in about the college level, my  
high school, I started to real­life in general or anything."  
izn Cod gave nw thnse gifts," Weathering the storm  
Curry said. "I didn't give Curry's been a loader his  
them to myself. my parents entire life, something he  
didn't givn them to me, but attributes to God putting him  
CLEMENT SUHENDRA!The Observer God has given me this ability·. in the right situations and  
Irish linebacker Derek Curry makes an interception near the end of the first half of Notre Dame'sThe foundation eamn there." environments.  
game against Michigan State this year. Curry has been one of the leaders of the defense all season.Coming from the high Throughout high school  
sehool football-loving state of where he was a two-time cap­ 
Texas, Curry had a lot of tain in football and three­ Irish uniform. The majority of with the word "WIN." All of  be is excited. Not because it's  
options to continue his eduea­time captain in basketball  his playing career would be that change Curry feels led to  the las( game, but because I  
tion in college. As an honor­and baseball to being in the  spent underneath a new the 8-0 start during the  have the opportunity to play  
able mnntion USA Today Ali­huddle and in the locker  coaching staff. Heturn to Glory of 2002 and a  another game in our Stadium.  
Amnriean, three-sport star· room during his fifth-year,  Curry understood people changed outlook in the pro­ Because when it's all said and  
and orw of thn top 100 play­Curry~ never been shy about ers in thn~e separate Texas sharing his opinions.  have to make career moves gram ever since. . and things happen because "II had tol stay positive, and  done, I want to come out with the. victory."  
nnwspapnrs, many letters "It's just a ehallenge was  coaching in big-time college just say, you know what these  As the end to his .Notre  
filled his mail­wifling to- football is basi­guys have some­ Dame playing career nears,  
box. accept. I feel  cally like a thing really good  the question looms about  
/  /  Whnn he had to everyone is a"God really led me to sign on that dot­leader in theirNotre Dame moretnd linn, there own individual was only onn than anything else.,, way, but mine ehoicn. is just more "(;od really led vocal, maybeDerek Curry me to Notre too vocal atIrish linebackerDamn more than times," Curry anything nlsn. I said. "It's just had a lot of something  business. For a "My personality is to to offer and are leader like good coaches.be vocal and step upCurry, it was We are going tofor myselfand thetime to put go with this and faith in Irish things I believe in.,, give it all we coach Tyrone got," Curry said. Willingham and "I think that'sDerek Curry the rest of his one of' the rea­Irish linebacker staff -­howev­sons we had er blind that such a good Slla­ what Curry will do with his future. An obvious option is the NFL, but he's not ready to commit to that just yet. "tr I get the opportunity, that's great," the manage­ment information systems and theology doubln major said. "If I don't, that's l'ine to." If' that opportunity do1~sn't  
options as to whern I could that carried ovor, and my per­go, but I didn't think it was sonality is just to be vocal and  faith could be. son that first "As a leader on the team I year because people bought  arise, Curry knows there's something Plse.  
about me." Curry said. "The step up for myself and the ability (;od gave me to play things I really believe in. t h i.s ga me I w a n t n d to j us t "I really believe in this glorify him in every way I team, and that's one of the could, and I felt like when I reasons I step up and speak  had to step up and basically in and really tried to buy in to jump on board," Curry said. what the coaches wanted us "The thing about a leader, to go." whenever change is made in Following his own message the program or within the Along with the other seniors  "I want to bo a youth pastor at some point because that was the time in my life when I really got a foundation so when I went to college, I was  
earnn here he was really about this team because I  organization, you have to step playing their last game in  able to stay the person I am  
telling me this was the place, really eare and believe we  up, go with the flow and help Notre Dame Stadium on  and I don't sway to anyone  
this is whore I want you to can be a great team."  with the transition so that Saturday afternoon, it's the  else or who this person is or  
be, and so I wanted to just be When the program needed  was my role." last time Curry will run out of  what I see on TV," he said. "I  
okay, this k what you want leaders the most, Curry was me to do, and let's go do it there. together." Former coach Bob Davie  Going with the flow includ­the tunnel. ed having the leaders like It's something he's been Curry help with the change thinking about for awhile.  want to stay true to myself." Staying true to himself-­doing that will allow Curry to  
Curry didn't want to l11ave was fired in December 2001  brought in by Willingham --a I don't know what I'm going  follow his own message.  
and never look back when he and five days later, his  changed attitude, atmosphere to do yet," Curry said. "It's  One wouldn't expect any­ 
left Sealy II igh School for replacement, George O'Leary  and perspective·. It started going to be interesting to see  thing less.  
South Bend. Attending the had to resign. The coach and  from the day Willingham how it plays out and how I  
same high school as NFL run­staff that recruited Curry to  showed up at the first team handle the last pep rally and  
ning back Eric Dickerson and South Bend was gone after  meeting with the Powerpoint all this.  Contact Matt Lozar at  
living 200 yards from his first two seasons in an  slide presentation ending "I think the one thing I will  mlozar@nd.edu  


Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
RYAN GRANT 
Picking up where he left off· 
A year after backing up Julius Jones, Grant has experienced a rebirth as a running back 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sporrs Edi-tor 
As a sophomore, he was the man. and there were 1.085 reasons (or yards) why. 
Thnn that title went to Julius Jonns in 2003. Then it went to Darius Walknr ­until the original got healthy 
again.  If  
there  was  
ever  any  

doubt what Hyan Grant means to the Irish football team. it was washed away when Grant returned from his hamstring injury this season. 
With Grant in the game this season, the Irish are 5-1; with­out him, they are 1-2. If Irish fans haven't recognized the importance of this senior just yet, then they are missing out. 
Just ask Irish coach Tyrone Willingham. 
"I think it is [easy to look over what Grant adds to the offense!." Willingham said. "First of all, you have to take into account the role of the sen­ior. and the role of the senior is not just on the field. It's what he provides off the field and in the locker room and the kind of play that we have got now with Ryan has been very solid for us in all areas. It was almost easi­er for many to forget that two years ago he was a 1 ,000-yard rushe~" · 
Willingham added that Grant's low-key personality might overshadow his accom­plishments on the field. 
"It's easy to overlook," he said. "I don't know if it's his personality or the way he car­ries himself, but you have that tendency. But he adds a great deal to our football team in terms of pass protection and in terms of understanding pass routes where he can go, where he can't go." 1,000 yards to being a back­up 



As a sophomore, Grant became the seventh player in Notre Dame history to reach the 1 ,000-yard rushing mark in a season. He finished with 1,050 yards and was the first Irish rusher to achieve that mark since Autry Denson did in could finish in the top-five of 1998. For Grant, it was quite all-time leading: rushers at the season after an elbow Notre Dame. injury had sidelined him just a "My initial goal going into the year before. season, if things would have 

He carried the ball 261 times, worked out, I wouldn't have averaging 4.2 yards per carry gotten hurt and I would have and scored nine touchdowns. stayed on track, I had the Grant was the feature running opportunity to be top-five [all­back on a team that finished time rushing], and that was one 
10-3, starting all  of the goals I was  
13 games.  looking at," Grant  
But Julius came  in 2003, Jones back to  "Ryan [Grant] has been very solid for  said. "Whatever the case may be, I'd rather win  
Notre  Dame  us in all areas. "  games."  
after missing a  Grant  missed  
year due to aca­demic problems, and Grant saw  Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach  the first with a hamstring injury, something he  
his playing time  never  counted on  
deqease as he  coming into  his  

split time and carries with last season in a Notre Dame Jones. uniform. 
Grant finished the season "It was frustrating more than with 567 yards and three disappointing just because I touchdowns, numbers far fewer was feeling good, I felt like than those of his sophomore good things were going to hap­year. Meanwhile, Jones shined, pen and it was something I did­averaging over 100 yards per n't have control of," Grant said. game, and racking up 1268 "It just happened. It wasn't yards on the season to go along something I felt was coming on. with his 10 touchdowns. Jones It was just spur of the started seven of the Irish's 12 moment." games. Grant said he was frus­With Grant the Irish have trated, but he understood that excelled, but without him they there was nothing he could do. struggle at times, despite the 
"I think the frustration is emergence of true freshman there to a degree, but you have Darius Walker. But Grant says to understand, some of those he is finally getting healthy things I had no control over," with two games to play, and the Nyack, N.Y. native said. even with the injury, he is not "The things that I had control feeling sorry for himself. over, I think that might have "For the most part, especially been frustrating. [For exam­with my injury, I had no control ple], if I'm not liking the way over that," Grant said. "I did I'm running, then I need to everything possible to get change some things." myself together and things hap­'Special' leadership pen for a reason. I might not 
Grant came into the 2004 understand that reason right season with high expectations away, but I'll figure it out some­for himself. He was ready for a time. I just still need to be there season similar to that of 2002. for this team: I feel great now, With the goals he had in mind so I just trying to finish up with for himself, Grant thought he the most positive things as pos­sible." 
It is 1hat unselfish attitude that has earned Grant the respect of his teammates and coaches alike, even in injury. 
"I think Ryan has been spe­cial bee a use in the manner in which he has had to work through this year," Willingham said. "Great expectations com­ing into the season and then sufferin5 the hamstring injury, having to fight back, partially out. Hi~; leadership has been speciaL'' 
Thus far, Grant has played in six games, rushing for five touchdowns and 354 yards. He has just 83 carries on the year, but he mmains more concerned with his team. 
"Part of me being a leader on this team I have to make sure all the other guys are mentally sharp," Grant said. "I can't worry about not getting the ball because I can't let other guys on the team see that, feed off that. I have to make sure who­ever's in is taking care of busi­ness. So I feel like that is part of my role on this team." 
Willingham has always acknowledged the importance of Grant to this Irish team, despite •~he ups and downs of his career. 
"What Ryan has done, and I think what he might say, if I could sav it for him, is that the Notre Dame experience has helped make him a man and it's helped mature him and learn to really understand the ups and downs of football and hopefully he can take that into life," Willingham said. 
And Grant remains the con­summate team player. 
"There wer.e other ways I found I Meded to help the team !after I got hurt]," he said. "I want to get wins more than yardag£, so the frustrating part is maybe not having the sea­sons more than [yards]. I want to contribute in any way to the team." 
One last time 
For Grwt and the seniors, Saturday is the last time they will get to play together at Notre Dame Stadium. Grant said he wants this win more than anything. 
"I feel like with everything I've gone through, it's gone fast, my career here," Grant said. "But I still feel like I'm mature and I am ready to move on and take that next step. 
"I feel like I have taken advantage of the time I've spent with these guys -the· good and bad. I appreciate the times I've had with them, and I lay it on the line for them ­they're my brothers for life." 
Grant also said he has really enjoyed the four years he's spent at 1\otre Dame, as it was everything he hoped for and more. 
"It's bee 1 great, even with all the ups and downs of the teams I've played on," Grant said. "To go out with these guys and fight every week and the sweat that goes into playing on Saturdays has been great. I've seen a lot of great things and a lot of great people, and I appreciate everyday I ve had with them." 
Contact He:ather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoel~nd.edu 


page 8 Friday, November 12, 2004
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
-·----==---=-:==========--===-:=-==========-===============================---=-==--~=-= 
KYLE 8UDINSCAK 

Brains and brawn 
Budinscak just as comfortable reading Frost as reading the playbook 
has lwnn effective. As a red­
By HEATHER VAN shirt freshman in 2001, he 
HOEGARDEN made 13 tackles in 11 appear­
Sports Editor ances as a reserve. In 2002. he 
stnppnd into a starting role at 
lin's played for two coaches loft dnfensive end, recording and expnrien1~nd tlw rnsigna­20 ta1~klns in 12 starts, includ­tion of anotlwr. lin quotes ing 13 solos. Last season, he Bolwrt Frost and knows all recorded 17 tackles in just about intnrnst ratns and risk eight games at right defensive and rl'turn. end before he suffered a sea­And somn­son-ending injury. whnrn in Budinseak said the position tlw r e, lw changes have madP him a bet­has found a tor football player. way to get ''I've enjoyed playing any­to thn quar­where on the defensive line," terback and Budinscak said. ''I've always stop tlu• bnen happy to play any posi­run. tion. It's been great playing all 
Irish stm-thosP positions; it's taught me ior Kyle a lot about football. Budinseak has btwn through a Along with the position lot in his l'ivn yPars at Notre changes have come the coach­Damn. lin was lwrn for the Bob ing ehanges. First. Davie was Davin nra and tlw dnbacle that fired in 2001. Then, O'Leary was the hiring of Gnorge was hired and res.igned after it O'Lnary. And now lw is play­was discovered that he falsified ing for Tyrorw Willingham. information on his resume. 
Wlwn askPd about the ups And l'inally, in 2002, and downs that hn has had Willingham was hired. throughout his career, Budinscak said the changes Budinscak n~spondnd with a worn tough to deal with, espe­q uotn from Hobert Frost. cially at a place like Notre 
"It's tough hut you kenp on Dame. going, lwrausn that's tlw only "It certainly teaches you thing to do," Budinscak said. about life," Budinscak said 
"Hobert Frost said, 'The only about the coaching changes. thing cnrtain about lifn is that "It makes you grow up a little it gons on.'" bit. I don't think there's any­
"I think that's really true." where you can go through Coming to ND swings like you do here and 
Budinscak came to Notre like we've had in the past four Dame as a highly-touted defnn­years. It really ma)>.es a man sivn linnman out of Haritan out of you if you stick with it lligh Sehool in Bridgewater, and ket~p trying to succeed." 
N.J. lin was the 11JIJIJ Somerset A big setback County Defensive Player of the Eight games into the 2003 Year and was nanwd all-state season. Budinscak was having his snnior ynar. For Budinscak, arguably the best season of his coming to Notre Dame was an career at Notre Dame to-date. nasy choic1~. dPspite his fatlwr's But against Florida State, this disdain for Notrn Dame foot­all changed when he was ball, and his brotlwr's afTilia­injured. tion to tlw Naval Academy, The doctors told Budinscak wlwre he was a wrestler. the bad news -he had torn 
"My family's always known his ACL, MCL and the cartilage n't want us doing that, but it gont young man." our guys will be like," that Notre Damn in his knee. lie was kind of good for us. Every Just how intelligent? Willingham said. "You know was a place that didn't return to time I was kind of sore, think­Budinscak graduated in the they can't be, just as all the brnd oxcellnncn the· field that . ing about easing up, I'd see spring with a degree in finance students can't get !that high of
"It wasn't too hard of

and always had season, and had him going full-blown and I'd and a 3.6 grade-point-average a grade-point average!. But at outstanding foot­a decision [to come surgery Dee. 20 think 'I can't give in,' and I on a 4.0 seale. He has been the same time, I enjoy having ball playnrs and to Notre Dame]." to repair the think he saw the same thing named to the Dean's List that kind of role model on our guys that wore damage. with me sometimes." numerous times, including the team, because that's the stu­really smart," hP. "It was Budinscak was ready for ·fall fall semester of 2001, in which dent-athlete you want."
Kyle Budinscak 

said. "There's rough," practice this season, and eased he registered a 3. 97 grade­So what will happen when always been a Irish offensive lineman Budinscak said his way back into the full­point-average. Budinscak has Budinseak runs out of the tun­respP.ct in my of the injury. speed workouts. He has been earned Academic All-District nel for thelast time this week­family for the "Some people strong this season, registering honors the last three seasons end against Pittsburgh? Even Notre Damn program. I was told me I might not be able to 17 taekles in the first eight and is an Academic All­he doesn't know how he will actually always a fan in my play. People weren't expecting games. American candidate. He said react to his final game at Notre own way of Notre Dame." me to do that much !this sea­Willingham said the fifth­the key to his success is disci­Dame Stadium. 
Budinseak said it was the son!. It kind of worked as moti­year senior has been an inspi­pline. ''I've thought about it a little combination of the academics vation for me, and it helped me ration to his teammates "It's hard," he said. "People bit here and there, not so and athletics that lured him to realized the opportunity I have because of his hard work in ask me that a lot, and my only much recently, but I don't South Bend from the east here, and what I almost lost. getting back on the field with answer is you just have to know !how I'm going to coast. As time consuming as rehab an injury that a lot of people somehow get things done as react!." Budinscak said. "It 
"When !Notre Darnel offered was, and as much effort as it say takes athletes two years to they come at you. You just went by so fast. I know every­me a scholarship in high took, I knew it was going to be fully recover. can't procrastinate, somehow body says that, that's the school, I knew it was the best all worth it, being able to play "What you first think of with you have to have some motiva­cliche. I think I'm only going to place I eould possibly go," for this team one more year. It Kyle, is you watch a young tion inside you just to do things be able to tell onee it happens. Budinseak said. "My father was tough, but it was some­man that was injured in a ball­and actually get things done It's hard for me even to think evnn said, 'There's no place in thing I was glad I endured." game last year, an injury that when they come at you. about." the world like that place -to Budinseak had a partner in really should have never taken "That gets harder and harder As far as his five years play­play football and earn your crime during the rehabilitation place, and you see the fight, as the year goes on, but the ing for the Irish and going to degree from that place."' process. Defensive end Justin the drive and desire to first of only way for me to really have school at Notre Dame, 
"It wasn't too hard of a deci­Tuck also suffered a torn ACL all rehabilitate himself, and get done both was to put my head Budinscak maintains he made sion," Budinscak said. in the Syracuse game last sea­himself back," Willingham down and go and to just get the right decision in schools. Versatile and volatile son. The two rehabbed all said. "And most people will tell things done as they came." ''I'm certainly glad I came to 
Sincn coming to Notre Dame, spring and summer, and you to be fully recovered it Willingham said he wishes all this place and played for this Budinscak has switched posi­pushed each other to get takes two years, and you see his players were like university," he said. ''I'm happy tions, all being on the defen­healthy for this season. how he's played today. So he Budinscak in the classroom, to have gone here and I don't sivn line. lin has played nose "I was sad to see that happen becomes an inspiration, No. 1 and when asked about have any regrets." tackle. tacklt~ and now has to him," Budinseak said. "But because of his fight to get Budinseak's grade-point aver­found a honw at defnnsive end. then I was given someone to back. No. 2, he becomes an age, responded, "Isn't that 
Bngardlnss of whore he has compete with in getting back. inspiration because he is a impressive?" Contact Heather Van Hoega.rden playnd on tho liru~. Budinseak The athletic trainer really did-hard worker and a very intelli-"That is what I hope all of' at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 



Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page lJ 
MATT HASBROOK 
Walk-on lineman transfered to ND fo~r its acaclemics 

By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
The future rarely unfolds as planned. Just ask fifth-year senior defen­sive tackle Matt Hasbrook. A nine-time wrestling All­American 
fresh off an undefeated (49-0) senior year that saw the Indiana­polis, Ind. native take home the 


state title in Hasbrook the 215­pound weight class, Hasbrook was rewarded with a wrestling scholarship by Michigan State and never looked back -for a couple years, that is. 
After being red-shirted as a freshman wrestler, Hasbrook traded in his headgear for a hel­met and tried his hand on the gridiron. 
While the Cathedral High School grad saw action in four games his junior year and was named an Academic All-Big Ten honoree, Hasbrook ultimately decided that Michigan State wasn't quite the fit he had expected and traded in his Spartan green and white for Notre Dame blue and gold. 
In the end, Hasbrook's decision to leave Michigan State was root­ed in a number of factors. 
"There was a multitude of 
things [that went into my decision 
to transfer!," Hasbrook said. 
"Between [Bobby Williams] get­
ting fired at MSU and the team 
was kind of in shambles, and I 
had dropped my wrestling schol­
arship to play football -I was 
already paying out-of-state 
tuition. 

"Coach Willingham had just had 
a great season at 10-3 so I thought why not come to the best football program with the best . academics in the country. I want­
ed to get a better education." 
Per NCAA rules, Fl.asbrook was 
forced to sit out the 2003 season, 
leaving him in a tough position to 
not only earn a spot on the roster, 
but also a starting job. 
"I was on the travel team [at 
MSU], and then I came here and it 
was a pretty humbling experience 
because I had to walk on," 
Hasbrook said. "I think if I look 
back I probably would have 
applied to come here right off the 
bat, because it's so hard to earn a 
starting job as a walk-on in just 
one year." 
Equipped with the unique expe­
rience of having attended two 
major universities in the past 
three years, Hasbrook has little 
trouble identifying the factors that 
separate Michigan State from 
Notre Dame. 
"It's night and day," Hasbrook 
said. "There are 50,000 wild peo­
ple at Michigan Sta~te and there 
are parties all the time and it 
seems like school's just a second­ary option to why you're there­it's pretty much a party school. 
"At Notre Dame everyone's more focused on academics, and the people are a lot closer ­there's a lot more school spirit and it's just a better atmospherP at Notre Dame." 
While academics and atmos­phere certainly contribute to an individual's university experience. of predominate importance arc the fostered friendships. 
"It's been incredible," Hasbrook said. "J'v,~ made so many close friendships with the other fifth­year seniors. I live with Greg Pauly and Billy Palmer and we have a n ally close relationship with Mikn Goolsby, Jared Clark and Kyle Budinscak-we're all really tight. I'm so happy I made the switd because of the friend­ships I've made." 
With thf' senior's collegiate foot­ball careers quickly drawing to a close, Hasbrook looks forward to one d~y bf:ing his own boss. 
''I'd likf. to Tun my own busi­ness, but first start off in the financial sector or sales to earn a little capital," Hasbrook said. "Eventually I would definitely like to own my own company." 
While Hasbrook's plans appear firmly in place, if his collegiate experien ~e is any indication. there's no telling where the talent­ed student-athlete may end up. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 


page 10 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 2004 
QUENTIN BURRELL 

The battle-tested veteran 
In the Irish secondary, nobody has more experience than Burrell 
cxporieneod momber of the 
By PAT LEONARD 

defnnsivn baeklinld going into the Associare Spons Ediror 
~004 srHtson. And that makes him. unoflidally, tho leadnr. 
<)unnt.in Burn•ll madP IJO tack­"I think he's handlod tho Ins and snvPII intPrcPptions in his rr~sponsibility wnll." dnfensivo St'nior St'ason at. Southwest backs coach Strwen Wilks said. I )pl\alb lli),{h School. Ih~ broko up "liP's bnPn consistnnt all yoar." 
I:l passPs. Burroll is third on tho team 

But. whr•n with !16 tackles and 30 solo, and hi' ramo lo ho mack four .taeklos last Noln• I>a nw. Saturday in an upset of top-1 0 Burrnll wait­mnkml Trmnossen. Pel. "I can really tell you tlw last 
Ht>nuit.Pd thrno wnnks, hn has really by a tnam stoppnd his gamn up," Wilks said. alrt>ady ripn ''I'm talking about the way ho with Sf'COJHI­plays, tlw way he's practicing. ary talt>nt. in lin's diving for balls in practice. (; (' ,. () Ill (' lin's trying to make great deci­Sapp, CIPnn sions in reading the quarterback. l':arl, ShanP Walton and Vontnz So I've seen great improvement DuiT. tlw (;Porgia Class !lA all­in <)unntin throughout the year, statn honorable nH'Hlion snlnrtion but most importantly he's was rnln).{atnd to spedal teams str~pped up and been the leader." undnr lwad roach Bob Davin. The process of n~aching the 
"My frnshman yt>ar and my starting safety position was an sophomorn ynar I was kind of unmapped one, but Burrnll felt just playing my role," Burrell the opportunity to showcase his a frnshman quarterback should But Burrell's presence the "With our defense and the way said. "Tiwrn wt>n~ a lot of uppnr­skills would have to eomn sooner never throw that many passes remainder of the season was not wn invert our safetios a lot, I mak­dassmeq, nspnl'ially in tlw soc­or later. (59) in a game, or that no team overlooked. ing tackles quietly! is going to ondary. with a lot of nxpt>rienco "Going into my junior year I should lose when it out-gains its Burrell started the last nine happen as far as making plays," so it was kind of likr• a wait your knew I didn't have much time opponent that badly (346 Notre games of the season. finishing Wilks said. "At times wn've tum dnal." IPI't," lw said. "My doek was tick­Dame to ~~3 for Purdun). fourth on the team in tackles missed somo lplaysl and they 
Now. 1-{oing into his final ganw ing. So I nneded to do some­Burrell's introduction to the with 58 (39 solos) and logging wen~ crucial ones, but for tho· at Notrl' l>anw Stadium faeing thing." Notre Damn defensn in replace­over 265 minutes played. Those most part I f(~ol lw's stnppnd up l'ittsbur).{h on Saturday, Burroll And then. Glenn Earl got hurt. ment of Earl, who saw limited numbnrs compared in a lopsided his game." finds himsPlf starting at frno safn­Thrust into the spotlight aetion afterward, was glanced fashion with his statistics of ~00~ Going from 48 spndal teams ty for tlw I 'Jth limP in thr~ past In the midst of a 23-10 loss to over. lin would go on to make live (two tackles, 41 seconds). appearances his fwshman year. two smtsons. Purclue. Notre Dame fans-\'\!ern­tackles and his first career tackle "I knew my main thing was . t~ ) 41 apw.o!lf11f\~os a~ a sopho­
Burrt>ll was, al'tPr all. tho most distraught. They complained· that· for a loss that day. · getting healthy bedwsh I had a more showed Burrnll lw had tlw lot of nicks and knacks there," opportunity to make an impart Burrell said. "It was unfortunate soon on the trmm. And since he that Glenn got hurt, but at the did not have the minutos to show same timn I looked at it as an eoaehes his talents in game situa­opportunity to step up and do tions, the next best option was to things that I knew I could do impress thnm in pradiee. when I eamn here. So I looked at "I think the thing was during it as an opportunity. And onee I the off-season and during spring had that opportunity I just took it ball, I think I had one of the best and ran with it." spring balls I've ever had here," 
Stanford found out better than he said. "And the coaching stall' any team how Burrell could run took well to that. So once I got with it. the opportunity, it was there for 
With Notre Dame up 27-0 on a n1e." bewildered Cardinal team Nov. Burrnll entered this season for ~9, 2003, Burrell scooped up a the first time ever penciled in as Stanford fumble and took the ball the preseason starter. Being a baek 65 yards for the touchdown, senior, Burrr~ll not only had to his first ever score in a Notre shouldnr the preparation respon­Dame uniform. sibilities of a starter. lie also was 
He also intercepted Stanford part of a seleet f..'TOUp that could Chris Lewis once that day, but control the direction of the Irish Burrell said the fumble recovery team. was his most memorable "Going into the season, I was moment as an Irish defender. talking to a lot of the upperclass­
"A'i far as performance oil the men. We'rn nmlly dosn," Burroll field, I would maybe say the said. "And wn just didn't want to Stanford game from last year," have any rngrots. Burmll said. "I had an intercep­"We'vn lost somn gamos we tion in that game and I took a shouldn't havn lost, and wn could fumble back like 70-some yards." be in tlw national championship 
But Burrnll's memories arn not basically if it wont a 1:ortain way, all good ones. but that's ovnr and dono with. Taking the bad with the good We'ro bowl nligiblo now and 
Tlwre was the Syracuse game we'vn got to look forward to Dee. 6 of last season, when going to a good bowl. a bowl that Orangemen running bark Walter we dnsnrve to bn in. and wr'll Heycs beat Burrell to a spot 15 just go li·om thorn." yard~ downfinld to seoro .his The gamo against Pittsburgh fourth of live touehdowns that on Saturday will bP Burrell's last day. at Notro Damn, hut tho free saf(•­
There was the BYU gamn to ty said trmrs arnn't his style. start the 2004 season. whon the "Ill kind of', sort of lean~ I. but Cougars went deep on two key I'm not going to gr:t too mnotional pass plays over Burrell and the or anything like that," Burrell secondary to score or sot up said. "I was fi1rtunate enough to backbreaking touchdowns. havn the opportunity to eonw to 
Wilks knows the defensive this university, I did tho things backfield has struggled this sea­that could do lwre, and it's just son, but also knows Burrell is a time to movo on. I had a good key component in aeeomplishing time here, and it's just another the secondary's goals. He helped chapter in my lif(1." the defense hold Michigan rneniv­er Braylon Edwards without a 




Quentin Burrell, left, teams with Mike Richardson to bring down Washington's Sonny Shackelford touchdown, and he leads the sec­Contact Pat Leonard at during Notre Dame's 38-3 win over the Huskies on Sept. 25. ondary in tackles, alboit quietly. pleonard@nd.edu 
---~--­

Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
/ 

Cheer (Responsibly) 
fo:r Old Not:re Da~01.e! 


. ~ With the final home game on Saturday, NDSP and the Office _o.f Alcohol and Drug Education congratulate the football team, the band, students and other fans for a fine season. 
We hope that everyone has a wonderfu-l and safe weekend celebrating the final home game and cheering the Irish on to a victory against Pitt! 
As you celebrate this weekend, keep safety in mind! 
• 
If you're not 21 years old don't drink alcohol. ..police continue enforcement activity and will arrest minors and those who give alcohol to minors. 

• 
If you choose to use alcohol, please do so in n1oderation.... intoxication is unhealthy, dang·erous and hurts our community. STAY IN THE GREEN ZONE. 

• 
Look out for each other! Help friends and others make VV'ise and healthy choices about the u_se of alcohol..,.don't be afraid to speak up! 


Each year tragedies involving the use of alcohol strike the Notre Dame community and communities across the nation. Expe~rts say that 1400 young people will die as a result of alcohol abuse this year. Let's put an end to needless tragedy and enjoy a wonderful weekend with the Notre Dame family cheering thE~ Irish on to victory. 
For more information about healthy choices and tl1e use of alcohol visit the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education website at http:/jwww.nd.edu/"'aldrug; or come to 311 LaF~ortune . 
ldil UNIVERSITY OF s •t p 1• 
wNoTREDAME 

ecur1 y o 1ce 
..t.fl ·~ 
/Ia if nr~:..' .... ···· """ ,,~ 

"A Tradition of Service" ~~ ~ 114~ 1)ewte 
Emergency Dial9-1-1 
311 .t.'a:Jil~ -(574} 6$1~ 79i'O 
574.631.5555 www.ndsp.nd.edu 
~-,d.e««l-~ 

page 12 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 2004 
PRESTON JACKSON 
Proving everyone wrong 
Jackson has not let his smaller stature keep him from being a defensive force 
As a senior at Hillsborough

By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
High School in Tampa, .Jackson A,.,nciatc Sports Editor 
made 57 tackles and live inter­cnptions in 11JIJIJ, helping his 

What would possibly make a tnam to thn region finals of the talPntnd football playPr from t.lw Florida Class 5A state playoffs. slatP of l;lorida ignon• tlw lure Unlikn other high school star of soul.lwrn programs and eonw reeruits, by his senior year instPad to a tiny Catholic school .laekson foeused primarily on in tlw mid­tlw dnfnnsive side of the ball, diP of frigid although hn did return punts northnrn and kir.koll's as well. Jnd ia.na'? It was Jackson's hustln and 
;\ s k willingnoss to make the big hit l'rnston that Pndnared him to Irish head .I a ~~ k s o n . coach Bob Davit~ and his coaeh­and lw'II LPII ing stall', and the same qualities you. eontinun to impress his eurrent 
"I was coadws. basically "lie's smart on the lield," Irish looking for sneondary coach Steven Wilks tlw bnst opportunity )JOSsibln," said. "lie always puts himself in .Jackson said. "I wantnd to suc­the position to make the big I'PPd aeadPmically and wanting play, and he gets that from to play tlw best football possible, watching l'ilm and things like t.hal "s how I got from Florida and that. PIHind up lwrn." "lin's not just a leader of the 
Thn l"ifth-yPar snnior from secondary, he's a leader of this Tampa. Fla., has grown into his on tire tmun." roln as Notrn Damn's starting Jaekson embraces his role as 
cornPrback -joining fellow ddnnsivn back, taking tho criti­
l;loridian Dwight J·:llkk in the cism that goes with the position, dnfPnsivn backfinld. Jackson has as wnll as the glory from making had JHH"haps his best season so a big interception or hit. far in an Irish uniform, scoring a "The thing about being a touchdown against BYU ofT an defensive back is that it's going inten:nption. to be 50/50," .Jackson said. "If 
Thn 5-foot-IJ, 1SO-pound you get boat it's going to bo real 

.Jackson has also madP thn most glaring, but if you make a good the time," he said. "We probably shoulders at all that -I played helps when the Irish go through of his .compacJ, body, providing play it's also going to be real talk more than the other players for myself and my family and their lower points of the season several bontl·jarring hits during glaring. You've got to take the on tlu~ field." the people out of my state~ This -the tossfls that ·<:ause th<¥' tlw season and priding himself good with the bad. You've got to Of course, it shouldn't be sur­season I've progressed and I'm team's fans to sometimes turn 
on his physical play. be confident and a competitive prising that Jackson talks so pretty proud of myself or doing on the Irish. 
"I play football. Football is a athlete to play in the defensive much. llis role model taught him that." "I wouldn't say they were our physical gamn," he said. "I don't backl'ield. Heally though, it's well. So proud, in fact, that he's down games; they were proba­~~arn what sizn you an~. you've always fun to be on the defen­Walton's influence learned to all but ignore criti­bly games that we learned morn 
got to be abh~ to do what you've sivo side of the ball, period." Shane Walton, who played at cism from the media ai1d the from," Jackson said of losses lih got to do. It's 1 1-on-11 and In addition to his performance Notre Dame from 1999 to 2001, Notre Dame faithful. As a cor­BYU and Boston CollegP.. "Every you've got to bP a physical play­on the lield, Jackson enjoys his bears several comparisons to nerback, .Jackson has learned to week you play a whole difforent er. no matter what position you role as a vocal leader for the Jackson. Both ·came to play for have a short memory and quick­kind of olli~nso. So, being in tlw play." team. Talking, trying to get in the Irish from warmer-climate ly bounce back from a bad play. secondary, you'vo got to learn to Making the hit the mind of the opponent, trying states (Walton played high And as a member of a Notre shrug things oil'. You have to get 
Throughout his Irish earner, to psycho out the other toam's school football in California). Dame team that has had its oil' the finld and bounce back to .Jackson has always bnPn in the recoivers -it's all in a day's Both were considered under­strugglns during his career, he's make a play the nnxt time. You ddnnsivP backliPid -wlwtlwr work for Jaekson. sized !Walton was 5-foot-1 0, 185 learned to dodge criticism of the may get beat one time, but that's as a corrwrback or as a nickel "It's kind of your naturo as a pounds). Both are characterized team itself. football -they other team barJ,. in passing situations. corrwr to do all thn yapping all by their toughness and willing­"The fans don't play; peopln wants to make a play, too." 
ness to talk on the field. who writ11 stories don't play, and Jackson has lwen there to 
And. according to Jackson, they writo stories that the public eomli1rt his teammates. as WPII, both know the importancn of wants to hear," Jackson said. such as against Boston Collngn having a high football 'IQ.' "So, it's really not for the nwdia when fnllow dnfnnsivo back Mike 
"I watched Shane. Everybody and for Some of' the fans -we'rn Bkhardson was tlw player who knows that Shane was very basically playing for oursnlvns the 1\aglns' Tony Gonzalez beat smart. evnn if he wasn't the best and the people who won~ the liw the winning touchdown. athlete on the field," Jackson uniform before us. If we win and "It's 1wvnr orw play that losns said. "If you watch the guys other pnople are proud of us, a ball game," Jackson said of ahead or you and watch the mis­then line. If we lose and tlwy what lw told Hiehardson af'tpr takes they make you can learn don't like us any more, forgot it, the loss. "It's things that hap­from tlwm and make you a bet­we're going to linn up and play pennd in the first through third ter player. again-that's just how it is." quarters that lose ball gamns, 
"I try to almost mock him in a It's that doseness and cama­and it's just so nvidnnt. that way. b1~ a good leader and also raderie that sums up Jackson's sometinws your mistake is morn watch lilm and study what my enjoymPnt of his Irish carenr. nvident thttn the things beforn opponent does. If you study your Growing as a team that." opponnnt and know what he's Jaekson has boon through a And yet through all the~ criti­going to do, then it's really nasy lot in his live years, from wit­eism and the praisn, through tlw to make plays -you don't even nessing the changing of a eoach­high timns and the low times, have to bn the best athlete." ing stall'-not once but twice -Jackson has continued to remain 
Jackson showed his knowl­to going from a Fiesta Bowl sea­foeused on his ultimatn goals. edge of other team's offenses son to a sub-.500 year. "I'm going to kenp my options right away in the 2004 season. But through it all, the defen­open. I Parnnd my degree and In tlw first game of the year, sive baek has looked to his I'm going to put myself in the job against Brigham Young, the sPn­teammatos as a calming influ­market; makn myself mar­ior made a perfect read on a ence and source of pr:,ln. ketable -that's what I came to slant and picked off BYU quar­"There's just sollii'Lh:ng about school for," Jackson said. ''I'm terback Matt Berry's pass, playing with the sanw group of not sun~ about tho INational returning it 38 yards for a guys day-in and daf-out over Football! league; if the opportu­touchdown. 300 days a year," Jackson said. nity comes I'll jump on it, but li1r 
It was a burst of positive press "You get the camaraderie from right now I've got very broad for a player who has been criti­all the times you spend with horizons and a lot of things to cized ol'tnn during his career. each other. And you get to know reach out and grab. I've got pnr­
"I think for my career, my per­each other, so you don't take sonal goals I've set for myself, formance has gotten better everything personal. We joke on and I'm hoping to accomplish every time I've stepped on the the field all the time and have them." 
TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer field," Jackson said. "A lot of fun; it's just the chemistry we 




Irish defensive back Preston Jackson keeps his eyes on the people counting me out when I have." Contact Justin Schuver at quarterback during Notre Dame's loss to Brigham Young. first got here, but"I shrugged my That closeness as a team also jschuver@nd.edu 
Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER page 13 
GREG PAULY 
Hobbled and humbled 
Pauly has been impressive in bouncing back from an injury early in his career 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Injuries are an athlete's worst nightmare, but they'm eVfm worse when they happen in games that don't matter. 
Don't tell it to Greg Pauly. lie knows. 
Pauly tore his ACL in a 2000 sum­mer all-star football game. And until his jun­ior s1mson at Notre Dame r o I l n d around. the interior lineman's knee did not fully heal. 
"I think my junior year I started feeling a lot better, getting more comf()rtable," Pauly said. "[It was dillicult] especially because I added weight on, too. With Kyle [Budinseak] and Justin [Tuckl. I'm surprised how· fast they've come back fi·om their surgeries. I wasn't even closn to where they were." 
Pauly's knee surgery prior to his freshman year forcnd him to sit out <m entire snason as he watched the lri<>h go 9-3 in his absence. 
But the wait was well worth it. 
As a fifth-year senior on the 2004 squad, Pauly (6-foot-6, 295 pounds) has 31 tackles and 4.5 for a loss as one of two starting dnl~~nsive tackles. lie has started all nine games so far this sea<>on, the most since he start­ed three in hi<> sophomore year. 
The sudden and dra<>tic increase in playing time ha<> placed Pauly in the spotlight. 
"It's a little harder on the body I guess," Pauly said. ''I've taken a lot more reps in practice, taken a lot more reps in the games. But I think it puts me in more of a role out there to step up and make plays." One-fourth of a whole 
Pauly composes one-fourth of a defimsive line that ha<> made plays to limit. Irish opponent<> to 95.2 yards rushing per game. In a season marked by inconsistency, Notre Dame's run defense ha<> benn con­si<>tmt and impenPtrable. 
"I think we're playing pretty tough against tlw. run," Pauly said beli>re the Stanford game. "IIopefully, by the end of the &~a<>mi we'II establish a mune lilf oursnlves that way." 
By now. the words 'Notre Dame defense' scrnam runcstopping. And Wisconsin native wa<> a Parade AU­accolades. He was one of 34 players shadowed tl1e line's dominance in a game at Nctn~ Dame Stadium that is largdy dun to the push from American and first-team USA Today on the Reebok ESPN All-America few important games. Tennessee Saturday. the intf'.rior defensive tine, some­All-Ameriean, Pauly came to Notre team. IIe was voted No. 17 on the an1assed 269 yards in the air last "Esperially tl1P seniors, we want thing Pauly says i<> important in pa<>s Dame and knew he was starting Chicago Sun-Tunes top 100 list. Saturday, but the defensive line to go out winners," he said. "We defense, as well. over-injury and all. And the fu;t goes on. made 14 tackles and four for a loss. don't want to end the season on a 
"It's tough. It's two-on-three usu­"Coming in freshman year, I was Pauly was rated No. 12 on the 'The play of all of the defensive bad note." ally because you've got the center pretty highly recruited and everyone "Best of the Midwest" team by thn line ... is based on tl1e productivity Ending the ;;ea'i<m on a good note and two guards blocking me and has a big head and that happens," Associated Press. The AP and of the group," Willingham said. would qualify as beating both Demk I Landri] or me and Trnvor Pauly said. "Coming in I had big Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel also "What we try to do is rotate those Pitt<;burgh and Southern California II.awsJ." Pauly said. "And it's tough expectations. I wanted to play right made him a two-time first-team all­guys in such a manner that you've ·and winning a respectable bowl because usually you're getting dou­away. After I got ·hurt. I was here staw selection. created one with the many and to game. Pauly will li>cus on helping biP teamed or sonwonn's slamming watching practice <md seeing how it And then Pauly was named an all­keep thnm fresh, keep 1hem aetive Notrn D<mm to the best of his ability. back down on you, but I think we'rn happens and how dillPrent it i<>." star, one of the few 'bad' awards he and keep our defense being produc­But when th•l season ends, there getting a good push."· Pauly's hype going into high receiVI~d a<> he looks back. tive." may be grealer things waiting li1r 
Willingham olton rotates junior school was just as high, and he "You kind of reevaluate your Jumping back into the flay him. taekle Derek Landri and sophomom matehed it. In his first year at South expectations [with an injuryl seeing Pauly once was near the end of "Every player want<> to go on to tackle Trevor Laws in tl1eir hole on High Sehool in Waukesha, Wise., the eollege game," he said. "But I that rotation. A<> a junior in 2002, he the next level," the tackle said. "I the linn. but Pauly rmnains on the Pauly became the first freshman think it's gone pretty well for myself gave breathers to starter Cedric hope we finish up the season well 11eld often due to his size, his starter at tl1e high school since John and I hope it ends just a<> well." Hilliard and amounted over 98 min­and tlmt l have no regrets." stren!-,rth and also because of the Anderson, who went on to play for Considering the knee injw-y, Pauly utes or playing time, making 11 Pauy does not regret the knee lfmdership that comes with being an Michigan and the Green Bay has rebounded to have a solid tackles. By hi<> senior season, Pauly injury. lie' simply dealt with it. And expnri<~ncnd fifth-year player. Packers. career at Notre Dame, even if it did playnd in 11 games and started two the frlU1-year ~enior would be devas­
"I think it put<> you in more of a He dominated the league. not live up to expectations. The line ofthem while mostly substituting for tated if" he did not contribute to a leadership role," Pauly said. ''I'm an Particularly in his senior season, Pauly helps command has not Hilliard <md Darrell Campbell on the strong lini<>h to the 2004 season. older guy. People are going to look Pauly set record numbers with 40 stopped the run, but it has done it<> line. But knowing how Pauly ha<; dealt up a little bit. It kind of puts me in solo tackles, 65 assisted tackles, 17 part often this season in disrupting But now, Pauly is one of the pen­with adversity in the past, he will more ofa role in the eye of the tean1 sacks, 20 tackles for a loss, two it. ciled-in starters, and he is among certainly try. to do things well and step up." interceptions and two fumble recov­Teams average a healthy 253 the senior leaders who eare deeply 
But playing time was not always eries. yards passing on Notre Dame. But about the team finishes its season. Contact Pat Leonard at so easy for Pauly to find. Though the Pauly accumulated countless the shaky secondary play has over-That finish begins with Pauly's final pleonard@ndl.edu 


Friday, November 12, 2004

page 14 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
CoLE LAux 

Walk-on fullback has always loved ND 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
I lis soft voice contrasting with his muscular physiqun, Colo Laux slowly described how hn would f11Pl strapping on the gold lwlnwt tllln final time. 
''I' II just takn it as it eomns. I guess. That's usu­ally how I do it," Laux said. 
This ealm. eon fi d 11 n t attitude has hnlpPd tlw snnior walk-on fullbaek bneome a fixturn in the scout team back­liPid and orw of the loaders of the Pntirn Notn1 Damn squad ovnr tlw past fivP seasons. 
"I always takn it as a ehallenge to mysPif to try and get bettnr."· lw said. "I likP to go against !the starting dnfnnsnl and boat them whnn I 1~an." 
Born in Texas and raisPd in Indianapolis, Laux and his fami­ly movnd to South Bend wlwn Colo was iri tlw Pighth gradn. lin attmHIPd Marian lligh Sehool in Mishawaka and was the starting tailback on a 13-1 tnam that madP it to tlw state snmifinals his snnior year. Along with tho 1:~ touchdowns and 93S rushing yards lw tallied, Laux was also nanwd to the Academic All-State Lnarn. Dnspitn his prep success, l.aux did not receive any recruit­ing interest from then-Irish head coach Bob Davie and did not take tlw handful of offers from smaller eolleges seriously. 


"!Playing college football! real­ly wasn't a priority for me in high school," Laux said. "Academics was the big thing in my family. So I wally didn't give it much thought until after I was donp, !with high school!." 
Cole's father Chris graduated from Notre Dame in 1979 so it wasn't diflicult for the second­oldest of the six Laux children to deeidn whem to go to college. 
"I was always an Irish fan," he said. "I deeidPd after my senior year was over that I thought I could probably continue !playing football! if I could get into Notre Dame and try out for the team." 
AftPr mceiving his acceptance Iotter, I.aux eontacted then-Irish rncruiting coordinator Bob Chmitd and sent in some high school game film. Tlw Notre Dame coaching stall' liked what it saw and Laux started practice the first day of school. 
Though he has mainly played fullback for the scout team, Laux occasionally lilled in at running bark and tight end to help the first-team defense prepare for Notre Damn's next opponent. But his versatility is not what Laux is most proud of. 
''I'm most proud of my work ethic," he said. "I think I've worked pretty hard and maybe some of that has rubbed off on some of the other guys. Maybe they've stepped up their atti­tudes coming into practice by watching and seeing what I've been doing." 
Laux came back to Notre Dame for a fifth year to finish up the requirements for his finance and history double major and to enjoy. one last season playing football for the Irish. 
"My favorite part of playing has been the camaraderie with the other guys on the team," he said. "Just building relationships with the guys that you're always spending time with day in and day out. Getting to know them and working out with them at 6 
a.m. on Saturday mornings and hanging out with them on a Saturday night. It's been a lot of fun. There are a lot of good guys on the team." 

Laux's hard work and tight friendship with his teammates Like every senior, Laux has lllJury, Laux hopes to be healnd has helped him face the ehal­seen the Irish head coaehing job in tirnn for tho Irish bowl game. lenge of going to practice every change hands from Bob Davin to Though he might downplay it, day against players who are Tyrone Willingham and he has he knows that his last game often bigger and stronger than many positive words to say wnaring an Irish uniform will bP him. about Willingham's efl'eet on the special. 
"I like to go out there and have team. "I don't really get a ehane11 to fun," he said. "I have a lot·of fun "Coaeh Willingham brings a look too far in thn future, but it with those guys on defense, jok­lot of emotion and intensity to will probably bn somowhat emo­ing around about who won the the program," Laux said. "I tional," hn said. personal battles. I like to say I've think he is able to get the most won a bunch of them and they'd that anyone ean out of his play­probably say they won a bunch ers." Contact Mike Gilloon at of them. It's a good time." Sidelined recently with a knee mgilloon@nd.edu 



Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer + IRISH INSIDER page 15 
JARED CLARK 
The odd man out 
Clark has been a team player in his role as backup tight end this season 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Jared Clark didn't know what to do in thn spring of 2002. 
lin was struggling at quar­terback and had little chance of seeing the l'ield. lie didn't enjoy play­ing football anymore. 
So Clark decided to take a chance: 
"I actually approaclwd one of the ]graduate assistants] and asked kind of out of the blue if there was interest in me playing at another position because I was struggling so bad at quarterback," Clark recalls. "It was really getting to the point where it wasn't fun at all. ]The graduate assistant] said 'Absolutely there's inter­est in you at another posi­tion."' 
"So hP went to the coaches and I aetually asked eoach ]Tyrone] Willingham if it'd be alright if I switched positions and he said, 'You can be a tight end."' 
Switching was no easy task 
JJ.u·..Dark. At first~ .he thought he'd be on the other side of the ball. 
"I thought they were going to say linebacker, that's where I thought they WP.re going to put me," Clark said. "They said they wanted me at tight end and I was fine with that too because I had played on 
7 
Irish tight end Jared Clark makes a catch against North Carolina State during the 21003 Gator Bowl. The senior tight end has yet
offense primarily and it was 
to catch a pass this season.

probably better for me than 
linebacker." 
While he was big (now listed ented freshman vying for the the transition smooth. "We have a great group of a moments notice but also at 6-foot-4, 250 pounds), Clark starting job -Matt LoVecchio "Coach Denbrock did a great tight ends and someone's not helping out the other guys at had mainly played quarterback and Carlyle Holiday. job. I've come a long way going to be playing that much his position," Denrbock said. his whole life. Despite the pos­But Clark wasn't worried since that first day," Clark or at all and I guess I'm that "It's a very competitive situa­sible obstacles, Clark wanted about the competition. said. guy," said Clark, who has yet tion and 1e is a very positive to contribute for Notre Dame. "I knew the best man was Despite just changing posi­to catch a pass this season. "If influence on everyone around 
So the Sarasota, Fla. native going to win and it was more tions a few months earlier, that's the role they need me to him and that makes us a better made the change to tight end whoever came in here and did Clark showed signs of promise play I'll be the backup guy and football team." and hasn't looked back. the best," Clark said. "Those at his new position in 2002. whenever they need me to With orly one home game Intense competition two came in and did better He caught seven passes for come in, I'll remaining, Clark has 
Clark was a sought-after than I did, so that's how it 104 yards, including a 37-yard come in." started thinking quarterback at Cardinal worked out." reception against Florida State C I a r k 'Tll be the backup about life after foot­Mooney lligh School in Clark continued to practice and had four more catches for accepted the ball and Notre
guy and whenever

Sarasota. especially after an as the non-starting quarter-41 yards in the Gator Bowl role graceful­Dame. He hopes to
they need me to come

outstanding sen-back until mak­against North Carolina State. ly, continued dlke his manage­ior season. Clark ing the decision "It was just fun to be able to practicing in, I'll come in. " ment degree and threw for 1.372 "[The first time I to switch to tight get in the game and help the hard and tried find a job back in yards and 17 end before the team out," Clark said. to help the Florida.
lined up as tight Jared Clark 
touchdowns, and 2002 season. With a season at tight end Irish in other Clark said he's
end/ was completely Irish tight end
ran for more than Learning on the under his belt, Clark emerged ways, besides enjoyed his experi­700 yards and 1 0 foreign."· run as a threat for the Irish in by playing in once at Notre Dame. more seores as The hardest 2003. He started two of the the game. £1vcn i(things didn't Mooney advanced part of changing team's 12 games and finished "More than anything II want turn out how he once envi­
Jared Clark 

to the third round positions for Cla­the season fifth on the team tol be there and answer ques­sioned a few years ago.
Irish tight end

of the Florida rk wasn't catch-with 15 receptions for 142 tions for guys and let them "Right now not playing that state playoffs. ing passes or yards. Besides contributing on know sometimes coaches will much and taking a different 
Clark narrowed learning the offense, Clark played a signifi­get on them for little stuff," role has been tough." Clark his ehoice for college down to playbook -it was crouching cant role on speeial teams, Clark said. 1Liet1.ing them said. "But think looking back three schools -Miami (Fla.), into a three-point. stance. recovering a fumble in Notre know, 'Jley man, we've all and seeing that I was able to Georgia and Notre Dame. lie "When I first made the tran­Dame's upset win against been thHre. We've all made play for the University of Notre linally chose the Irish after vis­sition, I had played football Pittsburgh. those mistakes, go pick it up.· I Dame and I was able to get in iting the campus and meeting since I was six and I had never Stiff competition think that me and ]fellow tight there and help the team a little some of Notre Dame's players had to get down in a three­After applying and receiving endl Billy Palmer are real dose bit. and coadws. point stance and push people a fifth-year of eligibility, Clark and we try to make the guys "Tlw biggest thing I'll take 
"When I carne on my official around. I played defensive line went back to work in the off­laugh a little and knep the away from this are my team­visits some of the guys that are in high school but that was the season and spring practice to morale up and try to keep the mates and the friendships I've in this elass were here and the only other time I ever had to continuP improving at tight camaraderie together." made on this team. I've never peopln on this team and the put my hand on the ground end. Denbrock said Clark has been as elosn as I am with a camaraderie and the closeness playing football. It was com­But when the 2004 season made the most of his opportu­bunch of guys on this team and of the guys on the team was pletely foreign." began, Clark found himself on nities and is the ultimate team hopefully we 'II be friends for evident," Clark said. "That was But Clark didn't get discour­the bench and not on the field. player. life." something I wanted to have." aged and continued working The problem for Clark? "Leadership wise I think he's 
Clark signed with the Irish hard in practice. lie credits Notre Dame had too many tal­done a very good job of not and entered fall camp knowing tight ends coach Mike ented tight ends on their ros­only keeping himself in a posi­Contact Joe Hettler at that there were two other tal-Denbrock with helping make ter. tion where he's ready to go at jhettler@nd.edu 



~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER . Friday, November I2, 2004 
BILLY PALMER 

No regrets 
Palmer 1night not have the gaudiest slats, but he wouldn't trade ND for anything 
By MATT LOZAR 
Spons Wrircr 
Billy l'alr111~r's ean~er at Notre 
I>a me hasn't been 11ashy. 
With two regular season games left in his Notm Dame rarHer. the Wyntrne llcathrow, Fla. native only has four earner catehes for 44 yards and zero t'ouch­downs. 
lin gots lost in the shuffle behind j u n­ior Anthony Fasano who has broke onto the scene this year, sophomore John Carlson who is naming more playing time by the week and even eonverted linnbackPr and fifth-year snnior .Jnroml' Collins who was making strides hefon~ suffering an injury against Stanford. 
But what Palnwr brings not only to tlw tight Pnd position, but also the Notrn Dame ofl'ense is sonwthing that can't be sef1n on the linld. 
"I think above all he brings a great deal of leadership and stability to the position," Irish offensive line. and tight ends coach MikP Denbroek said. "lie's bnnn around the world more than onee and lends a great deal of experience not only to the position but to the other guys that are there. 
"lie's rnally donn a great job of leading our whole entire offense let alone our tight ends." 
That might not translate into filling out the stat sheet, but with a total of six tight ends eompeting for valuable playing time, Palmer has found his role with the Irish in his fifth and final season in South Bend. 


"I feel if you just do your best and work your hardest, they'll lind a spot for you," he said. 
Coming to Notre Dame 

Palmer was born in Ottawa and played rugby through his sophomore year of high school. Team Canada selected Palmer to be on the under-18 team for rugby, but his family moved to Florida, and Palmer concentrat­ed more on football. He played offensive tackle with former Irish All-American center and current Cleveland Brown Jeff Faine as a junior in 1998 before Palmer transferred to Lake Highland Prep in Orlando for his senior year. 
Palmer caught eight passes his senior year as a tight end to go along with 50 tackles as a defensive end. 
That's when college decision time came. 
And for Palmer, just like many other high school seniors, whether they play football or not, it was something unex­plainable that swayed the final decision to choose the Golden Dome. 
"It came down to Michigan, Ohio State, Florida, Georgia Tech and Notre Dame," Palmer said. "I really felt comfortable here and everyone talks about the combination of academics and athletics, but for myself, it was the special feeling I had." 
Former Notre Dame coach Bob Davie and his stall' reeruit­ed tight ends to play a different role in the offense from what current coach Tyrone Willingham's ofl'ense uses tight ends for. Davie's tight ends were used as blockers and were an afterthought as a pass receiver. 

In his last season in South Bend, Davie's tight ends caught a combined eight passes throughout the entire year. 
This year's team has 38 catches through nine games. 
For Palmer, it's been diflicult, but worthwhile. 
''I'm very grateful for the pre-vious stafl' for bringing me here and very grateful for the cur­rent staff for developing me as a player," he said. "Every time you go through transition, it's not an easy thing, but I was for­tunate enough to grasp the offense and they were confident enough in me to play, so it was a positive transition for me." 


With Willingham and Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick incorporating more of a pro-style offense, the tight end is obviously used more. Willingham recruited tight ends to fit his system that were more complete players where oppos­ing defenses couldn't guess run or pass based just on personnel. 
With six players at one posi­tion, the competition at tight end became intense, but worth­while. 
"I think every eoach demands of his players to be a complete player," Palmer said. "Definitely with this many tight ends, you had to work that much harder to be a complete player" 
"That type of competition only makes you better. I've been blessed with some great guys. It's friendly competition, but there definitely was some com­petition in the offseas-on and during the season, but it's helped us all." 
'The Bachelor' not for him 
Many people make the con­nection with Palmer and his brother, Jesse, who was "The Bachelor" during the show's spring season and is a backup quarterback for the New York Giants. 
But Palmer jokes about not following his brother's foot­steps. 
"Too ugly," he said. 
One family member Palmer in the Canadian Football League. In the 2004 CFL draft, the British Columbia Lions selected Palmer in the fifth round. 
"It's definitely an honor. Being a Canadian citizen, there's a certain amount of pride," Palmer said. "Being selected by the B.C. Lions was definitely an honor to me, and I'm very proud to be Canadian and very proud of the CFL and might be something I pursue down the road." 
Palmer's dad, jnst like throughout his life, hasn't pres­sured his son to play in Canada. 
"My father has always been very happy with me in letting me do what I want to do, so long as I'm successful and work hard at what I do, he's happy," Palmer said. "If that's the case, it just might be it." 
!lis position coach thinks if Palmer wants to play profes­sionally, the CFL is a viable option. 
"I think it's up to him," Denbrock said. "If that's some­thing he chooses to pursue, I think he's got that type of abili­ty." 
Palmer hasn't had a career filled with lots of receptions or touchdowns, but that hasn't develop~1d any ill feelings about his decision to attend Notre Dame for the past five years. 
For Palmer, it's about realiz­ing what an opportunity the past five years have bnen. 
"You know what, I've been extremely fortunate to be here and play with some good foot­ball players, and I've enjoyed my experience no regrets," Palmer said. 

Irish tight end Billy Palmer and head coach Tyrone Willingham wait to burst out of the tunnel at could follow the footsteps of is Contact Matt Lozar at the start of Notre Dame's game against Stanford. his father, Bill, who played for mlozar@nd.edu 
Friday, November 12, 2004 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 17 
STAN REVELLE ­
Scout team quarterback has enjoyed the Irish experience 

By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Stan Hevelle sounds like every eoach's dream. 
His team-oriented attitude makes him the kind of player coaches can rely to keep the t e a m 
focused and inspired. 
"When you're prac­ticing day in and day out in the cold and the rain, you find that 


a lot of peo-Revelle pie aren't motivated," Revelle said. "I just kind of convince them that they're an important part of the tnam." 
In his four years at Notre Dame, the unassuming senior walk-on quarterback has risen from an inexperienced freshman to a leader and prominent fea­ture on the scout team. 
A native of Poplar Blufls, Mo., Hevelle comes from a storied high school football career. The all­time leading passQr in Poplar Bluff high school's history, Revelle totaled 370 eompletions for 5,730 yards and 59 touchdowns. Revelle also holds the school record for passing yards with 411 in a game. 
But his accolades didn't end there. 
A.'i a senior, Revelle was named all-state and received the College Football Ball of Fame/National Football Foundation Scholar­Athlete Award and Scholarship as valedictorian of his class. That year, USA Today also recognized the standout Revelle's achieve­ments, dubbing him USA Today Missouri Player of the year in 2000. 
Despite a high school career characterized by glory and achievements, Hevelle remained uncertain whether or not he could find a place on the competi­tive and prestigious Irish team. 
"1 didn't really think it could happen to me, and then it just kind of all fell into place. It was never really something I dreamed about or expected because I did­n't think it was within my reach," Revelle said. 
Hevelle's doubts vanished as he watched a highlight film at an awards banquet. He realized that his love for football was so ingrained in his personality that playing football at Notre Dame was something he had to do. 
"At that moment, I knew I would miss football if I didn't at least give it a try," Revelle said. "I guess I just love to throw the ball. I love to see a good spiral." 
Hevelle joined the team under then-coach Bob Davie in 2001, weathering a rocky 5-6 season. The Irish saw more success Revelle's sophomore year, earn­ing a trip to the Gator Bowl after a 10-2 regular season, but last year, the Irish were 5-7. Revelle described his experience witness­ing the team's progress. 

''I've seen the team evolve from coach Davie through good sea­sons and bad seasons," Hevelle said. "!After Davie], there was more a charige in attitude in the coaches than in the players. They've kind of focused on a per­son being a more of a total pack­age -a great student, great ath­lete and a great person spiritual­!y." 
Hevelle added that each of the .players walk away from the team as stronger individuals prepared to face any challenge. 
"I think being on the team is something that's really going to help me in the working world because it's taught me how to be mentally tough and find unique ways to motivate those around me," Revelle said. 
Revelle will graduate -this year with a degree in electrical engi­neering, and says he hopes to pursue his love of football. 
''I'll probably try to get involved in a social league or a club team," Hevelle said. "It's going to be a hard transition leaving [Notre Dame]. With football, if you put this much time into it, it's not just something you can stop." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 


TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer Irish quarterbacl( Stan Revelle participates in a passing drill in a recent team practice. 
Wek:otne NeW' and Ret:ul"'fting Notre D~-St-M.al-y"'s St-..!inls""Fa.cati:J'"'St.idf' 
Not:tre O.am~e  Papa ~n·s  St:..  IT~r.~ ..-y"s IP,._.a ~tnn"s  
1823 :South .Send Avte:mUIJIII!o  !NIOII'"d~•  Yiill!ldllgj.e~  lMI.alllPI  
2:1'l-1 11.77  Z71727Z  
PAPA PREDICTS:  ND 31· Pin 17  

IP'.ap;a Doll11n""£-Pizz:a ris pr01wd 'to be .a Plr•n,mrM'llal~.id P\alf"'l:nte'• ,oAf Not:r'e !O.a811e .Althlletics. .and ttlhe OftkQI' Dellii·w'oelr~f.'' ~ <mt NCArA ,v~l!.ettik'fl.. 
~zrr­
r-----•
1 IRISH SPECIAL 1 
Large 1-topping,I Breadstlcks & Coke 4-to-go I 
I SI4.B!I I 
~ 
I 
I CfMZPOn ltnpii#WI. bplre-1 10 d.ys.. -I Otf.--r f!ttt-.d lur • ;:·nlh~d tin•.: il p ... tidt-• .. t~r~ ~ ..p .. John·, r~~tst ....."!'nl\ only Arirll!_lnn.AI '''i'l..lt:(ti "'! 'r" 
I 
~ 'J.olffl wiH: oJH_. nth~~ C•o'lf". '''" ~.r ,!"Luur.l" llrn&to·ot ·J.Ih;;·.ry •ti'Oi. of;,Uq•'<i l••-r'<) 'lf·!Jty r u"t•Htn-r •• ,~,nn-.ll)l.e. fVi -•• -_,.,,Itt->.!-'•· l.o:u·; 
~----­
..
r-----•
1 FAMILY SPECIAL 1 
large Works andI 1 la:rge 2-topping I 
I S1B.B!I I 
~
I Coupoffl Mrqui~·-1'1 ~~a»"•• \0 tb.p. I 
nfr.. -.l'_,,,.lJ,.,;,;irrnl..tfllrn•· .. t~:O.it'·.,tl!·~;"'~._-.1 I f...~ ...-~,-. -j,,:rolnt\ unly l'u1rllt,.u,-,,..ar,,i'l'-'''l• ~·lllr,. 
I 
No~ v•lhl with ,!<~y ~-~!"~' ·-•upur>\ tn ditc.ount ·. l irnltC"•J dtolh. •· •y •r•a, • h•rges rn~t~y ""i'i'ly CU~I#"ttU..f rP\pn•t•_!hiC' !.ar .all ...p-pt!C"Ahlt-t•:W.Il·> 
~----­
.. 


DVD Coca-Cola 4-to-Go 
·-----------··----------· 
I Buy any Large of Ex-Large Pizza at regular I l•coca-Cola 4-to-Go is 4 20-oz bottlesl 1menu price and get FREE your choice of any 1 lfor the price of 3 Including 4 FREE 1 of our 3 DVD!t. Title~ change eve!')' two Music Match downloads I months. Through December 2004. I I I 
~-----------~·----------·
If your group is having a meeting or planning a get-together, call for information on our large Order Discount. 
We NOW offer Grilled Chicken and fresh sliced Roma Tomatoes Try our Chicken Bar-beque Bacon on our thin crust pizza dough Try our Spinach Alfredo Chicken Tomato 
~ TiiiN-THiiRsailr ~ . 
Large Thin .crust Chees.: II P1zza 
1 SB.B!I 1 
I c,_., ....,..... ~ ~0 ...,..~-I 
••fl....,· good for a Umil, .. J t!~.~· _., p.~trUclpeo~t,l-<1 •·-tp.:: 
I ;::~:;.::~~~~.:~;~~~;~~~~~~.,:-:_~-.~·~=:::-!~~~~-~~~~;: I 
I. '··'~r-~;;;bl~~:~i·;;.;;.·~!~ • 
r -CHEESER!-• 
l LCH"ge Cheese and yot~.-1 choice of breadsticks or 11 cheesesticks 
I $12.89 I 
I t··~ R"t-1J17...M: E<:t.plJ~ :!-0 ~,::O.)'t. Jtlllli••
-

•Jffo r y--~n.J 1, •• • ····•.cod .-~o.:.: .~t :.f.,:: -ti"'-;..; r;-'1t•,. 
I ~:~:t::::.(.~~::~~;~1~~!"~~:~:~:;..~-~~;~~~~~:~~;~;_ I 
• "--~" ......... ·~-ll~>n'Oibtt-___fOJ" an -:~ 1 ~;-~:-. ..
-,1 "•: ,,..A....
.. _.... 

SCHOOL HOURS 
Monday-Thursday 
11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 
Friday -Saturday 
11:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m. 
Sunday 
Noon to 1:00 a.m. 
DELIVERY 
NOTRE DAME PAPA JOHN'S 271-1177 

r--·-­
LATE Nrn
1 I
SIJIEI:IAL 
1 Ex-large 1-topping for 1 the pricE· of a larg<~ only 
I S"n.!IB I 
1~nupo.r ~~ qmr_,., £•ph-..I. '!:~ (i,.a,--.. I ,-,.rio:-<·•··· .rt •.:•'!' .. ~-" a~··l--,,. J;( L.,.,,.,t'~f;r.~.:t p_.,... 
1
I~~~:~~-·~:·.l ,::~:·.~:-: :•~i::·~~:-. :·;:~~r~::_~,,~:-~~;::;-1 
.;;''·~ -~: ..-~~ ~~:.;:'r :;:. .. 
SUMMER/HOLIDAY HOURS Mondfly -Thursday 
11:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. 
FridaJ' -Saturday 
11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 
iunday 
Noon to 12:00 a.m. 
DELI\I'ERY 
ST. MARY'S PAPA JOHN'S 271-PAPA 

page 18 The Observe.r + IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 2004 
~~==~~-===~~========================~======================~======~======= 
.... DWIGHT ELLICK 
Twice the athlete 
Ellick has been both a star on the gridiron and on the track 
togetlwr so that I'm able to doBy JUSTIN SCHUVER 
both or tlwm at the same time." 
Associate Sports F.diwr 

l~llick wa<> born in Syracuse, N.Y. and later moved to Tampa, Fla., It's hard to imagitw tlw strain but not beforn first ear.ning the nwntally and physically on a Notn~ mantin of the fastest high school Dame li1ot.lmll playPr. runnnr in the Empirn State. llis 
In addition to duties as a full­time of 10.62 in the 100 meters as time r.ollegl' student. you're a junior in high school gave him eX]H'ded to the state championship in that perform at event. the highPst To his Notre~ Damn coaches, that athletic IPvPI spned has always been one of at least 12 Imick's most impwssive physical Saturdays a attributes. but not the only thing ynar. You'rp that makes him a good defensive expnetod to back. lift weights, "lie's a kid that's a real quick nat hnalthy guy," Irish secondary coach Steven and pradir.P Wilks said. "But we really empha­with your size technique and at times if' you best nll'ort twarly tlw rest or tlw make a mistake. speed does not tinw. always allow you to rncover. 
And ir you're Dwight. 1\lliek, "It's grmtt that he has speed but you'll OITIL'iionally make tinw li1r a it's sonwthing that we dcm't try to little run or two. rdy on too much." 
Tlw scmior mnwrbaek is one or Speed not always enough tlw unique~ bn•Pd in college sporL-; Irish fans always seem to pick -tho two-sport athiPto. In addi­on the sneondary. It's inevitable. tion to his starting position as a The ddensive backs are literally c·ot·twrback for tlw Irish, tWirl is out on an island, usually one-on­also onn or Notre Danw's biggest onn with an opposing receiver. track-and-lield stars. Whnn the def(msive back wins the Double the sports, double the battle, evnryone notices. fun And of eourse. when tlw def{m­
l·:llir.k has always had speed, sivn back loses the battle, every­and h<L'i made liSP or it on both the one notices. football fip ld and tho track at "You've got to have a short Moose KrausP Stadium. This year, memcwy -that's probably one of lw placed sixth in the 200 meters the most important things to have at the 2004 Big East Outdoor besides the physical tools," Ellick Track and Field Championships, said. "You need gn~at technique, eoming in with a time or 21.66 have to have good anticipation. sneonds. You'vn got to have great discipline 
Being a two-sport varsity athlete and learn not to make the same career &'> a cornerba!3k. his talents collecting 348 yards rushing. say in what you do every time. hasn't bnon that big a deal. tho mistake twice in a row." on the high school gridiron were lie also became a track champi­Whereas here, the coaches will senior said. particularly boeauso Elliek has certainly seen his much more varied and extensive. on in his second state, winning the tell you what to do, but they're of' the hnlprulnoss and good atti­share of criticism during his From Tampa to 'Tundra' Florida Class 4A championships in also going to let you hold yourself' tudo of' tlw coaches in both sporL'i. career at Notm Dame. but the cor­As a senior in Florida. Ellick both the 100 (10.60) and 200 accountable and be a man. both 
"The eoadws on both stalls -nerback has shrugged most of that played in one of the most football­(21.35) meter races. on and off the field." traek and liHJtball -are delinitely blame oil'. I lis coaches continue to crazy states in the nation. The So, how does an athlete from A bigger role this season understandable and accepting to use his speed a'i an asset, putting Sunshine State has never been one of the warmest states in the After making six starL-; last sea­tlw hruys who want to do li1otball him on the opponent's best receiv­short on talent, and Ellick was world end up in the Siberia that is son, Ellick ha-; blossomed into the and track," Elliek said. "So they er at times. among the state's all-around ath­South Bend, Indiana? team's stal'ier at cornerback along don't work you over time in both "Ellick really allows us to key in letes. "Education. When I eame to with fellow Floridian Preston sporL<>. sometimes on a team's weapon. As a senior at Wharton Iligh visit, I got along good with all the .Jackson. 
"Our stn~ngth and conditioning with his speed and technique," School in Tampa, he made 70 players," Ellick said. "That was Under new defensive backs coach is the cmn who's with us out Wilks said. "Anytime you can take tackles. intercepted three passes one thing I was really looking lbr. I eoaeh Wilks, Elliek has been able thc~rn all season. and he talks to away a big part of the other and broke up 16 more. In addition liked the coaching staff. They to improve his skills, continuing the track coach and tlwy talk tnam's ommse. that can be a big to his defensive prowess, Elliek were coming off a big year and it the progress he made undc~r coach about what they're~ going to do. boost lin· your team defensively." collected 587 yards and scored six seemed like a program that was Tmnt Walters -who accepted an They sdwdule my workouts Although Ellick will finish his touchdowns as a receiver, while definitely on the rise. so I wanted assistant coaching job with the 
to be a part:oofthat." NFt:s Philadnlphia Eagles after the 
The season Ellir.k referred to 2003 SP<L'>On. was the 2000 season in which "To be honest with you they'ro head coach Bob Davie's tnam went kind of the same guy in two dillhr­to the Fiesta Bowl, only to lose 41-ent bodies," Elliek said of the dif­9 to Oregon State .. ference between Walters and 
Elliek's freshman season was a Wilks. "They've both had basically disappointment to say the least. the same teachings on tnchnique The Irish went 5-6 and Davie wa<> and things like that. I'd probably f'i red after his fifth year of say the only differeneo is that mediocre eoaching. i\flnr resumn coach Wilks is a lot more hands­fraud prevented George O'Leary on. from being named the next Notre "He's a lot youngor than coach Dame coach. Tyrone Willingham Walters, so he's a lot more ener­came to Notre Dame from getic." Stanford. Elliek's improved play has 
Some players might be upset or shown this season, collocting his frustrated from having to deal first interception of his career with a coaching change, but Ellick against Michigan and adding enjoys playing for the man his another pick against Wa<>hington. teammates have previously lie hopes that his improved play referred to a<> "The Prophet." this season has done more than 
"It's great [to play for just quiet his doubters, but also Willingham]," Ellick said. "He's a impress professional seouL<>. eoach who's going to treat you like "My main goal is to go to the a man and going to expect you to NFL," Ellick said. "That's been my hold yourself like a man. I like dream since I was live ynars old. that. I'm not sure how other Besides that I do want to start my coaches around the country are. own business, perhaps in a ear but what I hear from other guys I dealership or something." know. not all the coaches are like that. 
"They're not going to disrespect you in any way,. but you know, Contact Justin Schuver at 




Irish defensive back Dwight Elllck just misses an interception against Purdue. they're going to have a lot more jschuver@nd.edu 
Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 19 
CARLOS CAMPBELL 
Not quite as planned 
Campbell might not have had the career he'd hoped for, but he still enjoyed the experience 


felt that was the right time to By PAT LEONARD 

change." Associate Sports Editor 
Campbell now plays as a 
reserve cornerback and top 

Carlos Campbell is a great special teams asset, ranking athlete. In high school, he was No. 12 on the team in tackles a great athlete. And when with 19 total (13 solos). Campbell committed to Notre But the statistics under Dame, he had to make the Campbell's. name did not decision always count tackles. that faces In his freshman and sopho­so many more years, Campbell had superior caught just five passes for a all-around total of 70 yards and zero athletes out touchdowns. During that time, of high he also received playing time school on special teams, making three which posi­tackles as a sophomore and tion should making 92 appearances on he play? kick returns and coverage. 
"Coming "That's something that I in, of course, I wanted to be an enjoy, especially being in my All-American," Campbell said. position and not having the "And when I first came in, I type of career that I've wanted, wanted to be a receiver." special teams plays a special 
llis past experinnce on both part and is a key to this team," sides of the ball was impres­Campbell said. "Whenever I sive. get in the game, I can take 
Campbell was a two-way advantage of my opportuni­starter who earned all-state ties." honors as a defensive back in The taste of hitting offered 2000 and as a receiver in on special teams eventually 1999. lie c.aught 31 passes for swayed Campbell to flip his 812 yards and 12 touchdowns role on the Irish squad to the in 1999, total-other side of the ing career ball completely. And numbers of 75 though Campbell
"Whenever I get in 

catches, 1800 saw the field only
the game, I can

yards and 20 12 minutes in 2003 touchdowns. take advantage of as a reserve corner Over his final my opportunities., often hindered by 
two seasons, injury, first-year Campbell also defensive backs 
Carlos Campbell 

intercepted 15 coach Steven Wilks passes. Irish defensive back feels a healthy 
All factors Campbell has given pointed to a the coach more successfuI stint on either side options this season. of the ball. But Campbell found "I've seen [physical play] in on the Division-! college level Carlos several times," Wilks that succnss was not guaran­said. "Throughout fall camp teed. and last spring, he is physical. 
"Things were going well [at The one thing we've talked receiver] and then things didn't about with our whole second­work out, so I wanted to switch ary is just being consistent. to the other side of the ball," And that's the reason we put Campbell said. "I went to the him into the boundary. That's a coaches and told them, guy that can be a boundary because I've always had a corner. We are able to roll him defensive player's mind, and I up [to the line], be physical for 

run support and things like that.'' 
But Campbell's greatest value has appeared on .special teams, where Notre Dame has strug­gled but relies on veterans like the Hampton, Va. native to prevent breakdowns. 

"He's a very important part of our special teams, particu­larly at gunner in gunner con­trol on punt return teams," Wilks said. "Those two [gun­ner] positions are very impor­tant to what we're trying to do, and you've got to have guys with speed to plays those posi­tions so no question." 
Regardless of the position he is listed at, Campbell -and coaches-know he has speed. 
The senior also competes on the Irish track and field team as a sprinter, posting a 2004 indoor best of 7.27 in the 60­meter dash last season. 
"He also adds a lot of speed," Wilks said. "He's a track guy, as well, so I think he has a lit­tle bit of both, w be a bound­ary and field corner and a gun­ner. 
Campbell displayed his speed on the big scene in 2003 when he returned a fourth quarter Boston College fumble for a touchdown. Notre Dame would lose the game -its first loss of the season -but the play rep­resented the epitome of Campbell's college career. 
"I would say my sophomore year Lwas most memorable], coming in with the new coach then going in winning eight straight games [and] being on the verge of winning a champi­onship," Campbell said. "Of course, it didn't end like we wanted it to, but that's the year I'll probably most remember." 
Save a few big plays, Campbell feels he did not accomplish the goals he had set coming in as freshman. All the same, the senior has no regrets heading into his final game at Notre Dame Stadium agaim.t Pittsburgh on Saturday. 
"Th111gs happen for a rea­son," Campbell said. "Of course, I didn't have the career I wan :ed to have, but I don't think I had a bad one either. There was always an injury here o ~ there or something like 
that,  but I have  no  regrets  
about anything."  
Head  coach  Tyrone  

Willingham said the loss of Campbell and his classmates, as it happens every year to a group ,Jf seniors, is not cause for despondence. Instead , it is an indelible ritual of college football. 
"It's one of those special acts ­that take place in college foot­ball that you don't get any place else," Willingham said. "That you get to have guys sometimes with four, five years and thon to see them go off and hopefully on to pro careers and beneficial to them and their families. 
"It really doesn't hurt. It's a joyous moment." 
Contact :?at Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

page 20 . The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 2004 
JEROME COLLINS 
Dealing with change 
Collins has played four different positions and had three different coaches 

By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Fdiwr 
Four positions and thron t·.oal'hPs latl'r, .IPronw Collins has found a honw ratl'hing thn football. 
Collins has I'IHiurPd numnr­0 u s l'hangns in his f'ivn ynars at N o t r n Damn. hut this ynar. ho has sonn thn l'itdd tho most. 
Collins

-playing 
tight nnd 
and spneial teams. 
Corning to Notre Damn. Collins was a highly-touted widn rncnivnr. llailing from Wlwaton-Warrenvilln South lligh Sehool in Warrnnvilll'l, Ill.. Collins was in thn top 100 prospnt:ts in thl'l nation, aceording to numerous publi­cations. The Chicago Sun­Tinws ranked him No. 94 in its 11JIJIJ top 100. and the Detroit Free Pross ranked him No. 11 on tho Best of the Midwest tnam. lin was also an honor­abln nwntiun all-statn snlee­tion. 
Collins dwsn. Notn~ Dame for both its (nlucation and football program. Plus. his parents lovnd thn sehoul. 
"My pann1ts really wanted me to go IH~rn," Collins said. "Thny thought it was the best fit for nw aeadnmieally and athlntieally. It was elosest to 
CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 

homo and thn bnst ovnrall eol­
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn throws a pass in the direction of Irish tight end Jerome Collins during Notre Dame's game against
lngn I was rneruitnd by." 
But when Collins arrived,  Stanford. Collins has been one of many prolific tight ends in Notre Dame's offense this season.  
things changed immndiatP!y.  
Playing all sides of the ball  learning nnw  systems wasn't  Denbrock said. "But I think it's  played more. But after the one  Collins  has  no  regrets.  
Collins. a  wide reePiver,  was  that arduous of a task.  just an example of self-sacri­ game  I had  a  good game  I  Despite coming to Nt)lre Dame  
no  longnr a  pass-catcher after  "That's why  we  go to Notre  fice for the betterment of the  sprained my ankle, and I've  with high expectations. he  
tlw first tnam meeting lw ever  Damn," Collins said. "I feel  team. I think he bit the bullet  been nursing that for the last  understands  that  thinking  
attnndnd.  liko we're all pretty smart  for  a  couple years and helped  couple weeks. It seems  like  about the past is not going to  
"I  came in  as a  widn rncniv­ guys. So I think  we  can  pick  us in a position that we need­ every time I feel like I'm ready  help things.  
nr,  and the first nuwting  we  up stuff pretty quick. But I  ed some depth and some help  to get back in there. I reinjure  "I did [wonder what eould  
IWPr had. they moved  mn  to  think sometimes it's  over­ (\nd  now  that  he's  got  a  it again."  have been I before, but that  
linnhacknr," Collins said.  whelming because you  get  chance  to  play tight end, I  Collins is part of a denp tight  was  a  time when it was  the  
Although  Notre.  Damn  comfortable with  one  thing  think he's got  a  chance to  end corps that includes fellow  most frustrating becausn I was  
rnnuitnd him as an  athlt~ln,  it  and thnn you have to do some­ showcase the abilities that he  fifth-year seniors Billy Palmer  always second-guessing my­ 
was  quitn  a  difTerent experi­ l hi n g  tota IIy  differ en t.  It  has a little bit more."  and Jared Clark with young­ self." Collins said.  "Now I  
tnJce for  till'  true  freshman.  always takes a  little while to  Tightening things up  ster players John Carlson,  choose  not to second-guess  
But Collins stur.k with it and  get things going again. but it's  When Collins moved to tight  Anthony Fasano and Marcus  myself because if I do that I'll  
played  outside  not that diff'icult."  end, many wondered why.  It  Freeman rounding out the  always be questioning it and I  
linnbacknr  up  Coming into this  was arguably the deepest and  group.  When  Fasano  and  won't be able to get ahead in  
until tlw  middlt~  season,  Collins  most talented part of this Irish'  Freeman have been injured,  the game."  
of his junior ynar. As a sopho­morn, he saw action in thren  "/feel like /tight end! is definitely a home for me. "  had played 24 games and recorded 10 tack­les. including  team, so why did the Irish need a sixth tight end? Collins, a former wide receiver, just thought it was  the rest have stepped up for the Irish. Despite the ups and downs and many changes during his  One last sprint When Collins runs out of the tunnel for the last time, he doesn't know how he'II react.  
games as  a  linn­ night solos.  the position for him.  five years, Collins has tried to  Many times. it's an  emotional  
baekt~r  and spn­ Jerome Collins  But  now,  the  "I feel like I have [gotten  maintain a positive attitude.  experience, but Collins said he  
cial learns play­nr, but that was  Irish tight end  fifth-year senior is a tight end.  used to playing tight endl just because I'm the most comfort­ "It's been frustrating, only from the fact that, anybody  usually doesn't let his tions get the best of him.  enw­ 
it.  T lw n.  as  a  "I asked coach  able doing it," Collins said. "It  who  comes  to  Notre Dame,  "I've  never  been  a  really  
junior,  the  h- Willingham a cou-·  comes naturally to me, playing  they want to play they want to  emotional person," he said.  
foot-5, 25(,-poundnr l'inally  pin times if I could move to the  offense and getting the ball in  be out there on the field, they  "But to think about that possi­ 
......  saw sonH~  playing tirnn. As an  tight end position, and he had  my hands and blocking. I feel  want to contribute," Collins  bly being the last time I put on  
outsido linnbacker, lw played  always thought that I still  like it's def'initely a  home for  said. "So that's the only frus­ a Notre Dame helmet, or just a  
in II gamns as a  n~snrvo,  and  could  be  successful  at  rne."  trating thing.  Coaches  are  football  helmet in general,  
rontinuod to bo a solid speeial  defense," Collins said. "And  Collins has struggled to  see  going to change because that's  that's going to  be  an  over­ 
teams player for the Irish.  then at the end of last semes­ significant time on  the field  the way things are run in eol­ whelming fneling, regardless  
But thnn. lw switdwd posi­ ter.  lw asked if I still wanted  due to a  nagging ankle injury,  lege.  Position  changes  - of how mueh I try to  hold it  
tions  as  a  senior, moving to  to  play tight end,  so  they  but against Stanford, he made  they're just trying to put me in  back.  
t.lw ddPnsive linn. wlwrn he  moved  me  to tight end, and I  his presence felt. Collins had  the best spot to get me to play  "All good things must come  
played dPftmsivP crul. But that  was pretty excited about that."  three eatches for 45 yards as  on the field  as quickly as pos­ to an end I guess. But thinking  
was only temporary. as Collins  Irish tight ends and offensive  well  as a  key play on special  sible  and  it just  seems  as  about the possibility of having  
also playod linobaeknr that  line roach Mike Denbrock said  teams  in  the  Irish  win.  though it took  me  a  little bit  to get a real job or not playing  
year. Collins played just over  Collins has been  an  asset to  However, Collins also sprained  longer to get into  a  position  football anymore is kind of  
:L~  rn i n u t n s l hat  season  on  the team despite the ehanges  his ankle and has been ham­ that I could be the most suc­ weird. but you get over it-."  
dnf'onso, n~cording  nine tack­ in positions.  pered ever since.  cessful and help the team the  
los, int:luding  sovon  solos.  ''I think naturally, he's  a  lit­ ''I'vn been happy but I'm  most. It's been a  bit frustrat­ 
 
Dospitt~  tho changes, Collins  tle  morn comfortable playing  never satisfied," Collins said.  ing but you just gotta move on  Contact Heather Van Hoegarden  
maintairwd that repeatedly  tight end than at linebacker,"  "I would have loved to have  to the next thing."  at hvanhoeg@nd.edu  



Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENTS page 21 



MBA-525/ BA-325 Readings, Lecture, and Discussion REGISTER NOW I 
What challenges win business and government leaders wrestle with in the year 2015? This 1.5*credit·hour course will explo!'e issues, ideas and trends likel,y to affect business and society over th.ne~decade.• Aseries of separate lectures on se•lected Friday morningt• will feature a wide range of experts on economic demography, biotechnology, religious fundamentalism, oil and peace, futurism and work, ancl natural resources. 
mornings: ~ 12:10pm 

············································~···-··-····························-·-····················································-····················· ······················································. 
gton Prograntjlts accepting applications for Fall 2005 ~d Spring 2006 Application Applyonli .nd.ed11/r.~ 
-

page 22 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 2004 
Fourth-year seniors 
JUSTIN TUCK 


Justin Tuck made history this sea­son. breaking the Notre Dame career sack record against Tennessee. llis 2:~.S sacks at the tirnn broke the record that was hHid by Kory Minor, and Tuck would latPr add another sack to increase his mark. 
The dofensiV(1 lineman from Kellyton, Ala., was ignornd by largP SEC schools and has been an absolute force since lw lirst came to Notre Dame. Tuck's 6-foot-5, 260­pound frame has been nothing less than a challenge for opponents to block this season. Irish opponents have often been forcnd to double or triple team Tuck, allowing other members of the Irish defense to pressure opposing quartnrbacks. 
Tuck has thP choiee to return to the Irish in 2005 as a fifth-year sen­ior. 
Pat Dillingham 
i\ fornwr walk-on, Pat Dillingham has proven himself a snrviceable backup quarterback tlw past two 
S(~asons. 
Dillingham has S(Wn limitnd action in 2004, but has bonn sueenssful in the four gamns in which hn has part­cipatnd. Tho Portola Vallny, Calif., nativn has eornplnted all three pass­ns hn's attemptnd this season, good for 2H yards. lin saw minimal action against Stanford after an injury knockml start()r Brady Quinn out for the last few minutes of the fourth quartnr. 

Dillingham has two wins to his eredit, inc.luding a 2002 miracle over Miehigan Statn. If hn returns, lw will serve as Quinn's backup again. 
Mark LeVoir 

Onn of the team's veteran lineman, Mark LeVoir has latehed on as the starter at right taekle. After missing . the last three weeks of 2004 practice with an injury, he has bounced back and been one of the team's top linemen this year. 
In 2003, LnVoir startnd all 12 games at left guard, and led the team in play­ing time with 311 minutes, 4H seconds. The Eden Prairie, Minn., native was a first-team pick on the USA Today All­America team. He was a successful tight end in high school, but changed his position to otl'ensive taekle when he arrived at Notre Dame as a freshman. 
LeVoir should return in 2005 as one of the team's most"experienced line­men. 
D.J. fiTZPATRICK 
Former walk-on D.J. Fitzpatrick has come out of nowhern to be one of the most-consistent members of Notre Dame's spncial teams this season. Fitzpatrick first saw action in 2003, after starting kick­er and punter Nicholas Setta went down with a season-ending injury. 
A local product, from Marian High School in Granger, Fitzpatrick has a 75-perc<'nt (9-for-12) suc­cess rate on field goals this season. and a punting aver­age of 42.3 yards per kick. Fitzpatrick has proven reli­able in clutch situations, including a last-minute rield goal to beat Navy in 2003. 
Corey Mays 

Corey Mays has proved himself as onn of the team's most reliable spe-. cia! teams players, seeing action as a backup linebacker capable of playing all three positions. 
Mays has 12 tackles in nine games so far during the 2004 season, with th11 bulk of those coming on special teams. lie played in 12 games in the 2003 season, finishing 1Oth on the team with 26 tackles. He also col­lected a sack, two blocked kicks, a 
fumble recovery and  a  forced fum­ 
ble.  
If Mays decides  to  return, he  

should be a competitor for one of the linebacker spots left by graduat­ing seniors Mike Goolsby and Derek Curry. 

D.J. Fitzpatrick attempts a field goal against Boston College. 
Josh Schmidt 
Irish fullback Josh Schmidt went from a successful interhall football player for Zahm to a walk-on that saw significant action in 2003 and this season. 
Schmidt proved himself as a receiving threat out of the back­field last season, colleeting 13 passes for 125 yards. lie also was serviceable as a blocker for the Irish running backs. 
The Notre Dame rushing attack in 2004 has used the tight end as the primary blocker more often than the fullback, limiting Schmidt's playing time. lie has caught one pass for 14 yards. 
Schmidt has the option to return for a fifth-year in 2005. 
BRANDON HOYTE 


Brandon lloyte's not your typical football player. In addi­tion to his roln as one of tlw team's most-punishing hitters,. lloyte has found time to write and recite pontry and to par­ticipate in eommunity snrviee events. 
The linnbaeknr has been responsible for thn injury of not just one, but two, quarter­baeks so far. BYU quarterback · Matt Bnrry was sacked by lloyte and was forend to leave thn game. And Saturday, lloytn's hit on Tennessee quar­terback Erik Ainge knoehd tho freshman out of the game and might have helped the Irish pull ofT the upset against No. 9 Tnnnnssen. 
lloyte had larg(~ shoes to lill in 2lHU, being forced into aetion as a replacement for Mike Goolsby -who would miss the entire season with an
-
injury. But lloytn blossonHHI, finishing the year with 74 tackles including 7.5 for a loss. lin also recovered a fum­ble, l'oreed a fumble and broke up two passes. This season, lloyte has joined with linebackers Goolsby and Derek Curry to lead onn of' thn nation's stingi­est rush defenses. I loyte's cur­rent mark of' 60 tackles is sec­
CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 
ond on thn team. 

Irish linebacker Brandon Hoyte sacks Navy's 
lloyte should return in 2005 Aaron Polanco during Notre Dame's 27-9 and bn one of the defense's win over the Midshipmen on Oct. 16. biggest senior leaders. 


Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 23 
-

have one year left 
RASHON POWERS-NEAL 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer Rashon Powers-Neal rushes against Purdue. 
Darin Mitchell 
Darin Mitchell came into the 2004 season as a player whose role was expected to be bigger, but that outcome has not mate­rialized. 
The veteran offensive lineman was a reserve guard his first two seasons, and has continued in that role for the 2004 season. Mitchell has made one start in his career, filling in for an injured Sean Milligan against Michigan State in 2003. 
Because the Irish are not los­ing many linemen, and because of the emergence of young play­ers like Ryan Harris, Mitchell might not see much action if he returns next season. 
Irish fullback Rashon Powers-Neal has shown himself to be a versatile back so far this season. The 6-foot-2. 243-pound bruiser has been used in short­yardage situations in addi­tion to his usual role as a blocking fullback. 
Powers-Neal has also been one of the team's more-con­sistent receivers out of the backfield. leading all backs with eight catches for 51 yards. The St. Paul, Minn., native has a running tom:h­down and a receiving touch­down so far this year. 
Powers-Neal should return in 2005 to give the Irish an additional option on offense, both when running and when passing. 
Zachary Giles 
Zachary Giles has spent most of the 2004 season as the back­up center behind John Sullivan. Giles played in six games in 2003, starting one game (against Michigan State) and finishing the Florida State game at center after an injury to starting center Bob Morton. 
Giles, from Marshfield, Mass., was a Parade All-American and a second team on the USA Today prep All-American team, but has not yet clicked in the Irish starting line. 
With Sullivan returning, it might be difficult for Giles to find playing time at center if he decides to return for 2005. 
MATT SHELTON 

Irish reciever Matt Irish breakaway speed Sheltoy may not look on special teams. like it, but he's one of Shelton played in all the fastest players on 12 games of the 2003 the team. lie has season, primarily on made use of that special teams. fie speed this season, caught three passes leading the team with for 80 yards and five receiving touch­scored a touchdown downs, including two against Stanford on a against Michigan. career-.long reception 
Shelton is currently of 65 yards. fourth on the team The speedy wide with 14 catches for receiver has played 377 yards,. proving larger than his 6-foo1:, himself an equally 175-pound frame. capable threat when showing a fearless­going deep as when ness when going up running a quick hitch against bigger, athlet­route. Recently, ic defensive backs. He Shelton has been used should return in 2005 as a kickoff returner, as a serious deeJP hoping to give the threat for the Irish. 
Brian Beida1:sch
Lionel Bolen 
Lionel Bolen has made 
Brian Beidatsch has 
been a versatile depth
two tackles in 2004, in his 
role as a reseve defensive 
player thus far during his 
Irish career. He is capable
back. 
Bolen played in 11 
of playing either the defen­
games in 2003 and start­
sive end or defensive tackle 
ed against Florida State. 
positions. 
He was credited with 12 
He has made one tackle 
so far in 2004, in five
tackles, including an 
games. Beidatsch played in 
assist on a tackle for a 
nine games iin 2003, mak­
loss. 
ing five tacklles and recov­
The 6-foot, 210-pound 
Bolen was a versatile ath­
ering a fumble. As a senior 
lete in high school, aver­
high school player at 
aging 12 points and help­
Marquette High School in 
ing his team to the state 
Milwaukee, Wis., he made 
championship game. 
100 tackles and 15 sacks. 
Bolen has an option to 
He has an option to 
return in 2005. 
return in 2005. 
-

Jeff Thompson 
Offensive lineman Jeff Thompson has shown him­self to be a versatile player who can play guard or cen­ter, and has served well in a backup role for the Irish this season. 
Thompson is a local prod­uct, p .aying high school foot­ball at Penn High School in Mishawaka, and helping his team to the class SA state title. Thompson has seen action in two games in his Irish career, in addition to making one special teams appearance. 
Thompson has an option to return for a fifth year. 


DAN STEVENSON 
Stevenson has been one of the team's most-consistent linemen in the 2004 season, starting all games so far at right guard. 
The 6-foot-5, 293-pound line­man from Barrington, Ill., has always had football in "his blood. 
His father Mark played for the Detroit Lions, brother Tony played at Arizona State and brother Joey played at Arizona Western. 
Stevenson was one of the top linemen in the country coming out of Barrington High School. He was rated the top offensive lineman in the Midwest by the Chicago Sun-Times, and was a Parade Ali-Americ~n. 
llis first start came in a big game for the Irish in the 200<~ season, when he started at offensive guard against North Carolina State in the Gator Bowl. 
Stevenson has bounced back 
-

successfully from an injury in the Flodda State game in 2003. lle then missed the next two games and returned against Stanford to help Julius Jones rush for 218 yards. Stevenson made 12 special teams appear­anced in 2003. 
Stevenson has been a critical part of an offensive line that has helped quarterback Brady Quinn put up career numbers. 
He should return in 2005 as one of the team's more-experi­enced linemen and help anchor an improved offensive line. 


-
-

~---------c--­
..-.-.-----------.-.--.-.-.-.----------------------­'.'.. '. 
. ' ' . . . 


Friday, November 12, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Canadian force 
Thorlakson, Tancredi and Chapman lead the Irish into the NCAA tournament 
mary focus. 

By DAN TAPETI LLO 
"It is nice to get the recogni­Sports Wri1er 
tion for playing hard, but it is 
just one step in the road to get 
(;oing into tlw NCAA tourna­the national championship," 

nwnt. thn Irish will look to the Thorlakson said. 
team's foreign prt~snnee to Snnior defender Tancredi is 
play an integral role in the also expected to play a crueial 
suet:llSS of thn team's postsea­roln in leading the team to 
son run. make a run at a national 
Canadians Katie Thorlakson, championship. 

Candace Chapman and Melissa In addition to being a finalist 
Tancrndi have each played for the IIermann Trophy 
pivotal roles in NotrP Dame's award, Tancredi also earned 
I 9-1-1 season. Irish coach her second consecutive Big 
Bandy Waldrum said the East defensive player of the 
Can ad ian trio has been an year. Thorlakson described 
important ingredient for the her teammate Tancredi as a 
team's achievements. cornerstone of the Irish 
"They have been a key to our defense. 

success," Waldrum said. "We "Our dol'ense is so good this 
al'l~ a tmtm loaded with talent, year and !Tancredi! is such a 
but we'd certainly bP dil'f'ernnt big part of that," Thorlakson 
without those three." said. "We don't have to do as 
Earlier this year. the Irish much work because we know 

wnrn facnd with thn possibility she is back there taking care 
of losing Thorlakson for three of' it for us. " 
weeks. Waldrum agreed. 
Thorlakson nnednd to make "She separated herself last the <Incision of leaving the year from the rest of the pack tnctm to play for tlw Under-19 in the conference, and it is no national Canadian team. ller different this year. But this participation in the Undnr-19 isn't just in the Big East. We World Championships would haven't seen a person as domi­have caused lwr to miss the nant in thn rest of the country first three rounds of' the NCAA as Melissa has been for us," <:hampionships. Waldrum said. "She is so good 
Thorlakson dwsn to rnmain in the air that the ball does not 

playing for Notre Dame, draw­spend a lot of time in the 
ing on thn team's closo-knit defensive end. She quickly gets 
dynamic to makn lwr dncision. the ball into the attack and it 
"It was a hard decision." makes the game from being a Thorlakson said. "But I just full field game, 115 yards to a thought that our team was 60 or 70-yard game." morn likn family." In addition to the dominance 
Thorlakson has made hnr she brings to the backfield, roaches and teammates proud Tancredi serves as a mentor this SIHtson by leading Notre for the team as she was select­Damn's cohesive unit ofTen­ed as one of the tri-captains sively all season and putting for the 2004 season. herself' in a position to win the Another mentor for the team llnrmann Trophy award where is Chapman who came back slw is a finalist for the best from an ACL injury that wonwn's soccer player in the caused her to miss tho entire 1·ountry. 200:~ season. 
Slw lwgan the season with a Prior to thn injury, Chapman rnrord-sntting pPrf'ormarH~e was already a freshman AII­against Baylor by bning Llw Amnrican and had earned the first Irish player PVPr to score 2002 Big East defensive player or assist on tlw first five goals of'thn ynar award. in a game. This year, Waldrum moved 
ShP hasn't slowed down Chapman to the forward posi­since. tion, wlwre she has turned 
Additionally, Waldrum says into one of the team's top Thorlakson brings a snnsn of ol'f'ensivn players. tnam-oriPntnd play to t.lw liPid. "Our mindset was that if' we !wiping lwr teammatns shine can get lwr back, let's get her in thn spot! igh t instllad of' into the attacking end of the adding a goal to lwr already f'inld because she is such a imprnssive care1•r. dangerous playnr and such a 
"Most ol' tlw playPrs who are good athlete," Waldrum said. sroring goals arP just scoring "Siw can strike the ball with goals and not rPally ){dting tlw both l'ent so well that we knew assists," Waldrum said. "Siw shn could score goals for us. IThorlaksonl brings so many She adds a whole new dimen­
otlw r pno pin in to tlw game. sion of'f'nnsivcly that most and it is rPally rare that you tnams probably aren't pre­will sen sonwbody gnt double parnd for because they expect­digits in goals and assists. She ed lwr in the back." has taken upon hnrsnlf' to be One of' Chapman's top per­that lnadnr, that goal sn1rnr formances this season came for us and she has donn just during the 3-1 victory over trnnwndous with that." Seton Hall Oct. 24. Chapman 
ller ellorts have not gone scored twice for the Irish. This unnoticnd. Af'tnr the impres­match served as a culmination sivn performance against to all of her success at that Baylor, Thorlakson has earned point of' the season. She thnw Big Hast offensive playBr already had scored eight goals of' the w1wk awards and the during the season in just five Big East ol'f'ensive player of the games, including three two­year honor as well. However, goal games. adding to her already impres­"She is a huge strength sive list of' awards this season because she is going to work has not been Thorlakson's pri-hard for every ball and she is so physical in her plays," Tancredi said. "If you need her. she will play in the baek, and she can play up front. You can put her anywhere and know she will have an impact in the game." 

However, the Irish believe the team puts pressure on the ball no matter where an 
opposing player tries to attack. "We see it as a whole unit," Chapman said. 
Heading into the first round against Eastern Illinois, the Canadian unit and the Irish have one goal in mind. 
"We are trying to achieve a team that no one has seen and have an intensity that nobody can match for 90 minutes," Tancredi said. "We have all the skill, we have all the finesse, we have all the ath­letieism, we just have to put it all together and focus. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 2004 
One win six times equals one championship 
By MATT MOONEY Sports Writer 
Cliches are a journalist's nightmare. 
As the type of people who are sup­posed to have some creative ability in the realm of the written word, we sports writers get our jollies from the creative sound byte. 
Muhammed Ali, Dennis Hodman and Shaquille O'Neal are notable wellsprings of quotable gold. 
So when several team members told me early in the sea­son that they were 


just "taking one  Matt Mooney  
game at a time," I  
nodded, smiled and  
tried to rephrase the  Sports Writer  
question to get a dif­ 
ferent answer.  

But when that same axiom kept rearing its head week after week, even from the coach, I was beginning to doubt my ability to ask an effective question. 
The realization soon dawned on me that the generic answers were not a result of bored interviewees (or so I hoped) but rather the product of a team which knows first-hand the dan­gers of looking ahead. 
The ghosts of the 2003 meltdown still haunt Notre Dame. Last year, the Irish reached the heights of a No. 2 ranking with an 18-0-1 record during the regular season only to tragically falter in three of their last five games. 
A Big East semifinal loss to Boston College and two losses to Michigan, once in the regular season finale and again to end the season in the second round of the NCAA tournament, left Notre Dame with no titles and only bitter memories of an otherwise sweet season. 
Therefore, "take one game at a time" became the team's mantra for the 2004 season. To safeguard against a letdown, coach Randy Waldrum broke down the season into small chunks, the non-conference games, the Big East conference schedule and finally the post-season. Each of those segments breaks down into the indi­vidual games, essentially giving the Irish 21 one-game seasons. 
Thus far, the formula seems to have worked. Notre Dame hit No. 1 in the collegiate polls for much of the sea­son. The Irish finished the regular season unbeaten for the fourth time in program history. Connecticut had to come from behind to defeat them in the Big East Championship game. 
But Notre Dame is at the point in its season where one slipup can mean only a long, cold South Bend winter to ponder what could have been. To avoid this, to instead bask in the Caribbean-like glow of a national championship, the Irish will need to break down each game so as to halt a resurfacing trend. 
During the loss to Connecticut, the Huskies had only two shots on goal but converted both into scores. Similarly, in their two postseason losses last year, the Irish only allowed four total shots on goal but three found the back of the net. The Notre Dame offense provided little support, only combining for two goals in the three games. 
The Irish stars will have to step up to turn this trend around. The post­season is the time when National Player of the Year candidates Katie Thorlakson and Melissa Tancredi need to back up those nominations. They need to be the first to embrace the challenge put before them and set an example for rest of their team­mates. 
After all the regular season success, this team is under tremendous pres­sure to win and to avenge last year's failure. The stars and the leaders are the ones who can turn that pressure into an equally large opportunity, a chance to show the nation the extent of their greatness. 
This is chance for the Irish to be great, but they can't look past anyone. They should just go out there and have fun, remembering that there's no "I" in the word "team" but only as long as they take one game at a time. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu. 


Midfielder Jen Buczkowski dribbles by one defender and prepares to take on another during a game this season a1~ainst Eastern Illinois. 
The Top 16 
No. 1 North Carolina  No. 2 Penn State  No. 3 Virginia  No. 4 Notre Dame  No. 5· Portland  No. 6 Ohio State  
(17-0-2)  (1.&-2-1} ·.•  (16-2-2)  (19-1-1)  (1.7-3-0}  (16-3-3)  
The defending na:tional champs still have th() top seed despite failng to win ..the,ACC rhampionship  Th~Nfttan.{Uq~? ·lrlst the Bf~';; Ten Ch~mpiqnship g'.<lJll~to ..• Ohio State, but they • have jnstant offense m  By ousting the Tar Heels in an overtime shootout for their first ACC Championship, the Cavaliers proved they  The Irish look to exorcise the demons of their second-round loss in last year's NCAA tournament. Notre  The junior duo of Christine Sinclair and Lindsey Huie are both Player of the Year finalists .and combiner  Midfielder Lara Dickeninann set a ·:.$chool recor~ by· scor'I: (ng her 1.2 th goal of the ·season · in a  
tor the first time in 15 yQ:ars.  j unlor JQfjV.ard f~¥Iany Wiem(l':r'(25~ntils, 11 assists).  can win the big, close game.  Dame lost the Big East Championship to Connecticut.  for 75 ol' the Pilots' 126 points (59%) on the year.  shutou, of'Penn State for the Big Ten Title.  
No.7 Princeton  No.8 Kansas  No. 9 Texas A&M  No. 10 Florida  No. 11 Tennessee  No'. 12 Texas  
(15-2-0) It was a banner year for the Tigers, settwg h school record for wins 05) and becoming' the first team in programf  (1740) The Jayhawks gave up two goals in their Big 12 semifinal loss, marking the first time the team allowed more  (17-5-0) The Aggies have their highest NCA~ seed in school history follo1Ving their Big 12 Championship win over  (16-3-3) The SEC champion . Gators have plenty of close game experience. Florida played in six overtime games this  (1542) The Vollunteers lost to Florida in the SEC Championship game, but have a SEC Defensive Player of the  (13-6-2) The Longhorns' biggest win of the sea­son came on Oct. 24 when they upset then­No. 6 Kansas in a 1-0  
history to have a per­fect league record (7-0­0).  than one goal in a game this sPason.  Texas ih a 3-0 shutout.  year with a 2-1-3 record in those games.  Year Keeley Dowling to secure the back line.  double c'vertime thriller.  
No. 13 Arizona  No.14 UCLA  No. 15 Washington  No. 16 Slanta Clara  
(15-5-0} The Pac-10 champi­ (~3-6-0}. ····· U((!LA;,7split the:::ra<;­ (1441) Washington flew out  ' {-14442·. I:he Broncos ett•  
on Wildcats are mak­ing their first appear­ance in the NCAA uur­nament in program  1Qjltha· · nspip;;;;wi~h Mhoh he' Bruins ha;,VQ1/Y~g~'-4&t>r.~CQ;Vd against higher-seeded .  of the gate with an 8­th~ 0-1 start but only fin­ished 6-4 in its last CO~'\\ICC regular se~L$Ql~~~:w they finlshed the ;sea<  SeJ;tSOn)\ ral)ked thitd inl.h<e ooiii)fry. As ICham}:li,fHl~rc  
history.  teams.  
 son with''s!3Ven straight wrrr~·~L:;;;.1 .·. ..#· L_,,~"···  

Friday, November 12, 2004 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Irish refocused to begin NCAA tournament 
By MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writt·r 
Short-tnrrn memories an~ at a prmnium as national fintrth seed Notre Damn ( 19-1-1 l kieks ofT iL<> first ganw of the NCAA tourna­ment tonight at Alumni Field at 
7:30 p.m. against Eastern Illinois (13-5-2). 
The Irish nnter the 64-team tournament havingjust blemished thoir perfect record after losing the Big East Championship game to Connecticut 2-1 on Sunday. The loss conjured up memories of the end of the 2003 season when the sears [rom the loss are nothing if not motivational. · 

"We'll never forget about losing in thn second round last year and we don't want that to happen again," she said. "That's constant­ly running through our minds. It'll stiek with us and help us to play harder so it won't happon again." 
Eastern Illinois, a team familiar with playing in South Bend, will be first to test that commitment. Notre Dame hosted the Panthers in iL<> second game of the season, a contest the Irish won easily by a 3-0 maq..,rin. Eastern Illinois strug­gled against the Notre Dame back line and only man­aged one shot-on­
Irish lost three of'  "We knew that we  goal. Meanwhile,  
their last five games. Notre Dame fell in tho Big East  would have a team that was qualified  the Irish offense piled up 23 shots on goal as Candace  
semifinal to Boston  and capable of  Chapman,  Jen  
College and then wa<> bounced out of  winning a title."  Buczkowski and Annie Schefter all  
tho seeond-round of  scored  a  goal  
the NCAA tourna­ Annie Schetter  apiece.  
ment by Michigan  Irish midflelder  But  for  some  

in a 1-0 upset. The pain from those losses still lingers, but has also taught valuabh~ lessons to players and coaches alike. 
"We can't look ahead," coach Bandy Waldrum said. 'This week we have not •wen talked about the other two teams that are here this weekend. Everything has been focused on Eastern I Illinois]. I think maybe that's where we failed a little bit a<> a stall" last year and as players, trying to look ahead and who you may get down the road." 
Senior Kate Tulisiak feels the players, the early 

season is a distant memory compared to where they are now. 
"A game like Eastern Illinois was so long ago that we kind of forgnt," Schefter said. "Honestly, it's kind of like we never really played them. I couldn't tell you who we played three weeks ago." 
As for the present, the four teams playing in South Bend have a higher combined win total than any other site. Waldrum refuses to underestimate any team, regardless of previous match ups. 
"Obviously they went on to have a pretty good year again, winning their conference. The one thing that we've tried to emphasize to the kids is that they've now been in the tournament four years in a row," he said. "Each year you're in it you gain more experience, and you learn to handle it a little bit better. I don't think it's going to be that easy of a time for us." 
Now that the Irish are entering their last stage of the season, there is a tension as players try to stay focused in the present while still maintaining the drive to achieve their larger goals. 
"We knew that we would have a team that was qualified and capa­ble of winning a title," Schefter said. "Pieces are fitting together and if it doesn't end up that [we win a championship! everyone will be very disappointed." 
Meanwhile, the coaches contin­ue to stress that the focus must remain on the game at hand to prevent a letdown similar to the 2003 postseason. 
"We just have to take each game and go from there, win each game and keep going," Tulisiak said. "Coach is always saying that, every practice, every game, all the time. It's always running through our heads." 
The winner of tonight's game will advance to the second round on Sunday against the winner of the Dayton-Wisconsin game. The first two rounds of competition for these four teams will all be played at Alumni Field. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu 


Notre Dame Region 
PORTLAND, ORE.
SOUTH BEND, IND. 


No. 5 Portland (17-3-0) 
The Pilots have two players up for the Hermann Trophy tWs season. 
TODAY 
Ul. • L. 
·-St (R:.q_2)
111111::11~1 , ..... ­
This will be the Wildcats first appear­ance in the tournoment. 


,:>/ ~~ 
r--­
.---­
SUNDAY 
r· 
'11f
AA~8~ 
l.st 
TODAY 
u61h (13-5-3) i; 
The Utcps lOst to the Buffaloes 1-0 on Sept. 12. i ( ·;ifu. 
~ . :;:, I
' 
STORRS, CONN. 
AUSTIN, TEXAS 

No. 13 Arizona No. 12 Texas (13-6-2) 

The Longhorns arc one of live teams representing the Big 12. 
TODAY 
L...__
-








